
Green Bond Report
2021
Table of Contents
1. Green Bond Report ...............................................2 
2. Sustainability at Magnolia Bostad ..................4
3. Green Bonds at Magnolia Bostad .....................5 
Use of proceeds .....................................................6 
Environmental certification ................................7 
Assets and projects eligible for funding ..........8 
 Allocation of funds per 210930 ........................10
                 Links .......................................................................10
4. Reference projects...............................................11 
2 Magnolia Bostad Green Bond Report
1. 
Green Bond Report
Reallocation of capital is vital for sustainable transition. As part of Magnolia 
Bostad’s sustainable societal development and green financing strategy 
Magnolia Bostad has issued green bonds. By issuing Green Bonds, Magnolia 
Bostad has the opportunity to promote and support the longterm 
development of sustainable solutions through financing sustainable housing 
and buildings. In line with the UN Sustainable Development Goals (the SDGs), 
Magnolia Bostad Green Bonds will promote the following goals: UN 
Sustainable Development Goal 11: Sustainable cities and communities and 
Goal: 13 Climate action. Magnolia Bostad’s auditor, EY, has made a limited 
assurance as to the allocation of proceeds in the Green Bond Report.
Magnolia Bostad Green Bond Report 3
 
2.
Sustainability at 
Magnolia Bostad
The construction and real estate sector are  The sustainability report include the reporting 
vital in the climate transition to meet the  standards of Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). 
Paris Agreement target. The construction  On a regular basis Magnolia Bostad update its 
and operation of buildings contribute around  materiality assessment to calibrate stakeholder 
20 % of the Green House Gas (GHG)  priorities and significant impact. The result of the 
emissions and 40 % of the worldwide GHG  materiality assessment is the foundation of se-
emissions.  Therefore, it is paramount for  lection of the UN Sustainable Development Goals 
Magnolia Bostad to actively minimise the  and strategic direction as well as material ESG 
negative climate impact that our operations  integration in processes and governance. 
cause and contribute to reduced emissions 
and negative impact from this sector overall.  Together with the code of conduct, the 
Magnolia Bostad paves the way for all  environmental policy is part of all the larger 
buildings to be certified by at minimum  supplier agreements. Magnolia Bostad 
means of Swedish Green Building Council’s  actively lowers the negative environmental
silver certification (Miljöbyggnad Silver) and/  impact of the company’s suppliers by expressing 
or the Nordic Swan Ecolabel or similar. Mag- demands regarding energy waste management, 
nolia Bostad is a member of Sweden Green  transportation as well as as circularity and 
Building Council (SGBC). The company  re-cycling of materials. 
engage with researchers and other 
companies in the industry and beyond for  To ensure sustainability integration in projects 
climate mitigation, adaptation and roadmap  Magnolia Bostad uses its Life Cycle Analysis 
ahead. (LCA). The UN Sustainable Development Goals 
are embedded within the LCA and its used to 
Magnolia Bostad is one of the initiators of  monitor impact, make convinient choices of 
HS30 and a member of LFM30 to enble  material and energy as well as integrating other 
operational action aligned with local  material sustainability issues consistently.
roadmaps for UN Sustainable Develop-
ment Goals and a climate neutral building 
and construction industry 2030. 
Magnolia Bostad is annually reporting its 
sustainability performance and strategy for 
the operations, business and community 
engagement. 
For more information regarding Magnolia 
4 Magnolia Bostad Green Bond Report Bostad’s sustainability performance, please see our 
Sustainability Report. 
3.
Green Bonds at
 
Magnolia Bostad
Magnolia Bostad has issued two oustanding 
green bonds to enable allocation of capital 
to sustainable solutions. The first green bond 
was issued during the autumn of 2020 and the 
second green bond was issued in the spring of 
2021. Magnolia Bostad’s green bonds have been 
developed in accordance with ICMA’s Green 
Bond Principles (GBP, 2018) as well as Magnolia 
Bostad’s Green Bond Framework. 
Magnolia Bostad Green Bond Report 5
 
3.1
Use of Proceeds
Proceeds will finance eligible assets and pro-
jects as per the 3.1 section of the Green Bond 
Framework. In particular, UN Sustainable 
Development Goal 11: Sustainable cities and 
communities and 13: Climate action will be 
targeted with these projects. 
Magnolia Bostad has established a Green 
Bond Committee which oversees that only 
assets and projects eligible as per section 3.1 
of the Green Bond Framework are funded by 
proceeds from any Green Bond. The Green 
Bond Committee consists of the CFO, the 
Head of Sustainability as well as the Head of 
Legal. Each member of the committee has 
the right to veto against any asset or project. 
The committee meets on a regular basis and 
notes of which projects and assets they deem 
as eligible per this framework will be saved. 
EY has conducted a limited assurance as to 
the allocation of proceeds in the  Green Bond 
Report.
6 Magnolia Bostad Green Bond Report
3.2
Environmental 
  
certification
Magnolia Bostad develops resource 
effective buildings using materials that 
minimise the building’s negative environ-
mental impact. Aligned with our commit-
ments in HS30 and LFM30 we embed 
sustainability and climate goals to permeate 
our requirements and processes. The 
company strives to create conditions for 
preparing all residences to be certified 
according to Sweden Green Building Council 
(Miljöbyggnad Silver) and/or the Nordic Swan 
Ecolabel at minimum.   
The company minimises the risk of 
buildings not qualifying for certification 
by means of ongoing supplier dialogue. 
Magnolia Bostad also employs the 
services of consultants specialising in 
environmental certification at two different 
phases, the design phase and the 
production phase. By performing audits at 
an early stage, Magnolia Bostad minimises 
the risk of any building not reaching the 
demands for certifications. Once a year 
Magnolia Bostad let an independent auditor 
perform a full Sustainability Due Diligence of 
a turnkey contract. 
Magnolia Bostad Green Bond Report 7
3.3
Assets and project 
eligible for funding
The four asset and project types eligible  (iii), proceeds may be used to fund customer 
for funding by means of the Green Bond  receivables in projects of Magnolia Bostad’s 
proceeds fall under the category of Green  which obtain at least an environmental 
certification of Swedish Green Building 
Buildings. Should a project or asset at any 
Council’s silver certification (or higher) or 
given time no longer be deemed as eligible 
Nordic Swan Ecolabel before the new owner 
as per the above stated criteria, it will be 
is moving in. 
replaced:
(iv), proceeds may be used to fund 
(i), proceeds may be used to fund the projects 
Magnolia Bostad´s portfolio of planned 
in Magnolia Bostad’s portfolio of planned 
projects constructed mainly in wood and to 
projects (“exploateringsportfölj”), which are 
be certified as Swedish Green Building 
planned to at least reach the environmental 
Council’s silver certification (or higher), or
standard of either Swedish Green Building 
 to fund customer receivables in project 
Council’s silver certification (or higher) or 
constructed in wood before the new owner 
Nordic Swan Ecolabel. 
takes possession of the building. The 
verification of the certification is done 
(ii), proceeds may be used to fund the part 
after two years and is made by the new 
cost of any joint venture covered by Magnolia 
owner of the project.
Bostad, in the cases where ownership is at 
least half of the venture to ensure that 
Magnolia Bostad’s high environmental 
standard is enforced. 
8 Magnolia Bostad Green Bond Report
Project overview
Allocation of the outstanding green bonds
B =  Residentials 
SHF = Community property (i.e. schools, nursing homes, day care)
H = Hotel
PPrrooppeerrttyy   AArreeaa   AAsssseett   TTyyppee  ooff   RReevviissiioonn  11   RReevviissiioonn  22   CCeerrttiiffiiccaattiioonn   CCoommpplleetteedd   JJVV  PPaarrttnneerr  
ccaatteeggoorryy   pprrooppeerrttyy  
(i)  Projects in Magnolia Bostad’s portfolio of planned projects (“exploateringsportfölj”), which are planned to at least reach the environmental standard of either Swedish 
Green Building Council’s silver certification (or higher) or Nordic Swan Ecolabel. 
Norra Kajen, kv. 7 & 8  Sundsvall  (i)  B  Planned  Planned  Miljöbyggnad Silver  Under development 
Åkermyntan 4, 10, 13, 14  Borås  (i)  B, SHF  Planned  Planned  Miljöbyggnad Silver  Under development 
& 18. 
Uppsala Kungsängen  Uppsala  (i)  B  Planned  Planned  Miljöbyggnad Silver  Under development 
29.2 
Grimsta 5:2  Upplands  (i)  B, SHF, H  Planned  Planned  Miljöbyggnad Silver  Under development 
Väsby 
Kv. Valhall, Citygross  Hyllie  (i)  B  Implemented  Implemented  Miljöbyggnad Silver  Under development 
Telegrafen 18  Nynäshamn  (i)  B  Planned  Planned  Miljöbyggnad Silver  Under development 
Telegrafen GA:2  Nynäshamn  (i)  B  Planned  Planned  Miljöbyggnad Silver  Under development 
Haninge Söderbymalm  Haninge  (i)  B  Implemented  Ongoing  Miljöbyggnad Silver  Under development 
3:541, 3:542 
Filborna 28:4, 28:5  Helsingborg  (i)  B, SHF  Planned  Planned  Miljöbyggnad Silver  Under development 
Kungsladugård 14:10  Göteborg  (i)  B  Planned  Planned  Miljöbyggnad Silver  Under development 
m.fl. 
Strängnäs Marielund 2:1  Strängnäs  (i)   B  Planned  Planned  Miljöbyggnad Silver  Under development 
(ii)  Funding of the part cost of any joint venture covered by Magnolia Bostad, in the cases where ownership is at least half of the venture to ensure that Magnolia Bostad’s 
high environmental standard is enforced. 
Stinsen 2  Sollentuna  (ii)  B, SHF  Planned   Planned  Miljöbyggnad Silver  Under development  Alecta 
Ängby 1:135  Knivsta  (ii)  B  Implemented  Planned  Miljöbyggnad Silver  Under development  Heimstaden 
Näs 7:1, 7:3, 7:5  Österåker  (ii)   B, SHF  Planned  Planned  Miljöbyggnad Silver  Under development  Heimstaden 
Brogård 1:179 m.fl   Tegelhagen  (ii)  B  Implemented  Planned  Miljöbyggnad Silver  Under development  Heimstaden 
Botvidsgymnasiet 9,  Botkyrka  (ii)  B, SHF  Planned  Planned  Miljöbyggnad Silver  Under development  Slättö 
Hallunda 4:34 
Orminge 60:3 & 46:6  Orminge  (ii)  B  Planned  Planned  Miljöbyggnad Silver  Under development  SBB 
Gambrinus 2 & 4  Huddinge  (ii)  B  Planned  Planned  Miljöbyggnad Silver  Under development  SBB 
Sollentuna Norrsättra  Sollentuna  (ii)  B  Ongoing  Planned  Miljöbyggnad Silver  Under development  SBB 
1:13 & 14 
Bilkåristen 1  Helsingborg  (ii)  B  Planned  Planned  Miljöbyggnad Silver   Under development  SBB 
Järven 4  Norrköping  (ii)  B  Planned  Planned  Miljöbyggnad Silver  Under development  SBB 
Kaffebryggaren 3 & 5  Nykvarn  (ii)  B  Planned  Planned  Miljöbyggnad Silver  Under development  SBB 
Total volume of the outstanding green bonds: 1 050 000 TSEK
Magnolia Bostad’s auditor, EY, has made limited assurance as 
to the allocation of proceeds
Magnolia Bostad Green Bond Report 9
1(2)
3.4
Allocation of funds per 210930   
Our Green Bonds
Name             ISIN              CCY  Coupon   Exp.              Amount 
MAGNOLIA04    SE0014956454  SEK  7.500      2024-04-02  550 MSEK 
MAGNOLIA05    SE0015659636  SEK  6.900     2025-03-18  500 MSEK
Total volume of outstanding Green Bonds:                  1 050 MSEK
Balance in green account:                                                                                  0
Total fair value of green pool: 3 065 319 TSEK
Remaining available capacity for Green Bonds: 2 015 319 TSEK
The total fair value of green investments within the green pool and available for 
Green Bonds are calculated by Magnolia Bostad AB
4.
Links
Framework for Green Bonds
Cicero Green Bond Second Opinion 
Annual and Sustainability Report 2020
More about Green Bonds including Terms & Conditions 
10 Magnolia Bostad Green Bond Report
4.1
Reference projects
Our Green Bonds
Name             ISIN              CCY  Coupon   Exp.              Amount 
MAGNOLIA04    SE0014956454  SEK  7.500      2024-04-02  550 MSEK 
MAGNOLIA05    SE0015659636  SEK  6.900     2025-03-18  500 MSEK
Project:                          Näckrosen      
Area:                          Väsjön, Sollentuna                         
Category:                        Rental accomodation             
Total volume of outstanding Green Bonds:                  1 050 MSEK Number of units:          206 
Balance in green account:                                                                                  0 Architect:                        Magnolia Bostad
Occupancy:                      2023
Certification/
Planned:                         Swedish Green 
      building Council’s
     silver certification
A completely new district is 
emerging in Väsjön. The munici-
pality’s vision for the area is to 
create a small-scale, varied and 
naturerich urban environment. To 
facilitate the work-life balance, 
there will be schools, nursery 
schools, shops, and all regular 
services.
The location close to the 
countryside between the Törn-
skogen and Rösjöskogen nature 
reserves provides unique conditions 
for an active day-to-day life. 
Orienteering, walking, cycling, 
playing tennis, or simply putting 
your skis on and whizzing down 
the slopes in Väsjöbacken. Within 
walking distance are lakes 
Fjäturen, Snuggan and Rösjön, 
which are largely undisturbed 
nature. The fourth lake - Väsjön - 
will be the heart of the area with 
squares, park pathways and a 
wonderful beach promenade.
Näckrosen is located along 
Frestavägen, which is being 
developed into a lively city street. 
The district acts as a link between 
the small-scale urban environment 
and the varied residential buildings 
next door. Magnolia Bostad Green Bond Report 11
Project:                           Norrsken
Area:                          Central Östersund                         
Category:                        Residential care homes
Number of units:          80 
Care provider:                Östersund municipality
Architect:                        SR-K
Certification/
Planned          :               Swedish Green 
      building Council’s
     silver certification
Magnolia Bostad is developing 
special accommodation for the 
elderly along Bangårdsgatan in 
central Östersund, called Norrsken. 
The project is expected to be ready 
for occupancy in 2022 and consists 
of 80 apartments of 32 m2 with 
fantastic views over Storsjön and 
Frösön.
The building will be built drawing 
inspiration from the area’s Sami 
history with a facade consisting of 
wood panels in maintenance-free 
heat-treated pine creating a 
graphical representation of 
Storsjön and its mountains in the 
background.
”It’s a fantastic building that meets 
the municipality’s functional 
requirements,” says Lise Hjem-
gaard Svensson, chair of the 
municipality’s care and welfare 
committee. “We believe that it will 
be a pleasant and enjoyable en-
vironment, inside and outside, for 
those who live here, work here and 
visit.”
Norrsken is being built drawing 
inspiration from Östersund’s Sami 
history. A graphical representation 
is displayed in the facade depicting 
Storsjön and the mountains.
12 Magnolia Bostad Green Bond Report
Project:     Linnefabriken
Area:      Majorna, Göteborg 
Category:     Tenant-owned 
apartments
Number of units:      118
Occupancy:     Spring/summer 2024
Architects:  Magnolia Arkitekter
Certification/
Planned:     Swedish Green 
building Council’s
silver certification
Fixfabriken’s renowned neon sign 
has illuminated Bruksgatan in 
Majorna since 1950. Now the 
district is being transformed into 
a creative residential area. The TOA 
Linnefabriken brick tower blocks 
are being built here with everything 
from space -smart studio flats 
to family-friendly 3-bedroom 
apartments and unique 
penthouses.
Linnefabriken has a clear, open 
location with wonderful views of 
the main square or the green 
spaces of Sanna Park. At the top 
of the blocks, we have designed 
unique penthouse apartments with 
high ceilings and charming 
skylights.
The brick buildings of Linnefabriken 
have been inspired by the area’s 
industrial history. We have chosen 
a dark brown, elegant brick with a 
lustre that gives life to the facade. 
The architecture is varied with 
buildings of different heights, 
wonderful details and beautiful 
views of the park and the square 
next door.
Magnolia Bostad Green Bond Report 13
Auditor’s Limited Assurance Report 
To Magnolia Bostad AB (publ), corporate identity number: 556797-7078 
Introduction 
We have been engaged by Magnolia Bostad AB (publ) to undertake a limited assurance engagement of 
selected information in Magnolia Bostad Green Bond Report as of September 30th 2021 (“the 
Reporting”), to corroborate that the proceeds from the issue of green bonds of SEK 1,050 million have 
been used in accordance with Magnolia Bostad AB's green bonds framework. 
The reporting criteria against which this information was assessed, are the relevant parts of the 
Magnolia Bostad Green Bond Framework available on Magnolia Bostads website. The set criteria in the 
framework are to finance assets or projects in the category of green buildings. For example, the 
projects must at least reach, or alternatively plan to at least reach, the environmental standard silver 
(or higher) from the Swedish Green Building Council or the Nordic Ecolabel (Svanen), or also under 
certain conditions be built mainly in wood. 
Our assurance does not extend to any other information in the Reporting. We have not reviewed and 
do not provide any assurance over any individual project information reported, including where 
applicable estimates of impact. 
Responsibilities of the Executive Management for the Reporting 
The Executive Management are responsible for the use and management of proceeds, the preparation 
of the Reporting in accordance with the applicable criteria as well as evaluating and selecting eligible 
assets. This responsibility also includes the internal control relevant to the preparation of a Green Bond 
Report that is free from material misstatements, whether due to fraud or error.   
Responsibilities of the Auditor 
Our responsibility is to express a conclusion on the Reporting based on the limited assurance 
procedures we have performed. Thus, our responsibility is to comment on the information stated in the 
Board of Directors' and CEO's statement in the investors report and the use of the issued amount 
according to the categories of the framework based on our limited review. 
We conducted our limited assurance engagement in accordance with ISAE 3000 Assurance 
engagements other than audits or reviews of historical financial information. A limited assurance 
engagement consists of making inquiries, primarily to persons responsible for the preparation of the 
Report, applying analytical review procedures and other limited assurance procedures. The nature of 
the procedures performed in a limited assurance engagement vary and are less in scope than for a 
reasonable assurance engagement conducted in accordance with IAASB’s Standards on Auditing and 
other generally accepted auditing standards.  
A member firm of Ernst & Young Global Limited 
The firm applies ISQC 1 (International Standard on Quality Control) and accordingly maintains a 
comprehensive system of quality control including documented policies and procedures regarding 
compliance with ethical requirements, professional standards and applicable legal and regulatory 
requirements. We are independent of Magnolia Bostad AB (publ) in accordance with the professional 
ethics for accountants in Sweden and have otherwise fulfilled our ethical responsibilities in accordance 
with these requirements. Consequently, the procedures performed do not enable us to obtain 
assurance that we would become aware of all significant matters that might be identified in a 
reasonable assurance engagement. Accordingly, we do not express a reasonable assurance conclusion. 
Our procedures are based on the criteria defined by the Executive Management as described above. 
We consider these criteria suitable for the preparation of the Report. 
We believe that the evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our 
conclusion below.  
Conclusion 
Based on the limited assurance procedures we have performed on the information stated on page 9 in 
the Reporting (Magnolia Bostad Green Bond Report), nothing has come to our attention that causes us 
to believe that Magnolia Bostad has not, in all material respects, used the issued amount of SEK 1,050 
million to categories other than those specified by the framework. 
Stockholm, on the date of our electronic signature. 
Ernst & Young AB 
Fredric Hävrén        Marianne Förander 
Authorized Public Accountant  Sustainability Expert Member of FAR 
A member firm of Ernst & Young Global Limited 
