
JPR SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 
Japan Prime Realty Investment Corporation 
Issued in February 2020
  CONTENTS 
CONTENTS ............................................................................................................................ 2 
About JPR .............................................................................................................................. 3 
Overview of JPR ................................................................................................................ 3 
Major milestones of JPR ..................................................................................................... 3 
Characteristics of JPR ........................................................................................................ 4 
Sustainability report ................................................................................................................ 5 
Top message .................................................................................................................... 5 
Sustainability Policy & Management ..................................................................................... 6 
Sustainability Policy ..................................................................................................... 6 
Sustainability Management ........................................................................................... 6 
International Initiatives ................................................................................................ 7 
Contribution to SDGs ................................................................................................... 8 
Stakeholder Engagement ............................................................................................10 
Initiatives on Behalf of the Environment .............................................................................11 
Initiatives on Behalf of the Environment ........................................................................11 
Sustainability certification, etc. ....................................................................................17 
Initiatives on Behalf of Society ...........................................................................................20 
Initiatives on Behalf of Tenants ....................................................................................20 
Safety and Security Initiatives ......................................................................................23 
Local Community Initiatives .........................................................................................24 
Initiatives Aimed at Employees ....................................................................................27 
Initiatives Aimed at Unitholders/Investors .....................................................................34 
Corporate Governance Initiatives .................................................................................35 
 
2 
 
Ⅰ. JPRについて 
  About JPR 
Overview of JPR 
Japan Prime Realty Investment Corporation (hereinafter “JPR”) is a J-REIT with a combined 
portfolio focused on office properties in Tokyo. Since its listing (stock code 8955) on the Real 
Estate Investment Trust Section of Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc. (hereinafter the “Tokyo Stock 
Exchange”) on June 14, 2002, JPR has been steadily growing its asset size through investment 
activities for 17 years. Its basic asset management policy is to demonstrate the advantages of the 
portfolio through focused investments in office properties in Tokyo, while working to realize 
diversification into urban retail properties and properties in major regional cities by setting 
management standards that are focused on the portfolio quality. 
JPR entrusts the asset management of its portfolio to Tokyo Realty Investment Management, Inc. 
(hereinafter “TRIM”), and the assets are managed by receiving support primarily from Tokyo 
Tatemono Co., Ltd. (hereinafter “Tokyo Tatemono”), the main sponsor, and other sponsor 
support from Yasuda Real Estate Co., Ltd., Taisei Corporation, Sompo Japan Nipponkoa Insurance 
Inc. and Meiji Yasuda Life Insurance Company. 
Major milestones of JPR 
 
Registration of incorporation under Article 166 of the Investment Trusts 
September 2001 
Act, and establishment of JPR. 
Started asset management (acquisition of beneficiary interests in real 
November 2001 
estate with underlying trust assets of 11 office buildings and 2 retail 
properties (40,730 million yen in total value). 
Listed on the Real Estate Investment Trust Section of the Tokyo Stock 
June 2002 
Exchange. 
September 2005  Asset size exceeded 200 billion yen. 
Revised management guidelines (revised the investment ratio to make 
June 2009 
focused investments in office properties in Tokyo). 
December 2009  Asset size exceeded 300 billion yen. 
December 2013  Asset size exceeded 400 billion yen. 
December 2016  Asset management company (TRIM) became a consolidated subsidiary 
of Tokyo Tatemono, the main sponsor. 
September 2019  Revised management guidelines (added urban accommodation 
properties to investment targets). 
3 
 
Ⅰ. JPRについて 
Characteristics of JPR 
JPR has the following characteristics. 
1.  Track record of stable management for more than 17 years 
Since the listing, JPR has improved its portfolio quality while steadily expanding the asset size. 
2.  Portfolio focusing on office properties in Tokyo  
Built the portfolio with a focus on office properties in Tokyo with growth potential while  
complementing profitability through urban retail and accommodation properties and properties in 
        regional cities. 
3.  Advantages of a developer-affiliated REIT 
Acquires properties in excellent locations centered on large development properties by  
demonstrating the advantages of a developer-affiliated REIT. 
4.  Continuation of internal growth based on a high occupancy rate and increased rents  
Since December 2014, JPR has maintained a portfolio occupancy rate of 97％ or more and  
continued to increase rents through rent revisions. 
5.  Stable financial base for the long term  
With high, stable credit ratings, JPR has established a financial base with a focus on stability 
based on long-term debts at fixed interest rates. 
4 
 
Ⅰ. JPRについて 
  Sustainability report 
Top message 
  In recent years, companies worldwide have been increasingly required to contribute proactively 
to the resolution of social and environmental issues. With respect to the scale for measuring 
corporate value, a movement for evaluating the medium- to long-term growth potential of 
companies based on non-financial information, in addition to conventional evaluation indicators 
such as information on their business performance and financial standing, is spreading. The 
concept of ESG (a collective term for the three aspects of environment (E), social (S) and corporate 
governance (G) that should be focused on when aiming for sustainable growth) is becoming a 
global trend, mainly among institutional investors who manage long-term funds. As such, we are 
entering an era when evaluation of the social and environmental aspects will impact the 
competitiveness of companies. 
  J-REITs, which invest in real estate, undertake a mission of developing with society, and their 
ESG initiatives are inseparable from their sustainable growth. Being acutely aware of this mission, 
JPR has been working on environmental and energy-saving measures in the office properties it 
holds and an improvement in tenant satisfaction for many years as part of its brand strategy. In 
addition, JPR is working actively to contribute to local communities and strengthen its governance. 
At the same time, TRIM manages the assets of JPR based on its corporate philosophy of “providing 
value to all stakeholders such as customers, employees, society and shareholders by providing 
professional investment management services with sincerity and a sense of responsibility.” 
We will continue to contribute to the realization of a sustainable society and the development of 
cities as a member of society by further advancing these initiatives. 
 
Satoshi Okubo, Executive Officer, Japan Prime Realty Investment Corporation  
  
Yoshihiro Jozaki, President and CEO, Tokyo Realty Investment Management, Inc.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5 
 
Ⅰ. JPRについて 
Sustainability Policy & Management 
Sustainability Policy 
For JPR to grow stably over the medium to long term, it is essential to address such social 
requirements as considerations for the environment, society and corporate governance. TRIM has 
established the "Sustainability Policy" as part of its endeavors to enhance sustainability. 
Sustainability Policy 
Based on its corporate philosophy of working with integrity and commitment to its responsibilities, 
TRIM has resolved to contribute to the sustainable development of society and the investment 
management business through discussion and cooperation with its stakeholders (including 
investors and tenants), while aiming to maximize value for JPR's unitholders. 
i. Initiatives on Behalf of Tenants 
We will work with integrity and responsibility in responding to tenants, and endeavor to provide  
them with new and distinct values as well as enhancing their satisfaction. 
ii. Initiatives on Behalf of the Environment 
Recognizing the importance of addressing environmental issues, we will aim to reduce he  
environmental load by managing the assets owned by JPR. 
We will promote energy saving and the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions. We will  
endeavor to make effective use of water resources and work on the "3Rs" (reuse, reduce 
 and recycle). 
We will strive to proactively disclose information on environmental issues. 
iii. Initiatives on Behalf of Local Communities 
We will work to coordinate with local communities by managing the assets owned by JPR, 
in an effort to contribute to enhancing the brand value of the area in which such  
assets are located. 
iv. Initiatives on Behalf of Employees 
We will respect each of our employees to achieve an employee-friendly workplace,  
helping them enhance their abilities in their specialties. 
v. Initiatives on Behalf of Society  
We will abide by laws and regulations as well as the rules of society, and conduct business  
operations with a focus on transparency and objectivity while maintaining our high moral  
standards. 
Sustainability Management 
TRIM has established the Sustainability Committee to continuously promote sustainability 
initiatives systematically.   
Chaired by the President and CEO, the overall Sustainability Committee consists of the 
Sustainability Committee, which comprises the division head-level personnel of TRIM, and the 
Secretariat, a subordinate organization of the Committee. The Sustainability Committee meets at 
least twice a year, while the Secretariat meets every month, in principle. In addition, the 
Sustainability Committee conducts activities such as setting sustainability targets, monitoring and 
assessing sustainability activities, and raising awareness among officers and employees, and the 
details of major activities of the Committee are reported to the Board of Directors of JPR and TRIM. 
6 
 
Ⅰ. JPRについて 
International Initiatives 
1.  Signing of the Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI) 
The Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI) refers to the six principles (see below for specific 
descriptions) as well as the international network of investors established to realize those 
principles. PRI is promoted by the United Nations Environment Programme ("UNEP") and the 
United Nations Global Compact ("UNGC").  
PRI encourages companies to incorporate environmental, social and corporate governance 
("ESG") issues into decisions on investments. By incorporating these perspectives into the 
investment decision-making processes, PRI aims for companies to enhance the long-term 
performance of their beneficiaries and further fulfill their fiduciary duties.  
TRIM became a signatory to PRI in May 2019, in agreement with its fundamental thinking. 
 
The Six Principles 
1.  We will incorporate ESG issues into investment analysis and the decision-making process. 
2.  We will be active owners and incorporate ESG issues into our ownership policies and practices. 
3.  We will seek appropriate disclosure on ESG issues through the entities in which we invest. 
4.  We will promote acceptance and implementation of the Principles within the investment 
industry. 
5.  We will work together to enhance our effectiveness in implementing the Principles. 
6.  We will each report on our activities and progress towards implementing the Principles.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
7 
 
Ⅰ. JPRについて 
Contribution to SDGs 
SDGs is an abbreviation for Sustainable Development Goals and represents the global goals to be 
achieved by 2030 adopted at the Millennium Summit of the United Nations. The SDGs have set 17 
goals in a wide range of areas in light of a variety of social issues in developing and developed 
countries, and investment corporations and companies are expected to contribute to their 
achievement. 
Sharing the philosophy of the SDGs, JPR and TRIM will contribute to the achievement of the goals 
through their business activities. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Relationship between the materialities of JPR and TRIM and the goals of the SDGs 
JPR and TRIM have stipulated materialities and work on them as follows. 
 
Areas  Goals of SDGs  Details of contribution 
  Increase energy efficiency by renewing 
Initiatives on behalf 
facilities and equipment. 
of the environment 
  Promote preparedness for responding to 
Initiatives on 
large-scale natural disasters affected by 
disaster prevention 
climate change. 
Initiatives on behalf    Support  personal  connections  in  cities 
of local  through  various  local  contribution  and 
communities  welfare support activities. 
  Work  to  cultivate  human  resources  to 
Human capital 
accelerate the growth of TRIM employees 
development 
(ES survey). 
Aim  to  contribute  to  economic 
Initiatives on   
development  through  the  provision  of 
tenant satisfaction 
offices that satisfy tenants.  
Work on respect for human rights, the 
 
Respect for human  prohibition of acts of discrimination and 
rights  harassment and the creation of a pleasant 
work environment.  
8 
 
Ⅰ. JPRについて 
JPR and TRIM set the risks and opportunities of materialities as follows. 
 
Materialities  Risks  Opportunities 
 An increase in costs associated   Expansion of tenant demand by 
Initiatives on behalf 
with greenhouse gas regulations  improving the environment and 
of the environment 
 Damages due to the increased  resilience 
(contribution to a 
occurrence of abnormal weather   Reduction of costs by improving 
low-carbon society) 
(floods and typhoons)  environmental performance 
 A decrease in rental revenue and a   An increase in tenant demand by 
Initiatives on 
fall in real estate value due to the  improving disaster prevention and 
disaster prevention 
occurrence of fire or earthquake   resilience 
Initiatives on behalf   A fall in creditworthiness due to   Strengthening of competitiveness 
of local  deteriorated relations with local  of properties by enhancing the 
communities  communities  value of local communities 
 Improvement of management 
capabilities by improving skills of 
 Destabilization of management 
Human capital  employees  
capabilities due to the decreased 
development   Stabilization of business by 
quality of employees 
increasing excellent human 
resources 
 Reduction of exit of tenants and an 
Initiatives on   Exit of tenants due to dissatisfaction  increase in rental revenue through 
tenant satisfaction  and a decrease in rental revenue  a rise in rent and the occupancy 
rate 
 Delay in business, business 
 Stabilization of business associated 
Respect for human  continuation risk and fall in 
with an improvement in the labor 
rights  creditworthiness due to the 
environment 
occurrence of human rights issues 
9 
 
Ⅰ. JPRについて 
Stakeholder Engagement 
Major stakeholders of JPR and TRIM are tenants, local communities, employees, unitholders, 
investors and business partners. TRIM emphasizes stakeholder engagement by which TRIM uses 
dialogues with stakeholders for its asset management and business management through a 
variety of day-to-day mechanisms.   
 
 
Stakeholders  Thinking of dialogue  Methods of dialogue 
 Work to improve services and the   Tenant satisfaction survey 
Tenants  level of satisfaction by reflecting   Collaboration on energy saving and 
voices of tenants.   disaster prevention 
 Participation of volunteers in 
 Contribute to local communities by 
cleaning activities 
Local communities  working to enhance their value 
 Participation in local events and 
through community activities.  
festivals 
 Make efforts to cultivate 
professional human resources by   Variety of education and training 
Employees  working to realize a rewarding   Award programs 
workplace where employees can   Periodic personnel interviews 
sense their growth.  
 Aim to build a long-term 
relationship of trust with 
 General meeting of unitholders 
unitholders and investors and 
Unitholders and   Results briefings 
acquire appropriate recognition 
investors   IR meetings (Japan and overseas) 
through sincere and fair information 
 Seminars for individual investors 
disclosure and active 
communication.  
 Aim to establish a relationship of 
Business partners  trust and achieve mutual 
 Periodic information sharing 
such as property  development through fair and 
 Implementation of workshops 
managers (PMs)  equitable transactions with 
business partners.  
 
10 
 
Ⅰ. JPRについて 
Initiatives on Behalf of the Environment 
Recognizing the importance of addressing environmental issues in the real estate investment 
management business, JPR strives to reduce its environmental footprint by upgrading facilities and 
improving operations at the properties it owns. In pursuing eco-friendly management, JPR also 
considers issues such as facility user comfort and biodiversity. 
Initiatives on Behalf of the Environment 
1.  Energy-saving and Reducing CO2 Emissions 
（1）  Environmental goal 
JPR and TRIM are working to save energy and reduce CO2 emissions by setting an 
environmental goal of reducing the energy consumption intensity and the CO2 emission 
intensity of the entire portfolio by 5% or more for five years from 2017. 
*  While TRIM set 2016 as the base year of the environmental goal, data calculation methods in 2016 and from 
2017 onwards were different because TRIM introduced an energy management system in April 2019. TRIM has 
changed the base year from 2016 to 2017 to enable a more accurate data comparison.  
（2）  Managing energy-saving and reducing CO2 emissions 
JPR and TRIM work on environmental and energy-saving measures such as replacing 
equipment with items with higher energy efficiency and improving management methods, 
and they promote the reduction of CO2 emissions by measuring the value of greenhouse gas 
emissions. 
a)  Initiatives for improvement of repairing equipment 
✓  Upgrading to highly energy-efficient equipment 
Power consumed by air-conditioning equipment represents a significant 
percentage of the power consumed by all buildings, with power demand increasing 
sharply during the hot summer months in particular. JPR carries out planned 
upgrades of air-conditioning equipment in order to improve cost efficiency and 
comfort while reducing CO2 emissions. 
✓  Upgrading to LED lighting 
JPR is reducing power consumption by steadily introducing LEDs in common-area 
lighting and emergency exit lighting. 
✓  Upgrading to lighting fixtures with motion detectors 
Motion detectors respond to the movement of people and changes in brightness to 
provide illumination only when needed; as a result, lights do not remain on 
because people forget to turn them off, which reduces power consumption. JPR is 
working to reduce power consumption by installing motion detectors in bathrooms, 
staff kitchens, and stairways when carrying out common-area renovations so that 
lights will be turned off when these areas are not in use. 
b)  Initiatives for improvement of operations 
At the facilities JPR operates, steps are also being taken to carefully coordinate 
equipment operation and control operation according to the season in order to reduce 
power consumption in common areas.
11 
 
Ⅱ. Sustainability report 
 
Category  Measure  Key Initiatives 
Creating standards for turning lighting on 
Dimming lighting when rooms 
and off and promoting turning lights off 
are vacant 
when rooms are vacant 
Lighting  Phasing out fluorescent  Reducing  electricity  consumption  by 
vacuum tubes  phasing out fluorescent tubes 
Floor management of  Managing common areas according to use 
common-area lighting  by tenants 
Changing air-conditioning  Recommending  that  tenants  adopt 
temperature to recommended  appropriate  temperature  settings  for 
values  air-conditioning 
Air-conditioning  Turning  off  air-conditioning  equipment 
Turning off air-conditioning 
power  in  empty  areas  to  stop 
power in empty rooms 
equipment  consumption of standby power 
Prohibiting entry of outside air  Restricting the entry of outside air during 
during pre-warming/  pre-warming/pre-cooling  in  order  to 
pre-cooling  reduce air-conditioning loads 
Reviewing method of operating control 
equipment for the purpose of reducing 
Changing contract demand  contract  demand  and  turning  off 
equipment  that  is  always  on  standby 
where appropriate 
Improving power factor through careful 
Improving power factor using  control  of  condensers  and  reducing 
Other equipment  condensers  electrical circuit and transformer energy 
loss 
Managing toilet seat heating and washing 
Seasonal adjustment of heated 
water  temperatures  by  adjusting  the 
toilet seat temperatures 
settings according to the season 
Seasonal management of times  Automatically turning off exterior lights 
when outdoor lights are turned  and managing the times when they are lit 
on  according to the season 
12 
 
Ⅱ. Sustainability report 
c)  Monitoring of environment-related data 
In addition to pursuing environmental and energy-saving measures, JPR periodically 
measures greenhouse gas emissions and strives to reduce the amount of CO2 emitted 
at its properties. 
  FY 2017  FY 2018  Change 
Total (MWh)  98,169  96,036  -2,134 
Electricity Use 
Intensity (MWh/m2)  0.153  0.149  -0.004 
Total (MWh)  64,130  61,855  -2,275 
Office Property 
Intensity (MWh/m2)  0.133  0.127  -0.006 
 
Total (MWh)  34,039  34,181  141 
Retail Property 
Intensity (MWh/m2)  0.211  0.211  -0.000 
Total (MWh)  15,844  15,809  -35 
Gas Use 
Intensity (MWh/m2)  0.024  0.024  -0.000 
Total (MWh)  7,612  7,927  316 
Office Property 
Intensity (MWh/m2)  0.015  0.016  0.001 
 
Total (MWh)  8,233  7,882  -351 
Retail Property 
Intensity (MWh/m2)  0.051  0.048  -0.003 
Total (MWh)  16,319  16,613  294 
Heat Consumption 
Intensity (MWh/m2)  0.025  0.025  0.000 
Total (MWh)  12,521  12,860  339 
Office Property 
Intensity (MWh/m2)  0.026  0.026  0.000 
 
Total (MWh)  3,798  3,753  -45 
Retail Property 
Intensity (MWh/m2)  0.023  0.023  -0.000 
           
Total (m2)  533,968  513,924  -20,043 
Water Use 
Intensity (m3/m2)  0.832  0.800  -0.032 
Total (m2)  357,153  338,805  -18,348 
Office Property 
Intensity (m3/m2)  0.742  0.699  -0.043 
 
Total (m2)  176,815  175,119  -1,695 
Retail Property 
Intensity (m3/m2)  1.098  1.082  0.016 
           
Total (t-CO2)  57,654  51,649  -6,005 
Total CO2 Emission 
Intensity (t-CO2/m2)  0.089  0.080  -0.009 
Total (t-CO2)  39,359  33,806  -5,554 
Office Property 
Intensity (t-CO2/m2)  0.081  0.069  -0.012 
 
Total (t-CO2)  18,295  17,844  -451 
Retail Property 
Intensity (t-CO2/m2)  0.113  0.110  -0.003 
Total (t-CO2)  2,843  2,836  -7 
Scope1 
Intensity (t-CO2/m2)  0.004  0.004  -0.000 
Total (t-CO2)  54,811  48,813  -5,998 
Scope2 
Intensity (t-CO2/m2)  0.085  0.076  -0.009 
13 
 
Ⅱ. Sustainability report 
2.  Conservation of water resources 
JPR switches to apparatuses with greater water-saving effects with the renewal of toilets 
and kitchenettes. In addition, JPR works to reduce consumption by managing and 
measuring it appropriately in cooperation with tenants.  
In some of the properties it holds, JPR has installed water recycling facilities for rainwater 
and recycles water to reduce water consumption. 
3.  Reduction of waste and management of hazardous substances 
（1）  Reduction of the amount of waste produced 
By sorting industrial waste and enhancing recycling efforts, JPR is actively working to reduce 
the amount of waste produced. With the support of tenants and cleaning companies, the 
following waste-reducing initiatives have been implemented: 
a)  Expanding the scope of recycling 
b)  Recycling used fluorescent light tubes and batteries 
c)  More thorough sorting rules 
d)  Enhancing recycling and educational activities 
 
（2）  Waste and Recycling Rate 
 
Category  FY 2017  FY 2018 
 
  Annual waste amount  4,975  5,034 
  Recycling rate  55.6％  56.6％ 
 
Note: This graph aggregates data for properties owned by JPR, excluding properties where tenants 
dispose of waste themselves. 
 
（3）  Management of hazardous substances 
a)  Treatment of asbestos 
  With the Ordinance on Prevention of Health Impairment due to Asbestos (the 
Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare) coming into effect in July 2005, employers 
have been obliged to take measures such as the removal, containment and 
enclosure of sprayed asbestos if it could disperse in a building where their 
employees work. 
  JPR had carried out the removal of sprayed materials such as asbestos at the time 
of  facility  renovations,  before  the  Ordinance  came  into  effect,  and  all  the 
necessary measures such as removal, containment and enclosure have been 
completed in locations with a high frequency of use, such as offices and corridors. 
  In properties that contain asbestos and other sprayed materials, JPR inspects and 
verifies that the asbestos is below the standard value by measuring the status of 
the asbestos on an ongoing basis when JPR measures the air environment based 
on the Act on Maintenance of Sanitation in Buildings. 
  When acquiring a property, JPR has experts conduct an investigation upon 
concluding a sales contract to ensure that environmental pollutants such as 
asbestos are managed appropriately. 
b)  Treatment of PCB 
If PCB is contained in a property owned by JPR, JPR treats the PCB according to related 
laws and regulations after removing the electrical equipment that contains PCB. 
During the period until the treatment, JPR stores and manages the electrical 
equipment appropriately based on the PCB storage and management standards of the 
environment bureau of each prefecture. 
 
14 
 
Ⅱ. Sustainability report 
4.  Promoting renewable energy 
Tokyo Square Garden and Olinas Tower, which are owned by JPR, use renewable energy 
through the introduction of solar power generation equipment. The amount of power generated 
is as follows. 
 
  Portfolio  FY 2017  FY 2018 
 
  Olinas Tower  5,398  5,416 
 
  Tokyo Square Garden  4,551  4,578 
 
*The amount of power generated is a value for interests owned by JPR.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   Tokyo Square Garden              Olinas Tower 
(Rooftop)           (Solar power generation equipment) 
5.  Promotion of wall greening and rooftop greening 
As a part of JPR’s brand strategy, JPR greens the walls and rooftops of properties using 
environmentally accepted plants. This helps create a natural environment in cities and 
promotes the inhabitation of diverse organisms. The wall and rooftop greening also has the 
effect of reducing the electricity consumption of air-conditioning through thermal 
insulation and the effect of reducing the thermal load inside buildings. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Tokyo Tatemono Honmachi Bldg. 
6.  Cooperation with tenants 
（1）  Promotion of a green lease contract 
A green lease contract makes arrangements to reduce environmental loads such as 
through energy savings and improving the work environment, with the building owner 
and the tenants working together. In lease contracts of JPR, a green lease clause is 
standardized to promote the reduction of environmental loads in cooperation with the 
tenants. 
15 
 
Ⅱ. Sustainability report 
7.  Improvement in effectiveness in cooperation with property managers 
To promote initiatives to reduce environmental loads, cooperation with the property 
managers (PMs), who manage and operate properties on site, is essential. JPR and TRIM 
regularly share information with the PMs and discuss initiatives on energy-saving and 
environmental issues. 
JPR and TRIM also hold workshops for the PMs and others to raise their awareness of 
sustainability and enhance their readiness. 
8.  Ensuring environment, safety and health in real estate investment 
When acquiring a new property, JPR and TRIM always check the environmental and social 
risks  by  using  outside  experts,  in  addition  to  site  visits  and  investigations,  before 
concluding a sales contract to avoid the risks. In addition, JPR and TRIM also monitor the 
environmental, safety and health aspects of existing properties on an ongoing basis. 
 
9.  Green Finance 
To implement green finance, JPR has formulated the Green Finance Framework in accordance with 
the Green Bond Principles 2018 and the Green Bond Guidelines 2017 Edition.  
（1）  Framework of Green Finance 
a)  Use of proceeds from Green Finance 
Proceeds from Green Finance will be allocated as follows. 
  To fund purchases of existing or new assets classed as Eligible Green Assets (explained 
later) 
  To fund the repayment of loans needed to purchase Eligible Green Assets 
  To fund the redemption of investment corporation bonds needed to purchase Eligible 
Green Assets 
b)  Eligible Green Assets 
Eligible Green Assets will be selected from among assets that have received or will receive 
certification under either of the following standards. 
  DBJ Green Building Certification: 3 Stars, 4 Stars or 5 Stars 
  CASBEE: B+ Rank, A Rank or S Rank 
c)  Management of proceeds 
Eligible green liabilities will be calculated by multiplying the total acquisition price of Eligible 
Green Assets in the portfolio by the ratio of interest-bearing liabilities to total assets (LTV) 
and this amount will be set as the maximum amount of Green Finance. 
 
d)  Third-party assessment 
JPR obtained Green 1 (F) rating, the highest possible, in a "Green Finance Framework 
Evaluation" by Japan Credit Rating Agency, Ltd. (JCR), which is a third-party evaluation 
organization, regarding the eligibility of its Green Finance Framework. Please click on the 
link below for further details. 
https://www.jcr.co.jp/en/ 
 
（2）  Status of Finance 
Outstanding Balance of Green Bonds Issued 
Issue Amount (million yen)  5,000 
Issue Date  July 31, 2019 
Maturity Date  July 31, 2029 
Coupon Rate  0.57 % 
Remarks  Unsecured/Unguaranteed 
 
 
 
16 
 
Ⅱ. Sustainability report 
Sustainability certification 
1.  Status of Acquisition of Environmental Certification  
JPR is working to improve the percentage of properties with environmental certification, 
aiming  for  a  sustainable  portfolio  with  a  low  environmental  impact.  The  status  of 
acquisition is as shown below.   
 
Item  Dec. 2018  Jun. 2019  Dec. 2019 
Number of properties  17  21  23 
Total floor area  223,389  352,458  359,132 
Percentage of properties  34.0％  53.4％  54.4％ 
with environmental 
certification 
 
2.  Acquisition of DBJ Green Building Certification 
JPR has acquired the DBJ Green Building Certification, which 
Development Bank of Japan Inc. (DBJ) offers to real estate properties 
that give consideration to both the environment and society for 
several properties. The DBJ Green Building Certification is offered by 
DBJ in five ranks, according to the degree of consideration given by 
office properties to the environment and society. 
 
 
 
Property  Certification Level  Acquisition Date 
Olinas Tower  ★★★★★  Dec. 2018 
Tokyo Square Garden  ★★★★★  Jul. 2017 
JPR Sendagaya Bldg.  ★★★★  Dec. 2018 
Oval Court Ohsaki Mark West  ★★★★  Dec. 2018 
Shinjuku Center Bldg.  ★★★★  Mar. 2019 
Kawasaki Dice Bldg.  ★★★  Jun. 2019 
Omiya Prime East  ★★★  Dec. 2018 
Rise Arena Bldg.  ★★★  Dec. 2018 
Yume-ooka Office Tower  ★★★  Dec. 2018 
Kanematsu Bldg.  ★★★  Dec. 2018 
BYGS Shinjuku Bldg.  ★★★  Dec. 2018 
Shinagawa Canal Bldg.  ★★★  Dec. 2018 
JPR Crest Takebashi Bldg.  ★★  Dec. 2018 
Shinjuku Square Tower  ★★  Mar. 2019 
Minami Azabu Bldg.  ★★  Jul. 2017 
JPR Chiba Bldg.  ★★  Jul. 2017 
17 
 
Ⅱ. Sustainability report 
 
 
3.  Acquisition of Top 5-Star Rating in GRESB Survey 
The Global Real Estate Sustainability Benchmark is a benchmark system for evaluating 
environmental, social and corporate governance (ESG) considerations in the real estate sector, 
established in 2009 primarily by major European pension fund groups. Of the survey subjects, 
the GRESB real estate assessment covers real estate companies and funds that are mainly 
engaged in managing existing properties. 
With regard to JPR's initiatives on sustainability, the 2019 survey acknowledged its superiority 
both in the "Management & Policy" and "Implementation & Measurement" dimensions, and 
designated JPR as "Green Star" for the sixth consecutive year. Moreover, JPR was granted "5 
Stars," the highest mark, in the GRESB Rating. In addition, JPR received an "A," the highest 
rating, in the GRESB Public Disclosure (Evaluation of ESG Disclosure Level). 
The following initiatives taken by JPR were acknowledged in the assessment of the survey: 
 
 Enhanced management and strategy for sustainability, including  
establishment of objectives and reinforcement of the implementation system 
 Concrete actions for appropriately understanding ESG risks and  
improving on ESG issues 
 Strengthened efforts in establishing relationships with tenants and other  
stakeholders 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
18 
 
Ⅱ. Sustainability report 
4.  Concerning Acquisition of CASBEE for Building Certification 
CASBEE is a system for comprehensively assessing and ranking the environmental 
performance of buildings with regard to aspects, such as the enhancement of environmental 
quality and performance, including indoor comfort and consideration for the landscape, on top 
of the aspect of environmental consideration, such as energy saving and the use of materials 
and equipment with a lower environmental burden. 
For details of the System, please refer to the website of CASBEE 
http://www.ibec.or.jp/CASBEE/index.html
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Property Name  Certification Level  Acquisition Date 
Musashiurawa Shopping Square  S  Jun. 2019 
JPR Umeda Loft Bldg.  S  Jun. 2019 
Jun. 2019 
Housing Design Center Kobe  S 
Dec. 2019 
JPR Kojimachi Bldg.  S 
FUNDES Ueno   S  Dec. 2019 
Jun. 2019 
JPR Shibuya Tower Records Bldg.  A 
Jun. 2018 
Yakuin Business Garden  A 
 
5.  Winning the Award for Town Creation with Flowers and Greenery (Yakuin Business Garden) 
Yakuin Business Garden is located in the urban area of Fukuoka City. As the building name 
indicates, the property has a wide, vacant lot open to the public, where 23 kinds of plants 
provide a different appearance season by season, including the corridor of zelkova trees that 
dye the air green. It is a space of greenery full of healing and comfort, where not only the 
facility users but also many other people feel relaxed. JPR endeavors to promote greenery as an 
initiative to enhance the asset value as well as to support town creation. [Won the 10th "Award 
for Town Creation with Flowers and Greenery" in 2013] 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
19 
 
Ⅱ. Sustainability report 
  Initiatives for Society 
JPR and TRIM have relationships with a broad array of stakeholders including unitholders, 
tenants, PMs, local communities and TRIM employees. JPR and TRIM will engage in business 
with sincerity and a sense of responsibility to build good relationships with stakeholders that 
last for a long time. 
Initiatives on Behalf of Tenants 
Realizing better customer satisfaction (CS) should create opportunities to invite new tenants as 
well as to continue contracts with existing tenants. 
JPR believes that the quickest way to enhance CS is to directly hear the requests and comments 
of tenants and users and reflect them in the facilities and services. Based on this belief, JPR 
takes a variety of measures. 
 
1.  Considerations Given to Security and Service 
 JPR provides high-quality services in consideration of safety and security of all the people  
who use the properties. By doing so, JPR works to enhance tenant satisfaction. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
20 
 
Ⅱ. Sustainability report 
2.  Periodic CS Surveys 
JPR periodically conducts CS surveys and inspections to check the level of its tenant services for 
each building. 
Based on the inspection results, discussions are held to identify the issues and 
countermeasures for each building, with an aim to continuously enhance the services offered 
by JPR as a whole. 
The surveys are consigned to a think tank, a third-party organization, to secure fair assessment 
results. 
 
 Changes in CS Survey Results 
Based on the survey results, JPR addresses the requests from tenants as quickly as possible, 
endeavoring to improve the issues. 
Through these continuous responses to tenants, their overall satisfaction (average) has been 
steadily enhanced. 
 
 
  Number of subject property
(number of property) (score)
  80 Overall satisfaction (average) 4.0
  3.5 3.5 
3.4 3.4 3.4  3.4 
  3.3  3.3 3.3  3.3 
60 3.2 3.2 3.2  3.2  3.5
3.1 
 
 
40 3.0
 
   20 31 32 31 32 32 36 37 37 38 41 39 40 40 45 42 2.5
 
0 2.0
0 0
 
'05'06'07'08'09'10'11'12'13'14'15'16'17'18'19
 
［Overview of the 2019 CS survey］
  Average value with 4 points being the highestSurveyperiod: May.-Jun. 2019
  Surveyed building: 42 building with 508tenant
Questionnaire item: management and administration, responses to tenants, crime 
  prevention and safety, emergency responses and environmental preservation, etc.
 
 
 
 
3.  Inspection Flow Chart for CS 
JPR shares information on the results of tenant questionnaires and the results of PMs’ 
inspection of issues with building managers (BMs) to improve the issues. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
21 
 
Ⅱ. Sustainability report 
 
4.  Initiatives to Improve the Management Level (Commendation System of the JPR Best 
Performance Award) 
JPR commends the BMs at an excellent management level as a model for other properties by 
implementing the JPR Best Performance Award based on the results of a CS (tenant 
satisfaction) survey and the recommendations of the PMs. Because this award is given based 
on tenant satisfaction, it serves as a significant incentive for the BMs to increase tenant 
satisfaction. In the buildings that received the Award, the BMs tend to actively express opinions 
to improve the management level in many cases, suggesting that their motivation has 
increased. 
In addition, because tenant satisfaction is high in buildings that have received the Award, 
excellent services and efforts in the buildings will be shared with the BMs of other properties, 
which leads to an improvement in the management level of the entire portfolio. 
 
 Recipients of JPR Best Performance Award 2019 
The Best Performance Award 2019 was given to JPR Ichigaya Bldg. The management staff 
always build good relations with tenants and excel at managing the building. As a result, tenant 
satisfaction is high, leading to fewer problems. When simultaneously dealing with construction 
work on the changeover of retail unit tenants and the departure of tenants, the staff facilitated 
difficult events flexibly. The building also scores consistently high in tenant satisfaction surveys 
and, for these reasons, JPR Ichigaya was the winner.  
 
The special award was given to Kanematsu Bldg. and Kanematsu Bldg. Annex, which are highly 
rated every year despite stringent management requirements, and to JPR Ueno East Bldg. for 
its quick response to problems and well-organized management. The special award was also 
given to JPR Hakata Bldg., Yakuin Business Garden and JPR Naha Building, which were highly 
rated for their staff’s attitude toward work and the high standard of management.   
 
Best Performance 
Award               The special award 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
JPR Ichigaya Bldg     Kanematsu Bldg.  Kanematsu Bldg. Annex   JPR Ueno East  
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                 JPR Hakata Bldg.   Yakuin Business Garden  JPR Naha Building 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
22 
 
Ⅱ. Sustainability report 
Safety and Security Initiatives 
JPR believes that its primary responsibility is to ensure the safety of tenants and users and 
provide facilities and services that are comfortable and safe to use. Continuous and 
comprehensive efforts are required in order to provide safe, secure and high-quality services. 
Drawing on the expertise of its sponsors, JPR views safety the top priority in operating its 
properties. 
1.  Improving safety and security 
JPR and TRIM manages its facilities appropriately in accordance with its Operation and 
Maintenance Manual to provide peace of mind to all tenants and customers. For management 
of parking lots, which have high risk when it comes to safety, JPR has developed its own 
in-house safety standards that are more stringent than the standards required by law, and 
pursues continuous risk reduction through regular inspections and reviews at each property. 
The majority of accidents that occur in parking lots are accounted for by human error, so JPR is 
further promoting risk reduction by sharing detailed safety information with users. 
2.  Earthquake- and disaster-prevention initiatives 
a)  Earthquake prevention initiatives 
Since the Great East Japan Earthquake in 2011, there has been increased concern about 
the earthquake resistance of buildings. JPR is adopting measures to minimize damage and 
ensure rapid recovery in order to ensure business continuity and enable sustained growth 
in the event of unforeseen circumstances such as a natural disaster or epidemic. 
Furthermore, JPR considers earthquake risks when buying properties and does not acquire 
buildings that fail to meet certain earthquake-proofing standards. 
b)  Disaster-prevention and business continuity planning (BCP) measures 
TRIM has established crisis management procedures and a business continuity plan 
and is making ongoing efforts to prepare for unforeseen circumstances such as 
natural disasters. 
In developing BCP, the probability of a crisis occurring, its impact, and the difficulty of 
responding to it are evaluated and measures selected accordingly. As part of BCP, an 
action plan has been formulated in order to take appropriate steps regarding essential 
business and critical factors when responding to a disaster. In the event of an 
emergency situation, crisis response headquarters will be set up, and preparations 
have been made to preserve assets and ensure the rapid deployment of 
countermeasures, with the primary goal being to protect the lives of people. 
c)  Conducting disaster-prevention training 
With increasing attention being focused on the importance of earthquake- and 
disaster-preparedness, regular disaster-prevention training and awareness activities 
are being conducted at buildings owned by JPR for the purpose of ensuring user safety, 
reducing damage, maintaining business activities, and helping people in the 
community in the event of an earthquake. Moreover, in properties with many 
foreign-affiliated tenants, steps have been taken to provide emergency 
announcements in English and measures suited to user characteristics have been 
implemented. TRIM is also striving to improve its response capabilities and conducts 
regular trainings to increase the speed at which information about property damage 
will be collected in the event of an earthquake occurring directly below the Tokyo area. 
d)  Using PML Values in Preparation for Earthquake Risks 
PML means Probable Maximum Loss, or the maximum amount of loss by earthquakes. 
ML indicates the degree of damage to a building caused by an assumed earthquake of 
maximum magnitude (possible once every 475 years), presented as the proportion 
(%) of the expected restoring cost against the price to re-acquire the building 
(replacement cost). The lower the percentage, the lower the amount of loss. JPR 
checks the earthquake resistance performance and the PML value when determining 
whether to acquire a property, and will not acquire it if the property does not meet 
certain standards. For the earthquake resistance performance and the PML value of 
individual properties in the portfolio, please check the Property Data Book. 
23 
 
Ⅱ. Sustainability report 
e)  Shakes by the Great East Japan Earthquake Attenuated at Shinjuku Center Bldg. 
Supported by Taisei Corporation, the sole general contractor among sponsors of 
J-REITs, JPR installed 288 axial force controlling oil dampers at Shinjuku Center 
Building  in  2009.  The  installation  represented  the  first  countermeasure  against 
long-period  earthquake  ground  motion  for  existing  ultra-skyscraper  buildings  in 
Japan. 
When the Great East Japan Earthquake occurred, this countermeasure minimized the 
damage  to  the  building,  reducing  maximum  distortion  by  22%  and  maximum 
acceleration by 29%. At Toh-Ten-Koh, a Chinese restaurant on the top floor, the 
damage consisted of a small number of broken plates. This is an example where 
preliminary measures minimized the damage.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Countermeasures against Long-Period Earthquake Ground Motion Won 
the 20th BELCA Award 
The BELCA (Building and Equipment Long-Life Cycle Association) Award 
is a program to select and recognize exemplary buildings and structures 
among  those  that  are  properly  repaired  and  maintained  or  have 
undergone excellent renovation work. Shinjuku Center Bldg. received 
the 20th BELCA Award (in the long life domain). 
 
 
 
Local Community Initiatives 
1.  Cooperation with sponsors in urban redevelopment 
In large-scale redevelopment, JPR promotes the reasonable, sound and high-level use of land 
in cities and the renewal of urban functions by developing highly aseismic buildings and public 
facilities such as parks, squares and streets. JPR has a track record of acquiring more than 70% 
of the sponsor pipeline, which mainly consists of large-scale properties redeveloped by the 
sponsors, and large-scale redevelopment properties make up 43.5％ of the portfolio.  
Major large-scale redevelopment properties in the portfolio are as follows. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  The Otemachi Tower        Olinas Tower        Shinjuku Center Bldg.   Tokyo Square Garden 
    36.0 billion yen  31.3 billion yen    21.0 billion yen    18.4 billion yen 
24 
 
Ⅱ. Sustainability report 
2.  Local Community Initiatives 
At JPR and TRIM, it is believed that developing the communities where properties are located 
will enhance the value of JPR's assets. As a good real estate owner, JPR strives to engage in 
dialogue with local residents, offer its land and facilities as venues for people to interact, and 
establish roots in the community. 
(1)  Example property: Oval Court Ohsaki Mark West 
As part of its interactions with building tenants and local residents, 
satsuma-imo potatoes have been cultivated on the roof of Oval 
Court Ohsaki, organized mainly by the building's management 
association. During the height of summer, the plants sprout and 
cover the roof. Through transpiration and heat-shielding, the 
leaves help to alleviate the heat island effect. In addition, "Green 
Potato" harvesting sessions are held to collect potatoes grown on 
the roof, with building tenants and children from neighborhood 
daycares  taking  part  in  the  activity.  Some  of  the  harvested 
potatoes are cooked in the building's cafeteria and served at a dinner for the participants, who 
greatly appreciate it. 
 
(2)  Example property: Yume-ooka Office Tower 
Through the management association, Yume-ooka Office Tower, 
in  collaboration  with  other  condominium  owners,  provides 
financial  support  to  set  up  illuminations  in  winter  for  the 
enjoyment  of  local  residents.  To  celebrate  the  event's  20th 
anniversary in 2016, the Yume-ooka Festival was held at the 
rooftop  garden.  It  was  attended  by  around  6,000  people, 
including local residents and building tenants. In addition, the 
building  has  undertaken  various  activities  to  support  the 
community, including providing display areas for fire-prevention awareness posters created by 
children from the ward, a bloodmobile station, and an event venue for use by community 
development groups. 
 
(3)  Example property: JPR Sendagaya Building 
 In November 2017, an event to sell baked goods made at 
Okashi-ya Palette was held at JPR Sendagaya Building. Okashi-ya 
Palette is a welfare workshop backed by the NPO Palette Inc., 
supporting the social participation and independence of people 
with disabilities through the baking and selling of cookies and 
cakes. 
JPR was able to hold this event thanks to the tenant of the 
building, Daikyo Incorporated, who introduced the NPO to us. 
JPR carries out such initiatives to support social contribution 
activities. 
 
(4)  Morning Clean-up Activities 
 TRIM,  together  with  its  main  sponsor 
(Tokyo Tatemono Co., Ltd.), periodically 
conducts cleanup activities in Nihonbashi, 
Yaesu and Kyobashi, where its head office 
is  located.  Recently,  more  than  200 
volunteers  primarily  from  the  Tokyo 
Tatemono  Group  have  participated  in 
volunteer activities in an effort to improve 
the look of the area. 
TRIM will continue to make contributions to regional communities through exchanges with local 
residents and town beatification activities. 
25 
 
Ⅱ. Sustainability report 
(5)  Sanno Matsuri 
 Sanno  Matsuri  is  a  festival  at  Hie 
Shrine. In the Edo period, it was one 
of  the  few  festivals  called 
Tenka-Matsuri that were watched by 
the shogun. This festival is one of the 
three  great  festivals  in  Japan, 
together  with Osaka Tenjin Matsuri 
and Kyoto Gion Matsuri. 
Partly because it is held every other 
year, Sanno Matsuri is a major festival. The mikoshi (portable shrine) of Kyobashi 3-chome, 
where Tokyo Square Garden owned by JPR is located, also parades through the town during 
this festival. 
Officers and employees of TRIM, which is a member of the Tokyo Tatemono Group as the 
sponsor, participate in the festival and warm it up with people from the local neighborhood 
association.
26 
 
Ⅱ. Sustainability report 
Workforce Initiatives  
One of the corporate beliefs of TRIM is that “each officer and employee shall act as a 
professional with sincerity and a sense of responsibility.” TRIM believes that if the officers and 
employees exercise their advanced expertise through personal growth, it will lead to the 
sustainable growth of JPR and TRIM. 
 
Based on this philosophy, TRIM supports the self-fulfillment of its employees by advocating the 
creation of a work environment where each employee will be respected as an individual and will 
be able to work in a meaningful and rewarding job and demonstrate their abilities to the fullest. 
In addition, TRIM makes efforts for the fair and appropriate evaluation of the employees by 
considering both the process and outcomes to boost their long-term cultivation, in addition to 
pursuing their short-term results. 
1.  Human capital development 
TRIM fully supports employees' attitudes to take on challenges based on the idea that its 
workforce is its greatest management resource. TRIM has developed an education and training 
system that is required for its employees to apply their expertise, expand their sustainability 
and improve their self-management skills, and engages in human capital development to 
enable all employees to fully exert their expertise and realize the creation of higher added value 
and new value as professionals in real estate investment management.    
27 
 
Ⅱ. Sustainability report 
（1）  Human capital development programs 
TRIM has systemized rank-based training in line with the skills necessary for each grade and 
position from the standpoint of the medium- and long-term development of employees and 
engages in career development according to the duties, rank and the development of the 
future management team. TRIM also provides its independently produced training programs 
every year on subjects with strong social demand such as compliance and ESG.    
 
Rank-based job training 
Vision for  Major abilities to  Overall  Individual 
Grade  Rank-based 
personnel  execute  Skill training  training  training 
training 
Lead the pursuit  Management   
of achievements  strategic ability  
as a professional  Ability to reform 
representing the  business 
A 
company in an  Organizational 
area of  ability 
responsibility.   Ability to cultivate 
successors 
Perform a high  Management  Management 
level of duties  skills  training 
both qualitatively  Ability to  Evaluation 
and  formulate  training 
quantitatively as  strategies 
a highly skilled  Teaching and 
B 
professional and  cultivation skills 
play a central 
role in pursuing 
achievements in  ・e-learning 
an area of  (required 
responsibility.   and 
Designate  Our training 
Contribute to the  Problem-solving  Leadership  optional) 
human and  (compliance 
achievements of  ability  training  ・Training to 
conceptual  training and 
a team to which  Leadership  Management  acquire 
skills training  ESG 
the employee  development  assessment  qualification
for each grade.   training) 
C   belongs as a core  Basic  s 
member in the  management  ・Specialized 
execution of  skills  courses 
operations within  Communication 
a certain range.   skills 
Assume  Problem finding  Communication 
responsibility for  and solving ability  training 
executing  Ability to improve  Leadership 
operations as a  operations  assessment 
D   person in charge  Ability to 
of operations  accomplish 
within a certain  operations 
scope.   Communication 
skills 
Support  Business  (Independence) 
superiors in the  processing ability 
execution of  Ability to write 
E  
operations as an  sentences well 
assistant.   Basic actions and 
attitude 
 
 
 
 
 
28 
 
Ⅱ. Sustainability report 
（2）  Job specific development training program 
TRIM proactively supports all employees in developing skills in order to exercise strong 
expertise. Support includes covering expenses for attendance at seminars and trainings at least 
twice a year and periodically providing internal training using e-learning. TRIM also manages 
the status of attendance at training sessions and uses it for guidance and career development.  
It covers the expenses for the acquisition of ARES Certified Master certification and other 
qualifications. 
As of the end of December 2019, TRIM employees held the following qualifications. 
 
 
Real estate transaction specialist  34 employees 
ARES Certified Master  13 employees 
Real estate appraiser  4 employees 
First-class architect  2 employees 
Certified public accountant  1 employee 
Securities Analysts Association of Japan  4 employees 
 
Fiscal 2014  Fiscal 2015  Fiscal 2016  Fiscal 2017  Fiscal 2018 
Related data  (Apr. 2014-  (Apr. 2015-  (Apr. 2016-  (Apr. 2017-  (Apr. 2018- 
Mar. 2015)  Mar. 2016)  Mar. 2017)  Mar. 2018)  Mar. 2019) 
Annual total of hours spent 
829 hours  686 hours  679 hours  707 hours  812 hours 
on education and training 
Hours spent on education 
20.2 hours  17.6 hours  16.2 hours  18.1 hours  19.8 hours 
and training per employee 
Ratio of executives and 
employees receiving  100.0％  100.0％  100.0％  100.0％  100.0％ 
education and training 
 
 
（3）  Personnel system 
TRIM places importance on the development and demonstration of skills of all employees, and 
has established regulations for the personnel system in an aim to treat its workforce fairly and 
to develop human resources. With enhanced fairness and transparency in personnel evaluation 
based  on  achievements,  TRIM  presses  ahead  with  creating  a  work  environment  where 
employees can exert their capabilities as professionals while setting higher individual goals. To 
ensure the fairness of evaluations, TRIM conducts multi-step evaluations and carries out the 
company-wide adjustment of evaluation levels. In addition, every employee is notified of 
evaluation results and can raise any objections or seek a correction. The evaluator conducts 
interviews with employees every three months to share thoughts on their expected roles that 
are appropriate to their skill development stages as well as actual achievements. TRIM uses the 
interview as an important opportunity for promoting skill development while presenting the 
evaluation more satisfactorily. At the same time, TRIM provides the evaluator with evaluation 
training to ensure fair evaluation and guidance. 
 
（4）  Employee satisfaction survey 
TRIM believes that employees are stakeholders closest to TRIM and improving their satisfaction 
is essential to its sustainable growth. Accordingly, TRIM conducts annual surveys of all 
employees on a wide range of matters such as workplace environment, physical and mental 
health issues, educational support, treatment and personnel policies. The results of the survey 
are reported to the management team and feedback is provided to employees to improve the 
workplace environment. 
 
（5）  Employee awards program 
TRIM has established an awards program to recognize employees with notable achievements. 
By presenting an award, TRIM fosters a corporate culture that raises the motivation of each 
employee and encourages them to work with an enterprising spirit. 
29 
 
Ⅱ. Sustainability report 
2.  Work-life balance 
TRIM believes that balancing work and life by reviewing employees' working hours will lead to 
higher productivity and satisfaction. TRIM promotes creating a pleasant workplace considering 
the work-life balance so that all employees will be able to fully exert their potential. 
 
（1）  Prevention of prolonged working hours 
As part of efforts to create a healthy working environment, TRIM works to prevent chronic or 
continuous long hours of work as well as to thoroughly abide by labor-related laws. TRIM 
implements measures that include the proper management of the working status of all 
employees and the provision of instructions for improvement as needed while reporting to the 
management team. 
 
Fiscal 2014  Fiscal 2015  Fiscal 2016  Fiscal 2017  Fiscal 2018 
Related data  (Apr. 2014-  (Apr. 2015-  (Apr. 2016-  (Apr. 2017-  (Apr. 2018- 
Mar. 2015)  Mar. 2016)  Mar. 2017)  Mar. 2018)  Mar. 2019) 
Overtime hours 
per  employee  17.3 hours  14.8 hours  13.8 hours  13.2 hours  10.0 hours 
(monthly) 
30 
 
Ⅱ. Sustainability report 
（2）  Holiday system 
It is important for employees to have sufficient rest and gain vitality for work to exert their full 
capacity and produce business results. TRIM believes that it is very important that employees 
take holidays to generate higher added value. TRIM works to increase the ratio of paid leave 
taken by developing a work environment where employees can easily take paid leave by 
improving their operational efficiency, and encourages them to take long-term paid leave by 
providing them with seasonal holidays, in addition to ordinary annual paid leave. 
TRIM has also developed a system for enabling employees with chronic diseases to play an 
active role by introducing the sick leave system in fiscal 2018, so that they can take a leave of 
absence for hospital visits and medical treatment with peace of mind. 
 
Fiscal 2014  Fiscal 2015  Fiscal 2016  Fiscal 2017  Fiscal 2018 
Related data  (Apr. 2014-  (Apr. 2015-  (Apr. 2016-  (Apr. 2017-  (Apr. 2018- 
Mar. 2015)  Mar. 2016)  Mar. 2017)  Mar. 2018)  Mar. 2019) 
Ratio of paid 
71.0％  87.4％  77.2％  87.5%  80.6％ 
leave taken 
 
（3）  Healthcare 
TRIM considers the health of executives and employees as an important matter for the company and 
addresses health management as a critical management issue. While covering the expenses for 
health checkups and influenza vaccinations among other things to encourage them, TRIM also works 
to improve the health of employees through prevention and early treatment by implementing 
measures  against  lifestyle-related  diseases  and  metabolic  syndrome.  Furthermore,  TRIM  has 
established a system that provides finely tuned responses through face-to-face counseling to deal 
with mental healthcare, by setting up a health consultation office to allow employees to casually 
visit. 
 
Fiscal 2014  Fiscal 2015  Fiscal 2016  Fiscal 2017  Fiscal 2018 
Related data  (Apr. 2014-  (Apr. 2015-  (Apr. 2016-  (Apr. 2017-  (Apr. 2018- 
Mar. 2015)  Mar. 2016)  Mar. 2017)  Mar. 2018)  Mar. 2019) 
Ratio of employees 
receiving health  100.0％  100.0％  100.0％  100.0％  100.0％ 
checkups 
 
3.  Health and Comfort 
TRIM understands that the mental and physical health of employees is the starting point for the 
sustainable development of TRIM and JPR. The health of employees is essential for increasing 
productivity and creativity, and TRIM is committed to the development of internal systems and 
the improvement of the workplace environment and will actively support the promotion of 
health among employees and their families.    
 
(1)   Healthcare 
Recognizing that management of employees’ health is a crucial issue, TRIM fully subsidizes and 
recommends health checkups and influenza vaccinations. TRIM is also focusing on improving 
health through prevention and early treatment including measures to avoid lifestyle diseases 
and increase metabolism, treatment to help employees quit smoking, and dental checkups.   
In terms of mental healthcare, TRIM has also established a health helpline giving employees 
easy access to counseling at any time.  
 
(2)   Compliance helpline 
TRIM has a Compliance Office as a point of contact with which employees can consult regarding 
work issues or can use to make inquiries or whistleblowing reports in relation to compliance. 
Employees also have the option of using Tokyo Tatemono Group’s helpline or an external point 
of contact provided by a law firm.  
TRIM gives the utmost consideration to the privacy of those who consult with the helpline or 
make whistleblowing reports and thoroughly implements measures prohibiting discriminatory 
31 
 
Ⅱ. Sustainability report 
treatment of whistleblowers. 
Inquiries and whistleblowing reports received by each helpline are reported to the President 
and the Compliance Office promptly conducts an investigation to confirm the facts and 
implements corrective measures and recurrence prevention measures where necessary.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(3)     Individual interviews with employees 
All employees have an interview with a personnel officer once a year. The interview provides an 
opportunity to ask the employee about a wide range of topics, including any complaints or 
requests in relation to the workplace or workplace relationships, problems with their health or 
family, and any future career aspirations. It is helpful for the provision of support to the 
employee after the interview and for improving the workplace environment. 
 
(4)   Development of office environment 
TRIM believes that a comfortable office environment is necessary for employees to fully 
perform. TRIM advocates the development of workplaces that are conducive to work, putting 
plants in every office and providing communal areas and rest areas, and making drinks and 
snacks available to encourage communication between employees. Meanwhile, through its use 
of ICT, TRIM has enabled the use of computers anywhere in the office, has improved work 
efficiency and has reduced paper resources by moving to paperless meetings.  
 
(5)   Labor-management relations 
TRIM believes that the prosperity of JPR and TRIM lies in good relationships between the 
management  and  employees.  As  part  of  its  efforts  to  create  a  workplace  with  good 
communication, TRIM holds exchange meetings between the management and employees 
every six months to provide an opportunity for direct dialogue between the management and 
all employees. Since its founding, TRIM has never taken measures similar to  layoffs or 
restructuring and has never experienced labor issues such as strikes. 
 
4.  Diversity 
TRIM respects the diversity of all employees regardless of nationality, gender, age, values and 
attributes,  and  is  creating  an  environment  where  employees  can  succeed  to  achieve 
medium-to long-term growth and enhance corporate value. 
 
（1）  Respect for human rights and the prevention of harassment 
TRIM believes that the basic attitude we should have in an environment full of opportunities to 
interact with people who have different ways of thinking and values is to accept each other 
without denying the opinions of the other person and to interact with respect and dignity. TRIM 
eliminates harassment such as discrimination and abuse as the footing for an environment 
where employees can work enthusiastically. The Tokyo Tatemono Group and TRIM promote 
awareness-raising and the acquisition of knowledge to eliminate discrimination and prevent 
harassment through compliance training. 
（2）  Promoting the empowerment of women 
TRIM considers the diversity of employees as an essential theme for sustainable growth and is 
striving to respond to the various needs of employees. In addition, TRIM is promoting the 
creation of a workplace environment where female employees wishing to succeed in work can 
fully exert their individuality and skills. 
 
32 
 
Ⅱ. Sustainability report 
Fiscal 2014  Fiscal 2015  Fiscal 2016  Fiscal 2017  Fiscal 2018 
Related data  (Apr. 2014-  (Apr. 2015-  (Apr. 2016-  (Apr. 2017-  (Apr. 2018- 
Mar. 2015)  Mar. 2016)  Mar. 2017)  Mar. 2018)  Mar. 2019) 
Number of 
employees taking  0  0  2  1  0 
childcare leave 
Number of 
employees working  0  0  0  2  2 
reduced hours 
 
（3）  Empowerment of seniors 
TRIM works to create an environment in which seniors will continue to have active roles 
utilizing their work experience, knowledge, skills and such after their retirement, by introducing 
the reemployment system, which allows employees who wish to work after their retirement at 
60, to be continuously employed. 
Fiscal 2014  Fiscal 2015  Fiscal 2016  Fiscal 2017  Fiscal 2018 
Related data  (Apr. 2014-  (Apr. 2015-  (Apr. 2016-  (Apr. 2017-  (Apr. 2018- 
Mar. 2015)  Mar. 2016)  Mar. 2017)  Mar. 2018)  Mar. 2019) 
Number of 
0  0  0  0  1 
reemployed seniors 
 
5.  Data Related to Employees 
Data Related to Employees  Fiscal 2014  Fiscal 2015  Fiscal 2016  Fiscal 2017  Fiscal 2018 
Number of full-time directors  ５  ５  ５  5  5 
Male  ５  ５  ５  5  5 
Female  ０  ０  ０  0  0 
Number of employees 
41  39  42  39  41 
(regular/contract) 
Ratio of regular employees against all 
93.0％  90.0％  91.0%  95%  90％ 
employees 
Number of regular employees  38  35  38  37  37 
Male  34  31  34  31  32 
Female  4  4  4  6  5 
Number of contract employees  3  4  4  2  4 
Male  0  0  0  0  0 
Female  3  4  4  2  4 
Number of employees seconded from 
16  15  14  13  11 
other companies 
Male  15  14  13  12  11 
Female  1  1  1  1  0 
Ratio of female employees  17.0%  21.0%  19.0%  20.5%  22.0％ 
Ratio of female executives  0.0%  0.0%  0.0%  0.0%  0.0％ 
33 
 
Ⅱ. Sustainability report 
Data Related to Employees  Fiscal 2014  Fiscal 2015  Fiscal 2016  Fiscal 2017  Fiscal 2018 
Ratio of female directors  0  0  0  0  0 
5 years and  6 years and  6 years and 3 6 years and  6 years and 
Average length of service* 
4 months  2 months  months  10 months 
3 months 
5 years and  6 years and  6 years and  6 years and  6 years and 
Male 
4 months  6 months  2 months  7 months 
0 month 
5 years and  5 years and  6 years and  7 years and  6 years and 
Female 
3 months  5 months  5 months  5 months 
8 months 
Number of new hires*  6  1  4  1  5 
Male  4  0  4  1  3 
Female  2  1  0  0  2 
Number of employee turnover*  3  2  0  2  1 
Male  3  2  0  2  1 
Female  0  0  0  0  0 
Employee turnover rate*  7.3%  5.1%  0.0%  5.1%  2.4％ 
Ratio of paid leave taken*  71.0%  87.4%  77.2%  87.5%  80.6％ 
Ratio of employees receiving health 
100.0%  100.0%  100.0%  100.0%  100.0％ 
checkups* 
Annual total of hours spent on 
829 hours  686 hours  679 hours  707 hours  812 hours 
education and training 
Hours spent on education and training 
20.2 hours  17.6 hours  16.2 hours  18.1 hours  19.8 hours 
per employee 
Ratio of executives and employees 
100.0%  100.0%  100.0%  100.0%  100.0％ 
receiving education and training 
Ratio of executives and employees 
100.0%  100.0%  100.0%  100.0%  100.0％ 
receiving sustainability training 
Overtime hours per employee 
17.3 hours  14.8 hours  13.8 hours  13.2 hours  10.0 hours 
(monthly)* 
Male  19.4 hours  16.9 hours  15.2 hours  14.1 hours  13.7 hours 
Female  10.4 hours  7.3 hours  8.9 hours  9.1 hours  4.4 hours 
Number of employees taking childcare 
0  0  2  1  0 
leave* 
Number of employees taking 
0  0  0  0  0 
long-term nursing care leave* 
Number of employees working reduced 
0  0  0  2  2 
hours* 
 
Initiatives Aimed at Unitholders/Investors 
Efforts are made to disclose timely, accurate information that is useful to unitholders and 
investors as well as to enhance communication through briefings and active participation in 
events. 
34 
 
Ⅱ. Sustainability report 
1.  Information disclosure 
Recognizing that thorough information disclosure has a significant impact on the development 
and success of the real estate investment trust securities market, one of JPR's management 
principles is to "earn the trust of society and unitholders through highly transparent fund 
management based on timely, appropriate information disclosure and proactive IR activities." 
To put this principle into practice, JPR strives for the disclosure of impartial information 
including information required to be revealed based on timely disclosure rules as well as other 
information judged to be useful to investors in making investment decisions. 
2.  Status of IR-related activities 
In addition to timely information disclosure, JPR strives for the provision of a wide range of 
content  on  websites,  including  statutory  disclosure  documents,  press  releases,  financial 
information (financial statements, earnings summaries, briefing materials for analysts, and 
videos of results briefings), characteristics and performance status of managed assets, and 
information aimed at private investors. 
Moreover, each time financial results are announced, a briefing on the operating status or 
financial outlook of the portfolio is held for institutional investors and lenders based in Tokyo 
and other interested parties, aimed primarily at securities analysts. In addition, around 100 to 
120 individual meetings are held with Japanese and international institutional investors both in 
Japan and overseas. In addition to the holding of individual meetings with foreign investors, 
focusing  mainly  on  North  America,  Europe,  and  Asia,  JPR  also  actively  participates  in 
conferences held by securities companies. 
Furthermore, results briefings are held for 200 to 300 private investors in Tokyo and two major 
cities in other regions of Japan each time financial results are announced and JPR is actively 
involved in private investor seminars held by the Association for Real Estate Securitization, the 
Tokyo Stock Exchange, securities companies, and others. 
 
Corporate Governance Initiatives 
Corporate governance is an important theme for enhancing corporate value as well as meeting 
the expectations of all stakeholders, including unitholders, and fulfilling responsibility for them. 
JPR will work to further ensure the soundness of management as an investment corporation 
and a company trusted by its stakeholders. 
1.  JPR's corporate governance 
Under the guidance of the Board of Directors, which is comprised of executive officers and 
supervising officers, JPR seeks to thoroughly implement and reinforce its corporate governance 
to ensure the successful operation of its business over the medium to long term. 
 
（1）  JPR's decision-making organs 
It is stipulated (Article 18 of the regulations) that JPR shall have up to two executive officers 
and up to four supervising officers (there must be at least one more supervising officer than 
executive officers). 
At present, JPR's decision-making organs are the General Meeting of Unitholders (comprised of 
unitholders), the Board of Directors (comprised of all executive officers and supervising 
officers), and an accounting auditor. There are currently one executive officer and two 
supervising officers. 
a)  Breakdown of JPR's structure 
・General Meeting of Unitholders 
・Executive officers, supervising officers, and Board of Directors 
・Accounting auditor 
b)  Supervision system based on internal control and supervising officers 
JPR holds a meeting of the Board of Directors once a month, in principle, where the 
executive  officers  explain  the  management  status,  TRIM  provides  supplemental 
explanations, and the supervising officers confirm them, thereby establishing an 
35 
 
Ⅱ. Sustainability report 
internal control system to exercise control through the Board of Directors. 
c)  Coordination of auditing and supervision based on internal control and supervising officers 
Supervision by supervising officers 
At a meeting of the Board of Directors of JPR, the supervising officers receive 
reports  on  the  management  status  from  the  executive  officers  and  on  the 
management status, compliance and risks from TRIM, and request TRIM to make a 
report as necessary. 
 Coordination between supervising officers and the accounting auditor 
The accounting auditor audits the financial statements of JPR for each accounting 
period, holds a debrief meeting for the supervising officers to make a report and 
submits the audit result explanatory documents to the supervising officers. If the 
accounting auditor has discovered misconduct or violation of laws, regulations or 
the Articles of Incorporation in relation to the execution of duties by executive 
officers, the accounting auditor has a duty to report it to the supervising officers. 
d)  System for management of affiliated corporations by JPR 
If TRIM has a transaction with its interested party (a sponsor and its subsidiary), it 
requires the approval of the Board of Directors of JPR. In addition, if TRIM has revised 
the management guidelines or the management policy, it will be reported to the Board 
of Directors of JPR. TRIM also undertakes assistant work of executive officers, and if 
asked by a supervising officer to report on the management status, TRIM will respond 
to the request. 
For details of the implementation status of the above, refer to "4. Investment Corporation 
Structure" in our securities reports. 
 
（2）  Criteria for appointing investment corporation officers 
It is a requirement that none of the grounds for disqualification stipulated in the  laws 
concerning investment trusts and investment corporations shall apply to officers appointed by 
JPR. Officers are appointed by means of a resolution of the General Meeting of Unitholders. 
 
（3）  Remuneration of officers 
Remuneration for executive officers and supervising officers is stipulated in the investment 
corporation regulations as the amount decided by the Board of Directors (up to a maximum of 
500,000 yen per month for each executive officer and 400,000 yen per month for each 
supervising officer).  With  the aim of ensuring transparency, remuneration of officers is 
disclosed in asset management reports. 
Remuneration for supervising officers and the accounting auditor for the fiscal period ended 
June 30, 2019 (January – June 2019) is as follows:  
 
Total Fee during  Total Fee during 
Other Current  the Dec. ’18 Fiscal  the Jun. ’19 Fiscal 
Portion  Name 
Assignments  Period  Period 
(thousands of yen)  (thousands of yen) 
Director, Tokyo Realty 
Executive 
Satoshi Okubo  Investment  2,400  2,400 
Officer 
Management, Inc. 
Partner Attorney, 
Masato Denawa 
Spring Partners 
Group Representative 
Supervising 
Partner of GYOSEI  4,200  4,200 
Officers 
Nobuhisa Kusanagi  Certified Public Tax & 
Accountants' Co. 
Independent 
EY ShinNihon LLC  -  13,300  13,300 
Auditor 
(1)  Supervising officers may be directors of corporations other than those indicated above, but have no conflict of 
interest with JPR at those and the above positions. 
(2)  The independent auditor fees include fees regarding the audit of JPR’s English financial statements and fees 
regarding the preparation of comfort letters for additional issuance of new investment units. 
36 
 
Ⅱ. Sustainability report 
(3)  Satoshi Okubo retired as Director of Tokyo Realty Investment Management, Inc. on March 31, 2019.  
(4)  Satoshi Okubo retired as Executive Officer on September 5, 2019. As a result, Yoshihiro Jozaki, who is President 
& CEO of Tokyo Realty Investment Management, Inc., became Executive Officer on the same date.   
 
（4）  Transactions with interested parties 
In the asset management of JPR, the interests of JPR may conflict with the interests of TRIM’s 
sponsor. Typical examples are cases where JPR acquires a property from TRIM’s sponsor and 
JPR entrusts property management operations to TRIM’s sponsor. To prevent JPR from 
suffering a loss in such cases, TRIM has organized a more rigorous system to prevent conflicts 
of interest than those provided for by laws and regulations. 
Transactions between JPR and interested parties and transactions that require the approval of 
JPR are reviewed and examined by TRIM's Compliance Committee at the invitation of an 
external attorney. In order for a transaction approved by the Compliance Committee to be 
carried out, prior consent of JPR's Board of Directors (whose members are independent of 
TRIM's shareholders) is required. Transactions are thus subject to multiple effective reviews 
before being carried out. 
Transactions with interested parties include the following: 
Acquisition of property/assets from an interested party 
Disposal of property/assets to an interested party  
Outsourcing of real estate management to an interested party 
An interested party acting as an intermediary or representative for a transaction  
Hiring an interested party to carry out construction work (if the work costs more than 10 
million yen) 
Leasing of property to an interested party 
* Leasing of property to an interested party refers to: 1) Cases where a new rental 
contract is signed with an interested party, or 2) cases where the rent is frozen or set 
at a level below the average rent for the property when a lease is renewed.
37 
 
Ⅱ. Sustainability report 
2.  TRIM's corporate governance 
TRIM strives to increase management transparency and awareness of corporate ethics while 
making timely decisions and executing operations efficiently. TRIM aims to increase JPR's 
unitholder value by thoroughly implementing and reinforcing corporate governance. 
 
（1）  TRIM's management structure 
JPR entrusts management of its assets to TRIM.  
TRIM's organizational framework is as shown below. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
38 
 
Ⅱ. Sustainability report 
（2）  Investment management decision-making organs 
TRIM  has  established  an  Investment  Policy  Committee  to  make  investment 
management-related  decisions,  which  oversees  an  Investment  Subcommittee  and 
Management Subcommittee. 
Matters relating to investment targets and management policy are decided by the Board of 
Directors, while matters relating to management plans and their execution are decided by the 
Investment Policy Committee. Other matters are decided by the Investment Subcommittee or 
Management Subcommittee. 
a)  The decision-making organs for property acquisitions are as shown below. Decisions on 
whether to acquire new investment properties are made via a stringent process. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
39 
 
Ⅱ. Sustainability report 
b)  Asset Management Fee 
Fees for asset management with which TRIM is entrusted by JPR consist of fixed 
compensation and incentive-based compensation 1, 2 and 3, and their specific 
amounts, calculation methods and the time of payment are clearly defined. 
Asset management fee prior to January 1, 2020 
Item  Amount of compensation and time of payment 
[Amount of payment] 12.5 million yen/month 
[Time of payment] At the end of March, June, September and 
December 
Fixed 
(Compensation for January to March, April to June, July to 
compensation  September, and October to December will be paid in arrears at 
the  end  of  March,  June,  September  and  December, 
respectively.) 
[Calculation method of compensation] 
Amount equivalent to 2% of total revenue for the relevant 
Incentive-based 
business period that is determined in the accounting period 
compensation 1  [Time of payment] Within 3 months after each accounting 
period 
[Calculation method of compensation] 
Amount equivalent to 3% of income before income taxes before 
Incentive-based  deducting  incentive-based  compensation  2  in  the  relevant 
business period that is determined in the accounting period 
compensation 2 
[Time of payment] Within 3 months after each accounting 
period 
[Calculation method of compensation] 
If real estate or asset-backed securities that have real estate as 
their primary investments are acquired, an amount equivalent 
Incentive-based 
to  0.25％  of  the  acquisition  price  (excluding  expenses  for 
compensation 3  acquisition, such as consumption taxes) 
[Time of payment] No later than the final day of the month 
following the month that includes the date of acquisition 
 
Asset management fee from January 1, 2020 
Item  Amount of compensation and time of payment 
Calculation method of compensation: 
  Total acquisition price × 0.05％ 
Asset  *  Total acquisition price means the total amount of the 
acquisition prices of portfolio assets at the end of the 
management fee 
immediately preceding fiscal period. 
1  *  If the relevant business period is less than 6 months, the 
fee is prorated based on the actual number of days in the 
period. 
Calculation method of compensation: 
  1.2％ of total revenue for the relevant business period that is 
determined in the accounting period 
*  Total revenue means the total amount of rent, CAM 
Asset  charges, parking lot income, incidental income, facility 
charges,  facility  installation  charges,  late  charges, 
management fee 
penalty  fees  associated  with  lease  agreement 
2  termination and similar monies or other income arising 
from leasing business, interest and dividend income, 
and  similar  income  arising  from  the  portfolio  real 
estate (includes trust beneficiary interests and other 
underlying real estate).       
Calculation method of compensation: 
Asset 
  Basic distributable amount × 3.8％ × Rate of fluctuation of 
management fee  basic distributable amount per unit (Basic distributable amount 
per  unit  for  the  relevant  business  period  ÷  Average  basic 
3 
40 
 
Ⅱ. Sustainability report 
distributable  amount  per  unit  for  the  three  most  recent 
business periods excluding the relevant business period） 
*  Basic  distributable  amount  means  income  before 
income taxes, before deduction of asset management 
fee  3 and  nondeductible  consumption  taxes  in  the 
relevant  business  period  that  is  determined  in  the 
accounting period and it includes gain or loss on sale of 
assets under management. 
*  Basic distributable amount per unit is calculated by 
dividing the basic distributable amount by the total 
number of units at the end of each business period 
(excluding any treasury investment units held by the 
Investment Corporation if the Investment Corporation 
acquires its own investment units and holds treasury 
investment units that have yet to be disposed of or 
cancelled at the end of each business period)  
*  If either of the circumstances described below took 
effect  in  the  four  most  recent  business  periods 
including the relevant period and the total number of 
issued investment units increased or decreased, the 
total number of issued investment units at the end of 
each of the four most recent business periods including 
the  relevant  business  period  shall  be  adjusted  to 
exclude the impact of such increase or decrease on the 
basic distributable amount per unit.  
*  The lower bound of the rate of variation of the basic 
distributable amount per unit shall be 80% and the 
upper bound shall be 120%. 
Calculation method of compensation: 
Asset    Amount equivalent to 0.5% of the acquisition price in the case 
where the Investment Corporation acquired real estate, etc. or 
management fee 
asset  backed  securities  with  real  estate,  etc.  as  the  main 
4  investment  target  (hereinafter  referred  to  as  “real 
estate-related assets”).   
Calculation method of compensation: 
  Amount equivalent to 0.5% of the sale price in the case where 
Asset 
the Investment Corporation sold real estate-related assets. 
management fee    Asset management fee 5 shall not arise, however, if the sale of 
the relevant real estate-related assets would result in a loss on 
5 
sale  after  deduction  of  the  amount  equivalent  to  asset 
management fee 5 calculated in accordance with the foregoing. 
 
A breakdown of the compensation that TRIM received from JPR is as follows. 
  Dec. ’18 Fiscal Period  Jun. ’19 Fiscal Period 
(Jul. – Dec.2018)   (Jan. – Jun. 2019)  
(thousands of yen)  (thousands of yen) 
Fixed compensation  75,000  75,000 
Incentive-based 
275,168  276,506 
compensation1 
Incentive-based 
209,174  223,338 
compensation2 
Incentive-based 
-  24,302 
compensation3 
Total  559,342  599,196 
 
 
 
41 
 
Ⅱ. Sustainability report 
c)  Transactions with interested parties 
The appropriateness and validity of transactions between JPR and interested parties 
are reviewed and examined by the Compliance Committee, which meets once a 
month as a rule. The four full-time directors of TRIM and one outside member who is 
independent from TRIM and its sponsors attend the meetings of the Compliance 
Committee, and proposals shall be approved unanimously by all the members, in 
principle. The Compliance Committee secures its fairness through the participation of 
the independent outside member.
42 
 
Ⅱ. Sustainability report 
3.  Compliance system 
Compliance is essential for the continuous growth of JPR. Through sound management and 
operation of JPR based on laws, regulations and other requirements, Tokyo Realty Investment 
Management, Inc. (TRIM) will endeavor to merit the trust of JPR, its unitholders, tenants and 
a variety of other stakeholders. 
 
（1）  Basic Policy on Compliance by TRIM 
In an effort to correctly recognize social and public duties within asset management for 
investment corporations, and maintain and enhance the trust of investors and society, Tokyo 
Realty Investment Management, Inc. (TRIM) shall follow the following basic policy as a code of 
conduct for its officers and employees in order to ensure that every member of the company 
adheres to the utmost professional ethics, abides by laws and regulations, and implements 
sound business operations with integrity. 
 
 
i.  In conducting operations of asset management for investment corporations, our 
officers and employees shall abide by public and voluntary regulations set forth in laws 
and  regulations  related  to  the  relevant  operations,  government  and  ministerial 
ordinances, voluntary rules of the industry and internal rules on its own (hereinafter, 
the laws and regulations, etc.). 
 
ii.  Our officers and employees shall fully understand the purposes and substance of the 
laws and regulations stated in the above item and, when their actions, although 
seemingly compliant with the provisions of laws and regulations, etc., have deviated 
from the purposes and substance of the provisions, they shall strictly refrain from 
taking such actions. 
 
iii.  Our officers and employees shall recognize that progress in financial liberalization and 
greater relaxation of restrictions on asset management, etc. would increase and 
diversify risks as well as require business management to more closely observe the 
principle  of  self-responsibility.  With  such  recognition,  they  shall  endeavor  to 
thoroughly implement risk management. 
 
iv.  Our officers and employees shall endeavor to enhance their asset management and 
risk management capabilities for implementing operations of asset management for 
investment  corporations  so  as  to  maintain  and  enhance  the  trust  imparted  by 
investors and society. Each division and group of TRIM shall work to establish a system 
that helps reinforce the capabilities of its members in order to achieve the purposes of 
such operations. 
 
v.  Our officers and employees shall recognize that securing fair and free competition is 
indispensable for the continuity and sound development of TRIM, and shall avoid any 
behavior  that  hampers  fair  competition,  such  as  industry  meetings  to  restrict 
competition, consent with other companies intended to restrict trade, restraint of 
business activities of suppliers or client companies by taking advantage of a superior 
position in business, and unjust discrimination in transaction terms and conditions. 
 
vi.  Our officers and employees shall fully recognize the importance of protecting personal 
information  and,  when  handling  customer  data  and  other  internal  information 
possessed by the company, implement appropriate and stringent control of such 
information in accordance with the internal rules. 
 
vii.  Whether business or personal, we will oppose with firm resolve any demand, including 
provision of donations and contributions and subscription of information magazines as 
well as provision of money and other articles, from anti-social forces that threaten the 
order and safety of civil society. 
 
43 
 
Ⅱ. Sustainability report 
viii.  We will prevent any laundering of money generated from criminal behavior. 
 
ix.  We will work to utilize the company's assets and expenses fairly and efficiently, and 
will not make inappropriate, unjust or inefficient use of them, such as confusing 
business and private use and spending for unnecessary items or matters. 
 
x.  We will abide by the employment regulations, labor agreements and other rules to 
secure a sound, efficient and comfortable workplace environment. Moreover, our 
officers and employees shall not engage, among themselves, in 1) lending money or 
similar  behavior  and  2)  sending  courteous  gifts  beyond  the  extent  deemed 
appropriate under normal social conventions. 
 
xi.  We will respect individual human rights and personality. We understand that it is 
unacceptable,  in  terms  of  common  sense  in  society,  to  assume  discriminatory 
behavior by reason of nationality, sex, birthplace, religion, belief, illness or physical 
features, or behavior that may result in sexual harassment, and will not engage in 
such behavior. 
 
xii.  Fully understanding that we are involved in business of a highly public nature, we will 
maintain efforts to enhance our ethical view in our social life and act with a good sense 
of social being. 
44 
 
Ⅱ. Sustainability report 
（2）  Organization to Promote Compliance 
TRIM promotes compliance through the following organization. 
⚫  Establish, modify or abolish regulations and systems 
⚫  Establish and modify basic policy on compliance 
 
Board of Directors  ⚫  Cope with material lawsuits and disputes 
⚫  Prepare internal information about programs 
 
 
 
⚫  Report  deliberation  details  and  results  to  the  Board  of 
Directors 
⚫  Invite independent and outside experts as special members 
⚫  Deliberate  on  the  establishment,  modification  or 
Compliance Committee  abolishment of compliance manuals and regulations 
 
⚫  Deliberate on transactions with interested parties 
⚫  Deliberate on internal audit programs 
 
⚫  To be held once a month as a rule 
 
  会 
Chief Compliance Officer  ⚫  Have  ultimate  responsibility  for  matters  related  to 
 
compliance 
（President & CEO） 
⚫  Receive necessary reports from the Compliance Officer 
 
   
⚫  Make  necessary  reports  to  the  Chief  Compliance  Officer 
(President & CEO) 
⚫  Coordinate with compliance managers and persons in charge 
Compliance Officer  of compliance 
（Compliance  Office general  ⚫  Establish and enhance the compliance system 
manager）  ⚫  Discuss  compliance-related  issues  with  compliance 
managers and persons in charge of compliance and 
report them to the Compliance Committee 
 
⚫  Concurrently serve as Internal Audit Officer 
 
 
⚫  Supervise and execute operations for ensuring compliance in 
 
Compliance manager 
the relevant department 
⚫  Report  to  the  Compliance  Officer  immediately  after 
confirming  the  occurrence  of  any  issue  related  to 
会 
compliance 
 
 
⚫  Verify whether compliance is maintained in the relevant 
Persons in charge of 
  group 
compliance 
⚫  Understand and coordinate matters related to compliance in 
the relevant group 
会  ⚫  Report  to  the  relevant  compliance  manager 
immediately after confirming the occurrence of any 
issue related to compliance 
 
◼  At present, the Compliance Committee has called on an outside attorney as its special member. 
◼  In an effort to strengthen its compliance system, TRIM receives advice from outside advisers 
with regard to the enhancement of internal control. 
◼  The Compliance Officer is authorized to suspend the execution of actions that conflict with 
relevant regulations including laws regulations and internal rules. 
 
45 
 
Ⅱ. Sustainability report 
 
（3）  Provision of Compliance Training 
TRIM periodically provides training for all of its officers and employees to inform themselves on 
matters of compliance. TRIM has been working on raising awareness of the importance of 
compliance, such as making training participation compulsory for all officers and employees, 
and implementing tests to assess their understanding or conducting questionnaires after 
training sessions.  
 
（4）  Prevention of Transactions with Anti-Social Forces 
Neither  TRIM  nor  its  officers  and  employees  shall  have  any  relations  whatsoever  with 
anti-social activities and anti-social forces that threaten the order and safety of civil society and 
hamper economic activities. Any unjust demand from anti-social forces, including the provision 
of donations and contributions as well as the provision of money and other articles will be firmly 
opposed . 
Moreover, TRIM has established “rules for facing anti-social forces” with the aim of preventing 
the company from being damaged by anti-social forces and to help it perform its social 
responsibilities. Under the rules, TRIM endeavors to eliminate anti-social forces through 
constant, close coordination with such external specialized institutions as the police and 
lawyers. 
4.  Risk Management 
JPR and TRIM have developed an effective risk management system for the asset management 
of JPR through the following verification systems to produce the maximum effect. The policy of 
JPR and TRIM is to make as many efforts as possible to avoid the occurrence of risks on 
investment and management and to take measures if a risk has occurred. 
 
（1）  JPR's system 
It is stipulated that JPR's executive officers shall hold Board of Directors meetings at least once 
every three months, and in reality, meetings are held roughly once a month as a rule. In 
addition to the discussion of matters stipulated by law, Board of Directors meetings also involve 
approving certain transactions with interested parties and detailed reports on the execution 
status of JPR's and TRIM's operations. These procedures maintain a structure that enables 
supervising officers to accurately monitor the execution of executive officer operations from a 
standpoint that is independent of TRIM, parties with an interest in TRIM, and other interested 
parties as prescribed by law. Moreover, by means of these procedures, JPR strives to verify 
whether there is any possibility of a conflict of interest in transactions with parties with an 
interest in TRIM or other interested parties and to manage risks relating to conflicts of interest. 
JPR has the right to receive reports from TRIM and to examine TRIM's account books and other 
documents. By exercising these rights, JPR maintains a structure that enables it to monitor 
TRIM's execution of operations.  
In addition, JPR strives to prevent activities such as insider trading by officers through the 
establishment of insider trading regulations.
46 
 
Ⅱ. Sustainability report 
（2）  TRIM's system 
As a rule, TRIM monitors and manages operation- and management-related risks through 
multiple verification systems at different levels. 
 
a)  TRIM has established portfolio operation standards and investment standards in its 
operation guidelines. It strives to manage risks relating to real estate and real estate 
trust  beneficiary  rights  by  adhering  to  such  guidelines.  TRIM  has  established 
Investment Policy Committee regulations with the aim of clarifying the  
decision-making process for key matters related to JPR asset management. It also 
strives to manage risk by establishing objective operating procedures, such as 
creating procedure manuals each covering the inspection, acquisition, operation, 
and management of real estate as well as other tasks. 
 
b)  TRIM has established compliance regulations and a compliance manual, while the 
compliance officer and Compliance Subcommittee verify legal compliance and the 
Compliance Committee verifies the presence of conflicts of interest in transactions 
with interested parties. Through these measures, it strives to prevent the risk of 
legal violations and conflicts of interest. 
 
c)  TRIM aims to prevent activities such as insider trading by its officers and employees 
through the establishment of insider trading regulations. 
 
d)  TRIM has established a forward commitment manual, and when making forward 
commitments, it strives in particular to manage risk through a process involving 
careful reviews and thorough deliberation. 
* Forward commitment refers to agreements for transactions that will be carried out 
at a later date. In the case of J-REITs, risk disclosure is required for transactions 
that will be carried out more than one month after the agreement date. 
5.  Information security 
To continuously conduct its business securely, JPR and TRIM strives to make appropriate use of 
information and prevent unauthorized access and information loss/leakage. In managing 
information, it implements safety measures to counter various threats (damage, accident, 
mishandling, unauthorized use, destruction, theft, and leakage). It has also put recovery 
measures in place in the event that problems occur and has established a contingency plan for 
dealing with any damage. 
TRIM has also made security management preparations and has established a department to 
oversee  information  management.  This  department  ensures  the  validity  of  information 
management and protection through regular inspections and has developed safety measures 
and steps to be taken if problems occur. 
 
 
47 
 