
Sustainability 2009
Table of Contents
5  Our Commitment to Sustainability
7  Protecting the Environment
9  Stewardship of Natural Resources
11  Financing Sustainable Communities
15  Managing Risk, Creating Opportunities
17  Charitable Giving
21  About Morgan Stanley
22  Corporate Governance at Morgan Stanley
23  Employment Practices
25  Awards
Sustainability 2009 features several selections from our annual 
company-wide World Wise photo contest. Submissions for 
2009 focused on the sustainable view and what it means to 
be environmentally minded.
sustainability 2009 2
Letter from the CEO
To our stakeholders:
At Morgan Stanley, we are guided by the important business 
principle to “Lead with Integrity.” This is the bedrock of how 
we run our business, interact with clients, and partner with the 
community at large. As we celebrate the firm’s 75th Anniversary, 
we are more committed than ever to looking at the strategic 
challenges ahead for our global community: how to achieve 
increasing prosperity for more people around the world while also protecting the planet. 
We believe finance is a crucial tool to address many of those issues, and are committed to 
playing a leading role in financing a more sustainable world.
Morgan Stanley’s commitment to sustainability begins with managing the impact of our 
own businesses and operations. It extends further through a commitment to leverage 
our position in the global capital markets, our intellectual capital and our broad client 
relationships to address climate change, promote energy security and spur economic 
development in emerging economies and underserved communities. In doing so, we are 
opening up new markets to our clients and investing in sustainable enterprises and global 
economic development.
Protecting the Environment
Morgan Stanley is committed to protecting the environment. Our investment banking 
division has built a leading clean technology group and has helped intermediate 
more than $25 billion from the capital markets to finance innovative companies that 
are leading the way in renewable energy and clean technology. Our real estate group 
has adopted an extensive program of environmental improvements throughout the 
properties we own and manage. In addition, we have invested more than $100 million 
in green building projects for low- and moderate-income communities that demonstrate 
the environmental, health and economic benefits of energy efficiency and renewable 
energy. We exceeded our own emissions reduction pledge by reducing our greenhouse 
gas emissions by 12 percent from 2006 to 2009 and continually strive to improve our 
energy efficiency and increase the quotient of renewable energy we use.
Microfinance
Morgan Stanley believes that the capital markets can play a central role in creating 
economic opportunity by supporting entrepreneurship and financing economic 
development. Over the past several years, we have built a strong franchise serving 
microfinance institutions around the globe helping them access equity, debt and first-
class advisory services. To date, we have intermediated over $500 million to more 
than 30 microfinance institutions. We also invest in the growth and maturation of 
sustainability 2009 3
the industry by providing microfinance leaders with strategic capital markets advice 
and  risk management training, as well as sponsoring key research to support the 
development of the microfinance industry. 
Strengthening Communities 
We have a deep commitment to strengthening low-income communities across the 
United States. Through our investments and loans in low- and moderate-income 
communities over the past several years, we enabled the creation of more than 10,000 
jobs, the construction or rehabilitation of 13,500 affordable housing units, and the 
development of more than 2.5 million square feet of commercial space in distressed 
communities. We are committed to leveraging our unique capital markets reach and 
financial product capabilities to help low-income communities access the funding 
they need to grow and develop in a steady and sustainable way.
Charitable Giving 
Giving back to our communities has been an established part of the Morgan Stanley 
culture for 75 years, and that commitment is even more important now. Last year, 
the Morgan Stanley Foundation doubled its giving and employees around the globe 
volunteered in record numbers. Our signature Global Alliance for Children’s Health 
program continued to support world-class pediatric care to underserved communities 
across the world. In addition, we launched two new initiatives to combat malnutrition, 
including a Million Meal Summer campaign that provided more than two million 
wholesome meals and snacks to underserved children at Boys & Girls’ Clubs of 
America across the country.
Through these pillars of activity, and more, Morgan Stanley carries out a broad and deep 
commitment to integrity, excellence and productive partnership with our communities. 
The firm has succeeded throughout its history by adapting and evolving its business while 
always staying true to the fundamental values on which it was founded 75 years ago. As 
a leading global financial services firm, Morgan Stanley is committed to helping develop 
the long-term, sustainable business models that will enable communities to grow, create 
jobs and provide opportunities for all. We believe financial, environmental and social 
sustainability are goals we should all strive to attain. We look forward to continuing to 
work with all our stakeholders to build a sustainable future together.
James P. Gorman
President and Chief Executive Officer
sustainability 2009 4
Our Commitment to Sustainability
Above all else, the people of Morgan Stanley have 
always sought to do what is best for our clients with 
integrity, ingenuity and persistence. We strive to be 
industry leaders— by creating financial solutions for our 
clients, developing new markets to serve more people 
and considering both the short- and long-term impact 
of our actions.
Building on the business principles “to lead with integrity” 
and “think like an owner,” the firm is committed to a broad 
vision of sustainability that encompasses long-term financial, 
environmental and social sustainability. We strive to advance 
environmental sustainability and social responsibility 
through the work we do with our clients, our partners and 
our communities. 
In 2009, the firm’s senior management deepened our 
commitment to this broad view of sustainability by 
creating the Environment, Social Finance & Community 
Reinvestment Group (ESFCR Group) to provide a strategic 
integrated focus to these vital areas. The group proactively 
partners with other Business Units across the firm to identify, 
analyze and execute business opportunities in these key 
areas that provide multiple bottom line returns to the firm  Morgan Stanley continues to explore ways to better mobilize 
and to the broader community. Reporting directly to the  the power of the capital markets to achieve sustainability. In 
firm’s senior management, the ESFCR Group focuses on  2009 alone, we met with more than 100 different NGOs, 
how Morgan Stanley can uniquely contribute its skills and  government offices and thought leaders to ensure that 
commercial reach to protect the environment and strengthen  our sustainability efforts are aligned with a wide range of 
vulnerable communities. constituencies. The firm is committed to providing not just 
financial capital, but also human capital, to develop the new 
Morgan Stanley has made significant progress in developing 
business models needed to achieve a clean, environmentally 
an integrated approach to sustainability. The firm has 
efficient global economy that provides sustainable 
leading franchises in key areas, including renewable energy 
opportunities for all communities.
and clean technology, investment banking, housing finance 
and microfinance. Morgan Stanley also maintains robust, 
business-integrated risk management policies and procedures. 
The ESFCR Group, risk management teams and an asset 
management governance team monitor transactions and help 
drive sustainability best practices throughout the firm.
sustainability 2009 5
Protecting the Environment
Morgan Stanley is committed to protecting the 
enabling growth of Renewable energy in china
environment. In addition to adopting leading-edge 
Morgan Stanley was a key strategic advisor and market 
practices to be a responsible steward of resources, we 
maker for China Longyuan Power Group Corporation’s 
believe we can make unique contributions to the planet 
$2.6 billion initial public offering on the Hong Kong Stock 
by developing robust financial markets and products that  Exchange. This IPO, the third largest renewable energy deal 
attract private sector capital to protect the environment.  in the world to date, demonstrates how public markets 
can leverage established government policy and subsidy 
As a trader, a strategic advisor and an investor, 
programs to provide substantial capital for renewable 
Morgan Stanley is committed to identifying opportunities 
energy. The IPO funds are enabling Longyuan, a state-
to finance the socially responsible companies that are 
controlled company, to expand substantially its wind power 
innovating new ways to protect the planet. capacity in China, where rapid economic development has 
led to significant increases in pollutant and greenhouse 
Even as international organizations and national governments  gas emissions. 
focus more resources on addressing climate change, the need 
for private sector capital is enormous. The International 
Energy Agency predicts that addressing climate change alone 
Complementing our advisory work, Morgan Stanley 
will require annual global investments in clean technology of 
continues to be an active direct investor in leading clean 
over $540 billion. The United Nations estimates that up to 
technology companies and projects. For example, the firm 
$148 billion will be required annually for water supplies and 
invested in NGEN Partners, a leading venture capital firm 
water-related infrastructure. We believe that private sector 
with deep expertise and a strong portfolio of companies in 
capital is critical to help finance these and other similar 
the areas of alternative energy, energy efficiency, pollution 
global needs.
abatement and green resources. In addition, at the end of 
Financing Renewable eneRgy and clean Technology 2009, we had over $2 billion invested in large-scale wind, 
Morgan Stanley plays a key role in enabling the flow of  solar and geothermal power generation projects, as well as 
private sector capital to the sector. The firm led the three  investments in a range of other technologies. 
largest initial public offerings (IPOs) in the clean technology 
Our portfolio includes investments in:
sector and intermediated over $25 billion in securities in 
the last five years. In 2009 alone, our clean technology 
•	 Bloom Energy, an innovator in solid oxide fuel 
investment banking team intermediated more than $5 billion 
cell technology;
in securities in the sector, including $2.85 billion in IPOs 
for wind, solar and biomass companies. In September 2009,  •	  Atlantis Resources, a pioneering tidal power company;
Morgan Stanley led the $438 million IPO of advanced 
•	 Better Place, an innovative electric vehicle 
battery maker A123, the first venture-backed clean technology 
services company;
IPO since the credit crisis. Bloomberg marked this leadership 
by awarding Morgan Stanley the 2009 New Energy Finance 
•	 BPL Global, a smart grid company; and
Public Markets Top Lead Manager award.
•	 Third Planet Windpower, a developer and operator 
of utility-scale wind power generation facilities.
sustainability 2009 6
Public Policy dialogue
Morgan Stanley is also committed to facilitating the 
public-private collaboration that is vital for the further 
development of a commercial clean technology sector. 
The firm was a co-founder of the U.S. Partnership for 
Renewable Energy Finance (USPREF), which works to 
optimize public programs’ abilities to fully engage the 
private capital they seek. The focus of this alliance of 
renewable energy financiers, utilities and others is to explain 
to policymakers how public policies are affecting, or could 
potentially affect, the availability of capital for renewable 
energy companies and projects.
culTivaTing new enviRonmenTal maRkeTs
Morgan Stanley’s global Commodities Group plays a leading 
role in the continued development of an environmental 
commodities market, trading carbon dioxide, sulfur dioxide, 
nitrogen oxides, biodiesel and ethanol. We maintain a 
leading position in compliance markets like the European 
to maximize investor value by improving energy use, water 
Union’s Emission Trading System and help deliver to market 
consumption and waste management. To date, this program 
emissions reductions approved under the Kyoto Protocol. 
has covered more than 76 million square feet in over 250 
We continue to assist clients in managing their emissions 
properties and has included a number of green building 
risks and preparing for new environmental markets through 
certifications. Investments included several properties 
active engagement in the voluntary carbon sector. 
that have dedicated portions of land to environmentally 
Morgan Stanley also helps clients prepare for new environmental  sustainable practices. Similarly, our Infrastructure Fund 
markets in the course of our advisory activities. For example,  expressly considers energy efficiency investments and other 
in 2008, Morgan Stanley and other leading financial  environmental improvements in determining how best to 
institutions established the Carbon Principles, which  manage commercial and industrial assets.
provide guidelines for evaluating and helping clients address 
Morgan Stanley also seeks to bring clean technology, energy 
the carbon risks associated with certain financings in the U.S. 
efficiency improvements and other green solutions to 
power sector. In addition, Morgan Stanley encourages our 
disadvantaged and rural communities. The firm recently 
industry research analysts to integrate environmental factors 
invested over $100 million in 14 green building projects in 
into their core company coverage by explaining the related 
low- and moderate-income communities. Several projects 
investment risks and opportunities. 
targeted Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design 
gReening The builT enviRonmenT (LEED) Gold or Silver certification. These incorporate 
In 2009, Morgan Stanley continued to focus on the  energy strategies, such as efficient design and construction, 
impact of the built environment, a sector that consumes  efficient appliances and systems, and the use of renewable 
approximately 40 percent of the world’s energy. As a real  energy; using recycled materials; improving indoor air quality; 
estate investor and investment manager, Morgan Stanley  and reducing water use through xeriscaping, low-flow faucets 
adopted a program of environmental improvements designed  and rainwater cisterns. 
sustainability 2009 7
Stewardship of Natural Resources
Acting as a responsible steward of natural resources 
Major Office Building Emissions   (tCOe/Thousand Square Feet (KSF))
2
in our own business operations is a critical component 
of our commitment to environmental sustainability. As  15
13.7 13.3
12.1
set out in our Environmental Policy Statement, we are  12 10.8
committed to minimizing the environmental impact  9
of our operations and maintaining best practices in 
6
facilities management and product procurement. 
3
0
Morgan Stanley’s Environmental Committee guides the  2006 2007 2008 2009
implementation of this commitment, which is carried out 
Data includes major Morgan Stanley office buildings owned and leased in New York City.
through a comprehensive program encompassing energy 
and water use reduction, improved recycling, sustainable 
procurement policies and other efforts. As a signatory to the 
Brazil. In addition, our office in Sydney, Australia was the 
Carbon Disclosure Project, the largest repository of corporate 
first office in the country certified by the Australian Green 
emissions data in the world, Morgan Stanley has publicly 
Building Council.
provided detailed information about these internal initiatives 
since 2006. We remain committed to improving our existing 
The firm also invested significant time and resources in 
program and adopting new, leading-edge environmental 
renovating and retro-commissioning existing buildings, 
improvements throughout our operations. 
recently completing large-scale projects at our three largest 
New York properties. After comprehensive testing of the 
Reducing emissions, gReening buildings 
buildings’ heating, cooling and ventilation systems, we 
In 2006, Morgan Stanley set a goal to reduce greenhouse gas 
made more than 100 adjustments that enable the systems to 
emissions from our largest buildings—approximately seven 
function more efficiently. These changes and conservation 
million square feet of real estate—by seven to ten percent by 
measures have achieved a net savings of more than 14 million 
2012. We achieved this goal ahead of schedule in 2009, with 
kWh of electricity to date, avoiding emissions equivalent 
a total reduction of over 12 percent for those properties.
to more than 1,800 cars. Other energy-saving initiatives 
As a financial services company, Morgan Stanley’s emissions  in Asia have saved 3,700 MWh, avoiding 1,410 tonnes of 
are principally driven by our office buildings, data centers  CO emissions. 
2
and business travel. Because travel can fluctuate sharply, 
Data Centers
Morgan Stanley focused on improving the efficiency of our 
Data centers remain the most challenging source of energy 
office buildings and data centers.
consumption and greenhouse gas emissions for financial 
Office Buildings services firms. Morgan Stanley’s efforts to focus on and 
Morgan Stanley has a broad-based green building  improve the efficiency of our data centers have been 
initiative focused on adopting best practices on location,  recognized. Most recently, our European data center team 
design, energy and water efficiency, air quality and  was awarded the inaugural Improved Data Center Efficiency 
building materials to the greatest extent possible. To date,  award at the 2009 Datacenter Industry Awards for efficiency 
Morgan Stanley has received LEED certification for six  improvements at our U.K. data centers. These improvements 
office spaces and call centers in the United States and  will be rolled out to our other sites. 
sustainability 2009 8
Renewable Energy industry’s environmental best practices, and then agree to 
Morgan Stanley also regularly reviews our energy purchases  meet or exceed them. These standards are applied to major 
and shifts to renewable sources where available. Nearly a  purchasing categories i ncluding office supplies, food and 
dozen properties in the Americas now use wind power, and  supplies for cafeterias, construction materials, furnishings and 
Morgan Stanley has purchased virtually all of the electricity  electronic equipment. Increasingly, service providers — s uch 
for its London offices from renewable sources.  as waste disposal and office cleaning companies —  must also 
demonstrate that they consistently apply sustainable practices. 
wasTing less, Recycling moRe
In addition, Morgan Stanley has conducted waste stream 
Morgan Stanley also implemented a broad-based program 
audits at our larger facilities to better target our efforts.
to manage better our use of materials and sourcing of 
goods and services. In particular, the firm has adopted a  Among other improvements, these efforts have resulted in:
procurement policy that encourages the purchase of recycled 
•	 Improved recycling rates through better collection 
products and requires prospective suppliers to explain their 
systems and employee education; 
•	 Increased purchases of organic, local, fair trade and 
sustainably harvested food for cafeterias;
Total Emissions by Source   (tCOe/Thousand Square Feet (KSF))
2
•	 Increased use of biodegradable cups and dishes, 
500.0 which are composted on-site in some locations; 
Business Travel
400.0 •	 Reduced use of Styrofoam containers and increased 
Data Center
bulk purchases to reduce packaging waste; and
300.0 Office
•	 Green cleaning programs in more than  
200.0
Normalized Office Emission 
60 Morgan Stanley locations.
(tCOe/KSF):
100.0 2
2007  2008  2009
Morgan Stanley is also actively seeking new recycling 
0.0 16.4  15.6  14.3
2007 2008 2009     opportunities—for example, used cooking oil is recycled into 
Data does not include MSSB facilities as operational control was not transferred  biodiesel by one of our suppliers in Hong Kong —  and we 
until January 1, 2010.
are beginning concerted efforts to conserve water. Low-flow 
bathroom fixtures and satellite irrigation systems have been 
installed on a pilot basis in some facilities. 
Total Emissions by Region   (Thousand tCOe, Excluding Business Travel)
2
50.8
175.5
Americas
2009 Europe
Asia
83.1
Data does not include MSSB facilities as operational control was not transferred 
until January 1, 2010.
sustainability 2009 9
Financing Sustainable Communities: 
Microfinance
Morgan Stanley has a longstanding commitment  in microfinance and other BoP sectors. With MFIs, 
to strengthen communities in need by developing  Morgan Stanley works on the ground to prepare financial 
data, operational reports and financial projections in a manner 
innovative ways to leverage our capital markets’ reach 
that investors can understand and analyze. With investors, 
to expand economic opportunities. While much 
Morgan Stanley positions microfinance as a sustainable and 
has been accomplished, we continue to challenge  attractive opportunity in which the industry’s social mission 
enhances its commercial value proposition. 
ourselves to broaden our impact and the range of 
communities we support to foster sustainable impact  A Track Record of Landmark Transactions 
that benefits the individual communities and the  in International Microfinance
A hallmark of Morgan Stanley’s work in microfinance 
marketplace. By intermediating the flow of capital 
is the landmark or “first time” nature of its transactions. 
between investors and businesses that generate both 
Morgan Stanley placed the first microfinance Collateralized 
financial and social returns, Morgan Stanley can play  Loan Obligation (CLO) transaction arranged by an 
an important role in expanding economic opportunities  investment bank in 2006. In 2007, we arranged the first 
microfinance CLO to receive a rating from a mainstream 
to poor and disadvantaged communities.
ratings agency, which was elected as Financial Times’ 
“Sustainable Deal of the Year.” In 2008, we allocated 
micRoFinance: seRving The undeRbanked
$40 million (USD-equivalent) to provide local currency 
Microfinance entails the provision of financial services 
loans to microfinance institutions through Morgan Stanley 
to low-income individuals who do not have access to the 
Investment Management’s Emerging Markets Domestic 
mainstream banking system. It has proven effective in 
Debt Closed End Fund. Each of these transactions brought 
generating income and improving the livelihoods of people 
new investors into the microfinance sector and further 
around the world who live at the “base of the pyramid” 
established microfinance as an investable asset class.
(BoP) on several dollars a day or less. Microfinance already 
is estimated to be a $40 billion industry serving more than 
The year 2009 marked a continuation of our leadership in 
75 million borrowers. However, for microfinance to continue 
microfinance investment banking. In the largest microfinance 
to grow and serve more low-income borrowers, microfinance 
M&A transaction arranged by an investment bank to date, 
institutions (MFIs) need consistent and affordable access to 
Morgan Stanley advised global humanitarian organization 
increasing sources of capital. The demand for such capital far 
CARE International on the sale of its controlling stake 
outstrips the resources of philanthropic or international aid 
in Financiera EDYFICAR to Banco de Crédito del Perú 
sources alone. To truly meet demand, microfinance must be 
(BCP). EDYFICAR is Peru’s second-largest microfinance 
a reliable investment opportunity for investors. 
organization by number of clients, serving over 195,000 
micro-entrepreneurs across Peru. BCP— Peru’s oldest and 
It is with this perspective that Morgan Stanley was among the 
largest financial institution—indicated a commitment to 
first investment banks to establish a dedicated microfinance 
preserving EDYFICAR’s focus on the lower-income segment 
effort. We have completed a major microfinance transaction 
of Peru and providing the capital, funding and technology 
in each of the last four years and continue to develop and 
needed for EDYFICAR to grow beyond its current capabilities. 
promote the sector as a commercially attractive opportunity. 
CARE is committed to investing the transaction proceeds to 
Leveraging our microfinance experience and deep capital 
support its poverty alleviation programs in Peru and beyond. 
markets expertise, Morgan Stanley serves as a credible 
intermediary that connects investors with opportunities 
sustainability 2009 10
$500 million
Morgan Stanley has cumulatively intermediated more than   of  
30
microfinance equity, debt and structured product securities to the benefit of more than   
microfinance institutions serving several million low-income micro-entrepreneurs worldwide.
liability and currency risk management workshops to the senior 
management of more than 30 MFIs, and sponsor conferences 
and research initiatives that analyze how microfinance 
organizations can access the capital markets to support their 
commercial and social missions. We are also a founding member 
of the International Association of Microfinance Investors 
and sole sponsor of its Microfinance Lenders Working Group, 
an initiative working closely with industry leaders to develop 
guidelines and best practices around the handling of debt 
defaults by microfinance institutions.
In February 2008, Morgan Stanley and Women’s World 
Banking partnered to host a groundbreaking conference 
on microfinance and the capital markets. Nearly 300 
people attended, including socially responsible investors, 
Morgan Stanley employees and 78 representatives from 
45 microfinance institutions from Latin America, Eastern 
Europe, Asia and Africa to discuss how MFIs can take 
advantage of the increasing presence of the capital markets 
in the microfinance sector.
The conference also featured a Microfinance Case Study 
Competition in which nine teams of Morgan Stanley 
Commitment to Domestic Microfinance employees worked with participating MFIs over a four-week 
Morgan Stanley is equally committed to the U.S. microfinance  period prior to the conference to develop high-level, strategic 
industry. In 2009, the firm completed an advisory project for  case studies on topics such as optimal capital structure 
Grameen America—one of the fastest-growing microfinance  and ideal equity investors. In addition to providing capital 
organizations in the country—to assist the organization with  markets insights to their microfinance institution partners, 
the development of its financial projections. More recently, we  employees gained valuable experience working on cross-
provided a credit facility to ACCION Chicago, Chicago’s largest  divisional teams, managing a client relationship and learning 
dedicated micro-lender. We believe our significant transactional  firsthand about emerging market dynamics. The competition 
experience in international microfinance allows us to provide  culminated when three finalist teams presented on stage to 
insights domestically on how institutions can reach scale,  nearly 300 conference attendees. 
achieve greater impact and attain financial sustainability. 
Capacity Building and Thought Leadership 
in the Social Finance Sector
Morgan Stanley recognizes that the commercial opportunities 
of tomorrow depend on the continued development of a strong 
and sustainable microfinance industry. We have provided free 
sustainability 2009 11
Financing Sustainable Communities: 
Community Development
communiTy develoPmenT
Morgan Stanley is committed to investing in the broader 
community through transactions and initiatives that are 
responsive to community needs and designed to produce 
lasting, measurable social and economic outcomes. 
Morgan Stanley’s commitment to community development 
derives, and continually benefits, from Morgan Stanley’s 
global corporate culture of responsibility, its diverse wholesale 
product set, its capital markets expertise and the firm’s 
high level of engagement in communities. At its core is the 
recognition that, as a large and diversified financial holding 
company, the firm is in a position to positively impact 
communities for the long term. 
Over the past four years, our community development 
programs in the United States provided nearly $3 billion to 
develop affordable housing, build small businesses, create 
jobs and strengthen communities, resulting in the: 
•	 Creation of more than 10,000 jobs 
•	 Construction or rehabilitation of nearly 13,500 
affordable housing units
•	 These LIHTC investments include creating and 
renovating more than 580 units of affordable housing 
•	 Development of more than 2.5 million square feet 
in urban and rural areas in the upper Midwest that are 
of commercial space in some of the nation’s most 
suffering from disinvestment and older, poor quality 
economically distressed communities
housing. Projects include developing much needed 
These initiatives, designed to achieve broad and lasting  supportive housing for people with disabilities. 
impact in communities nationwide, include:
•	 In 2009, during a period of turmoil in affordable housing 
Creating and Preserving Affordable Housing  finance, Morgan Stanley’s Housing Finance Group 
•	 Morgan Stanley invested more than $510 million to  advised state and local housing finance agencies (HFAs)
fund nearly 9,800 affordable housing units through  throughout the country on over $800 million in financing 
Low-Income Housing Tax Credit investments (LIHTC),  for affordable housing and dedicated more than 1,000 
construction financing and predevelopment loans.  hours to advising HFAs on how to access the capital 
The firm prioritized the construction of new affordable  markets and participate in federal housing programs. 
housing and the rehabilitation of existing affordable 
Stimulating Local Economies and Creating Jobs
housing in underserved markets.
•	 Morgan Stanley was a leading provider of New Markets 
Tax Credit (NMTC) equity investments, predevelopment 
loans and leveraged project financing to foster economic 
development in distressed neighborhoods. 
sustainability 2009 12
Over the past four years, our community development programs in the United States  
$3 billion
provided nearly   to develop affordable housing, build small businesses,  
create jobs, and strengthen communities.
•	These NMTC investments provided more than  •	 Morgan Stanley was a primary partner in helping the 
$275 million in loans and investments that renovated  CDC of Utah expand a pilot program under which 
blighted buildings, developed more than 2.5 million  it purchases and rehabilitates foreclosed single-family 
square feet of commercial space, created more than 1,800  residences, and then sells the homes to income-eligible 
jobs, helped charter schools serve more low- and moderate- homebuyers. Morgan Stanley’s capital helped the CDC of 
income students and brought critical retail services to  Utah to purchase and rehabilitate 42 homes between 2007 
underserved communities throughout the United States.  and 2009. The organization is one of only 14 programs in 
the nation chosen by the U.S. Department of Housing and 
Strengthening Communities Through 
Urban Development to run this program. 
Environmental Leadership 
•	As a pioneer in wind farm financing, Morgan Stanley 
invested nearly $1 billion to finance the development 
morgan stanley social enterprise strategy challenge
of wind farms in rural, distressed areas throughout 
the country. These projects created more than 1,500 
Morgan Stanley launched the first annual Morgan Stanley 
jobs while providing clean energy and generating 
Social Enterprise Strategy Challenge in 2009. This signature 
long-term community benefits in rural areas suffering 
initiative matches teams of outstanding Morgan Stanley 
from disinvestment. 
employees with nonprofit organizations facing key strategic 
•	Morgan Stanley developed a program to provide free solar  challenges around financial sustainability, efficiency and 
power to families in need, many of whom are veterans  business models. The eight-week program provides a 
returning from Iraq and Afghanistan, through Habitat  unique opportunity for high performing employees to 
for Humanity’s “Habitats for Heroes” program.  give back to their communities by contributing financial 
analysis and strategic thinking skills, and culminates in a 
•	The firm financed a demonstration house and a reference 
competition where teams present publicly and are evaluated 
guide to demonstrate that renewable energy and energy 
by a panel of leading experts from the academic, private 
efficiency are affordable and beneficial solutions for 
and nonprofit sectors.
low-income homeowners.
In 2009, nine teams of Morgan Stanley employees 
Strategic Community Partnerships  contributed more than 2,500 hours of high-impact 
•	 Morgan Stanley partners with leading national, regional  analysis and advice. The winning nonprofit was iMentor, 
and local community development organizations, such as  an innovative organization focused on youth mentoring 
the National Equity Fund, the Community Preservation  that connects 1,000 high school-aged youth and volunteer 
Corporation and the Community Development Corporation  adult mentors nationally each year. The Morgan Stanley 
of Utah (CDC of Utah), to catalyze public and private  team worked with iMentor to help the organization analyze 
capital to underserved markets.  and refine a growth strategy in order to expand iMentor's 
best-in-class mentoring methodology to other organizations 
•	 Morgan Stanley awarded more than $33 million in grants, 
aiming to start a mentoring program. The team ultimately 
and our employees provided more than 25,000 hours of 
delivered to iMentor a flexible financial forecasting tool, 
technical assistance and board service, to help community 
incorporating all the aspects of its current and expected 
development organizations expand their services to low-
business model.
income neighborhoods and individuals.
sustainability 2009 13
Managing Risk, Creating Opportunities
At Morgan Stanley, environmental and social issues  Morgan Stanley has further pledged to use the Equator 
are evaluated and considered in our integrated risk  Principles and Carbon Principles as general guidelines to 
identify, evaluate and manage social and environmental 
management processes. We seek to understand and 
risks related to applicable business deals and transactions. 
to mitigate significant risks that may confront the firm  
and our clients.  inTeRnal Risk managemenT PRocesses
We are incorporating environmental and social issues as 
integral parts of the firm’s client- and transaction-based 
Risk managemenT commiTmenTs
risk management processes. Our Franchise Risk Policy 
Both our public policy statements and internal risk 
identifies environmental and social issues as issues that may 
management guidelines address reputational, financial, 
necessitate heightened scrutiny of proposed transactions. 
environmental and social risks. Morgan Stanley’s 
Our Environmental Risk Policy supplements these general 
Environmental Policy Statement is a single integrated 
statements with additional guidance on how to identify and 
public document developed by our major business units 
assess potential environmental risks. 
in consultation with external stakeholders. It explains our 
approach to a range of concerns that include biodiversity, 
When a deal team determines that a proposed transaction 
sustainable natural resource management, climate change 
presents significant social, environmental, financial or 
and pollution prevention, as well as the protection of 
reputational risks, the team is required to refer it to the 
indigenous peoples. Morgan Stanley’s Statement on 
appropriate risk management committee for further review. The 
Human Rights reaffirms that the firm will conduct 
committees, composed of senior employees and sector specialists, 
its business operations in such as way as to preserve, 
where appropriate address issues of concern to external 
protect and promote the full range of human rights, in 
stakeholders, such as sustainable development, climate change, 
accordance with the United Nations Universal Declaration 
forestry and the protection of indigenous people. These 
of Human Rights. 
committees recommend the appropriate course of action if 
the negative impacts of a proposed deal are unacceptable. 
Responsible corporate governance and Risk management commitments
Together, these documents guide all Morgan Stanley employees to consider the social and environmental impacts  
of their business deals and transactions.
• Morgan Stanley Code of Conduct  •  Morgan Stanley Environmental   •  Morgan Stanley Statement on Human Rights
Risk Policy 
•  Morgan Stanley Global Franchise   • Equator Principles
Risk Policy  •  Morgan Stanley Environmental  
• Carbon Principles
Policy Statement
sustainability 2009 14
The carbon Principles
Morgan Stanley is one of three financial institutions that 
founded The Carbon Principles in 2008. The Principles 
provide a consistent approach for banks and their U.S. 
power clients to evaluate and address the carbon risks 
associated with financing traditional power production 
facilities. They focus on a portfolio approach that 
encompasses efficiency, renewable energy and low-carbon 
power sources, in addition to centralized generation, 
and that balances costs, reliability and concerns about 
greenhouse gas emissions. 
Morgan Stanley believes the Principles, which require 
a cautious due diligence process and consultation with 
environmental groups, provide a critical bridge between the 
way carbon is currently managed and the widely expected 
regulation of carbon emissions in the future.
TRaining clienT engagemenT
Morgan Stanley developed online training to ensure that  Morgan Stanley also engages in open communication 
employees understand how to evaluate, manage and mitigate  with clients, encouraging them to assess, mitigate and 
social and environmental risks. In 2009, the mandatory  disclose material environmental and human rights risks. 
training was implemented with the Investment Banking  On behalf of our investment management clients, the 
and Global Capital Markets teams. The firm is now creating  firm communicates with portfolio companies that invest 
similar training courses for other business units, each one  in regions where human rights violations or environmental 
tailored to reflect the types of transactions the unit specializes  degradation are issues of concern.
in and the risks they may encounter. 
In addition to these formal risk management training 
programs, Morgan Stanley created a speaker series and 
global intranet site to more deeply engage employees on 
sustainability issues. The “Environment & Social Finance 
Forum,” which consists of more than 800 employees, 
organizes discussions and speaker series on how employees 
can cultivate sustainability through both their core business 
functions and personal engagement. The intranet site 
features sustainability-focused articles and research. 
sustainability 2009 15
Charitable Giving—75 Years of 
Giving Back to Our Communities
Morgan Stanley has a long and proud history of giving 
back to its communities, through its multi-million dollar 
charitable grants programs and the thousands of 
volunteer hours provided each year by employees at all 
levels. This emphasis on providing support and service 
to those in need has been an established part of firm 
culture for 75 years, and that commitment is even 
more important now. 
In 2009, in response to the continuing effects of the global 
recession, the Morgan Stanley Foundation doubled its 
giving and employees volunteered across the globe in record 
numbers during the year. Among the Morgan Stanley 
Foundation’s global giving priorities are children’s health, 
education and employee volunteerism. 
global alliance FoR childRen’s healTh 
For decades, Morgan Stanley has invested in innovative  directly with the hospital’s Vice Presidents of Operations 
pediatric care to enable more children to get the healthy  and Nursing to improve efficiencies and reduce costs. 
start they need for lifelong achievement. Our signature  Approximately one dozen employees provide ongoing 
program is the Global Alliance for Children’s Health, a nearly  strategic thinking and leadership through service on the 
40-year effort that supports three of the world’s best centers  hospital’s board and various advisory committees. During 
for pediatric care and directs outreach to underserved  every working day of June—Global Volunteer Month—
communities. In addition to providing needed volunteers  Morgan Stanley volunteers help the hospital’s Child Life 
and money, the Foundation is also organizing collaborative  Team coordinate activities with patients and escort them 
learning processes among these centers of excellence. to procedures in the in- and out-patient settings and the 
Pediatric Emergency Department.
New York-Presbyterian Morgan Stanley Children’s Hospital
Morgan Stanley and its employees contributed more than  London Great Ormond Street Hospital
$60 million to fund the construction of this state-of-the-art  Morgan Stanley made a three-year commitment to Great 
children’s hospital. Opened in 2003, it ranks among the top  Ormond Street Children’s Hospital and is raising £10 million 
ten children’s hospitals in the United States according to U.S.  towards a brand new 21st century clinical facility—the 
News & World Report. In 2009, the hospital provided care  Morgan Stanley Clinical Building. Great Ormond Street 
to children with more than 53,000 inpatient admissions and  Hospital is a national center of excellence for treating sick 
Emergency Room visits. children, delivering the widest range of specialist care of any 
children’s hospital in the United Kingdom. It is the largest 
Nearly 1,000 Morgan Stanley employees are actively involved 
U.K. center for children with heart or brain problems and the 
with the hospital each year. The firm’s Ambassador Program 
largest center in Europe for children with cancer.
loans a leading third-year analyst to work full-time at the 
hospital for one year. During 2009, the analyst worked 
sustainability 2009 16
 $75
Morgan Stanley and its employees donated  million in 2009,  
2,700
providing assistance to more than   communities around the world. 
Since October 2007, more than 4,000 employees from our  Reducing childhood malnuTRiTion
London offices have shown considerable support for this  In 2009, in addition to our continuing programs with the 
cause, giving generously of both their time and money. As in  health centers, the Morgan Stanley Foundation launched two 
New York, employees organized and participated in a series of  initiatives to combat malnutrition. We worked in partnership 
special drives and activities during Global Volunteer Month.  with nine charities that provide services across the globe to 
address this critical root cause of childhood death and disease. 
Beijing Children’s Hospital
As always, Morgan Stanley’s employees were an integral part of 
In January 2009, Beijing Children’s Hospital became the first 
the Foundation’s efforts. More than 3,000 employees donated 
Asian member of our Global Health Alliance. Considered 
time and money to help feed needy children. 
one of the best pediatric centers in Asia, the hospital treats 
more than two million children each year. Million Meal Summer
Each summer, as many as 15 million American children lose 
Our five-year initiative, totaling $5 million in support, 
access to free and reduced-cost meals when the school year ends. 
will provide equipment and training for the hospital’s new 
To combat this, the Morgan Stanley Foundation partnered 
hematology and oncology center. The center will enable the 
with the Boys & Girls Clubs of America to create Million 
hospital to treat 400,000 children suffering from cancers 
Meal Summer. This campaign provided well over two million 
(including leukemia) and other life-threatening diseases. 
wholesome meals and snacks to underserved children at more 
than 200 Clubs across the United States. Nearly 500 of our 
employees volunteered to help distribute the meals. Through our 
partnership with the New York-Presbyterian Morgan Stanley 
Employee Driven1
Children’s Health  21% Children’s Hospital, we also gave children comprehensive 
35% nutritional information to take home to their parents.
Step Up to the Plate
Other2 19%
Our Step Up to the Plate campaign comprised two programs 
that took immediate action to reduce childhood malnutrition 
and save lives partnering with eight charities. In the developed 
world, we funded programs that provide healthy and nutritious 
meals directly to children. In the developing world, we 
Morgan Stanley 
2009 Total Giving provided emergency medical care to children already 
by Category
suffering from acute malnutrition.
Internationally, the firm supported Doctors Without 
Borders/Médecins Sans Frontières (MSF) to help alleviate 
nutritional crises caused by poverty, rising food prices, food 
shortages and conflict. MSF uses an advanced protocol of 
Youth & Education outpatient care that relies on ready-to-use foods, enabling 
Arts 7%
18% MSF to treat both moderate and severe cases of malnutrition 
and to increase significantly the number of children who 
1  Employee Driven includes VIP grants, CSA matches, Top Ten charitable grants, grants  receive help. The Morgan Stanley Foundation grant 
to the Social Enterprise Challenge and so forth.
funded treatment for nearly 4,000 children suffering from 
2		Other	includes	adult	healthcare,	environment,	microfinance	programming	and	
civic engagement. malnutrition between October and December 2009.
sustainability 2009 17
with malnourishment, due primarily to poverty. Our 
employees also play a critical role, volunteering for regional 
activities and participating in our annual “Warm Their 
Hearts” Valentine’s Day drives. Last year, more than 650 
employees collected several thousand books, toys and articles 
of clothing for the families aided by the centers.
invesTing in TalenTed young minds
Morgan Stanley is committed to inspiring talented young 
students to achieve their full potential. Because we believe 
an open, inclusive culture is of fundamental importance, 
we focus our efforts on opportunities for students in 
underserved communities. Since 1993, Morgan Stanley has 
awarded over $16 million in scholarships through several 
hundred initiatives globally, including the Richard B. Fisher 
Scholars Program and the Morgan Stanley Taiwan Bright 
Minds Award Program.
The firm has supported minority business students at the 
undergraduate level for nearly 20 years through its Richard B. 
Fisher Scholars Program, which also provides internships and 
career development assistance to participants.
In more developed areas, we ensured that children had access  The Morgan Stanley Taiwan Bright Minds Award Program 
to nutritious meals by partnering with organizations such as:  has helped more than 100 highly gifted students from 
Feeding America in the United States; Magic Breakfast in  underprivileged families across Taiwan since 2004. Students 
London; SOS Villages in Hungary, Italy and Spain; Second  receive three years of scholarships and financial support that 
Harvest Japan; and St. James’ Settlement People’s Food Bank  enable them to complete high school. In addition, mentoring 
in Hong Kong. programs and group camps help students develop valuable 
social and life skills. Volunteers from Morgan Stanley’s Taipei 
diRecT caRe iniTiaTives
office participate in the summer and winter camps every year.
In addition to large-scale special programming designed to 
prevent death and disease in children, the Morgan Stanley  emPloyee engagemenT 
Foundation and Morgan Stanley International Foundation  Employee engagement in the community is a cornerstone of 
support an extensive network of national and local  Morgan Stanley’s culture and the foundation of our charitable 
organizations that address children’s health issues. (See list of  efforts. The firm encourages, recognizes and rewards 
initiatives on page 19). employee generosity through extensive grants, matching 
initiatives and coordinated volunteer efforts. In 2009, these 
Grow Clinics
programs encouraged a record number of employees to 
Morgan Stanley has provided pivotal support to Grow Clinics 
contribute time and money to their communities. 
since 2005. The firm provides annual funding to four clinics 
in Boston, Chicago, Los Angeles and Houston that help 
children suffering from medical complications associated 
sustainability 2009 18
71,000 500
June 2009 Global Volunteer Month:   hours of service,   team projects,
19 85% 
 countries,  increase over 2008 Global Volunteer Month
Investing Our Time Financial Support
Our signature program is Global Volunteer Month, held  To bolster personal donations of both time and money 
each June. During the month, employees across the globe  and foster relationships with our local communities, 
give time in service to their communities.  Morgan Stanley offers two unique funding opportunities.
In addition, Morgan Stanley offers year-round volunteering  Volunteer Incentive Program. Morgan Stanley’s U.S. and 
opportunities for employees. The What a Difference a Day  International Foundations offer “dollars for doers” through 
Makes program asks employees to give at least 24 hours  the Volunteer Incentive Program. These grants, typically 
of service to their communities each year. To facilitate  between $1,000 and $10,000, support the health and 
participation, the firm maintains a rich database of new  human services charities for which our employees 
volunteer opportunities, as well as an extensive recognition  volunteer. In 2009, the firm’s Foundations donated 
program that includes posting the names of all volunteers  over $3.1 million to 800 charities that more than 5,500 
on our Times Square building ticker. employees supported by volunteering their time.
Workplace Giving Charitable Spending Accounts. To increase the reach and impact 
Morgan Stanley employees give annually through our  of our employees’ giving, Morgan Stanley offers a unique 
charitable giving campaigns, including the U.S. Annual  Charitable Spending Accounts initiative. U.S. employees who 
Appeal and other fundraising events across our EMEA  contribute through the Annual Appeal receive up to $4,000 
and Asia regions. In our 2009 campaigns, employees  in matched corporate funds to give to charities. Unlike 
pledged more than $30 million to benefit local nonprofit  traditional “matching gifts” programs, Charitable Spending 
organizations and the Morgan Stanley Foundation’s  Accounts offer U.S. employees the option of directing 
core programs. corporate dollars towards any U.S. charity, not just those 
that they have personally funded. In 2009, the program 
contributed roughly $4 million to more than 4,000 charities.
additional direct care initiatives supported by the morgan stanley Foundations
AIDS Resource Foundation for Children  La Rabida Children’s Hospital and Research Center Pediatric Cancer Research Foundation (PCRF)
(Newark, NJ)
Los Angeles Biomedical Research Institute at  Ronald McDonald House Charities (various chapters)
Boston Medical Center (Grow Clinic) Harbor-UCLA Medical Center
Santa Rosa Children’s Hospital Foundation  
The Children’s Health Fund Lucile Packard Children’s Fund (Palo Alto, CA) (San Antonio, TX)
Children’s Hospital and Research Center  Magic Breakfast (UK) Save the Children
Foundation (Oakland, CA)
Make-a-Wish Foundation of Singapore SOS Children’s Villages
Children’s Memorial Foundation (Chicago, IL)
Make-a-Wish of Japan St. Jude Children’s Research Hospital
Children’s Tumor Foundation
Make-a-Wish Foundation   Texas Children’s Hospital (Houston, TX)
Connecticut Children’s Medical Center  (Metro New York, Metro St. Louis, Missouri, 
Texas Scottish Rite Hospital for Children (Dallas, TX)
Foundation (Hartford, CT) Orange County, Phoenix, Suffolk County and 
Wisconsin chapters) University of Chicago, Comer Children’s Hospital
Doernbecher Children’s Hospital Foundation 
(Portland, OR)  MEND (UK) The Valerie Fund
Have a Heart Children’s Cancer Society  March of Dimes Birth Defects Foundation  
(various chapters)
Juvenile Diabetes Research Foundation 
(multiple chapters) Only Make Believe 
sustainability 2009 19
About Morgan Stanley
As we celebrate our firm’s 75th anniversary in 2010 
summary consolidated Financial information for 2009 
and look to build on that proud legacy, all of us at  (Dollars in Millions)
Morgan Stanley are intensely focused on a clear and 
simple strategy: We are a client-centered financial  Institutional Securities 12,777
services firm that competes and wins on the breadth  Global Wealth Management Group 9,390
and depth of our client relationships, our unmatched 
Asset Management 1,337
global platform and our preeminent positions in the 
Net Revenues—consolidated* 23,358
most attractive growth markets around the globe.
Non-interest expense 22,501
Morgan Stanley provides a wide range of investment banking,  Net income applicable to Morgan Stanley 1,346
securities, investment management and wealth management 
(Loss) applicable to Morgan Stanley common shareholders (907)
services and serves a large and diversified group of clients, 
including corporations, governments, financial institutions 
and individuals. The firm became a public corporation in  		Note:	Morgan	Stanley	changed	its	fiscal	year-end	from	 
1986 and in 2008, converted to a financial holding company.  November	30	to	December	31,	effective	in	2009.
*		Consolidated	net	revenues	includes	intersegment	eliminations	which	 
In January 2009, we announced the joint venture combining 
are	not	included	in	the	above	table.
our Global Wealth Management business with Citigroup’s 
Smith Barney unit. The combined entity—Morgan Stanley 
Smith Barney—is a global leader in wealth management.
relationships with clients—all of which will help us 
With a global workforce of over 61,000,* we have a highly  gain market share, particularly in areas such as interest 
complementary mix of businesses that, together, offer  rates, foreign exchange and equity derivatives. 
important strategic benefits, as well as the right balance 
•	 Morgan Stanley Smith Barney, with 18,000 financial 
of capital, earnings and risk to deliver strong, sustainable 
advisors and $1.6 trillion in assets, is the industry’s leading 
earnings over the long term. 
wealth management network. We provide comprehensive 
Morgan Stanley believes that there is great synergy between  financial services, including financial planning, brokerage 
these client-centered businesses: and investment counseling to clients in the United States, 
Europe, the Middle East, Asia, Australia and Latin America. 
•	 Institutional Securities is one of the world’s leading 
client-centered institutional businesses. In 2009, we ranked  •	 Asset Management. Morgan Stanley Investment 
#1 in global M&A, and we have best-in-class capabilities  Management is one of the largest global asset management 
across a broad array of businesses, including commodities,  organizations of any full-service financial services firm in the 
credit, cash equities and capital markets. We are focused  world, offering clients a diverse array of equity, fixed income 
on growing our client flow businesses, driving better  and alternative investments and merchant banking strategies. 
coordination across the firm and broadening our  
For further information about Morgan Stanley, please visit 
 
our website, www.morganstanley.com.
* as of December 31, 2009
sustainability 2009 20
Corporate Governance at Morgan Stanley
Effective corporate governance is a fundamental  the protection and advancement of human rights, and we 
component of Morgan Stanley’s longstanding  are committed to being a responsible corporate citizen in all 
areas of the world in which we operate. We will continue to 
commitment to conducting first-class business in a 
support the promotion of human rights as we expand our 
first-class way. We insist that our people embody the 
business globally and we hope our actions will inspire such 
highest standards of professionalism and respect.  practices worldwide. For more information, please view our 
Statement on Human Rights.
For detailed information about our corporate structure, 
execuTive comPensaTion Policy
board committees and charters, governance policies and 
Morgan Stanley’s executive compensation program has always 
ethics practices and procedures, please visit the Corporate 
sought to tie pay to both the individual’s and the company’s 
Governance page of our website.
performance. Over the past two years, we have fundamentally 
restructured compensation so that a significantly greater 
moRgan sTanley code oF conducT
portion of the total now is tied to long-term firm performance, 
Based on our longstanding business principles, the 
subject to clawback, and qualifies as at-risk compensation. We 
Morgan Stanley Code of Conduct defines the standards 
will continue to evaluate our compensation practices in light of 
of behavior that we expect from every employee of the firm. 
evolving industry practices, the economic environment and our 
The Code of Conduct is our statement of commitment to 
own economic performance. We are committed to remaining 
integrity and high ethical standards in all that we do at 
transparent about our compensation program.
Morgan Stanley and includes our policies regarding conflicts 
of interest, protecting confidential and inside information, 
anti-corruption, anti-money laundering, political 
contributions and safeguarding systems and property. All  The morgan stanley business Principles
employees must acknowledge our Code of Conduct  annually, 
Morgan Stanley’s mission is to provide our clients with the 
and twice a year are required to complete training on specific 
finest financial thinking, products and execution. This means 
ethics and Compliance-related topics that supplement 
setting the highest standards for behaviors that embody our 
the Code of Conduct. Morgan Stanley requires 100% 
business principles.
completion firmwide on all assigned Compliance courses 
and acknowledgements. For more information, please view  • Lead with integrity  • Think like an owner 
the Morgan Stanley Code of Conduct. • Put clients first  • Keep your balance 
• Win in the marketplace
human RighTs
Morgan Stanley serves clients—including corporations, 
governments, institutions and individuals—from more 
than 1,200 offices in 37 countries. With operations around 
the world, Morgan Stanley has the global footprint to 
help promote human rights in the countries where we do 
business. We endeavor to exercise this influence in part by 
conducting our business operations in ways that attempt to 
preserve, protect and promote the full range of human rights 
as described in the United Nations Universal Declaration 
of Human Rights. Morgan Stanley supports and respects 
sustainability 2009 21
Employment Practices
Our ability to attract, motivate and retain highly  professionals develop deep knowledge, expertise and abilities 
talented individuals is a key component of our  by working on transactions with more senior colleagues who 
actively mentor them. 
culture and industry leadership. We are committed 
to providing a professional work environment that  diveRsiTy and inclusion
Morgan Stanley’s global leadership rests on the talent of our 
promotes equal opportunity, dignity and respect for 
people, who every day advise and serve our clients in a first-class 
everyone. The firm has a dedicated Learning and 
way. Throughout the firm’s history, a diverse group of talented 
Development organization focused on developing  individuals have worked together to develop our innovative 
a robust set of programs and initiatives to provide  ideas and groundbreaking financial products. We know that 
the diversity of our people is one of Morgan Stanley’s greatest 
learning opportunities to all of our employees. These 
strengths. To maintain our leadership, we need the broadest 
programs develop our employees’ technical skills and 
possible knowledge of the global markets in which we operate, 
industry knowledge, as well as management and  which means our workforce must include the most skilled and 
leadership skills.  creative individuals, representing a broad cross-section of our 
global community. 
TRaining
Morgan Stanley strives to create a spirit of inclusion by 
Recruiting diverse and exceptional individuals is only the 
bringing together dedicated professionals with diverse 
first step in building a great workforce. By providing training 
backgrounds, talents, perspectives, cultural identities 
that helps our people develop their expertise and skills, we 
and experiences. We actively recruit female and minority 
increase our competitiveness and solidify our leadership 
candidates and, once hired, provide ongoing training and 
position while fulfilling an important commitment to 
support to them. For example, in the U.S.:
our employees. Our in-house Learning and Development 
organization offers a variety of courses and programs that 
•	 Each year we participate in more than 50 recruiting events 
provide foundational information to enable employees to 
designed to attract women and minorities. 
develop their skills. In addition to offering a comprehensive 
curriculum of technical, financial and professional skills  •	 At internal conferences developed specifically for women, 
courses, the firm is also deeply committed to developing  senior female professionals share their insights, experiences 
leaders at all levels. Our Learning and Development  and practices for developing both business skills, such as 
team provides targeted management and leadership skills  marketing and mentoring, and technical skills. 
courses for employees at every phase of their careers. These 
•	 We have Employee Networking Groups—American Indian, 
special courses, as well as networking events and coaching 
Asian, Black, Latino, Pride (Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual and 
opportunities, enable high-performing leaders to take their 
Transgender), Women and Working Parents—designed 
performance as managers and leaders of the firm to the next 
to provide additional networking and development 
level and ensure that Morgan Stanley continues to develop 
opportunities to women and minority employees. In 
deep and broad management bench strength needed to sustain 
addition, companion groups operate out of the firm's 
and develop its business around the world. In 2009, we offered 
regional locations.
more than 4,500 instructor-led training programs, and more 
than 80,000 courses delivered online and by instructors were 
•	 The Morgan Stanley Emerging Managers Program is a 
completed. Building on these foundations, Morgan Stanley 
new initiative begun in December 2009 to identify and 
provide capital, strategic advice and infrastructure solutions 
sustainability 2009 22
2009 Employment Data  2009 Supplier Diversity Spend 
for U.S. Locations for U.S. Locations
Female Male
Minority Non-Minority 
17,500 40%
Female
15,000 59%
12,500 Female Minority
10,000
21%
5,500 Female
5,000
Minority
2,500
Minority
0
125716 79762 35476705 23677885 24793587 23553711 289184177 130185767 99933075 37539315 0 1 1 0 41% Non-Minority 
Executive Senior First-/Mid- Professionals Sales Administrative Service  Female
Manager Level Managers Support Workers
Minority
Source: 2009 Equal Employment Opportunity Employer Information Report EEO-1
to emerging asset managers, with a specific emphasis on  seek out women- and minority-owned businesses that can 
minority and women-owned asset managers. Through this  offer cost-effective solutions for our business needs, and 
program, Morgan Stanley expects to increase participants’  we encourage our suppliers to cultivate partnerships with 
opportunities for growth and success, develop a more  women- and minority-owned firms. By working with these 
diverse pool of asset managers to serve large institutional  suppliers, we foster strategic and mutually advantageous 
investors and increase the opportunity for institutional  business relationships, stimulate economic development and 
investor clients to meet a larger pool of untapped talent and  strengthen the communities in which we do business. 
place assets with a diverse group of managers. 
We believe that our focus on these efforts enables us to retain 
In addition, the firm sponsors several scholarship and  our competitive edge while addressing a key challenge for 
internship initiatives for women and minority high  our industry.
school, undergraduate, and graduate students to increase 
woRk-liFe
the resources and opportunities available to prepare these 
One of Morgan Stanley’s core business principles is “keep 
students for professional careers. For example, our Sponsors 
your balance.” To help employees meet this challenge, the 
for Educational Opportunity program provides talented 
firm provides a wide range of services, including adoption 
young people from underserved communities nationwide 
assistance, flexible work arrangements, lactation rooms, quiet 
with internship opportunities that allow them to explore 
rooms, paid parental leave, an employee assistance program 
rewarding careers in some of the most competitive business 
and resource and referral programs. 
areas including Asset Management, Investment Banking, 
Finance and Technology.
To learn more about how we invest in our employees, 
please visit the Careers and Diversity pages on our website, 
Morgan Stanley’s commitment to diversity extends to the 
www.morganstanley.com.
companies that supply us with the wide array of products 
and services that enable us to serve our clients. We actively 
sustainability 2009 23
Awards
We are proud to share examples of the awards and recognition that our sustainability efforts  
have achieved in 2009.
Top U.S. Companies for Asian Pacific Americans 100% Corporate Equality Index
Asian Enterprise magazine (United States) Human Rights Campaign (United States)
Public Markets Top Lead Manager in Renewable Energy 50 Best Companies to Work for in the U.S.
Bloomberg New Energy Finance (United Kingdom) Latina Style magazine (United States)
Top Supplier Diversity Programs for African Americans and  Top 100 Greenest Big Companies
one of the Top Diversity Employers for African Americans Newsweek magazine (United States)
Black EOE Journal magazine (United States)
Top Diversity Employers for Women
Improved Data Center Efficiency Professional Woman’s magazine (United States)
Data Center Dynamics (United Kingdom)
Top 100 Employer for Lesbian, Gay and Bisexual Staff
Best Companies for Diverse Graduates Stonewall Workplace Equality Index (United Kingdom)
Diversity Edge magazine (United States)
Ranked Top 10 in the 20 Best Companies to Work For
Best Global Commodities House Award for Excellence Sunday Times (United Kingdom)
Euromoney magazine (United Kingdom)
Recognized for Commitment to the Success of 
First-Ranked in 2009 survey, third consecutive year   Women Business Enterprises
in top three  Women Presidents’ Educational Organization (United States)
Great Place to Work Institute (Japan)
100 Best Companies for Working Mothers 
Top Supplier Diversity Programs for Hispanics and  Working Mother magazine (United States)
one of the Top Diversity Employers for Hispanics 
Hispanic Network magazine (United States)
sustainability 2009 24
For more information
sustainability@morganstanley.com
www.morganstanley.com/globalcitizen
© 2010 Morgan Stanley
N
Y
 C
S
 6
2
5
2
4
5
3
 0
5
/1
0