
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017
 
About this Report: Table of Contents
About this Report
About BNY Mellon  2
This is BNY Mellon’s 11th corporate social responsibility 
The Financial Markets Engine  3
(CSR) report. We publish a report annually in the second 
Innovative Solutions for the World  4
quarter of the year on www.bnymellon.com/CSR. Unless 
Message from Our CEO  5
otherwise noted, this report includes data and activities 
2017 Awards and Recognition  7
for the calendar year 2017, from BNY Mellon’s global 
operations. Unless otherwise noted, all data is as of 
Our Approach to CSR  8
12/31/2017.
Our Impact  9
The report provides environmental, social and 
Delivering a Difference  10
governance (ESG) data from past years. This is our  
Global Megatrends Guide Our CSR Strategy  11
ninth year using the Global Reporting Initiative’s  
How We Support the UN Sustainable  
(GRI) framework, the world’s most widely used 
Development Agenda  13
sustainability reporting framework. We prepared  
Our CSR Mission  14
the report according to GRI G4.
Integrated for Action  15
Our CSR Strategy Pillars  16
CSR Governance  19
Engaging Those We Serve  21
Our Performance  22
Our Markets  23
Risk Management and Reliability  24
Strong Governance  39
Our People  45
Leadership and Development  46
Engagement and Wellbeing  50
Diversity and Inclusion  56
Our World  63
Social Investing  64
Supply Chain Responsibility  84
Community Commitment  86
Environmental Management  92
Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index  99
Legal Notices  114
1  CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017
ABOUT  
BNY MELLON
2  CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017
About BNY Mellon
THE FINANCIAL MARKETS ENGINE
BNY Mellon proudly serves exceptional clients in   Our CSR report details our approach, CSR activities most 
35 countries. Our dedication to support clients   material to our business and our progress for the year. It 
comes through in our CSR activities, where we strive   is organized by our three CSR strategy pillars where our 
to deliver positive impact for our stakeholders,   activities deliver the most impact, today and tomorrow.
communities and society.
 Our Markets
IMPROVING LIVES  
 Our People
THROUGH INVESTING
 Our World
Since our founding, BNY Mellon has consistently led  
the industry, helped shape global financial services   The data and examples in this report refer to our global 
and created a positive impact on the world. Our   operations as of December 31, 2017, unless otherwise 
Corporate Social Responsibility Statement reaffirms   stated. Read more in our CSR Overview and explore 
this commitment.  stories and infographics at bnymellon.com/csr. We 
welcome your questions, comments and feedback on  
Corporate Social Responsibility Statement
our report and CSR at BNY Mellon.
Corporate social responsibility is crucial to how we  
Our Vision
fulfill our role as a major global financial institution.  
At BNY Mellon, we are invested in our markets, our   Improving lives through investing
people and our world. Our clients trust us every day with 
Our Mission
their investments, and we depend on our talented and 
diverse workforce to meet client needs with the highest  Helping people realize their full potential by leveraging 
standards of excellence and integrity. That’s why it’s  our distinctive expertise to power investment success
important that we build an inclusive and supportive 
Our Values
environment where our people are empowered to 
Client Focus 
contribute and succeed. Together, we can contribute to 
Integrity 
the resiliency of global markets and solutions for some  
Teamwork 
of the world’s most pressing issues, building healthy 
Excellence
economies and sustainable communities over time.
3  CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017
About BNY Mellon
INNOVATIVE SOLUTIONS FOR THE WORLD
BNY Mellon provides investment management and  that businesses, institutions, individuals, communities 
investment services to many of the world’s leading  and societies face, and we develop practical solutions to 
investors. We have 50,000+ employees in 35 countries.  fit their needs. People know us as a strategic partner with 
The strong client relationships we’ve built over decades  a firm place in history, a sharp focus on today’s markets 
prove our dedication to serve with excellence and create  and clients and a positive outlook for the future.
shared value for clients by leveraging our company’s full 
Our Purpose
breadth of capabilities. 
We safeguard, manage and process trillions of dollars 
Our ability to connect clients to opportunities has made  every day to help drive the world’s financial markets and 
us the longest continually running financial institution   the economies they support. But handling transactions  
in the U.S. We have endured every economic condition  is just part of what we do. We take to heart our values of 
and market event in the last 230 years, confronted  client focus, integrity, teamwork and excellence and help 
uncertainties and pushed the boundaries of innovation   investors of all types and sizes achieve their dreams. 
to help clients prosper. We understand the challenges 
Who We Are
Investment Services Investment Management
We provide expertise and insights at each investment lifecycle stage:
 1    Create    2   Trade, clear    3    Hold and   4    Manage   5    Distribute   6    Restructure 
           
assets and settle assets1 service assets assets assets1 assets
Our Clients
 Advisors  Corporations  Insurance companies   Registered investment 
 Alternative asset managers  Family offices  Investment managers advisors
 Banks and broker-dealers  Governments and publics  Not-for-profits  Sovereign institutions
 Consultants  Individuals and families
Our Reach2
ooff  tthhee  ttoopp  5500  lliiffee//
77777777%%%%     o5o5o5o5f0f0ff00    00FF00FF  oo  ooccccrrrroooottttmmuummuunnnnppppeeeeaaaa  nn  nniiiieeeessss     99996666%%%%     ohhchcohofeeofee  maatmaathhllllpttpettehhhha a t  t  niinoiionnnnipipessess su u5suu5rr0rr0aaaa  lnnlnniifccfcceeeeee// 88887777%%%%     oaoaoaoafnfnffnn    dtdtddtthhhh    eeeeeeeemmmm    ttttooppoopppppplllloooo    1111yyyy00ee00ee00ee00ee        ppbbppbbeeeeeeeennnnnnnnsseesseeiiﬁﬁiiﬁﬁoooottnnttnn        
ccoommppaanniieess ppllaann  ssppoonnssoorrss  
ppllaann  ssppoonnssoorrss  
ooff  tthhee  ttoopp  110000 ooff  tthhee  ttoopp  5500  
9944%%   ooff  tthhee  ttoopp  110000 5588%%   ooff  tthhee  ttoopp  5500   9944%%   ooff  tthhee  ttoopp  110000  bbaannkkss  
9944%%   iinnvveessttmmeenntt  mmaannaaggeerrss   5588%%   wwoorrlldd  uunniivveerrssiittiieess   9944%%   ooff  tthhee  ttoopp  110000  bbaannkkss  
iinnvveessttmmeenntt  mmaannaaggeerrss   wwoorrlldd  uunniivveerrssiittiieess   wwoorrllddwwiiddee  
wwoorrllddwwiiddee  
1  Securities transactions are effected, where required, only through registered broker-dealers.
2  All statistics represent the minimum number of BNY Mellon client relationships in  
each category 
• Fortune 500 // Copyright 2017 Time Inc. FORTUNE is a registered trademark of Time Inc.
• Investment Managers // P&I Crain Communications Inc., Copyright 2018
• Life & Health Insurance Companies // A.M. Best Company Inc., Copyright 2017 
• World Universities // Times Higher Education World University Rankings,  
TES Global Copyright 2017
• Pension & Employee Benefits // Pensions & Investments (P&I) Copyright 2018  
Crain Communications Inc.
• Banks World-Wide // Banks Around the World, Copyright 2011- 2018
4  CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017
About BNY Mellon
MESSAGE FROM OUR CEO
We remain committed to 
contributing to the safe and 
consistent functioning of the 
financial systems and to a 
sustainable world where  
people can succeed and 
economies can thrive.
Charles W. Scharf
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Last July, I joined this great company, one with a rich 
history, a strong culture and an important role to play in the 
global financial markets. As our management team defines 
the next chapter for BNY Mellon, we remain committed to 
contributing to the safe and consistent functioning of the 
financial systems and to a sustainable world where people 
can succeed and economies can thrive. 
• We are working to stay in front of the changing 
We have built relationships over decades by standing for  expectations and attitudes of the workforce to ensure 
honesty and integrity, by providing quality services and by  we continue to attract the next generation of business 
being there for our clients in all market scenarios. We work  experts and digital talent. We do this by continually 
every day to re-earn these relationships, by striving to  evaluating our employee engagement, skills 
ensure we conduct our business according to the same  development and other benefits programs as well as 
values that define us. encouraging community development efforts that help 
employees acquire the necessary skills to prosper in a 
Our business supports stability in a constantly changing 
digital world.
world. To set a strategic direction that is sustainable for 
• To help close the gender gap in women’s access to 
the long term, we are anticipating global trends, taking 
financial products and services, earlier this year 
action to mitigate risks and capture opportunities. A few 
BNY Mellon released Powering Potential, a report that 
examples of work underway:
serves as a call to action for the private, public and 
• With technology becoming an ever more important  social sectors. The report quantifies the untapped power 
component of success, we are increasing our technology  of women as financial actors, with the potential to 
spend in 2018 to minimize risk, increase the reliability  dramatically expand the market for financial products 
and quality of our global platforms and expand our  and services while improving the lives of women and 
capabilities. This work will make us a better partner to  their communities. In our own company, I have 
the clients who rely on us to provide critical market  challenged our leadership to continue to increase 
infrastructure. diversity, particularly in our senior ranks. 
5  CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017
About BNY Mellon: Message from Our CEO
• Climate change calls for urgent action. We believe it  We believe our actions can help drive meaningful change. 
is important to lead by example, maintaining zero net  Our strategy is built on three pillars reflecting the areas  
carbon emissions since 2015 and providing more than  in which we can have the most impact:
$1.7 billion in financing for wind projects since 2014.  
• Our Markets, where our investments in strengthening 
We also continue to collaborate with our clients on 
our infrastructure and risk management and in 
renewable energy funds, green bond issuance and other 
innovating for the future position us to help improve 
sustainable finance vehicles.
financial market stability and efficiency; 
Our clients, many of the world’s financial industry leaders 
• Our People, where our decision to share the benefits of 
among them, are also trying to navigate these and other 
the new U.S. tax legislation by increasing the minimum 
pressing issues. They want to partner with providers who 
wage for all U.S.-based employees is making a 
act responsibly and can help them invest in a sustainable 
difference in the lives of those who need it most; and
and inclusive future. 
• Our World, where our inclusion on the Dow Jones 
Today, BNY Mellon is doing that. We offer social   Sustainability World Index, perfect scores in the  
investing tools, advisory support and investment  Carbon Disclosure Project for five consecutive years,  
strategies for our institutional investors, issuers, asset  and $41.7 million in community support3, are testament  
managers and individual clients to help them achieve   to a purpose-driven culture. 
their environmental, sustainable and governance (ESG) 
Our commitment to responsible business is good 
objectives. In 2017, we managed $77.2 billion in assets 
business. It helps ensure our continued relevance is 
which incorporate values-based ESG screens, ESG themes 
absolutely the right thing to do as a corporate citizen.  
and impact criteria. And in Asset Servicing, the market 
And we will continue to challenge ourselves to do more.
value of portfolios we screen for ESG factors reached over 
$900 billion, up 23 percent from the previous 12 months 
and 103 percent from 2012. 
3  Community support includes donations, grants and charitable sponsorships made by 
BNY Mellon and employee donations to charities that qualify for our matching program.
6  CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017
About BNY Mellon
2017 AWARDS AND RECOGNITION
Sustainability  Technology Workplace and Human 
Resources
Climate A List for climate  Top Companies for Women 
management leadership  Technologists Leadership Index  Bloomberg Gender-Equality Index 
CDP; five consecutive years  Anita Borg Institute  Bloomberg
Dow Jones Sustainability   NOVA Award for Innovation   Best Employer for Healthy Lifestyles 
World Index (DJSI)  in Technology  National Business Group on Health
Only U.S. diversified financial firm  NICSA
Perfect score on the 2018  
named to the World Index for four 
Philanthropy Corporate Equality  
consecutive years
Rockefeller Award  Index for LGBTQ workplace equality 
FTSE4Good Global Benchmark Index,  International House Human Rights Campaign Foundation
six consecutive years  
Distinction in Corporate   Top 50 Employers for Women 
FTSE4Good 
Service Award The Times
MSCI ESG “A” rating for ESG 
9/11 Memorial & Museum
performance
See a full list of our awards at  
  www.bnymellon.com/us/en/who-we-are/awards.jsp
7  CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017
OUR  
APPROACH  
TO CSR
8  CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017
Our Approach to CSR
OUR IMPACT
Built a culture of lifelong  
learning by delivering over 
1MM 
Managed
$77.2B 
learning hours to  
employees annually
 in assets which incorporate values-based    Read more on page 47
ESG screens, ESG themes and/or impact criteria
 Read more on page 67
Contributed
$41.7MM 
to support communities4 
Promoted a strong risk culture  around the world. Employees 
volunteered nearly 143,000 hours
96% 
 Read more on page 89
of employees report that they  
are aware of key risks relevant  
to their work 0
  
 Read more on page 28
net carbon  
 
emissions
achieved through emissions  
reduction, renewable energy credits  
and carbon offsets
 Read more on page 94
4  Community support includes donations, grants and charitable sponsorships made by 
BNY Mellon and employee donations to charities qualifying for our matching program.
9  CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017
Our Approach to CSR
DELIVERING A DIFFERENCE
We not only devote our own 
resources to issues affecting
our communities and 
stakeholders — we enable  
our clients to leverage social 
investment solutions. 
Heidi DuBois
Global Head of Philanthropy and Corporate Social 
Responsibility
It is gratifying to work for a company genuinely  As I reflect on 2017, I am proud of BNY Mellon’s role  
committed to the wellbeing of the world and its citizens.  in supporting the soundness of the global financial 
Part of my role at BNY Mellon is to help determine where  system and mobilizing capital to invest in a better future. 
we can use our resources for the most positive, tangible  We made measurable progress in many areas, including 
impact. We do this by studying global trends, responding  administering the second-largest clean energy program 
through our CSR strategy and supporting achievement   loan ever made in the U.S., and servicing green bonds 
of the UN Sustainable Development Goals that aim to  around the world. We affirmed our commitment to 
address the world’s most pressing needs. As you’ve seen  diversity and inclusion through events and instituting 
in this report, we believe we can make a real difference  best practices, and increased membership in our 
by focusing on gender equality, climate change and   Employee/Business Resource Groups, which connect 
the effects of technology, globalization and the   employees with shared interests to impact our business, 
changing workforce.  by 58 percent, including new chapters in India and Brazil. 
We continued our strong track record of managing our 
BNY Mellon is uniquely positioned to make a difference. 
environmental footprint, earning an “A” rating from CDP 
We not only devote our own resources to issues  
for GHG emissions disclosure and climate action for the 
affecting our communities and stakeholders — we 
fifth year in a row. 
enable our clients to leverage a broad range of social 
investment solutions. This increases our ability to deliver  With all our accomplishments, we know our work is far 
positive impacts and aligns us with clients who also  from done. The global landscape is always changing,  
strive to reinforce their values through CSR and  but our commitment to conducting business responsibly 
investment activities.  is steadfast. We will continue to watch global trends 
evolve and adjust our CSR strategy to deliver the most 
positive, constructive impact, today and tomorrow. 
10  CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017
Our Approach to CSR
GLOBAL MEGATRENDS GUIDE OUR CSR STRATEGY
Fundamental shifts in the world’s economic, societal   development and human wellbeing, with a focus on 
and environmental landscape are redefining the future.  affordable, equitable access for all. At BNY Mellon, we 
By understanding these trends and how they affect us,  see opportunities to harness new technologies to benefit 
we can all contribute big ideas, innovative solutions and  our business, equip our employees with next-generation 
constructive change.  skills and build more inclusive, collaborative client 
relationships. Our philanthropic giving specifically 
targets technology skills-building in communities  
GLOBAL MEGATRENDS AND 
around the world. 
OPPORTUNITIES TO MAKE  
2. G  lobalized markets are increasingly 
A DIFFERENCE
interdependent
Globalization has opened the flow of products, services 
Though we face great challenges, there are positive signs 
and ideas among nations. It has helped millions rise  
that governments, businesses, institutions and citizens 
out of poverty and facilitated trade and cooperation.  
are coming together as a global community to act. In 
But it also creates greater interdependence, where  
2015, 193 countries agreed to adopt the United Nations 
one country’s economic and geopolitical fluctuations 
(UN) Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), 17 goals 
could affect the entire system. 
forming a global blueprint to end poverty, protect the 
planet and enable peace and prosperity by 2030.5  SDG 8 helps address globalization’s far-reaching impact 
by promoting inclusive economic growth, helping 
BNY Mellon supports these goals through our CSR 
eradicate unfair labor practices and promoting quality 
activities. We closely monitor global megatrends and 
jobs and entrepreneurship. BNY Mellon’s governance,  
periodically adjust our CSR strategy to focus on areas we 
risk management, reliability and resiliency help minimize 
can impact. In 2017, our CSR activities contributed to the 
the effects of disruptive global events on our business 
UN’s Sustainable Development Agenda across five key 
and clients. Our social investing activity supports 
trends. We show select examples of our positive impact 
sustainable development, economic opportunity and 
throughout this report.
market stability. 
1. Technology is moving faster 
3.  Gender equality unlocks economic growth 
The way artificial intelligence (AI), robotics, virtual  
The social and economic benefits of gender equality  
reality and other advanced technologies affect life and 
are well documented. A recent McKinsey study shows 
work made headlines in 2017. Technology advances 
narrowing the gender gap through equal employment 
require the workforce to gain new job skills, social media 
opportunities, education, financial inclusion, digital 
and smart phones make it imperative that businesses 
inclusion, maternal health and help with unpaid child 
respond to customers 24/7 and global security requires 
and elder care could add $12 trillion to global growth, 
safeguarding data more than ever before.
about 11 percent higher than business-as-usual.6 
As societies depend more on technology, lack of access 
Companies in the top quartile for gender diversity tend  
can negatively affect lives. SDG 9 aims for quality, 
to perform better, leading to new economic opportunities 
sustainable infrastructure to support economic 
for the business and stakeholders.7
5  Historic New Sustainable Development Agenda Unanimously Adopted by 193 UN Members, 
September 25, 2015.
6  Realizing gender equality’s $12 trillion economic opportunity, McKinsey Global Institute,  
May 2016.
7  “Why Diverse Teams are Smarter,” by David Rock and Heidi Grant, Harvard Business Review, 
November 4, 2016.
11  CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017
Our Approach to CSR: Global Megatrends Guide Our CSR Strategy
SDG 5 seeks to achieve gender equality and empower all  5.  Climate change impacts are intensifying
women and girls. It supports women participating fully 
Many world leaders know they must act now to combat 
and having equal leadership opportunities in political, 
climate change, as evidenced by new commitments 
economic and public life, which will benefit society and 
announced at the 2017 UN Climate Change Conference 
help fuel sustainable economies. Gender equality is  
in Bonn, Germany. Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions from 
a high priority at BNY Mellon. Our goals are to hire  
human activities are at their highest levels, spurring 
more women at all levels and in all functions, fund 
extreme weather events, reducing crop yields and 
organizations and programs aimed at gender equality 
causing sea levels to rise.10, 11
and promote investment opportunities that advance 
women’s roles in society.  The UN SDGs target climate change in several ways.  
SDG 13 urges a range of activities from national policies 
4. The global workforce is changing 
to education and awareness-building to help mitigate 
With Generation Z joining the workforce in 2017, there   climate change impacts. SDG 7 focuses on providing 
are five generations working side by side for the first  universal access to clean, affordable, sustainable energy. 
time.8 Companies must manage the technology gap  BNY Mellon supports these goals by reducing GHGs in 
between younger and older workers, respond to flexible  our operations, supporting low-carbon development 
work arrangement demands and prioritize employee  investments, investing in renewable energy and 
health, wellbeing and engagement. They must also  consuming less energy, paper and water. 
understand employees’ varying attitudes. To younger 
generations, inclusion goes beyond acceptance and 
tolerance of different viewpoints to include connectivity 
and collaborative tools to get business results.9
The SDGs account for these changes and address 
the challenges that remain. SDG 8 promotes equal 
wages, representation and social protections for all. 
BNY Mellon’s commitments in these areas are on target. 
Our Employee/Business Resource Groups (E/BRGs) 
help unify our culture across generations and tap our 
diverse workforce’s knowledge, experience and skills to 
positively influence business outcomes. Our leadership, 
development, engagement, diversity and inclusion and 
wellbeing programs help meet current and future 
workforce needs. 
8  “5 Generations + 7 Values = Endless Opportunities,” by Desda Moss, Society for Human 
Resource Management, June 20, 2017.
9  “The radical transformation of diversity and inclusion”, by M. Christie Smith, PhD,  
and Stephanie Turner, PhD, Deloitte, accessed November 27, 2017.
10  “Greenhouse gas concentrations surge to new record”, World Meteorological  
Organization, October 30, 2017.
11  Greenhouse gas emissions: drivers and impacts, Government of Canada, April 13, 2017.
12  CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017
Our Approach to CSR 
HOW WE SUPPORT THE UN SUSTAINABLE 
DEVELOPMENT AGENDA
In 2015, 193 countries agreed to adopt the United Nations 
(UN) Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), 17 goals 
forming a global blueprint for nations to end poverty, 
protect the planet and enable peace and prosperity  
by 2030. 
BNY Mellon‘s CSR strategy and impacts support  
five SDGs. 
BNY Mellon’s CSR Strategy and Examples of Impact
•  Launched a multi-year  •  42% of our total global 
project to improve our  workforce is women
technology infrastructure
•  Increased minimum wage 
Our   Our  
•  Environmental risk  for U.S. employees to $15/hr
integrated into business  Markets People
continuity planning  •  +1MM learning hours 
delivered to employees to 
promote lifelong learning
Our  
World
•  Partnered with UN Foundation to support gender equality 
•  Zero net carbon emissions 
•  CDP Climate A list, five consecutive years
13  CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017
Our Approach to CSR
OUR CSR MISSION
Our CSR mission is to have a positive impact on our 
stakeholders and society. We find opportunities to make 
a difference, knowing success will benefit our business 
and bring tangible value to shareholders, clients, 
communities and employees.
Our CSR Strategy And Global Company Strategy Align To Improve Lives Through Investing.
CSR Strategy Pillars
Our Markets Our People Our World
Cybersecurity services  Culture of lifelong  A leader in minimizing 
and solutions for clients learning environmental footprint
Expertise
hs y
ngtateg Risk managed across  Diverse workforce  Growing assets screened 
er the value chain supports our global  for environmental, social 
rt
e Stny S Scale markets and governance factors
tivpa
tim Strong technology  Engaged employees  Innovative social investing 
e
po infrastructure for  deliver exceptional  solutions and tools
mC
oof  Client  reliable service service
C Experience
Embedded risk culture  Inclusive culture values  History of high-impact 
based on personal  differing perspectives community support
Trust accountability
Employees  Company and Investors  Clients  Communities and Society 
We empower employees to  We are committed to  We help clients achieve   We help strengthen 
achieve their goals, thrive   responsible, long-term  their financial goals through  communities, make 
s
t
c in a diverse and inclusive  growth for investors. We   reliable solutions and  economies more resilient 
a
p culture and be fulfilled by  are stable in all market  partnerships built on trust. and protect people’s 
m
I meaningful work. conditions and deliver  livelihoods.
Employees Cionmnopvaantiyve & s Ionluvteiostnosr tso   Clients Communities & Society
ts Employees are empowered  Thder civoem epcaonyn ohamsi ac  sptrroonsgp reerpituyt.ation  Clients are enabled to achieve  Communities are strengthened, 
c to achieve their aspirations,  and commitment to responsible  ﬁnancial goals through  economies are more resilient 
a
p thrive in a diverse and  long-term growth. We maintain  innovative solutions and  and livelihoods of people 
m inclusive culture and feel  stability in all market conditions  exceptional partnerships  around the world are protected.
I fulﬁlled by meaningful work. and deliver innovative solutions  based on trust.
that help drive economic prosperity.
14  CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017
Our Approach to CSR
INTEGRATED FOR ACTION
To decide what we want to accomplish with our CSR 
strategy, we look across the landscape for opportunities 
and issues most important to our business and 
stakeholders. We integrate our action plans across our 
CSR programs so they complement and reinforce each 
other and deliver the greatest value and impact possible.
Our Markets
TIER 
We earn clients’ trust every day by acting with integrity 
1
and accountability. Our operational resiliency and 
Risk Management 
effectiveness contribute to global market health.
Topics critical to   and Reliability
Read more on page 23 the global financial 
system and markets  
Our People we serve
We encourage a culture of engagement, wellbeing and 
inclusion. We give all members of our talented, diverse 
workforce opportunities to grow and succeed.
Read more on page 45
TIER 
Social Investing
Our World
2
Strong Governance
We use our expertise, skills and resources to help solve 
Engagement and Wellbeing
the world’s most pressing problems.  Topics vital to business 
Diversity and Inclusion
Read more on page 63 and societal health 
and sustainability Leadership and 
Development
Our Approach
We adjust our CSR approach when new needs or  
exciting possibilities arise. We revisit our CSR strategy 
regularly to make sure our work is truly meaningful to  
our markets; demonstrates value, governance and  TIER 
resiliency to clients; and brings tangible benefits to  3
Environmental 
citizens and the world.
Management
Topics important  
In 2017, we focused on eight priority areas especially  Community 
to society and indirectly 
Commitment
important to us and the people and communities   affecting business 
we serve. results
15  CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017
Our Approach to CSR
OUR CSR STRATEGY PILLARS
O u r  Market
s
Our Markets Our People Our World
We support financial market integrity  We empower people to achieve their  We contribute solutions to the 
to help economies thrive goals  world’s most pressing issues
   Risk Management and Reliability   Leadership and Development   Social Investing
  Strong Governance   Engagement and Wellbeing   Community Commitment
  Diversity and Inclusion   Environmental Management 
Our risk framework and culture 
allow us to make evidence-based  Our people take charge of their  Our expertise, skills and resources 
decisions to protect clients and  careers and grow into our next  help investors finance solutions  
support financial market integrity.  generation of leaders. Employees  to world challenges. We change 
We maintain financial strength and  are fulfilled by meaningful work,  lives through philanthropy and 
stability in all market conditions  have opportunities to make an  social investing, and our employees  
through strong governance, ethical  impact and know we care about  make a difference. We act on 
standards, unquestioned integrity  their wellbeing. Our diverse  climate change and preserve our 
and operational resiliency.  perspectives and inclusive   natural resources.
culture drive business results.
16  CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017
Our Approach to CSR: Our CSR Strategy Pillars
OUR 2020 GOALS
Our Executive Committee approved our long-term (2016– We ended 2017 with some challenges to achieving our 
2020) CSR goals in 2015, and each year they review our  goals, but made significant progress in Risk Management 
progress. In 2017, we adjusted our long-term CSR goals  and Reliability, Strong Governance and Environmental 
and key performance indicators (KPIs) in the following  Management. 
five areas to better align them with business and 
corporate strategies: Risk Framework, Risk Culture, 
Strong Governance — Client Experience, Social Investing, 
and Community Commitment — Legal Pro Bono.
Pillar Priority Long-Term Goals Year-End Progress
Risk  Risk Framework: Evolve and  • Completed multi-year initiative to create enterprise 
Management  fortify our risk infrastructure risk data repository that yields actionable analytics
and Reliability
Risk Culture: Sustain strong  • 96 percent of employees reported they were aware  
global risk culture focused on  of key risks relevant to their work, higher than the 
Our  
ownership and ethical behavior financial services norm 
Markets
Technology: Evolve business  • Exceeded targets to reduce enterprise risk through 
protocols to provide technology  cybersecurity service adoption and migration 
knowledge, resilience and 
• Strengthened third-party governance by launching 
business continuity
comprehensive risk management system and 
operational and technology risk approach to supplier 
assessment and monitoring
Strong  Enhance investor engagement   • Contacted top 20 investors for governance 
Governance by following best practices for  discussions, providing interactions with directors,  
shareholder engagement, sustain  if requested; engaged with nine of top 20 investors
strong regulatory engagement and 
• Educated legislators, regulators and policymakers  
leverage our CSR expertise to 
on our unique business model to help ensure 
enrich the client experience
appropriately drafted legislative and regulatory 
proposals
• Conducted cross-business discovery session to 
assess integration of our CSR values into client 
relationships
 On track   Slow progress or limited challenges   Challenges or significant challenges to achieving
17  CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017
Our Approach to CSR: Our CSR Strategy Pillars
Pillar Priority Long-Term Goals Year-End Progress
Leadership  Develop successful leaders and  • Overall upward feedback results for managers 
and  managers who drive high  improved over 2016; however, in the employee 
Development productivity and engagement  engagement survey, Leadership category remained 
within their teams flat, four points below industry benchmarks
Our 
Engagement  Build a workforce culture  • Improved engagement with global wellbeing platform 
People and Wellbeing supported by engagement and  by 70 percent; however, employee engagement survey 
wellbeing results were flat from 2016 at 79 percent favorable
Diversity and  Achieve marketplace leadership  • Increased U.S. ethnically/racially diverse talent at  
Inclusion and reputation, advance diverse  all levels; however, gender representation declined 
representation in senior-level  globally, mostly at the senior levels
ranks and drive accountability for 
a culture of inclusion
Pillar Priority Long-Term Goals Year-End Progress
Social  Be recognized as a leader in the  • Launched/relaunched three responsible investment 
Investing social investing field consistent  fund and strategy offerings; expanded market 
with our business model engagement and exploration of ESG ratings analysis 
and innovative impact vehicles; however, 
Our  opportunities exist to improve our deal tracking and 
understanding of client demand
World
Community  Significantly increase scope and  • Launched refreshed philanthropy focus and aligned 
Commitment impact of community support 66 percent of contributions strategically; however, 
overall community support1 was primarily flat to 2016 
Environmental  Address climate change issues  • Maintained carbon neutral status2; reduced 
Management including potential impacts, risk  emissions by 52 percent from 2008 baseline; named 
and opportunities and expand   to CDP Climate A list for climate management for fifth 
and improve environmental  consecutive year, becoming one of two S&P 500 
management, resource efficiency  companies with this record
and reputation
 On track   Slow progress or limited challenges   Challenges or significant challenges to achieving
1   Community support includes donations, grants and charitable sponsorships made by  
BNY Mellon and employee donations to charities qualifying for our matching program.
2  For Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions including our data centers, as well as Scope 3 
business travel emissions.
18  CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017
Our Approach to CSR
CSR GOVERNANCE
CSR is a vital part of BNY Mellon operations. Many 
people help implement and review CSR activities to  
keep them in line with our business goals and cultural 
values. The Board of Directors’ independent Corporate 
Governance, Nominating and Social Responsibility 
Committee reviews the program regularly, monitors 
progress and provides direction. Executive Committee 
members approve goals and monitor progress. 
CSR Governance Structure 
Corporate Governance, Nominating 
Independent directors who regularly review our CSR program and monitor 
and Social Responsibility Committee  
progress against our long-term goals
of the Board of Directors
Ultimately responsible for the firm’s CSR progress and success; monitors 
Executive Committee progress on annual KPIs and long-term goals, anticipates market trends and 
future client needs and drives business innovation
 1     CSR Team   3    CSR Subject Matter Experts (SMEs)
Leads CSR strategy development and CSR governance   Manage day-to-day execution of CSR policies, practices  
process; works with program areas to develop CSR initiatives,  and programs
monitor progress, manage public reporting and collaborate  
with experts 
 2      CSR Working Group 4    Employee Groups
Oversees CSR measurement, monitoring, reporting and  Involve local and regional employees in CSR initiatives; examples 
reputational management in designated areas of expertise include E/BRGs and volunteer and philanthropic fundraising 
committees
CSR GOVERNANCE 
DEVELOPMENTS
Based on stockholder engagement, over the last few 
years our Board has focused on refreshment and 
efficiency. In 2018, following our Annual Meeting, the 
Corporate Social Responsibility Committee was 
dissolved, and its responsibilities assumed by the newly 
named Corporate Governance, Nominating and Social 
Responsibility Committee. For more information  
on this Committee’s Charter, see our Investor  
Relations page. 
19  CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017
Our Approach to CSR: CSR Governance
Annual CSR KPI-Setting and Implementation Process
CSR Working Group 
Drafts annual KPIs
1
2
CSR Team and CSR  
Working Group 
Goal-setting
CSR Team phase Compiles annual KPIs for review 
Engages  Executive Committee and 
Corporate Governance, 
stakeholders
Nominating and Social 
Responsibility Committee 
Approves annual KPIs
3
Implementation 
phase
Executive Management  CSR Working Group 
Cascades goals to relevant   Oversees progress and addresses 
managers challenges
CSR Working Group and Subject   CSR Team  
4
Matter Experts  Gathers progress updates from  
Implements initiatives and programs Tracking CSR Working Group
phase
Employee Groups  Executive Committee and Corporate 
Helps roll out initiatives Governance, Nominating and Social 
Responsibility Committee 
Provides input, oversight and 
5 recommendations
Review  
and reporting 
phase
6
CSR Team and CSR Working Group 
Compiles results for review 
CSR Team
Executive Committee and Corporate 
Governance, Nominating and Social 
Publishes results  
Responsibility Committee 
Reviews and approves annual   in CSR report
KPI results
20  CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017
Our Approach to CSR
ENGAGING THOSE WE SERVE
Stakeholders rely on us to help them realize their  CAB identified new use cases for environmental, social 
financial potential, develop their careers, grow their  and governance (ESG) data in portfolio analysis.  
businesses and improve their communities. We rely on  In addition to seeing how portfolios compare to 
them to tell us what they need, where we can add value  benchmarks, clients want to better understand the 
and how well we meet their expectations. We engage  impact that meeting ESG objectives, particularly 
stakeholders in two-way communications to tell them  exclusionary screens, may have on portfolio 
what we’re doing and get their feedback on our CSR  performance. This type of feedback on our current 
programs and business solutions. These open exchanges  offerings will help us develop additional solutions  
are invaluable as we plan, implement and evolve our   to meet evolving client needs.
CSR activities.
• The World Resources Institute (WRI) is a leading 
nonprofit that facilitates collaboration among 
HOW WE ENGAGE STAKEHOLDERS technology, finance and NGO sectors. In 2017, 
OUR CLIENTS OUR PEOPLE BNY Mellon funded a project to develop a harmonized 
•  Direct conversations •  Conversations   framework for financial institutions to set climate 
•  Advisory boards   with managers
targets that include their investing and lending 
and idea sharing •  Performance 
portfolios in line with the Paris Climate Agreement. 
•  Conferences management and 
Once established, we plan to use that framework to set 
•  Satisfaction and  development programs
engagement surveys •  Town halls our own science-based emission reduction target 
•  Thought leadership  •  Employee/Business  based on the level of de-carbonization required to keep 
•  Social media Resource Groups  the global temperature increase below two degrees 
•  Engagement surveys 
Celsius compared to pre-industrial temperatures. 
OUR INVESTORS OUR COMMUNITIES
• We’ve seen a trend among investors and stakeholders 
•  Annual and   •  Meetings with  
requesting greater transparency and easy ways to 
quarterly reports local leaders and 
•  Webcasts and  advocacy groups assess Board skills and evaluations. As a result, we 
conference calls •  Board memberships took steps to provide a skills and attributes matrix in 
•  Financial services  •  Financial support  our 2018 proxy statement to help stakeholders more 
conferences (grants, sponsorships)
easily assess a wide range of issues, including gender, 
•  Proxy voting  •  Employee volunteering
racial and ethnic diversity, need for refreshment, and 
•  Annual Meeting  
relevant business skills. 
and Investor Days
The four groups above represent key stakeholders defined during a  • Our 2017 employee engagement pulse survey identified 
comprehensive strategic analysis to refine our CSR focus in 2014. External 
several opportunities, including moving more quickly 
partners, suppliers, peer companies, nonprofits and industry associations  
are also important stakeholders for our firm and we connect with these   from idea to implementation, holding more meaningful 
groups regularly.
conversations with managers on careers, having more 
open communication with an employee’s manager’s 
Our Response to Stakeholder Feedback
manager, and senior management more effectively 
Here are a few examples of how we responded to  communicating the case for change. The Executive 
stakeholder interests in 2017 through our CSR activities.  Committee is closely reviewing feedback from the 
survey and is working with teams globally to develop  
• In our Asset Servicing business, we regularly discuss 
a set of actions and stress crisper processes, 
social investing opportunities with our client advisory 
streamlined decision-making, a clearer sense of 
boards (CABs), which consist of institutional investors 
responsibility and direct, frequent communication  
including public and private pension funds, university 
from our leaders and managers. 
endowments and foundations. In 2017, the asset owner 
21  CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017
Our Approach to CSR
OUR PERFORMANCE
2017 Performance
Dollar amounts are in billions USD, unless otherwise noted.
OUR MARKETS(A) 2017 2016 2015
Assets under custody and/or administration (AUC/A)(B)  $33,300 $29,900 $28,900
Assets under management (AUM)(C)  $1,893 $1,648 $1,625
Total revenue  $15,543 $15,237 $15,194
Percentage of non-U.S. total revenue  36% 34% 36%
Market capitalization  $54.6 $49.6 $44.7
Company credit rating (S&P credit rating of long-term senior debt)  A A A
Number of countries of operations  35 35 35
Capital levels (Estimated CET1 Ratio, fully phased-in — Non-GAAP)
Standardized approach 11.5% 11.3% 10.2%
Advanced approach 10.3% 9.7% 9.5%
Active employees certified as having read and understood the Code of Conduct(D) 100% 100% 100%
Number of employees aware of the risks relevant to their work 96% 96% 96%
OUR PEOPLE 2017 2016 2015
Global employees (full-time)  52,500 52,000 51,200
Staff expense(E)  $5.972 $5.73 $5.837
Global voluntary employee retention  90% 89% 87%
Director and above positions held by women  27% 27% 27%
Women in our global workforce 42% 42% 43%
Diverse employees hired in the U.S. 43% 39% 37%
Total employee learning hours 1 million 1 million 1 million
Employee engagement globally (percentage of overall positive survey results) 79% 79% 77%
Employees engaged with global wellbeing platform 16,150 – –
OUR WORLD 2017 2016 2015
Assets which incorporate values-based ESG screens, ESG themes, and/or impact criteria.(F)  $77.2 $69.3 $63.0
Assets managed by boutiques which are signatories to the UN PRI (% of total AUM)(G) 74% 37% 37%
Community support (millions USD)(H) $41.7 $42 $39.9
Employee contributions and company match (millions USD)  $15.6 $17.2 $16.1
Total employee volunteering hours  143,000 143,000 140,000
CDP score (disclosure and performance)  A A(I) 100 A
Global operations GHG reductions (from 2008 baseline)(J)  52% 49% 42%
Global electricity usage offset by renewable energy  100% 100% 100%
Water use reduction (from 2015 baseline, tracked facilities only) 11.4% 11.1% –
Annual savings through owned or controlled buildings’ energy-efficiency projects (millions USD)  $13.2 $7.4 $10.0
Real estate certified for sustainability (by at least one third party and by percentage of sq. ft.)(K)  40% 43% 35.6%
(A) For further information, please see the Corporation’s reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the 2017 Annual Report, at www.bnymellon.com/investorrelations
(B) Includes the assets under custody and/or administration of CIBC Mellon Global Securities Services Company, a joint venture. 
(C) Excludes securities lending cash management assets and assets managed in the Investment Services business. 
(D) May vary because of launch date, employee acquisitions or legal restrictions.
(E) Staff expenses consists of compensation expense, incentive expense and employee benefit expense. For more information please see the 2017 Annual Report.
(F)   Prior to 2017, IM presented exclusionary screened AUM only. As of 2017, this number evolves with our product set and additionally includes positive ESG screened, ESG-thematic and impact AUM.
(G) Insight’s AUM is represented by the market value of cash, securities and derivatives held in client accounts. Where a client mandate requires INA to manage some or all of a client’s liabilities, and 
INA is to be paid an investment management fee based upon the value of such liabilities, the AUM for the account will be based on the value of the liabilities plus the gross notional value of any 
derivatives used in the management thereof.
(H) Community support includes donations, grants and charitable sponsorships made by BNY Mellon and employee donations to charities that qualify for our matching program.
(I)  The old CDP scoring system gave a numerical score for disclosure and a letter band for performance. Under CDP’s new scoring methodology, organizations receive a single letter band per criteria.
(J)  Includes Scope 1 and 2 CO2e emissions percentage reduction compared to a 2008 baseline for global tracked properties, excluding data centers.
(K) These third-party certifiers include LEED, ISO 14001 and ENERGY STAR.
22  CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017
OUR  
MARKETS
As a global financial services provider, we prioritize  
risk management and protecting assets. It’s a significant 
responsibility, especially as global markets become  
more interdependent, cybersecurity threats intensify  
and technology drives client expectations ever higher.  
The CSR activities outlined in Our Markets show  
we’re up to the task.
23  CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017
Our Markets
RISK MANAGEMENT AND RELIABILITY
Our Opportunity  Our Approach
BNY Mellon is known for financial strength, safety and  Risk management and reliability are ingrained in our 
trustworthiness, thanks to a solid balance sheet, healthy  business strategy, operations and people practices. This 
risk culture and commitment to financial stability in all  helps us build trust, protect stakeholders and fulfill our 
market cycles. We have a responsibility to our clients,   important role in global financial markets, which can  
our communities and the global financial system to  be significant competitive differentiators to prospective 
manage risk responsibly and be a reliable custody   clients, talent and investors. We leverage our risk 
and investment source.  framework, culture and technology to maintain our  
sound risk position, with emphasis on: 
Key Trends
All global trends have upsides and downsides.  • Guiding employees to proactively identify, assess  
Interconnected global markets and unprecedented  and manage risk
technological advancements are two that present  • Transactional accuracy and responsible financing
particular challenges to risk management and reliability. 
• Best-in-class risk culture supported by training, 
Within these broader trends are two sub-issues affecting 
communications, tools and clear procedures
our approach and strategy. 
• Improved products, technologies and services to  
THE GLOBAL ATMOSPHERE IS UNCERTAIN 
reduce systemic risk for clients
Turbulence and uncertainty in global markets can 
• Technology resiliency via integrated business protocols, 
threaten trade agreements, economies and alliances.  
employee awareness and business continuity
The financial services regulatory landscape, which is 
already complex, could face additional challenges 
Our Risk Management and Reliability Goals
because of change and ambiguity around the world. 
Risk Framework: Evolve and fortify our risk 
CYBERSECURITY TAKES MORE THAN TECHNOLOGY infrastructure. 
Technology can now do more than most of us ever 
Risk Culture: Sustain strong global risk culture focused 
imagined. However, lack of awareness and carelessness 
on ownership and ethical behavior.
can make us vulnerable. Companies must have 
comprehensive cybersecurity plans and a strong  
Technology: Continually evolve our business protocols  
risk culture to foil emerging threats.
to strengthen our technology knowledge, resiliency and 
business continuity.
24  CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017
Our Markets: Risk Management and Reliability
How We’ll Achieve Them
We take a continuous improvement approach to risk 
management to advance our business priorities. We 
expand our management information capabilities  
and further apply these analytics to enable effective, 
evidence-based risk management activities across  
the company. We continue to clarify how we expect 
employees to support BNY Mellon’s fiduciary obligations 
and enhance employee training to engage them even 
more deeply in protecting our company, clients and 
shareholders. 
We further embed best practices into our business  
and decisions by expanding our Information Security 
Management System, executing our three-year plan for 
priority cybersecurity services and enhancing third-party 
governance for critical vendors and services. Our 
Technology Monitoring and Control function will drive 
technology risk management and resiliency across 
BNY Mellon through a robust framework and in 
collaboration with risk and compliance functions.
2017 PROGRESS
Risk Framework
• Completed multi-year initiative to create enterprise  
risk data repository that yields actionable analytics 
Risk Culture
• Ninety-six percent of employees reported they were 
aware of key risks relevant to their work, higher 
than the financial services norm
Technology Risk
• Exceeded targets to reduce enterprise risk through 
cybersecurity service adoption and migration
25  CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017
Our Markets: Risk Management and Reliability
OUR RISK AND RELIABILITY  and processes to address them. The second line consists of 
our risk and compliance function. They own the enterprise-
FRAMEWORK
wide risk management framework and provide independent 
oversight of the first line of defense. The Chief Risk Officer 
Our Three Lines of Defense Against Risk
oversees the second line of defense and reports jointly to 
We implement integrated risk management practices  the CEO and the Board of Directors. The third line is our 
through our Three Lines of Defense model. The first line,  internal audit function, which independently assures our 
which includes most of the company, comprises the  Board of Directors and senior management that our 
managers and employees in the businesses, corporate staff  governance structures, risk management and internal 
groups or legal entities. They identify risks associated with  controls are effective. The Chief Auditor oversees the third 
business activities and manage controls  line and reports to the Board of Directors.
Three Lines of Defense
1st Businesses, corporate staff and legal entities
Businesses/Legal Entities 1st    Understand and manage the risks inherent  
in their business, including those associated  
with products and clients
Risk and Compliance 2nd
  A  ssume full ownership through identifying,  
managing and monitoring risks
Internal Audit  3rd
  E  nsure that controls and sound business-level 
policies are in place
  O  perate within their risk appetite
  E  scalate issues in a timely manner
BNY Mellon 
assets, brand 
2nd Risk and compliance
and reputation
  P  rovides independent oversight and challenge  
of risk management by the first line
  O  wns enterprise risk and compliance framework, 
Internal Audit including policies, measures and limits
  M  onitors the effectiveness of the accuracy of 
BusinessesR/iLsekg aanl dE nCtoitmiepsl/iaCnocrpe orate Staff   raI denepdno ttriitmfise,e scly oa mrnedpm laieandntiicacetip iwoanitt ehosf l  akdwneofiswc ainen ndric sriekegssu alnadti oenmse, rging 
issues; reports on enterprise-wide risks 
3rd Internal audit
   Acts independently from first two lines of defense
  Conducts risk-based audits
   Monitors effectiveness of governance, risk 
management and internal controls, including  
how the first and second lines meet their risk 
management responsibilities
   Reports on the company’s effectiveness in  
identifying and controlling risks
  Tracks and validates resolution of audit issues
26  CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017
Our Markets: Risk Management and Reliability
Our Risk Management Framework in each BNY Mellon business, region and legal entity  
and outline well-designed policies and controls.
Because risk is inherent in our business and industry,  
it is not practical or economically feasible to eliminate  
Our appetite for accepting risk is modest and consistent 
it entirely. Rather, it must be actively managed. Our 
with our requirement to preserve stakeholder and  
commitment to clients and important role in global 
client trust. In 2017, we integrated risk appetite more 
markets mandates that we operate within a sound  
thoroughly in key decision-making processes, such as 
risk management framework.
new products and budgeting. Through our risk appetite 
statements, we consider the potential impact on 
BNY Mellon’s framework provides comprehensive, 
stakeholders and long-term consequences in our 
integrated risk management practices across the 
business strategy. The Risk Committee of the Board  
company to support our business strategy and 
of Directors approves the company’s risk appetite 
objectives. It includes risk identification and assessment 
statement annually. For more on our approach to risk 
processes, risk-taking boundaries and a governance 
management, see our 2017 Annual Report.
model. We use the framework to identify material risks  
Primary Risk Categories
Operational The risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, human factors 
and systems, breaches of technology and information systems, or from external events. 
Also includes fiduciary risk, reputational risk and litigation risk.
Market The risk of loss due to adverse changes in financial markets. Our market risks are 
primarily interest rate, foreign exchange and equity risk. Market risk particularly 
impacts our exposures that are marked-to-market such as the securities portfolio, 
trading book and equity investments.
Credit  The risk of loss if any of our borrowers or other counterparties were to default on their 
obligations to us. Credit risk is resident in the majority of our assets, but primarily 
concentrated in the loan and securities books, as well as off-balance sheet exposures 
such as lending commitments, letters of credit and securities lending indemnifications.
Liquidity The risk that BNY Mellon cannot meet its cash and collateral obligations at a 
reasonable cost for both expected and unexpected cash flows, without adversely 
affecting daily operations or financial conditions. Liquidity risk can arise from cash  
flow mismatches, market constraints from the inability to convert assets to cash, the 
inability to raise cash in the markets, deposit run-off or contingent liquidity events.
Strategic The risk that BNY Mellon doesn’t effectively manage and protect the firm’s market 
positioning and stability. This includes risks associated with the inability to maintain  
a strong understanding of clients’ needs, provide suitable product offerings that are 
financially viable and fit within the firm’s operating model and adapt to transformational 
change in the industry.
27  CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017
Our Markets: Risk Management and Reliability
OUR RISK CULTURE Risk Culture Principles
LEADING BY EXAMPLE 
Employees are Accountable Our senior leaders play a visible and vocal role in  
our culture. They communicate and model behaviors 
Risk management is part of the broader BNY Mellon 
related to personal accountability and effective risk 
culture. It refers to how all employees — not just those  
management. Our leadership competencies reinforce  
in the risk function — understand and take personal 
risk accountability and ownership. 
responsibility for risk and manage it appropriately. In 
other words, it’s our internal compass that guides our 
PUTTING CLIENTS FIRST 
actions and behaviors. We have a comprehensive risk 
We prioritize client trust and consider their best  
management framework of policies, internal controls, 
interests in all we do. We enhanced our processes for 
corporate governance and more. Yet, the most important 
receiving, analyzing and responding to client feedback 
components of managing risk are our people and the 
and improving the client experience. 
values we share. 
ORGANIZING AROUND RISK OWNERSHIP 
We strengthen our risk culture through communications, 
We educate employees to own risk and know their roles 
training and development to raise employees’ awareness 
in managing it. We strengthened employee performance 
of and effectiveness in risk management. In our 2017 
goals for risk management, compliance and ethical 
employee pulse survey, BNY Mellon outperformed 
behavior to further clarify expectations of ownership  
financial services norms, with statistically significant 
and personal accountability. 
differences on four of seven questions related to  
risk culture. We outperformed our peers on clearly  INSTITUTIONALIZING ETHICAL BEHAVIOR 
defined escalation procedures, confidence in senior  We embed risk management, compliance and ethics 
management’s effectiveness in managing risk, employee  practices and expectations into the employee lifecycle. 
awareness of key risks and confidence in reporting  We deliver thought-provoking training to managers 
dishonest or unethical practices without fear of reprisal.  around the world to strengthen their risk management 
skills and perspective.
RISK TRAINING CHALLENGES 
Our risk practices must evolve with regulations, markets 
ASSUMPTIONS 
and businesses, but our commitment to a risk culture of 
Fifty-six hundred BNY Mellon managers took our 
personal responsibility, prudent risk-taking and 
“Effective Risk Management for Managers” training, 
excellence remains.
which consisted of three online simulations based on 
an actual risk event. The training reinforced our Three 
Lines of Defense model and guided managers on how 
to consider risk in their decision-making.  
Read more. 
28  CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017
Our Markets: Risk Management and Reliability
Employee Behaviors and Decisions • Short, memorable videos reinforce risk ownership, 
ethical behavior and putting clients first.
We use a variety of vehicles to educate employees on 
ethics, compliance and risk management and to stress  • Employees were awarded 3,400 peer-to-peer and 
their importance to the company’s success.  manager-to-employee recognitions related to 
managing risk in 2017. 
• Our Code of Conduct defines and reinforces our high 
ethical standards.  Our 2017 accomplishments included: 
• In 2017, we required all employees to train on topics 
• 100 percent of active12 employees certified through  
such as anti-corruption, protecting assets, business 
our annual attestation program that they read and 
continuity, anti-money laundering and information  
understood all Code of Conduct provisions.
risk. Targeted programs covered regulations and best 
• The number of anonymous (vs. non-anonymous) 
practices by region, business and other qualifiers.
reports to our Ethics Hotline and Helpline was well 
•  Global communications highlight practices such  
below the financial services industry median, showing 
as early risk identification and prompt escalation.  
employees are comfortable identifying themselves 
A “Dear Ethics Officer” column introduces ethical 
when escalating concerns without fear of retaliation.
situations, stresses appropriate actions and reminds 
employees of resources. 
Empowering Employees to Protect the Markets
Risk is inherent in our industry. Manage
Therefore, employees must own  
The transaction is 
risks relevant to their work. Our   declined and reported 
to appropriate 
risk management model empowers 
authorities
Apply
employees to protect our clients, 
company, and markets. Our zero tolerance 
approach is guided by 
policy and risk appetite
Risk
Identify Escalate Assess
I receive a suspicious  I escalate the  The request is  Adapt
transaction request request per our  classified as an 
policy  attempt at terrorist  Our practices continue to 
financing evolve and our lessons 
learned are shared
96% 90%
Every employee is  Training is based on
of employees report that    of employees believe that risk 
measured actual 
they are aware of key risks    management procedures are  risk events
in their work clearly defined, which is above  on how they manage risk
the financial services norm
12  May vary because of launch date, employee hire dates, leaves of absence or legal restrictions.
29  CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017
Our Markets: Risk Management and Reliability
How Employees Voice Ethical Concerns 
CODE OF CONDUCT PRINCIPLES
We encourage employees at all levels to immediately tell 
• Respecting Others: We insist on a respectful, 
their managers and our Compliance or Legal team if they 
inclusive and professional workplace.
have ethics issues or concerns. We urge them to ask 
questions and escalate issues until they are resolved.  • Avoiding Conflicts of Interest: We help our 
workforce navigate potential conflicts of interest 
We prohibit and monitor for retaliation against 
and require them to identify and reduce conflicts.
whistleblowers who raise concerns in good faith. We  
• Conducting Business: We tell employees in detail 
give them several ways to ask questions or report:
about fair competition, antitrust, anticorruption 
• Ethics Helpline: Operated by the BNY Mellon Ethics 
and improper or illegal activities that can occur in 
Office (anonymous reporting available)
our sector and require them to comply with all 
• Ethics Hotline: Operated by EthicsPoint®, an  applicable laws, rules and regulations.
independent hotline administrator (anonymous 
• Working with Governments: Our employees are 
reporting available); offers language translation 
aware of and comply with the obligations and 
services
principles related to working with governments.
• Incident Reporting System: Simple desktop  
• Protecting Assets: Our Code and related training 
application for reporting suspicious activity
stress the importance of financial integrity, privacy 
• Director’s Mailbox: Communication directed   and data protection.
to an independent director of our Board
• Supporting Our Communities: We take an active 
As a member of the Corporate Executive Board by  part in our communities around the world, as 
Gartner Compliance and Ethics Leadership Council,  individuals and as a company. We are honest, fair 
BNY Mellon leverages ethics best practices and insights  and transparent in interactions with communities 
from a variety of industries. and the public.
Zero Tolerance for Bribery  
and Corruption
We have a zero-tolerance policy on bribery and 
corruption. Our Codes of Conduct for employees and  
the Board of Directors, among other things, detail our 
expectations regarding anti-corruption compliance. We 
monitor potential conflicts through our anti-corruption 
compliance program, which covers business dealings  
and relationships in countries where BNY Mellon or our 
subsidiaries or associates operate. The program enforces 
compliance with national and international laws, 
including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and  
the UK Bribery Act. It covers business activities  
and regulatory requirements including gifts and 
entertainment, charitable contributions, hiring  
practices and third-party intermediary due diligence.
30  CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017
Our Markets: Risk Management and Reliability
TECHNOLOGY AND OPERATIONAL 
RESILIENCY
Highly Reliable Information Systems
BNY Mellon is integral to transactions that keep the 
$33.3 trillion in assets under 
global economy running smoothly. We maintain reliability  custody and/or administration
What we  
by advancing our systems availability, transaction quality,  More than $200 billion in  
private client assets
technology, cybersecurity, business continuity and vendor  strive to  
More than 50 petabytes  
standards. We manage our operational resiliency and 
protect of client and company data 
incident management capabilities to lessen risks to  
$1.89 trillion in assets  
our firm, clients and the financial markets. The  under management
Technology Committee of the Board of Directors  
oversees our work.
Our Technology Journey
Our goal is to have the best operating environment  
and core technology platforms from which to build 
Unplanned IT outages
innovative, reliable solutions and services for our   What we  
Facilities, staff or security issues
clients and business. We’ve made significant progress  
strive to  
Severe weather and natural disasters
in the last few years, but we have more work to do. 
protect   Reputational issues
In 2017, we launched a third-generation, container-  against Adverse market events
based private cloud to host a growing portion of non-
Client and vendor risks
mainframe applications and improve software delivery 
times from months to hours. We will continue to invest  
to simplify our operating environment, reduce platform  Risk management by all 
technology and frontline 
redundancies, increase integration and become  
professionals 
more efficient. 
Geographically diverse 
processing centers 
Integrating client access into a single, open-source, 
Multiple backup facilities
cloud-based environment that is up-to-date improves 
Enterprise-wide stress tests
our resiliency and gives us stronger cybersecurity  How we  
Tracking system for  
protection. do it IT risk issues
Technology risk  
Technology Drives Opportunity
assessments 
Technological innovation provides opportunities for  Automated transaction 
processes
positive impact. We use technology to facilitate safer  
Manual transaction  
and more stable market activity, increase data privacy 
monitoring
and help employees enhance their risk awareness skills.  
Enterprise-wide  
Our pioneering solutions position us and our clients for  cybersecurity program
success, now and in the future. ISO certification
31  CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017
Our Markets: Risk Management and Reliability
INFORMATION SYSTEMS  ISO/IEC 27001:2013 Certification
GOVERNANCE AND RISK  The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation operates  
an Information Security Management System that is  
MANAGEMENT
ISO/IEC 27001:2013 certified. The certification is an 
internationally recognized information security standard. 
Managing for Resiliency
After extensive internal reviews and audits the British 
We constantly monitor emerging technology threats and 
Standards Institution (BSI) Group approved and 
work to safeguard our information systems and business 
recommended certification for our Information Security 
with tight governance and strict standards. We evaluate 
Management System. BSI is the world’s largest 
our technology processes and critical services against 
certification body and certifies companies worldwide 
industry standards and best practices and quickly adapt 
that implement management systems standards. 
to disruptions to restore routine functioning. 
Continued Vigilance
Our resiliency management program focuses on:
The proliferation of mobile platforms, social networking 
• Business continuity/technology recovery
and cloud data storage creates new opportunities for 
• Technology monitoring and control
cyber criminals to steal confidential data and intellectual 
• IT service management (change/problem/  property. We train our employees on cybersecurity to 
incident management) increase awareness, vigilance and responsiveness  
to help protect our clients and systems. 
• IT sourcing
• Vendor risk management
• Information security operations
Technology Risk Assessment
The Technology Risk Assessment uses a review 
questionnaire to focus on seven technology risk  
exposure areas: cybersecurity, third-party governance, 
resiliency, governance and strategy, innovation, service 
development, and incident, problem and disaster 
recovery management. It evaluates our technology 
services supporting critical business services to 
determine risk exposure, and enterprise leaders use the 
results to make evidence-based decisions. We based the 
assessment on a standard technology risk assessment 
methodology aligned with international standards and 
our corporate operational risk management guidelines.
32  CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017
Our Markets: Risk Management and Reliability
CYBERSECURITY Employee Awareness and Education 
We conduct awareness campaigns, special events and 
Innovation and Awareness training to stress the importance of cybersecurity risk 
management and compliance to employees. We track 
The financial services industry is particularly attractive 
and measure participation rates and survey results to 
to hackers and other cyber adversaries. We implement 
find out what works and what we can do better to make 
strict controls, but we know technology alone is not 
the potential for cybersecurity risk real to employees in 
enough protection. We keep cybersecurity top-of-mind 
their jobs and personal lives. 
and hold employees in our technology departments and 
throughout the firm accountable for identifying and 
In 2017, our cybersecurity risk awareness and education 
mitigating risks. 
efforts included:
Our Cybersecurity Strategy • A robust training program on topics such as 
We integrate our cybersecurity strategy into our business  cybersecurity threats, device security, phishing 
with multiple control layers to protect clients’ information  identification and reporting suspicious activities
and technology assets.  • Regular phishing simulations to test our susceptibility 
• Our Cybersecurity Services Model, made up of  and educate employees on tactics used by hackers
23 services, adheres to leading standards such as  • Ongoing communications, tips and tools, including  
ISO 27001/2 and the National Institute of Standards  a robust internal social media page and inclusion  
and Technology (NIST) Cybersecurity Framework.  in the companywide Your Risk & Compliance  
The model meets regulatory standards, allows us  Roundup newsletter
to compare our security posture to the industry, 
• A full month of programming activities in October, 
establishes risk reduction priorities and provides 
which is recognized as Cybersecurity Awareness Month
measures and goals to gauge progress over time.
• We continually evaluate our enterprise for 
vulnerabilities and risks and watch for advanced 
adversaries. 
• Our threat intelligence team prepares for evolving 
security threats using information from the financial 
services industry, industry-leading third-party vendors, 
law enforcement and public and private sources.
• We use ongoing awareness programs to educate 
employees on how to recognize and manage threats, 
hacking attempts and suspicious activity. 
33  CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017
Our Markets: Risk Management and Reliability
FINANCIAL RESILIENCY Minimum CET1 Ratio after Stress Testing in Severely Adverse 
Scenario, DFAST 
A Trusted Leader  Deutsche Bank Trust Corporation 60.2
CIT Group Inc. 12.9
BNY Mellon plays a vital role in global financial markets 
HSBC North America Holdings Inc. 12.9
by providing an infrastructure that facilitates cash  
MUFG Americas Holdings Corporation 12.5
and securities movement through these markets. We 
Santander Holdings USA, Inc. 12.4
understand the critical functions we perform and accept 
TD Group US Holdings LLC 11.3
our leadership responsibility in terms of capital strength, 
The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation 11.2
liquidity risk management and payment, clearing and 
Northern Trust Corporation 10.9
settlement activities. We intend to maintain our strong 
American Express Company 10.6
capital base to meet regulatory requirements, remain  
a strong and trusted counterparty to our clients and  Discover Financial Services 10.4
prepare for potentially adverse events.  Citigroup Inc. 9.7
Comerica Incorporated 9.4
Our global resolution plan helps protect financial  
Morgan Stanley 9.4
system stability by detailing how we would maintain 
BancWest Corporation 9.1
critical operations in case of company failure or 
JPMorgan Chase & Co. 9.1
insolvency. Our 2017 stress tests demonstrated our 
Bank of America Corporation 8.9
financial strength and commitment to maintain 
Wells Fargo & Company 8.6
appropriate capital adequacy.
Zions Bancorporation 8.5
Rigorous Stress Testing The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. 8.4
Regions Financial Corporation 8.2
It is BNY Mellon’s policy to perform enterprise-wide 
BMO Financial Corp. 8
stress testing at regular intervals as part of the Internal 
Fifth Third Bancorp 8
Capital Adequacy Assessment Process (ICAAP). We  
The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. 8
also perform an analysis of capital adequacy in a 
stressed environment in our Enterprise Stress Test  BB&T Corporation 7.9
Framework, as required by the enhanced prudential  M&T Bank Corporation 7.9
standards issued pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Wall   BBVA Compass Bancshares, Inc. 7.7
Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act. The  Citizens Financial Group, Inc. 7.7
stressed environment scenario tends to be far more  U.S. Bancorp 7.6
adverse than the Great Recession. State Street Corporation 7.4
SunTrust Banks, Inc. 7.1
Our stress testing produces analyses across our 
Capital One Financial Corporation 7
businesses, products, regions and risk types. It 
Huntington Bancshares Incorporated 7
incorporates results from different underlying models 
KeyCorp 6.8
and projections given a certain stress-test scenario.  
Ally Financial Inc. 6.5
This is an important component of assessing capital 
SSoouurrccee::  FFeeddeerraall  RReesseerrvvee
adequacy and identifying high-risk touch points in  NNoottee::  TThhee  ccaappiittaall  rraattiiooss  aarree  ccaallccuullaatteedd  uussiinngg  ccaappiittaall  aaccttiioonn  aassssuummppttiioonnss  pprroovviiddeedd  wwiitthhiinn  tthhee  
DDoodddd--FFrraannkk  ssttrreessss  tteessttiinngg  rruullee..  SSeeee  1122  CCFFRR  225522..5566((bb))..  TThheessee  pprroojjeeccttiioonnss  rreepprreesseenntt  hhyyppootthheettiiccaall  
business activities.
eessttiimmaatteess  tthhaatt  iinnvvoollvvee  aann  eeccoonnoommiicc  oouuttccoommee  tthhaatt  iiss  mmoorree  aaddvveerrssee  tthhaann  eexxppeecctteedd..  TThhee  mmiinniimmuumm  
ccaappiittaall  rraattiioo  pprreesseenntteedd  iiss  ffoorr  tthhee  ppeerriioodd  22001177::QQ11  ttoo  22001199::QQ11..  IInn  aaccccoorrddaannccee  wwiitthh  tthhee  rreegguullaattoorryy  
ccaappiittaall  ffrraammeewwoorrkk,,  aallll  rriisskk--bbaasseedd  ccaappiittaall  rraattiiooss  aarree  ccaallccuullaatteedd  uussiinngg  ssttaannddaarrddiizzeedd  RRWWAAss,,  wwhhiicchh  
bbeeccaammee  eeffffeeccttiivvee  oonn  JJaannuuaarryy  11,,  22001155..
34  CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017
Our Markets: Risk Management and Reliability
Measuring Core Equity Capital Against   Capital Adequacy Governance
Risk-Weighted Assets
The Asset & Liability Committee (ALCO), a cross-company 
RESULTS OF DODD-FRANK ACT STRESS TEST ON OUR  governance body, monitors our capital adequacy during 
BASEL III COMMON EQUITY TIER 1 (CET1) RATIO AND  monthly meetings or more frequently, as required. If  
LEVERAGE RATIO13  ALCO recommends modifying capital levels (for instance, 
Following stress testing under the supervisory severely  by issuing stock), our corporate treasurer, chief  
adverse scenario, BNY Mellon’s risk-based capital ratios  financial officer (CFO) and chief risk officer (CRO) 
remain resilient. For example, in the Federal Reserve’s  evaluate such proposals. 
Dodd-Frank Act disclosures made as part of the 2017 
Stress testing results are a core component of capital 
Dodd-Frank Act annual stress tests, BNY Mellon had  
planning and we review them at the company’s most 
one of the highest projected minimum CET1 ratios, at 
senior levels. Capital adequacy governance stretches 
9.1 percent over the nine-quarter planning horizon in the 
from the Board of Directors and executives, including the 
severely adverse scenario. We also had one of the highest 
CRO and CFO, to mid-level managers of risk and finance 
projected minimum CET1 ratios, at 9.5 percent over the 
departments. BNY Mellon uses three lines of defense 
nine quarters in the adverse scenario. We maintained a 
during stress testing to verify capital adequacy. In the 
resilient minimum U.S. tier 1 leverage ratio of 5.2 percent 
first line of defense, modelers check their models for 
and 5.3 percent in both the severely adverse and adverse 
accuracy. In the second line of defense, the Model Risk 
scenarios, respectively.
Management Group and Project Management Office 
BNY Mellon Capital Levels subject our quantitative and qualitative models and 
As of December 31, 2017 frameworks to robust review and challenge whether they 
Estimated fully phased-in Basel III Common Equity Tier 1 ratio — Non-GAAP will perform as expected. In the third line of defense, 
Federal Reserve minimum with buffers*
Internal Audit enforces internal controls to identify risks 
13%
and weaknesses in capital adequacy governance.
12% 11.9%
10.7%
11%
10%
9%
8.5% by 2019
8%
7.5% by 2018
7%
6%
Standardized Approach Advanced Approach**
*  On a fully phased-in basis, we expect to satisfy a minimum CET1 ratio of at least 8.5 percent 
(4.5 percent minimum CET1, 2.5 percent conservation buffer) and a G-SIB surcharge of 
1.5 percent).
**  The estimated fully phased-in CET1 ratios (Non-GAAP) are based on our interpretation of the 
U.S. capital rules, which are being gradually phased in over a multi-year period. For further 
explanation of the capital ratios, please see the “Capital” section of the 2017 Annual Report. 
Please also see “Supplemental Information — Explanation of GAAP and Non-GAAP Financial 
Measures,” beginning on page 125 of the 2017 Annual Report for a comparison of fully 
phased-in Basel III capital components and ratios to those amounts determined under the 
currently effective rules using the transitional phase-in.
13  Federal Reserve — Dodd-Frank Act Stress Test (DFAST)2017: Supervisory Stress Test 
Methodology and Results.
35  CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017
Our Markets: Risk Management and Reliability
OPERATIONAL RELIABILITY Vendor Technology Risk  
Management Program
Prepared for the Unexpected Our risk-based, centralized Vendor Technology Risk  
(VTR) program assesses the adequacy of technology risk 
BNY Mellon conducts business for clients and fuels the 
practices by third-party service providers. It requires us 
world’s financial engine around the clock. Our centrally 
to complete minimum, risk-weighted due diligence and 
coordinated Business Continuity program helps keep 
subjects medium- and high-risk vendors to enhanced 
critical operations running during unexpected events 
due diligence based on their information risk practices. 
such as significant power outages and natural or  
human-made disasters. The program covers crisis 
Every vendor has a named BNY Mellon engagement 
management, technology recovery and business 
manager who typically resides in a business or corporate 
resumption. We update, test and modify it based on 
function. The central VTR team conducts information  
market and industry changes.
risk due diligence on vendors referred by a business  
or corporate function. This multilayered process 
We have processing centers in various geographic 
identifies specific vendor risks and triggers in-depth  
regions, multiple backup facilities and resources 
due diligence, monitoring of higher-risk vendors and  
dedicated to business continuity. Our business units  
controls where appropriate.
and technology facilities around the globe have recovery 
plans and we update them to match our corporate 
The risk ratings assigned to a vendor determine the  
footprint as needed. Our Board reviews and approves  
level of additional activity required, with critical vendor 
our Business Continuity program every year.
services requiring a wide range of assessments and 
governance processes. After we onboard a medium- or 
In 2017, BNY Mellon employees around the world  high-risk vendor, we conduct risk assessments annually 
remained resilient to a number of challenging events,  or biennially. We manage and report our findings and 
including Hurricane Harvey in Texas and Hurricane   inspect vendors’ physical operating environments at least 
Irma in Florida. Read how our employees went above   once every three years. 
and beyond to help each other and provide 
Our Digital Enterprise 
uninterrupted service to clients. 
A digital enterprise uses standardized components  
that are easy to change and reuse, rather than 
Vendor Risk Management customized solutions tied to specific hardware  
Vendor relationships in global financial services are  or hard-coded, standalone applications. We have 
critical and complex. We work with vendors to manage  progressed significantly in this area. Benefits  
and reduce risk using a holistic, integrated system of  include improvements in:
technology, on-the-ground monitoring and due diligence. 
• Agility
Third-Party Governance Program
• Client experience
Our Third-Party Governance (TPG) program is a 
• Service levels
centralized process for procuring, reviewing and 
• Effective risk management
assessing service and associated contract risks. It  
helps us enforce supplier compliance with applicable  • Cost management
regulatory standards. We implemented the TPG 
• Operational efficiencies
framework and roadmap in 2015 and extended it to 
• Evidence-based decisions
include environmental/social/governance (ESG)-specific 
activity in 2017. • Profitable revenue growth
36  CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017
Our Markets: Risk Management and Reliability
Reliability and Accuracy MARKETING INTEGRITY
Our clients trust us to act in their best interests and 
People and organizations around the world rely on our 
market our products and services with transparency and 
data, expertise and insight to make critical financial 
integrity. We comply with global responsible marketing 
decisions. This puts accuracy at the center of our 
principles and manage risks responsibly when conveying 
processes and controls, including audit, data handling 
information to clients.
and completeness, marketing and communications and 
external research. 
COMMUNICATIONS COMPLIANCE
Regulations governing marketing and communications 
We rigorously control our environment and hold our 
are complex and vary around the world. Our Business 
teams accountable for following strict procedures to 
Marketing, Corporate Marketing, Corporate 
verify and protect clients’ and other stakeholders’ data.
Communications and Global and Regional Legal teams 
REGULAR, THOROUGH AUDITS  work together to comply with these regulations wherever 
Internal Audit is an independent, objective function  we operate. We adhere to changing policies and best-in-
reporting to the Audit Committee of the Board of  class standards for accuracy and integrity.
Directors. They use a risk-based approach to review and 
RELIABLE PARTNER DATA 
evaluate our management procedures, internal control 
Outside perspectives strengthen our value to clients.  
systems, information systems and governance processes 
We partner with leading research, consulting and media 
to determine if they are adequate, effective and 
organizations to broaden our views and stimulate 
sustainable in verifying data accuracy. 
innovative thinking. We carefully vet our partners and 
The Audit Committee meets regularly to review 1) the  methodologies to verify accuracy, and share what we 
integrity and accuracy of our financial statements and  learn in client, executive and network roundtables. 
financial reporting process, 2) legal and regulatory 
compliance, 3) our independent registered public 
accountant’s qualifications and 4) our registered public 
accountant’s and internal audit function’s independence 
and performance. The Audit Committee reviews our 
management’s internal controls assessment.
SECURE TRANSACTIONS 
We invest in advanced technology to help protect  
data. Encryption techniques such as Transport Layer 
Security (TLS) are used to protect communications 
between clients and internal systems.  All of our 
techniques adhere to industry best practice, 
international standards, and are defined by  
internal policy. 
37  CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017
Our Markets: Risk Management and Reliability
REDUCING INTRADAY CREDIT RISK tri-party repo businesses. Given our significant role in  
the market, Government Securities Services provides an 
operationally resilient platform and services for efficient 
Broker-Dealer Services — U.S. Tri-Party Repo
clearing and settlement. Our Clearance and Collateral 
In a tri-party repo transaction, broker-dealers and other 
Management business clears and settles equity and 
financial institutions pledge securities as collateral in 
fixed-income transactions globally and serves as 
return for short-term cash from mutual funds and other 
custodian for tri-party repo collateral worldwide.
cash sources. A clearing bank facilitates the deal, valuing 
pledged securities and verifying they are eligible for the  BNY MELLON LEADERSHIP
transaction. BNY Mellon is the primary clearing bank in  BNY Mellon is a leader in global and U.S. government 
the U.S., and will soon become the sole provider of U.S.  securities clearance. We settle securities transactions, 
government securities clearance and settlement and   act as a clearing agent for 19 of 23 primary dealers and 
U.S. tri-party repo services. handle most transactions (by volume) cleared through 
the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. We lead in 
To reduce our intraday credit risk, a Broker-Dealer 
servicing tri-party repo collateral, at approximately  
Services (BDS) team of technologists, business 
$2.6 trillion globally. We service approximately 
strategists, project managers and compliance officers 
$1.7 trillion of the $1.9 trillion tri-party repo market in  
around the world built a technology infrastructure to fully 
the U.S.15
automate repo transactions clearing and settlement. 
This practically eliminated14 the need for intraday credit 
Looking Ahead 
from the clearing banks, significantly reducing credit  
Risk Management
risk in the market. From 2012 to 2015, we managed  
a 97 percent reduction in intraday secured credit,  
Resiliency is a top technology priority for BNY Mellon 
from about $1.4 trillion to around $28 billion.
in 2018. To continue improving and expanding  
The BDS-led industry overhaul created additional  our capabilities and infrastructure, BNY Mellon 
solutions. Broker-dealers and other financial institutions  Technology launched a multi-year initiative that 
are required to post higher-quality collateral, typically  includes significant investments to fully modernize 
highly-rated government bonds. The repo market term  our infrastructure to enhance critical applications’ 
structure went from being based largely on overnight  stability, resiliency and cybersecurity. This program 
loans to deals with a 30-day or longer commitment.   will impact all of BNY Mellon and support our 
This new tri-party framework makes the banking system  growing businesses and client needs. Our existing 
safer and more transparent. infrastructure will remain in place as we build  
the new infrastructure and operate in parallel  
BROKER-DEALER SERVICES — GOVERNMENT 
until we are ready to decommission our legacy  
SECURITIES SERVICES CORP.
systems. This will allow us to move forward with 
BNY Mellon Government Securities Services Corporation 
large-scale rationalization and modernization 
is a wholly owned subsidiary we established to enhance 
activities while serving our clients’ and stakeholders’ 
capabilities, governance, transparency and resiliency  
needs uninterrupted. 
in our U.S. government securities clearance and U.S. 
14  Defined as a 90% reduction in the need for intraday credit.
15  The $2.6 trillion represents the overall average tri-party balance for the  
4th QTR 2017 reporting.
38  CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017
Our Markets
STRONG GOVERNANCE
Our Opportunity  and pay equality being key concerns.17 BNY Mellon 
received a proposal on gender pay in 2017, for inclusion  
At BNY Mellon, integrity and accountability are part of 
in our 2018 proxy statement. The proposal was 
who we are. We are committed to strong governance, 
withdrawn after we responded by conducting a gender 
which refers to practices and rules that balance our 
pay study finding that, on average, we pay women  
many stakeholders’ interests and guide us to operate 
99 percent of what we pay men when accounting for 
ethically and responsibly. 
certain factors, including geography, level and job to 
Key Trends make the comparisons more relevant. 
When people hear about gender inequality, climate 
Our Approach
change and other challenges facing society, they  
BNY Mellon has been a financial services industry  
want to know what companies are doing in response. 
leader for more than two centuries and our commitment 
Stakeholders want assurance the organizations with 
to ethical behavior has never wavered. We act in  
whom they do business act in ways consistent with  
our stakeholders’ best interests in everything we  
their own values, which requires clear and ongoing 
do, including corporate governance and advocacy,  
communication. Good governance helps us meet these 
and political and client engagement. 
expectations and commitment to positive impact.
Good governance promotes accountability, compliance 
PEOPLE WANT TO HELP FIND ANSWERS
and high ethical standards, as outlined by our Board of 
Technology has made it possible for just about anyone  
Directors. Our diverse perspectives and core values of 
to instantaneously communicate their opinions and 
client focus, integrity, teamwork and excellence 
demands globally. Now people want and expect 
complement our responsible business practices and 
companies to listen and respond. Organizations that  
corporate governance best practices. 
give stakeholders easy ways to engage in dialogue may 
be more likely to build relationships based on trust.
Our Strong Governance Goal
STAKEHOLDERS HOLD LEADERS ACCOUNTABLE Enhance investor engagement by following best practices 
A 2016 global research study showed 71 percent of  for shareholder engagement, sustain strong regulatory 
executives believe leadership accountability is a critical  engagement and leverage our CSR expertise to enrich the 
business issue, but only 31 percent were satisfied with  client experience.
the level of accountability their leaders demonstrate.16 
How We’ll Achieve It
This challenge comes at a time when leaders must be at 
We will engage our investors in governance discussions 
their best to manage business in a complex environment 
and continue to educate legislators, regulators and 
and earn stakeholder trust. 
policymakers on our unique business model.
INVESTORS LOOK FOR GENDER EQUALITY  
AND EQUAL PAY
2017 PROGRESS
Increasingly, shareholders are filing proposals asking 
Contacted top 20 investors for governance discussions, 
companies to analyze and publicize any differences  
providing interactions with directors, if requested; 
in the salaries of men and women they employ. The 
engaged with nine of top 20 investors. Educated 
Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI) saw 
legislators, regulators and policymakers on our unique 
workplace diversity as a key theme in the 2017 proxy 
business model to help ensure appropriately drafted 
season, with board diversity, racial and gender diversity 
legislative and regulatory proposals.
16  “Four steps to making leaders more accountable,” by Vince Molinaro, Global Managing 
Director, LHH — The Adecco Group, January 13, 2017.
17  Proxy season 2017: analysing the trends, Principles for Responsible Investment.
39  CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017
Our Markets: Strong Governance
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRENGTH IN DIVERSITY
Research shows diversity helps drive business  
success.18 Just as we promote diversity throughout  
Structure and Approach
our organization, we see Board diversity as a strength. 
Our Board of Directors oversees company management 
Twenty-five percent of our Board members is women.
and supports our company’s and shareholders’ interests. 
All Board members are subject to our Director’s Code   ONGOING BOARD REFRESHMENT
of Conduct, which provides ethics and accountability  We refresh our Board regularly to combine legacy 
guidelines. Read more about our Board in our Proxy  knowledge and new points of view, to anticipate and 
Statement. prepare for the corporation’s ongoing needs relative  
to strategy and director retirements and to respond to 
As of April 2018, our Board had 11 independent members 
shareholder feedback. Since April 2014, our Board  
and one non-independent member, our chairman and 
has added eight new directors.
chief executive officer (CEO). Our Corporate Governance 
Guidelines define director independence. Independent  We also refresh Board leadership. As of 2016, committee 
directors meet in executive sessions, presided over by  chairpersons can preside in such role for no more than 
our lead director, at regularly scheduled Board meetings.  five consecutive years. Each of our committees has 
Average director attendance at Board and committee  changed leadership in the past two years, other than our 
meetings in 2017 was 97 percent. Finance Committee, which was established in 2015. In 
addition, as of February 2017, the lead director cannot 
The Board of Directors has six standing committees,  
preside more than five consecutive years.
each with distinct roles and responsibilities described  
in a charter. Each committee consists entirely of  In 2018, following our Annual Meeting, the Corporate 
independent directors. Read more about our   Social Responsibility Committee with be dissolved,  
Board committees and charters.  and its responsibilities assumed by the newly named 
Corporate Governance, Nominating and Social 
COMMITTEES OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
Responsibility Committee. This change underscores  
• Audit Committee
our ongoing commitment to the CSR. For more 
• Finance Committee information on this Committee’s Charter, see our Investor 
• Human Resources and Compensation Committee Relations page.
• Corporate Governance, Nominating and Social  BOARD SKILLS AND EVALUATION
Responsibility Committee Among other things, our directors’ experience, diversity, 
• Risk Committee differing perspectives and institutional knowledge 
strengthen our Board. In selecting Board members, our 
• Technology Committee
Board, led by the Corporate Governance, Nominating and 
AN INDEPENDENT BOARD Social Responsibility Committee, looks for candidates 
Eleven of our 12 directors are independent. Our   with skills applicable to our businesses and strategy. 
12th director is also our CEO. Instead of an independent  Every year, our Board and each committee self-evaluate 
Board chairman, we have a strong independent lead  their performance. 
director with well-defined roles and authority. Annually, 
our Corporate Governance, Nominating and Social 
Responsibility Committee and Board evaluate this 
structure, which is used by most of our financial  
services peers.
18  Why Diversity Matters, by Vivian Hunt, Dennis Layton and Sara Prince McKinsey, January 2015. 
40  CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017
Our Markets: Strong Governance
We’ve seen a trend among investors and stakeholders  STOCKHOLDER RIGHTS
requesting greater transparency and easy ways to assess  BNY Mellon stockholders enjoy ample stockholder rights:
Board skills and evaluations. For example, at the end of 
• No staggered Board (i.e., voted on every year)
2017, the Comptroller of The City of New York sent letters 
to several companies requesting board member skills  • Special individual or group meeting rights for 
and attributes laid out in a matrix so they could assess   stockholders who hold 20 percent of our outstanding 
a wide range of issues such as Board gender, racial and  common stock
ethnic diversity, need for refreshment, and skills needed. 
• Proxy access for stockholders, individually or in a group 
Although we did not receive such a letter, we took steps 
of up to 20 who hold three percent of our outstanding 
to provide a skills and attributes matrix in our 2018  
stock for at least three years, to nominate up to 
proxy statement. 
20 percent of the Board
In 2017, we adjusted our Board evaluation process to  • No plurality voting in uncontested director elections 
include a year-over-year assessment of progress and an  (each director must be elected by majority of votes cast)
individual director self-assessment. For the year-over-
• No supermajority voting; stockholder actions require 
year assessment, we used our 2016 assessment as a 
only majority of votes cast (not majority of shares 
baseline and asked the same questions in 2017 to assess 
present and entitled to vote)
progress in overall ability to function as a Board across 
• No “poison pill” (stockholders’ rights plan)
various categories. Results reflected continued progress, 
with suggestions on more efficient use of directors’ time  HOW WE ENGAGE INVESTORS
and continued refinement of Board materials. The  Governance and investor relations team members meet 
individual self-assessment component is based on  with our top 25 investors regularly. We arrange meetings 
management interviews of individual Board members,  on governance issues between top investors and our 
which contained thought-provoking and self-reviewing  Board members and track the discussions and outcomes.
questions. The questions give directors the opportunity  
We connect with our broader investor audiences through 
to reflect on their own performance, relevance, skills  
meetings in our offices between analysts or individuals 
and contributions and encourage more voluntary  
and executives. Our senior leaders often attend and 
Board refreshment.
speak at industry conferences and host group and 
The Board reviewed assessment outcomes in   one-on-one meetings with investors. On March 8, 2018 
December and will take action after the February 12,  we held an Investor Day for our shareholders and 
2018 Board meeting. analysts who cover our stock. The event’s focus was to 
provide an overview of our business model, how we serve 
Executive Compensation 
clients and how we’re positioned for the future. 
We designed our executive compensation program to 
Our Tax Policy
drive results over the long term. Twenty-five percent  
of our CEO’s compensation and 30 percent of other   Our firm’s culture of “Doing What’s Right,” as represented 
senior executives’ compensation is in cash, with the  in our Code of Conduct, extends to paying taxes. Internal 
balance in stock awards. We pay bonuses and incentives  controls include periodic analysis and review of the 
based on performance against goals, including goals   financial impact of taxes on our company and business 
on CSR topics like risk and diversity and inclusion. The  operations, so taxes are paid to all taxing authorities in 
Board reviews and agrees on the executive compensation  accordance with applicable laws. Transparency includes 
program every year.  open communication with tax authorities and regulators 
and developing real-time working relationships, where 
possible. More information related to our taxes is in our 
Annual Report. 
41  CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017
Our Markets: Strong Governance
ADVOCACY AND POLITICAL  In addition to lobbying by our Government Affairs group, 
we have retained lobbying firms to advocate for our 
ENGAGEMENT
legislative interests at U.S. federal and state levels. These 
activities and applicable disclosure reports are regulated 
Policy and Advocacy Involvement
pursuant to federal and state laws. In 2017, we spent 
The financial industry globally is subject to extensive  approximately $740,000 in federal lobbying expenses.  
laws and regulations that continually evolve and affect  Our federal lobbying disclosure reports are available 
the way we do business in different regions. Our  here. Our state and local legislative lobbying is 
engagement in policy development and the political  concentrated in New York and Pennsylvania, where the 
process can take many forms, including discussions   company’s main business operations are located. 
with policymakers and providing thought leadership. Expenses are of a de minimis nature and disclosed where 
required by applicable law.
Public Policy and Lobbying
Our Global Regulatory Policy and Government Affairs  Active in the Industry
teams monitor legislative and regulatory activities in the  BNY Mellon is a member of numerous trade associations 
U.S., Europe and Asia. We analyze the potential impacts  representing financial industry and general business 
of proposed laws and regulations on BNY Mellon and  interests. These groups produce issues analyses and 
financial markets. We contribute to industry policy  white papers and advocate on public policy important  
discussions to benefit our stakeholders and strengthen  to their members. We regularly review our memberships 
our reputation for responsible political engagement.   for alignment with our priorities and may not always 
Our Regulatory Policy and Government Affairs group   agree with an association’s or its members’ positions  
sets priorities, partners with our senior management   or priorities.
and businesses in lobbying activity and reports 
Our principal trade association memberships include  
outcomes. We implement all changes required by 
the American Bankers Association, Investment Company 
regulatory reforms around the world.
Institute, The Clearing House and SIFMA (Securities 
We educate legislators, regulators and policymakers  Industry and Financial Markets Association). We also 
globally about BNY Mellon so they understand our unique  belong to Financial Services Forum, GFMA (Global 
business model and how we differ from other large  Financial Markets Association), AFME (Association for 
financial institutions. This understanding helps them as  Financial Markets in Europe), EFAMA (European Fund 
they consider new reforms and regulatory proposals. and Asset Management Association), The Investment 
Association, TheCityUK, ASIFMA (Asia Securities  
Through memberships in industry and trade 
Industry and Financial Markets Association), New York 
associations, or together with peer banks, we submit 
Bankers Association, Pennsylvania Bankers Association, 
comment letters, respond to financial industry surveys 
Insured Retirement Institute and Institute of 
and meet with legislators and regulatory agencies to 
International Finance.
exchange ideas on the financial industry and regulatory 
and tax reform. Because our business model differs  We ask trade associations to not use our membership 
significantly from other large financial institutions, we  fees to fund federal, state or local level election-related 
are often impacted differently by industry regulations  activity, including contributions and expenditures 
and need to explain potential unintended consequences  (including independent expenditures) to support or 
to policymakers. oppose any candidate for any office, political party 
committee or political committee.
42  CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017
Our Markets: Strong Governance
Political Contributions Compliance and Oversight
We engage in the political process through political  Our Government Affairs team is under the supervision of 
contributions. BNY Mellon has two political action  the company’s General Counsel. The Government Affairs 
committees (PACs) funded entirely by voluntary  leadership is responsible for all political activity by or on 
contributions from our employees. Employees are not  behalf of BNY Mellon, including administration of our 
reimbursed or compensated in any way for political  PACs. When making specific contribution decisions,  
activities or contributions. In accordance with applicable  the PAC officers, in consultation with the Government 
federal, state and local regulations, the PACs can make  Affairs staff, consider a number of factors, including the 
contributions to U.S. federal candidates and/or state and  candidates’ views on issues related to our business,  
local candidates, political party committees and other  their leadership positions and legislative committee 
political action committees. memberships, and the communities they represent.
Our PACs are regulated by the Federal Election  The Corporate Governance, Nominating and Social 
Commission (FEC) and file reports, as required, with   Responsibility Committee of our Board of Directors, 
the FEC and relevant state election commissions.  which consists entirely of independent directors, 
Reports filed with the FEC are available to the public   provides oversight of our public policy advocacy,  
at http://www.fec.gov. lobbying focus and political contributions.
Our PAC contributions totaled $338,700 in 2017. In  We encourage our employees to stay informed of political 
addition to the summary below, a list of 2017 PAC  issues and candidates and to take an active interest  
contributions is available here. in political affairs. Employees may participate in the 
political process by making voluntary contributions on 
BNY Mellon did not make any corporate contributions in 
their own behalf to candidates and related political 
2017. It has been our practice to disclose any corporate 
entities, in accordance with applicable federal and state 
contributions19 we make. When we do make such 
laws and regulations, and company policies. In addition, 
contributions, we will disclose that information 
employees must comply with the company’s Code of 
semiannually on our website.
Conduct and company policy with respect to engaging  
in personal political activities.
BNY Mellon does not use corporate funds for 
independent political expenditures in support of,  
or in opposition to, any candidate for office.
POLITICAL ACTION COMMITTEE CONTRIBUTIONS IN 2017 (USD)
Republican Democratic Total
U.S. House $120,00 $81,200 $201,200 (66% House)
U.S. Senate $41,500 $63,500 $105,000 (34% Senate)
Total $161,500 (53% Republicans) $144,700 (47% Democrats) $306,200*
*  Additional contributions include $17,500 made to Pennsylvania candidates and $15,000 made to trade association political action committees, resulting in $338,700 in total PAC disbursements.
19  A corporate contribution is defined to include a state candidate committee,  
a 501(c)(4), 527 or ballot initiatives.
43  CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017
Our Markets: Strong Governance
Employees are not reimbursed or compensated in any 
way for attending political events, engaging in political 
activities or making political contributions. Employees 
engaging in political activities must do so on their own 
time and with their own resources. Our Compliance and 
Ethics department reviews all individual employee 
contributions that may be affected by federal, state  
or local “pay-to-play” laws. These laws limit the ability  
of corporations to compete for business if certain 
employees have made contributions to officials who  
have the authority to award business.
Looking Ahead 
Strong Governance
People expect companies to be trustworthy, 
transparent and accountable, especially in our 
connected, borderless world. Good corporate 
governance is essential to support investment, 
financial strength, stability and growth. 
A common global governance framework is one  
way to achieve this, but varying social norms, 
cultures and national structures may make a single 
solution impractical. As people become more aware 
of the importance of good governance, issues such 
as gender diversity, board evaluation and CSR  
may lead to more ethical corporate behavior.20 
BNY Mellon is proud to lead and make a positive 
impact on all fronts. 
20  Global Trends in Corporate Governance, Deloitte, December 2015.
44  CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017
OUR  
PEOPLE
Accelerating technology, gender equality, workforce  
demographic shifts and changes in employees’ attitudes 
are global trends affecting all our lives. Our strategy  
takes these trends into account as we foster leadership, 
professional development, engagement, inclusion and 
wellbeing to create a productive, invigorating workplace.
45  CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017
Our People
LEADERSHIP AND DEVELOPMENT
Our Opportunity  Our Approach
In financial services, top talent is everything. To attract  We want our employees to grow as leaders and 
and keep the caliber of people we want, we emphasize  contributors throughout their BNY Mellon journeys. We 
workplace excellence, provide growth opportunities and  offer a full curriculum of leadership and development 
empower people to make an impact on our business   programs and training for people at all levels. We also 
and markets.  give employees access to resources for lifelong learning.
Key Trends OUR HIGH PERFORMANCE CULTURE
Demographic changes are creating a new generation   We hold our employees to high performance standards 
of workers whose social, environmental and personal  and give them tools and resources to excel. We link our 
values and attitudes are different from their  performance management system to our business 
predecessors. These trends influence our leadership   strategy to keep us all working toward a common goal  
and development approach and programs. to improve lives through investing. We tie performance 
metrics to the company’s financial commitments and 
COMPETITION FOR TALENT IS FIERCE  base compensation and rewards on corporate and 
Financial services is just one of many career path  business performance.
possibilities for top graduates. We compete in a wide 
range of dynamic industries, including technology,  Our Leadership and Development Goal
consulting, private equity, healthcare and entertainment.  Develop successful enterprise leaders and managers 
Our sector’s challenge is to show the positive impact we   who drive high productivity and engagement within  
have on people’s lives and the opportunities for learning  their teams. 
and growth for up-and-coming leaders. 
How We’ll Achieve It
BUSINESS REQUIRES MORE FINTECH SKILLS 
We will continue to invest in developing strong 
Technology has and will continue to transform financial 
managerial capabilities through formal and on-the-job 
services in exciting, innovative ways. Technology 
training. Our flagship programs build understanding of 
professionals, however, may not think of large, 
effective managerial practices and embed common 
established financial services firms as the kind of 
language and tools rooted in our leaders’ thinking. Our 
companies they want to work for. Strong learning, 
performance management approach reinforces the art  
leadership and development programs can help fill the 
of great management by encouraging conversations  
industry’s mounting demand for fintech professionals. 
and feedback on goals and performance.
THERE ARE FIVE GENERATIONS IN THE WORKPLACE 
Today’s workforce is made up of people ranging from  2017 PROGRESS
traditionalists born in the 1940s to Generation Z 
Overall upward feedback results for managers 
members with birthdates in the late 1990s.21 Their wide 
improved over 2016; however, in the employee 
variety of experiences, skills and attitudes can be 
engagement survey, leadership category remained 
challenging for managers trying to motivate employees 
flat, four points below industry benchmarks.
and respond to their differing needs. A well-planned 
leadership and development program can prepare 
managers to handle these dynamics and help each 
employee reach his or her potential. 
21  “A Formal Introduction to the Five Generations of Employees in Your Workforce” by  
Mary Bennett, February 7, 2017.
46  CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017
Our People: Leadership and Development
Our Lifelong Learning Culture 
Learning Throughout  
The pace of change in our industry and the world means  The Employee Lifecycle
employees must be open to constant learning and 
improvement. We pave the way with a comprehensive 
learning infrastructure that allows employees to grow 
and develop as leaders and people. It’s working; we 
delivered over 1 million learning hours in 2017.
BNY Mellon University 
BNY Mellon University guides employees along a learning  Leadership pathways
1
• Summer Analyst Program 
and development path from internship to executive 
• Emerging Leader Program
management. The framework aligns to the BNY Mellon 
competency model and offers courses on global financial 
markets, specialized finance skills, role-specific training 
and management and leadership. We accommodate a 
range of learning styles with on-demand courses, virtual  Onboarding
2
classrooms and on-site learning experiences that  • New Hire Learning 
• Social Network Online Top Trader
encourage networking and collaboration. The faculty 
includes our own accomplished people and top-notch 
external thought leaders and subject matter experts.
Our world-class learning organization integrates 
Professional development
curricula across business lines and into enterprise-wide 
• Navigate to Win 
3
development programs. This meets our lines of business  • Operating to Win 
• Virtual Classrooms  
needs and gives all employees access to consistent 
•  MyDevelopment On-Demand Self-Study
learning and development opportunities.
We combine feedback from employees with information 
about learning, workforce and business outcomes.  
Management and  
This allows us to evaluate learning effectiveness and  Leadership development
4
better align our learning strategies to business and  • Winning Start • Managing to Win 
• Leading to Win • Strategy to Win
workforce needs. 
• Open Enrollment
Executive development
5 •  New Managing Director  
Induction Series 
• CEO Executive Program
47  CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017
Our People: Leadership and Development
Employee Development • MyDevelopment On-Demand Self-Study: Online 
courses employees can take anytime, anywhere, at 
We offer learning and development programs to help 
their convenience. Includes Harvard ManageMentor 
employees grow, contribute and achieve their career 
modules and Intuition tutorials on all financial  
goals. Our programs include live virtual training, social 
services areas. 
learning and on-demand resources. 
LEADERSHIP PATHWAYS MANAGEMENT AND LEADERSHIP DEVELOPMENT
• Summer Analyst Program (SAP): 10-week summer  • Winning Start: Equips people moving from individual 
internship to give undergraduate students strategic  contributors to managers with knowledge and tools for 
project work and extensive learning, networking and  a positive transition.
mentoring opportunities. SAP shows participants   • Managing to Win: Helps managers develop 
what it’s like to work for a competitive, global financial  fundamental skills and competencies to manage  
services organization. and develop others; co-led by participants of  
• Emerging Leader Program (ELP): 12-month program   past programs. 
for high-potential, emerging leaders ready to contribute  • Leading to Win: Develops experienced managers’  
to BNY Mellon’s business strategy. ELP rotates  skills and competencies to lead others and drive 
participants across a business or function to work on  strategy, alignment and execution; co-led by 
strategic projects, develop leadership skills, build  participants of past programs.
networks and accelerate their careers.
• Strategy to Win: Increases senior managers’ business 
ONBOARDING and leadership acumen to accelerate organizational 
• New Hire Learning: Immerses new employees   impact and optimize the client experience; co-led by 
in BNY Mellon’s businesses and culture and the  participants of past programs.
financial industry.
• Open Enrollment: Develops fundamental skills and 
• Social Network Online Top Trader: Discussion forum   competencies to manage and develop others; more 
on MySource Social. Provides economic/financial   than 2,600 managers have attended to date. 
pages with market data feeds, interactive stock-picking 
EXECUTIVE DEVELOPMENT
with a fictional $100,000 and gamification to motivate 
• New Managing Director Induction Series: Four one-
new employees.
hour discussions with Executive Committee members 
PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT
on what it takes to be a strong enterprise leader.
• Navigate to Win: Primarily for individual contributors 
• CEO Executive Program: Exposes key executive talent to 
who are new to business or developing foundational 
BNY Mellon Executive Committee members, expanded 
professional skills. The program creates a winning 
networks and insights into the company’s most 
standard for workplace effectiveness to guide daily 
important business initiatives.
performance, client service, productivity and teamwork.
• Operating to Win: Focuses on interpersonal skills such 
as collaboration, change management, emotional 
intelligence, goal-setting and problem solving.
• Virtual Classrooms: Interactive blended learning 
experience where participants develop skills such as 
decision-making, presentation and time management.
48  CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017
Our People: Leadership and Development
PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT
Employees set results-based and individual development 
goals. We support them with ongoing performance, 
feedback and development processes including:
• Talent Review and Succession Planning: An enterprise-
wide review of the top 700 roles in the firm using a 
consistent, nine-box tool to capture talent data from all 
businesses and business partner groups
• MyCareer Center: Online tools for career development 
and management, including BNY Mellon openings
• Upward Feedback: Online tool for employees to give 
feedback to their managers on behaviors aligned with 
Manager Standards of Excellence
• 360 Developmental Feedback: Online tool using  
our Leadership Competency model to incorporate 
feedback from several sources to inform and advance 
individual development
Looking Ahead 
Leadership and Development
Leadership and development programs drive 
business outcomes and give us a pipeline of strong, 
knowledgeable leaders for the future. Building on the 
foundation created by our flagship programs, we will 
provide sustainable development opportunities to 
our managers and leaders through formal and 
informal learning events. Continuous learning for 
managers is critical to maintaining our standards 
and practices and comes in many forms: just-in-time 
tips, learning opportunities for flagship program 
alumni, micro-learning and peer coaching. 
49  CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017
Our People 
ENGAGEMENT AND WELLBEING
Our Opportunity  EMPLOYEES WANT TO BE HEARD
People who feel their employers listen to them tend to be 
Today’s diverse, multigenerational, mobile, workforce 
more engaged, creative and likely to stay. Companies with 
thinks differently about wellbeing and engagement than 
a true listening culture show appreciation of employees’ 
they did in the past, and they want their employers to 
ideas and feedback and, at the same time, learn what’s 
respond. Doing so can pay off for businesses; research 
working and what’s not. They provide formal and informal 
shows healthier, happier, more engaged employees 
channels accessible to all employees and hold managers 
perform better, miss fewer workdays and are less likely  
accountable for productive engagement.
to look for new jobs.22 To attract and retain top people 
who can contribute to business goals and meet client 
WELLBEING IS MORE THAN HEALTH
needs, companies must offer benefits and perks that  
Current generations of workers have redefined wellbeing 
fit employees’ lifestyles and priorities.
to go beyond physical health and wellness to include 
emotional, financial and social aspects of life. Companies 
Key Trends
adopting a broader, more holistic approach to wellbeing 
People’s attitudes about work are changing. Employees 
believe it can increase engagement and productivity, give 
today look for companies that make a positive, 
them a competitive edge in attracting top talent and help 
meaningful impact on society, allow them to express  
employees and their families be healthier and happier.
their ideas and opinions, and respect them as individuals. 
Workforce demographics are changing too, with multiple  Our Approach
generations influencing employee expectations. We 
Employees really are our most valuable assets. We invest 
evolve with these trends, anticipating what employees 
in helping them be their best and we continually fine-
want and updating our approach to attract and retain  
tune our engagement and wellbeing programs to meet 
top people.
their needs. Our approach emphasizes employee 
retention, holistic wellbeing, workplace health and  
ONE SIZE DOESN’T FIT ALL
safety and respect for human rights. 
More and more, employees want to be recognized  
for their individuality and diversity. While many value 
teamwork, they also want to be rewarded for their unique 
skills and contributions. Human resources leaders can 
increase employees’ satisfaction and productivity by 
allowing them to tailor benefits and incentives to 
individual needs. 
22  Well-Being Enhances Benefits of Employee Engagement, by Dan Witters and Sangeeta 
Agrawal, Gallup News, October 27, 2015.
50  CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017
Our People: Engagement and Wellbeing
EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT Engagement Opportunities 
We want to be a top-quartile firm in all areas of employee 
Employee Feedback for a Better Place to Work engagement. Four areas of opportunity in 2018:
Employees are more motivated and engaged in their  
• Goals: We will continue improving our employee 
work when they know they have a voice on issues 
engagement scores and hold managers accountable  
affecting the company and the workplace. We use our 
for reaching specific targets. Our Executive Committee 
annual employee engagement survey to measure how 
members have committed to this as part of their 
well we meet employee expectations in these areas.
individual performance goals.
Our Engagement and Wellbeing Goal • Action and accountability: We are removing barriers  
Build a workforce culture supported by engagement   so employees feel more empowered and have the right 
and wellbeing. tools, processes and resources to do their jobs 
successfully.
How We’ll Achieve It
• Communication: We will make employees aware of 
We will work to achieve industry-leading engagement 
changes we make as a result of our employee 
scores and create a globally recognized wellbeing program.
engagement surveys by discussing goals, including 
them in focus groups and other forums and regularly 
2017 PROGRESS sharing engagement outcomes.
Improved engagement with global wellbeing  
• Risk: We will monitor our transformation activities’ 
platform by 70 percent; however, employee 
impact on employee engagement, communicate 
engagement survey results were flat from 2016  
changes and account for changes in other 
at 79 percent favorable. 
engagement-related improvements.
How We Measure Success OPPORTUNITIES TO EXCEL
BNY Mellon fills 33 percent of open positions with 
We track employee retention globally and regionally to 
internal candidates. At the vice president level, the ratio 
understand how our people strategies are working and 
is 37 percent. 
find opportunities to improve. 
Global Voluntary Retention Rates, 2016–2017
2017 2016 
Women  89.7% 88.6%
Men 90.4% 89.2%
Overall 90.1% 89.0%
VOLUNTARY RETENTION RATES, BY REGION/GENDER, 2016–2017
2017 2016
Region Female Male Total Female Male Total
Asia Pacific  85.7% 89.7% 88.3% 82.5% 86.2% 85.0%
Europe Middle East & Africa  88.4% 89.0% 88.8% 89.2% 89.4% 89.3%
Latin America  90.4% 88.8% 89.5% 93.4% 95.4% 94.5%
U.S. & Canada  91.6% 91.3% 91.4% 90.6% 90.8% 90.7%
Total 89.7% 90.4% 90.1% 88.7% 89.2% 89.0%
51  CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017
Our People: Engagement and Wellbeing
2017 Employee Engagement Pulse Survey  We’re pleased with our progress in these important 
Highlights categories, but our goal is to constantly improve the 
BNY Mellon employee experience. Employees told us 
We measure employee engagement every year, either 
there are areas where we can do better, including: 
with a full survey as we did in 2016, or with a pulse 
survey, which we conducted in 2017. In 2017, 73 percent 
• Empowerment: This score dropped by one point  
of us shared our feedback, compared to 82 percent in 
from last year to 67 percent favorable. Responses  
2016. We also received 14,000 comments. Our results 
to BNY Mellon moving quickly from idea to 
showed overall engagement at 79 percent favorable, 
implementation decreased two points to 55 percent 
unchanged from 2016. 
favorable.
The largest increases since 2016 were in the following:  • Career opportunities: While employee sentiment  
performance management, which went up eight points   about career opportunities at BNY Mellon went up six 
to 69 percent favorable; manager, up four points to  points from last year to 64 percent favorable, fewer 
76 percent favorable; and retention, up four points to  employees said they’ve had meaningful career 
64 percent favorable. Here’s what employees said:  conversations with their managers this year. Our 
results were down three points to 74 percent favorable.
• My immediate manager gives me regular feedback  
• Skip-level management: More than 80% of  
on my performance (up eight points to 81 percent 
employees report that second-level managers are 
favorable).
accessible to them, but satisfaction with their 
• My manager provides a clear sense of direction  
manager’s manager communicating openly fell  
(up four points to 76 percent favorable).
four points to 73 percent favorable.
• The company makes adequate use of recognition and 
• Senior management: Employees’ perceptions of senior 
non-monetary awards to encourage good performance 
management effectively communicating the case for 
(up eight points to 58 percent favorable).
change to meet company objectives fell two points to 
70 percent favorable. The score for senior management 
Risk management is a strength we want to continue 
having a clear vision of the company’s future was flat at 
building. Our results in this category included:
70 percent favorable.
• Risk management escalation procedures are clearly 
The Executive Committee closely reviewed this  
defined (up one point to 90 percent favorable).
feedback and worked with teams globally to develop 
• Employees report that they are aware of key  
action plans and stress crisper processes, streamlined 
risks relevant to their work (unchanged at  
decision-making, a clearer sense of responsibility and 
96 percent favorable).
direct, frequent communication from our leaders and 
• My department does a good job of ensuring employees  managers. These and other changes will further empower 
comply with risk policies and procedures (relatively  employees in their jobs, foster more cross-functional 
unchanged at 92 percent favorable). collaboration and help our teams better understand the 
company’s vision and business objectives.
52  CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017
Our People: Engagement and Wellbeing
EMPLOYEES’ TOTAL WELLBEING It offers health screenings, onsite employee assistance 
consultants, flexible work arrangements and financial 
planning tools and counseling. We partner with Virgin 
Wellbeing Benefits to Our Employees  
Pulse, a subsidiary of the Virgin Group, to provide a global 
and Business
online wellbeing engagement platform. All BNY Mellon 
Obesity, current and future financial concerns and poor 
employees can take charge of their wellbeing by tracking 
mental health are issues impacting employees’ personal 
healthy behaviors, doing health risk assessments, 
and professional lives around the world. More than 
sharing experiences with colleagues and participating  
40 percent of employees are dealing with health 
in global wellbeing challenges.
challenges and financial worries, and this group has the 
highest rates of absenteeism, working while sick and  In 2017, we redesigned our wellbeing incentive program  
working while under stress.23  to fit our holistic approach and better meet employees 
where they are on their wellbeing journeys. Employees 
Research shows a direct link between employee 
now earn rewards for a variety of activities related to 
wellbeing and business results. In one study, companies 
physical, emotional, social and financial wellbeing. 
with high employee wellbeing generated 50 percent 
higher revenue per employee and 33 percent higher 
OPENING UP ABOUT MENTAL HEALTH 
market premium.24 In another, employees with physical 
and financial wellbeing were three times more engaged  In response to global health risk data, we launched  
at work.25 We know that helping employees improve their  a mental health and emotional resiliency campaign 
physical, financial, social and emotional wellbeing helps  including global webinars, senior leader blogs, 
them be healthier, happier, more engaged and more  educational materials and local activities. On World 
productive. And when employees enjoy better wellbeing,  Mental Health Day in October, we encouraged 
they are more creative, more innovative and they provide  employees to talk about traditionally difficult mental 
better service. health topics that can impact the workplace and 
productivity. We developed mental health training for 
All “IN”
managers to educate them on their roles in 
IN, BNY Mellon’s global wellbeing program, gives  understanding mental health issues, how to create a 
employees easy access to resources and programs   healthy work environment, how to support employees 
to improve and maintain physical health, emotional  who may be struggling and how to direct them to the 
resiliency, financial wellbeing and social connections.   right resources. Read more about the campaign. 
23  Willis Towers Watson 2017/2018 Global Benefits Attitude Survey, November 17, 2017.
24  Towers Watson. 
25  Gallup.
2017 Global Wellbeing Program Participation
4,000 13.7%
    22,500
financial  Employee   19,950
planning and  Assistance   onsite health  
education users Program   center   employees  
(EAP) users appointments completed  
wellbeing  
assessments
16,150  10,400
wellbeing digital  flu shots 18,400
platform users
12,300  biometric 
screenings
health coaching 
participants
53  CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017
Our People: Engagement and Wellbeing
A Culture of Wellbeing
BNY Mellon creates a culture of wellbeing where 
employees and their families feel supported and valued. 
We provide time, tools and resources for employees to 
proactively improve their total wellbeing, which, in turn, 
positively impacts them, their families, their communities 
and our business.
Wellbeing Program And Resources
Physical Emotional Social Financial
Employee Assistance Program (EAP) — Wellbeing Platform (VirginPulse) — Health Risk Assessment (HRA)
Digital health risk assessments Employee Assistance Program  Team-based activity  Financial education 
(EAP)  challenges seminars
Onsite Health Centers
Emotional resiliency training Flexible work arrangements Digital planning tools
Health coaching
Digital self-care tools Maternity and paternity  Personalized financial 
Tobacco cessation
programs counseling 
Manager mental health training
Flu vaccinations
Adoption support services
Remote psychological 
Healthy food options
consultations Child and elder care programs 
Fitness discounts
Domestic violence training Onsite nursing mother rooms
Biometric screenings
Legal services Charitable giving for healthy 
Preventive screenings and  behaviors 
exams 
Telemedicine
Onsite fitness classes
Bicycle racks
Designated walking routes
Recreational leagues
Race entry discounts
Information Support: Information portraits — Education programs — Campaigns — Wellbeing Fairs — Champions
Communications and Marketing: Intranet — Brochure — Posters — Survey — Vendors
Facilities: Showers — Bicycle Racks — Wellbeing Rooms — First Aid Room — Healthy Food — Tobacco Free — Signposting of Walking Routes
54  CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017
Our People: Engagement and Wellbeing
HEALTH AND SAFETY Human Rights
We respect and support human rights and treat 
Delivering Protection employees with fairness, dignity and respect at work. 
These values help define our company and we reinforce 
We invest in protecting our employees and their families 
them in our policies, including:
in our facilities and through programs, policies and 
competitive health and wellbeing benefits. See more 
• Human Rights Statement
details in our Health and Safety Statement.
• Equal Employment Opportunity/Affirmative Action 
Healthy Workplaces (EEO/AA) policy
In 2015, we launched the Workplace Excellence program,  • Notice of Affirmative Action Programs and Notice to 
recently rebranded as Workplace Design, to create  Veterans and Individuals with Disabilities
workspaces that maximize technology and encourage 
• Sexual and Other Discriminatory Harassment policy
collaboration. Today, Workplace Design supports a 
healthy work environment for our employees to maximize  • Drug- and Alcohol-free Workplace policy
focus on clients and client service excellence.  • Health and Safety Statement
We incorporated our workplace design principles, which  • UK Modern Slavery Act Statement
include productivity, sustainability and engagement  • Gender Equality Statement
components, into key projects in 2017, including our 
refurbished Piccadilly Gardens building in Manchester, 
Looking Ahead 
UK, and our redesigned Syracuse, New York buildings. 
Engagement and Wellbeing
Employees in those facilities are co-located in an open 
plan that allows them to use individual desks, focus 
Employee engagement and wellbeing are not 
rooms and collaboration areas to suit their needs. We  
programs or initiatives at BNY Mellon; they are part 
will integrate Workplace Design principles into our newly 
of who we are. Our leaders encourage employees to 
designated headquarters at 101 Barclay Street in New 
use all available programs and resources to let their 
York in 2018.
voices be heard and take care of themselves and 
their families. 
WORKPLACE DESIGN PRINCIPLES
We will continue to expand our programs globally. 
• Use design, construction and technology to  
Financial resources and programming will help 
support an agile, collaborative, fit workforce 
employees organize their current finances and  
• Create energized workspaces that encourage 
plan for future needs. We will create a healthy  
innovation and mobility
dining policy and establish global healthy dining 
• Promote wellbeing with healthy food options   standards to help employees make better nutrition 
and comfortable dining spaces  decisions at work. We will continue to promote the 
interrelated elements of engagement and wellbeing 
to achieve higher employee satisfaction, productivity 
and loyalty. 
55  CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017
Our People 
DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION
Our Opportunity  DIVERSE COMPANIES ARE MORE PROFITABLE
Companies are realizing diversity and inclusion is more 
Diverse perspectives fuel transformation. Employees, 
than social justice; it can translate to the bottom line. 
with their varied backgrounds, perspectives and 
A 2017 research study of more than 1,000 companies 
experiences, create dynamic workplaces alive with 
in 12 countries shows diverse companies understand 
curiosity, innovation and forward thinking. Equality for  
customers better, have higher employee satisfaction 
all is expected in today’s world and companies benefit 
and can attract talent more easily, all leading to better 
from building inclusivity and diversity into their 
results. Those in the top 25 percent for ethnic and gender 
businesses. At BNY Mellon, we embrace diversity and 
diversity were, respectively, 33 percent and 21 percent 
inclusion wholeheartedly as the path to employee 
more likely to have higher than average profits.27 
engagement, profitable growth, excellent 
client experiences and brand differentiation.
Our Approach
Key Trends We are committed to diversity and inclusion to empower 
employees to do their best work, make an impact and 
Employees expect diversity and inclusion in the  
enhance our dynamic culture. Our approach sharpens our 
workplace as a reflection of the societies in which we  
competitive advantage and produces better results for 
live; a refreshing and positive trend for BNY Mellon.  
our clients. 
This important societal principle benefits our business  
in many ways, enabling us to attract top talent and meet 
We encourage every BNY Mellon employee to bring fresh 
clients’ expectations.
perspectives, unique knowledge and distinctive insights 
to help improve lives through investing. Our diversity and 
STAKEHOLDERS VALUE DIVERSITY
inclusion strategy, programs and culture strongly support 
Clients want new ideas and varying perspectives that can 
employees who want to turn the world’s challenges into 
only come from diverse thinkers and problem-solvers. 
opportunities for clients and stakeholders.
They also want financial performance objectives aligned 
with their social and moral compasses. More and more 
Our Diversity and Inclusion Goal
investors factor environmental, social and governance 
Achieve marketplace leadership and reputation; advance 
(ESG) issues such as diversity and inclusion into their 
diverse representation in senior-level ranks and drive 
investment decisions and evaluate companies on their 
accountability for a culture of inclusion.
progress in these areas. 
How We’ll Achieve It
EMPLOYEES WANT INCLUSIVE WORK CULTURES
We will continue to attract and retain diverse talent, 
When candidates think about companies they want  
integrate diversity and inclusion into our businesses  
to work for, they may give higher marks to those that 
to drive high performance and client experience,  
support inclusion.26 Diverse and inclusive companies  
and leverage diverse perspectives to advance our 
tend to encourage out-of-the-box thinking, provide 
inclusive culture. 
opportunities for continuous learning and value unique 
skills and experiences. They treat people with fairness  
and dignity, respect individual cultures and needs and  2017 PROGRESS
want employees to bring their whole selves to work for  Increased U.S. ethnically/racially diverse talent at  
maximum positive impact. all levels; however, gender representation declined 
globally, mostly at the senior levels.
26  “Seventy-Two percent of Working Americans Surveyed Would or May Consider Leaving an 
Organization for One They Think is More Inclusive, Deloitte Poll Finds,” Deloitte, June 7, 2017
27  Delivering through diversity, McKinsey & Company, January 2018
56  CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017
Our People: Diversity and Inclusion
DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION 
STRATEGY
Diversity and Inclusion 2.0
Diversity and inclusion is a continually evolving principle. 
Initially, it focused on tangible characteristics like  
gender, race, ethnicity and sexual orientation. Our next-
generation approach, called Diversity and Inclusion 2.0, is 
more progressive and inclusive. It encompasses a broad 
spectrum of acquired attributes such as global mindset, 
generational savvy, social diversity, work-life agility and 
value systems, guiding us to assess potential and attract 
people who are innovative, agile and open and able to 
drive change.
Evolving The Conversation
Diversity 2.0
Diversity 1.0 N e x t Generatio Cognitive Diversity
n
Gender Gender Identity
Race and Ethnicity Multiracial, Multicultural 
Core and Multilingual
Sexual Orientation
Disabilities Attributes Global Mindset
Social Diversity
Veteran Status
Generational Savvy
Nationality
Family Status
Generations
Military Background
Work-life Agility
Value Systems, Beliefs
Attributes to Drive Change 
  Cultural Competency   Management/Leadership Styles
   Global Acumen   Mobility Experience
  Open Talent Economy   Skills/Talent
  Contingent Workforce   Remote/Virtual Work
  Further Education
57  CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017
Our People: Diversity and Inclusion
Inclusion, Innovation and Investing
Our global diversity and inclusion strategy is founded on 
our global enterprise strategy and subject to the same 
discipline. It leverages our people’s strengths to increase 
cultural agility and global impact, and connects us to  
our strategic pillars of Market Leadership, Business 
Integration and Great People. The pillars prioritize 
diversity and inclusion initiatives for greater business 
impact, better talent, enhanced client experiences and 
market and industry leadership. Our strategy and pillars, 
reinforced by our CSR strategy, form our diversity and 
inclusion vision to improve lives through investing.
Investing In Diverse Perspectives That Fuel Transformation
t
c
a
p
m C
bal I Great  Business  Market   ultu
o ra
Gl People Integration Leadership l A
g
ilit
y
Priorities Key Performance Indicators
•  Attract, engage, develop and retain a diverse talent pool • Workforce demographics
•  Integrate diversity and inclusion with businesses to drive  • Employee engagement survey results
high performance and client experience 
• Business and client engagements
•  Leverage diverse perspectives to advance a culture  
• Marketplace recognition
of inclusion
•  Transform BNY Mellon into a recognized market leader for 
diversity and inclusion
Guiding principles
Meritocracy                Transparency                Relentless focus                Bold leadership                Accountability
58  CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017
Our People: Diversity and Inclusion
Inclusive Leaders Return on Equality
We embedded diversity and inclusion into our human  In 2017, BNY Mellon and the UN Foundation (UNF) 
resources and talent strategy for integrated, holistic  released Return on Equality: Investment Opportunities  
learning and development. Our Diversity and Inclusion  to Help Close the Global Gender Gap, a white paper on 
Foundational Excellence Certificate Program builds   investment opportunities with companies that advance 
a motivated meritocracy and high-performing team   gender equality through their products and services.  
culture that looks beyond traditional and visible diversity  At events throughout the year, the paper sparked 
attributes. It acknowledges the rich diversity in our global  dialogue and partnership opportunities with clients, 
workforce and harnesses broader strengths such as  global influencers and media, and demonstrated 
cognitive and socioeconomic diversity, multicultural  BNY Mellon’s support of the UN SDGs. 
competency and work-life agility. This is how we will  
As a follow-up in early 2018, BNY Mellon published 
grow the next generation of enterprise leaders. 
Powering Potential, also developed with the United 
Certification gives employees a structured diversity   Nations Foundation. The report examines the power  
and inclusion learning path and verifies competitive  and potential of expanding women’s access to financial 
skills. Managers can measure team members’   products and services and aims to inspire financial 
diversity and inclusion progress and performance   services providers to design offerings that fuel women’s 
for talent reviews, strategic project assignments and  full economic participation and to encourage investors to 
succession planning. In 2017, certification program  steer capital toward such companies.
enrollment and completions rose 41 percent and 302 
See page 64 in Social Investing for more details about  
percent, respectively.
the report.
Equitable Pay
To stay competitive in the marketplace, we periodically 
conduct reviews of our pay practices. Recently, we 
conducted a review with an eye towards assessing how 
men and women are comparatively paid across our 
company.
Our global analysis found that, on average, women are 
paid 99 percent of what men are paid when accounting 
for certain factors, including geography, level and job to 
make the comparisons more relevant.
Furthermore, we conducted a similar analysis comparing 
how U.S. minority and non-minority employees are paid, 
which found that minority employees are paid on average 
more than 99 percent of what non-minority employees 
are paid when accounting for certain factors, including 
geography, level and job.
We are committed to providing equal pay for equal work. 
We plan to continue our review of pay practices to further 
this goal and, if necessary, to make adjustments, as 
appropriate.
59  CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017
Our People: Diversity and Inclusion
Diversity and Inclusion Progress  Employee/Business Resource Group Impact
We measure diversity and inclusion progress through our  E/BRGs are the primary drivers of our diversity and 
annual employee engagement survey results, workforce  inclusion strategy. As these groups mature, they become 
demographics, business and client engagements and  more sophisticated in how they operate and are key to 
marketplace recognition. We push for more data to make  sustaining a high performance team and success with 
better, evidence-based decisions for our employees,  clients. They connect our employees around the world, 
businesses and clients. giving them ways to express their unique value and 
provide leadership development opportunities. 
2017 RESULTS RELATED TO DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION
• 86 percent say management supports diversity in the  To leverage diversity and inclusion for greater business 
workplace, recognizing and respecting the value of  impact, our ERG members work together and with our 
people’s differences (seven points ahead of financial  businesses to transform themselves into BRGs. 
services norm)
ERGS VS. BRGS
• 77 percent feel employees with diverse backgrounds 
are valued (up from 2016 survey results) ERGS BRGS
A Culture of Transparency
• Company sponsored • Company aligned
We believe transparency promotes accountability 
• Voluntary groups of  • Executive 
and progress. In that spirit, we share our diversity 
employees engagement and 
and inclusion strategy, efforts and outcomes on 
ownership
• Shared common 
communications platforms such as our corporate 
interest or  • Measurable  
website. We take part in third-party research studies 
background business impact
and benchmarking initiatives. In 2017, we voluntarily 
submitted a diversity and inclusion self-assessment  • Opportunities to  • Formalized 
report to two U.S. regulators, pursuant to section 342  network and support  governance and 
of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer  members oversight
Protection Act.
• Liaise with senior  • Comprehensive 
executives, upon  strategy that drives 
Being a diverse, inclusive company requires us to 
request business priorities  
continually raise the bar. Benchmarking and best 
and goals
practices are important guideposts, but to attract top 
talent and optimize the benefits of a diverse workforce 
and inclusive culture, we define and aim for what “best” 
means to us.
60  CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017
Our People: Diversity and Inclusion
Our Diverse, Inclusive E/BRGs
GENEDGE: Improves collaboration across generations 
and regions to leverage thought diversity to solve 
business problems
HEART: Increases awareness and education on the value 
and needs of people with disabilities
IMPACT: Leverages cultural diversity and inclusive 
leadership as competitive advantages to drive business 
outcomes
PRISM: Fosters an open and supportive environment for 
LGBT+ employees and allies 
VETNET: Serves as a resource for professional 
development, retention and advancement of veterans 
and members of the broader military family as they 
transition to new careers and civilian life
WIN: Supports women’s advancement through 
professional development, leadership, enhanced visibility 
and greater connectivity with employees and clients 
UNCOVERING TALENT WORKSHOP
We expect all BNY Mellon employees to embrace 
diversity and inclusion in their everyday actions  
and attitudes. To challenge them to take a fresh 
approach to unconscious bias, cultural fit, gender 
equality and generations in the workplace, we hosted 
a workshop facilitated by legal scholar Kenji Yoshino 
of New York University. He combines research and 
“living” case studies performed by a theater troupe  
to stimulate deeper discussions about diversity  
and inclusive leadership. Nearly 500 BNY Mellon 
executives, managers, employees and clients 
attended workshops in our New York City, Pune  
and Tokyo offices. 
61  CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017
Our People: Diversity and Inclusion
DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION  
Looking Ahead 
IN ACTION
Diversity and Inclusion
BNY Mellon works to promote diversity and inclusion  At BNY Mellon, diversity and inclusion is a rich 
inside our company, with clients and in our communities. philosophical, strategic and operational approach  
to welcoming and leveraging a wide range of  
beliefs, experiences and individuality. It unleashes 
INTERNATIONAL WOMEN’S DAY
bold thinking to shape the future of finance. We 
For the sixth year, BNY Mellon offices around the globe 
demonstrate our commitment to diversity and 
celebrated International Women’s Day and the 2017 
inclusion through ambitious goals and measurable 
theme, “Be Bold for Change.” Our WIN E/BRG partnered 
accountability for improvements in diverse hiring, 
with the CSR team to host more than 75 events across 
workforce representation and inclusive culture.  
the globe on advancing gender parity. Almost 1,500 
Our impact goes beyond deriving benefit for our 
clients and BNY Mellon employees participated in the 
employees and businesses. Clients and industry 
global marquee kickoff event in person or via webcast. 
peers often seek our advice and guidance on 
successful practices, important trends and  
thought leadership. We will continue to share,  
BRAZIL E/BRGS
inspire and collaborate with financial services  
BNY Mellon teams in Brazil had a busy 2017 
and other companies to accelerate diversity and 
promoting the benefits of diversity and inclusion. 
inclusion progress.
They conducted a town hall on the topic, launched  
a PRISM ERG and hosted a WIN event on women’s 
career paths and a PRISM event on nonviolent 
communication. In October, they launched a  
HEART ERG with an experiential breakfast to raise 
employees’ awareness of life with disabilities such  
as blindness, low vision and physical disability. In  42
%
November, they introduced an IMPACT ERG and  
plans for a future mentoring program in Brazil. A 
of our total global  
GENEDGE ERG is in the works for 2018. 41
workforce is women %
of new hires globally 
are women
43
%
45
%
33
% of new hires in the  
U.S. are of different 
of our U.S. workforce   ethnic/racial  
of our U.S. workforce   is women backgrounds
is of different   27
ethnic/racial  %
backgrounds
25
%
36
% of employees at  
Director+ level  
of our Board  
are women
of Directors  
of employees at  
is women
Vice President level  
are women
62  CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017
OUR  
WORLD
The world continues to grapple with issues such  
as the need for sustainable economic growth,  
demand for new technological skills and climate  
change — all calling for urgent action. We use 
 our resources and influence to tackle world  
challenges and deliver positive impact.
63  CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017
Our World 
SOCIAL INVESTING
Our Opportunity  PUBLIC AND PRIVATE SECTORS MUST WORK TOGETHER
In April 2017, the president of the UN General Assembly 
Social investing at BNY Mellon refers to investment 
said it will take about $6 trillion (USD) per year, or  
activities that seek to generate financial returns and 
$90 trillion (USD) over 15 years, to implement the  
incorporate social and/or environmental factors. Our 
2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development.29 While 
enterprise-wide social investing program encompasses 
governments hold a substantial share of resources  
activity we conduct at the corporate level as well as the 
to achieve the SDGs, they alone cannot cover the 
investment management and investment services we 
$2.5 trillion annual gap between what’s available and 
provide our clients. 
what’s needed.30 Institutional investors, individuals, 
As a global financial institution, we not only direct our  central banks, financial regulators and others have an 
own capital to projects with potentially positive impact,  opportunity to come together to mobilize capital in 
we can also inform the investment decisions of our  support of long-term investments in social inclusion  
clients and their clients. We help individual and  and environmental stewardship.31 An example of what 
institutional investors consider risk and return potential  public and private collaboration can accomplish is 
based on ESG criteria and issues related to regulatory  BNY Mellon’s Return on Equality report. Published in early 
changes, stranded assets and reputational risk. This  2017 in partnership with the UN Foundation, the report 
approach to delivering risk-adjusted returns helps  revealed a $300 billion market opportunity in investing in 
investors capitalize on solutions to global challenges  companies that advance gender equality through their 
such as climate change, gender inequality, clean energy,  products and services. 
infrastructure and others outlined in the UN SDGs. 
INVESTORS WANT ESG INFORMATION
Concurrently, we help corporate issuers and asset 
More and more, investors want to know how firms  
managers understand investors’ ESG interests so they 
and organizations perform on nonfinancial issues like 
can examine and optimize their own practices and 
human rights, diversity and carbon footprint. In a 2016 
business strategies. By creating awareness and 
survey conducted by the University of Cambridge with 
supporting strategic decisions throughout the 
BNY Mellon support, 82 percent of investors said they 
investment lifecycle, we play a key role in fostering 
incorporate nonfinancial information into investment 
positive impact.
decisions. A growing number of corporate issuers see the 
Key Trends need to respond meaningfully to investor demands for 
Social investing is growing among all types of investors.  ESG information, even though reporting standards are 
At the end of 2016, $22.89 trillion in assets were  still up for discussion. The social investing sector is 
professionally managed under responsible investment  working to develop better metrics for communicating  
strategies, a 25 percent increase from 2014.28 As interest  this information and quantifying financial performance 
grows among individuals and institutions, we draw upon  implications. BNY Mellon strives to incorporate ESG data 
our deep experience and expertise to help clients  and considerations into our solutions in response to 
understand the key considerations for their decision- client interest. For example, our Depositary Receipts 
making and impact objectives. business offers a unique suite of ESG advisory services 
to help clients understand key ESG drivers and industry 
best practices and assess their own business practices 
to improve performance. 
28  Global Sustainable Investment Alliance. 
29  Opening remarks of H.E. Peter Thomson, President of the UN General Assembly at  
High Level SDG Action Event “SDG Financing Lab,” April 18, 2017.
30  “Impact investment to close the SDG funding gap,” by Mara Niculescu, Partnership 
Development Analyst, UNDP Europe and Central Asia, July 13, 2017.
31  Opening remarks of H.E. Peter Thomson, President of the UN General Assembly at  
High Level SDG Action Event “SDG Financing Lab,” April 18, 2017.
64  CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017
Our World: Social Investing
SOCIAL INVESTING VEHICLES ARE GROWING RAPIDLY • Investment Management (IM): IM boutiques provide  
The rise of social investing vehicles — both access to  a variety of responsible investment (RI) strategies,  
them and assets in them — is being shaped by the  and Wealth Management offers RI solutions from 
significant wealth transfer underway and the increasing  BNY Mellon-affiliated and unaffiliated managers. 
adoption of green investment strategies. Experts expect  These solutions consider social and environmental 
Millennials’ aggregated net worth globally to more than  information and objectives alongside long-term  
double between 2015 and 2020. Members of the largest  wealth goals.
generation are entering their prime earning years and 
• Asset Servicing: Asset Servicing provides institutional 
starting their own businesses; many will inherit their 
investors with business and technology solutions to 
Baby Boomer parents’ wealth, motivating them to think 
safeguard assets, enhance investments administration 
about their financial futures.32 Millennials are twice as 
and inform investment strategies through data and 
likely as overall investors to invest in companies with 
analytics. Asset Servicing integrates ESG data in 
social or environmental impact goals, with up to 
support of our clients’ investment strategies and 
84 percent believing their investments will lead to 
provides services to alternative managers launching 
positive change.33 In parallel, the rapid growth of 
socially responsible funds around the world.
responsible investment funds and indices and the 
• Issuer Services: Corporate Trust offers corporate and 
expansion of mainstream platforms like the Luxembourg 
public sector issuers the infrastructure, technology  
Green Exchange give investors access to investments 
and processing services to navigate the debt capital 
that align their values and assets. Furthermore, more 
markets; our administration of responsible bonds and 
investors are exploring direct investments in green 
projects advances ESG progress around the world. 
assets such as real estate and infrastructure. In this 
Depositary Receipts helps securities issuers access 
evolving landscape, BNY Mellon plays an important role 
the world’s financial markets and helps their clients 
in enabling the success of such investments through 
develop effective ESG strategies.
financing, administration, technology support and  
other critical services. • Clearing, Markets and Client Management: Capital 
Markets provides solutions for accessing capital, 
Our Approach
financing and liquidity, including a number of products 
As caretaker for more than $33 trillion in assets under  and services that can meet the needs of both investors 
custody and/or administration and manager of nearly  and users of socially responsible capital. Treasury 
$2 trillion in assets, BNY Mellon engages with a broad  Services provides payment, trade and cash management 
range of stakeholders throughout the investment  services for corporate and institutional global treasury 
lifecycle. Advancing ESG issues is critically important to  needs, helping clients move money quickly, safely and 
creating a more sustainable world. It also represents a  reliably through a more connected world economy.
significant opportunity for our clients, given the 
• BNY Mellon Corporate: Facilitates enterprise-wide 
investment community’s growing awareness and 
thought leadership, strategic public-private 
appetite. We demonstrate our commitment to social 
partnerships, an impact investing pilot and Community 
investing in a number of ways across the company.
Reinvestment Act (CRA) financing and community 
development.
 
32  Millennials and wealth management: Trends and challenges of the new  
clientele, Deloitte.
33  Millennials Drive Growth in Sustainable Investing, Morgan Stanley, August 9, 2017.
65  CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017
Our World: Social Investing
Our Social Investing Goal
2017 PROGRESS
Be recognized as a leader in the social investing field 
Launched/relaunched three responsible investment 
consistent with our business model.
fund and strategy offerings; expanded market 
How We’ll Achieve It engagement and exploration of ESG ratings  
We intentionally define social investing broadly to  analysis and innovative impact vehicles; however, 
encompass all relevant efforts across the industry,   opportunities exist to improve our deal tracking  
and to be inclusive of our corporate activities,   and understanding of client demand.
business lines and the diverse clients we serve. 
Supporting Our Clients’ Social Investing Objectives
Individual Investors Institutional Investors
BNY Mellon provides responsible investment options  BNY Mellon provides responsible investment options 
and technology to empower underserved populations and greater access to ESG data
Corporate and Public Sector Issuers Asset Managers
BNY Mellon advises firms and facilitates socially   BNY Mellon enables the execution of ESG strategies
responsible projects
BNY Mellon Social Investing Capabilities
           
Clearing, Markets and  Asset Servicing Investment Management Issuer Services
Client Management
• ESG Investment Analysis  • Responsible Investment 
Corporate Trust:
Capital Markets: and Monitoring Products (e.g. Mutual Funds, 
Separate Accounts, Custom  • Debt Administration for 
• Asset Origination and  • ESG Fintech Development
ESG and Values Screening,  Responsible Bonds and 
Advice (Innovative Social 
• ABLE Savings Plan  Impact Bonds)  Infrastructure Projects
Investing Vehicles) 
Solution
• Responsible Investment  • Specialty products & 
• Sales and Trading  
Strategy Evaluation  services
(e.g. Green Bonds)  Alternative Investment 
Solutions: • Proxy Voting and Issuer 
Depositary Receipts:
Treasury Services: • Private Equity and Real  Engagement
• ESG Advisory Solutions* 
• Real-Time Payments Estate Fund Services
*  Non fee-based services 
offered to select Depositary 
Receipts clients 
Across our firm, educating stakeholders through thought leadership is a key focus. 
BNY Mellon Corporate •  Affordable Housing Lending and Investments 
By tapping into BNY Mellon’s scale, expertise and capabilities  •  Small Business Investment Corporation (SBIC) Lending 
across the firm, our Social Investing initiative looks to support 
•  Tax Credit Investments (e.g. Wind, State Tax Credits) 
and catalyze all kinds of purpose-driven market activity. Other 
activities at the Corporate level include: •  Strategic Partnerships 
•  Thought Leadership
•  Impact Investing Pilot
66  CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017
Our World: Social Investing
INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT Responsible Investment Framework 
Responsible investment (RI) is the subset of social 
Multi-Boutique Model investing most relevant to Investment Management.  
It encompasses investment strategies that seek to  
BNY Mellon Investment Management (IM) consists  
offer investors financial returns while incorporating 
of Asset Management and Wealth Management. The 
environmental, social and/or governance considerations.
Asset Management business is a multi-boutique model 
comprised of autonomous investment boutiques, each 
BNY Mellon Investment Management breaks RI 
with its own style, strategy and investment management 
strategies into three classifications based on investor 
teams. This model enables us to offer a wide range of 
objectives: Values Expression, Influence Change and 
well-diversified and customizable investment strategies. 
Return Enhancement. By isolating and understanding 
As of December 31, 2017, we managed $77.2 billion in 
investors’ motivations for pursuing RI, we may better 
assets which incorporate values-based ESG screens, 
navigate the RI landscape and build products that meet 
ESG themes and/or impact criteria.34
investors’ goals.
34  Prior to 2017, IM presented exclusionary screened assets under management (AUM) only. 
As of 2017, this number evolves with our product set and additionally includes positive ESG 
screened, ESG thematic and impact AUM.
Responsible Investment Framework
In this framework, the three classifications  
are not mutually exclusive. On the contrary,  
one strategy may encompass two or  
three of these objectives simultaneously. 
Implementation tactics including 
exclusionary screening, positive screening, 
ESG integration, thematic investing, impact  Values Expression describes the 
Values  intent of investors whose objective  
investing and active ownership are used to 
is to align investments with their 
pursue one or all of these objectives.  Expression
environmental and/or social 
principles. This approach is  
most often implemented through 
exclusionary screens that 
eliminate organizations misaligned 
with the investor’s personal values, 
such as weapons or tobacco 
manufacturers. 
Return  Return Enhancement ESG  
risks and opportunities are 
Enhancement increasingly being integrated  
into investment strategies  
to help support long-term,   Influence  
risk-adjusted investment  Influence Change strategies 
Change
performance potential.  support solutions to social, 
Additionally, managers cite  environmental and economic 
elements of active ownership,  challenges and/or encourage 
including engaging with   organizations to improve their  
companies and casting proxy   ESG behavior. The influence  
votes, to encourage and   that RI strategies offer varies 
directly affect companies’   widely; we further classify  
ESG practices in support of  these strategies according  
long-term shareholder value. to the scope and magnitude  
of influence they target. 
67  CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017
Our World: Social Investing
Boutique RI Capabilities  Newton’s dedicated RI team conducts ESG research  
and actively engages with companies on ESG behavior. 
Under Investment Management’s multi-boutique model, 
Many of our boutiques can screen portfolios for ESG 
many of our boutiques have developed RI expertise and 
criteria based on custom client-directed mandates.
capabilities. For example, Newton, Walter Scott and 
Siguler Guff35 integrate ESG risks and opportunities into 
In addition to ongoing ESG training and participation  
investment decisions when the ESG consideration is 
in RI events, notable activity in 2017 included several  
relevant, i.e. has potential financial impact. Standish36 
RI strategy launches. In 2017, Newton became the 
and Insight believe ESG risks are relevant to credit and 
subadvisor for the Dreyfus Sustainable U.S. Equity Fund, 
sovereign analyses and Mellon Capital incorporates  
Inc.*, Insight introduced the Sustainable Euro Corporate 
ESG criteria into investment decisions to support  
Bond Strategy, and Standish launched the Enhanced 
several RI strategies. 
Cash ESG composite. 
Boutique Personnel Investment Process / Products RI/ESG Policy
Newton Four-person dedicated responsible  ESG integration across all portfolios;  Yes
investment team dedicated sustainability products
Standish Dedicated Director of Sustainable  ESG risks integrated across relevant credit  Yes
Investing; all investment personnel  and sovereign investment decisions; 
trained to analyze relevant ESG risks dedicated impact bond strategies
Mellon Capital  MCM’s Carbon Efficiency Strategy  Yes
Management  incorporates carbon and ESG data into 
(MCM) the investment decision
The Boston  Dedicated ESG officer; training   TBC has begun formally incorporating  Yes
Company (TBC) analysts to incorporate ESG factors ESG data into the investment decision
Insight Dedicated ESG analyst, all fixed   ESG integration across relevant credit  Yes
income investment personnel   and sovereign investment decisions; 
trained to analyze relevant ESG risks dedicated sustainability products
* Investors should consider the investment objectives, risks, charges and expenses of any mutual fund or variable annuity
sub-account carefully before investing. Contact your financial advisor or visit Dreyfus.com to obtain a prospectus or
summary prospectus, if available, that contains this and other information about the fund or sub-account and read it
carefully before investing. MBSC Securities Corporation, distributor.
35  BNY Mellon owns a 20 percent interest in Siguler Guff & Company, LP, and certain related 
entities including Siguler Guff Advisers, LLC.
36  As of 2/1/18, Investment Management’s Mellon Capital Management Corporation (Mellon 
Capital), Standish Mellon Asset Management Company LLC (Standish) and The Boston 
Company Asset Management, LLC (The Boston Company) were merged into a single  
business unit, BNY Mellon Asset Management North America Corporation.
68  CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017
Our World: Social Investing
Select RI Strategies at BNY Mellon SUSTAINABLE EURO CORPORATE BOND STRATEGY  
(MANAGED BY INSIGHT INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT  
THE DREYFUS SUSTAINABLE U.S. EQUITY FUND, INC.* 
(GLOBAL) LIMITED)
(SUB-ADVISED BY NEWTON INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT 
$510 million as of December 31, 2017
(NA) LIMITED)
$312 million as of December 31, 2017 The strategy aims to deliver attractive total returns in 
excess of a credit benchmark by investing predominantly 
The Dreyfus Sustainable U.S. Equity Fund invests in 
in investment grade euro corporate bonds while taking  
equity securities of U.S. companies that demonstrate 
ESG factors into account. It also favors issuers with 
attractive investment attributes and sustainable 
superior sustainability profiles. Insight actively engages 
business practices and have no material unresolvable 
with companies held in the portfolio if their sustainability 
ESG issues.
profiles deteriorate to try to rectify issues. The strategy  
THE DREYFUS SUSTAINABLE U.S. EQUITY PORTFOLIO,  is currently available in select European markets, and is 
INC.* (SUB-ADVISED BY NEWTON INVESTMENT  not available to U.S. investors.
MANAGEMENT (NA) LIMITED)
JAPANESE WOMENOMICS STRATEGY 
$236 million as of December 31, 2017
$23 million as of December 31, 2017
This U.S. equity portfolio invests in equity securities of 
The strategy, available only to Japanese investors, will  
U.S. companies that demonstrate attractive investment 
invest mainly in Japanese equities considered attractive 
attributes and sustainable business practices and have 
medium- to long-term investments under the theme of 
no material unresolvable ESG issues. 
women’s empowerment.
CARBON EFFICIENCY STRATEGY (MANAGED BY BNY 
*  Investors should consider the investment objectives, 
MELLON ASSET MANAGEMENT NORTH AMERICA 
risks, charges and expenses of any mutual fund or 
CORPORATION, FORMERLY MELLON CAPITAL 
variable annuity sub-account carefully before investing. 
MANAGEMENT CORPORATION)
Contact your financial advisor or visit Dreyfus.com to 
$548 million as of December 31, 2017
obtain a prospectus or summary prospectus, if available, 
The Carbon Efficiency Strategy seeks to provide broad  that contains this and other information about the fund 
equity exposure while minimizing investment in  or sub-account and read it carefully before investing. 
companies with high carbon emissions and supporting  MBSC Securities Corporation, distributor.
companies that have made strides toward being 
  This report is intended for informational purposes only; 
environmentally responsible.
it does not constitute investment advice and it should 
GLOBAL FARMLAND FUND LIMITED (MANAGED BY  not be relied upon as such. It should not be considered 
INSIGHT INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (GLOBAL) LIMITED) a solicitation to buy or an offer to sell any investment or 
$179 million as of December 31, 2017 investment product. It does not take into account any 
investor’s or potential investor’s particular investment 
The fund seeks to provide investors primarily with global  objectives, strategies, tax status, risk appetite or 
exposure to farmland, farmland businesses and the  investment horizon. Investors should always obtain and 
agricultural commodities grown on those farms. This  read an up-to-date investment services description 
exposure will be gained through investment in a variety of  or prospectus before deciding whether to appoint an 
direct holdings including, but not limited to, investments  investment manager or to invest in a fund or strategy. If 
in farmland companies, specially-incorporated vehicles  you require investment advice, you should consult your 
established to hold farmland assets (either alone or  tax and financial or other professional advisor. Investing 
jointly with one or more third parties) and farmland real  entails risks and there can be no assurance that BNY 
estate. This fund is closed to investors and is no longer  Mellon will achieve profits or avoid incurring losses.
accepting new subscriptions.
69  CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017
Our World: Social Investing
Responsible Investing Initiatives  Following the merger of Standish, Mellon Capital  
and The Boston Company into BNY Mellon Asset 
We continue to pursue a boutique-specific approach  
Management North America Corporation (AMNA),  
to various responsible investment initiatives, which 
AMNA will continue participation in the noted  
means that each firm owns the requirements of being  
initiatives of its predecessor firms.
a signatory or participant. One major RI initiative is the 
UN Principles for Responsible Investment (UN PRI); 
As of December 31, 2017, boutiques that are signatories 
boutique signatories to the UN PRI were Mellon Capital 
to UN PRI oversaw $1.4 trillion, or 74 percent, of our total 
Management, Newton, Insight, Standish, Siguler Guff,  
assets under management.37, 38 
The Boston Company, and Walter Scott. Boutiques are 
also involved in several other RI organizations, serving as 
signatories and active committee members. For example, 
Newton and Insight are both members of the Institutional 
Investors Group on Climate Change (IIGCC) and Standish, 
Mellon Capital and Insight are all members of the CDP 
(formerly the Carbon Disclosure Project). Newton 
supports several corporate governance organizations, 
and in 2017 a Newton RI analyst was appointed to the 
board of the International Corporate Governance 
Network (ICGN). Standish is an ongoing partner of the 
Climate Bond Initiative (CBI), and is a member of the 
Green Bond Principles. Further, Insight is a member of 
the UK Sustainable Investment and Finance Association 
(UK SIF). 
37  UN PRI AUM represents the sum of PRI member firms’ AUM, less assets managed by boutique 
personnel on behalf of BNYM institutional bank.
38  Insight’s AUM is represented by the market value of cash, securities and derivatives held 
in client accounts. Where a client mandate requires INA to manage some or all of a client’s 
liabilities, and INA is to be paid an investment management fee based upon the value of such 
liabilities, the AUM for the account will be based on the value of the liabilities plus the gross 
notional value of any derivatives used in the management thereof. 
70  CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017
Our World: Social Investing
Wealth Management  shareholders, including those related to ESG concerns.  
To provide transparency to companies, the PVGC 
BNY Mellon Wealth Management works with high-net 
publishes a summary of its Voting Guidelines.
worth individuals, families and institutional investors  
on comprehensive wealth planning and integrated 
The PVGC is supported by its research team (PVG 
investment support. In recent years, Wealth Management 
Research). PVG Research assists the PVGC by conducting 
has responded to increased client demand for RI options 
research on companies and shareholder voting 
and engaged directly with clients to raise awareness of 
proposals, leading engagement efforts with companies 
these opportunities. 
and maintaining oversight of all operational aspects of 
the proxy-voting process. The efforts of the PVGC and 
As institutional investors such as endowments, 
PVG Research combined to determine vote decisions at 
foundations and family offices are at the forefront of 
over 12,000 annual and special shareholder meetings for 
driving demand for RI, Wealth Management continues  
U.S. and international companies in 2017. 
to design and offer internally and externally managed 
equity and fixed income RI strategies. For example, our 
In addition to casting proxy votes, the PVGC and PVG 
Planned Giving group develops customized solutions for 
Research seek to hold engagement meetings with 
mission-driven client organizations and provides access 
companies on a range of issues, including governance, 
to investment pools that meet stringent social and 
executive compensation plans, contested meetings and 
faith-based investment requirements. Our Family Office 
shareholder proposals. The PVGC generally focuses on 
team works with clients interested in investments that 
three areas it believes strengthen alignment between 
reflect their family values and to create family legacies. 
company leaders and shareholders: transparency in 
Further, Wealth Management has several initiatives to 
corporate governance practices, Board of Directors’ 
enhance communication and understanding of strategic 
support of the company’s business strategy, and alignment 
philanthropy and social investing opportunities. 
between executive compensation and performance. The 
PVGC’s preferred approach is to work collaboratively with 
In 2017 we launched new model portfolios that align  
company management and the Board to better understand 
with the values of faith-based and socially conscious 
a company’s specific circumstances, both generally and in 
investors, developed a new female-oriented equity model 
relation to matters properly presented to shareholders for 
and convened a working group of Wealth Management  
vote. Engagement dialogue is leveraged to inform proxy 
RI subject matter experts. 
voting decisions, which are designed to support the long-
In addition, we offer a Social Finance Municipal Impact  term interests of shareholders.
Strategy, and continue to build out our set of responsible 
BNY Mellon boutiques that are not members of the PVGC 
investments across asset classes.
are responsible for independent voting and engagement 
Proxy Voting and Issuer Engagement  on behalf of their own clients. Notably, Newton’s four-
Eight39 of Investment Management’s boutiques/business  person dedicated responsible investment team works 
units participate in the BNY Mellon Proxy Voting and  alongside Newton investment professionals to engage 
Governance Committee (PVGC). Equity professionals  companies and to exercise voting rights on behalf of the 
from these firms make voting decisions on behalf of the  firm’s clients. Newton’s approach to responsible 
businesses’ clients — the equity owners of the assets  investment is founded on protecting and enhancing the 
they manage. The PVGC has detailed, predetermined,  long-term value of its clients’ holdings. A quarterly 
documented voting guidelines for specific types of  responsible investment report provides details of 
proposals and matters commonly submitted to  Newton’s voting decisions and engagement activities. 
Additionally, in 2017, Mellon Capital established 
39  As of 12/31/17. As of 2/1/18, six of Investment Management’s boutiques/business units 
participate, as a result of the merger of Mellon Capital, Standish and TBCAM into a single  guidelines for voting on environmental and social-related 
business unit. Lockwood Advisors, an Asset Servicing business unit, also participates in  
matters for their separate account business. 
the PVGC.
71  CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017
Our World: Social Investing
ASSET SERVICING
Asset Servicing supports institutional investors in   Most Common ESG Screens
today’s fast-evolving markets, safekeeping assets and 
enhancing client investment administration. We offer 
services that process, monitor and measure data from 
around the world to allow clients to focus on managing 
their investments. We help clients better understand 
their portfolios, including analyzing rates of return, asset 
Tobacco
allocation, security selection and risk exposure to certain 
21.2%
countries and sectors. 
ESG Screening
BNY Mellon has offered innovative ESG screening 
capabilities for more than a decade. In the last five years, 
demand has increased substantially. As of December 31, 
2017, 142 BNY Mellon clients used ESG rules or screens, 
a seven percent increase from 2016, and a 58 percent 
increase from 2012. The market value of portfolios we 
screen for ESG factors reached $907 billion in 2017, up  Weapons and Military
23 percent from the previous 12 months and 103 percent  17.4%
from 2012.
BNY Mellon  
Screened
Our ESG services meet an important need for 
institutional investors. Many use our services to monitor  $907B 
their investment managers’ adherence to their ESG 
investment guidelines. Traditional negative screening  
for ESG Factors
is fading in popularity as investors migrate toward  
more integrated approaches such as using ESG factors   Global Sanctions 
 (e.g. Iran, Sudan,  
to mitigate financial risk and enhance long-term 
North Korea, Syria)
performance. Clients strive for better implementation 
12.8%
and integration, especially as they attempt to consolidate 
sustainability data from multiple sources into actionable 
reporting and analysis. While ESG data continues to 
inform annual reporting efforts, it is also relevant  
on a daily basis for monitoring portfolios.
Alcohol
11.8%
Environment
8.4%
72  CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017
Our World: Social Investing
Client Advisory Boards  For individual savers, our digital platform’s innovative  
user experience is easy and intuitive, with goal-setting 
We regularly discuss social investing opportunities  
tools that encourage people to build their savings. 
with our client advisory boards (CABs), which consist  
Minimum transfers are set at reasonable amounts, and 
of institutional investors including public and  
personalized gifting pages make it easy for account 
private pension funds, university endowments and 
owners to receive funds from friends and family. We 
foundations. These discussions help us understand 
worked with the National Disability Institute in 2017 to 
client perspectives, establish priorities and identify 
raise awareness of ABLE programs, through the national 
needed services. 
#ABLEtoSave campaign. 
In 2017, our asset owner CAB identified new use cases  
for ESG data in portfolio analysis. In addition to seeing  Alternative Investment Services
how portfolios compare to benchmarks, clients want  
Alternative Investment Services (AIS) provides 
to better understand the impact that meeting ESG 
operational support to alternative asset managers 
objectives, particularly exclusionary screens, may  
through a full range of prime custody, hedge fund,  
have on portfolio performance. While our clients define 
private equity and real estate administration services.  
unique ESG problems for which they seek solutions, 
We provide custody, cash management, accounting, 
environmental objectives consistently rise to the top of 
administration and investor services to approximately  
the priority list, particularly carbon footprint analysis. 
500 alternative managers around the world.
Through these CAB discussions, we solicit feedback on 
our current offerings and shape new solutions to meet  We continually engage in dialogue with our clients  
evolving needs.  and other leaders in the alternative investments sector, 
exploring CSR issues through our representation at 
ABLE Savings Plan Solution
industry events and through workshops at our own 
The passage of the Achieving a Better Life Experience 
Innovation Centers. In 2017, we attended the Middle East 
(ABLE) Act is positively impacting many lives. People 
SuperReturn, contributing to sessions on renewable 
living with disabilities now have the option to save money 
energy and other topics related to fluctuating oil prices. 
in tax-advantaged 529A-ABLE accounts and invest for 
In addition, we actively monitor the growing interest 
the future without compromising important state and 
among institutional investors in responsible or green 
federal benefits. 
investments; in a 2017 survey we conducted, 99 percent 
of investors stated that sustainability is an important 
BNY Mellon is committed to supporting the public  
factor in their real estate investments. As the importance 
sector and the ABLE community. Our BNY Mellon team 
of and interest in responsible investing grows, we are 
offers states a powerful end-to-end plan management 
ready to help alternative managers mitigate their 
solution that simplifies the delivery of ABLE savings 
operational risk and optimize their efficiency, so they  
plans. We provide states with a single point of 
can more effectively focus on their core business goals.
accountability for service delivery, service management 
and customer support. In 2016 and 2017, we helped early 
adopter states Oregon and Maryland launch their ABLE 
plans, which total approximately 1,500 accounts as of 
February 2018.
73  CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017
Our World: Social Investing
THE INFRASTRUCTURE OPPORTUNITY to help them evaluate the operational requirements for 
Alan Flanagan, head of Private Equity and Real Estate  new fund structures and ensure accurate reporting on 
Fund Services, BNY Mellon Alternative Investment  cash, capital, fees, currencies and other critical metrics.
Services, shares his view on the unique opportunity  
In certain sectors, such as renewable energy, we are  
that infrastructure represents for investors.
also seeing a shift from investing in technology and 
Within the alternative investments world we are seeing  equipment manufacture to investing directly in the 
two key trends that, taken together, are elevating the  infrastructure assets themselves. These direct 
awareness and appeal of infrastructure as an asset  investments offer diversification and potentially lower 
class. First, investor appetite for alternatives has been  market risk (given the use of mature technologies and 
rising quickly the past few years, and shows no signs of  highly rated counterparties).
slowing down. Second, public funding around the world  
Whether accessed through funds or through direct 
is falling far short of meeting the growing infrastructure 
investment, the infrastructure asset class seems likely  
demands caused by demographic shifts — greater 
to figure into more and more investors’ portfolios and  
demands for energy, transportation, healthcare and 
ESG strategies in the years ahead.
education. The resulting gap creates an opportunity  
for private sector investors to deploy their capital with 
potentially lower risk profiles while achieving their ESG 
objectives as well.
We have been monitoring the infrastructure opportunity 
closely over the past few years; in a 2015 survey we 
conducted, 60 percent of infrastructure fund managers 
expected their assets under management (AUM) to 
increase by 50 percent or more in the next five years. The 
sector has indeed seen steady growth, adding $66 billion 
in inflows in 2016 and $65 billion in 2017, bringing total 
AUM to a record $418 billion according to Preqin.40 
Investors are continuing to search for long-term sources 
of income in a low-yield environment.
There are special considerations fund managers weigh 
carefully in the infrastructure sector. A crowded and 
competitive marketplace can drive valuations up and 
squeeze returns, while regulators typically impose  
strict requirements for transparency and reporting. 
Institutional investors are also seeking greater 
transparency, and demanding better terms of liquidity 
from a traditionally illiquid asset class. This call for 
liquidity is driving innovation in how managers are 
structuring their funds; we have now seen the emergence 
of open-ended infrastructure funds. Our team at 
BNY Mellon plays a key role in partnering with managers, 
40  2018 Preqin Global Infrastructure Report. 
74  CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017
Our World: Social Investing
ISSUER SERVICES INSURANCE-LINKED SECURITIES
Corporate Trust administers alternative reinsurance 
capital financings such as catastrophe (CAT) bonds that 
Corporate Trust
reduce the cost of reinsuring risk from natural disasters 
Corporate Trust offers the infrastructure, technology  
and longevity risk swaps that help pension funds adjust 
and processing services to help financial institutions, 
to demographic changes. As communities look for 
corporations, insurers, governments and not-for-profit 
financial security amid global population growth and 
organizations navigate the debt capital markets. 
climate change, we expect demand for these products 
Corporate Trust supports our clients’ ESG needs with  
and solutions to rise. 
a diverse range of products and solutions. 
SOCIAL HOUSING BONDS
GREEN BONDS
In the UK, we have supported social housing 
We administer debt securities that fund projects with 
infrastructure by administering the bond financings 
environmental benefits such as clean transportation  
issued by local housing authorities. These financings 
or renewable energy projects to help society mitigate  
help fund the construction or renewal of social and 
and adapt to climate change. In 2017, we administered 
affordable housing and can help improve the lives of 
approximately 37 green bonds representing 
vulnerable people.
approximately $19.3 billion in issuance volume, up  
from 21 green bonds representing $15.4 billion in  CHARITABLE BONDS
issuance volume in 2016. We administer charitable bonds in the UK that allow 
charities and social enterprises to raise capital in the 
Notable examples include our appointment by the 
form of long-term debt. This enables them to finance  
Province of Quebec, Canada, to service its first green 
the expansion of income-generating activities, such  
bond; servicing the Brazilian Development Bank’s first 
as a network of charity shops, to broaden their reach  
international issue of green bonds by a Brazilian bank; 
and impact. 
and servicing a $600 million green bond issued by 
AVANGRID Inc., the third-largest wind energy producer   PROPERTY ASSESSED CLEAN ENERGY (PACE) BONDS
in the U.S.  In the U.S., PACE bonds help residential, commercial  
and industrial property owners finance energy efficiency 
We continue to work with associations that support 
upgrades and renewable energy installations. Under 
green bond market growth. Corporate Trust maintains 
PACE programs, private and commercial property  
“Observer” status to the International Capital Market 
owners can repay funds for eligible energy efficiency 
Association’s (ICMA) Green Bond Principles (GBP), which 
projects by accepting a special assessment on their 
are voluntary process guidelines that recommend 
property tax bills. 
transparency and disclosure and promote integrity in 
developing the green bond market. ICMA’s Social Bond  In 2017, BNY Mellon administered the largest clean 
Principles (SBP) and Sustainability Bond Guidelines  energy program loan ever made in Texas and the second 
(SBG) provide similar guidance for projects with positive  largest in the nation. CleanFund Commercial PACE 
social outcomes and positive green and social impacts,  Capital financed the project to convert a 1910 landmark 
respectively.  in downtown Dallas, Texas, into apartments and 
commercial space. It is expected to save more than 
In 2016, BNY Mellon became an approved listing agent  
6.6 million kilowatt hours in electricity, almost 700,000 
on the Luxembourg Green Exchange (LGX), the world’s 
gallons of water and more than 3,500 metric tons of 
leading platform exclusively for securities that are 
carbon dioxide per year, and contribute to creating over 
100 percent green, social or sustainable. We provide 
100 new jobs in the Dallas area.
dedicated service to issuers listing green securities.
75  CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017
Our World: Social Investing
ENVIRONMENTAL TRUSTS AND ESCROWS Depositary Receipts
We help clients comply with financial responsibility 
Depositary Receipts plays a major role in helping 
requirements enforced by the U.S. Environmental 
securities issuers access the world’s financial markets. 
Protection Agency (EPA) and other commissions for 
BNY Mellon is the world’s leading provider of sponsored 
environmental issues ranging from chemical emissions 
depositary receipt (DR) programs. 
to nuclear decommissioning. Our services include the 
setup and administration of standby and funded trust  As one of the largest providers of depositary receipts 
and escrow accounts that serve as financial guarantees   services in the world, BNY Mellon served as depositary 
to secure environmental liabilities. for 886 sponsored American and global depositary 
receipts programs at Dec. 31, 2017, acting in partnership 
PROJECT AGENT AND PUBLIC-PRIVATE PARTNERSHIPS
with leading companies from 58 countries. 
A number of infrastructure systems around the world 
need extensive upgrades to withstand current and future  DRs facilitate cross-border trading, allowing companies 
environmental and economic stresses. Urban areas are  to make their shares available outside their home 
expanding, populations are growing rapidly and the  markets and helping investors in the U.S. and elsewhere 
demand for infrastructure, civic and energy investments  invest in companies on a more global basis. 
is strong. 
ESG ADVISORY SOLUTIONS
Corporate Trust administers project bonds and project  Depositary Receipts offers ESG Advisory Solutions to 
loans to help finance infrastructure projects such as  help DR issuer clients develop effective ESG strategies 
wind farms, hospitals and student accommodations.  for consideration in their capital markets and investor 
Using our scale and resources, we help project sponsors  relations activities.
and investors meet sophisticated and complex 
We support issuers in four key areas:
jurisdictional requirements while easing counterparty 
risk in the structure.
1. Education and Benchmarking: Through our 
collaboration with a leading provider of ESG research 
SOVEREIGN DEBT RESTRUCTURING
and analysis, we assist in identifying the most 
We have administered a wide array of debt restructuring 
dominant themes specific to the issuer and its industry. 
and workout transactions for clients, including sovereign 
This is accomplished through providing company-
issuers like the Republic of Argentina, Brazil, Uruguay, 
specific ESG ratings, industry and thematic research 
Ecuador and the Ukraine. As a global institution, we  
reports, as well as BNY Mellon bespoke peer 
have extensive experience serving sovereigns and  
benchmarking analysis.
sub-sovereigns internationally and throughout a variety 
of political and credit cycles.  2. Engagement Policy and Strategy: We advise our issuer 
clients on how to best implement and position their 
In 2017, we participated in a UN Sovereign Debt 
ESG practices to better align with the needs of the 
Restructuring Committee looking at best practices for 
global ESG investment community. A main component 
sovereign debt workouts. When distressed sovereigns are 
is a review of their communications — content, 
better able to recover and restore liquidity, they can more 
platforms, and frequency.
quickly access the market and foreign investment, which 
3. Intermediary Engagement: We assist DR issuer  
may help to improve social and economic stability and 
clients to understand the ESG service provider 
meet the needs of their populations. The committee’s 
landscape, including ESG rating companies, 
recommendations appeared in a white paper entitled, 
sustainability index providers, specialized firms  
“Sovereign Debt Restructuring: Further Improvements  
and associations, and proxy advisors.
in the Market Based Approach,” published by the UN’s 
Financing for Development Office, Department of  4. Investor Engagement: We facilitate engagement 
Economic and Social Affairs.  between issuer clients and the investment community 
on ESG and other topics.
76  CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017
Our World: Social Investing
CLEARING, MARKETS AND   PAYMENT MODERNIZATION
In November 2017, BNY Mellon was the first bank in the 
CLIENT MANAGEMENT
U.S. to launch a Real-Time Payments (RTP) service to 
enable consumers and businesses to send and receive 
Treasury Services
funds in real time directly from their bank accounts, 
BNY Mellon Treasury Services provides global payment,  24/7/365. The positive impact is tangible: RTPs enable 
trade and cash management services, enabling our  cash flow management down to the second, freeing up 
clients to move money around the world quickly,   working capital for businesses and easing stress on 
safely and reliably. Through an extensive network of  budget-conscious consumers.
correspondent financial institutions, we help bank and 
BNY Mellon began offering SWIFT global payments 
non-bank financial institutions, corporations, not-for-
innovation (gpi) in June 2017. This service increases 
profits and government agencies streamline 
cross-border payment speed, transparency and end-to-
transactions, optimize cash flow, manage liquidity and 
end tracking to help corporates grow their international 
make payments more efficiently. For our clients this 
business, improve supplier relationships and achieve 
means improved, faster access to working capital and  
greater treasury efficiencies. We plan to expand the 
a gateway to other financial services, both key enablers 
solution’s currency and reach as gpi grows globally and 
of a more inclusive and productive global economy.
within BNY Mellon and we gain further insight into the 
After decades of stagnation in the payment services  payments lifecycle.
industry, the last few years have seen radical changes 
In December 2017, we introduced BNY Mellon Tokenized 
spurred on by new technologies, innovative providers  
Payments® now available with Zelle®. This service 
and rising demand for a faster, safer, smarter and more 
accelerates corporate and institutional clients’ 
efficient payments system. In the longer term, open 
transitions from paper to electronic payments by using 
banking, where banks share data with clients and  
consumer electronic tokens (email addresses or mobile 
with account information service providers (AISPs) and 
numbers) to send money quickly. BNY Mellon Tokenized 
payment information service providers (PISPs), will end 
Payments eliminate the need to store or process payees’ 
banks’ monopoly on client account information and 
bank account information and the cost and hassle of 
prompt a game-changing transition away from existing 
physical checks or other traditional payment options. 
banking models. BNY Mellon leads industry and 
Consumers receive nearly instant notification that funds 
transformational initiatives to redefine the banking 
are on the way and will be deposited directly to their 
experience in our globalized, technology-driven world - 
account, enabling them to use the funds without waiting 
so that businesses and organizations can spend less 
days for a check to arrive.
time and money on payments processing, and more time 
on achieving their goals. 
77  CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017
Our World: Social Investing
BNY Mellon Capital Markets For example, Capital Markets acted as the Placement 
and Remarketing Agent on $20 million of variable rate 
BNY Mellon Capital Markets, LLC (Capital Markets) is  
Certificates of Participation for an international 
a full service securities broker/dealer and an indirect, 
development agency investment in a South African 
wholly owned subsidiary of BNY Mellon. Capital Markets 
transportation fund. This development agency joined  
provides underwriting services in debt and equity capital 
a consortium of other entities to provide loan financing 
across both public and private markets. We actively  
and a cost-effective structure that would allow under-
make a market in U.S. Treasuries, U.S. government 
resourced individual entrepreneurs in the Republic of 
agencies, mortgage-backed securities, municipal 
South Africa to obtain, manage, service and finance 
securities, commercial paper, corporate bonds, high  
minibus vehicles that operate as taxis in the region. 
yield debt, supra-sovereign debt, mutual funds and  
Minibuses are a key part of the South African 
brokered certificates of deposit, and are actively  
transportation sector as approximately 67 percent  
involved in trading common stocks and listed options. 
of all travel in South Africa is via minibus. Each minibus  
Public Finance is an important part of our Capital  is a small business which supports the operators, their 
Markets business. We have a long track record of  families and their communities. We currently act as 
successfully structuring tax-exempt and taxable bond  Remarketing Agent on the Certificates of Participation, 
transactions for general obligation and revenue bond  which includes resetting the interest rate as needed  
issuers throughout the United States.  and finding new investors in the event that the current 
investors wish to exit their position. 
SOCIALLY RESPONSIBLE CAPITAL
Capital Markets provides a number of products and 
services that can meet the needs of both investors in  
and users of socially responsible capital. We have been 
active in the affordable housing space since the early 
1990s and have expanded our activities to include  
social impact bonds, green bonds, pay for success 
structures, sustainable ventures, renewable energy  
and non-profit finance. 
78  CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017
Our World: Social Investing
CORPORATE ACTIVITIES • As investor demand for impact investing grows, we see 
the need to build awareness and access to capital for 
innovators and changemakers who bring solutions to 
As a global institution, BNY Mellon’s activities advance 
the world’s challenges; social entrepreneurs are an 
industry thinking and support the global investment 
integral part of sustaining the flow of deals to fill 
community to make positive social, environmental and 
investor portfolios. Village Capital operates educational 
economic impacts. We tap resources across our 
programs for entrepreneurs who build innovative 
corporate functions to drive thought leadership, public-
models to address social challenges and environmental 
private partnerships with universities and nonprofits, 
sustainability. In 2017, BNY Mellon provided funding for 
investments in community development projects and 
one of Village Capital’s social enterprise programs, a 
responsible financing. 
three-month accelerator during which eight early-
Thought Leader and Partner stage ventures working to solve transportation-energy 
In 2017, we focused our thought leadership and  challenges through sustainable energy consumption 
partnership efforts on three primary themes:  received valuable mentoring and training to help them 
grow. Read about our other social innovation outreach 
1. Piloting impact investing and support of impact startups. 
2. Field-building for gender-lens investing  • In addition to key partnerships like these, we are 
3. Driving industry dialogue on long-term value   committed to expanding our hands-on learning. 
creation and better assessing climate risks  BNY Mellon’s Social Investing team has partnered  
with its Investment Management’s Manager Research 
EXPLORING IMPACT INVESTING Group (MRG) on an impact investing pilot project,  
2017 marked the 10th anniversary of the coining of the  which serves as both an opportunity to build 
term “impact investing” and the beginning of a global  BNY Mellon’s impact investing capabilities and  
effort. BNY Mellon partnered with organizations that  network and to model the potential for investors  
support investors who seek profit and purpose.  to have an impact beyond traditional philanthropic 
efforts. The project will leverage BNY Mellon 
• The Global Impact Investing Network (GIIN) is the 
philanthropic funds in a donor advised fund (DAF) 
preeminent thought leadership and membership 
account held at ImpactAssets; in 2017 the project  
nonprofit organization dedicated to increasing impact 
was approved and early execution stages began. 
investing scale and effectiveness using tools, training 
Through this project, we seek to invest in several 
and research. BNY Mellon is proud to be a member and 
impact investment funds along the impact theme of 
strategic partner. In 2017, we expanded our relationship 
expanding access to financial capital and services. 
to provide funding to help the GIIN continue to scale 
impact investing around the world, specifically by 
supporting working groups and resource development 
on impact measurement and management and gender-
lens investing. 
79  CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017
Our World: Social Investing
CATALYZING INVESTING  DRIVING INDUSTRY DIALOGUE
Gender-lens investing, in which investors seek positive  We believe professionals learning from each other and 
financial returns as well as beneficial impact on women’s  contributing expertise to address shared challenges are 
lives, is gaining momentum. BNY Mellon supports this  vital to scaling social investing. BNY Mellon is active in 
field through thought leadership and advocacy.  this important industry dialogue. 
• Developed in partnership with the United Nations  • The World Resources Institute (WRI) is a leading 
Foundation (UNF), BNY Mellon’s 2017 thought  nonprofit that facilitates collaboration among 
leadership report, Return on Equality, found advancing  technology, finance and NGO sectors. In 2017, 
gender equality through greater access to products and  BNY Mellon funded a WRI project to develop a 
services in five sectors — water, contraception,  harmonized framework for financial institutions to set 
telecommunications, energy and child care — could  climate targets that include their investing and lending 
unlock $300 billion in incremental annual spending  portfolios in line with the Paris Climate Agreement.  
globally by 2025. In the Paris Agreement to combat climate change, 
countries agreed to work to limit global temperature 
• Throughout the year, the report was presented at more 
rise to below 2 degrees Celsius. Read more about 
than 20 high-level convenings, including the 
BNY Mellon’s work on climate targets. 
“Sustainable Finance: Aligning Purpose with Profit” 
cross-bank event and TEDWomen, reaching  • In 2017, we sponsored the third annual Berkeley 
approximately 1,500 thought leaders and professionals.  Sustainable Business and Investment Forum, a 
The report prompted hundreds of conversations with  gathering of leading academics, government officials, 
employees and partners who are passionate  corporate executives and institutional investors. The 
supporters of women’s empowerment but recognize the  conference focused on topical issues such as climate 
value and importance of research that can  change, impact investing, sustainability reporting, 
demonstrate the economic and business case in  investor relations and long-term value creation in the 
addition to the moral imperative.  evolving field of sustainable business practices.
• We have continued our partnership with the UNF to 
develop Powering Potential: Increasing women’s access 
to financial products and services, an analysis of the 
potential market returns and development gains from 
advancing women’s economic empowerment and 
closing the global gender gap. 
80  CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017
Our World: Social Investing
Community Reinvestment Act at BNY Mellon  Capital to Expand Housing Affordability 
In the U.S., two BNY Mellon banking entities —  Demand for convenient, quality, affordable, energy-
BNY Mellon N.A. and The Bank of New York Mellon —   efficient housing is a pressing need in many metropolitan 
are evaluated in accordance with the Community  markets across the U.S. where the banks have CRA 
Reinvestment Act (CRA). Regulators examine the   obligations. Affordable housing financing is thus the 
banks under the Community Development Test, which  most visible and significant means for BNY Mellon to 
evaluates bank performance with regard to community  meet those obligations. By providing equity and debt 
development lending, investments and community  financing for affordable housing developments, 
service activities. Currently BNY Mellon N.A. is rated  BNY Mellon capital helps our clients produce innovative, 
“Outstanding,” and The Bank of New York Mellon is   sustainable responses to these challenges. Investments 
rated “Satisfactory”.  in affordable housing partnerships generate tax credits 
and economic returns for BNY Mellon and contribute to 
The banks’ CRA goals are established on a multi-year 
local resiliency and enhanced quality of life for low-
basis and across business lines to capture a range of 
income people and the communities where they live. 
activities that contribute to this record of community 
development performance.  BNY Mellon’s Affordable Housing Investments
 2017
LENDING PRODUCTS
New affordable housing projects financed 23
• Construction loans, bridge loans  
and/or rehabilitation loans Equity investments $255 million
• Letters of credit Debt financing $313 million
• Bond financing Units produced 1,915
• Term loans  Persons housed41  4,736
• Lines of credit 
INVESTMENT PRODUCTS
• Affordable housing and community  
 
development projects utilizing: 
• Low income housing tax credits (LIHTC) 
• Historic tax credits
• Brownfield credits
• Renewable energy credits
• Small business investment corporations (SBIC) 
• Mortgage-backed securities
• Affordable housing bonds
PHILANTHROPY AND CONTRIBUTED SERVICES
• Corporate and foundation grants
• Matched employee giving
• Employee volunteering and community service
41  Estimate bases on 1.5 persons per bedroom.
81  CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017
Our World: Social Investing
Financing Community Innovation in New York  Small Business Investment  
Corporation Portfolio 
Safe, affordable housing is a building block for vibrant 
communities and productive citizens. Bringing this vision  A Small Business Investment Corporation Portfolio (SBIC) 
to life was the objective for Compass Residences, a  is a CRA-eligible investment fund authorized and 
multi-building development in New York City’s Bronx  regulated by the Small Business Administration (SBA). 
borough. To date, BNY Mellon has committed $286 million  Companies with little or no access to low-cost capital or 
to help transform an underutilized strip of former  conventional financing turn to SBICs to grow their 
industrial property into a bustling neighborhood with  businesses. BNY Mellon added one SBIC investment to 
quality housing, open space, retail and other amenities to  our portfolio, to increase the portfolio to $92.5 million 
attract a mix of households with varying income levels.  and 12 corporations.
Compass Residences uses a variety of CRA investment 
Philanthropy and Community Service
vehicles such as Low-Income Housing Tax Credits 
(LIHTCs) and Brownfield credits to couple private  BNY Mellon’s corporate commitment to philanthropy  
investment with public resources for the massive master  and volunteerism also contributes to the banks’ CRA 
planning and rezoning effort. record. Monetary donations, in-kind services and 
employee involvement in certain qualified activities  
Compass Residences consists of multiple phases, three  and organizations are tracked through the Community 
of which BNY Mellon participated in. When complete,  Partnership portal and add to the banks’ reputation  
about 75 percent of the units will be for households at  and rating, and to community wellbeing. For 2017, this 
60 percent or below the area median income (AMI), a  giving represented a $6.5 million reinvestment in 
small group will be set aside for homeless households  American communities.
and the rest will be for moderate-income households at 
80–90 percent AMI. With plans for more retail shops, a 
school and outdoor gathering spaces, this previously 
blighted area is becoming an attractive community for 
citizens and families. 
Active Support for Passive House  
in Pennsylvania 
Passive House design principles keep buildings 
comfortable with minimal active heating or cooling, even 
in extreme heat or cold. With financing from BNY Mellon, 
several developer clients in Pennsylvania have embraced 
these principles and are constructing affordable Passive 
House projects to mitigate climate change and reduce 
energy costs for residents. 
82  CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017
Our World: Social Investing
Responsible Financing and  
Looking Ahead 
the Equator Principles
Social Investing
Financial institutions who want to assess social and 
environmental risks in their lending activities generally 
We see the potential for investor capital to have 
turn to the Equator Principles, an internationally 
positive economic, environmental and social impact 
recognized framework. The principles are modeled on  
now and in the future. We are well positioned to 
the World Bank’s environmental standards and the 
apply our expertise and capabilities to continue 
International Finance Corporation’s social policies.
developing social investing products and services.
BNY Mellon is not active in project financing and is not  
Markets indicate green financing is significant and 
an Equator Principles signatory. Although we don’t plan  
growing. The larger the green bond market becomes, 
to change the scope of our activities, we do see the need 
the more investors will demand these vehicles and 
to apply social and environmental criteria to lending 
strategies to meet their changing financial needs. 
activities related to large-scale infrastructure projects. 
We’re also watching the next generation of investors 
The guidelines we require our lending professionals to 
and their different motivations. Purpose-led and 
follow are consistent with the Equator Principles. We 
impact-driven investments will increase, increasing 
periodically evaluate our lending portfolio against these 
demand for asset managers and servicers to develop 
guidelines to determine our exposure to potential social 
products that capitalize these interests.
and environmental risks through non-project finance 
lending activities. Our evaluations show minimal  We will continue to track developments, build 
environmental and social risk. awareness and test new social investing 
opportunities with our clients and partners. We will 
Financing Wind Energy Projects
partner with stakeholders to develop thought 
In the U.S., financing certain alternative energy projects  leadership and innovative products and services to 
provides investors with economic benefits that include  allocate capital for maximum impact. 
tax credits while enabling support for renewable energy 
expansion. In 2017, BNY Mellon committed approximately 
$440 million for the financing of four U.S. wind energy 
projects. The projects have a combined total installed 
capacity of 363 megawatts, representing approximately 
six percent of the wind capacity installed in the U.S. last 
year. In total, the projects produce enough electricity to 
power approximately 100,000 average U.S. homes. Since 
2014, BNY Mellon has provided more than $1.7 billion in 
financing for wind projects with a combined capacity of 
3,512 megawatts capable of powering approximately 
one million average U.S. homes.42 
42  In 2017, an estimated 6,000 megawatts of wind power were installed in the United States. 
Total installed U.S. wind capacity is now estimated at 89,000 megawatts, enough capacity to 
power approximately 26 million homes. See 4,000 megawatts estimated installed in fourth 
quarter of 2017. 
83  CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017
Our World
SUPPLY CHAIN RESPONSIBILITY
Our Opportunity  EMERGING MARKET NORMS CAN CREATE RISK
Emerging markets offer tremendous potential for 
It takes many products and services to operate a global 
business growth. Capturing these opportunities often 
organization of our size and scale. We partner with 
means using local suppliers in areas where regulations 
suppliers to conduct business responsibly and bring 
and/or societal norms vary widely. We must prepare to 
measurable value to our firm and clients. 
manage possible risks while helping suppliers improve 
Key Trends their processes and raise their standards.
We hold our suppliers to the same high standards we 
Our Approach
have for ourselves. We expect them to do business with 
We expect suppliers to adhere to our Supplier Code  
integrity, protect human rights, provide safe working 
of Conduct, human rights policies and applicable laws, 
conditions for their employees and comply with laws and 
regulations and standards in the countries where they 
environmental regulations. We also expect them to know 
operate. They must have a sound value proposition  
how certain issues affect financial services, in particular.
and offer the right combination of products, services  
THE FINANCIAL SERVICES INDUSTRY HAS STRICT  and/or expertise to help us meet our operational and 
STANDARDS client needs.
Financial services firms rely heavily on data processing 
and analytics to serve clients and markets, and many  
use third-party suppliers for these tasks. Suppliers must 
have stringent privacy, accuracy, security and other 
policies and processes to protect and validate financial 
and nonfinancial information. We evaluate potential 
providers against these standards and communicate our 
process to strengthen stakeholder trust.
CLIENTS DEMAND SUSTAINABLE SUPPLY CHAINS
Globalization and a growing number of intermediaries 
underline the importance of a secure, defendable  
supply chain to prevent disruptions affecting business 
performance. A late 2014 study showed 80 percent  
of companies felt pressure from customers to prove  
their supply chains were sustainable in terms of 
environmental impact, worker health and safety, ethics 
and other factors.43 BNY Mellon has also seen a dramatic 
rise in supply chain responsibility and supplier diversity 
requirements and priorities in client inquiries. Supply 
chain responsibility and supplier diversity achievements 
and actions were included in bids for more than 
$861,200,000 in potential business in 2017. 
43  “Customers demand more sustainable supply chains,” Joacim Vestvik-Lunde, DNV-GL, 
October 31, 2014.
84  CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017
Our World: Supplier
How We Work with Suppliers Human Rights Protection
Our suppliers help us deliver excellence to clients around  Human rights risks in the supply chain most relevant  
the world, improve our performance and uphold our  to our business are related to labor standards, wages, 
responsibilities to the financial markets. We value  privacy and conflict minerals. Our procurement approach 
partners who are trustworthy, ethical, innovative and  and Supplier Code of Conduct include human rights 
good social and environmental stewards. Our supplier  attestations. In 2017, we reviewed our human rights  
relationships are based on commitments to quality,  risk assessment and screening procedures, increased 
performance and cost effectiveness. the human rights weighting in procurement decisions, 
ratified our UK Modern Slavery Act Statement and 
We’re always looking for smarter ways to run our 
re-ratified BNY Mellon’s Human Rights Statement after 
business and reduce risk to our company, clients and the 
amending our zero-tolerance statement to include 
financial system. When new companies show interest in 
modern slavery. 
becoming a BNY Mellon supplier, we ask them to register 
on our supplier registration portal. During this process, 
Looking Ahead 
they must explain their unique value proposition, which 
Supplier Responsibility
helps us evaluate their products and services and 
confirm the relationship will be a good fit for our 
We expect risks resulting from increased regulation, 
company and theirs.
human rights and environmental issues to compel 
Supplier Diversity clients to demand more supply chain and supplier 
management information. Through our supplier 
We support, develop and listen to diverse entrepreneur 
assessment process, we enforce our high standards 
supplier perspectives. Our Supplier Diversity Program is 
for governance, environmental stewardship, human 
for small and diverse businesses owned and operated by 
rights protection and other responsible behaviors 
women, minorities, veterans, individuals with disabilities 
with our suppliers. Partnering with them in these 
and LGBT+ individuals. It creates a level playing field 
areas adds value to our firm and assures clients of 
where they can compete for our business with bigger and 
our commitment to sustainability in every aspect of 
more established companies and contribute valuable 
our business. 
ideas, drive feedback and solutions. 
 
In 2017, we spent $242 million with diverse and small 
business suppliers in the U.S. Overall, we achieved a 
10.4 percent diverse and small business supplier spend 
versus 6.6 percent in 2016. We changed our approach  
to focus on end-to-end supply chain sustainability to 
improve our business top line through formalized  
client team bid support as well as generating bottom line 
savings through innovation, efficiencies and increased 
competition. As we identify diverse suppliers and develop 
mutually beneficial relationships, our business becomes 
more valuable to clients.
85  CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017
Our World 
COMMUNITY COMMITMENT
Our Opportunity  A SKILLS GAP IS EMERGING 
Technology is changing the way people do their jobs. 
Communities everywhere are grappling with how to 
Next-generation employees need more than industry 
improve citizens’ quality of life while dealing with the 
expertise; they also need technology and data  
effects of climate change, depleted resources and 
analytics skills. A shortage of candidates with strong 
growing economic inequality. BNY Mellon and other 
technical skills can hamper companies’ growth and 
private sector companies are stepping up with resources, 
competitiveness, slow economic progress and threaten 
pinpointing areas where they can have the greatest 
quality of life. We must invest in education and training  
impact and collaborating with governments and 
to help people develop new skills so companies and 
charitable organizations to tackle tough social issues  
communities can prosper.
in the communities in which we live and work.
Our Approach
Key Trends
Our philanthropic giving targets problems we believe  
Accelerating technology, the changing global workforce 
we can impact significantly. Investing in economic 
and gender inequality are difficult challenges for 
empowerment and digital capacity building can generate 
communities striving for economic prosperity and  
positive results now and in the future. Our community 
social wellbeing. Companies and individuals also face 
programs direct corporate, foundation and employee 
these issues:
giving to make a meaningful difference and give 
SLOW WAGE GROWTH HAMPERS ECONOMIC GROWTH employees opportunities to use their skills and  
While the global economy is improving, wage growth  resources to improve lives.
remains sluggish.44 In some parts of the world, workers 
OUR COMMUNITY GOAL
are trapped in low-paid and low-productivity jobs. With 
fewer resources, they spend less, invest less and can’t  Significantly increase the scope and impact of our 
contribute to economic growth, which perpetuates the  community support.
cycle of underemployment and unemployment. This 
How We’ll Achieve It
phenomenon especially impacts vulnerable people. 
Public and private sectors must work together to build   We will work to increase our philanthropic impact, 
a productive workforce with the right skills for the  including increasing our skills-based volunteering and 
evolving global market. continuing to grow our international programs. 
2017 PROGRESS
Launched refreshed philanthropy focus and aligned  
66 percent of contributions strategically; however,  
overall community support was primarily flat to 2016.
44  “The Disconnect Between Unemployment and Wages,” by Gee Hee Hong, Zsoka Koczan, 
Weicheng Lian, Malhar Nabar, IMFBlog, September 27, 2017.
86  CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017
Our World: Community Commitment
GIVING FOR IMPACT
How We Help People, Communities  
and Economies
As we do in all parts of our business, our global 
philanthropy team monitors trends and emerging issues 
to direct our corporate charitable giving to the most 
pressing challenges. Previously, we targeted citizens’ 
basic needs and workforce development. In 2016, we 
reassessed our funding strategy and refreshed our  
focus. We now direct our resources in two areas:
Economic Empowerment to increase countries’, 
institutions’ and communities’ capacity to improve 
people’s financial wellbeing 
Technology and Digital Capacity Building to develop 
next-generation business and technology skills to  
help people work and thrive in the digital world
Our specific objectives are to:
• Steer philanthropic efforts for greater depth  
and social impact
• Invest in developing and re-skilling the  
next-generation workforce
• Invest in education, including science, technology, 
engineering and mathematics (STEM) education and 
technical training, and expand innovative delivery 
models and adaptive and mobile technologies 
• Identify projects we can implement any time, in any 
location and across multiple sites and borders
We encourage eligible employees in all parts of the world 
to get involved in activities related to our corporate 
philanthropic focus. We also support their involvement  
in and match contributions to approved nonprofit 
organizations important to them.
87  CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017
Our World: Community Commitment
PHILANTHROPIC GIVING Disaster Response
BNY Mellon partners with relief organizations to provide 
Donating for Impact funds for immediate assistance and short-term 
rebuilding after disasters. When eligible employees 
BNY Mellon invests in our communities’ wellbeing. 
contribute to approved disaster relief efforts, the 
Through our Community Partnership Program, the 
company matches what they give through our Community 
company and our employees make financial donations to 
Partnership Disaster Relief Program. 
nonprofit agencies around the world, and our employees 
donate their time and talent to make a difference. We 
Total Community Support* ($m)
look for initiatives that improve social and economic 
conditions where we do business and where our  2017 41.7**
employees live and work. We adapt our programs to  2016 42.0**
regional and cultural nuances and needs. 2015 39.9
2014 38.1
VISIBLE DIFFERENCE 2013 34.4
Our philanthropic partnerships, programs and 
2012 33.8
fundraising events make our giving more visible to  *  Community support includes donations, grants and charitable sponsorships made by 
BNY Mellon and employee donations to charities qualifying for our matching program.
stakeholders. Prospective clients and talent often want 
** The calculation of Community Support includes amounts previously not included in the 
to know what we’re doing for the community, and seeing  tally of Total Community Support.
us support causes that matter to them strengthens 
relationships. As a result, in 2018 we launched a Global  WE’RE THERE WHEN NEEDED
Philanthropy web page. Please visit bnymellon.com/
Our disaster response programs provided invaluable 
globalphilanthropy.
assistance in 2017, as hurricanes devastated parts  
Economic Empowerment of the U.S. and the Caribbean. BNY Mellon and our 
employees donated more than half a million dollars 
Long-term economic development and sustainability 
to relief agencies for Hurricane Harvey victims in 
require access to capital, markets, business networks, 
Texas; for Hurricane Irma victims in the Caribbean 
technology, training and equal protection under the law 
and Florida Keys; for Hurricane Maria victims in 
for those in need. Economic empowerment is one of our 
Puerto Rico. For each disaster, we gave employees the 
philanthropic priorities. We invest in community-based 
opportunity to contribute through the company’s 
education and curricula to retrain, re-skill and provide 
individual matched giving program, with BNY Mellon 
tools to help people join the workforce of the future. We 
matching all eligible donations. Read more about our 
support socially responsible entrepreneurship that 
hurricane response in 2017. 
delivers positive environmental or sustainable impact 
and improves lives.
Technology and Digital Capabilities
We invest in education, training, skills-building, 
internships and mentoring to help young people  
(ages 16–24) pursue technology careers and avoid the 
challenges of unemployment and underemployment.  
We fund women in technology initiatives, STEM studies 
for adults of all ages, early education for girls and 
expanded access to digital and financial literacy to help 
people secure meaningful employment. 
88  CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017
Our World: Community Commitment
EMPLOYEES GIVE BACK SKILLS-BASED VOLUNTEERING VS.  
PRO BONO VOLUNTEERING
Community Partnership at Work Skills-based volunteering uses employees’ professional 
experience to help others, such as mentoring youth or 
Community Partnership is a year-round, global program 
reviewing resumes for those who face unfair barriers to 
where employees can volunteer and raise funds for any 
employment. Pro bono volunteering uses job-specific 
Community Partnership-eligible charitable nonprofit they 
skills employed at work each day to help build nonprofit 
choose. We offer every eligible employee up to three days of 
organizations’ capacity so they can more effectively 
paid volunteer time per year, as well as regional team and 
achieve their missions. In addition to the legal variety of 
individual volunteer project opportunities. We support and 
this work that people are most familiar with, pro bono 
give a corporate match to approved charities for volunteer 
volunteerism can use expertise from functional areas 
time and fundraising.
such as finance, technology and human resources. 
Through our year-round, Individual Matched Giving  Projects might include a marketing team advising a 
program, we encourage eligible employees to donate to a  nonprofit staff on a branding campaign, or 
variety of nonprofit organizations in their communities. We  technologists updating a nonprofit’s client database. 
match what they give with company contributions. 
Skills-Based Volunteering EMPLOYEE COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT PROGRESS
2013 2014 2015 2016 2017
One of our strategic objectives is to grow our employee 
Employee  $14.5 $15.2 $16.1 $17.2 $15.6
offerings by developing a skills-based volunteering 
donations and 
ecosystem, to engage employees and build capacity to  company match 
increase the impact of philanthropic partners. In 2017,   (in millions)
we partnered with the Taproot Foundation, a BNY Mellon  Volunteer hours 105,000 127,000 140,000 143,000 143,000
grantee and leader in developing corporate pro bono 
programs, to help us create a high-impact program that  In 2017, 47 percent of employee volunteer hours were 
matches our world-class talent with nonprofits’ needs.  skills-based and benefited more than 500 nonprofit 
organizations. BNY Mellon employees served on boards, 
As part of an extensive discovery process, we conducted the 
volunteered individually and volunteered as teams.
BNY Mellon ScopeAthon, a pilot event allowing employees to 
lend their expertise to help nonprofits address organizational 
challenges. The impact was wide-ranging and included the 
development of a communications and outreach strategy 
for a social service agency and a work plan for an education 
nonprofit to update its aging IT infrastructure. As a result of 
what we learned, we will roll out a comprehensive signature 
pro bono volunteer program in 2018.
89  CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017
Our World: Community Commitment
Human Rights
MAKING A DIFFERENCE WITH LEGAL 
We work to preserve and improve human rights and 
PRO BONO PROJECTS
contribute to global human rights initiatives throughout 
BNY Mellon employees donate their time and skills  
our company, supply chain and communities. See our 
to drive agendas important to our communities and 
Human Rights Statement for details. 
stakeholders. Highlights from 2017 include:
As noted throughout this report, BNY Mellon supports 
• Our Legal Department attorneys volunteer to staff a 
the UN SDGs to end poverty, protect the planet and 
Legal Aid Society helpline called “Access to Benefits” 
create prosperity for all. All 17 goals touch human rights 
(A2B), a one-stop resource for underprivileged 
in some way, which underscores the importance of 
individuals who need help with government benefits, 
human dignity. We are determined to see all people live 
employment issues and other matters. 
and work in safe, healthy communities where everyone is 
• BNY Mellon lawyers pair with attorneys from Paul,  treated fairly and equally.
Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison LLP to conduct 
OUR POSITION AGAINST MODERN SLAVERY
intake/screening interviews with people seeking  
Slavery is often a hidden crime, making it impossible to 
U.S. asylum based on persecution for LGBTQ+  
know exactly how many people are in forced labor, sexual 
and/or HIV-positive status. Our volunteers make 
exploitation or marriage. An International Labor 
recommendations to Legal Services—NYC to help 
Organization (ILO) report estimates there are more than 
determine which cases to pursue.
40 million, with one in four being children.45 We are 
• Our lawyers and paralegals partner with the 
committed to preventing modern slavery and human 
Pittsburgh-based Neighborhood Legal Services 
trafficking in our operations and supply chain.
Association to assist victims of domestic violence 
in obtaining protection from abuse orders. In 2017, we ratified the company’s UK Modern Slavery Act 
statement, which includes our awareness of modern 
• BNY Mellon lawyers provide advice to individuals 
slavery and steps we take to prevent it. We updated our 
from under-privileged communities in the UK on 
Supplier Code of Conduct and our global Human Rights 
employment issues at Toynbee Hall, a free legal 
Statement to expressly cover modern slavery and clarify 
advice center.  
our expectations in this area. We developed a vendor 
• We team up monthly with other corporate partners 
self-assessment and attestation for Human Rights for 
at Legal Services—NYC’s  “Military Mondays”  
key vendors and included modern slavery in our training, 
clinics to provide legal assistance to hundreds of 
due diligence and governance practices where relevant.
low-income veterans.
See all BNY Mellon policies related to human rights. 
• BNY Mellon and Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton  
& Garrison LLP sponsor an Equal Justice Works  
 
Fellow to work with The Safe Passage Project 
 
seeking immigration relief for unaccompanied  
minor children who have been victims of sexual 
abuse and other violence.
 45 “40 million slaves in the world, finds new report,” by Mark Tutton, CNN, September 20, 2017.
90  CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017
Our World: Community Commitment
WHAT WE EXPECT OF NONPROFITS Through partnerships with LGBT+ advocacy 
We expect our philanthropic funds recipients to share our  organizations and law firms, we fight discrimination 
commitment to protect human rights. We ask nonprofit  against transgender people. BNY Mellon is proud to 
organizations (e.g., charities and NGOs) applying for  support the UN Human Rights Office’s LGBTI Standards 
financial sponsorship or donations to certify they comply  of Conduct for Business.
with BNY Mellon’s Non-Discrimination Policy Certification 
LGBT+ Recognition
for Non-Profits. See our Equal Employment Opportunity 
Statement for more information on protected groups. In 2017, the Human Rights Campaign Foundation gave 
BNY Mellon 100 percent on the Corporate Equality Index 
SUPPORT FOR LGBT+ INDIVIDUALS  for LGBTQ workplace equality, our 11th consecutive year 
Achieving our full potential starts with fully being  of perfect scores. BNY Mellon has twice received the 
ourselves. BNY Mellon is a staunch advocate of equal  Business Equality (BEQ) Pride LGBTQ Business Equality 
rights for all. We want all people to thrive and grow, be  Excellence Award for commitment to LGBTQ business 
proud of who they are and feel respected, valued and  equality. Affinity Inc. magazine named BNY Mellon among 
supported at work and in society. the top corporations for LGBT economic empowerment 
for LGBT+ individuals and LGBT-owned businesses. The 
LGBT+ individuals may find themselves navigating  
National Business Inclusion Consortium, an initiative  
a world, cultures and environments that are not 
of the National Gay & Lesbian Chamber of Commerce, 
welcoming. Some cope by adapting, but this can diminish 
honored BNY Mellon for Best Practices in the 
authenticity. At BNY Mellon, we set a higher bar, because 
Advancement of Workplace, Marketplace and Supplier 
we believe it is only through embracing our differences 
Diversity Programs. Community Business in Hong Kong 
that we can recognize and fully develop our strengths.  
gave us the Gold Award for our policies and practices that 
We support LGBT+ individuals through everyday 
support and advance LGBT+ workplace inclusion.
inclusion and through PRISM, our LGBT+ ERG. PRISM 
updates us on developments affecting LGBT+ employees 
and the broader community and brings issues and 
Looking Ahead 
opportunities to senior management’s attention. 
Community Commitment
Promoting and protecting LGBT+ rights empowers 
employees and the greater talent pool, supports 
We will continue to invest our community support in 
workforce engagement and advancement, and improves 
economic empowerment and building technology 
financial and social inclusion. 
and digital skills to tangibly improve lives, business 
and society. We will continue to encourage skills-
We were the first Wall Street firm to join a coalition of 
based employee volunteerism and pro bono 
businesses supporting same-sex marriage in the U.S., 
programs to increase our nonprofit partners’ 
and we continue to support marriage equality around the 
capacity and effectiveness in these areas. We will 
world. Our participation in legislative initiatives helps 
explore speaking opportunities to increase visibility 
advance these rights in the U.S., Ireland, Australia and 
of our philanthropy strategy and engage partners 
Hong Kong. We have opposed anti-inclusion legislation, 
and stakeholders.
supported a bill to protect transgender people’s rights, 
pushed to include gender identity in civil rights law, 
signed a country’s diversity charter and adopted a 
region’s code of practice against employment 
discrimination based on sexual orientation. 
91  CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017
Our World
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT
Our Opportunity  Our Approach
BNY Mellon has hundreds of facilities and thousands   We take a holistic approach to environmental 
of employees all over the world. We owe it to our  management to support sustainable development and 
stakeholders, communities and society to manage our  manage risk. We focus our activities in three areas:
operations responsibly and minimize our environmental 
1. Resource conservation: We responsibly use resources 
impact. We invest in programs and processes to reduce 
including energy, water, paper and travel to generate 
the natural resources we use, make it easy for employees 
economic and reputational benefits.
to get involved in environmental efforts and model 
sustainability for our industry peers and supply   2. Risk management: We consider environmental risk in 
chain partners.  corporate lending risk assessments, supplier 
management and business continuity planning 
Key Trends
including real estate and natural disaster recovery.
Finding solutions to climate change, one of the greatest 
3. Client service: We serve clients’ environmental finance 
challenges of our time, requires collective action by the 
needs through our products and solutions, industry 
global community. We do our part in our operations to 
dialogue and opportunities to promote environmental 
reduce climate change effects and keep our eye on these 
leadership.
resource-related trends. 
Our Environmental Management Goal
GHG PROGRESS IS AT RISK
Address climate change issues including potential 
Companies around the world are trying to reduce their 
impacts, risk and opportunities and expand and improve 
carbon footprints, but they must do more — and quickly 
environmental management, resource efficiency and 
— to keep climate change from undoing the progress of 
reputation.
the past several decades. Renewable energy, energy 
efficiency and other mitigation measures are needed to  How We’ll Achieve It
reduce energy consumption and emissions and move 
We rank among the leaders in climate change disclosure 
toward more resilient economies. 
and performance. We build on our environmental 
WATER IS GETTING SCARCER management performance by managing paper and toner 
Access to safe water and sanitation are fundamental  use, using renewable energy, conserving water and 
human rights. While more than 90 percent of the world’s  diverting waste from landfills.
population used improved drinking water sources in 
2015, there are still more than two billion people whose  2017 PROGRESS
countries are at risk of water scarcity in the future.46 
Maintained carbon neutral status47; reduced 
emissions by 52 percent from 2008 baseline48; named 
to CDP Climate A list for climate management for  
fifth consecutive year, becoming one of two S&P 500 
companies with this record. 
46  Progress of Goal 6 in 2017.
47  For Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions including our data centers, as  
well as Scope 3 business travel emissions.
48  Emissions reduction includes tracked facilities excluding data centers.
92  CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017
Our World: Environmental Management
Business and Environmental   BNY Mellon Eco Days
Sustainability Ambassadors
Our annual Eco Days start on Earth Day on April 22, and 
We have more than 300 Business and Environmental  last until World Environment Day on June 5. During this 
Sustainability (BES) Ambassadors who are interested in  six-week period, we encourage our employees around  
environmental sustainability and want to create positive  the world to be especially aware of their environmental 
environmental change in our business, communities and  impact and participate in activities in their locations to 
for the planet. The group, launched in 2009, represents  develop responsible habits. 
employees in thirteen regional networks. 
BES Ambassadors have four important roles: 
• Educate and involve coworkers to create change in 
their workplaces, homes and communities and 
contribute social and environmental benefits
• Empower colleagues to improve our business and 
environmental performance and motivate sustainable 
teamwork 
• Encourage sustainable innovation and ideas to reduce 
our environmental impact
• Listen to and incorporate employees’ ideas where 
appropriate
In 2017, BES Ambassadors initiated 28 events to involve 
employees in sustainable practices. Examples include:
• BNY Mellon’s Sixth Annual Eco Days involving more 
than 300 ambassadors
• Earth Day clean-up events across the U.S.
• Ambassador idea for reusable Keep Cups in King of 
Prussia, Pennsylvania, diverting 4.65 tons from landfill 
per year 
• Print Reduction Challenge to reduce printing in 
ambassador chapter locations
93  CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017
Our World: Environmental Management
OUR CLIMATE CHANGE AGENDA estate, excluding data centers) five years early, with 
$103 million in associated cumulative savings. We saved 
significantly more through continued diligence and 
Helping Protect Our Planet
Workplace Excellence, which transforms workplaces into 
Since 2015, BNY Mellon has been carbon neutral, which 
efficient, collaborative spaces and provides working 
means our net GHG emissions equal zero. Our carbon 
arrangement flexibility. 
neutral program covers Scope 1, Scope 2 and Scope 3 
business travel GHG emissions, i.e., emissions associated  CDP Climate A List
with the energy we use worldwide: electricity, steam, 
In 2017, BNY Mellon was listed on the CDP Climate A  
natural gas, automotive fuel, jet fuel, refrigerants and 
list for leadership climate change performance for the 
business travel. 
fifth consecutive year. This achievement is harder to 
reach each year and only two percent of companies 
We met our carbon neutral goal by significantly reducing 
assessed received an A letter grade. We were one of  
energy use in our offices and data centers, purchasing 
three U.S.-based financial services firms to receive  
energy from renewable sources and purchasing carbon 
an A grade of the 120 companies listed. 
offsets to offset emissions we can’t reduce ourselves.  
Our carbon offset purchases finance renewable energy, 
CDP Scores Disclosure49 Performance
forestry and resource conservation projects globally. 
2017 NA A
These projects reduce GHG emissions and demonstrate  
2016 NA50 A
our environmental sustainability leadership and 
2015 100 A
commitment to our clients, business groups and 
2014 100 A
stakeholders. 
2013 100 A
In 2017, we exceeded our 2020 goal to reduce GHGs  
by 40 percent (from a 2008 baseline for all tracked real 
Dow Jones Sustainability Index FTSE4Good
• 98th percentile for   • Achieved highest possible  
environmental dimension environmental score 
• Environmental score: 5 out of 5
CDP EPA Green Power Partner
• Climate A List for climate   • Thirtieth-largest U.S. purchaser of green power 
  
   management leadership  • Fourth-ranked financial services firm  
• Among the top one percent of over   as of October 2017
3,300 suppliers disclosing through  
CDP supply chain program
49  Maximum score is 100.
50  The prior scoring system provided a numerical score for disclosure and a letter band for 
performance. Under CDP’s new scoring methodology, organizations receive a single letter 
band per criteria. 
94  CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017
Our World: Environmental Management
How We Maintain Carbon Neutrality
After reducing our Scope 1 and 2 emissions by 52 percent since 2008 for all tracked locations, excluding data centers, 
we matched our remaining emissions with the purchase of carbon offsets and renewable energy products.
Carbon offsets Renewable energy products
To offset our Scope 1 and 3 business travel emissions, as well as   We matched our Scope 2 electricity usage, excluding steam,  
Scope 2 steam, we purchased offsets that provide financing to projects  by purchasing renewable energy products and certificates,  
around the world that achieve emissions reductions and other social   depending on the location.
and environmental benefits.
GHG (CO e) Electricity Use
2
Scope 1  Scope 2 (steam) Scope 3 Scope 2
8,265 MT 2,248 MT 17,944 MT 311,793 MWh
Total GHG Offsets 
Purchased Total Renewable 
Energy Products 
38,000  
Purchased
MT CO e
2 332,818 
MWh
        257,000 MWh    3   4,000 MWh 
Renewable Energy Certificates European Guarantees of Origin
   5,899t MWh     35,919 MWh
International Renewable Energy  PowerPlus Instruments
Certificates (outside Europe)
SCOPE 1 SCOPE 2 SCOPE 3
Type of emission
Direct GHG emissions Electricity and Steam — Indirect GHG emissions Other — Indirect GHG emissions
Carbon offsets  
Market instrument Carbon offsets Carbon offsets
Renewable energy products
GHG emissions reduction from our 2008 baseline (%) Global electricity consumption offset with renewable energy (%)
2017 52 2017 100
2016 49 2016 100
2015 42 2015 100
2014 33 2014 62
2013 32 2013 63
2012 29 2012 72
2011 16 2011 57
2010 16 2010 61
2009 1 2009 26
95  CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017
Our World: Environmental Management
WORKSPACES AND ENVIRONMENT • 100 percent compliance with our sustainable 
operations program in the U.S.
Our Multifaceted Approach  • 90 percent of all new, renewed and expanding domestic 
lease transactions subject to our green leasing program 
We affect the environment most directly in the way we 
criteria
operate our offices. We lessen our impact by being 
efficient, educating our employees and creating high- • Expanded green leasing program to additional sites  
performing workspaces.  in EMEA and APAC
REAL ESTATE IMPROVEMENTS
ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT
Our Sustainable Real Estate program makes our office 
• Reduced GHG emissions 52 percent from 2008 
spaces better through all lifecycle phases. We use best-
baseline of controlled facilities excluding data centers 
practice sustainability frameworks, including the U.S. 
• Avoided $103 million in energy costs since 2007
Green Building Council’s (USGBC’s) LEED certification 
program and international standards such as ISO 14001.  • Purchased 100 percent renewable energy 
• Purchased 38,000 mtCO e carbon offsets globally
In buildings where we control operations, we use   2
green cleaning, waste management, integrated pest  • Tracked 115,600,000 gallons of water  
management and other indoor environmental quality  across all controlled properties
measures. In locations where we lease space but do not 
• Reduced global water consumption 11.4 percent  
control operations, we work with landlords through our 
from 2015
green leasing program to assess space health and 
• Diverted 73 percent in waste and recycling
sustainability and improve where needed. Our 
accomplishments through 2017 include: • Deleted, eliminated or avoided 366 million paper 
pages since 2012, 37 million in 2017
• 40 percent of real estate with third-party sustainability 
• Saved 430,000,000kWh through data center  
certification from LEED, ISO 14001 or ENERGY STAR
energy efficiency since 2006
• 41 LEED certifications globally, representing 22 percent 
• Earned sustainability certifications for 40 percent of 
of our global footprint
real estate: 41 LEED and 11 ISO 14001 certifications
• ISO 14001 certification for environmental management 
• Engaged more than 300 BES Ambassadors in 
at 11 certified locations in the UK, accounting for 
13 chapters
55 percent of total square footage in EMEA
How We Site Our Data Centers To Minimize Risk
0 1 2 25
Miles >1/2 mile from  Miles Miles
major highways  Miles
or railways  >2 miles from  > 25 miles from 
airports and  nuclear power 
no fly zones plants
>3/4 mile from 
gas mains   Available low-cost power 
5' above 500-year  and bandwidth
flood line
  No potential for flash flood
>1 mile from 
10' above 100-year  hazardous    Favorable outdoor temperature
flood line manufacturing   Seismic safe zone
96  CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017
Our World: Environmental Management
DATA CENTER EFFICIENCY HOW WE IMPROVE EFFICIENCY IN OUR DATA CENTERS
DATA CENTER PROGRESS 1 Automate fan and pump speed control
In 2017, our data centers accounted for about 
31.3 percent of the electricity we used in our global  Raise temperature set points within 
2
recommended limits to reduce energy usage
properties. They produced around 30.1 percent of our 
total Scope 1 and Scope 2 carbon emissions. 
3 Create contained cold supply air aisle
We must expand our data storage as we grow. Our 
Enterprise Data Center Power Usage Effectiveness  
4 Use raised floors for air delivery
(PUE) program, launched in 2006, helps us use energy 
efficiently while meeting our data storage needs. 
Measures such as airflow management and  5 Optimize and virtualize server utilization
improvements to building envelopes and associated 
ancillary systems saved 39,841,823 kWh of electricity in  Prevent unwanted mixing of hot and cold air and 
6
2017. Since we started the PUE program, we have saved  use blanking panels on equipment where needed
$30,811,203 in electricity cost avoidance.
Seal all unmanaged openings and place 
7
DATA CENTERS AND ENERGY perforated tiles only where needed
• 50.1 petabytes of data storage
• 28.9K servers
WHAT WE‘VE ACCOMPLISHED
• 570K square feet of enterprise data center  
Data center average power usage effectiveness (PUE)
building space
Power entering a data center versus power used to run the computer 
• 97 million kilowatt hour (kWh) used in 2017 infrastructure inside. Efﬁciency improves as PUE decreases.
• 39,841,823 kWh saved in 2017, enough to power   2017 1.71
more than 3,700 homes in the U.S. for one year51 2016 1.72
2015 1.70
• Zero downtime across enterprise data centers in 2017
2014 1.75
• Zero downtime at primary data centers for more than 
2013 1.73
11 years
Cumulative program dollar savings ($m)
2017 30.8
2016 25.8
2015 22.8
2014 19.1
2013 15.1
51  Calculation based on average annual electricity consumption for a U.S. residential  
utility customer in 2014, as reported by the U.S. Energy Information Administration. 
97  CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017
Our World: Environmental Management
WATER CONSERVATION AND  Keeping Waste Out of Landfills
WASTE RECYCLING We want to divert more than 80 percent of our office 
waste from landfills and uphold our technology groups’ 
no-landfills policy by 2020. Our ISO certifications,  
Reducing Our Water Usage
LEED-rated buildings and sustainable operations 
We track water consumption in our U.S. and international 
program show we are invested in these commitments.
controlled locations and use systems to reduce water 
consumption and increase water efficiency. We prioritize  We use binless desk-side and central-collection 
conservation in water-stressed regions and manage  programs and reinforce them with employee education 
water runoff treatment responsibly. In 2017, we  and engagement. We work with our technology groups  
decreased our global water consumption by 11.4 percent  to recycle electronics and with suppliers to find products 
compared to a 2015 baseline. We were able to achieve  made of recyclable material that can be reused to 
this reduction through installation of low-flow fixtures  manufacture new products. 
and aerators, efficient operation of chiller plants, repair 
In 2017, we tracked waste and recycling rates in 
and replacement of old, leaking systems, and operation 
8,240,736 million square feet of our locations,  
of efficient irrigation systems. 
accounting for 61 percent of our global real estate 
Due to an increase in the number of global facilities  portfolio and 63 percent of our employees. We diverted 
tracked for water consumption, we were able to expand  an average of 73 percent of waste from landfills,  
the coverage of our 2015 baseline.  recycled 3,088 printers and reused or recycled  
35,682 technology devices.
Water reduction
Waste diverted from landﬁlls (%)
Percent reduction from 2015 baseline
100 Combined building use categories
2017 73*
80 8.6% 11.4%
2016 75*
60 2015 69*
2014 71*
40
2013 69
20
* Since 2013, we expanded our diversion number to include compost and incineration.
0
2015 2016 2017
Looking Ahead 
PAPER NEUTRALITY  Environmental Management
We implement programs to make employees aware  
of their paper and toner use and how it affects the  The public and private sectors are making progress 
environment. We promote smart, sustainable choices   toward climate change goals, but we must do more 
for printing, copying and sharing documents, which  and do it quickly. We continually find new and better 
helped us eliminate or delete 37 million pages in 2017. ways to manage the environmental impact of our 
operations. We are exploring a science-based GHG 
In 2017, we launched our Paper Neutral program, where 
emissions target, working with suppliers to 
we planted 51,138 trees to offset deforestation equal to 
incorporate sustainable practices and packaging 
the number of pages printed in our global offices.
and educating employees and suppliers on 
environmental sustainability programs.
98  CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017
GRI Index
GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE (GRI) INDEX
The following is supplemental information to BNY Mellon’s 2017  responses for individual GRI indicators in the following ways:  
Corporate Social Responsibility Report. It is arranged according  (1) section and page references to our 2017 CSR Report; (2)  
to the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 Sustainability  direct responses within the index; (3) references to other 
Reporting Guidelines indicator list. All data is reported as of  company reports (e.g. Annual report or Proxy); or (4) materials 
December 31, 2017 unless otherwise noted. This index provides  located on our website.
Category: Standard Disclosures
Aspect: Strategy & Analysis
Indicator Disclosure Our Response
G4-1 CEO Letter BNY Mellon CSR Report 2017, CEO Letter, p.5
Aspect: Organizational Profile
Indicator Disclosure Our Response
G4-3 Organization Name BNY Mellon Annual Report 2017, General, p.4
G4-4 Primary brands,  4Q17 At A Glance
products and services
G4-5 HQ location  BNY Mellon Annual Report 2017, Corporate Information, inside back cover
G4-6 Where the organization 1) BNY Mellon Annual Report 2017, International Operations, p.26 
operates 2) BNY Mellon Location Directory
G4-7 Nature of ownership  BNY Mellon Annual Report 2017, General, p.4
and legal form
G4-8 Markets Served BNY Mellon CSR Report 2017, About BNY Mellon, p.2 
G4-9 Scale of Organization  1) BNY Mellon CSR Report 2017, Our Performance, p.22 
2) 4Q17 At A Glance 
3) BNY Mellon Annual Report 2017, Financial Highlights, p.xxviii
G4-10 Total number of  EE01 Document, see end of GRI Index
employees by type
G4-11 Collective bargaining  BNY Mellon fully complies with local laws regarding employee rights and collective bargaining.  
agreements In certain locations outside of the US, we engage with trade unions, work councils and adhere to 
applicable national collective bargaining agreements. We also have client and vendor relationships 
with trade unions. Our Code of Conduct applies to our employees globally and emphasizes the 
company’s commitment to foster a culture where all employees feel valued, engaged and are able to 
bring their whole selves to the workplace. Employees are encouraged to raise any concerns through 
multiple channels identified in the Code of Conduct.
99  CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017
GRI Index
Category: Standard Disclosures
Aspect: Organizational Profile
Indicator Disclosure Our Response
G4-12 Supply chain  BNY Mellon CSR Report 2017, Supply Chain Responsibility, p.84
description
G4-13 Organizational  BNY Mellon Annual Report 2017, Key 2017 and subsequent events, p.5
changes during the 
reporting period
G4-14 Precautionary  1) BNY Mellon CSR Report 2017, Environmental Management, p.92 
Principle 2) BNY Mellon CSR Report 2017, Responsible Financing and the Equator Principles, p.83
G4-15 External charters,  1)   U  NPRI: Newton, Insight, Standish, Mellon Capital, Siguler Guff, The Boston Company,  
principles, or other  Walter Scott
initiatives 2)  I nvestor Network on Climate Risk: Newton
3)  C  DP: BNY Mellon, Newton, Insight, Standish, Mellon Capital
4)  U  K SIF: Insight
5)   FTSE4Good: BNYMellon
6)   DJSI: BNYMellon
7)  U  K Stewardship code: Newton, Insight
8)  I nstitutional Investors Group on Climate Change: Newton, Insight
9)  C  limate Bond Initiative: Standish
10) S  RI Connect Alcentra
11) A  sian Corporate Governance Association: Newton
12) U  K Corporate Governance Forum: Newton
13) I nternational Corporate Governance Network: Newton
14) C  ouncil of Institutional Investors: Newton
15) P  LSA (Pension and Lifetime Savings Association) Stewardship Advisory
16) Group: Newton
17) I SG (Investor Stewardship Group) endorsor: Newton
18) C  limate Action 100: Insight
G4-16 Membership  1)  I n 2017, our memberships included: Business for Social Responsibility (BSR), Banking 
Associations Environmental Initiative (BEI), Business Council for the United Nations (BCUN), Global Impact 
Investing Network (GIIN), World Resources Institute (WRI), and Aspen Institute's Leaders Forum
2)  B  NY Mellon CSR Report 2017, Advocacy and Political Engagement, p.42
3)   BNY Mellon Proxy 2018, Item 1 Election of Directors, p.9
100  CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017
GRI Index
Category: Standard Disclosures
Aspect: Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries
Indicator Disclosure Our Response
G4-17 Entities included in  1) BNY Mellon Annual Report 2017, Review of businesses, p.16 
financial statements 2) 4Q17 At A Glance
G4-18 Process for defining  1) BNY Mellon CSR Report 2017, About this Report, p.1 
report boundaries  2) BNY Mellon CSR Report 2017, Our Approach to CSR, p.8
and content
G4-19 Material aspects  All material aspects are reported against in this GRI Index. More information is in our CSR Report, 
included in the report Our Approach to CSR, p.8
G4-20 Descriptions of   BNY Mellon CSR Report 2017, Our Approach to CSR, p.8
material aspect 
boundaries within 
the organization
G4-21 Descriptions of   BNY Mellon CSR Report 2017, Our Approach to CSR, p.8
material aspect 
boundaries outside 
the organization
G4-22 Restatements None
G4-23 Changes from  None
previous reports 
in terms of scope 
and/or boundaries
Aspect: Stakeholder Engagement
Indicator Disclosure Our Response
G4-24 Stakeholder Groups BNY Mellon CSR Report 2017, Engaging Those We Serve, p.21
G4-25 How were stakeholders BNY Mellon CSR Report 2017, Engaging Those We Serve, p.21
identified
G4-26 Approach to  BNY Mellon CSR Report 2017, Engaging Those We Serve, p.21
stakeholder 
engagement 
G4-27 Topics raised  BNY Mellon CSR Report 2017, Engaging Those We Serve, p.21
during stakeholder 
engagements
G4-28 Reporting Period BNY Mellon CSR Report 2017, About this Report, p.1
G4-29 Date of most  BNY Mellon CSR Report 2017, About this Report, p.1
recent report
G4-30 Reporting Cycle BNY Mellon CSR Report 2017, About this Report, p.1
G4-31 Report contact BNY Mellon CSR Report 2017, About this Report, p.1
G4-32 ‘In accordance’  1) BNY Mellon CSR Report 2017, About this Report, p.1 
option GRI Index and  We do not currently seek external assurance over our CSR Report
report assurance
G4-33 Policy regarding  We do not currently seek external assurance over our CSR report but we do have limited  
report assurance assurance over our Scope 1, 2 & 3 emissions as indicated in our CDP* Response 2017
* Formerly the Carbon Disclosure Project, www.cdp.net
101  CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017
GRI Index
Category: Standard Disclosures
Aspect: Governance
Indicator Disclosure Our Response
G4-34 Governance structure  BNY Mellon Proxy 2018, Our Corporate Governance Practices, p.18
of the organization
G4-35 Process for  BNY Mellon CSR Report 2017, CSR Governance, p.19
delegating authority 
for sustainability 
topics from the board 
to senior executives 
and other employees
G4-36 High-level  BNY Mellon CSR Report 2017, CSR Governance, p.19
accountability for 
sustainability topics
G4-37 Processes for  1) BNY Mellon Proxy 2018, Committees, p.5, Stockholder Proposal, p.76
consultation between 
stakeholders and 
the board on 
sustainability topics
G4-38 Composition of  BNY Mellon Proxy 2018, Committees, p.5
the board and 
its committees 
G4-39 Whether the chair  BNY Mellon Proxy 2018, Board Leadership Structure, p.21
of the board is also 
an executive officer
G4-40 Nomination and  BNY Mellon Proxy 2018, Director Qualifications, p.15
selection processes 
for the board and 
its committees
G4-41 Board conflicts  BNY Mellon Proxy 2018, Director Qualifications, p.15
of interest
G4-42 Board and  1) BNY Mellon CSR Report 2017, CSR Governance, p.19 
executives’ roles in  2) BNY Mellon Proxy 2018, Committees, p.5
the organization’s 
mission statements, 
strategies, policies, 
and goals related 
to sustainability 
impacts
G4-43 Board knowledge  1) BNY Mellon CSR Report 2017, CSR Governance, p.19 
of sustainability  2) BNY Mellon Proxy 2018, Committees, p.5
topics
G4-44 Board performance  BNY Mellon Proxy 2018, Evaluation of Board and Committee Effectiveness, p.19
with respect to 
governance of 
sustainability topics
102  CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017
GRI Index
Category: Standard Disclosures
Aspect: Governance
Indicator Disclosure Our Response
G4-45 Board role in  1) BNY Mellon CSR Report 2017, CSR Governance, p.19 
the identification  2) BNY Mellon Proxy 2018, Committees, p.5
and management 
of sustainability 
impacts, risks, 
and opportunities
G4-46 Board role in  1) BNY Mellon Proxy 2018, Committees, p.5 
reviewing risk  2) Risk Committee Charter
management 
processes for 
sustainability topics
G4-47 Frequency of the  1) BNY Mellon CSR Report 2017, CSR Governance, p.19 
board’s review  2) BNY Mellon Proxy 2018, Committees, p.5
of sustainability 
impacts, risks, 
and opportunities
G4-48 Highest committee or  1) BNY Mellon CSR Report 2017, CSR Governance, p.19 
position that formally  2) BNY Mellon Proxy 2018, Committees, p.5
reviews and approves 
the organization’s 
sustainability report
G4-49 Process for  BNY Mellon Proxy 2018, Our Corporate Governance Practices, p.18
communicating 
critical concerns 
to the board
G4-51 Remuneration policies  1) BNY Mellon CSR Report 2017, CSR Governance, p.19 
for the board and  2) BNY Mellon Proxy 2018, Director Compensation, p.31
senior executives
G4-52 Process for  1) BNY Mellon CSR Report 2017, CSR Governance, p.19 
determining  2) BNY Mellon Proxy 2018, Compensation Consultants, p.29
remuneration
G4-53 Stakeholders’ views  1) BNY Mellon CSR Report 2017, CSR Governance, p.19 
on remuneration 2) BNY Mellon Proxy 2018, Advisory Vote on Compensation, p.34
103  CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017
GRI Index
Category: Standard Disclosures
Aspect: Ethics & Integrity
Indicator Disclosure Our Response
G4-56 Code of conduct BNY Mellon CSR Report 2017, Our Risk Culture, p.28
G4-57 Helplines or advice  BNY Mellon CSR Report 2017, Our Risk Culture, p.28
lines for employees
G4-58 Mechanisms for  BNY Mellon CSR Report 2017, Our Risk Culture, p.28
reporting concerns 
about unethical or 
unlawful behavior
Category: Economic
Aspect: Economic Performance
Indicator Disclosure Our Response
G4-DMA 1) BNY Mellon Annual Report 2018, Improved Financial Profile, p.iii 
2) BNY Mellon CSR Report 2017, Our Approach to CSR, p.8 
3) BNY Mellon CSR Report 2017, Community Commitment, p.86 
4) BNY Mellon CSR Report 2017, Community Reinvestment Act at BNY Mellon, p.81
G4-EC1 Economic Value 1) BNY Mellon CSR Report 2017, Our Performance, p.22 
2) BNY Mellon Annual Report 2018, Improved Financial Profile p.iii 
3) BNY Mellon CSR Report 2017, Community Commitment, p.86 
4) BNY Mellon CSR Report 2017, Community Reinvestment Act at BNY Mellon, p.81
G4-EC2 Climate Change Risks See CDP* Response 2017
G4-EC4 Financial assistance  BNY Mellon CSR Report 2017, Financing Wind Energy Projects, p.83
from the government
Aspect: Indirect Economic Impacts
Indicator Disclosure Our Response
G4-DMA 1) BNY Mellon CSR Report 2017, Project Agent and Public-Private Partnerships, p.76 
2) BNY Mellon CSR Report 2017, Giving for Impact, p.87 
3) BNY Mellon CSR Report 2017, Community Reinvestment Act at BNY Mellon, p.81 
4) BNY Mellon CSR Report 2017, Financing Wind Energy Projects, p.83
G4-EC7 Infrastructure  1) BNY Mellon CSR Report 2017, Project Agent and Public-Private Partnerships, p.76 
Investments 2) BNY Mellon CSR Report 2017, Giving for Impact, p.87 
3) BNY Mellon CSR Report 2017, Community Reinvestment Act at BNY Mellon, p.81 
4) BNY Mellon CSR Report 2017, Financing Wind Energy Projects, p.83
G4-EC8 Indirect economic  1) BNY Mellon CSR Report 2017, Project Agent and Public-Private Partnerships, p.76 
impacts 2) BNY Mellon CSR Report 2017, Community Commitment, p.86 
3) BNY Mellon CSR Report 2017, Community Reinvestment Act at BNY Mellon, p.81 
4) BNY Mellon CSR Report 2017, Financing Wind Energy Projects, p.83
Aspect: Procurement Practices
Indicator Disclosure Our Response
G4-DMA BNY Mellon CSR Report 2017, Supplier Diversity, p.85
* Formerly the Carbon Disclosure Project, www.cdp.net
104  CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017
GRI Index
Category: Environmental
Aspect: Energy
Indicator Disclosure Our Response
G4-DMA 1) BNY Mellon CSR Report 2017, Our Climate Change Agenda, p. 94
2) See CDP* Response 2017
G4-EN3 Energy consumption  Total fuel consumption from nonrenewable sources: 132,101 gigajoules (includes natural gas, fuel 
(scope 1 and 2) oil, car gasoline, and jet fuel).
While BNY Mellon does not purchase fuel from renewable sources directly, we do purchase carbon 
offsets and renewable electricity products to offset all of our emissions generated from Scope 1, 
Scope 2, and Scope 3 business travel.
Electricity consumption: 1,122,406 gigajoules (BNY Mellon purchases renewable electricity products 
to offset our entire electricity use). BNY Mellon does not have any heating or cooling consumption.  
Steam consumption: 35,720 gigajoules.
BNY Mellon does not sell any electricity, heating, cooling, or steam.
Total energy consumption: 1,290,226 gigajoules.
BNY Mellon follows The Corporate Standard Greenhouse Gas Protocol for calculating emissions and 
energy use.  An Operational Control boundary is used.
Conversions for Fuel and Electricity were done with the U.S. Energy Information Administration’s 
Energy Conversion Calculator.  Steam was converted from BTU to joules using the factor: 1 
BTU=1055.05585 joules as defined by the International Energy Agency’s Unit Converter.
G4-EN4 Energy consumption  11,769,240 gigajoules. 
(scope 3) BNY Mellon follows The Corporate Standard Greenhouse Gas Protocol for calculating emissions 
and energy use. An Operational Control boundary is used. BNY Mellon considers energy consumed 
from purchased goods and services, capital goods, fuel-and-energy-related activities, upstream 
transportation and distribution, business travel, employee commuting, downstream leased assets, 
and investments relevant to our operations. 
For more detail on methodologies and assumptions used, please see CDP* response 2017. 
Conversions for Fuel and Electricity were done with the U.S. Energy Information Administration’s 
Energy Conversion Calculator. Steam was converted from BTU to joules using the factor: 1 
BTU=1055.05585 joules as defined by the International Energy Agency’s Unit Converter. 
G4-EN5 Energy intensity 83.01 gigajoules per million dollars; 0.096 gigajoules per square foot.
Denominators: 2017 revenue (15,543 million dollars); 2017 average rentable square feet of real 
estate portfolio (13,441,824 sq. ft.).
Fuel, electricity, and steam are included; BNY Mellon does not consume additional sources of 
heating or cooling.
The ratio uses energy consumed within the organization within BNY Mellon’s operational control 
scope 1 and 2.
G4-EN6 Energy reductions 336,173 gigajoules.
Fuel, Electricity, and Steam are included; BNY Mellon does not consume additional sources of 
heating and cooling.
BNY Mellon’s base year is 2010 for energy tracking. 2010 was chosen as the base year because this 
was this first year we were able to effectively measure energy consumption. Energy consumption in 
2010 was rebaselined due to increase in accuracy of activity data.
BNY Mellon’s energy reduction was calculated by subtracting 2017 energy consumption from 
the base year’s energy consumption. This reduction is the result of ongoing real estate portfolio 
optimization initiatives and specific energy reduction projects.
BNY Mellon sets its energy reduction targets in the form of emission reduction targets as these are 
a surrogate for energy targets. BNY Mellon calculates its total energy consumption in conjunction 
with calculating its greenhouse gas inventory. Therefore, The Greenhouse Gas Protocol: A Corporate 
Accounting and Reporting Standard (Revised Edition) is the published methodology and standard 
used in energy and emission calculation.
* Formerly the Carbon Disclosure Project, www.cdp.net
105  CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017
GRI Index
Category: Environmental
Aspect: Water
Indicator Disclosure Our Response
G4-DMA 1) BNY Mellon uses water in our office facilities for our cafeterias, cooling and heating needs, 
restrooms, and irrigation.  
2) BNY Mellon CSR Report 2017, Water Conservation and Waste Recycling, p.98
G4-EN8 Water withdrawals  BNY Mellon withdraws all of its water from municipal sources. BNY Mellon consumed a total of 
by source 115,580,543 gallons of water in 2016 (87,574,613 gallons in the U.S. and 28,005,930 gallons in 
international locations). 
This number accounts for 40 of our buildings or 56% of our real estate portfolio, and for about 
30,000 employees or 56% of our population. Facility Managers account for all water withdrawn from 
sources based upon water bills and report to Sustainability team for data collection.
G4-EN9 Water sources  BNY Mellon does not have property in designated protected areas, nationally or internationally. 
affected by  Most of BNY Mellon’s building portfolio is located in dense urban areas in developed nations, which 
withdrawals minimizes impact on the environment resulting from urban/suburban sprawl. 
G4-EN10 Water recycled and  BNY Mellon does not recycle or reuse water in its office or data centers. The company’s water is 
reused drawn from municipal sources exclusively.
Aspect: Emissions
Indicator Disclosure Our Response
G4-DMA 1) BNY Mellon CSR Report 2017, Our Climate Change Agenda, p. 94 
2) See CDP* Response 2017
G4-EN15 GHG emissions  See CDP* Response 2017
(scope 1)
G4-EN16 GHG emissions  See CDP* Response 2017
(scope 2)
G4-EN17 GHG emissions  See CDP* Response 2017
(scope 3)
G4-EN18 GHG emissions  See CDP* Response 2017
intensity
G4-EN19 Reduction of  1) CSR Report, How We Maintain Carbon Neutrality, p. 94 
GHG emissions 2) See CDP* Response 2017
* Formerly the Carbon Disclosure Project, www.cdp.net
106  CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017
GRI Index
Category: Environmental
Aspect: Effluents & Waste
Indicator Disclosure Our Response
G4-DMA BNY Mellon is committed to diverting more than 80 percent of our office waste from landfills and 
upholding our technology groups’ no-landfills policy. Our ISO certifications, LEED-rated buildings 
and sustainable operations program show we are invested in these priorities in our major locations.  
To reach our goal, we expanded our binless desk-side and central-collection programs and 
reinforced them with employee education and engagement. We collaborate with our technology 
groups to recycle electronics and work with suppliers to find products made of recyclable material 
that can be reused to manufacture new products. 
G4-EN23 Waste by type and  Waste Weight: 
disposal method • Recycling = 7,082,779 pounds 
• Composting = 12,960 pounds 
• Incineration (mass burn) = 858,753 pounds 
• L andfill = 2,998,316 TOTAL (perishable = 1,498,138  pounds; office landfill waste =
952,418  pounds) 
Recycling: 
• 3,088  printers recycled in 2017
• 35,682  technology devices reused or recycled in 2017 
• 37 million pages were eliminated or deleted in 2017 
Notes: 
• Waste was disposed of by the waste haulage contractor 
• W  aste data is provided to facility manager regarding frequency of pickup, quantity of pickup, and
fate of waste.
G4-EN24 Significant spills There were no spills that occurred at BNY Mellon in 2017
Aspect: Compliance
Indicator Disclosure Our Response
G4-DMA No environmental fines or sanctions were imposed on BNY Mellon in 2017
G4-EN29 Environmental fines  No environmental fines or sanctions were imposed on BNY Mellon in 2017
and sanctions
Aspect: Transport
Indicator Disclosure Our Response
G4-DMA See CDP* Response 2017
G4-EN30 Environmental  See CDP* Response 2017
impacts from product 
distribution and 
employee travel
* Formerly the Carbon Disclosure Project, www.cdp.net
107  CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017
GRI Index
Category: Social – Labor Practices and Decent Work
Aspect: Employment
Indicator Disclosure Our Response
G4-DMA 1) BNY Mellon CSR Report 2017, Operational Reliability, p.36 
2) BNY Mellon CSR Report 2017, Supply Chain Responsibility, p.84 
3) BNY Mellon Supplier Code of Conduct
G4-LA1 Number and rate   1) BNY Mellon CSR Report 2017, Employee Engagement, p.51 
of new employee   2) BNY Mellon CSR Report 2017, Diversity And Inclusion In Action, p.62
hires and turnover
G4-LA2 Benefits provided to  In the U.S., benefit programs include: health and dental insurance, retirement plans, life  
full-time employees and disability insurance, holiday and vacation time, family medical and parental leave and 
commuter benefits; voluntary benefits such as long-term care insurance, pet insurance, 
homeowners insurance and legal services; and paid time off to volunteer.
Aspect: Training and Education
Indicator Disclosure Our Response
G4-DMA BNY Mellon CSR Report 2017, Leadership And Development, p.46
G4-LA9 Average hours of  BNY Mellon CSR Report 2017, Leadership And Development, p.46
training for employees
G4-LA10 Programs for skills  BNY Mellon CSR Report 2017, Leadership And Development, p.46
management and 
lifelong learning
G4-LA11 Employees receiving  BNY Mellon CSR Report 2017, Leadership And Development, p.46
performance and 
career development 
reviews
Aspect: Diversity and Equal Opportunity
Indicator Disclosure Our Response
G4-DMA 1) BNY Mellon CSR Report 2017, Diversity and Inclusion, p.56 
2) BNY Mellon Employee Code of Conduct 
3) BNY Mellon Sexual and Other Discriminatory Harassment Policy 
4) BNY Mellon EEO/AA Policy
G4-LA12 Composition of  BNY Mellon CSR Report 2017, Diversity And Inclusion In Action, p.62
governance bodies 
and employees
Aspect: Equal Remuneration for Women & Men
Indicator Disclosure Our Response
G4-DMA BNY Mellon Gender Pay Gap Report 2017
G4-LA13 Ratio of basic salary  BNY Mellon Gender Pay Gap Report 2017
and remuneration  
of women to men
108  CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017
GRI Index
Category: Social – Human Rights
Aspect: Investment
Indicator Disclosure Our Response
G4-DMA 1) BNY Mellon CSR Report 2017, Human Rights Protection, p.85 and Human Rights, p.90 
2) BNY Mellon Human Rights Statement 
3) BNY Mellon Supplier Code of Conduct 
4) BNY Mellon Modern Slavery Act
G4-HR1 Investment  We have a Human Rights policy and due diligence process with robust governance, including 
agreements and  oversight by our CSR Committee of the Board and Executive Committee. In 2016, we created and 
contracts that  published a Modern Slavery Act statement which provides details around our risk mitigation process 
include human  for our operations and supply chain. This statement was ratified by the CSR Committee of the Board 
rights clauses or  of Directors and progress is assessed and will be published annually. In 2017, we strengthened 
underwent screening our vendor risk management by updating the Supplier Code of Conduct and added a vendor 
assessment/attestation to ensure that expectations around human rights issues are clear.
G4-HR2 Employee training  In order to respond to the UK Modern Slavery Act, we have conducted due diligence in  
on human rights partnership with our legal counsel, procurement team, Human Resources and our Corporate Social 
Responsibility Committee of the Board of Directors has signed our statement and disclosure. We 
will report annually on our policies, training, due diligence processes and the effectiveness of our 
measures to combat modern slavery and trafficking. These efforts build on our Supplier Code of 
Conduct and Master Agreement templates, which include human rights provisions for all potential 
new suppliers. 
Aspect: Non-Discrimination
Indicator Disclosure Our Response
G4-DMA 1) BNY Mellon CSR Report 2017, Human Rights Protection, p.85 and Human Rights, p.90 
2) BNY Mellon Employee Code of Conduct 
3) BNY Mellon Sexual and Other Discriminatory Harassment Policy 
4) BNY Mellon EEO/AA Policy
Aspect: Assessment
Indicator Disclosure Our Response
G4-DMA 1) BNY Mellon CSR Report 2017, Human Rights Protection, p.85 and Human Rights, p.90 
2) BNY Mellon Human Rights Statement 
3) BNY Mellon Supplier Code of Conduct 
4) BNY Mellon Modern Slavery Act
G4-HR9 Operations that   1) BNY Mellon CSR Report 2017, Human Rights Protection, p.85 and Human Rights, p.90 
have been subject   2) BNY Mellon Human Rights Statement 
to human rights  3) BNY Mellon Supplier Code of Conduct 
assessments 4) BNY Mellon Modern Slavery Act
109  CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017
GRI Index
Category: Social – Society
Aspect: Local Communities
Indicator Disclosure Our Response
G4-DMA BNY Mellon CSR Report 2017, Community Commitment, p.86
G4-SO1 Local community  1) BNY Mellon CSR Report 2017, Community Commitment, p.86 
engagement, impact  2) BNY Mellon CSR Report 2017, Community Reinvestment Act at BNY Mellon, p.81
assessments and 
development programs
FS13 Access points  N/A as BNY Mellon does not have retail banking operations
in low-populated 
or economically 
disadvantaged 
areas by type
FS14 Initiatives to improve  N/A as BNY Mellon does not have retail banking operations
access to financial 
services for 
disadvantaged people
Aspect: Anti-corruption
Indicator Disclosure Our Response
G4-DMA BNY Mellon CSR Report 2017, Zero Tolerance for Bribery and Corruption, p.30
G4-SO3 Risks related to  1) BNY Mellon CSR Report 2017, Our Risk Culture, p.28 
corruption  2) BNY Mellon Employee Code of Conduct
G4-SO4 Communications  1) BNY Mellon CSR Report 2017, Our Risk Culture, p.28 
and training on  2) In addition to the Code training mentioned in the CSR report, the company delivers Anti-
anti-corruption Corruption training through a new hire module, an all-employee bi-annual refresher course and 
targeted training for high risk employees. A robust communications program includes regular 
messaging from the Chief Risk Officer that outlines expectations regarding our overall risk and 
compliance program, reinforces desired behaviors and highlights success stories as well as covers
information related to key regulatory changes. 
G4-SO5 Confirmed incidents  BNY Mellon Annual Report 2017, Legal Proceedings, p.199
of corruption
Aspect: Public Policy
Indicator Disclosure Our Response
G4-DMA BNY Mellon CSR Report 2017, Advocacy and Political Engagement, p.42
G4-SO6 Political Contributions BNY Mellon CSR Report 2017, Political Contributions, p.43
Aspect: Anti-competitive Behavior
Indicator Disclosure Our Response
G4-DMA BNY Mellon CSR Report 2017, Our Risk Culture, p.28
G4-SO7 Anti-competitive  BNY Mellon Annual Report 2017, Legal Proceedings, p.199
behavior
110  CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017
GRI Index
Category: Social – Society
Aspect: Compliance
Indicator Disclosure Our Response
G4-DMA BNY Mellon CSR Report 2017, Risk Management and Reliability, p.24
G4-SO8 Fines for  BNY Mellon Annual Report 2017, Legal Proceedings, p.199
noncompliance 
with laws
Category: Social – Product Responsibility
Aspect: Customer Privacy
Indicator Disclosure Our Response
G4-DMA 1) BNY Mellon CSR Report 2017, Risk Management and Reliability, p.24 
2) Privacy at BNY Mellon
G4-PR8 Complaints regarding  BNY Mellon Annual Report 2017, Legal Proceedings, p.199
breaches of customer 
privacy and losses of 
customer data
Aspect: Compliance
Indicator Disclosure Our Response
G4-DMA BNY Mellon CSR Report 2017, Our Risk Culture, p.28
G4-PR9 Fines for  BNY Mellon Annual Report 2017, Legal Proceedings, p.199
noncompliance with 
laws and regulations 
concerning products 
and services
111  CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017
GRI Index
Category: Financial Sector Supplement
Aspect: Product Portfolio
Indicator Disclosure Our Response
G4-DMA 1) BNY Mellon CSR Report 2017, Social Investing, p.64 
 
Environmental and social components are included within responsible investment policies across 
several boutiques. See the following boutique policy statements: 
2) Newton  
3) Insight:  
  • Statement 1  
  • Statement 2  
  • Statement 3 
4) Standish  
5) Mellon Capital Management  
6) Siguler Guff 
7) Walter Scott
FS6 Percentage of the  N/A we do not track our business lines in this way
portfolio for business 
lines by specific 
region, size 
(e.g. micro/SME/large) 
and by sector
FS7 Monetary value of  BNY Mellon CSR Report 2017, Social Investing, p.64
products and services 
designed to deliver 
a specific social 
benefit for each 
business line broken 
down by purpose
FS8 Monetary value   BNY Mellon CSR Report 2017, Social Investing, p.64
of products and 
services designed  
to deliver a specific 
environmental  
benefit for each 
business line 
broken down  
by purpose
Aspect: Audit
Indicator Disclosure Our Response
G4-DMA 1) BNY Mellon Proxy 2018, Oversight of Risk, p.24 
2) BNY Mellon CSR Report 2017, Reliability and Accuracy, p.37
FS9 Coverage and  BNY Mellon CSR Report 2017, Reliability and Accuracy, p.37
frequency of 
audits to assess 
implementation of 
environmental and 
social policies and 
risk assessment 
procedures
112  CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017
GRI Index
Category: Financial Sector Supplement
Aspect: Active Ownership
Indicator Disclosure Our Response
G4-DMA 1) BNY Mellon CSR Report 2017, Proxy Voting and Issuer Engagement, p.71 
2) BNY Mellon Proxy 2018, Stockholder Proposal, p.76
FS10 Percentage and  1) BNY Mellon CSR Report 2017, Proxy Voting and Issuer Engagement, p.71 
number of companies  2) BNY Mellon Proxy 2018, Stockholder Proposal, p.76
held in the 
institution’s portfolio 
with which the 
reporting organization 
has interacted on 
environmental or 
social issues
FS11 Percentage of assets  1) BNY Mellon CSR Report 2017, Investment Management, p.67 
subject to positive   
and negative  2)  There are no strategies which are purely positive screens without also including negative screens  
environmental or  – Total Negative Screen is 71.4 billion AUM 
social screening – Positive and negative screens combined is the same number as in the CSR report: $77.2 billion
113  CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017
GRI Index
U.S. WORKFORCE DEMOGRAPHICS – EEO-1
Non-Hispanic or Latino
Native  American 
Black or  Hawaiian  Indian or 
Hispanic or   African  or Pacific  Alaskan  Two or  Overall 
Latino White American Islander Asian Native more races total
Job Category Male
Executive/SR Officials and 
Managers 0 8 0 0 0 0 0 8
First/Mid Officials and Managers 124 3,032 141 1 427 4 21 3,750
Professionals 265 4,722 310 8 1,252 5 66 6,628
Technicians 6 54 5 0 2 0 1 68
Sales Workers 4 94 4 0 1 0 0 103
Administrative Support 386 3,265 679 10 491 5 102 4,938
Craft Workers 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
Operatives 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
Laborers and Helpers 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
Service Workers 2 1 0 0 0 0 0 3
Total 787 11,176 1,139 19 2,173 14 190 15,498
Previous Report Total 778 11,360 1,189 20 2,042 13 169 15,571
Job Category Female
Executive/SR Officials and 
Managers 0 3 0 0 0 0 0 3
First/Mid Officials and Managers 99 1,503 174 2 225 3 19 2,025
Professionals 231 2,806 380 3 801 6 33 4,260
Technicians 1 44 4 0 2 0 0 51
Sales Workers 1 35 2 0 4 0 0 42
Administrative Support 618 3,477 1,494 8 750 12 89 6,448
Craft Workers 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
Operatives 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 1
Laborers and Helpers 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
Service Workers 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
Total 950 7,868 2,055 13 1,782 21 141 12,830
Previous Report Total 981 8,346 2,155 12 1,758 17 138 13,407
Male and Female Combined Totals
Total 1,737 19,044 3,194 32 3,955 35 331 28,328
Previous Report Total 1,759 19,706 3,344 32 3,800 30 307 28,978
114  CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017
 
 
VERIFICATION STATEMENT 
GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS 
Bureau Veritas North America, Inc. (BVNA) was engaged to conduct an independent verification at a limited 
assurance level of the greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, purchased renewable energy certificates, and GHG Offsets 
reported by BNY Mellon for the calendar year (CY) 2017.  This Verification Statement applies to the related 
information included within the scope of work described below.  
The determination of the GHG emissions is the sole responsibility of BNY Mellon.  BVNA’s sole responsibility was to 
provide independent verification on the accuracy of the GHG emissions reported, and on the underlying systems and 
processes used to collect, analyze, and review the information.  
Boundaries of the reporting company GHG emissions covered by the verification: 
  Operational Control  
  Worldwide for Scope 1 and 2 Emissions 
  USA and UK only for Scope 3 Emissions 
Emissions data verified: 
Electricity Consumption Megawatt Hours (MWH) for CY 2017 
Electricity Consumption MWH  311,793 
Purchased Renewable Energy Certificates (RECs), Guarantees of Origin (GOs) and other  332,818 
renewable electricity instruments in MWH applied to Scope 2 Emissions from Purchased 
Electricity 
BNY Mellon Entity-Wide GHG Emissions for CY 2017 
Scope 1 Emissions Metric Tonnes (mt) of CO equivalent (CO )  8,265 
2 2e
Scope 2 Emissions – Location Based mt CO   146,657 
2e
Scope 2 Emissions – Market Based mt CO2e  (purchased steam emissions)  2,248 
Scope 3 Emissions – Category 6 Business Travel CO   17,944 
2e
Total Scope 1 + Scope 2 Market Based + Scope 3 Business Travel CO2e  28,457 
GHG Emission Offsets and Net Emissions for CY 2017 
Purchased GHG Emission Offsets mt CO   38,000 
2e
Net Emissions CO2e  0 
(Scope 1 + Scope 2 Market Based + Scope 3) - Purchased GHG Emission Offsets 
 
Bureau Veritas North America, Inc. 
Health, Safety and Environmental Services  Main : (714) 431.4100 
1940 E. Deere Avenue, Suite 210  Fax :   (714) 825.0685 
Santa Ana, CA 92705  www.BureauVeritasHSE.com 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
BNY Mellon  Page 2 
April 24, 2018 
Data and information supporting the Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions, RECs, GOs, other renewable 
electricity instruments and GHG Offsets assertion were in most cases historical in nature and in some cases 
estimated.  
Data and information supporting the Scope 3 GHG emissions assertion were in some cases estimated, rather 
than historical in nature. 
Period covered by GHG emissions verification: 
 Calendar Year 2017 – January 1 to December 31, 2017
GHG Reporting Protocols against which verification was conducted: 
 World Resources Institute (WRI)/World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD)
Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Protocol, Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard, Revised Edition (Scope 1
and 2) and the GHG Protocol Scope 2 Guidance, an amendment to the GHG Protocol Corporate Standard.
 WRI/WBCSD Greenhouse Gas Protocol Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) Accounting and Reporting
Standard.
GHG Verification Protocols used to conduct the verification: 
 ISO 14064-3: Greenhouse gases -- Part 3: Specification with guidance for the validation and verification of
greenhouse gas assertions
Level of Assurance and Qualifications: 
 Limited
 Materiality Threshold ±5%
 Qualifications:  None
GHG Verification Methodology: 
 Interviews with relevant personnel of BNY Mellon;
 Review of documentary evidence produced by BNY Mellon;
 Review of BNY Mellon data and information systems and methodology for collection, aggregation, analysis and
review of information used to determine GHG emissions at BNY Mellon’s Pittsburgh Pennsylvania office;
 Review of data and methodology for tracking purchases, certification and retirement of RECs, GOs, and GHG
Offsets; and,
 Audit of samples of data used by BNY Mellon to determine GHG emissions.
Assurance Opinion: 
Based on the process and procedures conducted, there is no evidence that the GHG emissions assertion shown 
above: 
 is not materially correct;
 is not a fair representation of the GHG emissions data and information; and
 has not been prepared in accordance with the WRI/WBCSD GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and
Reporting Standard.
 
 
 
 
 
BNY Mellon  Page 3 
April 24, 2018 
 
It is our opinion that BNY Mellon has established appropriate systems for the collection, aggregation, and analysis of 
quantitative data for determination of GHG emissions, and systems for tracking purchased RECs, GOs, other 
renewable electricity instruments and GHG Offsets for the stated period and boundaries. 
Statement of independence, impartiality and competence 
The Bureau Veritas Group is an independent professional services company that specializes in Quality, Health, 
Safety, Social and Environmental management with over 180 years history in providing independent assurance 
services.  
No member of the verification team has a business relationship with BNY Mellon, its Directors, or Managers beyond 
that required of this assignment.  We conducted this verification independently and, to our knowledge, there has been 
no conflict of interest.  
The Bureau Veritas Group has implemented a Code of Ethics across the business to maintain high ethical standards 
among staff in their day-to-day business activities.   
The verification team has extensive experience in conducting assurance over environmental, social, ethical, and 
health and safety information, systems, and processes, and has over 20 years combined experience in this field and 
an excellent understanding of The Bureau Veritas Group standard methodology for the verification of greenhouse gas 
emissions data.  
Attestation:  
 
       
Mary E. Armstrong-Friberg, Lead Verifier      David Reilly, Technical Reviewer 
Senior Project Manager           Senior Project Manager  
Bureau Veritas North America, Inc.       Bureau Veritas North America, Inc. 
Santa Ana, California           Santa Ana, California  
 
April 24, 2018 
 
This verification statement, including the opinion expressed herein, is provided to BNY Mellon and is solely for the benefit of BNY 
Mellon in accordance with the terms of our agreement. We consent to the release of this statement by you to the CDP in order to 
satisfy the terms of CDP disclosure requirements but without accepting or assuming any responsibility or liability on our part to CDP 
or to any other party who may have access to this statement.  
Legal Notices:
The following regulatory disclosure language only applies  Rogerson’s Quay, Dublin 2, Ireland trading as The Bank of 
to BNY Mellon and distribution of this report by BNY  New York Mellon SA/NV, Dublin Branch, is authorized by 
Mellon. BNY Mellon is the corporate brand of The Bank of  the ECB and is registered with the Companies 
New York Mellon Corporation and may be used as a  Registration Office in Ireland No. 907126 and with VAT No. 
generic term to reference the corporation as a whole and/ IE 9578054E. If this material is distributed in or from, the 
or its various subsidiaries generally. This material and  Dubai International Financial Centre (DIFC), it is 
any products and services may be issued or provided  communicated by The Bank of New York Mellon, DIFC 
under various brand names in various countries by duly  Branch, (the “DIFC Branch”) on behalf of BNY Mellon (as 
authorized and regulated subsidiaries, affiliates, and  defined above). This material is intended for Professional 
joint ventures of BNY Mellon, which may include any of  Clients and Market Counterparties only and no other 
the following. The Bank of New York Mellon, at 225 Liberty  person should act upon it. The DIFC Branch is regulated 
St, NY, NY 10286 USA, a banking corporation organized  by the DFSA and is located at DIFC, The Exchange 
pursuant to the laws of the State of New York, and  Building 5 North, Level 6, Room 601, P.O. Box 506723, 
operating in England through its branch at One Canada  Dubai, UAE.  The Bank of New York Mellon, Singapore 
Square, London E14 5AL, registered in England and  Branch is subject to regulation by the Monetary Authority 
Wales with numbers FC005522 and BR000818. The Bank  of Singapore. The Bank of New York Mellon, Hong Kong 
of New York Mellon is supervised and regulated by the  Branch is subject to regulation by the Hong Kong 
New York State Department of Financial Services and the  Monetary Authority and the Securities & Futures 
US Federal Reserve and authorized by the Prudential  Commission of Hong Kong. If this material is distributed 
Regulation Authority. The Bank of New York Mellon,  in Japan, it is distributed by The Bank of New York Mellon 
London Branch is subject to regulation by the Financial  Securities Company Japan Ltd, as intermediary for The 
Conduct Authority and limited regulation by the  Bank of New York Mellon.  BNY Mellon in Australia is 
Prudential Regulation Authority. Details about the extent  subject to regulation by the Australian Prudential 
of our regulation by the Prudential Regulation Authority  Regulation Authority and is exempt from holding an 
are available from us on request. The Bank of New York  Australian Financial Services License and is regulated by 
Mellon SA/NV, a Belgian public limited liability company,  the New York State Department of Financial Services 
with company number 0806.743.159, whose registered  under the New York Banking Law, which is different from 
office is at 46 Rue Montoyerstraat, B-1000 Brussels,  Australian law. The Bank of New York Mellon Trust 
Belgium, authorized and regulated as a significant credit  Company, N.A., is a national banking association 
institution by the European Central Bank (ECB), under the  regulated by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency. 
prudential supervision of the National Bank of Belgium  Not all products and services are offered in all countries. 
(NBB) and under the supervision of the Belgian Financial  BNY Mellon in Australia is subject to regulation by the 
Services and Markets Authority (FSMA) for conduct of  Australian Prudential Regulation Authority and is exempt 
business rules, and a subsidiary of The Bank of New York  from holding an Australian Financial Services License 
Mellon and operating in England through its branch at  and is regulated by the New York State Department of 
160 Queen Victoria Street, London EC4V 4LA, registered  Financial Services under the New York Banking Law 
in England and Wales with numbers FC029379 and  which is different from Australian law. BNY Mellon has 
BR014361. The Bank of New York Mellon SA/NV (London  various other branches in the Asia-Pacific Region which 
Branch) is authorized by the ECB and subject to limited  are subject to regulation by the relevant local regulator in 
regulation by the Financial Conduct Authority and the  that jurisdiction. Details about the extent of our 
Prudential Regulation Authority. Details about the extent  regulation by the Australian Prudential Regulation 
of our regulation by the Financial Conduct Authority and  Authority and other applicable regulators in the Asia-
Prudential Regulation Authority are available from us on  Pacific Region are available from us on request. This 
request. The Bank of New York Mellon SA/NV operating in  document is issued or distributed in Australia by The 
Ireland through its branch at Riverside Two, Sir John  Bank of New York Mellon, on behalf of BNY Mellon 
118  CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017
Legal Notices:
Australia Pty Ltd (ACN 113 947 309) located at Level 2, 1  observe any restrictions that apply to the distribution of 
Bligh Street, Sydney NSW 2000, and relates to products  this document in their jurisdiction.
and services of BNY Mellon Australia Pty Ltd or one of its 
Some information contained in this report has been 
subsidiaries. BNY Mellon Australia Pty Ltd is ultimately 
obtained from third-party sources and has not been 
wholly-owned by The Bank of New York Mellon 
independently verified by BNY Mellon. Information 
Corporation. The Bank of New York Mellon does not 
contained in this report may not be comprehensive or 
provide this product or service. None of BNY Mellon 
up-to-date, and is subject to change without notice. BNY 
Australia Pty Ltd or its subsidiaries is an authorized 
Mellon will not be responsible for updating any 
deposit-taking institution and the obligations of BNY 
information contained within this report and makes no 
Mellon Australia Pty Ltd or its subsidiaries do not 
representation as to the accuracy or completeness of 
represent investments, deposits or other liabilities of The 
such information. BNY Mellon assumes no liability (direct 
Bank of New York Mellon. Neither The Bank of New York 
or consequential or any other form of liability) for any 
Mellon nor any of its related entities stands behind or 
errors in or reliance upon the information contained in 
guarantees obligations of BNY Mellon Australia Pty Ltd. 
the report.
The Bank of New York Mellon has provided eligible 
undertakings of up to AUD$10 million to the Australian 
BNY Mellon holds 100% of the parent holding company of 
financial services license-holding of BNY Mellon 
BNY Alcentra Group Holdings Inc., which is comprised of 
Australia Pty Ltd in order to meet the Australian financial 
the following affiliated companies: Alcentra Ltd. and 
services obligations of those subsidiaries.
Alcentra NY, LLC.  Investment advisory services in North 
America are provided through four different investment 
The material contained in this report, which may be 
advisers registered with the Securities and Exchange 
considered advertising, is for general information and 
Commission (“SEC”), using the brand Insight Investment: 
reference purposes only and is not intended to provide or 
Cutwater Asset Management Corp. (“CAMC”), Cutwater 
be construed as legal, tax, accounting, investment, 
Investor Services Corp. (“CISC”), Insight North America 
financial or other professional advice on any matter, and 
LLC (“INA”) and Pareto Investment Management Limited 
is not to be used as such. The contents may not be 
(“PIML”). The North American investment advisers are 
comprehensive or up-to-date, and BNY Mellon will not be 
associated with other global investment managers that 
responsible for updating any information contained 
also (individually and collectively) use the corporate 
within this report. If distributed in the UK or EMEA, this 
brand Insight Investment and may be referred to as 
report is a financial promotion. This report, and the 
“Insight” or “Insight Investment.”   Standish Mellon Asset 
statements contained herein, is not an offer or 
Management Company, LLC (“Standish”) is a wholly 
solicitation to buy or sell any products (including 
owned and independently operated investment 
financial products) or services or to participate in any 
management subsidiary of The Bank of New York Mellon 
particular strategy mentioned and should not be 
Corporation (“BNY Mellon”).  “Newton” and/or the “Newton 
construed as such. This report is not intended for 
Investment Management” brand refers to the following 
distribution to, or use by, any person or entity in any 
group of affiliated companies: Newton Investment 
jurisdiction or country in which such distribution or use 
Management Limited, Newton Investment Management 
would be contrary to local law or regulation. Similarly, 
(North America) Limited (NIMNA Ltd) and Newton 
this report may not be distributed or used for the purpose 
Investment Management (North America) LLC (NIMNA 
of offers or solicitations in any jurisdiction or in any 
LLC). NIMNA LLC personnel are supervised persons of 
circumstances in which such offers or solicitations are 
NIMNA Ltd and NIMNA LLC does not provide investment 
unlawful or not authorized, or where there would be, by 
advice, all of which is conducted by NIMNA Ltd. NIMNA 
virtue of such distribution, new or additional registration 
LLC and NIMNA Ltd are the only Newton companies to 
requirements. Persons into whose possession this report 
offer services in the U.S. Newton is a wholly owned 
comes are required to inform themselves about and to 
119  CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017
Legal Notices:
subsidiary of The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation.  
Mellon Capital Management Corporation (“Mellon 
Capital”) is an investment adviser registered with the 
Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) under the 
Investment Advisers Act of 1940. Mellon Capital is a 
wholly owned indirect subsidiary of BNY Mellon. The firm 
is defined as Mellon Capital and includes assets 
managed as dual officers of BNY Mellon and as dual 
employees of The Dreyfus Corporation.  BNY Mellon owns 
a majority of The Boston Company Asset Management, 
LLC and the remainder is owned by employees of the firm.  
Walter Scott & Partners Limited(“Walter Scott”) is a 
wholly owned and independently operated investment 
management subsidiary of The Bank of New York Mellon 
Corporation (“BNY Mellon”).  CenterSquare Investment 
Management is a wholly-owned and independently 
operated investment management company of The Bank 
of New York Mellon Corporation.   BNY Mellon owns a 
20% interest in Siguler Guff & Company, LP and certain 
related entities (including Siguler Guff Advisers, LLC).
Reproduction, distribution, republication and 
retransmission of material contained in this report is 
prohibited without the prior consent of BNY Mellon. 
All currency is in United States Dollar (USD) unless 
otherwise specified 
120  CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017
To learn more about our CSR strategy, commitments and 
achievements, please see www.bnymellon.com/csr. 
Additional information is available at www.bnymellon. 
com, or follow us on Twitter @BNY Mellon.
All data included in this publication is as of December 31, 
2017 unless otherwise specified. For a full explanation of 
statistics, please see https://www.bnymellon.com/us/en/
investor-relations/index.jsp#ir/annual-report--proxy.
Trademarks, service marks and logos belong to their 
respective owners.
© 2018 The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation.  
All rights reserved.
#WeAreInvested 