
2019 Health for Humanity Report
Progress in Sustainability
Contents
About Johnson & Johnson  3 
At-A-Glance                 3 
Message from Our Chairman and CEO  6 
2019 Year in Brief  7 
   
Our Approach  9 
Health for Humanity Strategy & Progress  9 
2020 Goals Progress Scorecard   10 
UN SDG Commitment Progress Scorecard                15 
Sustainability Governance  19 
Sustainability Priorities  20
Better Health for All  21 
Tackling the World's Toughest Health Challenges   23 
Enhancing Access to Healthcare   33 
Contributing to Community Health  39 
Innovating for Better Health  45
Responsible Business Practices   52 
Empowering People  54 
Product Quality, Safety & Reliability  70 
Ethics & Transparency  75 
Responsible Supply Base  82
Environmental Health   89 
Climate Resilience  91 
Water & Waste Management   96 
Product Sustainability  99
Data & Downloads  102 
GRI Content Index  103  UNICEF, the Government of Vietnam and Johnson & Johnson are partnering on a national program 
to train more than 500 ethnic minority midwives in remote regions to provide effective maternal and 
SASB Index  103  child health interventions including early essential newborn care in village clinics and homes.
UNGC Communication on Progress  103 
Photo by Paul Bettings
Data Summary  103 
About this Report  104   
Independent Assurance Statements  105  Front cover 
References 120  
Volunteers, frontline health workers and government officials at the launch of the Umurinzi 
vaccination program in Rwanda. In October 2019, Johnson & Johnson committed to donating up to 
700,000 regimens of Janssen’s investigational Ebola vaccine to support the Ebola outbreak response 
To read this Report online, visit healthforhumanityreport.jnj.com in Rwanda and the Democratic Republic of the Congo.
Photos by Rwanda Ministry of Health
22001917 H Heeaaltlhth f ofor rH Huummaannitiyty R Repepoortrt 33
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
About Johnson & Johnson
At-A-Glance 
GRI 102-1, 102-2, 102-3, 102-4, 102-5, 102-6, 102-7, 102-16
Our Purpose At Johnson & Johnson, we focus on the total health journey
We blend heart, science and ingenuity to profoundly change the 
trajectory of health for humanity. 
Our Values
We are driven by Our Credo, a set of values and principles that 
challenges and inspires us to put the needs and wellbeing of the 
people we serve first.
Our Operations
We operate 97 manufacturing facilities which are located in all 
major geographic regions of the world. Research facilities are 
located in the United States, Belgium, Brazil, China, France, 
Germany, India, Israel, the Netherlands, Poland, Singapore, 
Sweden, Switzerland and the United Kingdom, with additional 
R&D support in over 30 other countries.
Our global headquarters are in New Brunswick, New Jersey, 
USA. Johnson & Johnson has been listed on the New York Stock 
Exchange since 1944 under the symbol JNJ. For changes in our 
business during the reporting period, please visit page 79 of our 
2019 Annual Report.
22001917 H Heeaaltlhth f ofor rH Huummaannitiyty R Repepoortrt 44
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
2019 Financial Results
Celebrating 75 years of  
our IPO
Employees 137,701
R&D investment $11.4 billion 
On September 24, 1944, Johnson & Johnson was 
first listed as a publicly traded company on the New 
Total sales $82.1 billion 
York Stock Exchange (NYSE). The Company was 
founded in 1886 and had already established itself 
Net earnings $15.1 billion 
as a successful business for almost 60 years. Taking 
The Executive Committee and Johnson & Johnson employees on the 
it public created an opportunity for people to invest 
NYSE podium commemorating the 75th Anniversary of our IPO.  
Market price per share, year-end close $145.75  in a company with a vision of healthcare, expanding 
the frontiers of Johnson & Johnson geographically 
and scientifically, to deliver health and healing 
globally, propelled by significant breakthroughs in 
science, technology, and medicine.         History
Sales by business segment:  The collective commitment and efforts of our  In 1943, before taking Johnson & Johnson public, 
global Johnson & Johnson colleagues throughout  Robert Wood Johnson wrote Our Credo, putting 
Pharmaceutical $42.2 billion  the decades have enabled great achievements and  in writing the Company's founding values so that 
strong results, evidenced by: they would continue to guide the organization in 
the future.
Medical Devices  $26.0 billion •  Impacting more than a billion lives every day;
Consumer Health $13.9 billion •  Increased dividends for the last 57 consecutive 
years;
•  36 consecutive years of adjusted operational 
earnings growth; and
•  Our standing among Standard & Poor’s Top 10 
Market Cap companies.
22001917 H Heeaaltlhth f ofor rH Huummaannitiyty R Repepoortrt 55
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
Our Brands
Every day, we touch more than a billion lives with our products. Following are select brands that 
represent the diversity of the Johnson & Johnson product portfolio in our three business segments, 
spanning the broad continuum of healthcare.
     
Pharmaceutical Medical Devices Consumer Health
22001917 H Heeaaltlhth f ofor rH Huummaannitiyty R Repepoortrt 66
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
Message from Our Chairman and CEO
GRI 102-14
Dear Johnson & Johnson Stakeholders,  We know this mission will always be unfinished, and that we  The demands for global healthcare and responsible corporate 
will occasionally fall short. But that only serves as motivation  citizenship will only continue to increase, and meeting them 
2019 was a year of profound change and great contrasts  to move faster than we’ve ever moved before in making  will require us to not only operate with speed and agility, 
around the globe. bigger strides toward some of our most ambitious goals. And  but with focus and determination. The start of this new year 
as we’ve detailed in this Report, we have plenty of positive  has already seen us launching a huge,  multi-pronged and 
We saw unprecedented innovation and encouraging progress  momentum worth recognizing.   collaborative response to combat COVID-19, the details of 
toward meeting some of the world’s most urgent health  which can be found at: www.jnj.com/coronavirus. 
challenges—all while grappling with increased pressures  Key achievements included: victories in our work toward a 
on our healthcare systems, and sociopolitical upheaval that  world without disease, such as major strides in preventing  I have many reasons to be optimistic that we can and will 
added complexity to coordination of public health efforts. By  HIV and combating Ebola and TB; acceleration of patient- succeed in meeting our most critical commitments—more 
the end of 2019, while we were seeing only the first glimpses  centric innovation, like new 3D-printed implants designed  than 137,000 of them, in fact. That’s the number of talented 
of the outbreak of the coronavirus disease (COVID-19), it  to regenerate, rather than replace, diseased joints; and  Johnson & Johnson employees around the world whose 
was already evident just how necessary it was to mobilize  robust ongoing work to improve our communities, strengthen  passion and dedication serve as the ultimate engine for 
resources on a global scale when combating outbreaks of  the frontline health workforce and safeguard the planet,  change. I’m immensely proud to be sharing this journey with 
infectious disease.   including accelerating the reduction of our carbon footprint  them, and confident that all of us will do whatever it takes 
with four new contracts for renewably sourced electricity in  to deliver on our Company’s promises to our patients and 
Belgium, Ireland, Mexico and the Netherlands. consumers, our communities, and our world.
Importantly, we were able to do all of the above (and more) 
thanks to a culture of accountability, transparency and ethical 
behavior that, to me, make up the very definition of a healthy 
company.  
As you’ll see, this year’s Report highlights areas where we’ve 
Alex Gorsky
already achieved our Health for Humanity 2020 Goals and 
Chairman, Board of Directors 
our UN Sustainable Development Goals commitments, as 
and Chief Executive Officer
well as areas where we’re redoubling our efforts. The most 
essential feature of public reports like this must always be 
to critically assess how we’re doing—not just spotlight our 
greatest successes. 
Alex Gorsky meeting with employees on his visit to Singapore in 2019
If 2019 taught me anything, it’s that turbulent times require 
us to not just reaffirm but deepen our pledge to account for 
At Johnson & Johnson, the best way forward in meeting our 
how we meet the long-term needs of patients, consumers, 
commitments to transparency and sustainability—last year, 
mothers and fathers, our communities, and our planet—a 
this year, and for many years to come—remains crystal clear. 
sentiment shared by more and more CEOs. Initiatives like 
Simply put, we are constantly taking stock of what we are 
last year’s update of the Business Roundtable Statement on 
doing to help keep people healthy so that they can thrive 
the Purpose of a Corporation, which we were honored to 
in healthy communities on a healthy planet and prioritizing 
help steer, affirmed unequivocally that there is a fundamental 
those actions that will have the greatest impact. 
connection between serving all stakeholders and generating 
sustainable, long-term value. 
22001917 H Heeaaltlhth f ofor rH Huummaannitiyty R Repepoortrt 77
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
2019 Year in Brief
Responsible  
Better Health for All Environmental Health
Business Practices
Continued our fight against HIV and TB  Launched the J&J Innovation Champions 
$11.4 billion  epidemics with an investment of $500  program offering R&D scientists a six- 30% of our electricity 
invested in R&D million dedicated to R&D and delivery  month secondment to an external innovation  is produced or procured from 
programs
organization renewable energy sources
105,000 patients
WHO* recommended the use of 
provided access to HIV treatment bedaquiline-containing treatment  15,000 employees 
32% reduction 
regimens for all pulmonary drug-resistant  trained in the 
106,000 patients in CO2 emissions since 2010
TB patients principles of 
provided access to MDR-TB treatment
ENERGY FOR 
Launched the first Phase 3 efficacy  
PERFORMANCE
$37 million study of Janssen’s investigational HIV 
donated for disaster relief to support  preventative vaccine with global partners
Employees in our Seoul office 
our communities participating in a group yoga class.
Supported Ebola outbreak response in 
75,000 health workers  Rwanda and Democratic Republic of Congo 
43% of Manager  
by committing to donate up to 700,000 
educated in 54 countries and above talent 
investigational vaccine courses
movement
Completed the first-ever mental health  that was across function,  
clinical study in Rwanda to help improve  country or business  
access to mental healthcare segment lines**
© Norther wind farm off the coast of Belgium and the Netherlands 
provides renewable energy for our operations  
Unveiled new Center for Health Worker  Ranked #1  in both countries.
Innovation to address global health  
on Gartner’s 2019 
worker shortage Signed 4 new power purchase agreements, 
Healthcare Supply Chain 
significantly advancing progress toward our 
Top 25 list
Achieved WHO* prequalification   100% renewable electricity goal
for VERMOX CHEWABLE (mebendazole 
chewable 500mg tablets) to treat  46% of management roles held by women Received CDP Climate Change and Water 
intestinal worms in children and extended 
Security A List ratings for leadership in 
commitment to donate up to 1 billion 
environmental transparency and performance
additional doses through 2025
$1.6 billion spend with diverse suppliers
A child in Peru takes a VERMOX CHEWABLE tablet to 
treat intestinal worms, donated by Johnson & Johnson and 
implemented by INMED Partnerships for Children  
as part of a national mass drug administration.
*  World Health Organization
** Represents the proportion of employees in Manager and above job categories who in their career progression movement (including upward promotion, downward demotion, or lateral transfer) crossed function, country or business segment lines.
22001917 H Heeaaltlhth f ofor rH Huummaannitiyty R Repepoortrt 88
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
Recognitions
Named to CDP Climate 
Recognized by Forbes for the  Ranked #3 in the  Member of the Billion
second consecutive year as a  2020 Antimicrobial  Dollar Roundtable for Change and Water Security  FTSE4Good Index
“Best Employer for Diversity.”  Resistance Benchmark. supplier diversity for the  2019 A Lists, and scored A-  Series constituent.
ninth consecutive year. in CDP’s Forest List.
Scored 90% in DisabiltyIN’s 
Achieved the TOP RANKING in Gartner Inc.’s 11th annual Healthcare Supply Chain Top 
Ranked #1 on Working Mother  2019 Disability Equality 
25 ranking, which recognizes companies across the healthcare value chain, and eighth 
magazine’s annual list of the “100  Index for the second 
position in Gartner’s ranking of the top 25 large cap (>$12B) company supply chains, 
Best Companies.”
consecutive year. 
moving up 10 places to our highest-ever ranking.
Named among the Top 100 Companies in 
Received the EPA SmartWay Excellence Award for  Honored with CSR Health Impact’s Swasth Bharat 
Equileap’s 2019 Gender Equality Global 
the sixth year. This award recognizes companies  award in recognition of Janssen India’s transformative 
Report and Ranking, which recognizes the 
that are leaders in increasing energy efficiency  work to address the growing challenge of multidrug-
leading companies globally making progress 
while decreasing greenhouse gas emissions. resistant tuberculosis (MDR-TB).
toward gender equality in the workplace. 
Named as the Operational 
Included in the Human Rights Campaign 
Fleet Superstar at the  Inducted into DiversityInc’s 
inaugural Great British  NAdammierde dto C Foomrtpuannei’ess l ifsot ro tfh teh e17 Wtho yrelda’rs,  rManokstin g in  prestigious Top 50 Hall of  FLGouBnTdQa tEioqnu’sa lliitsyt  faosr  at hBee 1s5t tPhl accoen stoe cWutoivrke  fyoera r, 
Fleet Awards for   the top 20. Johnson & Johnson was also placed #1  Fame, one of six companies  scoring 100% percent on the 2020 Corporate 
Johnson & Johnson UK’s  in the pharmaceutical category worldwide for the  included to date, after  2020 Equality Index (CEI), which measures corporate 
Safe Fleet team’s Caring  sixth consecutive year. ranking #1 in DiversityInc’s  policies and practices related to LGBTQ 
About People program. 2018 Top 50 Ranking.  workplace equality.
Named to the JUST Capital top 100 ranking in 2019, for 
the second year, ranking seventh of 43 pharmaceutical  Recognized for our commitment  Ranked #11 in the 2019  Named to the global #LinkedIn Top 
and biotech companies. to R&D that helps people with  Workforce 100 – the world’s  Companies 2019 as one of the world’s 
mental illness, and for our  top companies for Human  most sought-after employers.
longstanding support of the  Resources Management. Johnson & Johnson was the only 
healthcare company to be featured in the 
Mental Health Association in 
Recognized by the American Heart Association at Gold Level for  U.S. list.
New Jersey (MHANJ).
workplace health programs and culture of health best practices.
22001917 H Heeaaltlhth f ofor rH Huummaannitiyty R Repepoortrt 99
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
Our Approach
Health for Humanity 
Strategy & Progress 
As the world’s largest healthcare company, Johnson & Johnson has 
a unique ability to apply its expertise and partnering power to solve 
some of the most difficult global health challenges. We are advancing 
a world where healthy people thrive in healthy communities on a 
healthy planet, and having a healthy company helps us get there. 
We focus our sustainability efforts where we believe our Company 
can achieve the greatest impact. Our Health for Humanity 2020 
Goals are aligned with Johnson & Johnson's purpose and reflect the 
areas where our stakeholders expect us to lead.
The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) are a global framework 
for progress toward a more sustainable future. In trying to determine 
the ways in which Johnson & Johnson can contribute to the global 
community to create a healthier, more equitable world, we developed 
a clear, pragmatic process for building a commitment to accelerate 
the SDGs that reflects our unique constellation of strengths.
Scientists reviewing cell samples in the Analytical Development lab at Janssen Sciences Ireland in Cork, Ireland.
22001917 H Heeaaltlhth f ofor rH Huummaannitiyty R Repepoortrt 1100
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
Health for Humanity 2020 Goals Progress Scorecard
The following Scorecard provides an update on progress we have made against our 2020 Goals.
Exceeded 
Achieved 
On track: expected to meet the Goal by 2020 
In progress: so far progressing more slowly than expected; plans are in place to meet the Goal by 2020 
Off track: not progressing as expected; currently at risk of not meeting the Goal by 2020
GOAL 2020 TARGET PROGRESS MADE IN 2016-2019‡ NOTABLE STATUS
1.  Develop and deliver  Expand the database, documenting  Data from the expanded patient database allowed  We achieved this target in 2018. Achieved
 
innovative, life- the effectiveness, efficacy and safety  for publication on effectiveness, efficacy and 
changing solutions  profile of SIRTURO (bedaquiline) safety of SIRTURO in two peer-reviewed journals 
to address the  through collaborative efforts to further  in 2018.
world’s major health  increase access.
challenges.
Collaborate on Phase 3 trials and make  Regulatory submissions were made: Achieved
 
regulatory submissions for rilpivirine 
long-acting (LA), the first all-injectable  •  One submission to the U.S. Food and Drug 
depot regimen for HIV. Administration (FDA) by ViiV Healthcare 
for ViiV’s cabotegravir LA together with 
Janssen’s rilpivirine LA. 
•  Two parallel submissions to the European 
Medicines Agency—one for rilpivirine LA by 
Janssen and one for cabotegravir LA by ViiV 
Healthcare.
2. D  eliver innovative  Produce and donate 1 billion doses of  0.8 billion doses of VERMOX donated in 42  Cumulatively 1.6 billion doses of VERMOX donated since  On track
   
healthcare access  VERMOX (mebendazole) to treat >100  countries with 415 million children having been  2006.
and training  million children per year at risk for  targeted for treatment.
programs that  intestinal worms.
impact a billion 
lives in underserved 
areas.*
* “Underserved” refers to populations that are disadvantaged because of ability to pay, ability to access care, ability to access comprehensive healthcare, or other disparities for reasons of race, religion, language group or social status.
‡ Progress against our Health for Humanity 2020 Goals, and associated data have been assured by ERM CVS. See independent assurance statements by ERM CVS.
22001917 H Heeaaltlhth f ofor rH Huummaannitiyty R Repepoortrt 1111
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
GOAL 2020 TARGET PROGRESS MADE IN 2016-2019‡ NOTABLE STATUS
Deliver HIV/AIDS therapy access to a  104,000 adult patients and over 700 pediatric  •  The estimates of the number of patients receiving access  In progress
 
cumulative 130,000 adults and 5,000  patients received access to HIV/AIDS therapy with  are based on the best available therapy access models 
children. the branded and generic versions of PREZISTA  developed by our Global Public Health team leveraging 
(darunavir), INTELENCE (etravirine) and EDURANT  published epidemiologic and population data.
(rilpivirine).* 
•  Healthcare systems in resource-limited settings face 
considerable challenges in identifying and treating HIV 
in pediatric and adolescent patients, including lack of 
laboratory testing and limited technical capacity for 
switching patients to suitable antiretroviral regimens. 
Several activities we planned for 2020 will help address 
these challenges and potentially increase the number of 
pediatric and adolescent patients we will reach.
Deliver access to MDR-TB therapy  182,000 patients received access to MDR-TB  More patients can now benefit from SIRTURO: in 2019,  On track
   
to a cumulative 200,000 patients,  therapy with SIRTURO (bedaquiline). For 37,000  the World Health Organization recommended the use of 
potentially curing** 157,000 people***  patients provided access in 2016 and 2017,  bedaquiline-containing treatment regimens for all pulmonary 
with MDR-TB of the disease. an estimated 32,000 patients*** have been  drug-resistant TB patients, and we received FDA approval 
potentially cured based on the 87.8% cure rate.** to extend the indication for SIRTURO as part of combination 
therapy for eligible MDR-TB patients to include adolescents 
12 to 18 years of age in the United States.
Together with partners, train 30,000  Together with partners, trained 74,000 birth   Exceeded
skilled birth attendants to assist 6  attendants, who assisted in 6 million births.
million births.
Support the delivery of 6 million  In partnership with Lions Club International,  Progress in 2019 is estimated based on delivery of eye  Achieved
 
eye care screenings to underserved  supported delivery of 12 million eye care  screenings and corrective treatments (spectacles) in 2018. 
children and corrective treatments  screenings and corrective treatments (spectacles)  Actual 2019 data is available after our report data collection 
(spectacles) as needed to 100,000  to 120,000 underserved children. cut-off date.
underserved children.
* We revised our calculation methodology to increase accuracy and now report on a 12-month rolling average, which includes a 1.25% wastage and a 75% adherence factor.
** The cure rate is 87.8% for patients treated with bedaquiline-containing regimens, based on The Lancet Respiratory Medicine, Volume 392, September 2018, Pages 821-834.
*** As communicated through the product label, SIRTURO is taken for six months as part of a combination therapy with multiple other drugs; in total, a patient often requires up to two years of treatment to be cured.
‡ Progress against our Health for Humanity 2020 Goals, and associated data have been assured by ERM CVS. See independent assurance statements by ERM CVS.
22001917 H Heeaaltlhth f ofor rH Huummaannitiyty R Repepoortrt 1122
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
GOAL 2020 TARGET PROGRESS MADE IN 2016-2019‡ NOTABLE STATUS
3. C  ollaborate with  Activate signature partnerships/ BAND-AID® Brand Adhesive Bandages activated  On track
   
government,  initiatives for five of our largest  the partnership with (RED) to help fund a 
nonprofit and  Consumer Health brands to promote  diverse range of lifesaving HIV/AIDS programs 
private sector to  the health and wellbeing of people in  across eight countries in sub-Saharan Africa. 
foster new models  need around the world. In prior years we activated partnerships with 
of health that  JOHNSON’S, LISTERINE, and STAYFREE.
improve economic 
wellbeing and 
healthcare in key  Drive policy thought leadership and  •  More than 800 engagements conducted  On track
emerging markets. strategic engagements to expand  with government officials and other partners     
healthcare access and coverage  in Brazil, China, Malaysia, Mexico, Russia 
in at least three emerging markets  and Rwanda in 2019.  
(including Brazil, China and India), and 
lead three to five pilots to demonstrate  •  Existing pilot projects to expand healthcare 
the results of these efforts. access and coverage in Brazil, China, 
Colombia, Indonesia, Mexico, Philippines, 
Russia and Rwanda are ongoing. 
•  Two new pilots launched: a private health 
insurance project in Malaysia to expand 
access to innovative medicines and premium 
surgical products; and a project in China to 
improve the case finding and diagnosis of 
TB, including drug-resistant TB.
4. F ully integrate  New and existing products  New and existing products representing 22%   Exceeded
sustainable design  representing 20% of                     of Johnson & Johnson revenue achieved 
solutions into our  Johnson & Johnson revenue achieve  EARTHWARDS recognition.*
product innovation  EARTHWARDS recognition for 
processes. sustainable innovation improvements.
* Based on availability of data, the percentage includes revenue from certain products recognized in the current reporting year. This is a change in methodology compared to prior years where the percentage excluded revenue from 
products recognized in the reporting year. 
‡ Progress against our Health for Humanity 2020 Goals, and associated data have been assured by ERM CVS. See independent assurance statements by ERM CVS.
22001917 H Heeaaltlhth f ofor rH Huummaannitiyty R Repepoortrt 1133
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
GOAL 2020 TARGET PROGRESS MADE IN 2016-2019‡ NOTABLE STATUS
Increase the recyclability of our  Continued partnerships with two co-ops in Brazil  The main focus in 2019 was to advance our inclusive  On track
   
Consumer Health product packaging  and one in India to advance material recovery and  recycling model in Brazil by:
to 90+% (on a weight basis) via design  recycling efforts. 
and partnerships in five key markets  •  collaborating with other companies through the 
where mature recycling infrastructure  Concluded the partnership in Vietnam focused on  Inclusive Waste Recycling Consortium (iWrc)
exists (Canada, France, Germany, UK  ocean plastics through Consumer Goods Forum 
and U.S).* In three other markets where  and Trash Free Seas Alliance. •  identifying additional co-ops to expand the network of 
recycling infrastructure is less mature  co-ops that have been socially fingerprinted**
engage in partnerships to advance 
material recovery and recycling efforts. •  initiating development of a digital marketplace to help 
provide traceability of recycled materials recovered by 
socially fingerprinted** co-ops as they move through 
the system
5. R educe our impacts  Reduce absolute carbon emissions 20%  CO2 emissions decreased by 32% globally since   Achieved
on climate and  by 2020, and 80% by 2050. 2010 (Scope 1 and Scope 2).
water resources.
Produce/procure 35% of electricity  30% of our electricity is produced or procured  On track
   
from renewable sources by 2020;  from renewable energy sources.
aspire to power all facilities with 
renewable energy by 2050.
Conduct a comprehensive water risk  We completed the comprehensive water risk  Newly acquired sites are assessed within three full calendar  On track
   
assessment at 100% of manufacturing/ assessment at 100% of manufacturing/R&D  years post-acquisition.
R&D locations and implement resource  locations in 2019.
protection plans at the high-risk sites.
By the end of 2019, 100% of all high-risk sites 
identified developed mitigation plans and 
budgeted for their implementation in 2020; 35% 
of these have already completed their mitigation 
plans.
* In 2018 Johnson & Johnson Consumer Inc. signed  the New Plastics Economy Global Commitment. By joining this global multistakeholder initiative, we set a new ambitious 2025 plastics packaging commitment, which supersedes 
our 2020 target. Progress against the new 2025 commitment is being reported in this section of the Health for Humanity Report. We will continue reporting our progress on helping advance material recovery and recycling efforts in 
less mature markets in this Scorecard.
** Social fingerprinting is a standardized process developed by Social Accountability International to measure and improve an organization's social performance. See more information here.
‡ Progress against our Health for Humanity 2020 Goals, and associated data have been assured by ERM CVS. See independent assurance statements by ERM CVS.
22001917 H Heeaaltlhth f ofor rH Huummaannitiyty R Repepoortrt 1144
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
GOAL 2020 TARGET PROGRESS MADE IN 2016-2019‡ NOTABLE STATUS
6. C  ollaborate with  Enroll suppliers covering 80% of our  Enrolled suppliers covering approximately 71% of  On track
   
our suppliers  spend* in our Sustainable Procurement  spend** in our Sustainable Procurement Program.
to accelerate  Program.
environmental 
and social 
improvements 
across the value  Consistently achieve benchmark  •  Exceeded benchmark diverse supplier  The 16 countries outside the United States where we have     On track
spending with U.S. diverse suppliers  spending at 11% and benchmark small  started diverse supplier tracking are: Australia, Belgium, 
chain.
and small suppliers, and double the  supplier spending at 18% of total U.S. spend. Brazil, Canada, China, Colombia, France, Germany, 
number of countries with established  Indonesia, Japan, Mexico, Singapore, South Africa, Spain, 
supplier diversity and inclusion  •  Expanded our supplier diversity and  Switzerland and UK.
programs.*** inclusion programs to three additional 
countries (France, Indonesia and Singapore) 
for a total of 16 countries against the 
baseline of six.
7. E mpower and  Empower and engage employees  •  65,000 employees completed ENERGY FOR  93,000 employees have completed the principles of ENERGY  On track
   
engage the    toward a “personal best” in health  PERFORMANCE training. FOR PERFOMANCE training since the start of the program, 
Johnson & Johnson  and wellbeing via: training of at least  representing 93% progress against our 2020 target of 
family of employees  100,000 employees in the principles  •  112,000 employees engaged in health and  training 100,000 employees.**** We achieved our goal 
to become  of ENERGY FOR PERFORMANCE;****  wellbeing via the use of digital health tools  to connect at least 100,000 employees to their health via 
the healthiest  connecting at least 100,000 employees  since 2016. innovative digital health tools by 2020.
workforce. to their health via innovative digital 
health tools; and providing access to at  •  120,000 and 113,000 employees provided 
least 100,000 employees to both fully  access to 85% implemented healthy 
implemented***** healthy eating and  eating and healthy movement cultures, 
fully implemented healthy movement  respectively.
cultures.
* Based on spend data from prior calendar year.
** Based on spend data from 2018.
*** Total spend represents addressable spend, i.e., products and services that procurement teams can negotiate with suppliers to meet business goals.
**** We count our 28,000 active employees who completed ENERGY FOR PERFORMANCE training prior to January 1, 2016, toward progress against this target.
***** Defined as 100% implementation of policies, programs and practices for both healthy eating and healthy movement.
‡ Progress against our Health for Humanity 2020 Goals, and associated data have been assured by ERM CVS. See independent assurance statements by ERM CVS.
22001917 H Heeaaltlhth f ofor rH Huummaannitiyty R Repepoortrt 1155
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
UN Sustainable Development Goals 
Commitment Progress Scorecard
The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) are a global framework for progress toward a more sustainable future. In trying to 
determine the unique impact Johnson & Johnson would contribute to the global community to create a healthier, more equitable 
world, we developed a clear, pragmatic process to create a commitment to accelerate the SDGs that reflects our unique constellation 
of strengths. The Company’s commitment is focused in five areas in which Johnson & Johnson is positioned to create sustainable and 
scalable impact: health workforce, women’s and children’s health, essential surgery, global disease challenges, and environmental health. 
We aim to mobilize and inspire employees, consumers, communities, and our global network to improve health globally. While 
we aim to achieve outcomes in all of the Company’s work, the identified targets for the SDG commitment are reflective of the 
Company’s reach—individuals whose lives may benefit from our combined efforts with our partners. To that end, we developed a 
measurement-reporting framework that involves the annual tracking of progress toward focus area targets, ensuring accountability 
of our work. The Company’s SDG commitment focuses on SDGs 3, 5 and 17. Learn more here. 
Exceeded 
Achieved 
On track: expected to meet the Goal by 2020 
In progress: so far progressing more slowly than expected; plans are in place to meet the Goal by 2020 
Off track: not progressing as expected; currently at risk of not meeting the Goal by 2020
5-YEAR TARGET PROGRESS FOR 2016-2019‡ 
ASPIRATION NOTABLE
(2016-2020) implementation years
 1.   Health Workforce: A world  650,000 health workers will have  469,000 healthcare providers   Programs and partners — including a Mental Health Remote  
where the current and future  received training to better deliver  (72% of overall goal achieved) Training System in Rwanda and Medical Affairs training courses, 
healthcare workforce has  quality healthcare. as well as UNICEF, Save the Children, NurseConnect,  
In progress
the necessary competencies     Duke — Johnson & Johnson Nurse Leadership Program and Project 
to deliver high-quality  Hope — focused on strengthening primary and community-based health 
healthcare. systems by supporting effective, innovative and scalable interventions 
to ensure that nurses, midwives and community health workers are 
competent, confident, resilient, connected and respected. 
Learn more
‡ Progress against UN SDG commitment, and associated data have been assured by ERM CVS. See independent assurance statements by ERM CVS.  
22001917 H Heeaaltlhth f ofor rH Huummaannitiyty R Repepoortrt 1166
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
5-YEAR TARGET PROGRESS FOR 2016-2019‡ 
ASPIRATION NOTABLE
(2016-2020) Implementation years
2. W  omen’s & Children’s  60 million women and children will  40.6 million women and children   This five-year target is predominantly supported by  
Health: A world where  have received support and tools to  (68% of overall goal achieved ) Johnson & Johnson Foundation grants facilitated by the Global 
every woman and child  enable a healthy future. Community Impact organization. We are reporting the target as off track 
survives and has the          Off track due to a shift in our strategy in 2019 which transitions from programs 
opportunity for a healthy  reaching consumer groups directly to programs targeting frontline health 
future.  workers (i.e., nurses, midwives, and community health workers). We 
believe this transition will have greater, more far-reaching and sustainable 
impact on women's and children’s lives in the longer term. The COVID-19 
pandemic has underscored the critical needs facing our frontline health 
workers and their unique ability to address the healthcare needs of 
our society, and in particular, the underserved. Our new commitment 
acknowledges the pivotal role that health workers play in providing 
essential services to these groups. As such, the programming and 
tracking toward the original goal are transitioning, with fewer programs 
directly reaching women and children and more programs reaching the 
health workers who serve them. 
Even with this transition, by the end of the five-year goal period we 
estimate that we will have reached nearly 50 million women and 
children with support and tools to enable a healthy future (or over 80% 
of the overall target). 
We are proud to share that within our Global Disease Challenges goal, 
our VERMOX (mebendazole) Donation Program has improved the 
health of hundreds of millions of children. Those targets are reported 
separately. 
Learn more
3. E ssential Surgery: A world  50 million people will have had access  56.2 million beneficiaries   Over the past four years, the Medical and Surgical Skills Institute 
where safe, essential and  to safe, essential and timely surgical  (112% of overall goal achieved) trained more than 30,000 healthcare professionals from 10 countries in 
timely surgical care can  care. West Africa. It is estimated that these trained individuals will serve over 
Exceeded
be accessed by all to save    56 million patients. 
lives, prevent disability, 
promote economic  Learn more 
growth, and reduce social 
marginalization. 
‡ Progress against UN SDG commitment, and associated data have been assured by ERM CVS. See independent assurance statements by ERM CVS.  
22001917 H Heeaaltlhth f ofor rH Huummaannitiyty R Repepoortrt 1177
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
5-YEAR TARGET PROGRESS FOR 2016-2019‡ 
ASPIRATION NOTABLE
(2016-2020) Implementation years
4. G  lobal Disease  175 million individuals will have  417 million beneficiaries   Johnson & Johnson’s VERMOX Donation Program was the primary 
Challenges: A world where  benefited from Johnson & Johnson  (238% of overall goal achieved) driver for exceeding this goal early, with an estimated 415 million 
innovations and holistic  solutions that prevent, control and  school-aged children in 42 countries having received VERMOX 
health solutions prevent,  eliminate global diseases.   Exceeded  treatments.
control and eliminate 
global disease challenges  •  An estimated 104,000 adult patients and over 700 child patients 
and epidemics.  received access to HIV/AIDS therapy.
•  Since 2016, we enabled access to SIRTURO (bedaquiline) in 138 
countries, including all 30 high MDR-TB burden countries, and 
delivered access to 182,000 patients.
Learn More
5. E nvironmental Health: A  60 million citizens living across 30  43.3 million citizens impacted through 2019 Cities: Karachi, Pakistan
world where all people have  cities will have benefited from climate  Amman, Jordan Lima, Peru
healthy places to live, work  and air quality actions that have the  30 cities in the program have been trained, and  Athens, Greece Los Angeles, USA
and play.  potential to positively impact public  have committed to implementing at least one 
Auckland, New Zealand Medellin, Colombia
health. climate action relating to air quality improvements 
and health co-benefits. Barcelona, Spain Mexico City, Mexico
Buenos Aires, Argentina Nairobi, Kenya
•  14 cities have already significantly  Chengdu, China Paris, France
implemented actions: Barcelona, Buenos 
Chennai, India Quezon City, Philippines
Aires, Chennai, Dar es Salaam, Dubai, 
Dar es Salaam, Tanzania Quito, Ecuador
Durban, Karachi, Medellin, Paris, Quezon 
City, Quito, Salvador, Toronto and Venice. Dubai, UAE Rio de Janeiro, Brazil
Durban, South Africa Salvador, El Salvador
•  Johnson & Johnson continues to fund a  Hanoi, Vietnam Santiago, Chile
city advisor for Los Angeles in its role as a 
Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam Toronto, Canada
“demonstrator” city undertaking multiple 
Istanbul, Turkey Rome, Italy
climate actions.
Jakarta, Indonesia Venice, Italy
On track
   Johannesburg, South Africa
Learn More
‡ Progress against UN SDG commitment, and associated data have been assured by ERM CVS. See independent assurance statements by ERM CVS.  
22001917 H Heeaaltlhth f ofor rH Huummaannitiyty R Repepoortrt 1188
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
Challenges of reporting and assuring progress against the  We also do not have 100% reporting as some data come in  two treatments each year. We thus have used a factorial of 
SDG goals after organizational publication deadlines, which means we  1.6 – 1.8 to estimate the number of children treated each year. 
may have some undercounting. To remedy this, we have  The number of children treated estimated for 2016 was based 
Collaboration is at the heart of the SDGs – these ambitious 
reduced the amount of time the partners have to report post- on the factorial of 1.6. For 2017 – 2019 the figure is based on 
goals cannot be achieved by one party alone but involve 
project completion. However, because of their organizational  the factorial of 1.8.  
governments, business and communities working together to 
processes and difficulties obtaining timely data from remote 
achieve significant sustainability impacts and improvements 
areas in some cases, some partners report after our auditing 
to people’s lives. We believe our commitment to partnership  Environmental Health
deadline. Their data are reported in subsequent years.  
and collaboration helps us to achieve extraordinary results 
Success in achieving the desired impact for this goal depends 
even though quantifying impacts and benefits across many 
on C40 city members initiating climate actions by the end of 
partnerships is complex.  Essential Surgery
2020. In order to achieve the scale of impact, actions need 
A large part of the data and progress for this goal comes from  to be ambitious and, therefore, take time to develop and 
We have therefore reported and sought assurance on the 
the work we undertake with the Medical and Surgical Skills  implement. C40 is working with the current administrations of 
progress against the five-year targets that support our SDG 
Institute (MSSI) in Ghana. The MSSI reports the numbers,  their city members to support their planned actions. However, 
goals. We have reported on progress based on the best 
nationalities and disciplines of medical professionals that  there is always a risk that actions do not get implemented 
information we have available, from our operations and those 
complete each MSSI course. However, estimating the number  or are altered in scale and ambition because of changes in 
of our partners. However, we recognize that because of the 
of patients benefiting from the skills and knowledge obtained  city circumstances (e.g., political or funding changes). We 
nature of the projects supporting the targets, the data are 
in a course requires the use of estimates and extrapolations  will aim to manage this risk by focusing on ambitious actions 
subject to limitations including estimates, extrapolations and 
to account for the number of patients treated per week,  with larger-scale impact spread across a number of cities, 
reliance on information provided by a broad range of partners 
potential duplicate visits (e.g., same patient being seen by a  conducting careful vetting of proposed projects and making 
we work with to achieve these goals. For certain goals, 
doctor and a nurse trained by the MSSI), and the retention  city participation as easy as possible.
assumptions are used that could result in an overstatement 
time for the knowledge gained. We use conservative 
or understatement of beneficiaries when we are trying 
estimates for knowledge retention (one year) and have not  When the Environmental Health goal was established in late 
to quantify performance in challenging environments. 
included the potential multiplier effect of the “train-the- 2016, a qualifier was placed on the original target of 100 
The information below provides our stakeholders with 
trainer” progression, where trained medical professionals go  million citizens living across 30 cities. As we noted at the 
some insight into the challenges of reporting SDG goal 
on to train others. To further assess the methodology and the  time, those potential figures were to be revised once cities 
performance.    
rates used to calculate patient beneficiaries, in 2019, the MSSI  and actions were confirmed with C40 Cities. In 2018, these 
added two questions to the evaluation survey it conducts with  details were confirmed and the number of potential citizens 
Health Workforce, Women’s and Children’s Health  medical professionals after each course. The two questions  benefiting was revised to 60 million over the five-year goal. 
added were: 1) How many patients do you see on average in 
Many of our programs are co-funded, and while we 
a week? and 2) How many patients per week would benefit 
make every effort to report only beneficiaries/healthcare 
from the skills learned in this course? The surveys covered 124 
professionals reached by our portion of the program, 
MSSI courses and involved 2,013 individual respondents. The 
sometimes that is not possible. We do not have a direct line 
data from the survey were of good quality and consistent with 
of sight to the data collection processes, as the data are 
Ghana health dynamics. The survey results substantiated the 
gathered by our partners on the ground. Some of our partners 
rates used by the MSSI. Consequently, we can confidently 
have data quality assurance protocols, but some do not. For 
state that in 2019, MSSI training benefited 18.6 million 
the purposes of our reporting, we assume each pregnant 
patients across West Africa. 
woman bears one infant—we do not use an estimation factor 
to discount for stillbirths or add for multiple births. For our 
goals, we count the number of individuals reached per year,  Global Disease Challenges 
aggregated over five years. This means that for some multi-
When it comes to quantifying the progress against this goal, 
year programs, where a similar population of individuals 
a large part of the data comes from the number of VERMOX 
is reached but the data systems are not strong enough to 
doses donated, measured through the number of doses 
track each individual’s interaction with the program over the 
shipped. Historical data show that about 80% – 90% of the 
years, we do not always report unique individuals reached. 
children targeted for treatment in endemic countries receive 
22001917 H Heeaaltlhth f ofor rH Huummaannitiyty R Repepoortrt 1199
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
Sustainability Governance
GRI 102-19, 102-20, 102-21, 102-29, 102-31, 102-32
Robust governance structures with clear chains of accountability  Engaging with our stakeholders  
enable us to deliver on both our commitments and stakeholder 
expectations. Our sustainability governance includes Board  GRI 102-12, 102-13, 102-21, 102-40, 102-42, 102-43, 102-44
 
of Directors oversight, management accountability, corporate 
policies and management systems, and clearly stated public  As a global healthcare company, Johnson & Johnson interacts   
with numerous stakeholder groups at the global, national  Enterprise 
policies and positions on key environmental, social and 
and local levels. Our Credo, written more than 75 years ago, 
governance (ESG) topics. Those ESG topics are well integrated  Risk 
acknowledges the diversity of stakeholders to whom we are 
into our business strategy and operations. We view effective 
responsible, and serves as our guide to creating long-term  Management  
management of ESG matters as a business fundamental and 
seek continuous improvement in these areas because they  value for our Company and for society. Ongoing and proactive  Framework 
engagement with these groups makes our Company stronger 
underpin the long-term success of our Company and our ability 
and better informed. It helps us gain valuable insight into our 
to deliver value for our stakeholders.
stakeholders’ perspectives and the topics that matter to them. 
The Johnson & Johnson Enterprise Governance Council (EGC)  It better enables us to develop products and services that are 
serves as the primary governance body overseeing ESG topics  responsive to their needs. This engagement also allows us to  The Johnson & Johnson Enterprise Risk Management Framework (ERM) was 
and supporting the Company’s Enterprise Risk Management  share information about our Company’s strategy, practices and  updated in 2019 to align with the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of 
the Treadway Commission's 2017 ERM Framework update.  
Framework. The EGC is comprised of senior leaders who  performance.
represent our Pharmaceutical, Medical Devices and Consumer 
Stakeholder engagement on ESG: The PTA is an important 
Health business segments and our global enterprise functions 
mechanism to engage with and understand the views of our 
with line of sight to, and ability to impact, ESG issues. 
key stakeholders on ESG topics that they believe are priority 
Throughout 2019, the EGC continued to lead initiatives to 
embed ESG considerations in business decisions. Specifically,  for Johnson & Johnson. In 2019, we conducted our latest PTA.        Highlight
Building on learnings from prior assessments, we enhanced 
the EGC provided oversight for the Company’s latest Priority 
Topics Assessment (PTA) aimed at identifying priority ESG  the methodology to conduct a deeper and broader stakeholder  Johnson & Johnson joined the Biopharma 
engagement across a larger number of applicable ESG topics.  
topics. The Council also oversaw the establishment of the  Sustainability Roundtable in 2019, a sector-specific 
Enterprise Human Rights Governance Council, which reports to  collaboration network that helps biotech and 
Throughout 2019, members of our management team met with 
the EGC and is responsible for strengthening our approach to  pharmaceutical executives drive their sustainability 
a significant number of our shareholders around the world to 
human rights due diligence and management. In July, the EGC 
discuss our Health for Humanity sustainability approach and  agendas forward. We are also a member of 
kicked off the process for setting the Company’s next generation 
our progress in key ESG measures. In June 2019, we hosted  the Biopharma Investor ESG Communications 
of sustainability goals, the Health for Humanity 2025 Goals. 
our second Health for Humanity Report webcast with investors  Initiative, which was set up to address the common 
The Enterprise Governance Council Working Group (EGCWG)  to accompany the release of our annual Health for Humanity  interest of leading biopharmaceutical companies 
as the cross-functional “activation arm” of the EGC met four  Report, providing shareholders the opportunity to engage  and investors in achieving more effective, efficient 
times in 2019 to review the status of key projects. In addition,  and ask questions of leaders in Investor Relations, Quality  and decision-useful communications about the 
& Compliance, Medical Safety, Global Public Health and 
the EGCWG refreshed its membership to more fully represent  sector’s most important ESG issues.
Environmental Health, Safety & Sustainability.
the global nature of the business. 
For further details, see our Position on Sustainability 
Governance. 
22001917 H Heeaaltlhth f ofor rH Huummaannitiyty R Repepoortrt 2200
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
Participation in strategic initiatives: To support dialogue  Sustainability Priorities
and efforts related to the role of business in society, we 
participated in important initiatives like the Council for Inclusive  GRI 102-47
Capitalism at The Vatican, Chief Executives for Corporate 
Purpose’s Strategic Investor Initiative and the Business 
e
Roundtable. In 2019, the Business Roundtable’s Corporate  c
an Product Quality
Governance Committee, of which our Chairman and CEO  ort Consumer & Patient Safety
Alex Gorsky is the Chair, released a new statement on the  mp
Purpose of a Corporation, affirming the commitment of more  g i Ethics & Compliance
n
tshtaakne 1h8o3l dCeErsO—s tcou sletoamd tehrse,i re cmopmlopyaeneies,s  sfuopr pthliee rbse, nceofimtm ofu nalilt ies  ncreasi AdvanHceinaglt hPublic  Access
and shareholders. In August, Johnson & Johnson joined the  I Sustainable Products
Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development’s  R&D Investment
BGu7s Lineeasdse fros’r  SInucmlumsiivt ein G Frroawncthe .c Tohaeli tcioona,l iwtiohnic bhr lianugns cthoegde tahte trh e  ctiveern) Human Rights Clim&a tEem, Eisnseiorgnys Use 
ec
34 leading multinationals who have pledged to take concrete  spon Pricing
steps to ensure that the benefits of economic growth are widely  perer c Disclosure & Transparency
sEhnagraegdi.ng with policymakers: We also engage in dialogue with  keholder stakehold Bioethics RespoSnasWfiebo l&erk  HSfouerpacpletlhieyr  Base
psoolleic hyemaaltkhecrasr aen sdp oonthseorr  sotfa Akellh Pooldlieciress.  Jfoorh an sHoena &lt hJyo hEnusroonp eis,  athne   al staee of  Water Management HSetraeltnhg Sthyesnteinmgs  Information Security & Privacy
iinnt ceorslleacbtoorraatli oinnit wiaittihve,  tuhned heerataltkhe sne bcyto sre, cwtoorrks ionugt tsoid een osuf,r aen tdh at  Extern(Degr ManWagasetme ent Diversity & Inclusion
citizens’ health and wellbeing are a core priority for Europe.  Supply Integrity,  Talent Development 
Counterfeit & 
In this role, we are contributing to the strategic direction of 
Local Economic   Illicit Trade Digital Health Innovation
the initiative, which focuses on the inextricable links between  Development
Corporate  Intellectual Property
healthy societies, a healthy environment and healthy systems,  Governance
and embraces the potential of data and digital technologies that 
improve wellbeing. We also joined the Call to Action for a New 
Deal for Europe, which brings together European leaders to  Johnson & Johnson perspective (Impact on business) Increasing importance
collaborate on an overarching strategy for a sustainable Europe 
by 2030. Please see our approach to Public Policy Engagement.
Priority Topics Assessment Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health
Stakeholder engagement for this Report: Various internal  Stakeholder expectations and the business environment in which we operate constantly evolve. Our Priority Topics 
stakeholders across Johnson & Johnson's global teams provided  Assessment (PTA) process helps us identify and prioritize the environmental, social and governance topics that 
their input into this Report. The final content has been reviewed  matter most to our stakeholders and to our Company. The results inform and shape our sustainability priorities, 
by members of the Executive Committee. public goal setting and reporting.  
We have been conducting PTAs every two to three years since 2008, with our most recent and most robust 
See also our Position on Stakeholder Engagement.
assessment conducted in 2019. A detailed description of the 2019 PTA process, methodology and definitions of topics 
be can be found here.
22001917 H Heeaaltlhth f ofor rH Huummaannitiyty R Repepoortrt 2211
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
Better Health 
for All
One thing that has always united us at Johnson & Johnson is our 
commitment to advancing better health for all. For more than 130 
years, this has been the focus of our Company, our business and 
our people. Health means many things: it’s not only the absence 
of disease, it’s eradicating the source of disease. It’s not only 
developing cures, it’s preventing the spread of sickness. It’s not only 
manufacturing medicines, it’s making them accessible to those who 
need them. And it’s not only about medicines, it’s about supporting 
entire healthcare systems and healthcare workers who deliver 
treatment and care for patients, and ensuring they have the right 
resources and skills to be effective. 
Health means many things, and for Johnson & Johnson, it’s all of 
them. By harnessing our breadth, scale and legacy of scientific 
innovation, we strive to change the trajectory of health for humanity. 
All humanity. Because better health for all means reaching the world’s 
most vulnerable and underserved populations, addressing diseases 
that affect specific population segments, supporting low-income 
communities—especially in times of emergency—and empowering 
every individual to realize their right to health. 
As the largest healthcare company in the world, Johnson & Johnson 
believes that advancing better health for all is our duty, our inspiration, 
our privilege and our business.  
In this section of the Report, we describe how we have continued to 
advance better health for all in 2019 by combating and preventing 
disease, improving access and affordability of healthcare, supporting 
communities and health workers, and tirelessly driving healthcare 
innovation.  
Johnson & Johnson works with partners to strengthen primary health systems in East Africa; a patient after his 
wellness check-up at a clinic in Mlolongo, Kenya.
22001917 H Heeaaltlhth f ofor rH Huummaannitiyty R Repepoortrt 2222
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
Key Achievements in 2019 Areas of Opportunity
•  To improve access to mental healthcare in Rwanda, we  •  Advocate for, and strengthen, multisectoral partnerships  $11.4 billion 
completed the first-ever mental health clinical study and  to accelerate R&D and delivery, focused on accelerating  invested in R&D
launched the first digital mental health training service in the  preventative viral vaccines and transformational treatments 
country, with approximately 50,000 community healthcare  to tackle entrenched and emerging pandemic threats, 
105,000 patients
workers trained by year's end.  including TB, HIV and Disease X.
provided access to HIV treatment
•  We expanded treatment for drug-resistant TB patients by  •  Work with partners to develop the pathway and supporting 
providing SIRTURO (bedaquiline) for over 105,797 patients in  evidence to deliver a scalable, quality care model that 
134 countries, and launched five new cross-sector TB R&D  leverages long-acting injectable medicines in resource- 106,000 patients
collaborations aimed at accelerating the early- to late-stage  limited settings.
provided access to MDR-TB treatment
development of potential new TB medicines and treatment 
regimens. •  Continue to encourage and enable open, candid and 
evidence-based multi-stakeholder dialogue to engage  $37 million
•  We continued advancing science to prevent and treat  the global community on empowering health workers, 
donated for disaster relief to support our 
HIV/AIDS by launching the first Phase 3 efficacy study of  strengthening health systems, overcoming access challenges, 
communities
Janssen's investigational HIV preventative vaccine with  and unlocking potential of outcomes-based financing.
global partners. We improved youth HIV therapy and 
reduced infections in Africa by expanding the New Horizons  75,000 health workers 
Collaborative; and we reached over one million adolescent 
educated in 54 countries
girls and young women through our partnership with 
DREAMS.               Policies and Positions
•  We supported the Ebola outbreak response in Rwanda  Our policies and positions relating to Better Health for All are 
and the Democratic Republic of Congo by donating up  referenced throughout this section. In addition, please visit ESG 
to 700,000 regimens of Janssen’s investigational vaccine  Policies & Positions on our website.
and providing technology solutions to support the Ebola 
vaccination campaign.
•  We launched our new Center for Health Worker Innovation to 
address the global health worker shortage.
22001917 H Heeaaltlhth f ofor rH Huummaannitiyty R Repepoortrt 2233
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
Tackling the World’s Toughest Health Challenges
GRI J&J19-2
While the world has made significant progress in providing 
improved healthcare, major gaps remain. Through our Global 
Public Health (GPH) strategy, we are driven to foster better  Half a billion dollars toward  SDG COMMITMENT PROGRESS 
health for more people in more places around the world.
eliminating HIV and TB
 5-year Target: 175 million  
Johnson & Johnson GPH is the first fully dedicated organization  individuals will have benefited from  
within a healthcare company focused on combining innovative  Johnson & Johnson solutions that prevent,  
R&D, novel access programs, country-based operations and  control and eliminate global diseases. 
advocacy.   In 2019, Johnson & Johnson publicly committed   
to invest more than $500 million over the next  2016-2019 Progress: 417 million beneficiaries 
We are committed to pioneering and sustainably delivering 
four years in discovery, development and delivery  (238% of overall goal achieved).        
meaningful and transformational products that save lives, cure 
patients and prevent disease for those most in need. Upholding  programs to advance the global effort to eliminate   
the rich heritage of Johnson & Johnson, we are taking on  HIV and TB by 2030. HIV and TB are two of the        Exceeded    View scorecard
the toughest challenges, targeting transformational health  world’s deadliest diseases, together claiming 
outcomes for individuals and communities. more than two million lives every year, primarily in 
resource-limited settings. 
We focus our efforts on:
•  Making HIV and TB history;
•  Preventing and responding to pandemics;
“ While ending HIV and TB is an ambitious goal, I firmly 
•  Reducing the burden of neglected tropical diseases; believe that with today’s scientific advancements and 
growing collaboration among the global health community 
•  Addressing mental health disorders in resource-limited  to leverage our combined resources and decades of 
settings; and experience in HIV and TB, it is an achievable one.”
•  Mitigating the threat of antibiotic resistance. Paul Stoffels, M.D., Vice Chair of the Executive Committee and Chief 
Scientific Officer, Johnson & Johnson
We deliver impact by:
•  Developing holistic solutions to ensure our innovations are 
available, accessible and affordable;
•  Enabling and advancing breakthrough science; and
•  Collaborating and convening with partners, and advocating 
for those in need. 
22001917 H Heeaaltlhth f ofor rH Huummaannitiyty R Repepoortrt 2244
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
Making HIV History
SASB HC-BP-240a.1
Through our Janssen Pharmaceutical Companies, we are  Reducing the burden of HIV treatment for patients: In 
committed to the ongoing R&D of innovative solutions to fight  early 2019, we announced positive results of the novel, 
HIV across the continuum of care. By partnering with others and  investigational, long-acting two-drug injectable regimen in two           2020 GOAL PROGRESS 
utilizing our scale, we aim to make HIV history. In 2019, we again  major Phase 3 studies—the Antiretroviral Therapy as Long-
made significant progress, both in terms of supporting access  Acting Suppression (ATLAS) trial and the First Long-Acting  104,000 adults and over 700 children received 
to HIV therapy, and also through groundbreaking research to  Injectable Regimen (FLAIR) trial. The positive results from both  access to HIV/AIDS therapy with the branded 
develop the world’s first preventative HIV vaccine.  studies showed that our treatment regimen (Janssen's rilpivirine  and generic versions of PREZISTA (darunavir), 
and ViiV Healthcare's cabotegravir), injected monthly, had  INTELENCE (etravirine) and EDURANT (rilpivirine).
similar efficacy in maintaining viral suppression in adults living 
Advancing science to prevent and treat HIV/AIDS
with HIV-1 when compared to a standard of care, daily, oral          In Progress               View scorecard
three-drug regimen. Following this outcome, we submitted a 
Imbokodo moves forward: In 2019, together with our partners, 
Marketing Authorization Application to the European Medicines 
we were pleased to achieve full enrollment in our Phase 2b 
Agency for rilpivirine long-acting as part of this monthly 
proof-of-concept efficacy study evaluating an investigational 
injection treatment regimen. In addition, later in 2019, we 
preventative vaccine against HIV-1 infection. This important step 
were able to confirm positive top-line results from the Phase 3 
is part of our Imbokodo1 study to evaluate Janssen’s mosaic-
ATLAS-2M study which indicated that dosing every two months          2020 GOAL PROGRESS 
based preventative vaccine in 2,600 young women across five 
was as effective in maintaining viral suppression as monthly 
southern African countries where women and girls experience 
dosing in adults living with HIV-1 infection. These developments 
high rates of HIV transmission. The mosaic-based concept is  Regulatory submissions were made for rilpivirine 
signal unprecedented advances in treatment for people living 
designed as a global vaccine that should prevent infection by  long-acting (LA), the first all-injectable depot 
with HIV, potentially reducing a regimen of daily medication to 
a wide range of viral strains responsible for the HIV epidemic. 
just six injections per year. regimen for HIV:
We expect initial results from Imbokodo by late 2021 that will 
confirm whether it can safely and effectively reduce the rate of  •  One submission to the U.S. Food and Drug 
new HIV infections.  Administration by ViiV Healthcare for ViiV’s 
cabotegravir LA together with Janssen’s  
Mosaico gets started: Another significant advancement in 2019          Highlight rilpivirine LA.
was our announcement together with our partners to launch a 
second efficacy study, Mosaico, to test Janssen’s mosaic-based  Johnson & Johnson collaborates with numerous  •  Two parallel submissions to the European 
preventative vaccine concept by accelerating a parallel Phase 3  patient advocacy groups and supports more  Medicines Agency—one for rilpivirine LA by 
efficacy study that will evaluate the vaccine regimen in men who 
than 100 philanthropic programs in more than 50  Janssen and one for cabotegravir LA by ViiV 
have sex with men (MSM), and in transgender people aged 18 – 
least-developed countries to address the needs of  Healthcare.
60. It aims to recruit 3,800 participants at more than 50 clinical 
people living with HIV/AIDS.
trial sites across North America, South America and Europe—
       Achieved                 View scorecard
making it Janssen’s largest study to date for the investigational 
preventative vaccine and one that focuses on communities that 
continue to face discrimination and challenges to access HIV 
treatment. Initial results from Mosaico are expected in 2024.  
22001917 H Heeaaltlhth f ofor rH Huummaannitiyty R Repepoortrt 2255
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
Improving youth HIV therapy As part of our longstanding global fight to eliminate HIV, and  Eradicating Tuberculosis
to support nurses at the front lines of care, Johnson & Johnson 
In 2019, we expanded our New Horizons Collaborative,  commissioned the 5B documentary film. 5B is an inspirational  SASB HC-BP-240a.1
an innovative, integrated approach to improve access to  story of the unsung heroes of healthcare working on the 
antiretroviral (ARV) therapy for children and adolescents living  world’s first ward dedicated to treating AIDS patients at San  Johnson & Johnson has been a committed partner in the global 
with HIV in countries with the highest burden of pediatric HIV  Francisco General Hospital at the height of the epidemic in  fight against TB for more than two decades. We are currently 
to include Cameroon, Nigeria, Rwanda and Zimbabwe, and  the early 1980s. Told through the voices of nurses and staff,  working to help end TB through our comprehensive 10-year  
to provide access to treatment until the age of 24 to enable  5B highlights the individuals who provided quality healthcare,  initiative announced in 2018, and our public promise to invest 
a smooth transition into national adult HIV care. Worldwide,  compassion and the power of human touch during a time of  $500 million in the development and delivery of innovations to 
approximately 1.7 million children under age 15 have HIV.2  great uncertainty. A portion of the film’s proceeds are used to  combat TB and also HIV. We work closely with governments 
Generally, access to ARVs and treatment outcomes for children  fund HIV/AIDS projects in Africa. and other partners in high-burden, low- and middle-income 
and adolescents are worse than those for adults across Africa.  countries to build critical health systems capacity and 
As a multisector partnership, the New Horizons Collaborative  We launched the first (BAND-AID®)RED campaign collaboration  capabilities by training health workers, improving diagnosis, 
aims to improve and scale up ARV therapy for children and  between BAND-AID® Brand Adhesive Bandages and (RED), a  raising awareness and reducing stigma around TB in local 
adolescents through increased awareness and research,  group of companies who partner and provide critical funding,  communities. We have also taken numerous steps to ensure 
strengthening health systems, and improving access to HIV  awareness, and resources to help fight AIDS. Through this  appropriate use and stewardship of bedaquiline in line with 
medicines. Through the program, Johnson & Johnson provides  partnership, we hope to mobilize people everywhere to  the World Health Organization guidelines to prevent the 
treatment free of charge. The New Horizons Collaborative was  #bandtogether against HIV/AIDS. The purchase of a box of  development of resistance to the medicine. See section on 
recognized by the Access to Medicine Foundation as a best  (BAND-AID®)RED Bandages helps provide a day’s worth of  Overcoming Antimicrobial Resistance.
practice in pediatric HIV care.  lifesaving medication to an HIV patient in sub-Saharan Africa.
Additionally, in sub-Saharan Africa, we advanced our  As part of the Janssen-Pepal Leadership Challenge, 224 
partnership with DREAMS Thina Abantu Abasha, a youth- employees from Belgium and the Netherlands are engaged 
      Highlights
led peer-to-peer initiative aimed at reducing the rate of HIV  in a program in Uganda to help devise community-based 
infections among adolescent girls and young women (AGYW).  interventions to generate impact on adolescent sexual and 
When bedaquiline received accelerated 
Through this program, in 2019, we reached 1.2 million AGYW,  reproductive health. Starting in 2019, our employees are 
including all 19 – 24-year-olds who underwent HIV testing for  visiting Uganda in four cohorts spread over two years, working  regulatory approval from the U.S. Food and Drug 
the first time. with government adolescent health workers, peer leaders  Administration in 2012, it was the first targeted TB 
and specialists from Baylor College of Medicine Children’s  drug with a novel mechanism of action developed 
Foundation – Uganda. The Janssen-Pepal Leadership Challenge  in more than 40 years. Since then, we have 
Additional initiatives to make HIV history 
combines development of employees and strengthening  partnered extensively in high-burden countries to 
of healthcare systems in low-resource settings, positively  provide access to and ensure appropriate use of 
We maintain our pledge to the MenStar Coalition, which brings 
impacting patients, healthcare professionals and healthcare 
our treatment.
together global partners to expand the diagnoses and treatment 
systems.
of HIV infections in men, particularly in sub-Saharan Africa. This 
As part of this effort, we donated 105,000 courses 
is a key step forward to breaking the cycle of HIV transmission 
and ultimately ending the HIV/AIDS epidemic as a public health  of treatment, free of cost, to 80 countries through 
threat. In 2019, we further committed resources to develop and  a four-year donation program (2015 – 2019), 
deploy key insights about key emotional and health system  operated in partnership with the U.S. Agency 
barriers men face in accessing HIV treatment. for International Development (USAID) and JSC 
Pharmstandard.
In total, between 2012 and 2019, we delivered 
188,000 courses of bedaquiline to patients in 138 
countries. 
22001917 H Heeaaltlhth f ofor rH Huummaannitiyty R Repepoortrt 2266
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
Expanding treatment for TB and DR-TB patients awareness about critical health issues, including TB, and 
help young people make more informed choices about their 
Bedaquiline is a core component of WHO-recommended  New report shows cost- health. We also partnered to launch a Metro Awareness 
treatment: In 2019, the World Health Organization (WHO)  benefit of treating DR-TB project in Hyderabad to increase awareness of TB through 
published a Rapid Communication indicating that all-oral  visual campaigns in 45 metro trains.
regimens containing Johnson & Johnson’s bedaquiline are the 
preferred treatment options for all patients with multidrug- •  Partnering to enhance diagnostic capacity: We are 
resistant tuberculosis (MDR-TB) and rifampicin-resistant TB  supporting a new effort through which the Foundation for 
(RR-TB). This decision expands the use of bedaquiline in shorter  A report published in 2019 by The Economist  Innovative New Diagnostics (FIND) will provide technical 
treatment regimens to replace injectable agents. WHO advised  Intelligence Unit (EIU), with support from   assistance to establish new TB culture and drug-susceptibility 
national TB programs to phase out the use of injectable- Johnson & Johnson, emphasized the urgent need  testing facilities in at least seven sites across India with a 
containing short-course regimens, which have been known to  focus on three high-burden states.
for global action to address the growing threat of 
cause toxic side effects for patients. The Rapid Communication 
was released in advance of updated consolidated drug-resistant  DR-TB. •  Training health workers to improve standards of care: We 
tuberculosis (DR-TB) treatment guidelines, expected in 2020,  launched a unique collaboration with the International Union 
to help national TB programs to begin planning for a rapid  While the cost of inaction is high, the EIU report  Against Tuberculosis and Lung Disease to help build capacity 
transition to what WHO describes as “more effective, less toxic  highlights that addressing DR-TB provides good  of public-sector healthcare providers for the effective 
and easier to implement” regimens. value for the investment. The benefit-to-cost ratio  management of TB and DR-TB. We will support capacity 
for investing in diagnosis and treatment of DR-TB  building workshops for clinicians and healthcare workers in 
specifically has been estimated at up to US$23 for  seven high-burden states. Also, we invested in further efforts 
“ The decision from WHO reiterates the importance  every dollar invested.  to improve care for DR-TB patients with plans to train an 
additional 5,000 healthcare professionals by the end of 2020. 
and value of bedaquiline as a vital component of 
modernized DR-TB treatment regimens.” Read the EIU report: “It’s Time to End Drug-
•  Strengthening private-public treatment pathways: We are 
Resistant Tuberculosis: The Case for Action.” 
supporting a pilot initiative with TB Alert India to expand 
Martin Fitchet, M.D., Global Head, Global Public Health, 
referrals of patients from the private to the public health 
Johnson & Johnson
system. The model involves a dedicated call center and an 
online platform, CONNECT FOR LIFE, developed by  
Expanding treatment to young people: In 2019, we secured  Activities to accelerate an end to TB in India Johnson & Johnson to help track and support patients 
U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approval for  throughout their treatment.
In 2019, we announced the expansion of our TB program in 
bedaquiline tablets as part of combination therapy for eligible 
India through a series of new collaborations with multilateral 
MDR-TB patients aged 12 years and over in the United States. 
and non-governmental organizations (NGOs), as well as the 
This FDA approval marks the first regulatory milestone as part of  
Government of India, to support India’s efforts to end TB by 
Johnson & Johnson’s global pediatric R&D program for           2020 GOAL PROGRESS 
2025, as outlined in its National Strategic Plan for TB Elimination. 
bedaquiline. Additionally, our new pediatric formulation of 
For the past four years, Johnson & Johnson has worked with the 
bedaquiline for children aged 5 to < 12 years of age is under  182,000 
Government of India to scale up access to bedaquiline, providing 
review at the FDA and European Medicines Agency. For those 
22,000 courses free of charge, as part of a donation program 
children under 12 years of age, a 20 mg tablet was developed,  patients received access to MDR-TB therapy with 
administered by USAID. Our expanded TB program in India 
which can be dispersed in water to make it easier for children  SIRTURO (bedaquiline) since 2016. Of the 37,000 
includes: 
to swallow. These developments represent a significant 
patients provided access in 2016 and 2017, an 
advance for children suffering from hard-to-treat forms of TB. 
•  Using "edutainment" and visual campaigns to reach  estimated 32,000 have been potentially cured, 
Furthermore, we are striving to achieve even more with our 
patients and break stigma: With our support, the MTV  based on the 87.8% cure rate.
pediatric program: a clinical study is ongoing to evaluate the 
Staying Alive Foundation launched a new edutainment 
pediatric formulation of our medicine among children aged 2 
radio campaign, MTV Nishedh (meaning "taboo" in Hindi),         On track                View scorecard
to 4, and once preliminary data is available, the youngest age 
on a popular radio station across six cities in India to raise 
cohort (0 – 2 years of age) will begin enrollment.
22001917 H Heeaaltlhth f ofor rH Huummaannitiyty R Repepoortrt 2277
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
Collaborating to eradicate TB Preventing & Responding to  
Pandemic Threats Our response to the 
New research consortium: In 2019, we launched an 
international research consortium to discover and develop  coronavirus disease
SASB HC-BP-240a.1
new TB antibiotics in collaboration with eight European 
academic and biotechnology partners. Co-funded with Europe’s  From epidemics like COVID-19, Ebola, HIV and TB to the 
Innovative Medicines Initiative (IMI), this initiative, called  challenges of adequate-quality primary, community-based 
RESPIRI-TB, is one of several partnerships we are advancing  healthcare, we are anticipating and responding to the toughest 
at Johnson & Johnson to accelerate TB R&D. The RESPIRI-TB  and most pressing challenges that threaten hard-won   Immediately following the early spread of 
initiative will help enable the development of a new, more  health gains. COVID-19 in late 2019, we began mobilizing 
efficient combination drug regimen to cure MDR-TB, while  resources to launch a multi-pronged response 
shortening treatment duration and minimizing the likelihood  Johnson & Johnson believes that global health security  including vaccine investigation and development,  
of resistance. The new consortium includes nine research  requires coordinated efforts from governments, civil society  therapeutic compound screening, global 
teams spanning five European countries, and the RESPIRI-TB  and healthcare companies. Through Janssen, we are actively  collaborations with governments and the scientific 
program also supports a pillar of Europe’s IMI AMR Accelerator  engaged in global pandemic preparedness across multiple 
community, donation of equipment and needed 
Programme. disease areas, developing new vaccines and treatments to 
resources, investments to support the frontline 
combat a wide range of infectious diseases that are already 
health workforce, and managing the COVID-19 
pandemics, such as HIV and TB, or that have pandemic 
impact on our operations and employees. See 
potential, such as Ebola, Zika and influenza, including 
immediate action to address new threats as they appear, such  here for the most recent updates on our efforts to 
      Highlight as COVID-19. See here for how we are seeking to outsmart  address the COVID-19 pandemic.
pandemics. 
In 2019, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration   
approved pretomanid, a novel medicine developed  For more information on how the intersection of human health 
and climate health impact are related to pandemics, read our 
by the TB Alliance, as part of a bedaquiline-
Position on Human Health and the Environment. You can also 
containing “BPaL” regimen for the treatment 
learn more about our efforts to reduce environmental impacts 
of adults with aggressive forms of DR-TB. This 
in the Environmental Health section.
approval marks an important milestone in the 
fight against DR-TB by providing a simpler, shorter 
Collaboration to support pandemic preparedness 
treatment option for patients who have historically 
faced lengthy treatment regimens. The inclusion of 
We maintain a wide range of collaborations to address global 
bedaquiline in the BPaL regimen underscores the 
health security and pandemic preparedness. Specifically, 
critical role of our medicine in efforts to modernize  we collaborate with the Biomedical Advanced Research and 
TB therapy. Bedaquiline and pretomanid are two of  Development Authority (BARDA), part of the U.S. Department 
only three new TB therapies to be introduced in the  of Health and Human Services, to advance research and the 
past half-century. development of solutions for a range of diseases with pandemic 
potential, including influenza, Ebola, COVID-19 and others. Ed Kuffner, M.D., Chief Medical Officer, Johnson & Johnson Consumer 
Health, volunteering in the emergency department at New York City’s 
Coney Island Hospital to support COVID-19 emergency response.
22001917 H Heeaaltlhth f ofor rH Huummaannitiyty R Repepoortrt 2288
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
Containing Ebola   Containing Malaria, Chagas, Influenza, Zika,  Zika virus: Zika, a mosquito-transmitted flavivirus, can cause 
Hepatitis B and ExPEC    severe congenital disease in children born to mothers infected 
The Janssen Pharmaceutical Companies of Johnson & Johnson  during pregnancy. Although Zika virus incidence has waned 
have been a leader for many years in efforts to help prevent  Malaria: In 2019, we advanced the development of a long- in recent years, a protective vaccine is still urgently needed 
Ebola outbreaks. In 2019, the first doses of our investigational    acting injectable for malaria prevention with Medicines for  to prevent congenital Zika syndrome in at-risk areas. We 
Ebola vaccine regimen arrived in the Democratic Republic of  Malaria Ventures. Newly developed injectable formulations of  continue to invest and assess the potential of our candidate Zika 
the Congo (DRC) and the Republic of Rwanda. To help protect  a marketed antimalarial agent provided coverage of required  preventative vaccine, which showed acceptable safety and clear 
people at risk of Ebola in DRC, we have committed to donate up  target concentrations for three months with a single injection  immunogenicity in a 2019 Phase 1 trial. As there is no specific 
to 500,000 investigational vaccine regimens in support of a new  in large and small animal test models. To reach target human  approved medicine or vaccine for Zika virus, we stand ready to 
clinical study.  populations for this treatment we would support the Seasonal  respond rapidly and efficiently to potential future outbreaks of 
Malaria Control prevention programs in Africa and treat  Zika virus.
In Rwanda, where citizens are potentially at risk from the  migrants traveling into those regions; and we would participate 
Ebola outbreak in neighboring DRC, we are providing up to  in malaria elimination programs. Hepatitis B virus (HBV): Hepatitis B causes more than 887,000 
200,000 investigational Ebola vaccine regimens (which has  deaths each year and is a major threat to global public health. 
been conditionally approved in Rwanda) to support a new  Chagas: Chagas disease affects between eight and 10 million  Some 257 million people worldwide are chronically infected 
immunization program led by the Government of Rwanda. We   people worldwide, with the majority of cases found in Latin  with HBV, and the disease causes around 40% of all primary 
also provided technology solutions such as biometric  America. It is caused by the parasite Trypanosoma cruzi and can   liver cancers—the second-most deadly cancer.4 Our current 
identification and mobile messaging to support the Ebola  lead to serious cardiovascular disorders including congestive  investigational HBV treatment portfolio covers many unique 
vaccination campaign. heart failure. The current medications used to treat this have  mechanisms of action, including novel antivirals that can inhibit 
a number of undesirable side effects, which limit their use  the virus from reproducing, as well as vaccines designed to 
Also, in 2019, the European Medicines Agency Committee for  and also do not address late-stage Chagas disease. We are  fortify the immune system to control the virus long-term. We are 
Medicinal Products for Human Use granted an Accelerated  currently engaged in a discovery research program to identify  currently progressing our first-ever triple combination Phase 2b 
Assessment for our investigational Ebola vaccine regimen for  compounds that have the potential to treat both the acute and  clinical trial for HBV. 
the prevention of Ebola Virus Disease caused by Zaire ebolavirus  chronic stages of this disease. We entered into a collaboration 
species. This is an important step in helping to secure global  agreement in 2019 with the Drugs for Neglected Disease  Extraintestinal Pathogenic Escherichia coli (ExPEC): 
preparedness for Ebola, especially as the world’s largest Ebola  initiative to optimize the hits we have obtained from screening  Bacteremia and sepsis caused by ExPEC bacteria are among 
outbreaks have taken place in the last six years alone and  a subset of our chemical library. Through these efforts we hope  the top 10 causes of death in older adults, and the number 
continue to spread, for example, as in the 2018 outbreak in DRC. to identify a lead compound that will allow us to move into  of cases is rising as the population ages.5 Because of rising 
antimicrobial resistance, antibiotics are becoming less effective 
developing an effective treatment for this disease. 
in fighting infections caused by ExPEC, such as bacteremia, 
Influenza: Seasonal influenza is an acute respiratory infection  when bacteria enter the blood, or sepsis, when the body reacts 
caused by influenza viruses, which circulate in all parts of the  to infection extremely and dangerously. In 2019, the Center 
world. Illnesses range from mild to severe and even death.  for Biologics Evaluation and Research designated fast-track 
Hospitalization and death occur mainly among high-risk groups.  status to Janssen’s ExPEC10V investigational vaccine program. 
Worldwide, these annual epidemics are estimated to result in  The Innovative Medicines Initiative is co-funding the Phase 3 
about three to five million cases of severe illness, and about  feasibility study of our ExPEC10V vaccine, which we hope will 
290,000 to 650,000 respiratory deaths.3 In 2019, with support   help contain bacteremia on a broad scale.
from BARDA, we progressed two Phase 3 studies of a new 
compound with a mechanism of action different from that of 
existing antiviral drugs.
Shipping our Ebola vaccine candidates to Rwanda.
22001917 H Heeaaltlhth f ofor rH Huummaannitiyty R Repepoortrt 2299
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
Addressing health security needs in Uganda: In 2019,   Combating Neglected Tropical 
Johnson & Johnson led the Global Health Security Agenda 
Diseases
Private Sector Roundtable (PSRT) in negotiating and signing a  Collaborating and 
Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with the Uganda Ministry 
innovating for health  SASB HC-BP-240a.1
of Health to strengthen skills within the Ministry. This new 
partnership will support Uganda in addressing specific health  security
Our aspiration of better health for all guides us to advance 
security needs and will include workforce training in public 
inclusive access to healthcare. This includes helping alleviate 
health management and leadership, diagnostics, data literacy 
the burden of diseases that impact our most underserved 
and many other areas.
populations. We have a track record of investing R&D resources 
in and supporting access to treatment to effectively combat 
In 2019, we collaborated with Biomedical Advanced 
soil-transmitted helminthiasis (STH), known as intestinal worms, 
Research and Development Authority (BARDA) 
“ The signing of the MoU is a huge step for private- dengue, river blindness and other diseases.
to develop and maintain a specialized innovation 
sector engagement in global health security, but it is 
unit in JLABS @ Washington, DC dedicated to the  Janssen shares 80,000 chemical compounds from its Jump-
only a first step for this partnership, which we hope will 
advancement of medical countermeasures aimed  stARter molecular library with the global research community 
serve as a model for future public-private partnerships 
at securing our nation from chemical, biological,  to help collaborators accelerate treatment and prevention of 
to better prevent, detect, and respond to health 
radiological and nuclear threats, as well as   NTDs, along with TB, malaria, and other diseases common in the 
threats.”
from pandemic influenza and emerging   developing world.
infectious diseases. Under the arrangement, 
Alan Tennenberg, M.D., PSRT Chair, Chief Medical Officer,  Progress in combating STH: In 2019, we committed to the 
Global Public Health, Johnson & Johnson Johnson & Johnson Innovation – JLABS will  World Health Organization (WHO) to extending our annual 
host educational and other outreach programs 
200 million dose donation of our intestinal worms treatment 
on innovation and development in these mutual  VERMOX CHEWABLE (mebendazole chewable 500mg tablets)  
areas of interest in the hopes of attracting a  through 2025. The treatment will target both pre-school and 
pipeline of cutting-edge companies. The idea is  school-aged children in developing countries. The WHO 
that with mentorship by JLABS and support from  coordinates endemic country requests for drug orders, which  
BARDA, these companies might be better poised  Johnson & Johnson then fulfills. With this contribution, the  
to deliver faster solutions for some of the biggest  progress against combating STH infections will continue, and 
children in the world’s poorest countries will be able to achieve 
problems facing our nation and the world. See our 
their full potential and thrive. The new VERMOX CHEWABLE 
Innovating for Better Health section.
formulation was approved by the U.S. Food and Drug 
Administration in 2016 and received WHO Prequalification in 
April 2019. By 2021, the donation will be fully transitioned from 
the solid tablet to the new chewable formulation, and allows one 
tablet for all ages down to one-year-olds. 
22001917 H Heeaaltlhth f ofor rH Huummaannitiyty R Repepoortrt 3300
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
Beyond drug donations, Johnson & Johnson is working with  Transforming Mental Healthcare
partners to identify sustainable solutions to combat intestinal 
worms longer term. These include improving diagnostics for           2020 GOAL PROGRESS  SASB HC-BP-240a.1
STH and providing funding to support the development of 
national monitoring and evaluation frameworks to allow for  0.8 billion Worldwide, anxiety affects one billion people. Nearly a third of 
 
better data collection, more informed decision-making, and  that figure suffer from depression, 60 million suffer from bipolar 
ultimately, targeted therapeutic interventions that have the  doses of VERMOX (mebendazole) were donated in  affective disorder, and a further 21 million have schizophrenia 
potential to control intestinal worms in endemic countries. 42 countries, with 415 million children having been  or other severe psychoses. Additionally, dementia—already a 
targeted for treatment. widespread condition—is expected to impact more than 150 
million people 30 years from now.6 Health systems have not 
       On track                View scorecard yet adequately responded to the burden of mental disorders, 
and the gap between the need for treatment and its provision 
is wide all over the world. In low- and middle-income countries, 
between 76% and 85% of people with mental disorders receive 
no treatment for their disorder.7
Progress in combating dengue: The aim of our dengue 
program is to develop a potent, first-in-class antiviral for 
With more than 60 years of supporting those affected by mental 
the prevention of dengue, both for travelers and vulnerable 
illness, Johnson & Johnson is committed to expanding access to 
populations living in dengue-endemic areas. In 2019, we 
transformational mental health innovations to positively impact 
completed a Phase I (First-in-Human) trial for a new treatment 
people’s lives.
in partnership with the Wellcome Trust, a global charitable 
foundation, and the University of Leuven in Belgium. The trial 
Mental health and the environment: In 2019, we expanded the 
yielded positive outcomes. We submitted a prepackage of 
scope of our environmental health strategy and partnerships 
our Investigational New Drug (IND) application for our new 
Peruvian children washing hands before taking a Johnson & Johnson  to consider support for better health, especially for better 
treatment and expect to deliver our final IND application in 
VERMOX CHEWABLE tablet to treat intestinal worms as part of a national  mental health, which comes from spending time in nature and 
2020. Our approach includes the development of a model to 
mass drug administration campaign. other natural exposures. We initiated a new partnership with 
predict dengue outbreak areas four weeks ahead of time in 
the Institute for European Environmental Policy to examine 
support of the clinical development program.
how policy can support better mental health through ensuring 
access to nature. We also initiated a partnership with the Gund 
Institute, a cross-functional environmental research organization 
      Highlights based at the University of Vermont, to support research 
examining new ways to assess the connections between mental 
Johnson & Johnson has donated more than 1.6 
health and natural exposures.
billion doses of VERMOX since 2006.
Johnson & Johnson collaborated on a report outlining strategies 
In late 2019, the VERMOX CHEWABLE was  to improve workplace mental health, published by the American 
introduced into 11 different countries. Peru was  Heart Association CEO Roundtable in 2019. 
the first country globally to receive VERMOX 
CHEWABLE as part of mass drug administration  For our 2019 neuroscience pharmaceutical innovation, see the 
R&D: Pharmaceutical section.
campaigns.
22001917 H Heeaaltlhth f ofor rH Huummaannitiyty R Repepoortrt 3311
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
Supporting mental healthcare in Rwanda    •  We co-sponsored the first annual Mental Health Summit  Mental health initiatives in China   
in Kenya where the keynote speaker at the summit, Dr. 
The partnership we established in 2018 with the Rwanda  Yvonne Kayiteshonga, Mental Health Division Manager at  More than 54 million people in China suffer from depression.8 
Ministry of Health to strengthen and expand access to quality  the Rwanda Biomedical Centre at the Ministry of Health,  Proper diagnosis and treatment for depression are rare, 
mental healthcare in the country made strong progress   discussed the progress made in Rwanda and our mental  especially in underserved regions, with less than two out of 
in 2019: health partnership. Our purpose was to continue to raise  10 patients seeking medical help or taking medications. In 
awareness and prioritization of mental health within the East  2019, we signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with 
•  RISPERDAL (risperidone), our oral medicine for the treatment  Africa region healthcare agenda utilizing the influence of  Holmusk, a digital health and data analytics company, to explore 
of schizophrenia, received marketing approval by the  Rwanda and Kenya together to shape this narrative.  the development of a digital mental health strategy in China. 
Rwanda Food and Drug Administration. Facilitating increased  In order to develop integrated solutions for people living with 
access to innovative antipsychotics like risperidone is an  •  At a meeting in Kigali to launch the 2019 – 2024 Health  mental health disorders, the MoU brings together Janssen’s 
important early step on the road to better treatment, care  Sector Strategic Plan, the Honorable Dr. Diane Gashumba,  60-plus years of experience in mental health along with its 
and outcomes for patients in countries without strong mental  former Minister of Health of Rwanda, recognized  China neuroscience portfolio and Holmusk’s therapeutics design 
healthcare infrastructure and services to treat schizophrenia.  Johnson & Johnson for our contributions to the Rwandan  expertise.
health sector, on behalf of the Ministry of Health.
•  We completed the first-ever mental health clinical study 
that will inform feasibility and capacity-building for a  “ In Janssen, we have a partner that is dedicated 
future mental health open-label clinical study of the health, 
to transforming how mental health is managed in 
economic and social impact of long-acting injectable 
        Snapshot China. We have confidence that we can establish 
antipsychotics for the treatment of people with schizophrenia 
data as a core utility to the treatment of mental health 
to be completed by 2024. Thirty-one patients in this study 
April 2019 marked the 25th anniversary of the  and provide the capacity for leapfrog-change in the 
were successfully transitioned to a two-year post-trial access 
program for paliperidone palmitate three-month formulation. Rwandan Genocide. During 100 days in 1994,  provision of care and research into new treatments.”
the African country of Rwanda saw the horrific 
•  We co-developed and launched a remote training system for  killing of up to one million people. Beyond the  Nawal Roy, Founder and CEO, Holmusk
over 48,204 registered community health workers across all  immeasurable loss of human life, the genocide 
30 districts of Rwanda. The eight training modules are based  also created an increased burden of mental health 
on a Ministry of Health curriculum on mental healthcare 
disorders across the country. Victims, witnesses, 
and include content on recognizing early signs of mental 
perpetrators and returning refugees alike have 
disorders, best practices for mental health first aid, and 
been found to suffer from heightened rates 
guidance on when to refer patients for additional care.
of post-traumatic stress disorder, depression, 
•  Along with a grant from the Johnson & Johnson Foundation,  and anxiety as they grapple with the enduring 
Johnson & Johnson helped enable Partners In Health (PIH) to  emotional wounds from that time. In the months 
bring critically needed services to two districts in Rwanda's  leading up to the 25th anniversary Genocide 
Eastern Province—Kirehe and Kayonza—and create  a new  Commemoration, Johnson & Johnson supported 
generation of mental healthcare professionals. The focus  the Rwanda Ministry of Health to train community 
of the program is having psychiatric nurses from district 
health workers on common signs of mental illness 
hospitals train nurses in local health centers to diagnose and 
and how to link people in need to care.
treat mental health. In this first year of the three-year grants, 
PIH was able to train 115 healthcare providers in mental 
healthcare and provide 2,833 patients with access to mental 
healthcare.
 
22001917 H Heeaaltlhth f ofor rH Huummaannitiyty R Repepoortrt 3322
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
Overcoming Antimicrobial Resistance
SASB HC-BP-240a.1 Recognized for our 
leadership  in AMR
The spread of drug-resistant pathogens, known as  
antimicrobial resistance (AMR), is a growing public health 
concern. Overuse of antibiotics, or not using them as 
prescribed, contributes to growth of resistant bacteria, which 
renders antibiotics less effective or ineffective. It is estimated 
Johnson & Johnson is proud to be recognized for 
that by 2050, AMR infections could cause 10 million deaths 
the second time as a leader among our peers in 
annually.9 Johnson & Johnson has a longstanding commitment 
the fight against AMR in the 2020 Antimicrobial 
to develop and responsibly deploy innovative technologies  
Resistance Benchmark. The independent report 
and treatments to combat the growing threat of AMR on 
multiple fronts. from the Access to Medicine Foundation evaluates 
30 pharmaceutical companies on their efforts to 
In 2019, we joined the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and  bring AMR under control. The Access to Medicine 
Prevention’s AMR Challenge to combat antimicrobial resistance  Foundation is an independent, nonprofit research 
by submitting an actionable commitment for change. The AMR  organization based in the Netherlands.
Challenge is a way for governments, private companies, and 
non-governmental organizations worldwide to make formal  Our performance was recognized in four core 
commitments that further the progress against antimicrobial 
categories: Research & Development (R&D), 
resistance. Read our commitment on the AMR Challenge page.
Responsible Manufacturing, Appropriate Access, 
and Stewardship. Johnson & Johnson is making 
the second-largest R&D investment in relevant 
disease areas as identified by the Benchmark and 
is stewarding one of the largest antimicrobial 
pipelines to ensure antimicrobials remain a 
backbone of modern medicine. 
These efforts are clearly exemplified in our work 
to tackle drug-resistant TB (DR-TB). DR-TB is 
responsible for one-third of all AMR-related deaths 
and is the world’s only airborne drug-resistant 
infection. Currently, a third of all people with DR-
TB—approximately 300,000 individuals—are not 
aware they are infected, posing a major threat to 
Scientist at Janssen Sciences Ireland in Cork, Ireland.
public health and global health security. See our 
section on Eradicating Tuberculosis.
22001917 H Heeaaltlhth f ofor rH Huummaannitiyty R Repepoortrt 3333
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
Enhancing Access to Healthcare
GRI J&J19-1, J&J19-8      SASB HC-BP-240a.1
As the world’s largest healthcare company, Johnson & Johnson  In the last decade, Johnson & Johnson has ranked among the 
is committed to improving access to our innovative medicines,  top three companies worldwide working to expand access to 
vaccines, devices and diagnostics in all countries. Many factors  medicines, according to the Access to Medicine Index. The  Challenging entrepreneurs 
impede access to basic health services and may risk optimum  Index, which is compiled by independent experts at the Access 
to enhance access to 
health outcomes for underserved populations. In addition to  to Medicine Foundation, evaluates 20 of the world’s largest 
the affordability of medicines, weak health infrastructure, lack  research-based pharmaceutical companies on their performance  healthcare in Africa
of skilled health workforce, inadequate financing options to  in making medicines, vaccines and diagnostics more accessible 
cover medical needs, and insufficient regulatory capacity to run  to people in need in low- and middle-income countries. The most 
effective healthcare delivery systems all have varying impacts  recent Index, covering 2018, highlights Johnson & Johnson’s 
in different countries. We tailor our programs and activities to  unique global public health business approach, commitment 
provide support where and how it is needed most.  to R&D for diseases of the developing world, and leadership  In 2019, our second Africa Innovation Challenge, 
in health system strengthening, as well as efforts to overcome  with its goal of stimulating entrepreneurship 
antimicrobial resistance through our work to eradicate  and innovation in Africa, attracted almost 900 
Improving Access & Affordability tuberculosis. applicants from 39 countries who submitted 
inspiring proposals to improve health and 
SASB HC-BP-240a.2
wellbeing in their communities and beyond. 
We pursue a wide variety of approaches appropriate to the 
       Highlight The six winners, selected by Johnson & Johnson 
specific reimbursement systems and legal guidelines of different 
countries. Using tools such as equity-based tiered pricing and  healthcare leaders from our three business 
6 Johnson & Johnson products are included in the 
partnerships with public health organizations, we strive to help  segments and corporate functions, each received 
WHO List of Prequalified Medicinal Products:
achieve broad and timely access to our medicines in a way that  a grant of $50,000 and mentoring support to 
is affordable locally. Three ongoing access initiatives reflected  •  Darunavir (ethanolate), Tablet, Film-coated 75mg  address unmet needs across critical healthcare 
in our Health for Humanity 2020 Goals Progress Scorecard for  areas. 
those in resource-constrained settings include: •  Darunavir (ethanolate), Tablet, Film-coated 150mg
•  Darunavir (ethanolate), Tablet, Film-coated 600mg The winning proposals included a digital platform 
•  Expanding access to HIV/AIDS treatment, developing the first 
that enables delivery of lifesaving blood to 
HIV vaccine, and improving HIV diagnostics; •  Etravirine, Tablet, Film-coated 100mg
hospitals in less than 45 minutes (LifeBank, 
•  Etravirine, Tablet 25mg  Nigeria); a mobile phone app for remote hearing 
•  Ensuring affordable and sustainable access to multidrug-
resistant tuberculosis treatments; and •  Mebendazole, Tablets, Chewable 500mg tests for children in rural Africa (Dreet, Botswana); 
an organic, affordable soap that repels mosquitoes 
•  Promoting treatments to address neglected tropical diseases. to help prevent the spread of malaria (Uganics, 
Uganda), and a solar-powered, foldable crib 
Johnson & Johnson is an original signatory of the Business for 
that helps jaundiced babies receive important 
Social Responsibility (BSR) Guiding Principles on Access to 
phototherapy to help them regain health (Crib 
Healthcare that underscore the importance of reducing the 
A’Glow, Nigeria).  
global burden of disease through collaboration, R&D, expanding 
availability of healthcare services, developing health systems 
resources, and respecting human rights.
22001917 H Heeaaltlhth f ofor rH Huummaannitiyty R Repepoortrt 3344
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
Access and affordability for patients in the U.S.: In the United  •  Enhancing access in China: Johnson & Johnson Medical 
States, we provide resources to patients, caregivers and  Devices in Shanghai partnered with TINAVI, the market 
Transparent performance  healthcare providers through the Janssen CarePath program,  leader in orthopaedic robotics in China. This strategic 
which helps patients gain and maintain access to the Janssen  collaboration will allow DePuy Synthes, our orthopaedics 
on access and pricing
medicines they are prescribed.  business, to bring TINAVI’s robotic solutions for spine and 
trauma surgery to the China orthopaedics implant market. To 
Janssen CarePath programs help patients navigate complex  date, TINAVI is the only arm-based robotic technology with 
payer processes, connect with savings programs, and stay on  multiple indications approved for use in spine and trauma in 
their prescribed medications. These strategies have the potential  China.
Headlines from the 2019 Janssen U.S.  
to lead to better quality of care and outcomes. Programs under 
Transparency Report: the Janssen CarePath brand also aid adherence to prescribed 
therapies and support patients, providers, and caregivers in 
•  In 2019, the average net price of our medicines  accessing and affording prescribed Janssen medications.  “ This is an important milestone in the field of 
declined (1.2)%.
digital surgery. We will work to create an open 
Our initiatives in 2019 include: innovation ecosystem, promote digital and 
•  This decline reflects the $24.5 billion in 
technological medical innovation, provide insights 
discounts, rebates, and fees we provided to  •  Mobile enrollment on Janssen CarePath: We introduced 
for the Chinese medical experience, and help 
intermediaries in the system—more than half  a new capability on Janssen CarePath, enabling U.S. 
upgrade the health industry, so that more people 
the list price of our medicines. SYMTUZA (darunavir/cobicistat/emtricitabine/tenofovir 
can access more convenient and better medical 
alafenamide) patients to initiate enrollment in the Janssen 
services to achieve the great vision of 'Healthy 
•  We maintained our significant investment in  CarePath Savings Program for Infectious Diseases by texting 
discovering and developing new medicines for  from their phone. Eligible patients can send a text to enroll in  China 2030'.”
patients—spending 91% more on global R&D  the program on their smartphone and receive an electronic 
than on global marketing and sales. In the last  savings program card that can be saved to a digital wallet on  Will Song, Chairman, Johnson & Johnson China, and  
their mobile device. President, Johnson & Johnson Medical China (Shanghai) Ltd.
five years, we’ve spent $39.4 billion on R&D, 
resulting in seven new medicines and 38 new 
•  Enhancing access in Kenya: In partnership with Kenya’s 
indications.
National Hospital Insurance Fund (NHIF), we are enhancing 
•  Mobile education facility for healthcare professionals 
access to ZYTIGA (abiraterone acetate), a drug used to treat  (HCPs): For many HCPs who cannot travel for training, the 
•  We helped 1.3 million patients with access, 
an advanced form of prostate cancer. The new partnership  Johnson & Johnson Institute Mobile Lab, an 18-wheeler 
affordability and treatment support through  will allow more patients to be diagnosed and treated earlier  truck equipped with the latest in surgical simulation training, 
Janssen CarePath. through a patient assistance program for NHIF-member  travels to them. The Mobile Lab teaches orthopaedic trauma, 
patients. joint reconstruction, spine, sports and craniomaxillofacial 
•  We worked with stakeholders to advance 
procedures in a setting that simulates the Operating Room, 
practical policy solutions to reduce costs for 
offering participants hands-on experience with relevant 
patients, while supporting continued progress  instrumentation and techniques. Over the course of 2019, 
in the fight against disease. the Mobile Lab visited 30 cities across the United States and 
trained 466 HCPs who otherwise might not have had access 
For more information, see the 2019 Janssen U.S.  to a similar educational opportunity.
Transparency Report.
22001917 H Heeaaltlhth f ofor rH Huummaannitiyty R Repepoortrt 3355
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
Intellectual Property Universal Health Coverage
GRI J&J19-7         2020 GOAL PROGRESS 
We believe that every individual should have access to quality, 
affordable and reliable essential healthcare services; no one 
We believe that flexible intellectual property (IP) management is  More than 800 engagements conducted with 
should have to forgo treatment or be forced into poverty 
a key element to effective and sustainable access to medicines,  government officials and other partners in Brazil, 
because of the cost of care. We are advocates for global 
especially in low-income and low- to middle-income countries.  China, Malaysia, Mexico, Russia and Rwanda in 
Universal Health Coverage (UHC) and are committed to 
IP systems encourage innovation and allow us to invest in new 
helping turn the promise of UHC into reality. We believe that  2019. 
technologies, fund R&D, and bring transformational medicines 
tailored strategies that align local needs, resources and market 
to the market. We work with international funders, local 
conditions must be part of the solution. For more information,  Existing pilot projects to expand healthcare 
governments and non-governmental organizations to develop 
see our Position on Universal Health Coverage. access and coverage in Brazil, China, Colombia, 
approaches that benefit patients in need while continuing 
Indonesia, Mexico, Philippines, Russia and Rwanda 
to uphold the value of IP in all parts of the world. For more 
are ongoing.
information, see our Position on Intellectual Property.  
Financing and collaboration for UHC
 
Two new pilots launched: a private health 
Advancing public policy on patents to benefit patients: In 
Sustainable financing is a critical element of achieving UHC, 
2019, the Subcommittee on Intellectual Property of the U.S.  insurance project in Malaysia to expand access 
requiring alignment of both government social health insurance 
Senate Judiciary Committee heard testimony from healthcare  to innovative medicines and premium surgical 
and private health insurance. To support this goal, we developed 
experts on proposed reforms to the subject matter eligibility  products; and a project in China to improve the 
a methodology for engaging with private health insurance 
requirements defined in Section 101 of the Patent Act. As current  (PHI) companies to help shape policy to promote access to  case finding and diagnosis of TB, including drug-
case law relating to patent eligible subject matter is both  innovative medicines and surgeries that may not be covered by  resistant TB.     
confusing and complex, the reform efforts seek to restore clarity 
government health insurance policies. This process was most 
and predictability to these requirements. Johnson & Johnson,  successful in 2019 in China, Egypt, Indonesia and Malaysia. Each         On track                   View scorecard
the world’s largest healthcare company and a transformational 
country advanced work with PHI companies to establish new 
medical innovator, believes that clarity and predictability of 
insurance policies. In Brazil, a new methodology was tested 
the patent system are essential for ongoing drug development. 
to assess the impact of potential changes in regulation in PHI 
Robert DeBerardine, Chief Intellectual Property Counsel, 
on patient access and business. In Egypt, we collaborated on 
Johnson & Johnson, provided testimony to the Subcommittee 
a study to evaluate possible collaboration between PHI and 
at their hearings in June. Mr. DeBerardine testified: “Without  SDG COMMITMENT PROGRESS
pharmaceutical companies. The conclusions of this study will 
the investment of larger pharmaceutical and biotechnology 
help inform positive future approaches in Egypt. 5-year Target: 50 million people will 
companies, basic research could not be transformed into safe 
have had access to safe, essential, and 
and effective treatments that benefit patients. We strongly 
timely surgical care.    
support the approach taken in the proposal to fix our current 
patent eligibility problem.”  
2016-2019 Progress: 56.2 million beneficiaries 
(112% of overall goal achieved). 
 
      Exceeded    View scorecard
22001917 H Heeaaltlhth f ofor rH Huummaannitiyty R Repepoortrt 3366
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
Progressing dialogue around the world to 
promote UHC
Playing a meaningful role to advance UHC in Kenya
•  Indonesia: In 2019, Johnson & Johnson Indonesia sponsored 
a policy dialogue on “Innovative Financing to Achieve 
Sustainable National Health Insurance in Indonesia.” We 
partnered with the Indonesian Parliament’s Health Caucus 
In 2019, Johnson & Johnson was recognized by the Kenya Ministry of Health for its “impactful collaboration,” notably 
to host the dialogue in collaboration with the Ministry 
in the areas of community health and specialized frontline health worker training. Emphasizing the pivotal role 
of Health and Ministry of Finance. Participants of the 
“health for all” plays in global prosperity, Uhuru Muigai Kenyatta, President of the Republic of Kenya, declared that 
discussions comprised members of parliament, health 
his country would lead the way by achieving UHC by 2022, eight years ahead of the 2030 Sustainable Development  officials, representatives of various public agencies, hospital 
Goals (SDGs) deadline. Key elements of the government’s strategy to achieve UHC include building resilient and  associations, leading Indonesian academicians and potential 
responsive primary health systems and investing in preventative and promotive community healthcare.   financing partners. The forum generated action plans to 
Johnson & Johnson’s efforts in Kenya in 2019 and prior years include collaborating with the Kenya Ministry of Health to: help shape domestic resource mobilization using the private 
sector to build sustainable UHC in Indonesia.
•  Co-create Community Health Units for Universal Health Coverage (CHU4UHC) Platform to integrate community 
health workers (CHWs) formally into the health system and to  •  Singapore: Given the Singapore Ministry of Health's bold 
deliver preventative healthcare. The CHU4UHC Platform created  vision to transform its healthcare system from fee-based 
strategies based on World Health Organization guidelines  funding (per visit) to value-based funding (per condition) to 
to formally integrate CHWs into health systems and build  improve accessible and affordable quality healthcare with 
sustainable community health systems. The Platform focuses  a focus on health outcomes, in 2019, Johnson & Johnson 
on developing policies for training and formalizing CHWs,  Singapore hosted its third Value-Based Healthcare Seminar. 
The seminar brought together over 200 of Singapore’s 
coordinating funding sources, and implementing real-time 
leading public and private stakeholders from the healthcare 
digital reporting systems to track data for impact.
system to discuss how best to scale value-based healthcare 
aligned with the stated vision and supporting UHC in 
•  Develop a platform for nursing and midwifery in Kenya, 
Singapore.
leveraging our experience with the U.S. nursing campaign 
and successful programs through our Johnson & Johnson  •  Brazil: As the interest in implementing value-based healthcare 
Foundation, such as NurseConnect in South Africa with 6,458  models continues to grow, Johnson & Johnson Medical 
new nurses registered on the platform, to establish policies for  Devices in Brazil promotes multi-stakeholder discussions 
nursing education and service. and events in the country. The largest of these events was 
the International Symposium on Value-Based Healthcare 
•  Launch the Oncology Nursing Training Initiative to strengthen  (VBHC) at the Latin-American Forum on Quality and Safety in 
oncology health systems in Kenya that are facing a health  Healthcare (fifth edition). Johnson & Johnson figured center-
workforce shortage amid a significant rise in cancer deaths. Only 36 nurses in the country are currently trained in  stage at this event with a symposium on VBHC that included 
oncology, while the need is for at least 500. The oncology initiative leverages the cross-sector competencies of  the participation of a senior representative of the Agência 
Johnson & Johnson companies and local partners to help strengthen the capacity of health systems to improve  Nacional de Saúde Suplementar as well as Johnson & Johnson 
quality management of cancer throughout the cancer pathway: prevention, diagnosis, treatment, care and  speakers discussing multiple angles of VBHC implementation 
support. and policy implication in advancing a more sustainable 
healthcare system.
For more information on our work supporting frontline health workers, see the section on Strengthening Health 
Systems.
22001917 H Heeaaltlhth f ofor rH Huummaannitiyty R Repepoortrt 3377
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
New public-private collaboration to accelerate  Patient Engagement Progressing a range of patient engagement 
UHC in Africa initiatives
Patients have always been at the center of what we do. 
At the turn of the year, we announced, together with four leading  However, the role of the patient is changing rapidly; patients are  Patient insights have changed clinical trials: To date, 
peer companies (Eli Lilly and Company, GSK, Novartis and Pfizer)  increasingly involved, educated and engaged in healthcare. At  approximately 2,000 patients and caregivers from more than 
and the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, an unprecedented  Janssen, we are adapting to this change by engaging directly  30 countries have been a part of the Janssen Patient Voice in 
program to increase access to community-based primary  with patients and caregivers to develop solutions that better  Clinical Trial program, which enables patient insight into clinical 
healthcare for nearly 1.7 million people in up to six African  meet needs and improve patient outcomes, and are available to  trial design, and is now a formal step in developing clinical 
countries, as part of our shared commitment to accelerate UHC  patients sooner.    studies. Changes made include:
in Africa. The partnership will work with two nonprofits that are 
expert in the community health worker model, Last Mile Health  We define patient engagement as partnering with patients and  •  Reordering the sequence of needed tests and providing rest 
and Living Goods. Each of the six investors will contribute USD  caregivers and systematically interacting directly with them  periods in between;
$1.5 million total over the next three years. This funding will be  throughout the product lifecycle to accelerate research and 
matched by The Audacious Project, adding up to an $18 million  develop patient-inspired innovation and solutions beyond the  •  Modifying wording in Informed Consent Forms and revising 
total investment that will cover: product. Our strategy includes four pillars: inclusion/exclusion criteria;
•  Investing in community health worker training: Community  •  Differentiated higher-value treatments that lead to better  •  Reducing certain procedures and/or better explaining the 
health workers can yield a 10:1 return on investment because  outcomes by acting on the patient’s perspective early and  rationale for certain procedures; and
of a healthier population, increased employment, and lower  across the lifecycle; 
odds of health crises, and they represent an efficient and  •  Providing additional support, such as transportation to 
effective way to advance UHC. The partnership will support  •  Inclusion of the patient’s voice in clinical trial protocols to  clinical sites.
the training and deployment of 2,500 digitally enabled  improve patient experience and accelerate research;
community health workers, reaching nearly 1.7 million people 
by 2022. Community health workers will be trained and  •  Collaboration with patients to develop tailored solutions to 
deployed in Kenya, Liberia, Malawi, Uganda, and up to two  empower patients in managing their disease; and
        Highlight
additional countries. For more details, see the section on 
•  Shaping regulatory policies and the field of patient 
Strengthening Health Systems.
engagement to enhance the patient’s voice globally. In 2019, PatientView, a global survey organization, 
released its annual Corporate Reputation of Pharma 
•  Supporting Last Mile Health’s Community Health Academy: 
The Academy is an open source, digital learning platform  report, summarizing the views of 1,500 patient 
for community health workers and leaders of health systems  “ Our goal is embedding patient engagement into  advocacy groups across 78 countries on how 
used worldwide. Training curricula for community health  our business. This means making sure we have direct  pharmaceutical companies respond to matters most 
workers initially focus on diarrheal diseases, family planning,  and ongoing dialogue with patients, and that we better  important to patients. Janssen ranked number one of 
malaria and pneumonia, with further modules planned for the  understand patient needs, and think of and act on patients’  the largest 13 pharmaceutical companies evaluated 
future. perspectives all the time.” and third overall of 46 companies evaluated.
•  Supporting Living Goods’ new Kenya Performance Lab:  Katherine Capperella, Global Patient Engagement Leader,  
With the help of the partnership’s expertise and personnel,  Janssen Pharmaceutical Companies of Johnson & Johnson
the Lab will advance the development of mobile-based tech 
innovations to improve community health worker productivity 
and strengthen supply chains. Initially, innovations will be 
introduced in Kenya and then scaled to other countries.
22001917 H Heeaaltlhth f ofor rH Huummaannitiyty R Repepoortrt 3388
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
Device design insights: The U.S. Food and Drug Administration  Using technology to enhance patient engagement 
approval of SPRAVATO (esketamine) in 2019 is not only a 
breakthrough for patients with treatment-resistant depression  Enhancing the informed consent process: We also use 
(TRD), it’s also a revolution in Janssen work with patients. See  eConsent, which deploys modern technology and multimedia to 
R&D: Pharmaceutical  section.  create an interactive informed consent experience for potential 
trial participants. As a key contributor to the TransCelerate 
During the SPRAVATO clinical trials with 1,700 patients, our  BioPharma eConsent initiative, Janssen pioneered the 
teams collected insights directly with patients to inform the  implementation of eConsent in trials in several countries and 
design of its unique nasal spray dispenser. Specifically, as a  languages, some of which were ongoing in 2019, and has helped 
result of patient suggestions, we added a depth guide and a  advance cross-industry adoption. 
dose indicator, and adjusted the dispenser design. As a result, 
the approved medicine was more closely in line with patient  Promoting online health advocates: In 2019, Janssen U.S. 
needs, supporting effective use and expected better results for  hosted its fifth annual HEALTHEVOICES leadership conference 
patients.  that unites and empowers online patient advocates. In 2019, in 
Texas, we brought together 140 advocates representing more 
Patient advocacy: In 2019, our patient engagement teams  than 35 health communities for skill-building, networking and 
across the world addressed several forums, including the  empowerment. HEALTHEVOICES continues to be the only event 
Patient Engagement Open Forum in Brussels, where Janssen  dedicated exclusively to strengthening online health advocates. 
also held "best practice" patient-centricity workshops, and  Attendees engaged in sessions from how-to workshops on 
Eyeforpharma’s Patient Summit Europe, as well as collaboration  content creation and podcasting to discussions on mental 
with Patient Focused Medicines Development and the European  health and parenting with a chronic illness. Many advocates 
Patients' Academy. shared their experiences on social media—early on the first 
day, #HealtheVoicesLIVE was already trending nationally and 
Using patient input to improve safety: The Johnson & Johnson  #HealtheVoices19 was trending globally.
Consumer Experience Center (CxC) is an internal market 
research partner that can elicit feedback from consumers, 
patients and healthcare professionals during the product 
development process. We used CxC to obtain patient 
perspectives on involvement in safety matters. Activities 
included three focus groups in late 2018 to identify patient 
and caregiver perspectives and obtain real-life examples from 
patients. In 2019, the findings were integrated into patient 
engagement safety plans, including, for example, patient  Advocates representing more than 35 health communities at the fifth 
reporting of side-effects. annual HEALTHEVOICES leadership conference in 2019.
22001917 H Heeaaltlhth f ofor rH Huummaannitiyty R Repepoortrt 3399
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
Contributing to Community Health
GRI 201-1, 203, 203-1, 203-2, 413, 413-1, J&J19-11
At Johnson & Johnson, we actively engage in our communities  and strengthen primary and community-based health systems. 
across the globe. Beyond our efforts to tackle the world's  CHWI focuses on nurses, midwives and community health 
toughest health challenges and enhance access to healthcare,  workers, who are the first point of contact in the health system  SDG COMMITMENT PROGRESS
we go the extra mile to support the people at the front lines  for most patients and communities, and are critical to achieving 
of delivering care, so that communities can more effectively  global health priorities, including universal health coverage.  5-year Target: 60 million women and 
address the health needs of the world’s most vulnerable people.  Priorities for CHWI include working to ensure frontline health 
children will have received support  
workers are supported through:
and tools to enable a healthy future. 
Our Global Community Impact (GCI) organization—through 
 
funding from the nonprofit Johnson & Johnson Foundation  •  Respect & Recognition: being valued by the communities 
and other functional divisions and operating companies across  they serve, and accredited and compensated by government  2016-2019 Progress: 40.6 million women and 
the three Johnson & Johnson business segments—drives  and health systems; children (68% of overall goal achieved)* 
programming for our community giving, social impact and other          
philanthropic initiatives around the world. •  Training & Education: gaining the skills and capabilities          Off-track     View scorecard
required to deliver their services with confidence and quality;
Our GCI programs and solutions are developed by a global  * This five-year target is predominantly supported by Johnson & Johnson 
leadership team in collaboration with regional or country- •  Leadership & Management: provided with opportunities to  Foundation grants facilitated by the Global Community Impact organization. 
level colleagues. We also work across multiple partnerships,  grow as leaders and effective managers; We are reporting the target as off track due to a shift in our strategy in 
leveraging the strengths of many to maximize the benefit to the  2019 which transitions from programs reaching consumer groups directly 
communities we serve. For more about employee volunteering,  •  Wellbeing & Resilience: ability to prioritize their own health  to programs targeting frontline health workers (i.e., nurses, midwives, and 
see the Empowering People section.  and access resources to manage the stress and demands of  community health workers). We believe this transition will have greater, 
the job; and more far-reaching and sustainable impact on women's and children’s lives 
in the longer term. The COVID-19 pandemic has underscored the critical 
needs facing our frontline health workers and their unique ability to address 
Strengthening Health Systems •  Connection & Integration: helping health workers connect to 
the healthcare needs of our society, and in particular, the underserved. Our 
each other, to communities and to health systems.
new commitment acknowledges the pivotal role that health workers play 
SASB HC-BP-240a.1 in providing essential services to these groups. As such, the programming 
By 2030, the Center intends to support one million nurses, 
and tracking toward the original goal are transitioning, with fewer programs 
In 2019, we took more steps in our significant long-term  midwives and community health workers, and strengthen health  directly reaching women and children and more programs reaching the 
commitment to strengthening the front lines of healthcare,  systems across five continents.  health workers who serve them.
driven by our Global Community Impact teams and maintained 
Even with this transition, by the end of the five-year goal period, we 
by grants through the Johnson & Johnson Foundation. In 2019, CHWI launched its first regional intervention hub 
estimate that we will have reached nearly 50 million women and children 
in partnership with the Government of Kenya, co-creating 
with support and tools to enable a healthy future (or over 80% of the overall 
A new center to unite our efforts to support the  the Community Health Units for Universal Health Coverage  target).
(CHU4UHC) Platform to integrate community health workers 
front lines of healthcare
We are proud to share that within our Global Disease Challenges goal, our 
formally into the health system. Recognizing the role of 
VERMOX (mebendazole) Donation Program has improved the health of 
community health workers in delivering preventative and 
During the United Nations General Assembly in September 2019,  hundreds of millions of children. Those targets are reported separately.
promotive healthcare, CHU4UHC is a key strategy toward the 
we launched the Center for Health Worker Innovation (CHWI) 
country’s ambitious goal of achieving universal health coverage 
to address the health worker shortage in healthcare today. The 
by 2022. For more details, see the section on Universal  
Center leverages the unique insights of Johnson & Johnson 
Health Coverage.
with funding through grants from the Johnson & Johnson 
Foundation to reduce the health worker coverage gap, improve 
the quality of care through a thriving frontline health workforce, 
22001917 H Heeaaltlhth f ofor rH Huummaannitiyty R Repepoortrt 4400
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
Advancing training and education for frontline  Advancing leadership and management training 
health workers for frontline health workers
        2020 GOAL PROGRESS 
Clinical training to ensure nurses, midwives and community  We also partner with programs that help build leadership and 
74,000
health workers have the skills and capabilities to deliver quality  management skills for health workers across health systems, 
care with confidence has long been a priority in our programs to  so they can grow professionally and become effective agents 
Together with partners, trained 74,000 birth 
advance community health. The programs we have continued to  of change. More than 2,000 health system leaders, community 
attendants, who assisted in 6 million births.      
support in 2019, include: health supervisors, primary care managers, and individual 
frontline health workers have received training through  
       Exceeded                   View scorecard
•  Aga Khan University School of Nursing and Midwifery,  Johnson & Johnson Foundation-supported programs such as:
where we have provided scholarships to nursing and 
midwifery students since 2001, enabling graduates to stay  •  The Sigma North America and Africa Maternal-Child 
and work across health facilities in the East Africa region.  Health Nurse Leadership Academies: Since 2002, Sigma 
Learn more about this program here.  has trained nurses in leadership and management skills, and 
        2020 GOAL PROGRESS 
those nurses have in turn improved the quality of care for 
•  Born On Time, a nonprofit that works closely with local  women and young children in North America and Africa.
governments and stakeholders through preterm birth  12 million
prevention across communities and local health facilities in  •  The UCLA/Johnson & Johnson Health Care Executive 
Bangladesh, Mali and Ethiopia. Born On Time has trained  Program has helped build the entrepreneurial competence  In partnership with Lions Club International, 
thousands of nurses, midwives and community health  of executives from community-based healthcare and AIDS  supported delivery of 12 million eye care 
workers to date. The program is poised to far exceed its initial  service organizations since 2002, enhancing their capacity  screenings and corrective treatments (spectacles) 
five-year goals. See this video. to expand the quality and quantity of care, treatment and  to 120,000 underserved children.    
support delivered to underserved and vulnerable populations 
•  Safe Birth Even Here, as part of our five-year (2016 – 2020)  around the country.        Achieved                   View scorecard
partnership with the United Nations Population Fund in 
Liberia, Haiti and Pakistan aimed at reducing maternal and  •  The Innovating Health for Tomorrow program and the 
newborn deaths in humanitarian crises and fragile situations.  Middle East Health Leadership Programme in partnership 
This initiative has provided emergency obstetric and newborn  with INSEAD have, since 1998, helped senior healthcare 
care training to hundreds of midwives, and thousands of  leaders across Europe, Middle East and Africa play a vital role 
        2020 GOAL PROGRESS 
women and girls have received health services.   in transforming health systems.  
BAND-AID® Brand Adhesive Bandages activated 
•  UNICEF global partnership, including initiatives to train  •  The Management Development Institute, which has trained 
the partnership with (RED) to help fund a diverse 
midwives in India, the Philippines and Vietnam. See   health leaders from across Africa since its inception in 2006, 
this video. focused for the first time in 2019 on training health leaders  range of lifesaving HIV/AIDS programs across 
from the surgical field. eight countries in sub-Saharan Africa. In prior 
In 2019, we established a new initiative for nurse education  years we activated partnerships with JOHNSON’S, 
financing in Indonesia—a first revolving loan fund to support  •  Spark Health Africa’s transformational leadership model is  LISTERINE, and STAYFREE.     
higher education for Indonesian nursing students to finance an  helping public-sector teams in Kenya, Uganda and Zimbabwe 
estimated 2,000 healthcare students in the next 10 years. The  build and reinforce more effective health systems to achieve         On track                   View scorecard
loan, when repaid, is structured to provide future financing for  specific health goals, including universal health coverage.
new nursing cohorts.
22001917 H Heeaaltlhth f ofor rH Huummaannitiyty R Repepoortrt 4411
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
Using technology to connect frontline health  A new impact venture  fund to support 
workers communities
We promote the use of digital technology to connect frontline  In 2019, we launched our new Johnson & Johnson Impact 
health workers to each other, to communities and to health  Ventures (JNJIV)—an impact investment initiative within 
systems. In 2019, the Johnson & Johnson Foundation continued  the Johnson & Johnson Foundation that targets innovation, 
to support several digital health programs, for example:    including digital health platforms and AI technologies to support 
the access and delivery of quality and affordable care. JNJIV has 
•  We invested in TNH Health to improve healthcare in low- committed $5 million to five impact investments in Kenya, the 
income populations in Brazil through artificial intelligence  UK and Southeast Asia that have been 80% executed; $1 million 
(AI)-powered chatbots designed to enhance primary care for  dollars was granted in seed funding for impact investments.
pregnant women as well as patients with non-communicable 
chronic diseases such as diabetes, hypertension and obesity.  JNJIV is building a global portfolio of innovation social 
enterprises and startups, focusing on addressing the needs of 
Johnson & Johnson-supported frontline health workers providing 
•  We partnered with South Africa’s pioneering mobile  low-income populations. A selection of our investments to date 
maternal health services in Zanzibar, Tanzania.
messaging program, MomConnect, celebrating its fifth  includes:
anniversary in August 2019. To date, the partnership 
between the South African government, Johnson & Johnson  •  Jacaranda Maternity, a maternity hospital focused on 
and others has supported millions of mothers to care for  providing affordable, patient-centered care to urban mothers 
themselves and their children. in Kenya;  Our Global Community Impact team with 
grants from the Johnson & Johnson Foundation 
•  We rolled out mobile messaging initiatives in China (Healthy  •  Flare, a Kenya-based emergency response technology  partnered with 183 organizations to advance 
Family App in partnership with UNICEF China and others)  platform that connects the largest network of first 
the training, skills-building and leadership 
and in Uganda (FamilyConnect in partnership with the  responders and has reduced emergency response time from 
development of 75,200 health workers in 54 
Uganda Ministry of Health). an average of 162 minutes to 20 minutes; 
countries, including:
•  We partnered with Medic Mobile to launch its Community  •  WaterEquity, a fund that invests in social enterprises and 
17,611
Health Toolkit to help large community healthcare systems  microfinance institutions that deliver access to clean water   nurses
rapidly adopt ready-to-scale technologies and strategies  to homes and communities across Southeast Asia and is 
supporting the delivery of health services by health workers  expected to provide 4.5 million people with water access  7,315 midwives
around the world. over its seven-year term; and
19,936
 community health workers
•  TNH Health, an AI-enabled public telehealth platform in 
Brazil to monitor health and build resilience.
Beneficiaries* of our digital health grants, who 
were connected to the health system via mobile 
technology included:  “ It is my hope that the launch of Johnson & Johnson 
Impact Ventures will help galvanize further private funding 
6,703 
frontline health workers towards bridging the health gap, improving communities 
globally and ultimately making the world a healthier 
2,209,525 community members place.”
* Includes all the direct beneficiaries and the healthcare professional  Joseph Wolk, Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer,  
beneficiaries. Johnson & Johnson
22001917 H Heeaaltlhth f ofor rH Huummaannitiyty R Repepoortrt 4422
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
Nursing-led innovation SONSIEL Nurse Hackathon: This past November,   •  Women’s Global Education Project (WGEP): With its 
Johnson & Johnson was the proud sponsor of the inaugural  internationally recognized, award-winning approach to 
Johnson & Johnson seeks to further strengthen our 120-year  SONSIEL Nurse Hackathon, in partnership with the Society  women's empowerment, WGEP works to empower women 
commitment to the nursing profession by advocating for  of Nurse Scientists, Innovators, Entrepreneurs & Leaders  and girls through education to build better lives and foster 
elevating and empowering nurses as innovative leaders who  (SONSIEL), the leading nursing organization for nurse scientists,  equitable communities. When girls are educated, their 
improve patient outcomes and strengthen health systems. Read  innovators and entrepreneurs. This event brought over 200  families are healthier, they wed later, and they have more 
more about our programs to champion nurse innovation at  nurses from across the country together for an inspiring and  opportunities to generate income. 
nursing.jnj.com.  energizing weekend of innovation, networking and problem 
solving aimed at finding solutions to the challenges nurses 
Some highlights from 2019 include the launch of the   experience every day as they deliver care to patients.
Johnson & Johnson Nurse Innovation Platform, which 
incorporated the following: Johnson & Johnson Nurse Innovation Fellowship: Launched 
in 2019 in partnership with the Center for Creative Leadership 
Johnson & Johnson Nurses Innovate QuickFire Challenge  and Nurse Approved, the Johnson & Johnson Nurse 
Series: The Johnson & Johnson Nurses Innovate QuickFire  Innovation Fellowship aims to strengthen the leadership and 
Challenge Series invites nurses worldwide to share new ideas  entrepreneurial skills of inspired and innovative nurses. In 
for treatments, protocols and devices that aim to profoundly  the two-year program, our inaugural cohort of 12 Fellows will 
change human health. Awardees can earn grants, mentorship  receive individualized mentoring, complete action learning 
and coaching from JLABS, our open-innovation ecosystem   projects, and develop lifelong connections to a wider network of 
for healthcare entrepreneurs, and others from the   nurse innovators.
Johnson & Johnson Family of Companies to help bring their 
ideas to life. In 2019, we launched two Nurses Innovate 
Global signature partnerships and platforms
QuickFire Challenges and were delighted to announce four 
WGEP provides health education workshops to adolescent girls in Kenya 
innovative nurses as awardees:
We maintain several global partnerships and platforms that  and Senegal to empower every girl to stay in school and live up to her 
advance healthcare and improve people’s lives. In 2019, we  life's potential.
•  Lauren Wright, MSN, PhD student, AGNP-BC, created 
engaged with our partners through strategic investments, and 
The Natural Nipple, an innovative solution that improves 
through our own platforms, around specific needs and events. 
maternal and child health outcomes by supporting prolonged 
These included: 
breastfeeding.
Since its launch, CARINGCROWD has generated:
CARINGCROWD: To help enable large-scale change for good, 
•  Abby Hess, APRN, DNP, invented a video game app that 
we created and operate CARINGCROWD, a crowdfunding 
helps children relax and prepare for surgery. The game is  $2,023,684
platform for global public health. Anyone anywhere in the world   pledged by individuals
controlled by the child breathing into an anesthesia mask.
can support or lead campaigns on the platform. An independent 
•  Debbie Kantor, APRN, Co-Founder at HERO Medical,  expert panel reviews projects, and funds raised go directly to  $1,249,891
vetted nonprofits. Since its launch, CARINGCROWD has helped   matched by Johnson & Johnson
created the HERO Bandage, a simple one-piece wound care 
raise millions of dollars for public health causes and touched 
dressing for the head or limbs designed to improve the self-
care and monitoring of chronic wounds. almost one million lives. See overall impacts here. Examples of  423 successful campaigns for health projects in
nonprofits that use CARINGCROWD to touch the lives of those 
•  Chao Hsing Yeh, PhD, RN, Associate Professor at Johns  who need it most are:
40 129
Hopkins School of Nursing, developed a new treatment   countries for   nonprofit beneficiaries
based on traditional Chinese medicine acupuncture  •  African Mothers Health Initiative (AMHI): AMHI provides 
home-based nursing care to vulnerable babies and 
that aims to provide a non-invasive, self-administered 
postpartum mothers to save lives in rural areas of Malawi, 
and nonpharmacological treatment for pre-, intra- and 
where maternal and infant mortality rates are among the 
postoperative pain.
highest in the world. 
22001917 H Heeaaltlhth f ofor rH Huummaannitiyty R Repepoortrt 4433
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
Save the Children: Johnson & Johnson announced a pledge  Global Citizen: Since 2016, we have partnered with social 
of $5 million to Save the Children’s Centennial Commitment in  action platform Global Citizen to address public health 
September 2019, directed at providing comprehensive mental  challenges. In 2019, as the Major Health Sponsor, we again 
health and psychosocial support across different phases of  had a strong presence at the Global Citizen Festival in New 
humanitarian response, including for health workers. This  York on World AIDS Day. At this event, Dr. Paul Stoffels, Vice 
continues our longstanding partnership with Save the Children,  Chairman of Johnson & Johnson's Executive Committee, and 
supporting a range of programs such as newborn survival,  Chief Scientific Officer, announced that we were commencing 
support for refugees, response to humanitarian crises and   an HIV vaccine study in men who have sex with men, and in 
joint advocacy. transgender populations. Along with Dr. Stoffels at the Festival, 
celebrity Laverne Cox and two nurses from our 5B documentary 
UNICEF: Johnson & Johnson and UNICEF have worked together  film celebrated the important work done on Ward 5B at San 
to strengthen health systems in 20 countries and territories for  Francisco General in the early 1980s to advance the way patients 
three decades. This year we continued our global partnership,  with HIV and AIDS are cared for. Read more about these events 
including our $10 million pledge from 2018, to build the capacity  in our section on Making HIV History.
Some of the Johnson & Johnson young change-makers during the 2019 
of frontline health workers to improve access and quality of care 
One Young World Summit in London, UK. The Company's theme for its 
for pregnant women, mothers and their newborns including  Donate a Photo: This is our long-running program to connect 
2019 young leadership capacity-building program was focused on "Build 
among indigenous communities in Vietnam and the Philippines. people to nonprofits, increasing awareness and resources for  your Resiliency for Change: Adapt, Recover, Grow." 
deserving causes including women’s and children’s health.
Johnson & Johnson One Young World Program: Since 2013, 
we have partnered with One Young World to provide young  Supporting the Special Olympics: Through our Janssen 
leaders in healthcare, both within and outside our organization,  business in Europe, we established a partnership with Special 
with unique opportunities to contribute to solving some of  Olympics Belgium and the Netherlands to raise awareness about 
the world’s most pressing health issues. In 2019, for the third  life with a disability. We hosted a selection of Special Olympics 
consecutive year, we collaborated with One Young World to  athletes to challenge employees to take part in sports activities 
offer scholarships to 12 aspiring young leaders working on  on Challenge Day, as part of the Play Unified Campaign.
the front lines of delivering care across the globe, including a 
chance to participate in a six-month Global Community Impact 
leadership and capacity-building program.
Operation Smile: For more than 30 years, Johnson & Johnson 
has helped Operation Smile with financial and product 
contributions to provide smiles to children around the world 
born with cleft lips and palates. In 2015, we made a five-year 
$25 million commitment to advancing Operation Smile’s cause, 
and as part of this, in 2019, we held our annual Smile Week, 
supporting fundraising through a range of initiatives around the 
world with the end goal of improving possibilities of surgery 
access for children.
22001917 H Heeaaltlhth f ofor rH Huummaannitiyty R Repepoortrt 4444
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
Our giving Our Performance Disaster Preparedness & Relief
At Johnson & Johnson, inspired by Our Credo, we use our scale  We work with trusted partners on the front lines of care to help 
and resources for good, contributing to many causes around the  Our Giving communities by coordinating product donations, and through 
world to help advance health and improve people’s lives through  programs that help communities recover, rebuild and become 
targeted initiatives providing local support, engaging employees  resilient. See our Position on Disaster Relief. 
in our communities, supporting them in cases of emergencies, 
2019 2018 2017
and donating products for a range of needs. For details of our  In 2019, we allocated $0.7 million in cash and $36.710 million 
approach, see our Position on Community Impact. worth of Johnson & Johnson products in support for immediate 
Total products and cash  mid- and long-term response to crises and natural disasters, 
Product donations and financial support contributed globally  $1,806‡  $1,612  $1,469  including Cyclone Idai response in Mozambique, Malawi and 
(millions) Zimbabwe, and Hurricane Dorian response in the Bahamas 
and in Australia, following devastation caused by widespread 
In the United States, we also support independent initiatives 
bushfires. Our donations were made through nonprofit partners 
by donating medicines and funding to the Johnson & Johnson  Products contributed 
$1,383‡ $1,299  $1,242  to support the provision of products and supplies—and also 
Patient Assistance Foundation Inc. (JJPAF), an independent,  globally (millions)
medical teams in some cases.  
nonprofit organization committed to helping eligible patients 
without insurance coverage receive prescription products 
Cash contributed globally 
donated by Johnson & Johnson operating companies. In 2019,  $423‡ $313 $227
(millions)
we donated $1.2 billion in free product and financial support to 
JJPAF, enabling the Foundation to provide medicines at no cost  Supporting Australia
to approximately 82,000 patients.
‡ See PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (PwC's) Report of Independent Accountants.
Also, in the United States, in 2019, we joined other leading 
pharmaceutical companies to create the Medicine Assistance 
Tool (MAT) program, connecting patients, caregivers, and  Like many across the world, Johnson & Johnson 
providers with hundreds of different financial assistance 
was deeply moved by the scale of the devastating 
programs that may help them afford their medicines. MAT also 
bushfires that swept Australia in 2019. To support 
provides patients with more transparency about medicine costs, 
local communities in Australia, we gave $600,000 
helping them to make more informed healthcare decisions. 
in financial support to the Australian Red Cross 
and the Society of St. Vincent de Paul; matched 
donations by employees; and gave over $1.5 
million in consumer personal care and hygiene 
products to Foodbank Australia in addition to 
our ongoing product donation program. We also 
provided uncapped paid leave for our people who 
volunteered with emergency services in response 
to the bushfire crisis.
22001917 H Heeaaltlhth f ofor rH Huummaannitiyty R Repepoortrt 4455
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
Innovating for Better Health 
GRI J&J19-10
Over the past 130 years, we’ve learned a lot about how to 
innovate and adapt to evolving health needs—from surgical 
breakthroughs, to tear-free shampoo, to modern treatments 
for HIV/AIDS and tuberculosis. That knowledge and experience  Research & Development: Company Incubation:
informs our innovation, which is motivated by the need to find 
As a broadly based global healthcare  Providing hundreds of incubation 
solutions for everyday health challenges and life-threatening 
company with expertise in all stages of  options for our partners around the 
conditions; answers to new health threats as they emerge; and 
access to medicines, treatment and care for all. With our global  R&D, Johnson & Johnson provides a wide  globe through our JLABS. 
reach comes a responsibility and a unique ability to leverage  range of R&D support, from discovery 
our deep expertise and extensive partnerships to unlock the  and early development through clinical 
full potential of science and technology to improve health and 
trial design and regulatory strategy.
wellbeing in response to these needs. Our progress is measured 
by the positive impact we have on the health—and lives—of 
people, communities and society in general. We hope to build a  Our Vision:
future where everyone’s best health is within reach. 
Positively impact human 
We pursue breakthroughs in science and technology in our own  health through innovation 
laboratories and through our powerful network of scientists and 
entrepreneurs all over the world. The diagram to the right shows 
our innovation vision and four innovation approaches across our  Innovation Acceleration: Strategic Investing:
three business segments. 
Innovation Centers focused on accessing  Johnson & Johnson Innovation – 
innovation from all sources, from inception  JJDC is the strategic venture capital 
to early stages of development, with  arm of Johnson & Johnson and a 
the potential to make a transformational  long-term investment partner to 
200
 active collaborations and partnerships— impact on the health and lives of people  healthcare entrepreneurs. 
from discovery to late-stage pharmaceutical R&D  around the globe. 
development
$11.4 billion
 invested in R&D in 2019, an 
increase of 5.4% over 2018
Pharmaceutical Medical Devices Consumer Health
17.6%
 of Johnson & Johnson employees 
involved in R&D activities11
22001917 H Heeaaltlhth f ofor rH Huummaannitiyty R Repepoortrt 4466
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
R&D: Pharmaceutical Our Performance
First new mechanism of 
Our pharmaceutical R&D is focused in areas of medicine 
Number of selected NME Pharmaceutical 
where we can make the most meaningful impact. These  action in decades to treat 
Pipeline – Recent Approvals/Potential Filings  19
include: Cardiovascular & Metabolism, Immunology, Infectious 
major depressive disorder through 2023 (as of January 22, 2020)* 
Diseases & Vaccines, Neuroscience, Oncology, and Pulmonary 
Hypertension. We apply our expertise in small molecules, 
monoclonal antibodies, cell and gene therapies, RNA  Number of new Janssen medicines approved 
7
therapeutics and vaccines. We study biological pathways that  by U.S. FDA over the past five years**
underpin more than one disease to help speed development of 
new therapies for multiple conditions. We harness cutting-edge  The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and the 
Number of U.S. FDA Breakthrough Therapy 
analytical tools to analyze sources of data to help us better  European Commission both approved SPRAVATO  Designations received over the past five years** 7
identify targets, improve the probability of success in advancing  (esketamine) CIII nasal spray, in conjunction with an 
promising candidates, reduce research timelines, and evaluate  oral antidepressant (specifically a SSRI or SNRI in the 
our medicines more efficiently and effectively than ever before.  EU), to treat adults with treatment-resistant depression  * Filings/approvals assumed to be in the U.S. and EU through 2023 unless 
otherwise noted. This information is accurate as of the date hereof to the 
(TRD). The medicine is administered as a nasal spray 
best of the Company’s knowledge. Refer to our Late Stage Pipeline for 
We progressed Pharmaceutical R&D on several fronts in 2019,  that is absorbed by the lining of the nasal passages  our Pharmaceutical business segment.
in addition to those noted in our sections on Tackling the 
and into the blood stream. To support responsible 
World's Toughest Health Challenges and Enhancing Access to  ** U.S. FDA. “New Drug Therapy Approvals 2019.”
use of the medication while ensuring patient 
Healthcare. Notes: Number reflects NME approvals achieved by current Janssen 
access, SPRAVATO was launched with a controlled 
Pharmaceutical Companies of Johnson & Johnson.
distribution model, including additional monitoring 
and comprehensive risk mitigation strategies. We have 
“ Our highly differentiated R&D strategy focuses on  invested more than eight years in a comprehensive 
both disease areas and biological pathways, embraces  development program encompassing 28 clinical trials 
evolving science and technology, drives data sciences into  to bring SPRAVATO to the millions of adults who have 
all aspects of discovering and developing transformational  been living with the burden of TRD for far too long.
medicines, and reinforces our strong position as a partner 
and accelerator at the center of the biopharmaceutical 
ecosystem.”
Mathai Mammen, M.D., Ph.D.,  Global Head of R&D,  
        Highlight
Janssen Pharmaceutical Companies of Johnson & Johnson
Janssen Research & Development announced a 
collaboration with the University of California, Berkeley 
and the University of California, San Francisco to 
expand data science research in healthcare. The 
program facilitated by Johnson & Johnson Innovation 
will recruit data scientists to research high-impact, 
data-science projects in healthcare with the goal of 
inspiring data-driven approaches to improve health and 
develop the next generation of leaders in healthcare 
data sciences.
22001917 H Heeaaltlhth f ofor rH Huummaannitiyty R Repepoortrt 4477
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
R&D: Medical Devices 
A wide range of transformational medicine advances in 2019
In a radically changing environment, we make connections 
across science and technology to combine our own expertise in 
surgery, orthopaedics, interventional solutions and vision care 
with the big ideas of others to design and deliver innovative 
solutions for doctors and patients. Areas of progress in 2019 
•  New multiple myeloma medicine approval: The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved 
include:
DARZALEX (daratumumab) in combination with bortezomib, thalidomide and dexamethasone (VTd). This 
approval represents the first and only FDA-approved biologic therapy indicated for newly diagnosed patients  Advancing digital surgery: Part of our strategy to create the 
who are eligible for a stem cell transplant. next frontier of surgery is empowering healthcare providers 
and surgeons to drive even better outcomes for patients. We 
•  Promise for patients with multiple myeloma: The FDA granted Breakthrough Therapy Designation for the  announced our acquisition of Auris Health, a privately held 
BCMA CAR-T Therapy JNJ-4528. Multiple myeloma is an incurable blood cancer that starts in the bone marrow  developer of robotic platform technology, currently focused 
and is characterized by an excessive proliferation of plasma cells, affecting tens of thousands of individuals. on enabling new possibilities in lung cancer procedures. This 
acquisition accelerates our entry into robotics with a FDA-
•  New leukemia medicine approval: The FDA approved IMBRUVICA (ibrutinib) in combination with  cleared platform currently available in the United States.
obinutuzumab in patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia/small lymphocytic lymphoma (CLL/SLL), the 
most common form of leukemia in adults. This is the first approval for a non-chemotherapy combination 
regimen for treatment-naïve patients with CLL/SLL and marks the 10th FDA approval for IMBRUVICA since  “ In this new era of healthcare, we’re aiming to simplify 
November 2013. surgery, drive efficiency, reduce complications and improve 
outcomes for patients, ultimately making surgery safer. We 
•  First-of-its-kind bladder cancer treatment: The FDA granted accelerated approval for BALVERSA (erdafitinib)  believe the combination of best-in-class robotics, advanced 
for the treatment of adults with locally advanced or metastatic urothelial carcinoma. BALVERSA is an important  instrumentation and unparalleled end-to-end connectivity 
new therapy for a subset of patients with urothelial carcinoma who, up until now, had limited treatment options.  will make a meaningful difference in patient outcomes.”
•  Advancing treatment for respiratory syncytial virus: The FDA granted Breakthrough Therapy Designation  Ashley McEvoy, Executive Vice President, Worldwide Chairman,  
for our investigational vaccine for the prevention of respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) lower respiratory tract  Medical Devices, Johnson & Johnson
disease in adults aged 60 years or older. Older adults are at risk of developing RSV, a highly contagious 
respiratory infection and a leading cause of bronchitis and pneumonia, affecting more than 64 million people 
each year worldwide.12 Improving surgical outcomes: Johnson & Johnson Medical 
Devices Companies introduced our new ECHELON CIRCULAR 
•  Promise for patients with prostate cancer: The FDA granted Breakthrough Therapy Designation for niraparib,  Powered Stapler to help address complications associated with 
colorectal, gastric and thoracic surgery. When using staples or 
an orally administered poly ADP-ribose polymerase (PARP) inhibitor, for the treatment of patients with BRCA1/2 
sutures, there is a risk of complications from leaks at the staple 
gene-mutated metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer (mCRPC). Niraparib is an investigational PARP 
line, which can lead to increased discomfort for the patient, 
inhibitor that we believe may help address an important unmet need for patients with mCRPC.  
longer hospital stays and potentially serious illness. This new 
stapler provides gentler handling to reduce the force required to 
•  New diabetic kidney disease approval: The FDA approved INVOKANA (canagliflozin) to treat diabetic kidney 
complete the stapling process and is proven to reduce leaks by 
disease (DKD) and reduce the risk of hospitalization for heart failure in patients with type 2 diabetes. The 
up 61% compared to similar devices. Read more here.
approval, which is based on the landmark Phase 3 CREDENCE renal outcomes study, makes INVOKANA the 
only medicine in nearly 20 years approved to slow the progression of DKD.
22001917 H Heeaaltlhth f ofor rH Huummaannitiyty R Repepoortrt 4488
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
New knee replacement technology: We introduced the  R&D: Consumer Health
ATTUNE Cementless Knee as an addition to our knee solutions 
range. The cementless knee replacement is particularly relevant  Innovation in skin care
Johnson & Johnson Consumer Health believes in caring for 
for younger, more energetic patients who have healthy, strong 
people around the world by creating solutions and experiences 
bone and wish to maintain an active lifestyle. This cementless 
that help them live healthy, vibrant lives. Our products help 
option, which is based on biological fixation and in-growth 
advance everyday care for healthier consumers at every stage 
of the implant to bone, promises to enable this. The ATTUNE 
of life, and meet the health needs of families across the globe 
Cementless Knee features several patented technologies  In 2019, NEUTROGENA, our dermatologist-
through a broad range of well-known and trusted healthcare and 
designed to improve knee function. Read more here. over-the-counter products. We also bring Johnson & Johnson’s  recommended skin care brand, launched a new 
unique perspective as the world’s largest healthcare company  collection, NEUTROGENA BRIGHT BOOST, 
New registry for patients with liver disorders:  together with technology expertise and partnerships to create  which features NEOGLUCOSAMINE, a gentle, 
Johnson & Johnson Medical Devices Companies launched a  high-performance products for healthy skin. Consumer Health  non-acid amino sugar that helps speed up surface 
new global registry to collect and analyze real-world data on 
highlights in innovation in 2019 include:  cell renewal to brighten and even skin tone. A 
patients with soft tissue liver lesions. The observational registry 
NEUTROGENA survey conducted online by The 
will follow approximately 1,500 patients worldwide for a total 
Investing in consumer health technology: In line with our belief  Harris Poll among over 1,100 U.S. women aged 
of five years from the date of their first liver ablation procedure 
that consumers are increasingly using digital health tools to 
18+ showed that nearly two-thirds (66%) of U.S. 
with Ethicon's NEUWAVE Microwave Ablation System, our 
augment care regimens and seeking more wellness-focused 
minimally invasive microwave ablation technology. The registry  millennial women aged 23 – 38 have noticed a 
products, Johnson & Johnson Innovation – JJDC became 
will be an important contribution to our understanding of this  shift in their skin's brightness. Read more about 
the corporate strategic partner and first investor in a new 
liver ablation procedure and provide robust clinical evidence  the unique collaboration that led to this new skin 
consumer health technology accelerator, in partnership with 
to inform treatment decisions and improvements in procedural  London-headquartered startup studio and accelerator Founders  care line, which meets the diverse needs of all skin 
efficiency and patient outcomes. Factory. The goal of the collaboration is to grow the health tech  types in different environments around the world.
and startup community in the New York City region by investing 
Helping people see better, connect better, live better:   in 25 startups in consumer healthcare over the next five years,  We also introduced the NEUTROGENA Blackhead 
Johnson & Johnson Vision, part of our Medical Devices 
with an emphasis on areas such as personalized care, female  Eliminating Nose Strip to Scrub, a two-in-one 
business, launched 10 new products in 2019. Included in these 
health and mental health. pore strip and exfoliating scrub, designed to be 
was the TECNIS Eyhance Intraocular Lens (IOL), the first 
gentle enough for daily use and sensitive skin. The 
monofocal IOL to deliver improved intermediate vision and 
Innovation for children: Parents spend 17 minutes on average 
treatment targets blackheads and penetrates pores 
20/20 distance vision. In addition, the Company showed positive 
trying to get their kids to take medicine. In response, we 
Phase 3 clinical results on its first-of-its-kind drug-eluting anti- while exfoliators gently clear away blackhead-
introduced Children’s TYLENOL Dissolve Packs for parents 
allergy contact lens. Johnson & Johnson Vision also launched its  causing dirt and oil.
who wanted more options for kids who won’t take liquid 
inaugural “Vision for Good” community impact report detailing  medications and aren’t ready for chewables or tablets yet. This 
efforts to provide access to eye care for those in need through 
is the first and only pediatric acetaminophen product that is 
advocacy and education, and serving more than 40 million 
offered as a dissolvable product. Each tablet contains 160 mg 
people to date. of acetaminophen and comes in a dissolve pack that can be  “ Johnson & Johnson scientists are globally recognized for 
poured directly onto a child's tongue and will dissolve almost  delivering meaningful products and solutions to our patients 
immediately. and consumers. Our R&D employees combine the power 
of science with deep human insights to develop products 
Presenting Innovation in skin science: Johnson & Johnson 
in the areas of Skin Health, OTC and other essential health 
Consumer Health presented a diverse portfolio of scientific 
franchises—such as Oral Care, Baby Care, Women’s Health 
research across skin and hair physiology at the 2019 American 
Academy of Dermatology (AAD) Annual Meeting in Washington,  and Wound Care—that help people take better care of 
D.C., including 13 Scientific ePosters and a preview of the latest  themselves and their loved ones.”
innovations in skin health technology. 
Caroline Tillett, Global Head of R&D, Johnson & Johnson 
Consumer Health
22001917 H Heeaaltlhth f ofor rH Huummaannitiyty R Repepoortrt 4499
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
Our Innovation Networks Collaboration in genome sequencing: In September 2019, a  Life science incubation
new collaboration was launched in the UK between government, 
GRI JNJ19-5 a research charity and industry. Johnson & Johnson Innovation  Through Johnson & Johnson Innovation – JLABS, our life 
facilitated the collaboration for the Whole Genome Sequencing  science incubator network for innovators, we support hundreds 
Our mission is to create the leading global innovation network  (WGS) project on behalf of Janssen Research & Development.  of entrepreneurs working to turn breakthrough science 
to generate transformational healthcare solutions through value- The WGS project will sequence the complete genetic code of  and technologies into transformative solutions in biotech, 
building external collaborations and partnerships. 500,000 UK Biobank volunteers. It is the single most ambitious  pharmaceutical, medical devices, consumer health and health 
sequencing program in the world undertaken as a public- technology programs.
Our goal is to unleash the power of science and technology to  private initiative, representing a potential major advance for 
advance the health of everyone, everywhere. Fundamentally,  public health. The project is expected to create meaningful 
Johnson & Johnson seeks to bring forth highly differentiated  insights into complex diseases during the nine-month window of 
new healthcare solutions that extend and improve lives, not just  preferred access to the data. Subsequently, the data will then be  13
through therapeutics, but also medical devices, consumer health  open to the global scientific community to interrogate and find   locations around the world
products and integrated technology-enabled solutions. disease-related information and potential solutions.
600+
 companies, including current resident 
Innovation acceleration Early-stage drug discovery in China: In an agreement  companies and alumni
facilitated by our Asia Pacific Innovation Center, Janssen 
Research & Development is collaborating with HitGen, a 
The Johnson & Johnson Innovation Centers in San Francisco, 
145+
Boston, London and Shanghai identify transformational  Chinese biotech company with an industry-leading platform for   collaborations with Johnson & Johnson
early-stage drug discovery research centered on DNA-encoded 
early-stage healthcare innovation. They develop strategic 
chemical libraries. This agreement aims to design and build 
collaborations with academics, startup companies and other 
novel DNA-encoded libraries to discover unique small molecule 
entrepreneurs across their regions, who wish to partner with 
assets to be used in drug discovery and development. This new 
us to accelerate their novel science and technologies to make a 
transformational impact on human health. program builds on the success of our earlier agreements, the  First JLABS in Asia Pacific: Launched in June 2019 in 
outcomes of which helped us identify opportunities to support  collaboration with local government and the Shanghai Pharma 
the discovery of a new generation of medicines to address  Engine Company, JLABS @ Shanghai is the first JLABS facility 
unmet clinical challenges. established in Asia Pacific. The state-of-the-art 4,400-square-
meter facility can accommodate up to 50 life science startups 
4
 Innovation Centers on three continents Partnering for breakthrough healthcare innovation:   focused on innovations across the healthcare spectrum, 
Johnson & Johnson Innovation partnered with the U.S.  including pharmaceuticals, medical devices, consumer health 
65+ National Academy of Medicine in its Healthy Longevity Global  and health technology sectors.
 deals executed in 2019 Competition, launched in 2019. This multi-year, multimillion-
dollar competition in the United States is internationally seeking  JLABS @ Washington, DC: Johnson & Johnson Innovation 
$145+ million breakthrough innovations to extend human health and help  and Children’s National Hospital announced a collaboration to 
 capital deployed on new 
people age well and live longer, healthier lives. launch JLABS @ Washington, DC, a 32,000-square-foot facility 
deals in 2019
at the new Children’s National Research & Innovation Campus 
on the historic Walter Reed Army Medical Center campus in the 
nation’s capital. The co-location with key partners in the areas of 
public health research, innovation and incubation will be critical 
to accelerating breakthrough discoveries into new treatments 
and technologies. JLABS @ Washington, DC will be opened 
in 2020 to companies aiming to advance the development of 
new drugs, medical devices, precision diagnostics and health 
technologies, including applications in pediatrics.
22001917 H Heeaaltlhth f ofor rH Huummaannitiyty R Repepoortrt 5500
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
Strategic investing in innovation Cross-company innovation
Johnson & Johnson Innovation – JJDC  is the strategic venture  Where possible, we seek to leverage our expertise across our 
capital arm of Johnson & Johnson and a long-term investment  different business segments in a holistic approach to address 
partner to healthcare entrepreneurs. To date, JJDC has invested  pressing healthcare challenges. We achieve this by establishing 
in hundreds of emerging life sciences companies developing  hubs or centers of excellence to harness resources from 
healthcare solutions. It is a key element in our strategy to bring new  different parts of the business to deliver optimum solutions. 
healthcare products to the people who need them. We understand  Similarly, we address certain developments, such as the 
that each company is unique and requires a distinct investment  application of digital technology, from an enterprise perspective 
strategy. At JJDC, we believe strongly in value-add investing and  as well as within each business segment. Examples from 2019 
play an active role in the companies in which we invest.  of these specific areas of activity that go beyond the above-
mentioned modes of innovation include:
The Johnson & Johnson Lung Cancer Initiative: The Lung 
Janssen technicians preparing doses of the Company’s developmental 
Cancer Initiative is dedicated to transforming the standard 
46+ CAR-T therapy.
 year legacy of care for this devastating disease. Our vision is to develop 
solutions that prevent, intercept and cure lung cancer. By 
40+ focusing on the underlying biology of the progression from 
 investments in 2019
risk to disease and accessing the best science and innovation 
available anywhere in the world, we aim to eliminate lung 
$500+ million
 capital deployed in 2019 cancer with holistic solutions that combine pharmaceutical, 
medical devices and consumer health approaches. An example 
is the Auris Health collaboration. Auris Health's MONARCH 
Platform with robotic bronchoscopy may significantly enhance 
clinicians’ ability to diagnose peripheral lung nodules today, and 
In 2019, JJDC continued to rank as the Number One investor  in the future will integrate the latest advancements in medical 
in Healthcare Corporate Venture Capital13 for healthcare  devices technologies and local drug therapies to enable earlier 
investments, deploying more than $500 million across over  diagnosis and treatment.
40 pharmaceutical, consumer health and medical devices 
companies in the United States and internationally. Recent  World Without Disease Accelerator: The World Without 
investments include: Disease Accelerator (WWDA) at Johnson & Johnson focuses 
on the discovery, development and application of disruptive 
•  Auris Health, expanding digital surgery through robotics (see   products and technologies, business models and partnerships 
R&D: Medical Devices section); to eliminate disease. The group brings together capabilities 
in areas including the microbiome, immunosciences, sensors 
•  CARA CARE, personalizing treatment recommendations for  and wearables, predictive analytics and behavioral sciences to 
people living with acute and chronic digestive conditions;  seed transformative growth opportunities and solutions for the 
and prevention, interception and cure of disease. An example of this 
is where the WWDA is exploring multiple innovative approaches 
•  Ribon Therapeutics, pioneering a novel approach to cancer  like digital twins to monitor, maintain and personalize an  
treatment. individual’s health.
Read more about these companies in our 2019 JJDC Newsletter.
22001917 H Heeaaltlhth f ofor rH Huummaannitiyty R Repepoortrt 5511
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
Advancing digital healthcare technologies collaborative laboratory partnership with a university 
outside the United States, demonstrates our commitment 
Advancing digital healthcare technologies: We aim to integrate  to supporting 3D bioprinting innovation to advance patient          Highlight
the most advanced technologies throughout our healthcare  care and to transforming the course of human health. During 
developments. The enabling potential of technology can  the year, SFI recognized our AMBER collaboration with the  Investing in data science: Data science is a driver 
accelerate our ability to change the trajectory of human health.  Industry Partnership Award for 2019 on research to develop  of astonishing health technology innovation 
At any given time, we are collaborating with multiple partners  a new class of 3D-printed biological implants designed to  today, and we are at an inflection point where 
across diverse health topics to drive the use of technology and  regenerate, rather than replace, diseased joints.   health, technology and consumer industries are 
data in novel ways for better health outcomes. In the surgical  converging in new ways. Across the Company, 
field, we are building a comprehensive digital ecosystem  •  New digital health report: We were proud to support  we are employing leading-edge analytical tools, 
that uses advanced technologies across all types of surgical  the inaugural 2019 State of Digital Health report, which 
including machine learning, deep learning, natural 
procedures, leveraging connected intelligence to deliver  provides the first-ever snapshot of digital health ecosystems 
language processing, and more to analyze new and 
enhanced experiences and outcomes for patients, surgeons, and  throughout the world and lays the foundation for better-
healthcare systems. We also use technology to support health  informed and coordinated investments in digital health. The  expanded sources of data. We are leveraging data 
workers at the front lines of healthcare; see our section on using  report presents data collected from the 22 countries across  science to unlock disease insights and enhance the 
technology to connect frontline health workers. six regions that participate in the Global Digital Health  effective, efficient discovery and development of 
Index (GDHI). The GDHI is a multi-stakeholder initiative led  transformative medicines, create more meaningful 
Several digital technology initiatives gained ground in 2019:  by a Steering Committee, of which Johnson & Johnson is a  consumer experiences, and deliver better 
member. outcomes for patients around the world. We are 
•  Using artificial intelligence in orthopaedics: DePuy Synthes, 
also committed to building a thriving network of 
our orthopaedic medical devices business, entered into a  •  Inaugural Data Science Showcase: In October 2019, leaders 
collaborations that strengthen and leverage data 
global co-development and commercialization agreement  and data scientists from across the enterprise gathered for 
science capabilities, advance compelling scientific 
with Zebra Medical Vision, a medical imaging analytics  the first-ever Johnson & Johnson Data Science Showcase. 
company, to bring artificial intelligence (AI) opportunities to  Sponsored by the Johnson & Johnson Data Science Council,  research, and develop the next generation of 
orthopaedics, based on imaging data. Zebra Medical Vision’s  the event illustrated the diverse applications for leveraging  leaders in healthcare data sciences.
technology uses algorithms to create three-dimensional  data to unlock insights to transform healthcare. The Data 
models from X-ray images that will help bring affordable  Science Council is populated by cross-functional experts from 
preoperative surgical planning to surgeons worldwide. across the Company and is organized around workstreams 
addressing infrastructure and data sharing, security and 
•  Using virtual reality headsets to train surgeons: We  privacy, and enabling a highly data-driven decision-making 
partnered with startup Osso VR to distribute between 150  culture.
and 200 OCULUS QUEST headsets to surgeons in the United 
States starting in April 2020, with a goal of expanding the  •  HEARTLINE Virtual Study for heart health: Janssen 
program worldwide over time. Virtual reality (VR) technology  Pharmaceutical Companies of Johnson & Johnson, in 
allows surgeons to train where they are instead of having to  collaboration with Apple, opened enrollment in early 2020 
travel. Eventually, surgeons and support staff could use VR to  for the HEARTLINE Study after a detailed planning process 
train together from separate locations. that started in 2018. The study will explore if the HEARTLINE 
Study app on IPHONE and heart health features on APPLE 
•  New lab for 3D bioprinting: We opened a Bioprinting  WATCH can improve health outcomes, including reducing 
Lab located at Trinity College Dublin, creating a space to  the risk of stroke, with earlier detection of atrial fibrillation 
innovate in the exciting field of bioprinting that has the  (AFib). AFib, a common form of irregular heart rhythm, is a 
potential to revolutionize patient care. The 3D Bioprinting  leading cause of stroke in the United States.
Lab was created and is collaboratively operated with the 
Center for Advanced Materials and BioEngineering Research 
(AMBER) at Trinity College Dublin, led by the Science 
Foundation Ireland (SFI). This lab, our first 3D printing 
22001917 H Heeaaltlhth f ofor rH Huummaannitiyty R Repepoortrt 5522
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
Responsible 
Business 
Practices
Responsible business practices serve as the foundation of our 
Company’s success and are imperative to protecting the broader 
healthcare system and the communities in which we live and work. 
We nurture a culture of ethical leadership and integrity in our diverse, 
skilled workforce, committed to serving all those who count on us to 
provide high-quality, safe and reliable products.
Whether we are seeking to protect the data and privacy of our 
patients and consumers, being transparent about our business 
activities, engaging with suppliers or assessing options for safe, 
ethical and patient-centered decision-making, we seek to sustain 
the trust earned over the course of more than 130 years of business 
operations.
Employees from Janssen Pharmaceutical Companies of Johnson & Johnson working together toward shared goals, 
because collaboration is in our DNA and that is how our top breakthroughs happen.
22001917 H Heeaaltlhth f ofor rH Huummaannitiyty R Repepoortrt 5533
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
Key Achievements in 2019 Areas of Opportunity
•  Enrolled suppliers representing 71% of spend in our  •  Advance the maturity of our supplier risk management  43% of Manager and above 
Sustainable Procurement Program.  program through governance and supplier stratification.
talent movement
that was across function,  
•  The only healthcare company to be recognized for the third  •  Continue to introduce end-to-end approaches, programs, 
year in a row as a CDP Supplier Engagement Leader for  policies and initiatives to attract, develop and retain diverse  country or business segment lines*
leadership in supplier engagement to tackle climate change.   talent across the organization.
Ranked #1 
•  Introduced our new recognition platform, Inspire, to all global 
Policies and Positions
employees to strengthen our culture of recognition and  on Gartner’s 2019 Healthcare Supply 
enhance the employee experience.  Chain Top 25 list
Our policies and positions relating to Responsible Business 
Practices are referenced throughout this section. In addition, 
•  Advanced our holistic approach to human rights through the 
please visit ESG Policies & Positions on our website.
establishment of the Enterprise Human Rights Governance 
Council.  46% of management roles held  
by women
$1.6 billion spend with diverse suppliers
* Represents the proportion of employees in Manager 
and above job categories who in their career progression 
movement (including upward promotion, downward 
demotion, or lateral transfer) crossed function, country or 
business segment lines. 
22001917 H Heeaaltlhth f ofor rH Huummaannitiyty R Repepoortrt 5544
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
Our Leadership 
Our Leadership Imperatives align all Johnson & Johnson 
Empowering People employees around a shared set of behaviors that will
Imperatives enable us to shape the health of generations to come.
Our Leadership Imperatives
GRI 102-8, 404, 404-1
As the world's largest and most broadly based healthcare 
company, directly employing more than 130,000 individuals 
conducting business in virtually all countries of the world,  Live Our Credo & Pursue Our Purpose
Johnson & Johnson plays an important role in the local, regional  Demonstrates and models the heart of Johnson & Johnson
and global communities we touch. Rooted in Our Credo, we  • Puts the needs of Our Credo stakeholders first
are committed to supporting the individuals who form our  • Pursues the highest standards of quality, safety, compliance and ethics
Family of Companies. We know that fostering a culture that is  • Ensures everyday actions contribute to Our Purpose
values-based, responsible, ethical and inclusive motivates and 
empowers our employees. This culture enables us to attract and 
retain the most talented people, engage them in meaningful 
Connect Shape
and inspiring work, and as a result, fulfill our business goals and 
objectives. In doing so, we propel our purpose to advance health  inclusively to address health needs   S the future of health through innovation
for everyone, everywhere, and help grow prosperity around   • rBeulaildtiso ninstheirpnsa bl aasnedd e oxnte rrensapl ect  ha • tInhsapt icrehsa lalenndg ceo tnhtirnibkiuntges ideas 
the world. • Seeks, listens to and incorporates  p • Courageously tries new things, 
diverse points of view e tests and learns from mistakes
• Collaborates openly across  • Demonstrates resilience and agility 
boundaries and acts as  to drive and adapt to change
“ At Johnson & Johnson, Our Credo defines our  a team player
Our
responsibility to our employees. By continuing to prioritize  t
c Credo & 
inclusion, health, wellbeing and safety, and continuous  e Our Purpose 
n
growth and development, we are fostering a culture where  n
o
ecomnptlroibyuetees  tfoe eolu vra mluiesdsi oann do fc aimn pdreolvivinegr  thheea ilnthn oavroautinodn st hthea t    C                 Grow
world.”
Peter Fasolo, Executive Vice President, Chief Human Resources   Grow
Officer, Johnson & Johnson self and others to become our best
• Develops self and others to reach their goals
• Engages in open and honest conversations
• Drives performance by managing energy
and taking ownership for outcomes
In 2019, we updated our Leadership Imperatives, which define a clear set of behaviors and 
expectations that will enable us to shape the health of generations to come. We launched this new 
framework to all employees globally and introduced the new imperatives into our annual goals and 
objectives, development programs and training materials. 
22001917 H Heeaaltlhth f ofor rH Huummaannitiyty R Repepoortrt 5555
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
Attracting & Developing Our People Helping the best come back to Johnson & Johnson: In 2019, we  Employee development
introduced Re-Ignite, our paid four-month returnship program 
GRI 401-2, 401-3, 404, 404-2,404-3         for experienced professionals who have taken a break of two  To continue to lead in the changing healthcare landscape, our 
SASB: HC-BP-330a.1; HC-BP-330a.2 years or more from a STEM2D career. The program includes  employees must be equipped with the right knowledge and 
in-depth onboarding, mentoring support, technical training  skills, and motivated by the prospects of new challenges or 
As a company with an inspiring purpose, ethical approach and  and alumni guidance during the returnship period. Through the  career development opportunities. Investing in professional 
global reach, we offer current and potential employees diverse  Re-Ignite program, we are able to tap into a new talent pool of  development with a clear process for performance management 
opportunities to develop personally and professionally. Our  experienced, highly engaged, technical leaders who appreciate  enables us to deliver opportunities for all while contributing to 
approach to attracting, recruiting and retaining a global, diverse  our efforts to foster a supportive, inclusive environment  enhancing the professional skill base of local economies in the 
team of employees is rooted in partnerships with professional  that highly covets technical and professional skills. In 2019,  regions in which we operate. See our Position on Employee 
organizations and top universities, and in relationships with  all individuals completing the program moved into full-time  Development.
graduate students. Across the world, our executives teach  positions at Johnson & Johnson.
courses and engage with the next generation of healthcare  Our employee development activities in 2019 include the 
leaders at universities and college campuses. We also tailor our  following:
approach with specific strategies to meet the varying needs of 
our different business segments. We augment these recruitment  •  Engaged 313 employees in accelerated leadership 
efforts by leveraging cutting-edge digital platforms, social  21,948 development programs for high-potential and diverse talent.
 positions filled in 2019 across the 
media and online engagements. 
Company, including those in our most critical growth  •  Supported nearly 7,000 people leaders in leadership 
Employee recruitment  areas of external innovation, oncology, immunology,  development, resulting in participants feeling more equipped 
market access and data science. to perform their role. 
Our recruitment activities in 2019 include:
•  Invested in new technology in China to pilot a Talent 
43%
•  Strengthened our talent acquisition capabilities in those   of Managers and above moved across  Marketplace, a platform leveraging a gig-economy mindset, 
markets where we launched our new ways of working,  functions, country or business segment lines.14 which allows employees to elect to work on short-term 
reducing time to fill new roles by 10% and improving the  projects based on their interest areas, skills and personal 
candidate experience with a high satisfaction score for our  $98 million purpose. Since the launch to employees in China, nearly 50 
 spent with vendor partners 
recruitment process; projects have been initiated that incorporated cutting-edge 
to ensure our leaders and employees receive the 
areas, such as big data, artificial intelligence and new retail.
•  Expanded Re-Ignite, our paid returnship program for  essential leadership and functional training to grow 
experienced technical professionals, deepening our  and develop. •  Launched the Data Science Academy, as well as digital skills 
recruitment performance in critical capability areas;  training, to support employees in building digital acumen 
and a better understanding of technology in key areas that 
•  Encouraged employee referrals, which continue to be a  include data science, automation and digital experience.
top source of new recruits, leading to 4,639 new hires, 
representing 15.8% of our recruiting efforts; and 
•  Localized our internal online recruitment tool, hire.jnj.com, 
to provide end-to-end guidance in 12 languages, access to 
resources and tools, process transparency and speed to hire 
the best candidates in 25 countries.
22001917 H Heeaaltlhth f ofor rH Huummaannitiyty R Repepoortrt 5566
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
Our suite of leadership and 
development programs
3,537
new leaders participated in our 
Enterprise Leader Development Program in 2019, 
bringing the total number of leaders trained to 
date to 7,996.
Accelerate Executive  Accelerate Enterprise 
(cid:1)(cid:2)(cid:3) AEL 89%
Orientation (AEO) Leadership (AEL)  of employees globally completed year-end 
performance reviews in 2019. 
Talent Acceleration  1,262
 of U.S. and Puerto Rico employees 
ASCEND Process (TAP)
Accelerated  A TAP participated in the tuition reimbursement program.
Development Program for  R S
Women I C
International 
S E IDP
RISE E N Development 
Accelerated Program for  D Program (IDP) 
Racially and Ethnically 
Diverse Talent
Early Career
Leadership programs: To help transform the future of health for humanity, we must have highly capable leaders across our 
business. To achieve this, we are transforming how we assess and develop people leaders. We maintain a suite of leadership 
and development programs to accelerate the process of individuals who have been identified through our succession planning 
process as having the potential to fulfill more senior leadership roles within the Enterprise.
Developing R&D leaders: In 2019, Johnson & Johnson Innovation introduced the Johnson & Johnson Innovation Champions 
program, a new professional growth opportunity available to R&D scientists across the organization. Designed to provide 
our R&D scientists with an enrichment experience through exposure to external innovation, the program also helps leverage 
their expertise to accelerate scientific and medical advances. The program runs in cohorts over a six-month period, offering 
the opportunity for each group to gain additional skills and knowledge, and to build a network while remaining in role. The 
Champions program augments our existing EXPAND platform, which offers scientists the possibility of a six-month secondment 
to an external innovation organization, such as a startup or venture capital fund, to both learn and contribute in a completely 
different environment.
22001917 H Heeaaltlhth f ofor rH Huummaannitiyty R Repepoortrt 5577
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
Our Performance
Year-End Performance Reviews Completed by Job Category Spend on Employee Learning and Development by Category (millions)
2019 2018 2017 2019 2018
Vice President 76% 72% 73% Other professional skills $52 $47
Manager and Director 90% 90% 89% General leadership training and assessments $17 $22
Professional 90% 89% 88% E-learning $5 $7
Other* 82% 86% 90% Executive coaching $10 $6
Overall for all employees 89% 89% 88% Other $14 $8
Total $98 $90
* Category includes employees who don’t have a merit plan as part of their compensation package.
Employee Turnover
2019 2018
Overall voluntary turnover 8%‡ 8%
Voluntary turnover of high performers 4%‡ 4%
‡ 
‡ See PwC's Report of Independent Accountants.
22001917 H Heeaaltlhth f ofor rH Huummaannitiyty R Repepoortrt 5588
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
Employee compensation & benefits Our Performance
We are committed to compensating our employees fairly and 
offering benefits that meet the changing needs of today’s 
U.S. Employee Benefits
employees and their families. Through our compensation 
framework, a set of core principles that guide all compensation 
decisions, we recognize the important contribution of our 
   2019 2018 2017
employees to delivering our mission in ways that align with our 
values. We observe legal minimum wage provisions and aim to 
exceed these where possible. We are committed to pay equity,  U.S. employees who took parental leave, by gender      
including gender and racial/ethnic group pay equity. From time 
to time, we analyze our pay across functions and levels, and 
     Women 47%  44%  41% 
strive to eliminate unconscious bias or other barriers to full 
pay equity across the Enterprise. Our benefits packages aim to 
improve the quality of life for employees by providing practical       Men 53%  56%  59% 
support for family, health and wellbeing, education and long-
term financial management needs.
U.S. employees who returned to work after parental leave ended, by gender      
Activities in 2019 to enhance employee benefits include:   
     Women 98% 98% 98%
•  Deployed an enhanced Employee Assistance Program 
globally to more than 118,000 employees and family members 
     Men 100% 100% 99%
in 72 countries and 23 languages; 
•  Introduced a flexible benefits plan to employees in China, 
granting employees there more choice in how to allocate 
their retirement savings;
•  Offered an extra week of paid leave for new hires and 
employees in the United States with one to two years of 
service; and 
•  Introduced Custom Target Date Funds, providing nine  
new and personalized investment options in the  
Johnson & Johnson Savings Plan (for U.S. employees). 
These benefits add to an existing holistic range of benefits—
starting with health and wellbeing and extending to retirement 
planning and finances—that are available to our employees 
around the world. See also our Position on Employee 
Compensation and Benefits.  
22001917 H Heeaaltlhth f ofor rH Huummaannitiyty R Repepoortrt 5599
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
Engaging & Inspiring Following analysis of the detailed results, which were 
communicated to all employees, we developed plans to address 
the main areas of opportunity identified by our employees’ 
We engage and empower our employees by fostering a work 
voice, both at corporate level and within individual teams.
culture where everyone can make their voice heard, and provide 
platforms for employees to express their creativity and make 
In alternate years we issue a global Our Credo Survey, 
a meaningful contribution to address social or environmental 
which tracks how we are living into Our Credo values and 
challenges.
responsibility to stakeholders, including employees.
Our 2019 activities in engaging and inspiring employees include:
A new program for employee recognition: At 
Johnson & Johnson, we are committed to building a culture 
Our global employee Our Voice Survey: Johnson & Johnson's 
where great work and purpose-led behaviors are routinely 
biennial Our Voice Survey is a significant indicator of employee 
celebrated by others in a meaningful and memorable way. In 
satisfaction, and measures important aspects of our culture such 
2019, we launched Inspire, a new employee recognition program 
as employee engagement, inclusion, development, health and 
to encourage colleagues across our regions, functions and 
wellness, collaboration, execution, innovation, and compliance 
sectors to celebrate their coworkers and the great work they 
and risk.  Jose Gonzalez-Roman, Human Resources Leader at Janssen in  
are doing every day. Inspire provides a digital platform to deliver  Gurabo, Puerto Rico. 
Key results from our 2019 Our Voice Survey:  personal, sincere, and meaningful recognition, shared through a 
real-time, Company awards messaging feed.  
•  90% response rate (among all active employees). partners address critical capacity-building needs. These include 
A new channel for communication: In 2019 we introduced J&J  programs for employees to take paid time as secondees in non-
•  95% agreed with the statement: I am willing to give extra  Responds, an internal website that provides employees with  governmental partner organizations, as volunteers in community 
effort to help Johnson & Johnson meet its goals.  our statements on the latest news and high-profile topics. J&J  causes through our Volunteer Leave Policy, or as first responders 
Responds explains our position and provides other contextual  through our First Responder Time-Off Policy. See our Position 
•  87% agreed with the statement: I feel a strong sense of  information to keep employees informed in a centralized and  on Community Impact.
purpose and meaning in my work. streamlined way. This new channel flexes to meet the needs of 
our Company and, in early 2020, we launched a J&J Responds  Our activities in 2019 for engaging Talent for Good include:
•  87% agreed with the statement: I would recommend   microsite dedicated to COVID-19 to share the latest guidance, 
Johnson & Johnson as a great place to work. resources and policies in support of the wellness of our  •  Secondment Program: The Johnson & Johnson Secondment 
employees, our communities and those we serve worldwide.      Program, now in its seventh year, offers employees 
•  69% agreed with the statement: In my workgroup, we  the opportunity to engage with several NGO partner 
eliminate practices that stand in the way of achieving results. Providing employees with opportunities to use their Talent  organizations across 25 countries in the Europe, Middle East 
for Good: Our Talent for Good Strategy is creating a movement  and Africa (EMEA) region, serving in assignments lasting up 
We benchmark our performance on the Our Voice Survey  of change-makers across Johnson & Johnson by empowering  to six months. In 2019, the secondment program expanded to 
with the Mayflower Group, which is a consortium of top-tier,  more employees to use their talent for good and pave the way  include participants from outside the EMEA region. 
global companies dedicated to employee surveys. We are in  to a healthier future for everyone, everywhere. Across the globe, 
the top quartile of Mayflower Group companies with regard  our employees are applying their time and resources to build  •  Lion Secondments: A new program, Lion Secondments, 
to employees recommending the Company as a great place  healthier communities and be a catalyst of positive change.  launched in 2019 to allow senior leaders to take on part-time 
to work and wanting to stay with the Company—both critical  Our global community of change-makers sees giving back as  (four to six months) strategic and advisory assignments with 
components of employee engagement. not only vital for our communities and for living Our Credo,  NGO partner organizations, enabling them to participate in 
but key in advancing our social impact to profoundly change  a meaningful way that can be accommodated within their 
the trajectory of health for humanity. We provide a range of  schedule. We piloted two Lion Secondments in 2019 and plan 
opportunities for employees to help our community-based  to maintain this as an option in 2020.
22001917 H Heeaaltlhth f ofor rH Huummaannitiyty R Repepoortrt 6600
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
•  Global Pro Bono continues to expand every year as our  Engaging employees for the environment: Our environmental 
participants become ambassadors in spreading the word  sustainability employee engagement program, We Sustain, 
about the program and their experiences. We started our pilot  mobilizes passionate employees to improve the environmental  68
 employees across the globe spent 
program in 2017 and have now grown to a cumulative total of  health of the places where we live, work and sell our products. 
17,018 volunteer hours participating in Pro 
68 participants. In 2019, the program expanded to Argentina,  In 2019, a total of 41 We Sustain teams across the globe engaged 
Bono, Secondment, and Talent for Healthy 
Guatemala and New Orleans, with 17 participants from seven  their colleagues to protect the environment and human health 
countries who used their skills to support six local NGOs for a  through education, idea sharing and community volunteerism. Communities programs to support 22 NGOs. 
period of four weeks. 
In 2019, we again held the We Sustain Ideas Challenge  323
 employees across the globe spent 
•  Talent for Healthy Communities, our remote pro bono  where Johnson & Johnson employees submitted, voted and 
7,154 volunteer hours to support Bridge to 
program, connects the unique talents and expertise of  ranked ideas—moving 19 ideas from a pool of more than 500 
our employees with local community partners to address  submissions forward to the final prioritization phase.   Employment, reaching 887 students.
their critical capacity-building needs. In 2019, this program  Johnson & Johnson experts then chose the five finalists of our 
expanded its reach to new locations and grew its participation  Pause on Plastic challenge. Winning ideas are each awarded  1,947
 employees across the globe spent 
by our employees. $10,000 to use for feasibility testing within the appropriate 
6,961 volunteer hours to support WiSTEM2D.
business segment(s) or product line.
•  Bridge to Employment: Launched in 1992, this initiative 
partners with nonprofit FHI360 to help young people improve 
school attendance, enhance academic achievements, and gain 
awareness of career possibilities in healthcare. The Bridge 
to Employment program recently launched a pilot extension 
program called Pathways to Success, providing immersive 
experiences through internships at Johnson & Johnson. A first 
cohort of 17 students participated as interns in our operating 
companies in 2019. 
•  WiSTEM2D: This program engages Johnson & Johnson 
employees globally to inspire young girls and women to enter 
STEM2D fields. In 2019, the program reached girls through our 
volunteers and partners, far exceeding its “a million girls by 
2020” target. In 2019, Johnson & Johnson volunteers directly 
supported programs reaching 577,000 girls.
22001917 H Heeaaltlhth f ofor rH Huummaannitiyty R Repepoortrt 6611
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
Advancing Diversity & Inclusion “ Diversity and inclusion are critical to our business and  Global Workforce by Gender
integrated into everything we do. Empowering people to be 
GRI 405, 405-1 themselves helps us to drive innovation, inform decision-
making, and deliver business results.” 52.2%
Johnson & Johnson and all its operating companies are 
committed to workplace diversity and to cultivating, fostering 
Wanda Bryant Hope, Chief Diversity & Inclusion Officer, 
and advancing a culture of inclusion. We know that bringing 
Johnson & Johnson
our diverse backgrounds, cultures, and perspectives together 
drives innovation to solve today’s complex health problems.  Women
Enabling everyone within Johnson & Johnson to perform at their 
Men
best while being themselves is fundamental to our continued 
success.  21,611
 employees engaged in Employee 
Our Credo outlines everyone’s responsibility to provide an  Resource Groups (ERGs)
inclusive work environment and to respect each other’s diversity  47.8%‡
255
and dignity. The Company’s diversity and inclusion vision is: Be   U.S. ERG Chapters
yourself, change the world. At Johnson & Johnson all employees 
are encouraged to draw on their unique experiences and  176 non-U.S. ERG Chapters
backgrounds so that together we can spark solutions that create 
a better, healthier world. Our global diversity and inclusion 
strategy accelerates the Company’s efforts to advance a culture  Global Workforce by Region
of inclusion and innovation; build a diverse workforce for the 
future; and enhance business performance and reputation. For 
further details, see our Diversity and Inclusion Policy.
20,182‡
In 2019 we launched our inaugural You Belong: Diversity &  46,742‡
Inclusion Impact Review, which  examines how diversity and 
inclusion have been key drivers of innovation and impactful 
business outcomes since our founding over 130 years ago. The  North America
Review also shares compelling stories about how   28,195‡
EMEA
Johnson & Johnson employees are making diversity and 
inclusion how we work every day to better serve our patients,  Asia Pacific
consumers and customers around the world. 
Latin America
42,582‡
‡ See PwC's Report of Independent Accountants.
22001917 H Heeaaltlhth f ofor rH Huummaannitiyty R Repepoortrt 6622
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
Our Performance
Gender Diversity by Employment Type Gender Diversity by Region Gender Diversity by Job Category
  2019 2018 2017     2019 2018 2017     2019 2018 2017
Full-time employees Asia Pacific Vice Presidents
Women 46.7%‡ 46.0% 45.3% Women 46.0%‡ 45.6%  43.8%       Women 34.2%‡ 35.0% 33.1%
Men 53.3% 54.0% 54.7% Men 54.0% 54.4%  56.2%      Men 65.8% 65.0% 66.9%
Part-time employees Europe, Middle East & Africa Managers and Directors
Women 82.6%‡ 83.6% 84.8% Women 49.7%‡ 48.5% 48.2%      Women 46.2%‡ 45.6% 44.7%
Men 17.4% 16.4% 15.2% Men 50.3% 51.5% 51.8%      Men 53.8% 54.4% 55.3%
Latin America Professionals
Women 50.2%‡ 49.4% 48.6%      Women 49.5%‡ 48.5% 47.2%
Men 49.8% 50.7% 51.5%      Men 50.5% 51.5% 52.8%
North America
Women 46.1%‡ 45.6% 45.5%
Men 53.9% 54.4% 54.5%
‡ See PwC's Report of Independent Accountants.
22001917 H Heeaaltlhth f ofor rH Huummaannitiyty R Repepoortrt 6633
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
Our Performance
Age Diversity by Job Category Ethnic/Racial Diversity in the U.S. by Job Category
    2019 2018 2017     2019 2018 2017     2019 2018 2017
Vice Presidents Vice Presidents Professionals
     Under 30 0%‡ 0% 0%      White 75.4% 74.9% 76.0%      White 68.0% 68.4% 68.8%
Not  Not 
     30-50 46.3%‡ 46.6% 45.6%      Asian 10.4% 10.4%      Asian 12.0%‡ 12.0%
reported reported
Not  Not 
     50+ 53.7%‡ 53.4% 54.4%      Black/African American  6.7% 6.6%      Black/African American  7.6%‡ 7.3%
reported reported
Not  Not 
Managers and Directors      Hispanic/Latino 6.9% 7.7%      Hispanic/Latino 10.4%‡ 10.7%
reported reported
Not  Not 
     Under 30 1.3%‡ 1.4% 1.3%      Other 0.6% 0.4%      Other 2.0%‡ 1.7%
reported reported
     30-50 73.2%‡ 73.9% 74.3% Managers and Directors
     50+ 25.6%‡ 24.7% 24.4%      White 70.2% 70.7% 71.5%
Professionals      Asian 16.6%‡ 16.5% 28.5%
Not 
     Under 30 21.4%‡ 21.4% 20.8%      Black/African American  5.0%‡ 4.9%
reported
Not 
     30-50 61.7%‡ 61.7% 62.3%      Hispanic/Latino 7.0%‡ 6.9%
reported
Not 
     50+ 16.9%‡ 17.0% 17.0%      Other 1.2%‡ 1.1%
reported
‡ See PwC's Report of Independent Accountants.
22001917 H Heeaaltlhth f ofor rH Huummaannitiyty R Repepoortrt 6644
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
Our Performance
New Employee Hires Gender Diversity in Executive and Management Positions*
    2019 2018 2017     2019 2018 2017
Not  Not  Women in management  Not 
Total number of new employee hires 21,948‡  45.8%‡ 45.3%
reported reported positions reported
Not 
New Employee Hires  by Gender Women in executive positions 14.3%‡ 14.3%
reported
     Women 51.4%‡ 51.6% 51.3% * Executives defined as employees reporting directly to the Chairman & 
CEO; management position defined as paygrade 30 and above.
     Men 48.6% 48.4% 48.7%
Diversity in the Board Composition
New Employee Hires  by Age
     Under 30 52.7%‡ 47.1% 44.7%     2019 2018 2017
     30-50 42.8%‡ 48.0% 47.6% Women 28.6%‡ 27.0% 20.0%
     50+ 4.5%‡ 4.9% 7.7% Ethnic/Racial Diversity 21.4%‡ 27.0% 30.0%
New Employee Hires by Region
     Asia Pacific 28.9%‡ 30.1% 24.2%
     Europe, Middle East & Africa 27.0%‡ 27.4% 24.8%
     Latin America 16.5%‡ 16.9% 17.9%
     North  America 27.6%‡ 25.7% 33.1%
‡ See PwC's Report of Independent Accountants.
22001917 H Heeaaltlhth f ofor rH Huummaannitiyty R Repepoortrt 6655
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
Providing Safe & Healthy Workplaces Activities in 2019 to advance occupational safety include: Key safety training activities in 2019 include:
GRI 403, 403-2 Adding production capacity safely in Ireland: Our Janssen  Safety training: We maintained a full suite of safety training, 
Supply Chain site in Ireland increased production capacity  involving all employees around the globe and delivered via 
Employee safety is a core value, inseparable from our mission  by adding a 206,000-square-foot, state-of-the-art biologics  various training methods such as webinars, e-learning, group 
of improving human health. With the right awareness, focus,  manufacturing facility, which opened in October 2019. The  projects, and face-to-face sessions. We also updated our Habits 
practices and tools, we ensure that all our employees around  construction was completed in May 2020, following over 3.3  for Safety Success guidance and communicated these across the 
the world, as well as temporary contractors and visitors to our  million hours of labor without a lost workday case (LWDC) as of  organization.
sites, can work safely at all times. We foster a culture of safety,  the creation of this Report.
whether in manufacturing, in a laboratory, in an office, or in a  Safety Month: During our second annual Safety Month in 
vehicle. Our approach extends beyond staying safe at work— Major construction project completed safely in China: In August  March we connected workplace safety to our Company’s overall 
we offer and encourage safe practice beyond the workplace,  2019, employees moved into the new Ethicon Suzhou office  commitment to “SAFE makes anything possible.” We focused on  
striving to inspire a safe mindset all day, every day, and  building, the result of 1.6 million accident-free safe work hours.  generating meaningful dialogue and hearing employee stories 
contributing to safer families and a safer society. This milestone marks the fulfillment of the project commitment to  about what it means to be and feel safe at work, at home, and in 
deliver safe construction and “help workers return home safely.” the community. Our focus was on the personal role each of us 
  plays—choosing to make safe decisions in all the moments that 
Twenty-five years of Safe Fleet: With over 34,000   matter. #SafetyMonth2019 had the most engagement for the year 
drivers worldwide, the Johnson & Johnson community  on our internal global social media platform, with a majority of our 
24% reduction in our 2019 global Total  celebrated 25 years of our world-class Safe Fleet program.   locations worldwide holding on-site safety month activations.
Johnson & Johnson created Safe Fleet to provide our fleet 
Recordable Injury rate compared to 2018. 
drivers with the knowledge, skills, and reinforcement to 
reduce their risk of being involved in a vehicle crash. Since 
5.54
 crashes per million miles (CPMM)—the  the introduction of the program, road safety has significantly 
rate continued decreasing in 2019.  improved and crashes have reduced—including in 2019, when 
we recorded our lowest number of crashes in the Company’s 
history and the lowest-ever number of injuries per million miles.
        Snapshot
Safety Training Audience Sample Topics
Johnson & Johnson encourages the reporting of 
Good Saves as a means of engaging our workforce  Enterprise level Machine safety, IOSS, Permit-to-Work, Warehouse Safety, and Behind the Wheel 
in proactively identifying near misses, unsafe  fleet safety training
conditions, and unsafe behaviors that could have 
resulted in an injury, illness, environmental impact,  Regional and campus level, including contractors,   Tailored to address issues relevant to the specific regional and campus level needs, 
or property damage. Every Good Save is reviewed  field sales and service groups as well as for capability building, complying with national and local regulations, and 
and risk-ranked to determine appropriate follow- maintaining and improving EH&S practices
up actions. Every employee and contractor with 
access to the Johnson & Johnson intranet has the  Environmental Health & Safety (EH&S) professionals  Leadership, communications, and other management skills
ability to submit a Good Save.
22001917 H Heeaaltlhth f ofor rH Huummaannitiyty R Repepoortrt 6666
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
New training approach in Germany: Our team at  
Johnson & Johnson Medical Devices in Germany, in an effort to 
continuously improve safety training, embarked on a program         Highlight
to develop and implement innovations that would make safety 
training interactive and fun. Together with the local training  We encourage third-party certification to the 
organization, the team developed a new training concept called  Occupational Health and Safety Assessment 
“Crack the Safe – Learning Must Be Fun.” Using interactive tools  Series management system, OHSAS 18001, or its 
and puzzles in the concept of an escape room, the program  replacement, International Standards Organization 
incorporated all elements of safety training, where the puzzles  management system, ISO 45001. In 2019, 24% of 
could only be solved if the learning target was met. The training 
our manufacturing and R&D sites were certified to 
was delivered to hundreds of employees who provided highly 
OHSAS 18001 or ISO 45001.
positive feedback. 
 
       Highlight Each year during Safety Month, employees around the world commit to 
safety all year long. At our Fuji, Japan facility in 2019, employees created 
a "commitment wall" to share how safe practices make anything possible.
In 2019, we introduced a Capability Self-
Assessment Tool for Environmental Health & Safety 
(EH&S) professionals in operational positions. 
This tool helps EH&S professionals self-audit and 
define learning needs to support their professional 
development and our EH&S goals.
22001917 H Heeaaltlhth f ofor rH Huummaannitiyty R Repepoortrt 6677
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
Our Performance
Employee Safety,* Global Employee Safety by Region
2019 2018 2017 2019 2018 2017
Lost Workday Case rate** 0.07‡ 0.08 0.08 Lost Workday Case rate**
Total Recordable Injury rate 0.31‡ 0.41 0.36     Asia Pacific 0.06‡ 0.05 0.04
Serious Injury and Illness Case Rate 0.04‡ 0.05 0.05     Europe, Middle East & Africa 0.05‡ 0.05 0.04
Number of fatalities 0‡ 2 0     Latin America 0.06‡ 0.11 0.03
Crashes Per Million Miles (CPMM) rate*** 5.54 5.81 5.94     North America 0.08‡ 0.10 0.14
Injuries Per Million Miles (IPMM) rate*** 0.06 0.07 0.07 Total Recordable Injury Rate
    Asia Pacific 0.12‡ 0.17 0.12
* LWDC rate, TRIR, SIIC rate, and fatalities are calculated for Johnson & Johnson employees and contingent workers.15
    Europe, Middle East &  
0.27‡ 0.29 0.26
** “Lost days” are calendar days counted beginning the day after an incident has taken place.     Africa
*** CPMM and IPMM rates are based on Safe Fleet data. Rate calculation methodology uses both actual and estimated data on 
    Latin America 0.25‡ 0.43 0.31
miles driven. We collect Safe Fleet data on employees who drive company-owned or -leased, and personally owned vehicles for 
Company business. Employees in the latter category are those who: 1) drive for Company business as a “regular part “of their job, 
and 2) receive a car allowance to purchase their own vehicle, and/or are reimbursed for vehicle expenses such as fuel, maintenance,      North America 0.42‡ 0.57 0.56
insurance and other miscellaneous charges associated with vehicle upkeep.
‡ See PwC's Report of Independent Accountants. Serious Injury and Illness Case rate
    Asia Pacific 0.04‡ 0.01 0.03
    Europe, Middle East &  
0.03‡ 0.02 0.02
    Africa
    Latin America 0.02‡ 0.01 0.03
    North America 0.06‡ 0.09 0.10
22001917 H Heeaaltlhth f ofor rH Huummaannitiyty R Repepoortrt 6688
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
Healthiest workforce  a modern and intuitive layout with personalized content based 
on employees’ health goals. Opportunities to earn points include 
At Johnson & Johnson, we aspire to have the healthiest  activity, food, and sleep tracking, THE JOHNSON & JOHNSON          2020 GOAL PROGRESS 
workforce in the world. Over the years, we have continuously  OFFICIAL 7 MINUTE WORKOUT, self-declarations, challenges and 
65,000
expanded health and wellbeing programs throughout the  pre-recorded health webinars. These points can be redeemed for   
Company and across the globe, incorporating new thinking  rewards, or may be donated toward several different charities.
employees completed ENERGY FOR 
and technologies to keep our offerings best in class and 
PERFORMANCE training.
help employees make the healthy choice the easy choice.  Global activity challenge: In 2019, we engaged employees 
The programs and practices we advance cover three core  across all regions in our 21-day global activity challenge, which 
dimensions: Healthy Eating, Healthy Movement and Healthy  resulted in 4.6 billions collectively logged steps and a 39%  112,000 
Mind. increase in movement for challenge participants.
employees engaged in health and wellbeing via the 
We maintain 118 on-site healthcare clinics in 35 countries across  New Global Exercise Reimbursement Program: In addition  use of digital health tools.
all regions of our business. We are continuously improving  to our on-site fitness centers, we expanded this program  120,000 and 113,000
and expanding these facilities to provide the best care for our  to employees in 34 countries, offering them financial   
employees. reimbursement to work out in ways that are convenient for  employees provided with access to 85% 
individuals, including virtual subscriptions.    implemented healthy eating and healthy movement 
Activities in 2019 to improve our healthiest workforce  cultures respectively. 
performance include: Supporting mental wellbeing: In line with our HealthForce 
2020 program, we maintain programs to raise awareness of 
HealthForce 2020: We continued to make great progress  mental wellbeing in the workplace and around the world. Our         On track                   View scorecard
toward our goal to become the healthiest workforce under our  global Healthy Mind Policy outlines the expected approaches 
HealthForce 2020 initiative, which engages employees and  and resources required to support mental wellbeing at 
business leaders across the Enterprise globally. We enhanced  Johnson & Johnson. We are working together with our more 
our workplaces with offerings like free fruit, healthier food  than 2,300 Mental Health Diplomats, part of our Alliance for 
options, healthy beverages, opportunities to move more, and  Diverse Abilities Employee Resource Group. They help reduce 
convenient resources to create an engaged, energized and high- workplace mental health stigma and create a supportive work  In 2019, our HEALTHY & ME tool was widely 
performing culture. environment through routine workplace reviews and online  available:
personal empowerment programs. We offer people leader 
HealthForce 2020 implementation at Janssen Benelux: Our  training and webinars to raise mental health awareness. Our  ~99%
 of employees
teams at Janssen Benelux went the extra mile to help their  U.S. medical benefits plan includes coverage for mental health 
workforce become healthier with a holistic program of healthy  programs. We also enhanced our Employee Assistance Program  80
meetings including healthy food, energy breaks, standing  to provide a consistent approach to support our employees   countries 
instead of sitting, recognition moments and mindfulness  around the world. This program provides additional resources 
41
sessions. They also instated a program of fresh air or games at  for employees and family members, additional training and   countries where it's available to spouses and 
lunch—such as table tennis sessions and walking lunches—for  educational tools, and a more well-rounded approach to  partners 
employees to re-energize and return to the desk refreshed for  work–life balance, resiliency, and stress management. Aiming 
the afternoon. to support employees through particularly stressful situations  16
 languages
or concerns, it includes access to confidential short-term 
Introduced new digital health tool: In late 2019, as part of our  counseling, 24/7 online tools and resources, and on-site crisis 
goal to become the healthiest workforce, we introduced a new  support.
and improved digital health tool for employees to support their 
overall health and wellbeing. This platform replaced our previous 
HEALTHY & ME tool, providing a new and improved way to help 
employees grow on their health journey. We continued using 
HEALTHY & ME tool throughout 2019. The new global app features 
22001917 H Heeaaltlhth f ofor rH Huummaannitiyty R Repepoortrt 6699
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
Workplace innovation  Grassroots workplace innovation for safety and convenience: 
Johnson & Johnson campuses are often quite expansive, and 
75
We maintain workspaces designed to promote healthy  people move around frequently to and from meetings, as one   workplace innovation projects completed 
lifestyles, employee engagement and collaborative working.  might expect. Our team in Brazil came up with a clever way to  since 2010. 
Our Workplace Innovation Program, established in 2010,  make this easier and safer, with people often carrying laptops, 
helps us better design our environments to support workplace  cellphones, notebooks, water bottles and other items as they 
6
activity through creating shared and unassigned workspace for  move around the campus. A series of stands with carry bags for   workplace projects implemented, improving 
greater flexibility, enhancing employees’ working experience,  all personal items are therefore now available for everyone to  workplace environments for more than 2,427 
and inspiring an innovative and engaged work culture. Our  use. Anyone can just grab a bag, use it as required, and return  employees in five countries.
workplaces incorporate elements that support physical and  it to a stand once finished, for others to use—a thoughtful, 
emotional health, such as on-site fitness centers, first-aid  practical and innovative idea to make the workplace a little more  12%
 increase in employee satisfaction as a 
rooms, outdoor activity areas, nurture and faith rooms, rooms  accommodating. 
for counseling and employee assistance, and child development  result of workplace innovation projects. 
centers. We also adopt green building design principles in 
planning or renovating our workplaces to further enhance the  54
 Johnson & Johnson buildings are LEED-
health, safety, wellbeing and productivity of our people.
certified.
In light of the COVID-19 pandemic impact, we are constantly 
monitoring ongoing events while evaluating and adopting 
balanced and objective Credo-based measures across all of our 
work environments to ensure a safe, healthy and productive 
return to workplace. The flexibility of our workplace programs 
enables an efficient alignment between safety, supply and 
demand while positioning us for an optimized post-pandemic 
solution.
An innovative initiative to encourage safety by using reusable tote 
bags to carry items between meetings at our São José dos Campos 
manufacturing site in São Paulo. 
22001917 H Heeaaltlhth f ofor rH Huummaannitiyty R Repepoortrt 7700
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
Product Quality, Safety & Reliability
GRI 416-2, J&J19-9
As the largest healthcare company in the world, reaching 
billions of patients, consumers and customers each day with 
our medicines, consumer healthcare products and medical 
devices, Johnson & Johnson plays a major role in advancing 
human health and improving patient outcomes through the 
development, manufacturing and distribution of high-quality 
products. We uphold product quality, safety and reliability in line 
with Our Credo values and in compliance with applicable laws 
and regulations in countries where we operate.
Many of our products play a very significant role in improving 
people’s lives—products that patients, consumers and doctors 
rely on every day. We are therefore highly conscious of the 
need for continuity of supply to those who use our products to 
achieve or maintain good health and wellbeing.  
“From R&D to commercial to supply chain, everyone 
at Johnson & Johnson is dedicated to unsurpassed 
quality in our day-to-day roles. Proactive quality is a 
central part of our supply chain strategy. Each day 
we advance our capabilities, transforming our quality 
processes to connect with our self-learning and hyper-
efficient production systems. For example, more and 
more, we are using real-time data to ensure quality is 
seamlessly built into our manufacturing lines.”
Employees at our Latina, Italy, manufacturing facility participating in our annual Quality Month activities.
Kathy Wengel, Executive Vice President, Chief Global Supply 
Chain Officer, Johnson & Johnson
22001917 H Heeaaltlhth f ofor rH Huummaannitiyty R Repepoortrt 7711
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
Making Quality a Priority business segments. This restructuring of our Policy Standards 
resulted in the addition of six new Quality Policies that better 
SASB: HC-BP-250a.3; HC-BP-250a.5; HC-MS-250a.1; HC-MS-250a.4 reflect the lifecycle of our products. 156 independent audits completed at our 
internal sites 
Our commitment to quality, safety and reliability is the  Supporting a pilot to improve quality in software-based 
foundation for everything we do. We believe our patients and  medical devices: We continue to engage with the U.S. Food  264
 independent audits completed at our 
consumers deserve consistent, reliable and high quality every  and Drug Administration (FDA) in the Digital Health Software 
time they use or experience a Johnson & Johnson product.  Precertification (Pre-Cert) Program. In the current pilot  external manufacturing sites
We partner with health authorities, government agencies  phase, we are testing a working model and providing guidance. 
and industry and advocacy groups to raise the bar on quality  The purpose of the pre-certification program is to develop a 
across the healthcare industry. See our Position on Quality and  regulatory framework for oversight of software-based medical 
Compliance which describes our approach to quality policies  devices. In the pilot stage, the focus is on how a company 
and standards, risk management, compliance monitoring   reliably engages in high-quality software design, testing and 
        Snapshot
and more. ongoing maintenance of its software-based medical devices. 
In 2019, as one of nine selected participants in this pilot, we 
In support of the U.S. Drug Enforcement Agency’s 
One measure of our performance is our product recall rate.  conducted testing of the Pre-Cert working model v.1.0 published 
National Drug Take Back Day we encouraged our 
Our recall rate remains low because of the rigor of our Quality  by the FDA early in 2019. In addition to testing the integrated 
Standards. Our continuous improvement efforts across all  components, we provided guidance on other program  U.S. employees to take an active part and dispose 
our businesses help to ensure a reliable supply of high-quality  considerations in the certification process for manufacturers  of their non-controlled substance medicines at 
products. Initiating a field action, such as removing a product  who use third-party software developers. In 2020, we are  a list of locations we provided. Members of our 
from the marketplace when an issue has been identified, is the  planning end-to-end testing of the Pre-Cert model, including  Pharmacists Network Employee Resource Group 
right thing to do for our patients and consumers. As required  its relationship to real-world performance analytics. Ultimately,  held a series of events ahead of National Drug 
by the Quality Standards, each operating company has a formal  when completed, the Pre-Cert process will improve speed to  Take Back Day to highlight the importance of 
Quality Review Board (QRB), which convenes when necessary  market of important medical devices while supporting high  medication safety and remind us that safety is a 
to evaluate concerns with the quality or safety of a product in  quality throughout the lifecycle of medical device products.
shared responsibility.
the market. The QRBs consist of leaders from Quality, Medical 
Affairs, Medical Safety and Regulatory Affairs. The QRBs decide,  Hosting the 2019 Kilmer Conference: In June 2019,  
independent of commercial considerations, whether actions  Johnson & Johnson hosted the 10th Kilmer Conference in 
need to be taken to correct or recall a product from the market.  Dublin, Ireland, convening over 350 innovative leaders in 
Patient and consumer safety supersede any other factor in this  the field of microbiological quality and sterility assurance.  Annual Quality Month: Held every October, in 2019, under the 
decision-making. The Kilmer Conference is a premier global forum focused on  theme of “Quality Doesn’t Quit!,” our global sites took the time 
sterility assurance and sterilization for invited professionals  to reflect, celebrate, and recommit to Our Credo responsibility 
Initiatives to advance quality in 2019 include:  from industry, academia, government agencies and healthcare  that “everything we do must be of high quality” through 
delivery organizations. The 2019 conference demonstrated the  workshops, trainings and interactive educational sessions.
Updating quality policies: The Johnson & Johnson Quality  community’s ability to think differently to advance the science 
Policy Standards across our Family of Companies cover the  of microbiological quality and sterility assurance through  Maintaining quality throughout our supply base: We strive 
lifecycle of our products from R&D to the consumer and  collaborative innovation under the theme “Passion for Patients,  to achieve world-class supplier reliability as part of our 
patient experience. These Policy Standards provide a common  Driving Collaborative Innovation.” Beyond the conference, we  commitment to product quality. We collaborate proactively with 
foundation of quality expectations and help to ensure a  continue our engagement through the Kilmer Collaboration  our suppliers to develop programs, such as those for proactive 
reliable supply of high-quality products across all our business  Teams that support innovation to address specific challenges  risk identification and mitigation, to manage, measure and 
segments. In 2019, to position Johnson & Johnson to leverage  and deliver better outcomes for customers and patients. The  improve quality. Our suppliers demonstrate their commitment to 
emerging technologies and better serve our customers, we  Kilmer Fund provides grants to support innovative research  meeting our quality and reliability standards through using our 
undertook a program to improve clarity, map requirements to  and scholarships for individuals who pursue academic studies  suite of proactive tools, many co-developed with our suppliers, 
applicable regulatory requirements and incorporate Health  and potential career paths relating to microbiology quality and  such as Technical Assessments, Supplier Quality Excellence 
Authority expectations while enabling flexibility for our diverse  sterility assurance. in Execution tool, Robust Process framework and our Supplier 
Quality Academy.
22001917 H Heeaaltlhth f ofor rH Huummaannitiyty R Repepoortrt 7722
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
Feedback received from our suppliers in 2019 includes: Our Performance
•  Jabil Healthcare: “For years, Jabil Healthcare and  
Johnson & Johnson have enjoyed an incredibly productive 
and sustaining partnership; we are now moving on into our  Product Quality Indicators
second decade. Throughout this period, we have worked 
diligently together to drive quality management while 
2019 2018 2017
improving our processes. Johnson & Johnson introduced 
a powerful and effective suite of management tools for 
both Technical Assessment and Supplier Quality Maturity  Number of regulatory inspections of Johnson & Johnson sites by 
521‡  619  557 
Assessment out of our Auburn Hills, Michigan site.  worldwide health authorities
Deployment of these tools is based on pre-defined criteria to 
evaluate processes and practices at our site operations. The 
Percentage of inspections that resulted in zero observations 73%‡ 78% 71%
results have been excellent, driving efficiencies and value 
across our operations. We are deeply appreciative of the 
robust nature of our collaboration and are eager to continue  Number of FDA inspections of Johnson & Johnson sites 17‡  24  63 
moving forward with Johnson & Johnson.” Z. Ali Choudary, 
Quality and Regulatory Affairs Manager, Jabil Healthcare 
Percentage of FDA inspections that resulted in zero observations 76%‡ 75% 83%
•  Tecomet, Inc.: “The Supplier Quality Excellence in Execution 
Maturity Assessment has been a powerful tool for identifying  Average number of observations per FDA inspection 0.6‡ 0.6 0.7
and targeting improvement opportunities between our sites. 
It provides dual benefits—identifying both strengths and 
Number of independent audits of Johnson & Johnson sites to ensure 
improvement opportunities between our global locations.  compliance with Johnson & Johnson Quality Policy and Standards 156‡ 179 179
This subsequently brings our teams together, promoting 
focused sharing and learning between sites. An exceptionally 
effective process.” Steve Hinora, Executive Vice President,  Number of independent audits of external manufacturing sites to 
ensure compliance with Johnson & Johnson Quality Policy and  264‡ 237 Not reported
Quality Assurance/Regulatory Affairs, U.S. Operations, 
Standards
Tecomet, Inc. 
•  VIANT Medical: “Innovative Source Quality programs rolled  Number of FDA warning letters issued 1‡ 0 0
out by Johnson & Johnson, such as Technical Assessments 
and Maturity Assessments, have aided in developing a true 
Product recall rate*, by business segment
partnership with our organizations. These activities provide 
a true open forum for information sharing and provide 
lasting improvements that enhance product quality and  Pharmaceutical 0.002% Not reported Not reported
reduce long-term risk. There is great value to gaining a deep 
understanding of processes through the execution of these 
Medical Devices 0.041% Not reported Not reported
well-designed tools. The systemic approach is easy to use 
and sets the stage for continual improvement through all 
aspects of the product lifecycle.” Von F. Kramer IV, Vice  Consumer Health** 0.091% Not reported Not reported
President, Quality Assurance and Regulatory Affairs, 
VIANT Medical
* Product recall rate is defined as number of lots removed from market per total globally manufactured, based on field action removals where there is a reasonable probability 
that the product may cause temporary or medically reversible adverse health consequences and in certain cases will cause serious adverse health consequences.
** For Consumer Health, the product recall rate reflects over-the-counter (OTC) products.
‡ See PwC's Report of Independent Accountants.
22001917 H Heeaaltlhth f ofor rH Huummaannitiyty R Repepoortrt 7733
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
Putting Safety First Advances in patient safety in 2019 include:  Real-world evidence in China: In September 2019, the  
Johnson & Johnson Epidemiology Asia-Pacific team and 
GRI 416-1 Sharing real-world data: We believe in the collective power  Medical Device Epidemiology team participated in a Real-World 
of real-world observational data to complement clinical trial  Data (RWD) Study Workshop organized by the China National 
At Johnson & Johnson, we recognize our fundamental  findings, and in sharing our insights to improve health outcomes.  Medical Products Administration (NMPA), along with other 
responsibility is to provide patients, consumers and healthcare  As part of the Observational Health Data Sciences and  pharmaceutical and medical device companies. The focus of 
providers with products that are as safe as possible. We take  Informatics (OHDSI) community, created by Johnson & Johnson  the meeting was on the use of RWD and real-world evidence 
an evidence- and science-based, ethics- and values-driven  and Columbia University, researchers including scientists  (RWE) for regulatory decisions for drugs and medical devices, 
approach to medical safety, putting patient and consumer  from Johnson & Johnson’s Epidemiology team published a  and preceded the NMPA’s publication of guidelines for RWE 
wellbeing first and foremost in our decision-making and actions,  paper in The Lancet that presented an analysis of large-scale  use for regulatory purposes. The workshop brought together 
with an emphasis on transparency. observational data on hypertension therapy. This analysis, which  more than 400 participants, including Johnson & Johnson 
included nearly five million patients across nine observational  colleagues and regulators from Chinese, Japanese, German and 
The Office of the Chief Medical Officer (OCMO) is a global,  databases in four countries, was significant. It uncovered new  U.S. health authorities. OCMO’s participation in the Chinese 
functionally independent group responsible for leading   insights into safety and efficacy differences between classes  NMPA’s workshop on RWD/RWE as subject matter experts 
medical safety and championing bioethical principles across  of hypertension medicines with real insights that can advance  helped to frame NMPA regulatory guidelines for using RWE that 
Johnson & Johnson's Pharmaceutical, Medical Devices and  clinical practice. Additionally, the findings presented a new  are feasible, informed and consistent with global guidelines, 
Consumer Health business segments. Johnson & Johnson’s  paradigm for conducting large-scale observational healthcare  though adapted to the Chinese situation, through robust and 
OCMO is constantly reviewing, monitoring and making decisions  science while addressing common biases of observational  transparent science.
regarding the safety of our products through people-driven  research.
processes, initiatives and policies that are reinforced by a single  Safety for medical devices: Training operating room teams on 
medical safety standard, to which all our products are held. Women scientists for safety: It is important to ensure that  how to safely and efficiently use new surgical devices is pivotal 
women are included in seeking ways to apply healthcare data  to ensuring safe patient care. Following a four-month pilot study 
See our positions and policies relating to patient safety: to better serve the health of women and enhance the safety  of a Medical Device Briefing Tool in six hospitals in Thailand, 
of health treatment for women. In September 2019, OHDSI  in August 2019, the results were published by the Journal of 
•  Position on Patient Safety  launched its first Women of OHDSI (WoO) leadership group.  Surgical Research. The results of the study, conducted by 
It provided a forum for women to discuss challenges they face  Ariadne Labs and Johnson & Johnson’s OCMO, showed that 
•  Position on Clinical Trial Data Transparency  as women working in science, technology, engineering and  the Device Briefing Tool was uniformly viewed as useful and 
mathematics (STEM) and propose ideas on how to support  able to fit within existing workflows. Collaborating with Ariadne 
•  Position on the Conduct of Clinical Trials  
and inspire women in STEM to become leaders within the  Labs to develop the Medical Device Briefing Tool and training 
community and their respective fields. materials has been an important step for Johnson & Johnson in 
•  Ethical Code for the Conduct of Research and Development 
empowering surgeons and nurses to increase communication 
and teamwork in the operating room to deliver better, safer 
•  Position on Human Pluripotent Stem Cell Research
“To fully leverage the usefulness of big data in  patient outcomes.
improving patient outcomes, we need to ensure we are 
Improving safety surveillance: We are continuously seeking 
harnessing all the best minds. That means engaging 
new ways to improve safety signal detection for real-time 
both women and men to share their perspectives and 
surveillance. In 2019, we rolled out an important upgrade to our 
ideas on interpreting and utilizing real-world data  proprietary Signal Management for Adverse Events in Real Time 
to drive better, more efficient and targeted medical  (SMART) system, which has been a valuable tool to monitor 
care.” product safety signals with efficiency, sensitivity, and specificity. 
The upgrade, SMART 6, includes new algorithms to improve 
Joanne Waldstreicher, M.D., Chief Medical Officer,   focus on key safety alerts. It helps identify new safety risks 
Johnson & Johnson with enhanced predictive capabilities that increase surveillance 
coverage and include organized data collection systems, such 
22001917 H Heeaaltlhth f ofor rH Huummaannitiyty R Repepoortrt 7744
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
as registries and patient surveys. SMART 6 also decreases false  Our advanced capabilities in data analytics include leveraging  •  Monitoring markets: We expanded our offline market 
positive safety alerts, surfacing alerts with solid contextual and  innovative digital technologies to enhance supply chain integrity,  monitoring program for prioritized at-risk brands across all 
supportive evidence. With SMART 6, we can execute improved  safeguard our markets (through early detection of the presence  Company sectors and doubled the number of market surveys 
and more efficient safety surveillance of all Johnson & Johnson  of illicit trade), and more effectively expose the sources, networks  conducted. These activities helped deliver results that 
pharmaceutical and consumer medicinal products. and patterns of illicit trade throughout our global markets and  included several investigations and enforcement actions.
channels. Our robust process for alerting customers and business 
partners of confirmed instances of counterfeiting, illegal product  •  Training our employees: We introduced a brand protection 
Consumer Health products: ingredient safety 
diversion or product tampering activities is governed by standard  and combating counterfeiting module into our Code 
operating procedures and regulatory requirements. We maintain  of Business Conduct training, which is mandatory for 
The safety of our consumers is and always has been our priority. 
traceability within the distribution chain through an enterprise- all employees. This fulfilled a major goal to raise the 
Our safety assurance process exceeds industry and regulatory 
wide Unique Device Identification (UDI) program to comply with  understanding and awareness of illicit trade issues among 
standards for baby and skin health personal care products. We 
global regulations, and satisfy customer requests related to data  our employees, so they can be proactive about protecting our 
continuously evaluate ingredients used in our products and 
submissions, barcodes, and direct marking. Our current efforts  patients and consumers.
modify formulations, where relevant, in response to consumer 
include achieving compliance for published UDI regulations in 
preferences, advances in science and our own scientific 
several countries.  
research. See our Position on Consumer Safety and Care.
Advances in combating illicit trade in 2019, alongside all  Our Performance
Talc safety: During the past year, cases alleging that 
current measures and protocols in place to protect patients and 
JOHNSON’s Baby Powder can cause adverse health effects have 
consumers from counterfeit products, include: 
continued. However, to date each verdict against   2019
Johnson & Johnson that has been through the appellate process 
•  Preventing cross-border counterfeits: We established 
has been overturned. We sympathize deeply with cancer 
a global customs program to improve the detection and  Number of people (stakeholders) trained in 
patients and their families and appreciate that they are seeking  disruption of cross-border flows of illicit Johnson & Johnson  brand protection best practices 523
answers. However, the science and the facts show that their 
products, with a focus on risk-prioritized trademarks. We 
illnesses were not caused by their use of our talcum-based 
led education and training sessions for customs officials 
products. Our website www.factsabouttalc.com includes  Number of external trade groups, alliances, 
to familiarize them with protocols for rapid response to 
independent studies from leading universities, research from  organizations and agencies in which  
notifications of suspect product. 9
medical journals and third-party opinions confirming that our  Johnson & Johnson is engaged in leadership 
talc is safe. The facts are that JOHNSON’s Baby Powder is safe,  •  Product security investigations and enforcement (PSI&E):  positions or industry working groups
does not contain asbestos, and does not cause cancer.
Through collaboration across several functions, we 
implemented a standardized global program for PSI&E. This 
will significantly improve our ability to action against any 
Combating Counterfeiting &  
confirmed illicit trade incidents in a coordinated and effective 
Illicit Trade manner to disrupt illicit trade and remove illicit product from 
the marketplace.
GRI J&J19-4       
SASB: HC-BP-260a.1; HC-MS-430a.2 •  Addressing illicit trade online: We expanded the internet 
monitoring program across our Pharmaceutical, Medical 
In today’s global economy, where patients and consumers may 
Devices and Consumer Health business segments, enabling 
potentially be exposed to counterfeit products in stores, online, 
us to monitor more than 150 brands that are at risk for 
or even in healthcare settings, we take tangible steps to help 
infringing e-commerce listings, along with enhancing our 
ensure that they receive only genuine products of the  
capability for online-to-offline investigations of illicit trade. In 
Johnson & Johnson Family of Companies. See our Position on 
conjunction with the Pharmaceutical Security Institute and 
Counterfeit Healthcare Products.
other major pharmaceutical companies, we also continued 
to build on our extensive efforts to stop illegal online 
pharmacies. 
22001917 H Heeaaltlhth f ofor rH Huummaannitiyty R Repepoortrt 7755
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
Ethics & Transparency
Johnson & Johnson has an aligned and consistent global ethical  culture, offers a secure channel for all employees, contingent 
framework along with clear and comprehensive resources that  workers, customers, third-party agencies and other partners 
guide all employees. Johnson & Johnson operating companies  to anonymously report—where legally permitted—suspected  97%
 of assigned employees and 
conduct a wide range of activities in the healthcare marketplace,  violations. We issue an annual reminder regarding the obligation 
including R&D, manufacturing, medical education, product and  to raise concerns related to ethics and compliance via the Credo 
procedure training, marketing and selling. These interactions  Hotline and other channels.  91% of assigned contingent workers15 
involve many different healthcare stakeholders as well as 
completed the CBC training.
employees, suppliers, business partners and officials from  In 2019, we maintained our robust programs to communicate, 
governments and health authorities around the world. A variety  train and enforce our business conduct standards. Key 
90,000
of legal and ethical standards, some of which are unique to the  additional activities in 2019 include:  employees and 
healthcare industry, apply to these activities. We take every 
reasonable measure to ensure that we all operate in accordance  Revision of the CBC: In 2019, we updated our CBC to keep pace  95%
with ethics and compliance laws and standards, and with the  with the evolving business environment, changes in regulatory   of sales and marketing employees 
transparency expected by our stakeholders. requirements, and expectations of stakeholders, and be able to  completed the Health Care Compliance training.
offer needed guidance for employees around the world. During 
an interactive, collaborative process over nine months, involving  97%
 of employees believe they are held 
Commitment to Ethics & Compliance leaders of different businesses functions, we implemented 
accountable for adhering to the highest quality 
several changes, including:
and compliance standards.
GRI 102-17, 102-25, 205, 205-1, 205-2, 206, 406-1, 419
•  Enhancing the section on anti-corruption and anti-bribery; 
Our responsibilities to patients, consumers, healthcare  100%
 of senior leaders certified the 
professionals, employees, communities and shareholders are  •  Adding a section on our respect for human rights; 
compliance of their organizations with the Code 
enshrined in Our Credo. This is the foundation of our values that 
has guided our business for more than 75 years. At   •  Improving guidance around political activity; of Business Conduct.*
Johnson & Johnson, we are committed to maintaining the 
highest level of integrity and ethical culture. Our comprehensive  •  Enhancing guidance on fair treatment of employees,  * Certifiers include senior leaders at VP2 level and above, selected 
policies, procedures and compliance training help our  including adding reasonable accommodation requirements  Managing Directors and General Managers based on country or 
employees and contingent workers navigate the applicable  for individuals with disabilities and/or with needs relating to  business segment risk profile, and executives of recently acquired 
laws, regulations and industry codes, as well as our own ethical  religious observances; and  companies.
standards. See our Position on Ethics and Compliance.
•  Enhancing the section on conflicts of interest to reflect 
Our Code of Business Conduct (CBC) and Health Care  not only personal conflicts of interest, but those of an 
Compliance (HCC) policies specifically set forth our Company’s  organizational nature as well.  
values, which apply to all employees and contingent workers 
These changes were approved by our Executive Committee, 
worldwide. They list comprehensive ethical standards for 
reviewed by our Board of Directors’ Regulatory Compliance 
decisions and actions in every market where we operate. 
Committee and incorporated in our CBC training for all 
The CBC and HCC policies are regularly communicated, and 
employees. 
mandatory training for HCC is conducted each year with CBC 
training every other year. The Johnson & Johnson Credo 
Hotline, an integral component of our strong compliance 
22001917 H Heeaaltlhth f ofor rH Huummaannitiyty R Repepoortrt 7766
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
Communicating our Escalation Procedure: At our Company,  Our Performance
we build our culture of integrity and accountability by requiring 
employees to report actual or potential violations of our 
policies or the law, as well as risks that could jeopardize our  Inquiries and Complaints Brought through the Credo Hotline by Category
reputation. The Escalation Procedure specifies responsibilities 
for all employees relating to what should be reported, the 
timeframe, and how. It includes reporting requirements and  2019 2018 2017
guidance for the full range of actual or potential ethical conduct 
or compliance violations such as those related to travel and  Human Resources-related 60% 58%  59%
expenses; accuracy of books and records; theft or fraud in 
any form; non-compliance with our government contracts or  Financial-related 13% 11%  10% 
pricing obligations; misconduct of any kind; conflict of interest 
or data privacy breaches and more. In 2019, a comprehensive 
General information questions 11% 13% 12%
toolkit with training materials, real-world case scenarios and 
video resources was published to all managers to support the 
Other (privacy, general security, EH&S, etc.) 8% 10% 11%
enterprise-wide communication of this important procedure.
Anti-corruption and anti-bribery: Johnson & Johnson takes a  Healthcare compliance-related 6% 6% 6%
strong stance against bribery consistent with the anti-bribery 
laws that exist in many countries around the world. We strictly  Quality assurance-related 2% 2% 2%
prohibit any illegal offers that may inappropriately influence 
patients or customers. Our products are purchased and sold 
based on quality and price. In our policies, we comprehensively 
address anti-corruption and anti-bribery, following the U.S.  Compliance-related Investigations 
Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the UK Bribery Act, and other 
applicable local anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws and 
2019 2018 2017
regulations. In 2019, we updated our Position on  
Anti-Corruption.
Number of compliance-related allegations investigated through Triage Committee 738 707 693
Percentage of Compliance allegations, by category
Financial 50% 40%  34% 
Healthcare Compliance 40% 46% 54%
Other (legal, quality, antitrust, product registration, privacy)  10% 14% 12%
Not  Not 
Number of warning letters or untitled letters issued by OPDP or APLB in the U.S.* 0
reported reported
* OPDP: Office of Prescription Drug Promotion and APLB: Advertising and Promotional Labeling Branch of the U.S. Food and Drug 
Administration Center for Biologics Evaluation and Research.
22001917 H Heeaaltlhth f ofor rH Huummaannitiyty R Repepoortrt 7777
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
Upholding Transparency prescription opioid pain medicines. The Janssen Pharmaceutical  of important healthcare decisions benefit from fair and ethical 
Companies of Johnson & Johnson no longer develop or promote  evaluation. CompAC is a novel approach that utilizes an external 
GRI 417, J&J19-6 opioid-based pain medicines, and since 2008, the volume of its  group of experts including physicians, ethicists and patient 
prescription opioids has amounted to less than one percent of  representatives to review compassionate use requests. CompAC 
At Johnson & Johnson, we value transparency as a key  the total prescriptions written per year for opioid medications in  offers a more consistent, transparent and equitable approach to 
component of trust building with all those engaged in any way  the United States. navigating the challenges associated with pre-approval access 
with our business. We strive to hold ourselves accountable  while maintaining U.S. Food and Drug Administration oversight.
by providing information about how we operate across our 
operating companies and markets. We recognize and comply  Bioethics Responsibly sharing clinical trial data to improve public 
with the multiple reporting requirements that regulatory bodies  health: Sharing clinical trial data advances the science that 
governing our three business segments define and, in addition,  GRI J&J19-3 is the foundation of medicine. By making clinical trial data 
we publish a wide range of other regulatory and voluntary  available to other researchers and scientists, we enable them 
disclosures. See our Position on Transparency. Johnson & Johnson is strongly committed to ensuring that our  to test new hypotheses, answer new questions and potentially 
employees have both the resources and training to help them  find new treatments. Most importantly, we honor the study 
Pricing transparency in the United States: We publish our  address difficult and complex bioethical questions that may  participants by giving their data new life for the advancement 
annual Janssen U.S. Transparency Report that includes how we  arise during the course of their day-to-day work. To address  of public health. Since 2014, Johnson & Johnson’s Office of the 
invest our resources, price our medicines, and help people who  the complex ethical questions arising in the field of biological  Chief Medical Officer has been working with the Yale University 
need Janssen medicines gain access to them. See the latest  research, science and medicine, our global Johnson & Johnson  Open Data Access Project, also known as the YODA Project, 
Report here. Bioethics Committee (JJBC), sponsored by the Chief Medical  to enable a consistent and objective approach for assessing 
Officer, serves as an advisory body to our worldwide teams on  external research proposals requesting the use of clinical trial 
Improving clinical data transparency: Johnson & Johnson was  ethical issues. Composed of a diverse group of internal medical  data from our Pharmaceutical, Medical Devices or Consumer 
a key contributor to documents on clinical data transparency  experts with training and experience in evaluating bioethical  Health business segments. To date, more than 30 articles have 
and patient privacy that were first developed and shared  questions, the JJBC is responsible for advocating adherence  been published using data shared through the YODA Project 
through TransCelerate Biopharma, a nonprofit that encourages  to bioethical principles, providing an expert forum for teams to  that would not have otherwise been possible. In this way, 
collaboration across the biopharmaceutical community to  obtain guidance on bioethical issues, and for championing our  important research can stand on the shoulders of research that 
streamline and accelerate the R&D of innovative new therapies.  commitment to ethical decision-making across the Enterprise.  has already been conducted and participant data can continue 
Now, this evolving guidance is accessible to an even broader  JJBC is guided by the fundamental principles of bioethics,  to contribute to improving public health.
global community. In June 2019, a TransCelerate working group  including beneficence, non-maleficence, autonomy and 
transferred two “living documents” to PHUSE, a nonprofit,  justice, and our Ethical Code for the Conduct of Research and  Animal welfare 
volunteer-supported community of pharmaceutical industry  Development.
colleagues. PHUSE provides collaboration tools and resources  Johnson & Johnson is committed to ensuring the ethical 
to encourage worldwide interaction. Its members include data  Our advances in the field of bioethics in 2019 include: treatment of animals used in laboratory settings to advance 
managers, biostatisticians, statistical programs and eClinical  patient safety and wellbeing. Johnson & Johnson operating 
IT professionals. Janssen colleagues are active in PHUSE, and  Innovation in pre-approval access to investigational  companies have policies and guidelines in place that assure the 
played a leading role in organizing PHUSE’s 2019 conference in  medicines: Our Compassionate Use Advisory Committee  ethical and humane treatment of the animals and promote the 
the United States. (CompAC) is a novel approach that Johnson & Johnson employs  use of non-animal alternatives whenever feasible. We support 
globally to provide a fair, ethical evaluation of compassionate 
and participate in efforts to obtain regulatory acceptance of 
Responding to concerns about opioids: Johnson & Johnson  use requests for specific investigational medicines for patients  alternative testing methods. See our Humane Care and Use of 
is committed to ensuring its medicines are used correctly,  with serious or life-threatening diseases. Animals Policy.
including by providing important information about their risks 
and benefits on every product label. Responsibly used, opioid- In December 2019, CompAC, an initiative we developed in  In 2019, we maintained our ethical approach to the human care 
based pain medications play a critical role in helping doctors  collaboration with the New York University School of Medicine,  and use of animals by strictly upholding our animal care and use 
and patients manage the debilitating effects of serious pain,  was honored to be the winner of the Reagan-Udall Foundation  that are intended to meet or exceed all applicable regulations, 
and the Company’s pain medicines were designed to prevent  2019 Innovation Award. The Reagan-Udall Foundation selected  including the “3R” Principles:
and deter abuse with some of the lowest rates of abuse among  CompAC because of the Foundation’s belief that these types 
22001917 H Heeaaltlhth f ofor rH Huummaannitiyty R Repepoortrt 7788
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
•  Replacement: using alternative non-animal systems in  Governance: The Enterprise Governance Council (EGC), a  bargain collectively, if they so choose. The Company and its 
place of live animal utilization whenever possible. global, cross-functional team of senior leaders representing  operating companies are required to bargain in good faith with 
functional groups and three business segments, oversees  these associations.
•  Reduction: using the minimum number of animals possible  enterprise-wide human rights due diligence work. Quarterly 
to achieve maximum information without compromising  EGC meetings provide a forum for updates on human rights 
animal welfare.  topics, with an established process for elevating issues to 
the Johnson & Johnson Executive Committee, our Board of  20%
 of employees covered by collective 
•  Refinement: continually modifying procedures to limit  Directors and Board Committees if warranted.
bargaining agreements
animal discomfort and distress. 
In 2019, we reviewed and updated our governance structure 
In 2019, we developed a fully functioning non-animal model  for human rights due diligence across our value chain by 
to provide comprehensive training on our Medical Devices  establishing the Enterprise Human Rights Governance Council 
product portfolio, and developed 3D-printed anatomical models  (EHRGC) that reports directly to the EGC. The EHRGC is  Minimum notice periods, the management of reorganizations 
and virtual reality-based options for training residents and  a team of experts representing main enterprise functions  and layoffs, and the policies associated with such actions 
fellows in the use of our medical devices. We also updated our  responsible for various aspects of human rights due diligence  vary depending on the location, nature, size and scale of the 
Consumer Health Safety & Care Commitment online resource  and management across our own operations and the supply  action and applicable law. Local operating leaders endeavor 
with enhanced information on our position regarding cosmetic  base, including Supply Chain, Human Resources, Global  to communicate significant plans of operational changes to 
animal testing. Procurement, Law Department, Corporate Governance,  employees and their representatives, where they are present, 
Government Affairs & Policy, and Environmental Health, Safety  in a timely and practical manner in advance of actions being 
& Sustainability (EHS&S). In 2019, the EHRGC engaged with  taken. Many of our collective bargaining agreements contain 
Respect for Human Rights
Shift, the leading center of expertise on the United Nations  negotiated provisions covering severance or separation pay 
(UN) Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, to  and benefits. Where there is no legal minimum notice period, 
GRI 102-41, 402, 402-1, 406, 407, 408, 409, 412, 412-2 help us identify and prioritize salient human rights issues at  Johnson & Johnson operating companies typically provide 30 
the enterprise level in a two-day workshop involving about 40  days' notice.
Johnson & Johnson is committed to respecting human rights of 
leaders across the Company. The outcomes of the workshop 
individuals throughout our value chain as evident in our policies 
have informed the EHRGC’s 2020 workplan and activities  Our approach to talent management puts a strong focus on 
and positions available on our website:
to continue strengthening our human rights due diligence  diversity and inclusion principles. We promote diversity and 
approach. Johnson & Johnson also joined Shift’s Business  equal opportunity in recruiting, development and promotion 
•  Code of Business Conduct
Learning Program to continue and deepen our engagement  as well as all other aspects of employee careers. To read more, 
with Shift and be part of a cross-industry network of companies  please see our Diversity & Inclusion Policy. As outlined in our 
•  Position on Human Rights
working to develop sustainable approaches to implementing the  Position on Providing a Safe and Harassment-Free Workplace, 
•  Human Trafficking Policy UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights.   we do not tolerate discrimination, harassment or bullying, and 
provide various training courses on this policy, including within 
•  Position on Employment and Labor Rights  Our own operations: Our Position on Employment and Labor  our Code of Business Conduct training. 
Rights articulates our expectations for labor and employment 
•  Position on the Conduct of Clinical Trials practices at our sites, including preventing forced labor and 
child labor, and non-discrimination, among other matters. 
•  Responsibility Standards for Suppliers In 2019, we continued developing a risk-based approach to 
assessing compliance with our internal standards related to the 
•  California Transparency in Supply Chains Act   human rights of our employees.
and UK Modern Slavery Act Statement
Our operating companies are required to respect each 
•  Position on Human Right to Water employee’s right to make an informed decision, free of coercion, 
about membership in associations and/or labor unions. 
Employees have the right to organize or join associations, and 
22001917 H Heeaaltlhth f ofor rH Huummaannitiyty R Repepoortrt 7799
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
Supply base: The Johnson & Johnson Responsibility Standards  Grievance mechanisms: We are committed to providing  Our advances in the area of information security and data 
for Suppliers outline our expectations of supplier business  effective resolution where we have caused or contributed to  privacy in 2019 include:
conduct. The Standards align closely with the UN Guiding  adverse human rights impacts. Where we find impacts directly 
Principles on Business and Human Rights and the Consumer  linked to our business relationships, we will use our influence to  •  Enhanced compliance capabilities: We increased efforts to 
Goods Forum Forced Labor Resolution and Priority Industry  work with our suppliers or business partners to prevent, mitigate  ensure compliance with the growing number of new privacy 
Principles. We continue to strengthen our due diligence  and address adverse impacts on human rights. The   and cybersecurity laws around the globe, which all have 
approach to human rights issues in the supply base. Our  Johnson & Johnson Credo Hotline—a grievance mechanism  security and/or data protection requirements. For example, 
cross-functional Human Rights Working Group—comprised of  available to all employees, suppliers and other business  we collaborated widely across our organization to become 
Global Procurement, Law Department, EHS&S, and Corporate  partners—offers a secure mechanism for anonymous reporting,  compliant with the new California Consumer Privacy Act, 
Governance functional groups—meets regularly, and continued  where permitted, of suspected concerns or potential violations  which became effective on January 1, 2020. The Act is 
to make progress on expanding our social audit program in 2019.  of our policies or the law. We communicate the hotline access  focused on providing California consumers with the ability 
This Human Rights Working Group reports up through to the  broadly, and the visibility of this access and hotline functionality  to request access to, correction of, and deletion of their 
newly established EHRGC. To read more, see our Position on  is in scope for enterprise-wide audit procedures. Concerns  data as well as opting out of allowing a company to sell their 
Responsible Supply Base and Engaging Suppliers section of  raised through the hotline are reported at an enterprise level.  information. Remediation of over 100 websites controlled by 
this Report. More information on the Credo Hotline is available in our  Johnson & Johnson and the establishment of processes to 
Commitment to Ethics & Compliance section. support consumer requests were required to be compliant. 
Training: Our human rights training covering all aspects of 
our Position on Human Rights is mandatory for all Global  In addition to the Credo Hotline, our employees can  •  Improved product security: We partnered with product 
Procurement employees and is also assigned to other relevant  anonymously report potential violations to the Human Resources  teams, providing consulting and engineering support for 
functions as needed. function within each operating company locally. To read more,  multiple pre-market medical devices and post-market 
see our Position on Resolving Employee Grievances. product lines, increasing confidence that cybersecurity 
controls are in place to ensure the availability of the devices 
and the confidentiality and integrity of their associated data.
Information Security & Data Privacy
1,532 or 93% of all Global Procurement  •  Improved controls in our supply chain: We defined a 
employees completed human rights training  GRI 418 cybersecurity strategy and initiated a multi-year program to 
improve technical and administrative cyber controls within 
since 2018
Johnson & Johnson is committed to protecting its information  Johnson & Johnson’s supply chain across 125 manufacturing 
assets. Our Information Security and Risk Management (ISRM)  and delivery sites. The program will raise the security and 
organization, led by our Chief Information Security Officer,  resiliency of our supply chain systems and our ability to 
has global reach with a presence in all regions of the world,  achieve supply continuity of our products to both patients 
Acquisitions: We firmly believe that identifying and  and provides ongoing security consulting on relevant policies,  and consumers.
understanding environmental, safety and employee issues,  procedures and requirements to all Johnson & Johnson 
including potential human rights concerns, are critical  businesses. ISRM has developed a robust program, which  •  Reinforced internal cybersecurity controls: As every year, 
components of our acquisition and other business development  constantly enhances our security capabilities to safeguard  we continued to improve our cybersecurity controls to 
activities. We conduct thorough due diligence investigations  the Company’s networks, systems, products, and information  protect our enterprise networks, computing resources, and 
prior to acquiring businesses and apply a commensurately  against evolving cyber threats. In terms of data privacy, it is our  data from the expanding and evolving cybersecurity threats 
higher level of scrutiny to businesses with operations or  strict policy to protect the privacy of those who entrust us with  across our worldwide business.
suppliers in countries where there are traditionally higher  their personal information. In addition to our Code of Business 
risks of compliance violations and/or human rights abuses.  Conduct and all the laws that apply to our operating companies’ 
We continue to be mindful of these concerns as we transition  handling of personal information, we also have global privacy 
newly acquired businesses into the Johnson & Johnson Family  policies to which all our businesses worldwide must adhere. 
of Companies, and are prepared to escalate and appropriately  Our policies reflect our commitment to fair and transparent 
remediate any issues uncovered. information practices.
22001917 H Heeaaltlhth f ofor rH Huummaannitiyty R Repepoortrt 8800
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
Corporate Governance
GRI 102-18, 102-22, 102-23, 102-24, 102-26, 102-33
We believe that good corporate governance results from 
“This new statement better reflects the way 
sound processes that ensure that our Board of Directors is 
corporations can and should operate today. It affirms 
well supported by accurate and timely information, sufficient  Endorsing a new statement 
the essential role corporations can play in improving our 
time and resources, and unrestricted access to management. 
The business judgment of the Board must be exercised  on the Purpose of a  society when CEOs are truly committed to meeting the 
independently and in the long-term interests of our shareholders  Corporation needs of all stakeholders.”
and stakeholders.  
Alex Gorsky, Chairman, Board of Directors and  
We also believe that ethics and integrity cannot be legislated  Chief Executive Officer, Johnson & Johnson
or mandated only by directive or policy. So, while we adopt our 
Principles of Corporate Governance, we reaffirm our belief that  The Business Roundtable’s Corporate Governance 
the ethical character, integrity and values of our Directors and  Committee released a new statement on the  Our Board of Directors oversees our business in alignment with 
senior management remain the most important safeguards of  Purpose of a Corporation, which affirms its  Our Credo values, enabling us to make a positive contribution 
corporate governance at Johnson & Johnson. member CEOs’ commitment to a broader set of  to society while maintaining a thriving business. Our governance 
stakeholders including customers, employees, and  structure, policies and processes are designed to serve the 
communities, as well as shareholders. A total of  needs of our business, our shareholders and stakeholders, and 
“The Board understands that concern for  183 CEOs signed the statement on behalf of their  to promote a culture of accountability across the Company. Our 
Board of Directors remains accessible to all stakeholders and 
environmental, social and governance matters is critical  organizations. Since 1978, Business Roundtable 
can be contacted via several channels.
to achieve the Company’s goal of tackling pressing  has periodically issued Principles of Corporate 
global health challenges through innovative products and  Governance. Each version of the document issued 
We are a signatory to the Commonsense Corporate 
solutions for patients and customers around the world,  since 1997 has endorsed principles of shareholder  Governance Principles 2.0 and are committed to using these 
now and in the future. The Company’s long-term success  primacy – that corporations exist principally to  standards to inform the corporate governance practices within 
depends on effectively serving all Credo stakeholders,  serve shareholders.  Johnson & Johnson. The Commonsense Principles 2.0 aspire to 
and that is why we work closely with management to  promote a constructive dialogue on good corporate governance 
continually improve its approach to assessing, managing  The 2019 statement supersedes previous  for the benefit of millions of Americans who work for and invest 
and overseeing ESG risks and opportunities, and to  statements and outlines a modern standard  in America’s public companies.  
ensure that the Company is meeting its commitment to  for corporate responsibility. This is not new for 
We maintain a full suite of information and resources relating 
sustainable and responsible growth.” Johnson & Johnson: Our Credo, established 
to corporate governance on our Johnson & Johnson corporate 
in 1943, and including subsequent updates, 
website, including our Principles of Corporate Governance, 
Mary C. Beckerle, Ph.D., Independent Johnson & Johnson  already established our commitment to patients, 
governance structures, Board Charters and all SEC filings. See 
Board Member and Chair, Science, Technology & Sustainability  customers, employees, communities and the 
also our Position on Corporate Governance.
Committee environment, as well as to stockholders in our 
Company. 
93%
 of Directors on the Board in 2019 were 
independent
22001917 H Heeaaltlhth f ofor rH Huummaannitiyty R Repepoortrt 8811
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
Updates relating to corporate governance from 2019 include: Our Performance
Board engagement: Our Board of Directors believes that 
long-term leadership in healthcare requires strong governance 
Corporate Governance Indicators
and steadfast oversight of the Company’s most significant 
opportunities and risks. Our Board is deeply engaged in 
overseeing our quality and compliance practices to ensure that 
2019 2018 2017
they are designed to produce safe, high-quality products. Our 
Board also believes that current and future success depends 
on strong, ethical leadership that reflects Our Credo values.  Number of Directors on the Board 14 11 10
The Board focused on the Company’s approach to talent 
development, succession planning and diversity and inclusion,  Number of independent Directors on the Board 13 10 9
and reviewed the results of our biennial Our Voice Employee 
Survey to ensure that the Company is fostering a culture of 
inclusion and compliance. Percentage of independent Directors on the Board 93% 91%  90% 
Enterprise Risk Framework: Our Enterprise Risk Management  Lead independent Director Yes Yes Yes
(ERM) Framework assists the Board and management teams 
in identifying potential business risks. In 2019, we updated 
the Johnson & Johnson ERM Framework to align with the  Independent Audit Committee Yes Yes Yes
Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway 
Commission’s 2017 ERM Framework update, which highlights  Independent Compensation & Benefits Committee Yes Yes Yes
the importance of considering risk both in the strategy-setting 
process and in driving performance. Our updated Enterprise 
Independent Nominating & Corporate Governance Committee Yes Yes Yes
Risk Management Framework is now available on our website. 
Effectively informing stakeholders: In the spirit of good  Independent Regulatory Compliance Committee* Yes Yes Yes
governance and transparency, we believe it is important to 
inform our stakeholders of our approach on key topics involving 
Independent Science, Technology & Sustainability Committee Yes Yes Yes
sustainability and citizenship, and, at the same time, make 
this information accessible. In 2019, we embarked upon a 
comprehensive review of all our policies and positions relating  Number of regular and special meetings held by the Board of Directors 9 9 9
to sustainability and citizenship and key topics in advancing 
healthcare. This project, involving experts and senior executives 
from almost every function across our business, resulted in  * Prior to 2019 this Committee was called Regulatory, Compliance & Government Affairs. 
our new ESG Policies & Positions section on JNJ.com, which 
enables stakeholders to easily search for our approach to key 
topics of interest, and also locate clusters of related topics. In 
2019, we extended our efforts to better inform shareholders with 
expanded disclosure on Board oversight of strategy and risk, and 
narrative on the oversight of human capital management in our 
Proxy Statement.
22001917 H Heeaaltlhth f ofor rH Huummaannitiyty R Repepoortrt 8822
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
Responsible Supply Base 
GRI 102-9, 204, 204-1     SASB HC-MS-430a.3
As the world’s largest healthcare company, Johnson & Johnson  “We make a strategic and positive impact for all of 
maintains operations in virtually all countries of the world 
our stakeholders through our long-term approach to 
and works with more than 58,000 suppliers across three 
58,000 sustainable procurement including economic, social, and 
business segments. We manage a complex network of supplier   suppliers globally
environmental sustainability. This means that we work 
relationships that are critical to business success and our ability 
$30.1 billion closely with our global supplier community to amplify and 
to fulfill our obligations to those we serve.   total supplier spend*
expand the reach of our activities beyond today—for our 
We believe in maintaining strict controls to minimize negative  collective future.”
impacts of our supply activity on the environment and people, 
and seek to ensure human rights are upheld in our supply chain.  Len DeCandia, Chief Procurement Officer,  
We work with suppliers who share our values and commitment  Johnson & Johnson
to operating responsibly. All suppliers are expected to comply 
with our Responsibility Standards for Suppliers, and this is 
reflected in our contracts. Our management of human rights in 
the supply chain is led by a cross-functional working group with 
Supplier Spend by Region* Supplier Spend by Business Segment*
Procurement, Legal, Corporate Governance and Environmental 
Health, Safety & Sustainability (EHS&S) representatives. This 
group meets regularly to address issues and advance plans, such  33% 24%
as our supplier audit programs. Our Procurement employees  13%
complete mandatory training on our Responsibility Standards 
each year. See also our Position on Responsible Supply Base.
North America Consumer Health
In this section, we describe our progress in 2019 to engage,  EMEA Pharmaceutical
assess and monitor suppliers in practices inclusive of economic, 
Asia Pacific Medical Devices
social, and environmental sustainability.  11%
Latin America Corporate
4% 31%
52% 32%
* Spend we have control over / addressable spend; includes products and services that procurement teams can negotiate with suppliers to meet business goals.
22001917 H Heeaaltlhth f ofor rH Huummaannitiyty R Repepoortrt 8833
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
Engaging Suppliers
GRI 308, 308-1, 308-2, 407-1 408-1, 409-1, 412-1, 414, 414-1 84%          2020 GOAL PROGRESS 
 of suppliers in our SPP submitted 
We continue to enroll suppliers in our Sustainable Procurement  climate change information upon our request as  71%
 
Program (SPP) to help drive social and environmental  part of our CDP Supply Chain program.
improvements, set clear targets and improve transparency  Enrolled suppliers covering approximately 71% of 
throughout our supply base.  spend in our Sustainable Procurement Program.
Supplier sustainability assessment and disclosure: As part          On track                View scorecard
of their participation in our SPP, all suppliers complete an  Auditing supplier compliance through Environmental Health 
assessment by EcoVadis, a recognized provider of business  & Safety (EH&S) and Social Audits: We verify and monitor 
supplier compliance with laws and regulations, and with 
sustainability ratings for global supply chains. In 2019, 750 
our Responsibility Standards for Suppliers through formal 
suppliers underwent an EcoVadis assessment. Among the 
assessment and audits. Our EH&S audit program, which has 
suppliers we have assessed more than once, we see our program 
been in place since 2006, is conducted using the audit protocol 
driving supplier improvements across all areas of sustainability,  1,589  96%
and checklist developed by the Pharmaceutical Supply Chain  or   of all Global Procurement 
most notably labor standards and environmental performance, 
increasing scores by 4% and 2.5% respectively. An important  Initiative (PSCI). We completed 134 EH&S audits in 2019, the  employees completed training on Responsibility 
part of this program is encouraging our suppliers to publicly  majority of them in Asia. We further standardized our framework  Standards for Suppliers
for ensuring compliance with our human rights standards 
disclose their environmental performance—including emissions 
by launching a dedicated social audit program. In 2018, we 
and water use—to CDP as part of our own CDP Supply Chain 
introduced a program of social audits, mostly conducted 
commitment. In 2019, 344 Johnson & Johnson suppliers were 
according to SMETA 4 guidelines and with a focus on human 
requested to disclose to CDP, an increase of 13% over 2018. 
rights. In 2019, our first full year of social audits, 50 audits were 
This progress demonstrates the positive influence a large 
completed by accredited external firms. Our procurement 
sustainability-minded procurement organization can have across 
teams are progressing plans with relevant suppliers to 
its entire supply chain, influencing the way business impacts 
establish corrective actions and support suppliers with their 
social development and environmental stewardship through 
implementation.  
multiple suppliers around the world.
       Highlight
In 2019, Johnson & Johnson was again named to 
the CDP supplier engagement leader board. We 
were the first healthcare company to achieve this 
position in 2018 and the first healthcare company 
to do so for three years in a row.
22001917 H Heeaaltlhth f ofor rH Huummaannitiyty R Repepoortrt 8844
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
Our Performance
Sustainable Procurement Program (SPP) 
2019 2018 2017
Spend with suppliers enrolled in SPP (billions)* $17.1 $16.3 $15.0
Percentage of total supplier spend attributable to suppliers enrolled in SPP 71% 61% 51%
Number of suppliers newly enrolled in SPP, annual 279 139 33
Number of suppliers enrolled in SPP, total since the program launch (2015) 779 500 361
Suppliers invited to participate in CDP Supply Chain Climate program 344 305 250
Percentage participated 84% 90% 97%
Suppliers invited to participate in the CDP Supply Chain Water program 112 108 108
Percentage participated 84% 88% 86%
* Spend we have control over / addressable spend; includes products and services that procurement teams can negotiate with suppliers to meet business goals.
22001917 H Heeaaltlhth f ofor rH Huummaannitiyty R Repepoortrt 8855
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
Our Performance
Supplier EcoVadis Assessments Supplier EH&S Audits
2019 2018 2017 2019 2018 2017
EcoVadis assessments completed 750 542 685 EH&S audits and technical visits** completed, total 206 185 189
Supplier risk ranking based on EcoVadis assessments
EH&S audits 134 101 Not 
reported
    Low-risk 462 323 342
Technical visits 72 84 Not 
reported
    Medium-risk 259 195 301
Audits and technical visits, by region
    High-risk 29 24 42
    Asia Pacific 174 155 162
Supplier Social Audits
    Europe, Middle East & Africa 13 18 21
2019 2018
    Latin America 7 5 6
Supplier social audits completed, total 50 11
    North America 12 7 0
Completed using SMETA 4-pillar protocol 37 9
Completed using PSCI protocol 13 2 Number of suppliers identified as high-risk for non-
conformance to Johnson & Johnson Responsibility Standards  32 23 23
for Suppliers
Social audits completed, by region
    Asia Pacific 37 8 Number of critical EH&S findings* identified as a result of EH&S  34 27 25
audits
    Europe, Middle East & Africa 5 1
Safety-related 23 21 22
    Latin America 6 2
Environmental-related 11 6 3
    North America 2 0
Number of critical findings* identified as a result of supplier  * We define a critical finding as evidence of very high risk to human life or potential catastrophic impact to facility, community or 
5 0
social audits environment. We expect suppliers and potential suppliers to address critical findings immediately.
** A technical visit is a follow-up visit to the initial audit.
22001917 H Heeaaltlhth f ofor rH Huummaannitiyty R Repepoortrt 8866
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
Enhancing Supplier Diversity  
& Inclusion
       Highlight          2020 GOAL PROGRESS 
The Johnson & Johnson Supplier Diversity & Inclusion Program 
In 2019, we onboarded our first certified women- Exceeded benchmark diverse supplier spending at 
has a track record of advancing supplier diversity within our 
owned business in Japan, Waris Co. Ltd., a  11% and benchmark small supplier spending at 18% 
business for more than 20 years. We proactively reach out to 
business that connects professional skilled women  of total U.S. spend.
diverse businesses to help raise awareness of opportunities with 
Johnson & Johnson and provide guidance on how to engage  with potential employers in Japan. Waris manages 
with us. We collaborate with a wide range of organizations to  a network of 10,000 freelancers, also encouraging  Expanded our supplier diversity and inclusion 
promote outreach to and opportunities for diverse suppliers.  women who have been absent from the  programs to three additional countries (France, 
We believe our suppliers should be representative of the  workplace—especially after childbirth—to go back  Indonesia and Singapore) for a total of 16 countries 
consumers and patients we serve. We know that spend with  to work and continue to work with confidence. against the baseline of six.
diverse suppliers can have a significant economic impact in 
the communities in which we live and work by stimulating the          On track                View scorecard
economy.
Advancing women-owned businesses: We continually seek  Connecting with social enterprises in the UK: We are one 
to advance women-owned businesses and help them grow.  of seven founding partners of the Buy Social Corporate 
Johnson & Johnson procurement staff supported our supplier  Challenge in the UK, taking a lead role in partnering with social 
Eficacia in achieving WeConnect International certification,  enterprises to bring value. We supported the launch of the Buy  “We’ve been working with Johnson & Johnson since 2014 
boosting Eficacia’s chances of winning additional business  Social Corporate Challenge, an initiative to promote the use of  and it has been such a valuable partnership. The young 
with large companies. Eficacia, a women-owned family  Social Enterprises in corporate supply chains. Since its launch  people that have trained and worked with us have gone 
business with more than 25,000 employees, is our main  we have worked with over 40 social enterprises creating job  through a transformation in terms of self-confidence and 
partner for merchandising and field sales in our Consumer  opportunities for those facing barriers to work. job prospects, and there is no way we could have done that 
Health and Medical Devices businesses in Colombia. Eficacia,  if it weren’t for Johnson & Johnson.”
with a mission to create economic opportunities especially in 
marginalized communities, provides merchandising services 
“Johnson & Johnson has been a pioneer in adopting and  Ann Summerhayes, Managing Director, Inside Job Productions, 
at 11,000 points of sale locations for Johnson & Johnson. 
audio visual production company
With Eficacia recently extending their operations to Peru and  embedding social procurement into its business operations. 
Ecuador, we are now expanding our partnership with Eficacia in  Having a global business of their scale demonstrates how 
these countries. businesses of all sizes and from a wide range of sectors can 
Supporting employment of people with disabilities: Around 
practically use their spending power to create a positive 
the world, we channel our procurement spend to encourage 
Mentoring women-owned businesses: Following the 2017  impact on society. As a founding partner of the Buy Social 
employment of diverse populations, including those with 
launch of our Women Mentoring Women, a first-of-a-kind 
Corporate Challenge, Johnson & Johnson's collaborative 
disabilities. We maintain long-term relationships, often spanning 
reciprocal mentoring program that matched 22 women leaders 
approach and leadership have enabled the initiative to  decades, with many social enterprises to support this goal, 
in Procurement roles in Johnson & Johnson with Women-
grow from seven large businesses to 23.” for example, with Access Industries in Australia, which has 
Owned Business Enterprise (WBE) owners, we held a meeting 
been working with Johnson & Johnson for more than 40 years, 
with participants to share insights and learning. Building on 
Peter Holbrook CBE, Chief Executive, Social Enterprise UK providing packaging services for our consumer business. Access 
the success of the first two years, the 2019 – 2020 cohort is 
Industries has a current workforce of 480 individuals, offering 
now being planned and will include new elements, such as: 
viable employment for people with disabilities.   
participation of Johnson & Johnson women leaders who are 
in roles outside Procurement; capability-building program 
experiences; and expansion of the program outside the  
United States. 
22001917 H Heeaaltlhth f ofor rH Huummaannitiyty R Repepoortrt 8877
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
Supporting Minority-Owned Businesses: We support minority- Our Performance
owned business around the world with over 250 diverse 
suppliers from Australia, Canada, South Africa and the UK. In  Driving supplier diversity in 
2019, we expanded our external outreach, becoming members 
our R&D supply chain Diverse Supplier Spend in the United States*
of Integrare in Brazil. 
In the United States, Johnson & Johnson expanded its focus on 
sourcing and developing minority-owned firms for the supply    2019 2018 2017
chain. We have more than 400 minority-owned suppliers  Increasing diversity spend for R&D procurement 
that provide over $870 million in goods and services. We 
has been a constant challenge, with smaller  Diverse supplier spend (billions) $1.61 $1.42 $1.41
increased our sponsorship with the United States Hispanic 
suppliers becoming acquired by others and losing 
Chamber of Commerce, by whom our Johnson & Johnson 
their diversity certification. Over the past few 
Employee Resource Group was recognized the prior year, and  Percentage of total supplier spend 
years, this has impacted more than 25% of our R&D  11% 10% 10%
strengthened our overall relationship. We also sponsored a  attributable to diverse suppliers
key supplier of food and cafeteria services to participate in the  supplier diversity spend. In 2019, to help develop 
National Minority Supplier Development Council’s prestigious  practical approaches to this challenge, we hosted 
Small supplier spend (billions) $2.61 $2.76 $2.67
Corporate Plus program, which provided that supplier with  the first R&D Procurement Supplier Diversity Peer 
advanced training opportunities and exposure to other major  Ideation Event focused on enhancing collaboration 
companies. In addition, we continued to serve as a major  with small and diverse suppliers. Representatives  Percentage of total supplier spend  18% 19% 19%
sponsor and corporate member of the Diverse Manufacturing  of nine of our pharmaceutical company peers,  attributable to small suppliers
Supply Chain Alliance, where we sponsor diverse firms to 
pharmaceutical industry associations and 
participate in their groundbreaking Supplier Development 
supplier partners joined our R&D procurement  Spend with lesbian, gay, bisexual, 
program, and also actively engage in industry working groups to  $4 $2 $1
team to generate ideas on ways to increase  transgender suppliers (millions)
drive standard practices across peer companies.
our collaboration efforts with small and diverse 
suppliers. Together, we are taking forward some  Spend with veteran- and disabled-
$170 $139 $130
practical ideas and evaluating others.  owned suppliers (millions)
       Highlight
* Spend we have control over / addressable spend; includes products and 
For the ninth consecutive year, Johnson & Johnson  services that procurement teams can negotiate with suppliers to meet business 
maintained membership in the Billion Dollar  goals.
Roundtable, a group of companies that advanced 
best practices for supplier diversity, and that spend 
at least $1 billion (Tier 1) annually with certified 
minority-, women-, veteran-, LGBT- and disability-
owned businesses.
22001917 H Heeaaltlhth f ofor rH Huummaannitiyty R Repepoortrt 8888
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
Sourcing Responsibly Palm oil product sourcing: We continue to partner with 
Earthworm Foundation to implement our sourcing criteria 
with our top suppliers by volume, building transparency and 
We aim to source raw materials and packaging in a sustainable 
manner, considering the resource and biodiversity impacts on  monitoring non-conformance. We published a progress update 
the planet as well as human rights and fair labor conditions  in October 2019 and also published an updated list of direct 
suppliers and potential mills in our supply chain. In 2019, we saw 
throughout our extended supply chain. Our Responsibility 
increased transparency (back to mill) in our supply chain over 
Standards for Suppliers outline our expectations for any 
the prior year. 
supplier working with us. We supplement these guidelines 
with additional material-specific sourcing criteria for key 
Wood-fiber products sourcing: In 2019, we continued our 
commodities or materials of concern to ensure we are not 
partnership with Rainforest Alliance to implement our Wood-
complicit in practices that are not consistent with our standards 
Fiber Products Sourcing Criteria and improve our supplier 
or applicable laws. We maintain partnerships with organizations 
assessment. We published a progress update in October 
that help us define appropriate standards and controls in 
2019. This year we also brought on a new technology partner, 
responsible sourcing. 
SupplyShift, to help us improve the accuracy and efficiency 
in our wood-fiber products sourcing. We introduced the 
SupplyShift platform to suppliers in late 2019 and expect this 
tool will support noticeable improvements in our annual supply 
       Highlight chain assessment.
In 2019, we significantly improved our disclosure  Conflict Minerals: In line with regulatory requirements, we 
to the CDP Forests Program, achieving A- scores  remain committed to taking steps to determine the use, country 
of origin and source of conflict minerals (tin, tungsten, tantalum 
for both timber and palm oil disclosures, up from 
and gold [3TG]) in our global product portfolio. Our annual 
C scores in 2018, which was our first year of 
Conflict Minerals Report provides further details. We are a 
submission. We are one of about 300 companies 
member of the Responsible Minerals Initiative, a cross-industry 
worldwide that disclose to this important CDP 
organization that helps companies source conflict-free minerals.
framework addressing deforestation impacts. 
Forest partnership: We have completed the first full year 
of our multi-year partnership with the World Wildlife Fund 
(WWF), whose mission is to conserve nature and reduce the 
most pressing threats to the diversity of life on Earth. In the 
first year of our partnership with WWF, we laid the foundation 
for advancing innovations in sustainable palm oil production 
done at a scale that supports forests, wildlife, and long-term 
community wellbeing. 
22001917 H Heeaaltlhth f ofor rH Huummaannitiyty R Repepoortrt 8899
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
Environmental 
Health 
GRI 302, 303, 305, 307, 307-1 
Our planet is facing unprecedented environmental challenges, 
including climate change, water scarcity, degradation of ecosystems, 
and natural resources depletion. The World Economic Forum’s "Global 
Risks Report 2020," the 15th such report, notes that for the first time 
in the history of the Global Risks Perception Survey environmental 
concerns dominate the top long-term risks. 
As a global manufacturer, we recognize our role in helping to conserve 
and protect natural resources. As a leader in the healthcare industry, 
we know that human health is inextricably linked to the health of the 
planet—we can’t have healthy people and communities without a 
healthy environment. To this end, we are committed to marshaling our 
expertise, resources and partnerships to reduce the environmental 
footprint of our operations, our products and our extended supply 
chain while delivering Better Health for All.
Our performance reflects decades of proactive environmental 
stewardship, guided by Our Credo, which states: “We must maintain 
in good order the property we are privileged to use, protecting the 
environment and natural resources.” Our approach is based on:
•  Optimizing our operations by improving water and energy 
efficiency and reducing our waste footprint;
•  Reducing lifecycle impacts of our products and solutions by 
focusing on sustainable design, material use efficiency, reduction in 
product packaging, and managing product end-of-life impacts;
•  Encouraging our suppliers to make environmental improvements in 
their own businesses and respective supply chains; and
•  Partnering with stakeholders to influence change on a broader 
scale beyond our own operations.
© Norther wind farm off the coast of Belgium and the Netherlands provides renewable energy for our operations  in 
both countries.
22001917 H Heeaaltlhth f ofor rH Huummaannitiyty R Repepoortrt 9900
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
 Key Achievements in 2019  Our Performance
•  Received CDP Climate Change and Water Security A List 
ratings for leadership in environmental transparency and 
EH&S Governance
performance. 
•  Continued progress on integrating sustainable design and 
2019 2018 2017
exceeding our EARTHWARDS 2020 Goal for recognition 
of sustainability improvements in our products across 
Pharmaceutical, Medical Devices and Consumer Health  Number of manufacturing and R&D sites certified to ISO 14001 100‡ 112 102
segments. 
Percentage of manufacturing and R&D sites certified to ISO 14001 97%‡ 99% 94%
•  Accelerated our renewable energy efforts with four new 
power purchase agreements in Belgium, Ireland, Mexico 
and the Netherlands, totaling over 370,000 megawatt-hours  Percentage of of manufacturing and R&D sites certified to OHSAS 18001 
24%‡ 32% 33%
(MWh) per year and significantly advancing progress toward  (Occupational Health and Safety Assessment Series) or ISO 45001*
our 100% renewable electricity goal.
Number of environmental non-compliances 61‡ 44 64
•  All Johnson & Johnson sites globally with high water risk 
have mitigation plans and budget in place for execution.    
Fines paid for environmental non-compliances (thousands) $41‡ $2 $0
Areas of Opportunity 
* ISO 45001 replaces OHSAS 18001 as the world’s first International Standard dealing with health and safety at work; all OHSAS 18001 certificates must transition to ISO 
45001 by August 11, 2021.
•  Continue to address the link between the environment 
‡ See PwC's Report of Independent Accountants.
and human health through innovative partnerships, policy 
advocacy and research. 
•  Update our science-based Scope 1 and Scope 2 climate 
targets, and set a Scope 3 target for supplier emissions 
associated with our purchased goods and services. 
•  Identify short- and long-term actions to implement our 
Consumer Health 100% recyclability commitment through 
both designing for recyclability and investing in recycling 
infrastructure to address hard-to-recycle formats such as 
tubes and films. 
Policies and Positions 
Our policies and positions relating to Environmental Health are 
referenced throughout this section. In addition, you can view 
our overarching Environmental Health & Safety (EH&S) Policy, 
our Position on Human Health and the Environment and our 
Position on Respecting Biodiversity on our website, along with 
all Johnson & Johnson ESG policies and positions relating to 
Environmental Health. 
22001917 H Heeaaltlhth f ofor rH Huummaannitiyty R Repepoortrt 9911
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
Climate Resilience
GRI 302-1, 302-2, 302-3, 302-4, 305-1, 305-2, 305-3, 305-4, 305-5, 305-6, 305-7
Becoming more energy- and carbon-efficient are essential ways 
we can reduce our impact on the planet while maintaining cost-
effective manufacturing and supply for our patients, consumers  Driving climate action in           2020 GOAL PROGRESS 
and customers around the world. We have a long history of 
C40 Cities 32%
innovation and leadership in energy management, and have   
taken sustained, long-term action to reduce our greenhouse gas  CO emissions decreased by 32% globally since 
2
(GHG) emissions. 2010 (Scope 1 and Scope 2).
Clean energy: In 2019, we became founding members with  We continue to make progress on our partnership with          Achieved                View scorecard
Board representation of the Renewable Energy Buyers Alliance  30 C40 Cities committing to drive progress on climate 
(REBA), an association for large-scale energy buyers working  actions that also have air quality improvements and 
toward the creation of a resilient, zero-carbon energy system  health co-benefits. 
across the United States. We have collaborated heavily with 
An analysis conducted by C40 of climate actions taken 
non-governmental organizations and peer companies in the 
in 25 cities focused on cleaner transport, industry           2020 GOAL PROGRESS 
REBA membership, which has helped us progress our renewable 
and energy, and more efficient buildings, showed 
energy initiatives. 30%
that carbon emissions could be significantly reduced   
while at the same time improving air quality for the  of our electricity is produced or procured from 
citizens in these cities. Considering that air pollution  renewable energy sources. 
“ Through REBA, we can help make renewable  is responsible for an estimated 25% of all adult deaths 
energy more accessible, not just for our Company, but  from heart disease and stroke, 43% from chronic          On track                View scorecard
for our entire value chain. By taking a multi-pronged  obstructive pulmonary disease and 29% from lung 
approach to removing barriers for renewable energy  cancer,16 these actions in turn could help prevent 
adoption, we hope to drive the impact well beyond our  thousands of premature deaths and hospital admissions 
operations.” due to air pollution. The C40 partnership continues  On-site Clean Energy Capacity
to expand to more cities, driving the business case for 
additional climate and clean air actions across all cities 
Jed Richardson, Senior Director, Environmental Stewardship, 
in the program.  25%
Johnson & Johnson  
2%
2%
1% Solar PV
Co-generation
        Highlight         Highlight Wind
We have 48 solar arrays and five wind turbines,  For the second consecutive year, we were named  Biomass
totaling 40 megawatts of capacity on our properties  to the CDP Climate Change A List, putting us  31% Geothermal
in 14 countries – enough to power an estimated 5,800  among the top 2% of companies participating in 
Fuel cells
households for a year. the survey. 39%
22001917 H Heeaaltlhth f ofor rH Huummaannitiyty R Repepoortrt 9922
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
Energy & emissions  Geothermal energy at our site in Beerse, Belgium:  
Janssen’s Beerse campus is the largest energy user of all 
We continue to advance energy efficiency and GHG emission- Johnson & Johnson sites worldwide, and in 2019 we commenced  CO  Capital Relief Program 
reduction initiatives across our global manufacturing operations  drilling of two geothermal energy wells, each around 2.4  2
Overview (2005-2019)
and supply chain, using ISO 50001 as a guide in our energy  kilometers (1.5 miles) deep, that will bring hot water up from the 
management strategy. Examples of our climate initiatives in 2019  ground. When completed, this renewably sourced hot water will 
include: substantially reduce the site’s energy needs and CO emissions. 266
2  projects approved
LEED certification in Ireland: The Janssen Sciences Ireland 
campus in Cork, dedicated to biologics manufacturing and  “ We anticipate that using geothermal energy will  231 projects completed
testing, achieved LEED (Leadership in Energy & Environmental  reduce our CO emissions in Beerse by about 30%. 
2
Design) silver certification. LEED green building features at Cork  This equals the emissions generated by about 3,000  $431 million
include: charging stations for up to 22 electric cars, covered  households.”  total spent on completed 
bicycle parking, open space for protecting natural vegetation,  projects
adjustable sun-shades on each building level that reduce solar 
Marijke Anthuenis, Director, Project Management,  
glare and heat gain within the building, and two wind turbines  Janssen Pharmaceutical Companies of Johnson & Johnson $80 million annual energy cost savings*
that provide renewable electricity for approximately 50% of the 
site’s electricity usage each year. 
2,247
 TJ annual energy savings*
Optimizing cooling systems in Puerto Rico: We succeeded in 
reducing our CO emissions by more than 1,300 tons annually 
2 287,931
at our plant in Las Piedras, Puerto Rico, through optimizing a   MT CO annual GHG emissions 
        Highlight 2
chilled water system in the plant, including replacement of two  avoided*
chillers and three cooling towers with more energy-efficient 
Green buildings are healthy for the environment 
technology.    * Results from completed projects. Based on fuel and electricity 
and for all those who work in them. Our goal is 
reduction calculations. Avoidance of energy consumption and 
LEED certification for all new Johnson & Johnson  Improving energy efficiency in cleanrooms in the  GHG emissions calculated by comparing energy consumption 
buildings and renovations of $5 million or more. In  Netherlands: Janssen Vaccines & Prevention B.V., in Leiden,  before project implementation and expected consumption after 
2019, eight million square feet—or 13% of all our  the Netherlands, achieved approximately 10% energy reduction  implementation using engineering estimates at the time the projects 
are approved.
built space—was LEED-certified.  through reducing the airflow of cleanrooms after work hours 
while maintaining quality and biosafety requirements. As 
air handling units account for about 50% of energy use in 
our cleanrooms, this positively impacted our overall energy 
consumption and resulting GHG emission levels.    Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD): 
Wind energy in four countries: In 2019, we accelerated our  We support the TCFD recommendations for climate-related 
renewable energy efforts with four new power purchase  Capital expenditure for energy efficiency: Energy efficiency  disclosures. See our annual CDP Climate Report for additional 
agreements in Belgium, Ireland, Mexico and the Netherlands  programs at our most energy-intensive manufacturing and  climate-related disclosures based on TCFD recommendations.
totaling over 370,000 megawatt-hours (MWh) per year,  R&D sites remain a priority, and are allocated up to $40 million 
significantly advancing progress toward our 100% renewable  per year in capital relief for energy projects through our CO2 
electricity goal. Capital Relief Program. To be eligible for funding, projects 
must demonstrate potential CO savings and should provide a 
2
We also installed a windmill at our largest chemical production  financial return of 15% or higher.
site in Geel, Belgium. The windmill has a capacity of 3.4 MW of 
electricity production and is expected to provide up to 15% of 
Geel’s electricity consumption.
22001917 H Heeaaltlhth f ofor rH Huummaannitiyty R Repepoortrt 9933
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
Our Performance
Energy Use1 On-Site Generated Energy Use by Type (TJ)1
2019 2018 2017 2019 2018 2017
Total energy use (TJ) 12,702 13,208 12,685 Co-generation 439 525 581
From renewable sources 2,118 2,246 1,816 Wind 97 78 65
From non-renewable sources 10,584 10,962 10,869 Solar PV 78 56 82
Energy intensity ratio (TJ/$billion)2 155 162 164 Geothermal 6 18 24
Percentage change in energy intensity compared  Fuel cell 22 23 24
(29%) (24%) (24%)
to 2010 baseline (TJ/$billion)2
Biomass 2 2 2
Purchased Energy Use by Type (TJ)1 Total on-site generated energy 643 701 778
2019 2018 2017
Electricity 6,421 6,583 6,352
Natural gas 4,808 5,020 4,892
Diesel 465 592 929
Direct heating/cooling 274 180 238
Propane 51 90 64
Biogas 26 28 23
Fuel oil 15 15 15
Total purchased energy 12,059 12,507 12,512
22001917 H Heeaaltlhth f ofor rH Huummaannitiyty R Repepoortrt 9944
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
Our Performance
Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions3 Air Emissions by Category
2019 2018 2017 2019 2018 2017
Scope 1 GHG emissions, total (MT COe)4 415,094‡ 452,407  474,497 
2 Hazardous air pollutant (HAP) 
39.98  30.25  50.14 
Scope 1 GHG emissions, by source (MT COe)4 emissions (MT)
2
Facilities1 278,717  308,200  329,731 
Sales fleet15 114,681  122,194  123,179  Volatile organic compound (VOC)  394.07 414.05 607.99 
emissions (MT)
Refrigerants16 12,979 12,298 9,830
Aviation 8,717 9,715 11,757 Particulate matter (PM) emissions (MT) 116.56  247.14  205.22 
Scope 2 GHG emissions, facilities (MT COe)1, 4
2
Location-based 648,598‡  681,416  685,819  Refrigerant emissions (MT) 8.01  7.85  6.12 
Market-based5 518,542‡  583,361  639,323 
Ozone depleting substances 
Scope 3 GHG emissions, by source (MT COe)4, 14 1.11  1.53  2.35 
2 emissions (MT)
Purchased goods and services6 9,229,943‡  8,826,462  8,117,919 
Upstream transportation and distribution6 2,201,590‡ 2,039,872  1,893,440  Sulfur oxide (SO) emissions (MT) 51‡ 64 99
x
Business travel6, 7 601,637‡  768,392  695,306 
Mono-nitrogen oxides (NO) 
Employee commuting8 267,881 351,260  348,400  emissions (MT) x 254‡ 288 290
Capital goods6 281,092‡ 271,422 246,076 
Fuel- and energy-related activities9 47,245‡ 50,821 46,524
Upstream leased assets10 39,830‡ 39,981 45,702
Waste generated in operations11 3,618‡  3,702  3,812 
Downstream product transportation12 Available 12/2020 65,447‡  45,850 
Use of sold products13
Direct 168,612 78,051 73,503
Indirect 7,248,612  6,894,347 6,260,427
End of life treatment of sold products13 209,994 222,404 211,531
GHG emissions intensity ratio (Scope 1 and Scope 2) per revenue  
11 13 15
(MT COe/$million)
2
Percentage decrease in GHG emissions intensity (Scope 1 and Scope 2)  
49% 43% 34%
per revenue compared to 2010 baseline (MT COe /$million)
2
‡ Metric has been assured by ERM CVS. See independent assurance statements by ERM CVS.
22001917 H Heeaaltlhth f ofor rH Huummaannitiyty R Repepoortrt 9955
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
Footnotes to Our Performance on Energy Use and GHG Emissions
1.  Includes site-specific data from all Johnson & Johnson-owned and -leased sites over 50,000 square feet where Johnson & Johnson has operational control, as well as manufacturing and R&D sites under 50,000 square feet, unless otherwise 
noted.
2.  Our diverse product portfolio makes it difficult to track an organization-specific metric, therefore we use revenue as denominator for energy intensity. Energy intensity ratio includes electricity, stationary fuels, and district heating and cooling.
3.  Selected year 2019 global GHG emissions inventory including Scope 1, Scope 2 (location- and market-based) emissions, Scope 3 emission categories 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 8, 9, the percentage of electricity use generated by renewable energy sources, 
and NOx and SOx emissions (from combustion sources) were third-party assured by ERM Certification and Verification Services Inc. Please refer to Independent Assurance Statement for GHG Emissions Data in this Report.
4.  In accordance with guidance from World Resources Institute Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard, we restated the 2017-2018 values to reflect newly released electricity grid emission factors as well as addition or removal of acquisitions 
and divestitures. This threshold for restatement deviates from the one included in the About this Report section. We do not currently use purchases, sales or transfers of offsets in our GHG accounting. Gases covered in these calculations include 
CO, CH, NO, and HFCs. Perfluorinated chemicals, sulfur hexafluoride and nitrogen trifluoride do not result from our operations. We do not calculate or report biogenic CO emissions in MT COe separately from the gross direct (Scope 1) GHG 
2 4 2 2 2
emissions. Electricity emission factors are obtained from the International Energy Agency’s CO Emissions from Fuel Combustion Report and the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency's eGRID publication for location-based Scope 2 reporting, 
2
and from supply contracts and residual emission factors, where available, for market-based Scope 2 reporting. Fuel emission factors are obtained from the EPA Climate Leaders publication. Global Warming Potentials are obtained from the 
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change Fifth Assessment Report. The chosen consolidation approach for emissions is operational control. 
5.  We did not report Scope 2 emissions using the market-based method prior to 2017. Starting from 2017, we are reporting Scope 2 emissions using both location-based and market-based methods, based on the latest Scope 2 guidance from the 
World Resources Institute in the Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard.
6.  Emissions were calculated using Company spend in the reporting year paired with appropriate economic input/output (IO) emission factors from Carnegie Mellon’s 2002 dataset. Where more specific primary data were able to be obtained, they 
were used in place of the IO calculation methodology.
7.  Business Travel emissions for reporting year 2017 and 2018 are being restated because of the reclassification of spend into updated categories.
8.  Emissions from Employee Commuting were calculated using survey data from a sample of employees in all regions and extrapolated for all global employees. It should be noted that because of the assumptions that were made,  
Johnson & Johnson did not receive third-party limited assurance for this scope, but will work to improve these assumptions in the coming years. 
9.  Emissions from Fuel- and Energy-related Activities were calculated for emissions from transportation and distribution losses from purchased electricity. Emissions were calculated by combining purchased electricity with an appropriate emissions 
factor and percentage grid loss for each location. 
10.  Emissions from Upstream Leased Assets were calculated by applying the energy intensity from office locations in our Scope 1 and Scope 2 footprint to the building area of leased assets less than 50,000 SqFt, which are excluded from Scope 1 and 
Scope 2 reporting.
11.  Emissions from Waste Generated in Operations were calculated for non-hazardous waste from manufacturing and R&D operations using DEFRA's emissions factors for waste. Emissions for 2017-2018 are being restated because of an update in 
calculation methodology.
12.  Emissions from Downstream Transportation and Distribution were calculated using the U.S. EPA’s SmartWay Program, and are provided for U.S. shippers only.
13.  Emissions from the Use of Sold Products and the End-of-Life Treatment of Sold Products were calculated using sales volumes for all Johnson & Johnson products combined with lifecycle assessment (LCA) models where sales volumes could be 
obtained; where they could not be obtained, sales revenues and average unit prices were used to estimate volumes. Because of the size of our product portfolio, LCAs were not performed for every Johnson & Johnson product, so products were 
placed into LCA categories and a representative product LCA was applied. It should be noted that because of the assumptions that were made, Johnson & Johnson did not receive third-party limited assurance for these scopes, but will work 
to improve these assumptions in the coming years.
14.  Emissions from the Processing of Sold Products, Downstream Leased Assets, Franchises, and Investments are not applicable to Johnson & Johnson operations.
15.  Greenhouse gases covered in these calculations include CO only.
2
16.  Includes site-specific data from all Johnson & Johnson manufacturing and R&D sites only.
22001917 H Heeaaltlhth f ofor rH Huummaannitiyty R Repepoortrt 9966
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
Water & Waste Management
GRI 303, 303-1, 303-2, 303-3, 306, 306-1, 306-2      SASB: CG-HP-140a.1; CG-HP-140a.2  
At Johnson & Johnson, we aim to minimize our impacts on the  Water management 
planet through reducing the use of water and minimizing waste 
generation while engaging in responsible waste management  Access to clean water and sanitation is essential for human           2020 GOAL PROGRESS 
practices. See also our Position on Water and Waste  health and wellbeing and, as leaders in healthcare, we are 
Management. committed to conserving water resources wherever we operate.  100% 
We pay particular attention to our operational sites in water-
stressed regions. We completed the comprehensive water risk 
assessment at 100% of manufacturing/R&D 
        Highlight Examples of our water conservation and wastewater quality  locations in 2019.
improvement initiatives in 2019 include:
By the end of 2019, 100% of all high-risk sites 
We have decreased global water withdrawal per 
$billion from 0.183 million m3 in 2010 to 0.143  Mitigating drought risk in South Africa: Our Consumer Health  identified developed mitigation plans and 
manufacturing facility in Cape Town has been supporting the 
million m3 in 2019 – a reduction of 22%. city’s efforts to mitigate drought risk through several water  budgeted for their implementation in 2020; 35% 
of these have already completed their mitigation 
security and water saving projects, including the installation 
plans.
of air-cooled instead of water-cooled cooling towers. Several 
additional initiatives are planned and slated for implementation 
        On track                View scorecard
in 2020.  
        Highlight Reusing wastewater in Mexico: At our Juarez facility in 
Mexico, we installed a biological treatment plant with a 
Johnson & Johnson has been a participant in the  capacity of 75m³ per day to give a second life to gray water, 
CDP Water Program since its inception in 2010,  manufacturing process water, cafeteria food preparation 
and in 2019, we were named to CDP’s Water  process water, and discharge water from organic waste 
Security A List, the highest-possible score, for the  processing. The treated water is used for irrigation of green 
first time. areas and donation to the municipal water agency, resulting in 
reuse of 22% of the site’s wastewater. 
Upgrading wastewater treatment in the United States: At 
our Janssen facility in Athens, GA, we initiated a significant 
multi-year investment to upgrade the wastewater treatment at 
the active pharmaceutical ingredient chemical plant, installing 
a membrane bioreactor system to enhance removal efficiencies 
and improve the quality of discharged water.
22001917 H Heeaaltlhth f ofor rH Huummaannitiyty R Repepoortrt 9977
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
Our Performance
Water Use Summary Water Discharge by Destination (million m3)
2019 2018 2017 2019 2018 2017
Total water withdrawn (million m3) 11.71 11.64 11.50 Wastewater treatment plant 5.46  5.21  5.36 
Total water consumed (million m3) 4.57 Not reported Not reported Surface water 2.12  2.11  2.07 
Total water recycled and reused (million m3) 0.81 0.84 0.91 Irrigation 0.19  0.19  0.22 
Total water discharge (million m3) 7.95 7.69 7.81 Other 0.06  0.10  0.10 
Percentage of water withdrawn in regions of  Ocean 0.12  0.08  0.07 
39% Not reported Not reported
high or extremely high baseline water stress
Total water discharge 7.95  7.69  7.81 
Percentage of water consumed in regions of 
48% Not reported Not reported
high or extremely high baseline water stress
Water Withdrawn by Source (million m3)
2019 2018 2017
Municipal 8.68  8.21  8.05 
Groundwater 2.85  3.26  3.28 
Greywater 0.06  0.06  0.05 
Other 0.07  0.06  0.04 
Rainwater 0.03  0.04  0.04 
Surface water 0.02  0.02  0.02 
Total water withdrawn 11.71 11.64 11.50
22001917 H Heeaaltlhth f ofor rH Huummaannitiyty R Repepoortrt 9988
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
Waste management  Our Performance
We believe that waste is a sign of inefficiency in our value 
chain and places avoidable burden on planetary resources. We  Operational Waste (MT)
continue to advance initiatives at our manufacturing plants and 
throughout our supply chain to systematically avoid waste and 
reduce waste to landfill. 2019 2018 2017
Total waste generated 195,272  194,442  186,475 
        Highlight Hazardous waste 53,425  52,672  48,743 
We maintained strong waste management, 
Non-hazardous waste 141,848  141,770  137,732 
with 83% of our total waste reused, recycled or 
recovered.
Hazardous Waste by Disposal Method (MT) Non-Hazardous Waste by Disposal Method (MT) 
Reusing packaging in Brazil: Our Consumer Health facility in 
2019 2018 2017 2019 2018 2017
São Paulo, Brazil, established a take-back and reuse program for 
toiletries’ packaging materials. Working closely with the local 
supplier of cardboard packaging, the design was adapted to  Recycled 25,897  24,652  22,450  Recycled 83,118  79,827  75,281 
make the cardboard boxes suitable for return and reuse. This 
initiative resulted in a decrease of more than 240 tons per year 
Energy recovery 16,684  16,374  14,395  Energy recovery 20,793  22,356  20,116 
of cardboard waste. 
Reusing raw materials in Ireland: At our Medical Devices  Landfilled 3,449  3,462  4,325  Landfilled 12,512  13,878  15,356 
manufacturing facility, following targeted efforts, we were able 
to separate two forms of porous titanium powder coatings 
used in the manufacturing of cementless knee and hip  Incinerated 3,373  2,953  3,584  Incinerated 2,923  4,167  3,893 
systems. During our proprietary coating application process, 
these powders become mixed and, if not separated, must be  Reused 1,756  2,758  988  Reused 13,282  12,796  10,125 
disposed of as contaminated waste after use. The new method 
of separation of the two powders enabled us to reduce waste 
Bio/chemical  Bio/chemical 
of large volumes of titanium powder, a finite resource, thereby  2,181  2,372  2,901  9,192  8,704  11,079 
treatment treatment
improving the sustainability of our production process and 
reducing manufacturing waste. 
Other 86  101  100  Other 28 42 1,883
Total hazardous  Total non- 
53,425  52,672  48,743  141,848  141,770  137,732 
waste hazardous waste
22001917 H Heeaaltlhth f ofor rH Huummaannitiyty R Repepoortrt 9999
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
Product Sustainability
GRI J&J19-12
We are committed to developing more sustainable products 
that contribute to a healthier planet. Our approach is 
based on science and a lifecycle accountability for product  26          2020 GOAL PROGRESS 
 new products achieved EARTHWARDS 
impacts—from discovery and design, raw material sourcing 
and manufacturing to product use and end of life. See also our  recognition in 2019 22% 
Position on Sustainable Products and Packaging.
New and existing products representing 22% of 
Johnson & Johnson revenue achieved EARTHWARDS 
Lifecycle assessment with EARTHWARDS
recognition.  
GRI 302-5, J&J19-12      SASB HC-MS-410a.1 70 EARTHWARDS-recognized products* resulted         Exceeded                View scorecard
in the following annual impact reductions**:
Since 2009, we have utilized our EARTHWARDS program to 
encourage the development of more sustainable products  1,500
 MT less material
across seven impact areas. When a product achieves at least 
three significant improvements, a board of external experts 
40,000
determines if it warrants EARTHWARDS recognition. Our   liters of water saved the current procedural challenges of aging population, more 
adherence to the EARTHWARDS methodology is audited  complex cases, and the increasing cost of PCF.
170
annually by an external verification company.  MT of waste reduced
The modular case and tray system allow for a large selection of 
Examples of newly recognized EARTHWARDS products from  39,300 implants and instruments to be brought into the operating room 
 COe of GHG emissions avoided
2019 include: 2 without the need for additional cases. This may result in the 
following savings:17 21% less container material to meet patient 
*Products recognized between 2009-2019; excludes products that 
LISTERINE Mouthwash Concentrated Formulas: We developed  are no longer EARTHWARDS-recognized due to discontinuations,  need; 34% reduction in blue wrap required; and 34% less energy 
a concentrated premix of our LISTERINE Mouthwash formulas  divestitures or changes to the product.  and water used in sterilization/disinfection of instruments. 
that are sent to local markets to create finished product. Prior 
to this change, finished products were shipped directly from  **Savings are for products recognized through the end of 2019 and  STELARA (ustekinumab) and SIMPONI (golimumab): Early in 
one facility in a region to the final destination (for example,  are estimated based on best available methodologies for each impact  2019, the Johnson & Johnson EARTHWARDS Board recognized 
from Thailand to Japan or from Italy to Russia). Today, we ship  reduction area; select products are not included in savings estimation  STELARA and SIMPONI as EARTHWARDS products and 
a concentrated product that is diluted and finished in facilities  because of lack of detailed data. reconfirmed all dosing forms of these two products. 
closer to the end markets in North Asia and Russia. These 
The recognition of both products is based on their reduced 
changes eliminated more than 60% of greenhouse gas (GHG) 
dosing frequency, as compared to competing products18 that 
emissions from transportation. At the same time, we were able to 
are addressing the same indication(s), which is resulting in a 
lightweight packaging, reducing plastic usage by 11%.
400 mL plastic one. Each bottle of LE PETIT MARSEILLAIS Mon  reduced environmental footprint.
Gel Douche Concentré is recyclable, uses 60% less plastic and 
LE PETIT MARSEILLAIS Shower Gel Concentrates: We 
requires 40% less water, benefiting both consumers and the  A cross-functional team assessed the footprint, which resulted 
launched our first concentrated body cleansing gels in six 
environment.  in demonstrated, relevant reductions in the use of raw materials, 
sensory variants. With its breakthrough environmental-
packaging and energy required for manufacturing as well as in 
friendly formula achieving 98% biodegradability, the product 
DePuy Synthes Spine SYMPHONY: The SYMPHONY  the amount of waste that originates from using these products.
range offers consumers the same number of showers from an 
OCT System was designed to optimize and improve the 
optimized 100 mL bottle as they would get from a conventional 
instrumentation for posterior cervical fusion (PCF) to address 
22001917 H Heeaaltlhth f ofor rH Huummaannitiyty R Repepoortrt 110000
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
Green chemistry   Reducing the impact of plastic packaging: Johnson & Johnson 
Consumer Health is a signatory, since 2018, to the New Plastics 
Lifecycle assessments of our chemically synthesized active  Economy Global Commitment, led by the Ellen MacArthur           2020 GOAL PROGRESS 
pharmaceutical ingredients (APIs) usually indicate that their  Foundation. In 2019, we progressed several initiatives, including 
environmental footprint is most driven by sourced starting  the publication of multi-year targets for implementing our  Continued partnerships with two co-ops in Brazil 
materials, building blocks, reagents and solvents.19 commitment. A few examples include the following: and one in India to advance material recovery and 
recycling efforts. 
While we continue to integrate principles of green chemistry  •  Conducted an impact assessment of our Consumer Health 
and engineering into our product development practices,  packaging portfolio and set a 2025 15% recycled content  Concluded the partnership in Vietnam focused on 
to promote green chemistry and advance environmental  target across all plastic packaging by weight. The target  ocean plastics through the Consumer Goods Forum 
sustainability with the API suppliers, the Janssen Pharmaceutical  varies across regions depending on product mix and volumes.  and Trash Free Seas Alliance. 
Companies of Johnson & Johnson also developed a Supplier 
Sustainability Roadmap to collaborate with suppliers and   •  Developed plans to launch additional refill packs for LE PETIT          On track                View scorecard
drive improvement. MARSEILLAIS liquid soaps.
In 2019, we worked with our suppliers involved in the extended  •  Set plans to replace non-recyclable film with polyethylene for 
supply chain of canagliflozin and darunavir to improve their  our NEUTROGENA cosmetic wipes by 2021.
Recycling of single-use medical devices in New Zealand: 
synthesis processes by introducing the principle of product mass 
We collaborated with a hospital customer to segregate and 
intensity (PMI) and shared best practice tools and resources  •  Rolled out an enhanced internal Design for Recyclability 
recycle single-use ETHICON instruments used in surgical 
used by the members of the American Chemical Society Green  Policy to relevant product development teams.
settings. Following a pilot program from 2018 with the Auckland 
Chemistry Institute Pharmaceutical Roundtable. By doing so, 
First contact lens recycling program in the UK: In 2019,  District Health Board, we created a process for collection, 
our suppliers could target the process steps that contribute 
Johnson & Johnson Vision launched the ACUVUE Contact Lens  safe decontamination and breakdown of single-use ETHICON 
largely to the environmental footprint, and objectively measure 
Recycle Program in the UK, enabling consumers to recycle their  devices to channel this waste to appropriate recycling streams, 
the impacts of any process improvements they made. This has 
contact lenses and blister and foil packaging after use. The UK’s  avoiding landfill. In the pilot program, more than 90% of product 
led to a significant improvement of our suppliers’ PMIs and has 
first free, nationwide recycling program, with 1,200 collection  by weight was successfully routed for recycling. This program is 
reduced process waste and related management costs while 
points across the country, was created in partnership with  now being introduced in hospitals across New Zealand.
reducing the environmental impact of our products. 
global recycling organization TerraCycle following our research, 
which showed that 70% of the UK’s 3.7 million contact lens 
Sustainable Packaging & Recycling wearers weren’t sure they could recycle their contact lenses, 
and that approximately 20% of them admitted to flushing their 
SASB: HC-MS-410a.1; CG-HP-410a.2 lenses away. After collection, the contact lenses and packaging 
components are separated, shredded and washed, and then 
Packaging plays a critical role in maintaining the quality, safety 
recycled into new products such as outdoor furniture. Millions 
and integrity of our products throughout our value chain. In 
of pairs of lenses were collected for recycling in the first year of 
addition to complying with packaging regulations in all the 
the program. 
countries where our products are sold, we are proactive about 
increasing recycled content of packaging and improving 
recyclability of our packaging. In 2019, we progressed several 
initiatives as follows:  
22001917 H Heeaaltlhth f ofor rH Huummaannitiyty R Repepoortrt 110011
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
Partnerships for advancing recycling: In 2019, we engaged  Products in the Environment Medical Devices: We comply with applicable Extended 
more broadly with recycling initiatives, for example:  Producer Responsibility regulations in different countries and 
SASB HC-MS-410a.2 invest in many initiatives for better management of our products 
•  We joined the Materials Recovery for the Future Project, a  at end of life. We support voluntary take-back programs, and we 
collaboration of leading members of the packaging value  We recognize that the products we create to help patients,  work with our customers to evaluate opportunities to increase 
chain in North America committed to developing research  doctors and consumers can continue to have environmental  the number and quantity of products that can be recycled and 
solutions for recycling flexible packaging curbside, which is  impacts after use. Whether the product is metabolized and  reprocessed. For example, the Johnson & Johnson Medical 
not typically accepted in recycling programs. excreted, or used and discarded, these actions can have  Devices Companies work with health facilities to collect medical 
environmental impacts. We have a diverse portfolio of products  devices that otherwise would be immediately bound for landfills 
•  We continued to fund efforts to advance the recycling  and services that have unique impacts at end of life. Therefore,  or incineration, and reprocess those devices so that they can be 
of plastic squeeze tubes in North America in partnership  we assess the end-of-life impacts of our products and develop  reused by healthcare professionals.
with More Recycling (MORE). Based on MORE’s extensive  category-specific action plans to improve performance over 
research and testing, in 2019, the Association of Plastic  time. See our Position on Impact of Pharmaceuticals and 
Recyclers formed a working group to develop preferred  Personal Care Products in the Environment.
plastic specifications for tube design as an important 
practical step toward creating recyclable tubes for everyday  Pharmaceutical Products: We continue our work to reduce the 
use in millions of homes. impact of pharmaceuticals in the environment (PIE). In 2019, we  2.5 million  
completed a multi-year comprehensive assessment of PIE for 
•  We were one of the initial funders of The Recycling  100% of our current pharmaceutical suppliers located in India  medical devices collected and 
Partnership’s new Pathway to Circularity initiative. The  and China. We have also reported our progress on working 
1.1 million  
Pathway to Circularity is a roadmap that starts with a stage  specifically with antibiotics producers globally through the 
gate process to determine the steps needed for a package  Access to Medicine Foundation report on antibiotics, and the  reprocessed in 2019
to reach recyclability. This initiative will outline, address and  International Federation of Pharmaceutical Manufacturers & 
seek to successfully navigate current and future packaging  Associations report on antibiotics.  
recycling system challenges that limit the recycling of 
packaging materials today to make progress toward  As an active and founding member of the Pharmaceutical Supply 
circularity. The initial funding has not only created this stage- Chain Initiative, we helped build the capacity of suppliers by 
gate process, but also helped launch an industry council to  leading two PIE training sessions in 2019. As an active and 
gain alignment and consensus needed to realize measurable  founding member of the AMR Alliance, we contributed to the 
change throughout the packaging industry.  peer-reviewed publication of a new methodology to determine 
safe levels of antibiotics in the environment, which protects 
•  We continued our involvement as a founding partner of the  against formation of antibiotic resistance. The safe levels we 
Closed Loop Infrastructure Fund, a U.S. social impact fund  contributed for this publication are for Johnson & Johnson’s 
that invests in scaling recycling infrastructure and sustainable  antibiotics. As a group, the AMR Alliance Manufacturing Work 
manufacturing technologies to advance a circular economy. Group achieved their original four goals aimed at assessing risk, 
developing an assessment framework, advancing science, and 
•  We maintained CARE TO RECYCLE, our initiative to  reporting transparently a year early. For additional information 
encourage consumers to recycle their personal care  on our work on antimicrobial resistance see the section on 
products. We share tips and practical information for better  Overcoming Antimicrobial Resistance. 
recycling on our website and social media vehicles.
•  We continued our involvement as a member of The 
Healthcare Plastics Recycling Council, an initiative helping 
the healthcare industry support recyclability of plastics in 
clinical settings.
22001917 H Heeaaltlhth f ofor rH Huummaannitiyty R Repepoortrt 110022
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
Data & 
Downloads
22001917 H Heeaaltlhth f ofor rH Huummaannitiyty R Repepoortrt 110033
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
UNGC 
GRI Content Index Communication on 
Progress
Download
Download
SASB Index Data Summary
Download Download
22001917 H Heeaaltlhth f ofor rH Huummaannitiyty R Repepoortrt 110044
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
About this Report
GRI 102-10, 102-46, 102-48, 102-49, 102-50, 102-51, 102-52, 102-53, 102-54, 102-56
Johnson & Johnson’s 2019 Health for Humanity Report (the  renewable energy sources, and NO and SO emissions (from  Restatements: We use a 5% change threshold to apply to 
x x
Report) details our progress in sustainability. It is our primary  combustion sources).  significant changes in data or information that is restated, unless 
source of annual disclosure on environment, social and  otherwise noted. There are a number of potential reasons that 
governance (ESG) performance and should be reviewed in  PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (PwC) performed limited assurance  may lead to a restatement of either prior periods or baseline 
conjunction with disclosures on the ESG Policies & Positions  on certain data in the following categories (see PwC's Report of  data (e.g. a significant change in newly published measures, 
page. Data in this Report cover the period between January 1, 2019,  Independent Accountants and Management's Assertion): new acquisitions or divestitures, data errors, or improvements 
and December 31, 2019, unless otherwise indicated. Reporting  in data collection methodology over time). Depending on 
on other matters specific to financial performance of the  •  Contributions / Philanthropy  circumstances, each is evaluated using this threshold, and 
Company and its subsidiaries can be found in our 2019 Annual  appropriate disclosures are included in the Report. Data that 
Report. •  Diversity & Inclusion (select metrics)  were not disclosed in prior years are noted as “not reported” in 
relevant tables throughout the Report.
This Report covers Johnson & Johnson’s worldwide operations  •  Environmental Health & Safety (EH&S) Governance
across our three business segments: Pharmaceutical, Medical  Human Resources Data: These data are based on headcount 
•  Employee Retention and Turnover 
Devices and Consumer Health. For select metrics, we report  data from Human Resources Information Systems (HRIS). 
segment-level data. Contract manufacturers are excluded from  HRIS headcount methodology differs from that used for the 
•  Employee Safety (select metrics)
the scope of this Report, unless otherwise noted.  headcount in our Annual Report/Form 10-K, which is based on 
the number of full-time equivalent positions (FTE). HRIS data 
•  Product Quality (select metrics)
The Report has been prepared in accordance with the Global  exclude employees on long-term disability. Data may not include 
Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards: Core option. For the first  Our Corporate Internal Audit reviewed select data for accuracy,  full population from more recently acquired companies.
time, it includes the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board 
completeness and validity. The financial data and general 
(SASB) Index providing disclosures against relevant SASB  We welcome your queries and feedback on this Report. Please 
information about the business in this Report were previously 
Standards. The Report also serves as our annual United Nations  contact us at WW-Corporate-Governance@its.jnj.com.
audited for disclosure in our 2019 Annual Report.
Global Compact Communication on Progress. 
Acquisitions: EH&S data of recently acquired companies, 
The outcomes of our 2019 Priority Topics Assessment guided 
except for employee road safety data and site ISO and OHSAS 
the Report’s structure and content. 
certification data, are included in the Report two years after 
acquisition, unless otherwise noted. This grace period allows the 
ERM CVS conducted independent review and assurance of the 
new acquisitions to adjust their EH&S management and reporting 
following information and data in the Report (see independent 
systems to Johnson & Johnson standards. Road safety data 
assurance statements by ERM CVS):
are integrated the first year after acquisition, where available, 
and two years after acquisition at the latest. ISO and OHSAS 
•  Progress against our Health for Humanity 2020 Goals, and 
certification data are integrated three years after acquisition. The 
associated data presented in the  2020 Goals Progress 
dates and details of recent acquisitions can be found in Note 20 
Scorecard.
(Business Combinations and Divestitures) on page 80 of our 2019 
•  Progress against United Nations Sustainable Development  Annual Report.
Goals (UN SDGs)  commitments, and associated data 
Divestitures: Except for injury statistics and violations or fines, 
presented in the UN SDG Commitment Progress Scorecard.
EH&S data of divested companies are excluded in the reporting 
•  Select year 2019 global greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions  year.
inventory, the percentage of electricity use generated by 
22001917 H Heeaaltlhth f ofor rH Huummaannitiyty R Repepoortrt 110055
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
Independent Assurance Statement
Health for Humanity 2020 Goals Progress
ERM Certification and Verification Services (ERM CVS) was 
engaged by Johnson & Johnson to provide limited assurance  Engagement Summary
on cumulative progress over 2016 - 2019 against the Health 
for Humanity 2020 Goals reported in the Johnson & Johnson  Whether cumulative 2016 - 2019 progress against the Health for Humanity 2020 Goals and related Targets 
Scope of our 
2019 Health for Humanity Report (the Report) and on   as reported in the Health for Humanity 2020 Goals Progress Scorecard (the Scorecard) on pages 10 to 
assurance 
14 of the Report and on healthforhumanityreport.jnj.com is fairly presented, in all material respects, in 
healthforhumanityreport.jnj.com as set out below.  engagement 
accordance with the reporting criteria.  
Our conclusion
Health for Humanity 2020 Goals and Targets as defined in the Scorecard. World Business Council for 
Reporting 
Sustainable Development (WBCSD)/World Resources Institute (WRI) Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Protocol for 
Based on our assurance activities, as described below, nothing  criteria  Greenhouse Gas emissions. 
has come to our attention to indicate that the cumulative 
progress (2016 - 2019) against the Health for Humanity 2020 
Assurance  ERM CVS’ assurance methodology, based on the International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE 
Goals and Targets, as reported in the Scorecard on pages 10 to  Standard 3000 Revised).
14 of the Report and on healthforhumanityreport.jnj.com, is not 
fairly presented, in all material respects, in accordance with the 
Assurance level Limited assurance. 
reporting criteria.  
Johnson & Johnson is responsible for preparing the Report, including the Scorecard, and for the collection 
Our assurance activities
Respective  and presentation of the assured performance information and data. 
responsibilities ERM CVS’ responsibility is to provide conclusions on the agreed scope based on the assurance activities 
We planned and performed our work to obtain all the 
performed and on exercising our professional judgement. 
information and explanations that we believe were necessary 
to provide a basis for our assurance conclusions. During 
this year’s assurance engagement, due to travel restrictions 
following the outbreak of COVID-19, we changed our planned 
head office visit to a ‘virtual’ visit via video/conference calls. 
A multi-disciplinary team of sustainability and assurance 
specialists performed assurance procedures as follows:    
•  Conference calls with Johnson & Johnson Corporate 
Governance team to discuss, understand, and evaluate 
the systems and processes (including internal review/
audit) used for collecting, consolidating, evaluating and 
reporting the information and data used to report progress 
against the Health for Humanity 2020 Goals and Targets;
22001917 H Heeaaltlhth f ofor rH Huummaannitiyty R Repepoortrt 110066
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
•  Conference calls with management representatives 
responsible for each of the Health for Humanity 2020 Goals 
and Targets and the implementation of the related activities  Jennifer Iansen-Rogers 
undertaken in 2019; Head of Corporate Assurance 
02 June 2020
•  A review of the reporting principles, boundaries, definitions 
and internal guidelines for each of the selected Health for 
Humanity 2020 Goals and Targets;
•  A high-level review of the greenhouse gas (GHG) and 
renewable energy data to confirm consistency with the 
findings of our separate GHG and renewable energy 
verification engagement including completeness and 
consistency over time and the restatements of the baseline 
ERM Certification and Verification Services, London 
and prior year data;
www.ermcvs.com; email: post@ermcvs.com
•  A review of samples of underlying documentary evidence  ERM CVS is a member of the ERM Group. The work that ERM CVS 
and data to support the reported cumulative progress for  conducts for clients is solely related to independent assurance 
each Health for Humanity 2020 Goal and Target, including  activities and auditor training. Our processes are designed and 
internal and external documents; and implemented to ensure that the work we undertake with clients is 
free from bias and conflict of interest. ERM CVS and the ERM staff 
that have undertaken this engagement work have provided no 
•  A review of the presentation of information relevant to the 
consultancy related services to this client in any respect. 
scope of our work on healthforhumanityreport.jnj.com and in 
the PDF version of the Report to ensure consistency with our 
findings.
The limitations of our engagement
The reliability of the assured information is subject to inherent 
uncertainties, given the available methods for determining, 
calculating, or estimating the underlying information. It is 
important to understand our assurance conclusions in this 
context. In addition, the assured information should be read in 
conjunction with the boundary and consolidation policies under 
‘About this Report’ on page 104 and the disclosures provided 
under the column ‘Notable’ in the Scorecard. Regarding the 
formation on healthforhumanityreport.jnj.com, we provide no 
assurance over any information other than as described in our 
assurance scope above nor on changes to the content of the 
assured information after the date of this assurance statement. 
Our observations
We have provided Johnson & Johnson with a separate 
management report with our detailed findings and 
recommendations.
22001917 H Heeaaltlhth f ofor rH Huummaannitiyty R Repepoortrt 110077
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
Independent Assurance Statement 
UN Sustainable Development Goals Commitment Progress
ERM Certification and Verification Services (ERM CVS) was 
engaged by Johnson & Johnson to provide limited assurance  Engagement Summary
on the cumulative 2016 – 2019 progress against the Company’s 
2020 Targets related to its SDG 2030 Vision and aspirations as 
Whether cumulative 2016-2019 progress against the 2020 Targets as reported in the 2019 UN 
presented in the Johnson & Johnson 2019 Health for Humanity  Scope of our 
Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) Progress Scorecard on pages 15 to 18 in the Report and on 
Report (the Report) and on healthforhumanityreport.jnj.com as  assurance 
healthforhumanityreport.jnj.com is fairly presented, in all material respects, in accordance with the 
set out below.  engagement 
reporting criteria.
Our conclusion
Reporting  The 2020 Targets (under Vision 2030) as described in the Progress Scorecard. 
criteria 
Based on our assurance activities, as described below, nothing 
has come to our attention to indicate that the cumulative progress 
(2016 – 2019) against the 2020 SDG Targets as reported in the  Assurance  ERM CVS’ assurance methodology, based on the International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE 
Standard 3000 Revised).
SDG Progress Scorecard on pages 15 to 18 of the Report and on 
healthforhumanityreport.jnj.com is not fairly presented, in all 
material respects, in accordance with the reporting criteria.  Assurance level Limited assurance. 
Our assurance activities Johnson & Johnson is responsible for preparing the Report and for the collection and presentation of the 
information within it. 
We planned and performed our work to obtain all the  Respective  ERM CVS’ responsibility is to provide conclusions on the agreed scope based on the assurance activities 
information and explanations that we believe were necessary to  responsibilities performed and on exercising our professional judgement. 
provide a basis for our assurance conclusions. During this year’s 
assurance engagement, due to travel restrictions following the 
outbreak of COVID-19, we changed our planned head office visit 
to a ‘virtual’ visit via video/conference calls. A multi-disciplinary 
team of sustainability and assurance specialists performed 
assurance procedures as follows:  
•  A review of the 2020 SDG goal definitions, underlying 
programs and reporting guidance, where available. 
•  Conference calls to:
•  interview Johnson & Johnson management 
representatives to understand the 2030 Vision 
strategy and the philosophy behind the goals and 
2020 Targets;
22001917 H Heeaaltlhth f ofor rH Huummaannitiyty R Repepoortrt 110088
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
•  understand and evaluate the systems and processes 
used to manage the performance commitments, 
related programs and associated partner  Jennifer Iansen-Rogers 
organisations, and monitor progress against these;  Head of Corporate Assurance 
02 June 2020
•  interview goal owners and business unit 
representatives involved in collecting, evaluating and 
reporting progress against the 2020 Targets.   
•  Interviews with selected Johnson & Johnson partners 
responsible for delivering programs and providing the data 
used to report the 2016 to 2019 progress towards the 2020 
Targets.  
ERM Certification and Verification Services, London 
•  A review of completeness and the consolidation of the 
www.ermcvs.com; email: post@ermcvs.com
program results for 2016 to 2019 for each Target in order 
to reduce the risk of double counting and to understand 
ERM CVS is a member of the ERM Group. The work that 
assumptions as well as overlaps with some of the   ERM CVS conducts for clients is solely related to independent 
Johnson & Johnson Health for Humanity 2020 Goals for  assurance activities and auditor training. Our processes 
which we undertook a separate assurance engagement.   are designed and implemented to ensure that the work 
we undertake with clients is free from bias and conflict of 
•  A review of the explanatory notes in the ‘Notables’ column  interest. ERM CVS and the ERM staff that have undertaken 
in the SDG Progress Scorecard and in the section on ‘The  this engagement work have provided no consultancy related 
Challenges of reporting and assuring progress against the  services to this client in any respect. 
SDG goals’ to ensure consistency with our findings. 
The limitations of our engagement  
The reliability of the assured information is subject to  
inherent uncertainties, given the nature of the ambitious 
Johnson & Johnson aspirations and Ttargets and the 
dependence on partner organisations to deliver programs 
and provide performance information, as well as the use of 
estimates, assumptions and extrapolations to report progress. 
Johnson & Johnson describes these uncertainties in the 
‘Challenges of reporting and assuring progress against the SDG 
goals’ on page 18 of the Report. It is important to understand our 
assurance conclusions in this context. Regarding the information 
on healthforhumanityreport.jnj.com, we provide no assurance 
over changes to the content of the web-based information after 
the date of this assurance statement. 
Our observations 
We have provided Johnson & Johnson with a separate 
management report with our detailed findings and 
recommendations.
22001917 H Heeaaltlhth f ofor rH Huummaannitiyty R Repepoortrt 110099
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
Independent Assurance Statement 
GHG Emissions Data
ERM Certification and Verification Services (ERM CVS) was 
engaged by Johnson and Johnson to provide assurance in  Engagement Summary
relation to the information set out below and presented on 
pages 13, and 94 to 95 in the Johnson & Johnson 2019 Health for 
Whether the corporate 2019* data for the following selected indicators are fairly presented, in all material 
Humanity Report (the Report) and on  healthforhumanityreport. respects, in accordance with the reporting criteria:
jnj.com as set out below.
•  Total absolute Scope 1 GHG emissions in metric tonnes (MT) of COe
2
•  Total absolute Scope 2 GHG emissions in metric tonnes (MT) of COe reported using the location 
Our conclusion 2
based and market based methods
Based on our activities, nothing has come to our attention to  •  Total absolute Scope 3 GHG emissions in metric tonnes (MT) of CO2e for the following categories:
indicate that the following selected 2019* corporate metrics are  •        Purchased goods and services
not fairly presented, in all material respects, with the Reporting 
Criteria. This conclusion is to be read in the context of the  Scope of our  •     Capital goods
assurance  •   Fuel and energy related activities (Transmission and distribution losses (T&D) losses only)
remainder of this report, in particular the information in the 
emphasis of matter and inherent limitations paragraphs below. engagement  •     Upstream transportation and distribution
•     Waste generated in operations (Non-hazardous waste only)
Scope 1 GHG emissions: 415,094 MT CO2e     •     Business Travel
Scope 2 GHG (location-based) emissions: 648,598 MT COe  •     Upstream Leased Assets
2
•     Downstream transportation and distribution for US operations (from the EPA SmartWay 
Scope 2 GHG (market-based) emissions: 518,542 MT COe
2 program for the year ending 31st December 2018)
Scope 3 GHG emissions for the following categories: 
•      Total NO and SO from facility combustion sources in metric tonnes (MT)
•     Purchased goods and services 9,229,943 MT COe x x
  2 •      Percentage of electricity use generated by renewable energy sources
•     Capital goods  281,092 MT COe
2
Reporting  The WBCSD/WRI GHG Protocol (2004, as updated January 2015) for the Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions.
•     Fuel and energy related activities   47,245 MT COe
       (Transmission and distribution   2 criteria  Johnson & Johnson’s internal reporting criteria and definitions for the other metrics.
       losses only)
•     Upstream transportation and   2,201,590 MT COe Assurance  ERM CVS’ assurance methodology, based on the International Standard on Assurance Engagements ISAE 
2 Standard 3000 (Revised). 
       distribution
•     Waste generated in operations   3,618 MT COe Assurance level Limited assurance
2
       (Non-hazardous waste only)
•     Business Travel 601,637 MT COe Johnson & Johnson is responsible for preparing the data and for its correct presentation in the Report to 
2
Respective  third parties, including disclosure of the reporting criteria and boundary.  
responsibilities ERM CVS’s responsibility is to provide conclusions on the agreed scope based on the assurance activities 
performed and exercising our professional judgement.
* 2018 for Scope 3 Downstream transportation and distribution
22001917 H Heeaaltlhth f ofor rH Huummaannitiyty R Repepoortrt 111100
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
•  A review of samples of primary data such as invoices;
•     Upstream Leased Assets 39,830 MT COe
2
•  A review of the calculations undertaken, including conversion  Jennifer Iansen-Rogers 
factors and emission factors used;  Head of Corporate Assurance 
65,447 MT COe
•     Downstream transportation and   2 02 June 2020
       distribution (from the EPA   •  A review of estimates, extrapolations and assumptions made 
       SmartWay program) in relation to the data for relevant GHG Scope 3 categories; 
and
 
NOx from combustion sources: 254 MT •  An analytical review of the consolidated year end data for 
each metric.
SOx from combustion sources: 51 MT
The limitations of our engagement  
Percentage of electricity use generated by renewable energy 
sources: 30% The reliability of the assured information is subject to inherent  ERM Certification and Verification Services, London 
uncertainties, given the available methods for determining,  www.ermcvs.com; email: post@ermcvs.com
Emphasis of matter calculating or estimating the underlying information. It is 
ERM CVS is a member of the ERM Group. The work that ERM CVS 
important to understand our assurance conclusions in this 
conducts for clients is solely related to independent assurance 
Without affecting our conclusion, which is not modified,   context. Our work was undertaken remotely. We did not  activities and auditor training. Our processes are designed and 
we draw attention to the explanatory notes provided by  undertake source data verification at any operated facilities.  implemented to ensure that the work we undertake with clients is 
Johnson & Johnson relating to the data on page 94 of the  Our independent assurance statement provides no assurance on  free from bias and conflict of interest. ERM CVS and the ERM staff 
Report, in particular the limitations relating to the data for the  the maintenance and integrity of the website, including controls  that have undertaken this engagement work have provided no 
Scope 3 categories 5 and 9 on page 95 of the Report which  used to achieve this, and in particular whether any changes may  consultancy related services to this client in any respect. 
should be read in conjunction with the data.  have occurred to the information since it was first published.
Our observations 
Our assurance activities  
We have provided Johnson & Johnson with a separate 
Our objective was to assess whether the assured emission data 
management report with our detailed (non-material) findings 
are reported in accordance with the principles of completeness, 
and recommendations. Without affecting the conclusions 
comparability (across the organisation) and accuracy (including 
presented above, we have the following key observation:
calculations, use of appropriate conversion factors and 
consolidation). We planned and performed our work to obtain  •  Johnson & Johnson should document both qualitatively 
all the information and explanations that we believe were  and quantitatively their uncertainty information for each 
necessary to provide a basis for our assurance conclusions. We  GHG Scope 3 category, and describe their efforts to record 
applied a 5% material error threshold.  uncertainty in future revisions of the Scope 3 emissions 
inventory. 
A team of GHG and assurance specialists performed the 
following key activities: 
•  Virtual interviews with relevant staff to understand 
internal reporting processes, including the use of its GHG 
Management Plan, internal spreadsheets, and its various 
internal data management and reporting systems;
22001917 H Heeaaltlhth f ofor rH Huummaannitiyty R Repepoortrt 111111
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
Report of Independent Accountants
 
To the Board of Directors of Johnson & Johnson
We have reviewed the accompanying Johnson & Johnson management assertion, that the metrics identified in the Schedule of Metrics in 
management’s assertion as of December 31, 2019 or for the year then ended, are presented in conformity with the assessment criteria set 
forth in management’s assertion.
Johnson & Johnson’s management is responsible for its assertion and for the selection of the criteria, which management believes provide an 
objective basis for measuring and reporting on the metrics. Our responsibility is to express a conclusion on management’s assertion based on 
our review.
Our review was conducted in accordance with attestation standards established by the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants 
(“AICPA”) in AT-C section 105, Concepts Common to All Attestation Engagements, and AT-C section 210, Review Engagements. Those 
standards require that we plan and perform the review to obtain limited assurance about whether any material modifications should be made 
to management’s assertion in order to be fairly stated. A review is substantially less in scope than an examination, the objective of which is to 
obtain reasonable assurance about whether management’s assertion is fairly stated, in all material respects, in order to express an opinion. 
Accordingly, we do not express such an opinion. We believe that our review provides a reasonable basis for our conclusion.
In performing our review, we have complied with the independence and other ethical requirements of the Code of Professional Conduct 
issued by the AICPA.
We applied the Statements on Quality Control Standards established by the AICPA and, accordingly, maintain a comprehensive system of 
quality control.
The preparation of the metrics requires management to establish the criteria, make determinations as to the relevancy of information to be 
included, and make assumptions that affect reported information. The selection by management of different but acceptable measurement 
techniques could result in materially different amounts or metrics being reported.
Based on our review, we are not aware of any material modifications that should be made to management’s assertion referred to above in 
order for it to be fairly stated.
June 11, 2020 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, 400 Campus Drive, Florham Park, NJ 07932  |  www.pwc.com
22001917 H Heeaaltlhth f ofor rH Huummaannitiyty R Repepoortrt 111122
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
Johnson & Johnson Management Assertion
As of December 31, 2019 or for the year then ended
Johnson & Johnson (“management”) is responsible for the completeness, accuracy, and validity of the accompanying 
metrics reported in the Health for Humanity Report as of December 31, 2019 or for the year then ended (the reporting 
year) for global operations, unless otherwise noted within management’s criteria. 
With respect to the metrics reported in the table below, which are also included in the Health for Humanity Report, 
management of Johnson & Johnson asserts that such metrics are presented in conformity with the assessment criteria 
set forth below. The metrics included in the table below have been rounded to the nearest whole number unless 
otherwise indicated. Management is responsible for the selection or development of the criteria, which management 
believes provide an objective basis for measuring and reporting on the selected metrics. 
The preparation of the metrics requires management to establish the criteria, make determinations as to the relevancy 
of information to be included, and make assumptions that affect reported information. The selection by management 
of different but acceptable measurement techniques could result in materially different amounts or metrics being 
reported.
 
Schedule of Metrics
METRIC TOPIC METRIC DESCRIPTION METRIC VALUE MANAGEMENT'S CRITERIA
Contributions/Philanthropy Total cash and products contributed  $1,806 Contributions are cash or product donations made to qualified nonprofit 
globally (millions) entities (i.e., 501(c)(3) organizations in the U.S., or with an NGOsource 
501(c)(3) equivalency determination for organizations outside the U.S.) 
by Johnson & Johnson during the reporting year.
Product donations are measured at fair market value  
(defined as the selling price of a product as determined by an internal 
Johnson & Johnson price list in USD as of December 31, 2019), which is 
Cash contributed globally (millions)  $423
the price Johnson & Johnson would sell to consumers on the market. 
Metric values are represented in millions of USD. 
Products contributed globally (millions) $1,383
22001917 H Heeaaltlhth f ofor rH Huummaannitiyty R Repepoortrt 111133
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
METRIC TOPIC METRIC DESCRIPTION METRIC VALUE MANAGEMENT'S CRITERIA
Diversity & Inclusion (D&I)  Total number of employees (i.e., Global  137,701  Global Workforce is the global employee headcount as of December 31, 
& General Workforce Workforce) 2019, excluding employees on long term disability (LTD) as of December 
Women: 47.8% 31, 2019 and employees of acquired companies who are not yet reflected 
in the Johnson & Johnson Human Resources Information Systems 
(HRIS) (which does not exceed 2 years from the date of acquisition). This 
Total Number of Employees by Region Asia Pacific: 28,195  data is based on headcount from the HRIS. HRIS headcount differs from 
that used for the headcount in Johnson & Johnson's Form 10-K, which is 
Europe, Middle East & Africa: 42,582  based on the number of full-time equivalent positions (FTE).
Latin America: 20,182  An employee is defined as an individual working full-time or part-
time, including fixed term employees, interns and co-op employees. 
North America: 46,742 Contingent workers, contractors, and subcontractors are excluded.
An individual working full-time is defined as an employee working 40 
Gender Diversity by Employment Type Full-time employees  hours or more a week. An individual working part-time is defined as an 
Women: 46.7%  employee working less than 40 hours a week.
Part-time employees   Gender and ethnic/racial diversity is reported in accordance with the 
Women: 82.6% gender, ethnicity and race as self-reported by the employee and recorded 
in HRIS as of December 31, 2019. 
Age diversity is reported by age groups as of December 31, 2019 as self-
Gender Diversity by Region Asia Pacific: Women: 46.0%
reported by the employee and recorded in HRIS. 
Europe, Middle East & Africa: Women: 49.7% 
For job category metrics, the job category (i.e., vice president, manager 
and directors, or professionals), is obtained from HRIS as of December 
Latin America: Women: 50.2% 
31, 2019. Other is defined as employees who self-reported as American 
Indian or Alaskan Native, Native Hawaiian or Other Pacific Islander or 
North America: Women: 46.1% 
two or more races.
Gender Diversity by Job Category Vice Presidents: Women: 34.2%
Managers and Directors: Women: 46.2% 
Professionals: Women: 49.5% 
22001917 H Heeaaltlhth f ofor rH Huummaannitiyty R Repepoortrt 111144
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
METRIC TOPIC METRIC DESCRIPTION METRIC VALUE MANAGEMENT'S CRITERIA
Diversity & Inclusion (D&I)  Age Diversity by Job Category Vice Presidents  For women in executive positions, executives are defined as employees 
& General Workforce Under 30: 0%  reporting directly to the Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive 
30-50: 46.3%  Officer based on an organization chart including names and positions as 
50+: 53.7% of December 31, 2019.
Managers and Directors  For women in management positions, the pay grades are obtained from 
Under 30: 1.3%  HRIS as of December 31, 2019. Pay grade 30 and above is considered a 
30-50: 73.2%  management position.
50+: 25.6%
For new employee hire metrics, new employee hires are external hires 
Professionals  with a start date between January 1, 2019 and December 31, 2019 per 
Under 30: 21.4%  HRIS.
30-50: 61.7% 
50+: 16.9%
Ethnic/Racial Diversity in the U.S. by  Managers and Directors 
Job Category Asian: 16.6%   
Black/African American: 5.0%   
Hispanic/Latino: 7.0%   
Other: 1.2%   
Professionals 
Asian: 12.0%   
Black/African American: 7.6%   
Hispanic/Latino: 10.4%   
Other: 2.0%   
Diversity in the Board Composition Women: 28.6% 
Ethnic/Racial Diversity: 21.4%
Gender Diversity in Executive and  Women in executive positions: 14.3% 
Management Positions  Women in management positions: 45.8%
Total Number of New Employee Hires 21,948 
New Employee Hires by Gender Women: 51.4% 
22001917 H Heeaaltlhth f ofor rH Huummaannitiyty R Repepoortrt 111155
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
METRIC TOPIC METRIC DESCRIPTION METRIC VALUE MANAGEMENT'S CRITERIA
Diversity & Inclusion (D&I)  New Employee Hires by Age Under 30: 52.7%
& General Workforce
30-50: 42.8%
50+: 4.5%
New Employee Hires by Region Asia Pacific: 28.9% 
Europe, Middle East & Africa: 27.0% 
Latin America: 16.5% 
North America: 27.6%
22001917 H Heeaaltlhth f ofor rH Huummaannitiyty R Repepoortrt 111166
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
METRIC TOPIC METRIC DESCRIPTION METRIC VALUE MANAGEMENT'S CRITERIA
Environmental Health &  Number of environmental non- 61 Environmental non-compliances represent instances of non-compliance 
Safety (EH&S) Governance compliances with environmental regulatory requirements or laws that were either 
(i) self-reported to authorities in the reporting year or (ii) identified by 
authorities and the non-compliance occurred in the reporting year. The 
authorities include regional, national, state/country/province, and local/
Fines paid for environmental non- $41 city regulatory agencies.  
compliances (thousands)
Fines paid for environmental non-compliances include those paid in 
the reporting year. It does not include fines assessed and/or under 
negotiation that were not paid.
Environmental non-compliances and fines paid exclude newly acquired 
sites (i.e., owned less than 2 years as of December 31, 2019).
Metric values (fines and/or penalties) are represented in thousands of 
USD.
Number of manufacturing and R&D  100 OHSAS is the Occupational Health and Safety Assessment Series.
sites certified to ISO 14001
Certified to ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001 or ISO 45001 means the site has 
received an external certification that is valid as of December 31, 2019.
Small research & development (R&D) and manufacturing sites,  
Percentage of manufacturing and R&D  97%
defined as having less than 50 employees, are exempt from the  
sites certified to ISO 14001
Johnson & Johnson internal requirement to have ISO 14001 
(Environmental Management) certification. Newly acquired sites (i.e., 
owned less than 3 years as of December 31, 2019) are also exempt 
Percentage of manufacturing and R&D  24%
from the internal Johnson & Johnson requirement to have ISO 14001 
sites certified to OHSAS 18001 or ISO 
certification. 
45001
Total number of R&D and manufacturing sites used in the numerator 
and denominator is based on the sites Johnson & Johnson internally 
requires to have ISO 14001 certification.
22001917 H Heeaaltlhth f ofor rH Huummaannitiyty R Repepoortrt 111177
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
METRIC TOPIC METRIC DESCRIPTION METRIC VALUE MANAGEMENT'S CRITERIA
Employee Retention &  Johnson & Johnson employees involved  17.6% R&D activities include employees classified under job functions of R&D 
Turnover in R&D activities and Engineering in HRIS as of December 31, 2019.
Employee count used in the denominator is consistent with the Global 
Workforce number used for D&I metrics above. 
Managers and above moved across  43% The metric represents the percentage of employees in Manager and 
functions, country or business segment  above job categories (defined as pay grade 30 or above in HRIS as of 
lines, building diversity of experiences December 31, 2019) who moved across function, country or business 
segment lines within Johnson & Johnson during the reporting year 
(includes upward promotion, downward demotion, or lateral transfer).
Employee count excludes fixed term, intern, co-op employees, employees 
classified as being on long-term disability, and employees of acquired 
companies who are not yet reflected in HRIS.
Employee movement is tracked monthly and then consolidated at year 
end. If an employee moves across both function and country in the same 
month, it is only counted as one move.
Overall voluntary turnover 8% Employee count excludes fixed term, intern, co-op employees, employees 
classified as being on long-term disability, and employees of acquired 
companies who are not yet reflected in HRIS. Employee count does 
not include employees that were hired and terminated within the same 
month. Employees who are not part of the performance management 
Voluntary turnover of high performers 4% process are excluded from the voluntary turnover of high performers 
metric. Voluntary turnover excludes employees leaving the company due 
to retirement or death.
For overall voluntary turnover, the total employee count used in the 
denominator is the total employee count average of the twelve months in 
2019. For voluntary turnover of high performers, the denominator is the 
total high performers average of 12/31/2019 and 12/31/2018.
High performer is defined as an individual with two consecutive annual 
performance ratings of Exceeds/Exceeds, Exceeds/Fully Meets, or Fully 
Meets/Exceeds ratings (note that "exceeds" is one out of 4 possible 
dimension ratings).
22001917 H Heeaaltlhth f ofor rH Huummaannitiyty R Repepoortrt 111188
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
METRIC TOPIC METRIC DESCRIPTION METRIC VALUE MANAGEMENT'S CRITERIA
Employee Safety Lost Workday Case (LWDC) rate Global: 0.07 Includes data as of December 31, 2019 and hours worked in the reporting 
year. Newly acquired sites (i.e. owned less than 2 years as of December 
Asia Pacific: 0.06 31, 2019) are excluded from occupational safety metrics.
Europe, Middle East & Africa: 0.05 LWDC rate, TRIR, SIIC rate, and fatalities are calculated using the Global 
Workforce and any contingent workers (i.e. workers supplied by third 
Latin America: 0.06 party agencies that are the worker’s employer of record) are intended to 
supplement or temporarily replace existing workforce and are directly 
 North America: 0.08
supervised by a Johnson & Johnson employee. Cases from contractor/ 
subcontractors (who are not contingent workers) are not included.
Total Recordable Injury Rate (TRIR) Global: 0.31 “Lost Workdays” are calendar days where an employee is unable to work 
due to illness or injury, beginning the day after an incident has taken 
Asia Pacific: 0.12  place through the last day of leave (excluding holidays and vacations). 
Europe, Middle East & Africa: 0.27 LWDC rate: (number of LWDC * 200,000 work hours) / total work 
hours per the internal Johnson & Johnson CURVE system.
Latin America: 0.25
TRIR: (number of recordable cases * 200,000 work hours) / total work 
North America: 0.42 hours.
SIIC rate: (number of SIIC * 200,000 work hours) / total work hours.
Serious Injury and Illness Case (SIIC)  Global: 0.04 
rate
Asia Pacific: 0.04 
Europe, Middle East & Africa: 0.03 
Latin America: 0.02 
North America: 0.06
Number of fatalities Global: 0
22001917 H Heeaaltlhth f ofor rH Huummaannitiyty R Repepoortrt 111199
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
METRIC TOPIC METRIC DESCRIPTION METRIC VALUE MANAGEMENT'S CRITERIA
Product Quality Number of regulatory inspections of  521 Health authorities are organizations with authority over the 
Johnson & Johnson sites by worldwide  development, manufacture, distribution, placing on the market, and post 
health authorities market surveillance of products. For example, the US Food and Drug 
Administration (FDA), Korean Food and Drug Administration (KFDA), 
British Standards Institution (BSI), and Health Canada.
Percentage of inspections that resulted  73%
A regulatory inspection is defined as an inspection conducted by the 
in zero observations
health authority to determine compliance with applicable laws and 
regulations.
Number of FDA inspections of   17 An FDA inspection is defined as a regulatory inspection performed by the 
Johnson & Johnson sites FDA, and an observation is defined as the observed condition or practice 
indicating that an FDA-regulated product may be in violation of FDA’s 
requirements. The observations are listed on FDA Form 483 during 
inspections conducted by FDA, and then provided to the manufacturer 
Percentage of FDA inspections that  76% following the FDA inspection.
resulted in zero observations
Independent audits are conducted by internal Johnson & Johnson 
Regulatory Compliance (JJRC) auditors at Johnson & Johnson sites and 
external manufacturing sites.
Average number of observations per  0.6
FDA inspection An external manufacturing site is defined as not owned or operated by 
Johnson & Johnson.
Number of independent audits of  156
Johnson & Johnson sites to ensure 
compliance with Johnson & Johnson 
Quality Policy & Standards
Number of independent audits of  264
external manufacturing sites to ensure 
compliance with Johnson & Johnson 
Quality Policy & Standard
Number of FDA Warning Letters  1
issued, total for enterprise
22001917 H Heeaaltlhth f ofor rH Huummaannitiyty R Repepoortrt 112200
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
References
1   Imbokodo is supported by a public-private partnership led by Janssen Vaccines & Prevention B.V., the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, the National Institutes of Health, the HIV Vaccine Trials Network (HVTN), and by other  
  additional partners.
2   https://www.unaids.org/sites/default/files/media_asset/2019-UNAIDS-data_en.pdf , p.18
3   https://www.who.int/en/news-room/fact-sheets/detail/influenza (seasonal)
4    https://www.who.int/hepatitis/news-events/hbv-cure-overview/en/
5   https://www.jnj.com/innovation/meet-janssen-researcher-working-on-human-e-coli-vaccine
6   https://www.weforum.org/agenda/2019/01/three-ways-to-mobilize-for-mental-health/
7    https://www.who.int/news-room/fact-sheets/detail/mental-disorders
8    https://www.holmusk.com/research/#news-holmusk-janssen-china-mental-health-mou
9   https://www.healthpolicy-watch.org/no-time-to-wait-amr-could-cause-10-million-deaths-annually-by-2050-warns-un-report/
10   The large increase in 2019 was attributed to a one-time donation of ORTHO TRI-CYCLEN to Direct Relief that was distributed in support of the Syrian Refugee Crisis.
11   Includes employees classified under job functions of R&D and Engineering.
12   National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases. Respiratory syncytial virus. Available at: https://www.niaid.nih.gov/diseases-conditions/respiratory-syncytial-virus-rsv. Last accessed: September 2019.
13   According to PitchBook Search of CVC Investors Disclosed Healthcare Deals from Nov 1, 2018 – Oct 31, 2019.
14   Represents the proportion of employees in Manager and above job categories who in their career progression movement (including upward promotion, downward demotion, or lateral transfer) crossed function, country or  
  business segment lines.
15   Contingent workers (i.e. workers supplied by third party agencies that are the worker’s employer of record) are intended to supplement or temporarily replace existing workforce and are directly supervised by a  
   Johnson & Johnson employee. 
16   https://c40-production-images.s3.amazonaws.com/other_uploads/images/2022_TOWARD_A_HEALTHIER_WORLD.original.pdf?1543934003
17   Adaptiv #103669830
18   STELARA as compared to ENBREL™ and HUMIRA™. SIMPONI as compared to REMICADE, ENBREL™ and HUMIRA™.
19   Geert Van Der Vorst et al., "Green Chemistry," February 2013,15, 744 – 748.
2019 Health for Humanity Report 
Progress in Sustainability
Contact us:
WW-Corporate-Governance@its.jnj.com
One Johnson & Johnson Plaza 
New Brunswick, New Jersey 08933
healthforhumanityreport.jnj.com 
jnj.com