
2020  
Enterprise ESG Report
Putting the Future FirstSM 
About This Report 
About This Report
2020 ESG Awards and Recognition
This is BNY Mellon’s 14th report covering 
environmental, social and governance (ESG) topics. 
Our annual updates in this report are not just about 
Dow Jones Sustainability North America Index (DJSI) 
our company’s environmental and social impact, 
but also about how we view and integrate ESG  7 consecutive years
considerations throughout our operations, leveraging 
CDP A List for climate management leadership 
opportunities and mitigating risks cross-functionally 
and across our lines of business. In recognition of  8 consecutive years
our increasing focus on ESG considerations, we 
FTSE4Good Global Benchmark Index 
have transitioned from utilizing the Corporate Social 
Responsibility or CSR terminology, to “Enterprise  9 consecutive years
ESG,” the namesake of this report. 
Perfect score on the Corporate Equality Index for 
We publish our Enterprise ESG report annually, 
LGBTQ workplace equality, Human Rights Campaign 
generally in the second quarter, on www.bnymellon.
Foundation 
com/futurefirst. Unless otherwise noted, this report 
14 consecutive years
includes data and activities from BNY Mellon’s 
global operations for the calendar year 2020. Unless 
Bloomberg Gender-Equality Index 
otherwise noted, all data is as of 12/31/2020 and 
6 consecutive years
covers The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation 
and its subsidiaries. The report provides select data  BNY Mellon Awards and Recognition.
from past years in order to facilitate year-over-year 
analysis.
This report supplements information in our  
2020 Annual Report and 2021 Proxy Statement.
This is our 12th report using the Global Reporting 
Initiative (GRI) Standards, a leading sustainability 
reporting framework. We prepared the report 
according to GRI Standards Comprehensive option. To 
provide transparency regarding the financial impacts 
of climate-related risks and opportunity, earlier 
this year BNY Mellon issued Considering Climate at 
BNY Mellon, which provides an outline of our work 
in this area, and our implementation of Task Force 
on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) 
Guidelines.
View the GRI Index on page 82. 
BNY Mellon    Enterprise ESG     2
About This Report 
BNY Mellon Overview 
We power individuals and  Our Global Reach 
institutions to succeed across the 
Assets Under Management 
financial world.
$2.2* trillion
Assets Under Custody and/or Administration 
Powering the Financial World 
$41.7* trillion
BNY Mellon powers the financial world and is driven 
Global Reach 
to imagine what’s possible, create it, then improve on 
35 countries 
it to unlock potential for all. Because the only way to 
ensure our clients’ continued success, and that of the  37% of 2020 revenue generated  
industry, is to search constantly, ask every question,  outside United States
and above all...Consider Everything. 
Workforce 
Our Values
48,500 employees
A Passion for Excellence, Integrity, Strength in  49% based outside United States
Diversity and Courage to Lead — these values guide 
all of our actions. They underscore our commitment  Client Franchise**
to be a client-focused, trusted financial institution 
70% of Fortune 500 companies
driven by an empowered global team dedicated to 
93% of the top 100 investment managers worldwide 
outperforming in every market we serve.
84% of the top 100 U.S. pension  
Our History and employee benefits plan sponsors
We’ve been at the forefront of change in the financial 
world for over 230 years. We have weathered times  *   As of March 31, 2021
of calm and crisis, and we have done it by adapting,  **  Fortune 500: Fortune, Time Inc. ©2020; Investment Managers, Pensions and Employee 
Benefits: Pensions & Investments, P&I Crain Communications Inc. ©2020; BNY Mellon 
refining and consistently improving our services. That  client data as of February 2020
spirit of discovery has enabled us to stay ahead of the   
curve and deliver maximum success for our clients 
yesterday, today and tomorrow. 
BNY Mellon    Enterprise ESG     3
About This Report 
Table of Contents
Message From Our CEO  5
Our Approach  6
Powering a New Era of ESG  7
Future FirstSM ESG   8
Enterprise ESG Goals and Progress   11
Enterprise ESG Governance  14
Culture and Purpose  16
Diversity, Equity and Inclusion  17
Leadership and Development  26
Employee Engagement and Wellbeing  29
Our Community Impact  34
Responsible Business  38
Risk Management  39
Digital Transformation  47
Strong Governance   50 
ESG Client Solutions   54
Global Citizenship  69
Environmental Sustainability  70
Supply Chain  74
Advocacy and Political Engagement  76
Protecting Human Rights  79
Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index  81
Legal Notices  103
BNY Mellon    Enterprise ESG     4
About This Report
Message From Our CEO
A statement from Todd Gibbons,  As I indicated in our Considering Climate at BNY 
Mellon report, we are formalizing our process to 
Chief Executive Officer,  
integrate ESG, with a focus on climate change 
BNY Mellon
impacts, into the way we do business. This Enterprise 
ESG report outlines our progress toward that 
formalization, which began in 2020. A selection of 
There is no question that 2020 was a year that 
those milestones includes:
will forever have a profound effect on society as 
we consider the gravity of COVID-19 and social  •  Incorporated ESG-related Executive Committee 
justice movements around the globe. As we look  goals, personally by each member, into 
ahead to a sustainable future, it is essential that  performance measures — sending a clear 
BNY Mellon uses its reach, market influence and  signal that ESG is embedded in every area of our 
resources to address these, and other pressing global  company
environmental, social and governance (ESG) issues. 
•  Set concrete representation goals in the U.S. to 
We will continue to work toward ensuring we have 
step up progress in our most underrepresented 
a positive impact on society and the environment, 
ethnic/racial talent populations (Black and Latinx) 
and that we help our clients invest and operate 
by year-end 2023
responsibly. 
•  Administered 100 new green bond issuances, 
In my conversations with BNY Mellon’s stakeholders, 
totaling $38.7 billion, making us the leading trustee 
including clients, investors and employees, ESG 
in green bonds by deal volume for the second 
is nearly always on the agenda. As a major global 
consecutive year*
financial institution, we have touchpoints across 
•  Developed our ESG Data Analytics Application, 
the entire investment value chain and are therefore 
a cloud-based app that mass-customizes 
uniquely positioned to provide ESG solutions to serve 
investment portfolios to clients’ individual ESG 
a broad range of clients. Clients across the globe rely 
factor preferences, providing patent-pending 
on our responsible investment options and advice, 
crowdsourced guidance around preferred ESG 
ESG data analytics, and end-to-end ESG financing 
factors and the materiality of specific data sets
and payments solutions to help them successfully 
address their ESG goals. At BNY Mellon, we are committed to operating as a 
sustainable, responsible company — in terms of both 
We are committed to putting the Future FirstSM — 
our own actions and how we help our clients — and 
not just to power success today, but also to help 
we recognize we cannot do it alone. It will take all 
safeguard the future. At the corporate global level, 
of us, collectively, to put the Future First and help 
we strive to contribute to sustainable economic 
protect society and the planet for generations to 
growth that helps protect healthy markets; enhances 
come. 
our own business resiliency and longevity; and aims 
to deliver positive impact for key stakeholders, 
including clients, employees, shareholders and 
communities. We embrace this responsibility with 
great accountability, transparency and integrity, and 
it permeates every aspect of our culture. 
* Data reflective of FY 2020; Dealogic and Refinitiv
BNY Mellon    Enterprise ESG     5
About This Report 
Our  
Approach 
BNY Mellon    Enterprise ESG     6
Our Approach
Powering a   2020 Highlights
New Era of ESG
Climate Risk: Developed Task Force on Climate-
related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) Reporting plan, 
and in February 2021 published our Considering 
BNY Mellon is committed to using our global  Climate at BNY Mellon report.
reach, influence and resources not just to power 
Pay Equity: Continued delivering pay equity for both 
success today, but to help safeguard the future.  women and U.S. minority employees with total actual 
We aim to accelerate the evolution of ESG — on  compensation of more than 100% of their respective 
counterparts, on average.*
behalf of clients, investors, communities and 
ESG Investing: Expanded our ESG Analytics offering 
all stakeholders — to make a positive impact on 
to include an ESG Data Analytics application that 
people and the planet.
empowers clients to consolidate sustainability 
data from multiple sources into actionable portfolio 
monitoring, analysis and reporting. 
Carbon Neutral: Achieved carbon neutrality in our 
operations for the sixth consecutive year. 
Future Workforce: Pledged $20 million for 
multiyear educational and workforce development 
programming to academic and job training 
organizations. 
Racial Justice: Directed more than $1.5 million in 
Equality grants and conducted an Equality Matching 
Gift program.
COVID-19 Response: Facilitated nearly $6 million 
in company grants and raised nearly $2.2 million in 
employee contributions during the COVID-19 Relief 
Campaign.
* This analysis is adjusted for certain factors, including geography, level and job.
BNY Mellon    Enterprise ESG     7
Our Approach
Future FirstSM ESG  $41.7* trillion in assets under custody and/or  
administration, we have an unparalleled view of 
ESG trends and how we can make adjustments to 
positively affect the long term on behalf of clients. 
Given limited natural resources, growing 
With our size, scale and significance at the heart of 
populations and the influence of the business 
the financial system, we touch many points along the 
sector, we must put the Future First by  financial value chain — which means we’re uniquely 
implementing long-term thinking and growing  positioned to collaborate with clients to establish 
market best practices and create innovative ESG 
companies responsibly. So, at BNY Mellon, we start 
solutions. 
with our own ESG practices and conduct, then 
In 2020 we formalized our holistic approach to ESG. 
extend that thinking to the way we serve clients.
We are centralizing, formalizing and strengthening 
the company’s approach to ESG. By evolving the 
On an enterprise level, in terms of environmental 
Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) function to 
factors, we’re steadfast in the efficient use of natural 
Enterprise ESG and formalizing ESG Client Solutions, 
resources, mitigating climate-related risks, and 
we intend to make significant progress on our 
leveraging innovative energy solutions. Our social 
approach to "Who we are" — integrating an ESG lens 
standards mean that we’re dedicated to effectively 
across the bsuiness — and "What we do," our ESG 
managing our relationships with key stakeholders, 
and Responsible Investment products and services. 
including clients, employees, regulators, suppliers 
We believe this expanded, integrated approach better 
and the communities in which we operate. Regarding 
leverages our reach, market influence and resources 
governance, we operate with strong ethical business 
— all of which can drive shared value and significant 
practices, fair and equitable compensation, a 
progress toward pressing societal issues while 
diversified Board of Directors, and policies that 
simultaneously supporting our business objectives. 
acknowledge human rights principles.
Learn more about our Future First framework.
All of these actions inform our client solutions,  
where our aim is to help clients meet their ESG  
* As of March 31, 2021
goals. As one of the world’s largest custodians, with 
Future FirstSM — Our Holistic ESG Framework
Who we are:  What we do:  
Enterprise   ESG Client  
ESG Solutions
Culture and Purpose Responsible Investment
We firmly believe the strength of  
Responsible Business Data and Analytics
our client solutions is underpinned  
by our own actions and behavior  
as an enterprise.
Global Citizenship Financing and Payments
BNY Mellon    Enterprise ESG     8
Our Approach
Enterprise ESG 
BNY Mellon’s Enterprise ESG strategy is built on three  We integrate an ESG lens throughout our operations 
pillars that correspond with what is currently most  to address risks and opportunities in key business 
relevant to the company and our clients, employees,  functions. Our strategy is implemented by a full-
shareholders and communities: Culture and Purpose,  time Enterprise ESG team and guided by our cross-
Responsible Business and Global Citizenship. These  functional Enterprise ESG Steering Council composed 
pillars, and the dimensions within them, guide us in  of senior leaders. Our strategy takes into account 
prioritizing how BNY Mellon integrates an ESG lens  stakeholder input, global trends, business objectives 
into our operations.  and the results of enterprise-wide materiality 
analyses.
Culture and Purpose Responsible Business Global Citizenship
•  Diversity, Equity and Inclusion •  Risk Management •  Environmental Sustainability
•  Leadership & Development •  Technology •  Supply Chain
•  Employee Engagement   •  Governance •  Public Policy
& Wellbeing
•  ESG Client Solutions •  Human Rights
•  Community Impact
Various guidelines, such as the United Nations  ESG Commitment Statement
Global Compact (UNGC), Principles for Responsible 
At BNY Mellon, we are committed to doing business 
Investment (PRI), Sustainability Accounting 
in a way that is environmentally, socially and ethically 
Standards Board (SASB), and rating and ranking 
responsible, and aligns with our corporate values. 
frameworks, also influence our strategy.
Our Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) 
We report on our ESG performance annually in  Commitment Statement acknowledges this and 
accordance with the GRI Standards Comprehensive  outlines how we address our responsibilities to 
option and TCFD Guidelines. mitigate risks and capitalize on opportunities related 
to ESG topics. Adopted in May 2021, this statement 
replaces our former CSR Statement and aligns with 
existing BNY Mellon ESG-related statements and 
policies.
BNY Mellon    Enterprise ESG     9
Our Approach
ESG Client Solutions  Working with a leading global consultant, we 
identified 27 issues across six categories pertinent to 
our business model and operations, then prioritized 
At BNY Mellon, we power individuals and institutions 
and validated those issues. We engaged our 
to succeed across the financial world through a 
stakeholders through a series of internal interviews 
comprehensive suite of investment services and 
to prioritize the issues based on their importance 
investment management solutions. Our integrated 
to our external stakeholders and their influence on 
ESG approach empowers clients with strategies, 
our business success. The most important issues 
data and analytics for every phase of the investment 
are defined as those fundamental to business 
value chain. Because our clients’ needs must respond 
transformation in the current operating environment.
to ever-evolving ESG demands, our solutions are 
Various guidelines, as set out on page 9, and rating 
multifaceted and fall into three categories:
and ranking frameworks influenced our new strategy 
Responsible Investment: BNY Mellon offers a range 
and goals. Finally, we considered input from external 
of responsible investment options and advice for 
stakeholders on an informal basis.
professional and personal investors to help them 
achieve their investment goals.
Empowering Investors Through ESG Data and 
Analytics: Our breakthrough tools and analytics  Materiality Assessment Key Themes
capabilities power investment processes and 
Technological Resilience: Information security and resilience to 
portfolio reviews for asset owners and asset 
cyberattacks represent a key intersection of societal needs and 
managers, helping them to achieve their ESG goals.
BNY Mellon business priorities.
Enabling ESG Financing and Payments: We offer an 
The Importance of the Employee: Employee issues such 
end-to-end suite of ESG financing and payments  as diversity & inclusion, talent attraction, retention and 
solutions through our global market infrastructure,  development, and gender pay equity can help differentiate BNY 
Issuer Services and Treasury Services. Mellon in an increasingly competitive business environment.
Learn more about our ESG Client Solutions (p. 54). Climate Readiness & Response: The impending impacts from 
climate change require every institution to act as a result. In 
Materiality financial services, frameworks such as TCFD offer a robust and 
substantive assessment of climate-related vulnerabilities and 
opportunities.
We focus on what matters most and where we can 
Integrating ESG: Increasing evidence of the net benefit of 
drive business transformation. Thus, BNY Mellon  systematically integrating environmental, social and governance 
periodically adjusts our approach to remain current  considerations into the investment process is bolstering demand 
with stakeholder concerns, global trends and our own  for such products and services.
business strategies. In 2020, we increased alignment 
Trust & Transparency: Board oversight, responsiveness and 
of our ESG efforts both within our organization and  transparency regarding evolving sustainability challenges are 
with external reporting frameworks. In addition to  important to respond to stakeholder expectations.
updating our Enterprise ESG strategy, we introduced 
goals and key performance indicators (KPIs) to guide 
our actions from 2020 through 2025.
What Matters Most 
Our Enterprise ESG strategy and goals are based on 
research and stakeholder input gathered through a 
formal materiality assessment process conducted  
in 2019 that helped us determine the most relevant 
ESG issues.
BNY Mellon    Enterprise ESG     10
Our Approach
Enterprise ESG Goals and Progress 
Guided by our new strategy, we intend to resource and support projects and programs 
that will contribute to the company’s long-term success. Achieving these goals will also 
have a measurable, positive impact on society and the environment. Our ESG performance 
is reported regularly to our Executive Committee and the corporate Board of Directors 
Corporate Governance Nominating and Social Responsibility (CGNSR) Committee.
Culture and  Goals and Key Performance Indicators Progress
Purpose
Diversity, Equity  GOAL: Drive a culture of inclusion and advance diverse representation
and Inclusion   In
•  Increase senior leadership positions held by women and ethnically and   p
r
racially diverse employees with unique percentage point targets by Executive  og
Committee member re
s
s
•  Increase percentage of participation in E/BRGs, as evidenced by employee 
registered membership in at least one group, by 3% year over year, starting 
from the 2019 baseline year
•  Consistently rank among the top employers for leadership in the field of 
diversity, equity and inclusion
Leadership &  GOAL: Drive a culture of high productivity, engagement and commitment to 
Development continuous learning and development to support successful leaders, managers    In
and their teams  p
r
o
g
•  Improve manager effectiveness score by 5% year over year, as measured  re
s
through Manager Upward Feedback process s
•  Run a new company-wide employee engagement survey in 2020 to establish 
baseline engagement scores; perform on target with benchmark engagement 
scores for financial services industry
•  Increase the number of discrete employees participating in/utilizing non-
mandatory learning programs, on a year-over-year basis
Employee  GOAL: Support a culture of wellbeing through a holistic program focused on engaging 
Engagement &  employees and developing key management behaviors to decrease health risk   In
Wellbeing  pr
•  Increase positive response to employee health survey question “Do you think  og
your workplace supports a culture of health and wellbeing?” by 5% re
s
s
•  Offer at least two wellbeing programs that meet or exceed market benchmarks; 
increase enrollment and/or active participation by 10% year over year
Community  GOAL: Leverage the company’s resources and employee talent to significantly 
Impact increase impact of community support in the regions and countries in which     In
BNY Mellon operates  p
r
o
g
•  Direct 65% of corporate grants and sponsorship giving donations to organizations  re
s
and causes that are aligned with our strategic focus of developing the workforce  s
of the future
•  Facilitate 130,000+ hours of employee volunteerism
•  Increase total hours of Signature Pro Bono consulting delivered to nonprofits by 
10% over the 2019 baseline year
•  Achieve a skills-based volunteering target of 40% of total employee volunteer 
hours, ensuring that a significant portion of volunteer efforts leverage 
employees’ professional experience 
BNY Mellon    Enterprise ESG     11
Our Approach
Responsible   Goals and Key Performance Indicators Progress
Business
Risk  GOAL: Risk Framework - Continue to evolve and fortify our risk infrastructure
Management   In
 p
•  Ensure a consistent and aligned utilization of the risk appetite framework across  r
o
the company as a driver of business decisions for product, client and geography  g
r
e
prioritization s
s
GOAL: Risk Culture - Sustain strong global risk culture focused on ownership and 
ethical behavior   In
 p
r
o
•  Drive employee ownership of risk and compliance outcomes through ongoing  g
r
strategic communication and development es
s
Technology GOAL: Continually evolve business protocols to ensure systems continuity in 
every jurisdiction in which we operate, and across borders    N
o
t
 s
•  Expand our information security management system based on an internationally  ta
r
recognized specification (i.e., ISO 27001) for all critical applications and business  te
d
services 
GOAL: Evolve business protocols to provide technology knowledge, resilience 
and business continuity   In
 p
r
o
•  Cultivate a globally competitive level of workforce awareness concerning  g
r
e
information systems security  s
s
Governance* GOAL: As part of the director recruitment and refreshment efforts for the parent 
Board of Directors, continue to ensure that candidate slates include individuals    In
with diverse backgrounds and perspectives in order to maintain the Board’s   p
r
diverse composition o
g
r
e
s
s
•  Review at least annually, the diversity criteria applied by the Board in its process 
of evaluating the qualifications of potential candidates
•  Integrate into the evaluation of external search firms’ performance a review of 
such firms’ capabilities in developing diverse candidate pools
GOAL: Formalize proactive outreach program to engage shareholders on ESG 
performance   In
 p
r
o
•  Increase proactive engagement with top shareholders on ESG topics   g
r
e
•  Enhance integration of ESG content in public reporting, including but not limited  ss
to BNY Mellon’s Proxy materials
ESG Client  GOAL: Provide best-in-class client solutions to the global ESG community by 
Solutions enabling ESG financing   In
 p
r
o
•  Increase assets managed by investment firms that are signatories to the UNPRI g
r
e
•  Increase number of clients who use our ESG Global Risk Solutions, and Data and  ss
Analytics solutions
•  Increase volume of new green bonds administered
•  Demonstrate ESG thought leadership and proof points as measured by industry 
recognition and client satisfaction metrics
*   In our 2019 CSR Report, we included a KPI that stated: 
Among our top clients as outlined by the Global Client Management group, achieve a 90% rating of “Willingness to Recommend BNY Mellon” as measured in our surveys of external 
clients. This KPI is encompassed in another metric, so we eliminated it as a duplicate.
BNY Mellon    Enterprise ESG     12
Our Approach
Global  Goals and Key Performance Indicators Progress
Citizenship
Environmental  GOAL: Maintain commitment to environmental sustainability, including 
Sustainability effectively managing natural resource usage, such as energy and greenhouse    In
gas emissions, waste, paper and water  p
r
o
g
r
e
•  Reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 20% from a 2018 base year, including data  s
s
centers, in line with Science Based Targets (SBTi) methodology
•  Maintain carbon neutrality commitment 
•  Divert 80% of office waste from landfills 
•  Target zero waste to landfills for technology equipment
•  Achieve paper neutrality in the U.S. and India 
•  Drive water use reduction in building operations
Supply Chain GOAL: Build a Supplier Diversity Program that has longevity, consistent with 
BNY Mellon’s value proposition and diversity initiatives    In
 p
r
o
•  Design and execute an efficient onboarding process for diverse suppliers to  g
r
e
improve customer experience s
s
•  Implement a company-wide sustainable training program on supplier diversity
•  Increase outreach with diverse suppliers through quarterly supplier 
development and education experiences
Public Policy GOAL: Continue to engage with stakeholders on key regulatory and legislative 
issues important to BNY Mellon   In
 p
r
o
•  Expand internal awareness of regulatory and legislative impacts and trends g
r
e
•  Strategically advocate on priority legislative and regulatory issues affecting BNY  ss
Mellon
Human Rights GOAL: Continue the commitment to preventing modern slavery and human 
trafficking in our operations, supply chain and communities   In
 p
r
o
•  Conduct due diligence and training practices to promote understanding of  g
r
e
Modern Slavery Act principles s
s
BNY Mellon    Enterprise ESG     13
Our Approach
Enterprise ESG 
Governance 
A clear governance structure drives the 
integration of our Enterprise ESG strategy 
throughout our company and helps ensure that 
our activities align with our business goals and 
cultural values. Our governance mechanisms 
balance the interests of our varied stakeholders 
and help inform our policies, practices, 
reporting and disclosure.
The work of considering and integrating ESG 
issues across all levels of our enterprise extends 
from the highest level of leadership to every 
employee across the globe.
Enterprise ESG Governance Structure
Corporate Governance, Nominating and Social Responsibility (CGNSR) Committee of the Board of Directors 
Provides primary oversight of BNY Mellon’s ESG efforts. Consists of independent directors who regularly review our  
Enterprise ESG performance, monitor progress against long-term goals, and provide guidance to management.  
Read more in the CGNSR Committee Charter.
Executive Committee
Responsible for ESG progress and success; approves and monitors progress on long-term goals, anticipates market trends and 
future client needs, and drives business innovation
EC ESG Steering Council
Enterprise ESG Steering Council  ESG Client Solutions Working Group
Enterprise ESG Team 
Leads strategy development and governance processes, provides subject matter expertise, collaborates with company functions 
and departments to assist in development of ESG integration initiatives, manages public reporting and disclosures related to ESG 
activities, facilitates external stakeholder input, and collaborates with experts and facilitates thought leadership
Working Groups  Subject Matter Experts Employee Groups 
TCFD Working Group Staff across varying areas of the  Employee/Business Resource Groups (E/
company who execute ESG-related  BRGs), sustainability ambassadors, and 
Line of business ESG Working Groups
policies, practices and programs  volunteer and philanthropic fundraising 
Ad hoc as needed  committees that support social or 
environmental impact initiatives
Learn more about Enterprise ESG on our website.
BNY Mellon    Enterprise ESG     14
Our Approach
Stakeholder Engagement 
We strategically engage with a range of stakeholders 
in various ways on an ongoing basis to solicit and 
analyze feedback and help determine our Enterprise 
ESG focus. The table below highlights our key 
stakeholder groups, engagement approach and 
examples of recent engagement.
Stakeholder  Approach to Engagement
Group 
Clients  Advisory boards and idea-sharing conferences 
Direct conversations 
  Satisfaction and engagement surveys 
Thought leadership collaborations
Investors  Annual and quarterly reports
Annual Meeting of Stockholders 
  Financial services events 
Proxy voting 
Webcasts and conference calls
Employees Conversations with managers 
Employee/Business Resource Groups 
  Engagement surveys 
Performance management and development programs 
Town Hall meetings
ESG Training Certification
ESG Monthly Briefing Calls 
ESG intranet page
Communities  Employee volunteering and giving-related relationships with community organizations 
Meetings with local leaders and advocacy groups 
  Nonprofit board memberships and financial support partnerships (grants and sponsorships)
BNY Mellon    Enterprise ESG     15
About This Report 
Culture and Purpose
Culture is the driving force behind our success as
a global leader in financial services. We maintain a
high-performance culture by engaging our diverse
employees and equipping them to contribute to
our shared purpose: powering individuals and
institutions to flourish across the financial world. Our
people are united by a common set of defining values
and demonstrate behaviors that enable us to deliver on
our purpose. Now and in the future, we care for each
other, our clients and our communities.
BNY Mellon    Enterprise ESG     16
Culture and Purpose
Diversity, Equity   Our Opportunity and Approach 
and Inclusion 
For BNY Mellon, this societal challenge provides 
the opportunity to redouble our commitment and 
approach to diversity, equity and inclusion. Diversity 
Diversity forms the very fabric of our  is our differentiating strength. We welcome the 
interconnected world, shaped and accelerated  differences that enable each individual to make 
a unique contribution. We create a respectful, 
by globalization. It creates a competitive 
equitable and welcoming culture where people feel 
business advantage and, as studies show, 
they belong and our differences enable us to thrive. 
enables companies to better attract and retain 
While equality is fundamentally about treating 
top talent. Embracing diversity, advancing  everyone the same, we strive for equity, which is 
equity, and fostering inclusion are business  about fairness. We aim to provide people with the 
resources and opportunities they need, given their 
imperatives that drive our performance, enable 
history and set of circumstances. Equity is an anchor 
individuals to achieve their full potential, and 
to creating more diverse and inclusive organizations 
help create a more just society.
where people feel a sense of belonging. We 
continually seek to understand, reflect and support 
Events of 2020 showed how systemic racial 
our increasingly diverse society as we include and 
disparities in the U.S. and globally present  harness every advantage to power engagement, 
serious social justice issues to our societies,  performance and growth — and produce a distinctive 
BNY Mellon impact.
economies, communities and businesses. At 
the same time, the COVID-19 pandemic and 
concurrent economic fallout disproportionately 
affected people of color.1 Together, these 
2020 Achievements 
developments shone a light on the importance 
of making our diverse society more equitable  Pay Equity: Continued delivering pay equity 
for both women and U.S. minority employees 
and inclusive. 
with total actual compensation of more than 
100% of their respective counterparts, on 
average.*
Workforce Diversity: Expanded our 
representation goals and accountability 
framework to step up progress in our most 
underrepresented ethnic/racial talent 
populations by year-end 2023.
Disability Inclusion: Achieved 100% on our 
Disability Equality Index for creating a more 
inclusive workplace.
*  This analysis is adjusted for certain factors, including geography, 
level and job.
1   COVID-19, economic mobility, racial justice, and the middle class, Brookings Institution
BNY Mellon    Enterprise ESG     17
Culture and Purpose
Addressing Racial Injustice  employees. They established a new relationship with 
BYP, the largest UK network of Black professionals, 
to promote BNY Mellon vacancies, and are tracking 
Recognizing the societal unrest spurred by ongoing 
and reporting UK employee ethnicity data, which will 
racial injustice, in the first half of 2020, our senior 
enable monitoring progress.
leadership strengthened our company’s commitment 
These actions and commitments, as well as others 
to diversity, equity and inclusion. Augmenting existing 
described throughout this report, address systemic 
plans and initiatives, we have engaged in purpose-led 
inequality and structural racism, both within our 
action to accelerate progress.
organization and in the communities we serve.
To address immediate needs, we offered open, 
internal forums to foster meaningful dialogue on 
race relations, diversity, inclusion, equality and other 
topics; engaged our employees through an Equality 
Campaign Matching Giving Program; and directed 
more than $1.5 million to organizations that address 
social justice programming and advocacy. Our 
Employee/Business Resource Groups (E/BRGs)  
stepped up their support for employees who 
responded by increasing their involvement in these 
groups to unprecedented levels (see page 24).
In the U.S., we set representation goals for greater 
progress in our most underrepresented ethnic talent 
populations by year-end 2023. We plan to achieve 
these levels by improving diverse outcomes in hiring, 
advancement and retention.
•  Achieve a 15% increase in Black representation  
to 12% 
•  Achieve a 30% increase in Black representation  
of Senior Leaders (Levels M/S) to over 4%
•  Achieve a 15% increase in Latinx representation  
to almost 8%
•  Achieve a 30% increase in Latinx representation  
of Senior Leaders (Levels M/S) to over 5.5%
In the UK, our operations implemented an array of 
measures addressing race and ethnicity. Among other 
measures, they promoted dialogue and awareness 
through Courageous Conversation toolkits for 
managers and senior leaders, and a lecture series for 
BNY Mellon    Enterprise ESG     18
Culture and Purpose
Strategy and Governance 
Diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI) is integral to who  Global Head of Diversity, Equity and Inclusion 
we are as a company, what our people experience  engages with Executive Committee members and 
as members of our global team, and how we serve  the Board of Directors on DEI goals, progress and 
all our stakeholders. Our four-pillar DEI strategy is  challenges. Executive Committee members’ variable 
embedded in our business strategy, operating model,  compensation is tied to performance against these 
talent experience and client value proposition.  and other goals.
A dedicated team of subject matter professionals,  Employee leaders across the company bring fresh 
which includes a global head and regional leads in  perspectives to our work through membership in 
the Americas, EMEA and India, develops the global  our E/BRGs and on various business-line councils 
strategy. This team takes a consultative approach  focused on embedding DEI in business strategy.
to partnering with Human Resources colleagues, 
business leaders and the Executive Committee to 
implement and adapt the strategy locally. The 
Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Strategy 
Business Imperative Inclusive Culture
Enable businesses to optimize   Ensure our culture is welcoming, 
and differentiate performance respectful and equitable and fosters 
a sense of belonging
Diverse Talent Market Leadership
Build the best global team Set a high bar for our  
company and our people
BNY Mellon    Enterprise ESG     19
Culture and Purpose
A Business Imperative Global Gender Diversity
% women
BNY Mellon people come from all races, ethnicities,  U.S. Workforce
cultures, genders, sexual orientations, ages, abilities  2019  44%
and backgrounds. To ensure that diversity advances,  2020  44%
we: 
Global Workforce
•  Develop tools, conversation guides and learning  2019  41%
sessions for senior leaders and managers 2020  41%
•  Annually publish DEI metrics for workplace  New Hires
diversity, senior leader diversity, supplier diversity,  2019  40%
pay equity and board diversity 2020  39%
•  Regularly conduct pay gap analyses and implement  Mid-level Leaders
processes to address any gaps 2019  35%
2020  35%
•  Embed DEI in every stage of the talent life cycle 
and strengthen an ecosystem of capability  Senior Leaders
and support to improve diverse talent hiring,  2019  29%
2020  29%
development, advancement and retention. For 
example, we leverage technology such as artificial  Executive Leaders
intelligence to tap into more diverse talent pools  2019  18%
and enhance engagement with diverse candidates  2020  29%
in the recruitment process
Board of Directors
We partner with lines of business such as   2019  33%
Digital (see page 47) and Risk and Compliance   2020  27%
(see page 39) to creatively embed opportunities  
to advance DEI as enterprise priorities. 
U.S. Ethnicity
We believe that our entire workforce, including our 
% of ethnic/racial minorities
most senior leaders, should reflect the increasingly 
diverse markets and clients we serve and the  U.S. Workforce
communities in which we operate. The BNY Mellon  2019  35%
People Analytics team maintains and publishes  2020  35%
workforce representation data, which enables us 
U.S. New Hires
to track diversity, identify changes, and improve 
2019  48%
representation throughout the talent life cycle.
2020  44%
Senior Leaders
 
2019  24%
2020  25%
Board of Directors
2019  33%
2020  36%
“ Mid-level leaders” are inclusive of BNY Mellon’s vice president-level employees
 “Senior leaders” are inclusive of BNY Mellon’s director-level and above employees, 
excluding executive leaders
 “Executive leaders” are inclusive of BNY Mellon’s Executive Committee
BNY Mellon    Enterprise ESG     20
Culture and Purpose
Pay Equity  Diverse Talent 
At BNY Mellon, we are committed to providing equal 
pay for equal work, and we periodically review our  To increase our talent pool diversity, we have forged 
pay practices and processes. In 2021, we once again  strategic alliances with professional associations, 
voluntarily published the results of our most recent  educational institutions, think tanks and nonprofits 
pay practices review covering global pay equity data  that reach Black, Latinx, Asian, LGBTQ+, people 
and also shared for the first time unadjusted global/ with disabilities and other talent from backgrounds 
U.S. median pay data. Pay Equity measures whether  currently underrepresented in our workforce. We 
we are paying employees, regardless of gender  aim for fair inclusion by requiring diverse candidate 
globally or race/ethnicity in the U.S., comparably  slates, creating gender-neutral job descriptions, 
for doing the same/similar work, which means jobs  and involving diverse interviewers. We engage 
that require similar levels of experience and skill.  nontraditional candidates, such as those with 
Pay in this review is statistically adjusted for certain  neurodiverse abilities, people reentering the 
factors.  Median pay compares the 50th percentile  workforce after an extended leave of absence, and 
of pay of the defined group (women or racial/ethnic  veterans looking to transition into civilian life and the 
group) against the 50th percentile of pay for the  corporate workforce.
comparison group (men or majority group), and pay is 
BNY Mellon is incorporating an artificial-intelligence-
not adjusted for any factors. We also published our 
powered platform into our recruiting and talent 
2020 UK Gender Pay Gap Report in accordance with 
management efforts to achieve a better, more 
the UK Government’s criteria, our fourth such report. 
inclusive workforce. In 2020, we began implementing 
For more information visit Pay Equity at BNY Mellon. this tool that enhances our ability to identify 
promising candidates, reach our diversity hiring 
goals, and retain top performers. The platform is 
now live, and we are beginning to collect data and 
metrics that will be tracked to gauge impact and 
results. Learn more in a joint white paper published 
by eightfold.ai and BNY Mellon.
The dynamics of recruiting shifted dramatically in a 
COVID-19 world where in-person engagement events, 
conferences and on-site interviews gave way to fully 
virtual hiring. This transition enabled us to reach 
locations that had previously been excluded due to 
travel and resource constraints and to offer our first 
100% virtual summer intern program.
Our 2021 campus recruiting season will also utilize 
a virtual format, including eight Historically Black 
Colleges and Universities (HBCUs) as well as three 
Hispanic Serving Institutions (HSIs). We also intend 
to strengthen our outreach to diverse candidates 
by collaborating with, and sponsoring the Society of 
Hispanic Engineers (SHPE), National Society of Black 
Engineers (NSBE), Tapia and Grace Hopper (a female 
engineering conference).
BNY Mellon    Enterprise ESG     21
Culture and Purpose
Advancing Careers
To increase diversity at all levels of our organization, 
ESG Enterprise 2025 Diversity, Equity and 
especially at the senior levels, we embed DEI in 
Inclusion Goal
succession bench criteria and design development 
Drive a culture of inclusion and advance diverse 
plans that improve promotion readiness and advance 
representation
talent from all backgrounds. 
Our six E/BRGs are helping us achieve this goal  KPI: Increase senior  Progress: Global 
leadership positions held by  representation of women 
through initiatives such as a supplemental support 
women and ethnically and  in senior leadership* was 
system for our people throughout their career  racially diverse employees  relatively flat year over 
with unique percentage  year at 29%. In the U.S., 
journey. Introduced in 2020, our Sponsor Ready 
point targets by Executive  individuals of ethnic/racial 
course builds awareness and skill in sponsoring  Committee member minority backgrounds in 
colleagues and creates a sponsorship culture that  senior leadership* rose to 
25% in 2020 from 24% in 
will contribute to sustained knowledge sharing, 
2019
skill building, diversity of thought and competitive 
advantage across our businesses.  * Senior leadership includes Managing Directors and 
Directors (including managers and independent 
In the UK, our intergenerational GENEDGE E/BRG  contributors), exclusive of the Executive Committee.
sponsors a Shadow ExCo program designed to 
help mid-career professionals advance within the 
organization. Through this professional development 
program for high-potential, mid- to senior-level 
employees, participants gain experience and 
exposure as they analyze actual business initiatives 
and present recommendations to BNY Mellon 
International's Executive Committee.
BNY Mellon    Enterprise ESG     22
Culture and Purpose
Inclusive Culture  Our increasingly inclusive culture arises from formal 
training as well as the efforts of our offices around 
the world. While we share the same core values 
We work to ensure that our culture is respectful and 
across our global organization, implementation varies 
equitable and fosters a sense of belonging. At the 
with local needs and cultures. 
enterprise level, we recently:
In Asia Pacific, we ensured a more welcoming 
•  Refreshed our Unconscious Bias and DEI 
environment through measures such as LGBT+ 
Certification Program, part of a new DEI Academy
awareness and training for client-facing employees, 
•  Offered a series of moderated virtual  verifying vendor-readiness to support LGBT+ 
conversations that connect wellbeing to diversity  employees, and updating gender-neutral language in 
and inclusion topics human resources policies and our payroll system.
Additional Dimensions of Representation (BNY Mellon in the U.S. and UK)
Data based on employee voluntary disclosures, as of 31 December 2020
People with Disabilities LGBT+ Veterans
3.9% 1.0%  2.0% 
U.S. Workforce U.S. Workforce U.S. Workforce
1.2%  1.8%  0.1%
UK Workforce UK Workforce UK Workforce
Our newly formed EMEA Business Inclusion Council,  Disability Inclusion at Work
which drives progress in measuring, increasing and 
People with disabilities represent over one billion 
reporting on DEI, is headed by the Deputy Chair and 
people around the globe. In 2020, we took steps 
General Counsel of BNY Mellon EMEA and includes 
at the enterprise and regional levels to encourage 
senior regional leaders.
inclusion and provide additional resources for our 
In India, E/BRG chapters collaborated to offer a four- colleagues impacted by disability. We participated 
day, virtual D&I Week in 2020 linked to the celebration  in the Disability Equality Index for the second time 
of the Diwali holiday. Expansion of a D&I Fellowship  in 2020 and raised our score from 90% to 100%. BNY 
Program and an employee referral drive resulted  Mellon was also named to the Disability Equality 
in more than 50 full-time hires from nontraditional  Index® “Best Places to Work” list by Disability:IN and 
talent pools. the American Association of People with Disabilities. 
In 2020, we joined the Valuable 500, a CEO-led 
movement of 500 corporations that have pledged 
to elevate disability with their Boards. We 
committed to create career opportunities through 
BNY Mellon    Enterprise ESG     23
Culture and Purpose
our neurodiversity and autism-at-work programs,  Black Leadership Forum, a cohort of senior Black 
continue investments in inclusion education and  leaders across lines of business, met with the 
accessibility improvements, and engage with people  CEO, CFO and Global Head of Human Resources 
with disabilities both inside and outside of our  to share their experiences, discuss the company’s 
organization. commitment to advance racial equity and improve 
diverse representation, and identify meaningful ways 
Our Brussels office has welcomed its first diverse-
to double down on our efforts.
ability intern, following preparatory training for hiring 
managers and HR teams.
Members of our HEART E/BRG candidly shared 
Enterprise ESG 2025 Diversity, Equity and 
stories of their journeys involving mental health 
Inclusion Goal
struggles and dealing with disabilities through a 
“From the Heart” video series. Drive a culture of inclusion and advance diverse 
representation
Employee-Led Inclusion 
KPI: Increase percentage  Progress: Membership in 
of participation in E/BRGs,  BNY Mellon’s six E/BRGs 
During a year of remote working and social 
as evidenced by employee  grew from 10,722 to 11,408 
distancing, BNY Mellon employees gained deeper  registered membership in at  in 2020, an increase of 
least one group, by 3% year  1.4%
appreciation for the value of connection and 
over year, starting from the 
inclusion, if only digitally. Membership in BNY  2019 baseline year
Mellon’s six E/BRGs grew from 10,7222 to 11,408 in 
2020. E/BRGs helped employees feel less isolated, 
support each other’s mental health and resilience,  See the Our Community Impact section (p 34) of this 
learn about the issues underlying racial and social  report to learn about our work to support inclusion 
injustice and active allyship, and effectively navigate  through our nonprofit partners.
through the challenges of COVID-19. This network 
includes nearly one in four employees, creating 
networks for: cross-generational issues, those with 
disabilities, multicultural employees, the LGBT+ 
community, veterans and women. With an Executive 
Committee member sponsor aligned to each group, 
our E/BRGs connect our people around the world. 
These groups stepped up in significant ways to help 
their colleagues cope with isolation while continuing 
important personal and professional development. 
With the encouragement of management, E/BRGs 
created programming that focused on racial equity 
and social justice, supported working parents and 
caregivers, helped build mental health resilience 
and overall wellbeing, and engaged employees in 
mentoring. As E/BRGs engaged our workforce, they 
helped amplify the voices and concerns of those who 
were most affected, including the underrepresented. 
For example, members of our IMPACT E/BRG and its  
 
 
 
2  The 2019 E/BRG membership count provided in this year’s report is different from 
the count provided in last year’s report due to changes to the membership tracking 
platform and methods to verify membership status.
BNY Mellon    Enterprise ESG     24
Culture and Purpose
Market Leadership 
At over 48,000 strong around the world, BNY Mellon is 
a voice for equality, and a catalyst for the betterment 
of our communities. When we join our voice with 
others, we can amplify our impact and accelerate 
change. This united action and visibility is especially 
significant in nations where the political rhetoric and 
legislative climate are becoming less inclusive. We 
accomplish this by supporting important causes and 
through recognition programs that enable us to track 
our performance against other leaders in diversity 
and inclusion. We are a signatory to: 
•  Association of Business Service Leaders’ 
#WorkingTogether Pledge, Poland
•  Chartre De La Diversite, Luxembourg
•  Gender Equality Charter, Belgium
•  HM Treasury Women in Finance Charter
•  Social Mobility Pledge
•  United Nations Standards of Conduct for Business 
Tackling Discrimination against Lesbian, Gay, Bi, 
Trans, and Intersex People 
•  Valuable 500
Enterprise ESG 2025 Diversity, Equity and 
Inclusion Goal
Goal: Drive a culture of inclusion and advance diverse 
representation
KPI: Consistently rank  Progress:
among the top employers 
2020 Bloomberg Gender-
for leadership in the field of 
Equality Index
diversity, equity and inclusion
2020 Disability Equality 
Index 
Human Rights Campaign 
Foundation 2021 
Corporate Equality Index 
100% Score 
A listing of additional DEI awards and recognition is available 
on our website
BNY Mellon    Enterprise ESG     25
Culture and Purpose
Leadership and  Our commitment to high performance and 
professional development starts with our executive 
Development  leaders and reaches every level of the organization. 
Employees have access to robust learning resources, 
training programs and performance management 
feedback that enable them to drive their own career 
Offering robust and varied opportunities 
development. At all levels, we provide education, 
for continuous learning and professional 
training and support to help our people thrive in a 
development has become a competitive  changing, digital world. 
advantage for organizations vying for 
employees. Talented individuals seek out 
2020 Achievements 
employers who evidence a clear commitment 
to and investment in ongoing opportunities 
Leadership Skills: Launched a Leadership 
for people to learn, grow and realize their full  and Professional Development Academy and 
potential. Companies that offer a strong learning  achieved double the projected enrollment, 
receiving over 90% favorability scores from 
culture and equip employees with the skills 
employees.
to succeed in their current and future roles 
experience higher employee performance and  Client Experience: Introduced a Client 
Engagement Academy to support the client 
retention rates.3
experience, enhance relationships, and 
With the business market and technology  improve outcomes for both clients and  
BNY Mellon.
changing at a rapid pace, organizations must 
become more agile in their response to, and  Technology Upskilling: Created industry-
even anticipation of, these shifts. By quickly  leading learning experiences that provide 
Technology employees with opportunities  
reskilling and upskilling employees as well as 
for upskilling. 
providing relevant learning experiences that 
enhance technical and soft skills, companies  Digital IQ: Implemented an Operations 
Digital Academy to increase the digital IQ of 
prepare themselves — and their employees —  
Operations employees and equip them with 
for the workplace of the future.
the skills required for the jobs of tomorrow.
Our Opportunity and Approach 
Building an exceptional workforce begins with 
attracting exceptional, diverse individuals with 
critical skills and talents. Our organization 
puts the Future First by supporting employees’ 
development as individual contributors and 
leaders. We strive to create a lifelong learning 
culture that provides opportunities for them to 
acquire new skills and competencies at every 
stage of their BNY Mellon journey.
3   Trends 2020, The Broadening Role of L&D, Training Industry, Nov/Dec 2019
BNY Mellon    Enterprise ESG     26
Culture and Purpose
Training and Development 
Enterprise ESG 2025 Leadership and Development Goal
Drive a culture of high productivity, engagement and commitment to continuous learning  
and development to support successful leaders, managers and their teams
KPI:  Progress
Increase the number of discrete employees  Year 2019 2020 YoY change
participating in/utilizing non-mandatory learning 
programs, on a year-over-year basis
Completed training  312,587 390,801 25%
for non-mandatory 
Training Hours 
Average hours per  7 9 19%
learner
Distinct count of  4201 7302 74%
courses completed
% of year-end  87% 91% 5%
active employee 
population that 
completed non-
mandatory training
We deliver a wealth of programs and development  internships to one- and two-year rotational and 
opportunities to help people advance their careers  immersion programs, these opportunities are 
and progress within our organization, from internship  structured to attract qualified individuals to our 
to executive management. Courses and role-specific  organization and advance career growth. 
training in global financial markets, specialized 
Learn more about these programs.
finance, management and leadership are presented 
on demand, in virtual classrooms and via on-site  Preparing New Yorkers for Work
learning experiences. Our extensive training and 
Recognizing that many individuals need to acquire 
development opportunities enable employees to grow 
critical workplace skills, we joined with the CEOs 
professionally and advance within our organization 
from 26 of the largest New York area employers to 
and, in 2020, 27% of open positions were filled by 
launch the New York Jobs CEO Council. Our common 
internal candidates.
goal is to meet employer needs for skilled employees 
Emerging Talent Programs  by training and hiring New Yorkers — with a focus on 
Black, Latinx and Asian communities. Collaborating 
Attracting outstanding individuals from all 
with CUNY, the New York City Department of 
backgrounds to our organization is vital to achieving 
Education and other groups, the council aims to hire 
our corporate value “passion for excellence” and 
100,000 New Yorkers by 2030, including 25,000 CUNY 
remaining a global leader in financial services.
students. 
Through a coordinated suite of programs that are 
often supported by our E/BRGs, we introduce 
individuals to opportunities at our organization at 
key transition points in their career progression. 
From one-day Sophomore Summits and summer 
BNY Mellon    Enterprise ESG     27
Culture and Purpose
Leadership and Professional Development  Performance Management 
Early in March 2020, we launched a new Leadership 
and Professional Development Academy, an online  Our Performance Management Program plays 
learning platform that enables our global workforce  a critical role in building our high-performance 
to connect and learn digitally. A large variety of  culture, as well as in ensuring alignment of individual 
programs and resources, from leadership skill  contributions with enterprise strategy. It enables a 
development to relevant professional skills, are  rich feedback loop between managers and their team 
offered. Within nine months, more than 15,000  members to help ensure performance standards are 
employees had enrolled in the platform, resulting   understood and met, and to fuel ongoing professional 
in more than 1,900 learning hours. development. DEI goals are included in the 
Shortly after the onset of COVID-19 and our rapid  performance management plans of all employees, 
transition to remote work, we developed and rolled  placing on them the responsibility to help build teams 
out a Remote Management Bootcamp and other  and a culture that enable all members to thrive. By 
resources to equip managers with leadership and  elevating inclusion as a leadership competency, we 
communication techniques for a changed work  have made inclusive leadership an imperative for 
environment. anyone responsible for managing, or who aspires to 
manage, high-performance teams. Our performance 
We believe that managers’ and leaders’ success 
management and feedback processes continued in 
starts with their transition to a new role. Our 
2020 through an adapted format to accommodate 
first-line managers and directors participate in a 
remote work.
comprehensive leadership development programming 
that sets them up for success. Close to 800 managers 
and leaders participated in 2020. Completion rates 
for these courses were 97%, with 96% of participants 
strongly agreed or agreed that the content was 
immediately relevant and helpful to performing  
their work.
Enterprise ESG 2025  
Leadership and Development Goal
Drive a culture of high productivity, engagement and 
commitment to continuous learning and development to 
support successful leaders, managers and their teams
KPI: Improve manager  Progress: Postponed 
effectiveness score by 5%  upward feedback to 2021 
year over year, as measured  to account for added 
through Manager Upward  complexity caused by 
Feedback process COVID-19 and other related 
processes
BNY Mellon    Enterprise ESG     28
Culture and Purpose
Employee Engagement  Our Opportunity and Approach 
and Wellbeing 
We seek to attract and retain employees by creating 
a distinctive, remarkable BNY Mellon people 
experience that covers their entire relationship 
Leading employers seek to provide an  with us, from first contact through alumni status. 
appealing candidate experience, competitive  We recognize that employees seek a supportive 
workplace, and we continually evaluate our 
pay and robust benefits in order to attract 
employee engagement and wellbeing programs 
desirable candidates. Employees look for 
in an effort meet those expectations. Engaged, 
organizations whose values align with theirs, 
healthy employees are critical to our success: When 
where diversity and inclusion are priorities,  employees are at their best, they are more productive 
and where employee wellbeing is supported.  and contribute to a vibrant, productive workforce. 
We maintain a listening culture and offer programs to 
And in light of recent workplace disruptions, 
address employees’ physical, emotional and financial 
employee wellness has emerged as a critical 
health, and social connections.
organizational priority.4
During the social, political and economic upheaval of 
COVID-19 and social unrest, we prioritized employee 
wellbeing and responded with an array of support to 
meet their unique needs. The health and safety of our 
staff remain one of our top priorities.
2020 Achievements 
COVID-19 Care: Introduced a Supporting You 
Now framework to demonstrate and facilitate 
access to our wide array of personal care, life 
balance and social support.
Employee Retention: Achieved a company-
wide retention rate of 92%, a six percentage 
point increase over 2019.
4   Why You Need to Prioritize Employee Wellness in 2020, Workhuman
BNY Mellon    Enterprise ESG     29
Culture and Purpose
Employee Engagement 
We engage with employees to encourage innovation,  SPOTLIGHT: 
show appreciation for their contributions, and gather  The Power of Peer Recognition
feedback on how we can build a more rewarding, 
Positive feedback from colleagues provides 
inclusive workplace. 
recognition and encouragement, which is the 
As an element of our digital transformation, we are  purpose of our Winning Our Way (WOW) employee 
reimagining our People Experience: the sum of all  recognition platform. Nominations for these 
an employee’s interactions with our organization  small monetary awards rose 20% in 2020 as peers 
from their first interaction to the very last. Through  and managers affirmed coworkers for continuing 
this initiative, we intend to create a distinctive,  to demonstrate accountability, client focus, 
remarkable BNY Mellon people experience that will  efficient decision-making and excellence while 
allow us to attract and retain our talent.  working remotely. Tech and operations colleagues 
in our BKRT India especially commended peers’ 
Listening to Employees  workplace-related efforts. BNY Mellon allocated 
nearly $1 million in additional funds to support 
We regularly gather feedback through an all-
the increase in awards and types of award.
employee survey and, in 2020, we conducted and 
began responding to an all-enterprise Employee 
Engagement Survey. Executive Committee members, 
working together with employees, lead workstreams 
focused on improving connectivity across the 
enterprise, organizational processes, work-life 
balance and career development.
Members of each cross-functional work-stream 
team, which include diverse global employees, have 
the opportunity for professional development. Early 
outcomes include the launch of the Working Together 
Pledge of mutual colleague support and a curated, 
three-month Virtual Leadership Learner Journey on 
wellbeing and working virtually. 
Enterprise ESG 2025  
Leadership & Development Goal 
Drive a culture of high productivity, engagement and 
commitment to continuous learning and development to 
support successful leaders, managers and their teams
KPI:  Progress: 
Run a new company-wide  Launched a 
employee engagement  comprehensive People 
survey in 2020 to establish  Experience initiative to 
baseline engagement scores address this opportunity 
Perform on target with  Achieved a 67% 
benchmark engagement  engagement score, against 
scores for financial services  the financial services 
industry industry sector benchmark 
of 73%
BNY Mellon    Enterprise ESG     30
Culture and Purpose
Employee Retention 
Retaining talented and skilled employees both 
reflects the health of an organization and contributes 
to its success. We track employee retention globally 
and regionally: In 2020, our company-wide retention 
rate was 92%, a six percent increase from 2019.
Employee Retention by Region
Asia Pacific
2020  Female  91%
2019  Female  88%
2020  Male  91%
2019  Male  84%
Europe, Middle East & Africa
2020  Female  93%
2019  Female  89%
2020  Male  94%
2019  Male  89%
India
2020  Female  88%
2019  Female  72%
2020  Male  90%
2019  Male  79%
Latin America
2020  Female  88%
2019  Female  91%
2020  Male  89%
2019  Male  90%
U.S. & Canada
2020  Female  94%
2019  Female  90%
2020  Male  93%
2019  Male  90%
Total 
2020  Female  92%
2019  Female  87%
2020  Male  92%
2019  Male  87%
70% 80% 90% 100%
BNY Mellon    Enterprise ESG     31
Culture and Purpose
Employee Wellbeing  
 
BNY Mellon's holistic approach to Benefits and  medical, dental and vision coverage; tax-advantaged 
Wellbeing is designed to create a healthy and  flexible spending and health savings accounts; and 
vibrant workforce. We work with leading health and  critical illness, accident, disability and life insurance.
family-care providers to deliver an array of services  We encourage employees to prioritize their own 
that meet our people’s varied needs. We promote  health and wellbeing, and our programs give 
employee wellbeing by offering our employees and  employees easy access to resources to help improve 
their families comprehensive health benefits and  their physical health, emotional resilience, financial 
support. Benefits vary by country and can include   wellbeing and social connections.
Physical Wellbeing Emotional Wellbeing
Strongest element of global strategy,  Mental health issues are key drivers of 
built on Live Well U.S. and UK initiatives  healthcare costs and absenteeism
since 2011
Primary focus: lowering stigma of mental 
Primary focus: lower long-term health  health, building resilience, and expanding 
risks (and costs) of employees and  access to effective treatment
family members
Social Wellbeing
Financial Wellbeing
Individuals with strong social ties to 
Financial problems are a common cause  families, friends and community are more 
of stress for many employees, impacting  resilient in the face of wellbeing challenges
overall wellbeing
Primary focus: the critical connections 
Primary focus: improving financial  all individuals need in their work teams, 
security at every phase of employee life  families and communities
cycle
Connecting for Wellbeing  COVID-19 Care
BNY Mellon uses multiple internal communication  Caring for employees was a top priority during 
channels — including a monthly newsletter, tailored  2020. We quickly introduced a Supporting You Now 
by region — to promote wellbeing. We engage  framework in response to COVID-19 to demonstrate 
employees and their covered spouses/domestic  and facilitate access to our wide array of personal 
partners in various activities through a digital app  care, life balance and social support. Benefits 
and website that facilitates connecting and getting  enhancements included two weeks of full pay for 
healthy with others. Ideally suited to a remote work  COVID-19 illness for employees and household 
scenario, this platform supported healthy behaviors  members, access to COVID-19 testing, urgent care, 
during the COVID-19 pandemic and offered activities  emergency room care and telehealth paid without 
including global team step challenges, healthy  cost sharing (U.S.), plus supplemental COVID-19 
habit promotions, and guided meditation and yoga  care (India). Furthermore, it also included expanded 
sessions.  Employee Assistance Program benefits, telehealth 
coverage, increased backup dependent care 
benefits, virtual babysitting services, and toolkits 
for managers and employees to conduct supportive 
conversations around life balance needs.
BNY Mellon    Enterprise ESG     32
Culture and Purpose
We introduced the Working Together Pledge 
Enterprise ESG 2025 Employee Engagement & 
as a demonstration of BNY Mellon colleagues’ 
Wellbeing Goal 
commitment to each other. This popular pledge, 
which generated 18,000 views on our employee  Support a culture of wellbeing through a holistic program 
focused on engaging employees and developing key 
intranet, was a simple way for employees to show 
management behaviors to help decrease health risk
how they were caring for the wellbeing of their loved 
ones, colleagues and themselves.  KPI: Increase positive response  Progress: In 2020 
to employee health survey  64% of employees 
Stressful times can call for an increased need to 
question “Do you think your  responded favorably
focus on employee mental health and wellbeing. Early  workplace supports a culture of 
health and wellbeing?” by 5% 
in the pandemic, BNY Mellon launched a digital stress 
annually
management program that focuses on developing 
personal resiliency. The microsite provided quick tips  KPI: Offer at least two  Progress: 
for helping to manage the day-to-day anxiety caused  wellbeing programs that meet  Launched global 
or exceed market benchmarks; 
by COVID-19.  personal resilience 
increase enrollment and/or 
program in March 2020 
active participation by 10% year 
This tool complements other easily accessible, on- and achieved 14% 
over year
enrollment by year end
demand resources such as our Employee Assistance 
Achieved 51% 
Program and digital app — as well as personal 
enrollment in our digital 
consultation services — to help employees manage  health app (launched 
uncertainty and build resilience.  2015) by year-end, a 7% 
increase over 2019
SPOTLIGHT 
Health and Safety 
It’s Okay Campaign  
We further supported employee emotional  We work to ensure the safety of our employees and 
wellbeing through the launch of an “It’s OK”  clients in all our facilities. Our programs, policies 
campaign to align with World Mental Health Day  and competitive benefits are designed to promote 
in October. Our aim was to remind employees  employee health, safety and wellbeing. We also strive 
that it’s OK to pause to focus on self-care,  to create healthy and high-performing workspaces. 
to check in on a teammate, or to take care of  See details in our Health and Safety Statement.
responsibilities outside of work. In this campaign,  In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, we drew on 
global leaders shared their personal permissions  our investment in technology solutions and tools to 
in a handwritten note to themselves to normalize  quickly transition all employees to working remotely. 
the topic and open a dialogue among teams.  We invested in new solutions to protect staff 
The candor of senior leaders generated a strong  members, including a contact-tracing tool, health 
employee reaction, with over 6,000 views and  assessment app, and office space planning and 
more than 100 contributions from employees who  reconfiguration tools. 
shared their own notes to self.
We are taking a conservative and measured approach 
in assessing how, and when, we will return employees 
to our offices when the COVID-19 pandemic subsides. 
This phased, enterprise-wide approach is principles-
based, centrally coordinated and localized, based on 
the situation. Our guiding principles are adherence 
to government/jurisdictional guidelines, facility 
preparedness, business function prioritization, and 
staff safety and wellbeing.
BNY Mellon    Enterprise ESG     33
Culture and Purpose
Our Community   Our Opportunity and Approach 
Impact 
BNY Mellon’s philanthropic efforts and employee 
volunteerism remain largely focused on developing 
a workforce equipped to meet the demands of a 
The global pandemic has arguably changed  technologically driven society. All communities 
every facet of personal and professional life.  deserve the opportunity to engage in our digital 
economy. To this end, we support efforts that 
But it has also pointed out the need to keep up 
educate, train and develop those traditionally 
with the digitalization of society, and address 
underrepresented in the business and advanced 
widespread racial, social, economic and health-
technology fields. We also acknowledge 
related disparities. The economic consequences  that underserved communities have been 
and employment loss due to COVID-19 have  disproportionally affected by COVID-19, and our 
response reflects a broad strategy to prioritize 
especially affected workers, including young 
health, financial relief and recovery. We also help 
people,5 women6 and, more broadly, those from 
build stronger communities through financing 
underrepresented7 groups.
affordable housing in low-income neighborhoods 
through our Community Reinvestment Act 
Work in the wake of the pandemic will require 
investments, described on page 67.
that young people possess critical foundational 
technical skills, soft skills and relevant work 
experiences, while other individuals will  2020 Achievements 
need reskilling and upskilling. At the same 
Future Workforce: Pledged $20 million 
time, workplaces are exploring how to foster 
for multiyear educational and workforce 
more equitable and inclusive opportunities  development programming to academic and 
for underrepresented groups. Companies  job training organizations.
need to invest in their communities to enable 
Pro Bono Consulting: Provided nearly  
individuals to recover and rebuild for a future  3,000 hours of pro bono technical assistance 
in which all can participate in healthy, vibrant  and strategic advising valued at more than 
$500,000.*
communities. 
Racial Justice: Directed more than  
$1.5 million in Equality grants and conducted 
an Equality Matching Gift program.
COVID-19 Response: Facilitated nearly  
$6 million in company grants and leveraged 
approximately $2.2 million in employee and 
company donations during the COVID-19 
Relief Campaign.
*  Valuation Guide: Giving in Numbers Survey, CECP
5  Young People Will Bear the Brunt of COVID-19’s Economic Consequences, The Century 
Foundation
6  How COVID-19 Sent Women’s Workforce Progress Backward, Center for American 
Progress
7  The Inequities of Job Loss and Recovery Amid the COVID-19 Pandemic, University of 
New Hampshire
BNY Mellon    Enterprise ESG     34
Culture and Purpose
Philanthropic Giving  School Program. The remaining investments include 
workforce training to better equip individuals with 
skills, experience, qualifications and access to a 
Our giving strategy has been closely aligned with 
tightening labor market through 2022.
our company’s purpose and expertise: We focus 
on investing in education and in-demand skills 
Responding to Today’s Challenges 
training that offer access to sustainable career 
pathways. In the wake of urgent societal needs, we  As part of our broadened strategic grant-making to 
have broadened our strategy to address stability  encompass COVID-19 relief and recovery efforts, 
and economic independence for underrepresented  we provided support to health and social service 
individuals in a time of great uncertainty. agencies, including Save the Children, the Centers for 
Disease Control Foundation and Direct Relief, among 
others.
BNY Mellon extended our strategic grant-making by 
Enterprise ESG 2025 Community Impact Goal
directing an additional $1.5 million in Equality grants 
Leverage the company’s resources and employee talent to  targeted to organizations that address social justice 
help significantly increase impact of community support in  programming and advocacy, including the NAACP 
the regions and countries in which BNY Mellon operates
Legal Defense and Educational Fund, Southern 
Poverty Law Center, Vera Institute of Justice and 
KPI: Direct 65% of corporate  Progress: Aligned 61% of 
grants and sponsorship  Global Impact Citizenship’s  others. This funding supplements our $5 million 
giving donations to  corporate grant and 
grants to CCAC and CUNY, which support workforce 
organizations and causes  sponsorship giving with 
that are aligned with  our strategic focus of  training programs for traditionally underrepresented 
our strategic focus of  developing the workforce  minority groups and communities hardest hit by the 
developing the workforce of  of the future. In 2020, we 
recent economic downturn.
the future pivoted and repurposed 
funding toward COVID-19 
Likewise, the BNY Mellon Foundation of 
initiatives, which focused 
on bolstering public health  Southwestern Pennsylvania increased its grant-
infrastructure and frontline  making to organizations meeting basic needs and 
aid
advancing racial and economic equality, issuing more 
than $1 million in 2020. One of the grantees was the 
POISE Foundation, a Pittsburgh-based community 
Building the Workforce of the Future  foundation that provides Racial Equity and Rapid 
Response Seed grants to help advance social justice 
In 2020, BNY Mellon made a $20 million, multiyear 
activities, including youth leadership development 
commitment to academic and job training 
and intergenerational collaboration. Neighborhood 
organizations for educational and workforce 
Allies, another organization that received funding, 
development programming. Expanding on existing 
promotes workforce development and offers job 
workforce initiatives, we are investing in the 
training designed to increase income, net worth and 
educational success of underserved populations, 
credit scores. 
and upskilling and reskilling individuals within the 
Learn more about BNY Mellon’s Corporate Giving  
company’s footprint. 
and Community Impact.
This commitment includes $10 million to City 
University of New York (CUNY), a long-standing 
grantee, to underwrite the launch of the NYC Future 
of Work Initiative to further expand the BNY Mellon 
Transfer Scholarship Program and $5 million to 
Community College of Allegheny County (CCAC) 
to establish the BNY Mellon Early College in High 
BNY Mellon    Enterprise ESG     35
Culture and Purpose
2020 Community Support: $34.4 million* Enterprise ESG 2025 Community Impact Goal 
Leverage the company’s resources and employee talent to 
Employee Giving $3.7 million
help significantly increase impact of community support in 
the regions and countries in which BNY Mellon operates
Company Matching Donations $4.8 million
KPI: Facilitate 130,000+  Progress: Achieved 
Foundation Giving $7.6 million hours of employee  54,000 hours of employee 
volunteerism volunteerism, 42% of our 
goal, despite suspension of 
Corporate Grants and Scholarships $17.7 million
in-person volunteering for 
most of 2020
*    Includes value of pro bono volunteering
KPI: Increase total hours  Progress: Increased 
of Signature Pro Bono  total Signature Pro Bono 
Employee Giving and Volunteering 
consulting delivered to  consulting hours by 7.5% 
nonprofits by 10% over the  over 2019 baseline
2019 baseline year
We encourage our employees to volunteer and 
give back to the communities where they live and 
KPI: Achieve a skills-based  Progress: Achieved skills-
work. BNY Mellon’s year-round Community Impact  volunteering target of  based volunteering level 
40% of total employee  of 34% of total volunteer 
Program offers our employees several options to 
volunteer hours, ensuring  hours 
increase the impact of their financial contributions  that a significant portion of 
and to participate in purpose-driven volunteerism.  volunteer efforts leverage 
employees’ professional 
Under this program, employees can donate and 
experience
volunteer for any approved charity they choose. We 
provide company matching donations to approved  Where possible, employees pivoted their volunteering to a 
virtual format when in-person activities were suspended in 
charities for employee donations and volunteering. 
March 2020.
Eligible employees may take up to three days of 
paid volunteer time per year and receive company-
Community Volunteering 
matching donations for their time.
In 2020, we adjusted our Community Impact giving  Since the launch of our Community Impact Program 
program to reinforce shifts in our enterprise Global  in 2008, BNY Mellon employees have volunteered8 
Impact strategy and our company response to  nearly 1.3 million hours valued at approximately 
COVID-19. We doubled our company match for  $25 million. Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, we have 
employee giving to qualifying nonprofits focused  postponed all in-person and face-to-face Community 
on COVID-19-related needs and launched the  Impact team projects until a unilateral return to work 
Equality Campaign Matched Giving Program to  in-office and have shifted our focus to encouraging 
provide support to select organizations opposing  virtual, skilled volunteering. 
discrimination and advancing equality for all. 
Skilled Volunteering 
Each year, BNY Mellon employees around the world 
contribute their time and talent through skills- 
based volunteering. This leverages the company’s 
greatest asset — our employees’ knowledge and 
expertise — and opens opportunities to make 
an impact on society. In this regard, 2020 was no 
different. Despite the lockdowns and restrictions on 
in-person activities, employees from 16 countries 
volunteered. A majority of volunteer projects pivoted  
 
8   Based on a valuation developed by Independent Sector
BNY Mellon    Enterprise ESG     36
Culture and Purpose
to virtual volunteering, totaling more than 54,000  Skills-Based and Pro Bono Volunteerism* 
hours to serve a variety of important causes and 
•  Percent of volunteer hours that were skills-based 
organizations. This included activities such as 
and pro bono: 34%
virtual mentoring with underrepresented high school 
•  Number of nonprofit organizations served: 300
students, coaching young first-generation-to-college 
entrepreneurs, and providing strategic advising to  •  Pro bono volunteer hours: 3,000 
nonprofits through the Signature Pro Bono Program.
•  Value of pro bono services provided: $500,000
Since 2017, the Signature Pro Bono Program has 
provided critically needed capacity-building support 
*  Data includes Signature Pro Bono and Legal Pro Bono programs
in areas such as finance, technology and marketing 
to a number of nonprofit organizations. This past 
year especially enabled our employees, many of 
whom were based at home, to make a meaningful 
difference.
Through pro bono consulting engagements such 
as our Cross-Sector Fellowship and Half-Day 
Accelerator, BNY Mellon subject matter experts 
addressed a number of nonprofit gaps and pain 
points. As a result, participating charities could 
report outcomes (e.g., more strategic marketing, 
financial planning, transitioning to a virtual work 
environment) that better equipped them to serve 
their communities.
In other pro bono activity, BNY Mellon employees 
donated their time and legal skills to address 
inequities and advance human rights.  
Learn more on page 80.
BNY Mellon    Enterprise ESG     37
Responsible Business
Responsible Business
For over 235 years, BNY Mellon has served as a 
trustworthy, dependable steward — businesses, 
communities and global economies rely on us for critical 
financial operations around the world. We know our 
clients, we understand our obligation to act responsibly 
at all times, and we consistently deliver Future FirstSM 
solutions that benefit clients and society. Despite significant 
turmoil in the global markets during 2020, we continued 
to support our clients without interruption, powered by 
responsible governance, effective risk management and 
technological innovation. As a resilient global financial 
services provider, we provide the continuity of operations 
our clients expect and on which the markets depend. And, 
we offer a growing array of ESG products and services for 
investors who seek to power solutions to climate change, 
social inequity and other global challenges.
BNY Mellon    Enterprise ESG     38
Responsible Business
Risk Management  Our Opportunity and Approach 
BNY Mellon plays a vital role in the global financial 
The ability or inability of companies to weather  markets, and effective risk management is critical 
societal disruptions and resulting financial  to our success. Our customers and the financial 
markets depend on BNY Mellon for our financial 
turbulence has rarely been more apparent. 
strength, safety and trustworthiness. Around the 
Urgent challenges in 2020, such as the global 
world, we are recognized for our solid balance sheet, 
pandemic, financial market volatility and 
healthy risk culture, and commitment to financial 
social unrest due to racial inequality, vied  stability in all market environments.
for companies’ attention with other long- To fulfill our responsibility to our clients and the 
standing challenges such as climate change,  global financial system, we seek to manage risk 
cybersecurity and talent acquisition.9 Investors,  responsibly and serve as a reliable custody and 
investment source. Comprehensive management 
regulators and the public alike are subjecting 
of financial and nonfinancial risk is integrated 
businesses to increased scrutiny on their 
throughout our business strategy, operations and 
operations, performance, risk management,  practices. Our Holistic Risk Management strategy 
and equitable and inclusive workforce  and use of data and innovative technology help us 
build trust and protect stakeholders. 
practices. Clear risk management frameworks, 
financial resiliency, ethical and transparent 
workplace standards, and advanced 
2020 Achievements 
technological capabilities contribute to an 
organization’s stability and ability to thrive well  Holistic Strategy: Implemented a Holistic 
Risk Management strategy with 20 priority 
into the future. 
initiatives to further drive a strong risk 
culture, clear risk ownership, and consistent 
and complete risk challenge.
Climate Risk: Continued to enhance our 
global risk frameworks and implement the 
Task Force for Climate-related Financial 
Disclosures (TCFD) recommendations 
by formalizing efforts to address and 
communicate climate related risks and 
impacts and continue to evolve the 
consideration of climate risk in all business 
activities.
9  Top 10 Risks for 2020, Corporate Compliance Insights 
BNY Mellon    Enterprise ESG     39
Responsible Business
Our Risk Management Framework  Robust Governance
BNY Mellon maintains a risk governance framework 
BNY Mellon operates under one framework for  to ensure comprehensive risk oversight. The Board 
managing risk. Through the elements of the  of Directors oversees risk management through two 
framework outlined below, we establish common risk  key Board committees: the Risk Committee and the 
management practices that can be understood and  Audit Committee. Additionally, among other topics, 
consistently applied across the company.  the Corporate Governance, Nominating and Social 
Responsibility Committee of the Board has oversight 
Strong Risk Management Culture  of ESG issues, including climate-related matters. The 
Risk Committee delegates oversight of the day-to-
Risk management begins with a strong risk culture. 
day risk management responsibility to the Senior 
We hold ourselves and others to the highest ethical 
Risk and Control Committee, which is the most 
standards, foster a culture of transparency and 
senior management-level risk governance group at 
accountability, and have a clear understanding of our 
the company and is responsible for oversight of all 
roles and responsibilities for managing risk.
risk management, compliance, and ethics activities 
and processes. Our company has also formed 
Clear Accountability, Roles and 
several other management-level risk management 
Responsibilities 
committees to identify, assess and manage risks. 
BNY Mellon’s management drives risk management 
Common Risk Taxonomy
accountability in the company through the Three 
Lines of Defense structure, which clarifies roles 
We use a common risk taxonomy, which is a 
and responsibilities for managing risk across the 
comprehensive list of risk categories, to promote 
company. 
consistency in the identification and aggregation 
The First Line of Defense: This includes businesses  of risks across the company. Our Primary Risks 
and Corporate Functions (excluding Audit, Risk &  include: Operational Risk (including Compliance and 
Compliance and Legal10). The First Line of Defense  Technology Risk), Market Risk, Credit Risk, Liquidity 
owns the risk.  Risk, Strategic Risk and Model Risk.
The Second Line of Defense: The Risk & Compliance  To execute our Risk Management Framework, we:
function is responsible for establishing policies, 
•  Identify, assess and document current  
expectations and guidance for managing risk at 
and emerging risks
BNY Mellon while also independently monitoring, 
•  Establish, implement and maintain  
reviewing and challenging the First Line.
an internal control environment
The Third Line of Defense: The Internal Audit function 
•  Establish risk appetite and manage risk  
— an independent, objective assurance function — 
according to risk appetite
reports directly to the Audit Committee of the Firm’s 
Board of Directors. •  Embed risk considerations into decisions  
and actions
10  Legal is responsible for advising, counseling and supporting all three lines of defense 
and in this way contributes to the overall control environment across the company.
BNY Mellon    Enterprise ESG     40
Responsible Business
A Holistic Approach  business, financial and economic disruptions. We 
consider climate risk to be a broad risk driver that 
has the potential to materialize across all enterprise 
We continually evolve our risk management practices, 
risk categories, and we are therefore evolving our 
and in 2020, we adopted a new Holistic Risk 
global risk frameworks and tools to incorporate 
Management strategy that enables the company 
climate risk considerations in business-as-usual 
and its employees to fully understand and take 
activities. Ongoing enhancements are embedding 
intelligent risks, manage risks through the correct 
climate risk assessments in applicable policies, each 
processes, and mitigate risks. We are focusing 
enterprise risk category framework, risk identification, 
our efforts to ensure we have a strong risk culture 
quantification and mitigation, assessment of new 
across the company, very clear risk ownership by the 
products and services, client selection, credit 
businesses, and clear and consistent risk challenge 
analysis, third-party vendor review, governance 
by Risk & Compliance. In 2020, we made significant 
forums and reporting, capital, stress testing and 
progress toward priority initiatives, including:
scenario analysis, and resiliency considerations. 
Risk Appetite: Enhanced risk appetite metrics 
BNY Mellon is also acutely aware of the broader 
and reporting enable the Board to assess more 
implications of ESG risks. We plan to expand our focus 
completely BNY Mellon’s risk position. Our risk 
on climate risk to other aspects of environmental 
appetite defines the limits on the level and nature 
risks, such as water scarcity, pollution, and 
of the risk we are willing to assume to meet our 
sustainable consumption and production. In addition, 
strategic objectives.
BNY Mellon will further develop risk management 
Enterprise Limit Framework: We reengineered and  approaches to a number of social and governance 
adopted a new, unified risk limit framework across  areas, from corporate citizenship and philanthropy 
risk types to establish enterprise-wide consistency  to diversity and inclusion, equal remuneration, data 
and strengthen linkage between business risk  privacy, and executive compensation. Much work will 
management and corporate risk appetite. be done to fully incorporate ESG risk in our broader 
risk frameworks, and BNY Mellon is committed to 
Policy Governance: We launched a new Policy 
doing business in a way that is ethically, economically, 
Governance Framework that continues to roll out 
environmentally and socially responsible, in alignment 
throughout 2021. Improvements include a new policy 
with our corporate values.
hierarchy, reduction in the number of policies, clearer 
policy content and responsibilities, and an enhanced  For more on our risk governance and our approach to 
policy technology platform for employees. risk management, see our 2020 Annual Report.
Product Governance: We designed and implemented 
a single, transparent approval pathway for all new or 
modified products and services.  Enterprise ESG 2025 Risk Framework Goal
Climate Risk and ESG Risk: Climate risk includes both 
Goal: Continue to evolve and fortify our risk infrastructure
physical risks of more extreme and frequent weather 
events caused by climate change and transition risks  KPI: Ensure a consistent  Progress: 
as the world converts to a lower carbon economy, as  and aligned utilization  Enhanced Risk Appetite 
of the risk appetite 
committed through the 2015 Paris Agreement. BNY  metrics and reporting 
framework across the 
across the enterprise
Mellon is exposed to climate-related physical and  company as a driver 
of business decisions  Developed and adopted 
transition risks, both directly and indirectly, through 
for product, client and  a new, unified risk limit 
our client base and business activities. Managing BNY  geography prioritization framework across risk types 
to establish enterprise-wide 
Mellon’s operations appropriately to address climate 
consistency
risk is vital to operational and financial resiliency.
We continue to evolve our risk management practices, 
considering the short-, medium- and long-term 
implications of climate change and the resulting 
BNY Mellon    Enterprise ESG     41
Responsible Business
In 2020, BNY Mellon strengthened the capabilities 
SPOTLIGHT  of our Risk & Compliance organization through 
Managing Risk During a Crisis  innovative development programs for our 1,300 
employees, including mentoring, cross-training and a 
BNY Mellon plays a critical role in supporting 
new Executive Development Program. Rising diverse 
our clients and the global financial markets, 
Risk & Compliance leaders selected to participate 
and throughout the COVID-19 pandemic we 
in this year-long Executive Development Program 
worked hard to fulfill this responsibility through 
receive experiential learning, leadership education 
robust risk management. While this pandemic is 
and exposure to the BNY Mellon Executive Committee 
different than any other crisis BNY Mellon has 
and Board of Directors.
weathered in our 236-year history, the principles 
In recognition of this and other work to advance 
of managing risk in a crisis remain the same. 
diversity, Chief Risk Officer Senthil Kumar received 
We have a flexible suite of recovery options 
the 2020 A-list Award from Ascend, a nonprofit 
that enable us to face incidents with different 
organization dedicated to helping the Pan-Asian 
impacts. Among other steps to manage risk 
community become competitive innovators, role 
during the COVID-19 pandemic, we:
models and catalysts for change.
•  Focused on maintaining a robust control 
In addition to cultivating talent internally, BNY Mellon 
environment while mobilizing employees 
attracts and develops talent we need to deliver risk 
working remotely and prioritizing employee 
management excellence and outstanding client 
health and safety
service through initiatives such as our sponsorship 
•  Designed and continue to revise COVID-19-
of the Polish national Master’s Thesis Competition 
specific stress tests for our trading and credit 
in Applied Mathematics. Held in conjunction with 
portfolios to assess the impacts to our company
Hugo Steinhaus Center and the Wroclaw University of 
•  Kept our Board and regulators informed  Science and Technology in Poland, the competition 
through frequent meetings and updates highlights the mathematical talent of students and 
underlines the importance of applied mathematical 
•  Provided clients and employees with the 
thinking in the strategic management of financial 
information needed to feel safer and more 
institutions.
secure
We continue to actively monitor the situation, 
Risk Education for All Employees 
and consider potential and emerging risks, 
taking proactive measures to minimize risks and  For all employees, learning courses such as Anti-
impacts to employees, clients and the financial  corruption, Ethics, Safety and Security in the 
markets. Workplace, Unconscious Bias, Workplace Bullying 
and Harassment are important to maintain a vibrant 
risk culture and are therefore mandatory to meet 
Cultivating Diverse Talent 
certain company and regulatory requirements. These 
trainings, in addition to ongoing risk management 
We believe that diverse teams are better at managing  communications, helps drive employee ownership of 
diverse risks. Our Risk & Compliance group actively  risk and compliance outcomes. To accommodate the 
seeks to build a team that includes members with a  impact of COVID-19 on our employees, we retained 
range of backgrounds and perspectives, including in  training requirements but extended completion 
senior leadership. The group also leverages diverse  deadlines in 2020.
views in managing risk by incorporating three distinct 
but interconnected lenses of risk: line of business 
risk, risk discipline (e.g., credit risk, market risk 
and others), and regional/legal entity. When team 
members bring different thoughts and experiences, 
they are less likely to miss important risks.
BNY Mellon    Enterprise ESG     42
Responsible Business
Whistleblowing 
Enterprise ESG 2025 Risk Culture Goal
We encourage employees at all levels to immediately 
Goal: Sustain strong global risk culture focused on ownership  report ethical issues and concerns to their managers 
and ethical behavior and to our Compliance and Legal teams. We give 
them several ways to ask questions or make a report, 
KPI: Drive employee  Progress: 
including an Ethics Helpline, operated by the BNY 
ownership of risk and 
Provided nearly 190 risk 
compliance outcomes  Mellon Ethics Office, and an Ethics Hotline, operated 
and compliance learning 
through ongoing strategic 
courses to more than 52,000  by independent administrator EthicsPoint. We urge 
communication and 
employees*
development all employees to ask questions and escalate issues 
Promoted employee 
until they are resolved, and we have a zero tolerance 
understanding and 
management of risk by  policy for retaliation against whistleblowers who 
regularly publishing leader  raise concerns.
blogs and news articles on 
important risk concepts, 
policies and practices,  Financial Crimes Compliance 
sending a quarterly risk 
and compliance focused  Money laundering and other financial crimes 
newsletter to all employees
undermine confidence in the financial system and 
create other significant negative societal impacts. 
* Number is cumulative total of unique employees who received training throughout 2020
At BNY Mellon, we combat financial crime and work 
to prevent criminals from financing illegal activities 
Compliance and Ethical Behavior 
through our network. As the COVID-19 pandemic 
unfolded, we alerted and engaged our employees as 
BNY Mellon’s Code of Conduct applies to all  a reminder to exercise vigilance to these activities. 
employees. It guides our behaviors in all business  BNY Mellon plays a vital role in deterring financial 
activities and helps shape our overall conduct and  crime, and our efforts have led to numerous criminal 
risk culture. The Code is a unifying document that  indictments over the years. In 2020, the Financial 
sets forth the principles that create a common set  Crimes Enforcement Network (FinCEN), a bureau 
of expectations for all employees with regard to:  of the U.S. Department of the Treasury, formally 
respecting others, avoiding conflicts of interest,  recognized BNY Mellon for making “invaluable 
conducting business, working with governments,  contributions to four federal law enforcement 
protecting company assets, and supporting our  investigations.”
communities. Our ongoing measures to reinforce 
Within our organization, we have a zero-tolerance 
these provisions and standards include annual 
policy on bribery and corruption. Our Codes of 
employee training covering topics such as anti-
Conduct for employees and the Board of Directors 
corruption, protecting assets, business continuity, 
detail our expectations regarding anti-corruption 
anti-money laundering and information risk. 
compliance. We monitor potential conflicts through 
In 2020, we enhanced our ability to track violations of  our anti-corruption compliance program, which 
our Code of Conduct and other compliance policies  covers business dealings and relationships in 
and ensure that managers address them consistently  countries where BNY Mellon, our subsidiaries 
in performance assessments, including midyear  and associates operate. The program is designed 
and year-end ratings, and disciplinary processes.  to comply with both U.S. and non-U.S. laws and 
These improvements went into effect in 2021 and  regulations, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt 
will strengthen the company’s oversight of employee  Practices Act and the UK Bribery Act. It covers 
compliance violations and consequences, the ability  business activities and regulatory requirements, 
of management to identify violation trends that may  including gifts and entertainment, charitable 
need to be addressed, and our efforts to foster a  contributions, hiring practices and third-party 
strong risk culture. intermediary due diligence.
BNY Mellon    Enterprise ESG     43
Responsible Business
Financial Resiliency  Third-Party Governance 
BNY Mellon performs critical functions in  BNY Mellon, like other financial institutions, relies 
global financial markets. With our role comes a  on third parties to deliver key products and services, 
responsibility to demonstrate sound leadership in  or to perform activities, on behalf of its businesses. 
terms of capital strength, liquidity risk management,  Certain of these products, services and activities are 
and payment, clearing and settlement activities.  essential to our clients and to the functioning of the 
We are committed to maintaining a strong capital  capital markets infrastructure. BNY Mellon’s Third-
base to meet regulatory requirements, remaining a  Party Governance (TPG) framework is designed to: 
strong and trusted counterparty to our clients, and 
•  Provide oversight and controls commensurate 
preparing for potentially adverse events. Our global 
with the level of risk and complexity of third-party 
resolution plan details how we would maintain critical 
engagements, with heightened focus on critical 
operations in case of company failure or insolvency. 
activities
We annually assess our capital adequacy through 
•  Incorporate the risk of material fourth-party 
stress testing. Our 2020 stress tests demonstrated 
exposure
our financial strength and commitment to maintain 
appropriate capital adequacy. To learn more, see our  •  Meet legal and regulatory requirements
2020 Annual Report. 
The risk-based TPG Framework includes (a) 
enterprise-wide policies, (b) management and 
Enterprise Resiliency 
Second-Line oversight, (c) prescribed procedures 
for the third-party engagement life cycle, (d) defined 
business roles and responsibilities, (e) centralized 
Enterprise resiliency is a critical component of  
third-party governance and third-party management 
BNY Mellon’s overall business strategy. In our “always 
functions, (f) common third-party relationship 
on” world, it is necessary to take a robust, holistic 
inventory platform/system of record, (g) reporting 
approach to resiliency — considering not just how to 
capabilities, and (h) communications and training. 
resume operations after disruptions, but also how to 
manage through them to deliver continuous service. 
Key Roles
Our approach to enterprise resiliency is to prevent, 
respond to, recover from and learn from operational  Business stakeholders (Engagement Managers) own 
disruptions. This approach helps us operationalize  the risks of their third-party engagements. They 
our enterprise resiliency strategy to develop and  are required to manage third-party engagements in 
sustain the capabilities necessary for maintaining or  compliance with applicable BNY Mellon policies, laws 
quickly resuming operations in the face of business  and regulations. 
disruptions and threats through the implementation 
TPG Line of Business (LOB) Leads are responsible 
of a comprehensive framework.
for overseeing compliance with the TPG policies 
BNY Mellon’s Enterprise Resiliency Office aligns,  and procedures and providing process guidance to 
centralizes and integrates our resiliency disciplines  business stakeholders in their respective LOBs.
and capabilities to deliver a coordinated approach 
The TPG Office owns and governs TPG policies, 
to incident and crisis management, business 
standards, processes and procedures. In addition, 
continuity and disaster recovery. This office teams 
the TPG Office supports businesses through LOB 
with Global Operations and Technology, and BNY 
Advisory and organizational change management and 
Mellon’s businesses to provide clients with resilient 
monitors the effectiveness of the TPG Framework 
world-class products and services. We leverage best 
through quality assurance, reporting and governance.
practices, lessons learned from our enterprise-wide 
A centralized Third-Party Management group, with 
operational activities, and feedback from our internal 
functional and risk expertise, performs common 
partners to continuously improve our resiliency 
third-party management activities, including 
posture. Learn more in our 2020 Annual Report. 
BNY Mellon    Enterprise ESG     44
Responsible Business
validating the quality of the Inherent Risk Profiles  Cybersecurity
completed by Engagement Managers for their 
third-party engagements, executing Due Diligence 
Information security and resilience to cyberattacks 
assessments, monitoring the resolution and 
represent a key intersection of societal needs 
escalation of issues, and overseeing and validating 
and BNY Mellon business priorities, which is why 
Ongoing Monitoring activities.
this area ranks among our most material ESG 
Global Supply Chain Management is responsible for 
issues. We implement strict controls, integrating 
sourcing of identified products/services, contract 
our cybersecurity strategy into the business with 
and pricing negotiations, and facilitation of contract 
multiple control layers to protect clients’ information 
execution.
and technology assets. 
Our Cybersecurity Services Model adheres to 
Management Oversight
internationally recognized standards such as ISO 
Our TPG Steering Group, chaired by the Head of  27001/2. The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation’s 
the TPG Office, serves as primary governance and  Information Security Management System is 
oversight body for the continued enhancement of  ISO/IEC 27001:2013 certified. Our certification 
the TPG Program. Our Third-Party Risk Management  was approved and recommended by the British 
Committee, chaired by Second-Line Third-Party Risk  Standards Institution (BSI) Group, the world’s largest 
Management, serves as the primary governance  management systems standards certification body. 
and oversight body for managing Business-As-Usual  We monitor changing regulatory requirements, 
third-party risk within the business. guidelines and technologies in all countries in which 
Our Business Risk Committees and Senior Risk  we operate, and our global program reflects industry 
& Control Committee receive regular updates on  and business best practices including the National 
third-party risk and serve as points of escalation, as  Institute of Standards and Technology Cybersecurity 
determined by TPG Steering Group and Third-Party  Framework.
Risk Management Committee. An important component of our cybersecurity 
Regulators continue to focus on third-party risk,  strategy is the protection of data across our 
with a growing number of regulations and guidelines  operations and communications. We invest in 
published across the globe. Managing the risk of  advanced technology to protect data, including 
doing business with third parties and complying with  encryption techniques such as Transport Layer 
evolving regulations is a high priority for BNY Mellon. Security to protect communications between clients 
and internal systems. All our techniques are based on 
industry best practices and leading standards, which 
are incorporated into internal policies.
For additional readiness, our Threat Intelligence 
team prepares for evolving security threats using 
information from diverse sources, including our peers 
and the broader financial services industry, as well 
as law enforcement, government, and a variety of 
public and private sources. We continuously evaluate 
our enterprise for vulnerabilities and risks, and watch 
for advanced adversaries, to increase situational and 
contextual awareness.
BNY Mellon    Enterprise ESG     45
Responsible Business
possession and control through measures such as 
Enterprise ESG 2025 Technology Goals
encrypting sensitive information. Learn more about 
our Information Security and Protection.
Goal: Continually evolve business protocols to help ensure 
systems continuity in every jurisdiction in which we operate,  Access our Online Privacy Policy and Online Data 
and across borders
Privacy Statements and Privacy Notices.
KPI: Expand our information  Progress: Not started
security management  Information Systems, Governance and 
system based on an 
Risk Management 
internationally recognized 
specification (i.e., ISO 27001) 
At BNY Mellon, we are relentlessly focused on 
for all critical applications 
and business services resiliency. At the center of the world’s financial 
markets, we must strive to always be on — our 
Goal: Evolve business protocols to provide technology  clients not only depend on it, they expect it. We 
knowledge, resilience and business continuity
monitor threats, both internal and external, to help 
identify and respond to anomalies before they impact 
KPI: Cultivate a globally  Progress: Developed 
competitive level of  strategic partnerships  service continuity. Success requires synchronicity 
workforce awareness  to expand global reach 
between our business operations, cybersecurity and 
concerning information  of information security 
systems security awareness across all  technology teams.
regions and business 
lines. Focused on instilling  We evaluate our technology processes and critical 
a resilient, cyber-aware  services against industry standards and best 
culture through multiple 
practices, and we quickly respond to disruptions 
communication channels, 
helping employees  to restore routine functioning. Our resiliency 
continually understand, 
management program focuses on:
identify and respond to 
cyber threats •  Business continuity/technology recovery
•  Technology risk and control 
Employee Awareness 
•  IT service management (change/problem/incident 
Employees in our technology departments and  management)
throughout the firm play a vital role in maintaining 
•  IT sourcing
information systems security by identifying and 
•  Vendor risk management
mitigating risks. All employees participate in annual 
information risk training and ongoing risk awareness  •  Information security operations
campaigns designed to empower them to serve 
Our Cyber, Technology and Operations Center is the 
as risk defenders of our company and information 
result of our commitment to resiliency. We have built 
assets. We track participation rates and survey 
a 360-degree watchtower with a clear view of what 
results to evaluate effectiveness and identify areas 
is happening in our systems and in the world around 
for improvement. In addition, all employees are 
us. We have an optimized team representing every 
required to participate in and achieve a satisfactory 
functional area we need to identify and respond 
level of proficiency in our ongoing cybersecurity risk 
quickly to threats or incidents to perform better for 
awareness and education efforts.
our clients.
Information Security 
We help our clients protect themselves from fraud, 
including cyberfraud and other fraudulent activity, 
by providing guidance on guarding against phishing, 
personal identity theft and other threats. In addition, 
BNY Mellon works to protect the privacy and data 
integrity of sensitive information while it is in our 
BNY Mellon    Enterprise ESG     46
Responsible Business
Digital  
Transformation  2020 Achievements 
Data and Analytics Solutions: Launched 
three new cloud-based data and analytics 
Digital innovation and the proliferation of 
offerings through our expanded relationship 
data offer opportunities to help our clients  with Microsoft utilizing its Azure platform.
access stronger analytics, data-driven 
AI Award: Regional Winner of the 2020 
insights and digital solutions to better 
Gartner® Eye on Innovation Award for 
navigate changing market dynamics. As  financial services, Americas, for our patent-
the world’s largest custodian and a leader  pending AI Solution for Liquidity Forecasting.*
across investment services and investment 
Treasury Services Transparency: Created 
management, we are ideally suited to lead in  real-time operational intelligence through 
this space, given the scope of our business  our award-winning client platform, advancing 
market visibility and transparency for our 
and our vast stores of data.
Treasury Services clients.
Our Opportunity and Approach  Go Digital Initiative: BNY Mellon | Pershing 
is helping clients operate more efficiently, 
effectively, and digitally, and become paper-
BNY Mellon has been undergoing a fundamental  free by empowering their adoption of digital 
transformation, using digital capabilities and  solutions.
data to shift our business model. In 2020, we 
continued moving from processing transactions 
and managing investments to offering leading data  *  GARTNER is a registered trademark of Gartner, Inc. and/or its affiliates and is used with 
permission. All rights reserved. Gartner does not endorse any vendor, product or service 
and analytics solutions, building resiliency around 
depicted in its research publications. Gartner research publications consist of the 
core competencies, and delivering insights to  opinions of Gartner’s Research & Advisory organization and should not be construed as 
statements of fact. Gartner disclaims all warranties, expressed or implied, with respect 
help enhance the client experience. The impact of  to this research, including any warranties of merchantability or fitness for a particular 
purpose.
COVID-19 has accelerated that process, speeding 
up the way we work with clients to digitize their 
businesses and our own, and helping employees 
become more digitally savvy. These efforts enable 
our clients to better manage their assets and 
data, including details about their socially and 
environmentally responsible investments. Simpler, 
more secure ways to manage and receive information 
powers individuals and institutions to achieve their 
goals in a dynamic global economy.
BNY Mellon    Enterprise ESG     47
Responsible Business
Setting the Direction   collaboration is driving value for our clients. The 2020 
event featured industry leaders in approximately two 
for Our Digital Future 
dozen sessions. 
In 2020, we established or expanded relationships 
In 2020, we began implementing a strategy to evolve 
and collaborations with big tech firms, emerging 
the role we play in the marketplace, deepen our 
tech and fintech companies, including Microsoft, 
importance to clients, and accelerate our growth. In 
Milestone Group and ProxymitySM. For example, 
January, we combined our Asset Servicing business 
through our relationship with Microsoft, we created 
with our Digital organization, setting the direction 
three new data, technology and content solutions 
for BNY Mellon’s digital future. This infusion of 
for investment managers, each built on Microsoft’s 
talent and expertise supports our digital and data 
Azure platform. Our ESG Data Analytics application, 
transformation, preparing us to be future ready. It 
which is powered by artificial intelligence and patent-
also supports clients’ changing priorities and needs 
pending crowd-sourced ESG data, which helps asset 
— including their need for powerful tools to manage 
managers and investors to customize investment 
their data in a holistic manner at cloud scale, and 
portfolios to their individual ESG preferences. Learn 
to better manage the environmental, social and 
more about this award-winning tool (p 60).
governance nature of funds with proper frameworks 
and standards, for example. Advancing Emerging Tech 
In 2020, we launched a program to help develop small 
Executing Our Digital Agenda
and emerging tech businesses while furthering BNY 
Mellon innovation and client services. Through the 
Our enterprise digital transformation means  BNY Mellon Accelerator Program, we identify and 
delivering business outcomes and value for our  incubate early-stage technology companies that are 
clients. We do this by applying digital capabilities  already building solutions to critical issues facing our 
to launch new and innovative solutions, modernize  company, industry and clients. We help participating 
our core infrastructure, and drive customer  emerging tech companies advance their growth and 
experience. Our Digital Council brings together  product roadmaps to deliver solutions that address 
core Digital leadership with experts from across  specific business needs.
all businesses, functions and regions, and is a key 
enabler in effectively delivering our digital agenda.
A Culture of Innovation Strengthened  
By Collaboration
In an increasingly complex, interconnected and 
rapidly changing world, it is critical for financial 
services companies to work together. As we 
navigate this landscape and periods of heightened 
market volatility, we continue to embrace the open-
architecture approach we pioneered. Collaboration 
with other providers enables us to offer clients the 
best available solutions and move more quickly to 
meet client expectations. 
Our flagship fintech event, CONNECT20, brought 
together financial services influencers for a 
virtual thought leadership program focused on 
sharing insights about digital, innovation, and how 
BNY Mellon    Enterprise ESG     48
Responsible Business
Diversity: The Engine of Innovation 
Preparing for a Post-Pandemic World  By bringing together people with varying 
perspectives, ethnicities, genders, experiences, 
How can the financial services industry best prepare for a post-
cultures and capabilities, BNY Mellon is accelerating 
pandemic world? What can firms and fintechs do today to help 
digital transformation. Our diverse digital teams 
build and sustain a culture of innovation and develop successful 
are engines of innovation, spurring fresh thinking 
alliances and collaborations? BNY Mellon senior executives and 
other leaders discussed these and other issues reshaping the  as we reimagine how to help our clients deliver and 
financial industry at the 2020 Singapore Fintech Festival, the  maximize value.
largest fintech festival in the world. Sponsored by the Monetary 
Compelled by both research and our own experience, 
Authority of Singapore (MAS), this hybrid virtual event attracted 
we are harnessing diversity to spur innovation and 
more than 60,000 participants representing more than 130 
power business growth. Our diverse Digital team 
countries. The MAS presented its FinTech Award to BNY Mellon 
is leading BNY Mellon’s transformation into the 
for our ESG Portfolio analytics solution that helps institutional 
investment services firm of the future. In 2020, we 
investors manage, monitor and analyze environmental, social and 
expanded our ongoing commitment to diversity in 
governance factors across their portfolios.
the U.S. by working toward new concrete, short-term 
As a leader in the ASEAN Financial Innovation Network, BNY 
representation goals for Black and Latinx recent 
Mellon facilitates innovation and cooperation between financial 
graduates and experienced professionals. 
institutions and fintechs in Southeast Asia. Through our 
membership in the network’s Strategic Advisory Council, we are 
Using Artificial Intelligence Responsibly 
helping to digitally transform the banking and financial sectors in 
this region. In 2020, we held our first-ever global hackathon, a six-
Artificial intelligence (AI) is embedded throughout our 
week virtual event supported by the network.
approach to digital transformation. As BNY Mellon 
adopts innovative technology, including AI and data 
analytics (AIDA), we are committed to ensuring 
that we do the right thing for clients, the industry, 
our employees and regulators. We recognize our 
responsibilities to the wider financial system and 
look to ensure the ethical use of this technology.
Together with the Monetary Authority of Singapore 
(MAS) and other financial industry participants, we 
are members of the Veritas consortium, developing a 
framework around the responsible adoption of AIDA. 
This framework will help enable financial institutions 
to evaluate their AIDA-driven solutions against the 
principles of fairness, ethics, accountability and 
transparency (FEAT), which MAS co-created with the 
financial industry. In 2020, we worked with the Veritas 
consortium and wider community to develop fairness 
metrics in credit risk scoring, which assesses the 
credit worthiness of borrowers, and in customer 
marketing — both of which have significant potential 
for AI adoption, and we continue this work today in 
other areas of FEAT.
BNY Mellon    Enterprise ESG     49
Responsible Business
Strong Governance  Our Opportunity and Approach 
Sound governance positions BNY Mellon to provide 
Expectations regarding corporate governance  quality services to clients in all market scenarios and 
have become increasingly complex in the  conduct business with excellence and integrity. We 
are leaders in adapting our governance documents 
wake of the COVID-19 pandemic. In this 
and practices to support board performance. Strong 
environment, corporate governance practices 
governance, which manifests through our practices, 
continue to be shaped by the scrutiny of various 
rules and policies, is critical to promoting our culture 
stakeholder groups, including calls for stronger  of integrity and accountability.
board oversight of corporate culture, social  Just as we endeavor to provide regular and clear 
engagement and human capital management,  communication to our stakeholders on the topics 
that are important to them, we also adjust our risk 
and for more expansive processes to focus 
management approach to deal with a changing 
director recruitment efforts toward enhancing 
environment. In March 2021, we published our 
board ethnic and racial diversity. Effective 
inaugural report compliant with the Task Force 
internal governance and disclosures about the  on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD). 
role of management and the board in a variety  Entitled Considering Climate at BNY Mellon, the 
report discusses, among other topics, the Board-
of other areas, including technology resiliency 
level engagement and oversight over BNY Mellon’s 
and climate-related risk management, are 
governance strategy, risk management, and metrics 
significant for shaping expectations of investors, 
and targets as they relate to climate change. 
leading asset managers and the broader 
community.
2020 Achievements 
Timely Action: Held 26 Board meetings and 49 
Board committee meetings in 2020, allowing 
for timely consideration of COVID-19 impacts, 
social unrest and other issues. 
Virtual Orientation: Utilized a virtual-only 
format for our robust new-director orientation 
program.
BNY Mellon    Enterprise ESG     50
Responsible Business
Corporate Governance 
Enterprise ESG 2025 Governance Goals
Effective corporate governance is foundational  Goal: As part of the director recruitment and refreshment 
efforts for the parent Board of Directors, continue to ensure 
to a prosperous, sustainable business, as it can 
that candidate slates include individuals with diverse 
profoundly impact how a company approaches  backgrounds and perspectives in order to maintain the 
Board’s diverse composition
its responsibilities to shareholders and other 
stakeholders. BNY Mellon adheres to sound 
KPI: Review at least annually  Progress: Completed for 
corporate governance principles for public  the diversity criteria applied  2020 evaluation process
companies, their boards of directors and their  by the Board in its process of 
evaluating the qualifications 
institutional shareholders. Our Board of Directors, 
of potential candidates
the Corporate Governance, Nominating and Social 
Responsibility (CGNSR) Committee and management  KPI: Integrate into the  Progress: New KPI 
evaluation of external search  initiated in 2021
evaluate corporate governance developments on 
firms’ performance a review 
an ongoing basis, including through engagement  of such firms’ capabilities in 
with stakeholder groups, to identify and, where  developing diverse candidate 
pools
appropriate, implement changes to align with best 
practices. As described below, the Board and the 
Goal: Formalize proactive outreach program to engage 
CGNSR Committee have been active in refining our  shareholders on ESG performance 
governance framework.
KPI: Increase proactive  Progress: Set baseline 
For example, in recent years we have made  engagement with top  in 2020; will continue to 
changes that allow for action by written consent of  shareholders on ESG topics   report progress against 
that baseline
stockholders, enable our Board to elect either an 
independent Chair or a Lead Director based on the 
KPI: Enhance integration  Progress: Please 
best interests of the company, and prohibit executive  of ESG content in public  see Oversight of 
officers and directors from pledging company  reporting, including but not  Environmental, Social 
limited to BNY Mellon’s Proxy  and Governance Matters 
securities. 
materials section of the 2021 Proxy 
Statement, pages 33-36
We have also signed the Commonsense Principles 
2.0,11 a public statement of corporate governance 
principles for sound, long-term-oriented governance, 
and endorsed the Business Roundtable’s Statement 
on the Purpose of the Corporation, reinforcing 
our commitment to our stakeholders in pursuing 
improvements in our performance. For the past 
several years, our Board has focused on refreshment 
and succession efforts. In addition to two new 
director nominees up for election at the 2021 Annual 
Meeting of Stockholders, six of the incumbent 
directors have been added to our Board in the last 
five years.
11 https://www.governanceprinciples.org/wp-content/uploads/2018/10/ 
CommonsensePrinciples2.0.pdf
BNY Mellon    Enterprise ESG     51
Responsible Business
Key Data: Board of Directors* 
SPOTLIGHT  
Virtual Format Boosts Board Engagement
Average director attendance: 95% at Board 
In response to the challenges of the COVID-19  and committee meetings held in 2020
pandemic, in 2020 we transitioned to a fully 
Minimum required director attendance: 75% 
virtual format for Board and committee meetings. 
of Board and committee meetings 
This transition facilitated more frequent 
interaction — 26 Board meetings and 49 Board  Board independence: 91.7%
committee meetings — and enabled timely 
Women directors: 25%
consideration of the many significant issues 
resulting from the rapidly evolving impacts of 
Ethnic and racial diversity: 41%
COVID-19, social unrest and other issues. We also 
utilized a virtual-only format for our new-director  Average Board member tenure: 5.6 years
orientation program. This comprehensive program 
* The figures provided here are consistent with the 
acquainted new directors with our organizational 
2021 Proxy Statement and are provided as of the date 
and leadership structure, businesses, Board and 
of its distribution and based on director nominees for 
committees and governance, and other policies. 
the 2021 Annual Meeting of Stockholders.
It also featured informational meetings with other 
directors and members of senior management.
An Independent Board 
Our Board of Directors has developed a strong 
leadership framework, with well-defined roles and 
authority. The Board has approved a leadership 
structure involving an independent Chair, separate 
from the position of CEO. As a result, the Board 
appointed Joseph J. Echevarria as independent Chair, 
and our CEO, Todd Gibbons, serves as the only non-
independent member of the Board. Independent 
directors meet in executive sessions, presided over 
by our independent Chair, at regularly scheduled 
Board meetings. Our CGNSR Committee and Board 
annually, or more frequently as needed, evaluate this 
structure to help ensure alignment with the needs of 
the company.
BNY Mellon    Enterprise ESG     52
Responsible Business
Strength in Diversity  Investor Engagement 
The strength of our Board is a product of the variety  Our Corporate Governance, Enterprise ESG and 
of our directors’ experience, diversity, differing  Investor Relations teams are committed to engaging 
perspectives and institutional knowledge. We are  regularly with our top investors, and 2020 was 
committed to fostering and maintaining diversity  no exception. Adapting to COVID-19 pandemic 
on our Board: diversity is an integral component of  restrictions, Board member engagement with 
the process undertaken by the CGNSR Committee  top investors shifted from in-person meetings to 
and the Board for recruiting director candidates  more individual interaction. We offer meetings on 
and evaluating the composition of the Board. We  governance issues between top investors and Board 
seek to include directors with diverse backgrounds,  members and track the discussions and outcomes. 
including with respect to race, gender, ethnicity and  Our analysts and executives meet with broader 
sexual orientation, to capture the benefits inherent in  investor audiences in our offices and virtually. 
diverse perspectives. As a result of this commitment,  In the fall of 2020, we also proactively reached 
25% of our directors are women and an additional  out to our top investors to share key initiatives 
41% of our directors are diverse on the basis of race  regarding our ESG story and conducted individual 
or ethnicity.  meetings discussing topics such as human capital 
management, diversity, equity and inclusion, 
Our Board has a well-established focus on long-term 
Board diversity, our response to COVID-19 and the 
business strategy and resiliency, leadership, and 
changing workplace, executive compensation, and 
corporate culture and performance. This foundation 
the formalization of our Enterprise ESG function, 
positioned the Board to oversee and provide insight 
including our commitment to the TCFD Guidelines. 
to management on the company’s response to the 
Additionally, our senior leaders attend and speak at 
challenges, uncertainties and opportunities that 
industry conferences and host individual and group 
occurred throughout 2020, including as it relates to 
meetings with investors.
our impact on our communities and society more 
broadly. In addition to the regular updates on the 
Tax Policy 
financial and operational impacts of the pandemic 
on our business, employees, clients and suppliers,  Our firm’s culture of “Doing What’s Right,” as 
the Board maintained a regular dialogue with  represented in our Code of Conduct, extends to 
management in 2020 regarding its direction and  paying taxes. Internal controls include periodic 
action on matters related to social justice, diversity  analysis and review of the financial impact of taxes 
and inclusion, and public policy and advocacy. on our company and business operations so that 
More information about our Board of Directors is  taxes are paid to all taxing authorities in accordance 
included in our 2021 Proxy Statement.  with applicable laws. We communicate openly with 
tax authorities and regulators and develop real-
Executive Compensation  time working relationships, where possible. More 
information related to taxes is in our 2020 Annual 
Our executive compensation program is structured to 
Report and in our Tax Policy.
drive results over the long term. At target, 75% of our 
CEO’s incentive compensation and generally 70% of 
our other senior executives’ incentive compensation 
is delivered in equity awards, with the balance 
paid in cash. We pay bonuses and incentives based 
on performance against goals, including those on 
specified environmental, social and governance 
topics, such as diversity, equity and inclusion and 
risk management. See our 2021 Proxy Statement for 
our full compensation discussion and analysis.
BNY Mellon    Enterprise ESG     53
Responsible Business
ESG Client Solutions  Our Opportunity and Approach
Various enterprises within BNY Mellon offer different 
Interest in investment products incorporating  products and services in the area of ESG. Our 
ESG criteria reached new heights during  investment management arm (BNY Mellon Investment 
Management) offers strategies designed to generate 
the past year. More than ever, ESG factors 
financial returns while aiming to address issues such 
are considered by professional investors to 
as energy use, diversity, sustainable development or 
either identify responsible, well-managed 
other social and environmental concerns. As manager 
companies they expect to be resilient over  of over $2 trillion13 in assets, we leverage our size 
the long term or those they can engage with  and wide-ranging subject matter expertise, to bring 
responsible investment products to investors.
and which may benefit from any consequent 
Our Asset Servicing business is looking to 
improvement. During the first quarter of 2020, 
transform investment management with increased 
the most stressful and volatile periods of the 
transparency and faster information delivery of ESG 
past year, funds with the highest ESG ratings 
data. We strive to uncover new ways of ensuring 
outperformed both funds with the lowest ESG  sustainable economic growth that protects healthy 
ratings and the broader market.12 markets and delivers value not only to our clients but 
also to communities, businesses, governments and 
people everywhere.
2020 Achievements 
Asset Servicing & Digital: Expanded our ESG 
Analytics offering to include an ESG Data 
Analytics application that empowers clients to 
consolidate sustainability data from multiple 
sources into actionable portfolio monitoring, 
analysis and reporting.
Investment Management: Implemented six 
Continuing Professional Development (CPD) 
certified training seminars that reached 
more than 2,000 participants regarding UK 
and EU responsible investment/ESG-related 
regulatory changes. 
Corporate Trust: Administered 100* new green 
bond issuances, totaling $38.7* billion, making 
us the leading trustee in green bonds by deal 
volume for the second consecutive year.
  * Data reflective of FY 2020; Dealogic and Refinitiv
12 Why ESG will be even harder to ignore in 2021, InvestmentNews 13 As of March 31, 2021
BNY Mellon    Enterprise ESG     54
Responsible Business
ESG Client Solutions
Enterprise ESG 2025 ESG Client Solutions Goal
BNY Mellon continues to develop and offer  Goal: Provide best-in-class client solutions to the global ESG 
community by enabling ESG financing
responsible investment14 products and services that 
support a broad range of clients in achieving their 
KPI: Increase assets managed  Progress:  
objectives and managing their ESG-related risks and  by investment firms that are  $1.834 trillion*
signatories to the PRI
opportunities.
KPI: Increase number of clients  Progress: In 2020 
ESG Governance 
who use our ESG Global Risk  the ESG Application 
Solutions, and Data and Analytics  was yet not 
Our ESG Client Solutions Working Group convenes  solutions commercialized. 
ESG leaders from across BNY Mellon’s lines of  There were 42 ESG 
Global Risk Solutions 
business and functions with the aim to develop 
clients
leading ESG solutions that address our clients’ 
needs. This body is designed to support our clients’  KPI: Increase volume of new green  Progress:  
ambitions across all geographies, client segments  bonds administered $38.7 billion**
and industry value chains today and in future. To 
KPI: Demonstrate ESG thought  Progress:  
achieve these goals, the group works together with 
leadership and proof points as  https://www.
clients, academia and industry trade bodies, and is  measured by industry recognition  bnymellon.com/us/
and client satisfaction metrics  en/about-us/esg-
supported by an Executive Committee member.
and-responsible-
investment.html
Read about our Enterprise ESG governance (p 18).
*  AUM represents the aggregate total of investment firm signatories’ assets under 
management as at 31 December 2020 and does not include assets managed by 
investment firm personnel as dual officers of The Bank of New York Mellon and The 
Dreyfus Corporation. Siguler Guff AUM is not included in this calculation, given the 
minority interest in the firm held by BNY Mellon. Insight’s AUM is represented by the 
market value of cash, securities and derivatives held in client accounts. Where a client 
mandate requires Insight to manage some or all of a client’s liabilities, and Insight is 
to be paid an investment management fee based upon the value of such liabilities, the 
14 Responsible Investment as defined by the United Nations PRI (Principles of  AUM for the account will be based on the value of the liabilities plus the gross notional 
Responsible Investing): a strategy and practice incorporating environmental, social and  value of any derivatives used in the management thereof.
governance (ESG) factors in investment decisions along with active ownership (such as 
engaging with companies to improve their stance in certain ESG issues). ** Data reflective of FY 2020; Dealogic and Refinitiv
Our Touchpoints along the investment value chain
Portfolio review risk management
Securities financing, collateral Issuance of financial instruments
ESG  
Client 
Payments Data aggregation and analysis
Solutions
Holding and servicing of assets Investment decision, advice, distribution
Trade execution
BNY Mellon    Enterprise ESG     55
Responsible Business
Our Investment   area. As early signatories to the PRI and believers 
in the strength of engagement, Newton and Insight 
Management Group
have been concerned with, and interested in, the 
repercussions diversity, the environment and labor 
BNY Mellon Investment Management (BNY  practices can have on the profitability and longevity 
Mellon IM) is a global multi-boutique business,  of the companies in which they invest.
which encompasses the skills of eight underlying 
investment groups, governed by their own respective  A Range of Responsible  
management teams. Each specializes in different  Investing Capabilities 
market areas – from publicly-traded equities and 
Many products or solutions offered by BNY Mellon IM 
bonds to cash, alternatives and privately-traded 
examine ESG factors in their investment processes 
markets – and each has its own unique investment 
and decision-making. However, there is also a 
culture, philosophy and process.
growing suite of products on offer by BNY Mellon IM 
BNY Mellon IM leverages the expertise of these eight  that go further and have dedicated mandates in this 
firms to offer investors a range of professionally  area. In 2020 these were largely available in the EMEA 
managed products. region and the underlying investment managers of 
such funds were Newton and Insight.  As of the 31 
December 2020 BNY Mellon IM offered 13 funds 
with an explicit ESG component in its investment 
approach (10 in EMEA and three in North America). 
The intention is to launch another six in EMEA as well 
as four in North America market in 2021. 
In building such products, BNY Mellon IM seeks to 
create long-term value for clients and beneficiaries, 
striving to offer investment solutions that provide 
a balance between sustainable returns, the 
environment and society. In doing so, BNY Mellon IM 
believes responsible investment consists of three 
core elements:
ESG Integration: The practice of incorporating 
material environmental, social and governance 
factors, along with more traditional risk and return 
Responsible Investment
metrics, into investment analysis and the decision-
BNY Mellon IM is a strong believer in the importance  making process
of Responsible Investment. As a distributor of 
Stewardship: Good stewardship involves structured, 
investment funds to clients all over the world, BNY 
purposeful dialogue or engagement with companies 
Mellon IM is invested in the well-being of the world. It 
and issuers as well as the considered voting of 
is an advocate of engaging with companies to create 
shares, when applicable.
more effective risk management, responsible capital 
Reporting: Disclosing information investors consider 
allocation and more sustainable business practices 
important to their assessment of Responsible 
to generate greater benefits for our societies, 
Investment offerings. This includes reporting on 
economies and the environment.
engagement and voting activities, as well as ESG 
The multi-boutique nature of the business means 
metrics on products and underlying holdings.
BNY Mellon IM’s history in this space is also quite 
tenured, dating back more than 40 years.
For example, Newton and Insight are two of the 
underlying businesses with strong credentials in this 
BNY Mellon    Enterprise ESG     56
Responsible Business
BNY Mellon Investment Firms and the Principles of Responsible Investment (PRI)
 Firm Date of signatory to PRI Additional information on Responsible 
Investment
Alcentra Signatory since 20 June 2018  https://www.alcentra.com/about/responsible-investment/
Insight Signatory since 27 April 2006 https://www.insightinvestment.com/investing-responsibly/
Mellon Signatory since 12 August 2013 https://www.mellon.com/capabilities/responsible-investing
Newton Signatory since 13 February 2007 https://www.newtonim.com/us-institutional/responsible-
investment/
Siguler Guff Signatory since 7 March 2013 https://www.sigulerguff.com/responsible-investing
Walter Scott Signatory since 26 September 2017 https://www.walterscott.com/responsible-investing-page/
Equipping Clients Training seminar material extended beyond the 
mechanics and philosophy of responsible investing to 
Although Responsible Investment is a well-embedded 
more technical aspects and even carried Continuing 
ethos in many countries, it is also still a nascent 
Professional Development accreditation. This in-
trend consuming the investment management 
depth content helped intermediaries prepare for the 
industry in other regions. Consistency in describing 
ramifications of the EU’s Action Plan on Sustainable 
an approach in this area is therefore key to investors’ 
Finance and to comply with new amendments to 
understanding.
MiFID II.
To this end, in 2020 BNY Mellon IM EMEA, with 
In addition to the creation and distribution of BNY 
the help of an external expert in this area, started 
Mellon IM’s second annual Responsible Investment 
a pilot project to create a unified Responsible 
Special Report (which includes a number of thought 
Investment (RI) policy statement across its business, 
leadership articles on the latest trends happening 
incorporating the stance and terminology used with 
in this universe), in 2020 a number of educational 
the varying views of its underlying investment firms.  
materials were also created. The latter was intended 
A RI style guide for written materials as well as sales 
to help advisers help their own clients including an 
and marketing training modules are also part of this 
ESG basics brochure and an infographic explaining 
pilot project, the aim of which is to roll across BNY 
the component parts of ESG.
Mellon IM in EMEA, North America and Asia Pacific in 
2021.
In 2020 BNY Mellon IM EMEA kicked off training with 
the creation of an educational suite of materials 
as well as a series of workshops in the UK for 
intermediary clients. Over the course of the past year, 
the UK office conducted six educational events with 
more 2,000 participants, who on average gave the 
courses a five-star rating.
BNY Mellon    Enterprise ESG     57
Responsible Business
Amplifying Our Impact  in initiatives aimed at advancing industry-wide 
responsible investing efforts. Among the initiatives 
By joining with other businesses and investors 
BNY Mellon IM and/or some of its investment firms 
worldwide, BNY Mellon IM believes the impact of 
are involved in are in the table below.
its actions can be amplified and help accelerate 
the change needed to address global challenges. 
In addition, many BNY Mellon IM firms participate 
Support for Responsible Investing Initiatives
Environmental Social Governance
CDP (Formerly the Carbon Disclosure  30% Club - Investor Group (Investor  Asian Corporate Governance Association 
Project) group seeking to encourage 30% of board  (Education, research and policy 
directors to be female) influencer across Asian markets on 
governance matters)
Climate Disclosure Standards Board 
- Technical Working Group (Oversees  FAIRR (Farm Animal Investment Risk and 
the development of the CDSB  Return) (Collective investor resource for  GC100 & Investor Group (Provides 
Reporting Framework) research and engagement with animal  guidance to UK-listed companies, 
agriculture) investors and UK government on 
remuneration regulations)
Climate Action 100+ (An investor-led 
initiative to ensure the world’s largest  Share Action Healthy Markets (Campaign 
corporate greenhouse gas emitters  asking UK food and drinks companies  International Corporate Governance 
take necessary action on climate  to produce healthier, more affordable  Network (ICGN) and ICGN Global 
change) products; limit advertising of sugary  Stewardship Principles (Investor-led 
products to children; and encourage  global organization that influences 
clear and accurate food labeling) stewardship in terms of public policy, 
Green Bond Principles (Voluntary  provides member education, and 
guidelines to promote transparency,  connects members)
disclosure and integrity in the green  UK Sustainable Investment and Finance 
bond market) Association (UKSIF) (Membership 
organization to grow sustainable and  Investor Stewardship Group (Framework 
responsible investment in the UK) of basic investment stewardship and 
Institute of Chartered Accountants  corporate governance standards for U.S. 
of Scotland – Sustainability Panel  institutional investor and boardroom 
Workforce Disclosure Initiative 
(Mobilizes capital for the low-carbon  conduct)
(Improves corporate transparency and 
transition)
accountability on workforce issues) 
Pension and Lifetime Savings 
Net Zero Asset Managers Initiative   Association (PLSA) Stewardship 
(Commitment to support the goal  Advisory Group (Collective organization 
of net zero greenhouse gas (‘GHG’)  for UK-based pension schemes. 
emissions by 2050)  Provides expert guidance to the PLSA 
on stewardship-related activities and 
policies)
Task Force on Climate-related 
Financial Disclosures (TCFD)  Principles for Responsible Investment 
(Recommendations to formalize  (UN-supported network of investors 
integration and communication of  working to promote incorporation of ESG 
risks related to climate change) considerations investments)
Transition Pathway Initiative  UK Stewardship Code (UK’s Financial 
(Assesses companies’ preparedness  Reporting Council’s principles for 
for the transition to a low-carbon  stewardship expectations of UK 
economy) investors)
Institutional Investors Group on 
Climate Change (IIGCC) (European 
membership body for investor 
collaboration on climate change)
BNY Mellon    Enterprise ESG     58
Responsible Business
Sharing Our Expertise At BNY Mellon Wealth Management, our goal is to 
enable investors to achieve their financial goals 
In addition to participating in industry initiatives, 
while also adhering to their values. Our goals-based 
some of BNY Mellon IM’s specialist investment 
investing approach aims to build portfolios that 
firms also share their expertise in responsible and 
not only serve clients’ financial goals but also align 
sustainable investment through reports and research 
with their sustainable, social and/or values-based 
on current trends and issues. For example, research 
goals. We typically manage client portfolios on a 
by Newton’s Responsible Investment team explored 
discretionary basis pursuant to investment guidelines 
the views of younger investors who increasingly want 
and preferences expressed by the client governing 
to see their values, interests and concerns reflected 
how the account is to be managed. In addition, we 
in investment decisions. Conducted by behavioral 
are committed to providing guidance to our clients in 
finance experts Oxford Risk and fielded by Research 
deploying capital across the social finance spectrum, 
Now, the study builds upon Newton research 
from capital markets to philanthropy.
examining U.S. investors’ understanding of and 
interest in sustainable investment. By sharing these  In 2020, we expanded our capabilities with the 
findings and others from such research, Newton  introduction of BNY Mellon Investor Solutions, 
provided actionable guidance for asset managers to  an SEC-registered investment adviser offering 
help address generational investment differences. comprehensive portfolio management and 
investment advisory services for institutional 
Wealth Management  investors globally seeking outsourced investment 
management. Investor Solutions incorporates 
responsible investment objectives into its manager 
BNY Mellon Wealth Management has $143 billion in  research framework and works with interested 
assets under management (AUM), of which $7.6 billion  investors to determine how best to implement 
AUM is invested across more than 30 responsible  responsible investing strategies in their portfolios.
investing solutions.15 BNY Mellon Wealth Management 
Manager research responsible investment (RI) due 
serves the investment, banking, custody and estate 
diligence is conducted in parallel with conventional 
planning needs of wealthy individuals and families, 
investment diligence. The RI component of a strategy 
family offices, nonprofits and other institutional 
is evaluated in the context of what the strategy 
investors through various business lines.
intends to achieve; typical RI objectives include 
Interest in responsible investing strategies and  impact, values-expression, return enhancement and 
advice continues to grow, particularly among younger  risk mitigation. A strategy may pursue one or more 
generations. According to a 2021 study of wealthy  RI objectives simultaneously. Strategies receive an 
investors conducted by The Harris Poll16 on behalf of  RI rating that is independent from the conventional 
BNY Mellon Wealth Management, 53% of investors  strategy rating, and the RI rating does not directly 
indicated they want more advice on how their  affect overall views on a strategy’s ability to achieve 
investments are making a positive environmental  financial performance objectives. A strategy’s RI 
impact and 56% of investors feel that investing in  evaluation is based on six factors: the firm’s RI 
companies likely to have a positive environmental  commitment, the ability of a manager to clearly 
impact is equally as important as a solid return. For  articulate the RI objective, a compelling approach, 
investors under 40 years old, the results rise to 90%  personnel and data resources, level of influence 
and 92%, respectively. the strategy may achieve, and validation of the 
effectiveness of the approach.
15 As of December 31, 2020. This number includes assets invested in various responsible 
investing approaches including ESG integration, positive and negative screening, 
thematic and impact solutions managed by BNY Mellon Wealth Management, BNY 
Mellon Investment Management and third-party asset managers.
16 Survey was conducted online by The Harris Poll from March 1 – March 31, 2021. A total 
of 661 interviews were conducted among U.S. adults age 18 and older with investable 
assets of at least $5 million. All respondents (not only those who met the qualifying 
criteria) were weighted to ensure that relevant demographic characteristics of the 
sample matched those of the U.S. general population.
BNY Mellon    Enterprise ESG     59
Responsible Business
Asset Servicing  the changing contours of the ESG landscape. The app 
also provides taxonomies to help normalize the data 
that is typically varied and inconsistent, making this 
By the middle of 2020, investors had put $21 billion 
information more easily usable by clients. Finally, 
into funds focused on ESG issues, an amount equal 
the app uses patent-pending crowdsourcing logic to 
to the total volume for the prior year.17 As a securities 
identify what investment objectives and ESG factors 
services provider, we are committed to helping 
matter to asset managers and owners. 
investors gain control over ESG and sustainability 
Learn more about our ESG Data Analytics application.
information in order to meet their unique objectives. 
Through our integration with the BNY Mellon Digital 
organization in 2020, Asset Servicing now has   
enhanced capabilities to develop tools that support 
data-led decision-making and administration 
efficiency; enable mitigation of risk and identification 
of opportunity; and empower communication with 
stakeholders, end-investors and regulators. 
There is a significant investor need for such tools, 
according to a 2020 survey conducted by BNY Mellon 
and the Official Monetary and Financial Institutions 
Forum (OMFIF), which found that 51% of global 
public investors cite insufficient data as a barrier to 
adoption or greater ESG integration.  
Read the report here.
Using Technology to Access ESG Data 
In 2020, we expanded our ESG Analytics offering 
to include an ESG Data Analytics application that 
empowers clients to consolidate sustainability 
data from multiple sources into actionable portfolio 
monitoring, analysis and reporting. This app 
focuses on creating transparency and alignment 
between market participants, enabling them to build 
customized sustainability solutions. It draws on  
BNY Mellon’s data management expertise and wide 
network of clients. Selected ESG data can also be 
incorporated into customizable reporting solutions  
so that institutional investors can communicate 
the ESG exposures within investment portfolios, 
including financial impact, carbon metrics and other 
factors. We continue to augment the metrics to allow 
our users to deepen their ESG queries and receive 
progressively unique results.
Our ESG Data Analytics app offers tailored solutions 
to clients based on custom ESG profiles, with 
modularity and flexibility to help investors navigate 
17 https://www.morningstar.com/articles/994219/sustainable-funds-continue-to-rake-
in-assets-during-the-second-quarter
BNY Mellon    Enterprise ESG     60
Responsible Business
SPOTLIGHT  
ESG Data Analytics Solutions’  
Increasing Financial Inclusion 
Recognition and Awards
Through Sumday's work with the Oregon College 
Best New Technology Introduced over the 
Savings Program, we have introduced and 
Last 12 Months (AI, machine learning and 
promoted features that increase financial 
analytics), American Financial Technology 
inclusion among lower-income savers. 
Awards 2020
A simplified account opening process now allows 
Technology Innovation of the Year, Global  unbanked and under-banked families to open 
Investment Group Excellence Awards college savings accounts in the Oregon Program. 
To help inform and enroll eligible families, BNY 
Fintech Person of the Year, Corinne Neale, 
Mellon and Sumday jointly developed training 
Head of Business Applications for BNY Mellon 
material used by staff of Head Start, the federal 
Data and Analytics Solutions, FTF News 
program that provides comprehensive early 
Technology Innovation awards
childhood education and services to low-income 
children and families. In addition, Sumday helps 
the Oregon facilitate $50 matching contributions 
when new accounts are funded. As an added 
Servicing Clients Across   incentive, the Program provides a $25 match for 
the Investment Life Cycle  initial contributions for infants and preschoolers. 
An innovative arrangement with Oregon’s bottle 
With our clients integrating ESG and sustainability 
deposit program, BottleDrop, enables savers 
considerations across various stages of the 
to direct their bottle and can deposit returns to 
investment life cycle, we recognize the importance 
their college savings accounts. During 2020, 
of developing solutions with this in mind. Alongside 
more than 1.5 million bottles and cans were 
the ESG Data Analytics application, we have offered 
redeemed and $150,000 contributed to Oregon 
our institutional client base investment compliance 
College Savings Program accounts. 
monitoring capabilities with ESG and norms-based 
screening for more than a decade. In 2020, over 40 
BNY Mellon clients used ESG screens to monitor 
ESG-related factors on assets with a combined  Advocating for Disabled Veterans and Adults 
market value of $205 billion.
Millions of Americans who acquired disabilities after 
age 26, including veterans with disabilities, are not 
State-Sponsored Savings Plans 
currently eligible for enrollment in ABLE programs, 
Through our company Sumday®, BNY Mellon provides  state-sponsored savings programs that benefit 
program management services to a growing number  residents with disabilities. In 2020, the Sumday 
of state-sponsored savings plans. We use our  CEO, who is also a BNY Mellon Managing Director, 
financial expertise and the power of digitization to  joined other stakeholders in signing a letter to the 
increase access to and the convenience of these  Congressional Military Family Caucus supporting 
programs that help participants afford advanced  a bill that would raise the age of disability onset 
education, ensure financial security in retirement,  threshold from 26 to 46. This is one of many efforts 
and provide for disabled family members.   we have made to expand the availability of ABLE  
program benefits.
BNY Mellon    Enterprise ESG     61
Responsible Business
Issuer Services  proactive role in solving current bottlenecks in the 
green bond market. By developing a centralized 
platform that enables a secure and digitized 
Corporate Trust  workflow, we will enable issuers to efficiently align 
with green bond standards so that they can execute 
Corporate Trust offers the infrastructure, technology 
their ESG agenda. This platform puts structure 
and administrative services to help financial 
around the themes of governance, traceability and 
institutions, corporations, insurers, governments 
transparency and digitizes access to prominent 
and sovereigns navigate the debt capital markets. 
sustainability frameworks. It will streamline and 
As sustainable investments are a critical part of BNY 
optimize the pre-issuance stage and automate the 
Mellon’s strategy and long-term vision, Corporate 
post-issuance reporting obligations for issuers. 
Trust supports our clients’ ESG needs with a diverse 
Green market intermediaries will be able to review 
range of products and solutions. 
documentation regarding their green investments in a 
more organized fashion and receive reporting on the 
Green and Social Bonds 
impact of their proceeds.
BNY Mellon helps advance society’s transition to a 
BNY Mellon was appointed Trustee, Paying Agent, 
more sustainable future while creating financial value 
Transfer Agent, Registrar, Inter-creditor Agent and 
by supporting issuers who raise debt capital through 
Collateral Agent to handle a notable green bond 
green, social and sustainability-linked bonds. 
issuance in Indonesia. With BNY Mellon’s support, 
Indonesian energy company Star Energy Geothermal 
issued two green bonds valued at a total of $1.118 
billion to be used for capital expenditures, working 
capital and other needs related to geothermal 
operations at the plants of Darajat and Salak.
Green   Sustainability   Social  
Bond Bond Bond Social bonds, a related investment, address areas 
with positive outcomes, such as affordable housing, 
healthcare and employment. As more investors 
seek to address societal challenges while achieving 
financial returns, social bond issuance rose to 
$14018 billion in 2020. The issuance of this asset 
class accelerated amid the pandemic, allowing our 
We are a global leader in administering green bonds, 
Corporate Trust team to serve as trustee and paying 
debt securities that fund projects with environmental 
agent on $3.218 billion of social bonds in 2020.
benefits, such as clean transportation or renewable 
energy projects. In 2020, BNY Mellon administered 
Infrastructure and Public-Private Partnerships 
10018 new green bond issuances, totaling $38.718 
As urban population growth continues, so does the 
billion. With a global market share of 12.7%18 in deal 
need for substantial investment in infrastructure. 
count origination, we are the leading trustee in green 
Public-private partnership investments have 
bonds by deal volume.
the potential to mobilize needed capital toward 
We act as a listing agent for issuers listing securities 
green and sustainable projects. Corporate Trust 
on the Luxembourg Green Exchange, a platform 
administers bonds and loans that help finance a 
exclusively for 100% ESG-focused securities. We 
wide range of infrastructure projects. For example, 
also continue to maintain “Observer” status to the 
in 2020 Corporate Trust served as trustee and paying 
International Capital Market Association’s Green Bond 
agent on a series of green bonds by a U.S. state bank. 
Principles, which are voluntary process guidelines to 
The bond series, which are committed to funding 
promote integrity and transparency in the market.
clean energy investments, will help combat the 
As a leading global debt service provider, we take a   existential threat of climate change.
 
18 Data reflective of FY 2020; Dealogic and Refinitiv BNY Mellon    Enterprise ESG     62
Responsible Business
Catastrophe Bonds and Insurance-Linked Securities  In 2020, the team executed 107 ESG-related 
projects for our clients across the three regions we 
While green bonds focus on actions designed to 
serve; APAC, Latin America and EMEA. Our team 
mitigate the long-term effects of climate change, 
also demonstrated thought leadership through 
catastrophe bonds and insurance-linked securities 
development of a webinar and short paper on  
help address its immediate impacts. Catastrophe 
ESG and the Earnings Call, and a white paper on 
(CAT) bonds help reduce the cost of insuring risk from 
Disclosure on Gender Diversity. 
natural disasters by transferring the exposure from 
insurers to financial investors. Corporate Trust is an 
Treasury Services 
active administrator of these structures, contributing 
to BNY Mellon’s position as the leading CAT bond 
trustee globally, with 77%19 of the global CAT bond 
BNY Mellon Treasury Services provides global 
market share in 2020.
payment, trade and liquidity services, enabling our 
clients to move money around the world quickly, 
ESG Advisory Solutions 
safely and reliably. Our digital strategy is a leading 
Through ESG Advisory Solutions, part of the Global  force in reshaping the treasury industry, with an 
Investor Relations Advisory team, BNY Mellon helps  emphasis on enabling clients to leverage the latest 
our clients that issue depositary receipts understand  digital solutions and technologies available. The 
recent developments in sustainability and reporting,  investment BNY Mellon has made in digital Treasury 
and provides a roadmap to help manage investor  solutions has proven to be both necessary and timely. 
concerns as part of their overall investor relations  Adaptations to COVID-19 highlight the ability of digital 
strategies. We develop effective ESG strategies  solutions to mitigate the disruption of traditional 
that are integrated with clients’ capital markets and  paper-based processes, in addition to the movement 
investor relations activities. Specifically, we offer  already underway as customers look for safer, faster 
support to our clients in the following areas: ways to make and receive payments.
Education and Benchmarking: Identify material  As such, our use of the latest digital technologies 
themes within peer groups and industries, including  helps safeguard customers, minimize risks, and build 
company-specific ESG ratings, peer benchmarking  trust. We harness the growing volume, velocity and 
reports, sector trends and regional trends.  variety of data entrusted to our Treasury business 
with a clear data strategy to assist organizations 
Engagement Policy and Strategy: Develop roadmaps 
in their goals toward improved cash management. 
to assist in understanding investors’ specific ESG 
And we maintain effective data control to meet 
concerns, reviewing internal ESG practices, and 
regulatory requirements and client expectations. 
enhancing communications efforts with investors 
Through advanced data analytics and information 
and other relevant stakeholders.
management, BNY Mellon is building transparency, 
Intermediary Engagement: Help clients understand 
risk mitigation and market intelligence to help power 
and engage with key players, including ESG ratings 
our clients’ success.  
providers, sustainability index providers, specialized 
Learn more about our Treasury Services.
firms and associations, and proxy advisers.
Investor Engagement: Identify investors that have 
embedded active ESG criteria into their investment 
processes and facilitate engagement with them; 
facilitate understanding of top shareholders’ ESG 
priorities and engagement with the right people at 
these firms. 
19 Catastrophe Bond & Insurance-Linked Securities Deal Directory, Artemis  BNY Mellon    Enterprise ESG     63
Responsible Business
Paper-to-Digital Journey  Account Validation Services 
Throughout 2020, businesses and consumers  In July 2020, BNY Mellon launched Account Validation 
continued the journey of transitioning from paper  Services (AVS), which leverages Early Warning 
to digital. Accelerated by environmental factors,  Services’ Real-Time Payment Chek® to allow clients to 
they sought multiple objectives, including payables  validate account status and ownership before making 
and receivables automation, reduced exception  a payment.21 With electronic payments fraud on the 
processing, counterparty identity-confirmation tools  rise, AVS enables businesses to confidently address 
to help clients’ efforts to reduce potential fraud,  this problem by positively verifying account status 
and improved treasury infrastructures required to  and ownership with bank-consortium data in real 
harness new systems and applications.  time. This service is a compliant solution to National 
Automated Clearing House Association upcoming 
BNY Mellon continues to serve as a leader in 
WEB debit rule, which will require Originators of WEB 
payments modernization by enabling new and 
debits to perform account validations in certain 
improved systems, applications and features 
circumstances while also augmenting Automated 
necessary for our bank, corporate and fintech clients 
Clearing House (ACH), Wire and RTP with recipient 
to transact safely and securely in an increasingly 
verification. In parallel, we continue to address fraud 
digital environment, including those described below.
prevention and improve the disbursement experience 
Real-Time Payments  with our BNY Mellon Tokenized Payments® with 
Zelle®22 solution, which eliminates the need for clients 
BNY Mellon continued to support the growth of 
to store or process payees’ bank account information 
the Real-Time Payments®20 (RTP) Network, which 
and provides a fast, secure, convenient digital 
increased from 21 to 94 participating banks in 2020, 
experience benefiting our clients and their payment 
expanding network reach to 56% of U.S. demand 
recipients, both consumers and small businesses.
deposit accounts eligible to receive real-time 
payments. In December 2020, BNY Mellon facilitated  Carbon Footprint Reduction
the origination of the first end-to-end Request for 
In February 2020, a collaborative outcome from 
Payment e-bill for B2C billing in production, ushering 
our ESG Sustainable Finance workshops paved the 
in a new era of electronic billing. This capability 
way for the development of our Treasury Carbon 
provides more control and transparency to payers 
Footprint analytics tool, which gives us the capability 
while accelerating and automating receivables 
to track the environmental impact of our clients’ 
processing for billers. We were the first bank in the 
paper payment activity. This capability positions 
U.S. to launch and initiate 24/7/365 transactions 
BNY Mellon to empower our clients to address the 
through the RTP® service in conjunction with The 
“E” in ESG by harnessing data to visualize their 
Clearing House (TCH) in 2017. We have consistently 
paper payment volumes (i.e., paper checks) and 
participated in industry work groups and committees 
associated impact on the planet, as measured by 
to introduce new use cases while enhancing the 
their corresponding tree count and carbon emission 
experience for those currently leveraging the system 
activity. These insights can help quantify the carbon 
and its promotion of immediacy and transparency 
footprint of our clients’ treasury practice and, as 
to provide an affordable, scalable platform for 
paper payment transaction volumes are transitioned 
electronic payments and to help create economic 
to digital alternatives, we are able to monitor their 
opportunity and advance financial inclusion.
trends as they pursue a greener practice. As of 
November 2020, our analytics displayed that a 10%  
reduction of clients’ paper payment transactions  
would equate to removing nearly 110,000 pounds of  
 
21 Payment Chek is a trademark of early warning services, L.L.C.
20 RTP and the RTP Network are a registered service mark of The Clearing House  22 Zelle and the Zelle related marks are wholly owned by Early Warning Services, LLC and 
Payments Company L.L.C. are used herein under license.
BNY Mellon    Enterprise ESG     64
Responsible Business
carbon dioxide (CO2) from the environment. We look  Markets 
forward to engaging our environmentally conscious 
clients to discuss ways to accelerate their transition 
BNY Mellon recognizes the vital role of market 
from paper-based payments to digital alternatives.
infrastructure as a catalyst for scaling sustainable 
BNY Mellon continues to provide innovative 
finance. We support clients’ ESG strategies driving 
payments, receivables and validation solutions for 
liquidity and flows toward sustainable outcomes, as 
U.S. corporations, financial institutions, government 
well as increasing market transparency on ESG data 
entities and non-bank financial institutions.
points and improving broader market integrity.
Securities Finance and ESG Investing
Fighting Fraud in Fast Payments 
BNY Mellon collaborates with clients to enable them 
to execute on their ESG strategies by engaging in a 
Recognizing that faster payments are an 
securities lending program aligned to the safeguards 
inviting target for fraud, BNY Mellon takes 
of market regulations, market codes of conduct and 
a leading role in addressing weaknesses 
industry best practice. By adopting a lending program 
in global payments system and correcting 
that is inherently flexible and compatible with ESG 
vulnerabilities in the digital identity 
principles, clients can continue to exercise their 
infrastructure in the U.S. As a leading 
governance and long-term stewardship objectives, 
member of the U.S. Faster Payments Council, 
applying a wide range of parameters, including recall 
we collaborate with peer institutions to 
for exercise of voting rights, as well as setting their 
improve fraud information sharing and 
counterparty and ESG collateral guidelines.  
accelerate response times to threats to the 
BNY Mellon is deeply engaged with industry bodies, 
payments system. In 2020, we chaired the 
policymakers and regulators, driving consistency 
Fraud Information Sharing Work Group, which 
across the securities finance market and global 
issued a research report on Examining Faster 
consensus on best practices for ESG and securities 
Payments Fraud Prevention. This report 
lending.
identified fraud themes and trends as well as 
approaches for mitigating fraud.
Liquidity Direct 
The BNY Mellon Liquidity DirectSM platform provides 
clients with investment options that enable them 
to align investments with their core values. Via 
Liquidity Direct, investors have access to a broad 
range of money market funds and other short-term 
investments, including funds that:
•  Advance diversity and inclusion by executing 
trades through diverse broker/dealers
•  Provide negative and positive security screening 
through investment decisions based on ESG 
criteria 
•  Direct a portion of revenues or management fees 
to an organization where the fund and client’s ESG 
values align
Details of the above are outlined via funds company 
prospectuses and filings. Liquidity Services 
BNY Mellon    Enterprise ESG     65
Responsible Business
continues to remain focused on enhancing our ESG 
offering, including addition of investments options 
Introducing iFlow Green Analysis 
and focus on analytics and research to help clients 
with their investment options. While investment mandates related to ESG 
principles are mushrooming, BNY Mellon 
Clearance and Collateral Management  Capital Markets is applying our iFlow 
database to study movements between 
BNY Mellon provides securities clearing and 
portfolios and ESG rankings. We have 
collateral management services in over 35 countries 
created iFlow Green, a framework to quantify 
and is the leading provider of U.S. government 
whether investors take into account a 
securities clearance and settlement services. To 
country’s sustainability behavior. We released 
help our clients meet their ESG strategies, we are 
our first annual report on equity flows 
developing tools to enable collateral to be part of our 
between countries to assess the developing 
clients’ ESG goals. To this end, our team engages in 
relationship between asset class flows and 
various industry bodies and forums to ensure we can 
changes in country-level ESG performance.
help meet the industry’s and our clients’ needs.
Read Introducing iFlow Green.
Capital Markets
BNY Mellon Capital Markets, LLC (Capital Markets) is  To understand the impact that the COVID-19 
a full-service securities broker/dealer and an indirect,  pandemic had on the world’s capital markets 
wholly owned subsidiary of BNY Mellon. Capital  infrastructure, we analyzed data provided by  
Markets provides underwriting services in debt and  SWIFT and presented the findings in a white paper 
equity capital across public and private markets.  Capital Markets Infrastructure: What is the New 
Public finance is a particularly important part of  Normal after COVID-19? The paper describes how 
our Capital Markets business. We have a long track  the COVID-19 crisis and consequent market volatility 
record of successfully structuring tax-exempt and  are driving a transformation of various financial 
taxable bond transactions for general obligation and  services segments. We share these findings to 
revenue bond issuers throughout the U.S. increase market resiliency by helping capital market 
participants better prepare for future dislocations.
Impact Capital 
Over the past decade, impact investing has been 
widely embraced both as an investment strategy 
and an approach to addressing pressing social 
and environmental challenges. The Global Impact 
Investing Network estimates the current size of the 
global impact investing market to be $715 billion.23 
Investors pursue impact investments as a way to 
generate financial returns with positive social and 
environmental impacts. Capital Markets provides 
a number of products and services that can meet 
the needs of investors in, and users of, socially 
responsible capital. In particular, we have been active 
in the affordable housing space since the early 1990s 
and continue to serve many clients in this space.
 
23 Annual Impact Investor Survey 2020, GIIN, pg. 4 
BNY Mellon    Enterprise ESG     66
Responsible Business
In response to the growing volume of socially driven  Financing Affordable Housing 
capital and increasingly sophisticated financial 
One of the most significant ways BNY Mellon’s 
structures entering the market, Capital Markets 
banking subsidiaries can meet their CRA obligations is
leverages its deep experience and track record in 
by providing financing to expand quality, affordable, 
the bond markets to introduce new impact financing 
and where possible, energy-efficient housing. Each 
options and investment opportunities. Our work 
year, BNY Mellon provides construction loans, letters
supports issuer and investor interests in various 
of credit and equity in the form of low income 
transactions.
housing tax credits to clients. By financing 
In 2020, we developed a unique bond model to finance  affordable housing developments, BNY Mellon helps 
community development through nonprofit and  clients provide quality affordable housing while 
community organizations looking for creative capital  simultaneously improving the quality of life in low- 
to promote economic opportunity and inclusion.  and moderate-income communities.
The structure is designed to offer residents and 
Our efforts are focused in our CRA assessment 
small businesses in transitional communities the 
areas, which include metropolitan New York City and 
opportunity to participate in and profit from local 
Pittsburgh; Pennsylvania, statewide, and areas 
economic growth. 
in New Jersey and Connecticut. In many of these 
Many municipalities, public agencies and  low- and moderate-income communities, residents 
corporations need cost-effective capital for  are primarily people of color, who have long 
environmental projects. We have acted as  experienced social and economic inequity and who 
underwriter for green bonds for the Metropolitan  are often frontline essential workers, who, during the 
Transportation Authority, the Massachusetts Clean  COVID-19 pandemic could not work remotely. These 
Water Trust, Mid-American Energy Company, Boston  residents benefit most from our commitment to 
Properties and Northern States Powers Company. provide affordable housing.
In 2020, our CRA Real Estate team worked to finance 
Investing in Communities 
the development of St. Philip-Neri Apartments in 
the Bronx, one of New York City's lowest-income 
communities. The project will consist of 185 units of 
Each year, BNY Mellon helps build stronger, more 
new affordable housing, including 93 units for families 
resilient communities by providing financing for 
as well as individuals who have been impacted by 
affordable housing and investing in small businesses. 
mental health and substance abuse issues. BNY 
These efforts are complimented by our strategic 
Mellon provided project financing through a $55.6 
philanthropy and community service activities, which 
million letter of credit that serves as credit 
are described on page 34.
enhancement to housing finance agency bonds, and 
Through investing, lending and performing 
$39.2 million equity investment in low income housing 
community service in low- and moderate-income 
tax credits (LIHTC). 
communities, BNY Mellon's banking subsidiaries in the
U.S. meet their obligations under the Community 
Reinvestment Act (CRA) of 1977. The need for  2020 Key Data: Affordable Housing 
comprehensive community reinvestment was  Investments 
magnified in 2020 as the global COVID-19 pandemic, 
social unrest, and the economic downturn  New LIHTC equity investments: Eight 
disproportionately impacted small businesses and a  investments totaling $233 million
majority of American families nationwide.
Construction, line and letter of credit 
financing: $330 million
Units produced (LIHTC investments only): 
1,105 units
BNY Mellon    Enterprise ESG     67
Responsible Business
Small Business Investment   Responsible Financing  
Corporation Portfolio  and the Equator Principles 
Small Business Investment Corporations (SBICs)  The Equator Principles are an internationally 
are CRA-eligible investment vehicles authorized  recognized framework used by financial institutions 
and regulated by the U.S. Small Business  to assess the social and environmental risks of their 
Administration. Companies that have received  project financing24 activities. Although BNY Mellon 
conventional financing turn to SBICs for flexible  is not and does not plan to become active in project 
financing to grow their businesses. BNY Mellon’s SBIC financing and is therefore not an Equator Principles 
portfolio consists of investments totaling $135.5  signatory, we adhere to guidelines consistent with 
million in 18 funds. In addition, our CRA professionals  the Equator Principles for other lending activities, 
have helped to form and shape inaugural social  such as large-scale infrastructure projects. Our 
justice and racial equality policy statements for  periodic lending portfolio evaluations against these 
women’s, lenders’ and small business advocacy  guidelines show minimal exposure to environmental 
organizations. and social risk.
Community Reinvestment 
BNY Mellon reinvests in its communities through its 
corporate commitment to philanthropy and 
volunteerism, adding to the community’s wellbeing 
and the bank’s reputation. Monetary donations, in-
kind services and employee involvement in certain 
qualified activities and organizations are tracked 
through our internal Community Impact Online 
portal. In 2020, CRA-qualified giving represented 
a $4,378,409 million commitment.
In the United States, two BNY Mellon banking 
entities — BNY Mellon, N.A. and The Bank of New 
York Mellon — are evaluated in accordance with the 
Community Reinvestment Act (CRA) of 1977, the 
federal law intended to encourage banks to help meet
 the credit needs of the communities in which they 
operate. Regulators have rated BNY Mellon, N.A. as 
“Outstanding” and The Bank of New York Mellon as 
“Satisfactory” during their most recent CRA  
performance evaluations. 
24 The Equator Principles uses the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision’s 
definition of project finance, which is “a method of financing in which the lender 
looks primarily to the revenues generated by a single Project, both as the source of 
repayment and as security for the exposure. This type of financing is usually for large, 
complex and expensive installations that might include, for example, power plants, 
chemical processing plants, mines, transportation infrastructure, environment, 
and telecommunications infrastructure.” Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, 
International Convergence of Capital Measurement and Capital Standards (“Basel II”), 
November 2005.
BNY Mellon    Enterprise ESG     68
Global Citizenship
Global Citizenship
Through our global reach, BNY Mellon has the power — and 
opportunity — to positively impact the environment and 
people with whom we share it. We’re committed to using 
natural resources efficiently, implementing thoughtful 
energy solutions, and addressing climate change. We seek 
to help people and communities reach their full potential 
by cultivating a diverse, ethical supply chain, advocating on 
relevant issues, and protecting human rights. 
BNY Mellon    Enterprise ESG     69
Global Citizenship
Environmental  Our Opportunity and Approach 
Sustainability 
BNY Mellon is committed to addressing climate 
change and its associated risks and opportunities 
through an approach that considers the many 
Extreme weather, rising temperatures and an  dimensions of our business and society.
uptick in wildfire frequency are some of the 
BNY Mellon’s Environmental Sustainability Policy 
indicators that our planet is under stress due  Statement sets forth the scope of our efforts, guiding 
to a changing climate. Habitat and biodiversity  principles and commitments. 
loss, water scarcity, deforestation and waste 
disposal, among other issues highlight the  
need for better natural resource management. 
2020 Achievements 
In the face of these growing climate-related 
concerns, investors, clients and employees  Carbon Neutrality: Achieved carbon 
neutrality in our operations for the sixth 
expect the business community to exhibit 
consecutive year*
stronger leadership on environmental and 
climate action. Climate Leader: Recognized on CDP’s  
Climate Change “A” List for the eighth 
consecutive year** 
Lower Emissions: Reduced Scope 1 and 2 
greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions relative to 
our 2018 baseline, including data centers, an 
incremental 16% in 2020 
Paper Neutral: Achieved paper neutrality via 
a certified offset program for the fourth year 
through the planting of 100,000 trees
*   For Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions, including our data centers,  
as well as Scope 3 business travel emissions
**  The A List 2020, CDP. 
BNY Mellon    Enterprise ESG     70
Global Citizenship
2025 Environmental   Emissions Reduction 
Sustainability Goals  BNY Mellon set a new GHG emissions reduction 
target of 20% by 2025, including data centers, 
relative to a 2018 base year.25 This target aligns with 
In our ongoing commitment to environmental 
SBTi methodology required to keep increases in 
sustainability, we developed Enterprise ESG 2025 
global warming to well below 2°C. 
goals. Since setting these targets, we have made 
In 2019 we reduced emissions by 8% relative to 
substantial progress toward achieving them. The 
our new 2018 baseline, and in 2020, we reduced 
COVID-19 pandemic and resulting remote work 
emissions an additional 16%. Reductions in our 2020 
environment has also resulted in material reductions 
data were the result of energy efficiency initiatives 
in our emissions, paper use and water consumption.
(such as improvements in building controls and 
data center cooling systems), reductions in the 
total occupancy space, COVID-19 impacts on our 
Enterprise ESG 2025 Environmental 
workplace, and improvements in the carbon-intensity 
Sustainability Goals
of the electricity grid around the world.
Goal: Maintain commitment to environmental sustainability, 
including effectively managing natural resource use
Carbon Neutral Since 2015 
KPI: Reduce greenhouse  Progress: Reduced  We have been carbon neutral for our global direct 
gas emissions by 20% from  emissions by an 
Scope 1, Scope 2 and Scope 3 business travel 
a 2018 base year, including  incremental 16%
data centers, in line with  emissions since 2015. Our three-part approach for 
Science-Based Targets (SBTi)  achieving carbon neutrality includes: (1) reducing our 
methodology
energy use and related greenhouse gas emissions as 
described above; (2) procuring renewable electricity; 
KPI: Maintain carbon  Progress: Achieved 
neutrality commitment  carbon neutrality  and (3) purchasing carbon offsets to compensate for 
any remaining emissions in our footprint.
KPI: Divert 80% of office  Progress: Achieved a  
waste from landfills  72% diversion rate Renewable energy provides 99% of electricity for all 
global locations, including data centers. 
KPI: Target zero waste to  Progress: Zero 
To compensate for emissions, we purchase carbon 
landfills for technology  technology waste sent to 
equipment landfill offsets through clean energy financing and carbon 
sequestration initiatives. In 2020, 50% of our offsets 
KPI: Achieve paper neutrality  Progress: Achieved paper 
went toward the funding of renewable energy in India, 
in the U.S. and India neutrality in the U.S. and 
India 25% funded afforestation projects in Mexico, and 
25% funded landfill methane gas capture in the U.S. 
KPI: Drive water use reduction  Progress: Reduced water 
in building operations use by 54% relative to 
Data Center Emissions 
2015 baseline
In 2020, BNY Mellon’s enterprise data centers 
accounted for approximately 42% of the electricity 
used in our global properties and approximately 
40% of our total Scope 1 and Scope 2 carbon 
emissions, making them a critical component of 
our strategy to meet emissions targets. In our daily 
management of the enterprise data centers, the 
PUE (Power Usage Effectiveness) is continuously 
monitored to ensure that each facility is operating 
25 This location-based target includes BNY Mellon’s global Scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas 
emissions
BNY Mellon    Enterprise ESG     71
Global Citizenship
efficiently. To achieve our five-year goal to reduce  Water Conservation 
greenhouse gas emissions, including those from our 
We decreased water consumption by 53% in 2020 
data centers, BNY Mellon implemented a three-year 
relative to a 2015 baseline, though a large portion of 
program to replace legacy mechanical and electrical 
this reduction was related to lower office occupancy 
equipment with newer and more energy-efficient 
due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Targeted actions to 
systems. Examples include replacement of battery 
drive sustained reductions in water consumption 
backup systems, known as UPS modules, and 
included upgrades to high-efficiency fixtures during 
computer room air conditioning (CRAC) units.
renovations, an initiative to update irrigation systems, 
and through leak detection and the monitoring of 
Independent Verification 
mechanical equipment. 
BNY Mellon engages with an independent, third-
party organization to verify our Scope 1, Scope 2 and  Waste Diversion 
Scope 3 business travel emissions, renewable energy 
In light of the growing environmental impacts related 
purchases, and carbon neutrality status at a limited 
to waste in general and the accumulation of waste in 
assurance level (see the full verification statement). 
landfills, we look for ways to continually improve our 
The verification of our emissions lends transparency 
waste diversion. Our approach includes recycling, 
and confidence in our methodology, and enhances 
composting, incineration at waste-to-energy plants, 
our ability to track energy-efficiency opportunities.
employee education, and thoughtful receptacle 
layout designs and signage. Beyond managing office 
A CDP Climate Change Leader 
waste, we prioritize reusing and recycling used 
BNY Mellon was named to the Climate Change “A List” 
furniture and non-technology equipment where 
in 2020 for our actions to reduce emissions, mitigate 
possible. In 2020, we recycled 70% of our waste, 
climate risks, and develop thoughtful initiatives. Over 
which contributed to our landfill diversion rate  
9,500 companies responded to CDP’s 2020 climate 
of 72%.
change questionnaire, and only 278 (approximately 
3%) achieved the Climate “A List.” BNY Mellon is  Technology Waste 
one of five U.S.-based financial services companies 
A record 53.6 million metric tonnes (Mt) of electronic 
to earn Climate “A List” and is the only U.S.-based 
equipment waste were generated worldwide in 2019.27 
financial institution to earn this ranking from CDP for 
Recognizing the negative environmental impacts and 
eight consecutive years.26 This recognition comes in 
potential health hazards associated with improper 
the first year of a new CDP climate survey specific 
disposal, we maintain a no-landfill philosophy for 
to the financial services industry, and amid growing 
end-user technology waste. In 2020, we recycled 
alignment between CDP and TCFD Guidelines.
or properly disposed of 200 tons of technology 
equipment.
26  The A List 2020, CDP.  27  UN, The Global E-waste Monitor 2020, Global EWaste, 
BNY Mellon    Enterprise ESG     72
Global Citizenship
Paper Neutral  productive and safe working environment, including 
improved indoor air quality and new cleaning 
While paper makes up one of our largest waste 
protocols, among others. Changes in this evolving 
streams, we achieved paper neutrality in the U.S. and 
space will have implications for the future of our work 
India in 2020 through conservation and a partnership 
and the environmental footprint of the company.
with PrintReleaf, a certified offset program that 
plants a number of trees equivalent to the pages  We use third-party green building certifications 
printed. As of 2020, to offset all of our printing/paper  (including the U.S. Green Building Council’s [USGBC] 
usage, around 100,000 trees have been planted. In  LEED certification, the U.S. EPA’s ENERGY STAR 
addition, we recycled 3.8 million pounds of paper  program, and international standards such as  
in 2020 through our program to recycle confidential  ISO 14001) to guide our office designs and 
paper after destruction. As of 2020, global print  environmental programs.
volume has been reduced by 78% relative to our 2014   
baseline.
Culture of Conservation 
2020 Key Data:  
Our global internal network of approximately   Real Estate and Workspaces 
300 Environmental Sustainability Ambassador 
employees plays an important role in leadership  Occupied real estate by square foot with 
and integration of our values, goals and strategies.  third-party sustainability certification: 53%
Through their actions, Ambassadors help to 
LEED certifications in occupied spaces: 42
advance resource conservation and environmentally 
responsible practices throughout our organization. 
ISO 14001-certified facilities: 90% in  
In 2020, ambassadors shared conservation tips with 
EMEA region
fellow employees and encouraged them to adopt 
sustainable practices at home through the use of 
energy and water calculators.
Real Estate and Workspaces 
In 2020, we developed a climate risk and scenario-
based resiliency assessment of our real estate 
portfolio, which also supports our commitment to 
the TCFD recommendations. This study identifies 
emerging climate risks, which helps to guide relevant 
investments and internal policies. In 2020, two 
prominent BNY Mellon locations in the UK and India 
are undergoing significant renovations, and both are 
targeting LEED environmental certifications.
The design of our workspaces contributes to the 
wellbeing and productivity of our employees, 
and affects our energy use and greenhouse gas 
emissions. In light of the global pandemic, we are 
committed to providing work environments that are 
environmentally and economically sustainable for the 
long term. Throughout our portfolio, we implemented 
various measures to provide our employees with a 
BNY Mellon    Enterprise ESG     73
Global Citizenship
Supply Chain 
Our Opportunity and Approach 
Enterprise ESG 2025 Supplier Diversity Goal
Build a Supplier Diversity Program that has longevity, 
As a major global financial services leader operating 
consistent with BNY Mellon’s value proposition and diversity 
in 35 countries, BNY Mellon touches much of  initiatives
the world’s asset movements every day. We rely 
on a broad network of suppliers for a variety of  KPI: Design and execute  Progress: Developed a 
an efficient onboarding  supplier segmentation 
products and services to support our company and 
process for diverse  method that aligns with 
successfully deliver products and services to our  suppliers to improve  our sourcing strategy and 
customer experience created a Certification 
clients globally. Through the development of sound 
Excellence Process to 
supplier relationships, BNY Mellon can continue to  provide assurance of vendor 
improve our performance and market position, and  diversity-ownership
uphold our responsibilities to the market and our  Leveraging procurement 
tools to deliver improved 
clients.
customer experience
By harnessing the power of our purchasing influence, 
KPI: Implement a company- Progress: Developed two 
we also seek to cultivate a diverse, responsible 
wide sustainable training  training courses that are 
supply chain that helps people and communities  program on supplier  mandatory for the Global 
reach their full potential. We strive to conduct our  diversity Supply Chain Management 
organization and available 
business with the highest ethical standards, manage 
for all employees company-
social and environmental issues responsibly, manage  wide. The training courses 
include “Introduction to 
risks, and safeguard human rights. We expect our 
Supplier Diversity at BNY 
suppliers to do the same.   Mellon” and “Sourcing 
Strategies for Diverse 
Supplier Inclusion”
KPI: Increase outreach  Progress: Along with our 
with diverse suppliers  advocacy organizations, 
through quarterly supplier  pivoted to virtual events 
development and education  to provide opportunities 
experiences for matchmaking and 
one-on-one well meetings 
with diverse suppliers. 
Completed 14 events for 
2020 
BNY Mellon    Enterprise ESG     74
Global Citizenship
Supplier Responsibility  updated Supplier Code of Conduct outlines our 
approach and expectations that our direct suppliers 
will include small and diverse-owned business in 
In 2020, we updated and expanded our  
their own supply chain, and we may ask them to 
Supplier Code of Conduct to more clearly articulate 
report their second-tier spend with these suppliers.
our expectations related to worker health and safety, 
Our Executive leadership fully supports our efforts 
labor and human rights, environmental sustainability, 
to promote the economic growth and development 
diversity and inclusion, ethics, and other responsible 
of small and diverse businesses. To advance 
business practices. We adhere to high standards 
social justice and economic and racial equality, 
in these areas and hold our suppliers to similar 
our Executive Committee resolved to accelerate 
standards of excellence. 
our increase in spend with minority vendors, 
We expect our suppliers to understand and act in 
especially Black- and Hispanic-American-owned 
accordance with this Code, including by aligning their 
businesses. We adopted key commitments to expand 
corresponding guidelines, policies and practices, and 
collaboration with diverse-owned business in 
by communicating and enforcing the Code provisions 
nontraditional professional services areas, such as 
throughout their organization and across their own 
asset management broker/dealers.
supply chains. Any violations of our Supplier Code 
Our newly established Supplier Development 
of Conduct can be reported through our confidential 
Committee will also design and implement strategies 
Ethics Help Line.
to focus on increasing diverse and small business 
Additionally, we expect our suppliers to improve their 
engagement through capacity-building opportunities. 
environmental performance, address climate change, 
This committee will have oversight of our Mentoring 
and track the environmental impacts of their own 
Program scheduled to launch in 2021 and the creation 
operations as well as those of their suppliers.
of events to achieve our development targets.
BNY Mellon is committed to maintaining a resilient 
supply chain that functions in all economic  Outreach and External Advocacy 
conditions, including disasters. During the economic  Relationships 
disruptions resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic, 
We are members of many advocacy organizations, 
we conducted financial health assessments of key 
including the Financial Services Roundtable 
BNY Mellon suppliers to detect possible distress 
for Supplier Diversity, National Gay & Lesbian 
from COVID-19 and took action when necessary.
Chamber of Commerce, National Minority Supplier 
Development Council, New York & New Jersey 
Supplier Diversity 
Minority Supplier Development Council, National 
Veteran-Owned Business Association, WEConnect 
Developing a supply chain that encompasses small  International, Women’s Business Enterprise National 
and diverse suppliers not only brings valuable  Council, and Women Presidents’ Educational 
perspectives to our company, but it is also an  Organization – New York. Our participation magnifies 
important part of our corporate strategy and helps  our outreach and demonstrates our commitment to 
advance our Enterprise ESG goals. We seek to do  working with diverse vendors. Engagement with local 
business with best-in-class, cost-competitive and  and diverse suppliers can benefit both our business 
innovative diverse suppliers and small businesses. as well as local communities through job creation, 
and revenue and income generation.
Our Supplier Diversity Program is designed to ensure 
there are opportunities for businesses owned and  We regularly host events to advise current and 
operated by minorities, women, veterans, individuals  potential diverse vendors on how to do business with 
with disabilities and LGBT+ individuals as well as  BNY Mellon. In 2020 we hosted six virtual Supplier 
small businesses where capabilities exist. Our  Diversity events and attended eight industry events 
BNY Mellon    Enterprise ESG     75
Global Citizenship
hosted by advocacy organizations in support of  Advocacy and  
supplier development and sourcing inclusion. These 
events provide opportunities to share experiences  Political Engagement
with our peers to alert us to new or developing best 
practices.
Our Opportunity and Approach
SPOTLIGHT:  
Champions of Inclusive Sourcing As a leading global financial institution for over 230 
years, BNY Mellon has a unique voice and perspective 
In a year of heightened awareness of systemic 
to bring to the policy and political process. Laws 
racism and inequality, the need for advancing 
and regulations have significant impacts on 
supplier diversity gained visibility throughout our 
our businesses, markets, clients, employees, 
enterprise. Employees across BNY Mellon found 
shareholders and communities. We are committed 
creative ways to promote inclusive sourcing and 
to working constructively with policymakers and 
integrate supplier diversity more deeply into our 
market participants as we move the financial 
culture. We recognized their efforts at our first 
services industry forward. Certain of our employees 
annual “Supplier Diversity End of the Year Awards 
engage through the PAC program, trade associations, 
and Recognition” event, in which we named 
and other voluntary activities in accordance with 
Supplier Diversity champions from more than  
applicable laws, regulations, and internal policies and 
30 nominees in six categories as well as a 
procedures.
“Diverse Supplier of the Year.” 
Enterprise ESG 2025 Public Policy Goal
Continue to engage with stakeholders on key regulatory and 
legislative issues important to BNY Mellon 
KPI: Expand internal  Progress: Expanded 
awareness of regulatory  internal awareness of 
and legislative impacts and  regulatory and political 
trends trends/impacts through 
elections webinars, 
monthly public policy 
and government affairs 
updates, and updates 
and outlooks for internal 
working groups and clients
KPI: Strategically advocate  Progress: Worked with 
on priority legislative and  leadership to determine 
regulatory issues affecting  priorities and facilitated 
BNY Mellon bilateral meetings 
with regulators and 
legislators across multiple 
jurisdictions. Submitted 
more than 20 comment 
letters on issues including 
capital, Money Market 
Fund reform, Capital 
Markets Union and others
BNY Mellon    Enterprise ESG     76
Global Citizenship
Public Engagement and Lobbying Conduct, internal policies and procedures, applicable 
laws and regulations, and in consultation with the 
BNY Mellon’s Public Policy and Government Affairs 
Compliance and Legal Departments.
team works with other functions within the Company 
to set our public policy priorities, analyze regulatory  Learn more in the BNY Mellon 2020 Annual Report.
and political trends, comment on policy proposals,  We encourage our employees to stay informed 
and educate policymakers about BNY Mellon’s unique  of political issues and candidates and to take 
role in the market. This engagement provides another  an active interest in policy and political affairs. 
view into the real-world impact of a proposed policy  Employees may participate in the political process 
change.  by making voluntary contributions on their own 
In certain cases, this engagement includes lobbying  behalf or engaging in personal political activities in 
by the Government Affairs team and external  accordance with applicable federal and state laws 
consultants. These lobbying activities, and related  and regulations, the Code of Conduct, and internal 
expenses are reported and publicly disclosed in  policies and procedures.
accordance with applicable law. Employees are not reimbursed or compensated in 
In 2020, our federal lobbying expenses were  any way for attending political events, engaging in 
$1,330,000, as disclosed on our website. Our state  political activities, or making political contributions. 
and local legislative lobbying is concentrated in New  Employees engaging in political activities must do 
York and Pennsylvania, where BNY Mellon’s primary  so on their own time and with their own resources. 
business operations are located. Expenses are of a  Our Compliance Department reviews all individual 
de minimis nature and disclosed where required by  employee contributions that may be affected by 
applicable law. federal, state or local “pay-to-play” laws. These 
laws limit the ability of corporations to compete for 
Learn more about Political Engagement and 
business if certain employees or their immediate 
Lobbying.
family members have made contributions to officials 
who have the authority to award business or other 
individuals as set forth in the applicable laws.
2020 Key Data: Political Engagement
Industry Participation
Federal lobbying expenses: $1,330,000
BNY Mellon is a member of numerous trade 
Federal political action committee (PAC) 
associations on issues of interest to the financial 
contributions: $241,500
industry and general business community. These 
trade associations help build consensus, coordinate 
Corporate contributions: $0
advocacy, and produce industry analysis and best 
practices. We regularly review our memberships for 
alignment with our priorities, and we may not always 
Compliance and Oversight  agree with an association’s or its members’ positions 
or priorities. We ask trade associations not to use our 
The BNY Mellon Public Policy and Government Affairs 
membership fees to fund federal, state, or local level 
team is responsible for all political activity by or on 
election-related activity, including contributions and 
behalf of BNY Mellon, including administration of the 
expenditures to support or oppose any candidate 
PACs. The Public Policy and Government Affairs team 
for any office, political party committee, or political 
reports to the General Counsel and provides updates 
committee.
at least annually to the Corporate Governance, 
Nominating and Social Responsibility Committee 
of the Board of Directors. These activities are 
conducted in accordance with BNY Mellon’s Code of 
BNY Mellon    Enterprise ESG     77
Global Citizenship
Principal Association Memberships  Employee-Funded Political Action 
Committees and Political Contributions 
American Bankers Association
BNY Mellon has two Political Action Committees 
Association of Global Custodians (PACs) funded entirely by voluntary contributions 
from eligible employees. Employees are not 
Bank Policy Institute
reimbursed or compensated in any way for political 
Belgium Febelfin activities or contributions. 
PAC contributions are bipartisan and made in 
Business Roundtable
accordance with PAC By-Laws and contribution 
Chamber of Digital Commerce 
guidelines. Contribution guidelines include the 
member’s participation in committees of jurisdiction, 
Financial Services Forum
representation of communities where BNY Mellon 
Global Financial Markets Association, including 
has a presence, leadership positions, and civility and 
its regional trade association members AFME, 
respect for democratic processes. 
ASIFMA, and SIFMA
PACs are regulated by the Federal Election 
Institute of International Finance  Commission (FEC) and relevant state election 
commissions. Reports filed with the FEC are 
International Swaps and Derivatives Association 
available to the public at www.fec.gov and those 
Investment Company Institute filed with state election commissions are available 
www.dos.pa.gov. BNY Mellon PAC contributions 
Loan Syndication and Trading Association 
totaled $248,000 in 2020. Details of our 2020 PAC 
Managed Funds Association  contributions are also available on our website.
BNY Mellon did not make any corporate 
New York Bankers Association 
contributions28 in 2020. We do not use corporate 
Partnership for New York City 
funds for independent political expenditures to 
support or oppose any candidate for office.
Pennsylvania Bankers Association
Structured Finance Association
TheCityUK
The Clearing House 
UK Finance
FEDERAL POLICTAL ACTION COMMITTEE CONTRIBUTIONS IN 2020 (USD)*
Republican  Democratic Total
U.S. House $64,000 $75,500 $139,500
U.S. Senate $56,000 $46,000 $102,000
Total $120,000 $121,500 $241,500
*  Additional contributions include $6,500 made to Pennsylvania candidates, resulting in $248,000 in total PAC disbursements.
28 A corporate contribution is defined to include a state candidate committee,  
a 501(c) 4, 527 or ballot initiatives.
BNY Mellon    Enterprise ESG     78
Global Citizenship
Protecting   signed an amicus brief asking the U.S. Supreme Court 
to recognize adoption of the Equal Rights Amendment 
Human Rights (ERA), guaranteeing of equal rights for all Americans, 
regardless of sex, as the 28th Amendment to the U.S. 
Constitution.
Our Opportunity and Approach 
Enterprise ESG 2025 Human Rights Goal 
We consider human dignity paramount, and we work  Continue the commitment to preventing modern slavery 
and human trafficking in our operations, supply chain and 
to preserve human rights throughout our company 
communities
and our supply chain. Our governance framework and 
related corporate policies empower our employees  KPI: Conduct due diligence  Progress: 
and training practices to 
and contractors to report and escalate concerns  •  Instituted training on 
promote understanding of 
modern slavery and 
of unethical conduct, such as modern slavery and  Modern Slavery principles
human trafficking at BNY 
human trafficking. Mellon
We support human rights and endeavor to treat  •  Due diligence of our 
vendors including 
employees with fairness, dignity and respect at work. 
negative news
BNY Mellon is a staunch advocate of equal rights 
Legal agreements reflecting 
for all in our workforce and in society. In support  commitment of vendor to 
of LGBT+ rights, our legal professionals assisted  prevent modern slavery and 
human trafficking in their 
low-income clients with petitions to officially 
operations and supply chain
change their names through the Transgender Legal 
Defense & Education Fund. We are committed to 
preventing modern slavery and human trafficking in  We are committed to preventing acts of modern 
our operations and supply chain. These values help  slavery and human trafficking both in our own 
define our company, and we reinforce them through  business activities and throughout supply chain. Our 
policies governing our supply chain and employment  Supplier Code of Conduct states our zero-tolerance 
practices: approach to modern slavery. We expect our suppliers 
to be committed to acting ethically and with integrity 
in all their business dealings and relationships and to 
Drug- and Alcohol-free Workplace policy
implementing and enforcing effective systems and 
Equal Employment Opportunity/Affirmative Action  controls prevent modern slavery from taking place in 
(EEO/AA) policy their businesses and supply chains.
Gender Equality Statement  We reaffirm our commitment and actions each 
Health and Safety Statement year through our UK Modern Slavery Act Annual 
Transparency Statement. In 2020, we completed 
Human Rights Statement
ratification of our UK and Australia Modern Slavery 
Notice of Affirmative Action Programs and Notice to  Act Annual Transparency Statements, which reflect 
Veterans and Individuals with Disabilities our awareness of modern slavery and steps we 
Modern Slavery Statement take to prevent it. We also continued our review of 
governance, due diligence and training practices 
Sexual and Other Discriminatory Harassment policy
to promote understanding of Modern Slavery 
Act principles. We set out our expectations and 
To affirm our support for the rights of individuals both  commitments in a number of policies, including  
within our organization and across society, in 2020 we  those above.
BNY Mellon    Enterprise ESG     79
Global Citizenship
Taking Action Against Inequities  A Shared Commitment 
BNY Mellon and our legal professionals often use  We expect the recipients of our philanthropic funding 
our expertise and provide services on a pro bono  to share our commitment to protect human rights. We 
basis to various populations who are confronting  require nonprofit organizations, such as charities and 
inequities. To help address the incidents of racial  nongovernmental organizations, applying for financial 
violence during 2020, these efforts focused on racial  sponsorship or donations to certify compliance with 
justice issues. To drive systemic change to promote  BNY Mellon’s Non-Discrimination Policy Certification 
long-term reform, BNY Mellon became a Leadership  for Non-Profits and to complete a thorough vetting 
Partner in Lawyers for Good Government’s Lawyers  process.
for Racial Justice Initiative and its pro bono programs 
to combat the immediate effects of discriminatory 
policies. 
Beyond that, our professionals around the globe 
provided pro bono legal services to those in need and 
partnered with other financial institutions, law firms 
and nonprofit organizations to promote racial justice 
and combat social inequity by addressing a variety of 
issues, described below.
Policing and Jail
•  Conducting research with Lawyers for Good 
Government into policing activity in U.S. schools 
where the majority of children are of color
•  Partnering with Vera Institute of Justice to 
research spending on jails and prosecutors in  
72 municipalities in the U.S.
Economic Opportunity
•  Providing limited-scope legal guidance to minority- 
and women-owned small businesses, including 
COVID-19-related contract advice 
•  Through the Thurgood Marshall Professional 
Development Series, assisting diverse New 
York City public high school students in building 
workforce skills
Election Integrity and Racial Justice
•  Working with Lawyers Committee for Civil Rights 
Under Law Election Protection telephone hotline
•  Advising London-based racial justice organization 
United to Change and Inspire Ltd. on the 
development of an effective corporate structure 
BNY Mellon    Enterprise ESG     80
About This Report
Global Reporting 
Initiative (GRI) Index
The following is supplemental information to  
BNY Mellon’s 2020 Enterprise ESG Report. It is 
arranged according to the Global Reporting Initiative 
(GRI) Standards indicator list. All data is reported  
as of December 31, 2020, unless otherwise noted.  
This index provides responses for individual GRI 
indicators in the following ways: (1) section and page 
references to our 2020 Enterprise ESG Report;  
(2) direct responses within the index; (3) references to 
other company reports (e.g., Annual Report or Proxy 
Statement); or (4) materials located on our website.
BNY Mellon    Enterprise ESG     81
GRI Index
CATEGORY: STANDARD DISCLOSURES 
Aspect: Organizational Profile
Standard Disclosure Our Response
GRI 102: General  102-1 Name of the organization BNY Mellon Annual Report 2020, General, p.3
Disclosures 2016
102-2 Activities, brands, products,  BNY Mellon Annual Report 2020, Results of Operations, p.3
and services
BNY Mellon Annual Report 2020, Results of Operations, p.15-54
102-3 Location of headquarters BNY Mellon Annual Report 2020, Corporate Information, inside back 
cover
102-4 Location of operations BNY Mellon Annual Report 2020, International operations, p.22-24
BNY Mellon Location Directory
102-5 Ownership and legal form BNY Mellon Annual Report 2020, General, p.3
102-6 Markets Served BNY Mellon Annual Report 2020, Review of business, p.15-21
BNY Mellon Annual Report 2020, International operations, p.22-24
102-7 Scale of the Organization  BNY Mellon Annual Report 2020, Financial Highlights, p.VII
BNY Mellon Annual Report 2020, International operations, p. 22-24
102-8 Information on employees  EE01 Document, see end of GRI Index
and other workers
BNY Mellon Annual Report 2020, Human capital, p.3-5
102-9 Supply chain  BNY Mellon Enterprise ESG Report 2020, Supply Chain, p.74–76
102-10 Significant changes to the  BNY Mellon Annual Report 2020, Key 2020 events, p.5
organization and its supply chain
102-11 Precautionary Principle or  BNY Mellon Enterprise ESG Report 2020, Environmental 
approach Sustainability, p.70–73
BNY Mellon Enterprise ESG Report 2020, Responsible Financing and 
the Equator Principles, p.68
102-12 External initiatives BNY Mellon Enterprise ESG Report 2020, Support for Responsible 
Investing Initiatives, p.58
BNY Mellon Enterprise ESG Report 2020, Principal Association 
Memberships, p.78
102-13 Membership of associations  BNY Mellon Enterprise ESG Report 2020, Support for Responsible 
Investing Initiatives, p.58
BNY Mellon Enterprise ESG Report 2020, Principal Association 
Memberships, p.78
BNY Mellon 2021 Proxy Statement Item 1 Election of Directors, 
p.12–19
BNY Mellon    Enterprise ESG     82
GRI Index
Aspect: Strategy 
Standard Disclosure Our Response
GRI 102: General  102-14 Statement from senior  BNY Mellon Annual Report 2020, CEO Letter, p.I–VI
Disclosures decision makers
BNY Mellon Enterprise ESG Report 2020, Message From Our CEO, p.5
Considering Climate at BNY Mellon, CEO Letter, p.4
102-15 Key impacts, risks, and  BNY Mellon Enterprise ESG Report 2020, Our Approach, p.7–16
opportunities
Aspect: Ethics and Integrity 
Standard Disclosure Our Response
GRI 102: General  102-16 Values, principles,  BNY Mellon Employee Code of Conduct
Disclosures standards, and norms of behavior
The Bank Of New York Mellon Corporation Directors’ Code of Conduct
102-17 Mechanisms for advice and  BNY Mellon Employee Code of Conduct
concerns about ethics
The Bank Of New York Mellon Corporation Directors’ Code of Conduct
BNY Mellon    Enterprise ESG     83
GRI Index
Aspect: Governance
Standard Disclosure Our Response
GRI 102: General  102-18 Governance structure  BNY Mellon 2021 Proxy Statement, Our Corporate Governance 
Disclosures 2016 Practices, p.22
102-19 Delegating authority BNY Mellon Enterprise ESG Report 2020, Enterprise ESG Governance, 
p.14
102-20 Executive-level  BNY Mellon Enterprise ESG Report 2020, Enterprise ESG Governance, 
responsibility for economic,  p.14
environmental, and social topics
102-21 Consulting stakeholders  BNY Mellon 2021 Proxy Statement, Committees and Committee 
on economic, environmental, and  Charters, p.39
social topics
102-22 Composition of  BNY Mellon 2021 Proxy Statement, Committees and Committee 
the highest governance body and  Charters, p.39
its committees 
102-23 Chair of the highest  BNY Mellon 2021 Proxy Statement, Board Leadership Structure, p.29
governance body
102-24 Nominating and selecting  BNY Mellon 2021 Proxy Statement, Director Qualifications, p.20
the highest governance body
102-25 Conflicts of interest BNY Mellon 2021 Proxy Statement, Director Qualifications, p.20
Directors Code of Conduct, p.1
102-26 Roles of highest governance  BNY Mellon Enterprise ESG Report 2020, Enterprise ESG Governance, 
body in setting purpose, values,  p.14
and strategy
BNY Mellon 2021 Proxy Statement, Committees and Committee 
Charters, p.39
102-27 Collective knowledge of  BNY Mellon Enterprise ESG Report 2020, Enterprise ESG Governance, 
highest governance body p.14
BNY Mellon 2021 Proxy Statement, Committees and Committee 
Charters, p.39
102-28 Evaluating the highest  BNY Mellon 2021 Proxy Statement, Evaluation of Board and 
governance body’s performance Committee Effectiveness, p.27
102-29 Identifying and managing  BNY Mellon Enterprise ESG Report 2020, Enterprise ESG Governance, 
economic, environmental, and  p.14
social impacts
BNY Mellon 2021 Proxy Statement, Committees and Committee 
Charters, p.39
BNY Mellon Enterprise ESG Report 2020, Our Approach, p.7–16
102-30 Effectiveness of risk  BNY Mellon 2021 Proxy Statement, Committees and Committee 
management processes Charters, p.39
Risk Committee Charter
BNY Mellon    Enterprise ESG     84
GRI Index
102-31 Review of economic,  BNY Mellon Enterprise ESG Report 2020, Enterprise ESG Governance, 
environmental, and social topics p.14
BNY Mellon 2021 Proxy Statement, Committees and Committee 
Charters, p.39
BNY Mellon Enterprise ESG Report 2020, Our Approach, p.7–16
102-32 Highest governance body’s  BNY Mellon Enterprise ESG Report 2020, Enterprise ESG Governance, 
role in sustainability report p.14
BNY Mellon 2021 Proxy Statement, Committees and Committee 
Charters, p.39
BNY Mellon Enterprise ESG Report 2020, Our Approach, p.7–16
102-33 Communicating  BNY Mellon 2021 Proxy Statement, Our Corporate Governance 
critical concerns Practices, p.22
Corporate Governance Guidelines 
Communications with Independent Chairman
102-34 Nature and total number of  BNY Mellon Enterprise ESG Report 2020, Enterprise ESG Governance, 
critical concerns p.14
BNY Mellon Annual Report 2020, Risk Management, p.55
BNY Mellon 2021 Proxy Statement, Oversight of Risk, p.37 and 
Contacting the Board, p.43
102-35 Remuneration policies BNY Mellon 2021 Proxy Statement, Director Compensation, p.44
BNY Mellon 2021 Proxy Statement, Item 2. Advisory Vote On 
Compensation, p.47
BNY Mellon 2021 Proxy Statement, Equity Compensation Plans, p.91
102-36 Process for  BNY Mellon 2021 Proxy Statement, Director Compensation, p.44
determining 
BNY Mellon 2021 Proxy Statement, Item 2. Advisory Vote On 
remuneration
Compensation, p.47
BNY Mellon 2021 Proxy Statement, Equity Compensation Plans, p.91
102-37 Stakeholders’ involvement  BNY Mellon 2021 Proxy Statement, Director Compensation, p.44
in remuneration
BNY Mellon 2021 Proxy Statement, Item 2. Advisory Vote On 
Compensation, p.47
BNY Mellon 2021 Proxy Statement, Equity Compensation Plans, p.91
102-38 Annual total compensation  BNY Mellon 2021 Proxy Statement, Pay Ratio, p.82
ratio
102-39 Percentage increase in  BNY Mellon 2021 Proxy Statement, Pay Ratio, p.82
annual total compensation ratio
BNY Mellon    Enterprise ESG     85
GRI Index
Aspect: Stakeholder Engagement
Standard Disclosure Our Response
GRI 102: General  102-40 List of stakeholder groups BNY Mellon Enterprise ESG Report 2020, Enterprise ESG Governance, 
Disclosures 2016 p.14
102-41 Collective bargaining  BNY Mellon fully complies with local laws regarding employee 
agreements rights and collective bargaining. In certain locations outside of the 
U.S. we have works councils, engage with trade unions and adhere 
to applicable national collective bargaining agreements. We also 
have client and vendor relationships with trade unions. Our Code 
of Conduct applies to our employees globally and emphasizes the 
company’s commitment to foster a culture where all employees 
feel valued, engaged and are able to bring their whole selves to the 
workplace. Employees are encouraged to raise any concerns through 
multiple channels identified in the Code of Conduct.
102-42 Identifying and selecting  BNY Mellon Enterprise ESG Report 2020, Enterprise ESG Governance, 
stakeholders p.14
102-43 Approach to  BNY Mellon Enterprise ESG Report 2020, Enterprise ESG Governance, 
stakeholder  p.14
engagement 
102-44 Key topics and concerns  BNY Mellon Enterprise ESG Report 2020, Enterprise ESG Governance, 
raised p.14
BNY Mellon    Enterprise ESG     86
GRI Index
Aspect: Reporting Practice
Standard Disclosure Our Response
GRI 102: General  102-45 Entities included in the  BNY Mellon Annual Report 2020, Review of businesses, p.15
Disclosures 2016 consolidated 
BNY Mellon Enterprise ESG Report 2020, About this Report, p.2
financial statements
102-46 Defining  BNY Mellon Enterprise ESG Report 2020, About this Report, p.2
report content and topic 
BNY Mellon Enterprise ESG Report 2020, Our Approach p.7
Boundaries
102-47 List of material topics BNY Mellon Enterprise ESG Report 2020, Our Approach, p.7–16
102-48 Restatements of  None
information
102-49 Changes in reporting BNY Mellon issued Considering Climate at BNY Mellon, which 
provides an outline of our work, and our implementation of Task 
Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) Guidelines.
102-50 Reporting period BNY Mellon Enterprise ESG Report 2020, About This Report, p.2
102-51 Date of most recent report BNY Mellon CSR Report 2019 was published in June 2020 
102-52 Reporting Cycle BNY Mellon Enterprise ESG Report 2020, About This Report, p.2
102-53 Contact point for questions  futurefirst@bnymellon.com
regarding the report
102-54 Claims of reporting in  BNY Mellon Enterprise ESG Report 2020, About this Report, p.2
accordance with the GRI Standards
102-56 External assurance We do not currently seek external assurance over our Enterprise 
ESG Report but we do have limited assurance over our Scope 1, 2 & 
3 emissions. See Verification Opinion Declaration Greenhouse Gas 
Emissions, Enterprise ESG Report 2020, p.100
BNY Mellon    Enterprise ESG     87
GRI Index
CATEGORY: ECONOMIC
Aspect: Economic Performance
Standard Disclosure Our Response
GRI 103: Management  103-1 Explanation of the material  BNY Mellon Enterprise ESG Report 2020, Our Approach, p.7–16
approach 2016 topic and its Boundary 
103-2 The management approach  BNY Mellon Enterprise ESG Report 2020, Our Approach, p.7–16
and its components 
103-3 Evaluation of the  BNY Mellon Enterprise ESG Report 2020, Our Approach, p.7–16
management approach 
CATEGORY: ECONOMIC
Aspect: Economic Performance
Standard Disclosure Our Response
GRI 201: Economic  201-1 Direct economic value  BNY Mellon Annual Report 2020, Financial Summary, p.2
Performance 2016 generated and distributed
BNY Mellon Annual Report 2020, Noninterest expense, p.14
BNY Mellon Enterprise ESG Report 2020, Our Community Impact, 
p.34–37
BNY Mellon Enterprise ESG Report 2020, Investing in Communities, 
p.67–68
201-2 Financial implicated and  See CDP Response*
other risks and opportunities due to 
climate change
201-3 Defined benefit plan  BNY Mellon Annual Report 2020, Note 18–Employee benefit plans, 
obligations and other retirement  p.165
plans 
201-4 Financial assistance  BNY Mellon Annual Report 2020, Note 12–Income taxes, p.156
received from government
BNY Mellon    Enterprise ESG     88
GRI Index
Aspect: Indirect Economic Impacts
Standard Disclosure Our Response
GRI 203: Indirect  203-1 Infrastructure investments  BNY Mellon Enterprise ESG Report 2020, Corporate Trust, p.62–63
Economic Impacts  and services supported
BNY Mellon Enterprise ESG Report 2020, BNY Mellon Capital 
2016
Markets, p.66–67
BNY Mellon Enterprise ESG Report 2020, Investing in Communities, 
p.67–68
BNY Mellon Enterprise ESG Report 2020, Digital Transformation, 
p.47–49
203-2 Significant indirect economic  BNY Mellon Enterprise ESG Report 2020, Corporate Trust, p.62–63
impacts
BNY Mellon Enterprise ESG Report 2020, BNY Mellon Capital 
Markets, p.66–67
BNY Mellon Enterprise ESG Report 2020, Investing in Communities, 
p.67–68
BNY Mellon Enterprise ESG Report 2020, Digital Transformation, 
p.47–49
Aspect: Procurement Practices
Standard Disclosure Our Response
GRI 204: Indirect  204-1 Proportion of spending on  BNY Mellon Enterprise ESG Report 2020, Supply Chain, p.74
Economic Impacts  local suppliers
2016
Aspect: Anti-corruption
Standard Disclosure Our Response
GRI 205: Anti- 205-1 Operations assessed for  BNY Mellon Enterprise ESG Report 2020, Risk Management, p.39–47
corruption 2016 risks related to corruption
BNY Mellon Employee Code of Conduct
205-2 Communications BNY Mellon Enterprise ESG Report 2020, Risk Management, p.39–47
and training about BNY Mellon’s anti-corruption policies and procedures have been 
communicated to the general public via BNY Mellon’s website,  
anti-corruption policies and 
and communicated to all employees and the Board of Directors.  
procedures
BNY Mellon Employee Code of Conduct
205-3 Confirmed incidents of  BNY Mellon Annual Report 2020, Legal Proceedings, p.187
corruption and actions taken
BNY Mellon    Enterprise ESG     89
GRI Index
Aspect: Anti-competitive behavior
Standard Disclosure Our Response
GRI 206: Anti- 206-1 Legal actions for anti- BNY Mellon Annual Report 2020, Legal Proceedings, p.187
competitive behavior  competitive behavior, anti-trust, 
2016 and monopoly practices 
CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL
Aspect: Energy
Standard Disclosure Our Response
GRI 302: Energy 2016 Management approach disclosure BNY Mellon Enterprise ESG Report 2020, Environmental 
Sustainability, p.70–73
See CDP Response* 
302-1 Energy consumption within  a. Total fuel consumption within the organization from non-
the organization renewable sources, in joules or multiples, and including fuel types 
used: 99,307 gigajoules (includes natural gas, fuel oil, car gasoline, 
and jet fuel)
b. Total fuel consumption within the organization from renewable 
sources, in joules or multiples, and including fuel types used: 
While BNY Mellon does not purchase fuel from renewable sources 
directly; we do purchase carbon offsets and renewable electricity 
products to offset all of our emissions generated from Scope 1, 
Scope 2 and Scope 3 business travel.
c. Report in joules, watt-hours or multiples, the total: Electricity 
consumption, Heating consumption, Cooling consumption, Steam 
consumption Electricity consumption: 984,455 gigajoules (BNY 
Mellon purchases renewable electricity products to offset our 
entire electricity use). 
BNY Mellon does not have any heating or cooling consumption. 
Steam consumption: 33,807 gigajoules
d. In joules, watt-hours or multiples, the total: Electricity sold, 
Heating sold, Cooling sold, and Steam sold: BNY Mellon does not 
sell any electricity, heating, cooling or steam.
e. Total energy consumption within the organization in joules or 
multiples: 1,117,568 gigajoules 
f. Standards, methodologies, and assumptions used: BNY Mellon 
follows The Corporate Standard Greenhouse Gas Protocol for 
calculating emissions and energy use.  An Operational Control 
boundary is used. 
g. Source of the conversion factors used: Conversions for Fuel 
and Electricity were done with the U.S. Energy Information 
Administration’s Energy Conversion Calculator. Steam was 
converted from BTU to joules using the factor: 1 BTU=1055.05585 
joules as defined by the International Energy Agency’s Unit 
Converter
BNY Mellon    Enterprise ESG     90
GRI Index
302-2 Energy consumption outside  BNY Mellon follows The Corporate Standard Greenhouse Gas 
of the organization Protocol for calculating emissions and energy use. An Operational 
Control boundary is used. BNY Mellon considers energy consumed 
from purchased goods and services, capital goods, fuel-and-
energy-related activities, upstream transportation and distribution, 
business travel, employee commuting, downstream leased assets, 
and investments relevant to our operations. For more detail on 
methodologies and assumptions used, please see CDP* response 
2020. Conversions for Fuel and Electricity were done with the U.S. 
Energy Information Administration’s Energy Conversion Calculator.
302-3 Energy intensity a. Energy intensity ratio: 70.70 gigajoules per million dollars; 0.090 
gigajoules per square foot.
b. Denominators: 2020 revenue (15,808 million dollars); 2020 average 
rentable square feet of real estate portfolio (12,413,898 sq. ft.).
c. Fuel, electricity and steam are included; BNY Mellon does not 
consume additional sources of heating or cooling.
d. The ratio uses energy consumed within the organization within 
BNY Mellon’s operational control scope 1 and 2.
302-4 Reduction of energy  505,832 gigajoules. 
consumption   
Fuel, electricity and steam are included; BNY Mellon does not 
consume additional sources of heating and cooling. BNY Mellon’s 
base year is 2010 for energy tracking. 2010 was chosen as the base 
year because this was this first year we were able to effectively 
measure energy consumption. Energy consumption in 2010 was 
rebaselined due to increase in accuracy of activity data. 
 
BNY Mellon’s energy reduction was calculated by subtracting 2020 
energy consumption from the base year’s energy consumption. This 
reduction is the result of ongoing real estate portfolio optimization 
initiatives and specific energy reduction projects. 
 
BNY Mellon sets its energy reduction targets in the form of emission 
reduction targets as these are a surrogate for energy targets. BNY 
Mellon calculates its total energy consumption in conjunction with 
calculating its greenhouse gas inventory. Therefore, The Greenhouse 
Gas Protocol: A Corporate Accounting and Reporting A Corporate 
Accounting and Reporting Standard (Revised Edition) is the 
published methodology and standard used in energy and emission 
calculation.
BNY Mellon    Enterprise ESG     91
GRI Index
Aspect: Water and Effluents
Standard Disclosure Our Response
GRI 303: Water and  GRI 103: Management approach  BNY Mellon Enterprise ESG Report 2020, Environmental 
Effluents 2016 disclosure Sustainability, p.70–73
303-1 Interactions with water as a  BNY Mellon withdraws all of its water from municipal sources. 
shared resource Water is consumed in our office and data center facilities. Water is 
discharged through municipal sewer sources.  
Water related impacts are assessed and addressed on a local site 
basis and from a corporate-wide basis. 
303-2 Management of water  All wastewater is discharged through municipal sewer sources. 
discharge-related impacts
303-3 Water withdrawal BNY Mellon withdraws all of its water from municipal sources.
BNY Mellon withdrew a total of 230.63 megaliters of water in 2020 
(170.62 megaliters in the U.S. and 60.01 megaliters in international 
locations).
All water withdrawals are freshwater. 
This number accounts for 42 of our facilities or 60% of our real estate 
portfolio by square foot, and for about 30,000 employees or 63% of 
our population. Facility Managers account for all water withdrawn 
from sources based upon water bills and report to Sustainability 
team for data collection.
303-4 Water discharged BNY Mellon does not actively track water discharge volumes, 
category, or area. All water is discharged through third-party 
municipal sewer sources.
303-5 Water consumption  BNY Mellon uses water in our office facilities for our cafeterias, 
cooling and heating needs, restrooms, and irrigation.  
BNY Mellon Enterprise ESG Report 2020, Environmental 
Sustainability, p.70–73
BNY Mellon    Enterprise ESG     92
GRI Index
Aspect: Emissions
Standard Disclosure Our Response
GRI 305: Emissions  GRI 103: Management approach  BNY Mellon Enterprise ESG Report 2020, Carbon Neutrality and 
2016 disclosure Emissions Reduction, p.72
See CDP Response*
305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG  5,919 Metric Tonnes of CO2
emissions
305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2)  107,972 Metric Tonnes of CO2
GHG emissions
305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG  2,259 Metric Tonnes of CO2
emissions
305-4 GHG emissions intensity See CDP Response*
305-5 Reduction of  BNY Mellon Enterprise ESG Report 2020, Carbon Neutrality and 
GHG emissions Emissions Reduction, p.72
See CDP Response*
Aspect: Effluents and Waste
Standard Disclosure Our Response
GRI 306: Effluents and  GRI 103: Management approach  BNY Mellon Enterprise ESG Report 2020, Environmental 
Waste 2016 disclosure Sustainability, p.70–73
306-1 Water discharge by quality  BNY Mellon does not actively track water discharge volumes. All 
and destination water is discharged through third-party municipal sewer sources.
306-2 Waste by type and disposal  BNY Mellon does not produce hazardous waste. 
method Recycling = 5,323,421 pounds 
Composting = 3,821 pounds 
Incineration (mass burn) = 493,828 pounds 
Landfill = 2,308,741 pounds 
 
Waste was disposed of by the waste hauler contractor. 
Waste data is provided to facility manager regarding frequency of 
pickup, quantity of pickup, and fate of waste.
306-3 Significant spills There were no significant spills that occurred at BNY Mellon in 2020.
306-4 Transport of hazardous  BNY Mellon does not transport hazardous waste.
waste
306-5 Water bodies affected by  BNY Mellon discharges all water withdrawals through third-party 
water discharges and/or runoff municipal sewer sources.
BNY Mellon    Enterprise ESG     93
GRI Index
Aspect: Environmental Compliance
Standard Disclosure Our Response
GRI 307:  GRI 103: Management approach  BNY Mellon Enterprise ESG Report 2020, Risk Management, p.39–47
Environmental  disclosure
Compliance 2016
307-1 Non-compliance with  No environmental fines or sanctions were imposed on BNY Mellon in 
environmental laws and regulations 2020.
Aspect: Supplier Environmental Assessment
Standard Disclosure Our Response
GRI 308:  GRI 103: Management approach  Environmental section of the Supplier Code of Conduct
Environmental  disclosure
Compliance 2016
308-1 New suppliers screened  Contributing to the World Around Us section of the  
using environmental criteria Supplier Code of Conduct
308-2 Negative environmental  Contributing to the World Around Us section of the  
impacts in the supply chain and  Supplier Code of Conduct
actions taken
CATEGORY: SOCIAL
Aspect: Employment
Standard Disclosure Our Response
GRI 401: Employment  GRI 103: Management approach  BNY Mellon Enterprise ESG Report 2020, Culture & Purpose, p.16–37
2016 disclosure
401-1 New employee hires and  BNY Mellon Enterprise ESG Report 2020, Diversity, Equity and 
employee turnover Inclusion, p.17–25
BNY Mellon Enterprise ESG Report 2020, Employee Engagement and 
Wellbeing, p.29–33
401-2 Benefits provided to  BNY Mellon Enterprise ESG Report 2020, Employee Engagement and
full-time employees that are not 
Wellbeing, p.32
provided to temporary or part-time 
employees
401-3 Parental leave 16 weeks parental leave in the U.S., and 16 weeks company-paid 
maternity leave all other countries
BNY Mellon    Enterprise ESG     94
GRI Index
Aspect: Training and Education 
Standard Disclosure Our Response
GRI 404: Training and  GRI 103: Management approach  BNY Mellon Enterprise ESG Report 2020, Leadership And 
Education 2016 disclosure Development, p.26–28
404-1 Average hours of training for  BNY Mellon Enterprise ESG Report 2020, Training and Development, 
employees p.27–28
404-2 Programs for upgrading  BNY Mellon Enterprise ESG Report 2020, Training and Development, 
employee skills and transition  p.27–28
assistance programs
404-3 Percentage of employees  BNY Mellon Enterprise ESG Report 2020, Performance Management, 
receiving regular performance and  p.28
career development reviews
Aspect: Diversity and Equal Opportunity 
Standard Disclosure Our Response
GRI 405: Diversity and  GRI 103: Management approach  BNY Mellon Enterprise ESG Report 2020, Diversity, Equity and 
Equal Opportunity  disclosure Inclusion, p.17–25
2016
2021 Proxy Statement 
Pay Equity at BNY Mellon
BNY Mellon EEO/AA Policy
405-1 Diversity of governance  BNY Mellon Enterprise ESG Report 2020, Diversity, Equity and 
bodies and employees Inclusion, p.17–25
2021 Proxy Statement
405-2 Ratio of basic salary and  BNY Mellon Gender Pay Gap Report 2020
remuneration of women to men
BNY Mellon    Enterprise ESG     95
GRI Index
Aspect: Human Rights Assessment 
Standard Disclosure Our Response
GRI 412: Human Rights  GRI 103: Management approach  BNY Mellon Enterprise ESG Report 2020, Protecting Human Rights, 
Assessment 2016  disclosure p.79–80
412-1 Operations that have been  BNY Mellon Enterprise ESG Report 2020, Protecting Human Rights, 
subject to human rights reviews or  p.79–80
impact assessments
BNY Mellon Human Rights Statement
BNY Mellon Supplier Code of Conduct
BNY Mellon Modern Slavery Act
412-2 Employee training on human  In order to respond to the UK Modern Slavery Act, we have conducted 
rights policies or procedures due diligence in partnership with our legal counsel, procurement 
team, Human Resources and our CGNSR Committee of the Board of 
Directors has signed our statement and disclosure. We will report 
annually on our policies, training, due diligence processes and 
the effectiveness of our measures to combat modern slavery and 
trafficking. These efforts build on our Supplier Code of Conduct and 
Master Agreement templates, which include human rights provisions 
for all potential new suppliers. 
412-3 Significant investment  We have a Human Rights policy and due diligence process with 
agreements and  robust governance, including oversight by our CGNSR Committee 
contracts that  of the Board and Executive Committee. In 2016, we created and 
include human  published a Modern Slavery Act statement, which provides details 
rights clauses or that underwent  around our risk mitigation process for our operations and supply 
human rights screening chain. This statement was ratified by the Enterprise ESG Committee 
of the Board of Directors and progress is assessed and is published 
annually. In 2017, we strengthened our vendor risk management 
by updating the Supplier Code of Conduct and added a vendor 
assessment/attestation to ensure that expectations around human 
rights issues are clear.
Aspect: Local Communities 
Standard Disclosure Our Response
GRI 413: Local  GRI 103: Management approach  BNY Mellon Enterprise ESG Report 2020, Protecting Human Rights, 
Communities 2016 disclosure p.79–80
BNY Mellon Human Rights Statement
BNY Mellon Supplier Code of Conduct
BNY Mellon Modern Slavery Act
413-1 Operations with local  BNY Mellon Enterprise ESG Report 2020, Our Community Impact, 
community engagement, impact  p.34–37
assessments, and development 
BNY Mellon Enterprise ESG Report 2020, Investing in Communities, 
programs 
p.67–68
413-2 Operations with significant 
actual and potential negative 
impacts on local communities
BNY Mellon    Enterprise ESG     96
GRI Index
Aspect: Supplier Social Assessment 
Standard Disclosure Our Response
GRI 414: Supplier  GRI 103: Management approach  BNY Mellon Modern Slavery Act 
Social Assessment  disclosure
BNY Mellon Human Rights Statement 
2016
414-1 New suppliers that were  BNY Mellon Modern Slavery Act
screened using social criteria
BNY Mellon Human Rights Statement
414-2 Negative social impacts in  BNY Mellon Supplier Code of Conduct
the supply chain and actions taken
Aspect: Public Policy 
Standard Disclosure Our Response
GRI 415: Public Policy  GRI 103: Management approach  BNY Mellon Enterprise ESG Report 2020, Advocacy and Political 
2016 disclosure Engagement, p.76–79
415-1 Political contributions BNY Mellon Enterprise ESG Report 2020, Political Contributions, p.78
Aspect: Customer Privacy 
Standard Disclosure Our Response
GRI 418: Customer  GRI 103: Management approach  BNY Mellon Enterprise ESG Report 2020, Risk Management, p.39–47
Privacy 2016 disclosure
BNY Mellon Enterprise ESG Report 2020, Information Security, p.46
418-1 Substantiated complaints  BNY Mellon Annual Report 2020, Legal Proceedings, p.187
concerning breaches of customer 
Data Privacy
privacy and losses of customer 
data 
Aspect: Socioeconomic Compliance 
Standard Disclosure Our Response
GRI 419:  GRI 103: Management approach  BNY Mellon Enterprise ESG Report 2020, Risk Management, p.39–47
Socioeconomic  disclosure
Compliance 2016
419-1 Non-compliance with laws  BNY Mellon Annual Report 2020, Legal Proceedings, p.187
and regulations in the social and 
economic area
* CDP Response Footnote: CDP formerly the Carbon Disclosure Project www.cdp.net
BNY Mellon    Enterprise ESG     97
GRI Index
U.S. Workforce Demographics: EE0-1 Document 2020
Male Workforce
Job categories Hispanic   White Black or  Native  Asian American  Two or  Overall 
or Latino African  Hawaiian  Indian or  More  total
American or Pacific  Alaskan  Races
Islander Native
Executive/ SR Officials   0 9 0 0 2 0 0 11
& MGRS
First/Mid Officials & MGRS 110 2168 108 2 413 0 43 2,844
Professionals  346 4846 351 9 1530 9 146 7,237
Technicians 5 49 11 0 11 0 2 78
Sales Workers 4 62 4 0 2 0 0 72
Administrative Support 301 2430 485 8 370 3 124 3,721
Craft Workers 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
Operatives 1 0 1 0 0 0 0 2
Laborers & Helpers 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
Service Workers 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 1
Total  767 9,565 960 19 2,328 12 315 13,966
Previous Report Total  798 9,924 1,042 20 2,205 11 311 14,311
Female Workforce
Job categories Hispanic  White Black or  Native  Asian American  Two or  Overall 
or Latino African  Hawaiian  Indian or  More  total
American or Pacific  Alaskan  Races
Islander Native
Executive/ SR Officials &  0 4 1 0 0 0   0 5
MGRS
First/Mid Officials & MGRS 86 1070 147 1 176 2 28 1,510
Professionals  304 2873 403 2 943 5 106 4,636
Technicians 2 35 7 0 3 0 0 47
Sales Workers 0 15 1 0 1 0 1  18
Administrative Support 516 2506 1017 6 577 6 114 4,742
Craft Workers 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
Operatives 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
Laborers & Helpers 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
Service Workers 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
Total  908 6,503 1,576 9 1,700 13 249 10,958
Previous Report Total  934 6,732 1,774 10 1,708 14 225 11,397
BNY Mellon    Enterprise ESG     98
GRI Index
Male and Female Combined Totals
Hispanic  White Black or  Native  Asian American  Two or  Overall 
or Latino African  Hawaiian  Indian or  More  total
American or Pacific  Alaskan  Races
Islander Native
Total 1,675 16,068 2,536 28 4,028 25 564 24,924
Previous Report Total 1,732 16,656 2,816 30 3,913 25 536 25,708
BNY Mellon    Enterprise ESG     99
 
 
VERIFICATION OPINION DECLARATION 
GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS 
 
To: Stakeholders of BNY Mellon 
 
APEX Companies LLC, (Apex) was engaged to conduct an independent verification of the greenhouse gas (GHG) 
emissions reported by BNY Mellon for the period stated below. This Verification Opinion Declaration applies to the 
related information included within the scope of work described below.  
The determination of the GHG emissions is the sole responsibility of BNY Mellon. BNY Mellon is responsible for the 
preparation and fair presentation of the GHG emissions statement in accordance with the criteria. Apex’s sole 
responsibility was to provide independent verification opinion on the accuracy of the GHG emissions reported, and on 
the underlying systems and processes used to collect, analyze and review the information. Apex is responsible for 
expressing an opinion on the GHG emissions statement based on the verification. Verification activities applied in a 
limited level of assurance verification are less extensive in nature, timing and extent than in a reasonable level of 
assurance verification.  
Boundaries of the reporting company GHG emissions covered by the verification: 
•  Operational Control  
•  Worldwide for Scope 1 and 2 Emissions 
•  USA and UK only for Scope 3 Emissions  
Types of GHGs: CO2, N2O, CH4, HFCs 
GHG Emissions Statement: 
Electricity Consumption Megawatt Hours (MWH) for 2020 
Electricity Consumption MWH  273,460 
Purchased Renewable Energy Certificates (RECs), Guarantees of Origin (GOs) and other  281,861 
renewable electricity instruments in MWH applied to Scope 2 Emissions from Purchased 
Electricity 
BNY Mellon Entity-Wide GHG Emissions for 2020 
Scope 1 Emissions - Metric Tonnes (mt) of CO equivalent (COe)  5,919 
2 2
Scope 2 Emissions – Location Based mt COe  107,972 
2
Scope 2 Emissions – Market Based mt COe(purchased steam emissions and electricity  2,440 
2   
emissions not covered by renewable electricity instruments) 
Scope 3 Emissions – Category 6 Business Travel mt COe  2,259 
2
Total Scope 1 + Scope 2 Market Based + Scope 3 Business Travel mt COe  10,618 
2
GHG Emission Offsets and Net Emissions for 2020 
Purchased GHG Emission Offsets mt COe  14,500 
2
Net Emissions COe  0 
2
(Scope 1 + Scope 2 Market Based + Scope 3) - Purchased GHG Emission Offsets 
 
 
Page 2 
     
 
 
Data and information supporting the Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions assertion were in most cases 
historical in nature, but in some cases estimated.  
Data and information supporting the Scope 3 GHG emissions assertion were in some cases estimated, rather 
than historical in nature. 
Period covered by GHG emissions verification: 
•  Calendar Year 2020: January 1, 2020 to December 31, 2020 
Criteria against which verification conducted:  
•  World Resources Institute (WRI)/World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) 
Greenhouse Gas Protocol, Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard, Revised Edition (Scope 1 and 2) 
and the GHG Protocol Scope 2 Guidance, an amendment to the GHG Protocol Corporate Standard 
•  WRI/WBCSD Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) Accounting and Reporting Standard 
Reference Standard:  
•  ISO 14064-3 Second Edition 2019-04: Greenhouse gases -- Part 3: Specification with guidance for the 
verification and validation of greenhouse gas statements  
Level of Assurance and Qualifications: 
•  Limited 
•  This verification used a materiality threshold of +/-5% for aggregate errors in sampled data for each of the 
above indicators. 
•  Qualifications: None   
GHG Verification Methodology:  
Evidence-gathering procedures included, but were not limited to:  
•  Interviews with relevant personnel of BNY Mellon;  
•  Review of documentary evidence produced by BNY Mellon;  
•  Review of BNY Mellon data and information systems and methodology for collection, aggregation, analysis 
and review of information used to determine GHG emissions;  
•  Review of data and methodology for tracking purchases, certification and retirement of RECs, GOs, and 
GHG Offsets; and, 
•  Audit of sample of data used by BNY Mellon to determine GHG emissions. 
Verification Opinion: 
Based on the verification process and procedures conducted to a limited assurance level of the GHG emissions 
statement shown above, Apex found no evidence that the GHG emissions statement: 
•  is not materially correct and is not a fair representation of the GHG emissions data and information; and 
•  has not been prepared in accordance with the WRI/WBCSD GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and 
Reporting Standard (Scope 1 and 2), and WRI/WBCSD Greenhouse Gas Protocol Corporate Value Chain 
Accounting and Reporting Standard (Scope 3).  
 
Page 3 
     
 
It is our opinion that BNY Mellon has established appropriate systems for the collection, aggregation and analysis of 
quantitative data for determination of these GHG emissions for the stated period and boundaries. 
Statement of independence, impartiality and competence 
Apex is an independent professional services company that specializes in Health, Safety, Social and Environmental 
management services including assurance with over 30 years history in providing these services.  
No member of the verification team has a business relationship with BNY Mellon, its Directors or Managers beyond 
that required of this assignment.  We conducted this verification independently and to our knowledge there has been 
no conflict of interest. 
Apex has implemented a Code of Ethics across the business to maintain high ethical standards among staff in their 
day-to-day business activities. 
The verification team has extensive experience in conducting assurance over environmental, social, ethical and 
health and safety information, systems and processes, has over 20 years combined experience in this field and an 
excellent understanding of Apex’s standard methodology for the verification of greenhouse gas emissions data. 
Attestation:  
 
      
Mary E. Armstrong-Friberg, Lead Verifier      David Reilly, Technical Reviewer 
Principal Consultant          Principal Consultant 
APEX Companies, LLC                       APEX Companies, LLC 
Cleveland, Ohio            Santa Ana, California  
April 20, 2021 
 
This verification opinion, including the opinion expressed herein, is provided to BNY Mellon and is solely for the benefit of BNY 
Mellon in accordance with the terms of our agreement. We consent to the release of this opinion by you to CDP in order to satisfy 
the terms of CDP disclosure requirements but without accepting or assuming any responsibility or liability on our part to CDP or to 
any other party who may have access to this opinion. 
 
Legal Notices
Legal Notices public limited liability company, with company 
number 0806.743.159, whose registered office is at 
46 Rue Montoyerstraat, B-1000 Brussels, Belgium, 
authorised and regulated as a significant credit 
BNY Mellon is the corporate brand of The Bank 
institution by the European Central Bank (ECB), under 
of New York Mellon Corporation and may be used 
the prudential supervision of the National Bank 
to reference the corporation as a whole and/or 
of Belgium (NBB) and under the supervision of the 
its various subsidiaries generally. This material 
Belgian Financial Services and Markets Authority 
and any products and services may be issued or 
(FSMA) for conduct of business rules, a subsidiary of 
provided under various brand names of BNY Mellon 
The Bank of New York Mellon.
in various countries by duly authorized and regulated 
subsidiaries, affiliates, and joint ventures of BNY  The Bank of New York Mellon SA/NV operates in 
Mellon, which may include any of those listed below:  Ireland through its Dublin branch at Riverside II, Sir 
John Rogerson's Quay Grand Canal Dock, Dublin 
The Bank of New York Mellon, a banking corporation 
2, D02KV60, Ireland and is registered with the 
organized pursuant to the laws of the State of New 
Companies Registration Office in Ireland No. 907126 
York, whose registered office is at 240 Greenwich 
& with VAT No. IE 9578054E. The Bank of New York 
St, NY, NY 10286, USA. The Bank of New York Mellon 
Mellon SA/NV, Dublin Branch is subject to limited 
is supervised and regulated by the New York State 
additional regulation by the Central Bank of Ireland 
Department of Financial Services and the US 
at New Wapping Street, North Wall Quay, Dublin 1, 
Federal Reserve and is authorized by the Prudential 
D01 F7X3, Ireland for conduct of business rules and 
Regulation Authority (PRA) (Firm Reference Number: 
registered with the Companies Registration Office in 
122467). 
Ireland No. 907126 & with VAT No. IE 9578054E. 
In the U.K., a number of services associated with BNY 
The Bank of New York Mellon SA/NV is trading 
Mellon Wealth Management’s Family Office Services 
in Germany as The Bank of New York Mellon SA/
– International are provided through The Bank of New 
NV, Asset Servicing, Niederlassung Frankfurt am 
York Mellon, London Branch. The Bank of New York 
Main, and has its registered office at MesseTurm, 
Mellon also operates in the UK through its London 
Friedrich-Ebert-Anlage 49, 60327 Frankfurt am Main, 
branch (UK companies house numbers FC005522 and 
Germany. It is subject to limited additional regulation 
BR000818) at One Canada Square, London E14 5AL 
by the Federal Financial Supervisory Authority 
and is subject to regulation by the Financial Conduct 
(Bundesanstalt für Finanzdienstleistungsaufsicht, 
Authority (FCA) at 12 Endeavour Square, London, E20 
Marie-Curie-Str. 24-28, 60439 Frankfurt, Germany) 
1JN, UK and limited regulation by the PRA at Bank of 
under registration number 122721.
England, Threadneedle St, London, EC2R 8AH, UK. 
Details about the extent of our regulation by the PRA  The Bank of New York Mellon SA/NV operates in 
are available from us on request. the Netherlands through its Amsterdam branch at 
Strawinskylaan 337, WTC Building, Amsterdam, 1077 
Investment management services are offered 
XX, the Netherlands. The Bank of New York Mellon 
through BNY Mellon Investment Management EMEA 
SA/NV, Amsterdam Branch is subject to limited 
Limited, BNY Mellon Centre, One Canada Square, 
additional supervision by the Dutch Central Bank 
London E14 5AL, which is registered in England 
(“De Nederlandsche Bank” or “DNB”) on integrity 
No. 1118580 and is authorised and regulated by the 
issues only (registration number 34363596). DNB 
Financial Conduct Authority. Offshore trust and 
holds office at Westeinde 1, 1017 ZN Amsterdam, the 
administration services are through BNY Mellon Trust 
Netherlands. 
Company (Cayman) Ltd.
The Bank of New York Mellon SA/NV operates in 
BNY Mellon Fund Services (Ireland) Limited is 
Luxembourg through its Luxembourg branch at 2-4 
regulated by the Central Bank of Ireland. 
rue Eugene Ruppert, Vertigo Building – Polaris, 
The Bank of New York Mellon SA/NV, a Belgian 
L- 2453, Luxembourg. The Bank of New York 
BNY Mellon    Enterprise ESG     103
Legal Notices
Mellon SA/NV, Luxembourg Branch is subject to  Regulatory information in relation to the above 
limited additional regulation by the Commission  BNY Mellon entities operating out of Europe can be 
de Surveillance du Secteur Financier at 283, route  accessed at the following website:  
d’Arlon, L-1150 Luxembourg for conduct of business  https://www.bnymellon.com/RID. 
rules, and in its role as UCITS/AIF depositary and 
The Bank of New York Mellon, Singapore Branch, is 
central administration agent.
subject to regulation by the Monetary Authority of 
The Bank of New York Mellon SA/NV operates in  Singapore. For recipients of this information located 
France through its Paris branch at 7 Rue Scribe, Paris,  in Singapore: This material has not been reviewed 
Paris 75009, France. The Bank of New York Mellon  by the Monetary Authority of Singapore. The Bank of 
SA/NV, Paris Branch is subject to limited additional  New York Mellon, Hong Kong Branch (a branch of a 
regulation by Secrétariat Général de l’Autorité de  banking corporation organized and existing under the 
Contrôle Prudentiel at Première Direction du Contrôle  laws of the State of New York with limited liability), 
de Banques (DCB 1), Service 2, 61, Rue Taitbout,  is subject to regulation by the Hong Kong Monetary 
75436 Paris Cedex 09, France (registration number  Authority and the Securities & Futures Commission 
(SIREN) Nr. 538 228 420 RCS Paris - CIB 13733).  of Hong Kong. The Bank of New York Mellon, Seoul 
Branch is subject to regulation by the Financial 
The Bank of New York Mellon SA/NV operates in Italy 
Services Commission, the Financial Supervisory 
through its Milan branch at Via Mike Bongiorno no. 
Service and The Bank of Korea. BNY Mellon in Japan 
13, Diamantino building, 5th floor, Milan, 20124, Italy. 
is subject to regulation by the Financial Services 
The Bank of New York Mellon SA/NV, Milan Branch 
Agency of Japan.
is subject to limited additional regulation by Banca 
d’Italia - Sede di Milano at Divisione Supervisione  Pershing is the umbrella name for Pershing LLC 
Banche, Via Cordusio no. 5, 20123 Milano, Italy  (member FINRA, SIPC and NYSE), Pershing Advisor 
(registration number 03351). Solutions (member FINRA and SIPC), Pershing Limited 
(UK), Pershing Securities Limited (UK), Pershing 
The Bank of New York Mellon SA/NV is trading in 
Securities International Limited (Ireland), Pershing 
Denmark as The Bank of New York Mellon SA/NV, 
(Channel Islands) Limited, Pershing Securities 
Copenhagen Branch, filial af The Bank of New York 
Canada Limited, Pershing Securities Singapore 
Mellon SA/NV, Belgien, and has its registered office 
Private Limited, Pershing Securities Australia Pty. 
at Strandvejen 60/5, 2900 Hellerup, Denmark. It is 
Ltd, and Pershing India Operational Services Pvt Ltd. 
subject to limited additional regulation by the Danish 
Pershing business also includes Albridge Solutions, 
Financial Supervisory Authority (Finanstilsynet, 
Inc. and Lockwood Advisors, Inc., an investment 
Århusgade 110, 2100 København Ø).
adviser registered in the United States under the 
The Bank of New York Mellon SA/NV operates in Spain 
Investment Advisers Act of 3 6 1940. Pershing is a 
through its Madrid branch with registered office at 
member of SIPC, which protects securities customers 
Calle José Abascal 45, Planta 4ª, 28003, Madrid, and 
of its members up to $500,000 (including $250,000 for 
enrolled on the Reg. Mercantil de Madrid, Tomo 41019, 
claims for cash). Explanatory brochure available upon 
folio 185 (M-727448). The Bank of New York Mellon, 
request or at sipc.org. SIPC does not protect against 
Sucursal en España is registered with Banco de 
loss due to market fluctuation. SIPC protection is not 
España (registration number 1573).
the same as, and should not be confused with, FDIC 
The Bank of New York Mellon SA/NV operates in  insurance. 
England through its London branch at 160 Queen 
The Alcentra Group refers to the affiliated companies 
Victoria Street, London EC4V 4LA, UK, registered 
Alcentra Limited and Alcentra NY, LLC. AUM includes 
in England and Wales with numbers FC029379 and 
assets managed by both companies. Dreyfus Cash 
BR014361. The Bank of New York Mellon SA/NV, 
Investment Strategies (CIS) is a division of BNY 
London branch is authorized by the ECB (address 
Mellon Investment Adviser, Inc. Insight Investment 
above) and subject to limited regulation by the FCA 
advisory services in North America are provided 
(address above) and the PRA (address above). 
BNY Mellon    Enterprise ESG     104
Legal Notices
through two different investment advisers registered  Some information contained in this report has been 
with the Securities and Exchange Commission  obtained from third-party sources and has not been 
(SEC), using the brand Insight Investment: Insight  independently verified by BNY Mellon. Information 
North America LLC (INA) and Insight Investment  contained in this report may not be comprehensive or 
International Limited (IIIL). The North American  up-to-date, and is subject to change without notice. 
investment advisers are associated with other 
BNY Mellon will not be responsible for updating any 
global investment managers that also (individually 
information contained within this report and makes 
and collectively) use the corporate brand Insight 
no representation as to the accuracy or completeness 
Investment and may be referred to as “Insight” or 
of such information. BNY Mellon assumes no liability 
“Insight Investment.” “Newton” and/or the “Newton 
(direct or consequential or any other form of liability) 
Investment Management” brand refers to Newton 
for any errors in or reliance upon the information 
Investment Management Limited. Newton is 
contained in the report. 
incorporated in the United Kingdomand is authorized 
A number of statements in this report may contain 
and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority 
“forward-looking statements” within the meaning of 
in the conduct of investment business. Newton is 
the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, 
registered with the SEC as an investment adviser. 
including statements about BNY Mellon’s strategic 
Newton is a subsidiary of The Bank of New York 
priorities, financial goals and aspirations, organic 
Mellon Corporation Mellon Investments Corporation 
growth, performance, organizational quality and 
(Mellon) is a registered investment adviser and an 
efficiency, investments, capabilities, resiliency, 
indirect subsidiary of The Bank of New York Mellon 
sustainable growth and company management, 
Corporation. Walter Scott North America, a division 
as well as BNY Mellon’s overall plans, strategies, 
of BNY Mellon Securities Corporation a registered 
goals, objectives, expectations, outlooks, estimates, 
broker dealer. BNY Mellon owns a 20% interest in 
intentions, targets, opportunities, focus and 
Siguler Guff & Company, LP and certain related 
initiatives. These statements may be expressed 
entities (including Siguler Guff Advisers, LLC). BNY 
in a variety of ways, including the use of future or 
Mellon Investor Solutions personnel may offer 
present tense language. Words such as “estimate,” 
products and services in their capacity as employees 
“forecast,” “project,” “anticipate,” “likely,” 
and officers of The Bank of New York Mellon (the 
“target,” “expect,” “intend,” “continue,” “seek,” 
“Bank”), including investment strategies that are 
“believe,” “plan,” “goal,” “could,” “should,” “would,” 
developed by affiliated BNY Mellon investment 
“may,” “might,” “will,” “strategy,” “synergies,” 
advisory firms and managed by officers of such firms 
“opportunities,” “trends,” “future,” “potentially,” 
acting in their capacities as dual officers of the Bank.  
“outlook” and words of similar meaning may signify 
BNY Mellon ARX (ARX) is the brand used to describe 
forwardlooking statements. These forward-looking 
the Brazilian investment capabilities of BNY Mellon 
statements are based on assumptions that involve 
ARX Investimentos Ltda. ARX is an affiliate of The 
risks and uncertainties and that are subject to 
Bank of New York Mellon Corporation.
change based on various important factors (some 
The Bank of New York Mellon is exempt from the 
of which are beyond BNY Mellon’s control). Actual 
requirement to hold, and does not hold, an Australian 
results may differ materially from those expressed or 
financial services license as issued by the Australian 
implied as a result of a number of factors, including, 
Securities and Investments Commission under the 
but not limited to, those discussed in “Risk Factors” 
Corporations Act 2001 (Cth) in respect of the financial 
in BNY Mellon’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the 
services provided by it to persons in Australia. The 
quarter ended September 30, 2020 and BNY Mellon’s 
Bank of New York Mellon is regulated by the New York 
Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended 
State Department of Financial Services and the US 
December 31, 2019 and in BNY Mellon’s other filings 
Federal Reserve under Chapter 2 of the Consolidated 
with the Securities and Exchange Commission. All 
Laws, The Banking Law enacted 16th April 1914 in the 
forward-looking statements speak only as of the date 
State of New York, which differs from Australian laws.
on which such statements are made, and BNY Mellon 
BNY Mellon    Enterprise ESG     105
Legal Notices
undertakes no obligation to update any statement 
to reflect events or circumstances after the date on 
which such forward-looking statement is made or to 
reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events.
Reproduction, distribution, republication and 
retransmission of material contained in this report is 
prohibited without the prior consent of BNY Mellon. 
All currency is in United States Dollar (USD) unless 
otherwise specified. 
To learn more about our Enterprise ESG strategy, 
commitments and achievements, please see  
www.bnymellon.com/futurefirst. Additional 
information is available at www.bnymellon.com, or 
follow us on Twitter @BNYMellon. All data included 
in this publication is as of December 31, 2020, 
unless otherwise specified. For a full explanation of 
statistics, please see https://www.bnymellon.com/
us/en/investorrelations/annual-reports.jsp. 
Trademarks, service marks and logos belong to their 
respective owners. 
© 2021 The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation.  
All rights reserved.
BNY Mellon    Enterprise ESG     106

bnymellon.com/futurefirst