
v
THIS IS AN AUTHORS’ MANUSCRIPT TO BE PUBLISHED BY CAMBRIDGE UNIVERSITY PRESS
June 2020
© Cambridge University Press
The views expressed in this report do not reflect the views of any organizations, 
agency or programme of the United Nations. 
Please cite this report as:
Sachs, J., Schmidt-Traub, G., Kroll, C., Lafortune, G., Fuller, G., Woelm, F. 2020.  
The Sustainable Development Goals and COVID-19. Sustainable Development 
Report 2020. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
This report has been prepared with the extensive advice and consultation of the 
SDSN Leadership Council members. Members of the Leadership Council serve in 
their personal capacities, so the opinions expressed in this paper may not reflect  
the opinions of their host institutions. Members are not necessarily in agreement 
with every detail of this report.
Design and Layout by Pica Publishing Ltd – www.pica-publishing.com

Acknowledgements 
The report was coordinated by Guillaume Lafortune under the direction of Christian Kroll and Guido Schmidt-Traub 
and the overall supervision of Jeffrey D. Sachs. Lead writers are Jeffrey D. Sachs, Guido Schmidt-Traub, Christian Kroll, 
Guillaume Lafortune, Grayson Fuller and Finn Woelm. We are grateful to Carmina Baez Sarita for statistical support, 
as well as to Jessica Espey, Hayden Dahmm, and Maryam Rabiee from the Thematic Research Network on Data and 
Statistics (TReNDs) for their valuable comments.
The views expressed in this report do not reflect the views of any organizations, agencies or programmes of the 
United Nations.
The report combines data and analyses produced by international organizations, civil society organizations, and 
research centers. We thank all for their contributions and collaboration in producing the report. The full list of 
contributing organizations can be found in the References section of this report.
We also thank the regional and national SDSN networks, experts, and government officials for responding to the 
2020 survey on “national implementation and coordination mechanisms for the SDGs at the central/federal level.” 
We also thank respondents to SDSN’s 2020 public-opinion surveys on “SDG Progress and Challenges” and on 
“Covid-19 and the SDGs.”
María Cortes-Puch, Elena Crete, Cheyenne Maddox, and Ryan Swaney provided communication support for the 
launch of the report. Cambridge University Press and Roberto Rossi of Pica Publishing prepared the manuscript 
for publication. We thank all staff members at SDSN and its member institutions, at Bertelsmann Stiftung and at 
Cambridge University Press, especially Phil Good, who have supported this report.
Please notify us of any publications that use the SDG Index and Dashboards data or the Sustainable Development 
Report, and share your publication with us at info@sdgindex.org. 
An interactive online dashboard and all data used in this report can be accessed at: 
http://sustainabledevelopment.report.
ii
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
Table of Contents 
Executive Summary  vi
Part 1. Covid-19, the SDGs, and the Recovery   1
1.1 Covid-19 and the future of sustainable development  1
1.2 Comparing early Covid-19 control in the OECD countries  15
Part 2. The SDG Index and Dashboards  23
2.1 The 2020 SDG Index  25
2.2 The SDG Index score over time  25
2.3 International spillovers  33
2.4 The SDG dashboards  37
2.5 Absolute SDG performance gaps in G20 countries  46
Part 3. Policy and Monitoring Frameworks  
for the SDGs  49
3.1 Political leadership and policy environment  49
3.2 Data, statistics and monitoring  57
Part 4. Methods Summary and Data Tables  63
4.1 Interpreting the Index and Dashboards results  63
4.2 Changes made to the 2020 edition, and main limitations  63
4.3 Methodology (summary)  66
4.4 Data tables  74
References  94
Part 5. Country Profiles  101
iii
Sustainable Development Report 2020      The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
Table of Contents
List of Figures
Figure 1  Short-term impacts of Covid-19 on the Sustainable Development Goals  4
Figure 2  Six SDG Transformations  8
Figure 3  An SDG framework to map out possible short-term and longer-term government  
responses to Covid-19  10
Figure 4  Cumulative Covid-19 tests per 1,000 population  14
Figure 5  SDG Index and Dashboards: global, regional and subnational editions (2016–2020)  24
Figure 6  Progress on the SDG Index by regions (2010–2019)   28
Figure 7  Progress on the SDG Index by income group (2010–2019)  28
Figure 8  Countries whose SDG Index score has improved or decreased the most since 2015   29
Figure 9  Progress by SDGs and regions  30
Figure 10 Average spillover score against gross domestic product per capita (GDP per capita,  
constant 2010 US$, ppp)  34
Figure 11  Domestic vs transboundary impacts (CO emissions and scarce water use)   36
2
Figure 12 2020 SDG dashboards (levels and trends) by United Nations sub-regions  40
Figure 13 2020 SDG dashboards (levels and trends) for East and South Asia  40
Figure 14 2020 SDG dashboards (levels and trends) for OECD countries  41
Figure 15 2020 SDG dashboards (levels and trends) for Eastern Europe and Central Asia  42
Figure 16 2020 SDG dashboards (levels and trends) for Latin America and the Caribbean  43
Figure 17 2020 SDG dashboards (levels and trends) for the Middle East and North Africa   44
Figure 18 2020 SDG dashboards (levels and trends) for Oceania  44
Figure 19 2020 SDG dashboards (levels and trends) for Sub-Saharan Africa  45
Figure 20 Comparative assessment of government strategies and policy actions for climate mitigation  52
Figure 21 Q.1. In your view, is your country on track to achieve the SDGs by 2030?  53
Figure 22 Q.2. Since 2015, how do you perceive government efforts and actions to implement the  
six transformations in your country?   54
Figure 23 Q.4. In your view, what are the main barriers to achieving the SDGs in your country?  54
Figure 24 Q.1. In your view, in your country, what will be the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic  
on the achievement of the SDGs by 2030?  55
Figure 25 Q.2. In your view, in your country, what will be the impact of Covid-19 on each of the  
six SDG Transformations?  56
Figure 26 Q.3. In your view, is the current SDG framework and reporting process suited to help  
prevent and mitigate major global risks (e.g., pandemics)?  56
Figure 27 Change in data availability (official data sources), 2010–2015 vs 2010–2020 (%)  60
Figure 28 Change in data availability (official data sources), 2010–2015 vs 2015–2020 (%)  60
Figure 29 Global data availability (in %) and average year of reference (in years) by SDGs  
(official and non-official data sources)  61
Figure 30 The Four-arrow system for denoting SDG trends  72
Figure 31 Graphic representation of the SDG trends methodology  72
iv
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19  Sustainable Development Report 2020      The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
Table of Contents
List of Tables
Table 1  Covid-19 pilot Index and performance indicators for the OECD countries  20
Table 2  The 2020 SDG Index scores  26
Table 3  Absolute SDG performance gaps in 2020 (%)  47
Table 4  National government efforts to implement the SDGs  51
Table 5  Data availability and year of reference by sub-regions (official data sources),  
including and excluding model-based estimates  59
Table 6  New indicators and modifications   64
Table 7  Major indicator and data gaps for the SDGs  65
Table 8  Imputations   69
Table 9  Indicators included in the Sustainable Development Report 2020  74
Table 10 Countries not included in the 2020 SDG Index due to insufficient data availability  82
Table 11 Indicator thresholds and justifications for the optimum values  83
Table 12 Indicators used for SDG Trends and period for trend estimation  88
Table 13 Spillover Index Score and Rank (compared with SDG Index Rank)  90
List of Boxes
Box 1  Lessons on preparedness   14
Box 2  National and subnational SDG indices and dashboards  24
Box 3  Public opinion survey on SDG Progress and Challenges  53
Box 4  Public opinion survey on Covid-19 and the SDGs  55
v
Sustainable Development Report 2020      The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
Executive Summary
Covid‑19 will have severe negative impacts on most SDGs. The world is facing the 
worst public health and economic crisis in a century. As of June 20th, 2020, around 
463,000 people had died from Covid-19 across the world. The health crisis is affecting all 
countries, including high-income countries in Europe and North America. The necessary 
measures taken to respond to the immediate threat of Covid-19, including the shut-
down of many economic activities for weeks, have led to a global economic crisis with 
massive job losses and major impacts especially on vulnerable groups. This is a significant 
setback for the world’s ambition to achieve the SDGs, in particular for poor countries and 
population groups. The only bright spot in this foreboding picture is the reduction in 
environmental impacts resulting from declines in economic activity: a key objective will 
be to restore economic activity without simply restoring old patterns of environmental 
degradation. However, all long-term consequences of the pandemic remain highly 
uncertain at this point. 
All countries need to strengthen the resilience of their health systems and 
prevention programs. Some countries have outperformed others in containing the 
pandemic, yet all remain at serious risk. No country has attained so-called herd immunity; 
all remain highly vulnerable to new outbreaks. In line with SDG 3 (Good Health and Well-
Being), all countries need to “Strengthen the capacity for early warning, risk reduction 
and management of national and global health risks.” The Covid-19 pandemic has shed 
considerable light on the vulnerability of health systems, notably in high-income countries 
that were thought best prepared to face epidemics. Besides greater investments, this 
crisis shows that better measures and reporting are needed to track prevention programs, 
healthcare system preparedness, and resilience to pandemics. 
The SDGs and the Six SDG Transformations can inform the recovery from Covid‑19. 
As the international community, regional organizations, and countries plan the post-
Covid-19 recovery, it will be important to put the SDGs at the heart of policymaking. 
Covid-19 does not resolve the climate and biodiversity crises, and it is gravely amplifying 
income inequalities and other forms of inequality. It has also shown us that countries 
will only be able to protect themselves from global pandemics if health systems are 
strengthened in every country. The SDR2020 shows that significant progress has been 
achieved in many regions and on many goals over the past five years. Here we describe 
how the SDGs and the six SDG Transformations (Sachs et al., 2019a) can guide the 
immediate post-crisis recovery and frame long-term strategies towards more resilient and 
sustainable societies. 
Asian countries have made the most progress towards the SDGs since the adoption 
of the goals in 2015. Asian countries have also responded most effectively to 
the Covid‑19 outbreak. While the world as a whole has made progress on the SDGs, 
countries in East and South Asia in particular have progressed the most in terms of their 
SDG Index score. Countries in this region have also managed the Covid-19 outbreak more 
effectively than in other parts of the world. While the situation is still evolving, the shift of 
the geopolitical and economic global center of gravity from the North Atlantic region to 
the Asia-Pacific region is likely to be accelerated by the crisis. 
vi
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19  Sustainable Development Report 2020      The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
Executive Summary
Solidarity and partnerships are critical to address and prevent health, economic, 
and humanitarian crises. Globalization and the destruction of wildlife habitats facilitate 
the rapid spread of viruses around the world. Yet rather than losing the vast benefits that 
globalization offers for economics, poverty reduction, technological advance, and the 
enjoyment of each other’s cultures, it is important instead to make globalization more 
fair, sustainable, and resilient to shocks. Concerted international action by policymakers, 
business, civil society, and the scientific community can accelerate the identification of 
solutions to the immediate crisis and strengthen globalization for the long term. Stronger 
international and multisectoral partnerships can support mitigation strategies by sharing 
best practices, and help prevent future disruptive events. The health, economic, and social 
crises call for increased international collaboration and solidarity to support the most 
vulnerable countries.
Data gaps and time lags in official statistics require urgent investments in statistical 
capacity and increased coordination between governments and the private sector. 
The pandemic has taught us once again the value of real-time information, and the 
enormous costs of flying blind into a storm. Early detection of Covid-19 outbreaks can 
make all the difference between suppression of the pandemic and a full-scale outbreak. 
The same is true across many SDG indicators, where timing matters enormously to save 
lives, ecosystems, and effective governance. This year’s edition of the SDG Index and 
Dashboards cannot integrate the impact of Covid-19 on the SDGs due to time lags in 
official statistics and reporting. This illustrates how crucial timely and disaggregated data 
are across the SDGs. Major efforts should focus on increasing data availability and reducing 
time lags in official statistics, and on leveraging the wealth of real-time data available from 
non-traditional sources, including the research community and the private sector. 
vii
Sustainable Development Report 2020      The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
Part 1
Covid-19, the SDGs, 
and the Recovery
Part 1
Covid-19, the SDGs, and the Recovery
The world is still in the early phase of the vast Covid-19 crisis. Deaths and infections continue to mount (JHU, 2020; 
Worldometer, 2020). Economies are in a deep and growing crisis. Inequalities within and among countries are rising, as the 
poorest suffer a disproportionate share of the infections and deaths, and struggle more to make ends meet. Poverty and hunger 
are soaring. And global tensions are rising. United Nations Secretary-General António Guterres has rightly called this crisis the 
worst since World War II. The economic ramifications could rival those of the Great Depression in the 1930s (IMF, 2020a).
The implications of the pandemic encompass public  to Covid-19 which integrates health and economic 
health, economics, social stability, politics, and geopoli- considerations. 
tics. The crisis is unprecedented in severity at least since 
the influenza epidemic at the end of World War I, and  Poor performance on this index does not necessarily 
still very uncertain in its trajectory. The world will change  mean that countries have not responded appropriately 
markedly. However, if we take the right approach to crisis  to the Covid-19 outbreak under the circumstances they 
management, we may learn important positive lessons  were confronted with. In countries where personal 
for the future – and if not, we may fall into a downward  protective equipment (PPE) (e.g. masks) and test kits were 
spiral of crisis. lacking and where capacities in intensive care units were 
more limited, a strict and prolonged lockdown was most 
The Sustainable Development Report 2020 (SDR2020)  probably required for containing the spread of the virus 
presents some early thoughts on the Covid-19 crisis and  and reducing death rates. Yet, we also underline how 
the future of sustainable development.  some countries that were better prepared (e.g. South 
Korea) managed to deal with the disease outbreak more 
This opening section is divided into two parts: efficiently so far by testing, tracing, and isolating rapidly 
confirmed Covid-19 cases and through the immediate 
In the first part, we review early responses and identify  use of PPE among most of the population, which has 
short-term priorities for action by governments and their  greatly help in mitigating the negative economic impacts. 
partners around the world, including the international  Besides government actions, other factors can explain 
community. We also describe how the Sustainable  lower mortality rates from Covid-19 such as geography, 
Development Goals (SDGs) can help chart medium- demography, and other contextual factors including 
term and longer-term responses to recover from the  recent experiences with viruses’ outbreaks.
health, economic, social, and environmental impacts 
of the pandemic. We believe that success will require 
deep changes to how countries and the international 
1.1 Covid-19 and the future of 
community operate, which we try to outline.
sustainable development 
In the second part, we review how governments 
have responded to the immediate health crisis and  Clearly, the pandemic will have profound implications 
describe emerging lessons for public health authorities,  on progress towards the SDGs, which this report has 
governments at large, and the public. The crisis has  been tracking since 2016. The data we present in this 
shown profound weaknesses in our public health  2020 report mostly dates from before the onset of the 
systems, including in many of the richest countries that  pandemic, so it does not account for the Covid-19 
were deemed to be well prepared for such a pandemic.  impact. For this reason, this section outlines likely 
Meanwhile, some countries, particularly in the Asia- implications on the SDGs by drawing on emerging data 
Pacific region, have (so far) been successful in containing  and findings from around the world. We underscore the 
Covid-19 and minimizing the damage to their societies.  preliminary and uncertain nature of these findings, but 
We present a novel approach and a pilot index to measure  we hope they will help the global discussion on Covid-19 
the effectiveness of the OECD countries’ early responses  and the SDGs. 
1
Sustainable Development Report 2020      The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
Part 1. The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
This section also seeks to lay out a vision for the future of  infected would recover, while a small proportion, perhaps 
sustainable development and the SDGs. It is necessarily  around 1%, would die from the illness. In a matter of just a 
preliminary since we are only at what some have called  few weeks the epidemic would end, since those infected 
the end of the beginning of Covid-19. Previous pandemics  today would not infect others. 
suggest that there may well be several new rounds of 
outbreaks, and the implications on economies, social  Yet the pandemic is not being suppressed in this quick 
cohesion, the environment, and international diplomacy  and orderly way. At the time of writing (late May 2020), the 
are impossible to predict. As the UN Secretary-General  number of new cases continues to grow rapidly in many 
(UN 2020) has reminded us, some of the worst can be  countries and regions, including Brazil, India, Russia, the 
avoided, but only if countries act decisively and in unison,  United States, and several countries in South America and 
with strong international solidarity.  Africa. Infected individuals continue to infect susceptible 
individuals in large numbers. In many of these countries 
The SDGs are the world’s shared goals for sustainable  and regions, new infections are rising at a very fast pace. The 
development, and Covid-19 makes them more relevant  virus has reached virtually every country on every continent. 
than ever. It is critical that we “build back better,” but 
the question is of course how to do so. In this section  Yet the news on suppressing the pandemic is not all 
we outline some preliminary ideas for how the SDGs  bleak. Several countries, notably in the Asia-Pacific region 
can provide the framework for national action and  – including Australia, New Zealand, South Korea, and 
international cooperation in the wake of Covid-19.  Vietnam, among others – have shown that it is possible to 
stop the epidemic, or at least to reduce the number of new 
We distinguish between short-run and longer-term  infections to small numbers. Success is based heavily on 
priorities. In the short run, the absolute priority is to control  intensive public health services and good hygienic practices 
the spread of the virus in every country, including the  among the population. People in these countries who show 
poorest ones. Countries and the international community  symptoms are tested and isolated. If their home conditions 
also need to mitigate the impact on achievement of the  are too crowded, they are quarantined in public facilities 
SDGs, especially in vulnerable countries and population  where they will not transmit the virus to family members 
groups. International collaboration and partnerships  or neighbors. Their close contacts are rigorously traced, 
are needed to speed the fight against the pandemic,  tested, and isolated or quarantined if necessary. People are 
support macroeconomic stability, and avoid a disastrous  routinely monitored for symptoms (such as fever) when 
humanitarian crisis. In the longer term, we argue that  they move in public places. People wear face masks and 
the SDGs provide the framework to guide the recovery.  regularly wash their hands to avoid spreading the virus, 
Countries need to invest in stronger and more resilient  and they keep their physical distance from others when in 
health systems and pursue the other SDGs. We outline  shops, public places, or their workplaces. Businesses allow 
practical steps for how this might be achieved.  employees to work from home whenever possible, monitor 
their workforce for any symptoms of infection, and quickly 
isolate any who might be infected. In short, every effort is 
made to prevent infected individuals from infecting others. 
Short-term priorities
Most countries around the world do not yet have such 
Control the disease
high-quality public health systems. They lack adequate 
The good news is that, in principle, Covid-19 is  testing, contact tracing, and quarantine facilities. They do 
controllable. The pandemic could be stopped in its  not aggressively monitor public places for people with 
tracks if every infected person were kept safely away  symptoms such as fever. Individuals do not always honor 
from susceptible individuals during the period of  physical distancing. People take undue risks by meeting 
infectiousness, which is roughly one to two weeks. If  together in large groups, such as at beaches, sports events, 
that were to happen, the vast majority of those currently  restaurants, parties, religious services, funerals, and other 
2
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
1
. C
o
v
id
-
1
9
1.1 Covid-19 and the future of sustainable development  , th
e
 S
D
G
s
, a
n
d
 t
h
e
 R
e
c
o
v
e
r
y
group occasions. They also often do not, or cannot, adhere  unemployment, sudden poverty, a rise in hunger, rising 
to strict hygiene measures, including hand-washing and  domestic abuse, and other impacts of remaining at home. 
the wearing of masks. The virus is then easily spread to 
large numbers of people.  Yet lifting lockdowns in the absence of adequate public 
health measures can simply allow the pandemic to return 
The wealthy countries of Western Europe and North  with full force. Every country therefore faces a grim reality. 
America were in fact among those with the greatest  Either build up public-health capacity to contain the 
number of infected people and deaths in the first months  pandemic, as have those countries that have succeeded in 
of the pandemic. The United States alone was reporting  containing Covid-19, or face the disastrous choice between 
99,807 Covid-19 deaths as of May 26, or 29% of the world’s  an uncontained pandemic and economic collapse. 
348,300 total reported Covid-19 deaths at the time, despite 
accounting for just 4% of the world’s population. That  Clearly, the choice between death and economic 
comes to a death rate of 302 per million population in the  collapse is really no choice. The only viable option for 
United States, compared with just 3 per million in China,  all societies is to build effective public health systems 
4 per million in Australia and New Zealand, 5 per million  that can contain the pandemic, which could even allow 
in South Korea, and 7 per million in Japan. Well-financed  businesses to operate at a level close to that of before 
healthcare systems did not spare the United States and  the outbreak (Dorn et al., 2020). In fact, a synergetic 
many countries in Western Europe. These countries had  relationship between public health and a prosperous 
hospitals but lacked testing capacities, contact tracers, and  economy seems possible even in times of Covid-19. 
other control measures. Standard rankings of preparedness  According to illustrative calculations by Dorn et al., 
also gave the wrong message: The United States often  a favorable scenario may be one in which the virus’s 
topped these conventional rankings (box 1), yet the  reproduction rate, or R-value, falls to 0.75 (based on 
country failed to respond effectively when the virus arrived.  data from Germany), which presents the best possible 
balance between new infections and economic costs due 
The pandemic especially ravages countries with poor  to shutdown measures. We will learn over the coming 
leadership. Countries led by populists or strongmen  weeks whether countries that are currently reopening 
who dismiss science, weaken public health institutions,  their economies have put in place the necessary public 
or undermine transparency in the management of the  health interventions to monitor, trace, prevent, and treat 
disease are performing particularly poorly. The modeling  infections, so as to prevent a second outbreak.
has shown that even a few weeks’ delay in response can 
mean the difference between suppressing the pandemic  Even though it is possible to contain and even to stop 
and suffering a mass outbreak with a vast loss of life. Each  the global pandemic through effective public-health 
failure harms not only the country itself, but the rest of  measures, it is more likely that the virus will continue to 
the world as well. It sets back the revival of trade, tourism,  spread widely and affect vast proportions of the world’s 
investment, higher education, and other global activities. population. This is the result of poor public leadership in 
many rich countries, combined with the lack of the means 
With widespread transmission of the virus and inadequate  and financing to contain the epidemic in poorer countries. 
public health measures, most countries have resorted  Poorer countries generally do not have large cadres of 
to temporary lockdowns of economic and social life.  public-health officials, though such cadres are an excellent 
By cutting down sharply on daily contacts throughout  investment not only in pandemic control but also 
society – in shops, restaurants, offices, public transport  towards meeting other objectives of SDG 3 (Good Health 
and public spaces, and at events – transmission of  and Well-Being). The poorer countries also do not have 
the virus is slowed. Yet lockdowns are very costly and  adequate testing facilities. It is also very difficult to keep 
inefficient. Instead of isolating only infected individuals  impoverished populations at home even for short periods 
and their contacts, everybody is isolated. The economy  of time. Some leaders, such as Pakistan’s Prime Minister 
grinds to a halt, with very high costs in terms of mass  Imran Khan (2020), have simply declared that they do not 
3
Sustainable Development Report 2020      The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
Part 1. The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
Figure 1 
Mainly positive impact
Short-term impacts of Covid-19 on the Sustainable Development Goals
Mixed or moderately negative impact
Highly negative impact 
Impact still unclear
SDG 1 Highly negative impact 
No poverty •  Increased poverty due to job losses and economic lockdown
•  Disproportionate impact on vulnerable groups (e.g., the poor)
SDG 2 Highly negative impact 
Zero hunger •  Food insecurity due to reduction in global food supplies and trade
•  Hunger due to fall in incomes and reduced food availability during lockdown
•  Higher food loss and waste due to transportation challenges and reduced labor availability
•  Poorer nutrition due to interruption of school meals
SDG 3 Highly negative impact 
Good health   •  Higher disease incidence and mortality from Covid 19
and well-being •  Higher mortality from other causes because of overburdening of health systems
•  Slight decline in mortality due to reduced economic and social activities  
(e.g., traffic accidents)
•  Potential short-term health gains due to lower environmental pollution
•  Negative impact of confinement and lockdown on mental health  
(e.g., anxiety and depression)
SDG 4 Mixed or moderately negative impact 
Quality education •  School and day-care closures
•  Loss in the development of human capital
•  Poorer nutrition due to interruption of school meals
SDG 5 Mixed or moderately negative impact 
Gender equality •  Possible disproportionate economic impacts on women (e.g., job losses, poverty)
•  Other social impacts on women from the lockdown (e. g., domestic violence)
•  Higher mortality rates from the virus among men (because they suffer from more 
chronic respiratory diseases due to higher smoking rate)
SDG 6 Mixed or moderately negative impact 
Clean water   •  Limited access to clean water among disadvantaged groups limits possibility of 
and sanitation adhering to strict hygiene guidelines
SDG 7 Mixed or moderately negative impact 
Affordable and  •  Slowdown in economic growth contributing to a reduction in energy prices (e.g., oil), 
clean energy which might increase access to energy but reduce incentives for renewables
SDG 8 Highly negative impact 
Decent work and  •  Economic crisis in virtually all parts of the world
economic growth •  Trade disruption
•  Mass unemployment
•  Business closures / bankruptcies
•  Sharp decline in tourism activities
•  Massive public deficits
SDG 9 Mixed or moderately negative impact 
•  Decline in industrial outputs
Industry, innovation 
and infrastructure  •  Possible nationalization of some industries, and bankruptcies and closures of others
•  Scientific collaboration to find treatments and vaccine
•  Accelerated uptake of digital technologies, for e-health, e-education, e-governance,  
and e-payments
4
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
1
. C
o
v
id
-
1
9
1.1 Covid-19 and the future of sustainable development  , th
e
 S
D
G
s
, a
n
d
 t
h
e
 R
e
c
o
v
e
r
y
SDG 10 Highly negative impact 
Reduced inequalities  •  Disproportionate negative health and economic impacts on vulnerable groups 
(including refugees and migrants), especially in countries with low safety nets
•  Loss of jobs of lower-skilled, lower-wage labor
SDG 11 Mixed or moderately negative impact 
Sustainable cities and   •  Rise in urban poverty and vulnerability
communities  •  Shut down of public transports
•  Lower access to public / green spaces
•  Movements of population that vary across countries 
•  Sharp short-term reduction in pollution levels
SDG 12 Impact still unclear 
•  Short-term reduction in natural resource use due to reduced economic activity  
Responsible consumption  
and production  and consumption
•  Pressure to loosen up regulations on circular economy and postpone the adoption  
of new measures
•  Increased plastic pollution (e.g., used to produce personal protective equipment)
SDG 13 Impact still unclear 
Climate action •  Short-term reduction in global GHG emissions
•  Pressure to reduce environmental safeguards
•  Lack of clarity on environmental investments
•  Slowdown in economic growth contributing to reduction in energy prices (e.g., oil),  
which might increase access to energy but reduce incentives for renewables
SDG 14 Impact still unclear 
Life below water  •  Short-term reduction in threats to marine biodiversity due to reduced global 
economic activity and consumption
•  Pressure to reduce marine biodiversity and ecosystem safeguards
SDG 15 Impact still unclear 
Life on land  •  Short-term reduction in threats to terrestrial and freshwater biodiversity  
due to reduced global economic activity and consumption
•  Pressure to reduce terrestrial and freshwater biodiversity and ecosystem  
safeguards, including biodiversity and ecosystem regulations conventions  
(for instance, on deforestation)
SDG 16 Mixed or moderately negative impact 
Peace, justice and strong   •  Increased pressure on governments to mitigate the health and economic 
institutions  consequences of the pandemic
•  Pressure to increase accessible health care in countries that have not yet achieved 
universal health coverage
•  Increased public deficits and debt
•  Disruption of legislative processes and public debates
•  Suspension of freedom-of-information laws and transparency policies
SDG 17 Mixed or moderately negative impact 
Partnerships for the goals  •  Possible reduced responsiveness of international aid community to needs of  
the poorest countries
•  Possible reduction in international remittances and cross-border financing
•  Closing of borders
•  Slowdown in international trade
•  Debt crisis
5
Sustainable Development Report 2020      The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
Part 1. The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
have the means to contain their county’s pandemic. The  likely that one or more countries will default, pushing 
consequences may well be horrendous for such countries.  the bond-rating agencies to downgrade sovereign 
But they would also be horrendous for other countries,  developing-country debts more generally, and leading 
since the virus and the damage it wreaks would continue  to a freezing up of the system rather than a refinancing. 
to spread across borders.  The result would be a cascade of defaults and balance-of-
payments crises that would also touch many countries that 
Therefore, the world as a whole is at a decisive moment.  have hitherto managed their economies well. 
With serious public-health efforts in all parts of the world, 
containing the pandemic is feasible.  Beyond the most direct impacts on poverty (SDG 1), food 
security (SDG 2), health (SDG 3), the economy (SDG 8), and 
multilateralism (SDG 17), Covid-19 has numerous other 
SDG impacts that are less widely discussed. 
Mitigate negative impacts on the SDGs
Many fallouts from the Covid-19 crisis on the SDGs are  Vulnerable countries and population groups (including the 
direct and obvious. Figure 1 summarizes these short- elderly, people with pre-conditions, homeless people, 
term impacts. Some poor countries will face devastating  low-skilled workers and refugees) are disproportionately 
poverty as they lose a high proportion of their incomes  affected by the short- and medium-term consequences 
from commodity exports, tourism, and remittance flows.  of the Covid-19 crisis (United Nations, 2020). This can be 
The terms of trade for many commodity exporters will  expected to result in growing inequalities, undermining 
fall sharply, as shown by the collapse in oil prices during  progress towards the achievement of SDG 10 (Reduced 
the first months of 2020. Domestic lockdowns in the  Inequalities). On SDG 5 (Gender Equality), early evidence 
poor countries will deprive the poor of their meagre daily  suggests that women are disproportionally affected in many 
incomes. Poverty and hunger will rise.  ways by the Covid-19 health and economic crises, including 
through their greater exposure to labor market disruptions 
Many food-importing developing countries could see  and the increase in domestic violence stemming from 
plummeting currencies, steeply rising domestic (and real)  the lockdowns (Inter-Agency Standing Committee, 
prices of imported food, and thus growing hunger, both  2020; UNFPA, 2020; Wenham et al., 2020). Meanwhile, the 
hidden and overt (FAO, 2020; IFPRI, 2020). Much of Africa  mortality rate of Covid-19 is greater among men, due 
in particular depends on food imports for staples, and  perhaps to greater pre-existing behavioral risk factors, such 
these countries will likely lose a substantial proportion  as higher smoking rates, other co-morbidities, or biological 
of their foreign-exchange income. The consequences  factors (Reeves and Ford, 2020). The crisis also has negative 
could be dire and could translate into social and political  impacts on access to schools, especially for populations 
instability, as well as hunger.  that are poorly equipped with digital technologies. 
Many emerging economies and frontier economies could  The crisis also affects the functioning of political and legisla-
soon also face devastating challenges in refinancing their  tive systems and the rule of law (SDG 16). Some governments 
debts (Adrian and Natalucci, 2020). As the crisis unfolds,  have introduced exceptional measures that increase their 
governments face an intense budget squeeze, as revenues  powers, allow them to rule by decree, and limit freedom of 
decline while social spending rises. Moreover, many  speech (Transparency International, 2020). As rightly empha-
developing country currencies will depreciate against the  sized by the UN Security Council (Council of Europe, 2020), 
dollar, raising the domestic currency costs of servicing  the consequences of Covid-19 are exacerbated in fragile 
foreign dollar-denominated debts. It would be possible  states, including in countries that face conflicts and civil wars.
in principle to refinance the debts falling due through 
new private borrowing, IMF credits, or systematic rollovers  At the same time, the crisis has brought about at least 
of principal and interest. In practice, the international  some temporary environmental benefits. Emissions of 
financial system rarely works so systematically. It is more  CO around the world have dropped significantly due to 
2
6
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
1
. C
o
v
id
-
1
9
1.1 Covid-19 and the future of sustainable development  , th
e
 S
D
G
s
, a
n
d
 t
h
e
 R
e
c
o
v
e
r
y
reduced industrial activity, lower energy consumption, and  destruction. These warnings are today more pertinent than 
reduced transportation of material and people (Le Quéré et  ever. If the Covid-19 disaster accomplishes anything good, 
al., 2020). CO emissions and emissions of nitrogen dioxide,  it should be to shake the world from its complacency, so 
2 
a major air pollutant, declined sharply in China during the  as seriously commit to the hard work of investing in a 
early months of the pandemic (Ghosh, 2020; Myllyvirta,  sustainable and inclusive future for humanity. 
2020), although they are now rebounding strongly (CREA, 
2020). Yet, the virus may also have a negative impact on  The six SDG Transformations (Sachs et al., 2019a) provide 
the enforcement of environmental laws, including on  a detailed framework on which to construct integrated 
deforestation, as industrial lobbies put pressure on public  strategies to recover from Covid-19 and to build back 
authorities to loosen up restrictions or even postpone the  better. They can be implemented in every country to help 
adoption of new measures (Reuters, 2020). Meanwhile it  address trade-offs and synergies across the SDGs. We 
is unclear what impact Covid-19 will have on investments,  presented the SDG Transformations in last year’s report and 
policies, and other short-term actions to tackle climate  outline here how they will need to be rethought to help 
change. Overall, we believe the direction of short-term  guide medium- and longer-term responses to Covid-19. 
impacts on environmental and biodiversity goals (SDGs 
12–15) is unclear. Most importantly, where Covid-19- The core of the six Transformations is the recognition that all 
related declines in economic activity have reduced  17 SDGs can be achieved through six major societal transfor-
environmental degradation, the restoration of economic  mations, focused on: (1) education and skills, (2) health and 
activity should aim to protect these environmental gains.  wellbeing, (3) clean energy and industry, (4) sustainable land 
use, (5) sustainable cities, and (6) digital technologies. All 
While the global health situation remains gloomy,  are guided by the twin principles of “leave no one behind” 
mortality rates due to traffic accidents (covered under  and “ensure circularity and decoupling” (See Sachs et al., 
SDG 3.6) have sharply declined in many parts of the  2019a for details, page 3). The six Transformations provide an 
world (Kopf, 2020). There might also be other short-term  action agenda for government ministries, businesses, and 
health gains due to lower pollution levels. These must be  civil society. They help governments and the international 
continued as the world recovers from Covid-19. community, as well as business and civil society, to frame 
actionable strategies to achieve the SDGs and thereby make 
our societies more prosperous, inclusive, and sustainable. 
Medium- and long-term priorities  To implement these transformations, in the medium-
run, relationship between markets and governments 
Guide the recovery with the six SDG Transformations 
must be rebalanced, with governments playing a more 
The SDGs provide an invaluable framework for recovery from  central role in the economy through public investments, 
Covid-19. The pandemic has laid bare the fragile economic,  redistribution of incomes from rich to poor, and 
social, and environmental underpinnings of our world today.  regulation of industry to ensure environmental and social 
Despite the world’s vast wealth, scientific and technological  sustainability. As a result of the pandemic, government 
prowess, and supposed preparedness for disasters, and  spending will have to increase sharply over the coming 
despite repeated specific warnings of the risks of pandemics,  one to three years, to mitigate the consequences of the 
including many specific warnings of coronavirus pandemics,  health and economic crises. And at least some of this 
the world was not ready when the virus struck.  increase in spending, for example on health coverage and 
access to public services, should remain permanent. 
The SDGs were adopted to address unnecessary risks and 
fragilities across the economic, social, and environmental  Already, public workforces including healthcare workers 
domains. These include poverty, widening inequalities  and first responders such as the police force have been 
in income and access to decent lives, continued high  heavily mobilized to respond to the health emergency. 
disease burdens, and of course massive environmental  Large-scale public-private partnerships are underway 
7
Sustainable Development Report 2020      The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
Part 1. The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
Figure 2 
Six SDG Transformations
Leave no one behind
Transformation 6 Transformation 1
Digital revolution for Education, gender
sustainable development and inequality
Transformation 5 Transformation 2
Sustainable cities  Health, well-being 
and communities and demography
Transformation 4 Transformation 3
Sustainable food, land, Energy decarbonization 
water and oceans and sustainable industry
Circularity and decoupling
Source: Sachs, Jeffrey, G. Schmidt-Traub, M. Mazzucato, D. Messner, N. Nakicenovic, and J. Rockström (2019). “Six Transformations to achieve the Sustainable Development Goals,” Nature 
Sustainability, 2(9), 805–14. Available at https://doi.org/10.1038/s41893-019-0352-9
– in transport for example – and the role of government in  Yet governments need to plan for the post Covid-19 
the health sector is expanding dramatically. Governments  economy. Unemployment will remain very high. Jobs 
are also stepping in to distribute key medical supplies  lost in many sectors – retail, office support, construction, 
such as protective equipment and sanitizers, support  tourism, personal services, fossil-fuel energy – will not 
research for treatments and vaccines, negotiate prices, and  return, or at least not rapidly and robustly. Budget deficits 
avert risks of food shortages (among other interventions).  and financial imbalances will persist. Many enterprises will 
Massive fiscal packages, mainly to support the incomes of  go out of business. Non-government aggregate demand, 
workers, combined with falls in GDPs will increase public  including private consumption and investment, will most 
spending as a share of GDP across the board. likely remain depressed. 
The highest priority of every government must remain  There are many complex choices ahead, with financing at 
the suppression of the pandemic. There can be no  the core. In many countries, state and local governments 
economic recovery while the pandemic is raging.  provide healthcare, education, social services, and local 
8
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
1
. C
o
v
id
-
1
9
1.1 Covid-19 and the future of sustainable development  , th
e
 S
D
G
s
, a
n
d
 t
h
e
 R
e
c
o
v
e
r
y
infrastructure. But state and local governments will be  Yet we will not go back to the pre-Covid-19 economy. 
strapped for cash. National governments, backed by their  Hundreds of millions of jobs will have been lost as a direct 
tax authority, their ability to borrow in capital markets, and  consequence of the pandemic. Many of these jobs will 
their access to central bank financing (directly or through  never return. E-commerce will boom, but in doing so 
open-market operations), will urgently need to share  will further displace the bricks-and-mortar retail sector. 
revenues with state and local governments. Many national  Offices will give way to increased teleworking from home. 
governments that borrow abroad in foreign currencies  Education and healthcare will move increasingly online. 
and require foreign exchange for vital imports such as  The fossil-fuel industries will not recover, as the world 
food and basic capital equipment will suffer a balance-of- rightly embraces renewable energy as a way out of the 
payments crisis. The G20 countries have already granted a  crisis. Countries such as Brazil, Indonesia, and Mexico that 
debt-service moratorium to low-income countries (in April  have recently banked heavily on their hydrocarbon sectors 
2020). This will almost surely have to be extended to many  will face a need for deep economic restructuring. So too 
emerging-market middle-income countries as well.  will traditional oil-exporting countries – including Angola, 
the Gulf States, Nigeria, and Russia. 
The length and depth of the global economic crisis will 
depend largely on when the pandemic is brought under  In the rebuilding phase, governments should support 
control. If a vaccine proves to be successful on a rapid  their economic recovery with a strong focus on 
timeline, that is by late 2020 or during the first part of 2021,  infrastructure investments that boost jobs and underpin 
economic prospects will brighten dramatically – assuming  the transition to a low-carbon economy, in line with 
that the vaccine can be manufactured at scale and  the Paris Agreement. Tens of millions of jobs can be 
deployed globally during 2021. Without a vaccine, all will  created directly by building new clean-energy systems 
depend on the success or failure of public health measures  based on solar and wind energy, long-distance power 
to suppress virus transmission: testing, isolating, contact- transmission, smart grids, electric vehicles, hydrogen and 
tracing, physical distancing, and safety in public spaces  other synthetic fuels, and energy-efficient buildings. The 
and work places through the use of face masks, sanitizers,  European Green Deal, a United States “Green New Deal,” 
and other hygienic measures (e.g., air circulation, UV lights).  a sustainable Belt and Road Initiative, and regional “green 
deals” in the ASEAN, South America, the Middle East, 
As of this writing, in the late spring of 2020, the signs  South Asia, and elsewhere, could provide the way forward 
are very worrisome. Major outbreaks continue in large  to massive job creation, renewed economic growth, and 
parts of the world, and public health containment and  environmental sustainability. In short, to the achievement 
suppression approaches are not yet decisive in many  of the SDGs and the objectives of the Paris Agreement. 
major economies. The epidemic continues to spread 
rapidly in Brazil, India, Mexico, Russia, the United States,  The Six Transformations Framework for the SDGs can 
and several other countries in South America and Africa.  be a very useful guide for rebuilding: 
The outlooks in many highly populous developing 
countries such as Ethiopia, Indonesia, Nigeria, Pakistan,  Transformation 1 (Education, Gender and Inequality). 
and South Africa, remain guarded and tenuous.  Countries will need to invest more in their education 
systems to strengthen their resilience, particularly by 
As the epidemic itself is brought under control or eventu- drawing on modern communication technologies. The 
ally constrained by herd immunity once a large enough  crisis is accelerating the rollout of digital tools in schools 
proportion of the population has been infected, the time  and in remote education and training – tools that have 
for rebuilding the economy will be at hand. The sooner  been used in many countries to strengthen the resilience of 
that moment arrives, the brighter will be the prospects  education systems in the midst of the crisis. Further invest-
for recovery. As of mid-2020, it seems likely that the Asia- ments in education in science, technology, engineering 
Pacific region will start rebuilding first among the world’s  and mathematics (STEM) subjects and in life-long learning 
major regions.  are needed to accompany these transformations and 
9
Sustainable Development Report 2020      The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
Part 1. The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
Figure 3 
An SDG framework to map out possible short-term and longer-term government responses to Covid-19
Whole‑of‑government response (transversal)
•  Increased role of government in key sectors (economy, health, food, social security)
•  Re-think global supply chains and dependence for strategic equipment and materials
•  Strengthen development cooperation to support recovery plans in countries most hit and in least 
developed countries
•  Strengthen statistical capacity, and the availability of timely data
•  Strengthen government capacities to anticipate and manage unforeseen disruptive events
•  Strengthen international platforms, exchanges and transparency among scientists/researchers (open science)
Transformation 1: Education, Gender, and Inequality
•  Expand and strengthen public social security systems best suited to address the consequences of disruptive events
•  Further investments in STEM education, digital skills, equity, and lifelong learning 
•  Further streamline basic health prevention measures in school programs (e.g., hand-washing) and provide 
adequate supplies for good hygiene
•  Place women’s needs and leadership at the heart of the response to the health and economic crises
Transformation 2: Health, Wellbeing, and Demography 
•  Strengthen the role of public health and disease prevention and surveillance (for both communicable and 
chronic diseases).
•  Increase the role of public authorities in the research for treatment and vaccines, and in providing access to 
treatment and vaccines
•  Accelerate efforts to achieve universal health care
•  Strengthen public health emergency preparedness (including building stocks of essential equipment and 
increasing flexibility to mobilize staff to respond to emergencies)
•  Reduce dependence on other countries for key health supplies and equipment
•  Expand digital health solutions (e.g., telehealth) to reduce the burden on hospitals and increase access to care
•  Increase the quality and timeliness of health statistics
•  Increase the resilience of health systems to respond to shocks/crises (e.g., increase capacity to build 
hospitals and other infrastructures in record time)
Transformation 3: Energy Decarbonization and Sustainable Industry 
•  Use the Paris Climate Agreement as the vision for long-term change and to inform investment plans  
and bailouts
•  Build on positive short-term prospects due to plummeting industrial output and further the roll out of 
digital services and e-commerce to accelerate the transition to climate neutrality
•  Reduce international dependence for key industries and sectors in case of major disruptive events (e.g. 
protective masks, food supply)
•  Pursue efforts to enforce environmental treaties and national regulations despite the lockdown and 
economic turmoil
10
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
1
. C
o
v
id
-
1
9
1.1 Covid-19 and the future of sustainable development  , th
e
 S
D
G
s
, a
n
d
 t
h
e
 R
e
c
o
v
e
r
y
Transformation 4: Sustainable Food, Land, Water and Oceans 
•  Strengthen food security and hygiene, including the reduction of risks of zoonotic diseases
•  Emphasize the resilience and sustainability of food systems
•  Accelerate efforts to provide universal access to water and sanitation, and increase focus on hygiene and 
handwashing to help curb transmission of oral-fecal diseases
•  Pursue efforts to reduce negative impacts on biodiversity and ecosystems to prevent future pandemics
Transformation 5: Sustainable Cities and Communities 
•  Address immediate threats to vulnerable groups in urban settlements (homeless, refugees), to avoid a deep 
worsening of their living conditions and to make confinement measures more effective
•  Strengthen the territorial distribution of doctors and availability of care, including in rural areas
•  Further integrate vulnerable groups in urban settlements, including homeless people, refugees, and migrants
•  Adapt public transportation systems to the need for physical distancing and hygiene, and to changing 
patterns in working and commuting habits 
•  Develop integrated territorial strategies to address the impact of travel restrictions on business, exports, 
and tourism activities 
Transformation 6: Harnessing the Digital Revolution for Sustainable Development 
•  Further expand digital health solutions to reduce the burden on hospitals and increase access
•  Develop and use online education tools
•  Further development of other digital government services and e-commerce
•  Further investments in STEMS, digital skills, equity, and lifelong learning
•  Accelerate the adoption of measures that support a fair transition for workers affected by the digital and 
technological revolution 
Source: Authors’ analysis
11
Sustainable Development Report 2020      The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
Part 1. The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
boost skills. The economic shocks from Covid-19 threaten  vocal on the need to connect the Covid-19 recovery to 
to increase inequalities in all countries: the policy focus on  investments in clean energy. 
lowering these inequalities will likely rise in importance. 
Countries will need to strengthen their social-protection  Transformation 4 (Sustainable Food, Land, Water 
systems (SDG 1.3 and SDG 10.4), including their ability to  and Oceans) draws attention to the shorter-term risks 
respond quickly to major crises. Gender-sensitive policies  of food shortages, especially in low-income countries, 
are also needed to mitigate risks of disproportionate eco- due to disruption in trade and supply chains and the 
nomic and social impacts on women and girls.  sudden collapse of incomes. Vulnerable households, 
including in rich countries, will need financial support 
Transformation 2 (Good Health and Well‑Being) obvi- to mitigate the risks of food insecurity. In the medium 
ously has the most prominent implications right now. In the  and longer run, governments will need to accelerate 
short- and medium-term, the role of public health systems in  the further integration of healthy diets, food security, 
disease prevention and surveillance will need to increase to  agricultural systems, and natural resource management. 
prevent further waves of Covid-19 and future health crises.  This is becoming self-evident not only to respond to 
Governments will play a key role in developing and distrib- the increased percentage of undernourished people 
uting Covid-19 treatments and vaccines at global scale. As  and obese people, but also to reduce the risks of future 
in the case of education, the crisis will likely accelerate the  zoonotic diseases. Governments should seize the post 
transformation towards digital healthcare and telemedicine  Covid-19 recovery as an opportunity to accelerate the 
to increase access to and efficiency of healthcare systems.  transition towards sustainable and resilient food systems.
The Covid-19 crisis has made it very clear that countries  Transformation 5 (Sustainable Cities and 
equipped with effective social protection systems and  Communities). In the short run, there is an urgent 
universal health coverage are best equipped to respond  need to meet the needs of vulnerable groups (including 
to such crises. This is also less costly, and it is precisely for  homeless people and refugees) in urban settlements. 
this reason that the SDGs call for countries to strengthen  This is critical to avoid rapid deterioration of the living 
their social safety nets and move towards universal health  conditions of vulnerable people during the lockdown 
coverage for key medical services. Meanwhile, nearly  phase of pandemic control, but also to ensure that 
40% of the world’s population has no health insurance or  confinement measures are effective. This crisis will amplify 
access to national health services (ILO, 2020). Providing  inequalities in access to water, sanitation, and health 
universal social-protection floors is within fiscal reach,  services. Effective medium-term and long-term responses 
although low-income countries might need financial  will therefore require increased investments to accelerate 
support to close the fiscal gap. Another benefit of effective  the provision of universal access to water, sanitation, 
social safety nets is that they mitigate the consequences  and clean energy services. There will also be lasting 
of lockdowns and thereby reduce the temptation to open  implications of Covid-19 on territorial development, urban 
up economies too early, risking a new Covid-19 wave.  planning, and public transportation systems (OECD,2020). 
Regional and local policy leaders will need to guide the 
Transformation 3 (Energy Decarbonization and  transformation of their territories in order to adapt to new 
Sustainable Industry) provides the long-term  realities including social distancing, changes in workplace 
direction for a clean, green economy. This should guide  practices and commuting patterns, and travel restrictions, 
government investment plans and support to companies  which will impact business and tourism activities. 
and industries. Ironically, the crisis could lead to a decline 
in the enforcement of environmental laws and major  Transformation 6 (Harnessing the Digital Revolution 
international conventions in some parts of the world.  for Sustainable Development) has been greatly 
Throughout, a major challenge during and post Covid-19  accelerated by the Covid-19 epidemic. Countries that 
will be to direct the attention of senior policymakers to  can afford it are accelerating the roll-out of digital 
the climate crisis. The scientific community should be  technologies and services in response to the crisis. The 
12
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
1
. C
o
v
id
-
1
9
1.1 Covid-19 and the future of sustainable development  , th
e
 S
D
G
s
, a
n
d
 t
h
e
 R
e
c
o
v
e
r
y
digital technologies are playing an important role in  International cooperation could speed a favorable and 
sustaining social services, payments, schooling, and health  rapid resolution to the pandemic. Indeed, there is no other 
care during the lockdowns, and in enabling working  way to succeed. Global cooperation would include the 
from home to be effective for many occupations. The  following measures:
importance of digital applications underscores the vital 
importance of universal access to broadband services as  (1) Disseminate best practices rapidly.  
key to social inclusion, economic opportunity, and public  The world needs urgently to learn from and to emulate 
health. Governments, businesses, schools, health facilities,  the strategies for fighting Covid-19 adopted in the East 
and others will be turning increasingly to online service  Asia and the Pacific region. The WHO should urgently 
delivery as a vital part of their activities in the years ahead.  facilitate a rapid dissemination of best practices.
(2) Strengthen financing mechanisms for developing 
countries. The IMF was created for global crises like 
The urgent need for international cooperation  this one. It needs ample firepower, including far greater 
latitude to extend credits, either under existing facilities or 
The current crisis, including hostilities among major  through a new issuance of Special Drawing Rights (SDRs). 
powers, raises the specter of global conflict instead of  Private creditors will need to refinance or capitalize debts 
global cooperation. We are reminded of the great work  falling due.
of economic historian Charles Kindleberger in The World 
in Depression, 1929–1939. It was Kindleberger’s thesis  (3) Address hunger hotspots. We need global support 
that the Great Depression was so severe because there  for the lead United Nations agencies, including the Office 
was no global leader (no “hegemon” in the language of  for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (OCHA), the 
international affairs) and no adequate cooperation among  Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), and the World 
the major powers. The result was a breakdown of the  Food Program (WFP), so that they can head off impending 
global monetary and trading system that opened the way  hunger crises and food insecurity. 
to Hitler in Germany in 1933, and then on to World War II. 
(4) Ensure social protection. As part of any 
The early signs of this crisis are not good. The United  comprehensive response to the pandemic, governments 
States is attacking the WHO as being too pro-Chinese,  should promote new instruments of social protection, 
and is cutting off funding rather than supporting the  including a new Global Fund for Social Protection that was 
WHO for its vital work in suppressing the pandemic. In  proposed to address SDG 1 (No Poverty) even before the 
general, the United States is intensifying its attacks on  pandemic, but which is even more urgently needed now 
China and trying to divide the world between pro-US and  in response to it. 
pro-Chinese camps. The risk of a new Cold War is very 
grave and should be avoided by all nations.  (5) Promote new drugs and vaccines. Financing R&D 
for Covid-19 drugs and vaccines is an urgent global 
The good news is that most of the world urgently wants  public good. Without global cooperation, R&D will be 
multilateralism and cooperation. The bad news is that  inadequate and duplicative. And when breakthroughs 
some countries do not, while others are paralyzed by  are achieved, they will in turn require global cooperation 
their own crises, budget deficits, and divisions of local  for their mass uptake. The Global Fund and Gavi, the 
politics. The multilateral situation is therefore fraught  Vaccine Alliance are two exemplary institutions that serve 
and needs bolstering. A possible outcome is a kind of  as historical precedents for what will be needed for the 
limping multilateralism, rather than strong and decisive  rapid uptake of new drugs and vaccines, and can lead the 
cooperation, in which accomplishments on the ground  effort on the ground. 
are modest and countless opportunities to avoid 
hardships and suffering are lost. 
13
Sustainable Development Report 2020      The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
Part 1. The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
Box 1. Lessons on preparedness 
The risk of a pandemic – and specifically a coronavirus pandemic – has been widely forewarned year after year. Yet many regions, 
including the United States and Europe, have not taken heed of these warnings in any meaningful way. Countries failed to invest 
sufficiently in public health systems and now suffer the consequences. 
The Covid-19 pandemic has highlighted the lack of preparedness of health systems to respond to such public-health emergencies, 
including those of many OECD countries that before the crisis were thought better prepared. As of June 20th, the United States had 
the highest number of reported cases and deaths due to Covid-19. As a share of their populations, apart from a few small city-states, 
it is the OECD countries Belgium, Spain, the United Kingdom, Italy and France that have reported the highest number of deaths 
per capita. By contrast, several countries located closer to China, where the disease outbreak started – notably South Korea – have 
managed the Covid-19 outbreak more effectively. 
Before the Covid-19 outbreak, the United States and many Western European countries were rated highest for health preparedness. 
For example, the United States and the United Kingdom topped the Global Health Security Index released in November 2019, shortly 
before the first outbreak of Covid-19 (NTI, JHU, and EIU, 2019). President Trump cited this index early in the pandemic, in February 
2020, to argue that the United States was rated “Number 1” in terms of preparedness (Hub staff report, 2020). But it quickly became 
obvious that the level of preparation was not particularly great in the United States and in many other OECD countries. 
There does not seem to be anything wrong with the assessment framework for preparedness to health threats adopted by the researchers. 
Yet the Index seems to have overestimated the capacity of some countries, including the United States, the United Kingdom, and France, 
to implement widespread testing of suspected cases and to isolate them. For example, the United States scored better (98.2) than 
Germany (84.6) and South Korea (92.1) on the dimension “detection and reporting capacity,” yet the United States took much more time 
than Germany and South Korea to test a significant proportion of its population (see figure 4, below). 
Figure 4  
Despite good performance in the 2019 Global Health Security Index on “Detection and Reporting,” the  
United States took longer than Germany and South Korea to test its population during the Covid‑19 pandemic. 
Cumulative Covid-19 tests per 1,000 population
No. of tests (per 1000 population)
25 Performance in Global Health Security 
Index, November 2019
Category 2: Detection and Reporting 
20
Germany
COUNTRY RANK SCORE
United States 1 98.2
15
South Korea 5 92.1
South Korea Germany 10 84.6
10
5 US gap in Covid-19 tests
United States performed in March
0
March 1 March 8 March 15 March 22 March 29 April 5 April 12
Date (2020) Source: Official sources collected by Our World in Data
Another interpretation of the gap between predicted and actual responses to Covid-19 is that some countries should have been able to 
respond well to the Covid-19 health crisis but failed to do so because of a lack of information, poor political leadership, and other factors. 
These might be “omitted variables” in the Global Health Security assessment framework or variables that go beyond the scope of the 
GHS exercise (e.g. political leadership). As the world recovers from the Covid-19 crisis, it will be important to learn lessons from countries 
that were the most effective in dealing with the pandemic outbreak, but also to strengthen existing indicators and monitoring systems 
to track countries’ preparedness and resilience capacities.
Source: Authors analysis. Based on Lafortune, G (2020). “How much do we know about countries’ preparedness to respond to pandemics? Insights from two country-level indices.” SDSN Blog Post. Paris. 
https://www.unsdsn.org/how-much-do-we-know-about-countries-preparedness-to-respond-to-pandemics-insights-from-two-country-level-indices 
14
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
1
. C
o
v
id
-
1
9
, t
h
e
 S
D
G
s
, a
n
d
 t
h
e
 R
e
c
o
v
e
r
y
1.2 Comparing early Covid-19 control in the OECD countries
It is important to understand why some of the richest  can be suppressed at minimal economic cost. Some coun-
countries have failed to contain mass deaths from Covid-19  tries, such as South Korea, have succeeded in cutting their 
even thought they had ample warning. This section  ERR through more targeted means, while others including 
presents a simple quantitative model of the emergency  Italy, Spain, and the United States have had to resort to 
response and introduces an index to measure the effective- the cruder and costlier approach of economic lockdowns.
ness of early responses to Covid-19 in OECD countries.  Strict and prolonged lockdowns, although costly, was most 
probably the right policy response for countries lacking 
There is an enormous variation in the early Covid-19  PPE and with lower testing and hospital intensive care 
pandemic control measures taken across the OECD  capacities. Strict and prolonged lockdowns contributed to 
countries, covering the period March 4 through May 12.  saving many thousands of lives (Flaxman et al, 2020). 
The most marked difference is in the Covid-19 death rate 
per 1 million population, even given that death rates are  This section introduces a pilot index of Covid-19 control 
difficult to compare across countries owing to widely  that summarizes each country’s performance over the 
differing reporting standards. In some OECD countries,  three dimensions (mortality rate, ERR, and efficiency 
such as Australia, Japan, Korea, and New Zealand, reported  of control). We study all OECD countries except for the 
Covid-19 deaths remain below than 10 per million  three middle-income countries of Latin America (Chile, 
population. In other OECD countries, including Belgium,  Colombia, and Mexico), where the virus came later, 
France, Germany, Sweden, and the United States, deaths  and Iceland due to the lack of relevant data on physical 
are above 100 per million population, and in some cases  mobility, which we use to construct the efficiency index. 
many times higher.  We are therefore left with 33 OECD countries in our sample. 
A second important difference lies in the overall extent 
to which the pandemic was suppressed during this early 
Mortality rate
phase, which is measured by epidemiologists according to 
the effective reproduction rate (ERR). An ERR < 1 signifies  The mortality rate per million population for the OECD 
effective suppression, while an ERR > 1 signifies ongoing  countries as of May 12 is shown in table 1. We see that the 
epidemic conditions. Some OECD countries suppressed  mortality rate varies from a low value of 4 in Australia and 
the transmission of the virus during March and April, for  New Zealand to a high of 762 in Belgium. It is important 
example South Korea and New Zealand. Other countries  to emphasize that Covid-19 mortality rates are imperfectly 
had epidemic conditions with ERRs averaging far above  measured, both within countries and across countries. 
1.0. These include France, Germany, the United Kingdom,  Some countries count only the deaths of individuals who 
and the United States, among many others.  have tested positive for Covid-19, while others, such as 
Belgium, include deaths that were likely due to Covid-19, 
A third difference lies in the efficiency with which the  even if those deaths were not confirmed with a positive 
pandemic is controlled. One way to cut the ERR below  Covid-19 test. Many countries exclude deaths that occur 
1 is to lock down the economy. This reduces the viral  at home or in nursing homes, which might account for 
transmission but at the cost of an enormous disruption  some 40% of their total. Nonetheless, even taking into 
to the economy and to daily life. Another way to cut the  account the inevitable errors in the measurements, the 
ERR is through more focused strategies that emphasize  actual differences in mortality rates are striking. 
the isolation or quarantine of infected individuals, contact 
tracing, quarantine of people exposed to carriers of the  The high variation in mortality rates across the OECD 
virus, and improved hygienic practices, such as wearing  countries reflects several factors. Perhaps most importantly, 
face masks. Through such targeted means, the pandemic  mortality per million depends on the infection rate per 
15
Sustainable Development Report 2020      The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
Part 1. The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
million. Unfortunately, insufficient testing and reporting in  be between 2 and 3, with a typical estimate of around 2.4.  
most countries mean that, at this stage, we lack accurate,  D(0) is usually assumed to be around 6 days. Assuming 
comparable data on the infection rates of their populations.  these parameters (and acknowledging the many continuing 
uncertainties about the virus), we can surmise an average 
The variation in the mortality rate across countries also  of 0.4 infections transmitted per day (= 2.4/6). If each indi-
reflects other structural factors, such as the intensive- vidual plausibly has around 20 contacts per day, a typical 
care capacity of the hospital system; the population age  assumption in the epidemiological literature, the probabil-
structure (because of high mortality rates among the  ity of the virus being transmitted in any single contact (e.g., 
elderly); the burden of co-morbidities, such as obesity,  in a casual conversation, or interpersonal proximity in a retail 
respiratory infections, and hypertension in the population;  shop, or sitting nearby an infected individual in a restaurant, 
and the protections given to vulnerable groups, especially  theater, or sports event) can be calculated as 0.4 infections 
in settings such as nursing homes, retirement homes,  per day/20 contacts per day = 0.02 infections per contact, or 
worker hostels, and prisons. Some also suspect that genetic  a 2% risk of transmission in any single contact. 
differences might contribute to variations in mortality, but 
these issues are poorly understood at present.  In the basic model, the daily change in the number of 
infected individuals I(t) as of day t is given by:
(2) I(t+1) – I(t) = N(t)*P(t)*I(t)*S(t) – [1/D(t)]*I(t)
Effective reproduction rate 
The effective reproduction rate is defined as the average  N(t)*P(t)*I(t)*S(t) is the number of new infections in 
number of infections that an infectious individual transmits  day t, while (1/D)*(t) is the number of currently infected 
to susceptible individuals. In the most basic standard model  individuals on day t who cease being infected, either 
of epidemics, the ERR(t) as of day t is given as follows: because they die on day t or recover on day t. With a bit of 
simple algebraic rearrangement of equations (1) and (2), we 
(1) ERR(t) = N(t) x P(t) x D(t) x S(t) can derive a basic relationship between the daily growth of 
new infections g(t) = [I(t+1) – I(t)]/I(t) and the ERR(t):
In this equation, N(t) is the average number of contacts 
per day for an individual in the community; P(t) is  (3) ERR(t) = 1 + D(t)*g(t) 
the probability that a contact between an infectious 
individual and a susceptible individual actually transmits  The relationship in equation (3) is helpful in two ways. 
the virus; D(t) is the average number of days that an  First, we see that the growth of new infections g(t) is 
infectious individual is circulating in an infectious state  positive when ERR(t) > 1 and negative when ERR(t) < 1. 
in the community; and S(t) is the share of the population  Thus, the ERR(t) determines whether the epidemic is 
susceptible to infection as of day t. We see that N(t) x D(t)  expanding or contracting. Second, since we observe (or at 
therefore is the average number of community contacts by  least can estimate) the growth of the epidemic day by day, 
an infectious person during the period of infectiousness.  we can also estimate ERR(t) for each day. 
P(t) times the number of community contacts measures 
the number of times the virus will be transmitted. Since a  Several epidemiologists are now publishing estimates of 
fraction – S(t) – of those infectious contacts are susceptible  ERR(t) on a daily basis. We use the estimates of Prof. Simas 
to becoming infected, we have equation (1).  Kucinskas (2020) of Humboldt University of Berlin. The 
estimated ERR(t) averaged by day for the interval March 4 
At the start of an epidemic – on day 0 – ERR is designated  to May 12 is shown in table 1. We see that South Korea 
as R0, the basic reproduction rate. In the case of Covid-19,  had the lowest average ERR in this period, at 0.76, while 
S(0) is assumed to be equal to 1, that is, the entire popula- the United States, the United Kingdom, Turkey, Canada, 
tion is assumed to be susceptible, since there is no known  France and Spain had the highest average values of ERR, 
intrinsic or acquired immunity. R0 is generally estimated to  above 1.5 for the period. 
16
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
1
. C
o
v
id
-
1
9
1.2 Comparing early Covid-19 control in the OECD countries , th
e
 S
D
G
s
, a
n
d
 t
h
e
 R
e
c
o
v
e
r
y
Epidemic control efficiency  pandemic the attack rate – meaning the proportion ever 
infected in the population – would be considerably above 
According to equation 3, the epidemic is suppressed by  1/2.4, with the mortality rate being commensurately 
reducing ERR(t) to below 1.0. This can occur in four basic  higher as well. 
ways. 
It is far more efficient to cut ERR(t) by slashing P(t) through 
First, the average number of contacts per day N(t) in  improved personal hygiene or by reducing D(t) through 
the population can be reduced sharply. This is the basic  early isolation or quarantine in public facilities. Cutting 
motivation of the “temporary lockdown” that was put in  D(t) efficiently limits the circulation of the few who are 
place in many parts of the world in mid-March. Second, the  infected, rather than the many who are susceptible. 
probability of transmitting the disease per each contact 
P(t) can be reduced by changes in personal behavior,  Thanks to Google Community Mobility Reports (2020), 
such as by wearing face masks, using hand sanitizers, and  we have smartphone-based measurements for dozens 
observing social distancing. Third, the infectious individual  of countries of daily mobility within the community, 
himself or herself can stop circulating in the public very  including visits to retail establishments, restaurants, 
early in the course of the illness by self-isolating at home  grocery stores, pharmacies, transit stations and 
or through quarantine in a public facility. In this case, an  workplaces. The Google mobility measurements GM(t) 
infectious individual only circulates for one or two days  therefore offer a useful proxy measurement of the decline 
before isolating. The number of days D(t) for which they are  in daily contacts N(t) in a community. The data show the 
potentially spreading the infection is thereby cut sharply.  decline in visits relative to a baseline GM(0) during the 
Fourth, the proportion of the population susceptible to  interval from January 3 to February 6, 2020. 
infection S(t) will fall over time, assuming that a bout of 
illness also confers persistent immunity. If the pandemic  Using the Google data, we show the proportionate 
therefore infects enough of the population, S(t) will fall by  decline in mobility, [GM(0) – GM(t)]/GM(0), in the final 
enough to reduce ERR(t) to below 1.0. That is the painful  (sixth) column of table 1. To calculate the decline, we take 
way to stop the epidemic, which comes to a halt only after  the simple daily average of four of Google’s community 
a substantial proportion of the population has fallen victim  mobility measures: visits to retail outlets and recreation, 
to the disease. Assuming an R0 of 2.4, and assuming no  visits to grocery stores and pharmacies, visits to transit 
other behavioral changes that affect N(t), P(t), and D(t), we  stations, and visits to workplaces. In all cases, the variable is 
see that S(t) would have to decline to below 41.6% (= 1/2.4)  equal to the decline in visits relative to the baseline period. 
in order for ERR to fall below 1.0. In other words, almost 
60% of a population would need to incur the infection  The data show that visits among the community have 
before “herd immunity” of the community is acquired.  declined relative to the baseline in all OECD countries, but 
by widely varying amounts. South Korea, which has not 
A lockdown is an inefficient way to suppress the  had a lockdown, shows a decline of 0.10, or 10%. On the 
pandemic, and herd immunity is a deadly way to do so.  other extreme, Italy and Spain show a decline in mobility of 
In the case of a lockdown, daily contacts are slashed for  62% and 60% respectively – the most extreme lockdowns 
everybody in the community across the board, whether  in the OECD group. A few countries have reduced mobility 
or not they are infectious – putting aside the question of  by 25% or less – Australia, Japan, Latvia, South Korea, and 
“essential workers” and partial lockdowns for the sake of  Sweden – while several show reductions greater than 40%. 
the discussion. The economy declines sharply. In the case 
of herd immunity, more than half of the population incurs  A useful measure of the efficiency of epidemic control is 
the infection, which if the infection mortality rate (IMR) is  to compare the decline in ERR(t) with the decline in N(t), 
around 1%, as is generally believed, suggests that around  as proxied by the Google data. If most of the reduction 
0.5% of the population would succumb to the disease,  in ERR(t) is brought about by a reduction in N(t), we can 
a horrendously high toll. In fact, in an uncontrolled  say that the epidemic control is inefficient. If most of the 
17
Sustainable Development Report 2020      The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
Part 1. The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
decline in ERR(t) is achieved not by a reduction of N(t), but  (6) CIEC = (1/3) * (MN + ERRN + ECEN) 
i i i i
(implicitly) by a reduction in P(t)*D(t), we can say that the 
epidemic control is efficient.  According to this index, the top performing country is 
South Korea. Indeed, South Korea has excelled on all 
We therefore propose the following measure of epidemic  three dimensions of epidemic control. It has kept the 
control efficiency, ECE(t): death rate low, the ERR far below 1, and its economy has 
remained open during the entire epidemic. The worst 
(4) ECE(t) = [R0 – ERR(t)]/R0 – [GM(t) – GM(0)]/GM(0) performing economy is Spain, where the mortality rate is 
among the highest, its ERR averages far above 1, and the 
The first term on the right-hand side measures the  economy has been in substantial lockdown nonetheless. 
proportionate reduction in ERR(t), while the second term  Some countries may have been artificially penalized in the 
measures the proportion reduction in average daily con- data presented in this table due to their more-thorough 
tacts. When the proportionate reduction in ERR(t) exceeds  reporting of Covid-19 deaths (counting probable cases 
the proportionate reduction of mobility, ECE(t) > 0, and  as well as tested cases). Thus, we should also mention the 
we deem the epidemic control to be efficient. When  five other very poor performers: Belgium, France, Italy, the 
ECE(t) ≤ 0, we deem epidemic control to be inefficient.  United Kingdom and the United States. 
The ECE Is shown in the fourth column of table 1, while its 
two right-hand-side components are shown in the fifth  Many governments, including Spain, have learned rapidly 
and sixth columns. We see that South Korea has demon- during the process and adapted policies accordingly. 
strated by far the most efficient epidemic control during  From April 6 onward, Spain has had an estimated R(t) less 
the period of observation (March 4 to May 12), while Spain  than 1, thereby dramatically curtailing the epidemic.
shows the least efficient control. 
In general, South Korea owes its top ranking to its high-
quality public health system. Its remarkable early efforts 
are described in an important report (Government of 
Index of epidemic control 
the Republic of Korea, 2020): not only did South Korea 
We now create an overall index of epidemic control among  go into high alert upon the first news of the Covid-19 
the 33 OECD countries, by combining the data on Covid-19  epidemic in China, its biotech companies moved 
mortality rates, effective reproduction rates, and epidemic  rapidly to develop effective tests. By February 4, just 
control efficiency. To construct the index, we follow the  three weeks after Chinese scientists had posted the 
usual procedure of the SDG Index described in this report.  genome of Covid-19, the company KogeneBiotech had 
For each variable Xfor country i, we create a normalized  developed an effective diagnostic kit (Lee, 2020). Five 
i 
variable XN on a scale from 0 to 100, calculated as follows:  other companies followed soon after. ICTs were put to 
i
use in many ways: for emergency notifications from the 
(5) XN = [X – X ]/[X  – X ] x 100 government; in contact-tracing apps to let individuals 
i i MIN MAX MIN
know of virus “hotspots” visited by Covid-19-infected 
X  is the minimum value of X among the 33 OECD  individuals; to develop distance-learning curricula and 
MIN
countries. X  is the maximum value. Clearly, when  protocols; to provide advice for companies; and in many 
MAX
X= X , then XN = 0, and when X = X , then XN = 1.   other applications that were developed and deployed 
i MIN i i MAX i
For all other X, we have 0 < XN < 1.  within weeks. 
i i
To construct the index, we use the mortality rate M  It is useful to point out some other patterns among 
(Column 1), the ERR (Column 2), and the ECE (Column 3).  OECD countries in the early control period. First, the 
The final index score is denoted as the Covid Index of  Asia-Pacific region in general has been high performing, 
Epidemic Control (CIEC), and is calculated by averaging  exemplified in the following rankings on our index of 
across the three variables:  epidemic control: South Korea, 1; Australia, 3; Japan, 6 
18
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
1
. C
o
v
id
-
1
9
1.2 Comparing early Covid-19 control in the OECD countries , th
e
 S
D
G
s
, a
n
d
 t
h
e
 R
e
c
o
v
e
r
y
and New Zealand, 9. With the exception of Japan, OECD  Concluding thoughts
countries with a population of greater than 50 million 
people did quite poorly, however. Germany ranks  This section offers just a first attempt by the SDSN to 
highest among large OECD countries, at 19, followed  compare responses across countries, and considers only 
by Turkey, 26; the United States, 28; Italy, 29; France, 30;  the first months of the global pandemic. Yet even this first 
the United Kingdom, 31; and Spain, 33. No doubt these  glimpse reveals stark differences in policies and outcomes 
large countries all received many infected travelers early  across the OECD countries. Since it is vital for countries 
in the pandemic, both visitors from China and residents  to learn from each other in this pandemic, the SDSN will 
returning from China. In this sense, the major countries,  continue to monitor and compare the public-health 
being the major travel hubs, were heavily “seeded” with  performance of nations in the coming years as part of our 
Covid-19 early on. Yet they all evinced low levels of  overall effort to measure progress towards the SDGs and 
control, not only of their borders, but also of transmission  to thereby foster best practices and accelerated learning 
within the community.  among national and local policy makers. 
In general, Northern Europe has outperformed Southern 
Europe, and Eastern Europe has outperformed Western 
Europe. The Baltic states have all done well: Latvia, 2; 
Lithuania, 4; and Estonia, 5. Within the Nordic countries, 
Sweden is a distinctive outlier, not only in its policies, but 
also in its ranking, with Norway ranking 10; Denmark, 12; 
Finland, 14; and Sweden, 22. Sweden alone of these 
countries tried to avoid a shutdown. Mobility fell by only 
19% in Sweden, compared with Denmark, 29%; Norway, 
30%; and Finland, 32%. Yet the ERR remains much higher 
in Sweden, as does the mortality rate. Sweden has 
received little benefit from its heterodox stand, at least 
as of early May. Swedish public health officials claim that 
Sweden will be better able to weather a second wave in 
the fall, however, because of a higher level of acquired 
immunity. Time will tell whether this approach will prove 
to be correct in the long run, but it is more costly in the 
short run. 
The United States has generally underperformed in its 
Covid-19 response in relation to the average of the OECD 
countries. In the United States too, there was no move 
to a nationwide lockdown. Decisions were left mainly to 
states and their governors. Most states introduced partial 
lockdowns in mid-March but began to lift these by early 
May. In any event, observance of the lockdowns was 
decidedly uneven. Mobility declined by a relatively modest 
27%, and its ERR remains among the highest in the OECD. 
Mortality rates have also been high, although below that 
of the highest mortality rates of Western Europe. 
19
Sustainable Development Report 2020      The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
Part 1. The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
Table 1 
Covid-19 pilot Index and performance indicators for the OECD countries
Epidemic 
Effective  
Covid   Deaths   Control  ERR   Mobility 
Rank Country Reproduction  
Index Per Million Efficiency  Decline Decline
Rate (ERR)
(ECE)
1 South Korea  0.90 5.00 0.76 0.63 0.36 0.10
2 Latvia 0.78 9.34 0.95 0.29 0.63 0.24
3 Australia 0.76 3.88 1.06 0.27 0.67 0.24
4 Lithuania 0.75 17.85 0.90 0.15 0.61 0.36
5 Estonia 0.75 46.14 0.94 0.21 0.73 0.31
6 Japan 0.73 5.08 1.25 0.29 0.70 0.16
7 Slovenia 0.72 49.18 0.83 0.07 0.78 0.46
8 Slovak Republic 0.72 4.77 0.96 0.07 0.74 0.42
9 New Zealand 0.71 4.34 0.80 -0.03 0.86 0.44
10 Norway 0.71 42.17 1.13 0.18 0.72 0.30
11 Greece 0.71 14.07 0.99 0.07 0.62 0.43
12 Denmark 0.70 92.00 1.11 0.19 0.73 0.29
13 Czech Republic 0.70 26.53 1.11 0.11 0.67 0.33
14 Finland 0.69 49.13 1.18 0.12 0.65 0.32
15 Hungary 0.68 43.48 1.14 0.06 0.63 0.32
16 Austria 0.65 70.13 1.16 0.00 0.58 0.44
17 Israel 0.64 29.04 1.22 -0.06 0.82 0.42
18 Luxembourg 0.64 166.13 0.95 -0.07 0.78 0.50
19 Germany 0.63 90.86 1.38 0.07 0.70 0.31
20 Switzerland 0.63 181.13 1.23 0.06 0.78 0.37
21 Poland 0.63 21.36 1.34 -0.05 0.52 0.38
22 Sweden 0.61 319.99 1.36 0.21 0.60 0.19
23 Netherlands  0.58 316.63 1.30 0.08 0.72 0.32
24 Canada 0.56 134.74 1.51 -0.10 0.63 0.37
25 Portugal 0.55 111.24 1.39 -0.21 0.65 0.49
26 Turkey 0.53 46.66 1.56 -0.25 0.65 0.38
27 Ireland 0.53 301.40 1.31 -0.14 0.73 0.44
28 United States 0.51 246.98 1.73 -0.05 0.63 0.27
29 Italy 0.49 508.74 1.19 -0.15 0.69 0.62
30 France 0.46 397.79 1.50 -0.21 0.68 0.54
31 United Kingdom 0.43 482.47 1.60 -0.15 0.60 0.43
32 Belgium 0.40 761.55 1.39 -0.10 0.67 0.45
33 Spain 0.39 575.26 1.50 -0.28 0.64 0.60
Source: Authors’ analysis.  
Deaths per million are for May 12, 2020. The effective reproduction rate (ERR), epidemic control efficiency (ECE), and mobility decline are all calculated for the period March 4 to May 12, 2020. ERR 
decline is calculated as (2.4 – ERR)/2.4, assuming R0 = 2.4. 
20
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 

Part 2
The SDG Index  
and Dashboards
Part 2
The SDG Index and Dashboards
As in previous years, the Sustainable Development Report 2020 (SDR2020) presents and aggregates data on country 
performance towards the SDGs. It is not an official SDG monitoring tool, but instead complements efforts of national 
statistical offices and international organizations to collect data on and standardize SDG indicators. To this end, the 
SDR2020 presents the most up-to-date data from official sources (the United Nations, the World Bank, and others) as  
well as from non-official sources (research institutions and non-governmental organizations).
Due to time lags in data generation and reporting, this  Transformation 3); making their use of land and oceans 
year’s SDG Index and Dashboards do not reflect the  sustainable (SDG Transformation 4); and developing low-
impact of Covid-19. The projection of country trajectories  carbon, resilient cities (SDG Transformation 5). The SDG 
based on recent progress (business-as-usual, or BAU,  dashboards provide a tool for such diagnoses (Box 2).
scenarios) may not provide a realistic sense of the likely 
future, as Covid-19 risks changing trajectories relating to  Third, the SDG dashboards underscore the urgent need 
many SDGs (see section 1).  for investments in more timely and comprehensive SDG 
data. As one example, SDSN’s Thematic Research Network 
Nevertheless, the “pre-Covid-19” SDG Index and  on Data and Statistics (TReNDs), in collaboration with 
Dashboards remain useful for understanding goal-by-goal  various partners, has launched the Data4Now initiative, 
progress across countries and regions since the adoption  which aims to provide real-time updates on certain key 
of the SDGs in 2015. This serves three purposes in a world  SDG metrics. 
that is being transformed by the effects of Covid-19. 
Using the same methodology as in previous years, the 
First, the SDG data presented in this report can help  SDG Index and Dashboards summarize countries’ current 
countries understand pre-crisis vulnerabilities and  performance and trends in relation to the 17 SDGs. This 
challenges, which partly explain why so many countries  year we include data for 166 countries. Owing to slight 
were ill-prepared to respond to Covid-19 (see Box 1). The  changes in the indicator selection (see section 4), the 2020 
SDG Index and Dashboards can support such diagnostics  rankings and scores are not comparable with last year’s 
in every country.  results. For the first time, we are now able to estimate 
changes in performance on the SDG Index using the 
Second, as highlighted in section 1, the SDGs provide  SDR2020 indicators, which are described in section 2.2. 
the framework for the long-term recovery from Covid-19.  As every year, we encourage readers to look beyond the 
The six SDG Transformations described in section 1 can  aggregate SDG Index score and to consider countries’ 
help operationalize such a strategy. For example, our  performances at the goal and indicator level. 
report highlights high levels of inequalities that must 
be addressed as part of the Covid-19 recovery (SDG  Detailed methodological information, sensitivity tests, 
Transformation 1). Over the longer term, the impacts of  and the independent statistical audit of the SDG Index 
climate change might dwarf the dislocations caused by  conducted by the European Commission in 2019 are 
Covid-19, so countries need to understand where they  available on our website (www.sdgindex.org). 
stand in terms of decarbonizing energy systems (SDG 
23
Sustainable Development Report 2020      The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
2. The SDG Index and Dashboards
Box 2. National and subnational SDG indices and dashboards
Good data and clear metrics are critical for each country to take stock of where it stands on the SDGs, devise pathways 
for achieving the goals, and track progress. Since 2016, the SDSN and Bertelsmann Stiftung have published the annual 
global SDG Index and Dashboards. The methodology has been peer-reviewed (Schmidt-Traub et al., 2017) and was 
audited in 2019 by the European Commission Joint Research Centre (Papadimitriou, Neves, and Becker, 2019). 
To provide a better analysis of country and regional contexts, and to improve policy relevance, the SDSN in collabo-
ration with numerous partners has also developed regional and sub-national SDG indices and dashboards. Regional 
assessments are available for Africa (2018, 2019 and 2020), the Arab Region (2019), the European Union (2019), the 
Mediterranean Countries (2019), and Latin America and the Caribbean (2020). These reports differ from the global 
edition in three ways: (i) they tailor the indicator selection to SDG challenges in each specific region; (ii) they use data 
and statistics from the region (e.g., the European Commission in Europe, UN/ECLAC in Latin America), which can greatly 
improve the analysis compared with the global Sustainable Development Report; and (iii) they include policy sections 
that discuss regional policy challenges and implementation efforts. For these reasons, regional SDG indices and dash-
boards have been generating a lot of interest from governments and other stakeholders. 
Another priority is sub-national assessments of SDG progress, which can highlight disparities across cities, provinces, 
and regions within a country. The SDSN estimates that almost two-thirds (65%) of the 169 SDG targets underlying the 
17 SDGs will not be reached without the engagement of and coordination with local, provincial, and regional govern-
ments. Similarly, UN-Habitat estimates that around one-third of all SDG indicators have a local or urban component. 
SDSN and local partner organizations have therefore supported the development of sub-national SDG indices and 
dashboards in Bolivia, Italy, Spain, and the United States, as well as the European Union. Many other sub-national reports 
are in preparation. 
Figure 5 
SDG index and Dashboards: global, regional and subnational editions (2016–2020)
Global editions
S&D DGA ISNHDBEOXARDS IGnStDelrGon aIbntidoaneaxll   asRnpdilel oDvsaesrpsh biono aancrhdsise viRibnegpi olthirtte  2ige0o1as7ls GRGRSSSSDDDDGGGGEE    IIIILLNNNNDDDDEEEESSOOXXXX    AAAAPPNNNNDDDDBB    OODDDDAAAAAASSSSHHHHBBBBNNOOOOLLAAAARRRR  SSDDDDSSSS    RRRRIIEEEEBBPPPPOOOORRRRTTTTII    2222LL000011118888IITTIIEESS (cid:31)(cid:21)(cid:16)(cid:30)(cid:23)(cid:23)(cid:18)(cid:20)(cid:31)(cid:19)(cid:29)(cid:23)(cid:28)(cid:24)(cid:16)(cid:19)(cid:27)(cid:29)(cid:26)(cid:18)(cid:22)(cid:15)(cid:28)(cid:17)(cid:14)(cid:25)(cid:23)(cid:15)(cid:24)(cid:26)(cid:14)(cid:23)(cid:29)(cid:22)(cid:22)(cid:22)
A GLOBAL REPORT JULY 2016  IIMMPPLLEEMMEENNTTIINNGG  TTHHEE  GGOOAALLSS (cid:31)(cid:13)(cid:31)(cid:30)(cid:30)(cid:29)(cid:16)(cid:28)(cid:29)(cid:27)(cid:23)(cid:26)(cid:28)(cid:19)(cid:27)(cid:25)(cid:25)(cid:24)(cid:26)(cid:28)(cid:23)(cid:23)(cid:22)(cid:25)(cid:21)(cid:21)(cid:24)(cid:25)(cid:23)(cid:12)(cid:23)(cid:20)(cid:22)(cid:28)(cid:21)(cid:19)(cid:11)(cid:18)(cid:23)(cid:16)(cid:23)(cid:20)(cid:31)(cid:17)(cid:30)(cid:19)(cid:22)(cid:26)(cid:29)(cid:12)(cid:25)(cid:28)(cid:10)(cid:18)(cid:17)(cid:9)(cid:23)(cid:16)(cid:8)(cid:29)(cid:30)(cid:17)(cid:26)(cid:29)(cid:23)(cid:19)(cid:19)(cid:16)(cid:16)(cid:24)(cid:15)(cid:21)(cid:14)(cid:15)(cid:14)(cid:29)(cid:16)(cid:13)(cid:21)(cid:26)(cid:24)(cid:24)(cid:28)(cid:23)
Sustainable Development Goals: 
Are the rich countries ready? 
with a foCrehwrisotridan b Ky rKoollf i Annan
Regional editions
(cid:31)(cid:30)(cid:29)(cid:28)(cid:27)(cid:26)(cid:25)(cid:24)(cid:23)(cid:22)(cid:26)(cid:27)(cid:21)(cid:25)(cid:21)(cid:20)(cid:19)(cid:18)(cid:17)(cid:19)(cid:16)(cid:15)(cid:26)(cid:27)
2019 ARAB REGION SDG INDEX AND DASHBOARDS REPORT SDAADSGHB IORNADRDESX RA EAPNORDTB20 R19 EGION  (cid:14)TDIannocedlwuv (cid:26)mdeaeelrsom(cid:13)d tpbhseme (cid:26)r a Sse Dtsna(cid:15)Gttter  aIsG(cid:23)ntdeoegax(cid:22) ylasn  fd(cid:12)ion Dr  taahs(cid:26)chebh oEi(cid:17)eaurvdrios(cid:20)n pfgoer (cid:27) tat(cid:24)hhnee   EU(cid:26)Sunuroi(cid:22)spotenaa(cid:23)inn Uanb(cid:24)iolen  (cid:20)
Subnational editions
LITWJSeSHitsUheEs Eci  co2Uan0at .1rES8ibs.up vtCeioIynT,s iH IfEnraoSmy d SJgeoUnh nSD  BTaiAbNhemIrNmmaA noaB, nYLdinE  gL xaDUiunE rYieVe, . EMGSLaarOny dVP.eeMrr binuECorNg, Tan idG tJOuyaAn LP Suy BaINnaDeEX hind MLIInnoféossIr R SmOáAenb cuNjherbetDzai vndOooe  |sM  P HdaridmeAa erDCiraaegI esAada, iJ rcEarivóoLinel  lrF2o G0U 1aSr8ocTísaUt LeóRnpOeibz l:ye  CR eaIffnUa e1Dl0e A0Si scDtiouEdSa dSeOs SesTpEaNñoIBlaLsES RNoveempbreo 20r1t8 Italia SDRU20UEEN1PVSI8TOETELARDOTIN P SOAMTFABE TTLNHEETS E    
Per un’Italia sostenibile:
l’SDSN Italia SDGs City 
Index 2018
LLuacuara F Caarnviaal,l iF, oFnodnadzaizoinoen eE Enin Ei Enrnircioc oM Matattetiei
June 2018
Source: Authors’ analysis. Download the reports and databases at: www.sdgindex.org.
24
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
2.1 The 2020 SDG Index
2.1 The 2020 SDG Index 2
. T
h
e
 S
The SDG Index tracks country performance on the  focus to a large extent on ending extreme poverty  DG
17 SDGs, as agreed by the international community in  and on access to basic services and infrastructure   In
d
e
2015 with equal weight to all 17 goals. The score signifies  (SDGs 1–9). Moreover, poorer countries tend to lack  x
 a
a country’s position between the worst (0) and the best  adequate infrastructure and mechanisms to manage key  n
d
or target (100) outcomes. For example, Sweden’s overall  environmental challenges covered under SDGs 12–15.   D
a
s
Index score (85) suggest that the country is on average  Except for countries that face armed conflicts and civil  h
b
o
85% of the way to the best possible outcome across the  wars, however, most low-income countries are making  a
r
d
17 SDGs. To ensure transparency and encourage further  progress in ending extreme poverty and in providing  s
analyses, all underlying data is made available publicly on  access to basic services and infrastructure, particularly 
www.sdgindex.org. under SDG 3 (Good Health and Well-Being) and SDG 8 
(Decent Work and Economic Growth), as illustrated by the 
Following minor changes to the indicator selection for this  SDG trends dashboards.
report, and last year’s audit by the European Commission 
Joint Research Centre, the methodology and data for the 
SDG Index and Dashboards are now mature and stable.  2.2 The SDG Index score over time
This year’s SDG Index and Dashboards include 85 global 
indicators plus an additional 30 indicators for the OECD  Overall, the world has been making progress towards 
countries. We separated imported biodiversity threats into  the SDGs. Figure 6 presents the evolution of SDG Index 
terrestrial, freshwater (under SDG 15 – Life on Land), and  scores since 2010 by region. The chart suggests some 
marine (under SDG 14 – Life Below Water). We have also  convergence overall, with regions that had lower 2010 
added an indicator to track profit-shifting (under SDG 17  SDG Index scores progressing faster. Countries in East 
– Partnerships for the Goals). This year, we are also able for  and South Asia have progressed the most since 2010, 
the first time to compile trends on transboundary impacts  and since the adoption of the SDGs in 2015. Africa made 
embodied in trade and consumption. All changes to the  significant progress during the MDG period (2000–2015) 
indicator selection are described in section 4 of this report.  and has also made some progress since the adoption 
of the SDGs. Latin America and the Caribbean, Eastern 
As in previous editions, three Nordic countries top  Europe and Central Asia, and the Middle East and North 
the 2020 SDG Index: Sweden, Denmark, and Finland.  Africa region also made progress between 2010 and 
Most countries in the top 20 are OECD countries. Yet  2019 and have increased their SDG Index score by more 
even these countries face significant challenges in  than one point on average. Finally, OECD countries, 
achieving several SDGs. Every country has a “red” score  which have on average the highest SDG Index score, 
on at least one SDG in the dashboards (Figure 14).  progressed moderately since 2015. On average, progress 
High-income countries perform poorly on spillover  since 2015 has been faster in low- and middle-income 
indicators (Table 13). Looking at trends, many high- countries compared with high-income countries 
income countries are not making significant progress  (Figure 7).
on sustainable consumption and production or the 
protection of biodiversity, particularly in relation to  There are significant disparities in the progress that 
Goal 14 (Life Below Water), for which most high-income  countries have made on the SDGs, including within 
countries are stagnating. Covid-19 will likely negatively  regions. The three countries that have progressed the 
impact progress towards most SDGs in the short and  most in terms of the SDG Index score are Côte d’Ivoire, 
medium-term, including in high-income countries. Burkina Faso, and Cambodia. By contrast, the three 
countries that have declined the most are Venezuela, 
Low-income countries tend to have lower SDG Index  Zimbabwe, and the Republic of the Congo. In general, 
scores. This is partly due to the nature of the SDGs, which  conflicts and civil wars lead to reversal in SDG progress. 
25
Sustainable Development Report 2020      The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
2. The SDG Index and Dashboards
Table 2 
The 2020 SDG Index scores
Rank Country Score Rank Country Score
1 Sweden 84.7 43 Greece 74.3
2 Denmark 84.6 44 Luxembourg 74.3
3 Finland 83.8 45 Uruguay 74.3
4 France 81.1 46 Ecuador 74.3
5 Germany 80.8 47 Ukraine 74.2
6 Norway 80.8 48 China 73.9
7 Austria 80.7 49 Vietnam 73.8
8 Czech Republic 80.6 50 Bosnia and Herzegovina 73.5
9 Netherlands 80.4 51 Argentina 73.2
10 Estonia 80.1 52 Kyrgyz Republic 73.0
11 Belgium 80.0 53 Brazil 72.7
12 Slovenia 79.8 54 Azerbaijan 72.6
13 United Kingdom 79.8 55 Cuba 72.6
14 Ireland 79.4 56 Algeria 72.3
15 Switzerland 79.4 57 Russian Federation 71.9
16 New Zealand 79.2 58 Georgia 71.9
17 Japan 79.2 59 Iran, Islamic Rep. 71.8
18 Belarus 78.8 60 Malaysia 71.8
19 Croatia 78.4 61 Peru 71.8
20 Korea, Rep. 78.3 62 North Macedonia 71.4
21 Canada 78.2 63 Tunisia 71.4
22 Spain 78.1 64 Morocco 71.3
23 Poland 78.1 65 Kazakhstan 71.1
24 Latvia 77.7 66 Uzbekistan 71.0
25 Portugal 77.6 67 Colombia 70.9
26 Iceland 77.5 68 Albania 70.8
27 Slovak Republic 77.5 69 Mexico 70.4
28 Chile 77.4 70 Turkey 70.3
29 Hungary 77.3 71 United Arab Emirates 70.3
30 Italy 77.0 72 Montenegro 70.2
31 United States 76.4 73 Dominican Republic 70.2
32 Malta 76.0 74 Fiji 69.9
33 Serbia 75.2 75 Armenia 69.9
34 Cyprus 75.2 76 Oman 69.7
35 Costa Rica 75.1 77 El Salvador 69.6
36 Lithuania 75.0 78 Tajikistan 69.4
37 Australia 74.9 79 Bolivia 69.3
38 Romania 74.8 80 Bhutan 69.3
39 Bulgaria 74.8 81 Panama 69.2
40 Israel 74.6 82 Bahrain 68.8
41 Thailand 74.5 83 Egypt, Arab Rep. 68.8
42 Moldova 74.4 84 Jamaica 68.7
26
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
2.2 The SDG Index score over time
Rank Country Score Rank Country Score
2
. T
85 Nicaragua 68.7 126 Syrian Arab Republic 59.3 h
e
 S
86 Suriname 68.4 127 Senegal 58.3 D
G
87 Barbados 68.3 128 Côte d'Ivoire 57.9  In
d
88 Brunei Darussalam 68.2 129 The Gambia 57.9 ex
 a
89 Jordan 68.1 130 Mauritania 57.7 n
d
 D
90 Paraguay 67.7 131 Tanzania 56.6 a
s
h
91 Maldives 67.6 132 Rwanda 56.6 b
o
92 Cabo Verde 67.2 133 Cameroon 56.5 ar
d
s
93 Singapore 67.0 134 Pakistan 56.2
94 Sri Lanka 66.9 135 Congo, Rep. 55.2
95 Lebanon 66.7 136 Ethiopia 55.2
96 Nepal 65.9 137 Burkina Faso 55.2
97 Saudi Arabia 65.8 138 Djibouti 54.6
98 Trinidad and Tobago 65.8 139 Afghanistan 54.2
99 Philippines 65.5 140 Mozambique 54.1
100 Ghana 65.4 141 Lesotho 54.0
101 Indonesia 65.3 142 Uganda 53.5
102 Belize 65.1 143 Burundi 53.5
103 Qatar 64.7 144 Eswatini 53.4
104 Myanmar 64.6 145 Benin 53.3
105 Honduras 64.4 146 Comoros 53.1
106 Cambodia 64.4 147 Togo 52.7
107 Mongolia 64.0 148 Zambia 52.7
108 Mauritius 63.8 149 Angola 52.6
109 Bangladesh 63.5 150 Guinea 52.5
110 South Africa 63.4 151 Yemen, Rep. 52.3
111 Gabon 63.4 152 Malawi 52.2
112 Kuwait 63.1 153 Sierra Leone 51.9
113 Iraq 63.1 154 Haiti 51.7
114 Turkmenistan 63.0 155 Papua New Guinea 51.7
115 São Tomé and Príncipe 62.6 156 Mali 51.4
116 Lao PDR 62.1 157 Niger 50.1
117 India 61.9 158 Dem. Rep. Congo 49.7
118 Venezuela, RB 61.7 159 Sudan 49.6
119 Namibia 61.6 160 Nigeria 49.3
120 Guatemala 61.5 161 Madagascar 49.1
121 Botswana 61.5 162 Liberia 47.1
122 Vanuatu 60.9 163 Somalia 46.2
123 Kenya 60.2 164 Chad 43.8
124 Guyana 59.7 165 South Sudan 43.7
125 Zimbabwe 59.5 166 Central African Republic 38.5
27
Sustainable Development Report 2020      The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
2. The SDG Index and Dashboards
Annual assessments of progress on the SDG Index score 
are affected by limited data availability and time lags for 
certain indicators. Due to gaps in data availability and 
time lags, these longitudinal trend lines include many 
imputations based on closest available years. As noted 
above, Covid-19 will likely have a strongly negative 
impact on SDG performance in many countries, but this 
has not been reflected in the data available to date. See 
the detailed trend database accessible on the SDG Index 
website: https://www.sdgindex.org/. 
Figure 6  Figure 7 
Progress on the SDG Index by regions (2010–2019)  FigPurroe g7:r Persosg orenss  tohne th SeD SDGG I Innddeexx b by yin cinomcoe mgroeu gp roup (2010–2019)
(2010–2019)
SDG Index score SDG Index score
80 80
75 75
70 70
65 65
60 60
55 55
50 50
45 45
40 40
2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019
World High-income countries (HICs)
East and South Asia Upper middle-income countries (UMICs)
Eastern Europe and Central Asia  Lower middle-income countries (LMICs)
Latin America and the Caribbean  Low-income countries (LICs)
Middle East and North Africa
Oceania
OECD countries
Sub-Saharan Africa
28
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
2.2 The SDG Index score over time
Figure 8  2
. T
Countries whose SDG Index score has improved or decreased the most since 2015  h
e
 S
D
G
 In
d
e
Côte d'Ivoire x a
n
Burkina Faso d
 D
Cambodia a
s
h
WWoorrlldd b
o
a
r
d
s
Congo, Rep.
Zimbabwe
Venezuela, RB
-4 -3 -2 -1 0 1 2 3 4
Percentage points
Note: Population-weighted averages. 
Source: Authors’ analysis
Progress by SDGs be sufficient to achieve these SDGs by 2030 – including 
ending extreme poverty. 
Since 2015, the world has seen the most rapid progress 
towards SDG 1 (No Poverty), SDG 9 (Industry, Innovation  By contrast, even before Covid-19, many parts of the 
and Infrastructure), and SDG 11 (Sustainable Cities and  world were progressing slowly or experiencing reversals in 
Communities). Overall, as underlined by the United  progress made towards SDG 2 (Zero Hunger) and SDG 15 
Nations Statistics Division, the percentage of people  (Life on Land). The lack of progress towards SDG 2 is driven 
living in extreme poverty globally in 2018 had decreased  by increases in the number of people who suffer from 
by 1.4 percentage points from the adoption of the  undernourishment as well as a growing share of people 
SDGs: from 10% in 2015 to 8.6% in 2018 (United Nations,  who are overweight or obese. It is likely that Covid-19 
2019). Following these historic trends, this figure was  will increase food insecurity and malnutrition, especially 
projected to reach 6% by 2030, however Covid-19 now  for low-income people (FAO, 2020; IFPRI, 2020; World 
threatens to increase extreme poverty in many countries.  Food Programme, 2020). The accelerated loss of terrestrial 
Access to basic transport infrastructure and broadband  and freshwater biodiversity is affecting performance on 
connection has also been growing rapidly. Ninety  SDG 15 (Life on Land). Despite an increase in protected 
percent of the world’s population live within range of a  areas, reversals on this goal in many countries are driven 
3G or higher-quality mobile network (United Nations,  by biodiversity threats and deforestation, caused at least in 
2019). Global investment in research and development  part by unsustainable supply chains. This is confirmed by 
has also been growing. At the same time, SDG 9  many international reports (IPCC, 2019; IPBES, 2019). 
(Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure) is the goal that 
exhibits the largest spread between top and bottom  There are indications that historic trends in progress 
performers. This emphasizes the need to accelerate the  towards SDG 10 (Reduced Inequalities) and SDG 17 
spread of technologies and innovation globally and to  (Partnerships for the Goals) have also been declining 
strengthen capacities and skills. As highlighted in the  slightly, however global trend data is sparse, so we do not 
SDG dashboards, the historic pace of progress may not  present longitudinal charts for these goals. 
29
Sustainable Development Report 2020      The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
2. The SDG Index and Dashboards
World Middle East and North Africa
Figure 9  East and South Asia Oceania
Eastern Europe and Central Asia OECD countries
Progress by SDGs and regions Latin America and the Caribbean Sub-Saharan Africa
SDG 1 SDG 2
No poverty Zero hunger
SDG1 Score SDG2 Score
110000 100
9900 90
8800 80
7700 70
6600 60
5500 50
4400 40
3300 30
2200 20
1100 10
  00  0
22001100 22001111 22001122 22001133 22001144 22001155 22001166 22001177 22001188 22001199 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019
SDG 3 SDG 4
Good health   Quality education
and well-being
SDG3 Score SDG4 Score
100 100
90 90
80 80
70 70
60 60
50 50
40 40
30 30
20 20
10 10
 0  0
2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019
30
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
2.2 The SDG Index score over time
World Middle East and North Africa
Figure 9  East and South Asia Oceania
Eastern Europe and Central Asia OECD countries
Progress by SDGs and regions (continued) Latin America and the Caribbean Sub-Saharan Africa
2
. T
h
e
 S
D
SDG 5 SDG 6 G
 In
Gender equality Clean water   d
e
SDG5 Score SDG6 Score and sanitation x a
100 100 n
d
 D
a
90 90 sh
b
o
a
80 80 r
d
s
70 70
60 60
50 50
40 40
30 30
20 20
10 10
 0  0
2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019
SDG 7 SDG 8
Affordable and  Decent work and  
clean energy economic growth
SDG7 Score SDG8 Score
100 100
90 90
80 80
70 70
60 60
50 50
40 40
30 30
20 20
10 10
 0  0
2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019
31
Sustainable Development Report 2020      The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
2. The SDG Index and Dashboards
World Middle East and North Africa
Figure 9  East and South Asia Oceania
Eastern Europe and Central Asia OECD countries
Progress by SDGs and regions (continued) Latin America and the Caribbean Sub-Saharan Africa
SDG 9 SDG 11
Industry, innovation   Sustainable cities  
and infrastructure  and communities 
SDG9 Score SDG11 Score
100 100
90 90
80 80
70 70
60 60
50 50
40 40
30 30
20 20
10 10
 0  0
2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019
SDG 13 SDG 14
Climate action Life below water 
SDG13 Score SDG14 Score
100 100
90 90
80 80
70 70
60 60
50 50
40 40
30 30
20 20
10 10
 0  0
2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019
32
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
2.3 International spillovers
World Middle East and North Africa
Figure 9  East and South Asia Oceania
Eastern Europe and Central Asia OECD countries
Progress by SDGs and regions (continued) Latin America and the Caribbean Sub-Saharan Africa
2
. T
h
e
 S
D
SDG 15 SDG 16 G
 In
Life on land  Peace, justice and   d
e
SDG15 Score SDG16 Score strong institutions  x a
100 100 n
d
 D
a
90 90 sh
b
o
a
80 80 r
d
s
70 70
60 60
50 50
40 40
30 30
20 20
10 10
 0  0
2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019
Note: Trend data for SDG 10 (Reduced Inequalities), SDG 12 (Responsible Consumption and Production), and SDG 17 (Partnerships for the Goals) are not presented due to data gaps. For SDG 13 
(Climate Action), goal score is based on the headline indicator “CO emissions per capita.” Other indicators for SDG 13 are included in the country profiles and dashboards. Due to incomplete trend data, 
2
longitudinal results on SDG 14 (Life Below Water) are not presented for Oceania. See country profiles and dashboards for more information on indicator and goal trajectories. 
Source: Authors’ analysis
2.3 International spillovers
Strategies to achieve the SDGs need to be implemented  Spillovers must be understood, measured, and carefully 
domestically without generating negative impacts on  managed. Since 2017, the Sustainable Development Report 
other countries (“spillovers”). The 2030 Agenda and the  has presented the best available data on countries’ positive 
SDGs recognize the importance of international spillovers.  and negative spillovers, and these have been consolidated 
SDG 12 (Responsible Consumption and Production)  into a Spillover Index. The index score and rank are available 
requires developed countries to take the lead in tackling  for all countries in the Annex and have been included in the 
spillovers. Greta Thunberg and others have accused rich  country profiles. We group spillovers into three categories: 
countries of “creative carbon accounting” by counting only 
“production-based” emissions, leaving aside consumption- •  Environmental spillovers cover international spillovers 
based emissions embodied into trade.1 related to the use of natural resources and pollution. 
Environmental spillovers can be generated in two ways: 
i) through transboundary effects embodied in trade, 
1. https://www.economist.com/finance-and-economics/2019/10/17/
greta-thunberg-accuses-rich-countries-of-creative-carbon-accounting and ii) through direct cross-border flows in air and water. 
33
Sustainable Development Report 2020      The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
2. The SDG Index and Dashboards
Trade-related spillover measures are obtained using the  •  Security spillovers include negative externalities – 
consumption-based accounting (CBA) framework and  such as the trade in arms, particularly in small arms 
isolating the “import” component. Using tools such as  (Adeniyi, 2017), and organized international crime 
multiregional input–output (MRIO) databases, com- – which can have a destabilizing impact on poor 
bined with databases on environmental, biodiversity and  countries. Among the positive spillovers are invest-
social factors, we can estimate transboundary impacts  ments in conflict-prevention and peacekeeping, 
embodied in consumption and trade. Generating better  including through the United Nations.
measures of cross-border flows (through air and water) 
for each country remains an important research agenda.
Overall, high-income countries generate the largest 
negative spillovers, which undermine other countries’ 
•  Spillovers related to the economy, finance, and gover- efforts to achieve the SDGs. Small countries – such as 
nance cover international development finance  
Luxembourg, Singapore and Switzerland – tend to trade 
(e.g., ODA), unfair tax competition, banking secrecy, 
more than larger economies, and therefore generate 
and international labor standards. 
high per-capita spillovers. Yet, there is a large variation 
Figure 10 
Average spillover score against gross domestic product per capita (GDP per capita, constant 2010 US$, PPP)
 0
10
Singapore
20
Guyana
best) 30
0 =  Kuwait Luxembourg
0 Switzerland
1
orst;  40 Mauritius United Arab Emirates
w
= 
0 
ects ( 50 France United Kingdom Norway
over eﬀ 60 Korea, Rep. Canada GermanyUnited States Ireland
pill Japan
Average of s 70 South AfrBicraazil RFeudsseiraant ion Italy Australia Saudi Arabia Brunei Darussalam Qatar
80
Indonesia
China
India
90
Turkey
Argentina
100 Mexico
0 20,000 40,000 60,000 80,000 100,000 120,000
G20 countries GDP per capita (constant 2010 US$, PPP)
Note: The Spillover Index measures transboundary impacts generated by one country on others, which undermine their ability to achieve the SDGs. The Spillover Index covers financial spillovers (e.g., 
financial secrecy, profit-shifting), environmental and social impacts embodied into trade and consumption (e.g., imported CO₂ emissions, imported biodiversity threats, accidents at work embodied 
into trade) and security/development cooperation (ODA, weapons exports). ODA is an example of a positive spillover. Scores should be interpreted in the same way as for the SDG Index, ranging from 
0 (worst performance i.e., significant negative spillovers) to 100 (best possible performance, i.e., no significant negative spillovers). To allow for international comparisons, most spillover indicators are 
expressed on a per capita basis. The Spillover Index scores and ranks are available in Table 13.
Source: Authors’ analysis.
34
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
2.3 International spillovers
2
in spillovers among countries with similar per-capita  For the first time, the report this year integrates trends  . T
h
incomes. This suggests that countries can reduce their  over time for trade-related spillovers. Constructing MRIO  e
 S
negative spillovers without reducing their per-capita  databases and satellite datasets is very time consuming,  DG
incomes. The spillover index is presented in each  which leads to time lags in data reporting of three to   In
d
e
individual country profile.  six years (Svenja Wiebe et al., 2018). This is an important  x
 a
limitation of consumption-based and trade-related  n
d
Data on cross-border spillovers tends to be sparse and  spillover measures. Efforts to increase the timeliness of   D
a
s
incomplete, and several spillovers lack clear conceptual  global MRIOs are under way (Miao and Fortanier, 2018;  h
b
o
frameworks for measurement. The lack of data and mea- Stadler et al., 2018) a
r
d
surement concepts derive partly from the complexity of the  s
issues. Another challenge is that national statistical offices  In contrast to domestic impacts, we see no clear signs 
are rarely mandated to measure international spillovers.  of sustained reductions in spillovers generated by OECD 
Moreover, a lot of work on international spillovers focuses  countries. CO emissions in OECD countries declined 
2
on individual supply chains (e.g., production of a pair of  between 2010 and 2015 but imported CO emissions have 
2
jeans) or specific products, such as palm oil from South-East  increased overall compared to 2000 and have risen further 
Asia. Such case studies have made a tremendous contribu- since 2009 (Figure 11). OECD countries are reducing their 
tion towards our understanding of international spillovers,  impact on domestic water scarcity. However, while scarce 
but they cannot directly be incorporated into national-level  water use embodied in imports has declined overall since 
assessments. Translating the findings from case studies into  2000, no progress was seen between 2009 and 2013.
national metrics is a priority for future research into interna-
tional spillover indicators. More data-driven conversations are also needed to 
reform the governance of global supply chains. Many 
Focusing on spillovers embodied into trade, there is a  international supply chains, particularly relating to land-
crucial need to better integrate consumption-based  use and food systems are unsustainable. The ability of 
accounting within monitoring and policy frameworks,  individual companies to correct these failings can be 
including in tracking and reducing greenhouse gas  limited, so industry- and supply-chain-wide approaches 
emissions (Kander et al., 2015). Consumption-based  are needed. Several such industry initiatives exist (for 
accounting has the advantage of incorporating the impacts  coffee, palm oil, cocoa, and many other products). As part 
generated by international transport. It also incorporates  of a larger consortium, SDSN released a study in 2019 
carbon leakages and attributes them to the countries  on the governance of the soybean supply chain, and in 
that externalize CO emissions (or other types of impacts).  particular on the impact of trade imports from Europe and 
2
As such, it brings complementary policy implications to  China on major soybean producers, such as Argentina and 
production-based accounting. While production-based  Brazil (Czaplicki Cabezas et al., 2019). More work is needed 
accounting rightfully emphasizes the principle of “product  to understand how the governance of international 
liability,” which states that producers are responsible for the  supply chains can be and need to be reformed to curb 
quality and safety of their products, consumption-based  cross-country spillovers.
accounting emphasizes the responsibility of consumers 
and international trade policies and agreements. 
35
Sustainable Development Report 2020      The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
2. The SDG Index and Dashboards
Figure 11 
Domestic vs transboundary impacts (CO emissions and scarce water use) 
2
OECD countries
Rest of the World (ROW)
Domestic: Energy‑related CO emissions per capita (tCO/capita) Spillover: CO emissions embodied into imports (tCO/capita)
2 2 2 2
tCO₂/capita tCO₂/capita
12 2.5
10
2.0
8
1.5
6
1.0
4
0.5
2
  00   00
2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015
Source: Authors’ analysis. Based on Gütschow et al (2016) Source: Authors’ analysis. Based on Lenzen, M. et al. (2020)
Domestic: Scarce water use for domestic consumption and 
exports (m3/Capita) Spillover: Scarce water use embodied into imports (m3/capita)
m/capita m/capita
100 35
95
30
90
85 25
80
20
75
15
70
65 10
60
5
55
 50  0
2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013
Source: Authors’ analysis. Based on Lenzen, M. et al. (2013) Source: Authors’ analysis. Based on Lenzen, M. et al. (2013)
36
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
2.4 The SDG dashboards
2.4 The SDG dashboards 2
data, trends on SDG 13 (Climate Action), SDG 14 (Life Below  . T
h
Water) and, where available, on transboundary impacts  e
 S
The SDG dashboards highlight the strengths and  embodied in trade and consumption are alarming in most  DG
weaknesses of each country in relation to each of the  OECD countries. These countries need to undertake greater   In
d
e
17 SDGs. As described in the methodology section,  efforts to decouple economic growth from negative envi- x
 a
dashboard ratings are based on data for the two indicators  ronmental impacts, particularly in the wake of Covid-19.  n
d
under each goal for which the country performs worst.   D
a
s
This means that, for example, good performance on  OECD countries face persistent challenges related to  h
b
o
five out of seven indicators does not compensate for  sustainable agriculture and diets – which are also major  a
r
d
poor performance on two indicators. In other words, our  drivers of greenhouse gas emissions and biodiversity loss.  s
methodology assumes low substitutability or compensation  OECD countries perform relatively poorly on the indicators 
across indicators in the construction of our composite index. on trophic levels (capturing the energy intensity and 
long-term sustainability of average diets) and obesity. 
This year, the dashboards include population-weighted  Meanwhile, the closure of yield-gap remains well below 
averages for each region and by income groups  the 80% target in numerous OECD countries and below 
(Figure 12). These regional comparisons are based on  50% in some. This underscores the need to increase the 
the same set of indicators as used for the SDG Index. The  efficiency of agricultural and land-use systems and to 
OECD dashboards (Figure 14) include more indicators  improve diets and sustainable food consumption. 
than the other dashboards, however, owing to the 
greater availability of data for these countries. SDSN is  Inequalities in incomes as well as in access to services and 
also promoting regional editions of the SDG Index and  opportunities are growing challenges in most OECD coun-
Dashboards, including editions on Africa, the Arab Region,  tries. Palma ratios, adjusted GINI coefficients, and elderly 
Europe, and Latin America (Box 2).  poverty rates are all high and are increasing in the majority 
of the OECD countries. Disparities in health and education 
outcomes by income and territorial area are also high. 
Finally, gender pay gaps and the gender gap in minutes 
OECD countries spent doing unpaid work need to be substantially reduced 
to achieve SDG 5 (Gender Equality) in OECD countries. 
The OECD dashboard reveals that, before the Covid-19 
outbreak, OECD countries were not on track to achieve the 
SDGs. Compared to the rest of the world, OECD countries 
perform better on goals related to socioeconomic out- East and South Asia
comes and basic access to infrastructure, including SDG 1 
(No Poverty), SDG 3 (Good Health and Well-Being), SDG 6  Overall, East and South Asia is the region that has 
(Clean Water and Sanitation), and SDG 7 (Affordable and  progressed most on the SDG Index since the adoption 
Clean Energy). Yet the indicator set does not capture well a  of the goals in 2015. Most countries in the region also 
country’s preparedness for health security challenges, due  managed the Covid-19 outbreak more effectively than 
to the absence of a robust international measure (Box 1).  many other parts of the world (section 1). 
Covid-19 has indeed highlighted the vulnerability of health 
systems, including those of OECD countries (section 1.2),  Countries in East and South Asia differ greatly in size and 
and the need to strengthen resilience and prevention.  in level of economic development. Correspondingly, SDG 
challenges also vary greatly across countries in this region. 
Major efforts are needed to accelerate progress towards  Overall, the best performances are obtained on SDG 1 
climate mitigation and biodiversity protection – SDGs 12 to  (No Poverty), SDG 4 (Quality Education), SDG 7 (Affordable 
15. In particular, some OECD countries perform especially  and Clean Energy), although for each of these goals, at 
poorly on associated spillover indicators. Based on available  least one country in the region has a red rating (major SDG 
37
Sustainable Development Report 2020      The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
2. The SDG Index and Dashboards
challenge). Major challenges persist in most countries on  (Good Health and Well-Being) and SDG 4 (Quality Education). 
SDG 2 (Zero Hunger), SDG 3 (Good Health and Well-Being),  In most countries in the region, a high homicide rate is 
SDG 5 (Gender Equality), SDGs 12–15 on climate change  associated with a low share of people who feel safe walking 
mitigation and biodiversity protection, and SDG 16  alone at night. Combined with high and often stagnating 
(Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions). Trends on SDG 1  (or even increasing) perceptions of corruption, these factors 
(No Poverty) are especially positive, with most countries  explain poor performance and trends on SDG 16 (Peace, 
in the region on track to eradicate extreme poverty. By  Justice and Strong Institutions). Finally, as for other parts of 
contrast, negative trends on SDG 13 (Climate Action) and  the world, economic growth has not been decoupled from 
SDG 15 (Life on Land) need to be reversed and will require  negative environmental impact, which is evident in large 
a significant acceleration of progress to achieve the 2030  achievement gaps on SDGs 12 through to 15. 
targets in most countries. Vigilance is needed to ensure 
that Covid-19 does not change positive trajectories. 
Middle East and North Africa
Eastern Europe and Central Asia The SDG performance of Middle East and North African 
countries varies greatly. Conflicts in some countries lead to 
Countries in Eastern Europe and Central Asia obtain their  poor and declining performance on most SDGs, particularly 
best performance on SDG 1 (No Poverty) and SDG 7  on SDG 2 (Zero Hunger), SDG 3 (Good Health and Well-
(Affordable and Clean Energy). Compared to other regions,  Being), and SDG 16 (Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions). 
SDG 16 (Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions) remains 
problematic, due to relatively high perceived corruption in  Countries less affected by conflicts perform best on SDG 1 
some countries, low freedom of speech, or high insecurity.  (No Poverty) and SDG 17 (Partnerships for the Goals). 
As for other parts of the world, poor performance on SDGs  Still, all countries in the region face major challenges in 
12 to 15 on climate mitigation and biodiversity protection  reaching SDG 2 (Zero Hunger), due to undernourishment, 
require urgent policy attention. Access to basic services  stunting, obesity, or issues related to agriculture and 
and infrastructure, covered notably under SDG 6 (Clean  sustainable land-use (such as poor nitrogen management). 
Water and Sanitation) and SDG 7 (Affordable and Clean  Access to infrastructure, primarily covered under SDG 6 
Energy), is improving rapidly. By contrast, trends on SDG 15  (Clean Water and Sanitation) and SDG 7 (Affordable and 
(Life on Land) and SDG 17 (Partnerships for the Goals) are  Clean Energy), is generally high or improving at a fast 
stagnating or reversing in most countries in this region.  pace. However, further efforts are needed to strengthen 
domestic labor rights and standards and to tackle negative 
spillovers under SDG 8 (Decent Work and Economic 
Growth); to enhance freedom of speech and address 
Latin America and the Caribbean high levels of perceived corruption under SDG 16 (Peace, 
Justice and Strong Institutions); and to make the transition 
Latin American and Caribbean countries perform best  towards more circular and green economies (SDGs 12 to 
on SDG 1 (No Poverty) and SDG 7 (Affordable and Clean  15). High CO emissions embodied in fossil-fuel exports 
2
Energy). They have also been experiencing progress on  have a strongly negative impact on the performance of 
SDG 6 (Clean Water and Sanitation) and SDG 8 (Decent  most countries in the region on SDG 13 (Climate Action). 
Work and Economic Growth). Yet, compared to other parts 
of the world, greater efforts are needed to reduce income  There are persistent data gaps in the Gulf States for tracking 
and wealth inequalities, which is underlined by the poor  poverty at 1.90$/day and 3.20$/day, income inequality 
performance of all countries in the region on SDG 10  (GINI coefficient), and working conditions (e.g., modern 
(Reduced Inequalities). Improving access to and quality of  slavery). Greater investments are therefore needed in 
key services would help strengthen performance on SDG 3  budget surveys, household surveys, and data availability.
38
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
2.4 The SDG dashboards
Sub-Saharan Africa Oceania 2
. T
h
e
 S
The average SDG Index score for countries in Sub-Saharan  The SDG dashboards for Oceania reveal the relative lack of  DG
Africa has improved significantly since 2015. Yet, all  comparable data across the region. Due to this lack of data,   In
d
e
sub-Saharan African countries continue to face major chal- it is impossible to benchmark many small island developing  x
 a
lenges in achieving the SDGs, and Covid-19 threatens to  states in Oceania against other countries. On the basis of  n
d
undo much of the progress made in recent years. Owing to  the data available, small island states in the region perform   D
a
s
the poverty in the region, performance on socioeconomic  best on SDG 12 (Responsible Consumption and Production)  h
b
o
goals and access to basic services and infrastructure (SDGs  and SDG 17 (Partnerships for the Goals). By contrast, access  a
r
d
1 to 9) are poor compared to other world regions. In some  to services, and their quality, covered under SDG 3 (Good  s
countries, insecurity and conflict have lowered perfor- Health and Well-Being) and SDG 4 (Quality Education), need 
mance on various goals, including SDG 16 (Peace, Justice  to improve. Similarly, access to infrastructure, covered under 
and Strong Institutions). To improve the low performance  SDG 6 (Clean Water and Sanitation), SDG 7 (Affordable 
on this and SDG 17 (Partnerships for the Goals), countries  and Clean Energy), and SDG 9 (Industry, Innovation, and 
need to strengthen their institutions and increase domestic  Infrastructure), is lower than in most other regions. Small 
resource mobilization. Relatively low levels of consumption  island states perform well compared to the rest of the world 
lead to somewhat better performances on SDGs 12 to 15  on climate mitigation (SDG 13), but they are of course 
on climate mitigation and biodiversity protection, although  among the countries that are the most vulnerable to 
trends in pollution in urban areas, covered under SDG 11  climate change.
(Sustainable Cities and Communities), and forest loss and 
biodiversity protection, covered under SDG 15 (Life on 
Land), are flat for the region as a whole and moving in the 
wrong direction in some countries. 
The Covid-19 outbreak and the disruption in international 
supply chains, including the food supply chain, are likely 
to have very negative impacts on SDG performance in 
many sub-Saharan countries. International solidarity 
and support will be needed to prevent losing the 
development gains of recent decades. 
39
Sustainable Development Report 2020      The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
2. The SDG Index and Dashboards
Figure 12 
2020 SDG dashboards (levels and trends) by United Nations sub-regions and income groups
DDEECCEENNTT   IINNDDUUSSTTRRYY,,   RREESSPPOONNSSIIBBLLEE PPEEAACCEE,,  
GGOOOODD  HHEEAALLTTHH CCLLEEAA  NN  WWAATTEERRAAFFFFOORRDDAABBLLEE   WWOORRKK  AANNDD   IINNNNOOVVAATTIIOONN SSUUSSTTAAIINN  AABBLLEE CCOONNSSUUMMPPTTIIOONN   LLIIFFEE   JJUUSSTTIICCEE PPAARRTTNNEERRSSHHIIPPSS
NNOO   ZZEERROO AANNDD   QQUUAALLIITTYY GGEENNDDEERR AANNDD   AANNDD  CCLLEEAANN   EECCOONNOOMMIICC   AANNDD   RREEDDUUCCEEDD CCIITTIIEESS  AANNDD   AANNDD   CCLLIIMMAATTEE BBEELLOOWW   LLIIFFEE   AANNDD  SSTTRROONNGG FFOORR  TTHHEE  
PPOOVVEERRTTYY HHUUNNGGEERR WWEELLLL--BBEEIINNGG EEDDUUCCAATTIIOONN EEQQUUAALLIITTYY SSAANNIITTAATTIIOONN EENNEERRGGYY GGRROOWWTTHH IINNFFRRAASSTTRRUUCCTTUURREEIINNEEQQUUAALLIITTIIEESSCCOOMMMMUUNNIITTIIEESS PPRROODDUUCCTTIIOONN AACCTTIIOONN WWAATTEERR OONN     LLAANNDD IINNSSTTIITTUUTTIIOONNSS GGOOAALLSS
11 22 33 44 55 66 77 88 99 1100 1111 1122 1133 1144 1155 1166 1177
UN sub-regions
East and South Asia •L •D •D •D •5 •L •D •L •D •• •5 •• •D •5 •p •D •5
Eastern Europe and Central Asia •L •5 •D •5 •D •D •D •L •D •• •5 •• •D • • •5 •D •p
Latin America and the Caribbean •p •D •D •5 •D •D •L •D •D •• •5 •• •L •5 •5 •5 •L
Middle East and North Africa •• •D •D •5 •5 •D •L •D •D •• •5 •• •D •5 •5 •5 ••
Oceania •5 •5 •5 •p •5 •5 •D •• •5 •• •5 •• •L •5 •p •• •p
Sub-Saharan Africa •5 •5 •5 •5 •5 •5 •5 •D •D •• •5 •• •L •D •D •5 •5
OECD •L •D •L •L •D •L •D •L •L •• •D •• •5 •5 •D •D •D
UN income groups
Low-income Countries •5 •5 •5 •• •5 •5 •5 •D •5 •• •5 •• •L •p •5 •5 •5
Lower-middle-income Countries •D •D •D •5 •5 •D •D •D •D •• •5 •• •L •5 •5 •5 •5
Upper-middle-income Countries •L •D •D •D •D •L •D •D •D •• •D •• •D •5 •p •D •p
High-income Countries •L •D •L •L •D •D •D •L •L •• •D •• •5 •5 •D •D •D
 
   SDG achievement    Challenges remain    Significant challenges remain    Major challenges remain
L On track D Moderately Increasing 5  Stagnating p Decreasing • Data not available
Note: Excluding OECD specific indicators. Population-weighted averages.    Source: Authors’ analysis
Figure 13 
2020 SDG dashboards (levels and trends) for East and South Asia
DDEECCEENNTT   IINNDDUUSSTTRRYY,,   RREESSPPOONNSSIIBBLLEE PPEEAACCEE,,  
GGOOOODD  HHEEAALLTTHH CCLLEEAA  NN  WWAATTEERRAAFFFFOORRDDAABBLLEE   WWOORRKK  AANNDD   IINNNNOOVVAATTIIOONN SSUUSSTTAAIINN  AABBLLEE CCOONNSSUUMMPPTTIIOONN   LLIIFFEE   JJUUSSTTIICCEE PPAARRTTNNEERRSSHHIIPPSS
NNOO   ZZEERROO AANNDD   QQUUAALLIITTYY GGEENNDDEERR AANNDD   AANNDD  CCLLEEAANN   EECCOONNOOMMIICC   AANNDD   RREEDDUUCCEEDD CCIITTIIEESS  AANNDD   AANNDD   CCLLIIMMAATTEE BBEELLOOWW   LLIIFFEE   AANNDD  SSTTRROONNGG FFOORR  TTHHEE  
PPOOVVEERRTTYY HHUUNNGGEERR WWEELLLL--BBEEIINNGG EEDDUUCCAATTIIOONN EEQQUUAALLIITTYY SSAANNIITTAATTIIOONN EENNEERRGGYY GGRROOWWTTHH IINNFFRRAASSTTRRUUCCTTUURREEIINNEEQQUUAALLIITTIIEESSCCOOMMMMUUNNIITTIIEESS PPRROODDUUCCTTIIOONN AACCTTIIOONN WWAATTEERR OONN     LLAANNDD IINNSSTTIITTUUTTIIOONNSS GGOOAALLSS
11 22 33 44 55 66 77 88 99 1100 1111 1122 1133 1144 1155 1166 1177
Bangladesh •L •D •D •L •5 •D •D •L •D •• •D •• •L •5 •p •5 •p
Bhutan •L •D •D •D •D •D •D •L •D •• •D •• •L • • •p •D •D
Brunei Darussalam •• •D •D •D •D •L •D •5 •L •• •• •• •5 •D •D •D •L
Cambodia •L •D •D •5 •D •L •D •D •D •• •L •• •L •5 •p •D •D
China •L •D •D •• •D •L •D •L •L •• •D •• •D •5 •p •D •p
India •L •D •D •5 •5 •L •D •L •D •• •5 •• •L •5 •p •5 •5
Indonesia •L •D •D •D •5 •L •D •L •D •• •5 •• •L •5 •5 •D •5
Korea, Dem. Rep. •• •D •D •• •D •D •D •L •5 •• •5 •• •L •5 •p •5 • •
Lao PDR •L •D •D •5 •D •L •D •L •D •• •L •• •L •• •p •D •p
Malaysia •L •5 •D •5 •D •D •L •L •L •• •D •• •5 •5 •5 •D •p
Maldives •L •D •L •5 •5 •L •L •D •D •• •L •• •L •5 •p •5 •L
Mongolia •D •5 •D •L •D •D •D •D •5 •• •5 •• •5 •• •L •D •5
Myanmar •L •D •D •L •5 •D •D •D •D •• •D •• •L •D •5 •5 •p
Nepal •D •D •D •D •D •L •5 •L •D •• •5 •• •L •• •5 •5 •L
Pakistan •L •5 •D •5 •5 •D •5 •D •5 •• •5 •• •L •5 •p •D •5
Philippines •L •D •D •p •5 •D •5 •D •D •• •5 •• •L •5 •p •5 •5
Singapore •L •D •D •L •D •D •L •L •L •• •D •• •5 •p •p •D • •
Sri Lanka •L •D •D •L •5 •D •5 •D •D •• •5 •• •L •5 •p •5 •D
Thailand •L •D •D •p •D •L •D •L •L •• •D •• •D •5 •5 •5 •p
Timor-Leste •5 •D •D •L •5 •D •D •L •5 •• •D •• •• •5 •p •L •L
Vietnam •L •D •D •L •D •L •D •D •D •• •L •• •L •5 •p •D •p
Source: Authors’ analysis
40
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
2.4 The SDG dashboards
Figure 14  2
. T
2020 SDG dashboards (levels and trends) for OECD countries h
e
 S
D
G
GGOOOODD  HHEEAALLTTHH CCLLEEAA  NN  WWAATTEERRAAFFFFOORRDDAABBLLEE   WWDDOOEERRCCKKEE  AANNTTNN  DD   IINNIINNNNDDOOUUVVSSAATTTTRRIIOOYYNN,,   SSUUSSTTAAIINN  AABBLLEE RRCCOOEESSNNPPSSUUOOMMNNPPSSTTIIBBIIOOLLNNEE   LLIIFFEE   JJPPUUEESSAATTCCIICCEE,,EE   PPAARRTTNNEERRSSHHIIPPSS  Ind
PPOOVVNNEEOORR  TTYY HHUUZZEENNRRGGOOEERR WWEELLAALL--NNBBDDEE  IINNGG EEDDQQUUUUCCAAAALLIITTTTIIYYOONN EEGGQQEEUUNNAADDLLEEIITTRRYY SSAANNAAIITTNNAADDTT  IIOONN AANNEEDDNN  EECCRRLLGGEEYYAANN   EEGGCCRROOOONNWWOOMMTTHHIICC   IINNFFRRAASSAATTNNRRDDUUCC  TTUURREEIINNEERRQQEEDDUUUUAACCLLIIEETTDDIIEESSCCCCOOIIMMTTIIMMEEUUSS  NNAAIITTNNIIDDEE  SS PPRROODDAAUUNNCCDDTT  IIOONN CCAALLCCIIMMTTIIAAOOTTNNEE BBWWEEAALLTTOOEEWWRR   OONN    LLIILLFFAAEENN  DD IIAANNNNSSDDTTII  SSTTUUTTRRTTIIOOOONNNNGGSS FFGGOOOORRAA  TTLLHHSSEE   ex a
n
11 22 33 44 55 66 77 88 99 1100 1111 1122 1133 1144 1155 1166 1177 d
 D
a
Australia •D •D •L •D •L •D •D •L •D •5 •5 •• •5 •5 •5 •D •5 shb
Austria •L •D •D •D •D •D •L •D •L •D •L •• •5 • • •D •L •D oa
Belgium •D •D •D •D •L •D •D •L •L •D •5 •• •p •5 •L •D •5 rds
Canada •L •D •L •L •D •5 •D •L •D •5 •5 •• •5 •D •5 •D •D
Chile •D •D •D •D •D •L •D •D •D •5 •D •• •5 •D •p •5 •L
Czech Republic •L •D •D •D •D •L •D •L •D •D •D •• •5 •• •L •D •D
Denmark •L •D •D •5 •L •D •L •D •L •L •D •• •D •D •L •D •L
   SDG achievement    Challenges remain    Significant challenges remain    Major challenges remain Estonia •D •D •D •L •D •D •L •D •D •D •L •• •5 •5 •L •L •D
Finland •L •D •D •L •D •L •L •L •L •L •5 •• •5 •5 •L •L •5
France •L •D •L •D •L •D •D •D •L •D •D •• •5 •D •D •D •D
Germany •D •D •D •D •5 •D •L •L •L •5 •D •• •5 •D •L •L •L
Greece •L •5 •D •D •D •L •L •L •D •D •D •• •5 •5 •D •D •5
Hungary •L •5 •D •5 •D •L •5 •L •D •D •D •• •p •• •L •5 •D
Iceland •L •D •L •D •D •D •L •L •L •L •D •• •p •5 •p •L •D
Ireland •L •D •D •D •D •D •L •L •D •D •D •• •5 •D •L •L •p
Israel •D •D •L •5 •5 •L •D •D •D •D •5 •• •5 •5 •5 •L •D
Italy •D •D •D •D •D •L •D •L •D •5 •5 •• •5 •5 •L •D •L
Japan •D •D •L •L •5 •L •D •L •L •p •L •• •5 •5 •D •L •D
Korea, Rep. •L •D •L •L •D •L •D •L •L •• •D •• •5 •5 •p •D •D
Latvia •D •5 •D •D •L •L •L •L •5 •5 •D •• •5 •5 •L •5 •p
Lithuania •D •5 •D •D •D •L •D •L •5 •p •D •• •p •D •L •L •5
Luxembourg •L •D •L •5 •5 •D •D •L •D •5 •D •• •5 •• •D •D •5
Mexico •D •D •D •D •D •D •D •5 •5 •5 •L •• •D •D •5 •5 •5
Netherlands •L •D •D •D •D •D •D •L •L •L •L •• •5 •D •L •L •5
New Zealand •L •D •D •D •L •L •L •L •D •• •D •• •5 •D •p •D •5
Norway •L •D •L •D •L •5 •L •L •D •L •L •• •5 •D •L •L •L
Poland •L •D •D •L •D •L •5 •L •D •5 •D •• •p •D •L •D •5
Portugal •L •D •D •D •L •L •L •L •D •5 •D •• •p •5 •D •D •5
Slovak Republic •L •5 •D •5 •D •D •5 •L •D •D •D •• •p •• •L •D •5
Slovenia •L •D •D •D •D •D •D •L •D •D •D •• •p •5 •L •L •D
Spain •D •D •L •D •D •L •D •L •D •5 •D •• •p •D •5 •L •D
Sweden •L •D •L •D •L •D •L •L •L •5 •D •• •5 •5 •L •L •L
Switzerland •L •D •L •D •D •D •L •L •L •p •L •• •5 •• •D •D •5
Turkey •D •D •D •D •5 •D •D •D •D •5 •5 •• •5 •5 •5 •p •5
United Kingdom •D •5 •D •D •D •D •L •L •L •p •D •• •D •D •D •D •L
United States •D •5 •D •D •D •L •D •L •L •5 •L •• •5 •5 •p •D •5
   SDG achievement    Challenges remain    Significant challenges remain    Major challenges remain
L On track D Moderately Increasing 5  Stagnating p  Decreasing •  Data not available
Note: Including OECD specific indicators.    Source: Authors’ analysis
41
Sustainable Development Report 2020      The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
2. The SDG Index and Dashboards
Figure 15 
2020 SDG dashboards (levels and trends) for Eastern Europe and Central Asia
DDEECCEENNTT   IINNDDUUSSTTRRYY,,   RREESSPPOONNSSIIBBLLEE PPEEAACCEE,,  
GGOOOODD  HHEEAALLTTHH CCLLEEAA  NN  WWAATTEERRAAFFFFOORRDDAABBLLEE   WWOORRKK  AANNDD   IINNNNOOVVAATTIIOONN SSUUSSTTAAIINN  AABBLLEE CCOONNSSUUMMPPTTIIOONN   LLIIFFEE   JJUUSSTTIICCEE PPAARRTTNNEERRSSHHIIPPSS
NNOO   ZZEERROO AANNDD   QQUUAALLIITTYY GGEENNDDEERR AANNDD   AANNDD  CCLLEEAANN   EECCOONNOOMMIICC   AANNDD   RREEDDUUCCEEDD CCIITTIIEESS  AANNDD   AANNDD   CCLLIIMMAATTEE BBEELLOOWW   LLIIFFEE   AANNDD  SSTTRROONNGG FFOORR  TTHHEE  
PPOOVVEERRTTYY HHUUNNGGEERR WWEELLLL--BBEEIINNGG EEDDUUCCAATTIIOONN EEQQUUAALLIITTYY SSAANNIITTAATTIIOONN EENNEERRGGYY GGRROOWWTTHH IINNFFRRAASSTTRRUUCCTTUURREEIINNEEQQUUAALLIITTIIEESSCCOOMMMMUUNNIITTIIEESS PPRROODDUUCCTTIIOONN AACCTTIIOONN WWAATTEERR OONN     LLAANNDD IINNSSTTIITTUUTTIIOONNSS GGOOAALLSS
11 22 33 44 55 66 77 88 99 1100 1111 1122 1133 1144 1155 1166 1177
Afghanistan •• •5 •D •L •5 •D •D •D •5 •• •5 •• •L •• •p •5 •D Antigua and Barbuda •• •5 •D •L •D •5 •L •• •D •• •• •• •5 •p •5 •• ••
Albania •L •5 •D •D •D •D •L •D •D •• •5 •• •L •5 •D •D •D Argentina •D •D •D •5 •L •D •L •5 •5 •• •D •• •D •D •5 •D •5
Andorra •• •D •• •• •L •D •L •• •D •• •L •• •5 •• •D •L •L The Bahamas •• •D •D •p •D •L •L •D •D •• •• •• •5 •5 •p •• ••
Armenia •L •5 •D •D •D •L •L •D •D •• •5 •• •L •• •5 •D •5 Barbados •5 •D •D •L •D •L •L •D •D •• •• •• •5 •5 •D •5 •p
Azerbaijan •L •D •D •p •5 •L •D •5 •5 •• •D •• •D •• •5 •D •D Belize •p •D •D •p •D •D •L •L •D •• •D •• •L •5 •p •5 •L
Belarus •L •D •L •L •L •D •D •L •D •• •5 •• •D •• •D •D •L Bolivia •5 •5 •D •5 •D •D •5 •L •D •• •D •• •L •• •5 •5 ••
Bosnia and Herzegovina •L •D •D •• •5 •D •D •L •5 •• •5 •• •D •• •D •D •L Brazil •5 •D •D •L •D •L •L •5 •5 •• •D •• •L •5 •5 •5 •L
Bulgaria •L •D •D •p •D •D •D •L •D •• •D •• •5 •D •L •D •L Colombia •D •D •D •D •D •L •L •D •D •• •D •• •L •L •D •5 •p
Croatia •L •D •D •p •D •L •D •L •D •• •5 •• •5 •D •L •D •• Costa Rica •L •5 •D •L •D •L •L •D •D •• •L •• •D •D •p •D •D
Cyprus •L •D •L •L •D •D •D •L •D •• •D •• •5 •D •L •D •p Cuba •• •5 •D •L •D •D •L •L •D •• •5 •• •D •5 •5 •5 ••
Georgia •D •5 •D •5 •D •D •L •D •D •• •5 •• •D •5 •5 •L •D Dominica •• •5 •5 •• •• •• •L •• •D •• •• •• •L •5 •p •• ••
Kazakhstan •L •D •L •D •D •L •D •D •D •• •5 •• •D •• •5 •D •p Dominican Republic •L •D •D •L •L •D •D •D •D •• •5 •• •L •D •D •5 •5
Kyrgyz Republic •L •D •D •D •5 •D •L •L •D •• •5 •• •L •• •5 •D •p Ecuador •D •D •D •D •D •L •L •D •D •• •L •• •L •L •5 •D •p
Liechtenstein •• •• •• •L •• •L •• •• •L •• •• •• •D •• •L •L •• El Salvador •L •D •D •p •5 •D •D •D •5 •• •D •• •L •5 •5 •5 •D
Malta •L •D •D •L •D •D •L •L •D •• •D •• •5 •D •D •D •D Grenada •• •p •D •L •L •5 •L •• •D •• •• •• •5 •• •p •• ••
Moldova •L •5 •D •5 •D •D •D •D •5 •• •D •• •L •• •5 •D •D Guatemala •D •5 •D •5 •D •D •5 •D •5 •• •D •• •L •D •5 •D •p
Monaco •• •• •• •• •• •D •L •• •L •• •• •• •D •• •• •• •p Guyana •L •D •D •• •D •D •L •p •5 •• •5 •• •p •D •L •L •5
Montenegro •L •5 •D •L •D •L •D •D •5 •• •5 •• •5 •5 •p •D •• Haiti •5 •5 •5 •• •5 •5 •5 •D •D •• •5 •• •L •5 •p •5 •p
North Macedonia •D •D •D •L •5 •D •D •L •5 •• •5 •• •5 •• •D •D •D Honduras •5 •5 •D •5 •D •L •5 •L •D •• •L •• •L •5 •5 •5 •L
Romania •L •D •D •p •D •D •D •D •D •• •5 •• •5 •D •L •D •p Jamaica •D •5 •D •p •D •D •D •L •5 •• •5 •• •5 •p •p •5 •D
Russian Federation •L •5 •D •L •D •D •D •L •D •• •D •• •D •5 •5 •D •5 Nicaragua •p •5 •D •• •D •D •D •D •D •• •D •• •L •L •D •5 •D
San Marino •• •• •• •• •• •D •L •• •L •• •• •• •5 •• •• •• •• Panama •L •D •D •p •D •L •L •D •D •• •L •• •5 •D •p •D ••
Serbia •L •D •D •5 •D •D •D •D •D •• •5 •• •5 •• •5 •D •p Paraguay •L •D •D •• •D •L •D •L •D •• •D •• •L •• •5 •5 •5
Tajikistan •L •5 •D •L •5 •L •L •D •5 •• •5 •• •L •• •5 •5 •L Peru •D •5 •D •L •D •D •L •L •5 •• •D •• •5 •D •p •5 •5
Turkmenistan •D •5 •D •• •5 •L •D •L •5 •• •5 •• •5 •• •5 •5 •• St. Kitts and Nevis •• •5 •• •p •• •• •L •• •D •• •• •• •5 •• •p •• ••
Ukraine •L •D •D •• •D •D •L •D •5 •• •p •• •L •5 •5 •D •5 St. Lucia •D •5 •5 •5 •D •D •L •• •D •• •D •• •5 •• •p •p •D
Uzbekistan •L •5 •D •D •D •L •L •5 •D •• •5 •• •D •• •5 •D •p St. Vincent and the Grenadines •• •5 •D •L •D •5 •L •• •5 •• •• •• •L •D •p •• •5
Suriname •p •D •D •p •D •D •D •D •5 •• •5 •• •5 •D •D •D ••
   SDG achievement    Challenges remain    Significant challenges remain    Major challenges remain Trinidad and Tobago •L •5 •D •• •D •D •L •L •D •• •5 •• •5 •p •p •5 ••
L On track D Moderately Increasing 5  Stagnating p  Decreasing •  Data not available Uruguay •L •D •D •L •D •L •L •D •D •• •L •• •5 •D •p •5 ••
Venezuela, RB •p •5 •5 •p •D •5 •L •D •5 •• •5 •• •D •5 •D •5 ••
Source: Authors’ analysis
42
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
2.4 The SDG dashboards
Figure 16  2
. T
2020 SDG dashboards (levels and trends) for Latin America and the Caribbean h
e
 S
D
G
GGOOOODD  HHEEAALLTTHH CCLLEEAA  NN  WWAATTEERRAAFFFFOORRDDAABBLLEE   WWDDOOEERRCCKKEE  AANNTTNN  DD   IINNIINNNNDDOOUUVVSSAATTTTRRIIOOYYNN,,   SSUUSSTTAAIINN  AABBLLEE RRCCOOEESSNNPPSSUUOOMMNNPPSSTTIIBBIIOOLLNNEE   LLIIFFEE   JJPPUUEESSAATTCCIICCEE,,EE   PPAARRTTNNEERRSSHHIIPPSS  Ind
PPOOVVNNEEOORR  TTYY HHUUZZEENNRRGGOOEERR WWEELLAALL--NNBBDDEE  IINNGG EEDDQQUUUUCCAAAALLIITTTTIIYYOONN EEGGQQEEUUNNAADDLLEEIITTRRYY SSAANNAAIITTNNAADDTT  IIOONN AANNEEDDNN  EECCRRLLGGEEYYAANN   EEGGCCRROOOONNWWOOMMTTHHIICC   IINNFFRRAASSAATTNNRRDDUUCC  TTUURREEIINNEERRQQEEDDUUUUAACCLLIIEETTDDIIEESSCCCCOOIIMMTTIIMMEEUUSS  NNAAIITTNNIIDDEE  SS PPRROODDAAUUNNCCDDTT  IIOONN CCAALLCCIIMMTTIIAAOOTTNNEE BBWWEEAALLTTOOEEWWRR   OONN    LLIILLFFAAEENN  DD IIAANNNNSSDDTTII  SSTTUUTTRRTTIIOOOONNNNGGSS FFGGOOOORRAA  TTLLHHSSEE   ex a
n
11 22 33 44 55 66 77 88 99 1100 1111 1122 1133 1144 1155 1166 1177 d
 D
a
Antigua and Barbuda •• •5 •D •L •D •5 •L •• •D •• •• •• •5 •p •5 •• •• shb
Argentina •D •D •D •5 •L •D •L •5 •5 •• •D •• •D •D •5 •D •5 oa
The Bahamas •• •D •D •p •D •L •L •D •D •• •• •• •5 •5 •p •• •• rds
Barbados •5 •D •D •L •D •L •L •D •D •• •• •• •5 •5 •D •5 •p
Belize •p •D •D •p •D •D •L •L •D •• •D •• •L •5 •p •5 •L
Bolivia •5 •5 •D •5 •D •D •5 •L •D •• •D •• •L •• •5 •5 ••
Brazil •5 •D •D •L •D •L •L •5 •5 •• •D •• •L •5 •5 •5 •L
Colombia •D •D •D •D •D •L •L •D •D •• •D •• •L •L •D •5 •p
Costa Rica •L •5 •D •L •D •L •L •D •D •• •L •• •D •D •p •D •D
Cuba •• •5 •D •L •D •D •L •L •D •• •5 •• •D •5 •5 •5 ••
Dominica •• •5 •5 •• •• •• •L •• •D •• •• •• •L •5 •p •• ••
Dominican Republic •L •D •D •L •L •D •D •D •D •• •5 •• •L •D •D •5 •5
Ecuador •D •D •D •D •D •L •L •D •D •• •L •• •L •L •5 •D •p
El Salvador •L •D •D •p •5 •D •D •D •5 •• •D •• •L •5 •5 •5 •D
Grenada •• •p •D •L •L •5 •L •• •D •• •• •• •5 •• •p •• ••
Guatemala •D •5 •D •5 •D •D •5 •D •5 •• •D •• •L •D •5 •D •p
Guyana •L •D •D •• •D •D •L •p •5 •• •5 •• •p •D •L •L •5
Haiti •5 •5 •5 •• •5 •5 •5 •D •D •• •5 •• •L •5 •p •5 •p
Honduras •5 •5 •D •5 •D •L •5 •L •D •• •L •• •L •5 •5 •5 •L
Jamaica •D •5 •D •p •D •D •D •L •5 •• •5 •• •5 •p •p •5 •D
Nicaragua •p •5 •D •• •D •D •D •D •D •• •D •• •L •L •D •5 •D
Panama •L •D •D •p •D •L •L •D •D •• •L •• •5 •D •p •D ••
Paraguay •L •D •D •• •D •L •D •L •D •• •D •• •L •• •5 •5 •5
Peru •D •5 •D •L •D •D •L •L •5 •• •D •• •5 •D •p •5 •5
St. Kitts and Nevis •• •5 •• •p •• •• •L •• •D •• •• •• •5 •• •p •• ••
St. Lucia •D •5 •5 •5 •D •D •L •• •D •• •D •• •5 •• •p •p •D
St. Vincent and the Grenadines •• •5 •D •L •D •5 •L •• •5 •• •• •• •L •D •p •• •5
Suriname •p •D •D •p •D •D •D •D •5 •• •5 •• •5 •D •D •D ••
   SDG achievement    Challenges remain    Significant challenges remain    Major challenges remain Trinidad and Tobago •L •5 •D •• •D •D •L •L •D •• •5 •• •5 •p •p •5 ••
Uruguay •L •D •D •L •D •L •L •D •D •• •L •• •5 •D •p •5 ••
Venezuela, RB •p •5 •5 •p •D •5 •L •D •5 •• •5 •• •D •5 •D •5 ••
   SDG achievement    Challenges remain    Significant challenges remain    Major challenges remain
L On track D Moderately Increasing 5  Stagnating p  Decreasing •  Data not available
Source: Authors’ analysis
43
Sustainable Development Report 2020      The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
2. The SDG Index and Dashboards
Figure 17 
2020 SDG dashboards (levels and trends) for the Middle East and North Africa 
GGOOOODD  HHEEAALLTTHH CCLLEEAA  NN  WWAATTEERRAAFFFFOORRDDAABBLLEE   WWDDOOEERRCCKKEE  AANNTTNN  DD   IINNIINNNNDDOOUUVVSSAATTTTRRIIOOYYNN,,   SSUUSSTTAAIINN  AABBLLEE RRCCOOEESSNNPPSSUUOOMMNNPPSSTTIIBBIIOOLLNNEE   LLIIFFEE   JJPPUUEESSAATTCCIICCEE,,EE   PPAARRTTNNEERRSSHHIIPPSS Angola •p •D •D •• •5 •D •D •D •5 •• •5 •• •L •5 •5 •D •p
PPOOVVNNEEOORR  TTYY HHUUZZEENNRRGGOOEERR WWEELLAALL--NNBBDDEE  IINNGG EEDDQQUUUUCCAAAALLIITTTTIIYYOONN EEGGQQEEUUNNAADDLLEEIITTRRYY SSAANNAAIITTNNAADDTT  IIOONN AANNEEDDNN  EECCRRLLGGEEYYAANN   EEGGCCRROOOONNWWOOMMTTHHIICC   IINNFFRRAASSAATTNNRRDDUUCC  TTUURREEIINNEERRQQEEDDUUUUAACCLLIIEETTDDIIEESSCCCCOOIIMMTTIIMMEEUUSS  NNAAIITTNNIIDDEE  SS PPRROODDAAUUNNCCDDTT  IIOONN CCAALLCCIIMMTTIIAAOOTTNNEE BBWWEEAALLTTOOEEWWRR   OONN    LLIILLFFAAEENN  DD IIAANNNNSSDDTTII  SSTTUUTTRRTTIIOOOONNNNGGSS FFGGOOOORRAA  TTLLHHSSEE   Benin •5 •D •5 •L •5 •5 •5 •L •D •• •5 •• •L •5 •L •D •p
11 22 33 44 55 66 77 88 99 1100 1111 1122 1133 1144 1155 1166 1177 Botswana •D •5 •D •• •D •L •D •5 •D •• •5 •• •5 •• •D •D •p
Burkina Faso •5 •D •5 •L •5 •5 •5 •D •D •• •5 •• •L •• •L •D •5
Algeria •L •5 •D •L •5 •D •L •5 •D •• •5 •• •D •p •D •5 •• Burundi •p •5 •D •p •5 •5 •5 •L •5 •• •D •• •L •• •L •5 •p
Bahrain •• •5 •L •L •5 •D •L •L •D •• •p •• •L •5 •p •5 •• Cabo Verde •D •5 •D •p •D •D •D •5 •5 •• •D •• •L •D •D •D •D
Egypt, Arab Rep. •L •D •D •L •5 •L •D •L •5 •• •D •• •5 •D •5 •5 •• Cameroon •5 •5 •5 •L •D •5 •D •L •D •• •p •• •L •D •5 •5 •p
Iran, Islamic Rep. •5 •D •D •L •D •5 •D •D •L •• •5 •• •D •D •p •5 •L Central African Republic •5 •5 •5 •• •5 •5 •5 •L •p •• •p •• •L •• •L •p •L
Iraq •D •D •D •• •5 •L •L •D •D •• •5 •• •D •5 •p •D •p Chad •p •5 •5 •p •5 •5 •5 •D •5 •• •5 •• •L •• •L •5 ••
Jordan •D •D •D •5 •5 •L •L •D •L •• •5 •• •L •• •5 •D •p Comoros •5 •5 •D •p •D •5 •D •L •5 •• •5 •• •L •5 •p •5 •5
Kuwait •• •5 •D •5 •5 •D •D •L •D •• •D •• •5 •p •5 •p •• Congo, Rep. •p •5 •D •• •5 •D •D •D •5 •• •5 •• •L •5 •L •p •5
Lebanon •L •5 •D •5 •5 •D •D •5 •D •• •p •• •L •5 •5 •5 •p Côte d'Ivoire •D •D •D •L •5 •5 •D •D •D •• •5 •• •L •5 •D •D •D
Libya •• •5 •5 •• •5 •L •5 •D •5 •• •p •• •D •p •D •5 •• Dem. Rep.Congo, •5 •5 •5 •• •D •5 •5 •D •5 •• •5 •• •L •• •D •p •5
Morocco •L •D •D •5 •D •L •D •D •D •• •p •• •L •5 •D •5 •p Djibouti •D •5 •D •5 •D •D •5 •D •D •• •D •• •L •5 •p •5 ••
Oman •• •5 •D •5 •5 •D •L •D •D •• •5 •• •D •5 •5 •D •• Equatorial Guinea •• •D •5 •• •5 •5 •5 •5 •5 •• •p •• •• •5 •5 •D •p
Qatar •• •5 •D •D •5 •D •L •L •L •• •p •• •5 •5 •p •5 •• Eritrea •• •5 •D •p •5 •5 •5 •L •5 •• •p •• •L •5 •5 •• ••
Saudi Arabia •• •D •D •5 •5 •D •D •D •D •• •D •• •D •D •5 •5 •• Eswatini •5 •5 •D •D •5 •5 •D •D •5 •• •D •• •D •• •5 •5 •p
Syrian Arab Republic •• •5 •D •• •5 •D •5 •D •D •• •p •• •5 •5 •5 •5 •• Ethiopia •L •D •D •• •5 •5 •D •L •D •• •5 •• •L •• •5 •D •5
Tunisia •L •5 •D •L •5 •L •D •D •5 •• •5 •• •L •5 •5 •5 •L Gabon •D •5 •5 •• •5 •5 •L •D •D •• •5 •• •L •5 •L •p •p
United Arab Emirates •• •5 •D •L •D •D •D •L •L •• •5 •• •p •L •5 •D •L  The Gambia •D •5 •5 •L •D •5 •5 •D •5 •• •p •• •L •D •D •L •p
Yemen, Rep. •• •5 •5 •p •5 •D •D •D •5 •• •5 •• •L •D •5 •5 •• Ghana •D •D •D •D •D •D •D •L •D •• •5 •• •L •D •5 •5 •p
Guinea •D •5 •D •p •5 •5 •5 •L •5 •• •5 •• •L •D •D •5 •5
   SDG achievement    Challenges remain    Significant challenges remain    Major challenges remain Guinea-Bissau •D •D •5 •• •5 •5 •5 •L •5 •• •p •• •L •5 •L •D ••
L On track D Moderately Increasing 5  Stagnating p  Decreasing •  Data not available Kenya •D •5 •D •• •D •5 •D •L •D •• •5 •• •L •5 •p •5 •5
Source: Authors’ analysis Lesotho •5 •D •5 •D •D •D •5 •D •5 •• •D •• •L •• •D •5 •L
Liberia •5 •D •D •D •D •5 •5 •L •5 •• •p •• •L •D •5 •5 ••
Figure 18  Madagascar •5 •5 •5 •p •D •5 •5 •D •5 •• •D •• •L •5 •5 •5 •D
2020 SDG dashboards (levels and trends) for Oceania Malawi •5 •D •D •• •D •D •5 •D •5 •• •5 •• •L •• •5 •D •5
Mali •D •5 •5 •p •5 •D •5 •D •5 •• •D •• •L •• •5 •5 •D
GGOOOODD  HHEEAALLTTHH CCLLEEAA  NN  WWAATTEERRAAFFFFOORRDDAABBLLEE   WWDDOOEERRCCKKEE  AANNTTNN  DD   IINNIINNNNDDOOUUVVSSAATTTTRRIIOOYYNN,,   SSUUSSTTAAIINN  AABBLLEE RRCCOOEESSNNPPSSUUOOMMNNPPSSTTIIBBIIOOLLNNEE   LLIIFFEE   JJPPUUEESSAATTCCIICCEE,,EE   PPAARRTTNNEERRSSHHIIPPSS Mauritania •L •p •5 •D •5 •D •5 •5 •5 •• •5 •• •L •D •D •5 •p
PPOOVVNNEEOORR  TTYY HHUUZZEENNRRGGOOEERR WWEELLAALL--NNBBDDEE  IINNGG EEDDQQUUUUCCAAAALLIITTTTIIYYOONN EEGGQQEEUUNNAADDLLEEIITTRRYY SSAANNAAIITTNNAADDTT  IIOONN AANNEEDDNN  EECCRRLLGGEEYYAANN   EEGGCCRROOOONNWWOOMMTTHHIICC   IINNFFRRAASSAATTNNRRDDUUCC  TTUURREEIINNEERRQQEEDDUUUUAACCLLIIEETTDDIIEESSCCCCOOIIMMTTIIMMEEUUSS  NNAAIITTNNIIDDEE  SS PPRROODDAAUUNNCCDDTT  IIOONN CCAALLCCIIMMTTIIAAOOTTNNEE BBWWEEAALLTTOOEEWWRR   OONN    LLIILLFFAAEENN  DD IIAANNNNSSDDTTII  SSTTUUTTRRTTIIOOOONNNNGGSS FFGGOOOORRAA  TTLLHHSSEE   Mauritius •L •D •D •D •D •D •D •D •D •• •D •• •5 •p •p •5 •D
11 22 33 44 55 66 77 88 99 1100 1111 1122 1133 1144 1155 1166 1177 Mozambique •5 •D •D •D •D •D •5 •L •p •• •D •• •L •D •5 •5 •5
Namibia •5 •5 •D •L •L •5 •5 •D •D •• •5 •• •D •D •L •5 •L
Fiji •L •D •5 •p •5 •D •D •L •D •• •D •• •D •D •p •• •L Niger •5 •5 •D •5 •D •5 •5 •D •5 •• •5 •• •L •• •5 •5 •p
Kiribati •• •5 •D •p •5 •D •D •• •5 •• •• •• •• •5 •• •• •L Nigeria •p •5 •5 •• •5 •D •5 •5 •D •• •5 •• •L •5 •D •p ••
Marshall Islands •• •• •• •5 •5 •D •D •• •5 •• •5 •• •• •5 •• •• •L Rwanda •5 •5 •D •5 •D •D •5 •L •D •• •5 •• •L •• •5 •5 •5
Micronesia, Fed. Sts. •• •• •D •• •• •D •D •• •5 •• •• •• •L •5 •p •• •L São Tomé and Príncipe •D •D •D •D •5 •D •5 •D •5 •• •D •• •L •D •5 •5 •p
Nauru •• •p •• •p •5 •D •L •• •5 •• •• •• •5 •5 •• •• •• Senegal •D •D •D •5 •5 •D •5 •D •D •• •5 •• •L •D •L •5 •p
Palau •• •p •• •• •• •L •L •• •D •• •• •• •• •• •• •• •• Seychelles •• •5 •D •5 •• •5 •L •• •D •• •• •• •D •D •p •L •L
Papua New Guinea •5 •5 •5 •• •5 •5 •D •L •5 •• •5 •• •L •5 •p •5 •p Sierra Leone •5 •D •5 •D •5 •D •5 •D •5 •• •p •• •L •5 •L •5 •L
Samoa •L •5 •D •5 •5 •L •5 •D •D •• •D •• •L •5 •D •L •L Somalia •5 •5 •5 •• •D •D •5 •D •5 •• •D •• •L •5 •p •5 ••
Solomon Islands •5 •5 •D •p •5 •p •D •• •5 •• •5 •• •L •5 •p •5 •L South Africa •5 •D •D •L •D •D •D •5 •D •• •5 •• •D •5 •5 •5 •L
Tonga •L •5 •D •• •5 •D •D •• •D •• •L •• •L •5 •• •L •L South Sudan •p •D •5 •• •5 •5 •5 •D •5 •• •p •• •L •• •D •p ••
Tuvalu •• •p •• •p •p •5 •D •• •5 •• •• •• •L •• •• •• •• Sudan •p •5 •D •D •5 •D •D •D •5 •• •5 •• •L •D •D •5 •p
Vanuatu •D •5 •D •• •5 •D •D •L •D •• •5 •• •L •5 •p •L •L Tanzania •5 •D •D •p •D •D •D •D •5 •• •5 •• •L •D •5 •D •5
Togo •5 •5 •5 •5 •5 •D •D •L •D •• •p •• •L •p •D •5 •5
Uganda •5 •5 •D •p •D •5 •5 •L •D •• •p •• •L •• •D •5 •5
Zambia •5 •5 •D •p •D •5 •D •D •5 •• •5 •• •L •• •5 •p •p
Zimbabwe •• •5 •D •• •D •5 •5 •L •5 •• •p •• •L •• •D •p •p
44
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
Figure 19 
2020 SDG dashboards (levels and trends) for Sub-Saharan Africa
DDEECCEENNTT   IINNDDUUSSTTRRYY,,   RREESSPPOONNSSIIBBLLEE PPEEAACCEE,,  
GGOOOODD  HHEEAALLTTHH CCLLEEAA  NN  WWAATTEERRAAFFFFOORRDDAABBLLEE   WWOORRKK  AANNDD   IINNNNOOVVAATTIIOONN SSUUSSTTAAIINN  AABBLLEE CCOONNSSUUMMPPTTIIOONN   LLIIFFEE   JJUUSSTTIICCEE PPAARRTTNNEERRSSHHIIPPSS
NNOO   ZZEERROO AANNDD   QQUUAALLIITTYY GGEENNDDEERR AANNDD   AANNDD  CCLLEEAANN   EECCOONNOOMMIICC   AANNDD   RREEDDUUCCEEDD CCIITTIIEESS  AANNDD   AANNDD   CCLLIIMMAATTEE BBEELLOOWW   LLIIFFEE   AANNDD  SSTTRROONNGG FFOORR  TTHHEE  
PPOOVVEERRTTYY HHUUNNGGEERR WWEELLLL--BBEEIINNGG EEDDUUCCAATTIIOONN EEQQUUAALLIITTYY SSAANNIITTAATTIIOONN EENNEERRGGYY GGRROOWWTTHH IINNFFRRAASSTTRRUUCCTTUURREEIINNEEQQUUAALLIITTIIEESSCCOOMMMMUUNNIITTIIEESS PPRROODDUUCCTTIIOONN AACCTTIIOONN WWAATTEERR OONN     LLAANNDD IINNSSTTIITTUUTTIIOONNSS GGOOAALLSS
11 22 33 44 55 66 77 88 99 1100 1111 1122 1133 1144 1155 1166 1177
Angola •p •D •D •• •5 •D •D •D •5 •• •5 •• •L •5 •5 •D •p
Benin •5 •D •5 •L •5 •5 •5 •L •D •• •5 •• •L •5 •L •D •p
Botswana •D •5 •D •• •D •L •D •5 •D •• •5 •• •5 •• •D •D •p
Burkina Faso •5 •D •5 •L •5 •5 •5 •D •D •• •5 •• •L •• •L •D •5 2
Burundi •p •5 •D •p •5 •5 •5 •L •5 •• •D •• •L •• •L •5 •p . Th
Cabo Verde •D •5 •D •p •D •D •D •5 •5 •• •D •• •L •D •D •D •D e SD
Central AfricanC aRmepeurobolinc ••55 ••55 ••55 ••L• ••5D ••55 ••5D ••LL ••Dp •••• ••pp •••• ••LL ••D• ••5L ••5p ••pL G Ind
e
Chad •p •5 •5 •p •5 •5 •5 •D •5 •• •5 •• •L •• •L •5 •• x a
Comoros •5 •5 •D •p •D •5 •D •L •5 •• •5 •• •L •5 •p •5 •5 nd
Congo, Rep. •p •5 •D •• •5 •D •D •D •5 •• •5 •• •L •5 •L •p •5  Da
s
Côte d'Ivoire •D •D •D •L •5 •5 •D •D •D •• •5 •• •L •5 •D •D •D hb
Dem. Rep.Congo, •5 •5 •5 •• •D •5 •5 •D •5 •• •5 •• •L •• •D •p •5 oar
Djibouti •D •5 •D •5 •D •D •5 •D •D •• •D •• •L •5 •p •5 •• ds
Equatorial Guinea •• •D •5 •• •5 •5 •5 •5 •5 •• •p •• •• •5 •5 •D •p
Eritrea •• •5 •D •p •5 •5 •5 •L •5 •• •p •• •L •5 •5 •• ••
Eswatini •5 •5 •D •D •5 •5 •D •D •5 •• •D •• •D •• •5 •5 •p
Ethiopia •L •D •D •• •5 •5 •D •L •D •• •5 •• •L •• •5 •D •5
Gabon •D •5 •5 •• •5 •5 •L •D •D •• •5 •• •L •5 •L •p •p
 The Gambia •D •5 •5 •L •D •5 •5 •D •5 •• •p •• •L •D •D •L •p
Ghana •D •D •D •D •D •D •D •L •D •• •5 •• •L •D •5 •5 •p
Guinea •D •5 •D •p •5 •5 •5 •L •5 •• •5 •• •L •D •D •5 •5
   SDG achievement    Challenges remain    Significant challenges remain    Major challenges remain Guinea-Bissau •D •D •5 •• •5 •5 •5 •L •5 •• •p •• •L •5 •L •D ••
Kenya •D •5 •D •• •D •5 •D •L •D •• •5 •• •L •5 •p •5 •5
Lesotho •5 •D •5 •D •D •D •5 •D •5 •• •D •• •L •• •D •5 •L
Liberia •5 •D •D •D •D •5 •5 •L •5 •• •p •• •L •D •5 •5 ••
Madagascar •5 •5 •5 •p •D •5 •5 •D •5 •• •D •• •L •5 •5 •5 •D
Malawi •5 •D •D •• •D •D •5 •D •5 •• •5 •• •L •• •5 •D •5
Mali •D •5 •5 •p •5 •D •5 •D •5 •• •D •• •L •• •5 •5 •D
Mauritania •L •p •5 •D •5 •D •5 •5 •5 •• •5 •• •L •D •D •5 •p
Mauritius •L •D •D •D •D •D •D •D •D •• •D •• •5 •p •p •5 •D
Mozambique •5 •D •D •D •D •D •5 •L •p •• •D •• •L •D •5 •5 •5
Namibia •5 •5 •D •L •L •5 •5 •D •D •• •5 •• •D •D •L •5 •L
Niger •5 •5 •D •5 •D •5 •5 •D •5 •• •5 •• •L •• •5 •5 •p
Nigeria •p •5 •5 •• •5 •D •5 •5 •D •• •5 •• •L •5 •D •p ••
Rwanda •5 •5 •D •5 •D •D •5 •L •D •• •5 •• •L •• •5 •5 •5
São Tomé and Príncipe •D •D •D •D •5 •D •5 •D •5 •• •D •• •L •D •5 •5 •p
Senegal •D •D •D •5 •5 •D •5 •D •D •• •5 •• •L •D •L •5 •p
Seychelles •• •5 •D •5 •• •5 •L •• •D •• •• •• •D •D •p •L •L
Sierra Leone •5 •D •5 •D •5 •D •5 •D •5 •• •p •• •L •5 •L •5 •L
Somalia •5 •5 •5 •• •D •D •5 •D •5 •• •D •• •L •5 •p •5 ••
South Africa •5 •D •D •L •D •D •D •5 •D •• •5 •• •D •5 •5 •5 •L
South Sudan •p •D •5 •• •5 •5 •5 •D •5 •• •p •• •L •• •D •p ••
Sudan •p •5 •D •D •5 •D •D •D •5 •• •5 •• •L •D •D •5 •p
Tanzania •5 •D •D •p •D •D •D •D •5 •• •5 •• •L •D •5 •D •5
Togo •5 •5 •5 •5 •5 •D •D •L •D •• •p •• •L •p •D •5 •5
Uganda •5 •5 •D •p •D •5 •5 •L •D •• •p •• •L •• •D •5 •5
Zambia •5 •5 •D •p •D •5 •D •D •5 •• •5 •• •L •• •5 •p •p
Zimbabwe •• •5 •D •• •D •5 •5 •L •5 •• •p •• •L •• •D •p •p
   SDG achievement    Challenges remain    Significant challenges remain    Major challenges remain
L On track D Moderately Increasing 5  Stagnating p  Decreasing •  Data not available
Source: Authors’ analysis
45
Sustainable Development Report 2020      The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
2. The SDG Index and Dashboards
2.5 Absolute SDG performance gaps in G20 countries
G20 countries comprise two-thirds of the world’s  to 2 tonnes of CO per capita per year (equivalent to a 
2
population and account for 85% of global gross domestic  total reduction of 69.2% from current levels), the world 
product and over 75% of global trade. They also generate  would be 31% closer to achieving the SDG target on 
80% of global energy-related carbon-dioxide emissions.  CO emissions. Similarly, India alone represents 23.8% of 
2
Table 3 illustrates the importance of G20 countries by  the total achievement gap on SDG 2 (Zero Hunger).3 If 
showing estimated absolute SDG performance gaps (in %)  India eradicated undernourishment (currently 14.5% of 
for each Goal to complement the per-capita analyses in  the Indian population) the world would be 27.4% closer 
the SDG Index and Dashboards.  to achieving the SDG target on undernourishment. 
The European Union also generates negative spillovers, 
Absolute SDG performance gaps emphasize the  in particular through trade and consumption, which 
importance of the G20 countries in the post-Covid-19  undermine other countries’ abilities to achieve the SDGs. 
recovery. Apart from SDG 1 (No Poverty) and SDG 4 
(Quality Education), for which sub-Saharan Africa  As G20 countries design recovery plans, it will be 
accounts for most of the achievement gap, the G20  important to maintain the commitments, efforts, and 
countries represent close to or more than 50% of the  momentum for sustainable development if we are to 
total performance gap for each Goal. A lack of action  avoid major setbacks on SDG 7 (Affordable and Clean 
and commitments from the G20 countries would make  Energy) and SDGs 12 to 15 on climate and biodiversity. 
it impossible to achieve the SDGs, depriving large shares  The G20 countries can also play a pivotal role in 
of the world’s population from achieving sustainable  promoting sustainable supply chains by focusing on 
development and improved living conditions. deforestation and other environmental damage. This will 
help to achieve the SDGs and reduce risks of zoonotic 
Due to their large populations, China and India account  diseases and future pandemics.
for the largest shares of global SDG performance gaps. 
For example: China, the United States, and the European 
Union together represent close to 50% of the global 
performance gap on Goal 13 (Climate Action).2 Focusing 
on just one of the underlying metrics – energy-related CO 
2
emissions – we see that if China was to reduce emissions 
3. SDG 2 (Zero Hunger) is measured using seven indicators: prevalence 
of undernourishment, prevalence of stunting, prevalence of wasting, 
prevalence of obesity, human trophic level, cereal yield, and sustainable 
2. SDG 13 (Climate Action) is measured using three indicators: energy- nitrogen management. The full title of SDG 2 is “End hunger, achieve 
related CO emissions per capita, imported CO emissions, and CO  food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable 
2 2 2
emissions embodied in fossil-fuel exports.  agriculture.” 
46
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
2.5 Absolute SDG performance gaps in G20 countries
Table 3  2
. T
Absolute SDG performance gaps in 2020 (%) h
e
 S
D
G
Country SDG1 SDG2 SDG3 SDG4 SDG5 SDG6 SDG7 SDG8 SDG9 SDG10 SDG11 SDG12 SDG13 SDG14 SDG15 SDG16 SDG17Spillovers  In
d
e
Argentina 0.1 0.5 0.3 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.2 0.8 0.7 0.7 0.2 0.8 0.7 0.7 0.6 0.6 0.4 0.4 x
 a
n
Australia 0.0 0.3 0.0 0.0 0.2 0.0 0.1 0.3 0.1 0.2 0.2 1.2 2.5 0.4 0.3 0.1 0.3 1.4 d D
a
Brazil 1.8 2.2 1.8 2.3 2.0 1.1 0.6 3.3 2.3 4.6 1.7 3.6 1.4 2.0 2.9 3.3 1.5 0.9 sh
b
o
Canada 0.0 0.4 0.1 0.0 0.2 0.2 0.1 0.3 0.2 0.2 0.2 1.5 2.1 0.5 0.5 0.2 0.4 2.2 a
r
d
s
China 1.8 10.5 11.7 5.4 10.7 17.2 20.1 10.3 10.5 16.0 13.5 13.7 17.2 23.2 18.7 18.2 22.8 12.4
Germany 0.0 0.8 0.2 0.1 0.6 0.5 0.3 0.7 0.2 0.4 0.4 3.3 3.7 1.3 0.6 0.5 0.5 5.3
France 0.0 0.6 0.2 0.0 0.3 0.3 0.1 0.8 0.2 0.3 0.3 2.3 2.0 0.7 0.6 0.6 0.6 4.7
United Kingdom 0.0 0.7 0.2 0.1 0.3 0.2 0.2 0.7 0.2 0.5 0.2 2.6 3.2 0.8 0.5 0.4 0.9 4.8
Indonesia 4.1 3.7 4.1 1.8 3.2 3.5 3.3 3.8 4.3 5.1 3.6 2.7 2.2 3.6 4.9 2.6 4.2 1.0
India 21.8 23.8 24.5 17.3 29.2 23.1 19.7 14.0 21.5 17.6 27.2 8.8 5.2 16.6 22.0 18.7 20.8 2.5
Italy 0.1 0.6 0.2 0.1 0.5 0.4 0.2 0.7 0.3 0.6 0.7 1.9 1.5 1.0 0.4 0.5 0.7 2.8
Japan 0.1 1.0 0.3 0.0 1.6 0.7 0.4 0.9 0.3 0.8 1.2 3.3 4.7 2.0 1.4 0.4 1.2 6.3
Korea, Rep. 0.0 0.3 0.2 0.1 0.5 0.5 0.2 0.4 0.0 0.2 0.4 1.2 2.1 0.7 0.8 0.4 0.7 2.4
Mexico 1.0 1.7 1.0 0.0 0.9 1.0 0.8 1.9 1.8 2.9 0.9 2.0 1.6 1.1 2.2 2.1 1.5 1.0
Russian Federation 0.0 2.3 1.4 0.6 1.5 1.6 0.6 1.7 1.3 2.0 1.0 2.7 4.0 2.3 1.6 2.5 1.3 4.7
Saudi Arabia 0.1 0.5 0.3 0.1 0.6 0.7 0.2 0.6 0.3 0.4 0.8 1.0 1.7 0.5 0.6 0.4 0.3 1.3
Turkey 0.0 1.0 0.6 0.1 1.4 0.8 0.4 1.5 0.9 1.5 1.0 1.3 1.1 1.5 1.3 1.0 0.7 0.8
United States 0.2 3.5 1.5 0.1 2.6 2.1 1.0 2.8 0.5 5.0 1.4 12.5 16.3 3.9 4.3 2.9 3.0 20.0
South Africa 1.8 0.7 1.2 0.9 0.3 0.7 0.6 1.3 0.7 1.7 0.5 0.9 1.4 0.7 0.8 1.0 0.4 0.7
European Union 0.3 4.6 1.5 1.1 3.1 2.6 1.4 4.7 2.1 3.1 2.7 14.7 14.6 6.1 2.9 3.1 4.7 23.5
Total G20 33.30 57.80 50.80 30.20 58.70 56.30 49.70 49.20 47.60 62.40 56.80 74.70 81.90 66.30 66.30 57.90 65.10 86.30
Source: Authors’ analysis
>20% 10-20% 2-10% 0-2%
47
Sustainable Development Report 2020      The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
Part 3
Policy and 
Monitoring 
Frameworks  
for the SDGs 
Part 3
Policy and Monitoring Frameworks for the SDGs 
This section assesses policy efforts to implement the SDGs. It presents new expert and public opinion survey data to gauge 
political leadership in support of the SDGs at the country level. As in other sections, our data does not account for the 
impact of Covid-19 in most countries. Results confirm that the SDGs have quickly become a widely used framework for 
many national statistical institutes and other data providers. Yet further efforts are needed to address persistent data gaps 
and data time lags in relation to the SDG indicators. The section therefore provides an overview of major data and statistics 
initiatives introduced globally since the adoption of the SDGs in 2015. We argue that more policy trackers are needed to 
increase visibility on how governments are pursuing the SDGs, strengthen accountability, and share data on best practices 
and lessons learnt, which will help other countries accelerate progress towards the SDGs. 
3.1 Political leadership and policy environment
(3) The content of government strategies and policy 
Performance and outcome data provide essential 
actions. 
information to track the implementation of the SDGs, but 
they should be complemented by other, more qualitative, 
assessments of policy efforts and other actions in support  Monitoring all three layers is important, but layer 3 
of the goals. Performance and outcome data (e.g., poverty  provides the most actionable and valuable information 
rate, life expectancy, CO emissions) have limitations.  on governments’ efforts to achieve the SDGs. In this 
2
There is typically a two- to three-year lag (sometimes  section we present primary data collected by the SDSN, 
more) in data reporting, particularly for cross-country  combined with third-party data that help track policy 
comparisons. So tracking SDGs using outcome data alone  efforts and commitments for the SDGs. For the first time, 
means adopting a “rear-mirror view.” Such a view tracks  we present findings from two public opinion surveys, 
historic trends, which may be a poor guide to the future.  conducted by the SDSN in March and April 2020, on “SDG 
Governments that have introduced major policy reforms  Progress and Challenges” and “Covid-19 and the SDGs.” 
might only see these efforts reflected in outcome data 
after many years. Similarly, the impact of Covid-19 will take 
a long time to feed into outcome data. We therefore need 
greater investments in real-time data. In addition, we need  Public statements and public 
“forward-looking” assessments of policies that provide a  management practices for the SDGs 
better sense of where countries are heading and track 
the efforts of current administrations. As in previous years,  The SDSN mobilizes its global network of experts every 
this report therefore contributes to measuring the efforts  year to track public statements by governments (layer 1) 
made by governments in support of the SDGs.  and the strategic use of some public practices (layer 2) 
in support of the SDGs. Since 2018, this information has 
Measuring government efforts in support of the SDGs is  been collected through the SDSN survey on national 
challenging, due to the broad and complex nature of the  coordination and implementation mechanisms at the 
goals. In the SDR2019, we introduced three layers for mea- central/federal level of government. The 2020 results and 
suring government efforts to implement the long-term  an indication of trends over time are presented in table 4. 
objectives of the 2030 Agenda and the Paris Agreement:  This year’s survey covers 30 countries, including most of 
the G20 and OECD countries, as well as countries with a 
(1) High-level public statements by governments in  population greater than 100 million people. 
support of sustainable development. 
We find a discrepancy between expressed political 
(2) Strategic use of public practices and procedures 
support for the SDGs and the integration of the SDGs 
towards achieving the goals (coordination mech-
in strategic public policy processes, including national 
anisms, budgets, procurement, human-resource 
budgets. As in previous years, a large majority of 
management, data collection and audits); 
49
Sustainable Development Report 2020      The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
Part 3. Policy and Monitoring Frameworks
governments (25 out of 30) have made public statements  of national SDG action plans), only some countries have 
in support of the SDGs and the 2030 Agenda via  adopted more permanent stakeholder engagement 
heads of states, ministers, or other cabinet members.  mechanisms to inform policies, indicator selection, or 
These statements often highlight implementation  budgets (stakeholder engagement mechanisms at the 
mechanisms and country initiatives to achieve key SDG  subnational level – regions, provinces, municipalities – 
transformations. We also find evidence in most surveyed  were not covered by the survey.) The Finnish Citizens’ 
countries that the SDGs are being integrated into a  Panel for Sustainable Development, established in 2018, 
dedicated strategy or action plan, or into sectoral policies  is a good example of a national stakeholder engagement 
(e.g., health, education, industrial strategy, or economic  mechanism for the SDGs.
development). Most countries have also identified a 
coordinating unit or agency responsible for coordinating 
implementation of the SDGs. 
Content of government strategies 
Yet only about a third of the countries surveyed (12/30)  and policy actions
mention the SDGs or use related terms in their latest 
official budget document. Of these 12 countries, only 4  To improve assessments of government efforts, one needs 
mention the SDGs in their national budget as a dedicated  to assess the content of policies – including national 
section or budget line. The other 8 mention the SDGs  targets, long-term pathways, and intermediate objectives 
only in the overall narrative. In only half of the countries  – to determine if they are consistent with achieving the 
surveyed do the SDGs or related terms apply both to  SDGs (layer 3). Such assessments would also track policy 
domestic implementation (e.g., national health, education,  implementation. Unfortunately, such “policy trackers” 
social protection, economic development reforms) and  are complex and costly to undertake. Moreover, most 
international cooperation (e.g., aid allocation, foreign  international organizations do not have the mandate to 
policy). The cross-sectional budget analysis and tools  assess their members’ policies in such ways. 
developed by the Ministry of the Economy in Argentina 
provides a good example of how a country has linked its  The Covid-19 outbreak saw a rapid increase in available 
national budget with the SDGs.1  policy trackers to track government responses to the 
health crisis, including but not limited to: 
Over time, we find an increase in national monitoring 
efforts. Most countries covered in the survey (28 out of  •  The IMF Policy Response to Covid-19 (IMF, 2020b)
30) have either identified a national set of SDG indicators 
or have launched dedicated platforms to report on the  •  The OECD Country Policy Tracker (OECD, 2020a)
availability of SDG indicators at the national level. On 
average, countries that have developed national SDG  •  The Oxford Covid-19 Government Response Tracker 
indicator sets use about 112 indicators. These efforts  (Oxford, 2020)
to strengthen monitoring mechanisms for sustainable 
development are very much aligned with the SDGs.   •  The Yale School of Management Covid-19 Financial 
These findings are discussed in greater detail in section 3.2.  Response Tracker and Visualization (Yale School of 
Management, 2020)
By contrast, we find a slight decrease in stakeholder 
engagement mechanisms for the SDGs. While many  •  The IGC Covid-19 policy response tracker (IGC, 2020)
countries have launched stakeholder engagement 
processes for specific objectives and deliverables   The Climate Action Tracker (CAT) provides the best 
(e.g., for Voluntary National Reviews, or the development  example of an SDG Policy Tracker. Developed by a 
research consortium specialized in the field of climate 
1. https://www.minhacienda.gob.ar/onp/presupuesto_ciudadano/ mitigation, CAT uses a methodology that evaluates 
seccion6.html 
50
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
3.1 Political leadership and policy environment
Table 4 
National government efforts to implement the SDGs
SDG strategy/ 
High-level  SDGs into  Stakeholder 
VNR Budget National monitoring
statements sectoral action  engagement 
plans
overarching 
 Date  no. of 
yes/no yes/no yes/no narrative/section  *DI/IC yes/no yes/no
submitted indicators
or budget line
section or 
Argentina  2017 and 2020 yes yes yes DI and IC no, but online reporting yes
budget line
Australia  2018 no no no no, but online reporting no
Austria  2020 yes yes yes sbeucdtgioent  olinr e DI and IC yes 200 yes 3. Po
Bangladesh  2017 and 2020 yes yes no yes 40 yes lic
y
Brazil  2017 no yes no no, but online reporting no  a
n
overarching  d
Canada  2018 yes yes yes narrative IC yes 60 yes  M
o
Chile  2017 and 2019 yes yes no yes 112 yes n
it
China  2016 yes yes no no, but it is planned no o
r
Denmark  2017 yes yes no no, but online reporting yes in
g
overarching   F
Ethiopia  2017 yes yes yes narrative DI yes 60 no ram
overarching  e
European Union  not applicable yes yes yes DI and IC yes 100 yes w
narrative o
r
overarching  k
Finland  2016 and 2020 yes yes yes DI and IC no, but online reporting yes s
narrative  
overarching 
Germany  2016 yes yes yes DI and IC yes 65 yes
narrative
Hungary  2018 no yes no yes 83 no
Israel  2019 yes yes no no, but online reporting no
section or 
Japan  2017 yes yes yes DI and IC no, but online reporting yes
budget line
Mexico  2016 and 2018 yes yes no yes 169 yes
New Zealand  2019 yes yes no yes 100 no
Norway 2016 yes yes no no, but it is planned yes
section or 
Pakistan  2019 yes yes yes DI yes 46 yes
budget line
Poland  2018 yes yes no yes 126 yes
overarching 
Portugal  2017 yes yes yes DI yes 146 yes
narrative
Russia  2020 no no no no, but online reporting no
Saudi Arabia  2018 yes yes no yes 96 no
overarching 
Slovenia  2017 and 2020 yes yes yes IC yes 70 yes
narrative
South Africa  2019 yes yes no yes 128 yes
overarching 
Spain  2018 yes yes yes DI and IC yes 125 yes
narrative
Sweden  2017 yes yes no yes 294 yes
United Kingdom  2019 yes yes no no, but online reporting yes
United States  Not planned no no no no, but online reporting no
TOTAL "yes" 25 27 12 28 112 20
Trend … = = = … … + … -
Note: Trend calculated based on the results of the 2018 and 2019 SDSN surveys. A positive or negative trend denotes a change of +/– 2 in the totals. 
Source: SDSN 2020 Survey on national coordination and implementation mechanisms at the central/federal level of government (April, 2020).
* Di = Domestic Implementation     Ic = International Cooperation
51
Sustainable Development Report 2020      The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
Part 3. Policy and Monitoring Frameworks
Figure 20 
Comparative assessment of government strategies and policy actions for climate mitigation
Source: Climate action tracker (March, 2020)
both the content of Intended Nationally Determined  Similar evaluations are needed for other SDG transforma-
Contributions (INDCs) (what governments propose to  tions. The SDSN, in collaboration with partners, aims to 
do) and current policies (what governments are actually  promote the development of policy trackers for the six 
doing) to meet the objectives of the Paris Agreement. The  SDG transformations (Sachs et al., 2019a). As one example, 
latest CAT assessment covers 32 countries, including all  as part of the Food and Land-Use Coalition, SDSN and 
G20 countries, and the European Union (Climate Action  partners are launching the Food, Environment, Land, and 
Tracker, 2020).  Development (FELD) Policy Action Tracker to measure 
progress on SDG Transformation 4 (Sustainable Food, 
The conclusions from the latest CAT assessment are very  Land, Water, and Oceans). 
clear: only six countries (Bhutan, Costa Rica, Ethiopia, 
India, Kenya, and the Philippines) have made sufficient  Covid-19 makes policy trackers even more relevant, 
commitments and efforts to hold global warming well  given the long-term impacts of recovery strategies. As 
below 2°C, and only two countries (Morocco and The  an example, the Climate Action Tracker has released a 
Gambia) are on track to hold warming below 1.5°C.  roadmap for addressing the climate impact of Covid-19 
Government strategies and policy actions in the Russian  and emerging recovery strategies (Climate Action Tracker, 
Federation, Saudi Arabia, Turkey, Ukraine, the United  2020). Other organizations are proposing sustainability 
States, and Vietnam are “critically insufficient” (the worst  tests to assess recovery plans (Think Sustainable Europe, 
label possible).  2020). These need to be tracked across countries. 
52
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
3.1 Political leadership and policy environment
Box 3. Public opinion survey on SDG Progress and Challenges
In April 2020, the SDSN surveyed the SDG community on progress made and major challenges and barriers faced in 
implementing the SDGs. In total, 715 respondents from 104 countries participated. Respondents represented university 
and research organizations (32%), non-governmental organizations (22%), the private sector (14%), students (14%), 
governments (8%), international organizations (5%), and other (5%). 
Overall, respondents considered that before the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic, the world was not on track to 
achieve the SDGs. Two-thirds of the SDG community believed that their country would only achieve up to half of the 
goals. Only 16% of respondents believed that their country was on track to achieving all or most of the SDGs. This is 
broadly consistent with the findings of the SDR2018, SDR2019 and SDR2020. 
3
. P
According to the respondents, governments should strengthen efforts to respond to the climate and biodiversity crises.  o
lic
More than 50% of respondents considered that their governments had made only minor efforts over the past five years  y
 a
to implement Transformation 3 (Energy Decarbonization and Sustainable Industry) and Transformation 4 (Sustainable  nd
 M
Food, Land, Water, and Oceans). These findings remain consistent when combined with the next survey question, which  o
n
asked about the importance and relevance of each transformation in the respondents’ countries. This resonates quite  it
o
r
well with the findings of major reports (IPCC, 2019; IPBES, 2019). Of the six SDG Transformations, respondents perceived  in
g
that their governments had made the greatest efforts towards implementing Transformation 6 (Digital Revolution for   F
r
a
Sustainable Development).  m
e
w
o
Finally, respondents identified three major challenges that impede further implementation of the SDG Transformations  r
k
s
and progress towards the SDGs. The first and most significant barrier in many countries is a lack of political leadership to   
implement the 2030 Agenda. A second barrier is a lack of awareness of the SDGs among policymakers and the general 
public. Lastly, short-termism and a focus on responding to immediate events over the pursuit of longer-term objectives 
such as the SDGs represents a third barrier. This third barrier is likely to increase in relevance as countries shift their focus 
to managing the consequences of the Covid-19 pandemic.
Figure 21 
Q.1. In your view, is your country on track to achieve the SDGs by 2030?
36% 33% On track and will achieve all SDGs
Rather on track and will achieve most SDGs
Moderately on track and will achieve about half of the SDGs
Rather not on track and will achieve less than half of the SDGs
13% 12%
Off track and may not achieve any SDGs
No opinion
3% 3%
53
Sustainable Development Report 2020      The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
Part 3. Policy and Monitoring Frameworks
Box 3. (continued)
Figure 22 
Q.2. Since 2015, how do you perceive government efforts and actions to implement the six transformations 
in your country? 
1. Education, Gender and Inequality 
(%)
2. Health, Well-Being and 
Demography (%)
3. Energy Decarbonization and 
Sustainable Industry (%)
4. Sustainable Food, Land, Water 
and Oceans (%)
5. Sustainable Cities and 
Communities (%)
6. Digital Revolution for Sustainable 
Development (%)
0% 10% 20% 30% 40% 50% 60% 70% 80% 90% 100%
Major efforts Moderate efforts Minor efforts No opinion
Figure 23 
Q.4. In your view, what are the main barriers to achieving the SDGs in your country?
Lack of political leadership
Lack of awareness among people and policymakers
Major event that takes priority over other long-term goals 
(war, epidemics, major social unrest, natural disaster)
Lack of effective public institutions
Lack of financial resources
Poor data and statistics
Low quality infrastructure
Other
0% 10% 20% 30% 40% 50% 60% 70% 80%
Source: SDSN Public opinion survey on SDG Progress and Challenges (April, 2020). n=715.
54
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
3.1 Political leadership and policy environment
Box 4. Public opinion survey on Covid‑19 and the SDGs
In April 2020, the SDSN surveyed the SDG community on the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic on the achievement 
of the SDGs. A total of 1,034 respondents from 110 countries participated in the survey. Respondents represented 
university and research organizations (28%), the private sector (20%), non-governmental organizations (16%), students 
(14%), governments (11%), international organizations (6%), and other (5%).
While the short-term impacts of Covid-19 on most SDGs were expected to most likely be negative, a majority of respond-
ents considered that in the long run there might still be certain positive impacts. In total, 53% of respondents considered 
that the impact of Covid-19 would not be negative across the board for the achievement of the SDGs by 2030, and that 
positive transformations might occur on some SDGs. Respondents also felt that uncertainty prevailed. Close to 10% of 
respondents mentioned that it was too early to tell what the long-term impact of Covid-19 on the SDGs would be. 
Respondents also expected differentiated impacts of Covid-19 on the six SDG Transformations. The greatest negative 
impacts were expected on Transformation 1 (Education, Gender, and Inequality) and Transformation 2 (Health, 
3
Well-Being, and Demography). At the same time, many respondents felt that the Covid-19 crisis may provide an  . P
o
opportunity to strengthen healthcare system preparedness and resilience, as well as improving prevention programs  lic
y
in the longer term. Respondents expected more mixed impacts on Transformation 3 (Energy Decarbonization and   a
n
d
Sustainable Industry), Transformation 4 (Sustainable Food, Land, Water, and Oceans), and Transformation 5 (Sustainable   M
o
Cities and Communities). Respondents considered that the short-term benefits that the lockdown measures had on air  n
it
pollution and CO emissions might be offset in the long run by unsustainable recovery plans, the low cost of fossil fuels,  o
2 rin
and the lack of enforcement of environmental and biodiversity conventions. Finally, respondents expected more positive  g
 F
impacts on Transformation 6 (Digital Revolution for Sustainable Development), pointing to the growth of e-commerce,  ra
m
remote working, digital health services, and online education services.  e
w
o
r
Finally, most respondents considered that the SDGs provide a framework that could help inform the recovery phase  ks
 
and contribute to preventing future global health and other crises. Only 28% of respondents considered the SDGs 
completely useless in helping to prevent and mitigate major global risks (e.g., pandemics) in the future. Yet even those 
who believed that the SDGs could be a useful framework mentioned that monitoring and reporting processes must be 
strengthened. Respondents also felt that the SDG reporting process, including voluntary national reviews (VNRs), should 
have a stronger focus on the resilience of health and other systems, as well as on crisis prevention. Finally, respondents 
considered that political leadership will be crucial to retain the SDGs as shared global priorities when countries recover 
from the Covid-19 outbreak. 
Figure 24 
Q.1. In your view, in your country, what will be the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic on the achievement of 
the SDGs by 2030?
43% 1. Positive, despite the current crisis it will accelerate the 
37%     implementation of most of the SDGs in the long run
2. Mixed, the current crisis will both accelerate and slow down 
    the achievement of the SDGs in the same proportion
3. Negative, the current crisis will slow down the implementation 
    of most of the SDGs in the long run
10% 10%
4. No opinion / Too early to tell
55
Sustainable Development Report 2020      The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
Part 3. Policy and Monitoring Frameworks
Box 4. (continued)
Figure 25 
Q.2. In your view, in your country, what will be the impact of Covid-19 on each of the six SDG 
Transformations?
 (%)
70
60
50
40
30
20
10
 0
Education, Gender  Health, Well-Being  Energy  Sustainable Food,  Sustainable Cities and  Digital Revolution for 
and Inequality and Demography  Decarbonization  Land, Water and  Communities Sustainable 
and Sustainable  Oceans Development
Industry
Positive Mixed Negative No opinion / Too early to tell
  
Figure 26 
Q.3. In your view, is the current SDG framework and reporting process suited to help prevent and mitigate 
major global risks (e.g., pandemics)?
41%
28%
Yes
Moderately
17% 14% No
No opinion
Source: SDSN Public opinion survey on “Covid-19 and the SDGs” (April, 2020). n=1,034.
56
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
3.2 Data, statistics and monitoring 
3.2 Data, statistics and monitoring 
Data and monitoring initiatives national reviews (VNRs), the main annual and 
government-led SDG review mechanism, typically 
assess a country’s key challenges to and priorities 
The 2030 Agenda emphasizes the importance of reliable 
for achieving the SDGs. VNR indicators are not 
data and statistics. The focus on data and statistics is 
harmonized internationally and lack comparability 
stronger than that of the MDGs (SDSN, 2015). The 2030 
(Schmidt-Traub et al., 2017). Some countries publish 
Agenda states that “the goals and targets will be followed 
annual SDG reports, led by government and/or civil 
up and reviewed using a set of global indicators,” while 
society (National Sustainable Development Council of 
a dedicated section provides key principles of tracking 
Australia, 2019; NITI Aayog, 2019). 
progress and contextualizes SDG assessment processes 
and instruments at all levels. The Agenda mandates that  3
the Inter-agency and Expert Group on SDG Indicators  3.  Goal‑specific monitoring initiatives focus on  . Po
(IAEG-SDGs), the Statistical Commission, and the Economic  monitoring progress towards individual SDG out- licy
and Social Council (ECOSOC) are to develop and frequently  comes. Examples include the Global Hunger Index   an
d
update an SDG indicator framework. As of March 2020,  (GHI) tracking SDG 2, and Goalkeepers, tracking SDGs   M
o
231 official SDG indicators, classified in three tiers, are used  1 to 6 (Concern Worldwide and Welthungerhilfe,  nit
o
2019; Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, 2019). Equal  r
to monitor the 17 SDGs and 169 targets (IAEG-SDGs, 2019).  in
g
Measures 2030 focuses on data and metrics to track   F
r
National governments, multilateral organizations, civil  progress on the “leave no one behind” principle of the  am
e
society, and businesses have also launched numerous  2030 Agenda (Equal Measures 2030, 2019), and the  w
o
initiatives to monitor progress on the SDGs since 2015.   Global Slavery Index monitors progress on SDG 8.7  rks
 
(Minderoo Foundation Walk Free Initiative, 2018). 
We identify seven major types of SDG data initiatives 
Other goal-specific SDG monitoring initiatives include 
below, but there are probably many others. 
Tracking SDG7: The Energy Progress Report (World Bank 
1.  International SDG monitoring reports focus on  et al., 2019) and the SDG 11 Synthesis Report 2018 on 
all 17 SDGs and provide comparative assessments of  Cities and Communities (UNHABITAT, 2018).
SDG performance and progress across countries. At 
the global level, such initiatives include the SDG Index  4.  Policy trackers are needed to create forward-looking 
and Dashboards (Sachs et al., 2017, 2018, 2019), the  assessments of countries’ trajectories towards the SDGs. 
UN Sustainable Development Goals Report and Progress  As discussed in the previous section, the Climate Action 
Cards (United Nations, 2019), and the OECD Measuring  Tracker tracks national commitments and policies relat-
Distance to the SDG Targets reports (OECD, 2017, 2019).  ing to SDG Transformation 3 (Energy Decarbonization), 
Several regional reports have also become available. In  in support of SDG 13 and the objectives of the Paris 
the European Union, for instance, Eurostat publishes  Agreement (Climate Action Tracker, 2018a). SDSN 
Sustainable development in the European Union, the  is launching the Food, Environment, Land, and 
official SDG monitoring report (Eurostat, 2017, 2018,  Development (FELD) Action Tracker as part of the Food 
2019). The SDSN, in collaboration with partners, has  and Land-Use Coalition. Similar policy trackers are 
supported the production of SDG baseline assess- urgently needed for the other SDG Transformations. 
ments for several regions since 2015 (SDG Center for 
Africa and SDSN, 2018, 2019; Luomi et al., 2019; SDSN  5.  Subnational and city‑level SDG assessments track 
and IEEP, 2019; Sachs et al., 2019b) – see also box 2.  the efforts and performance of cities, provinces, 
and regions. The SDSN has released monitoring 
2.  National SDG indicator and monitoring reports  instruments for cities in Italy, Spain, the United 
are based on a national set of indicators identified  States, and across the European Union. The Local 
by the government and/or civil society. Voluntary  Data Action Solutions Initiative (LDA-SI) – a project 
57
Sustainable Development Report 2020      The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
Part 3. Policy and Monitoring Frameworks
run by the SDSN’s USA-Sustainable Cities Initiative  Data availability and timeliness for 
(USA-SCI) and TReNDS – supports sub-national actors  the SDGs
in engaging with the SDGs through local monitoring. 
The OECD has launched A Territorial Approach to 
Timely data is crucial for accurate monitoring of SDG 
the Sustainable Development Goals, which assesses 
progress and for evidence-based policymaking. This is 
the distance of SDG targets for more than 600 cities 
even more true after Covid-19. To assess the current state 
and regions (OECD, 2020). Local Governments for 
of data and monitoring, we assessed data availability and 
Sustainability (ICLEI), C40 Cities, and UN-Habitat have 
timeliness of the indicators included in this SDR2020. Our 
also launched SDG monitoring initiatives in cities. The 
analysis highlights three major findings. 
European Commission, through its Joint Research 
Centre (JRC) and the Directorate-General for Regional 
First, the inclusion of non-official statistics, including 
and Urban Policy (DG REGIO), is also working on 
model-based estimates, helps fill data gaps and can 
monitoring the urban dimension of the 2030 Agenda 
reduce time lags in official statistics. Using only official 
for Sustainable Development.
statistics from United Nations custodian agencies, data 
availability varies significantly among regions, from 
6.  Corporate benchmarks and sustainability metrics. 
95% in OECD countries to 54% in Oceania (table 5). 
The SDGs are increasingly used by large companies as 
The average year of reference is 2016 for most regions 
the underlying framework for environmental, social, and 
(Eastern Europe and Central Asia, East and South Asia, 
governance (ESG) reporting. The World Benchmarking 
Middle East and North Africa, Oceania, and Sub-Saharan 
Alliance is developing corporate benchmarks for major 
Africa) and 2017 for OECD countries. Both data coverage 
industries, while in close collaboration, the “Fixing the 
and timeliness improve when adding model-based 
Business of Food” coalition initiated by the Barilla Center 
estimates (e.g., from IHME and the World Data Lab) and 
for Nutrition is developing monitoring frameworks for 
population surveys conducted by analytics companies 
the food sector (World Benchmarking Alliance, 2019); 
(e.g., Gallup World Poll). 
SDSN and BCFN, 2019). The World Business Council 
on Sustainable Development (WBCSD) facilitates the 
Non-official statistics obtained through modelling, 
exchange of best practices on SDG data (WBCSD, 2018). 
population surveys, or other techniques come with 
Many financial institutions and development banks 
limitations. While they increase data availability and 
have also developed SDG tools and procedures to track 
timeliness, they do remain predictions. The accuracy 
the SDG impact of their investments. 
of the underlying models have been questioned, and 
significant discrepancies have been found between 
7.  Capacity‑building and partnerships to develop 
model-based estimates and official statistics obtained 
alternative data sources. PARIS21 has been named 
several years after (Boerma, Victora, and Abouzahr, 
the custodian agency to support statistical capacity-
2018; Shiffman and Shawar, 2020). Also, the models 
building in low- and middle-income countries 
and underlying assumptions are not always made 
(PARIS21 and Partners for Review, 2019). The Thematic 
transparent. Finally, the availability of such estimates 
Research Group on Data and Statistics (TReNDs) 
may reduce incentives to strengthen statistical capacity. 
supports better SDG monitoring, evolving data 
Large-scale household surveys conducted by analytics 
governance, and new data-sharing policy and practice 
companies typically have much lower sample sizes 
standards (TReNDs, 2019). The Global Partnership 
(usually 1,000 people) than national statistical offices 
for Sustainable Development Data (GPSDD) was 
require, which in turn will affect the reliability of the 
established to help stakeholders across countries and 
data. Data are not always collected face-to-face and the 
sectors fully harness the data revolution for sustainable 
questions and scales used may not represent the most 
development. Together they are implementing 
valid and reliable measurement approaches (OECD, 2017; 
DATA4Now to increase the timeliness of SDG metrics 
Praia City Group, 2020).
(GPSDD et al., 2019). 
58
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
3.2 Data, statistics and monitoring 
Second, it remains difficult to assess if the adoption of the  years before 2015. We could not trace from international 
SDGs has had a positive impact on the availability and  data portals the date when the data was collected. So, a 
timeliness of official statistics. On one hand, we find that  data point obtained in 2016 with a reference year of 2014 
there is now more data available to measure sustainable  is counted under data available for 2010–2015 but not for 
development than there was in 2015. Improvements  the SDG period (2015–2020). Hence these findings may just 
have been particularly pronounced in Oceania and  reinforce the point made earlier on significant time lags in 
Sub-Saharan Africa. On the other hand, many of the  official data reporting. Third, we have limited our analysis to 
data points available now have a year of reference that  data from official sources that is presented in the SDR2020. 
predates the adoption of the SDGs. When comparing  A similar analysis conducted for all official UN indicators 
data availability of 2010–2015 vs 2015–2020, we find that  might yield other findings. 
availability has declined in all regions except in OECD 
countries (+0.3%). The slight increase in data availability for  Finally, we find that data availability and timeliness vary  3
OECD countries is primarily due to new data on freshwater  extensively across the SDGs. Using both official and  . Po
withdrawals (FAO) and mortality from air pollution (WHO).  non-official data sources, we find that data coverage and  licy
 a
timeliness tend to be better for socioeconomic goals such  n
d
There are several ways to interpret these findings. First,  as SDG 3 (Good Health and Well-Being) and SDG 5 (Gender   M
o
n
it might be too early to evaluate the impact of statistical  Equality). Data availability and timeliness to track SDG 10  it
o
r
projects and programs launched since the adoption of the  (Reduced Inequalities) is more problematic, with many  in
g
SDGs in 2015. It takes many years to collect and standardize  countries reporting outdated information or no information   F
r
a
official statistics in collaboration with national statistical  for the GINI coefficient. At the global level, data availability  m
e
offices, especially when there are no agreed definitions or  and timeliness are also low for environmental and biodi- w
o
r
methods. Second, it is possible that datapoints collected  versity goals, including SDG 12 (Responsible Consumption  ks
 
and published between 2015 and 2020 have reference  and Production) and SDG 14 (Life Below Water). 
Table 5 
Non‑official data sources help address data gaps and time lags in official statistics  
Data availability and year of reference by sub-regions (official data sources), including and excluding model-based estimates
Official data sources (excluding model-based  Official data sources (including model-based 
estimates and subjective measures) estimates and subjective measures)
Coverage (%) Avg. Year Coverage (%) Avg. Year
 
Eastern Europe & Central Asia 76.6 2016 78.3 2017
East and South Asia 82.3 2016 84.7 2017
Latin America and the Caribbean 76.7 2016 77.9 2017
Middle East and North Africa 73.3 2016 76.8 2016
OECD 95.0 2017 96.1 2017
Oceania 54.5 2016 53.1 2016
Sub-Saharan Africa 80.1 2016 82.9 2017
Note: This table focuses on indicators from official sources (e.g., UN custodian agencies) included in the SDR2020. It does not cover all official SDG indicators. Model-based estimates include data from 
the World Poverty Lab and IHME. Subjective measures include population surveys conducted by the Gallup World Poll. 
Source: Authors’ analysis
59
Sustainable Development Report 2020      The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
Part 3. Policy and Monitoring Frameworks
Figure 27  Figure 28 
Overall, there are more official data available  …Yet, it might be too soon to see an “SDG effect” 
in 2020 than between 2010–2015 to measure  on data availability and timeliness
sustainable development globally… Change in data availability (official data sources¹), 2010–2015 
vs 2015–2020 (%)
Change in data availability (official data sources¹), 2010–2015 
vs 2010–2020 (%)
(%)
9
8
7
6
5
4
132 OECD countrEiaesstern EuropEe asat nad nCd eSntoruatlL ha AtisAisnia aAmericaS uabn-d Stahhea rCaanr iMAbifbrdiedclaaen East aOncd eaNnoirath Africa
 0 0
OScueab-MniiSadadhlaer aEna stA fraincad NortEhE aasAsft triaecrnand  ESuoruoLtapht ie nAa sinAad mCereinctar aal nAd sitahe CaribbeaOEnCD countries ---132
-4
-5
-6
-7
-8
(%)
Note: (1) Excluding model-based estimates and other non-official statistics. 
Source: Authors’ analysis
60
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
3.2 Data, statistics and monitoring 
Figure 29 
Data availability and timeliness vary extensively across the SDGs 
Global data availability (in %) and average year of reference (in years) by SDGs (official and non-official data sources)
50% 60% 70% 80% 90% 100%
SDG1: End Poverty 2020
SDG2: Zero Hunger 2015
SDG3: Good Health and Well-Being 2017
SDG4: Quality Education 2016
SDG5: Gender Equality 2018
3
SDG6: Clean Water and Sanitation 2015 . P
o
SDG7: Affordable and Clean Energy 2017 licy
 a
SDG8: Decent Work and Economic Growth 2016 nd
 M
SDG9: Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure 2017 o
n
it
SDG10: Reduced Inequalities 2014 o
r
in
SDG11: Sustainable Cities and Communities 2011 g
 F
r
SDG12: Responsible Consumption and Production 2012 a
m
e
SDG13: Climate Action 2017 w
o
r
SDG14: Life Below Water 2017 k
s
 
SDG15: Life on Land 2018
SDG16: Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions 2018
SDG17: Partnerships for the Goals 2017
Source: Authors’ analysis
The outbreak of Covid-19 underlines the need for more  and capacity within national statistical offices. The need for 
timely and disaggregated data. Beyond data needed on  real-time contact tracing also brings to the fore ethical and 
incidence, hospitalization, mortality, and the effective  other concerns about new sources of data and the role 
reproduction rate (ERR), countries need timely, accurate,  private providers play in generating and using the data 
and disaggregated data to design policy interventions  (Orrell, 2020; Marks, 2020; Espey, 2020). The SDSN TReNDS 
that address the needs of their most vulnerable  network and Data4Now support partnerships between 
population groups (Dahmm, 2020; Marks, 2020). For  governments and other stakeholders (including the 
comparison, the average time lag for data reported in the  private sector) to increase data availability and timeliness 
SDR2020 is three years.  for the SDGs (GPSDD et al., 2019), while the Contract for 
Data Collaborations (C4DC) project supports governments 
At the same time, Covid-19 and its aftermath pose serious  in developing and executing data-sharing agreements 
challenges for statistical systems. These include delays in  for cross-sector data initiatives (GOVLAB, University of 
planned censuses and surveys and reduced funding for  Washington, World Economic Forum and TRENDs, 2020).
61
Sustainable Development Report 2020      The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
Part 4
Methods Summary 
and Data Tables 
Part 4
Methods Summary and Data Tables 
4.1 Interpreting the Index and Dashboards results
The Sustainable Development Report 2020 describes each country’s progress towards achieving the SDGs and indicates 
areas requiring faster progress. A country’s overall SDG Index score and its scores on individual SDGs can be interpreted as 
a percentage of optimal performance. The difference between the score and 100 is therefore the distance, in percentage 
points, that needs to be overcome to reach optimum performance. The same basket of indicators is used for all countries 
to generate comparable scores and rankings. 
Substantial differences in rankings may be due to  4.2 Changes made to the 2020 
small differences in the aggregate SDG Index score.  edition, and main limitations
Differences of two or three places between countries 
should not be interpreted as “significant,” whereas 
differences of 10 places or more can show a meaningful  Changes made to the 2020 SDG Index and 
difference (JRC, 2019). Dashboards
The SDG dashboards provide a visual representation  The 2020 SDG Index covers 166 countries, compared with 
of each country’s performance on the 17 SDGs. The  162 countries in 2019. The additional countries included 
“traffic light” color scheme (green, yellow, orange, and  this year are Barbados, Brunei Darussalam, Somalia, and 
red) illustrates how far a country is from achieving a  South Sudan. The 2020 report also incorporates several 
particular goal. As in previous years, the dashboards  new indicators. These are shown in table 6, which also 
and country profiles for OECD countries include  identifies indicators that were replaced or modified due 
additional metrics that are not available for non-OECD  to changes in the methodology, and estimates produced 
member countries.  by data providers. The data for this year’s edition was 
extracted between February and April 2020.
The SDG trend dashboards indicate whether a country 
is on track to achieve a particular goal by 2030, based  For the first time, the 2020 edition of the report features 
on its recent performance on given indicators. Indicator  time series data for several spillovers. This includes the 
trends are aggregated at the goal level to give a trend  following indicators:
indication of how the country is progressing towards 
that SDG. •  CO₂ emissions embodied in imports (tCO₂/capita)
•  Scarce water consumption embodied in imports  
This section describes how the SDG Index and  (m³/capita), 
dashboards are computed. A detailed methodology 
•  Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports  
paper is accessible online (Lafortune et al., 2018). 
(per 100,000 population)
The European Commission Joint Research Centre (JRC) 
conducted an independent statistical audit of the 
report’s methodology and results in 2019. The audit  Limitations and data gaps
reviewed the conceptual and statistical coherence 
of the index structure. The detailed statistical audit  Due to changes in the indicators as well as some 
report is also available on our website (http:// refinements in the methodology, SDG Index rankings 
sustainabledevelopment.report). and scores cannot be compared with those of previous 
editions. In spite of our best efforts to identify data for the 
SDGs, several indicator and data gaps persist (table 7). 
63
Sustainable Development Report 2020      The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid‑19 
Part 4. Methods Summary and Data Tables
Table 6 
New indicators and modifications 
SDG Indicator Change
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage 
3 Modification: Changed data source to WHO (2020)
(worst 0–100 best)
Participation rate in pre-primary organized learning  
4 Modification: Changed data source to UNESCO (2020)
(% of children aged 4 to 6)
Modification: Underlying data source changed for a few countries. See 
6 Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%)
https://epi.envirocenter.yale.edu/ for more information
6 Scarce water consumption embodied in imports (m³/capita) New, replaces "Imported groundwater depletion”
7 Share of renewable energy in total primary energy supply (%) Modification: Changed data source to OECD (2020)
Modification: To increase timeliness and country coverage, data source was 
12 Production-based SO₂ emissions (kg/capita)
changed to Lenzen, M. et al. (2020)
Modification: To increase timeliness and country coverage data source was 
12 SO₂ emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita) 
changed to Lenzen, M. et al. (2020)
Modification: Indicator now excludes composted waste in addition to 
12 Non-recycled municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)
recycled waste
Modification: To increase timeliness and country coverage data source 
13 CO₂ emissions embodied in imports (tCO₂/capita) was changed to Lenzen, M. et al. (2020). Carbon accounting is no longer 
technology-adjusted
Modification: To avoid penalizing trade and transit countries, fuel exports 
13 CO₂ emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita)
are now capped at the country’s level of production
Marine biodiversity threats embodied in imports (per million 
14 New addition
population)
Terrestrial and freshwater biodiversity threats embodied in 
15 New addition
imports (per million population)
16 Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population) Modification: Data now calculated as 3-year averages because of volatility
Modification: Changed data source for OECD countries to be consistent 
17 Government spending on health and education (% of GDP)
with non-OECD countries
17 Corporate Tax Haven Score (best 0–100 worst) New, replaces "Tax Haven Score (best 0–5 worst)"
17 Shifted profits of multinationals (US$ billion) New addition
Source: Authors’ analysis
64
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid‑19 
4.2 Changes made to the 2020 edition, and main limitations
Table 7 
Major indicator and data gaps for the SDGs
SDG Issue Desired metrics
Resource-use efficiency (nutrients, water, energy)
Risky pesticides
2  Agriculture and nutrition
Food loss and food waste
Greenhouse gas emissions from land use
Affordability of healthcare
3 Health
Health-care system resilience and preparedness to face global health risks
Internationally comparable primary and secondary education outcomes 
4 Education
Early childhood development
Gender pay gap and other empowerment measures
5 Women empowerment
Violence against women
6 Water  Quality of drinking water and surface waters
Decent work
8 Decent work
Labor rights protections
Wealth inequality
10 Inequality
Vertical mobility
Environmental impact of material flows
Recycling and re-use (circular economy)
12 Sustainable consumption and production
Chemicals 4. M
Waste shipments et
h
o
Leading indicators for decarbonization d
13 Climate change Greenhouse gas emissions from land use s Su
m
Maximum sustainable yields for fisheries m
a
14  Marine ecosystems Impact of high-sea and cross-border fishing ry
 a
n
Protected areas by level of protection d
 D
Leading indicators for ecosystem health a
t
a
15 Terrestrial ecosystems Trade in endangered species  Ta
b
Protected areas by level of protection le
s
Access to justice
16  Peace and justice  Violence against children
Protection of the rights of civil society organizations
Non-concessional development finance
Climate finance
17 Means of implementation
Unfair tax competition
Development impact of trade practices
Source: Authors’ analysis
65
Sustainable Development Report 2020      The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid‑19 
Part 4. Methods Summary and Data Tables
As underscored in previous editions of this report,  4.3 Methodology (summary)
governments and the international community must 
increase investments in SDG data and monitoring systems 
to close these gaps.  The SDR2020 provides a comprehensive assessment of 
distance to targets based on the most up to date data 
To ensure maximum data comparability, we only use data  available covering all 193 United Nations Member States. 
from internationally comparable sources. The providers of  This year’s report includes a total of 115 indicators with 
this data may adjust national data to ensure international  85 global indicators and 30 indicators added specifically 
comparability. As a result, some data points presented in  for OECD countries, including several new indicators to fill 
this report may differ from data available from national  data gaps. 
statistical offices or other national sources. Moreover, 
the length of the validation processes followed by  The following sections provide an overview of the 
international organizations can lead to significant delays  methodology for indicator selection, normalization, 
in publishing some data. National statistical offices may  aggregation and for generating indications on trends. 
therefore have more recent data for some indicators than  Additional information including raw data, additional data 
presented in this report.  tables and sensitivity tests are available online. 
Looking forward
In future editions we will include additional and improved  A. Data selection
SDG metrics as they become available, and we will aim 
for greater comparability over time. In particular, a major  Where possible, the SDR2020 uses official SDG indicators 
priority in future editions will be to present trend data on  endorsed by the UN Statistical Commission. Where insuf-
additional spillover metrics; such as SO₂ emissions, nitrogen  ficient data is available for an official indicator and to close 
emissions, and biodiversity threats embodied in imports.  data gaps, we include other metrics from official and unoffi-
cial providers. Five criteria for indicator selection were used 
To better inform regional and national discussions on the  to determine suitable metrics for inclusion in the report:
implementation of the SDGs, we support the creation of 
SDG indices and dashboards for regions (e.g., the Africa  1.  Global relevance and applicability to a broad 
SDG Index and Dashboards Report) and at sub-national  range of country settings: The indicators are 
levels (e.g., the US Cities Sustainable Development  relevant to monitoring achievement of the SDGs 
Report). SDSN is also working with partners to produce  and applicable to the entire continent. They are 
more regional and sub-national editions that can promote  internationally comparable and allow for direct 
evidence-based policymaking, mobilize regional and  comparison of performance across countries. In 
local communities, and identify persisting data gaps for  particular, they allow for the definition of quantitative 
monitoring the SDGs.  performance thresholds that signify SDG achievement. 
2.  Statistical adequacy: The indicators selected represent 
valid and reliable measures.
3.  Timeliness: The indicators selected are up to date and 
published on a reasonably prompt schedule.
4.  Data quality: The data series used represent the best 
available measure for a specific issue and derive from 
official national or international sources (e.g., national 
statistical offices or international organizations) or 
other reputable sources, such as peer-reviewed 
66
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid‑19 
4.3 Methodology (summary)
publications. No imputations of self-reported national  Goal 14 (Life Below Water). Imputed goal scores are used 
estimates are included.  solely for the computation of the index, and they are 
not reported in the SDG dashboards or country profiles. 
5.  Coverage: Data must be available for at least 80% of 
Similarly, we impute regional scores for each indicator 
the United Nations Member States with a national 
under Goal 4 to those countries missing data for that 
population of more than 1 million people. 
indicator. This is done exceptionally to reduce missing bias 
from the many data gaps in the education data. In the case 
of Goal 14 (Life Below Water), we hope to identify more 
Data sources
metrics in the future to gauge the impact of landlocked 
The data included in the SDR2020 come from a mix of  countries on oceans. Imputed values are clearly marked in 
official and non-official data sources. Most of the data  the online datasets and in the country profiles.
come from international organizations (World Bank, OECD, 
WHO, FAO, ILO, UNICEF, and others) which have extensive 
and rigorous data-validation processes. Other data sources 
include household surveys (Gallup World Poll), civil society  C. Method for constructing the SDG Index 
organizations and networks (Oxfam, Tax Justice Network, 
and others) and peer-reviewed journals. The full list of  The procedure for calculating the SDG Index comprised 
indicators and data sources is presented in table 9.  three steps: (i) censor extreme values from the 
distribution of each indicator; (ii) rescale the data to 
ensure comparability across indicators; (iii) aggregate the 
indicators within and across SDGs.
B. Missing data and imputations
The purpose of the SDR2020 is to guide countries’  4
Normalization  . M
discussions of their current SDG priorities based on  e
t
h
available and robust data. To minimize biases from missing  To make the data comparable across indicators, each  o
d
s
data, the SDG Index only includes countries that have data  variable was rescaled from 0 to 100, with 0 denoting worst   S
u
for at least 80% of the variables included in the global SDG  performance and 100 describing the optimum. Rescaling  m
m
Index. The list of countries not included in the SDG Index  is usually very sensitive to the choice of limits and extreme  a
r
y
due to insufficient data availability is presented in table 10.  values (outliers) at both tails of the distribution. The latter   a
n
d
We include all United Nations Member States in the SDG  may become unintended thresholds and introduce   D
a
dashboards and country profiles, which illustrates gaps in  spurious variability in the data. Consequently, the choice  ta
 T
available SDG data for some countries.  of upper and lower bounds can affect the relative ranking  a
b
of countries in the index.  les
Considering that many SDG priorities lack widely accepted 
statistical models for imputing country-level data, we  The upper bound for each indicator was determined 
generally did not impute or model any missing data. We  using a five-step decision tree:
made exceptions for the variables listed in table 8, often 
because they would otherwise have not been included  1.  Use absolute quantitative thresholds in SDGs 
due to missing data. and targets: e.g., zero poverty, universal school 
completion, universal access to water and sanitation, 
To reduce missing-data biases in the computation of the  full gender equality. Some SDG targets propose relative 
SDG Index, we impute the regional mean goal scores to  changes (such as Target 3.4: “reduce by one third 
those goal scores that are missing or are missing data  premature mortality from non-communicable diseases 
for more than 75% of the indicators under that goal. This  … “) that cannot be translated into a global baseline 
applies primarily to Goal 10 (Reduced Inequalities) and  today. Such targets are addressed in step 5 (page 69). 
67
Sustainable Development Report 2020      The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid‑19 
Part 4. Methods Summary and Data Tables
2.  Where no explicit SDG target is available, apply  Some countries already exceed the upper bound of 
the principle of “leave no one behind” in setting  certain indicators today, and more will do so in the 
the upper bound to universal access or zero depri- coming years as the world progresses towards the SDGs. 
vation for the following types of indicators:
To remove the effect of extreme values, which can skew 
a. Measures of extreme poverty (e.g., wasting), 
the results of a composite index, the JRC (OECD and JRC, 
consistent with the SDG ambition to end extreme 
2008) recommends censoring data at the bottom 2.5th 
poverty in all its forms. 
percentile as the minimum value for the normalization 
b. Public service coverage (e.g., access to contraception). 
– as long as that value does not include observations 
c. Access to basic infrastructure (e.g., mobile phone  that are still part of the ordinary distribution. However, 
coverage, wastewater treatment).  sometimes the 2.5th percentile may contain outliers and 
values that are part of a normally distributed set of data. 
3.  Where science-based targets exist that must be 
When clear outliers were identified, an intermediate 
achieved by 2030 or later, use these to set a 100% 
value between the weakest outlier and the most extreme 
upper bound (e.g., 100% sustainable management of 
“normal” value in the distribution was selected as the 
fisheries, or greenhouse gas emissions from electricity 
lower bound and we censored data at this level. 
to reach net-zero by 2070 at the latest to limit 
warming to below 2°C). 
After establishing the upper and lower bounds, variables 
4.  Where several countries already exceed an SDG 
were transformed linearly to a scale of 0 to 100 using the 
target, use the average of the top 5 performers 
following rescaling formula for the range [0; 100]:
(e.g., child mortality).
5.  For all other indicators, use the average of the top  x – min(x)
performers. For global indicators, the upper bound  x´ =  * 100 (Eq.S1)
max(x) – min(x)
was set by taking the average value of the top 5 global 
performers. For OECD indicators, the average of the 
top 3 performers was used.  where x is raw data value; max/min denote the bounds 
for best and worst performance, respectively; and x’ is the 
These principles interpret the SDGs as “stretch targets” and  normalized value after rescaling.
focus attention on the indicators on which a country is 
lagging behind. Each indicator distribution was censored,  The rescaling equation ensured that all rescaled variables 
so that all values exceeding the upper bound scored 100  were expressed as ascending variables (i.e., higher values 
and values below the lower bound scored 0. denoted better performance). In this way, the rescaled 
data became easy to interpret and compare across all 
In some cases, the upper bound exceeded the  indicators: a country that scores 50 on a variable is half-
thresholds to be met by 2030 in order to achieve the  way towards achieving the optimum value; a country with 
SDGs. For example, the SDGs call for reducing child  a score of 75 has covered three-quarters of the distance 
mortality to no more than 25 deaths per 1000 live  from worst to best.
births, but many countries have already exceeded 
this threshold (i.e., have mortality rates lower than 25 
in 1000). By defining the upper bound as the “best” 
outcome (e.g., 0 mortality per 1000 live births) – rather 
than the SDG achievement threshold – the SDG Index 
rewards improvements across the full distribution. This 
is particularly important for countries that have already 
achieved some SDG thresholds, but still lag behind 
others on this metric.
68
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid‑19 
4.3 Methodology (summary)
Table 8 
Imputations 
SDG Indicator Imputation
1 Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%) Data was not reported for those countries where no survey data was available.
1 Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%) Data was not reported for those countries where no survey data was available.
FAO et al. (2015) report 14.7 million undernourished people in developed 
regions, which corresponds to an average prevalence of 1.17% in the 
2 Prevalence of undernourishment (%)
developed regions. We assumed a 1.2% prevalence rate for each high-income 
country with missing data.
UNICEF et al. (2016) report an average prevalence of stunting in high-income 
2 Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%) countries of 2.58%. We assumed this value for high-income countries with 
missing data.
UNICEF et al. (2016) report an average prevalence of wasting in high-income 
2 Prevalence of wasting in children under 5 years of age (%) countries of 0.75%. We assumed this value for high-income countries with 
missing data.
For OECD countries, we imputed values from OECD enrollment data. For Japan 
4 Net primary enrollment rate (%)
and Lebanon, the datapoint in the 2019 SDR was reported for this year.
For OECD countries, we imputed values from OECD enrollment data. For 
4 Lower secondary completion rate (%) Bulgaria, Japan, Lebanon, and Namibia, the datapoint in the 2019 SDR was 
reported for this year.
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods  We impute modeled estimates from UNDESA Population Division for countries 
5
(% of females aged 15 to 49 who are married or in unions) missing administrative data.
4
. M
We assume missing data points for those countries in which the Walk Free  e
8 Victims of modern slavery (per 1,000 population) t
Foundation's methodology has less confidence due to survey unavailability. h
o
d
s
We impute values from the Global Innovation Index's indicator on university   S
The Times Higher Education Universities Ranking:  u
9 scores in the QS University Rankings for countries with missing data. We  m
Average score of top 3 universities (worst 0–100 best) assumed a value of 0 for countries with no universities in the rankings. m
a
r
y
We assumed zero R&D expenditure for low-income countries that did not   a
9 Expenditure on research and development (% of GDP) n
report any data for this variable. d
 D
a
t
We impute the World Bank Gini coefficients for those countries missing data on  a
10 Gini coefficient adjusted for top income  T
the adjusted Gini coefficient from Brookings. a
b
le
We assumed a value of 0 for countries with unreported export data and no  s
13 CO₂ emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita)
production across all three fossil-fuel types (coal, gas, oil).
We did not report data for countries with insignificant forest area as per the 
Environmental Performance Index (2018). Countries with forest area but no data 
15 Permanent deforestation (% of forest area, 5-year average)
on drivers of permanent deforestation (shifting agriculture, urbanization, and 
land use for commodity production) were assigned a value of 0.
Countries with missing values in the most current extraction from the UNODC 
16 Homicides (per 100,000 population) were assigned the values that were available for the 2019 Sustainable 
Development Report.
The best performing upper-middle-income countries have a child labor rate 
16 Children involved in child labor (% of population aged 5 to 14) of 1% (UNICEF, 2015). We assumed 0% child labor for high-income OECD 
members for which no data was reported.
69
Sustainable Development Report 2020      The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid‑19 
Part 4. Methods Summary and Data Tables
Table 8 
(continued)
SDG Indicator Imputation
Exports of major conventional weapons (TIV constant  We assumed a value of 0 for countries with unreported export data and from 
16
million USD per 100,000 population) which there are no major companies that produce weapons.
When data are missing from WHO or UNESCO, values were imputed from 
the OECD System of National Accounts data. Alternatively, when OECD SNA 
data wasn't available, values for health spending were imputed from the 
17 Government spending on health and education (% of GDP)
OECD Health expenditure and financing database while values for education 
spending were imputed from the Education at a glance: Educational finance 
indicators database.
IMF data (taxes, social contributions, and other revenue, excluding grants) is 
Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants  imputed when countries are missing data in the World Bank database. The IMF 
17
(% of GDP) data used is from the central government (incl. social security funds) sector. If 
that is not available, we use data for the budgetary central government sector
A value of 0 was imputed to all countries not included in the index. Missing 
data was assigned to those countries not included in the index and indicated 
in the OECD Automatic Exchange of Information Implementation Report 
17 Corporate Tax Haven Score (best 0–100 worst)
2018 (Nauru, Qatar and Bahrain). According to the report, these countries 
have no system for direct taxation in place and do not have reciprocal 
information-exchanges.
Weighting and aggregation  D. Method for constructing the dashboards 
The results of several rounds of expert consultations on  We have introduced additional quantitative thresholds 
earlier drafts of the SDG Index made clear that there is  for each indicator, to group countries in a “traffic light” 
no consensus across different epistemic communities  table. Aggregating across all indicators for each goal 
on assigning higher weights to some SDGs over others.  yields an overall score for each SDG and for each country. 
As a normative assumption, we therefore opted for a  Table 11 presents these thresholds for each indicator.
fixed, equal weight to be given to every SDG to reflect 
policymakers’ commitments to treating all SDGs equally 
and as an “integrated and indivisible” set of goals (United 
Thresholds 
Nations, 2015, para. 5). This implies that to improve their 
SDG Index score, countries need to place attention on  To assess a country’s progress on a particular indicator, we 
all goals, with a particular focus on goals that they are  considered four bands. The green band is bounded by the 
furthest from achieving and where incremental progress  maximum rating that can be achieved for each variable 
might therefore be expected to be fastest. (i.e., the upper bound) and the threshold for achieving the 
SDG. Three color bands, moving from yellow to orange 
To compute the SDG Index, we first estimate scores for  and then red, denote increasing distance from SDG 
each goal using the arithmetic mean of indicators for  achievement. The red band is bound at the bottom by the 
that goal. These goal scores are then averaged across all  value of the 2.5th percentile of the distribution. Upper and 
17 SDGs to obtain the SDG Index score. Various sensitivity  lower bounds are the same as for the SDG Index. 
tests have been available online, including compari-
sons of arithmetic mean versus geometric mean and  Additional thresholds were established based on statistical 
Monte-Carlo simulations at the Index and Goal level.  techniques and in consultation with experts. The country 
Monte-Carlo simulations call for prudence in interpret- assessments were subject to a public consultation as well 
ing small differences in the Index scores and rankings  as direct consultations with members of the Sustainable 
between countries, as those may be sensitive to the  Development Solutions Network. All thresholds were 
weighting scheme.  specified in absolute terms and apply to all countries. 
70
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid‑19 
4.3 Methodology (summary)
Weighting and aggregation E. SDG trends
The purpose of the global SDG dashboards is to 
highlight those SDGs that require particular attention  Using historic data, we estimate how fast a country 
in each country, and therefore should be prioritized for  has been progressing towards an SDG and determine 
early action. For the design of the dashboards, the same  whether – if extrapolated into the future – this pace will be 
issues related to weighting and aggregation of indicators  sufficient to achieve the SDG by 2030. For each indicator, 
apply, as discussed above for the SDG Index.  SDG achievement is defined by the green threshold set for 
the SDG dashboards. The difference in percentage points 
Averaging across all indicators for an SDG might hide  between the green threshold and the normalized country 
areas of policy concern when a country performs  score denotes the gap that must be closed to meet that 
well on most indicators but faces serious shortfalls on  goal. To estimate trends at the indicator level, we calculated 
one or two metrics within the same SDG. This applies  the linear annual growth rates (i.e., annual percentage 
particularly to high-income and upper-middle-income  improvement) needed to achieve the target by 2030 ( 
countries that have made significant progress on many  i.e., 2010–2030), which we compared to the average annual 
SDG dimensions but may face serious shortfalls on  growth rate over the most recent period, for example, from 
individual variables. 2015–2018. Progress towards achievement on a particular 
indicator is described using a four-arrow system (figure 30). 
As a result, the global SDG dashboards aggregate  Figure 31 illustrates the methodology graphically. 
indicator ratings for each SDG by estimating the average 
of the two variables on which a country performed  Specifically, each indicator trend was re-normalized on 
worst. To this end, the indicator values were first  a scale of 0 to 4, similar to the dashboard methodology. 
rescaled from 0 to 3, where 0 corresponds to the lower  Decreasing indicators were assigned a value of 0–1, where 
bound, 1 to the value of the threshold between red and  0 is the highest rate of score decrease and 1 corresponds 
orange (“red threshold”), 2 to the value of the threshold  to no change whatsoever in the score over time. Indicator  4
. M
between yellow and green (“green threshold”), and 3 to  trends that are “stagnating” were assigned a value of 1–2,  e
t
h
the upper bound. For all indicators, the yellow–orange  where 2 corresponds to 50% of the growth rate needed to  o
d
s
threshold was set as the value halfway between the red  meet the target by 2030. Indicators that are “moderately   S
u
and green thresholds (1.5). Each interval between 0 and  improving” were assigned a value of 2–3, where 3 is the  m
m
3 is continuous.  exact growth rate needed to achieve the target by 2030.  a
r
y
Those indicators that are “on track” were assigned values   a
n
d
We then took the average of the two rescaled variables  of 3–4, where 4 corresponds to the greatest improvement   D
a
on which the country performed worst to identify its  over the period. Indicators that are “maintaining SDG  ta
 T
rating for that goal. We applied an additional rule that,  achievement” were assigned a score of exactly 3. The  a
b
in order to score green for the goal, both indicators had  individual bands are linear, but the continuous 0-to-4  les
to be green – otherwise the goal would be rated yellow.  scale is not linear as a whole. 
Similarly, a red score was applied only if both worst-
performing indicators scored red. If a country has only  Overall goal trends were calculated as the arithmetic 
one data point under an SDG, then the color rating for  average of the rescaled values for all trend indicators 
that indicator determines its overall rating for the goal.  under each goal. An average of 0–1 corresponds to a 
If a country has data available on fewer than 50% of the  “decreasing” goal trend, 1–2 to a “stagnating” trend, 
indicators under a goal, its dashboard color for that goal  2–3 to “moderate improvement,” and 3–4 to “on track 
will be gray.  or maintaining achievement.” The trend for an SDG was 
calculated as the arithmetic average of all trend indicators 
for that goal.
71
Sustainable Development Report 2020      The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid‑19 
Part 4. Methods Summary and Data Tables
Figure 30 
The Four-arrow system for denoting SDG trends
p 5 D L
On track or Maintaining  
Decreasing Stagnating Moderately improving
SDG achievement
Decreasing score, i.e.  Score remains stagnant or  Score increases at a rate  Score increases at the rate 
country moves in the  increases at a rate below 50%  above 50% of the required  needed to achieve the SDG 
wrong direction of the growth rate needed to  growth rate but below the  by 2030 or performance 
achieve the SDG by 2030 rate needed to achieve the  has already exceeded SDG 
SDG by 2030 achievement threshold
Figure 31 
Graphic representation of the SDG trends methodology
Goal achievement
Green threshold
Performance in 2015
Extrapolated linear
annual growth rate
2015–2030
2015 2019 2030
Source: Authors’ analysis
72
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid‑19 
4.3 Methodology (summary)
Table 12 also provides the complete list of indicators used  and treated as such when calculating the overall goal 
to compute SDG Trends. Trend indicators were selected  trend. However, countries that used to be above the green 
from the indicators included in the SDG dashboards based  threshold and that decrease to a score lower than the 
on the availability of trend data. When the value for one  green threshold obtain a “decreasing” trend. 
year was not available, we used the closest available value 
with a maximum one-year difference for calculating the  Several other calculation methods were considered. 
trend indications. The table also indicates the period over  For instance, we tested the sensitivity of the results 
which the trend was calculated. For several indicators,  when using technical optimums (100 score) as 
trends were calculated using data in 2015 as the start year.  “goal achievement” and calculated distance to these 
These indicators demonstrate how the situation in the  optimums. This approach yielded harsher results and 
country has changed since adoption of the SDGs. These  is not consistent with our conceptual assumption that 
indicators are particularly insightful for understanding  lower green thresholds correspond to goal achievement. 
how policy implementation efforts have corresponded to  We also considered using compound annual growth 
changing outcomes, and are marked with an asterisk in  rates (CAGR) instead of linear growth rates. The two 
table 12. Other SDG trends are calculated based on data  approaches yield rather similar results however, and we 
points that preceded the adoption of SDGs, because data  could not identify a strong argument for using the more 
is reported with long lags at the international level due to  sophisticated CAGR method. Finally, while the dashboards 
lengthy validation processes. are based only on the two worst indicators, trends are 
generated using all indicators under the goal. This is 
Small decreases in countries that are top performers  because the dashboards aim to highlight goals where 
are treated differently from small decreases in countries  action is urgently required due to poor performance on 
that are average or low performers. For top performers  some of the underlying indicators, whereas the trends 
only, very small decreases are now treated as “stagnating”  aim to reflect the evolution of overall performance on the 
trends. They are reported as such at the indicator level  goal over time, including all indicators.  4
. M
e
t
h
o
d
s
 S
u
m
m
a
r
y
 a
n
d
 D
a
t
a
 T
a
b
le
s
73
Sustainable Development Report 2020      The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid‑19 
Part 4. Methods Summary and Data Tables
4.4 Data tables 
Table 9 
Indicators included in the Sustainable Development Report 2020
Legend 
[a] denotes OECD-only indicators
[b] denotes indicators not used in OECD dashboard but that are used in the calculation of OECD countries’ index scores.
Reference 
SDGNotes Indicator Source Description
Year
Estimated percentage of the population that is living under the poverty 
Poverty headcount ratio at  World Data   threshold of US$1.90 a day. Estimated using historical estimates of the income 
1 2020
$1.90/day (%) Lab (2020) distribution, projections of population changes by age and educational 
attainment, and GDP projections.
Estimated percentage of the population that is living under the poverty 
Poverty headcount ratio at  World Data   threshold of US$3.20 a day. Estimated using historical estimates of the income 
1 2020
$3.20/day (%) Lab (2020) distribution, projections of population changes by age and educational 
attainment, and GDP projections.
Relative poverty is measured as the share of the population whose incomes 
Poverty rate after taxes and fall below half the median disposable income for the entire population. The 
1 [a] 2017 OECD (2020)
transfers (%) income threshold for relative poverty changes over time with changes in 
median disposable income.
The percentage of the population whose food intake is insufficient to meet dietary 
energy requirements for a minimum of one year. Dietary energy requirements are 
defined as the amount of dietary energy required by an individual to maintain 
Prevalence of 
2 2017 FAO (2020) body functions, health and normal activity. FAO et al. (2015) report 14.7 million 
undernourishment (%)
undernourished people in developed regions, which corresponds to an average 
prevalence of 1.17% in the developed regions. We assumed a 1.2% prevalence 
rate for each high-income country (World Bank, 2019) with missing data.
The percentage of children up to the age of 5 years that are stunted, measured as 
Prevalence of stunting in  the percentage that fall below minus two standard deviations from the median 
UNICEF et al. 
2 children under 5 years of  2016 height for their age, according to the WHO Child Growth Standards. UNICEF et 
(2020)
age (%) al. (2016) report an average prevalence of wasting in high-income countries of 
2.58%. We assumed this value for high-income countries with missing data.
The percentage of children up to the age of 5 years whose weight falls 
Prevalence of wasting in  below minus two standard deviations from the median weight for their age, 
UNICEF et al. 
2 children under 5 years of  2016 according to the WHO Child Growth Standards. UNICEF et al. (2016) report an 
(2020)
age (%) average prevalence of wasting in high-income countries of 0.75%. We assumed 
this value for high-income countries with missing data.
Prevalence of obesity,  
The percentage of the adult population that has a body mass index (BMI) of 
2 BMI ≥ 30   2016 WHO (2020)
30kg/m² or higher, based on measured height and weight.
(% of adult population)
Trophic levels are a measure of the energy intensity of diet composition and 
Human Trophic Level   Bonhommeau  reflect the relative amounts of plants as opposed to animals eaten in a given 
2 2017
(best 2-3 worst) et al. (2013) country. A higher trophic level represents a greater level of consumption of 
energy-intensive animals.
Cereal yield, measured as tonnes per hectare of harvested land. Production 
Cereal yield (tonnes per 
2 2017 FAO (2020) data on cereals relate to crops harvested for dry grain only and excludes crops 
hectare of harvested land)
harvested for hay or green for food, feed, or silage and those used for grazing.
Sustainable Nitrogen  Zhang and  The Sustainable Nitrogen Management Index (SNMI) is a one-dimensional 
2 Management Index  2015 Davidson  ranking score that combines two efficiency measures in crop production: 
(best 0-1.41 worst) (2019) Nitrogen use efficiency (NUE) and land use efficiency (crop yield).
Global Yield  A country's yield expressed as a percentage of its potential yield in the three 
Yield gap closure 
2 [a] 2015 Gap Atlas  annual crops using the most land area, weighted for the relative importance of 
(% of potential yield)
(2015) each crop in terms of surface area.
74
Sustainable Development Report 2020    The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid‑19 
4.4 Data tables 
Table 9 
(continued)
Reference 
SDGNotes Indicator Source Description
Year
The estimated number of women, between the age of 15-49, who die from 
Maternal mortality rate WHO et al. 
3 2017 pregnancy-related causes while pregnant or within 42 days of termination of 
(per 100,000 live births)  (2020)
pregnancy, per 100,000 live births.
Neonatal mortality rate  UNICEF et al.  The number of newborn infants (neonates) who die before reaching 28 days of 
3 2018
(per 1,000 live births) (2020) age, per 1,000 live births.
Mortality rate, under-5  UNICEF et al.  The probability that a newborn baby will die before reaching age five, if subject 
3 2018
(per 1,000 live births) (2020) to age-specific mortality rates of the specified year, per 1,000 live births.
The estimated rate of new and relapse cases of tuberculosis in a given year, 
Incidence of tuberculosis 
3 2018 WHO (2020) expressed per 100,000 people. All forms of tuberculosis are included, including 
(per 100,000 population)
cases of people living with HIV.
New HIV infections  
3 (per 1,000 uninfected  2018 UNAIDS (2020) Number of people newly infected with HIV per 1,000 uninfected population.
population)
The probability of dying between the ages of 30 and 70 years from 
Age-standardized death rate 
cardiovascular diseases, cancer, diabetes or chronic respiratory diseases, 
due to cardiovascular disease, 
defined as the percent of 30-year-old-people who would die before their 70th 
3 cancer, diabetes, or chronic  2016 WHO (2018)
birthday from these diseases, assuming current mortality rates at every age 
respiratory disease in adults 
and that individuals would not die from any other cause of death (e.g. injuries 
aged 30–70 years (%)
or HIV/AIDS).
Age-standardized death rate 
attributable to household 
Mortality rate that is attributable to the joint effects of fuels used for cooking 
3 air pollution and ambient air  2016 WHO (2020)
indoors and ambient outdoor air pollution.
pollution 
(per 100,000 population)
Traffic deaths (per 100,000 
3 2016 WHO (2020) Estimated number of fatal road traffic injuries per 100,000 people. 4
population) . M
e
The average number of years that a newborn could expect to live, if he or she  th
3 Life expectancy at birth (years) 2016 WHO (2020) wpreervea tiloin pga asst  tthhreo tuimghe  loiffe h eisx poor sheedr  tboir tthhe,  fsoerx a-  aspnedc aifgice y-sepaer,c iinfi ca  dgeivaethn  rcaotuens try,  ods S
territory, or geographic area. u
m
m
Adolescent fertility rate (births  a
3 per 1,000 adolescent females  2017 UNDESA (2020) The number of births per 1,000 women between the age of 15 to 19. ry
aged 15 to 19)  an
d
The percentage of births attended by personnel trained to give the necessary   D
Births attended by skilled  a
3 health personnel (%) 2016 UNICEF (2020) spuopsteprvairstiuomn,  pcaerreio, dan, tdo  acdovnidceu ctot  dweolimveernie ds uornin tgh epirre ogwnna,n acnyd, l atob ocar,r aen fdo rt hnee wborns. ta T
a
b
Estimated national routine immunization coverage of infants, expressed as  le
s
the percentage of surviving infants children under the age of 12 months who 
Percentage of surviving 
WHO and  received two WHO-recommended vaccines (3rd dose of DTP and 1st dose of 
3 infants who received 2 WHO- 2018
UNICEF (2020) measles). Calculated as the minimum value between the percentage of infants 
recommended vaccines (%)
who have received the 3rd dose of DTP and the percentage who have received 
the 1st dose of measles.
Coverage of essential health services (defined as the average coverage of 
essential services based on tracer interventions that include reproductive, 
Universal health coverage  maternal, newborn and child health, infectious diseases, non-communicable 
3 (UHC) index of service  2017 WHO (2019) diseases and service capacity and access, among the general and the most 
coverage (worst 0–100 best) disadvantaged population). The indicator is an index reported on a unitless 
scale of 0 to 100, which is computed as the geometric mean of 14 tracer 
indicators of health service coverage.
Subjective well-being  Subjective self-evaluation of life, where respondents are asked to evaluate 
3 (average ladder score, worst  2019 Gallup (2020) where they feel they stand on a ladder where 0 represents the worst possible 
0–10 best) life and 10 the best possible life.
Gap in life expectancy at birth  Difference between maximum and minimum regional life expectancy at birth 
3 [a] 2016 OECD (2020)
among regions (years) among regions.
75
Sustainable Development Report 2020      The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid‑19 
Part 4. Methods Summary and Data Tables
Table 9 
(continued)
Reference 
SDGNotes Indicator Source Description
Year
Gap in self-reported health 
Gap in percentage of people who perceive their health status as good or very 
3 [a] status by income  2018 OECD (2020)
good between the poorest 20% and the richest 20% of the population.
(percentage points)
Daily smokers (% of  The percentage of the population aged 15 years and older who are reported to 
3 [a] 2018 OECD (2020)
population aged 15 and over) smoke daily.
The percentage of children of the official school age population who are 
4 Net primary enrollment rate (%) 2018 UNESCO (2020)
enrolled in primary education.
Lower secondary education completion rate measured as the gross intake ratio 
to the last grade of lower secondary education (general and pre-vocational). 
Lower secondary completion 
4 2018 UNESCO (2020) It is calculated as the number of new entrants in the last grade of lower 
rate (%)
secondary education, regardless of age, divided by the population at the 
entrance age for the last grade of lower secondary education.
Literacy rate (% of population  The percentage of youth, aged 15 to 24, who can both read and write a short 
4 2018 UNESCO (2020)
aged 15 to 24) simple statement on everyday life with understanding.
Participation rate in 
Participation rate in organized learning one year before the official primary 
4 [a] pre-primary organized learning  2018 UNESCO (2020)
entry age.
(% of children aged 4 to 6)
Tertiary educational 
The percentage of the population, aged 25 to 34, who have completed tertiary 
4 [a] attainment (% of population  2018 OECD (2020)
education.
aged 25 to 34)
National scores in the Programme for International Student Assessment (PISA), 
an internationally standardized assessment that is administered to 15-year-
olds in schools. It assesses how far students near the end of compulsory 
4 [a] PISA score (worst 0–600 best) 2018 OECD (2018)
education have acquired some of the knowledge and skills that are essential 
for full participation in society. Country PISA scores for reading, mathematics, 
and science were averaged to obtain an overall PISA score. 
Variation in science 
Percentage of variation in science performance explained by students’
4 [a] performance explained by  2018 OECD (2018)
socio-economic status.
socio-economic status (%)
Underachievers in science   Percentage of students with a performance in science below level 2 (less than 
4 [a] 2018 OECD (2018)
(% of 15-year-olds) 409.54 score points).
Percentage of students who are in the bottom quarter of the PISA index 
Resilient students in science  of economic, social and cultural status (ESCS) in the country/economy of 
4 [a] 2018 OECD (2018)
(% of 15-year-olds) assessment and are in the top quarter of science performers among all 
countries/economies, after accounting for socio-economic status.
Demand for family planning 
The percentage of women of reproductive age, either married or in a union, 
satisfied by modern methods 
5 2018 UNDESA (2020) whose demand for family planning has been met using modern methods of 
(% of females aged 15 to 49 
contraception.
who are married or in unions)
Ratio of female-to-male mean  The mean years of education received by women aged 25 and older divided by 
5 2018 UNESCO (2020)
years of education received (%) the mean years of education received by men aged 25 and older.
Ratio of female-to-male labor  Modeled estimate of the proportion of the female population aged 15 years 
5 2019 ILO (2020)
force participation rate (%) and older that is economically active, divided by the same proportion for men.
The number of seats held by women in single or lower chambers of national 
Seats held by women in 
5 2020 IPU (2020) parliaments, expressed as a percentage of all occupied seats. Seats refer to the 
national parliament (%)
number of parliamentary mandates, or the number of members of parliament.
Gender wage gap   The difference between male and female median wages of full-time employees 
5 [a] 2018 OECD (2020)
(% of male median wage) and those self-employed, divided by the male median wage.
The difference in time spent in unpaid work between men and women 
Gender gap in time spent doing 
5 [a] 2015 OECD (2020) in minutes per day. Unpaid work includes work, such as childcare, meal 
unpaid work (minutes/day)
preparation, and cleaning.
76
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid‑19 
4.4 Data tables 
Table 9 
(continued)
Reference 
SDGNotes Indicator Source Description
Year
The percentage of the population using at least a basic drinking water service, 
Population using at least basic 
6 2017 JMP (2020) such as drinking water from an improved source, provided that the collection 
drinking water services (%)
time is not more than 30 minutes for a round trip, including queuing.
Population using at least basic  The percentage of the population using at least a basic sanitation service, such 
6 2017 JMP (2020)
sanitation services (%) as an improved sanitation facility that is not shared with other households.
The level of water stress: freshwater withdrawal as a proportion of available 
freshwater resources is the ratio between total freshwater withdrawn by all 
Freshwater withdrawal 
major sectors and total renewable freshwater resources, after taking into 
6 (% of available freshwater  2015 FAO (2020)
account environmental water requirements. Main sectors, as defined by ISIC 
resources)
standards, include agriculture, forestry and fishing, manufacturing, electricity 
industry, and services. This indicator is also known as water withdrawal intensity.
The percentage of collected, generated, or produced wastewater that is treated, 
normalized by the population connected to centralized wastewater treatment 
Anthropogenic wastewater 
6 2018 EPI (2018) facilities. Scores were calculated by multiplying the wastewater treatment 
that receives treatment (%)
summary values, based on decadal averages, with the sewerage connection 
values to arrive at an overall total percentage of wastewater treated.
Water scarcity is measured as water consumption weighted by scarcity indices. 
In order to incorporate water scarcity into the virtual water flow calculus, a 
Scarce water consumption  new satellite account was constructed where water use entries are weighted 
Lenzen et al. 
6 embodied in imports   2013 so that they reflect the scarcity of the water being used. The weight used is a 
(2013)
(m³/capita) measure of water withdrawals as a percentage of the existing local renewable 
freshwater resources. The Water Scarcity Index was used for converting total 
water use into scarce water use.
The percentage of the population using a safely managed drinking water 
service. A safely managed drinking water service is one where people use an 
Population using safely  "improved" source meeting three criteria: it is accessible on premises, water 
6 [a] 2017 JMP (2020)
managed water services (%) is available when needed, and the water supplied is free from contamination. 
Improved sources are those that have the potential to deliver safe water by 
nature of their design and construction.
4
The percentage of the population using safely managed sanitation services.  . M
Safely managed sanitation services are "improved" sanitation facilities that  e
Population using safely  are not shared with other households, and where the excreta produced  th
o
6 [a] managed sanitation services  2017 JMP (2020) should either be treated and disposed of in situ, stored temporarily and then  d
(%) emptied, transported and treated off-site, or transported through a sewer with  s S
wastewater and then treated off-site. Improved sanitation facilities are those  um
designed to hygienically separate excreta from human contact. m
a
r
Population with access to  y
7 2017 SE4All (2020) The percentage of the population who has access to electricity.  a
electricity (%) n
d
 D
Population with access to  The percentage of the population primarily using clean cooking fuels and  a
t
7 clean fuels and technology for  2016 SE4All (2020) technologies for cooking. Under WHO guidelines, kerosene is excluded from  a
 T
cooking (%) clean cooking fuels. a
b
le
CO₂ emissions from fuel  s
combustion for electricity and  A measure of the carbon intensity of energy production, calculated by dividing 
7 2017 IEA (2019)
heating per total electricity  CO₂ emissions from the combustion of fuel by electricity output.
output (MtCO₂/TWh)
The share of renewable energy in the total primary energy supply. Renewables 
include the primary energy equivalent of hydro (excluding pumped storage), 
Share of renewable energy in 
7 [a] 2018 OECD (2020) geothermal, solar, wind, tide and wave sources. Energy derived from solid 
total primary energy supply (%)
biofuels, biogasoline, biodiesels, other liquid biofuels, biogases and the 
renewable fraction of municipal waste are also included.
The growth rate of GDP adjusted to income levels (where rich countries are 
expected to grow less) and expressed relative to the US growth performance. 
World Bank 
8 Adjusted GDP growth (%) 2018 GDP is the sum of gross value added by all resident producers in the economy, 
(2020)
plus any product taxes and minus any subsidies not included in the value of 
the products.
77
Sustainable Development Report 2020      The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid‑19 
Part 4. Methods Summary and Data Tables
Table 9 
(continued)
Reference 
SDGNotes Indicator Source Description
Year
Walk Free  Estimation of the number of people in modern slavery. Modern slavery is 
Victims of modern slavery  
8 2018 Foundation  defined as people in forced labor or forced marriage. It is calculated based on 
(per 1,000 population)
(2018) standardized surveys and Multiple Systems Estimation (MSE).
Adults with an account at 
The percentage of adults, 15 years and older, who report having an account 
a bank or other financial 
Demirguc-Kunt (by themselves or with someone else) at a bank or another type of financial 
8 institution or with a mobile- 2017
et al. (2018) institution, or who have personally used a mobile money service within the 
money-service provider (% of 
past 12 months.
population aged 15 or over)
Modeled estimate of the share of the labor force that is without work but is 
Unemployment rate   available and actively seeking employment. The indicator reflects the inability 
8 [b] 2019 ILO (2020)
(% of total labor force) of an economy to generate employment for people who want to work but are 
not doing so.
Fatal work-related accidents 
Alsamawi et al.  The number of fatal work-related accidents associated with imported goods. 
8 embodied in imports   2010
(2017) Calculated using extensions to a multiregional input-output table.
(per 100,000 population)
The ratio of the employed to the working age population. Employed people 
Employment-to-population  are those aged 15 or older who were in paid employment or self-employed 
8 [a] 2019 OECD (2020)
ratio (%) during a specified period. The working age population refers to people aged 
15 to 64.
The percentage of young people who are not in employment, education 
or training (NEET). Education includes part-time or full-time education, but 
Youth not in employment, 
exclude those in non-formal education and in educational activities of very 
8 [a] education or training (NEET)  2018 OECD (2020)
short duration. Employment is defined according to the ILO Guidelines and 
(% of population aged 15 to 29)
covers all those who have been in paid work for at least one hour in the 
reference week or were temporarily absent from such work.
Population using the internet  The percentage of the population who used the Internet from any location in 
9 2018 ITU (2020)
(%) the last three months. Access could be via a fixed or mobile network.
The number of mobile broadband subscriptions per 100 population. Mobile 
Mobile broadband 
broadband subscriptions refer to subscriptions to mobile cellular networks 
9 subscriptions   2018 ITU (2020)
with access to data communications (e.g. the Internet) at broadband speeds, 
(per 100 population)
irrespective of the device used to access the internet.
Logistics Performance Index: 
Survey-based average assessment of the quality of trade and transport related 
Quality of trade and transport- World Bank 
9 2018 infrastructure, e.g. ports, roads, railroads and information technology, on a 
related infrastructure   (2018)
scale from 1 (worst) to 5 (best).
(worst 1–5 best)
The average score of the top three universities in each country that are listed 
in the global top 1,000 universities in the world. For countries with at least one 
The Times Higher Education 
Times Higher  university on the list, only the score of the ranked university was taken into 
Universities Ranking: Average 
9 2020 Education  account. When a university score was missing in the Times Higher Education 
score of top 3 universities 
(2020) World University Ranking, an indicator from the Global Innovation Index on the 
(worst 0–100 best)
top 3 universities in Quacquarelli Symonds (QS) University Ranking was used as 
a source when available.
National  The number of scientific and technical journal articles published, that are 
Scientific and technical journal  Science  covered by the Science Citation Index (SCI) or the Social Sciences Citation 
9 2018
articles (per 1,000 population) Foundation  Index (SSCI). Articles are counted and assigned to a country based on the 
(2020) institutional address(es) listed in the article.
Gross domestic expenditure on scientific research and experimental development 
Expenditure on research and 
9 2017 UNESCO (2020) (R&D) expressed as a percentage of Gross Domestic Product (GDP). We assumed 
development (% of GDP)
zero R&D expenditure for low-income countries that do not report any data.
The number of researchers per thousand employed people. Researchers 
Researchers (per 1,000  are professionals engaged in the conception or creation of new knowledge, 
9 [a] 2018 OECD (2020)
employed population) products, processes, methods and systems, as well as in the management of 
the projects concerned
78
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid‑19 
4.4 Data tables 
Table 9 
(continued)
Reference 
SDGNotes Indicator Source Description
Year
A triadic patent family is defined as a set of patents registered in various 
countries (i.e. patent offices) to protect the same invention. Triadic patent 
 Triadic patent families filed  families are a set of patents filed at three of these major patent offices: the 
9 [a] 2017 OECD (2020)
(per million population) European Patent Office (EPO), the Japan Patent Office (JPO) and the United 
States Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO). The number of triadic patent 
families is "nowcast" for timeliness.
Gap in internet access by  The difference in the percentage of household Internet access between the top 
9 [a] 2019 OECD (2020)
income (percentage points) and bottom income quartiles.
Women in science and 
engineering (% of tertiary  Percentage of women tertiary graduates in natural sciences and engineering 
9 [a] 2015 OECD (2020)
graduates in science and  out of total tertiary graduates in natural sciences and engineering.
engineering)
The Gini coefficient adjusted for top revenues unaccounted for in household 
Gini coefficient adjusted for  Chandy and 
10 2017 surveys. This indicator takes the average of the unadjusted Gini and the 
top income Seidel (2017)
adjusted Gini.
The share of all income received by the 10% people with highest disposable 
10 [a] Palma ratio 2017 OECD (2020) income divided by the share of all income received by the 40% people with the 
lowest disposable income.
Elderly poverty rate (% of  The percentage of people of 66 years of age or more whose income falls below 
10 [a] 2017 OECD (2020)
population aged 66 or over) half the median household income of the total population.
Air pollution measured as the population-weighted mean annual 
Annual mean concentration 
concentration of PM2.5 for the urban population in a country. PM2.5 is 
of particulate matter of less 
11 2017 IHME (2017) suspended particles measuring less than 2.5 microns in aerodynamic diameter, 
than 2.5 microns in diameter 
which are capable of penetrating deep into the respiratory tract and can cause 
(PM2.5) (μg/m³)
severe health damage.
The percentage of the urban population with access to improved drinking 
Access to improved water 
WHO and  water piped on premises. An "improved" drinking-water source is one that, by 
11 source, piped (% of urban  2017
UNICEF (2020) the nature of its construction and when properly used, adequately protects the 
population)
source from outside contamination, particularly fecal matter.
4
The percentage of the surveyed population that responded "satisfied" to the  . M
Satisfaction with public  e
11 2019 Gallup (2020) question "In the city or area where you live, are you satisfied or dissatisfied with  t
transport (%) h
the public transportation systems?". o
d
s
Population with rent  Percentage of the population living in households where the total housing   S
11 [a] 2017 OECD (2011) u
overburden (%) costs represent more than 40 % of disposable income. m
m
The amount of waste collected by or on behalf of municipal authorities and  a
12 [b] M(kgu/nciacippiatal /sdoaliyd) waste   2016 W(20o1rl8d) Bank  disposed of through the waste management system. Waste from agriculture  ry a
and from industries are not included. n
d
 D
Waste from electrical and electronic equipment, estimated based on figures  a
t
12 Electronic waste (kg/capita) 2016 UNU-IAS (2017) for domestic production, imports and exports of electronic products, as well as  a
 T
product lifespan data. a
b
le
Production-based SO₂  Lenzen et al.  SO₂ emissions associated with the production of goods and services, which are  s
12 2012
emissions (kg/capita) (2020) then either exported or consumed domestically.
Emissions of SO₂ embodied in imported goods and services. SO₂ emissions 
SO₂ emissions embodied in  Lenzen et al. 
12 2012 have severe health impacts and are a significant cause of premature mortality 
imports (kg/capita)  (2020)
worldwide.
Reactive nitrogen emitted during the production of commodities, which 
are then either exported or consumed domestically. Reactive nitrogen 
Production-based nitrogen  Oita et al. 
12 2010 corresponds to emissions of ammonia, nitrogen oxides and nitrous oxide to the 
emissions (kg/capita) (2016)
atmosphere, and of reactive nitrogen potentially exportable to water bodies, 
all of which can be harmful to human health and the environment.
Emissions of reactive nitrogen embodied in imported goods and services. Reactive 
Nitrogen emissions embodied  Oita et al.  nitrogen corresponds here to emissions of ammonia, nitrogen oxides and nitrous 
12 2010
in imports (kg/capita) (2016) oxide to the atmosphere, and of reactive nitrogen potentially exportable to water 
bodies, all of which can be harmful to human health and the environment.
Non-recycled municipal solid  The amount of municipal solid waste (MSW), including household waste, that 
12 [a] 2018 OECD (2020)
waste (kg/capita/day) is neither recycled nor composted.
79
Sustainable Development Report 2020      The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid‑19 
Part 4. Methods Summary and Data Tables
Table 9 
(continued)
Reference 
SDGNotes Indicator Source Description
Year
Emissions of CO₂ that arise from the consumption of energy. This includes 
Energy-related CO₂ emissions  Gütschow et al. 
13 2017 emissions due to the consumption of petroleum, natural gas, coal, and also 
(tCO₂/capita) (2019)
from natural gas flaring.
CO₂ emissions embodied in  Lenzen et al. 
13 2015 CO₂ emissions embodied in imported goods and services.
imports (tCO₂/capita) (2020)
CO₂ emissions embodied in the exports of coal, gas, and oil. Calculated 
UN Comtrade 
CO₂ emissions embodied in  using a 5-year average of fossil fuel exports and converting exports into 
13 2019 (2020); EIA 
fossil fuel exports (kg/capita) their equivalent CO₂ emissions. Exports for each fossil fuel are capped at the 
(2020)
country's level of production.
Effective carbon rate   The price of carbon emissions resulting from taxes and emissions trading 
13 [a] 2016 OECD (2016)
(EUR/tCO₂) systems, excluding CO₂ emissions from biomass.
Mean area that is protected  Birdlife 
The mean percentage area of marine Key Biodiversity Areas (sites that are 
14 in marine sites important to  2018 International et 
important for the global persistence of marine biodiversity) that are protected.
biodiversity (%)  al. (2020)
Ocean Health Index: Clean  The clean waters subgoal of the Ocean Health Index measures to what degree 
Ocean Health 
14 Waters score   2019 marine waters under national jurisdictions have been contaminated by 
Index (2019)
(worst 0–100 best) chemicals, excessive nutrients (eutrophication), human pathogens, and trash.
Fish caught from  Sea around  The percentage of a country’s total catch, within its exclusive economic 
14 overexploited or collapsed  2014 Us (2018); EPI  zone (EEZ), that is comprised of species that are overexploited or collapsed, 
stocks (% of total catch) (2018) weighted by the quality of fish catch data.
Sea Around Us  The percentage of fish caught by trawling, a method of fishing in which 
14 Fish caught by trawling (%) 2014
(2018) industrial fishing vessels drag large nets (trawls) along the seabed.
Marine biodiversity threats 
Lenzen et al. 
14 embodied in imports   2018 Threats to marine species embodied in imports of goods and services.
(2020)
(per million population)
Mean area that is protected in  Birdlife 
The mean percentage area of terrestrial Key Biodiversity Areas (sites that are 
15 terrestrial sites important to  2018 International et 
important for the global persistence of biodiversity) that are protected.
biodiversity (%) al. (2020)
Mean area that is protected in  Birdlife 
The mean percentage area of freshwater Key Biodiversity Areas (sites that are 
15 freshwater sites important to  2018 International 
important for the global persistence of biodiversity) that are protected.
biodiversity (%) et al. (2020)
IUCN and 
The change in aggregate extinction risk across groups of species. The index 
Red List Index of species  Birdlife 
15 2019 is based on genuine changes in the number of species in each category of 
survival (worst 0–1 best) International 
extinction risk on The IUCN Red List of Threatened Species.
(2020)
The mean annual percentage of permanent deforestation over the period 2014 
Permanent deforestation (% of  Curtis et al.  to 2018. Permanent deforestation refers to tree cover removal for urbanization, 
15 2018
forest area, 5-year average) (2018) commodity production and certain types of small-scale agriculture. It does not 
include temporary forest loss due to the forestry sector or wildfires.
Terrestrial and freshwater 
biodiversity threats embodied  Lenzen et al.  Threats to terrestrial and freshwater species embodied in imports of goods and 
15 2018
in imports   (2020) services.
(per million population)
The number of intentional homicides per 100,000 people. Intentional 
homicides are estimates of unlawful homicides purposely inflicted as a result of 
Homicides   domestic disputes, interpersonal violence, violent conflicts over land resources, 
16 2017 UNODC (2020)
(per 100,000 population) intergang violence over turf or control, and predatory violence and killing by 
armed groups. Intentional homicide does not include all intentional killing, 
such as killing in armed conflict.
Unsentenced prisoners as a percentage of overall prison population. Persons 
held unsentenced or pre-trial refers to persons held in prisons, penal 
Unsentenced detainees  
16 2018 UNODC (2020) institutions or correctional institutions who are untried, pre-trial or awaiting a 
(% of prison population)
first instance decision on their case from a competent authority regarding their 
conviction or acquittal.
80
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid‑19 
4.4 Data tables 
Table 9 
(continued)
Reference 
SDGNotes Indicator Source Description
Year
Percentage of population 
who feel safe walking alone at  The percentage of the surveyed population that responded "Yes" to the question 
16 2019 Gallup (2020)
night in the city or area where  "Do you feel safe walking alone at night in the city or area where you live?"
they live (%)
Survey-based assessment of protection of property rights, on a scale from 1 
World 
Property Rights   (worst) to 7 (best). The indicator reports respondents' qualitative assessment 
16 2019 Economic 
(worst 1–7 best) based on answers to several questions on the protection of property rights and 
Forum (2019)
intellectual property rights protection.
Birth registrations with  
The percentage of children under the age of five whose births are reported as 
16 civil authority   2018 UNICEF (2020)
being registered with the relevant national civil authorities.
(% of children under age 5)
The perceived levels of public sector corruption, on a scale from 0 (highest level 
Transparency 
Corruption Perception Index  of perceived corruption) to 100 (lowest level of perceived corruption). The CPI 
16 2019 International 
(worst 0–100 best) aggregates data from a number of different sources that provide perceptions 
(2020)
of business people and country experts.
The percentage of children, between the age of 5-14 years old, involved in 
child labor at the time of the survey. A child is considered to be involved in 
child labor under the following conditions: (a) children 5-11 years old who, 
Children involved in child labor   during the reference week, did at least one hour of economic activity or at least 
16 2016 UNICEF (2017)
(% of population aged 5 to 14) 28 hours of household chores, or (b) children 12-14 years old who, during the 
reference week, did at least 14 hours of economic activity or at least 28 hours 
of household chores. We assumed 0% child labor for high-income countries for 
which no data was reported.
Volume of major conventional weapons exported, expressed in constant 1990 
Exports of major conventional  Stockholm  US$ millions per 100,000 population. It is calculated based on the trend-
16 weapons (TIV constant million  2019 Peace Research indicator value, which is based on the known unit production cost of a core set 
USD per 100,000 population) Institute (2020) of weapons, and does not reflect the financial value of the exports. Small arms, 
light weapons, ammunition and other support material are not included.
Reporters 
Press Freedom Index   Degree of freedom available to journalists in 180 countries and regions, 
16 (best 0–100 worst) 2019 s(2a0n1s 9fr)ontières  determined by pooling the responses of experts to a questionnaire devised by RSF. 4. M
e
t
Persons held in prison   The prison population is composed of persons held in prisons, penal  h
16 [a] 2017 UNODC (2020) o
(per 100,000 population) institutions, or correctional institutions. d
s
 S
Government spending on  UNESCO  The sum of public expenditure on health from domestic sources and general  um
17 health and education   2016 (2020); WHO  government expenditure on education (current, capital, and transfers)  m
(% of GDP) (2020) expressed as a percentage of GDP. a
r
y
FDoArC h cigohu-nintrcieosm: Ien atenrdn aatlli oOnEaCl D  Tnhatei oanmaol uinncto omf eo f(fGicNiaI)l.  dIte ivneclloupdmese gnrta anstssis, t"asonfcte"  (loOaDnAs) ( awsh ae sreh athree o gfr ganrots esl ement   and D
17 concessional public finance,  2017 OECD (2020) a
is at least 25% of the total) and the provision of technical assistance, and  t
including official development  a
excludes grants and loans for military purposes.  T
assistance (% of GNI) a
b
le
Other countries: Government  Government revenue measured as cash receipts from taxes, social  s
17 revenue excluding grants   2018 IMF (2020) contributions, and other revenues such as fines, fees, rent, and income from 
(% of GDP) property or sales. Grants are also considered as revenue but are excluded here.
The Corporate Tax Haven Score measures a jurisdiction’s potential to poach 
Corporate Tax Haven Score  Tax Justice  the tax base of others, as enshrined in its laws, regulations and documented 
17 2019
(best 0–100 worst) Network (2019) administrative practices. For countries with multiple jurisdictions, the value of 
the worst-performing jurisdiction was retained.
The Index measures the contribution of each jurisdiction to financial secrecy, 
on a scale from 0 (best) to 100 (worst). It is calculated using qualitative data to 
Financial Secrecy Score   Tax Justice  prepare a secrecy score for each jurisdiction and quantitative data to create a 
17 [a] 2020
(best 0–100 worst) Network (2020) global scale weighting for each jurisdiction according to its share of offshore 
financial services activity in the global total. For countries with multiple 
jurisdictions, the average score of the jurisdictions was used.
Estimation of how much profit is shifted into tax havens and how much non-
Shifted profits of  Zucman et al. 
17 [a] 2016 haven countries lose in profits from such shifting. Based on macroeconomic data 
multinationals (US$ billion) (2019)
known as foreign affiliates statistics. Negative values indicate profit shifting.
81
Sustainable Development Report 2020      The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid‑19 
Part 4. Methods Summary and Data Tables
Table 10 
Countries not included in the 2020 SDG Index due to insufficient data availability
Country Missing Values Percentage of Missing Values
Andorra 37 46%
Antigua and Barbuda 24 29%
The Bahamas 20 24%
Dominica 39 46%
Eritrea 17 20%
Micronesia, Fed. Sts. 39 46%
Guinea-Bissau 17 20%
Equatorial Guinea 27 32%
Grenada 34 41%
Kiribati 37 44%
St. Kitts and Nevis 44 52%
Libya 18 21%
St. Lucia 25 30%
Liechtenstein 47 59%
Monaco 45 54%
Marshall Islands 45 54%
Nauru 49 58%
Palau 48 57%
Korea, Dem. Rep. 20 24%
Solomon Islands 24 29%
San Marino 45 54%
Seychelles 23 27%
Timor-Leste 21 25%
Tonga 28 33%
Tuvalu 47 56%
St. Vincent and the Grenadines 30 36%
Samoa 18 21%
82
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid‑19 
4.4 Data tables 
Table 11 
Indicator thresholds and justifications for the optimum values
Optimum  Lower  Justification for 
SDG Indicator Green Yellow Orange Red
(value = 100) Bound Optimum
1 Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%) 0 ≤2 2 < x ≤ 7.5 7.5 < x ≤ 13 >13 72.6 SDG Target
1 Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%) 0 ≤2 2 < x ≤ 7.5 7.5 < x ≤ 13 >13 51.5 SDG Target
Average of 3 best 
1 Poverty rate after taxes and transfers (%) 6.1 ≤10 10 < x ≤ 12.5 12.5 < x ≤ 15 >15 17.7
OECD performers
2 Prevalence of undernourishment (%) 0 ≤7.5 7.5 < x ≤ 11.25 11.25 < x ≤ 15 >15 42.3 SDG Target
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years 
2 0 ≤7.5 7.5 < x ≤ 11.25 11.25 < x ≤ 15 >15 50.2 SDG Target
of age (%)
Prevalence of wasting in children under 5 years 
2 0 ≤5 5 < x ≤ 7.5 7.5 < x ≤ 10 >10 16.3 SDG Target
of age (%)
Prevalence of obesity, BMI ≥ 30 (% of adult  Average of 5 best 
2 2.8 ≤10 10 < x ≤ 17.5 17.5 < x ≤ 25 >25 35.1
population) performers
Average of 5 best 
2 Human Trophic Level (best 2–3 worst) 2.04 ≤2.2 2.2 < x ≤ 2.3 2.3 < x ≤ 2.4 >2.4 2.47
performers
Average of 5 best 
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested 
2 7 ≥2.5 2.5 > x ≥ 2 2 > x ≥ 1.5 >1.5 0.2 performers minus 
land)
outliers (1 & 1/2SD)
Sustainable Nitrogen Management Index  
2 0 ≤0.3 0.3 < x ≤ 0.5 0.5 < x ≤ 0.7 >0.7 1.2 Technical Optimum
(best 0–1.41 worst)
Average of 5 best 
2 Yield gap closure (% of potential yield) 77 ≥75 75 > x ≥ 62.5 62.5 > x ≥ 50 >50 28
performers
Average of 5 best 
3 Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)  3.4 ≤70 70 < x ≤ 105 105 < x ≤ 140 >140 814
performers
Average of 5 best 
3 Neonatal mortality rate (per 1,000 live births) 1.1 ≤12 12 < x ≤ 15 15 < x ≤ 18 >18 39.7
performers
4
3 Mortality rate, under-5 (per 1,000 live births) 2.6 ≤25 25 < x ≤ 37.5 37.5 < x ≤ 50 >50 130.1 Average of 5 best  . M
performers e
t
h
Incidence of tuberculosis (per 100,000  o
3 0 ≤10 10 < x ≤ 42.5 42.5 < x ≤ 75 >75 561 SDG Target d
population) s
 S
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected  u
3 0 ≤0.2 0.2 < x ≤ 0.6 0.6 < x ≤ 1 >1 5.5 SDG Target m
population) m
Age-standardized death rate due to  ar
3 ccahrrdoinoivca rsecsupliarar tdoisrye adsiese, caasen ciner a, ddiualbtse ategse, do r  9.3 ≤15 15 < x ≤ 20 20 < x ≤ 25 >25 31 Apeverfroargme eorfs 5 best  y and
30–70 years (%)  D
a
Age-standardized death rate attributable  ta
3 to household air pollution and ambient air  0 ≤18 18 < x ≤ 84 84 < x ≤ 150 >150 368.8 SDG Target  Ta
pollution (per 100,000 population) ble
Average of 5 best  s
3 Traffic deaths (per 100,000 population) 3.2 ≤8.4 8.4 < x ≤ 12.6 12.6 < x ≤ 16.8 >16.8 33.7
performers
Average of 5 best 
3 Life expectancy at birth (years) 83 ≥80 80 > x ≥ 75 75 > x ≥ 70 >70 54
performers
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000  Average of 5 best 
3 2.5 ≤25 25 < x ≤ 37.5 37.5 < x ≤ 50 >50 139.6
adolescent females aged 15 to 19) performers
3 Births attended by skilled health personnel (%) 100 ≥98 98 > x ≥ 94 94 > x ≥ 90 >90 23.1 Leave no one behind
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 
3 100 ≥90 90 > x ≥ 85 85 > x ≥ 80 >80 41 Leave no one behind
WHO-recommended vaccines (%)
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of 
3 100 ≥80 80 > x ≥ 70 70 > x ≥ 60 >60 38.2 Leave no one behind
service coverage (worst 0–100 best)
Subjective well-being (average ladder score,  Average of 5 best 
3 7.6 ≥6 6 > x ≥ 5.5 5.5 > x ≥ 5 >5 3.3
worst 0–10 best) performers
Gap in life expectancy at birth among regions 
3 0 ≤3 3 < x ≤ 5 5 < x ≤ 7 >7 11 Leave no one behind
(years)
83
Sustainable Development Report 2020      The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid‑19 
Part 4. Methods Summary and Data Tables
Table 11
(continued)
Optimum  Lower  Justification for 
SDG Indicator Green Yellow Orange Red
(value = 100) Bound Optimum
Gap in self-reported health status by income 
3 0 ≤20 20 < x ≤ 30 30 < x ≤ 40 >40 45 Leave no one behind
(percentage points)
Average of 3 best 
3 Daily smokers (% of population aged 15 and over) 10.1 ≤18 18 < x ≤ 25 25 < x ≤ 32 >32 35
OECD performers
4 Net primary enrollment rate (%) 100 ≥97 97 > x ≥ 88.5 88.5 > x ≥ 80 >80 53.8 SDG Target
4 Lower secondary completion rate (%) 100 ≥90 90 > x ≥ 82.5 82.5 > x ≥ 75 >75 18 SDG Target
4 Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24) 100 ≥95 95 > x ≥ 90 90 > x ≥ 85 >85 45.2 Leave no one behind
Participation rate in pre-primary organized 
4 100 ≥90 90 > x ≥ 80 80 > x ≥ 70 >70 35 SDG Target
learning (% of children aged 4 to 6)
Tertiary educational attainment  Average of 3 best 
4 52.2 ≥40 40 > x ≥ 25 25 > x ≥ 10 >10 0
(% of population aged 25 to 34) OECD performers
Average of 3 best 
4 PISA score (worst 0–600 best) 525.6 ≥493 493 > x ≥ 446.5 446.5 > x ≥ 400 >400 350
OECD performers
Variation in science performance explained by  Average of 3 best 
4 8.3 ≤10.5 10.5 < x ≤ 15.25 15.25 < x ≤ 20 >20 21.4
socio-economic status (%) OECD performers
Average of 3 best 
4 Underachievers in science (% of 15-year-olds) 10 ≤15 15 < x ≤ 22.5 22.5 < x ≤ 30 >30 48
OECD performers
Average of 3 best 
4 Resilient students in science (% of 15-year-olds) 46.6 ≥38 38 > x ≥ 29 29 > x ≥ 20 >20 12.8
OECD performers
Demand for family planning satisfied by 
5 modern methods (% of females aged 15 to 49  100 ≥80 80 > x ≥ 70 70 > x ≥ 60 >60 17.5 Leave no one behind
who are married or in unions)
Ratio of female-to-male mean years of 
5 100 ≥98 98 > x ≥ 86.5 86.5 > x ≥ 75 >75 41.8 SDG Target
education received (%)
Ratio of female-to-male labor force 
5 100 ≥70 70 > x ≥ 60 60 > x ≥ 50 >50 21.5 SDG Target
participation rate (%)
5 Seats held by women in national parliament (%) 50 ≥40 40 > x ≥ 30 30 > x ≥ 20 >20 1.2 SDG Target
5 Gender wage gap (% of male median wage) 0 ≤8 8 < x ≤ 14 14 < x ≤ 20 >20 36.7 Technical Optimum
Gender gap in time spent doing unpaid work 
5 0 ≤90 90 < x ≤ 135 135 < x ≤ 180 >180 245 Technical Optimum
(minutes/day)
Population using at least basic drinking water 
6 100 ≥98 98 > x ≥ 89 89 > x ≥ 80 >80 40 Leave no one behind
services (%)
Population using at least basic sanitation 
6 100 ≥95 95 > x ≥ 85 85 > x ≥ 75 >75 9.7 Leave no one behind
services (%)
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available 
6 12.5 ≤25 25 < x ≤ 50 50 < x ≤ 75 >75 100 Technical Optimum
freshwater resources)
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives 
6 100 ≥50 50 > x ≥ 32.5 32.5 > x ≥ 15 >15 0 Technical Optimum
treatment (%)
Scarce water consumption embodied in  Average of 5 best 
6 0 ≤25 25 < x ≤ 37.5 37.5 < x ≤ 50 >50 100
imports (m³/capita) performers
Population using safely managed water services 
6 100 ≥95 95 > x ≥ 87.5 87.5 > x ≥ 80 >80 10.5 Leave no one behind
(%)
Population using safely managed sanitation 
6 100 ≥90 90 > x ≥ 77.5 77.5 > x ≥ 65 >65 14.1 Leave no one behind
services (%)
7 Population with access to electricity (%) 100 ≥98 98 > x ≥ 89 89 > x ≥ 80 >80 9.1 Leave no one behind
Population with access to clean fuels and  Average of 3 best 
7 100 ≥85 85 > x ≥ 67.5 67.5 > x ≥ 50 >50 2
technology for cooking (%) OECD performers
CO₂ emissions from fuel combustion for 
7 electricity and heating per total electricity  0 ≤1 1 < x ≤ 1.25 1.25 < x ≤ 1.5 >1.5 5.9 Technical Optimum
output (MtCO₂/TWh)
Share of renewable energy in total primary  Average of 3 best 
7 51 ≥20 20 > x ≥ 15 15 > x ≥ 10 >10 3
energy supply (%) OECD performers
84
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid‑19 
4.4 Data tables 
Table 11
(continued)
Optimum  Lower  Justification for 
SDG Indicator Green Yellow Orange Red
(value = 100) Bound Optimum
Average of 5 best 
8 Adjusted GDP growth (%) 5 ≥0 0 > x ≥ -1.5 -1.5 > x ≥ -3 >-3 -14.7
performers
Victims of modern slavery  
8 0 ≤4 4 < x ≤ 7 7 < x ≤ 10 >10 22 Leave no one behind
(per 1,000 population)
Adults with an account at a bank or other 
financial institution or with a mobile-money-
8 100 ≥80 80 > x ≥ 65 65 > x ≥ 50 >50 8 Technical Optimum
service provider  
(% of population aged 15 or over)
Average of 5 best 
8 Unemployment rate (% of total labor force) 0.5 ≤5 5 < x ≤ 7.5 7.5 < x ≤ 10 >10 25.9
performers
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in 
8 0 ≤1 1 < x ≤ 1.75 1.75 < x ≤ 2.5 >2.5 6 Technical Optimum
imports (per 100,000 population)
Average of 3 best 
8 Employment-to-population ratio (%) 77.8 ≥60 60 > x ≥ 55 55 > x ≥ 50 >50 50
OECD performers
Youth not in employment, education or training  Average of 3 best 
8 8.1 ≤10 10 < x ≤ 12.5 12.5 < x ≤ 15 >15 28.2
(NEET) (% of population aged 15 to 29) OECD performers
9 Population using the internet (%) 100 ≥80 80 > x ≥ 65 65 > x ≥ 50 >50 2.2 Leave no one behind
Mobile broadband subscriptions 
9 100 ≥75 75 > x ≥ 57.5 57.5 > x ≥ 40 >40 1.4 Leave no one behind
(per 100 population)
Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade 
Average of 5 best 
9 and transport-related infrastructure  3.8 ≥3 3 > x ≥ 2.5 2.5 > x ≥ 2 >2 1.6
performers
(worst 1–5 best)
The Times Higher Education Universities 
Average of 5 best 
9 Ranking: Average score of top 3 universities  50 ≥30 30 > x ≥ 15 15 > x ≥ 0 >0 0
performers
(worst 0–100 best)
Scientific and technical journal articles  Average of 5 best 
9 1.2 ≥0.7 0.7 > x ≥ 0.375 0.375 > x ≥ 0.05 >0.05 0 4
(per 1,000 population) performers . M
9 E(%xp oefn GdDitPu)re on research and development  3.7 ≥1.5 1.5 > x ≥ 1.25 1.25 > x ≥ 1 >1 0 Apeverfroargme eorfs 5 best  etho
d
Average of 3 best  s
9 Researchers (per 1,000 employed population) 15.6 ≥8 8 > x ≥ 7.5 7.5 > x ≥ 7 >7 0.8  S
OECD performers u
m
 Triadic patent families filed  Average of 3 best  m
9 115.7 ≥20 20 > x ≥ 15 15 > x ≥ 10 >10 0.1
(per million population) OECD performers a
r
y
Gap in internet access by income (  a
9 0 ≤7 7 < x ≤ 26 26 < x ≤ 45 >45 63.6 Leave no one behind n
percentage points) d
 D
Women in science and engineering  a
Average of 3 best  t
9 (% of tertiary graduates in science and  38.1 ≥33 33 > x ≥ 29 29 > x ≥ 25 >25 16.2 a
OECD performers  T
engineering) a
b
Average of 5 best  le
10 Gini coefficient adjusted for top income 27.5 ≤30 30 < x ≤ 35 35 < x ≤ 40 >40 63 s
performers
Average of 3 best 
10 Palma ratio 0.9 ≤1 1 < x ≤ 1.15 1.15 < x ≤ 1.3 >1.3 2.5
OECD performers
Elderly poverty rate  Average of 3 best 
10 3.2 ≤5 5 < x ≤ 15 15 < x ≤ 25 >25 45.7
(% of population aged 66 or over) OECD performers
Annual mean concentration of particulate 
Average of 5 best 
11 matter of less than 2.5 microns in diameter  6.3 ≤10 10 < x ≤ 17.5 17.5 < x ≤ 25 >25 87
performers
(PM2.5) (μg/m³)
Access to improved water source, piped 
11 100 ≥98 98 > x ≥ 86.5 86.5 > x ≥ 75 >75 6.1 Leave no one behind
(% of urban population)
Average of 5 best 
11 Satisfaction with public transport (%) 82.6 ≥72 72 > x ≥ 57.5 57.5 > x ≥ 43 >43 21
performers
Average of 3 best 
11 Population with rent overburden (%) 4.6 ≤7 7 < x ≤ 12 12 < x ≤ 17 >17 25.6
OECD performers
Average of 5 best 
12 Municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day) 0.1 ≤1 1 < x ≤ 1.5 1.5 < x ≤ 2 >2 3.7
performers
85
Sustainable Development Report 2020      The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid‑19 
Part 4. Methods Summary and Data Tables
Table 11
(continued)
Optimum  Lower  Justification for 
SDG Indicator Green Yellow Orange Red
(value = 100) Bound Optimum
Average of 5 best 
12 Electronic waste (kg/capita) 0.2 ≤5 5 < x ≤ 7.5 7.5 < x ≤ 10 >10 23.5
performers
Average of 5 best 
12 Production-based SO₂ emissions (kg/capita) 0 ≤30 30 < x ≤ 65 65 < x ≤ 100 >100 525
performers
12 SO₂ emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)  0 ≤5 5 < x ≤ 7.5 7.5 < x ≤ 10 >10 30 Technical Optimum
Average of 5 best 
12 Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita) 2 ≤20 20 < x ≤ 35 35 < x ≤ 50 >50 100
performers
Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports  
12 0 ≤5 5 < x ≤ 10 10 < x ≤ 15 >15 45 Technical Optimum
(kg/capita)
Average of 3 best 
12 Non-recycled municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day) 0.6 ≤0.8 0.8 < x ≤ 0.9 0.9 < x ≤ 1 >1 1.5
OECD performers
13 Energy-related CO₂ emissions (tCO₂/capita) 0 ≤2 2 < x ≤ 3 3 < x ≤ 4 >4 23.7 Technical Optimum
CO₂ emissions embodied in imports  
13 0 ≤0.5 0.5 < x ≤ 0.75 0.75 < x ≤ 1 >1 3.2 Technical Optimum
(tCO₂/capita)
CO₂ emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports 
13 0 ≤100 100 < x ≤ 4050 4,050 < x ≤ 8,000 >8,000 44,000 Technical Optimum
(kg/capita)
13 Effective carbon rate (EUR/tCO₂) 100 ≥70 70 > x ≥ 50 50 > x ≥ 30 >30 -0.1 Technical Optimum
Mean area that is protected in marine sites 
14 100 ≥50 50 > x ≥ 30 30 > x ≥ 10 >10 0 Technical Optimum
important to biodiversity (%) 
Ocean Health Index: Clean Waters score  
14 100 ≥70 70 > x ≥ 65 65 > x ≥ 60 >60 28.6 Technical Optimum
(worst 0–100 best)
Fish caught from overexploited or collapsed 
14 0 ≤25 25 < x ≤ 37.5 37.5 < x ≤ 50 >50 90.7 Technical Optimum
stocks (% of total catch)
Average of 5 best 
14 Fish caught by trawling (%) 1 ≤7 7 < x ≤ 33.5 33.5 < x ≤ 60 >60 90
performers
Marine biodiversity threats embodied in 
14 0 ≤0.2 0.2 < x ≤ 0.6 0.6 < x ≤ 1 >1 2 Technical Optimum
imports (per million population)
Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites 
15 100 ≥50 50 > x ≥ 30 30 > x ≥ 10 >10 4.6 Technical Optimum
important to biodiversity (%)
Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites 
15 100 ≥50 50 > x ≥ 30 30 > x ≥ 10 >10 0 Technical Optimum
important to biodiversity (%)
Red List Index of species survival  
15 1 ≥0.9 0.9 > x ≥ 0.85 0.85 > x ≥ 0.8 >0.8 0.6 Technical Optimum
(worst 0–1 best)
Permanent deforestation 
15 0 ≤0.05 0.05 < x ≤ 0.275 0.275 < x ≤ 0.5 >0.5 1.5 SDG Target
(% of forest area, 5-year average)
Terrestrial and freshwater biodiversity threats 
15 0 ≤1 1 < x ≤ 2 2 < x ≤ 3 >3 10 Technical Optimum
embodied in imports (per million population)
Average of 5 best 
16 Homicides (per 100,000 population) 0.3 ≤1.5 1.5 < x ≤ 2.75 2.75 < x ≤ 4 >4 38
performers
Unsentenced detainees  Average of 5 best 
16 7 ≤30 30 < x ≤ 40 40 < x ≤ 50 >50 75
(% of prison population) performers
Percentage of population who feel safe  
Average of 5 best 
16 walking alone at night in the city or area   90 ≥70 70 > x ≥ 60 60 > x ≥ 50 >50 33
performers
where they live (%)
Average of 5 best 
16 Property Rights (worst 1–7 best) 6.3 ≥4.5 4.5 > x ≥ 3.75 3.75 > x ≥ 3 >3 2.5
performers
Birth registrations with civil authority  
16 100 ≥98 98 > x ≥ 86.5 86.5 > x ≥ 75 >75 11 Leave no one behind
(% of children under age 5)
Average of 5 best 
16 Corruption Perception Index (worst 0–100 best) 88.6 ≥60 60 > x ≥ 50 50 > x ≥ 40 >40 13
performers
Children involved in child labor  
16 0 ≤2 2 < x ≤ 6 6 < x ≤ 10 >10 39.3 Leave no one behind
(% of population aged 5 to 14)
Exports of major conventional weapons (TIV 
16 0 ≤1 1 < x ≤ 1.75 1.75 < x ≤ 2.5 >2.5 3.4 Technical Optimum
constant million USD per 100,000 population)
Average of 5 best 
16 Press Freedom Index (best 0–100 worst) 10 ≤30 30 < x ≤ 40 40 < x ≤ 50 >50 80
performers
86
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid‑19 
4.4 Data tables 
Table 11
(continued)
Optimum  Lower  Justification for 
SDG Indicator Green Yellow Orange Red
(value = 100) Bound Optimum
Average of 5 best 
16 Persons held in prison (per 100,000 population) 25 ≤100 100 < x ≤ 175 175 < x ≤ 250 >250 475
performers
Government spending on health and education  Average of 5 best 
17 15 ≥10 10 > x ≥ 7.5 7.5 > x ≥ 5 >5 0
(% of GDP) performers
For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: 
International concessional public finance,  Average of 5 best 
17 1 ≥0.7 0.7 > x ≥ 0.525 0.525 > x ≥ 0.35 >0.35 0.1
including official development assistance   performers
(% of GNI)
Other countries: Government revenue  Average of 5 best 
17 40 ≥30 30 > x ≥ 23 23 > x ≥ 16 >16 10
excluding grants (% of GDP) performers
Average of best 
17 Corporate Tax Haven Score (best 0–100 worst) 40 ≤60 60 < x ≤ 65 65 < x ≤ 70 >70 100
performers (EU Report)
Average of 5 best 
17 Financial Secrecy Score (best 0–100 worst) 42.7 ≤45 45 < x ≤ 50 50 < x ≤ 55 >55 76.5
performers
17 Shifted profits of multinationals (US$ billion) 0 ≥0 0 > x ≥ -15 -15 > x ≥ -30 >-30 -70 Technical Optimum
4
. M
e
t
h
o
d
s
 S
u
m
m
a
r
y
 a
n
d
 D
a
t
a
 T
a
b
le
s
87
Sustainable Development Report 2020      The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid‑19 
Part 4. Methods Summary and Data Tables
Table 12 
Indicators used for SDG Trends and period for trend estimation
(* The trend estimations since the adoption of the SDGs are marked below)
SDG Indicator Period Covered
1 Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%) 2015–2019*
1 Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%) 2015–2019*
1 Poverty rate after taxes and transfers (%) 2013–2016
2 Prevalence of undernourishment (%) 2014–2017
2 Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%) 2014–2017
2 Prevalence of wasting in children under 5 years of age (%) 2014–2017
2 Prevalence of obesity, BMI ≥ 30 (% of adult population) 2013–2016
2 Human Trophic Level (best 2–3 worst) 2014–2017
2 Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land) 2014–2017
2 Sustainable Nitrogen Management Index (best 0–1.41 worst) 2012–2015
3 Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)  2014–2017
3 Neonatal mortality rate (per 1,000 live births) 2015–2018*
3 Mortality rate, under-5 (per 1,000 live births) 2015–2018*
3 Incidence of tuberculosis (per 100,000 population) 2015–2018*
3 New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population) 2015–2018*
Age-standardized death rate due to cardiovascular disease, cancer, diabetes, or chronic respiratory 
3 2010–2016
disease in adults aged 30–70 years (%)
3 Traffic deaths (per 100,000 population) 2013–2016
3 Life expectancy at birth (years) 2013–2016
3 Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19) 2014–2017
3 Births attended by skilled health personnel (%) 2012–2016
3 Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%) 2015–2018*
3 Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best) 2010–2017
3 Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best) 2015–2019*
3 Gap in self-reported health status by income (percentage points) 2014–2017
3 Daily smokers (% of population aged 15 and over) 2014–2017
4 Net primary enrollment rate (%) 2014–2017
4 Lower secondary completion rate (%) 2015–2018*
4 Participation rate in pre-primary organized learning (% of children aged 4 to 6) 2014–2017
4 Tertiary educational attainment (% of population aged 25 to 34) 2015–2018*
4 PISA score (worst 0–600 best) 2015–2018*
4 Variation in science performance explained by socio-economic status (%) 2015–2018*
4 Underachievers in science (% of 15-year-olds) 2015–2018*
4 Resilient students in science (% of 15-year-olds) 2015–2018*
5 Ratio of female-to-male mean years of education received (%) 2015–2018*
5 Ratio of female-to-male labor force participation rate (%) 2015–2019*
5 Seats held by women in national parliament (%) 2015–2019*
5 Gender wage gap (% of male median wage) 2014–2017
6 Population using at least basic drinking water services (%) 2014–2017
6 Population using at least basic sanitation services (%) 2014–2017
6 Scarce water consumption embodied in imports (m³/capita) 2010–2013
6 Population using safely managed water services (%) 2014–2017
6 Population using safely managed sanitation services (%) 2014–2017
88
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid‑19 
4.4 Data tables 
Table 12 
(continued)
SDG Indicator Period Covered
7 Population with access to electricity (%) 2014–2017
7 Population with access to clean fuels and technology for cooking (%) 2013–2016
7 CO₂ emissions from fuel combustion for electricity and heating per total electricity output (MtCO₂/TWh) 2014–2017
7 Share of renewable energy in total primary energy supply (%) 2014–2017
Adults with an account at a bank or other financial institution or with a mobile-money-service provider 
8 2014–2017
(% of population aged 15 or over)
8 Unemployment rate (% of total labor force) 2015–2019*
8 Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population) 2007–2010
8 Employment-to-population ratio (%) 2015–2019*
8 Youth not in employment, education or training (NEET) (% of population aged 15 to 29) 2015–2018*
9 Population using the internet (%) 2014–2017
9 Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population) 2015–2018*
9 Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related infrastructure (worst 1–5 best) 2014–2018
9 Scientific and technical journal articles (per 1,000 population) 2015–2018*
9 Expenditure on research and development (% of GDP) 2014–2017
9 Researchers (per 1,000 employed population) 2014–2017
9  Triadic patent families filed (per million population) 2014–2017
9 Gap in internet access by income (percentage points) 2015–2018*
10 Gini coefficient adjusted for top income 2012–2015
10 Palma ratio 2013–2016
10 Elderly poverty rate (% of population aged 66 or over) 2013–2016
11 Annual mean concentration of particulate matter of less than 2.5 microns in diameter (PM2.5) (μg/m³) 2014–2017
4
11 Access to improved water source, piped (% of urban population) 2014–2017 . M
e
11 Satisfaction with public transport (%) 2015–2019* th
o
11 Population with rent overburden (%) 2014–2017 ds
 S
13 Energy-related CO₂ emissions (tCO₂/capita) 2014–2017 um
m
13 CO₂ emissions embodied in imports (tCO₂/capita) 2012–2015 a
r
y
14 Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)  2015–2018*  a
n
d
14 Ocean Health Index: Clean Waters score (worst 0–100 best) 2015–2019*  D
a
14 Fish caught from overexploited or collapsed stocks (% of total catch) 2010–2014 ta
 T
14 Fish caught by trawling (%) 2010–2014 ab
le
15 Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%) 2015–2018* s
15 Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%) 2015–2018*
15 Red List Index of species survival (worst 0–1 best) 2015–2019*
16 Homicides (per 100,000 population) 2014–2017
16 Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population) 2015–2018*
16 Percentage of population who feel safe walking alone at night in the city or area where they live (%) 2015–2019*
16 Corruption Perception Index (worst 0–100 best) 2015–2019*
16 Press Freedom Index (best 0–100 worst) 2015–2019*
16 Persons held in prison (per 100,000 population) 2014–2017
17 Government spending on health and education (% of GDP) 2013–2016
For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional public finance, including official 
17 2014–2017
development assistance (% of GNI)
17 Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP) 2014–2017
89
Sustainable Development Report 2020      The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid‑19 
Part 4. Methods Summary and Data Tables
Table 13 
Spillover Index Score and Rank (compared with SDG Index Rank)
The Spillover Index measures transboundary impacts generated by one country on others, which may in turn undermine 
the other countries’ capacities to achieve the SDGs. The Spillover Index covers financial spillovers (e.g., financial secrecy, 
profit shifting), environmental and social impacts embodied into trade and consumption (e.g., imported CO emissions, 
2
imported biodiversity threats, accidents at work embodied into trade), and security/development cooperation (ODA, 
weapons exports). ODA is an example of a positive spillover. Scores should be interpreted in the same way as the SDG 
Index score: from 0 (poor performance, i.e., significant negative spillovers) to 100 (good performance, i.e., no significant 
negative spillovers). To allow for international comparisons, most spillover indicators are expressed in per-capita terms.
Country Spillover Index Score  Spillover Index Rank SDG Index Rank
Afghanistan 99.3 24 139
Albania 94.3 82 68
Algeria 97.4 58 56
Angola 96.7 65 149
Argentina 94.0 86 51
Armenia 96.7 66 75
Australia 61.6 145 37
Austria 56.3 154 7
Azerbaijan 97.6 55 54
Bahrain 82.0 115 82
Bangladesh 99.4 23 109
Barbados 78.6 121 87
Belarus 96.3 69 18
Belgium 59.9 149 11
Belize 93.4 92 102
Benin 99.5 20 145
Bhutan 93.7 90 80
Bolivia 97.9 51 79
Bosnia and Herzegovina 95.8 73 50
Botswana 78.5 122 121
Brazil 97.3 60 53
Brunei Darussalam 67.6 136 88
Bulgaria 85.4 112 39
Burkina Faso 99.3 25 137
Burundi 99.8 7 143
Cabo Verde 95.3 76 92
Cambodia 98.8 34 106
Cameroon 99.5 19 133
Canada 60.6 147 21
Central African Republic 99.6 12 166
Chad 99.8 6 164
Chile 92.6 97 28
China 94.2 84 48
Colombia 94.7 79 67
90
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid‑19 
4.4 Data tables 
Table 13 
(continued)
Country Spillover Index Score  Spillover Index Rank SDG Index Rank
Comoros 100.0 1 146
Congo, Rep. 97.7 54 135
Costa Rica 89.6 106 35
Côte d’Ivoire 99.5 18 128
Croatia 83.1 113 19
Cuba 97.1 61 55
Cyprus 59.9 150 34
Czech Republic 69.7 129 8
Dem. Rep. Congo  99.4 22 158
Denmark 66.4 141 2
Djibouti 98.2 43 138
Dominican Republic 95.9 72 73
Ecuador 96.8 63 46
Egypt, Arab Rep. 98.5 37 83
El Salvador 92.6 98 77
Estonia 69.4 130 10
Eswatini 82.9 114 144
Ethiopia 99.7 9 136
Fiji 92.4 99 74
Finland 66.6 140 3
France 51.1 158 4
4
Gabon 93.0 95 111 . M
e
The Gambia 97.9 52 129 th
o
d
Georgia 90.8 102 58 s
 S
u
Germany 57.0 153 5 m
m
Ghana 97.4 59 100 a
r
y
Greece 69.4 131 43  a
n
d
Guatemala 97.0 62 120  D
a
Guinea 99.5 17 150 ta
 T
Guyana 22.2 165 124 ab
le
Haiti 99.6 13 154 s
Honduras 96.0 71 105
Hungary 77.1 124 29
Iceland 60.3 148 26
India 98.8 36 117
Indonesia 97.6 56 101
Iran, Islamic Rep. 95.5 74 59
Iraq 98.3 40 113
Ireland 57.8 152 14
Israel 66.7 138 40
Italy 69.0 132 30
Jamaica 92.9 96 84
91
Sustainable Development Report 2020      The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid‑19 
Part 4. Methods Summary and Data Tables
Table 13 
(continued)
Country Spillover Index Score  Spillover Index Rank SDG Index Rank
Japan 66.1 143 17
Jordan 89.2 107 89
Kazakhstan 94.0 87 65
Kenya 94.5 81 123
Korea, Rep. 68.6 135 20
Kuwait 36.6 162 112
Kyrgyz Republic 96.1 70 52
Lao PDR 99.2 27 116
Latvia 70.4 127 24
Lebanon 78.8 120 95
Lesotho 94.5 80 141
Liberia 98.0 49 162
Lithuania 65.6 144 36
Luxembourg 33.5 164 44
Madagascar 99.5 21 161
Malawi 98.9 32 152
Malaysia 86.3 111 60
Maldives 87.8 108 91
Mali 99.5 16 156
Malta 56.3 155 32
Mauritania 98.0 50 130
Mauritius 42.6 160 108
Mexico 94.9 78 69
Moldova 99.8 8 42
Mongolia 95.0 77 107
Montenegro 68.9 133 72
Morocco 98.1 47 64
Mozambique 99.5 15 140
Myanmar 100.0 2 104
Namibia 86.3 110 119
Nepal 99.1 29 96
Netherlands 44.9 159 9
New Zealand 70.1 128 16
Nicaragua 97.9 53 85
Niger 99.6 11 157
Nigeria 99.2 28 160
North Macedonia 93.8 88 62
Norway 54.1 156 6
Oman 79.8 119 76
Pakistan 99.6 10 134
Panama 81.9 116 81
Papua New Guinea 98.2 44 155
Paraguay 93.7 91 90
Peru 96.7 64 61
Philippines 98.1 45 99
92
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid‑19 
4.4 Data tables 
Table 13 
(continued)
Country Spillover Index Score  Spillover Index Rank SDG Index Rank
Poland 81.8 117 23
Portugal 66.7 139 25
Qatar 68.7 134 103
Romania 91.6 101 38
Russian Federation 78.3 123 57
Rwanda 98.8 35 132
São Tomé and Príncipe 95.4 75 115
Saudi Arabia 73.8 125 97
Senegal 99.0 31 127
Serbia 80.9 118 33
Sierra Leone 99.6 14 153
Singapore 12.4 166 93
Slovak Republic 72.7 126 27
Slovenia 66.4 142 12
Somalia 100.0 4 163
South Africa 92.0 100 110
South Sudan 99.9 5 165
Spain 61.3 146 22
Sri Lanka 96.5 67 94
Sudan 100.0 3 159
Suriname 90.6 103 86
Sweden 67.4 137 1
Switzerland 35.8 163 15
Syrian Arab Republic 98.4 38 126
4
Tajikistan 97.5 57 78 . M
e
t
Tanzania 98.3 41 131 ho
d
Thailand 93.8 89 41 s S
u
Togo 99.3 26 147 m
m
Trinidad and Tobago 86.8 109 98 ar
y
Tunisia 94.2 85 63  an
d
Turkey 93.3 94 70  D
a
t
Turkmenistan 90.4 104 114 a T
a
Uganda 99.1 30 142 ble
s
Ukraine 93.3 93 47
United Arab Emirates 37.4 161 71
United Kingdom 52.1 157 13
United States 59.2 151 31
Uruguay 90.0 105 45
Uzbekistan 98.1 48 66
Vanuatu 94.3 83 122
Venezuela, RB 96.4 68 118
Vietnam 98.3 39 49
Yemen, Rep. 98.9 33 151
Zambia 98.1 46 148
Zimbabwe 98.2 42 125
Source: Authors’ analysis
93
Sustainable Development Report 2020      The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid‑19 
Part 4. Methods Summary and Data Tables
References
Cited in the text
Adeniyi, A. (2017). “The human cost of uncontrolled arms in  Dorn, F., C. Fuest, M. Göttert, C. Krolage, S. Lautenbacher, S. Link, 
Africa.” Oxfam, Oxford, UK. A. Peichl, M. Reif, S. Sauer, M. Stöckli, K. Wohlrabe, and T. 
Wollmershäuser (2020). “Die volkswirtschaftlichen Kosten des 
Adrian and Natalucci, 2020. Adrian, Tobias, and Natalucci Fabio. 
Corona-Shutdown für Deutschland: Eine Szenarienrechnung’”. 
‘COVID-19 Worsens Pre-Existing Financial Vulnerabilities’. IMF 
ifo Schnelldienst 73, no. 04 (2020): 29–35.
Blog (blog), 2020. https://blogs.imf.org/2020/05/22/covid-
19-worsens-pre-existing-financial-vulnerabilities/.  Equal Measures 2030 (2019). Harnessing the Power of Data for 
Gender Equality: 2019 Global Report. Equal Measures 2030.
AEG-SDGs, 2019. https://unstats.un.org/sdgs/iaeg-sdgs/
Espey, J. (2020). “Big data in a time of crisis: maximizing 
Arroyo Marioli, F., F. Bullano, S. Kucinskas, and C. Rondón-
its value – and avoiding its risks – in the fight against 
Moreno (2020). “Tracking R of COVID-19: a new real-time 
COVID-19.” Insights, UNSDSN TReNDs – Thematic Research 
estimation using the Kalman filter,” SSRN Scholarly Paper No. 
Network on Data and Statistics.
ID 3581633, Social Science Research Network, Rochester, NY.
Eurostat (2017). Sustainable Development in the European 
Beltram, S. (2020). “How to minimize the impact of Coronavirus 
Union — Monitoring Report on Progress towards the SDGs 
on food security.” Insight, World Food Programme (WFP). 
in an EU context, 2017 Edition. Publications Office of the 
Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation (2019). The Goalkeepers  European Union, Luxembourg.
Report 2019. The Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation.
Eurostat (2018). Sustainable Development in the European 
Boerma, T., C. Victora, and C. Abouzahr (2018). “Monitoring  Union — Monitoring Report on Progress towards the SDGs 
country progress and achievements by making global  in an EU context, 2018 Edition. Publications Office of the 
predictions: is the tail wagging the dog?” The Lancet,  European Union, Luxembourg.
392(10147), 607–609.
Eurostat (2019). Sustainable Development in the European 
Climate Action Tracker (2018). Some Progress since Paris, but  Union — Monitoring Report on Progress towards the SDGs 
Not Enough, as Governments Amble towards 3°c of Warming.  in an EU context, 2019 Edition. Publications Office of the 
Warming projections global update. New Climate Institute  European Union, Luxembourg.
and Climate Analytics, December 2018.
Flaxman, Seth, Swapnil Mishra, Axel Gandy, H. Juliette T. Unwin, 
Climate Action Tracker (2020). A Government Roadmap for  Thomas A. Mellan, Helen Coupland, Charles Whittaker, et 
Addressing the Climate and Post Covid-19 Economic Crises.  al. (2020). ‘Estimating the Effects of Non-Pharmaceutical 
New Climate Institute and Climate Analytics. Interventions on COVID-19 in Europe’. Nature, 8 June 2020, 
1–8. https://doi.org/10.1038/s41586-020-2405-7.
Concern Worldwide and Welthungerhilfe (2019). Global 
Hunger Index. Concern Worldwide, Welthungerhilfe, and the  Ghosh, I (2020). “These satellite photos show how COVID-19 
International Food and Policy Research Institute.  lockdowns have impacted global emissions.” World Economic 
Forum, 2020. https://www.weforum.org/agenda/2020/03/
Council of Europe (2020). “COVID-19: Refugees are in a vicious  emissions-impact-coronavirus-lockdowns-satellites/.
circle that make them particularly vulnerable.” Council of 
Europe, Parliamentary Assembly. http://assembly.coe.int/ Google (2020). Community Mobility Reports. Google. https://
nw/xml/News/News-View-EN.asp?newsid=7852&lang=2 www.google.com/covid19/mobility/
CREA (2020). China’s Air Pollution Overshoots Pre-Crisis Levels for  Government of the Republic of Korea (2020). “Flattening 
the First Time. Centre for Research on Energy and Clean Air. the curve on COVID-19: how Korea responded to a 
pandemic using ICT.” UNDP Seoul Policy Centre for 
Cullen, M. (2020). Coronavirus: Food Supply Chain under Strain.  Knowledge Exchange through SDG Partnerships, UNDP. 
What to Do? Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO),  http://www.undp.org/content/seoul_policy_center/en/
24 March. home/presscenter/articles/2019/flattening-the-curve-on-
covid-19.html, accessed May 26, 2020.
Czaplicki Cabezas, S., H. Bellfield, G. Lafortune, C. Streck, and 
B. Hermann (2019). Towards More Sustainability in the Soy  GPSDD, World Bank Group, United Nations, and SDSN 
Supply Chain: How Can EU Actors Support Zero Deforestation  (2019). Data4Now: Accelerating SDG progress through 
and SDG Efforts? Climate Focus, Global Canopy, SDSN and GIZ. timely information (Concept Note). Global Partnership for 
Sustainable Development Data (GPSDD).
Dahmm, H. (2020). “In low-income countries fundamental 
data issues remain for COVID-19 response.” Insights, UNSDSN  Gütschow, J.; L. Jeffery, R. Gieseke, R. Gebel, D. Stevens, M. Krapp, 
TReNDs – Thematic Research Network on Data and Statistics. and M. Rocha (2016) “The PRIMAP-hist national historical 
emissions time series.” Earth System Science Data, Volume 8, 
Davies, E., S. Harman, J. True, and C. Wenham (2020). “Why 
Issue 2, Page 571-603. Munich: European Geopyhsical Union.
gender matters in the impact and recovery from Covid-19.” 
The Interpreter, the Lowy Institute, 2020. https://www. Hub staff report, 2020. Hub staff report. ‘Here’s the Johns 
lowyinstitute.org/the-interpreter/why-gender-matters- Hopkins Study President Trump Referenced in His 
impact-and-recovery-covid-19 Coronavirus News Conference’. The Hub, 27 February 2020. 
94
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid‑19 
References
https://hub.jhu.edu/2020/02/27/trump-johns-hopkins-study- Marks, A. (2020). “In the fight against Covid-19: What do we know 
pandemic-coronaviruscovid-19-649-em0-art1-dtd-health/. and to whom can we turn for answers?” Insights, UNSDSN 
TReNDs – Thematic Research Network on Data and Statistics.
IFPRI (2020). Preventing global food security crisis under COVID-19 
emergency. International Food Policy Research Institute (IFPRI). Miao, G., and F. Fortanier (2018). Nowcast TiVA Estimates: 
Methodology. OECD and WTO, Paris.
IGC (2020). COVID-19 policy response tracker. https://www.
theigc.org/covid-19/tracker/, accessed May 26, 2020. Minderoo Foundation. (2020). Protecting People in a 
Pandemic. Walk Free, Mindaroo Foundation https://cdn.
IMF (2020a). World Economic Outlook, April 2020: The Great 
minderoo.org/content/uploads/2020/04/30211819/Walk-
Lockdown, International Monetary Fund. Washington. D.C.
Free-Foundation-COVID-19-Report.pdf
IMF (2020b). Policy Responses to COVID19. International 
Myllyvirta, Lauri (2020). “Analysis: Coronavirus temporarily 
Monetary Fund (IMF).
reduced China’s CO emissions by a quarter.” Carbon 
2
IPBES (2019). Global Assessment Report on Biodiversity  Brief, 19 February 2020. https://www.carbonbrief.org/
and Ecosystem Services,Summary for Policymakers.  analysis-coronavirus-has-temporarily-reduced-chinas-co2-
Intergovernmental Science-Policy Platform on Biodiversity  emissions-by-a-quarter.
and Ecosystem Services (IPBES). Advance unedited version.
National Sustainable Development Council of Australia 
IPCC (2019). Climate Change and Land. IPCC Special Report,  (2019). SDG Progress Report: Australia. Monash University, 
Summary for Policymakers. Intergovernmental Panel on  Melbourne, Australia.
Climate Change (IPCC).
NITI Aayog (2019). SDG India: Index & Dashboard 2019–20. NITI 
JHU (2020). COVID-19 Dashboard and Map. Center for  Aayog, New Delhi, India.
Systems Science and Engineering (CSSE) at Johns Hopkins 
NTI et al., 2019. NTI, JHU, and EIU. ‘Global Health Security 
University (JHU). https://coronavirus.jhu.edu/map.html, 
Index’. Nuclear Threat Initiative, Johns Hopkins Center 
accessed May 22, 2020.
for Health Security and Economist Intelligence Unit, 
Kander, A., M. Jiborn, D. D. Moran, and T. O. Wiedmann (2015).  November 2019. https://www.ghsindex.org/about/.
“National greenhouse-gas accounting for effective climate 
OECD (2017). OECD Guidelines on Measuring Trust. OECD 
policy on international trade.” Nature Climate Change, 5(5), 
Publishing, Paris.
431–435.
OECD (2020a). “Tackling the coronavirus (COVID-19) crisis  4
Kopf, D. (2020). “Traffic collisions are plummeting in several US  . M
together: OECD policy contributions for co-ordinated  e
cities.” Quartz, 24 March 2020. https://qz.com/1822492/traffic- action.” OECD, Paris. https://www.oecd.org/coronavirus/en/,  th
accidents-are-plummeting-because-of-the-pandemic/.  o
accessed May 26, 2020. d
s
Lafortune, G., G. Fuller, J. Moreno, G. Schmidt-Traub, and  OECD (2020b). A Territorial Approach to the Sustainable   Sum
C. Kroll (2018). “SDG Index and Dashboards: detailed 
Development Goals: Synthesis Report. OECD Urban Policy  m
methodological pape.,” Bertelsmann Stiftung and  a
Reviews, OECD Publishing, Paris. r
Sustainable Development Solutions Network, Paris. y a
OECD and JRC (2008). Handbook on Constructing Composite  nd
Lederer, E. (2020). “UN chief says COVID-19 is worst crisis since  Indicators: Methodology and User Guide. OECD, Joint   D
World War II.” Associated Press News, March 31, 2020. Research Committee, Paris. ata
 T
Lee, G. (2020). “South Korea approves first four COVID-19 test kits  a
Orrell, T. (2020). “Checking our instincts: We need to remain  b
under urgent-use license.” Bioworld. https://www.bioworld. le
evidence-based and standards-driven in times of crisis.”  s
com/articles/433783-south-korea-approves-first-four-covid-
Insights, UNSDSN TReNDs – Thematic Research Network on 
19-test-kits-under-urgent-use-license, accessed May 26, 2020.
Data and Statistics.
Le Quéré et al., 2020. Le Quéré, Corinne, Robert B. Jackson, 
Oxford University (2020). Oxford COVID-19 Government 
Matthew W. Jones, Adam J. P. Smith, Sam Abernethy, 
Response Tracker. Blavatnik School of Government, 
Robbie M. Andrew, Anthony J. De-Gol, et al. ‘Temporary 
University of Oxford, Oxford UK. https://covidtracker.bsg.
Reduction in Daily Global CO 2 Emissions during the 
ox.ac.uk/, accessed May 26, 2020.
COVID-19 Forced Confinement’. Nature Climate Change, 19 
May 2020, 1–7. https://doi.org/10.1038/s41558-020-0797-x. Papadimitriou, E., A. Neves, and W. Becker. ‘JRC Statistical 
Audit of the Sustainable Development Goals Index and 
Luomi, M., G. Fuller, L. Dahan, K. Lisboa Båsund, E. Karoubi, and 
Dashboards’. European Commission, Joint Research Centre, 
G. Lafortune (2019). Arab Region SDG Index and Dashboards 
July 2019. doi:10.2760/723763, JRC116857.
Report 2019, Abu Dhabi and New York: SDG Centre of 
Excellence for the Arab Region/Emirates Diplomatic  PARIS21 and Partners for Review (2019). National SDG Review: 
Academy and Sustainable Development Solutions Network. Data Challenges and Opportunities. Partnership in Statistics 
for Development in the 21st Century (PARIS21).
95
Sustainable Development Report 2020      The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid‑19 
Part 4. Methods Summary and Data Tables
Polglase, K., G. Mezzofiore, and M. Foster (2020). “Here’s why  Shiffman, J., and Y.R. Shawar (2020). “Strengthening 
the coronavirus may be killing more men than women.  accountability of the global health metrics enterprise.” The 
The US should take note.” CNN Health. https://edition.cnn. Lancet, 395(10234), 1452–1456.
com/2020/03/24/health/coronavirus-gender-mortality-
Stadler K, R. Wood, T. Bulavskaya, C.J. Sodersten, M. Simas, S. 
intl/index.html
Schmidt, A. Usubiaga, J. Acosta-Fernandez, J. Kuenen, M. 
Praia City Group (2020). Handbook on Governance Statistics.  Bruckner, S. Giljum, S. Lutter, S. Merciai, J.H. Schmidt, M.C. 
Praia Group on Governance Statistics.  Theurl, C. Plutzar, T. Kastner, M. Eisenmenger, K. Erb, A. de 
Koning, A. Tukker (2018). “EXIOBASE 3: Developing a time 
Reeves, R. V. and T. Ford (2020). “Covid-19 much more fatal 
series of detailed environmentally extended multi-regional 
for men, especially taking age into account.” Brookings 
input-output tables.” Journal of Industrial Ecology 22(3)502–
(blog), 15 May 2020. https://www.brookings.edu/blog/
5. doi: 10.1111/jiec.12715
up-front/2020/05/15/covid-19-much-more-fatal-for-men-
especially-taking-age-into-account/. Svenja Wiebe, K., E. Lekve Bielle, J. Többen, and R. Wood (2018). 
“Implementing exogenous scenarios in a global MRIO 
Reuters (2020). “Brazil scales back environmental enforcement 
model for the estimation of future environmental footprints.” 
amid coronavirus outbreak.” The Guardian, 27 March, 2020. 
Journal of Economic Structures, 7, Article number: 20 (2018).
https://www.theguardian.com/world/2020/mar/27/brazil-
scales-back-environmental-enforcement-coronavirus- Think Sustainable Europe (2020). “Europe’s recovery plans must 
outbreak-deforestation pass five sustainability tests.” Euractiv. https://www.euractiv.
com/section/energy-environment/opinion/europes-
Sachs, J., G. Schmidt-Traub, M. Mazzucato, D. Messner, N. 
recovery-plans-must-pass-five-sustainability-tests/
Nakicenovic, and J. Rockström (2019a). “Six Transformations 
to achieve the Sustainable Development Goals.” Nature  TReNDs (2019). Counting on the World to Act: A Roadmap 
Sustainability, 2(9), 805–814. https://doi.org/10.1038/ for Governments to Achieve Modern Data Systems for 
s41893-019-0352-9 Sustainable Development. UNSDSN and TReNDs – Thematic 
Research Network on Data and Statistics. https://
Sachs, J., G. Schmidt-Traub, R. Pulselli, S. Cresti, and A. 
countingontheworld.sdsntrends.org/static/files/19COTW.pdf
Riccaboni (2019b). Sustainable Development Report 2019 – 
Mediterranean Countries Edition. Sustainable Development  UN-HABITAT (2018). SDG 11 Synthesis Report 2018 on Sustainable 
Solutions Network for the Mediterranean Area (SDSN- Cities and Communities. United Nations Human Settlements 
Mediterranean), Siena, Italy. Programme (UN-HABITAT), Nairobi.
Schmidt-Traub, G., C. Kroll, K. Teksoz, D. Durand-Delacre, and  United Nations (2019). The Sustainable Development Goals 
J.D. Sachs (2017). “National baselines for the Sustainable  Report 2019, United Nations. New York.
Development Goals assessed in the SDG Index and 
United Nations (2020). “Shared responsibility, global solidarity: 
Dashboards.” Nature Geoscience, 10(8), 547–555.
responding to the socio-economic impacts of COVID-19.” 
SDG Center for Africa and SDSN (2018). Africa SDG Index and  United Nations, March 2020.
Dashboards Report 2018. SDG Center for Africa and the 
Walk Free Foundation (2018). Global Slavery Index 2018. Walk 
Sustainable Development Solutions Network, Kigali and 
Free Foundation, Broadway Nedlands, Australia.
New York.
WBCSD (2018). SDG Sector Roadmaps: How to leverage the 
SDG Center for Africa and SDSN (2019). Africa SDG Index and 
power of sectoral collaboration to maximize business 
Dashboards Report 2019. SDG Center for Africa and the 
impact on the Sustainable Development Goals. World 
Sustainable Development Solutions Network, Kigali and 
Business Council on Sustainable Development.
New York.
World Bank, IEA, IRENA, UNSD, and WHO (2019). Tracking SDG7: The 
SDSN (2015). Indicators and a monitoring framework for 
Energy Progress Report 2019. The World Bank, Washington DC.
Sustainable Development Goals: Launching a Data Revolution 
for the SDGs. Sustainable Development Solutions Network,  World Benchmarking Alliance (2019). Systems Transformations. 
Paris and New York. World Benchmarking Alliance. https://www.
worldbenchmarkingalliance.org/system-transformations/, 
SDSN and BCFN (2019). Fixing the Business of Food. Sustainable 
accessed February 7, 2019.
Development Solutions Network and Barilla Center for 
Food and Nutrition, New York and Milan. Worldometer (2020). COVID-19 Coronavirus Pandemic. Live 
updates. https://www.worldometers.info/coronavirus/, 
SDSN and IEEP (2019). 2019 Europe Sustainable Development 
accessed May 22, 2020.
Report. Sustainable Development Solutions Network and 
the Institute for European Environmental Policy, Paris and  Yale School of Management (2020). COVID-19 Financial 
Brussels. Response Tracker Visualization (CFRTV). https://som.yale.edu/
faculty-research-centers/centers-initiatives/program-on-
financial-stability/covid-19-tracker, accessed May 26, 2020.
96
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid‑19 
References
Databases Global Yield Gap Atlas (2015). A joint initiative of Wageningen 
University and Research and University of Nebraska-
Alsamawi, A., J. Murray, M. Lenzen, and R. C. Reyes (2017). “Trade 
Lincoln. http://www.yieldgap.org
in occupational safety and health: tracing the embodied 
human and economic harm in labour along the global  Gütschow, J., Jeffery, L., Gieseke, R. (2019): The PRIMAP-hist 
supply chain.” Journal of Cleaner Production, 147, 187–196. national historical emissions time series (1850–2016). v2.0. 
GFZ Data Services. https://doi.org/10.5880/pik.2019.001
Baldé, C.P., V. Forti, V. Gray, R. Kuehr, P. Stegmann (2017). The Global 
E-waste Monitor 2017. United Nations University (UNU), Interna- IEA (2019). CO Emissions From Fuel Combustion 2019. 
2
tional Telecommunication Union (ITU) and the International  International Energy Agency, Paris. https://www.iea.org/
Solid Waste Association (ISWA), Bonn/Geneva/Vienna reports/co2-emissions-from-fuel-combustion-2019
BirdLife International, IUCN, and UNEP-WCMC (2020).  IHME (2017). Global Burden of Disease Study 2017 (GBD 2017). 
Resources and Data. BirdLife International, International  Health-related Sustainable Development Goals (SDG)
Union for Conservation of Nature and the United Nations 
ILO (2020). Ratio of female-to-male labour force participation 
Environment Programme – World Conservation Monitoring 
rate (%) (modeled ILO estimate). International Labour 
Center. https://unstats.un.org/sdgs/indicators/database/
Organization, Geneva. https://data.worldbank.org/
Bonhommeau, S., L. Dubroca, O. Le Pape, J. Barde, D. M.  indicator/SL.TLF.CACT.FM.ZS
Kaplan, E. Chassot, and A. E. Nieblas (2013). “Eating up the 
ILO (2020). Unemployment, total (% of total labor force) 
world’s food web and the human trophic level.” Proceedings 
(modeled ILO estimate). International Labour Organization, 
of the National Academy of Sciences, 110(51), 20617–20. 
Geneva. http://data.worldbank.org/indicator/SL.UEM.TOTL.ZS
https://doi.org/10.1073/pnas.1305827110
International Monetary Fund (2020). Government Finance 
Cashion, T., D. Al-Abdulrazzak, D. Belhabib, B. Derrick, E. Divovich, 
Statistics Yearbook. https://data.worldbank.org/indicator/
D. Moutopoulos, S.-L. Noël, M. L.D. Palomares, L. Teh, D. 
GC.REV.XGRT.GD.ZS?view=chart
Zeller, and D. Pauly (2018). “A global fishing gear dataset for 
integration into the Sea Around Us global fisheries databases  IPU (2020). Proportion of seats held by women in national 
(in review).” Sea Around Us, Vancouver, Canada.  parliaments (%). Inter-Parliamentary Union, Geneva. http://
data.worldbank.org/indicator/SG.GEN.PARL.ZS
Chandy, L., Seidel B. (2017). The Brookings Institution. https://
www.brookings.edu/opinions/how-much-do-we-really- ITU (2020). World Telecommunication/ICT Indicators database. 
know-about-inequality-within-countries-around-the-world/ International Telecommunication Union, Geneva. http:// 4
. M
Cuaresma, J. C., W. Fengler, H. Kharas, K. Bekhtiar, M. Brottrager,  www.itu.int/en/ITU-D/Statistics/Pages/publications/wtid.aspx e
t
h
and M. Hofer (2019). “Will the Sustainable Development  IUCN, BirdLife International (2020). IUCN Red List.  o
d
Goals be fulfilled? Assessing present and future global  International Union for Conservation of Nature and Birdlife  s S
poverty.” Palgrave Communications, 4(1), 29.  International. http://unstats.un.org/sdgs/indicators/ um
database/?indicator=15.5.1 m
Curtis et al. (2018). “Classifying drivers of global forest loss.”  a
r
Science, Vol. 361 - 6407, pp. 1108–11. Data updated in 2020. Kaza, Silpa; Yao, Lisa C.; Bhada-Tata, Perinaz; Van Woerden, Frank.  y a
Demirguc-Kunt et al. (2018). Global Financial Inclusion  2018. What a Waste 2.0 : A Global Snapshot of Solid Waste  nd
Management to 2050. Urban Development;. Washington,   D
Database. World Bank, Washington, D.C. https://data. a
DC: World Bank. ta
worldbank.org/indicator/FX.OWN.TOTL.ZS  T
a
Lenzen, M., D. Moran, A. Bhaduri, K. Kanemoto, M. Bekchanov,  b
FAO (2020). Cereal Yield (kg per hectare). Food and Agriculture  le
A. Geschke, and B. Foran. (2013). “International trade of  s
Organization, Rome. http://data.worldbank.org/indicator/
scarce water.” Ecological Economics, Vol. 94, pp. 78–85.
AG.YLD.CREL.KG
Lenzen, M., D. Moran, K. Kanemoto, B. Foran, L. Lobefaro, and 
FAO (2020). Level of water stress: freshwater withdrawal as a 
A. Geschke. (2012). “International trade drives biodiversity 
proportion of available freshwater resources (%). AQUASTAT, 
threats in developing nations.” Nature, 486, 109–112. (Dataset 
Food and Agriculture Organization, Rome. http://www.fao.
updated to 2015 by Isaac Russell Peterson, Matthew 
org/nr/water/aquastat/data/query/index.html?lang=en
Selinkske, and colleagues), doi: 10.1038/nature11145
FAO (2020). Prevalence of undernourishment (% of population). 
Lenzen, M., Malik, A., Li, M., Fry, J., Weisz, H., Pichler, P-P., 
Food and Agriculture Organization, Rome. http://data.
Chaves, L.S.M., Capon, A. Pencheon, D. 2020 (under review), 
worldbank.org/indicator/SN.ITK.DEFC.ZS
The global environmental footprint of healthcare, The 
FAO, IFAD, and WFP (2015). The State of Food Insecurity in the  Lancet Planetary Health.
World 2015. Meeting the 2015 international hunger targets: 
National Science Foundation (2020). Scientific and Technical 
taking stock of uneven progress. FAO, Rome.
Journal Articles. National Science Foundation, Arlington, 
Gallup (2020). Gallup World Poll. VA. http://data.worldbank.org/indicator/IP.JRN.ARTC.SC
97
Sustainable Development Report 2020      The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid‑19 
Part 4. Methods Summary and Data Tables
Ocean Health Index (2019). Ocean Health Index 2019 global  UN IGME (2020). Mortality rate, neonatal (per 1,000 live births). 
assessment. National Center for Ecological Analysis and  United Nations Inter-agency Group for Child Mortality 
Synthesis, University of California, Santa Barbara. http:// Estimation (UNICEF, WHO, the World Bank Group, and the 
data.oceanhealthindex.org/data-and-downloads United Nations Population Division). http://data.worldbank.
org/indicator/SH.DYN.NMRT
OECD (2011). How’s Life? Measuring well-being. Table 4.2 
Housing cost overburden rate by tenure status. Dataset  UN IGME (2020). Mortality rate, under-5 (per 1,000 live births). 
updated to 2018 by Marissa Plouin, Pauline Fron, and  United Nations Inter-agency Group for Child Mortality 
colleagues (Affordable Housing Database). https://doi. Estimation (UNICEF, WHO, the World Bank Group, and the 
org/10.1787/9789264121164-en United Nations Population Division). http://data.worldbank.
org/indicator/SH.DYN.MORT
OECD (2016). Effective Carbon Rates: Pricing CO through 
2
Taxes and Emissions Trading Systems, OECD Publishing,  UNAIDS (2020). HIV incidence per 1000 population (15–49). 
Paris. https://doi.org/10.1787/9789264260115-en. Aidsinfo, Joint United Nations Programme on HIV and AIDS, 
Geneva. http://aidsinfo.unaids.rg?did=55da49cd64e925b9 
OECD (2018). PISA Database. Organisation for Economic 
4e70b0ce&r=world&t=2018&tb=d&bt=dnli&ts=0, 
Cooperation and Development, Paris. http://
0&tr=world&aid=5970eccef7341ed11f26de5d&sav= 
pisadataexplorer.oecd.org/ide/idepisa/dataset.aspx.
Population: All ages&tl=2
OECD (2020). OECD Statistics. Organisation for Economic 
UNDESA (2020). Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 
Cooperation and Development, Paris. http://stats.oecd.org/
women ages 15-19). World Population Prospects, United 
Oita, A., et al. (2016). Substantial nitrogen pollution  Nations Population Division, United Nations Department 
embedded in international trade. Nature Geoscience, 9,  of Economic and Social Affairs, New York. http://data.
pp. 111–115, doi: 10.1038/ngeo2635 worldbank.org/indicator/SP.ADO.TFRT
Pauly D., and D. Zeller (2018). Sea Around Us. Concepts, Design  UNDESA (2020). Family Planning – Model. United Nations 
and Data. Sea Around Us, Vancouver, Canada. www.sea  Department of Economic and Social Affairs, New York. 
aroundus.org.  http://www.un.org/en/development/desa/population/
theme/family- planning/cp_model.shtml
Reporters Without Borders (2019). World Press Freedom Index 
2019. Reporters Without Borders (RSF). https://rsf.org/en/ UNDESA (2020). Proportion of women of reproductive 
ranking/2019 age (aged 15-49 years) who have their need for family 
planning satisfied with modern methods (% of women 
Schwab, K. (2019). The Global Competitiveness Report 2019.  aged 15-49 years). World Contraceptive Use 2018 (POP/
World Economic Forum, Geneva. https://reports.weforum. DB/CP/Rev2018). United Nations Department of Economic 
org/global-competitiveness-report-2019 and Social Affairs, New York. https://www.un.org/en/
development/desa/population/publications/dataset/
SE4All (2020). Access to clean fuels and technologies for 
contraception/wcu2018.asp
cooking (% of population). Sustainable Energy for All. 
https://data.worldbank.org/indicator/EG.CFT.ACCS.ZS UNESCO (2020). UIS.stat. Government expenditure on 
education. UNESCO Institute for Statistics (UIS), Montréal, 
SE4All (2020). Access to electricity (% of population). 
Canada. http://data.uis.unesco.org/
Sustainable Energy for All. http://data.worldbank.org/
indicator/EG.ELC.ACCS.ZS UNESCO (2020). UIS.stat. Lower secondary completion rate, 
total (% of relevant age group). UNESCO Institute for 
SIPRI (2020). SIPRI Arms Transfers Database. Stockholm 
Statistics (UIS), Montréal, Canada. http://data.uis.unesco.org/
International Peace Research Institute, Stockholm. https://
www.sipri.org/ databases/armstransfers. UNESCO (2020). UIS.stat. Net enrolment rate, primary, both 
sexes (%). UNESCO Institute for Statistics (UIS), Montréal, 
Tax Justice Network (2019). Corporate Tax Haven Index 2019. 
Canada. http://data.uis.unesco.org/
Tax Justice Network, London. https://corporatetaxhaven 
index.org/introduction/cthi-2019-results UNESCO (2020). UIS.stat. UNESCO Institute for Statistics (UIS), 
Montréal, Canada. http://data.uis.unesco.org/
Tax Justice Network (2020). Financial Secrecy Index 
2020. Tax Justice Network, London. https://www. UNESCO (2020). UIS.stat. Youth literacy rate, population 15-24 
financialsecrecyindex.com/introduction/fsi-2018-results years, both sexes (%). UNESCO Institute for Statistics (UIS), 
Montréal, Canada. http://data.uis.unesco.org/
Times Higher Education (2020). World University Rankings 
2020. Times Higher Education and the World Universities  UNICEF (2017). Child labour. http://data.unicef.org/topic/
Insights, London. https://www.timeshighereducation.com/ child-protection/child-labour/
world-university-rankings
UNICEF (2017). Birth registration. United Nations Children’s 
Transparency International (2020). Corruption Perceptions  Fund, New York. http://data.unicef.org/topic/child-
Index 2019. Transparency International, Berlin. https://www. protection/birth-registration/
transparency.org/cpi2019?/news/feature/cpi-2019
98
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid‑19 
References
UNICEF (2020). Births attended by skilled health staff (% of  WHO (2020). GHO Obesity (age- standardized estimate). 
total). United Nations Children’s Fund, New York. http:// World Health Organization, Geneva. http://apps.who.int/
data.worldbank.org/indicator/SH.STA.BRTC.ZS gho/data/view.main.CTRY2450A?lang=en
UNICEF, WHO, and the World Bank Group (2020). Prevalence  WHO (2020). GHO Road traffic deaths. World Health 
of stunting, height for age (% of children under 5). United  Organization, Geneva. http://apps.who.int/gho/data/node.
Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF), the World Health  main.A997
Organization, and the International Bank for Reconstruction 
WHO (2020). Incidence of tuberculosis (per 100,000 people). 
and Development/The World Bank. https://data.worldbank.
World Health Organization, Geneva. http://data.worldbank.
org/indicator/SH.STA.STNT.ZS
org/indicator/SH.TBS.INCD
UNICEF, WHO, and the World Bank Group (2020). Prevalence 
WHO (2020). World Health Expenditure Database. World 
of wasting, weight for height (% of children under 5). 
Health Organization, Geneva. http://apps.who.int/nha/
United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF), the World Health 
database
Organization, and the International Bank for Reconstruction 
and Development/The World Bank. http://data.worldbank. WHO, et al. (2020). Maternal mortality ratio (modeled 
org/indicator/SH.STA.WAST.ZS estimate, per 100,000 live births). World Health 
Organization, Geneva. http://data.worldbank.org/indicator/
United Nations (2020). UN Comtrade Database. United 
SH.STA.MMRT
Nations, NY. https://comtrade.un.org/data/ 
WHO, UNICEF (2020). Immunization Coverage. World Health 
UNODC (2020). Global Study on Homicides. United Nations 
Organization and United Nations Children’s Fund, Geneva 
Office on Drugs and Crime, Vienna. https://dataunodc.
and New York. http://data.unicef.org/topic/child-health/
un.org/GSH_app
immunization/
UNODC (2020). Total Persons Held Unsentenced. United 
WHO, UNICEF (2020). WHO / UNICEF Joint Monitoring 
Nations Office on Drugs and Crime, Vienna. https://
Programme: Data and estimates. People using at least basic 
dataunodc.un.org/data/prison/total%20persons%20
drinking water services (% of population). World Health 
held%20unsentenced
Organization and United Nations Children’s Fund, Geneva 
UNODC (2020). Total Prison Population. United Nations Office  and New York. https://washdata.org/data
on Drugs and Crime, Vienna. https://dataunodc.un.org/
WHO, UNICEF (2020). WHO / UNICEF Joint Monitoring 
crime/total-prison-population 4
Programme: Data and estimates. People using at least  . M
Walk Free Foundation (2018). Global Slavery Index 2018. Walk  basic sanitation services (% of population). World Health  et
h
Free Foundation, Broadway Nedlands, Australia. https:// Organization and United Nations Children’s Fund, Geneva  o
d
www.globalslaveryindex.org/ and New York. https://washdata.org/data s
 S
u
Wendling, Z. A., Emerson, J. W., Esty, D. C., Levy, M. A., de  WHO, UNICEF (2020). WHO / UNICEF Joint Monitoring  m
m
Sherbinin, A., et al. (2018). 2018 Environmental Performance  Programme: Data and estimates. World Health  a
r
Index. New Haven, CT: Yale Center for Environmental Law  Organization and United Nations Children’s Fund, Geneva  y
 a
and Policy. http://epi.yale.edu. and New York. https://washdata.org/data n
d
 D
WHO (2018). Age-standardized death rate due to  World Bank (2018). 2018 Logistics Performance Index (LPI).  a
t
a
cardiovascular disease, cancer, diabetes, and chronic  World Bank, Washington, D.C. http://lpi.worldbank.org/  T
a
respiratory disease in populations age 30–70 years, per  international/global b
100 000 population. World Health Organization, Geneva.  les
World Bank (2020). GDP per capita, PPP (current international $). 
https://apps.who.int/gho/data/view.main.GSWCAH21v
World Bank, Washington, D.C. https://data.worldbank.org/
WHO (2019). Tracking universal health coverage: 2019  indicator/NY.GDP.PCAP.PP.CD
Global Monitoring Report. World Health Organization, 
World Data Lab (2020). World Poverty Clock. World Data Lab, 
Geneva. http://www.who.int/healthinfo/universal_health_
Vienna. http://worldpoverty.io/
coverage/report/2019/en/
Zhang, X., and E. Davidson (2019). Sustainable Nitrogen 
WHO (2020). Age-standardized death rate attributable to 
Management Index. Earth and Space Science Open 
household air pollution and ambient air pollution, per 
Archive. https://doi.org/10.1002/essoar.10501111.1
100 000 population. World Health Organization, Geneva. 
https://apps.who.int/gho/data/view.main.GSWCAH37v Zucman, G., T. Tørsløv, and L. Weir (2019). The Missing Profits of 
Nations: 2016 Figures. https://missingprofits.world
WHO (2020). GHO Life expectancy and healthy life 
expectancy. World Health Organization, Geneva.  
http://apps.who.int/gho/data/node.main.688
99
Sustainable Development Report 2020      The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid‑19 

Part 5
Country Profiles
AFGHANISTAN  
Eastern Europe and Central Asia
OVERALL PERFORMANCE
SDG SDG
17 1
SDG 100 SDG
16 2
75
Index score Regional average score SDG SDG
15 50 3
25
SDG
SDG 4
14
54.2 70.9
Afghanistan
SDG SDG
13 5
SDG
12 SDG
6
SDG Global rank 139 (OF 166)
SDG
11 SDG
7
SDG SDG
10 SDG 8
9
SPILLOVER INDEX AVERAGE PERFORMANCE BY SDG
100 (best) to 0 (worst)
100
80
60
40
20
0
CURRENT ASSESSMENT – SDG DASHBOARD
  Major challenges           Significant challenges          Challenges remain          SDG achieved          Information unavailable
SDG TRENDS
• 5 D L 5 D D D 5
• 5 • L • p 5 D
p  Decreasing       5  Stagnating       D  Moderately improving       L  On track or maintaining SDG achievement       •  Information unavailable
Notes: The full title of Goal 2 “Zero Hunger” is “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”.    
  The full title of each SDG is available here: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabledevelopmentgoals
102
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
AFGHANISTAN
Performance by Indicator
SDG1 – No Poverty    Val u e Yea  rRa t ingTr e nd SDG9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure    Val u e Ye a rRa t ingTr e nd
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%) * NA NA • • Population using the internet (%)    13.52017 • 5
Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%) * NA NA • • Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population)    18.82018 • D
SDG2 – Zero Hunger                Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related     1.82018 • p
Prevalence of undernourishment (%)    29.82017 • p infrastructure (worst 1–5 best)
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%)    40.92013 • 5 The Times Higher Education Universities Ranking: Average score of top 3 * 0.02020 • •
PPrreevvaalleennccee  ooff  wobaesstiintyg,  BinM cIh ≥il d3r0e n(% u nodf aedr u5 lyt epaorps uolfa atigoen )(%)      95..5522001136 •• LL Scuiennivteifrisci taiensd ( tweochrsnt i0ca–l1 j0o0u rbneaslt a)rticles (per 1,000 population)    0.02018 • 5
Human Trophic Level (best 2–3 worst)    2.22017 • L Expenditure on research and development (% of GDP) * 0.02017 • •
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land)    2.02017 • 5 SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities               
Sustainable Nitrogen Management Index (best 0–1.41 worst)    0.72015 • p Gini coefficient adjusted for top income    NA NA • •
SDG3 – Good Health and Well-Being                SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities               
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)     6382017 • L Annual mean concentration of particulate matter of less than      56.92017 • 5
NMeoorntaaltitayl  rmatoer,t ualnitdye rra-t5e ( (ppeerr 1 1,0,00000 l ilvivee b birirtthhss))      3672..1322001188 •• DD Ac2c.5e sms itcor oimnsp irno vdeiadm weatteerr ( sPoMu2rc.5e),  (pμipg/emd 3(%) of urban population)    45.12017 • 5
Incidence of tuberculosis (per 100,000 population)   189.02018 • 5 Satisfaction with public transport (%)    45.32018 • p
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population)    0.02018 • L SDG12 – Responsible Consumption and Production                 
Municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)    1.72016 • •
Agdeia-bsteatneds,a ordr iczherdo ndieca rtehs prairtaet dourye d tois ecaasred iionv aadscuultlsa ra dgiesde a3s0e–, c7a0n yceear,r s (%)    29.82016 • 5 Electronic waste (kg/capita)    0.62016 • •
Agame-bstiaenndt aarird pizoeldlu dtieoant h(p reart e1 0at0t,r0ib0u0 tpaobpleu tloat hioonu)sehold air pollution and    2112016 • • PSOro2d eumctiisosnio-bnas seemd bSoOd2i eedm iinss iimonpso (rktgs /(ckgap/citaap)ita)       50..1422001122 •• ••
Traffic deaths (per 100,000 population)    15.12016 • 5 Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita)    9.12010 • •
Life expectancy at birth (years)    62.72016 • 5 Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)    0.22010 • •
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19)   69.02017 • L SDG13 – Climate Action               
Births attended by skilled health personnel (%)    50.52015 • L Energy-related CO2 emissions (tCO2/capita)    0.42017 • L
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%)   642018 • 5 CO2 emissions embodied in imports (tCO2/capita)    0.02015 • L
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best)   37.02017 • 5 CO2 emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita)    22.42015 • •
Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best)    2.72018 • p
SDG14 – Life Below Water                 
SDG4 – Quality Education                Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)    NA NA • •
Net primary enrollment rate (%) NA NA • • Ocean Health Index: Clean Waters score (worst 0–100 best)    NA NA • •
Lower secondary completion rate (%) 53.22017 • L Fish caught from overexploited or collapsed stocks (% of total catch)    NA NA • •
Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24) 65.42018 • • Fish caught by trawling (%)    NA NA • •
SDG5 – Gender Equality                      Marine biodiversity threats embodied in imports (per million population)    0.02018 • •
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods (% of females    42.22016 • D SDG15 – Life on Land               
aged 15 to 49 who are married or in unions) Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%)   6.12018 • 5
Ratio of female-to-male mean years of education received (%)    31.72018 • 5 Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%)   0.12018 • 5
Ratio of female-to-male labor force participation rate (%)    59.52019 • D Red List Index of species survival (worst 0–1 best)    0.82019 • p
Seats held by women in national parliament (%)    27.02020 • p Permanent deforestation (% of forest area, 5-year average)    0.02018 • •
SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation               
Population using at least basic drinking water services (%)    67.12017 • L Te(rpreers tmriailll iaonnd p forepsuhlwataiotenr) biodiversity threats embodied in imports      0.02018 • •
Population using at least basic sanitation services (%)    43.42017 • 5 SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions               
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available freshwater resources)    54.82000 • • Homicides (per 100,000 population)    7.12017 • L
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%)    0.02018 • • Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population)    31.32015 • •
Scarce water consumption embodied in imports (m3/capita)    2.52013 • L Percentage of population who feel safe walking alone at night in the      12.52018 • p
SDG7 – Affordable and Clean Energy                city or area where they live (%)
Population with access to electricity (%)    97.72017 • L Property Rights (worst 1–7 best)    NA NA • •
Population with access to clean fuels and technology for cooking (%)    32.42016 • D Birth registrations with civil authority (% of children under age 5)    42.32018 • •
COpe2 re tmotiassl ieolnesc tfrriocmity f ouuelt pcoumt (bMutsCtOio2n/ TfoWr he)lectricity and heating      NA NA • • CCohrilrdurpetnio innv Poelvrceedp itnio cnh Iinldd leaxb (owr o(%rs to 0f –p1o0p0u blaetsiot)n aged 5 to 14)      291.6422001196 •• 5•
5
SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth                Exports of major conventional weapons (TIV constant million USD   * 0.02019 • • . C
Adjusted GDP growth (%)    -7.32018 • • per 100,000 population) ou
Victims of modern slavery (per 1,000 population)    22.22018 • • Press Freedom Index (best 0–100 worst)    36.62019 • D ntr
y
Admuoltbsi lwe-itmh oanne ayc-cseoruvnicte a tp aro bvaidnekr  o(%r o othf epro fpinualantcioianl  iangsteidtu 1ti5o no ro or vwerit)h a     14.92017 • 5 SGoDvGer1nm7 e–n tP sapretnndeinrgs ohni phse aflothr a tnhde e dGuocaatliosn (% of GDP)      4 . 8201  6 •   D    Prof
Unemployment rate (% of total labor force)    11.12019 • 5 For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional    NA NA • • iles
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population)   0.02010 • L public finance, including official development assistance (% of GNI)
Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP)    12.22017 • D
Corporate Tax Haven Score (best 0–100 worst) * 0.02019 • •
* Imputed data point
103
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
ALBANIA  
Eastern Europe and Central Asia
OVERALL PERFORMANCE
SDG SDG
17 1
SDG 100 SDG
16 2
75
Index score Regional average score SDG SDG
15 50 3
25
SDG
SDG 4
14
70.8 70.9
Albania
SDG SDG
13 5
SDG
12 SDG
6
SDG Global rank 68 (OF 166)
SDG
11 SDG
7
SDG SDG
10 SDG 8
9
SPILLOVER INDEX AVERAGE PERFORMANCE BY SDG
100 (best) to 0 (worst)
100
80
60
40
20
0
CURRENT ASSESSMENT – SDG DASHBOARD
  Major challenges           Significant challenges          Challenges remain          SDG achieved          Information unavailable
SDG TRENDS
L 5 D D D D L D D
• 5 • L 5 D D D
p  Decreasing       5  Stagnating       D  Moderately improving       L  On track or maintaining SDG achievement       •  Information unavailable
Notes: The full title of Goal 2 “Zero Hunger” is “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”.    
  The full title of each SDG is available here: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabledevelopmentgoals
104
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
ALBANIA
Performance by Indicator
SDG1 – No Poverty    Val u e Yea  rRa t ingTr e nd SDG9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure    Val u e Ye a rRa t ingTr e nd
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%)    0.42020 • L Population using the internet (%)    71.82017 • L
Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%)    4.42020 • L Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population)    62.82018 • L
SDG2 – Zero Hunger                Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related     2.32018 • •
Prevalence of undernourishment (%)    6.22017 • L infrastructure (worst 1–5 best)
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%)    23.12009 • 5 The Times Higher Education Universities Ranking: Average score of top 3 * 0.02020 • •
PPrreevvaalleennccee  ooff  wobaesstiintyg,  BinM cIh ≥il d3r0e n(% u nodf aedr u5 lyt epaorps uolfa atigoen )(%)      291..4722000196 •• pD Scuiennivteifrisci taiensd ( tweochrsnt i0ca–l1 j0o0u rbneaslt a)rticles (per 1,000 population)    0.12018 • 5
Human Trophic Level (best 2–3 worst)    2.42017 • p Expenditure on research and development (% of GDP)    0.22008 • •
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land)    4.82017 • L SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities               
Sustainable Nitrogen Management Index (best 0–1.41 worst)    0.82015 • 5 Gini coefficient adjusted for top income    41.72012 • •
SDG3 – Good Health and Well-Being                SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities               
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)     152017 • L Annual mean concentration of particulate matter of less than      18.22017 • 5
2.5 microns in diameter (PM2.5) (μg/m3)
NMInecooirdntaealntitacyle  rm oatfoe tr,ut uablnietdryce rura-lto5e s( i(psp e(eprr e1 1r,0, 01000000 l ,il0viv0ee0 b  bpiriortthphsus)l)ation)        1688...580222000111888 ••• 5LL ASactciesfsasc ttoio inm wpritohv epdu bwliact etrra snosuprocret,  (p%ip)ed (% of urban population)      9520..4522001179 •• 55
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population)    NA NA • • SDG12 – Responsible Consumption and Production                 
Municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)    1.82015 • •
Agdeia-bsteatneds,a ordr iczherdo ndieca rtehs prairtaet dourye d tois ecaasred iionv aadscuultlsa ra dgiesde a3s0e–, c7a0n yceear,r s (%)    17.02016 • L Electronic waste (kg/capita)    7.12016 • •
Agame-bstiaenndt aarird pizoeldlu dtieoant h(p reart e1 0at0t,r0ib0u0 tpaobpleu tloat hioonu)sehold air pollution and    682016 • • PSOro2d eumctiisosnio-bnas seemd bSoOd2i eedm iinss iimonpso (rktgs /(ckgap/citaap)ita)       494..7322001122 •• ••
Traffic deaths (per 100,000 population)    13.62016 • L Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita)    17.02010 • •
Life expectancy at birth (years)    76.42016 • D Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)    2.02010 • •
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19)   19.62017 • L SDG13 – Climate Action               
Births attended by skilled health personnel (%)    99.82018 • • Energy-related CO2 emissions (tCO2/capita)    1.52017 • L
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%)   942018 • L CO2 emissions embodied in imports (tCO2/capita)    0.42015 • L
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best)   59.02017 • 5 CO2 emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita)    0.02016 • •
Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best)    5.02019 • L
SDG14 – Life Below Water                 
SDG4 – Quality Education                Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)    60.12018 • L
Net primary enrollment rate (%) 94.52018 • D Ocean Health Index: Clean Waters score (worst 0–100 best)    56.72019 • 5
Lower secondary completion rate (%) 96.32018 • L Fish caught from overexploited or collapsed stocks (% of total catch)    NA NA • •
Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24) 99.32018 • • Fish caught by trawling (%)    86.32014 • 5
SDG5 – Gender Equality                      Marine biodiversity threats embodied in imports (per million population)    0.02018 • •
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods (% of females    4.92018 • D SDG15 – Life on Land               
aged 15 to 49 who are married or in unions) Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%)   76.12018 • L
Ratio of female-to-male mean years of education received (%)    97.12018 • L Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%)   99.02018 • L
Ratio of female-to-male labor force participation rate (%)    72.72019 • L Red List Index of species survival (worst 0–1 best)    0.82019 • p
Seats held by women in national parliament (%)    29.52020 • L Permanent deforestation (% of forest area, 5-year average)    0.02018 • •
SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation               
Population using at least basic drinking water services (%)    91.02017 • 5 Te(rpreers tmriailll iaonnd p forepsuhlwataiotenr) biodiversity threats embodied in imports      0.62018 • •
Population using at least basic sanitation services (%)    97.72017 • L SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions               
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available freshwater resources)    7.92005 • • Homicides (per 100,000 population)    2.32017 • L
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%)    2.72018 • • Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population)    44.32018 • D
Scarce water consumption embodied in imports (m3/capita)    5.72013 • L Percentage of population who feel safe walking alone at night in the      63.02019 • D
SDG7 – Affordable and Clean Energy                city or area where they live (%)
Population with access to electricity (%)   100.02017 • L Property Rights (worst 1–7 best)    3.32019 • •
Population with access to clean fuels and technology for cooking (%)    77.42016 • L Birth registrations with civil authority (% of children under age 5)    98.42018 • •
COpe2 re tmotiassl ieolnesc tfrriocmity f ouuelt pcoumt (bMutsCtOio2n/ TfoWr he)lectricity and heating      1.02017 • L CCohrilrdurpetnio innv Poelvrceedp itnio cnh Iinldd leaxb (owr o(%rs to 0f –p1o0p0u blaetsiot)n aged 5 to 14)      53.5122001196 •• p•
5
SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth                Exports of major conventional weapons (TIV constant million USD   * 0.02019 • • . C
Adjusted GDP growth (%)    -1.12018 • • per 100,000 population) ou
Victims of modern slavery (per 1,000 population)    6.92018 • • Press Freedom Index (best 0–100 worst)    29.82019 • L ntr
y
Admuoltbsi lwe-itmh oanne ayc-cseoruvnicte a tp aro bvaidnekr  o(%r o othf epro fpinualantcioianl  iangsteidtu 1ti5o no ro or vwerit)h a     40.02017 • 5 SGoDvGer1nm7 e–n tP sapretnndeinrgs ohni phse aflothr a tnhde e dGuocaatliosn (% of GDP)      6 . 7201  6 •   D    Prof
Unemployment rate (% of total labor force)    12.32019 • L For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional    NA NA • • iles
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population)   0.22010 • L public finance, including official development assistance (% of GNI)
Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP)    25.62018 • D
Corporate Tax Haven Score (best 0–100 worst) * 0.02019 • •
* Imputed data point
105
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
ALGERIA  
Middle East and North Africa
OVERALL PERFORMANCE
SDG SDG
17 1
SDG 100 SDG
16 2
75
Index score Regional average score SDG SDG
15 50 3
25
SDG
SDG 4
14
72.3 66.3
Algeria
SDG SDG
13 5
SDG
12 SDG
6
SDG Global rank 56 (OF 166)
SDG
11 SDG
7
SDG SDG
10 SDG 8
9
SPILLOVER INDEX AVERAGE PERFORMANCE BY SDG
100 (best) to 0 (worst)
100
80
60
40
20
0
CURRENT ASSESSMENT – SDG DASHBOARD
SDG TRENDS
L 5 D L 5 D L 5 D
• 5 • D p D 5 •
p  Decreasing       5  Stagnating       D  Moderately improving       L  On track or maintaining SDG achievement       •  Information unavailable
Notes: The full title of Goal 2 “Zero Hunger” is “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”.    
  The full title of each SDG is available here: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabledevelopmentgoals
106
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
ALGERIA
Performance by Indicator
SDG1 – No Poverty    Val u e Yea  rRa t ingTr e nd SDG9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure    Val u e Ye a rRa t ingTr e nd
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%)    0.32020 • L Population using the internet (%)    49.02018 • L
Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%)    2.02020 • L Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population)    81.72018 • L
SDG2 – Zero Hunger                Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related     2.42018 • p
Prevalence of undernourishment (%)    3.92017 • L infrastructure (worst 1–5 best)
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%)    11.72012 • 5 The Times Higher Education Universities Ranking: Average score of top 3    24.52020 • •
PPrreevvaalleennccee  ooff  wobaesstiintyg,  BinM cIh ≥il d3r0e n(% u nodf aedr u5 lyt epaorps uolfa atigoen )(%)      247..1422001126 •• Lp Scuiennivteifrisci taiensd ( tweochrsnt i0ca–l1 j0o0u rbneaslt a)rticles (per 1,000 population)    0.12018 • 5
Human Trophic Level (best 2–3 worst)    2.22017 • L Expenditure on research and development (% of GDP)    0.52017 • •
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land)    1.02017 • p SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities               
Sustainable Nitrogen Management Index (best 0–1.41 worst)    0.72015 • 5 Gini coefficient adjusted for top income    31.52011 • •
SDG3 – Good Health and Well-Being                SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities               
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)     1122017 • 5 Annual mean concentration of particulate matter of less than      38.92017 • p
2.5 microns in diameter (PM2.5) (μg/m3)
NMeoorntaaltitayl  rmatoer,t ualnitdye rra-t5e ( (ppeerr 1 1,0,00000 l ilvivee b birirtthhss))      1243..6522001188 •• LL Access to improved water source, piped (% of urban population)    81.92017 • p
Incidence of tuberculosis (per 100,000 population)    69.02018 • 5 Satisfaction with public transport (%)    57.72018 • L
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population)    0.02018 • L SDG12 – Responsible Consumption and Production                 
Municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)    1.12016 • •
Agdeia-bsteatneds,a ordr iczherdo ndieca rtehs prairtaet dourye d tois ecaasred iionv aadscuultlsa ra dgiesde a3s0e–, c7a0n yceear,r s (%)    14.22016 • L Electronic waste (kg/capita)    6.22016 • •
Agame-bstiaenndt aarird pizoeldlu dtieoant h(p reart e1 0at0t,r0ib0u0 tpaobpleu tloat hioonu)sehold air pollution and    502016 • • PSOro2d eumctiisosnio-bnas seemd bSoOd2i eedm iinss iimonpso (rktgs /(ckgap/citaap)ita)       51..3422001122 •• ••
Traffic deaths (per 100,000 population)    23.82013 • • Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita)    9.92010 • •
Life expectancy at birth (years)    76.42016 • D Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)    1.02010 • •
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19)   10.12017 • L SDG13 – Climate Action               
Births attended by skilled health personnel (%)    96.62013 • • Energy-related CO2 emissions (tCO2/capita)    3.42017 • 5
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%)   802018 • p CO2 emissions embodied in imports (tCO2/capita)    0.22015 • L
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best)   78.02017 • L CO2 emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita)   918.82017 • •
Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best)    5.02018 • p
SDG14 – Life Below Water                 
SDG4 – Quality Education                Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)    30.02018 • 5
Net primary enrollment rate (%) 97.62018 • L Ocean Health Index: Clean Waters score (worst 0–100 best)    41.42019 • 5
Lower secondary completion rate (%) 84.62018 • L Fish caught from overexploited or collapsed stocks (% of total catch)    64.92014 • p
Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24) 97.42018 • • Fish caught by trawling (%)    29.62014 • p
SDG5 – Gender Equality                      Marine biodiversity threats embodied in imports (per million population)    0.02018 • •
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods (% of females    77.22013 • L SDG15 – Life on Land               
aged 15 to 49 who are married or in unions) Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%)   40.22018 • 5
Ratio of female-to-male mean years of education received (%)    92.82018 • L Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%)   52.52018 • L
Ratio of female-to-male labor force participation rate (%)    22.22019 • p Red List Index of species survival (worst 0–1 best)    0.92019 • L
Seats held by women in national parliament (%)    25.82020 • p Permanent deforestation (% of forest area, 5-year average)    0.82018 • •
SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation               
Population using at least basic drinking water services (%)    93.62017 • 5 Te(rpreers tmriailll iaonnd p forepsuhlwataiotenr) biodiversity threats embodied in imports      0.32018 • •
Population using at least basic sanitation services (%)    87.62017 • 5 SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions               
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available freshwater resources)   127.72015 • • Homicides (per 100,000 population)    1.42015 • •
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%)    33.12018 • • Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population)    12.02018 • L
Scarce water consumption embodied in imports (m3/capita)    3.52013 • L Percentage of population who feel safe walking alone at night in the      64.32018 • •
SDG7 – Affordable and Clean Energy                city or area where they live (%)
Population with access to electricity (%)   100.02017 • L Property Rights (worst 1–7 best)    4.12019 • •
Population with access to clean fuels and technology for cooking (%)    92.62016 • L Birth registrations with civil authority (% of children under age 5)    99.62018 • •
COpe2 re tmotiassl ieolnesc tfrriocmity f ouuelt pcoumt (bMutsCtOio2n/ TfoWr he)lectricity and heating      1.82017 • L CCohrilrdurpetnio innv Poelvrceedp itnio cnh Iinldd leaxb (owr o(%rs to 0f –p1o0p0u blaetsiot)n aged 5 to 14)      53.5022001196 •• p•
5
SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth                Exports of major conventional weapons (TIV constant million USD      0.02019 • • . C
Adjusted GDP growth (%)    -3.72018 • • per 100,000 population) ou
Victims of modern slavery (per 1,000 population)    2.72018 • • Press Freedom Index (best 0–100 worst)    45.82019 • p ntr
y
Admuoltbsi lwe-itmh oanne ayc-cseoruvnicte a tp aro bvaidnekr  o(%r o othf epro fpinualantcioianl  iangsteidtu 1ti5o no ro or vwerit)h a     42.82017 • p SGoDvGer1nm7 e–n tP sapretnndeinrgs ohni phse aflothr a tnhde e dGuocaatliosn (% of GDP)      7 . 4200  8 •   •    Prof
Unemployment rate (% of total labor force)    11.72019 • p For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional    NA NA • • iles
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population)   0.12010 • L public finance, including official development assistance (% of GNI)
Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP) * 40.42011 • •
Corporate Tax Haven Score (best 0–100 worst) * 0.02019 • •
* Imputed data point
107
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
ANDORRA  
Western Europe
OVERALL PERFORMANCE
SDG SDG
17 1
SDG 100 SDG
16 2
75
Index score Regional average score SDG SDG
15 50 3
25
SDG
SDG 4
14
 na 70.9
Andorra
SDG SDG
13 5
SDG
12 SDG
6
SDG Global rank NA (OF 166)
SDG
11 SDG
7
SDG SDG
10 SDG 8
9
SPILLOVER INDEX AVERAGE PERFORMANCE BY SDG
100 (best) to 0 (worst)
100
80
60
40
20
0
CURRENT ASSESSMENT – SDG DASHBOARD
  Major challenges           Significant challenges          Challenges remain          SDG achieved          Information unavailable
SDG TRENDS
• D • • L D L • D
• L • 5 • D L L
p  Decreasing       5  Stagnating       D  Moderately improving       L  On track or maintaining SDG achievement       •  Information unavailable
Notes: The full title of Goal 2 “Zero Hunger” is “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”.    
  The full title of each SDG is available here: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabledevelopmentgoals
108
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
ANDORRA
Performance by Indicator
SDG1 – No Poverty    Val u e Yea  rRa t ingTr e nd SDG9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure    Val u e Ye a rRa t ingTr e nd
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%)    NA NA • • Population using the internet (%)    91.62017 • L
Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%)    NA NA • • Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population)    60.42018 • L
SDG2 – Zero Hunger                Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related     NA NA • •
Prevalence of undernourishment (%) * 1.22017 • • infrastructure (worst 1–5 best)
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%) * 2.62016 • L The Times Higher Education Universities Ranking: Average score of top 3 * 0.02020 • •
PPrreevvaalleennccee  ooff  wobaesstiintyg,  BinM cIh ≥il d3r0e n(% u nodf aedr u5 lyt epaorps uolfa atigoen )(%) *   205..7622001166 •• Lp Scuiennivteifrisci taiensd ( tweochrsnt i0ca–l1 j0o0u rbneaslt a)rticles (per 1,000 population)    0.02018 • p
Expenditure on research and development (% of GDP)    NA NA • •
Human Trophic Level (best 2–3 worst)    NA NA • •
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land)    NA NA • • SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities               
Sustainable Nitrogen Management Index (best 0–1.41 worst)    NA NA • • Gini coefficient adjusted for top income    NA NA • •
SDG3 – Good Health and Well-Being                SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities               
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)     NA NA • • Annual mean concentration of particulate matter of less than      10.32017 • L
2.5 microns in diameter (PM2.5) (μg/m3)
NMeoorntaaltitayl  rmatoer,t ualnitdye rra-t5e ( (ppeerr 1 1,0,00000 l ilvivee b birirtthhss))      12..4922001188 •• LL Access to improved water source, piped (% of urban population)    99.02017 • L
Incidence of tuberculosis (per 100,000 population)    3.02018 • L Satisfaction with public transport (%)    NA NA • •
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population)    NA NA • • SDG12 – Responsible Consumption and Production                 
Municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)    1.72012 • •
Agdeia-bsteatneds,a ordr iczherdo ndieca rtehs prairtaet dourye d tois ecaasred iionv aadscuultlsa ra dgiesde a3s0e–, c7a0n yceear,r s (%)    NA NA • • Electronic waste (kg/capita)    NA NA • •
Agame-bstiaenndt aarird pizoeldlu dtieoant h(p reart e1 0at0t,r0ib0u0 tpaobpleu tloat hioonu)sehold air pollution and    NA NA • • PSOro2d eumctiisosnio-bnas seemd bSoOd2i eedm iinss iimonpso (rktgs /(ckgap/citaap)ita)       4201..1322001122 •• ••
Traffic deaths (per 100,000 population)    7.62013 • • Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita)    22.52010 • •
Life expectancy at birth (years)    NA NA • • Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)    14.12010 • •
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19)   NA NA • • SDG13 – Climate Action               
Births attended by skilled health personnel (%)    NA NA • • Energy-related CO2 emissions (tCO2/capita)    6.22017 • 5
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%)   992018 • L CO2 emissions embodied in imports (tCO2/capita)    2.72015 • 5
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best)   NA NA • • CO2 emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita)    0.72017 • •
Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best)    NA NA • •
SDG14 – Life Below Water                 
SDG4 – Quality Education                Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)    NA NA • •
Net primary enrollment rate (%)    NA NA • • Ocean Health Index: Clean Waters score (worst 0–100 best)    NA NA • •
Lower secondary completion rate (%)    NA NA • • Fish caught from overexploited or collapsed stocks (% of total catch)    NA NA • •
Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24)    NA NA • • Fish caught by trawling (%)    NA NA • •
SDG5 – Gender Equality                      Marine biodiversity threats embodied in imports (per million population)    0.02018 • •
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods (% of females    NA NA • • SDG15 – Life on Land               
aged 15 to 49 who are married or in unions) Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%)   26.12018 • 5
Ratio of female-to-male mean years of education received (%)    99.02018 • L Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%)   NA NA • •
Ratio of female-to-male labor force participation rate (%)    NA NA • • Red List Index of species survival (worst 0–1 best)    0.92019 • L
Seats held by women in national parliament (%)    46.42020 • L Permanent deforestation (% of forest area, 5-year average)    NA NA • •
SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation               
Population using at least basic drinking water services (%)   100.02017 • L Te(rpreers tmriailll iaonnd p forepsuhlwataiotenr) biodiversity threats embodied in imports      0.62018 • •
Population using at least basic sanitation services (%)   100.02017 • L SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions               
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available freshwater resources)    NA NA • • Homicides (per 100,000 population)    1.22011 • •
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%)   100.02018 • • Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population)    50.62018 • L
Scarce water consumption embodied in imports (m3/capita)    33.82013 • 5 Percentage of population who feel safe walking alone at night in the      NA NA • •
SDG7 – Affordable and Clean Energy                city or area where they live (%)
Population with access to electricity (%)   100.02017 • L Property Rights (worst 1–7 best)    NA NA • •
Population with access to clean fuels and technology for cooking (%)   100.02016 • L Birth registrations with civil authority (% of children under age 5)   100.02018 • •
COpe2 re tmotiassl ieolnesc tfrriocmity f ouuelt pcoumt (bMutsCtOio2n/ TfoWr he)lectricity and heating      NA NA • • CCohrilrdurpetnio innv Poelvrceedp itnio cnh Iinldd leaxb (owr o(%rs to 0f –p1o0p0u blaetsiot)n aged 5 to 14)      NNAA NNAA •• ••
5
SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth                Exports of major conventional weapons (TIV constant million USD   * 0.02019 • • . C
Adjusted GDP growth (%)    NA NA • • per 100,000 population) ou
Victims of modern slavery (per 1,000 population)    NA NA • • Press Freedom Index (best 0–100 worst)    24.62019 • L ntr
y
Admuoltbsi lwe-itmh oanne ayc-cseoruvnicte a tp aro bvaidnekr  o(%r o othf epro fpinualantcioianl  iangsteidtu 1ti5o no ro or vwerit)h a     NA NA • • SGoDvGer1nm7 e–n tP sapretnndeinrgs ohni phse aflothr a tnhde e dGuocaatliosn (% of GDP)      8 . 4201  6 •   L    Prof
Unemployment rate (% of total labor force)    NA NA • • For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional    NA NA • • iles
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population)   1.52010 • L public finance, including official development assistance (% of GNI)
Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP)    NA NA • •
Corporate Tax Haven Score (best 0–100 worst)    69.02019 • •
* Imputed data point
109
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
ANGOLA  
Sub-Saharan Africa
OVERALL PERFORMANCE
SDG SDG
17 1
SDG 100 SDG
16 2
75
Index score Regional average score SDG SDG
15 50 3
25
SDG
SDG 4
14
52.6 5533..11
Angola
SDG SDG
13 5
SDG
12 SDG
6
SDG Global rank 149 (OF 166)
SDG
11 SDG
7
SDG SDG
10 SDG 8
9
SPILLOVER INDEX AVERAGE PERFORMANCE BY SDG
100 (best) to 0 (worst)
100
80
60
40
20
0
CURRENT ASSESSMENT – SDG DASHBOARD
  Major challenges           Significant challenges          Challenges remain          SDG achieved          Information unavailable
SDG TRENDS
p D D • 5 D D D 5
• 5 • L 5 5 D p
p  Decreasing       5  Stagnating       D  Moderately improving       L  On track or maintaining SDG achievement       •  Information unavailable
Notes: The full title of Goal 2 “Zero Hunger” is “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”.    
  The full title of each SDG is available here: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabledevelopmentgoals
110
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
ANGOLA
Performance by Indicator
SDG1 – No Poverty    Val u e Yea  rRa t ingTr e nd SDG9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure    Val u e Ye a rRa t ingTr e nd
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%)    21.02020 • p Population using the internet (%)    14.32017 • p
Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%)    42.92020 • p Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population)    18.92018 • 5
SDG2 – Zero Hunger                Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related     1.92018 • p
Prevalence of undernourishment (%)    25.02017 • D infrastructure (worst 1–5 best)
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%)    37.62016 • 5 The Times Higher Education Universities Ranking: Average score of top 3 * 0.02020 • •
PPrreevvaalleennccee  ooff  wobaesstiintyg,  BinM cIh ≥il d3r0e n(% u nodf aedr u5 lyt epaorps uolfa atigoen )(%)      48..9222001166 •• LL Scuiennivteifrisci taiensd ( tweochrsnt i0ca–l1 j0o0u rbneaslt a)rticles (per 1,000 population)    0.02018 • 5
Human Trophic Level (best 2–3 worst)    2.12017 • L Expenditure on research and development (% of GDP)    NA NA • •
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land)    0.92017 • 5 SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities               
Sustainable Nitrogen Management Index (best 0–1.41 worst)    0.92015 • p Gini coefficient adjusted for top income    45.12008 • •
SDG3 – Good Health and Well-Being                SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities               
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)     2412017 • 5 Annual mean concentration of particulate matter of less than      32.42017 • 5
NMeoorntaaltitayl  rmatoer,t ualnitdye rra-t5e ( (ppeerr 1 1,0,00000 l ilvivee b birirtthhss))      2787..5222001188 •• DD Ac2c.5e sms itcor oimnsp irno vdeiadm weatteerr ( sPoMu2rc.5e),  (pμipg/emd 3(%) of urban population)    58.02017 • D
Incidence of tuberculosis (per 100,000 population)   355.02018 • 5 Satisfaction with public transport (%)    32.22014 • •
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population)    1.02018 • 5 SDG12 – Responsible Consumption and Production                 
Municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)    0.62012 • •
Agdeia-bsteatneds,a ordr iczherdo ndieca rtehs prairtaet dourye d tois ecaasred iionv aadscuultlsa ra dgiesde a3s0e–, c7a0n yceear,r s (%)    16.52016 • L Electronic waste (kg/capita)    3.32016 • •
Agame-bstiaenndt aarird pizoeldlu dtieoant h(p reart e1 0at0t,r0ib0u0 tpaobpleu tloat hioonu)sehold air pollution and    1192016 • • PSOro2d eumctiisosnio-bnas seemd bSoOd2i eedm iinss iimonpso (rktgs /(ckgap/citaap)ita)       61..9622001122 •• ••
Traffic deaths (per 100,000 population)    23.62016 • L Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita)    10.02010 • •
Life expectancy at birth (years)    62.62016 • 5 Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)    0.92010 • •
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19)  150.52017 • 5 SDG13 – Climate Action               
Births attended by skilled health personnel (%)    49.62016 • • Energy-related CO2 emissions (tCO2/capita)    1.32017 • L
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%)   502018 • p CO2 emissions embodied in imports (tCO2/capita)    0.12015 • L
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best)   40.02017 • 5 CO2 emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita)    88.32018 • •
Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best)    3.82014 • •
SDG14 – Life Below Water                 
SDG4 – Quality Education                Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)    0.92018 • 5
Net primary enrollment rate (%) 78.02011 • • Ocean Health Index: Clean Waters score (worst 0–100 best)    55.02019 • p
Lower secondary completion rate (%) 20.72011 • • Fish caught from overexploited or collapsed stocks (% of total catch)    12.12014 • L
Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24) 77.42014 • • Fish caught by trawling (%)    28.92014 • D
SDG5 – Gender Equality                 Marine biodiversity threats embodied in imports (per million population)    0.22018 • •
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods (% of females    29.82016 • 5 SDG15 – Life on Land               
aged 15 to 49 who are married or in unions) Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%)   28.42018 • 5
Ratio of female-to-male mean years of education received (%)    62.52018 • p Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%)   33.32018 • 5
Ratio of female-to-male labor force participation rate (%)    94.22019 • L Red List Index of species survival (worst 0–1 best)    0.92019 • L
Seats held by women in national parliament (%)    30.02020 • p Permanent deforestation (% of forest area, 5-year average)    0.22018 • •
SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation               
Population using at least basic drinking water services (%)    55.82017 • 5 Te(rpreers tmriailll iaonnd p forepsuhlwataiotenr) biodiversity threats embodied in imports      0.62018 • •
Population using at least basic sanitation services (%)    49.92017 • 5 SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions               
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available freshwater resources)    1.92005 • • Homicides (per 100,000 population)    4.82012 • •
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%)    0.02018 • • Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population)    48.02018 • D
Scarce water consumption embodied in imports (m3/capita)    1.12013 • L Percentage of population who feel safe walking alone at night in the      46.22014 • •
SDG7 – Affordable and Clean Energy                city or area where they live (%)
Population with access to electricity (%)    41.92017 • D Property Rights (worst 1–7 best)    3.22019 • •
Population with access to clean fuels and technology for cooking (%)    48.12016 • 5 Birth registrations with civil authority (% of children under age 5)    25.02018 • •
COpe2 re tmotiassl ieolnesc tfrriocmity f ouuelt pcoumt (bMutsCtOio2n/ TfoWr he)lectricity and heating      1.72017 • L CCohrilrdurpetnio innv Poelvrceedp itnio cnh Iinldd leaxb (owr o(%rs to 0f –p1o0p0u blaetsiot)n aged 5 to 14)      232.6422001196 •• D•
5
SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth                Exports of major conventional weapons (TIV constant million USD   * 0.02019 • • . C
Adjusted GDP growth (%)    -9.62018 • • per 100,000 population) ou
Victims of modern slavery (per 1,000 population)    7.22018 • • Press Freedom Index (best 0–100 worst)    35.02019 • L ntr
y
Admuoltbsi lwe-itmh oanne ayc-cseoruvnicte a tp aro bvaidnekr  o(%r o othf epro fpinualantcioianl  iangsteidtu 1ti5o no ro or vwerit)h a     29.32014 • • SGoDvGer1nm7 e–n tP sapretnndeinrgs ohni phse aflothr a tnhde e dGuocaatliosn (% of GDP)      5 . 1201  0 •   •    Prof
Unemployment rate (% of total labor force)    6.92019 • D For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional    NA NA • • iles
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population)   0.12010 • L public finance, including official development assistance (% of GNI)
Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP)    16.42017 • p
Corporate Tax Haven Score (best 0–100 worst) * 0.02019 • •
* Imputed data point
111
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
ANTIGUA AND BARBUDA  
Latin America and the Caribbean
OVERALL PERFORMANCE
SDG SDG
17 1
SDG 100 SDG
16 2
75
Index score Regional average score SDG SDG
15 50 3
25
SDG
SDG 4
14
 na 70.4 Antigua and 
SDG Barbuda SDG
13 5
SDG
12 SDG
6
SDG Global rank NA (OF 166)
SDG
11 SDG
7
SDG SDG
10 SDG 8
9
SPILLOVER INDEX AVERAGE PERFORMANCE BY SDG
100 (best) to 0 (worst)
100
80
60
40
20
0
CURRENT ASSESSMENT – SDG DASHBOARD
  Major challenges           Significant challenges          Challenges remain          SDG achieved          Information unavailable
SDG TRENDS
• 5 D L D 5 L • D
• • • 5 p 5 • •
p  Decreasing       5  Stagnating       D  Moderately improving       L  On track or maintaining SDG achievement       •  Information unavailable
Notes: The full title of Goal 2 “Zero Hunger” is “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”.    
  The full title of each SDG is available here: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabledevelopmentgoals
112
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
ANTIGUA AND BARBUDA
Performance by Indicator
SDG1 – No Poverty    Val u e Yea  rRa t ingTr e nd SDG9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure    Val u e Ye a rRa t ingTr e nd
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%)    NA NA • • Population using the internet (%)    76.02017 • L
Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%)    NA NA • • Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population)    50.32017 • L
SDG2 – Zero Hunger                Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related     NA NA • •
Prevalence of undernourishment (%) * 1.22017 • • infrastructure (worst 1–5 best)
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%) * 2.62016 • L The Times Higher Education Universities Ranking: Average score of top 3 * 0.02020 • •
PPrreevvaalleennccee  ooff  wobaesstiintyg,  BinM cIh ≥il d3r0e n(% u nodf aedr u5 lyt epaorps uolfa atigoen )(%) *   108..7922001166 •• Lp Scuiennivteifrisci taiensd ( tweochrsnt i0ca–l1 j0o0u rbneaslt a)rticles (per 1,000 population)    0.12018 • 5
Human Trophic Level (best 2–3 worst)    2.42017 • 5 Expenditure on research and development (% of GDP)    NA NA • •
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land)    1.62017 • p SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities               
Sustainable Nitrogen Management Index (best 0–1.41 worst)    1.32015 • 5 Gini coefficient adjusted for top income    NA NA • •
SDG3 – Good Health and Well-Being                SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities               
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)     422017 • L Annual mean concentration of particulate matter of less than      18.62017 • D
2.5 microns in diameter (PM2.5) (μg/m3)
Neonatal mortality rate (per 1,000 live births)    3.42018 • L
Mortality rate, under-5 (per 1,000 live births)    6.42018 • L Access to improved water source, piped (% of urban population)    NA NA • •
Incidence of tuberculosis (per 100,000 population)    6.02018 • L Satisfaction with public transport (%)    NA NA • •
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population)    0.62018 • 5 SDG12 – Responsible Consumption and Production                 
Municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)    3.32012 • •
Agdeia-bsteatneds,a ordr iczherdo ndieca rtehs prairtaet dourye d tois ecaasred iionv aadscuultlsa ra dgiesde a3s0e–, c7a0n yceear,r s (%)    22.62016 • p Electronic waste (kg/capita)    12.02016 • •
Agame-bstiaenndt aarird pizoeldlu dtieoant h(p reart e1 0at0t,r0ib0u0 tpaobpleu tloat hioonu)sehold air pollution and    302016 • • PSOro2d eumctiisosnio-bnas seemd bSoOd2i eedm iinss iimonpso (rktgs /(ckgap/citaap)ita)      121071..6922001122 •• ••
Traffic deaths (per 100,000 population)    7.92016 • L Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita)    37.42010 • •
Life expectancy at birth (years)    75.02016 • 5 Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)    12.72010 • •
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19)   42.82017 • D SDG13 – Climate Action               
Births attended by skilled health personnel (%)   100.02014 • • Energy-related CO2 emissions (tCO2/capita)    5.92017 • 5
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%)   952018 • L CO2 emissions embodied in imports (tCO2/capita)    2.02015 • 5
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best)   73.02017 • L CO2 emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita) * 0.02018 • •
Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best)    NA NA • •
SDG14 – Life Below Water                 
SDG4 – Quality Education                Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)    35.52018 • 5
Net primary enrollment rate (%)    95.72018 • L Ocean Health Index: Clean Waters score (worst 0–100 best)    61.62019 • p
Lower secondary completion rate (%)    98.62018 • L Fish caught from overexploited or collapsed stocks (% of total catch)    68.92014 • p
Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24)    NA NA • • Fish caught by trawling (%)    NA NA • •
SDG5 – Gender Equality                      Marine biodiversity threats embodied in imports (per million population)    0.92018 • •
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods (% of females * 79.42017 • L SDG15 – Life on Land               
aged 15 to 49 who are married or in unions) Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%)   14.92018 • 5
Ratio of female-to-male mean years of education received (%)    NA NA • • Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%)   NA NA • •
Ratio of female-to-male labor force participation rate (%)    NA NA • • Red List Index of species survival (worst 0–1 best)    0.92019 • 5
Seats held by women in national parliament (%)    11.12020 • 5 Permanent deforestation (% of forest area, 5-year average)    0.32018 • •
SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation               
Population using at least basic drinking water services (%)    96.72017 • 5 Te(rpreers tmriailll iaonnd p forepsuhlwataiotenr) biodiversity threats embodied in imports      0.32018 • •
Population using at least basic sanitation services (%)    87.52017 • 5 SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions               
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available freshwater resources)    8.52010 • • Homicides (per 100,000 population)    10.32012 • •
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%)    1.32018 • • Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population)    38.52018 • L
Scarce water consumption embodied in imports (m3/capita)    15.22013 • L Percentage of population who feel safe walking alone at night in the      NA NA • •
SDG7 – Affordable and Clean Energy                city or area where they live (%)
Population with access to electricity (%)   100.02017 • L Property Rights (worst 1–7 best)    NA NA • •
Population with access to clean fuels and technology for cooking (%)    98.82016 • L Birth registrations with civil authority (% of children under age 5)    NA NA • •
COpe2 re tmotiassl ieolnesc tfrriocmity f ouuelt pcoumt (bMutsCtOio2n/ TfoWr he)lectricity and heating      NA NA • • CCohrilrdurpetnio innv Poelvrceedp itnio cnh Iinldd leaxb (owr o(%rs to 0f –p1o0p0u blaetsiot)n aged 5 to 14)      NNAA NNAA •• ••
5
SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth                Exports of major conventional weapons (TIV constant million USD   * 0.02019 • • . C
Adjusted GDP growth (%)    1.42018 • • per 100,000 population) ou
Victims of modern slavery (per 1,000 population)    NA NA • • Press Freedom Index (best 0–100 worst)    NA NA • • ntr
y
Admuoltbsi lwe-itmh oanne ayc-cseoruvnicte a tp aro bvaidnekr  o(%r o othf epro fpinualantcioianl  iangsteidtu 1ti5o no ro or vwerit)h a     NA NA • • SGoDvGer1nm7 e–n tP sapretnndeinrgs ohni phse aflothr a tnhde e dGuocaatliosn (% of GDP)      5 . 8200  9 •   •    Prof
Unemployment rate (% of total labor force)    NA NA • • For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional    NA NA • • iles
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population)   0.92010 • L public finance, including official development assistance (% of GNI)
Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP) * NA NA • •
Corporate Tax Haven Score (best 0–100 worst) * 0.02019 • •
* Imputed data point
113
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
ARGENTINA  
Latin America and the Caribbean
OVERALL PERFORMANCE
SDG SDG
17 1
SDG 100 SDG
16 2
75
Index score Regional average score SDG SDG
15 50 3
25
SDG
SDG 4
14
73.2 70.4
Argentina
SDG SDG
13 5
SDG
12 SDG
6
SDG Global rank 51 (OF 166)
SDG
11 SDG
7
SDG SDG
10 SDG 8
9
SPILLOVER INDEX AVERAGE PERFORMANCE BY SDG
100 (best) to 0 (worst)
100
80
60
40
20
0
CURRENT ASSESSMENT – SDG DASHBOARD
  Major challenges           Significant challenges          Challenges remain          SDG achieved          Information unavailable
SDG TRENDS
D D D 5 L D L 5 5
• D • D D 5 D 5
p  Decreasing       5  Stagnating       D  Moderately improving       L  On track or maintaining SDG achievement       •  Information unavailable
Notes: The full title of Goal 2 “Zero Hunger” is “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”.    
  The full title of each SDG is available here: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabledevelopmentgoals
114
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
ARGENTINA
Performance by Indicator
SDG1 – No Poverty    Val u e Yea  rRa t ingTr e nd SDG9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure    Val u e Ye a rRa t ingTr e nd
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%)    0.72020 • L Population using the internet (%)    74.32017 • L
Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%)    2.92020 • 5 Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population)    80.72017 • L
SDG2 – Zero Hunger                Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related     2.82018 • p
Prevalence of undernourishment (%)    4.62017 • L infrastructure (worst 1–5 best)
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%)    8.22005 • L The Times Higher Education Universities Ranking: Average score of top 3    16.42020 • •
PPHrrueemvvaaalleennn Tccreeo  poohff  iwocb aLesestviinetylg ,(  BbinMe csIth ≥ 2il d–3r30e  wn(% ou rnosdft )aedr u5 lyt epaorps uolfa atigoen )(%)        2128...243222000011567 ••• 5Lp SExcupieneninvtdeifiritscui rtaeien osdn ( t wreeocshersantr ic0cha– la1 nj0od0u  drbneeavselt la)orptimcleens t( (p%e ro 1f ,G0D0P0) population)      00..2522001186 •• 5p
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land)    5.42017 • L SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities               
Sustainable Nitrogen Management Index (best 0–1.41 worst)    0.32015 • L Gini coefficient adjusted for top income    46.72016 • •
SDG3 – Good Health and Well-Being                SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities               
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)     392017 • L Annual mean concentration of particulate matter of less than      13.32017 • L
2.5 microns in diameter (PM2.5) (μg/m3)
NMeoorntaaltitayl  rmatoer,t ualnitdye rra-t5e ( (ppeerr 1 1,0,00000 l ilvivee b birirtthhss))      69..4922001188 •• LL Access to improved water source, piped (% of urban population)    98.02017 • L
Incidence of tuberculosis (per 100,000 population)    27.02018 • 5 Satisfaction with public transport (%)    63.52019 • p
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population)    0.22018 • L SDG12 – Responsible Consumption and Production                 
Municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)    1.22014 • •
Agdeia-bsteatneds,a ordr iczherdo ndieca rtehs prairtaet dourye d tois ecaasred iionv aadscuultlsa ra dgiesde a3s0e–, c7a0n yceear,r s (%)    15.82016 • L Electronic waste (kg/capita)    8.42016 • •
Agame-bstiaenndt aarird pizoeldlu dtieoant h(p reart e1 0at0t,r0ib0u0 tpaobpleu tloat hioonu)sehold air pollution and    272016 • • PSOro2d eumctiisosnio-bnas seemd bSoOd2i eedm iinss iimonpso (rktgs /(ckgap/citaap)ita)       223..8222001122 •• ••
Traffic deaths (per 100,000 population)    14.02016 • p Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita)    46.62010 • •
Life expectancy at birth (years)    76.92016 • D Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)    2.42010 • •
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19)   62.82017 • 5 SDG13 – Climate Action               
Births attended by skilled health personnel (%)    99.62015 • L Energy-related CO2 emissions (tCO2/capita)    4.62017 • 5
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%)   862018 • p CO2 emissions embodied in imports (tCO2/capita)    0.72015 • L
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best)   76.02017 • L CO2 emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita)    3.92018 • •
Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best)    6.12019 • L
SDG14 – Life Below Water                 
SDG4 – Quality Education                Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)    35.32018 • L
Net primary enrollment rate (%) 99.22017 • L Ocean Health Index: Clean Waters score (worst 0–100 best)    81.92019 • L
Lower secondary completion rate (%) 89.82017 • p Fish caught from overexploited or collapsed stocks (% of total catch)    74.02014 • p
Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24) 99.52018 • • Fish caught by trawling (%)    60.52014 • 5
SDG5 – Gender Equality                      Marine biodiversity threats embodied in imports (per million population)    0.02018 • •
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods (% of females * 81.42017 • L SDG15 – Life on Land               
aged 15 to 49 who are married or in unions) Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%)   32.42018 • 5
Ratio of female-to-male mean years of education received (%)   101.92018 • L Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%)   39.62018 • 5
Ratio of female-to-male labor force participation rate (%)    67.22019 • L Red List Index of species survival (worst 0–1 best)    0.92019 • 5
Seats held by women in national parliament (%)    40.92020 • L Permanent deforestation (% of forest area, 5-year average)    0.42018 • •
SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation               
Population using at least basic drinking water services (%)    99.12016 • L Te(rpreers tmriailll iaonnd p forepsuhlwataiotenr) biodiversity threats embodied in imports      0.52018 • •
Population using at least basic sanitation services (%)    94.32016 • D SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions               
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available freshwater resources)    10.52010 • • Homicides (per 100,000 population)    5.22017 • L
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%)    5.92018 • • Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population)    46.32018 • L
Scarce water consumption embodied in imports (m3/capita)    2.72013 • L Percentage of population who feel safe walking alone at night in the      44.22019 • 5
SDG7 – Affordable and Clean Energy                city or area where they live (%)
Population with access to electricity (%)   100.02017 • L Property Rights (worst 1–7 best)    3.82019 • •
Population with access to clean fuels and technology for cooking (%)    98.42016 • L Birth registrations with civil authority (% of children under age 5)    99.52018 • •
COpe2 re tmotiassl ieolnesc tfrriocmity f ouuelt pcoumt (bMutsCtOio2n/ TfoWr he)lectricity and heating      1.32017 • L CCohrilrdurpetnio innv Poelvrceedp itnio cnh Iinldd leaxb (owr o(%rs to 0f –p1o0p0u blaetsiot)n aged 5 to 14)      44.5422001196 •• L•
5
SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth                Exports of major conventional weapons (TIV constant million USD   * 0.02019 • • . C
Adjusted GDP growth (%)    -4.82018 • • per 100,000 population) ou
Victims of modern slavery (per 1,000 population)    1.32018 • • Press Freedom Index (best 0–100 worst)    28.32019 • L ntr
y
Admuoltbsi lwe-itmh oanne ayc-cseoruvnicte a tp aro bvaidnekr  o(%r o othf epro fpinualantcioianl  iangsteidtu 1ti5o no ro or vwerit)h a     48.72017 • p SGoDvGer1nm7 e–n tP sapretnndeinrgs ohni phse aflothr a tnhde e dGuocaatliosn (% of GDP)      11 . 2201  6 •   L    Prof
Unemployment rate (% of total labor force)    9.82019 • p For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional    NA NA • • iles
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population)   0.32010 • L public finance, including official development assistance (% of GNI)
Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP)    19.42017 • p
Corporate Tax Haven Score (best 0–100 worst) * 0.02019 • •
* Imputed data point
115
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
ARMENIA  
Eastern Europe and Central Asia
OVERALL PERFORMANCE
SDG SDG
17 1
SDG 100 SDG
16 2
75
Index score Regional average score SDG SDG
15 50 3
25
SDG
SDG 4
14
69.9 70.9
Armenia
SDG SDG
13 5
SDG
12 SDG
6
SDG Global rank 75 (OF 166)
SDG
11 SDG
7
SDG SDG
10 SDG 8
9
SPILLOVER INDEX AVERAGE PERFORMANCE BY SDG
100 (best) to 0 (worst)
100
80
60
40
20
0
CURRENT ASSESSMENT – SDG DASHBOARD
  Major challenges           Significant challenges          Challenges remain          SDG achieved          Information unavailable
SDG TRENDS
L 5 D D D L L D D
• 5 • L • 5 D 5
p  Decreasing       5  Stagnating       D  Moderately improving       L  On track or maintaining SDG achievement       •  Information unavailable
Notes: The full title of Goal 2 “Zero Hunger” is “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”.    
  The full title of each SDG is available here: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabledevelopmentgoals
116
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
ARMENIA
Performance by Indicator
SDG1 – No Poverty    Val u e Yea  rRa t ingTr e nd SDG9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure    Val u e Ye a rRa t ingTr e nd
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%)    0.72020 • L Population using the internet (%)    64.72017 • L
Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%)    6.52020 • L Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population)    75.92018 • L
SDG2 – Zero Hunger                Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related     2.52018 • D
Prevalence of undernourishment (%)    4.32017 • L infrastructure (worst 1–5 best)
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%)    9.42016 • L The Times Higher Education Universities Ranking: Average score of top 3 * 0.02020 • •
PPHrrueemvvaaalleennn Tccreeo  poohff  iwocb aLesestviinetylg ,(  BbinMe csIth ≥ 2il d–3r30e  wn(% ou rnosdft )aedr u5 lyt epaorps uolfa atigoen )(%)        2420...232222000111667 ••• 5Lp SExcupieneninvtdeifiritscui rtaeien osdn ( t wreeocshersantr ic0cha– la1 nj0od0u  drbneeavselt la)orptimcleens t( (p%e ro 1f ,G0D0P0) population)      00..2222001187 •• pp
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land)    2.02017 • p SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities               
Sustainable Nitrogen Management Index (best 0–1.41 worst)    0.62015 • p Gini coefficient adjusted for top income    47.52017 • •
SDG3 – Good Health and Well-Being                SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities               
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)     262017 • L Annual mean concentration of particulate matter of less than      32.52017 • 5
2.5 microns in diameter (PM2.5) (μg/m3)
NMeoorntaaltitayl  rmatoer,t ualnitdye rra-t5e ( (ppeerr 1 1,0,00000 l ilvivee b birirtthhss))      162..5422001188 •• LL Access to improved water source, piped (% of urban population)    99.02017 • L
Incidence of tuberculosis (per 100,000 population)    31.02018 • L Satisfaction with public transport (%)    42.72018 • p
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population)    0.12018 • L SDG12 – Responsible Consumption and Production                 
Municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)    0.72014 • •
Agdeia-bsteatneds,a ordr iczherdo ndieca rtehs prairtaet dourye d tois ecaasred iionv aadscuultlsa ra dgiesde a3s0e–, c7a0n yceear,r s (%)    22.32016 • L Electronic waste (kg/capita)    4.72016 • •
Agame-bstiaenndt aarird pizoeldlu dtieoant h(p reart e1 0at0t,r0ib0u0 tpaobpleu tloat hioonu)sehold air pollution and    552016 • • PSOro2d eumctiisosnio-bnas seemd bSoOd2i eedm iinss iimonpso (rktgs /(ckgap/citaap)ita)       412..6322001122 •• ••
Traffic deaths (per 100,000 population)    17.12016 • D Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita)    9.12010 • •
Life expectancy at birth (years)    74.82016 • 5 Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)    1.22010 • •
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19)   21.52017 • L SDG13 – Climate Action               
Births attended by skilled health personnel (%)    99.82016 • L Energy-related CO2 emissions (tCO2/capita)    2.02017 • L
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%)   922018 • L CO2 emissions embodied in imports (tCO2/capita)    0.32015 • L
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best)   69.02017 • L CO2 emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita)    0.02019 • •
Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best)    5.12018 • L
SDG14 – Life Below Water                 
SDG4 – Quality Education                Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)    NA NA • •
Net primary enrollment rate (%) 90.72018 • p Ocean Health Index: Clean Waters score (worst 0–100 best)    NA NA • •
Lower secondary completion rate (%) 93.32018 • L Fish caught from overexploited or collapsed stocks (% of total catch)    NA NA • •
Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24) 99.82017 • • Fish caught by trawling (%)    NA NA • •
SDG5 – Gender Equality                 Marine biodiversity threats embodied in imports (per million population)    0.02018 • •
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods (% of females    36.92016 • 5 SDG15 – Life on Land               
aged 15 to 49 who are married or in unions) Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%)   21.52018 • 5
Ratio of female-to-male mean years of education received (%)   100.02018 • L Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%)   26.82018 • 5
Ratio of female-to-male labor force participation rate (%)    71.02019 • L Red List Index of species survival (worst 0–1 best)    0.82019 • 5
Seats held by women in national parliament (%)    23.52020 • L Permanent deforestation (% of forest area, 5-year average) * 0.02018 • •
SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation               
Population using at least basic drinking water services (%)    99.92017 • L Te(rpreers tmriailll iaonnd p forepsuhlwataiotenr) biodiversity threats embodied in imports      0.12018 • •
Population using at least basic sanitation services (%)    93.62017 • L SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions               
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available freshwater resources)    64.22015 • • Homicides (per 100,000 population)    2.42017 • D
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%)    8.82018 • • Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population)    36.32018 • p
Scarce water consumption embodied in imports (m3/capita)    5.12013 • L Percentage of population who feel safe walking alone at night in the      89.12018 • L
SDG7 – Affordable and Clean Energy                city or area where they live (%)
Population with access to electricity (%)   100.02017 • L Property Rights (worst 1–7 best)    4.82019 • •
Population with access to clean fuels and technology for cooking (%)    96.92016 • L Birth registrations with civil authority (% of children under age 5)    98.72018 • •
COpe2 re tmotiassl ieolnesc tfrriocmity f ouuelt pcoumt (bMutsCtOio2n/ TfoWr he)lectricity and heating      0.72017 • L CCohrilrdurpetnio innv Poelvrceedp itnio cnh Iinldd leaxb (owr o(%rs to 0f –p1o0p0u blaetsiot)n aged 5 to 14)      84.2722001196 •• L•
5
SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth                Exports of major conventional weapons (TIV constant million USD   * 0.02019 • • . C
Adjusted GDP growth (%)    -0.42018 • • per 100,000 population) ou
Victims of modern slavery (per 1,000 population)    5.32018 • • Press Freedom Index (best 0–100 worst)    29.02019 • L ntr
y
Admuoltbsi lwe-itmh oanne ayc-cseoruvnicte a tp aro bvaidnekr  o(%r o othf epro fpinualantcioianl  iangsteidtu 1ti5o no ro or vwerit)h a     47.82017 • L SGoDvGer1nm7 e–n tP sapretnndeinrgs ohni phse aflothr a tnhde e dGuocaatliosn (% of GDP)      4 . 4201  6 •   5    Prof
Unemployment rate (% of total labor force)    17.02019 • 5 For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional    NA NA • • iles
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population)   0.12010 • L public finance, including official development assistance (% of GNI)
Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP)    22.52018 • p
Corporate Tax Haven Score (best 0–100 worst) * 0.02019 • •
* Imputed data point
117
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
AUSTRALIA  
OECD Countries
OVERALL PERFORMANCE
SDG SDG
17 1
SDG 100 SDG
16 2
75
Index score Regional average score SDG SDG
15 50 3
25
SDG
SDG 4
14
74.9 77.3
Australia
SDG SDG
13 5
SDG
12 SDG
6
SDG Global rank 37 (OF 166)
SDG
11 SDG
7
SDG SDG
10 SDG 8
9
SPILLOVER INDEX AVERAGE PERFORMANCE BY SDG
100 (best) to 0 (worst)
100
80
60
40
20
0
CURRENT ASSESSMENT – SDG DASHBOARD
  Major challenges           Significant challenges          Challenges remain          SDG achieved          Information unavailable
SDG TRENDS
D D L D L D D L D
5 5 • 5 5 5 D 5
p  Decreasing       5  Stagnating       D  Moderately improving       L  On track or maintaining SDG achievement       •  Information unavailable
Notes: The full title of Goal 2 “Zero Hunger” is “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”.    
  The full title of each SDG is available here: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabledevelopmentgoals
118
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
AUSTRALIA
Performance by Indicator
SDG1 – No Poverty    Va lu e Ye a rRa t ingTr e nd SDG9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure    Va lu e Yea  rRa t ingTr e nd
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%)    0.5 2020 • L Population using the internet (%)    86.5 2017 • L
Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%)    0.6 2020 • L Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population)   129.6 2018 • L
Poverty rate after taxes and transfers (%)    12.4 2018 • D Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related     4.0 2018 • L
SDG2 – Zero Hunger                infrastructure (worst 1–5 best)
Prevalence of undernourishment (%)    2.5 2017 • L Thuen Tivimerseist iHesig (wheorr Estd 0u–c1at0io0 nb eUsnt)iversities Ranking: Average score of top 3    73.1 2020 • •
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%)    2.0 2007 • L Scientific and technical journal articles (per 1,000 population)    2.2 2018 • L
Prevalence of wasting in children under 5 years of age (%)    0.0 2007 • L Expenditure on research and development (% of GDP)    1.9 2015 • •
Prevalence of obesity, BMI ≥ 30 (% of adult population)    29.0 2016 • p Researchers (per 1,000 employed population)    9.0 2010 • •
Human Trophic Level (best 2–3 worst)    2.5 2017 • 5  Triadic patent families filed (per million population)    13.5 2017 • p
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land)    2.7 2017 • L Gap in internet access by income (percentage points)    57.0 2008 • •
SYuiesltda ignaapb lcel oNsiutrroe g(%en o Mf panoategnetmiael ynite Ilndd)ex (best 0–1.41 worst)      407..76 22001155 •• 5• Waonmde enn ignin seceiernincge) and engineering (% of tertiary graduates in science     27.6 2015 • •
SDG3 – Good Health and Well-Being                SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities               
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)     6 2017 • L Gini coefficient adjusted for top income    36.9 2014 • •
Neonatal mortality rate (per 1,000 live births)    2.3 2018 • L Palma ratio    1.3 2018 • 5
Mortality rate, under-5 (per 1,000 live births)    3.7 2018 • L Elderly poverty rate (% of population aged 66 or over)    23.7 2018 • 5
Incidence of tuberculosis (per 100,000 population)    6.6 2018 • L SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities               
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population)    0.0 2018 • L
Age-standardized death rate due to cardiovascular disease, cancer,     9.1 2016 • L An2.n5u mali cmroenasn  icno dnicaemnetrtaetri o(PnM o2f .p5a) r(tμicgu/mlat3e) matter of less than      8.6 2017 • L
diabetes, or chronic respiratory disease in adults aged 30–70 years (%) Access to improved water source, piped (% of urban population)    92.4 2017 • 5
Age-standardized death rate attributable to household air pollution and    8 2016 • • Satisfaction with public transport (%)    56.6 2019 • 5
Traamffibc ideenat tahirs  p(poellru 1ti0o0n,0 (0p0e rp 1o0p0u,0la0t0io pno)pulation)    5.6 2016 • L Population with rent overburden (%)    9.9 2017 • p
Life expectancy at birth (years)    82.9 2016 • L SDG12 – Responsible Consumption and Production               
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19)   11.7 2017 • L Electronic waste (kg/capita)    23.6 2016 • •
Births attended by skilled health personnel (%)    99.7 2015 • L Production-based SO2 emissions (kg/capita)   144.6 2012 • •
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%)   95.0 2018 • L SO2 emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)     15.2 2012 • •
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best)   87.0 2017 • L Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita)   105.4 2010 • •
Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best)    7.2 2019 • L Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)    9.0 2010 • •
Gap in life expectancy at birth among regions (years)    2.4 2015 • • Non-recycled municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)    0.8 2017 • •
Gap in self-reported health status by income (percentage points)    8.9 2017 • L SDG13 – Climate Action               
Daily smokers (% of population aged 15 and over)    12.4 2016 • L Energy-related CO2 emissions (tCO2/capita)    14.8 2017 • 5
SDG4 – Quality Education                CO2 emissions embodied in imports (tCO2/capita)    3.0 2015 • 5
Net primary enrollment rate (%) *100.0 2017 • L CO2 emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita)   45100.52018 • •
Lower secondary completion rate (%) *100.0 2017 • L Effective carbon rate (EUR/tCO2)    2.6 2016 • •
Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24) NA NA • • SDG14 – Life Below Water               
Participation rate in pre-primary organized learning (% of children aged 4 to 6)    86.4 2017 • L Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)    66.0 2018 • L
Tertiary educational attainment (% of population aged 25 to 34)    51.4 2018 • L Ocean Health Index: Clean Waters score (worst 0–100 best)    80.3 2019 • L
PISA score (worst 0–600 best)   499.0 2018 • L Fish caught from overexploited or collapsed stocks (% of total catch)    73.7 2014 • p
VURaenrsdiialetieiroannct  hisnite usvcdeieernns tcisne   ispnce sirecfnoiercmnec a(e%n (c %eo f e o1xfp5 1l-a5yie-nyaeerd-a obr-lydo ssldo)sc)io-economic status (%)        113085...093 222000111888 ••• LpL FMisahri ncaeu bgihotd bivye rtsraitwy ltihnrge a(%ts) embodied in imports (per million population)     280..83 22001148 •• p•
SDG15 – Life on Land               
SDG5 – Gender Equality                Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%)   52.7 2018 • L
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods   * 83.1 2017 • L Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%)   36.6 2018 • 5
RRaa(%ttiioo o  oof fff  effeemmmaaalellees-- attoog--emmd aa1ll5ee   tmlaob e4oa9rn  wf yoehrcaoer s ap roeafr  metidcaiurprcaiaettdioio nonr r  rainetc eue (ni%vioe)nds ()%)     18040..78 22001189 •• LL RPeerdm Laisnte Inntd dexe foofr espsteactiieosn s (u%rv oivf afol (rwesot rasrte 0a–, 15 -byeesatr) average)      00..80 22001198 •• p•
Seats held by women in national parliament (%)    30.5 2020 • D Terrestrial and freshwater biodiversity threats embodied in imports      2.7 2018 • •
Gender wage gap (% of male median wage)    11.7 2018 • L (per million population)
Gender gap in time spent doing unpaid work (minutes/day)   139.4 2006 • • SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions               
Homicides (per 100,000 population)    0.8 2017 • L
SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation                Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population)    31.6 2018 • p
PPooppuullaattiioonn  uussiinngg  aatt  lleeaasstt  bbaassiicc  dsarninitkaintigo nw saetrevri cseersv (i%ce)s (%)     110000..00 22001177 •• •• Pecrictye notra agree ao wf phoepreu ltahteioyn l iwveh (o% f)eel safe walking alone at night in the      64.3 2019 • D
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available freshwater resources)    6.2 2015 • • Property Rights (worst 1–7 best)    6.1 2019 • •
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%)    92.7 2018 • • Birth registrations with civil authority (% of children under age 5)   100.0 2018 • • 5
SPPcooappruuclleaa ttwiiooannte  uur ssciinnoggn  sssuaamffeepllyyt  immonaa nneaamggbeeoddd  wsiaeandtie tianr ts iieomrnvp isoceerrtsvs i (c(%me)s3 (/%ca)pita)  *   1170750...960 222000111377 ••• LD• CCExohprilrodurrptestn ioo ifnn mv Poealjvroceerd pc oitnino cvnhe Iinnldtdi oleanxb a(olw rw o(%ersa tpo 0of –pn1os0 p(0Tu IblVae tcsioot)nn satganetd m 5 itlloio 1n4 U)SD    *    7700...040 222000111969 ••• L•• . Country
SDG7 – Affordable and Clean Energy                per 100,000 population)  P
PPooppuullaattiioonn  wwiitthh  aacccceessss  ttoo  eclleeacntr ifcuiteyls ( %an)d technology for cooking (%)     110000..00 22001176 •• LL PPererssso nFrse heedlodm in I npdriesoxn (b (pesetr  01–0100,000 w0 oprospt)ulation)     11668..65 22001197 •• Lp rofile
s
COel2e cetmricisistyio onus tfproumt ( MfuteCl Oco2/mTWbuhs)tion for electricity and heating per total    1.6 2017 • 5 SGoDvGer1n7m e–n Pt sapretnndeinrgs honip hse aflothr  atnhde e Gduocaatlison (% of GDP)      11 . 6 201  6 •   L  
Share of renewable energy in total primary energy supply (%)    6.9 2018 • 5 For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional    0.2 2017 • p
SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth                public finance, including official development assistance (% of GNI)
Adjusted GDP growth (%)    0.0 2018 • • Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP)    NA NA • •
VAidmcutoilmtbsis lw eo-iftm hm oaonnde aeycr-ncseo srulvanivctee ar ytp  ar(op bveairdn 1ek,r0  o(0%r0 o  pothfo epprou fplianutailoantncio)ianl  iangsteidtu 1ti5o no ro or vwerit)h a       909..56 22001187 •• L• CFSihonirafptneocdria aptle rSo Tefaictxrse  Hocafy v mSecunol tSrienc oa(brteieo s(ntb a0els–s t1( U00–S01$ w0 b0oi lrwlsioto)nr)st) *     51005...012 222000121906 ••• •••
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population)   2.4 2010 • L
Employment-to-population ratio (%)    74.3 2019 • L
Youth not in employment, education or training (NEET)      10.8 2018 • L
(% of population aged 15 to 29)
* Imputed data point
119
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
AUSTRIA  
OECD Countries
OVERALL PERFORMANCE
SDG SDG
17 1
SDG 100 SDG
16 2
75
Index score Regional average score SDG SDG
15 50 3
25
SDG
SDG 4
14
80.7 77.3 Austria
SDG SDG
13 5
SDG
12 SDG
6
SDG Global rank 7 (OF 166)
SDG
11 SDG
7
SDG SDG
10 SDG 8
9
SPILLOVER INDEX AVERAGE PERFORMANCE BY SDG
100 (best) to 0 (worst)
100
80
60
40
20
0
CURRENT ASSESSMENT – SDG DASHBOARD
  Major challenges           Significant challenges          Challenges remain          SDG achieved          Information unavailable
SDG TRENDS
L D D D D D L D L
D L • 5 • D L D
p  Decreasing       5  Stagnating       D  Moderately improving       L  On track or maintaining SDG achievement       •  Information unavailable
Notes: The full title of Goal 2 “Zero Hunger” is “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”.    
  The full title of each SDG is available here: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabledevelopmentgoals
120
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
AUSTRIA
Performance by Indicator
SDG1 – No Poverty    Va lu e Ye a rRa t ingTr e nd SDG9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure    Va lu e Yea  rRa t ingTr e nd
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%)    0.4 2020 • L Population using the internet (%)    87.5 2018 • L
Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%)    0.5 2020 • L Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population)    88.0 2018 • L
Poverty rate after taxes and transfers (%)    9.4 2017 • L Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related     4.2 2018 • L
SDG2 – Zero Hunger                infrastructure (worst 1–5 best)
Prevalence of undernourishment (%)    2.5 2017 • L Thuen Tivimerseist iHesig (wheorr Estd 0u–c1at0io0 nb eUsnt)iversities Ranking: Average score of top 3    54.1 2020 • •
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%) * 2.6 2016 • L Scientific and technical journal articles (per 1,000 population)    1.4 2018 • L
Prevalence of wasting in children under 5 years of age (%) * 0.7 2016 • L Expenditure on research and development (% of GDP)    3.2 2017 • L
Prevalence of obesity, BMI ≥ 30 (% of adult population)    20.1 2016 • p Researchers (per 1,000 employed population)    11.4 2018 • L
Human Trophic Level (best 2–3 worst)    2.4 2017 • p  Triadic patent families filed (per million population)    42.7 2017 • L
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land)    6.3 2017 • L Gap in internet access by income (percentage points)    13.6 2019 • L
SYuiesltda ignaapb lcel oNsiutrroe g(%en o Mf panoategnetmiael ynite Ilndd)ex (best 0–1.41 worst)      609..74 22001155 •• p• Waonmde enn ignin seceiernincge) and engineering (% of tertiary graduates in science     23.4 2015 • •
SDG3 – Good Health and Well-Being                SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities               
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)     5 2017 • L Gini coefficient adjusted for top income    32.0 2015 • L
Neonatal mortality rate (per 1,000 live births)    2.1 2018 • L Palma ratio    1.0 2017 • L
Mortality rate, under-5 (per 1,000 live births)    3.5 2018 • L Elderly poverty rate (% of population aged 66 or over)    9.7 2017 • 5
Incidence of tuberculosis (per 100,000 population)    7.1 2018 • L SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities               
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population)    NA NA • •
Age-standardized death rate due to cardiovascular disease, cancer,     11.4 2016 • L An2.n5u mali cmroenasn  icno dnicaemnetrtaetri o(PnM o2f .p5a) r(tμicgu/mlat3e) matter of less than      12.5 2017 • L
diabetes, or chronic respiratory disease in adults aged 30–70 years (%) Access to improved water source, piped (% of urban population)    NA NA • •
Age-standardized death rate attributable to household air pollution and    15 2016 • • Satisfaction with public transport (%)    73.0 2019 • L
Traamffibc ideenat tahirs  p(poellru 1ti0o0n,0 (0p0e rp 1o0p0u,0la0t0io pno)pulation)    5.2 2016 • L Population with rent overburden (%)    5.0 2017 • L
Life expectancy at birth (years)    81.9 2016 • L SDG12 – Responsible Consumption and Production               
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19)   7.3 2017 • L Electronic waste (kg/capita)    20.9 2016 • •
Births attended by skilled health personnel (%)    98.4 2016 • L Production-based SO2 emissions (kg/capita)    58.5 2012 • •
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%)   85.0 2018 • p SO2 emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)     20.6 2012 • •
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best)   79.0 2017 • L Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita)    41.4 2010 • •
Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best)    7.2 2019 • L Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)    18.7 2010 • •
Gap in life expectancy at birth among regions (years)    1.9 2016 • • Non-recycled municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)    0.7 2018 • •
Gap in self-reported health status by income (percentage points)    20.6 2018 • L SDG13 – Climate Action               
Daily smokers (% of population aged 15 and over)    24.3 2014 • • Energy-related CO2 emissions (tCO2/capita)    7.1 2017 • p
SDG4 – Quality Education                CO2 emissions embodied in imports (tCO2/capita)    3.6 2015 • 5
Net primary enrollment rate (%) * 98.6 2017 • L CO2 emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita)    295.2 2018 • •
Lower secondary completion rate (%) * 98.6 2017 • L Effective carbon rate (EUR/tCO2)    29.3 2016 • •
Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24) NA NA • • SDG14 – Life Below Water               
Participation rate in pre-primary organized learning (% of children aged 4 to 6)   100.0 2017 • L Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)    NA NA • •
Tertiary educational attainment (% of population aged 25 to 34)    40.5 2018 • L Ocean Health Index: Clean Waters score (worst 0–100 best)    NA NA • •
PVURaIenSrsdiAiale tiseirocannoct r hisenit e u(svwcdeieoernnsrs tcitsne  0  ispn–ce 6sirec0fnoi0erc mnbece a(es%n t(c) %eo f e o1xfp5 1l-a5yie-nyaeerd-a obr-lydo ssldo)sc)io-economic status (%)         412294181....8930 2222000011118888 •••• ppLD FFMiissahhri  nccaaeuu bggihhottd  fbivryoe mrtsrai towyv lteihnrergex a(p%tlso) eitmedb oord cieodll ainp simedp sotrotcs k(sp e(%r m ofil ltiootna lp coaptcuhla)tion)       NN0.AA1 20NN1AA8 ••• •••
SDG15 – Life on Land               
SDG5 – Gender Equality                Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%)   66.6 2018 • L
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods   * 83.6 2017 • L Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%)   71.2 2018 • L
RRaa(%ttiioo o  oof fff  effeemmmaaalellees-- attoog--emmd aa1ll5ee   tmlaob e4oa9rn  wf yoehrcaoer s ap roeafr  metidcaiurprcaiaettdioio nonr r  rainetc eue (ni%vioe)nds ()%)      9843..64 22001189 •• 5L RPeerdm Laisnte Inntd dexe foofr espsteactiieosn s (u%rv oivf afol (rwesot rasrte 0a–, 15 -byeesatr) average)      00..90 22001198 •• D•
Seats held by women in national parliament (%)    39.3 2020 • L Terrestrial and freshwater biodiversity threats embodied in imports      4.5 2018 • •
Gender wage gap (% of male median wage)    15.4 2017 • L (per million population)
Gender gap in time spent doing unpaid work (minutes/day)   133.9 2009 • • SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions               
Homicides (per 100,000 population)    0.7 2016 • L
SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation                Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population)    21.0 2018 • L
PPooppuullaattiioonn  uussiinngg  aatt  lleeaasstt  bbaassiicc  dsarninitkaintigo nw saetrevri cseersv (i%ce)s (%)     110000..00 22001177 •• •• Pecrictye notra agree ao wf phoepreu ltahteioyn l iwveh (o% f)eel safe walking alone at night in the      87.3 2019 • L
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available freshwater resources)    9.5 2010 • • Property Rights (worst 1–7 best)    6.2 2019 • •
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%)    94.0 2018 • • Birth registrations with civil authority (% of children under age 5)   100.0 2018 • • 5
SPPcooappruuclleaa ttwiiooannte  uur ssciinnoggn  sssuaamffeepllyyt  immonaa nneaamggbeeoddd  wsiaeandtie tianr ts iieomrnvp isoceerrtsvs i (c(%me)s3 (/%ca)pita)        499686...097 222000111377 ••• 5LL CCExohprilrodurrptestn ioo ifnn mv Poealjvroceerd pc oitnino cvnhe Iinnldtdi oleanxb a(olw rw o(%ersa tpo 0of –pn1os0 p(0Tu IblVae tcsioot)nn satganetd m 5 itlloio 1n4 U)SD    *    7700...010 222000111969 ••• L•• . Country
SDG7 – Affordable and Clean Energy                per 100,000 population)  P
PPooppuullaattiioonn  wwiitthh  aacccceessss  ttoo  eclleeacntr ifcuiteyls ( %an)d technology for cooking (%)     110000..00 22001176 •• LL PPererssso nFrse heedlodm in I npdriesoxn (b (pesetr  01–0100,000 w0 oprospt)ulation)      1959..35 22001197 •• LL rofile
s
COel2e cetmricisistyio onus tfproumt ( MfuteCl Oco2/mTWbuhs)tion for electricity and heating per total    1.0 2017 • L SGoDvGer1n7m e–n Pt sapretnndeinrgs honip hse aflothr  atnhde e Gduocaatlison (% of GDP)      13 . 1 201  6 •   L  
Share of renewable energy in total primary energy supply (%)    29.4 2018 • L For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional    0.3 2017 • 5
SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth                public finance, including official development assistance (% of GNI)
Adjusted GDP growth (%)    0.0 2018 • • Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP)    NA NA • •
VAidmcutoilmtbsis lw eo-iftm hm oaonnde aeycr-ncseo srulvanivctee ar ytp  ar(op bveairdn 1ek,r0  o(0%r0 o  pothfo epprou fplianutailoantncio)ianl  iangsteidtu 1ti5o no ro or vwerit)h a       918..27 22001187 •• L• CFSihonirafptneocdria aptle rSo Tefaictxrse  Hocafy v mSecunol tSrienc oa(brteieo s(ntb a0els–s t1( U00–S01$ w0 b0oi lrwlsioto)nr)st)        55164...365 222000121906 ••• •••
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population)   1.9 2010 • L
Employment-to-population ratio (%)    73.5 2019 • L
Youth not in employment, education or training (NEET)      11.1 2018 • p
(% of population aged 15 to 29)
* Imputed data point
121
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
AZERBAIJAN  
Eastern Europe and Central Asia
OVERALL PERFORMANCE
SDG SDG
17 1
SDG 100 SDG
16 2
75
Index score Regional average score SDG SDG
15 50 3
25
SDG
SDG 4
14
72.6 70.9
Azerbaijan
SDG SDG
13 5
SDG
12 SDG
6
SDG Global rank 54 (OF 166)
SDG
11 SDG
7
SDG SDG
10 SDG 8
9
SPILLOVER INDEX AVERAGE PERFORMANCE BY SDG
100 (best) to 0 (worst)
100
80
60
40
20
0
CURRENT ASSESSMENT – SDG DASHBOARD
  Major challenges           Significant challenges          Challenges remain          SDG achieved          Information unavailable
SDG TRENDS
L D D p 5 L D 5 5
• D • D • 5 D D
p  Decreasing       5  Stagnating       D  Moderately improving       L  On track or maintaining SDG achievement       •  Information unavailable
Notes: The full title of Goal 2 “Zero Hunger” is “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”.    
  The full title of each SDG is available here: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabledevelopmentgoals
122
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
AZERBAIJAN
Performance by Indicator
SDG1 – No Poverty    Val u e Yea  rRa t ingTr e nd SDG9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure    Val u e Ye a rRa t ingTr e nd
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%)    0.02020 • L Population using the internet (%)    79.82018 • L
Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%)    0.02020 • L Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population)    59.62018 • p
SDG2 – Zero Hunger                Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related     2.72014 • •
Prevalence of undernourishment (%)    2.52017 • L infrastructure (worst 1–5 best)
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%)    18.02013 • D The Times Higher Education Universities Ranking: Average score of top 3 * 3.72019 • •
PPHrrueemvvaaalleennn Tccreeo  poohff  iwocb aLesestviinetylg ,(  BbinMe csIth ≥ 2il d–3r30e  wn(% ou rnosdft )aedr u5 lyt epaorps uolfa atigoen )(%)        1329...129222000111367 ••• 5Lp SExcupieneninvtdeifiritscui rtaeien osdn ( t wreeocshersantr ic0cha– la1 nj0od0u  drbneeavselt la)orptimcleens t( (p%e ro 1f ,G0D0P0) population)      00..1222001187 •• 5p
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land)    2.92017 • L SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities               
Sustainable Nitrogen Management Index (best 0–1.41 worst)    0.62015 • 5 Gini coefficient adjusted for top income    38.62008 • •
SDG3 – Good Health and Well-Being                SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities               
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)     262017 • L Annual mean concentration of particulate matter of less than      19.92017 • 5
2.5 microns in diameter (PM2.5) (μg/m3)
NMeoorntaaltitayl  rmatoer,t ualnitdye rra-t5e ( (ppeerr 1 1,0,00000 l ilvivee b birirtthhss))      1211..2522001188 •• LL Access to improved water source, piped (% of urban population)    98.52017 • L
Incidence of tuberculosis (per 100,000 population)    63.02018 • D Satisfaction with public transport (%)    67.12019 • L
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population)    NA NA • • SDG12 – Responsible Consumption and Production                 
Municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)    1.52015 • •
Agdeia-bsteatneds,a ordr iczherdo ndieca rtehs prairtaet dourye d tois ecaasred iionv aadscuultlsa ra dgiesde a3s0e–, c7a0n yceear,r s (%)    22.22016 • D Electronic waste (kg/capita)    6.72016 • •
Agame-bstiaenndt aarird pizoeldlu dtieoant h(p reart e1 0at0t,r0ib0u0 tpaobpleu tloat hioonu)sehold air pollution and    642016 • • PSOro2d eumctiisosnio-bnas seemd bSoOd2i eedm iinss iimonpso (rktgs /(ckgap/citaap)ita)       251..8222001122 •• ••
Traffic deaths (per 100,000 population)    8.72016 • L Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita)    15.12010 • •
Life expectancy at birth (years)    73.12016 • D Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)    0.72010 • •
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19)   55.82017 • p SDG13 – Climate Action               
Births attended by skilled health personnel (%)    99.82016 • L Energy-related CO2 emissions (tCO2/capita)    3.92017 • 5
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%)   952018 • L CO2 emissions embodied in imports (tCO2/capita)    0.32015 • L
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best)   65.02017 • L CO2 emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita)   1795.82019 • •
Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best)    5.22019 • 5
SDG14 – Life Below Water                 
SDG4 – Quality Education                Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)    NA NA • •
Net primary enrollment rate (%) 92.42018 • p Ocean Health Index: Clean Waters score (worst 0–100 best)    NA NA • •
Lower secondary completion rate (%) 84.72018 • p Fish caught from overexploited or collapsed stocks (% of total catch)    NA NA • •
Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24) 99.92017 • • Fish caught by trawling (%)    NA NA • •
SDG5 – Gender Equality                 Marine biodiversity threats embodied in imports (per million population)    0.02018 • •
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods (% of females    21.52006 • 5 SDG15 – Life on Land               
aged 15 to 49 who are married or in unions) Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%)   38.22018 • 5
Ratio of female-to-male mean years of education received (%)    94.42018 • 5 Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%)   21.02018 • 5
Ratio of female-to-male labor force participation rate (%)    90.72019 • L Red List Index of species survival (worst 0–1 best)    0.92019 • L
Seats held by women in national parliament (%)    17.42020 • 5 Permanent deforestation (% of forest area, 5-year average)    0.02018 • •
SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation               
Population using at least basic drinking water services (%)    91.42017 • L Te(rpreers tmriailll iaonnd p forepsuhlwataiotenr) biodiversity threats embodied in imports      0.12018 • •
Population using at least basic sanitation services (%)    92.52017 • L SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions               
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available freshwater resources)    56.42015 • • Homicides (per 100,000 population)    2.02017 • L
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%)    3.82018 • • Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population)    15.52018 • L
Scarce water consumption embodied in imports (m3/capita)    3.22013 • L Percentage of population who feel safe walking alone at night in the      82.42019 • L
SDG7 – Affordable and Clean Energy                city or area where they live (%)
Population with access to electricity (%)   100.02017 • L Property Rights (worst 1–7 best)    5.12019 • •
Population with access to clean fuels and technology for cooking (%)    95.52016 • L Birth registrations with civil authority (% of children under age 5)    93.62018 • •
COpe2 re tmotiassl ieolnesc tfrriocmity f ouuelt pcoumt (bMutsCtOio2n/ TfoWr he)lectricity and heating      1.32017 • 5 CCohrilrdurpetnio innv Poelvrceedp itnio cnh Iinldd leaxb (owr o(%rs to 0f –p1o0p0u blaetsiot)n aged 5 to 14)      63.0522001196 •• 5•
5
SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth                Exports of major conventional weapons (TIV constant million USD   * 0.02019 • • . C
Adjusted GDP growth (%)    -5.02018 • • per 100,000 population) ou
Victims of modern slavery (per 1,000 population)    4.52018 • • Press Freedom Index (best 0–100 worst)    59.12019 • p ntr
y
Admuoltbsi lwe-itmh oanne ayc-cseoruvnicte a tp aro bvaidnekr  o(%r o othf epro fpinualantcioianl  iangsteidtu 1ti5o no ro or vwerit)h a     28.62017 • p SGoDvGer1nm7 e–n tP sapretnndeinrgs ohni phse aflothr a tnhde e dGuocaatliosn (% of GDP)      4 . 3201  6 •   D    Prof
Unemployment rate (% of total labor force)    5.52019 • p For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional    NA NA • • iles
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population)   0.12010 • L public finance, including official development assistance (% of GNI)
Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP)    35.12017 • L
Corporate Tax Haven Score (best 0–100 worst) * 0.02019 • •
* Imputed data point
123
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
THE BAHAMAS  
Latin America and the Caribbean
OVERALL PERFORMANCE
SDG SDG
17 1
SDG 100 SDG
16 2
75
Index score Regional average score SDG SDG
15 50 3
25
SDG
SDG 4
14
 na 70.4
The Bahamas
SDG SDG
13 5
SDG
12 SDG
6
SDG Global rank NA (OF 166)
SDG
11 SDG
7
SDG SDG
10 SDG 8
9
SPILLOVER INDEX AVERAGE PERFORMANCE BY SDG
100 (best) to 0 (worst)
100
80
60
40
20
0
CURRENT ASSESSMENT – SDG DASHBOARD
  Major challenges           Significant challenges          Challenges remain          SDG achieved          Information unavailable
SDG TRENDS
• D D p D L L D D
• • • 5 5 p • •
p  Decreasing       5  Stagnating       D  Moderately improving       L  On track or maintaining SDG achievement       •  Information unavailable
Notes: The full title of Goal 2 “Zero Hunger” is “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”.    
  The full title of each SDG is available here: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabledevelopmentgoals
124
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
THE BAHAMAS
Performance by Indicator
SDG1 – No Poverty    Val u e Yea  rRa t ingTr e nd SDG9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure    Val u e Ye a rRa t ingTr e nd
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%) * NA NA • • Population using the internet (%)    85.02017 • L
Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%) * NA NA • • Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population)    60.82018 • L
SDG2 – Zero Hunger                Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related     2.42018 • p
Prevalence of undernourishment (%) * 1.22017 • • infrastructure (worst 1–5 best)
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%) * 2.62016 • L The Times Higher Education Universities Ranking: Average score of top 3 * 0.02020 • •
PPrreevvaalleennccee  ooff  wobaesstiintyg,  BinM cIh ≥il d3r0e n(% u nodf aedr u5 lyt epaorps uolfa atigoen )(%) *   301..7622001166 •• Lp Scuiennivteifrisci taiensd ( tweochrsnt i0ca–l1 j0o0u rbneaslt a)rticles (per 1,000 population)    0.12018 • 5
Human Trophic Level (best 2–3 worst)    2.32017 • D Expenditure on research and development (% of GDP)    NA NA • •
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land)    8.82017 • L SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities               
Sustainable Nitrogen Management Index (best 0–1.41 worst)    1.12015 • p Gini coefficient adjusted for top income    NA NA • •
SDG3 – Good Health and Well-Being                SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities               
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)     702017 • L Annual mean concentration of particulate matter of less than      17.42017 • D
2.5 microns in diameter (PM2.5) (μg/m3)
Neonatal mortality rate (per 1,000 live births)    5.42018 • L
Mortality rate, under-5 (per 1,000 live births)    10.22018 • L Access to improved water source, piped (% of urban population)    NA NA • •
Incidence of tuberculosis (per 100,000 population)    14.02018 • L Satisfaction with public transport (%)    NA NA • •
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population)    0.62018 • L SDG12 – Responsible Consumption and Production                 
Municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)    2.22015 • •
Agdeia-bsteatneds,a ordr iczherdo ndieca rtehs prairtaet dourye d tois ecaasred iionv aadscuultlsa ra dgiesde a3s0e–, c7a0n yceear,r s (%)    15.52016 • L Electronic waste (kg/capita)    13.22016 • •
Agame-bstiaenndt aarird pizoeldlu dtieoant h(p reart e1 0at0t,r0ib0u0 tpaobpleu tloat hioonu)sehold air pollution and    202016 • • PSOro2d eumctiisosnio-bnas seemd bSoOd2i eedm iinss iimonpso (rktgs /(ckgap/citaap)ita)      41103..3922001122 •• ••
Traffic deaths (per 100,000 population)    13.82013 • • Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita)    44.12010 • •
Life expectancy at birth (years)    75.72016 • D Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)    15.42010 • •
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19)   30.02017 • L SDG13 – Climate Action               
Births attended by skilled health personnel (%)    99.62014 • • Energy-related CO2 emissions (tCO2/capita)    6.62017 • 5
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%)   892018 • p CO2 emissions embodied in imports (tCO2/capita)    2.62015 • 5
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best)   75.02017 • L CO2 emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita)    0.02015 • •
Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best)    NA NA • •
SDG14 – Life Below Water                 
SDG4 – Quality Education                Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)    29.42018 • 5
Net primary enrollment rate (%)    74.22018 • p Ocean Health Index: Clean Waters score (worst 0–100 best)    61.82019 • D
Lower secondary completion rate (%)    92.22010 • • Fish caught from overexploited or collapsed stocks (% of total catch)    28.12014 • p
Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24)    NA NA • • Fish caught by trawling (%)    NA NA • •
SDG5 – Gender Equality                      Marine biodiversity threats embodied in imports (per million population)    1.72018 • •
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods (% of females * 82.82017 • L SDG15 – Life on Land               
aged 15 to 49 who are married or in unions) Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%)   24.12018 • 5
Ratio of female-to-male mean years of education received (%)   102.62018 • L Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%)   NA NA • •
Ratio of female-to-male labor force participation rate (%)    82.42019 • L Red List Index of species survival (worst 0–1 best)    0.72019 • p
Seats held by women in national parliament (%)    12.82020 • p Permanent deforestation (% of forest area, 5-year average)    0.42018 • •
SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation               
Population using at least basic drinking water services (%)    98.92017 • L Te(rpreers tmriailll iaonnd p forepsuhlwataiotenr) biodiversity threats embodied in imports      0.42018 • •
Population using at least basic sanitation services (%)    94.92017 • L SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions               
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available freshwater resources)    NA NA • • Homicides (per 100,000 population)    30.92017 • 5
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%)    1.42018 • • Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population)    43.02015 • •
Scarce water consumption embodied in imports (m3/capita)    15.52013 • L Percentage of population who feel safe walking alone at night in the      NA NA • •
SDG7 – Affordable and Clean Energy                city or area where they live (%)
Population with access to electricity (%)   100.02017 • L Property Rights (worst 1–7 best)    NA NA • •
Population with access to clean fuels and technology for cooking (%)   100.02016 • L Birth registrations with civil authority (% of children under age 5)    NA NA • •
COpe2 re tmotiassl ieolnesc tfrriocmity f ouuelt pcoumt (bMutsCtOio2n/ TfoWr he)lectricity and heating      NA NA • • CCohrilrdurpetnio innv Poelvrceedp itnio cnh Iinldd leaxb (owr o(%rs to 0f –p1o0p0u blaetsiot)n aged 5 to 14)      N6A420N1A9 •• L•
5
SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth                Exports of major conventional weapons (TIV constant million USD      0.02019 • • . C
Adjusted GDP growth (%)    -2.82018 • • per 100,000 population) ou
Victims of modern slavery (per 1,000 population)    NA NA • • Press Freedom Index (best 0–100 worst)    NA NA • • ntr
y
Admuoltbsi lwe-itmh oanne ayc-cseoruvnicte a tp aro bvaidnekr  o(%r o othf epro fpinualantcioianl  iangsteidtu 1ti5o no ro or vwerit)h a     NA NA • • SGoDvGer1nm7 e–n tP sapretnndeinrgs ohni phse aflothr a tnhde e dGuocaatliosn (% of GDP)      4 . 1200  0 •   •    Prof
Unemployment rate (% of total labor force)    10.42019 • D For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional    NA NA • • iles
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population)   0.52010 • L public finance, including official development assistance (% of GNI)
Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP)    NA NA • •
Corporate Tax Haven Score (best 0–100 worst)   100.02019 • •
* Imputed data point
125
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
BAHRAIN  
Middle East and North Africa
OVERALL PERFORMANCE
SDG SDG
17 1
SDG 100 SDG
16 2
75
Index score Regional average score SDG SDG
15 50 3
25
SDG
SDG 4
14
68.8 66.3
Bahrain
SDG SDG
13 5
SDG
12 SDG
6
SDG Global rank 82 (OF 166)
SDG
11 SDG
7
SDG SDG
10 SDG 8
9
SPILLOVER INDEX AVERAGE PERFORMANCE BY SDG
100 (best) to 0 (worst)
100
80
60
40
20
0
CURRENT ASSESSMENT – SDG DASHBOARD
  Major challenges           Significant challenges          Challenges remain          SDG achieved          Information unavailable
SDG TRENDS
• 5 L L 5 D L L D
• p • L 5 p 5 •
p  Decreasing       5  Stagnating       D  Moderately improving       L  On track or maintaining SDG achievement       •  Information unavailable
Notes: The full title of Goal 2 “Zero Hunger” is “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”.    
  The full title of each SDG is available here: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabledevelopmentgoals
126
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
BAHRAIN
Performance by Indicator
SDG1 – No Poverty    Val u e Yea  rRa t ingTr e nd SDG9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure    Val u e Ye a rRa t ingTr e nd
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%) * NA NA • • Population using the internet (%)    98.62018 • L
Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%) * NA NA • • Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population)   126.02018 • L
SDG2 – Zero Hunger                Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related     2.72018 • p
Prevalence of undernourishment (%) * 1.22017 • • infrastructure (worst 1–5 best)
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%) * 2.62016 • L The Times Higher Education Universities Ranking: Average score of top 3 * 4.52019 • •
PPrreevvaalleennccee  ooff  wobaesstiintyg,  BinM cIh ≥il d3r0e n(% u nodf aedr u5 lyt epaorps uolfa atigoen )(%) *   209..7822001166 •• Lp Scuiennivteifrisci taiensd ( tweochrsnt i0ca–l1 j0o0u rbneaslt a)rticles (per 1,000 population)    0.22018 • D
Expenditure on research and development (% of GDP)    0.12014 • •
Human Trophic Level (best 2–3 worst)    NA NA • •
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land)    NA NA • • SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities               
Sustainable Nitrogen Management Index (best 0–1.41 worst)    0.92015 • p Gini coefficient adjusted for top income    NA NA • •
SDG3 – Good Health and Well-Being                SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities               
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)     142017 • L Annual mean concentration of particulate matter of less than      70.82017 • p
2.5 microns in diameter (PM2.5) (μg/m3)
Neonatal mortality rate (per 1,000 live births)    3.02018 • L
Mortality rate, under-5 (per 1,000 live births)    7.12018 • L Access to improved water source, piped (% of urban population)    NA NA • •
Incidence of tuberculosis (per 100,000 population)    11.02018 • L Satisfaction with public transport (%)    72.72017 • •
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population)    NA NA • • SDG12 – Responsible Consumption and Production                 
Municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)    1.92016 • •
Agdeia-bsteatneds,a ordr iczherdo ndieca rtehs prairtaet dourye d tois ecaasred iionv aadscuultlsa ra dgiesde a3s0e–, c7a0n yceear,r s (%)    11.32016 • L Electronic waste (kg/capita)    15.52016 • •
Agame-bstiaenndt aarird pizoeldlu dtieoant h(p reart e1 0at0t,r0ib0u0 tpaobpleu tloat hioonu)sehold air pollution and    402016 • • PSOro2d eumctiisosnio-bnas seemd bSoOd2i eedm iinss iimonpso (rktgs /(ckgap/citaap)ita)       879..3522001122 •• ••
Traffic deaths (per 100,000 population)    8.02013 • • Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita)    17.32010 • •
Life expectancy at birth (years)    79.12016 • L Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)    7.52010 • •
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19)   13.42017 • L SDG13 – Climate Action               
Births attended by skilled health personnel (%)    99.72015 • L Energy-related CO2 emissions (tCO2/capita)    15.52017 • L
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%)   992018 • L CO2 emissions embodied in imports (tCO2/capita)    1.52015 • D
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best)   77.02017 • L CO2 emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita)    0.02018 • •
Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best)    6.22017 • •
SDG14 – Life Below Water                 
SDG4 – Quality Education                Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)    36.62018 • 5
Net primary enrollment rate (%) 96.72018 • L Ocean Health Index: Clean Waters score (worst 0–100 best)    54.62019 • D
Lower secondary completion rate (%) 94.32018 • L Fish caught from overexploited or collapsed stocks (% of total catch)    NA NA • •
Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24) 99.72018 • • Fish caught by trawling (%)    11.72014 • D
SDG5 – Gender Equality                      Marine biodiversity threats embodied in imports (per million population)    0.02018 • •
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods (% of females * 61.62017 • 5 SDG15 – Life on Land               
aged 15 to 49 who are married or in unions) Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%)   27.52018 • 5
Ratio of female-to-male mean years of education received (%)    97.92018 • p Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%)   NA NA • •
Ratio of female-to-male labor force participation rate (%)    51.02019 • 5 Red List Index of species survival (worst 0–1 best)    0.82019 • p
Seats held by women in national parliament (%)    15.02020 • D Permanent deforestation (% of forest area, 5-year average)    NA NA • •
SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation               
Population using at least basic drinking water services (%)   100.02017 • L Te(rpreers tmriailll iaonnd p forepsuhlwataiotenr) biodiversity threats embodied in imports      0.12018 • •
Population using at least basic sanitation services (%)   100.02017 • L SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions               
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available freshwater resources)   132.22015 • • Homicides (per 100,000 population)    0.52014 • •
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%)    86.92018 • • Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population)    25.72018 • L
Scarce water consumption embodied in imports (m3/capita)    30.12013 • 5 Percentage of population who feel safe walking alone at night in the      59.92011 • •
SDG7 – Affordable and Clean Energy                city or area where they live (%)
Population with access to electricity (%)   100.02017 • L Property Rights (worst 1–7 best)    5.72019 • •
Population with access to clean fuels and technology for cooking (%)   100.02016 • L Birth registrations with civil authority (% of children under age 5)    NA NA • •
COpe2 re tmotiassl ieolnesc tfrriocmity f ouuelt pcoumt (bMutsCtOio2n/ TfoWr he)lectricity and heating      1.12017 • L CCohrilrdurpetnio innv Poelvrceedp itnio cnh Iinldd leaxb (owr o(%rs to 0f –p1o0p0u blaetsiot)n aged 5 to 14)      44.2622001196 •• p•
5
SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth                Exports of major conventional weapons (TIV constant million USD   * 0.02019 • • . C
Adjusted GDP growth (%)    -3.42018 • • per 100,000 population) ou
Victims of modern slavery (per 1,000 population) * NA NA • • Press Freedom Index (best 0–100 worst)    61.32019 • p ntr
y
Admuoltbsi lwe-itmh oanne ayc-cseoruvnicte a tp aro bvaidnekr  o(%r o othf epro fpinualantcioianl  iangsteidtu 1ti5o no ro or vwerit)h a     82.62017 • L SGoDvGer1nm7 e–n tP sapretnndeinrgs ohni phse aflothr a tnhde e dGuocaatliosn (% of GDP)      5 . 9201  5 •   L    Prof
Unemployment rate (% of total labor force)    0.72019 • L For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional    NA NA • • iles
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population)   1.22010 • L public finance, including official development assistance (% of GNI)
Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP)    NA NA • •
Corporate Tax Haven Score (best 0–100 worst) * NA NA • •
* Imputed data point
127
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
BANGLADESH  
East and South Asia
OVERALL PERFORMANCE
SDG SDG
17 1
SDG 100 SDG
16 2
75
Index score Regional average score 1SD5G 50 S3DG
25
SDG
SDG 4
14
63.5 67.2
Bangladesh
SDG SDG
13 5
12 SDG
6
SDG Global rank 109 (OF 166)
SDG
11 SDG
7
SDG SDG
10 SDG 8
9
SPILLOVER INDEX AVERAGE PERFORMANCE BY SDG
100 (best) to 0 (worst)
100
80
60
40
20
0
CURRENT ASSESSMENT – SDG DASHBOARD
  Major challenges           Significant challenges          Challenges remain          SDG achieved          Information unavailable
SDG TRENDS
L D D L 5 D D L D
• D • L 5 p 5 p
p  Decreasing       5  Stagnating       D  Moderately improving       L  On track or maintaining SDG achievement       •  Information unavailable
Notes: The full title of Goal 2 “Zero Hunger” is “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”.    
  The full title of each SDG is available here: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabledevelopmentgoals
128
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
BANGLADESH
Performance by Indicator
SDG1 – No Poverty    Val u e Yea  rRa t ingTr e nd SDG9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure    Val u e Ye a rRa t ingTr e nd
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%)    4.32020 • L Population using the internet (%)    15.02017 • 5
Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%)    31.02020 • L Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population)    41.22018 • L
SDG2 – Zero Hunger                Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related     2.42018 • L
Prevalence of undernourishment (%)    14.72017 • D infrastructure (worst 1–5 best)
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%)    36.12014 • 5 The Times Higher Education Universities Ranking: Average score of top 3    16.42020 • •
PPrreevvaalleennccee  ooff  wobaesstiintyg,  BinM cIh ≥il d3r0e n(% u nodf aedr u5 lyt epaorps uolfa atigoen )(%)      134..6322001146 •• 5L Scuiennivteifrisci taiensd ( tweochrsnt i0ca–l1 j0o0u rbneaslt a)rticles (per 1,000 population)    0.02018 • 5
Human Trophic Level (best 2–3 worst)    2.12017 • L Expenditure on research and development (% of GDP)    NA NA • •
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land)    4.42017 • L SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities               
Sustainable Nitrogen Management Index (best 0–1.41 worst)    0.72015 • 5 Gini coefficient adjusted for top income    38.72016 • •
SDG3 – Good Health and Well-Being                SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities               
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)     1732017 • L Annual mean concentration of particulate matter of less than      60.82017 • D
2.5 microns in diameter (PM2.5) (μg/m3)
NMeoorntaaltitayl  rmatoer,t ualnitdye rra-t5e ( (ppeerr 1 1,0,00000 l ilvivee b birirtthhss))      1370..1222001188 •• LL Access to improved water source, piped (% of urban population)    37.12017 • 5
Incidence of tuberculosis (per 100,000 population)   221.02018 • 5 Satisfaction with public transport (%)    81.82019 • L
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population)    0.02018 • L SDG12 – Responsible Consumption and Production                 
Municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)    0.72012 • •
Agdeia-bsteatneds,a ordr iczherdo ndieca rtehs prairtaet dourye d tois ecaasred iionv aadscuultlsa ra dgiesde a3s0e–, c7a0n yceear,r s (%)    21.62016 • 5 Electronic waste (kg/capita)    0.92016 • •
Agame-bstiaenndt aarird pizoeldlu dtieoant h(p reart e1 0at0t,r0ib0u0 tpaobpleu tloat hioonu)sehold air pollution and    1492016 • • PSOro2d eumctiisosnio-bnas seemd bSoOd2i eedm iinss iimonpso (rktgs /(ckgap/citaap)ita)       10..7422001122 •• ••
Traffic deaths (per 100,000 population)    15.32016 • p Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita)    8.52010 • •
Life expectancy at birth (years)    72.72016 • D Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)    0.22010 • •
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19)   83.02017 • 5 SDG13 – Climate Action               
Births attended by skilled health personnel (%)    49.82016 • D Energy-related CO2 emissions (tCO2/capita)    0.52017 • L
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%)   972018 • L CO2 emissions embodied in imports (tCO2/capita)    0.12015 • L
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best)   48.02017 • D CO2 emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita)    0.02015 • •
Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best)    5.12019 • L
SDG14 – Life Below Water                 
SDG4 – Quality Education                Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)    34.52018 • 5
Net primary enrollment rate (%) 90.52010 • • Ocean Health Index: Clean Waters score (worst 0–100 best)    33.52019 • 5
Lower secondary completion rate (%) 88.02018 • L Fish caught from overexploited or collapsed stocks (% of total catch)    1.72014 • L
Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24) 93.32018 • • Fish caught by trawling (%)    15.62014 • p
SDG5 – Gender Equality                      Marine biodiversity threats embodied in imports (per million population)    0.02018 • •
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods (% of females    72.62014 • D SDG15 – Life on Land               
aged 15 to 49 who are married or in unions) Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%)   48.02018 • 5
Ratio of female-to-male mean years of education received (%)    77.92018 • p Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%)   20.82018 • 5
Ratio of female-to-male labor force participation rate (%)    44.52019 • D Red List Index of species survival (worst 0–1 best)    0.82019 • p
Seats held by women in national parliament (%)    20.92020 • 5 Permanent deforestation (% of forest area, 5-year average)    0.22018 • •
SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation               
Population using at least basic drinking water services (%)    97.02017 • L Te(rpreers tmriailll iaonnd p forepsuhlwataiotenr) biodiversity threats embodied in imports      0.02018 • •
Population using at least basic sanitation services (%)    48.22017 • 5 SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions               
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available freshwater resources)    5.72010 • • Homicides (per 100,000 population)    2.22017 • L
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%)    0.02018 • • Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population)    78.22018 • p
Scarce water consumption embodied in imports (m3/capita)    1.02013 • L Percentage of population who feel safe walking alone at night in the      68.42019 • p
SDG7 – Affordable and Clean Energy                city or area where they live (%)
Population with access to electricity (%)    88.02017 • L Property Rights (worst 1–7 best)    4.02019 • •
Population with access to clean fuels and technology for cooking (%)    17.72016 • 5 Birth registrations with civil authority (% of children under age 5)    56.22018 • •
COpe2 re tmotiassl ieolnesc tfrriocmity f ouuelt pcoumt (bMutsCtOio2n/ TfoWr he)lectricity and heating      1.12017 • L CCohrilrdurpetnio innv Poelvrceedp itnio cnh Iinldd leaxb (owr o(%rs to 0f –p1o0p0u blaetsiot)n aged 5 to 14)      42.6322001196 •• 5•
5
SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth                Exports of major conventional weapons (TIV constant million USD   * 0.02019 • • . C
Adjusted GDP growth (%)    0.62018 • • per 100,000 population) ou
Victims of modern slavery (per 1,000 population)    3.72018 • • Press Freedom Index (best 0–100 worst)    50.72019 • p ntr
y
Admuoltbsi lwe-itmh oanne ayc-cseoruvnicte a tp aro bvaidnekr  o(%r o othf epro fpinualantcioianl  iangsteidtu 1ti5o no ro or vwerit)h a     50.02017 • L SGoDvGer1nm7 e–n tP sapretnndeinrgs ohni phse aflothr a tnhde e dGuocaatliosn (% of GDP)      2 . 0201  6 •   p    Prof
Unemployment rate (% of total labor force)    4.22019 • L For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional    NA NA • • iles
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population)   0.02010 • L public finance, including official development assistance (% of GNI)
Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP)    10.22016 • p
Corporate Tax Haven Score (best 0–100 worst) * 0.02019 • •
* Imputed data point
129
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
BARBADOS  
Latin America and the Caribbean
OVERALL PERFORMANCE
SDG SDG
17 1
SDG 100 SDG
16 2
75
Index score Regional average score SDG SDG
15 50 3
25
SDG
SDG 4
14
68.3 70.4
Barbados
SDG SDG
13 5
SDG
12 SDG
6
SDG Global rank 87 (OF 166)
SDG
11 SDG
7
SDG SDG
10 SDG 8
9
SPILLOVER INDEX AVERAGE PERFORMANCE BY SDG
100 (best) to 0 (worst)
100
80
60
40
20
0
CURRENT ASSESSMENT – SDG DASHBOARD
  Major challenges           Significant challenges          Challenges remain          SDG achieved          Information unavailable
SDG TRENDS
5 D D L D L L D D
• • • 5 5 D 5 p
p  Decreasing       5  Stagnating       D  Moderately improving       L  On track or maintaining SDG achievement       •  Information unavailable
Notes: The full title of Goal 2 “Zero Hunger” is “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”.    
  The full title of each SDG is available here: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabledevelopmentgoals
130
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
BARBADOS
Performance by Indicator
SDG1 – No Poverty    Val u e Yea  rRa t ingTr e nd SDG9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure    Val u e Ye a rRa t ingTr e nd
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%)    2.42020 • 5 Population using the internet (%)    81.82017 • L
Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%)    6.22020 • 5 Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population)    59.92018 • L
SDG2 – Zero Hunger                Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related     NA NA • •
Prevalence of undernourishment (%)    3.92017 • L infrastructure (worst 1–5 best)
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%)    7.72012 • L The Times Higher Education Universities Ranking: Average score of top 3 * 0.02020 • •
PPrreevvaalleennccee  ooff  wobaesstiintyg,  BinM cIh ≥il d3r0e n(% u nodf aedr u5 lyt epaorps uolfa atigoen )(%)      263..8122001126 •• Lp Scuiennivteifrisci taiensd ( tweochrsnt i0ca–l1 j0o0u rbneaslt a)rticles (per 1,000 population)    0.12018 • p
Human Trophic Level (best 2–3 worst)    2.32017 • 5 Expenditure on research and development (% of GDP)    NA NA • •
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land)    2.92017 • L SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities               
Sustainable Nitrogen Management Index (best 0–1.41 worst)    1.22015 • 5 Gini coefficient adjusted for top income    NA NA • •
SDG3 – Good Health and Well-Being                SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities               
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)     272017 • L Annual mean concentration of particulate matter of less than      23.12017 • D
2.5 microns in diameter (PM2.5) (μg/m3)
Neonatal mortality rate (per 1,000 live births)    7.92018 • L
Mortality rate, under-5 (per 1,000 live births)    12.22018 • L Access to improved water source, piped (% of urban population)    NA NA • •
Incidence of tuberculosis (per 100,000 population)    0.42018 • L Satisfaction with public transport (%)    NA NA • •
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population)    0.62018 • 5 SDG12 – Responsible Consumption and Production               
Municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)    5.42011 • •
Agdeia-bsteatneds,a ordr iczherdo ndieca rtehs prairtaet dourye d tois ecaasred iionv aadscuultlsa ra dgiesde a3s0e–, c7a0n yceear,r s (%)    16.22016 • L Electronic waste (kg/capita)    13.72016 • •
Agame-bstiaenndt aarird pizoeldlu dtieoant h(p reart e1 0at0t,r0ib0u0 tpaobpleu tloat hioonu)sehold air pollution and    312016 • • PSOro2d eumctiisosnio-bnas seemd bSoOd2i eedm iinss iimonpso (rktgs /(ckgap/citaap)ita)      41323..6622001122 •• ••
Traffic deaths (per 100,000 population)    5.62016 • L Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita)    25.92010 • •
Life expectancy at birth (years)    75.62016 • 5 Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)    11.32010 • •
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19)   33.62017 • L SDG13 – Climate Action               
Births attended by skilled health personnel (%)    99.02015 • L Energy-related CO2 emissions (tCO2/capita)    4.42017 • 5
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%)   852018 • p CO2 emissions embodied in imports (tCO2/capita)    2.22015 • 5
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best)   77.02017 • L CO2 emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita)    0.02018 • •
Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best)    NA NA • •
SDG14 – Life Below Water               
SDG4 – Quality Education                Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)    7.62018 • 5
Net primary enrollment rate (%)    96.72018 • L Ocean Health Index: Clean Waters score (worst 0–100 best)    64.12019 • D
Lower secondary completion rate (%)   100.72009 • • Fish caught from overexploited or collapsed stocks (% of total catch)    52.22014 • 5
Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24)    99.92014 • • Fish caught by trawling (%)    NA NA • •
SDG5 – Gender Equality                Marine biodiversity threats embodied in imports (per million population)    0.52018 • •
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods (% of females    70.02012 • D SDG15 – Life on Land               
aged 15 to 49 who are married or in unions) Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%)   2.52018 • 5
Ratio of female-to-male mean years of education received (%)   105.82018 • L Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%)   NA NA • •
Ratio of female-to-male labor force participation rate (%)    89.02019 • L Red List Index of species survival (worst 0–1 best)    0.92019 • L
Seats held by women in national parliament (%)    20.02020 • 5 Permanent deforestation (% of forest area, 5-year average)    0.12018 • •
SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation               
Population using at least basic drinking water services (%)    98.52017 • L Te(rpreers tmriailll iaonnd p forepsuhlwataiotenr) biodiversity threats embodied in imports      0.62018 • •
Population using at least basic sanitation services (%)    97.32017 • L SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions               
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available freshwater resources)    87.52005 • • Homicides (per 100,000 population)    10.52017 • p
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%)    1.22018 • • Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population)    56.12018 • p
Scarce water consumption embodied in imports (m3/capita)    13.52013 • L Percentage of population who feel safe walking alone at night in the      NA NA • •
SDG7 – Affordable and Clean Energy                city or area where they live (%)
Population with access to electricity (%)   100.02017 • L Property Rights (worst 1–7 best)    4.52019 • •
Population with access to clean fuels and technology for cooking (%)    99.42016 • L Birth registrations with civil authority (% of children under age 5)    98.72018 • •
COpe2 re tmotiassl ieolnesc tfrriocmity f ouuelt pcoumt (bMutsCtOio2n/ TfoWr he)lectricity and heating      NA NA • • CCohrilrdurpetnio innv Poelvrceedp itnio cnh Iinldd leaxb (owr o(%rs to 0f –p1o0p0u blaetsiot)n aged 5 to 14)      16.2922001196 •• L•
5
SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth                Exports of major conventional weapons (TIV constant million USD   * 0.02019 • • . C
Adjusted GDP growth (%)    -3.02018 • • per 100,000 population) ou
Victims of modern slavery (per 1,000 population)    2.72018 • • Press Freedom Index (best 0–100 worst)    NA NA • • ntr
y
Admuoltbsi lwe-itmh oanne ayc-cseoruvnicte a tp aro bvaidnekr  o(%r o othf epro fpinualantcioianl  iangsteidtu 1ti5o no ro or vwerit)h a     NA NA • • SGoDvGer1nm7 e–n tP sapretnndeinrgs ohni phse aflothr a tnhde e dGuocaatliosn (% of GDP)      8 . 3201  6 •   p    Prof
Unemployment rate (% of total labor force)    10.32019 • D For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional    NA NA • • iles
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population)   0.82010 • L public finance, including official development assistance (% of GNI)
Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP)    NA NA • •
Corporate Tax Haven Score (best 0–100 worst) * 0.02019 • •
* Imputed data point
131
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
BELARUS  
Eastern Europe and Central Asia
OVERALL PERFORMANCE
SDG SDG
17 1
SDG 100 SDG
16 2
75
Index score Regional average score SDG SDG
15 50 3
25
SDG
SDG 4
14
78.8 70.9
Belarus
SDG SDG
13 5
SDG
12 SDG
6
SDG Global rank 18 (OF 166)
SDG
11 SDG
7
SDG SDG
10 SDG 8
9
SPILLOVER INDEX AVERAGE PERFORMANCE BY SDG
100 (best) to 0 (worst)
100
80
60
40
20
0
CURRENT ASSESSMENT – SDG DASHBOARD
  Major challenges           Significant challenges          Challenges remain          SDG achieved          Information unavailable
SDG TRENDS
L D L L L D D L D
• 5 • D • D D L
p  Decreasing       5  Stagnating       D  Moderately improving       L  On track or maintaining SDG achievement       •  Information unavailable
Notes: The full title of Goal 2 “Zero Hunger” is “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”.    
  The full title of each SDG is available here: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabledevelopmentgoals
132
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
BELARUS
Performance by Indicator
SDG1 – No Poverty    Val u e Yea  rRa t ingTr e nd SDG9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure    Val u e Ye a rRa t ingTr e nd
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%)    0.02020 • L Population using the internet (%)    79.12018 • L
Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%)    0.12020 • L Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population)    86.32018 • L
SDG2 – Zero Hunger                Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related     2.42018 • p
Prevalence of undernourishment (%)    2.52017 • L infrastructure (worst 1–5 best)
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%)    4.52005 • L The Times Higher Education Universities Ranking: Average score of top 3    16.42020 • •
PPHrrueemvvaaalleennn Tccreeo  poohff  iwocb aLesestviinetylg ,(  BbinMe csIth ≥ 2il d–3r30e  wn(% ou rnosdft )aedr u5 lyt epaorps uolfa atigoen )(%)        2224...235222000011567 ••• LpD SExcupieneninvtdeifiritscui rtaeien osdn ( t wreeocshersantr ic0cha– la1 nj0od0u  drbneeavselt la)orptimcleens t( (p%e ro 1f ,G0D0P0) population)      00..1622001187 •• 55
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land)    3.42017 • L SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities               
Sustainable Nitrogen Management Index (best 0–1.41 worst)    0.82015 • 5 Gini coefficient adjusted for top income    32.72017 • •
SDG3 – Good Health and Well-Being                SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities               
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)     22017 • L Annual mean concentration of particulate matter of less than      18.82017 • D
2.5 microns in diameter (PM2.5) (μg/m3)
NMeoorntaaltitayl  rmatoer,t ualnitdye rra-t5e ( (ppeerr 1 1,0,00000 l ilvivee b birirtthhss))      13..3422001188 •• LL Access to improved water source, piped (% of urban population)    97.82017 • L
Incidence of tuberculosis (per 100,000 population)    31.02018 • L Satisfaction with public transport (%)    57.32019 • p
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population)    0.22018 • L SDG12 – Responsible Consumption and Production                 
Municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)    1.62015 • •
Agdeia-bsteatneds,a ordr iczherdo ndieca rtehs prairtaet dourye d tois ecaasred iionv aadscuultlsa ra dgiesde a3s0e–, c7a0n yceear,r s (%)    23.72016 • L Electronic waste (kg/capita)    7.62016 • •
Agame-bstiaenndt aarird pizoeldlu dtieoant h(p reart e1 0at0t,r0ib0u0 tpaobpleu tloat hioonu)sehold air pollution and    612016 • • PSOro2d eumctiisosnio-bnas seemd bSoOd2i eedm iinss iimonpso (rktgs /(ckgap/citaap)ita)       00..7322001122 •• ••
Traffic deaths (per 100,000 population)    8.92016 • L Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita)    0.52010 • •
Life expectancy at birth (years)    74.22016 • L Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)    0.02010 • •
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19)   14.52017 • L SDG13 – Climate Action               
Births attended by skilled health personnel (%)    99.82014 • • Energy-related CO2 emissions (tCO2/capita)    6.52017 • 5
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%)   972018 • L CO2 emissions embodied in imports (tCO2/capita)    0.02015 • L
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best)   76.02017 • L CO2 emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita)    0.02018 • •
Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best)    5.82019 • L
SDG14 – Life Below Water                 
SDG4 – Quality Education                Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)    NA NA • •
Net primary enrollment rate (%) 94.92018 • L Ocean Health Index: Clean Waters score (worst 0–100 best)    NA NA • •
Lower secondary completion rate (%) 97.82018 • L Fish caught from overexploited or collapsed stocks (% of total catch)    NA NA • •
Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24) 99.92018 • • Fish caught by trawling (%)    NA NA • •
SDG5 – Gender Equality                      Marine biodiversity threats embodied in imports (per million population)    0.02018 • •
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods (% of females    74.22012 • L SDG15 – Life on Land               
aged 15 to 49 who are married or in unions) Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%)   48.62018 • 5
Ratio of female-to-male mean years of education received (%)    98.42018 • L Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%)   54.92018 • L
Ratio of female-to-male labor force participation rate (%)    82.72019 • L Red List Index of species survival (worst 0–1 best)    1.02019 • L
Seats held by women in national parliament (%)    40.02020 • L Permanent deforestation (% of forest area, 5-year average)    0.02018 • •
SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation               
Population using at least basic drinking water services (%)    96.52017 • 5 Te(rpreers tmriailll iaonnd p forepsuhlwataiotenr) biodiversity threats embodied in imports      0.02018 • •
Population using at least basic sanitation services (%)    97.82017 • L SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions               
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available freshwater resources)    4.82015 • • Homicides (per 100,000 population)    3.62014 • •
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%)    7.22018 • • Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population)    9.42018 • L
Scarce water consumption embodied in imports (m3/capita)    0.32013 • L Percentage of population who feel safe walking alone at night in the      61.52019 • L
SDG7 – Affordable and Clean Energy                city or area where they live (%)
Population with access to electricity (%)   100.02017 • L Property Rights (worst 1–7 best)    NA NA • •
Population with access to clean fuels and technology for cooking (%)    98.22016 • L Birth registrations with civil authority (% of children under age 5)   100.02018 • •
COpe2 re tmotiassl ieolnesc tfrriocmity f ouuelt pcoumt (bMutsCtOio2n/ TfoWr he)lectricity and heating      1.72017 • D CCohrilrdurpetnio innv Poelvrceedp itnio cnh Iinldd leaxb (owr o(%rs to 0f –p1o0p0u blaetsiot)n aged 5 to 14)      14.5422001196 •• L•
5
SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth                Exports of major conventional weapons (TIV constant million USD      1.12019 • • . C
Adjusted GDP growth (%)    -2.32018 • • per 100,000 population) ou
Victims of modern slavery (per 1,000 population)    10.92018 • • Press Freedom Index (best 0–100 worst)    51.72019 • 5 ntr
y
Admuoltbsi lwe-itmh oanne ayc-cseoruvnicte a tp aro bvaidnekr  o(%r o othf epro fpinualantcioianl  iangsteidtu 1ti5o no ro or vwerit)h a     81.22017 • L SGoDvGer1nm7 e–n tP sapretnndeinrgs ohni phse aflothr a tnhde e dGuocaatliosn (% of GDP)      8 . 8201  6 •   D    Prof
Unemployment rate (% of total labor force)    4.62019 • L For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional    NA NA • • iles
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population)   0.02010 • L public finance, including official development assistance (% of GNI)
Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP)    29.52017 • L
Corporate Tax Haven Score (best 0–100 worst) * 0.02019 • •
* Imputed data point
133
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
BELGIUM  
OECD Countries
OVERALL PERFORMANCE
SDG SDG
17 1
SDG 100 SDG
16 2
75
Index score Regional average score SDG SDG
15 50 3
25
SDG
SDG 4
14
80.0 77.3
Belgium
SDG SDG
13 5
SDG
12 SDG
6
SDG Global rank 11 (OF 166)
SDG
11 SDG
7
SDG SDG
10 SDG 8
9
SPILLOVER INDEX AVERAGE PERFORMANCE BY SDG
100 (best) to 0 (worst)
100
80
60
40
20
0
CURRENT ASSESSMENT – SDG DASHBOARD
  Major challenges           Significant challenges          Challenges remain          SDG achieved          Information unavailable
SDG TRENDS
D D D D L D D L L
D 5 • p 5 L D 5
p  Decreasing       5  Stagnating       D  Moderately improving       L  On track or maintaining SDG achievement       •  Information unavailable
Notes: The full title of Goal 2 “Zero Hunger” is “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”.    
  The full title of each SDG is available here: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabledevelopmentgoals
134
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
BELGIUM
Performance by Indicator
SDG1 – No Poverty    Va lu e Ye a rRa t ingTr e nd SDG9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure    Va lu e Yea  rRa t ingTr e nd
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%)    0.2 2020 • L Population using the internet (%)    88.7 2018 • L
Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%)    0.3 2020 • L Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population)    75.7 2018 • L
Poverty rate after taxes and transfers (%)    10.2 2017 • p Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related     4.0 2018 • L
SDG2 – Zero Hunger                infrastructure (worst 1–5 best)
Prevalence of undernourishment (%)    2.5 2017 • L Thuen Tivimerseist iHesig (wheorr Estd 0u–c1at0io0 nb eUsnt)iversities Ranking: Average score of top 3    63.4 2020 • •
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%) * 2.6 2016 • L Scientific and technical journal articles (per 1,000 population)    1.4 2018 • L
Prevalence of wasting in children under 5 years of age (%) * 0.7 2016 • L Expenditure on research and development (% of GDP)    2.6 2017 • L
Prevalence of obesity, BMI ≥ 30 (% of adult population)    22.1 2016 • p Researchers (per 1,000 employed population)    12.0 2018 • L
Human Trophic Level (best 2–3 worst)    2.4 2017 • D  Triadic patent families filed (per million population)    35.7 2017 • L
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land)    9.1 2017 • L Gap in internet access by income (percentage points)    28.0 2019 • L
SYuiesltda ignaapb lcel oNsiutrroe g(%en o Mf panoategnetmiael ynite Ilndd)ex (best 0–1.41 worst)      707..27 22001155 •• 5• Waonmde enn ignin seceiernincge) and engineering (% of tertiary graduates in science     26.0 2015 • •
SDG3 – Good Health and Well-Being                SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities               
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)     5 2017 • L Gini coefficient adjusted for top income    29.4 2015 • L
Neonatal mortality rate (per 1,000 live births)    2.0 2018 • L Palma ratio    0.9 2017 • L
Mortality rate, under-5 (per 1,000 live births)    3.7 2018 • L Elderly poverty rate (% of population aged 66 or over)    8.8 2017 • 5
Incidence of tuberculosis (per 100,000 population)    9.0 2018 • L SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities               
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population)    NA NA • •
Age-standardized death rate due to cardiovascular disease, cancer,     11.4 2016 • L An2.n5u mali cmroenasn  icno dnicaemnetrtaetri o(PnM o2f .p5a) r(tμicgu/mlat3e) matter of less than      12.9 2017 • D
diabetes, or chronic respiratory disease in adults aged 30–70 years (%) Access to improved water source, piped (% of urban population)    99.0 2017 • L
Age-standardized death rate attributable to household air pollution and    16 2016 • • Satisfaction with public transport (%)    58.5 2019 • p
Traamffibc ideenat tahirs  p(poellru 1ti0o0n,0 (0p0e rp 1o0p0u,0la0t0io pno)pulation)    5.8 2016 • L Population with rent overburden (%)    8.9 2017 • 5
Life expectancy at birth (years)    81.2 2016 • L SDG12 – Responsible Consumption and Production               
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19)   4.7 2017 • L Electronic waste (kg/capita)    21.2 2016 • •
Births attended by skilled health personnel (%)    NA NA • • Production-based SO2 emissions (kg/capita)    54.5 2012 • •
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%)   96.0 2018 • L SO2 emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)     13.7 2012 • •
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best)   84.0 2017 • L Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita)    51.7 2010 • •
Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best)    6.8 2019 • L Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)    17.8 2010 • •
Gap in life expectancy at birth among regions (years)    2.8 2016 • • Non-recycled municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)    0.5 2018 • •
Gap in self-reported health status by income (percentage points)    27.6 2017 • 5 SDG13 – Climate Action               
Daily smokers (% of population aged 15 and over)    18.9 2013 • • Energy-related CO2 emissions (tCO2/capita)    8.8 2017 • p
SDG4 – Quality Education                CO2 emissions embodied in imports (tCO2/capita)    2.4 2015 • 5
Net primary enrollment rate (%) * 98.8 2017 • L CO2 emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita)    0.0 2019 • •
Lower secondary completion rate (%) * 98.8 2017 • L Effective carbon rate (EUR/tCO2)    7.6 2016 • •
Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24) NA NA • • SDG14 – Life Below Water               
Participation rate in pre-primary organized learning (% of children aged 4 to 6)    98.4 2017 • L Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)    93.4 2018 • L
Tertiary educational attainment (% of population aged 25 to 34)    47.4 2018 • L Ocean Health Index: Clean Waters score (worst 0–100 best)    31.9 2019 • p
PISA score (worst 0–600 best)   500.0 2018 • L Fish caught from overexploited or collapsed stocks (% of total catch)    NA NA • •
VURaenrsdiialetieiroannct  hisnite usvcdeieernns tcisne   ispnce sirecfnoiercmnec a(e%n (c %eo f e o1xfp5 1l-a5yie-nyaeerd-a obr-lydo ssldo)sc)io-economic status (%)        223000...007 222000111888 ••• ppL FMisahri ncaeu bgihotd bivye rtsraitwy ltihnrge a(%ts) embodied in imports (per million population)     970..21 22001148 •• 5•
SDG15 – Life on Land               
SDG5 – Gender Equality                Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%)   81.0 2018 • L
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods   * 89.9 2017 • L Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%)   92.8 2018 • L
RRaa(%ttiioo o  oof fff  effeemmmaaalellees-- attoog--emmd aa1ll5ee   tmlaob e4oa9rn  wf yoehrcaoer s ap roeafr  metidcaiurprcaiaettdioio nonr r  rainetc eue (ni%vioe)nds ()%)      9871..56 22001189 •• LL RPeerdm Laisnte Inntd dexe foofr espsteactiieosn s (u%rv oivf afol (rwesot rasrte 0a–, 15 -byeesatr) average)      10..00 22001198 •• L•
Seats held by women in national parliament (%)    40.7 2020 • L Terrestrial and freshwater biodiversity threats embodied in imports      4.7 2018 • •
Gender wage gap (% of male median wage)    3.7 2016 • L (per million population)
Gender gap in time spent doing unpaid work (minutes/day)    93.2 2013 • • SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions               
Homicides (per 100,000 population)    1.7 2017 • L
SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation                Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population)    35.6 2018 • p
PPooppuullaattiioonn  uussiinngg  aatt  lleeaasstt  bbaassiicc  dsarninitkaintigo nw saetrevri cseersv (i%ce)s (%)     19090..50 22001177 •• •• Pecrictye notra agree ao wf phoepreu ltahteioyn l iwveh (o% f)eel safe walking alone at night in the      61.7 2019 • p
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available freshwater resources)    73.8 2010 • • Property Rights (worst 1–7 best)    5.7 2019 • •
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%)    67.9 2018 • • Birth registrations with civil authority (% of children under age 5)   100.0 2018 • • 5
SPPcooappruuclleaa ttwiiooannte  uur ssciinnoggn  sssuaamffeepllyyt  immonaa nneaamggbeeoddd  wsiaeandtie tianr ts iieomrnvp isoceerrtsvs i (c(%me)s3 (/%ca)pita)        399897...651 222000111377 ••• LLD CCExohprilrodurrptestn ioo ifnn mv Poealjvroceerd pc oitnino cvnhe Iinnldtdi oleanxb a(olw rw o(%ersa tpo 0of –pn1os0 p(0Tu IblVae tcsioot)nn satganetd m 5 itlloio 1n4 U)SD    *    7500...020 222000111969 ••• L•• . Country
SDG7 – Affordable and Clean Energy                per 100,000 population)  P
PPooppuullaattiioonn  wwiitthh  aacccceessss  ttoo  eclleeacntr ifcuiteyls ( %an)d technology for cooking (%)     110000..00 22001176 •• LL PPererssso nFrse heedlodm in I npdriesoxn (b (pesetr  01–0100,000 w0 oprospt)ulation)      1828..11 22001197 •• LL rofile
s
COel2e cetmricisistyio onus tfproumt ( MfuteCl Oco2/mTWbuhs)tion for electricity and heating per total    1.1 2017 • L SGoDvGer1n7m e–n Pt sapretnndeinrgs honip hse aflothr  atnhde e Gduocaatlison (% of GDP)      15 . 0 201  6 •   L  
Share of renewable energy in total primary energy supply (%)    7.9 2018 • 5 For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional    0.5 2017 • p
SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth                public finance, including official development assistance (% of GNI)
Adjusted GDP growth (%)    -0.1 2018 • • Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP)    NA NA • •
VAidmcutoilmtbsis lw eo-iftm hm oaonnde aeycr-ncseo srulvanivctee ar ytp  ar(op bveairdn 1ek,r0  o(0%r0 o  pothfo epprou fplianutailoantncio)ianl  iangsteidtu 1ti5o no ro or vwerit)h a       928..60 22001187 •• L• CFSihonirafptneocdria aptle rSo Tefaictxrse  Hocafy v mSecunol tSrienc oa(brteieo s(ntb a0els–s t1( U00–S01$ w0 b0oi lrwlsioto)nr)st)        -641755...812 222000121906 ••• •••
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population)   1.9 2010 • L
Employment-to-population ratio (%)    65.3 2019 • L
Youth not in employment, education or training (NEET)      12.8 2018 • L
(% of population aged 15 to 29)
* Imputed data point
135
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
BELIZE  
Latin America and the Caribbean
OVERALL PERFORMANCE
SDG SDG
17 1
SDG 100 SDG
16 2
75
Index score Regional average score SDG SDG
15 50 3
25
SDG
SDG 4
14
65.1 70.4
Belize
SDG SDG
13 5
SDG
12 SDG
6
SDG Global rank 102 (OF 166)
SDG
11 SDG
7
SDG SDG
10 SDG 8
9
SPILLOVER INDEX AVERAGE PERFORMANCE BY SDG
100 (best) to 0 (worst)
100
80
60
40
20
0
CURRENT ASSESSMENT – SDG DASHBOARD
  Major challenges           Significant challenges          Challenges remain          SDG achieved          Information unavailable
SDG TRENDS
p D D p D D L L D
• D • L 5 p 5 L
p  Decreasing       5  Stagnating       D  Moderately improving       L  On track or maintaining SDG achievement       •  Information unavailable
Notes: The full title of Goal 2 “Zero Hunger” is “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”.    
  The full title of each SDG is available here: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabledevelopmentgoals
136
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
BELIZE
Performance by Indicator
SDG1 – No Poverty    Val u e Yea  rRa t ingTr e nd SDG9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure    Val u e Ye a rRa t ingTr e nd
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%)    11.52020 • p Population using the internet (%)    47.12017 • L
Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%)    24.12020 • p Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population)    38.02017 • L
SDG2 – Zero Hunger                Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related     NA NA • •
Prevalence of undernourishment (%)    7.52017 • L infrastructure (worst 1–5 best)
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%)    15.02015 • D The Times Higher Education Universities Ranking: Average score of top 3 * 0.02020 • •
PPrreevvaalleennccee  ooff  wobaesstiintyg,  BinM cIh ≥il d3r0e n(% u nodf aedr u5 lyt epaorps uolfa atigoen )(%)      214..8122001156 •• Lp Scuiennivteifrisci taiensd ( tweochrsnt i0ca–l1 j0o0u rbneaslt a)rticles (per 1,000 population)    0.02018 • 5
Human Trophic Level (best 2–3 worst)    2.22017 • p Expenditure on research and development (% of GDP)    NA NA • •
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land)    4.22017 • L SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities               
Sustainable Nitrogen Management Index (best 0–1.41 worst)    0.92015 • p Gini coefficient adjusted for top income    NA NA • •
SDG3 – Good Health and Well-Being                SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities               
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)     362017 • L Annual mean concentration of particulate matter of less than      23.02017 • D
2.5 microns in diameter (PM2.5) (μg/m3)
NMeoorntaaltitayl  rmatoer,t ualnitdye rra-t5e ( (ppeerr 1 1,0,00000 l ilvivee b birirtthhss))      183..6022001188 •• LL Access to improved water source, piped (% of urban population)    95.42017 • L
Incidence of tuberculosis (per 100,000 population)    30.02018 • 5 Satisfaction with public transport (%)    49.12014 • •
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population)    0.82018 • 5 SDG12 – Responsible Consumption and Production                 
Municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)    1.62015 • •
Agdeia-bsteatneds,a ordr iczherdo ndieca rtehs prairtaet dourye d tois ecaasred iionv aadscuultlsa ra dgiesde a3s0e–, c7a0n yceear,r s (%)    22.12016 • 5 Electronic waste (kg/capita)    6.02016 • •
Agame-bstiaenndt aarird pizoeldlu dtieoant h(p reart e1 0at0t,r0ib0u0 tpaobpleu tloat hioonu)sehold air pollution and    692016 • • PSOro2d eumctiisosnio-bnas seemd bSoOd2i eedm iinss iimonpso (rktgs /(ckgap/citaap)ita)      3053..1722001122 •• ••
Traffic deaths (per 100,000 population)    28.32016 • p Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita)    19.82010 • •
Life expectancy at birth (years)    70.52016 • 5 Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)    3.62010 • •
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19)   68.52017 • 5 SDG13 – Climate Action               
Births attended by skilled health personnel (%)    96.82016 • L Energy-related CO2 emissions (tCO2/capita)    1.72017 • L
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%)   962018 • L CO2 emissions embodied in imports (tCO2/capita)    0.62015 • L
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best)   64.02017 • 5 CO2 emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita)    0.02019 • •
Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best)    6.02014 • •
SDG14 – Life Below Water                 
SDG4 – Quality Education                Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)    27.72018 • 5
Net primary enrollment rate (%) 95.92018 • 5 Ocean Health Index: Clean Waters score (worst 0–100 best)    66.32019 • L
Lower secondary completion rate (%) 67.22018 • p Fish caught from overexploited or collapsed stocks (% of total catch)    NA NA • •
Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24) NA NA • • Fish caught by trawling (%)    78.22014 • p
SDG5 – Gender Equality                      Marine biodiversity threats embodied in imports (per million population)    0.12018 • •
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods (% of females    65.92016 • 5 SDG15 – Life on Land               
aged 15 to 49 who are married or in unions) Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%)   46.02018 • 5
Ratio of female-to-male mean years of education received (%)   102.12018 • L Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%)   18.32018 • 5
Ratio of female-to-male labor force participation rate (%)    65.82019 • D Red List Index of species survival (worst 0–1 best)    0.72019 • p
Seats held by women in national parliament (%)    9.42020 • D Permanent deforestation (% of forest area, 5-year average)    0.72018 • •
SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation               
Population using at least basic drinking water services (%)    98.02017 • L Te(rpreers tmriailll iaonnd p forepsuhlwataiotenr) biodiversity threats embodied in imports      0.22018 • •
Population using at least basic sanitation services (%)    87.92017 • D SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions               
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available freshwater resources)    1.32000 • • Homicides (per 100,000 population)    37.92017 • p
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%)    0.62018 • • Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population)    56.92018 • p
Scarce water consumption embodied in imports (m3/capita)    4.42013 • L Percentage of population who feel safe walking alone at night in the      50.22014 • •
SDG7 – Affordable and Clean Energy                city or area where they live (%)
Population with access to electricity (%)    98.32017 • L Property Rights (worst 1–7 best)    NA NA • •
Population with access to clean fuels and technology for cooking (%)    85.42016 • L Birth registrations with civil authority (% of children under age 5)    95.72018 • •
COpe2 re tmotiassl ieolnesc tfrriocmity f ouuelt pcoumt (bMutsCtOio2n/ TfoWr he)lectricity and heating      NA NA • • CCohrilrdurpetnio innv Poelvrceedp itnio cnh Iinldd leaxb (owr o(%rs to 0f –p1o0p0u blaetsiot)n aged 5 to 14)      N3.A220N1A6 •• ••
5
SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth                Exports of major conventional weapons (TIV constant million USD   * 0.02019 • • . C
Adjusted GDP growth (%)    -5.22018 • • per 100,000 population) ou
Victims of modern slavery (per 1,000 population)    NA NA • • Press Freedom Index (best 0–100 worst)    27.52019 • L ntr
y
Admuoltbsi lwe-itmh oanne ayc-cseoruvnicte a tp aro bvaidnekr  o(%r o othf epro fpinualantcioianl  iangsteidtu 1ti5o no ro or vwerit)h a     48.22014 • • SGoDvGer1nm7 e–n tP sapretnndeinrgs ohni phse aflothr a tnhde e dGuocaatliosn (% of GDP)      11 . 2201  6 •   L    Prof
Unemployment rate (% of total labor force)    6.42019 • L For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional    NA NA • • iles
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population)   0.32010 • L public finance, including official development assistance (% of GNI)
Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP)    29.42017 • L
Corporate Tax Haven Score (best 0–100 worst) * 0.02019 • •
* Imputed data point
137
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
BENIN  
Sub-Saharan Africa
OVERALL PERFORMANCE
SDG SDG
17 1
SDG 100 SDG
16 2
75
Index score Regional average score SDG SDG
15 50 3
25
SDG
SDG 4
14
53.3 53.1
Benin
SDG SDG
13 5
SDG
12 SDG
6
SDG Global rank 145 (OF 166)
SDG
11 SDG
7
SDG SDG
10 SDG 8
9
SPILLOVER INDEX AVERAGE PERFORMANCE BY SDG
100 (best) to 0 (worst)
100
80
60
40
20
0
CURRENT ASSESSMENT – SDG DASHBOARD
  Major challenges           Significant challenges          Challenges remain          SDG achieved          Information unavailable
SDG TRENDS
5 D 5 L 5 5 5 L D
• 5 • L 5 L D p
p  Decreasing       5  Stagnating       D  Moderately improving       L  On track or maintaining SDG achievement       •  Information unavailable
Notes: The full title of Goal 2 “Zero Hunger” is “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”.    
  The full title of each SDG is available here: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabledevelopmentgoals
138
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
BENIN
Performance by Indicator
SDG1 – No Poverty    Val u e Yea  rRa t ingTr e nd SDG9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure    Val u e Ye a rRa t ingTr e nd
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%)    45.82020 • 5 Population using the internet (%)    20.02017 • L
Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%)    69.82020 • 5 Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population)    19.82018 • L
SDG2 – Zero Hunger                Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related     2.52018 • D
Prevalence of undernourishment (%)    10.12017 • 5 infrastructure (worst 1–5 best)
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%)    34.02014 • D The Times Higher Education Universities Ranking: Average score of top 3 * 0.02020 • •
PPrreevvaalleennccee  ooff  wobaesstiintyg,  BinM cIh ≥il d3r0e n(% u nodf aedr u5 lyt epaorps uolfa atigoen )(%)      49..5622001146 •• LL Scuiennivteifrisci taiensd ( tweochrsnt i0ca–l1 j0o0u rbneaslt a)rticles (per 1,000 population)    0.02018 • 5
Human Trophic Level (best 2–3 worst)    2.12017 • L Expenditure on research and development (% of GDP) * 0.02017 • •
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land)    1.52017 • 5 SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities               
Sustainable Nitrogen Management Index (best 0–1.41 worst)    0.82015 • 5 Gini coefficient adjusted for top income    50.52015 • •
SDG3 – Good Health and Well-Being                SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities               
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)     3972017 • D Annual mean concentration of particulate matter of less than      39.02017 • p
NMeoorntaaltitayl  rmatoer,t ualnitdye rra-t5e ( (ppeerr 1 1,0,00000 l ilvivee b birirtthhss))      3913..3022001188 •• 55 Ac2c.5e sms itcor oimnsp irno vdeiadm weatteerr ( sPoMu2rc.5e),  (pμipg/emd 3(%) of urban population)    54.22017 • p
Incidence of tuberculosis (per 100,000 population)    56.02018 • 5 Satisfaction with public transport (%)    49.32019 • L
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population)    0.32018 • L SDG12 – Responsible Consumption and Production                 
Municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)    NA NA • •
Agdeia-bsteatneds,a ordr iczherdo ndieca rtehs prairtaet dourye d tois ecaasred iionv aadscuultlsa ra dgiesde a3s0e–, c7a0n yceear,r s (%)    19.62016 • 5 Electronic waste (kg/capita)    0.72016 • •
Agame-bstiaenndt aarird pizoeldlu dtieoant h(p reart e1 0at0t,r0ib0u0 tpaobpleu tloat hioonu)sehold air pollution and    2052016 • • PSOro2d eumctiisosnio-bnas seemd bSoOd2i eedm iinss iimonpso (rktgs /(ckgap/citaap)ita)       150..4122001122 •• ••
Traffic deaths (per 100,000 population)    27.52016 • 5 Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita)    13.92010 • •
Life expectancy at birth (years)    61.12016 • 5 Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)    0.32010 • •
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19)   86.12017 • 5 SDG13 – Climate Action               
Births attended by skilled health personnel (%)    78.12018 • p Energy-related CO2 emissions (tCO2/capita)    0.62017 • L
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%)   712018 • D CO2 emissions embodied in imports (tCO2/capita)    0.02015 • L
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best)   40.02017 • 5 CO2 emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita)    0.02015 • •
Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best)    5.02019 • L
SDG14 – Life Below Water                 
SDG4 – Quality Education                Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)    30.62018 • 5
Net primary enrollment rate (%) 97.22018 • L Ocean Health Index: Clean Waters score (worst 0–100 best)    23.82019 • 5
Lower secondary completion rate (%) 45.82016 • • Fish caught from overexploited or collapsed stocks (% of total catch)    NA NA • •
Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24) 60.92018 • • Fish caught by trawling (%)    1.52014 • L
SDG5 – Gender Equality                      Marine biodiversity threats embodied in imports (per million population)    0.02018 • •
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods (% of females    25.92018 • 5 SDG15 – Life on Land               
aged 15 to 49 who are married or in unions) Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%)   77.42018 • L
Ratio of female-to-male mean years of education received (%)    68.22018 • 5 Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%)   NA NA • •
Ratio of female-to-male labor force participation rate (%)    94.62019 • L Red List Index of species survival (worst 0–1 best)    0.92019 • L
Seats held by women in national parliament (%)    7.22020 • 5 Permanent deforestation (% of forest area, 5-year average)    0.22018 • •
SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation               
Population using at least basic drinking water services (%)    66.42017 • 5 Te(rpreers tmriailll iaonnd p forepsuhlwataiotenr) biodiversity threats embodied in imports      0.02018 • •
Population using at least basic sanitation services (%)    16.52017 • 5 SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions               
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available freshwater resources)    1.02000 • • Homicides (per 100,000 population) * 1.12017 • L
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%)    0.02018 • • Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population)    62.32018 • •
Scarce water consumption embodied in imports (m3/capita)    0.42013 • L Percentage of population who feel safe walking alone at night in the      54.12019 • L
SDG7 – Affordable and Clean Energy                city or area where they live (%)
Population with access to electricity (%)    43.12017 • D Property Rights (worst 1–7 best)    3.92019 • •
Population with access to clean fuels and technology for cooking (%)    6.42016 • 5 Birth registrations with civil authority (% of children under age 5)    85.62018 • •
COpe2 re tmotiassl ieolnesc tfrriocmity f ouuelt pcoumt (bMutsCtOio2n/ TfoWr he)lectricity and heating      21.72017 • p CCohrilrdurpetnio innv Poelvrceedp itnio cnh Iinldd leaxb (owr o(%rs to 0f –p1o0p0u blaetsiot)n aged 5 to 14)      524.1522001196 •• D•
5
SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth                Exports of major conventional weapons (TIV constant million USD   * 0.02019 • • . C
Adjusted GDP growth (%)    -3.82018 • • per 100,000 population) ou
Victims of modern slavery (per 1,000 population)    5.52018 • • Press Freedom Index (best 0–100 worst)    31.72019 • p ntr
y
Admuoltbsi lwe-itmh oanne ayc-cseoruvnicte a tp aro bvaidnekr  o(%r o othf epro fpinualantcioianl  iangsteidtu 1ti5o no ro or vwerit)h a     38.52017 • L SGoDvGer1nm7 e–n tP sapretnndeinrgs ohni phse aflothr a tnhde e dGuocaatliosn (% of GDP)      4 . 8201  6 •   p    Prof
Unemployment rate (% of total labor force)    2.22019 • L For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional    NA NA • • iles
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population)   0.02010 • L public finance, including official development assistance (% of GNI)
Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP)    NA NA • •
Corporate Tax Haven Score (best 0–100 worst) * 0.02019 • •
* Imputed data point
139
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
BHUTAN  
East and South Asia
OVERALL PERFORMANCE
SDG SDG
17 1
SDG 100 SDG
16 2
75
Index score Regional average score SDG SDG
15 50 3
25
SDG
SDG 4
14
69.3 67.2
Bhutan
SDG SDG
13 5
SDG
12 SDG
6
SDG Global rank 80 (OF 166)
SDG
11 SDG
7
SDG SDG
10 SDG 8
9
SPILLOVER INDEX AVERAGE PERFORMANCE BY SDG
100 (best) to 0 (worst)
100
80
60
40
20
0
CURRENT ASSESSMENT – SDG DASHBOARD
  Major challenges           Significant challenges          Challenges remain          SDG achieved          Information unavailable
SDG TRENDS
L D D D D D D L D
• D • L • p D D
p  Decreasing       5  Stagnating       D  Moderately improving       L  On track or maintaining SDG achievement       •  Information unavailable
Notes: The full title of Goal 2 “Zero Hunger” is “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”.    
  The full title of each SDG is available here: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabledevelopmentgoals
140
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
BHUTAN
Performance by Indicator
SDG1 – No Poverty    Val u e Yea  rRa t ingTr e nd SDG9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure    Val u e Ye a rRa t ingTr e nd
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%)    0.02020 • L Population using the internet (%)    48.12017 • L
Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%)    10.52020 • L Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population)   101.62018 • L
SDG2 – Zero Hunger                Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related     1.92018 • p
Prevalence of undernourishment (%)    NA NA • • infrastructure (worst 1–5 best)
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%)    33.62010 • 5 The Times Higher Education Universities Ranking: Average score of top 3 * 0.02020 • •
PPrreevvaalleennccee  ooff  wobaesstiintyg,  BinM cIh ≥il d3r0e n(% u nodf aedr u5 lyt epaorps uolfa atigoen )(%)      56..9422001106 •• LL Scuiennivteifrisci taiensd ( tweochrsnt i0ca–l1 j0o0u rbneaslt a)rticles (per 1,000 population)    0.12018 • 5
Expenditure on research and development (% of GDP)    NA NA • •
Human Trophic Level (best 2–3 worst)    NA NA • •
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land)    3.42017 • L SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities               
Sustainable Nitrogen Management Index (best 0–1.41 worst)    0.72015 • 5 Gini coefficient adjusted for top income    41.82017 • •
SDG3 – Good Health and Well-Being                SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities               
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)     1832017 • L Annual mean concentration of particulate matter of less than      37.92017 • D
2.5 microns in diameter (PM2.5) (μg/m3)
NMeoorntaaltitayl  rmatoer,t ualnitdye rra-t5e ( (ppeerr 1 1,0,00000 l ilvivee b birirtthhss))      1269..4722001188 •• LL Access to improved water source, piped (% of urban population)    99.02017 • L
Incidence of tuberculosis (per 100,000 population)   149.02018 • D Satisfaction with public transport (%)    75.22015 • •
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population)    0.12018 • L SDG12 – Responsible Consumption and Production                 
Municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)    0.92007 • •
Agdeia-bsteatneds,a ordr iczherdo ndieca rtehs prairtaet dourye d tois ecaasred iionv aadscuultlsa ra dgiesde a3s0e–, c7a0n yceear,r s (%)    23.32016 • D Electronic waste (kg/capita)    2.52016 • •
Agame-bstiaenndt aarird pizoeldlu dtieoant h(p reart e1 0at0t,r0ib0u0 tpaobpleu tloat hioonu)sehold air pollution and    1242016 • • PSOro2d eumctiisosnio-bnas seemd bSoOd2i eedm iinss iimonpso (rktgs /(ckgap/citaap)ita)      1459..9522001122 •• ••
Traffic deaths (per 100,000 population)    17.42016 • p Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita)    14.32010 • •
Life expectancy at birth (years)    70.62016 • D Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)    2.72010 • •
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19)   20.22017 • L SDG13 – Climate Action               
Births attended by skilled health personnel (%)    89.02016 • L Energy-related CO2 emissions (tCO2/capita)    0.82017 • L
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%)   972018 • L CO2 emissions embodied in imports (tCO2/capita)    0.42015 • L
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best)   62.02017 • L CO2 emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita)    NA NA • •
Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best)    5.12015 • •
SDG14 – Life Below Water                 
SDG4 – Quality Education                Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)    NA NA • •
Net primary enrollment rate (%) 88.02018 • p Ocean Health Index: Clean Waters score (worst 0–100 best)    NA NA • •
Lower secondary completion rate (%) 82.52018 • L Fish caught from overexploited or collapsed stocks (% of total catch)    NA NA • •
Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24) 93.12017 • • Fish caught by trawling (%)    NA NA • •
SDG5 – Gender Equality                      Marine biodiversity threats embodied in imports (per million population)    0.12018 • •
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods (% of females    84.62010 • L SDG15 – Life on Land               
aged 15 to 49 who are married or in unions) Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%)   47.32018 • 5
Ratio of female-to-male mean years of education received (%)    50.02018 • p Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%)   34.32018 • 5
Ratio of female-to-male labor force participation rate (%)    78.32019 • L Red List Index of species survival (worst 0–1 best)    0.82019 • p
Seats held by women in national parliament (%)    14.92020 • D Permanent deforestation (% of forest area, 5-year average)    0.02018 • •
SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation               
Population using at least basic drinking water services (%)    97.22017 • L Te(rpreers tmriailll iaonnd p forepsuhlwataiotenr) biodiversity threats embodied in imports      0.22018 • •
Population using at least basic sanitation services (%)    69.32017 • D SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions               
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available freshwater resources)    1.42010 • • Homicides (per 100,000 population)    1.62017 • p
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%)    0.02018 • • Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population)    NA NA • •
Scarce water consumption embodied in imports (m3/capita)    6.32013 • L Percentage of population who feel safe walking alone at night in the      63.12015 • •
SDG7 – Affordable and Clean Energy                city or area where they live (%)
Population with access to electricity (%)    97.72017 • L Property Rights (worst 1–7 best)    NA NA • •
Population with access to clean fuels and technology for cooking (%)    52.52016 • 5 Birth registrations with civil authority (% of children under age 5)    99.92018 • •
COpe2 re tmotiassl ieolnesc tfrriocmity f ouuelt pcoumt (bMutsCtOio2n/ TfoWr he)lectricity and heating      NA NA • • CCohrilrdurpetnio innv Poelvrceedp itnio cnh Iinldd leaxb (owr o(%rs to 0f –p1o0p0u blaetsiot)n aged 5 to 14)      26.8922001196 •• L•
5
SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth                Exports of major conventional weapons (TIV constant million USD   * 0.02019 • • . C
Adjusted GDP growth (%)    -0.62018 • • per 100,000 population) ou
Victims of modern slavery (per 1,000 population)    NA NA • • Press Freedom Index (best 0–100 worst)    29.82019 • L ntr
y
Admuoltbsi lwe-itmh oanne ayc-cseoruvnicte a tp aro bvaidnekr  o(%r o othf epro fpinualantcioianl  iangsteidtu 1ti5o no ro or vwerit)h a     33.72014 • • SGoDvGer1nm7 e–n tP sapretnndeinrgs ohni phse aflothr a tnhde e dGuocaatliosn (% of GDP)      9 . 4201  6 •   L    Prof
Unemployment rate (% of total labor force)    2.32019 • L For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional    NA NA • • iles
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population)   0.52010 • L public finance, including official development assistance (% of GNI)
Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP)    18.52017 • p
Corporate Tax Haven Score (best 0–100 worst) * 0.02019 • •
* Imputed data point
141
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
BOLIVIA  
Latin America and the Caribbean
OVERALL PERFORMANCE
SDG SDG
17 1
SDG 100 SDG
16 2
75
Index score Regional average score SDG SDG
15 50 3
25
SDG
SDG 4
14
69.3 70.4
Bolivia
SDG SDG
13 5
SDG
12 SDG
6
SDG Global rank 79 (OF 166)
SDG
11 SDG
7
SDG SDG
10 SDG 8
9
SPILLOVER INDEX AVERAGE PERFORMANCE BY SDG
100 (best) to 0 (worst)
100
80
60
40
20
0
CURRENT ASSESSMENT – SDG DASHBOARD
  Major challenges           Significant challenges          Challenges remain          SDG achieved          Information unavailable
SDG TRENDS
5 5 D 5 D D 5 L D
• D • L • 5 5 •
p  Decreasing       5  Stagnating       D  Moderately improving       L  On track or maintaining SDG achievement       •  Information unavailable
Notes: The full title of Goal 2 “Zero Hunger” is “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”.    
  The full title of each SDG is available here: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabledevelopmentgoals
142
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
BOLIVIA
Performance by Indicator
SDG1 – No Poverty    Val u e Yea  rRa t ingTr e nd SDG9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure    Val u e Ye a rRa t ingTr e nd
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%)    4.72020 • D Population using the internet (%)    44.32018 • D
Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%)    11.32020 • 5 Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population)    79.92018 • L
SDG2 – Zero Hunger                Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related     2.22018 • p
Prevalence of undernourishment (%)    17.12017 • L infrastructure (worst 1–5 best)
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%)    16.12016 • L The Times Higher Education Universities Ranking: Average score of top 3 * 0.02020 • •
PPrreevvaalleennccee  ooff  wobaesstiintyg,  BinM cIh ≥il d3r0e n(% u nodf aedr u5 lyt epaorps uolfa atigoen )(%)      220..0222001166 •• Lp Scuiennivteifrisci taiensd ( tweochrsnt i0ca–l1 j0o0u rbneaslt a)rticles (per 1,000 population)    0.02018 • 5
Human Trophic Level (best 2–3 worst)    2.32017 • 5 Expenditure on research and development (% of GDP)    0.22009 • •
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land)    1.92017 • p SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities               
Sustainable Nitrogen Management Index (best 0–1.41 worst)    0.52015 • D Gini coefficient adjusted for top income    44.02017 • •
SDG3 – Good Health and Well-Being                SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities               
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)     1552017 • L Annual mean concentration of particulate matter of less than      21.62017 • L
2.5 microns in diameter (PM2.5) (μg/m3)
NMeoorntaaltitayl  rmatoer,t ualnitdye rra-t5e ( (ppeerr 1 1,0,00000 l ilvivee b birirtthhss))      1246..3822001188 •• LL Access to improved water source, piped (% of urban population)    87.92017 • p
Incidence of tuberculosis (per 100,000 population)   108.02018 • 5 Satisfaction with public transport (%)    68.22018 • L
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population)    0.12018 • L SDG12 – Responsible Consumption and Production                 
Municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)    0.82015 • •
Agdeia-bsteatneds,a ordr iczherdo ndieca rtehs prairtaet dourye d tois ecaasred iionv aadscuultlsa ra dgiesde a3s0e–, c7a0n yceear,r s (%)    17.22016 • L Electronic waste (kg/capita)    3.32016 • •
Agame-bstiaenndt aarird pizoeldlu dtieoant h(p reart e1 0at0t,r0ib0u0 tpaobpleu tloat hioonu)sehold air pollution and    642016 • • PSOro2d eumctiisosnio-bnas seemd bSoOd2i eedm iinss iimonpso (rktgs /(ckgap/citaap)ita)       171..5022001122 •• ••
Traffic deaths (per 100,000 population)    15.52016 • L Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita)    43.82010 • •
Life expectancy at birth (years)    71.52016 • D Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)    1.32010 • •
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19)   64.92017 • D SDG13 – Climate Action               
Births attended by skilled health personnel (%)    89.82016 • L Energy-related CO2 emissions (tCO2/capita)    1.62017 • L
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%)   832018 • p CO2 emissions embodied in imports (tCO2/capita)    0.22015 • L
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best)   68.02017 • L CO2 emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita)   2797.22018 • •
Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best)    5.92018 • L
SDG14 – Life Below Water                 
SDG4 – Quality Education                Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)    NA NA • •
Net primary enrollment rate (%) 92.92018 • L Ocean Health Index: Clean Waters score (worst 0–100 best)    NA NA • •
Lower secondary completion rate (%) 82.52017 • p Fish caught from overexploited or collapsed stocks (% of total catch)    NA NA • •
Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24) 99.42015 • • Fish caught by trawling (%)    NA NA • •
SDG5 – Gender Equality                      Marine biodiversity threats embodied in imports (per million population)    0.02018 • •
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods (% of females    50.32016 • D SDG15 – Life on Land               
aged 15 to 49 who are married or in unions) Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%)   50.22018 • L
Ratio of female-to-male mean years of education received (%)    84.72018 • p Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%)   49.42018 • 5
Ratio of female-to-male labor force participation rate (%)    71.32019 • L Red List Index of species survival (worst 0–1 best)    0.92019 • 5
Seats held by women in national parliament (%)    53.12020 • L Permanent deforestation (% of forest area, 5-year average)    0.52018 • •
SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation               
Population using at least basic drinking water services (%)    92.82017 • L Te(rpreers tmriailll iaonnd p forepsuhlwataiotenr) biodiversity threats embodied in imports      0.22018 • •
Population using at least basic sanitation services (%)    60.72017 • D SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions               
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available freshwater resources)    1.22010 • • Homicides (per 100,000 population)    6.32016 • L
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%)    3.52018 • • Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population)    69.92018 • L
Scarce water consumption embodied in imports (m3/capita)    1.12013 • L Percentage of population who feel safe walking alone at night in the      46.12018 • 5
SDG7 – Affordable and Clean Energy                city or area where they live (%)
Population with access to electricity (%)    91.82017 • L Property Rights (worst 1–7 best)    2.72019 • •
Population with access to clean fuels and technology for cooking (%)    64.02016 • p Birth registrations with civil authority (% of children under age 5)    91.92018 • •
COpe2 re tmotiassl ieolnesc tfrriocmity f ouuelt pcoumt (bMutsCtOio2n/ TfoWr he)lectricity and heating      2.32017 • 5 CCohrilrdurpetnio innv Poelvrceedp itnio cnh Iinldd leaxb (owr o(%rs to 0f –p1o0p0u blaetsiot)n aged 5 to 14)      263.1422001196 •• p•
5
SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth                Exports of major conventional weapons (TIV constant million USD   * 0.02019 • • . C
Adjusted GDP growth (%)    -2.02018 • • per 100,000 population) ou
Victims of modern slavery (per 1,000 population)    2.12018 • • Press Freedom Index (best 0–100 worst)    35.42019 • p ntr
y
Admuoltbsi lwe-itmh oanne ayc-cseoruvnicte a tp aro bvaidnekr  o(%r o othf epro fpinualantcioianl  iangsteidtu 1ti5o no ro or vwerit)h a     54.42017 • L SGoDvGer1nm7 e–n tP sapretnndeinrgs ohni phse aflothr a tnhde e dGuocaatliosn (% of GDP)      N  A N  A •   •    Prof
Unemployment rate (% of total labor force)    3.52019 • L For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional    NA NA • • iles
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population)   0.12010 • L public finance, including official development assistance (% of GNI)
Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP)    23.32007 • •
Corporate Tax Haven Score (best 0–100 worst) * 0.02019 • •
* Imputed data point
143
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA  
Eastern Europe and Central Asia
OVERALL PERFORMANCE
SDG SDG
17 1
SDG 100 SDG
16 2
75
Index score Regional average score SDG SDG
15 50 3
25
SDG
SDG 4
14
73.5 70.9 Bosnia and 
SDG Herzegovina SDG
13 5
SDG
12 SDG
6
SDG Global rank 50 (OF 166)
SDG
11 SDG
7
SDG SDG
10 SDG 8
9
SPILLOVER INDEX AVERAGE PERFORMANCE BY SDG
100 (best) to 0 (worst)
100
80
60
40
20
0
CURRENT ASSESSMENT – SDG DASHBOARD
  Major challenges           Significant challenges          Challenges remain          SDG achieved          Information unavailable
SDG TRENDS
L D D • 5 D D L 5
• 5 • D • D D L
p  Decreasing       5  Stagnating       D  Moderately improving       L  On track or maintaining SDG achievement       •  Information unavailable
Notes: The full title of Goal 2 “Zero Hunger” is “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”.    
  The full title of each SDG is available here: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabledevelopmentgoals
144
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
Performance by Indicator
SDG1 – No Poverty    Val u e Yea  rRa t ingTr e nd SDG9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure    Val u e Ye a rRa t ingTr e nd
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%)    0.12020 • L Population using the internet (%)    70.12018 • L
Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%)    0.22020 • L Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population)    55.42018 • L
SDG2 – Zero Hunger                Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related     2.42018 • p
Prevalence of undernourishment (%)    2.52017 • L infrastructure (worst 1–5 best)
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%)    8.92012 • L The Times Higher Education Universities Ranking: Average score of top 3 * 7.02019 • •
PPHrrueemvvaaalleennn Tccreeo  poohff  iwocb aLesestviinetylg ,(  BbinMe csIth ≥ 2il d–3r30e  wn(% ou rnosdft )aedr u5 lyt epaorps uolfa atigoen )(%)        1227...339222000111267 ••• LpD SExcupieneninvtdeifiritscui rtaeien osdn ( t wreeocshersantr ic0cha– la1 nj0od0u  drbneeavselt la)orptimcleens t( (p%e ro 1f ,G0D0P0) population)      00..2222001187 •• 5p
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land)    3.72017 • L SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities               
Sustainable Nitrogen Management Index (best 0–1.41 worst)    1.02015 • p Gini coefficient adjusted for top income    34.12015 • •
SDG3 – Good Health and Well-Being                SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities               
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)     102017 • L Annual mean concentration of particulate matter of less than      27.72017 • 5
2.5 microns in diameter (PM2.5) (μg/m3)
NMInecooirdntaealntitacyle  rm oatfoe tr,ut uablnietdryce rura-lto5e s( i(psp e(eprr e1 1r,0, 01000000 l ,il0viv0ee0 b  bpiriortthphsus)l)ation)        2455...180222000111888 ••• LLL ASactciesfsasc ttoio inm wpritohv epdu bwliact etrra snosuprocret,  (p%ip)ed (% of urban population)      9479..6422001178 •• 5D
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population)    0.02018 • L SDG12 – Responsible Consumption and Production                 
Municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)    2.02015 • •
Agdeia-bsteatneds,a ordr iczherdo ndieca rtehs prairtaet dourye d tois ecaasred iionv aadscuultlsa ra dgiesde a3s0e–, c7a0n yceear,r s (%)    17.82016 • L Electronic waste (kg/capita)    6.52016 • •
Agame-bstiaenndt aarird pizoeldlu dtieoant h(p reart e1 0at0t,r0ib0u0 tpaobpleu tloat hioonu)sehold air pollution and    802016 • • PSOro2d eumctiisosnio-bnas seemd bSoOd2i eedm iinss iimonpso (rktgs /(ckgap/citaap)ita)       733..3822001122 •• ••
Traffic deaths (per 100,000 population)    15.72016 • L Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita)    17.02010 • •
Life expectancy at birth (years)    77.32016 • L Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)    1.52010 • •
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19)   9.62017 • L SDG13 – Climate Action               
Births attended by skilled health personnel (%)    99.92015 • L Energy-related CO2 emissions (tCO2/capita)    6.72017 • 5
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%)   682018 • p CO2 emissions embodied in imports (tCO2/capita)    0.42015 • L
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best)   61.02017 • D CO2 emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita)    90.12019 • •
Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best)    5.92018 • L
SDG14 – Life Below Water                 
SDG4 – Quality Education                Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)    NA NA • •
Net primary enrollment rate (%) NA NA • • Ocean Health Index: Clean Waters score (worst 0–100 best)    40.62019 • 5
Lower secondary completion rate (%) NA NA • • Fish caught from overexploited or collapsed stocks (% of total catch)    NA NA • •
Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24) 99.72013 • • Fish caught by trawling (%)    NA NA • •
SDG5 – Gender Equality                      Marine biodiversity threats embodied in imports (per million population)    0.02018 • •
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods (% of females    21.92012 • 5 SDG15 – Life on Land               
aged 15 to 49 who are married or in unions) Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%)   18.22018 • 5
Ratio of female-to-male mean years of education received (%)    78.92018 • 5 Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%)   66.72018 • L
Ratio of female-to-male labor force participation rate (%)    60.82019 • p Red List Index of species survival (worst 0–1 best)    0.92019 • L
Seats held by women in national parliament (%)    21.42020 • 5 Permanent deforestation (% of forest area, 5-year average)    0.02018 • •
SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation               
Population using at least basic drinking water services (%)    96.12017 • 5 Te(rpreers tmriailll iaonnd p forepsuhlwataiotenr) biodiversity threats embodied in imports      0.52018 • •
Population using at least basic sanitation services (%)    95.42017 • L SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions               
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available freshwater resources)    2.72015 • • Homicides (per 100,000 population)    1.22017 • L
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%)    1.12018 • • Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population)    15.42018 • L
Scarce water consumption embodied in imports (m3/capita)    2.92013 • L Percentage of population who feel safe walking alone at night in the      67.12018 • p
SDG7 – Affordable and Clean Energy                city or area where they live (%)
Population with access to electricity (%)   100.02017 • L Property Rights (worst 1–7 best)    3.32019 • •
Population with access to clean fuels and technology for cooking (%)    63.42016 • D Birth registrations with civil authority (% of children under age 5)    99.52018 • •
COpe2 re tmotiassl ieolnesc tfrriocmity f ouuelt pcoumt (bMutsCtOio2n/ TfoWr he)lectricity and heating      1.42017 • 5 CCohrilrdurpetnio innv Poelvrceedp itnio cnh Iinldd leaxb (owr o(%rs to 0f –p1o0p0u blaetsiot)n aged 5 to 14)      53.6322001196 •• p•
5
SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth                Exports of major conventional weapons (TIV constant million USD   * 0.02019 • • . C
Adjusted GDP growth (%)    1.02018 • • per 100,000 population) ou
Victims of modern slavery (per 1,000 population)    3.42018 • • Press Freedom Index (best 0–100 worst)    29.02019 • L ntr
y
Admuoltbsi lwe-itmh oanne ayc-cseoruvnicte a tp aro bvaidnekr  o(%r o othf epro fpinualantcioianl  iangsteidtu 1ti5o no ro or vwerit)h a     58.82017 • L SGoDvGer1nm7 e–n tP sapretnndeinrgs ohni phse aflothr a tnhde e dGuocaatliosn (% of GDP)      N  A N  A •   •    Prof
Unemployment rate (% of total labor force)    18.42019 • L For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional    NA NA • • iles
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population)   0.12010 • L public finance, including official development assistance (% of GNI)
Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP)    38.92018 • L
Corporate Tax Haven Score (best 0–100 worst) * 0.02019 • •
* Imputed data point
145
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
BOTSWANA  
Sub-Saharan Africa
OVERALL PERFORMANCE
SDG SDG
17 1
SDG 100 SDG
16 2
75
Index score Regional average score SDG SDG
15 50 3
25
SDG
SDG 4
14
61.5 53.1
Botswana
SDG SDG
13 5
SDG
12 SDG
6
SDG Global rank 121 (OF 166)
SDG
11 SDG
7
SDG SDG
10 SDG 8
9
SPILLOVER INDEX AVERAGE PERFORMANCE BY SDG
100 (best) to 0 (worst)
100
80
60
40
20
0
CURRENT ASSESSMENT – SDG DASHBOARD
  Major challenges           Significant challenges          Challenges remain          SDG achieved          Information unavailable
SDG TRENDS
D 5 D • D L D 5 D
• 5 • 5 • D D p
p  Decreasing       5  Stagnating       D  Moderately improving       L  On track or maintaining SDG achievement       •  Information unavailable
Notes: The full title of Goal 2 “Zero Hunger” is “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”.    
  The full title of each SDG is available here: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabledevelopmentgoals
146
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
BOTSWANA
Performance by Indicator
SDG1 – No Poverty    Val u e Yea  rRa t ingTr e nd SDG9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure    Val u e Ye a rRa t ingTr e nd
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%)    16.12020 • D Population using the internet (%)    47.02017 • L
Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%)    31.32020 • 5 Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population)    77.62018 • L
SDG2 – Zero Hunger                Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related     3.02016 • •
Prevalence of undernourishment (%)    26.42017 • p infrastructure (worst 1–5 best)
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%)    31.42007 • 5 The Times Higher Education Universities Ranking: Average score of top 3 * 0.02020 • •
PPrreevvaalleennccee  ooff  wobaesstiintyg,  BinM cIh ≥il d3r0e n(% u nodf aedr u5 lyt epaorps uolfa atigoen )(%)      178..2922000176 •• Lp Scuiennivteifrisci taiensd ( tweochrsnt i0ca–l1 j0o0u rbneaslt a)rticles (per 1,000 population)    0.12018 • 5
Human Trophic Level (best 2–3 worst)    2.32017 • L Expenditure on research and development (% of GDP)    0.52013 • •
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land)    0.42017 • 5 SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities               
Sustainable Nitrogen Management Index (best 0–1.41 worst)    1.32015 • p Gini coefficient adjusted for top income    61.32015 • •
SDG3 – Good Health and Well-Being                SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities               
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)     1442017 • D Annual mean concentration of particulate matter of less than      23.12017 • 5
NMeoorntaaltitayl  rmatoer,t ualnitdye rra-t5e ( (ppeerr 1 1,0,00000 l ilvivee b birirtthhss))      2346..5522001188 •• LD Ac2c.5e sms itcor oimnsp irno vdeiadm weatteerr ( sPoMu2rc.5e),  (pμipg/emd 3(%) of urban population)    96.82017 • 5
Incidence of tuberculosis (per 100,000 population)   275.02018 • L Satisfaction with public transport (%)    62.22018 • L
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population)    4.42018 • L SDG12 – Responsible Consumption and Production                 
Municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)    0.42010 • •
Agdeia-bsteatneds,a ordr iczherdo ndieca rtehs prairtaet dourye d tois ecaasred iionv aadscuultlsa ra dgiesde a3s0e–, c7a0n yceear,r s (%)    20.32016 • D Electronic waste (kg/capita)    7.62016 • •
Agame-bstiaenndt aarird pizoeldlu dtieoant h(p reart e1 0at0t,r0ib0u0 tpaobpleu tloat hioonu)sehold air pollution and    1012016 • • PSOro2d eumctiisosnio-bnas seemd bSoOd2i eedm iinss iimonpso (rktgs /(ckgap/citaap)ita)      11028..4022001122 •• ••
Traffic deaths (per 100,000 population)    23.82016 • p Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita)    55.62010 • •
Life expectancy at birth (years)    66.12016 • D Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)    5.32010 • •
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19)   46.12017 • 5 SDG13 – Climate Action               
Births attended by skilled health personnel (%)    99.72015 • L Energy-related CO2 emissions (tCO2/capita)    3.52017 • 5
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%)   952018 • L CO2 emissions embodied in imports (tCO2/capita)    1.52015 • 5
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best)   61.02017 • 5 CO2 emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita)    45.12018 • •
Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best)    3.52018 • p
SDG14 – Life Below Water                 
SDG4 – Quality Education                Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)    NA NA • •
Net primary enrollment rate (%) 87.72014 • • Ocean Health Index: Clean Waters score (worst 0–100 best)    NA NA • •
Lower secondary completion rate (%) 98.02014 • • Fish caught from overexploited or collapsed stocks (% of total catch)    NA NA • •
Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24) 97.52013 • • Fish caught by trawling (%)    NA NA • •
SDG5 – Gender Equality                      Marine biodiversity threats embodied in imports (per million population)    0.52018 • •
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods (% of females * 78.22017 • L SDG15 – Life on Land               
aged 15 to 49 who are married or in unions) Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%)   51.12018 • L
Ratio of female-to-male mean years of education received (%)    96.82018 • 5 Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%)   46.02018 • 5
Ratio of female-to-male labor force participation rate (%)    84.42019 • L Red List Index of species survival (worst 0–1 best)    1.02019 • L
Seats held by women in national parliament (%)    10.82020 • 5 Permanent deforestation (% of forest area, 5-year average)    0.02018 • •
SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation               
Population using at least basic drinking water services (%)    90.32017 • L Te(rpreers tmriailll iaonnd p forepsuhlwataiotenr) biodiversity threats embodied in imports      2.52018 • •
Population using at least basic sanitation services (%)    77.32017 • D SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions               
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available freshwater resources)    2.12015 • • Homicides (per 100,000 population)    15.02010 • •
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%)    1.02018 • • Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population)    25.42015 • •
Scarce water consumption embodied in imports (m3/capita)    6.82013 • L Percentage of population who feel safe walking alone at night in the      34.42018 • p
SDG7 – Affordable and Clean Energy                city or area where they live (%)
Population with access to electricity (%)    62.82017 • D Property Rights (worst 1–7 best)    4.92019 • •
Population with access to clean fuels and technology for cooking (%)    64.12016 • D Birth registrations with civil authority (% of children under age 5)    87.52018 • •
COpe2 re tmotiassl ieolnesc tfrriocmity f ouuelt pcoumt (bMutsCtOio2n/ TfoWr he)lectricity and heating      2.72017 • L CCohrilrdurpetnio innv Poelvrceedp itnio cnh Iinldd leaxb (owr o(%rs to 0f –p1o0p0u blaetsiot)n aged 5 to 14)      96.1022001196 •• L•
5
SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth                Exports of major conventional weapons (TIV constant million USD   * 0.02019 • • . C
Adjusted GDP growth (%)    -1.62018 • • per 100,000 population) ou
Victims of modern slavery (per 1,000 population)    3.42018 • • Press Freedom Index (best 0–100 worst)    25.12019 • L ntr
y
Admuoltbsi lwe-itmh oanne ayc-cseoruvnicte a tp aro bvaidnekr  o(%r o othf epro fpinualantcioianl  iangsteidtu 1ti5o no ro or vwerit)h a     51.02017 • p SGoDvGer1nm7 e–n tP sapretnndeinrgs ohni phse aflothr a tnhde e dGuocaatliosn (% of GDP)      14 . 1200  9 •   •    Prof
Unemployment rate (% of total labor force)    18.22019 • p For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional    NA NA • • iles
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population)   0.82010 • L public finance, including official development assistance (% of GNI)
Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP)    26.82018 • p
Corporate Tax Haven Score (best 0–100 worst)    55.32019 • •
* Imputed data point
147
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
BRAZIL  
Latin America and the Caribbean
OVERALL PERFORMANCE
SDG SDG
17 1
SDG 100 SDG
16 2
75
Index score Regional average score SDG SDG
15 50 3
25
SDG
SDG 4
14
72.7 70.4
Brazil
SDG SDG
13 5
SDG
12 SDG
6
SDG Global rank 53 (OF 166)
SDG
11 SDG
7
SDG SDG
10 SDG 8
9
SPILLOVER INDEX AVERAGE PERFORMANCE BY SDG
100 (best) to 0 (worst)
100
80
60
40
20
0
CURRENT ASSESSMENT – SDG DASHBOARD
  Major challenges           Significant challenges          Challenges remain          SDG achieved          Information unavailable
SDG TRENDS
5 D D L D L L 5 5
• D • L 5 5 5 L
p  Decreasing       5  Stagnating       D  Moderately improving       L  On track or maintaining SDG achievement       •  Information unavailable
Notes: The full title of Goal 2 “Zero Hunger” is “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”.    
  The full title of each SDG is available here: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabledevelopmentgoals
148
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
BRAZIL
Performance by Indicator
SDG1 – No Poverty    Val u e Yea  rRa t ingTr e nd SDG9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure    Val u e Ye a rRa t ingTr e nd
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%)    4.22020 • 5 Population using the internet (%)    70.42018 • L
Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%)    11.12020 • 5 Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population)    88.12018 • L
SDG2 – Zero Hunger                Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related     2.92018 • 5
Prevalence of undernourishment (%)    2.52017 • L infrastructure (worst 1–5 best)
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%)    7.12007 • L The Times Higher Education Universities Ranking: Average score of top 3    39.12020 • •
PPHrrueemvvaaalleennn Tccreeo  poohff  iwocb aLesestviinetylg ,(  BbinMe csIth ≥ 2il d–3r30e  wn(% ou rnosdft )aedr u5 lyt epaorps uolfa atigoen )(%)        2122...641222000011767 ••• 5Lp SExcupieneninvtdeifiritscui rtaeien osdn ( t wreeocshersantr ic0cha– la1 nj0od0u  drbneeavselt la)orptimcleens t( (p%e ro 1f ,G0D0P0) population)      01..3322001186 •• 5p
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land)    5.22017 • L SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities               
Sustainable Nitrogen Management Index (best 0–1.41 worst)    0.52015 • p Gini coefficient adjusted for top income    54.22017 • •
SDG3 – Good Health and Well-Being                SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities               
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)     602017 • L Annual mean concentration of particulate matter of less than      12.72017 • L
2.5 microns in diameter (PM2.5) (μg/m3)
NMInecooirdntaealntitacyle  rm oatfoe tr,ut uablnietdryce rura-lto5e s( i(psp e(eprr e1 1r,0, 01000000 l ,il0viv0ee0 b  bpiriortthphsus)l)ation)        14845...140222000111888 ••• 5LL ASactciesfsasc ttoio inm wpritohv epdu bwliact etrra snosuprocret,  (p%ip)ed (% of urban population)      9590..0322001179 •• 5L
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population)    0.32018 • 5 SDG12 – Responsible Consumption and Production                 
Municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)    1.22015 • •
Agdeia-bsteatneds,a ordr iczherdo ndieca rtehs prairtaet dourye d tois ecaasred iionv aadscuultlsa ra dgiesde a3s0e–, c7a0n yceear,r s (%)    16.62016 • L Electronic waste (kg/capita)    7.42016 • •
Agame-bstiaenndt aarird pizoeldlu dtieoant h(p reart e1 0at0t,r0ib0u0 tpaobpleu tloat hioonu)sehold air pollution and    302016 • • PSOro2d eumctiisosnio-bnas seemd bSoOd2i eedm iinss iimonpso (rktgs /(ckgap/citaap)ita)       111..4422001122 •• ••
Traffic deaths (per 100,000 population)    19.72016 • L Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita)    53.52010 • •
Life expectancy at birth (years)    75.12016 • D Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)    1.22010 • •
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19)   59.12017 • 5 SDG13 – Climate Action               
Births attended by skilled health personnel (%)    99.22015 • L Energy-related CO2 emissions (tCO2/capita)    2.12017 • L
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%)   832018 • p CO2 emissions embodied in imports (tCO2/capita)    0.22015 • L
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best)   79.02017 • L CO2 emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita)    2.32018 • •
Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best)    6.52019 • L
SDG14 – Life Below Water                 
SDG4 – Quality Education                Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)    65.22018 • L
Net primary enrollment rate (%) 96.32017 • L Ocean Health Index: Clean Waters score (worst 0–100 best)    60.22019 • 5
Lower secondary completion rate (%) 71.82011 • • Fish caught from overexploited or collapsed stocks (% of total catch)    31.62014 • p
Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24) 99.22018 • • Fish caught by trawling (%)    17.52014 • p
SDG5 – Gender Equality                      Marine biodiversity threats embodied in imports (per million population)    0.02018 • •
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods (% of females    89.02007 • L SDG15 – Life on Land               
aged 15 to 49 who are married or in unions) Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%)   42.22018 • 5
Ratio of female-to-male mean years of education received (%)   106.62018 • L Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%)   12.52018 • 5
Ratio of female-to-male labor force participation rate (%)    72.62019 • L Red List Index of species survival (worst 0–1 best)    0.92019 • L
Seats held by women in national parliament (%)    14.62020 • 5 Permanent deforestation (% of forest area, 5-year average)    0.62018 • •
SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation               
Population using at least basic drinking water services (%)    98.22017 • L Te(rpreers tmriailll iaonnd p forepsuhlwataiotenr) biodiversity threats embodied in imports      0.32018 • •
Population using at least basic sanitation services (%)    88.32017 • L SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions               
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available freshwater resources)    3.02015 • • Homicides (per 100,000 population)    30.52017 • p
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%)    49.32018 • • Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population)    37.22018 • L
Scarce water consumption embodied in imports (m3/capita)    2.12013 • L Percentage of population who feel safe walking alone at night in the      40.22019 • 5
SDG7 – Affordable and Clean Energy                city or area where they live (%)
Population with access to electricity (%)   100.02017 • L Property Rights (worst 1–7 best)    3.92019 • •
Population with access to clean fuels and technology for cooking (%)    95.62016 • L Birth registrations with civil authority (% of children under age 5)    96.42018 • •
COpe2 re tmotiassl ieolnesc tfrriocmity f ouuelt pcoumt (bMutsCtOio2n/ TfoWr he)lectricity and heating      0.72017 • L CCohrilrdurpetnio innv Poelvrceedp itnio cnh Iinldd leaxb (owr o(%rs to 0f –p1o0p0u blaetsiot)n aged 5 to 14)      63.5622001196 •• p•
5
SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth                Exports of major conventional weapons (TIV constant million USD      0.02019 • • . C
Adjusted GDP growth (%)    -4.72018 • • per 100,000 population) ou
Victims of modern slavery (per 1,000 population)    1.82018 • • Press Freedom Index (best 0–100 worst)    32.82019 • 5 ntr
y
Admuoltbsi lwe-itmh oanne ayc-cseoruvnicte a tp aro bvaidnekr  o(%r o othf epro fpinualantcioianl  iangsteidtu 1ti5o no ro or vwerit)h a     70.02017 • D SGoDvGer1nm7 e–n tP sapretnndeinrgs ohni phse aflothr a tnhde e dGuocaatliosn (% of GDP)      10 . 0201  5 •   L    Prof
Unemployment rate (% of total labor force)    12.12019 • p For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional    NA NA • • iles
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population)   0.12010 • L public finance, including official development assistance (% of GNI)
Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP)    27.22017 • L
Corporate Tax Haven Score (best 0–100 worst) * 0.02019 • •
* Imputed data point
149
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
BRUNEI DARUSSALAM  
East and South Asia
OVERALL PERFORMANCE
SDG SDG
17 1
SDG 100 SDG
16 2
75
Index score Regional average score SDG SDG
15 50 3
25
SDG
SDG 4
14
68.2 67.2 Brunei 
SDG Darussalam SDG
13 5
SDG
12 SDG
6
SDG Global rank 88 (OF 166)
SDG
11 SDG
7
SDG SDG
10 SDG 8
9
SPILLOVER INDEX AVERAGE PERFORMANCE BY SDG
100 (best) to 0 (worst)
100
80
60
40
20
0
CURRENT ASSESSMENT – SDG DASHBOARD
  Major challenges           Significant challenges          Challenges remain          SDG achieved          Information unavailable
SDG TRENDS
• D D D D L D 5 L
• • • 5 D D D L
p  Decreasing       5  Stagnating       D  Moderately improving       L  On track or maintaining SDG achievement       •  Information unavailable
Notes: The full title of Goal 2 “Zero Hunger” is “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”.    
  The full title of each SDG is available here: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabledevelopmentgoals
150
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
BRUNEI DARUSSALAM
Performance by Indicator
SDG1 – No Poverty    Val u e Yea  rRa t ingTr e nd SDG9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure    Val u e Ye a rRa t ingTr e nd
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%) * NA NA • • Population using the internet (%)    94.92017 • L
Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%) * NA NA • • Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population)   130.02018 • L
SDG2 – Zero Hunger                Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related     2.52018 • •
Prevalence of undernourishment (%)    3.22017 • L infrastructure (worst 1–5 best)
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%)    19.72009 • D The Times Higher Education Universities Ranking: Average score of top 3    40.62020 • •
PPrreevvaalleennccee  ooff  wobaesstiintyg,  BinM cIh ≥il d3r0e n(% u nodf aedr u5 lyt epaorps uolfa atigoen )(%)      124..9122000196 •• Lp Scuiennivteifrisci taiensd ( tweochrsnt i0ca–l1 j0o0u rbneaslt a)rticles (per 1,000 population)    0.72018 • L
Expenditure on research and development (% of GDP)    0.02004 • •
Human Trophic Level (best 2–3 worst)    2.42013 • •
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land)    2.62017 • L SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities               
Sustainable Nitrogen Management Index (best 0–1.41 worst)    1.42015 • 5 Gini coefficient adjusted for top income    NA NA • •
SDG3 – Good Health and Well-Being                SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities               
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)     312017 • L Annual mean concentration of particulate matter of less than      5.92017 • L
2.5 microns in diameter (PM2.5) (μg/m3)
Neonatal mortality rate (per 1,000 live births)    5.52018 • L
Mortality rate, under-5 (per 1,000 live births)    11.62018 • L Access to improved water source, piped (% of urban population)    NA NA • •
Incidence of tuberculosis (per 100,000 population)    68.02018 • 5 Satisfaction with public transport (%)    NA NA • •
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population)    NA NA • • SDG12 – Responsible Consumption and Production                 
Municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)    1.82016 • •
Agdeia-bsteatneds,a ordr iczherdo ndieca rtehs prairtaet dourye d tois ecaasred iionv aadscuultlsa ra dgiesde a3s0e–, c7a0n yceear,r s (%)    16.62016 • L Electronic waste (kg/capita)    18.32016 • •
Agame-bstiaenndt aarird pizoeldlu dtieoant h(p reart e1 0at0t,r0ib0u0 tpaobpleu tloat hioonu)sehold air pollution and    132016 • • PSOro2d eumctiisosnio-bnas seemd bSoOd2i eedm iinss iimonpso (rktgs /(ckgap/citaap)ita)      22432..0522001122 •• ••
Traffic deaths (per 100,000 population)    8.02013 • • Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita)    23.22010 • •
Life expectancy at birth (years)    76.42016 • 5 Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)    8.42010 • •
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19)   10.32017 • L SDG13 – Climate Action               
Births attended by skilled health personnel (%)   100.02016 • L Energy-related CO2 emissions (tCO2/capita)    25.02017 • p
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%)   992018 • L CO2 emissions embodied in imports (tCO2/capita)    2.22015 • D
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best)   81.02017 • L CO2 emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita)   40507.62018 • •
Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best)    NA NA • •
SDG14 – Life Below Water                 
SDG4 – Quality Education                Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)    60.92018 • L
Net primary enrollment rate (%) 93.12018 • D Ocean Health Index: Clean Waters score (worst 0–100 best)    57.22019 • 5
Lower secondary completion rate (%) 105.82018 • L Fish caught from overexploited or collapsed stocks (% of total catch)    NA NA • •
Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24) 99.72018 • • Fish caught by trawling (%)    33.32014 • D
SDG5 – Gender Equality                      Marine biodiversity threats embodied in imports (per million population)    0.02018 • •
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods (% of females    NA NA • • SDG15 – Life on Land               
aged 15 to 49 who are married or in unions) Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%)   63.12018 • L
Ratio of female-to-male mean years of education received (%)   100.02018 • L Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%)   50.02018 • L
Ratio of female-to-male labor force participation rate (%)    81.42019 • L Red List Index of species survival (worst 0–1 best)    0.82019 • p
Seats held by women in national parliament (%)    9.12020 • 5 Permanent deforestation (% of forest area, 5-year average)    0.22018 • •
SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation               
Population using at least basic drinking water services (%)    99.92017 • L Te(rpreers tmriailll iaonnd p forepsuhlwataiotenr) biodiversity threats embodied in imports      0.42018 • •
Population using at least basic sanitation services (%)    96.32015 • • SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions               
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available freshwater resources)    NA NA • • Homicides (per 100,000 population)    0.52013 • •
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%)    6.12018 • • Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population)    7.12015 • •
Scarce water consumption embodied in imports (m3/capita)    19.62013 • L Percentage of population who feel safe walking alone at night in the      NA NA • •
SDG7 – Affordable and Clean Energy                city or area where they live (%)
Population with access to electricity (%)   100.02017 • L Property Rights (worst 1–7 best)    4.32019 • •
Population with access to clean fuels and technology for cooking (%)   100.02016 • L Birth registrations with civil authority (% of children under age 5)    NA NA • •
COpe2 re tmotiassl ieolnesc tfrriocmity f ouuelt pcoumt (bMutsCtOio2n/ TfoWr he)lectricity and heating      1.72017 • 5 CCohrilrdurpetnio innv Poelvrceedp itnio cnh Iinldd leaxb (owr o(%rs to 0f –p1o0p0u blaetsiot)n aged 5 to 14)      N6A020N1A9 •• L•
5
SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth                Exports of major conventional weapons (TIV constant million USD      2.82019 • • . C
Adjusted GDP growth (%)    -2.62018 • • per 100,000 population) ou
Victims of modern slavery (per 1,000 population)    10.92018 • • Press Freedom Index (best 0–100 worst)    51.52019 • 5 ntr
y
Admuoltbsi lwe-itmh oanne ayc-cseoruvnicte a tp aro bvaidnekr  o(%r o othf epro fpinualantcioianl  iangsteidtu 1ti5o no ro or vwerit)h a     NA NA • • SGoDvGer1nm7 e–n tP sapretnndeinrgs ohni phse aflothr a tnhde e dGuocaatliosn (% of GDP)      6 . 6201  6 •   L    Prof
Unemployment rate (% of total labor force)    9.12019 • p For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional    NA NA • • iles
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population)   1.32010 • L public finance, including official development assistance (% of GNI)
Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP)    NA NA • •
Corporate Tax Haven Score (best 0–100 worst) * 0.02019 • •
* Imputed data point
151
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
BULGARIA  
Eastern Europe and Central Asia
OVERALL PERFORMANCE
SDG SDG
17 1
SDG 100 SDG
16 2
75
Index score Regional average score SDG SDG
15 50 3
25
SDG
SDG 4
14
74.8 70.9
Bulgaria
SDG SDG
13 5
SDG
12 SDG
6
SDG Global rank 39 (OF 166)
SDG
11 SDG
7
SDG SDG
10 SDG 8
9
SPILLOVER INDEX AVERAGE PERFORMANCE BY SDG
100 (best) to 0 (worst)
100
80
60
40
20
0
CURRENT ASSESSMENT – SDG DASHBOARD
  Major challenges           Significant challenges          Challenges remain          SDG achieved          Information unavailable
SDG TRENDS
L D D p D D D L D
• D • 5 D L D L
p  Decreasing       5  Stagnating       D  Moderately improving       L  On track or maintaining SDG achievement       •  Information unavailable
Notes: The full title of Goal 2 “Zero Hunger” is “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”.    
  The full title of each SDG is available here: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabledevelopmentgoals
152
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
BULGARIA
Performance by Indicator
SDG1 – No Poverty    Val u e Yea  rRa t ingTr e nd SDG9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure    Val u e Ye a rRa t ingTr e nd
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%)    1.32020 • L Population using the internet (%)    64.82018 • L
Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%)    2.02020 • L Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population)   101.02018 • L
SDG2 – Zero Hunger                Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related     2.82018 • p
Prevalence of undernourishment (%)    3.62017 • L infrastructure (worst 1–5 best)
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%)    8.82004 • D The Times Higher Education Universities Ranking: Average score of top 3    16.42020 • •
PPHrrueemvvaaalleennn Tccreeo  poohff  iwocb aLesestviinetylg ,(  BbinMe csIth ≥ 2il d–3r30e  wn(% ou rnosdft )aedr u5 lyt epaorps uolfa atigoen )(%)        2325...240222000011467 ••• 5Lp SExcupieneninvtdeifiritscui rtaeien osdn ( t wreeocshersantr ic0cha– la1 nj0od0u  drbneeavselt la)orptimcleens t( (p%e ro 1f ,G0D0P0) population)      00..5822001187 •• Lp
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land)    5.52017 • L SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities               
Sustainable Nitrogen Management Index (best 0–1.41 worst)    0.52015 • D Gini coefficient adjusted for top income    40.92014 • •
SDG3 – Good Health and Well-Being                SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities               
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)     102017 • L Annual mean concentration of particulate matter of less than      19.12017 • D
2.5 microns in diameter (PM2.5) (μg/m3)
NMeoorntaaltitayl  rmatoer,t ualnitdye rra-t5e ( (ppeerr 1 1,0,00000 l ilvivee b birirtthhss))      37..6122001188 •• LL Access to improved water source, piped (% of urban population)    99.02017 • L
Incidence of tuberculosis (per 100,000 population)    22.02018 • L Satisfaction with public transport (%)    45.82018 • p
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population)    0.12018 • L SDG12 – Responsible Consumption and Production                 
Municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)    1.62015 • •
Agdeia-bsteatneds,a ordr iczherdo ndieca rtehs prairtaet dourye d tois ecaasred iionv aadscuultlsa ra dgiesde a3s0e–, c7a0n yceear,r s (%)    23.62016 • 5 Electronic waste (kg/capita)    11.12016 • •
Agame-bstiaenndt aarird pizoeldlu dtieoant h(p reart e1 0at0t,r0ib0u0 tpaobpleu tloat hioonu)sehold air pollution and    622016 • • PSOro2d eumctiisosnio-bnas seemd bSoOd2i eedm iinss iimonpso (rktgs /(ckgap/citaap)ita)       625..9022001122 •• ••
Traffic deaths (per 100,000 population)    10.22016 • p Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita)    24.92010 • •
Life expectancy at birth (years)    74.82016 • 5 Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)    3.52010 • •
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19)   39.92017 • D SDG13 – Climate Action               
Births attended by skilled health personnel (%)    99.82015 • L Energy-related CO2 emissions (tCO2/capita)    6.22017 • 5
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%)   922018 • L CO2 emissions embodied in imports (tCO2/capita)    1.02015 • 5
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best)   66.02017 • D CO2 emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita)    15.32018 • •
Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best)    5.12018 • L
SDG14 – Life Below Water                 
SDG4 – Quality Education                Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)    99.32018 • L
Net primary enrollment rate (%) 86.42017 • p Ocean Health Index: Clean Waters score (worst 0–100 best)    42.32019 • 5
Lower secondary completion rate (%) 47.62016 • • Fish caught from overexploited or collapsed stocks (% of total catch)    NA NA • •
Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24) 97.92011 • • Fish caught by trawling (%)    20.62014 • L
SDG5 – Gender Equality                      Marine biodiversity threats embodied in imports (per million population)    0.02018 • •
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods (% of females * 63.42017 • D SDG15 – Life on Land               
aged 15 to 49 who are married or in unions) Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%)   98.92018 • L
Ratio of female-to-male mean years of education received (%)   100.82018 • L Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%)   98.62018 • L
Ratio of female-to-male labor force participation rate (%)    80.42019 • L Red List Index of species survival (worst 0–1 best)    0.92019 • L
Seats held by women in national parliament (%)    26.72020 • D Permanent deforestation (% of forest area, 5-year average)    0.02018 • •
SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation               
Population using at least basic drinking water services (%)    99.12017 • L Te(rpreers tmriailll iaonnd p forepsuhlwataiotenr) biodiversity threats embodied in imports      1.12018 • •
Population using at least basic sanitation services (%)    86.02017 • 5 SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions               
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available freshwater resources)    41.62015 • • Homicides (per 100,000 population)    1.52017 • L
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%)    13.92018 • • Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population)    8.82018 • L
Scarce water consumption embodied in imports (m3/capita)    9.32013 • L Percentage of population who feel safe walking alone at night in the      58.42018 • 5
SDG7 – Affordable and Clean Energy                city or area where they live (%)
Population with access to electricity (%)   100.02017 • L Property Rights (worst 1–7 best)    3.92019 • •
Population with access to clean fuels and technology for cooking (%)    88.72016 • L Birth registrations with civil authority (% of children under age 5)   100.02018 • •
COpe2 re tmotiassl ieolnesc tfrriocmity f ouuelt pcoumt (bMutsCtOio2n/ TfoWr he)lectricity and heating      1.02017 • p CCohrilrdurpetnio innv Poelvrceedp itnio cnh Iinldd leaxb (owr o(%rs to 0f –p1o0p0u blaetsiot)n aged 5 to 14)      N4A320N1A9 •• 5•
5
SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth                Exports of major conventional weapons (TIV constant million USD      0.62019 • • . C
Adjusted GDP growth (%)    1.42018 • • per 100,000 population) ou
Victims of modern slavery (per 1,000 population)    4.52018 • • Press Freedom Index (best 0–100 worst)    35.12019 • 5 ntr
y
Admuoltbsi lwe-itmh oanne ayc-cseoruvnicte a tp aro bvaidnekr  o(%r o othf epro fpinualantcioianl  iangsteidtu 1ti5o no ro or vwerit)h a     72.22017 • L SGoDvGer1nm7 e–n tP sapretnndeinrgs ohni phse aflothr a tnhde e dGuocaatliosn (% of GDP)      8 . 1201  3 •   •    Prof
Unemployment rate (% of total labor force)    4.32019 • L For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional    NA NA • • iles
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population)   0.42010 • L public finance, including official development assistance (% of GNI)
Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP)    32.82017 • L
Corporate Tax Haven Score (best 0–100 worst)    55.62019 • •
* Imputed data point
153
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
BURKINA FASO   
Sub-Saharan Africa
OVERALL PERFORMANCE
SDG SDG
17 1
SDG 100 SDG
16 2
75
Index score Regional average score SDG SDG
15 50 3
25
SDG
SDG 4
14
55.2 53.1
Burkina Faso
SDG SDG
13 5
SDG
12 SDG
6
SDG Global rank 137 (OF 166)
SDG
11 SDG
7
SDG SDG
10 SDG 8
9
SPILLOVER INDEX AVERAGE PERFORMANCE BY SDG
100 (best) to 0 (worst)
100
80
60
40
20
0
CURRENT ASSESSMENT – SDG DASHBOARD
  Major challenges           Significant challenges          Challenges remain          SDG achieved          Information unavailable
SDG TRENDS
5 D 5 L 5 5 5 D D
• 5 • L • L D 5
p  Decreasing       5  Stagnating       D  Moderately improving       L  On track or maintaining SDG achievement       •  Information unavailable
Notes: The full title of Goal 2 “Zero Hunger” is “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”.    
  The full title of each SDG is available here: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabledevelopmentgoals
154
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
BURKINA FASO 
Performance by Indicator
SDG1 – No Poverty    Val u e Yea  rRa t ingTr e nd SDG9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure    Val u e Ye a rRa t ingTr e nd
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%)    33.22020 • D Population using the internet (%)    16.02017 • 5
Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%)    67.72020 • 5 Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population)    29.92018 • L
SDG2 – Zero Hunger                Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related     2.42018 • D
Prevalence of undernourishment (%)    20.02017 • 5 infrastructure (worst 1–5 best)
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%)    27.32016 • D The Times Higher Education Universities Ranking: Average score of top 3 * 0.02020 • •
PPHrrueemvvaaalleennn Tccreeo  poohff  iwocb aLesestviinetylg ,(  BbinMe csIth ≥ 2il d–3r30e  wn(% ou rnosdft )aedr u5 lyt epaorps uolfa atigoen )(%)        752...661222000111667 ••• LLL SExcupieneninvtdeifiritscui rtaeien osdn ( t wreeocshersantr ic0cha– la1 nj0od0u  drbneeavselt la)orptimcleens t( (p%e ro 1f ,G0D0P0) population)      00..0722001187 •• 5L
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land)    1.02017 • p SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities               
Sustainable Nitrogen Management Index (best 0–1.41 worst)    0.82015 • 5 Gini coefficient adjusted for top income    35.32014 • •
SDG3 – Good Health and Well-Being                SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities               
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)     3202017 • D Annual mean concentration of particulate matter of less than      42.92017 • p
NMeoorntaaltitayl  rmatoer,t ualnitdye rra-t5e ( (ppeerr 1 1,0,00000 l ilvivee b birirtthhss))      2746..7422001188 •• DD Ac2c.5e sms itcor oimnsp irno vdeiadm weatteerr ( sPoMu2rc.5e),  (pμipg/emd 3(%) of urban population)    74.32017 • p
Incidence of tuberculosis (per 100,000 population)    48.02018 • 5 Satisfaction with public transport (%)    55.42019 • L
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population)    0.12018 • L SDG12 – Responsible Consumption and Production                 
Municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)    1.22015 • •
Agdeia-bsteatneds,a ordr iczherdo ndieca rtehs prairtaet dourye d tois ecaasred iionv aadscuultlsa ra dgiesde a3s0e–, c7a0n yceear,r s (%)    21.72016 • 5 Electronic waste (kg/capita)    0.62016 • •
Agame-bstiaenndt aarird pizoeldlu dtieoant h(p reart e1 0at0t,r0ib0u0 tpaobpleu tloat hioonu)sehold air pollution and    2062016 • • PSOro2d eumctiisosnio-bnas seemd bSoOd2i eedm iinss iimonpso (rktgs /(ckgap/citaap)ita)       80..9622001122 •• ••
Traffic deaths (per 100,000 population)    30.52016 • p Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita)    24.92010 • •
Life expectancy at birth (years)    60.32016 • 5 Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)    0.52010 • •
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19)  104.32017 • 5 SDG13 – Climate Action               
Births attended by skilled health personnel (%)    79.82015 • • Energy-related CO2 emissions (tCO2/capita)    0.22017 • L
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%)   882018 • 5 CO2 emissions embodied in imports (tCO2/capita)    0.02015 • L
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best)   40.02017 • 5 CO2 emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita) * 0.02018 • •
Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best)    4.72019 • D
SDG14 – Life Below Water                 
SDG4 – Quality Education                Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)    NA NA • •
Net primary enrollment rate (%) 78.62018 • L Ocean Health Index: Clean Waters score (worst 0–100 best)    NA NA • •
Lower secondary completion rate (%) 43.02018 • L Fish caught from overexploited or collapsed stocks (% of total catch)    NA NA • •
Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24) 58.32018 • • Fish caught by trawling (%)    NA NA • •
SDG5 – Gender Equality                      Marine biodiversity threats embodied in imports (per million population)    0.02018 • •
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods (% of females    56.42018 • D SDG15 – Life on Land               
aged 15 to 49 who are married or in unions) Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%)   71.82018 • L
Ratio of female-to-male mean years of education received (%)    47.62018 • p Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%)   63.02018 • L
Ratio of female-to-male labor force participation rate (%)    77.82019 • L Red List Index of species survival (worst 0–1 best)    1.02019 • L
Seats held by women in national parliament (%)    13.42020 • 5 Permanent deforestation (% of forest area, 5-year average)    0.02018 • •
SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation               
Population using at least basic drinking water services (%)    47.92017 • p Te(rpreers tmriailll iaonnd p forepsuhlwataiotenr) biodiversity threats embodied in imports      0.02018 • •
Population using at least basic sanitation services (%)    19.42017 • 5 SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions               
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available freshwater resources)    7.82005 • • Homicides (per 100,000 population)    1.32017 • L
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%)    0.02018 • • Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population)    42.02018 • D
Scarce water consumption embodied in imports (m3/capita)    0.62013 • L Percentage of population who feel safe walking alone at night in the      57.72019 • 5
SDG7 – Affordable and Clean Energy                city or area where they live (%)
Population with access to electricity (%)    25.52017 • 5 Property Rights (worst 1–7 best)    4.02019 • •
Population with access to clean fuels and technology for cooking (%)    8.92016 • 5 Birth registrations with civil authority (% of children under age 5)    76.92018 • •
COpe2 re tmotiassl ieolnesc tfrriocmity f ouuelt pcoumt (bMutsCtOio2n/ TfoWr he)lectricity and heating      NA NA • • CCohrilrdurpetnio innv Poelvrceedp itnio cnh Iinldd leaxb (owr o(%rs to 0f –p1o0p0u blaetsiot)n aged 5 to 14)      394.0222001196 •• 5•
5
SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth                Exports of major conventional weapons (TIV constant million USD   * 0.02019 • • . C
Adjusted GDP growth (%)    -3.52018 • • per 100,000 population) ou
Victims of modern slavery (per 1,000 population)    4.52018 • • Press Freedom Index (best 0–100 worst)    24.52019 • L ntr
y
Admuoltbsi lwe-itmh oanne ayc-cseoruvnicte a tp aro bvaidnekr  o(%r o othf epro fpinualantcioianl  iangsteidtu 1ti5o no ro or vwerit)h a     43.22017 • L SGoDvGer1nm7 e–n tP sapretnndeinrgs ohni phse aflothr a tnhde e dGuocaatliosn (% of GDP)      5 . 8201  5 •   p    Prof
Unemployment rate (% of total labor force)    6.32019 • 5 For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional    NA NA • • iles
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population)   0.02010 • L public finance, including official development assistance (% of GNI)
Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP)    18.92018 • 5
Corporate Tax Haven Score (best 0–100 worst) * 0.02019 • •
* Imputed data point
155
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
BURUNDI  
Sub-Saharan Africa
OVERALL PERFORMANCE
SDG SDG
17 1
SDG 100 SDG
16 2
75
Index score Regional average score SDG SDG
15 50 3
25
SDG
SDG 4
14
53.5 53.1
Burundi
SDG SDG
13 5
SDG
12 SDG
6
SDG Global rank 143 (OF 166)
SDG
11 SDG
7
SDG SDG
10 SDG 8
9
SPILLOVER INDEX AVERAGE PERFORMANCE BY SDG
100 (best) to 0 (worst)
100
80
60
40
20
0
CURRENT ASSESSMENT – SDG DASHBOARD
  Major challenges           Significant challenges          Challenges remain          SDG achieved          Information unavailable
SDG TRENDS
p 5 D p 5 5 5 L 5
• D • L • L 5 p
p  Decreasing       5  Stagnating       D  Moderately improving       L  On track or maintaining SDG achievement       •  Information unavailable
Notes: The full title of Goal 2 “Zero Hunger” is “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”.    
  The full title of each SDG is available here: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabledevelopmentgoals
156
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
BURUNDI
Performance by Indicator
SDG1 – No Poverty    Val u e Yea  rRa t ingTr e nd SDG9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure    Val u e Ye a rRa t ingTr e nd
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%)    75.92020 • p Population using the internet (%)    2.72017 • 5
Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%)    92.82020 • p Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population)    11.42018 • 5
SDG2 – Zero Hunger                Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related     2.02018 • p
Prevalence of undernourishment (%)    NA NA • • infrastructure (worst 1–5 best)
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%)    55.92016 • 5 The Times Higher Education Universities Ranking: Average score of top 3 * 0.02020 • •
PPrreevvaalleennccee  ooff  wobaesstiintyg,  BinM cIh ≥il d3r0e n(% u nodf aedr u5 lyt epaorps uolfa atigoen )(%)      55..1422001166 •• 5L Scuiennivteifrisci taiensd ( tweochrsnt i0ca–l1 j0o0u rbneaslt a)rticles (per 1,000 population)    0.02018 • 5
Expenditure on research and development (% of GDP)    0.12011 • •
Human Trophic Level (best 2–3 worst)    2.02007 • •
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land)    1.42017 • 5 SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities               
Sustainable Nitrogen Management Index (best 0–1.41 worst)    0.92015 • p Gini coefficient adjusted for top income    38.62013 • •
SDG3 – Good Health and Well-Being                SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities               
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)     5482017 • 5 Annual mean concentration of particulate matter of less than      38.92017 • 5
NMInecooirdntaealntitacyle  rm oatfoe tr,ut uablnietdryce rura-lto5e s( i(psp e(eprr e1 1r,0, 01000000 l ,il0viv0ee0 b  bpiriortthphsus)l)ation)       1251181...750222000111888 ••• 5LD ASac2tc.i5es fsmasc ittcoiro oinmn wsp irintoh vd epiadum bwleiactte etrrr a( sPnoMsup2roc.5ret),   ((p%μipg)/emd 3(%) of urban population)      8399..4422001178 •• LD
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population)    0.22018 • L SDG12 – Responsible Consumption and Production                 
Municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)    3.52002 • •
Agdeia-bsteatneds,a ordr iczherdo ndieca rtehs prairtaet dourye d tois ecaasred iionv aadscuultlsa ra dgiesde a3s0e–, c7a0n yceear,r s (%)    22.92016 • p Electronic waste (kg/capita)    0.52016 • •
Agame-bstiaenndt aarird pizoeldlu dtieoant h(p reart e1 0at0t,r0ib0u0 tpaobpleu tloat hioonu)sehold air pollution and    1802016 • • PSOro2d eumctiisosnio-bnas seemd bSoOd2i eedm iinss iimonpso (rktgs /(ckgap/citaap)ita)       130..2822001122 •• ••
Traffic deaths (per 100,000 population)    34.72016 • p Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita)    5.82010 • •
Life expectancy at birth (years)    60.12016 • 5 Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)    0.12010 • •
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19)   55.62017 • 5 SDG13 – Climate Action               
Births attended by skilled health personnel (%)    85.12017 • L Energy-related CO2 emissions (tCO2/capita)    0.02017 • L
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%)   882018 • p CO2 emissions embodied in imports (tCO2/capita)    0.02015 • L
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best)   42.02017 • 5 CO2 emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita) * 0.02018 • •
Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best)    3.82018 • L
SDG14 – Life Below Water                 
SDG4 – Quality Education                Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)    NA NA • •
Net primary enrollment rate (%) 92.82018 • • Ocean Health Index: Clean Waters score (worst 0–100 best)    NA NA • •
Lower secondary completion rate (%) 32.62018 • p Fish caught from overexploited or collapsed stocks (% of total catch)    NA NA • •
Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24) 88.22017 • • Fish caught by trawling (%)    NA NA • •
SDG5 – Gender Equality                      Marine biodiversity threats embodied in imports (per million population)    0.02018 • •
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods (% of females    38.02017 • 5 SDG15 – Life on Land               
aged 15 to 49 who are married or in unions) Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%)   67.32018 • L
Ratio of female-to-male mean years of education received (%)    75.02018 • D Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%)   81.42018 • L
Ratio of female-to-male labor force participation rate (%)   103.62019 • L Red List Index of species survival (worst 0–1 best)    0.92019 • L
Seats held by women in national parliament (%)    36.42020 • 5 Permanent deforestation (% of forest area, 5-year average)    0.22018 • •
SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation               
Population using at least basic drinking water services (%)    60.82017 • 5 Te(rpreers tmriailll iaonnd p forepsuhlwataiotenr) biodiversity threats embodied in imports      0.02018 • •
Population using at least basic sanitation services (%)    45.82017 • p SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions               
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available freshwater resources)    10.52000 • • Homicides (per 100,000 population)    6.02016 • 5
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%)    0.02018 • • Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population)    52.72018 • 5
Scarce water consumption embodied in imports (m3/capita)    0.22013 • L Percentage of population who feel safe walking alone at night in the      65.72018 • L
SDG7 – Affordable and Clean Energy                city or area where they live (%)
Population with access to electricity (%)    9.32017 • 5 Property Rights (worst 1–7 best)    4.32019 • •
Population with access to clean fuels and technology for cooking (%)    0.92016 • 5 Birth registrations with civil authority (% of children under age 5)    83.52018 • •
COpe2 re tmotiassl ieolnesc tfrriocmity f ouuelt pcoumt (bMutsCtOio2n/ TfoWr he)lectricity and heating      NA NA • • CCohrilrdurpetnio innv Poelvrceedp itnio cnh Iinldd leaxb (owr o(%rs to 0f –p1o0p0u blaetsiot)n aged 5 to 14)      261.9322001196 •• p•
5
SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth                Exports of major conventional weapons (TIV constant million USD   * 0.02019 • • . C
Adjusted GDP growth (%)    -10.72018 • • per 100,000 population) ou
Victims of modern slavery (per 1,000 population)    40.02018 • • Press Freedom Index (best 0–100 worst)    52.92019 • 5 ntr
y
Admuoltbsi lwe-itmh oanne ayc-cseoruvnicte a tp aro bvaidnekr  o(%r o othf epro fpinualantcioianl  iangsteidtu 1ti5o no ro or vwerit)h a     7.12014 • • SGoDvGer1nm7 e–n tP sapretnndeinrgs ohni phse aflothr a tnhde e dGuocaatliosn (% of GDP)      6 . 5201  6 •   p    Prof
Unemployment rate (% of total labor force)    1.42019 • L For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional    NA NA • • iles
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population)   0.02010 • L public finance, including official development assistance (% of GNI)
Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP)    NA NA • •
Corporate Tax Haven Score (best 0–100 worst) * 0.02019 • •
* Imputed data point
157
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
CABO VERDE  
Sub-Saharan Africa
OVERALL PERFORMANCE
SDG SDG
17 1
SDG 100 SDG
16 2
75
Index score Regional average score SDG SDG
15 50 3
25
SDG
SDG 4
14
67.2 53.1
Cabo Verde
SDG SDG
13 5
SDG
12 SDG
6
SDG Global rank 92 (OF 166)
SDG
11 SDG
7
SDG SDG
10 SDG 8
9
SPILLOVER INDEX AVERAGE PERFORMANCE BY SDG
100 (best) to 0 (worst)
100
80
60
40
20
0
CURRENT ASSESSMENT – SDG DASHBOARD
  Major challenges           Significant challenges          Challenges remain          SDG achieved          Information unavailable
SDG TRENDS
D 5 D p D D D 5 5
• D • L D D D D
p  Decreasing       5  Stagnating       D  Moderately improving       L  On track or maintaining SDG achievement       •  Information unavailable
Notes: The full title of Goal 2 “Zero Hunger” is “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”.    
  The full title of each SDG is available here: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabledevelopmentgoals
158
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
CABO VERDE
Performance by Indicator
SDG1 – No Poverty    Val u e Yea  rRa t ingTr e nd SDG9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure    Val u e Ye a rRa t ingTr e nd
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%)    15.82020 • D Population using the internet (%)    57.22017 • L
Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%)    35.52020 • D Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population)    66.82018 • p
SDG2 – Zero Hunger                Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related     NA NA • •
Prevalence of undernourishment (%)    12.62017 • D infrastructure (worst 1–5 best)
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%)    NA NA • • The Times Higher Education Universities Ranking: Average score of top 3 * 0.02020 • •
PPrreevvaalleennccee  ooff  wobaesstiintyg,  BinM cIh ≥il d3r0e n(% u nodf aedr u5 lyt epaorps uolfa atigoen )(%)      1N1.A820N1A6 •• p• Scuiennivteifrisci taiensd ( tweochrsnt i0ca–l1 j0o0u rbneaslt a)rticles (per 1,000 population)    0.02018 • p
Human Trophic Level (best 2–3 worst)    2.22017 • 5 Expenditure on research and development (% of GDP)    0.12011 • •
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land)    0.22017 • 5 SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities               
Sustainable Nitrogen Management Index (best 0–1.41 worst)    1.22015 • 5 Gini coefficient adjusted for top income    50.22007 • •
SDG3 – Good Health and Well-Being                SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities               
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)     582017 • L Annual mean concentration of particulate matter of less than      34.82017 • p
2.5 microns in diameter (PM2.5) (μg/m3)
NMeoorntaaltitayl  rmatoer,t ualnitdye rra-t5e ( (ppeerr 1 1,0,00000 l ilvivee b birirtthhss))      1119..6522001188 •• LL Access to improved water source, piped (% of urban population)    95.82017 • L
Incidence of tuberculosis (per 100,000 population)    46.02018 • L Satisfaction with public transport (%)    NA NA • •
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population)    0.22018 • L SDG12 – Responsible Consumption and Production                 
Municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)    1.02012 • •
Agdeia-bsteatneds,a ordr iczherdo ndieca rtehs prairtaet dourye d tois ecaasred iionv aadscuultlsa ra dgiesde a3s0e–, c7a0n yceear,r s (%)    17.22016 • L Electronic waste (kg/capita)    4.62016 • •
Agame-bstiaenndt aarird pizoeldlu dtieoant h(p reart e1 0at0t,r0ib0u0 tpaobpleu tloat hioonu)sehold air pollution and    992016 • • PSOro2d eumctiisosnio-bnas seemd bSoOd2i eedm iinss iimonpso (rktgs /(ckgap/citaap)ita)      2341..4922001122 •• ••
Traffic deaths (per 100,000 population)    25.02016 • 5 Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita)    16.72010 • •
Life expectancy at birth (years)    73.22016 • D Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)    2.32010 • •
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19)   73.82017 • 5 SDG13 – Climate Action               
Births attended by skilled health personnel (%)    91.42015 • 5 Energy-related CO2 emissions (tCO2/capita)    1.52017 • L
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%)   982018 • L CO2 emissions embodied in imports (tCO2/capita)    0.42015 • L
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best)   69.02017 • L CO2 emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita) * 0.02018 • •
Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best)    NA NA • •
SDG14 – Life Below Water                 
SDG4 – Quality Education                Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)    3.12018 • 5
Net primary enrollment rate (%) 93.42018 • 5 Ocean Health Index: Clean Waters score (worst 0–100 best)    62.22019 • L
Lower secondary completion rate (%) 68.22018 • p Fish caught from overexploited or collapsed stocks (% of total catch)    24.42014 • L
Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24) 98.12015 • • Fish caught by trawling (%)    33.72014 • •
SDG5 – Gender Equality                      Marine biodiversity threats embodied in imports (per million population)    0.02018 • •
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods (% of females    73.22005 • L SDG15 – Life on Land               
aged 15 to 49 who are married or in unions) Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%)   13.02018 • 5
Ratio of female-to-male mean years of education received (%)    92.32018 • 5 Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%)   NA NA • •
Ratio of female-to-male labor force participation rate (%)    89.52019 • L Red List Index of species survival (worst 0–1 best)    0.92019 • L
Seats held by women in national parliament (%)    25.02020 • D Permanent deforestation (% of forest area, 5-year average)    0.02018 • •
SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation               
Population using at least basic drinking water services (%)    87.12017 • D Te(rpreers tmriailll iaonnd p forepsuhlwataiotenr) biodiversity threats embodied in imports      0.22018 • •
Population using at least basic sanitation services (%)    73.92017 • L SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions               
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available freshwater resources)    9.02000 • • Homicides (per 100,000 population)    11.52016 • D
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%)    20.92018 • • Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population)    19.32018 • •
Scarce water consumption embodied in imports (m3/capita)    4.92013 • L Percentage of population who feel safe walking alone at night in the      NA NA • •
SDG7 – Affordable and Clean Energy                city or area where they live (%)
Population with access to electricity (%)    92.92017 • L Property Rights (worst 1–7 best)    4.22019 • •
Population with access to clean fuels and technology for cooking (%)    71.12016 • D Birth registrations with civil authority (% of children under age 5)    91.02018 • •
COpe2 re tmotiassl ieolnesc tfrriocmity f ouuelt pcoumt (bMutsCtOio2n/ TfoWr he)lectricity and heating      NA NA • • CCohrilrdurpetnio innv Poelvrceedp itnio cnh Iinldd leaxb (owr o(%rs to 0f –p1o0p0u blaetsiot)n aged 5 to 14)      65.8422001196 •• L•
5
SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth                Exports of major conventional weapons (TIV constant million USD   * 0.02019 • • . C
Adjusted GDP growth (%)    -1.52018 • • per 100,000 population) ou
Victims of modern slavery (per 1,000 population)    4.12018 • • Press Freedom Index (best 0–100 worst)    19.82019 • L ntr
y
Admuoltbsi lwe-itmh oanne ayc-cseoruvnicte a tp aro bvaidnekr  o(%r o othf epro fpinualantcioianl  iangsteidtu 1ti5o no ro or vwerit)h a     NA NA • • SGoDvGer1nm7 e–n tP sapretnndeinrgs ohni phse aflothr a tnhde e dGuocaatliosn (% of GDP)      8 . 3201  6 •   D    Prof
Unemployment rate (% of total labor force)    12.22019 • p For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional    NA NA • • iles
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population)   0.32010 • L public finance, including official development assistance (% of GNI)
Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP)    28.82017 • L
Corporate Tax Haven Score (best 0–100 worst) * 0.02019 • •
* Imputed data point
159
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
CAMBODIA  
East and South Asia
OVERALL PERFORMANCE
SDG SDG
17 1
SDG 100 SDG
16 2
75
Index score Regional average score SDG SDG
15 50 3
25
SDG
SDG 4
14
64.4 67.2
Cambodia
SDG SDG
13 5
SDG
12 SDG
6
SDG Global rank 106 (OF 166)
SDG
11 SDG
7
SDG SDG
10 SDG 8
9
SPILLOVER INDEX AVERAGE PERFORMANCE BY SDG
100 (best) to 0 (worst)
100
80
60
40
20
0
CURRENT ASSESSMENT – SDG DASHBOARD
  Major challenges           Significant challenges          Challenges remain          SDG achieved          Information unavailable
SDG TRENDS
L D D 5 D L D D D
• L • L 5 p D D
p  Decreasing       5  Stagnating       D  Moderately improving       L  On track or maintaining SDG achievement       •  Information unavailable
Notes: The full title of Goal 2 “Zero Hunger” is “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”.    
  The full title of each SDG is available here: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabledevelopmentgoals
160
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
CAMBODIA
Performance by Indicator
SDG1 – No Poverty    Val u e Yea  rRa t ingTr e nd SDG9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure    Val u e Ye a rRa t ingTr e nd
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%)    0.22020 • L Population using the internet (%)    40.02018 • L
Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%)    12.32020 • L Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population)    82.82018 • L
SDG2 – Zero Hunger                Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related     2.12018 • p
Prevalence of undernourishment (%)    16.42017 • D infrastructure (worst 1–5 best)
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%)    32.42014 • 5 The Times Higher Education Universities Ranking: Average score of top 3 * 0.02020 • •
PPrreevvaalleennccee  ooff  wobaesstiintyg,  BinM cIh ≥il d3r0e n(% u nodf aedr u5 lyt epaorps uolfa atigoen )(%)      93..6922001146 •• LD Scuiennivteifrisci taiensd ( tweochrsnt i0ca–l1 j0o0u rbneaslt a)rticles (per 1,000 population)    0.02018 • 5
Human Trophic Level (best 2–3 worst)    2.22017 • L Expenditure on research and development (% of GDP)    0.12015 • •
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land)    3.62017 • L SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities               
Sustainable Nitrogen Management Index (best 0–1.41 worst)    0.62015 • 5 Gini coefficient adjusted for top income    35.42004 • •
SDG3 – Good Health and Well-Being                SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities               
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)     1602017 • L Annual mean concentration of particulate matter of less than      25.62017 • D
2.5 microns in diameter (PM2.5) (μg/m3)
NMeoorntaaltitayl  rmatoer,t ualnitdye rra-t5e ( (ppeerr 1 1,0,00000 l ilvivee b birirtthhss))      1248..4022001188 •• LL Access to improved water source, piped (% of urban population)    77.32017 • L
Incidence of tuberculosis (per 100,000 population)   302.02018 • D Satisfaction with public transport (%)    73.82019 • L
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population)    0.12018 • L SDG12 – Responsible Consumption and Production                 
Municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)    0.82014 • •
Agdeia-bsteatneds,a ordr iczherdo ndieca rtehs prairtaet dourye d tois ecaasred iionv aadscuultlsa ra dgiesde a3s0e–, c7a0n yceear,r s (%)    21.12016 • D Electronic waste (kg/capita)    0.92016 • •
Agame-bstiaenndt aarird pizoeldlu dtieoant h(p reart e1 0at0t,r0ib0u0 tpaobpleu tloat hioonu)sehold air pollution and    1502016 • • PSOro2d eumctiisosnio-bnas seemd bSoOd2i eedm iinss iimonpso (rktgs /(ckgap/citaap)ita)       111..0022001122 •• ••
Traffic deaths (per 100,000 population)    17.82016 • p Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita)    11.92010 • •
Life expectancy at birth (years)    69.42016 • D Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)    0.52010 • •
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19)   50.22017 • p SDG13 – Climate Action               
Births attended by skilled health personnel (%)    89.02014 • • Energy-related CO2 emissions (tCO2/capita)    0.52017 • L
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%)   842018 • 5 CO2 emissions embodied in imports (tCO2/capita)    0.12015 • L
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best)   60.02017 • D CO2 emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita)    0.02018 • •
Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best)    5.02019 • L
SDG14 – Life Below Water                 
SDG4 – Quality Education                Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)    19.22018 • 5
Net primary enrollment rate (%)    90.32018 • p Ocean Health Index: Clean Waters score (worst 0–100 best)    53.12019 • D
Lower secondary completion rate (%)    58.42018 • L Fish caught from overexploited or collapsed stocks (% of total catch)    44.92014 • p
Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24)    92.22015 • • Fish caught by trawling (%)    61.42014 • p
SDG5 – Gender Equality                      Marine biodiversity threats embodied in imports (per million population)    0.02018 • •
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods (% of females    56.52014 • D SDG15 – Life on Land               
aged 15 to 49 who are married or in unions) Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%)   39.52018 • 5
Ratio of female-to-male mean years of education received (%)    71.92018 • 5 Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%)   33.02018 • 5
Ratio of female-to-male labor force participation rate (%)    85.62019 • L Red List Index of species survival (worst 0–1 best)    0.82019 • p
Seats held by women in national parliament (%)    20.02020 • p Permanent deforestation (% of forest area, 5-year average)    1.82018 • •
SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation               
Population using at least basic drinking water services (%)    78.52017 • L Te(rpreers tmriailll iaonnd p forepsuhlwataiotenr) biodiversity threats embodied in imports      0.02018 • •
Population using at least basic sanitation services (%)    59.22017 • L SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions               
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available freshwater resources)    1.02005 • • Homicides (per 100,000 population)    1.82011 • •
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%)    0.02018 • • Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population)    28.72018 • L
Scarce water consumption embodied in imports (m3/capita)    0.92013 • L Percentage of population who feel safe walking alone at night in the      55.52019 • L
SDG7 – Affordable and Clean Energy                city or area where they live (%)
Population with access to electricity (%)    89.12017 • L Property Rights (worst 1–7 best)    4.22019 • •
Population with access to clean fuels and technology for cooking (%)    17.72016 • 5 Birth registrations with civil authority (% of children under age 5)    73.32018 • •
COpe2 re tmotiassl ieolnesc tfrriocmity f ouuelt pcoumt (bMutsCtOio2n/ TfoWr he)lectricity and heating      1.62017 • L CCohrilrdurpetnio innv Poelvrceedp itnio cnh Iinldd leaxb (owr o(%rs to 0f –p1o0p0u blaetsiot)n aged 5 to 14)      192.0322001196 •• p•
5
SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth                Exports of major conventional weapons (TIV constant million USD   * 0.02019 • • . C
Adjusted GDP growth (%)    -0.12018 • • per 100,000 population) ou
Victims of modern slavery (per 1,000 population)    16.82018 • • Press Freedom Index (best 0–100 worst)    45.92019 • p ntr
y
Admuoltbsi lwe-itmh oanne ayc-cseoruvnicte a tp aro bvaidnekr  o(%r o othf epro fpinualantcioianl  iangsteidtu 1ti5o no ro or vwerit)h a     21.72017 • p SGoDvGer1nm7 e–n tP sapretnndeinrgs ohni phse aflothr a tnhde e dGuocaatliosn (% of GDP)      3 . 1201  4 •   •    Prof
Unemployment rate (% of total labor force)    0.72019 • L For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional    NA NA • • iles
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population)   0.12010 • L public finance, including official development assistance (% of GNI)
Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP)    19.92018 • D
Corporate Tax Haven Score (best 0–100 worst) * 0.02019 • •
* Imputed data point
161
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
CAMEROON  
Sub-Saharan Africa
OVERALL PERFORMANCE
SDG SDG
17 1
SDG 100 SDG
16 2
75
Index score Regional average score SDG SDG
15 50 3
25
SDG
SDG 4
14
56.5 53.1
Cameroon
SDG SDG
13 5
SDG
12 SDG
6
SDG Global rank 133 (OF 166)
SDG
11 SDG
7
SDG SDG
10 SDG 8
9
SPILLOVER INDEX AVERAGE PERFORMANCE BY SDG
100 (best) to 0 (worst)
100
80
60
40
20
0
CURRENT ASSESSMENT – SDG DASHBOARD
  Major challenges           Significant challenges          Challenges remain          SDG achieved          Information unavailable
SDG TRENDS
5 5 5 L D 5 D L D
• p • L D 5 5 p
p  Decreasing       5  Stagnating       D  Moderately improving       L  On track or maintaining SDG achievement       •  Information unavailable
Notes: The full title of Goal 2 “Zero Hunger” is “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”.    
  The full title of each SDG is available here: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabledevelopmentgoals
162
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
CAMEROON
Performance by Indicator
SDG1 – No Poverty    Val u e Yea  rRa t ingTr e nd SDG9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure    Val u e Ye a rRa t ingTr e nd
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%)    19.52020 • D Population using the internet (%)    23.22017 • D
Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%)    36.92020 • 5 Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population)    14.02018 • D
SDG2 – Zero Hunger                Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related     2.62018 • L
Prevalence of undernourishment (%)    9.92017 • p infrastructure (worst 1–5 best)
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%)    31.72014 • 5 The Times Higher Education Universities Ranking: Average score of top 3 * 0.02020 • •
PPrreevvaalleennccee  ooff  wobaesstiintyg,  BinM cIh ≥il d3r0e n(% u nodf aedr u5 lyt epaorps uolfa atigoen )(%)      151..2422001146 •• Lp Scuiennivteifrisci taiensd ( tweochrsnt i0ca–l1 j0o0u rbneaslt a)rticles (per 1,000 population)    0.02018 • 5
Human Trophic Level (best 2–3 worst)    2.12017 • L Expenditure on research and development (% of GDP)    NA NA • •
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land)    1.72017 • 5 SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities               
Sustainable Nitrogen Management Index (best 0–1.41 worst)    0.82015 • 5 Gini coefficient adjusted for top income    47.72014 • •
SDG3 – Good Health and Well-Being                SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities               
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)     5292017 • 5 Annual mean concentration of particulate matter of less than      72.82017 • p
NMInecooirdntaealntitacyle  rm oatfoe tr,ut uablnietdryce rura-lto5e s( i(psp e(eprr e1 1r,0, 01000000 l ,il0viv0ee0 b  bpiriortthphsus)l)ation)       1278666...610222000111888 ••• 5DD ASac2tc.i5es fsmasc ittcoiro oinmn wsp irintoh vd epiadum bwleiactte etrrr a( sPnoMsup2roc.5ret),   ((p%μipg)/emd 3(%) of urban population)      6405..8922001179 •• 5p
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population)    1.02018 • L SDG12 – Responsible Consumption and Production                 
Municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)    0.62013 • •
Agdeia-bsteatneds,a ordr iczherdo ndieca rtehs prairtaet dourye d tois ecaasred iionv aadscuultlsa ra dgiesde a3s0e–, c7a0n yceear,r s (%)    21.62016 • 5 Electronic waste (kg/capita)    0.82016 • •
Agame-bstiaenndt aarird pizoeldlu dtieoant h(p reart e1 0at0t,r0ib0u0 tpaobpleu tloat hioonu)sehold air pollution and    2082016 • • PSOro2d eumctiisosnio-bnas seemd bSoOd2i eedm iinss iimonpso (rktgs /(ckgap/citaap)ita)       70..2322001122 •• ••
Traffic deaths (per 100,000 population)    30.12016 • p Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita)    10.92010 • •
Life expectancy at birth (years)    58.12016 • 5 Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)    0.32010 • •
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19)  105.82017 • D SDG13 – Climate Action               
Births attended by skilled health personnel (%)    64.72014 • • Energy-related CO2 emissions (tCO2/capita)    0.52017 • L
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%)   712018 • p CO2 emissions embodied in imports (tCO2/capita)    0.02015 • L
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best)   46.02017 • D CO2 emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita)    0.02017 • •
Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best)    4.92019 • p
SDG14 – Life Below Water                 
SDG4 – Quality Education                Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)    NA NA • •
Net primary enrollment rate (%)    92.92017 • L Ocean Health Index: Clean Waters score (worst 0–100 best)    36.12019 • 5
Lower secondary completion rate (%)    47.22016 • • Fish caught from overexploited or collapsed stocks (% of total catch)    NA NA • •
Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24)    85.12018 • • Fish caught by trawling (%)    7.92014 • L
SDG5 – Gender Equality                      Marine biodiversity threats embodied in imports (per million population)    0.02018 • •
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods (% of females    47.02014 • D SDG15 – Life on Land               
aged 15 to 49 who are married or in unions) Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%)   35.32018 • 5
Ratio of female-to-male mean years of education received (%)    61.52018 • p Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%)   54.52018 • L
Ratio of female-to-male labor force participation rate (%)    87.42019 • L Red List Index of species survival (worst 0–1 best)    0.82019 • p
Seats held by women in national parliament (%)    33.92020 • D Permanent deforestation (% of forest area, 5-year average)    0.22018 • •
SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation               
Population using at least basic drinking water services (%)    60.42017 • 5 Te(rpreers tmriailll iaonnd p forepsuhlwataiotenr) biodiversity threats embodied in imports      0.02018 • •
Population using at least basic sanitation services (%)    39.12017 • 5 SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions               
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available freshwater resources)    1.42000 • • Homicides (per 100,000 population)    1.42017 • L
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%)    0.02018 • • Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population)    54.72018 • D
Scarce water consumption embodied in imports (m3/capita)    0.52013 • L Percentage of population who feel safe walking alone at night in the      43.62019 • p
SDG7 – Affordable and Clean Energy                city or area where they live (%)
Population with access to electricity (%)    61.42017 • D Property Rights (worst 1–7 best)    3.92019 • •
Population with access to clean fuels and technology for cooking (%)    23.02016 • 5 Birth registrations with civil authority (% of children under age 5)    66.12018 • •
COpe2 re tmotiassl ieolnesc tfrriocmity f ouuelt pcoumt (bMutsCtOio2n/ TfoWr he)lectricity and heating      0.72017 • L CCohrilrdurpetnio innv Poelvrceedp itnio cnh Iinldd leaxb (owr o(%rs to 0f –p1o0p0u blaetsiot)n aged 5 to 14)      472.5022001196 •• p•
5
SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth                Exports of major conventional weapons (TIV constant million USD   * 0.02019 • • . C
Adjusted GDP growth (%)    -4.42018 • • per 100,000 population) ou
Victims of modern slavery (per 1,000 population)    6.92018 • • Press Freedom Index (best 0–100 worst)    43.32019 • p ntr
y
Admuoltbsi lwe-itmh oanne ayc-cseoruvnicte a tp aro bvaidnekr  o(%r o othf epro fpinualantcioianl  iangsteidtu 1ti5o no ro or vwerit)h a     34.62017 • L SGoDvGer1nm7 e–n tP sapretnndeinrgs ohni phse aflothr a tnhde e dGuocaatliosn (% of GDP)      3 . 3201  6 •   p    Prof
Unemployment rate (% of total labor force)    3.42019 • L For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional    NA NA • • iles
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population)   0.02010 • L public finance, including official development assistance (% of GNI)
Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP)    15.12017 • p
Corporate Tax Haven Score (best 0–100 worst) * 0.02019 • •
* Imputed data point
163
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
CANADA  
OECD Countries
OVERALL PERFORMANCE
SDG SDG
17 1
SDG 100 SDG
16 2
75
Index score Regional average score 1SD5G 50 S3DG
25
SDG
SDG 4
14
78.2 77.3
Canada
SDG SDG
13 5
12 SDG
6
SDG Global rank 21 (OF 166)
SDG
11 SDG
7
SDG SDG
10 SDG 8
9
SPILLOVER INDEX AVERAGE PERFORMANCE BY SDG
100 (best) to 0 (worst)
100
80
60
40
20
0
CURRENT ASSESSMENT – SDG DASHBOARD
  Major challenges           Significant challenges          Challenges remain          SDG achieved          Information unavailable
SDG TRENDS
L D L L D 5 D L D
5 5 • 5 D 5 D D
p  Decreasing       5  Stagnating       D  Moderately improving       L  On track or maintaining SDG achievement       •  Information unavailable
Notes: The full title of Goal 2 “Zero Hunger” is “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”.    
  The full title of each SDG is available here: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabledevelopmentgoals
164
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
CANADA
Performance by Indicator
SDG1 – No Poverty    Va lu e Ye a rRa t ingTr e nd SDG9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure    Va lu e Yea  rRa t ingTr e nd
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%)    0.4 2020 • L Population using the internet (%)    91.0 2017 • L
Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%)    0.5 2020 • L Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population)    76.4 2018 • L
Poverty rate after taxes and transfers (%)    12.1 2017 • L Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related     3.8 2018 • L
SDG2 – Zero Hunger                infrastructure (worst 1–5 best)
Prevalence of undernourishment (%)    2.5 2017 • L Thuen Tivimerseist iHesig (wheorr Estd 0u–c1at0io0 nb eUsnt)iversities Ranking: Average score of top 3    78.7 2020 • •
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%) * 2.6 2016 • L Scientific and technical journal articles (per 1,000 population)    1.6 2018 • L
Prevalence of wasting in children under 5 years of age (%) * 0.7 2016 • L Expenditure on research and development (% of GDP)    1.6 2017 • L
Prevalence of obesity, BMI ≥ 30 (% of adult population)    29.4 2016 • p Researchers (per 1,000 employed population)    8.4 2016 • L
Human Trophic Level (best 2–3 worst)    2.4 2017 • D  Triadic patent families filed (per million population)    15.3 2017 • p
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land)    4.0 2017 • L Gap in internet access by income (percentage points)    52.4 2007 • •
SYuiesltda ignaapb lcel oNsiutrroe g(%en o Mf panoategnetmiael ynite Ilndd)ex (best 0–1.41 worst)      N0.A5 20N1A5 •• p• Waonmde enn ignin seceiernincge) and engineering (% of tertiary graduates in science     27.7 2015 • •
SDG3 – Good Health and Well-Being                SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities               
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)     10 2017 • L Gini coefficient adjusted for top income    35.0 2013 • •
Neonatal mortality rate (per 1,000 live births)    3.4 2018 • L Palma ratio    1.1 2017 • L
Mortality rate, under-5 (per 1,000 live births)    5.0 2018 • L Elderly poverty rate (% of population aged 66 or over)    12.2 2017 • p
Incidence of tuberculosis (per 100,000 population)    5.6 2018 • L SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities               
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population)    NA NA • •
Age-standardized death rate due to cardiovascular disease, cancer,     9.8 2016 • L An2.n5u mali cmroenasn  icno dnicaemnetrtaetri o(PnM o2f .p5a) r(tμicgu/mlat3e) matter of less than      6.4 2017 • L
diabetes, or chronic respiratory disease in adults aged 30–70 years (%) Access to improved water source, piped (% of urban population)    99.0 2017 • L
Age-standardized death rate attributable to household air pollution and    7 2016 • • Satisfaction with public transport (%)    59.7 2019 • p
Traamffibc ideenat tahirs  p(poellru 1ti0o0n,0 (0p0e rp 1o0p0u,0la0t0io pno)pulation)    5.8 2016 • L Population with rent overburden (%)    8.6 2016 • p
Life expectancy at birth (years)    82.8 2016 • L SDG12 – Responsible Consumption and Production               
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19)   8.4 2017 • L Electronic waste (kg/capita)    20.0 2016 • •
Births attended by skilled health personnel (%)    97.9 2014 • • Production-based SO2 emissions (kg/capita)    58.1 2012 • •
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%)   90.0 2018 • L SO2 emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)     12.4 2012 • •
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best)   89.0 2017 • L Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita)    57.3 2010 • •
Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best)    7.1 2019 • L Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)    17.2 2010 • •
Gap in life expectancy at birth among regions (years)    11.5 2014 • • Non-recycled municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)    NA NA • •
Gap in self-reported health status by income (percentage points)    13.2 2017 • L SDG13 – Climate Action               
Daily smokers (% of population aged 15 and over)    12.0 2017 • L Energy-related CO2 emissions (tCO2/capita)    14.4 2017 • 5
SDG4 – Quality Education                CO2 emissions embodied in imports (tCO2/capita)    2.3 2015 • 5
Net primary enrollment rate (%) *100.0 2017 • L CO2 emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita)   3453.12019 • •
Lower secondary completion rate (%) *100.0 2017 • L Effective carbon rate (EUR/tCO2)    3.8 2016 • •
Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24) NA NA • • SDG14 – Life Below Water               
Participation rate in pre-primary organized learning (% of children aged 4 to 6) * 92.5 2016 • • Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)    33.1 2018 • D
Tertiary educational attainment (% of population aged 25 to 34)    61.8 2018 • L Ocean Health Index: Clean Waters score (worst 0–100 best)    94.0 2019 • L
PISA score (worst 0–600 best)   516.7 2018 • L Fish caught from overexploited or collapsed stocks (% of total catch)    45.5 2014 • 5
VURaenrsdiialetieiroannct  hisnite usvcdeieernns tcisne   ispnce sirecfnoiercmnec a(e%n (c %eo f e o1xfp5 1l-a5yie-nyaeerd-a obr-lydo ssldo)sc)io-economic status (%)        14630...474 222000111888 ••• LLL FMisahri ncaeu bgihotd bivye rtsraitwy ltihnrge a(%ts) embodied in imports (per million population)     300..99 22001148 •• D•
SDG15 – Life on Land               
SDG5 – Gender Equality                Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%)   26.5 2018 • 5
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods   * 87.8 2017 • L Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%)   20.8 2018 • 5
RRaa(%ttiioo o  oof fff  effeemmmaaalellees-- attoog--emmd aa1ll5ee   tmlaob e4oa9rn  wf yoehrcaoer s ap roeafr  metidcaiurprcaiaettdioio nonr r  rainetc eue (ni%vioe)nds ()%)     18073..41 22001189 •• LL RPeerdm Laisnte Inntd dexe foofr espsteactiieosn s (u%rv oivf afol (rwesot rasrte 0a–, 15 -byeesatr) average)      10..00 22001198 •• L•
Seats held by women in national parliament (%)    29.0 2020 • D Terrestrial and freshwater biodiversity threats embodied in imports      4.1 2018 • •
Gender wage gap (% of male median wage)    18.5 2018 • 5 (per million population)
Gender gap in time spent doing unpaid work (minutes/day)    75.5 2015 • • SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions               
Homicides (per 100,000 population)    1.8 2017 • p
SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation                Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population)    38.9 2018 • p
PPooppuullaattiioonn  uussiinngg  aatt  lleeaasstt  bbaassiicc  dsarninitkaintigo nw saetrevri cseersv (i%ce)s (%)      9999..43 22001177 •• •• Pecrictye notra agree ao wf phoepreu ltahteioyn l iwveh (o% f)eel safe walking alone at night in the      81.4 2019 • L
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available freshwater resources)    3.6 2015 • • Property Rights (worst 1–7 best)    5.6 2019 • •
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%)    67.4 2018 • • Birth registrations with civil authority (% of children under age 5)   100.0 2018 • • 5
SPPcooappruuclleaa ttwiiooannte  uur ssciinnoggn  sssuaamffeepllyyt  immonaa nneaamggbeeoddd  wsiaeandtie tianr ts iieomrnvp isoceerrtsvs i (c(%me)s3 (/%ca)pita)        398682...293 222000111377 ••• 5Lp CCExohprilrodurrptestn ioo ifnn mv Poealjvroceerd pc oitnino cvnhe Iinnldtdi oleanxb a(olw rw o(%ersa tpo 0of –pn1os0 p(0Tu IblVae tcsioot)nn satganetd m 5 itlloio 1n4 U)SD    *    7700...040 222000111969 ••• L•• . Country
SDG7 – Affordable and Clean Energy                per 100,000 population)  P
PPooppuullaattiioonn  wwiitthh  aacccceessss  ttoo  eclleeacntr ifcuiteyls ( %an)d technology for cooking (%)     110000..00 22001176 •• LL PPererssso nFrse heedlodm in I npdriesoxn (b (pesetr  01–0100,000 w0 oprospt)ulation)     11153..74 22001196 •• 5L rofile
s
COel2e cetmricisistyio onus tfproumt ( MfuteCl Oco2/mTWbuhs)tion for electricity and heating per total    0.9 2017 • L SGoDvGer1n7m e–n Pt sapretnndeinrgs honip hse aflothr  atnhde e Gduocaatlison (% of GDP)  *  11 . 9 201  5 •   L  
Share of renewable energy in total primary energy supply (%)    16.4 2018 • p For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional    0.3 2017 • 5
SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth                public finance, including official development assistance (% of GNI)
Adjusted GDP growth (%)    -1.2 2018 • • Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP)    NA NA • •
VAidmcutoilmtbsis lw eo-iftm hm oaonnde aeycr-ncseo srulvanivctee ar ytp  ar(op bveairdn 1ek,r0  o(0%r0 o  pothfo epprou fplianutailoantncio)ianl  iangsteidtu 1ti5o no ro or vwerit)h a       909..75 22001187 •• L• CFSihonirafptneocdria aptle rSo Tefaictxrse  Hocafy v mSecunol tSrienc oa(brteieo s(ntb a0els–s t1( U00–S01$ w0 b0oi lrwlsioto)nr)st) *     51055...082 222000121906 ••• •••
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population)   1.5 2010 • L
Employment-to-population ratio (%)    74.4 2019 • L
Youth not in employment, education or training (NEET)      11.9 2018 • L
(% of population aged 15 to 29)
* Imputed data point
165
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC  
Sub-Saharan Africa
OVERALL PERFORMANCE
SDG SDG
17 1
SDG 100 SDG
16 2
75
Index score Regional average score SDG SDG
15 50 3
25
SDG
SDG 4
14
38.5 53.1 Central African 
SDG Republic SDG
13 5
SDG
12 SDG
6
SDG Global rank 166 (OF 166)
SDG
11 SDG
7
SDG SDG
10 SDG 8
9
SPILLOVER INDEX AVERAGE PERFORMANCE BY SDG
100 (best) to 0 (worst)
100
80
60
40
20
0
CURRENT ASSESSMENT – SDG DASHBOARD
  Major challenges           Significant challenges          Challenges remain          SDG achieved          Information unavailable
SDG TRENDS
5 5 5 • 5 5 5 L p
• p • L • L p L
p  Decreasing       5  Stagnating       D  Moderately improving       L  On track or maintaining SDG achievement       •  Information unavailable
Notes: The full title of Goal 2 “Zero Hunger” is “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”.    
  The full title of each SDG is available here: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabledevelopmentgoals
166
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
Performance by Indicator
SDG1 – No Poverty    Val u e Yea  rRa t ingTr e nd SDG9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure    Val u e Ye a rRa t ingTr e nd
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%)    80.02020 • 5 Population using the internet (%)    4.32017 • 5
Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%)    91.52020 • 5 Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population)    5.32018 • 5
SDG2 – Zero Hunger                Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related     1.92018 • p
Prevalence of undernourishment (%)    59.62017 • p infrastructure (worst 1–5 best)
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%)    40.72010 • 5 The Times Higher Education Universities Ranking: Average score of top 3 * 0.02020 • •
PPrreevvaalleennccee  ooff  wobaesstiintyg,  BinM cIh ≥il d3r0e n(% u nodf aedr u5 lyt epaorps uolfa atigoen )(%)      77..4522001106 •• LD Scuiennivteifrisci taiensd ( tweochrsnt i0ca–l1 j0o0u rbneaslt a)rticles (per 1,000 population)    0.02018 • 5
Human Trophic Level (best 2–3 worst)    2.12017 • L Expenditure on research and development (% of GDP) * 0.02017 • •
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land)    0.92017 • 5 SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities               
Sustainable Nitrogen Management Index (best 0–1.41 worst)    1.02015 • p Gini coefficient adjusted for top income    56.22008 • •
SDG3 – Good Health and Well-Being                SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities               
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)     8292017 • D Annual mean concentration of particulate matter of less than      56.82017 • p
NMeoorntaaltitayl  rmatoer,t ualnitdye rra-t5e ( (ppeerr 1 1,0,00000 l ilvivee b birirtthhss))     14116..2522001188 •• 5D Ac2c.5e sms itcor oimnsp irno vdeiadm weatteerr ( sPoMu2rc.5e),  (pμipg/emd 3(%) of urban population)    42.92016 • 5
Incidence of tuberculosis (per 100,000 population)   540.02018 • 5 Satisfaction with public transport (%)    25.12017 • •
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population)    1.22018 • L SDG12 – Responsible Consumption and Production                 
Municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)    1.52014 • •
Agdeia-bsteatneds,a ordr iczherdo ndieca rtehs prairtaet dourye d tois ecaasred iionv aadscuultlsa ra dgiesde a3s0e–, c7a0n yceear,r s (%)    23.12016 • D Electronic waste (kg/capita)    0.52016 • •
Agame-bstiaenndt aarird pizoeldlu dtieoant h(p reart e1 0at0t,r0ib0u0 tpaobpleu tloat hioonu)sehold air pollution and    2122016 • • PSOro2d eumctiisosnio-bnas seemd bSoOd2i eedm iinss iimonpso (rktgs /(ckgap/citaap)ita)      1008..3322001122 •• ••
Traffic deaths (per 100,000 population)    33.62016 • p Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita)   197.82010 • •
Life expectancy at birth (years)    53.02016 • D Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)    0.22010 • •
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19)  129.12017 • 5 SDG13 – Climate Action               
Births attended by skilled health personnel (%)    40.02010 • • Energy-related CO2 emissions (tCO2/capita)    0.12017 • L
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%)   472018 • 5 CO2 emissions embodied in imports (tCO2/capita)    0.02015 • L
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best)   33.02017 • 5 CO2 emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita) * 0.02018 • •
Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best)    3.52017 • •
SDG14 – Life Below Water                 
SDG4 – Quality Education                Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)    NA NA • •
Net primary enrollment rate (%)    66.32012 • • Ocean Health Index: Clean Waters score (worst 0–100 best)    NA NA • •
Lower secondary completion rate (%)    9.82016 • • Fish caught from overexploited or collapsed stocks (% of total catch)    NA NA • •
Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24)    38.32018 • • Fish caught by trawling (%)    NA NA • •
SDG5 – Gender Equality                      Marine biodiversity threats embodied in imports (per million population)    0.02018 • •
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods (% of females    28.72011 • 5 SDG15 – Life on Land               
aged 15 to 49 who are married or in unions) Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%)   74.42018 • L
Ratio of female-to-male mean years of education received (%)    53.62018 • 5 Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%)   95.92018 • L
Ratio of female-to-male labor force participation rate (%)    81.02019 • L Red List Index of species survival (worst 0–1 best)    0.92019 • L
Seats held by women in national parliament (%)    8.62020 • 5 Permanent deforestation (% of forest area, 5-year average)    0.02018 • •
SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation               
Population using at least basic drinking water services (%)    46.32016 • 5 Te(rpreers tmriailll iaonnd p forepsuhlwataiotenr) biodiversity threats embodied in imports      0.02018 • •
Population using at least basic sanitation services (%)    25.32016 • 5 SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions               
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available freshwater resources)    0.32005 • • Homicides (per 100,000 population)    19.82016 • •
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%)    0.02018 • • Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population)    70.12012 • •
Scarce water consumption embodied in imports (m3/capita)    0.32013 • L Percentage of population who feel safe walking alone at night in the      52.12017 • •
SDG7 – Affordable and Clean Energy                city or area where they live (%)
Population with access to electricity (%)    30.02017 • D Property Rights (worst 1–7 best)    NA NA • •
Population with access to clean fuels and technology for cooking (%)    1.02016 • 5 Birth registrations with civil authority (% of children under age 5)    61.02018 • •
COpe2 re tmotiassl ieolnesc tfrriocmity f ouuelt pcoumt (bMutsCtOio2n/ TfoWr he)lectricity and heating      NA NA • • CCohrilrdurpetnio innv Poelvrceedp itnio cnh Iinldd leaxb (owr o(%rs to 0f –p1o0p0u blaetsiot)n aged 5 to 14)      282.5522001196 •• 5•
5
SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth                Exports of major conventional weapons (TIV constant million USD   * 0.02019 • • . C
Adjusted GDP growth (%)    -5.02018 • • per 100,000 population) ou
Victims of modern slavery (per 1,000 population)    22.32018 • • Press Freedom Index (best 0–100 worst)    47.32019 • p ntr
y
Admuoltbsi lwe-itmh oanne ayc-cseoruvnicte a tp aro bvaidnekr  o(%r o othf epro fpinualantcioianl  iangsteidtu 1ti5o no ro or vwerit)h a     13.72017 • • SGoDvGer1nm7 e–n tP sapretnndeinrgs ohni phse aflothr a tnhde e dGuocaatliosn (% of GDP)      2 . 0201  1 •   •    Prof
Unemployment rate (% of total labor force)    3.72019 • L For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional    NA NA • • iles
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population)   0.02010 • L public finance, including official development assistance (% of GNI)
Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP)    7.52016 • L
Corporate Tax Haven Score (best 0–100 worst) * 0.02019 • •
* Imputed data point
167
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
CHAD  
Sub-Saharan Africa
OVERALL PERFORMANCE
SDG SDG
17 1
SDG 100 SDG
16 2
75
Index score Regional average score SDG SDG
15 50 3
25
SDG
SDG 4
14
43.8 53.1
Chad
SDG SDG
13 5
SDG
12 SDG
6
SDG Global rank 164 (OF 166)
SDG
11 SDG
7
SDG SDG
10 SDG 8
9
SPILLOVER INDEX AVERAGE PERFORMANCE BY SDG
100 (best) to 0 (worst)
100
80
60
40
20
0
CURRENT ASSESSMENT – SDG DASHBOARD
  Major challenges           Significant challenges          Challenges remain          SDG achieved          Information unavailable
SDG TRENDS
p 5 5 p 5 5 5 D 5
• 5 • L • L 5 •
p  Decreasing       5  Stagnating       D  Moderately improving       L  On track or maintaining SDG achievement       •  Information unavailable
Notes: The full title of Goal 2 “Zero Hunger” is “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”.    
  The full title of each SDG is available here: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabledevelopmentgoals
168
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
CHAD
Performance by Indicator
SDG1 – No Poverty    Val u e Yea  rRa t ingTr e nd SDG9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure    Val u e Ye a rRa t ingTr e nd
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%)    39.02020 • p Population using the internet (%)    6.52017 • 5
Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%)    64.12020 • p Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population)    4.02018 • 5
SDG2 – Zero Hunger                Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related     2.42018 • 5
Prevalence of undernourishment (%)    37.52017 • p infrastructure (worst 1–5 best)
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%)    39.92015 • 5 The Times Higher Education Universities Ranking: Average score of top 3 * 0.02020 • •
PPrreevvaalleennccee  ooff  wobaesstiintyg,  BinM cIh ≥il d3r0e n(% u nodf aedr u5 lyt epaorps uolfa atigoen )(%)      163..1022001156 •• 5L Scuiennivteifrisci taiensd ( tweochrsnt i0ca–l1 j0o0u rbneaslt a)rticles (per 1,000 population)    0.02018 • 5
Human Trophic Level (best 2–3 worst)    2.32017 • p Expenditure on research and development (% of GDP)    0.32016 • •
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land)    0.82017 • p SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities               
Sustainable Nitrogen Management Index (best 0–1.41 worst)    0.82015 • 5 Gini coefficient adjusted for top income    44.02011 • •
SDG3 – Good Health and Well-Being                SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities               
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)     11402017 • 5 Annual mean concentration of particulate matter of less than      66.02017 • p
NMeoorntaaltitayl  rmatoer,t ualnitdye rra-t5e ( (ppeerr 1 1,0,00000 l ilvivee b birirtthhss))     13149..2022001188 •• 5D Ac2c.5e sms itcor oimnsp irno vdeiadm weatteerr ( sPoMu2rc.5e),  (pμipg/emd 3(%) of urban population)    52.72017 • p
Incidence of tuberculosis (per 100,000 population)   142.02018 • 5 Satisfaction with public transport (%)    47.12018 • L
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population)    0.42018 • D SDG12 – Responsible Consumption and Production                 
Municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)    1.12010 • •
Agdeia-bsteatneds,a ordr iczherdo ndieca rtehs prairtaet dourye d tois ecaasred iionv aadscuultlsa ra dgiesde a3s0e–, c7a0n yceear,r s (%)    23.92016 • 5 Electronic waste (kg/capita)    0.72016 • •
Agame-bstiaenndt aarird pizoeldlu dtieoant h(p reart e1 0at0t,r0ib0u0 tpaobpleu tloat hioonu)sehold air pollution and    2802016 • • PSOro2d eumctiisosnio-bnas seemd bSoOd2i eedm iinss iimonpso (rktgs /(ckgap/citaap)ita)       110..2922001122 •• ••
Traffic deaths (per 100,000 population)    27.62016 • p Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita)    24.02010 • •
Life expectancy at birth (years)    54.32016 • 5 Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)    0.12010 • •
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19)  161.12017 • 5 SDG13 – Climate Action               
Births attended by skilled health personnel (%)    20.22015 • • Energy-related CO2 emissions (tCO2/capita)    0.12017 • L
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%)   372018 • p CO2 emissions embodied in imports (tCO2/capita)    0.02015 • L
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best)   28.02017 • 5 CO2 emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita)    NA NA • •
Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best)    4.52018 • 5
SDG14 – Life Below Water                 
SDG4 – Quality Education                Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)    NA NA • •
Net primary enrollment rate (%)    73.22016 • p Ocean Health Index: Clean Waters score (worst 0–100 best)    NA NA • •
Lower secondary completion rate (%)    15.02016 • • Fish caught from overexploited or collapsed stocks (% of total catch)    NA NA • •
Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24)    30.82016 • • Fish caught by trawling (%)    NA NA • •
SDG5 – Gender Equality                      Marine biodiversity threats embodied in imports (per million population)    0.02018 • •
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods (% of females    20.22015 • 5 SDG15 – Life on Land               
aged 15 to 49 who are married or in unions) Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%)   70.62018 • L
Ratio of female-to-male mean years of education received (%)    36.12018 • 5 Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%)   70.22018 • L
Ratio of female-to-male labor force participation rate (%)    83.32019 • L Red List Index of species survival (worst 0–1 best)    0.92019 • L
Seats held by women in national parliament (%)    15.42020 • 5 Permanent deforestation (% of forest area, 5-year average)    0.72018 • •
SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation               
Population using at least basic drinking water services (%)    38.72017 • p Te(rpreers tmriailll iaonnd p forepsuhlwataiotenr) biodiversity threats embodied in imports      0.02018 • •
Population using at least basic sanitation services (%)    8.32017 • p SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions               
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available freshwater resources)    4.32005 • • Homicides (per 100,000 population) * 9.02015 • •
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%)    0.02018 • • Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population)    63.42012 • •
Scarce water consumption embodied in imports (m3/capita)    0.22013 • L Percentage of population who feel safe walking alone at night in the      42.92018 • p
SDG7 – Affordable and Clean Energy                city or area where they live (%)
Population with access to electricity (%)    10.92017 • 5 Property Rights (worst 1–7 best)    3.12019 • •
Population with access to clean fuels and technology for cooking (%)    3.12016 • p Birth registrations with civil authority (% of children under age 5)    12.02018 • •
COto2t aelm eilsesciotrnicsi tfyro omut fpuuetl  (cMomtCbOu2s/tTioWnh f)or electricity and heating per      NA NA • • CCohrilrdurpetnio innv Poelvrceedp itnio cnh Iinldd leaxb (owr o(%rs to 0f –p1o0p0u blaetsiot)n aged 5 to 14)      512.0522001196 •• p•
5
SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth                Exports of major conventional weapons (TIV constant million USD   * 0.02019 • • . C
Adjusted GDP growth (%)    -11.82018 • • per 100,000 population) ou
Victims of modern slavery (per 1,000 population)    12.02018 • • Press Freedom Index (best 0–100 worst)    36.72019 • L ntr
y
Admuoltbsi lwe-itmh oanne ayc-cseoruvnicte a tp aro bvaidnekr  o(%r o othf epro fpinualantcioianl  iangsteidtu 1ti5o no ro or vwerit)h a     21.82017 • D SGoDvGer1nm7 e–n tP sapretnndeinrgs ohni phse aflothr a tnhde e dGuocaatliosn (% of GDP)      4 . 7201  3 •   •    Prof
Unemployment rate (% of total labor force)    1.92019 • L For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional    NA NA • • iles
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population)   0.02010 • L public finance, including official development assistance (% of GNI)
Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP)    NA NA • •
Corporate Tax Haven Score (best 0–100 worst) * 0.02019 • •
* Imputed data point
169
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
CHILE  
OECD Countries
OVERALL PERFORMANCE
SDG SDG
17 1
SDG 100 SDG
16 2
75
Index score Regional average score SDG SDG
15 50 3
25
SDG
SDG 4
14
77.4 77.3
Chile
SDG SDG
13 5
SDG
12 SDG
6
SDG Global rank 28 (OF 166)
SDG
11 SDG
7
SDG SDG
10 SDG 8
9
SPILLOVER INDEX AVERAGE PERFORMANCE BY SDG
100 (best) to 0 (worst)
100
80
60
40
20
0
CURRENT ASSESSMENT – SDG DASHBOARD
  Major challenges           Significant challenges          Challenges remain          SDG achieved          Information unavailable
SDG TRENDS
D D D D D L D D D
5 D • 5 D p 5 L
p  Decreasing       5  Stagnating       D  Moderately improving       L  On track or maintaining SDG achievement       •  Information unavailable
Notes: The full title of Goal 2 “Zero Hunger” is “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”.    
  The full title of each SDG is available here: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabledevelopmentgoals
170
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
CHILE
Performance by Indicator
SDG1 – No Poverty    Valu  e Yea r Ra t ingTr e nd SDG9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure    Valu  e Yea r Ra t ingTr e nd
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%)    0.2 2020 • L Population using the internet (%)    82.3 2017 • L
Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%)    0.9 2020 • L Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population)    91.6 2018 • L
Poverty rate after taxes and transfers (%)    16.5 2017 • 5 Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related     3.2 2018 • L
SDG2 – Zero Hunger                infrastructure (worst 1–5 best)
Prevalence of undernourishment (%)    2.7 2017 • L Thuen Tivimerseist iHesig (wheorr Estd 0u–c1at0io0 nb eUsnt)iversities Ranking: Average score of top 3    39.4 2020 • •
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%)    1.8 2014 • L Scientific and technical journal articles (per 1,000 population)    0.4 2018 • D
Prevalence of wasting in children under 5 years of age (%)    0.3 2014 • L Expenditure on research and development (% of GDP)    0.4 2016 • p
Prevalence of obesity, BMI ≥ 30 (% of adult population)    28.0 2016 • p Researchers (per 1,000 employed population)    1.1 2017 • 5
Human Trophic Level (best 2–3 worst)    2.3 2017 • p  Triadic patent families filed (per million population)    0.5 2017 • 5
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land)    6.8 2017 • L Gap in internet access by income (percentage points)    7.5 2017 • L
SYuiesltda ignaapb lcel oNsiutrroe g(%en o Mf panoategnetmiael ynite Ilndd)ex (best 0–1.41 worst)      N0.A8 20N1A5 •• 5• Waonmde enn ignin seceiernincge) and engineering (% of tertiary graduates in science     16.2 2015 • •
SDG3 – Good Health and Well-Being                SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities               
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)     13 2017 • L Gini coefficient adjusted for top income    51.5 2017 • 5
Neonatal mortality rate (per 1,000 live births)    4.9 2018 • L Palma ratio    2.6 2017 • 5
Mortality rate, under-5 (per 1,000 live births)    7.2 2018 • L Elderly poverty rate (% of population aged 66 or over)    17.6 2017 • p
Incidence of tuberculosis (per 100,000 population)    18.0 2018 • 5 SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities               
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population)    0.3 2018 • 5
Age-standardized death rate due to cardiovascular disease, cancer,     12.4 2016 • L An2.n5u mali cmroenasn  icno dnicaemnetrtaetri o(PnM o2f .p5a) r(tμicgu/mlat3e) matter of less than      21.0 2017 • D
diabetes, or chronic respiratory disease in adults aged 30–70 years (%) Access to improved water source, piped (% of urban population)    99.0 2017 • L
Age-standardized death rate attributable to household air pollution and    25 2016 • • Satisfaction with public transport (%)    58.1 2018 • L
Traamffibc ideenat tahirs  p(poellru 1ti0o0n,0 (0p0e rp 1o0p0u,0la0t0io pno)pulation)    12.5 2016 • p Population with rent overburden (%)    13.9 2017 • p
Life expectancy at birth (years)    79.5 2016 • L SDG12 – Responsible Consumption and Production               
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19)   41.1 2017 • L Electronic waste (kg/capita)    8.7 2016 • •
Births attended by skilled health personnel (%)    99.7 2015 • L Production-based SO2 emissions (kg/capita)    66.4 2012 • •
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%)   93.0 2018 • L SO2 emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)     4.1 2012 • •
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best)   70.0 2017 • L Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita)    27.5 2010 • •
Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best)    6.4 2018 • L Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)    3.8 2010 • •
Gap in life expectancy at birth among regions (years)    2.0 2016 • • Non-recycled municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)    1.2 2017 • •
Gap in self-reported health status by income (percentage points)    19.7 2017 • L SDG13 – Climate Action               
Daily smokers (% of population aged 15 and over)    24.5 2016 • • Energy-related CO2 emissions (tCO2/capita)    4.6 2017 • p
SDG4 – Quality Education                CO2 emissions embodied in imports (tCO2/capita)    0.7 2015 • L
Net primary enrollment rate (%) * 97.4 2017 • L CO2 emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita)   112.2 2018 • •
Lower secondary completion rate (%) * 97.4 2017 • L Effective carbon rate (EUR/tCO2)    -0.1 2016 • •
Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24)    99.0 2017 • • SDG14 – Life Below Water               
Participation rate in pre-primary organized learning (% of children aged 4 to 6)    93.6 2017 • L Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)    24.8 2018 • 5
Tertiary educational attainment (% of population aged 25 to 34)    33.7 2017 • L Ocean Health Index: Clean Waters score (worst 0–100 best)    93.8 2019 • L
PISA score (worst 0–600 best)   437.7 2018 • p Fish caught from overexploited or collapsed stocks (% of total catch)    41.5 2014 • D
VURaenrsdiialetieiroannct  hisnite usvcdeieernns tcisne   ispnce sirecfnoiercmnec a(e%n (c %eo f e o1xfp5 1l-a5yie-nyaeerd-a obr-lydo ssldo)sc)io-economic status (%)        132452...131 222000111888 ••• LpL FMisahri ncaeu bgihotd bivye rtsraitwy ltihnrge a(%ts) embodied in imports (per million population)     20..30 22001148 •• L•
SDG15 – Life on Land               
SDG5 – Gender Equality                Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%)   34.8 2018 • 5
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods   * 86.3 2017 • L Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%)   33.2 2018 • 5
RRaa(%ttiioo o  oof fff  effeemmmaaalellees-- attoog--emmd aa1ll5ee   tmlaob e4oa9rn  wf yoehrcaoer s ap roeafr  metidcaiurprcaiaettdioio nonr r  rainetc eue (ni%vioe)nds ()%)      9678..29 22001189 •• 5L RPeerdm Laisnte Inntd dexe foofr espsteactiieosn s (u%rv oivf afol (rwesot rasrte 0a–, 15 -byeesatr) average)      00..80 22001198 •• p•
Seats held by women in national parliament (%)    22.6 2020 • D Terrestrial and freshwater biodiversity threats embodied in imports      1.1 2018 • •
Gender wage gap (% of male median wage)    12.5 2017 • L (per million population)
Gender gap in time spent doing unpaid work (minutes/day)    NA NA • • SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions               
Homicides (per 100,000 population) * 4.3 2017 • p
SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation                Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population)    31.3 2018 • p
PPooppuullaattiioonn  uussiinngg  aatt  lleeaasstt  bbaassiicc  dsarninitkaintigo nw saetrevri cseersv (i%ce)s (%)     19090..80 22001177 •• •• Pecrictye notra agree ao wf phoepreu ltahteioyn l iwveh (o% f)eel safe walking alone at night in the      47.4 2018 • p
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available freshwater resources)    9.0 2005 • • Property Rights (worst 1–7 best)    5.3 2019 • •
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%)    71.9 2018 • • Birth registrations with civil authority (% of children under age 5)    99.4 2018 • • 5
SPPcooappruuclleaa ttwiiooannte  uur ssciinnoggn  sssuaamffeepllyyt  immonaa nneaamggbeeoddd  wsiaeandtie tianr ts iieomrnvp isoceerrtsvs i (c(%me)s3 (/%ca)pita)        97587...650 222000111377 ••• LLL CCExohprilrodurrptestn ioo ifnn mv Poealjvroceerd pc oitnino cvnhe Iinnldtdi oleanxb a(olw rw o(%ersa tpo 0of –pn1os0 p(0Tu IblVae tcsioot)nn satganetd m 5 itlloio 1n4 U)SD          6760...600 222000111969 ••• L•• . Country
SDG7 – Affordable and Clean Energy                per 100,000 population)  P
PPooppuullaattiioonn  wwiitthh  aacccceessss  ttoo  eclleeacntr ifcuiteyls ( %an)d technology for cooking (%)     19020..30 22001176 •• LL PPererssso nFrse heedlodm in I npdriesoxn (b (pesetr  01–0100,000 w0 oprospt)ulation)     22351..73 22001197 •• LL rofile
s
COel2e cetmricisistyio onus tfproumt ( MfuteCl Oco2/mTWbuhs)tion for electricity and heating per total    1.1 2017 • 5 SGoDvGer1n7m e–n Pt sapretnndeinrgs honip hse aflothr  atnhde e Gduocaatlison (% of GDP)      10. 3  201 6  •   L  
Share of renewable energy in total primary energy supply (%)    27.6 2018 • L For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional    NA NA • •
SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth                public finance, including official development assistance (% of GNI)
Adjusted GDP growth (%)    -1.2 2018 • • Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP)    NA NA • •
VAidmcutoilmtbsis lw eo-iftm hm oaonnde aeycr-ncseo srulvanivctee ar ytp  ar(op bveairdn 1ek,r0  o(0%r0 o  pothfo epprou fplianutailoantncio)ianl  iangsteidtu 1ti5o no ro or vwerit)h a       704..38 22001187 •• L• CFSihonirafptneocdria aptle rSo Tefaictxrse  Hocafy v mSecunol tSrienc oa(brteieo s(ntb a0els–s t1( U00–S01$ w0 b0oi lrwlsioto)nr)st) *     5055...038 222000121906 ••• •••
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population)   0.3 2010 • L
Employment-to-population ratio (%)    62.6 2018 • L
Youth not in employment, education or training (NEET)      18.4 2017 • p
(% of population aged 15 to 29)
* Imputed data point
171
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
CHINA  
East and South Asia
OVERALL PERFORMANCE
SDG SDG
17 1
SDG 100 SDG
16 2
75
Index score Regional average score SDG SDG
15 50 3
25
SDG
SDG 4
14
73.9 67.2
China
SDG SDG
13 5
SDG
12 SDG
6
SDG Global rank 48 (OF 166)
SDG
11 SDG
7
SDG SDG
10 SDG 8
9
SPILLOVER INDEX AVERAGE PERFORMANCE BY SDG
100 (best) to 0 (worst)
100
80
60
40
20
0
CURRENT ASSESSMENT – SDG DASHBOARD
  Major challenges           Significant challenges          Challenges remain          SDG achieved          Information unavailable
SDG TRENDS
L D D • D L D L L
• D • D 5 p D p
p  Decreasing       5  Stagnating       D  Moderately improving       L  On track or maintaining SDG achievement       •  Information unavailable
Notes: The full title of Goal 2 “Zero Hunger” is “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”.    
  The full title of each SDG is available here: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabledevelopmentgoals
172
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
CHINA
Performance by Indicator
SDG1 – No Poverty    Val u e Yea  rRa t ingTr e nd SDG9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure    Val u e Ye a rRa t ingTr e nd
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%)    0.22020 • L Population using the internet (%)    54.32017 • L
Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%)    2.02020 • L Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population)    93.52018 • L
SDG2 – Zero Hunger                Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related     3.82018 • L
Prevalence of undernourishment (%)    8.62017 • L infrastructure (worst 1–5 best)
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%)    8.12013 • D The Times Higher Education Universities Ranking: Average score of top 3    76.32020 • •
PPHrrueemvvaaalleennn Tccreeo  poohff  iwocb aLesestviinetylg ,(  BbinMe csIth ≥ 2il d–3r30e  wn(% ou rnosdft )aedr u5 lyt epaorps uolfa atigoen )(%)        162...922222000111367 ••• LLL SExcupieneninvtdeifiritscui rtaeien osdn ( t wreeocshersantr ic0cha– la1 nj0od0u  drbneeavselt la)orptimcleens t( (p%e ro 1f ,G0D0P0) population)      02..4122001187 •• LD
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land)    6.02017 • L SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities               
Sustainable Nitrogen Management Index (best 0–1.41 worst)    0.72015 • 5 Gini coefficient adjusted for top income    41.22014 • •
SDG3 – Good Health and Well-Being                SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities               
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)     292017 • L Annual mean concentration of particulate matter of less than      52.72017 • D
2.5 microns in diameter (PM2.5) (μg/m3)
NMeoorntaaltitayl  rmatoer,t ualnitdye rra-t5e ( (ppeerr 1 1,0,00000 l ilvivee b birirtthhss))      48..3622001188 •• LL Access to improved water source, piped (% of urban population)    92.22017 • D
Incidence of tuberculosis (per 100,000 population)    61.02018 • 5 Satisfaction with public transport (%)    78.62018 • •
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population)    NA NA • • SDG12 – Responsible Consumption and Production                 
Municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)    0.72015 • •
Agdeia-bsteatneds,a ordr iczherdo ndieca rtehs prairtaet dourye d tois ecaasred iionv aadscuultlsa ra dgiesde a3s0e–, c7a0n yceear,r s (%)    17.02016 • L Electronic waste (kg/capita)    5.22016 • •
Agame-bstiaenndt aarird pizoeldlu dtieoant h(p reart e1 0at0t,r0ib0u0 tpaobpleu tloat hioonu)sehold air pollution and    1132016 • • PSOro2d eumctiisosnio-bnas seemd bSoOd2i eedm iinss iimonpso (rktgs /(ckgap/citaap)ita)       300..7022001122 •• ••
Traffic deaths (per 100,000 population)    18.22016 • 5 Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita)    23.12010 • •
Life expectancy at birth (years)    76.42016 • D Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)    0.72010 • •
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19)   7.62017 • L SDG13 – Climate Action               
Births attended by skilled health personnel (%)    99.92015 • L Energy-related CO2 emissions (tCO2/capita)    6.52017 • 5
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%)   992018 • L CO2 emissions embodied in imports (tCO2/capita)    0.12015 • L
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best)   79.02017 • L CO2 emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita)    16.42018 • •
Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best)    5.12018 • p
SDG14 – Life Below Water                 
SDG4 – Quality Education                Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)    21.72018 • 5
Net primary enrollment rate (%) NA NA • • Ocean Health Index: Clean Waters score (worst 0–100 best)    35.02019 • 5
Lower secondary completion rate (%)    99.52011 • • Fish caught from overexploited or collapsed stocks (% of total catch)    8.82014 • L
Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24)    99.82018 • • Fish caught by trawling (%)    60.02014 • p
SDG5 – Gender Equality                      Marine biodiversity threats embodied in imports (per million population)    0.02018 • •
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods (% of females    96.62001 • L SDG15 – Life on Land               
aged 15 to 49 who are married or in unions) Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%)   37.82018 • 5
Ratio of female-to-male mean years of education received (%)    90.42018 • D Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%)   34.42018 • 5
Ratio of female-to-male labor force participation rate (%)    80.42019 • L Red List Index of species survival (worst 0–1 best)    0.72019 • p
Seats held by women in national parliament (%)    24.92020 • 5 Permanent deforestation (% of forest area, 5-year average)    0.02018 • •
SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation               
Population using at least basic drinking water services (%)    92.82017 • L Te(rpreers tmriailll iaonnd p forepsuhlwataiotenr) biodiversity threats embodied in imports      0.62018 • •
Population using at least basic sanitation services (%)    84.82017 • L SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions               
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available freshwater resources)    43.42015 • • Homicides (per 100,000 population)    0.62017 • L
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%)    9.42018 • • Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population)    NA NA • •
Scarce water consumption embodied in imports (m3/capita)    2.32013 • L Percentage of population who feel safe walking alone at night in the      86.42018 • •
SDG7 – Affordable and Clean Energy                city or area where they live (%)
Population with access to electricity (%)   100.02017 • L Property Rights (worst 1–7 best)    4.62019 • •
Population with access to clean fuels and technology for cooking (%)    59.32016 • 5 Birth registrations with civil authority (% of children under age 5)    NA NA • •
COto2t aelm eilsesciotrnicsi tfyro omut fpuuetl  (cMomtCbOu2s/tTioWnh f)or electricity and heating per      3.02017 • D CCohrilrdurpetnio innv Poelvrceedp itnio cnh Iinldd leaxb (owr o(%rs to 0f –p1o0p0u blaetsiot)n aged 5 to 14)      N4A120N1A9 •• D•
5
SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth                Exports of major conventional weapons (TIV constant million USD      0.12019 • • . C
Adjusted GDP growth (%)    2.62018 • • per 100,000 population) ou
Victims of modern slavery (per 1,000 population)    2.82018 • • Press Freedom Index (best 0–100 worst)    78.92019 • 5 ntr
y
Admuoltbsi lwe-itmh oanne ayc-cseoruvnicte a tp aro bvaidnekr  o(%r o othf epro fpinualantcioianl  iangsteidtu 1ti5o no ro or vwerit)h a     80.22017 • L SGoDvGer1nm7 e–n tP sapretnndeinrgs ohni phse aflothr a tnhde e dGuocaatliosn (% of GDP)      N  A N  A •   •    Prof
Unemployment rate (% of total labor force)    4.32019 • L For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional    NA NA • • iles
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population)   0.12010 • L public finance, including official development assistance (% of GNI)
Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP)    15.82016 • p
Corporate Tax Haven Score (best 0–100 worst)    58.32019 • •
* Imputed data point
173
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
COLOMBIA  
Latin America and the Caribbean
OVERALL PERFORMANCE
SDG SDG
17 1
SDG 100 SDG
16 2
75
Index score Regional average score SDG SDG
15 50 3
25
SDG
SDG 4
14
70.9 70.4
Colombia
SDG SDG
13 5
SDG
12 SDG
6
SDG Global rank 67 (OF 166)
SDG
11 SDG
7
SDG SDG
10 SDG 8
9
SPILLOVER INDEX AVERAGE PERFORMANCE BY SDG
100 (best) to 0 (worst)
100
80
60
40
20
0
CURRENT ASSESSMENT – SDG DASHBOARD
  Major challenges           Significant challenges          Challenges remain          SDG achieved          Information unavailable
SDG TRENDS
D D D D D L L D D
• D • L L D 5 p
p  Decreasing       5  Stagnating       D  Moderately improving       L  On track or maintaining SDG achievement       •  Information unavailable
Notes: The full title of Goal 2 “Zero Hunger” is “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”.    
  The full title of each SDG is available here: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabledevelopmentgoals
174
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
COLOMBIA
Performance by Indicator
SDG1 – No Poverty    Val u e Yea  rRa t ingTr e nd SDG9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure    Val u e Ye a rRa t ingTr e nd
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%)    3.52020 • L Population using the internet (%)    64.12018 • L
Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%)    11.32020 • D Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population)    52.32018 • L
SDG2 – Zero Hunger                Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related     2.72018 • L
Prevalence of undernourishment (%)    4.82017 • L infrastructure (worst 1–5 best)
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%)    12.72010 • D The Times Higher Education Universities Ranking: Average score of top 3    29.62020 • •
PPHrrueemvvaaalleennn Tccreeo  poohff  iwocb aLesestviinetylg ,(  BbinMe csIth ≥ 2il d–3r30e  wn(% ou rnosdft )aedr u5 lyt epaorps uolfa atigoen )(%)        2022...933222000111067 ••• LpL SExcupieneninvtdeifiritscui rtaeien osdn ( t wreeocshersantr ic0cha– la1 nj0od0u  drbneeavselt la)orptimcleens t( (p%e ro 1f ,G0D0P0) population)      00..1222001187 •• 5p
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land)    4.32017 • L SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities               
Sustainable Nitrogen Management Index (best 0–1.41 worst)    1.12015 • p Gini coefficient adjusted for top income    55.22017 • •
SDG3 – Good Health and Well-Being                SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities               
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)     832017 • D Annual mean concentration of particulate matter of less than      16.52017 • L
2.5 microns in diameter (PM2.5) (μg/m3)
NMeoorntaaltitayl  rmatoer,t ualnitdye rra-t5e ( (ppeerr 1 1,0,00000 l ilvivee b birirtthhss))      174..8222001188 •• LL Access to improved water source, piped (% of urban population)    95.22017 • 5
Incidence of tuberculosis (per 100,000 population)    33.02018 • 5 Satisfaction with public transport (%)    64.32019 • L
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population)    0.12018 • L SDG12 – Responsible Consumption and Production                 
Municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)    0.82011 • •
Agdeia-bsteatneds,a ordr iczherdo ndieca rtehs prairtaet dourye d tois ecaasred iionv aadscuultlsa ra dgiesde a3s0e–, c7a0n yceear,r s (%)    15.82016 • L Electronic waste (kg/capita)    5.62016 • •
Agame-bstiaenndt aarird pizoeldlu dtieoant h(p reart e1 0at0t,r0ib0u0 tpaobpleu tloat hioonu)sehold air pollution and    372016 • • PSOro2d eumctiisosnio-bnas seemd bSoOd2i eedm iinss iimonpso (rktgs /(ckgap/citaap)ita)       112..6822001122 •• ••
Traffic deaths (per 100,000 population)    18.52016 • p Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita)    24.62010 • •
Life expectancy at birth (years)    75.12016 • D Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)    2.52010 • •
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19)   66.72017 • 5 SDG13 – Climate Action               
Births attended by skilled health personnel (%)    99.22016 • L Energy-related CO2 emissions (tCO2/capita)    1.72017 • L
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%)   922018 • L CO2 emissions embodied in imports (tCO2/capita)    0.42015 • L
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best)   76.02017 • L CO2 emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita)   4223.22018 • •
Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best)    6.42019 • L
SDG14 – Life Below Water                 
SDG4 – Quality Education                Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)    65.22018 • L
Net primary enrollment rate (%)    92.92018 • L Ocean Health Index: Clean Waters score (worst 0–100 best)    63.52019 • L
Lower secondary completion rate (%)    75.72018 • 5 Fish caught from overexploited or collapsed stocks (% of total catch)    11.82014 • L
Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24)    98.92018 • • Fish caught by trawling (%)    4.02014 • L
SDG5 – Gender Equality                      Marine biodiversity threats embodied in imports (per million population)    0.12018 • •
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods (% of females    86.62016 • L SDG15 – Life on Land               
aged 15 to 49 who are married or in unions) Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%)   41.42018 • L
Ratio of female-to-male mean years of education received (%)   103.72018 • L Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%)   39.32018 • L
Ratio of female-to-male labor force participation rate (%)    71.52019 • L Red List Index of species survival (worst 0–1 best)    0.72019 • p
Seats held by women in national parliament (%)    18.32020 • p Permanent deforestation (% of forest area, 5-year average)    0.22018 • •
SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation               
Population using at least basic drinking water services (%)    97.32017 • L Te(rpreers tmriailll iaonnd p forepsuhlwataiotenr) biodiversity threats embodied in imports      1.02018 • •
Population using at least basic sanitation services (%)    89.62017 • L SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions               
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available freshwater resources)    1.82010 • • Homicides (per 100,000 population)    24.92017 • D
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%)    25.62018 • • Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population)    32.02018 • L
Scarce water consumption embodied in imports (m3/capita)    3.82013 • L Percentage of population who feel safe walking alone at night in the      47.52019 • 5
SDG7 – Affordable and Clean Energy                city or area where they live (%)
Population with access to electricity (%)    99.62017 • L Property Rights (worst 1–7 best)    4.12019 • •
Population with access to clean fuels and technology for cooking (%)    91.82016 • L Birth registrations with civil authority (% of children under age 5)    96.82018 • •
COto2t aelm eilsesciotrnicsi tfyro omut fpuuetl  (cMomtCbOu2s/tTioWnh f)or electricity and heating per      1.02017 • L CCohrilrdurpetnio innv Poelvrceedp itnio cnh Iinldd leaxb (owr o(%rs to 0f –p1o0p0u blaetsiot)n aged 5 to 14)      73.7822001196 •• 5•
5
SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth                Exports of major conventional weapons (TIV constant million USD      0.02019 • • . C
Adjusted GDP growth (%)    -3.22018 • • per 100,000 population) ou
Victims of modern slavery (per 1,000 population)    2.72018 • • Press Freedom Index (best 0–100 worst)    42.82019 • 5 ntr
y
Admuoltbsi lwe-itmh oanne ayc-cseoruvnicte a tp aro bvaidnekr  o(%r o othf epro fpinualantcioianl  iangsteidtu 1ti5o no ro or vwerit)h a     45.82017 • D SGoDvGer1nm7 e–n tP sapretnndeinrgs ohni phse aflothr a tnhde e dGuocaatliosn (% of GDP)      8 . 2201  6 •   p    Prof
Unemployment rate (% of total labor force)    9.72019 • p For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional    NA NA • • iles
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population)   0.22010 • L public finance, including official development assistance (% of GNI)
Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP)    22.92017 • p
Corporate Tax Haven Score (best 0–100 worst) * 0.02019 • •
* Imputed data point
175
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
COMOROS  
Sub-Saharan Africa
OVERALL PERFORMANCE
SDG SDG
17 1
SDG 100 SDG
16 2
75
Index score Regional average score SDG SDG
15 50 3
25
SDG
SDG 4
14
53.1 53.1
Comoros
SDG SDG
13 5
SDG
12 SDG
6
SDG Global rank 146 (OF 166)
SDG
11 SDG
7
SDG SDG
10 SDG 8
9
SPILLOVER INDEX AVERAGE PERFORMANCE BY SDG
100 (best) to 0 (worst)
100
80
60
40
20
0
CURRENT ASSESSMENT – SDG DASHBOARD
  Major challenges           Significant challenges          Challenges remain          SDG achieved          Information unavailable
SDG TRENDS
5 5 D p D 5 D L 5
• 5 • L 5 p 5 5
p  Decreasing       5  Stagnating       D  Moderately improving       L  On track or maintaining SDG achievement       •  Information unavailable
Notes: The full title of Goal 2 “Zero Hunger” is “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”.    
  The full title of each SDG is available here: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabledevelopmentgoals
176
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
COMOROS
Performance by Indicator
SDG1 – No Poverty    Val u e Yea  rRa t ingTr e nd SDG9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure    Val u e Ye a rRa t ingTr e nd
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%)    20.02020 • 5 Population using the internet (%)    8.52017 • 5
Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%)    37.62020 • 5 Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population)    60.02018 • L
SDG2 – Zero Hunger                Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related     2.32018 • p
Prevalence of undernourishment (%)    NA NA • • infrastructure (worst 1–5 best)
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%)    32.12012 • 5 The Times Higher Education Universities Ranking: Average score of top 3 * 0.02020 • •
PPrreevvaalleennccee  ooff  wobaesstiintyg,  BinM cIh ≥il d3r0e n(% u nodf aedr u5 lyt epaorps uolfa atigoen )(%)      171..8122001126 •• LD Scuiennivteifrisci taiensd ( tweochrsnt i0ca–l1 j0o0u rbneaslt a)rticles (per 1,000 population)    0.02018 • 5
Expenditure on research and development (% of GDP) * 0.02017 • •
Human Trophic Level (best 2–3 worst)    2.12007 • •
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land)    1.42017 • p SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities               
Sustainable Nitrogen Management Index (best 0–1.41 worst)    0.92015 • 5 Gini coefficient adjusted for top income    45.62013 • •
SDG3 – Good Health and Well-Being                SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities               
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)     2732017 • 5 Annual mean concentration of particulate matter of less than      20.52017 • 5
NMeoorntaaltitayl  rmatoer,t ualnitdye rra-t5e ( (ppeerr 1 1,0,00000 l ilvivee b birirtthhss))      3617..6522001188 •• 5D Ac2c.5e sms itcor oimnsp irno vdeiadm weatteerr ( sPoMu2rc.5e),  (pμipg/emd 3(%) of urban population)    76.12017 • 5
Incidence of tuberculosis (per 100,000 population)    35.02018 • 5 Satisfaction with public transport (%)    54.02019 • •
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population)    0.02018 • L SDG12 – Responsible Consumption and Production                 
Municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)    1.02015 • •
Agdeia-bsteatneds,a ordr iczherdo ndieca rtehs prairtaet dourye d tois ecaasred iionv aadscuultlsa ra dgiesde a3s0e–, c7a0n yceear,r s (%)    22.92016 • 5 Electronic waste (kg/capita)    0.82016 • •
Agame-bstiaenndt aarird pizoeldlu dtieoant h(p reart e1 0at0t,r0ib0u0 tpaobpleu tloat hioonu)sehold air pollution and    1722016 • • PSOro2d eumctiisosnio-bnas seemd bSoOd2i eedm iinss iimonpso (rktgs /(ckgap/citaap)ita)       NNAA NNAA •• ••
Traffic deaths (per 100,000 population)    26.52016 • 5 Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita)    NA NA • •
Life expectancy at birth (years)    63.92016 • 5 Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)    NA NA • •
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19)   65.42017 • D SDG13 – Climate Action               
Births attended by skilled health personnel (%)    82.22012 • • Energy-related CO2 emissions (tCO2/capita)    0.22017 • L
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%)   902018 • L CO2 emissions embodied in imports (tCO2/capita)    NA NA • •
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best)   52.02017 • D CO2 emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita)    0.02018 • •
Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best)    4.62019 • •
SDG14 – Life Below Water                 
SDG4 – Quality Education                Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)    0.02018 • 5
Net primary enrollment rate (%)    80.82018 • p Ocean Health Index: Clean Waters score (worst 0–100 best)    38.62019 • p
Lower secondary completion rate (%)    48.32014 • • Fish caught from overexploited or collapsed stocks (% of total catch)    5.62014 • L
Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24)    78.32018 • • Fish caught by trawling (%)    NA NA • •
SDG5 – Gender Equality                      Marine biodiversity threats embodied in imports (per million population)    NA NA • •
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods (% of females    28.82012 • 5 SDG15 – Life on Land               
aged 15 to 49 who are married or in unions) Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%)   13.02018 • 5
Ratio of female-to-male mean years of education received (%)    66.12018 • 5 Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%)   NA NA • •
Ratio of female-to-male labor force participation rate (%)    74.12019 • L Red List Index of species survival (worst 0–1 best)    0.82019 • p
Seats held by women in national parliament (%)    16.72020 • L Permanent deforestation (% of forest area, 5-year average)    0.32018 • •
SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation               
Population using at least basic drinking water services (%)    80.22017 • p Te(rpreers tmriailll iaonnd p forepsuhlwataiotenr) biodiversity threats embodied in imports      NA NA • •
Population using at least basic sanitation services (%)    35.92017 • 5 SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions               
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available freshwater resources)    1.22000 • • Homicides (per 100,000 population) * 7.72015 • •
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%)    0.12018 • • Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population)    60.42015 • •
Scarce water consumption embodied in imports (m3/capita)    NA NA • • Percentage of population who feel safe walking alone at night in the      67.02019 • •
SDG7 – Affordable and Clean Energy                city or area where they live (%)
Population with access to electricity (%)    79.92017 • L Property Rights (worst 1–7 best)    NA NA • •
Population with access to clean fuels and technology for cooking (%)    9.32016 • 5 Birth registrations with civil authority (% of children under age 5)    87.32018 • •
COto2t aelm eilsesciotrnicsi tfyro omut fpuuetl  (cMomtCbOu2s/tTioWnh f)or electricity and heating per      NA NA • • CCohrilrdurpetnio innv Poelvrceedp itnio cnh Iinldd leaxb (owr o(%rs to 0f –p1o0p0u blaetsiot)n aged 5 to 14)      222.5022001196 •• p•
5
SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth                Exports of major conventional weapons (TIV constant million USD   * 0.02019 • • . C
Adjusted GDP growth (%)    -5.02018 • • per 100,000 population) ou
Victims of modern slavery (per 1,000 population)    NA NA • • Press Freedom Index (best 0–100 worst)    27.92019 • L ntr
y
Admuoltbsi lwe-itmh oanne ayc-cseoruvnicte a tp aro bvaidnekr  o(%r o othf epro fpinualantcioianl  iangsteidtu 1ti5o no ro or vwerit)h a     21.72011 • • SGoDvGer1nm7 e–n tP sapretnndeinrgs ohni phse aflothr a tnhde e dGuocaatliosn (% of GDP)      3 . 5201  5 •   5    Prof
Unemployment rate (% of total labor force)    4.32019 • L For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional    NA NA • • iles
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population)   NA NA • • public finance, including official development assistance (% of GNI)
Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP)    NA NA • •
Corporate Tax Haven Score (best 0–100 worst) * 0.02019 • •
* Imputed data point
177
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
CONGO, REPUBLIC OF  
Sub-Saharan Africa
OVERALL PERFORMANCE
SDG SDG
17 1
SDG 100 SDG
16 2
75
Index score Regional average score SDG SDG
15 50 3
25
SDG
SDG 4
14
55.2 53.1 Congo, 
SDG Rep. of SDG
13 5
SDG
12 SDG
6
SDG Global rank 135 (OF 166)
SDG
11 SDG
7
SDG SDG
10 SDG 8
9
SPILLOVER INDEX AVERAGE PERFORMANCE BY SDG
100 (best) to 0 (worst)
100
80
60
40
20
0
CURRENT ASSESSMENT – SDG DASHBOARD
  Major challenges           Significant challenges          Challenges remain          SDG achieved          Information unavailable
SDG TRENDS
p 5 D • 5 D D D 5
• 5 • L 5 L p 5
p  Decreasing       5  Stagnating       D  Moderately improving       L  On track or maintaining SDG achievement       •  Information unavailable
Notes: The full title of Goal 2 “Zero Hunger” is “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”.    
  The full title of each SDG is available here: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabledevelopmentgoals
178
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
CONGO, REPUBLIC OF
Performance by Indicator
SDG1 – No Poverty    Val u e Yea  rRa t ingTr e nd SDG9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure    Val u e Ye a rRa t ingTr e nd
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%)    67.02020 • p Population using the internet (%)    8.72017 • 5
Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%)    85.82020 • p Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population)    6.02017 • •
SDG2 – Zero Hunger                Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related     2.12018 • D
Prevalence of undernourishment (%)    40.32017 • p infrastructure (worst 1–5 best)
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%)    21.22015 • D The Times Higher Education Universities Ranking: Average score of top 3 * 0.02020 • •
PPrreevvaalleennccee  ooff  wobaesstiintyg,  BinM cIh ≥il d3r0e n(% u nodf aedr u5 lyt epaorps uolfa atigoen )(%)      89..2622001156 •• pL Scuiennivteifrisci taiensd ( tweochrsnt i0ca–l1 j0o0u rbneaslt a)rticles (per 1,000 population)    0.02018 • p
Human Trophic Level (best 2–3 worst)    2.22017 • L Expenditure on research and development (% of GDP)    NA NA • •
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land)    0.82017 • 5 SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities               
Sustainable Nitrogen Management Index (best 0–1.41 worst)    0.92015 • p Gini coefficient adjusted for top income    52.02011 • •
SDG3 – Good Health and Well-Being                SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities               
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)     3782017 • D Annual mean concentration of particulate matter of less than      46.62017 • p
NMInecooirdntaealntitacyle  rm oatfoe tr,ut uablnietdryce rura-lto5e s( i(psp e(eprr e1 1r,0, 01000000 l ,il0viv0ee0 b  bpiriortthphsus)l)ation)       3257005...310222000111888 ••• 5DD ASac2tc.i5es fsmasc ittcoiro oinmn wsp irintoh vd epiadum bwleiactte etrrr a( sPnoMsup2roc.5ret),   ((p%μipg)/emd 3(%) of urban population)      7523..8222001179 •• pD
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population)    1.02018 • D SDG12 – Responsible Consumption and Production                 
Municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)    NA NA • •
Agdeia-bsteatneds,a ordr iczherdo ndieca rtehs prairtaet dourye d tois ecaasred iionv aadscuultlsa ra dgiesde a3s0e–, c7a0n yceear,r s (%)    16.72016 • L Electronic waste (kg/capita)    3.02016 • •
Agame-bstiaenndt aarird pizoeldlu dtieoant h(p reart e1 0at0t,r0ib0u0 tpaobpleu tloat hioonu)sehold air pollution and    1312016 • • PSOro2d eumctiisosnio-bnas seemd bSoOd2i eedm iinss iimonpso (rktgs /(ckgap/citaap)ita)       231..4722001122 •• ••
Traffic deaths (per 100,000 population)    27.42016 • p Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita)    7.82010 • •
Life expectancy at birth (years)    64.32016 • 5 Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)    1.12010 • •
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19)  112.22017 • 5 SDG13 – Climate Action               
Births attended by skilled health personnel (%)    94.42015 • L Energy-related CO2 emissions (tCO2/capita)    0.52017 • L
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%)   752018 • p CO2 emissions embodied in imports (tCO2/capita)    0.12015 • L
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best)   39.02017 • D CO2 emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita)    0.02017 • •
Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best)    5.22019 • L
SDG14 – Life Below Water                 
SDG4 – Quality Education                Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)    NA NA • •
Net primary enrollment rate (%)    87.92012 • • Ocean Health Index: Clean Waters score (worst 0–100 best)    49.12019 • D
Lower secondary completion rate (%)    50.12012 • • Fish caught from overexploited or collapsed stocks (% of total catch)    NA NA • •
Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24)    82.12018 • • Fish caught by trawling (%)    8.02014 • 5
SDG5 – Gender Equality                      Marine biodiversity threats embodied in imports (per million population)    0.02018 • •
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods (% of females    43.22015 • D SDG15 – Life on Land               
aged 15 to 49 who are married or in unions) Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%)   74.32018 • L
Ratio of female-to-male mean years of education received (%)    81.32018 • p Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%)  100.02018 • L
Ratio of female-to-male labor force participation rate (%)    93.52019 • L Red List Index of species survival (worst 0–1 best)    1.02019 • L
Seats held by women in national parliament (%)    11.32020 • 5 Permanent deforestation (% of forest area, 5-year average)    0.12018 • •
SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation               
Population using at least basic drinking water services (%)    73.22017 • D Te(rpreers tmriailll iaonnd p forepsuhlwataiotenr) biodiversity threats embodied in imports      0.32018 • •
Population using at least basic sanitation services (%)    20.22017 • 5 SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions               
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available freshwater resources)    0.02000 • • Homicides (per 100,000 population) * 9.32015 • •
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%)    0.32018 • • Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population)    60.02015 • •
Scarce water consumption embodied in imports (m3/capita)    1.62013 • L Percentage of population who feel safe walking alone at night in the      44.82019 • p
SDG7 – Affordable and Clean Energy                city or area where they live (%)
Population with access to electricity (%)    66.22017 • L Property Rights (worst 1–7 best)    NA NA • •
Population with access to clean fuels and technology for cooking (%)    24.12016 • 5 Birth registrations with civil authority (% of children under age 5)    95.92018 • •
COto2t aelm eilsesciotrnicsi tfyro omut fpuuetl  (cMomtCbOu2s/tTioWnh f)or electricity and heating per      0.92017 • L CCohrilrdurpetnio innv Poelvrceedp itnio cnh Iinldd leaxb (owr o(%rs to 0f –p1o0p0u blaetsiot)n aged 5 to 14)      231.9322001196 •• p•
5
SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth                Exports of major conventional weapons (TIV constant million USD   * 0.02019 • • . C
Adjusted GDP growth (%)    -9.12018 • • per 100,000 population) ou
Victims of modern slavery (per 1,000 population)    8.02018 • • Press Freedom Index (best 0–100 worst)    36.02019 • p ntr
y
Admuoltbsi lwe-itmh oanne ayc-cseoruvnicte a tp aro bvaidnekr  o(%r o othf epro fpinualantcioianl  iangsteidtu 1ti5o no ro or vwerit)h a     26.12017 • D SGoDvGer1nm7 e–n tP sapretnndeinrgs ohni phse aflothr a tnhde e dGuocaatliosn (% of GDP)      6 . 1201  5 •   L    Prof
Unemployment rate (% of total labor force)    9.52019 • 5 For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional    NA NA • • iles
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population)   0.22010 • L public finance, including official development assistance (% of GNI)
Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP)    23.32016 • p
Corporate Tax Haven Score (best 0–100 worst) * 0.02019 • •
* Imputed data point
179
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
COSTA RICA  
Latin America and the Caribbean
OVERALL PERFORMANCE
SDG SDG
17 1
SDG 100 SDG
16 2
75
Index score Regional average score SDG SDG
15 50 3
25
SDG
SDG 4
14
75.1 70.4
Costa Rica
SDG SDG
13 5
SDG
12 SDG
6
SDG Global rank 35 (OF 166)
SDG
11 SDG
7
SDG SDG
10 SDG 8
9
SPILLOVER INDEX AVERAGE PERFORMANCE BY SDG
100 (best) to 0 (worst)
100
80
60
40
20
0
CURRENT ASSESSMENT – SDG DASHBOARD
  Major challenges           Significant challenges          Challenges remain          SDG achieved          Information unavailable
SDG TRENDS
L 5 D L D L L D D
• L • D D p D D
p  Decreasing       5  Stagnating       D  Moderately improving       L  On track or maintaining SDG achievement       •  Information unavailable
Notes: The full title of Goal 2 “Zero Hunger” is “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”.    
  The full title of each SDG is available here: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabledevelopmentgoals
180
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
COSTA RICA
Performance by Indicator
SDG1 – No Poverty    Val u e Yea  rRa t ingTr e nd SDG9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure    Val u e Ye a rRa t ingTr e nd
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%)    0.82020 • L Population using the internet (%)    74.12018 • L
Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%)    1.92020 • L Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population)    97.22018 • L
SDG2 – Zero Hunger                Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related     2.52018 • 5
Prevalence of undernourishment (%)    4.82017 • L infrastructure (worst 1–5 best)
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%)    5.62008 • L The Times Higher Education Universities Ranking: Average score of top 3    31.82020 • •
PPHrrueemvvaaalleennn Tccreeo  poohff  iwocb aLesestviinetylg ,(  BbinMe csIth ≥ 2il d–3r30e  wn(% ou rnosdft )aedr u5 lyt epaorps uolfa atigoen )(%)        2125...047222000011867 ••• 5Lp SExcupieneninvtdeifiritscui rtaeien osdn ( t wreeocshersantr ic0cha– la1 nj0od0u  drbneeavselt la)orptimcleens t( (p%e ro 1f ,G0D0P0) population)      00..1522001186 •• 5p
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land)    4.22017 • L SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities               
Sustainable Nitrogen Management Index (best 0–1.41 worst)    1.12015 • p Gini coefficient adjusted for top income    50.42017 • •
SDG3 – Good Health and Well-Being                SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities               
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)     272017 • L Annual mean concentration of particulate matter of less than      15.72017 • L
2.5 microns in diameter (PM2.5) (μg/m3)
NMeoorntaaltitayl  rmatoer,t ualnitdye rra-t5e ( (ppeerr 1 1,0,00000 l ilvivee b birirtthhss))      58..9822001188 •• LL Access to improved water source, piped (% of urban population)    99.02017 • L
Incidence of tuberculosis (per 100,000 population)    10.02018 • L Satisfaction with public transport (%)    76.22019 • L
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population)    0.22018 • p SDG12 – Responsible Consumption and Production                 
Municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)    1.02014 • •
Agdeia-bsteatneds,a ordr iczherdo ndieca rtehs prairtaet dourye d tois ecaasred iionv aadscuultlsa ra dgiesde a3s0e–, c7a0n yceear,r s (%)    11.52016 • L Electronic waste (kg/capita)    9.72016 • •
Agame-bstiaenndt aarird pizoeldlu dtieoant h(p reart e1 0at0t,r0ib0u0 tpaobpleu tloat hioonu)sehold air pollution and    232016 • • PSOro2d eumctiisosnio-bnas seemd bSoOd2i eedm iinss iimonpso (rktgs /(ckgap/citaap)ita)       314..9722001122 •• ••
Traffic deaths (per 100,000 population)    16.72016 • p Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita)    14.72010 • •
Life expectancy at birth (years)    79.62016 • L Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)    4.82010 • •
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19)   53.52017 • D SDG13 – Climate Action               
Births attended by skilled health personnel (%)    90.02015 • p Energy-related CO2 emissions (tCO2/capita)    1.82017 • L
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%)   942018 • L CO2 emissions embodied in imports (tCO2/capita)    0.82015 • 5
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best)   77.02017 • L CO2 emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita)    NA NA • •
Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best)    7.02019 • L
SDG14 – Life Below Water                 
SDG4 – Quality Education                Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)    54.92018 • L
Net primary enrollment rate (%)    97.32018 • L Ocean Health Index: Clean Waters score (worst 0–100 best)    72.62019 • L
Lower secondary completion rate (%)    70.32018 • L Fish caught from overexploited or collapsed stocks (% of total catch)    25.12014 • p
Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24)    99.42018 • • Fish caught by trawling (%)    16.32014 • D
SDG5 – Gender Equality                      Marine biodiversity threats embodied in imports (per million population)    0.22018 • •
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods (% of females    89.12011 • L SDG15 – Life on Land               
aged 15 to 49 who are married or in unions) Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%)   41.72018 • 5
Ratio of female-to-male mean years of education received (%)   103.52018 • L Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%)   0.02018 • 5
Ratio of female-to-male labor force participation rate (%)    61.62019 • p Red List Index of species survival (worst 0–1 best)    0.82019 • p
Seats held by women in national parliament (%)    45.62020 • L Permanent deforestation (% of forest area, 5-year average)    0.22018 • •
SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation               
Population using at least basic drinking water services (%)    99.72017 • L Te(rpreers tmriailll iaonnd p forepsuhlwataiotenr) biodiversity threats embodied in imports      1.62018 • •
Population using at least basic sanitation services (%)    97.82017 • L SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions               
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available freshwater resources)    4.72015 • • Homicides (per 100,000 population)    12.32017 • p
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%)    9.72018 • • Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population)    20.62018 • L
Scarce water consumption embodied in imports (m3/capita)    4.82013 • L Percentage of population who feel safe walking alone at night in the      47.82019 • p
SDG7 – Affordable and Clean Energy                city or area where they live (%)
Population with access to electricity (%)    99.62017 • L Property Rights (worst 1–7 best)    5.02019 • •
Population with access to clean fuels and technology for cooking (%)    93.52016 • L Birth registrations with civil authority (% of children under age 5)    99.62018 • •
COto2t aelm eilsesciotrnicsi tfyro omut fpuuetl  (cMomtCbOu2s/tTioWnh f)or electricity and heating per      0.72017 • L CCohrilrdurpetnio innv Poelvrceedp itnio cnh Iinldd leaxb (owr o(%rs to 0f –p1o0p0u blaetsiot)n aged 5 to 14)      45.6122001196 •• D•
5
SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth                Exports of major conventional weapons (TIV constant million USD   * 0.02019 • • . C
Adjusted GDP growth (%)    -1.12018 • • per 100,000 population) ou
Victims of modern slavery (per 1,000 population)    1.32018 • • Press Freedom Index (best 0–100 worst)    12.22019 • L ntr
y
Admuoltbsi lwe-itmh oanne ayc-cseoruvnicte a tp aro bvaidnekr  o(%r o othf epro fpinualantcioianl  iangsteidtu 1ti5o no ro or vwerit)h a     67.82017 • L SGoDvGer1nm7 e–n tP sapretnndeinrgs ohni phse aflothr a tnhde e dGuocaatliosn (% of GDP)      12 . 7201  6 •   L    Prof
Unemployment rate (% of total labor force)    11.92019 • p For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional    NA NA • • iles
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population)   0.52010 • L public finance, including official development assistance (% of GNI)
Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP)    25.22018 • D
Corporate Tax Haven Score (best 0–100 worst) * 0.02019 • •
* Imputed data point
181
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
CÔTE D’IVOIRE  
Sub-Saharan Africa
OVERALL PERFORMANCE
SDG SDG
17 1
SDG 100 SDG
16 2
75
Index score Regional average score SDG SDG
15 50 3
25
SDG
SDG 4
14
57.9 53.1
Côte d'Ivoire
SDG SDG
13 5
SDG
12 SDG
6
SDG Global rank 128 (OF 166)
SDG
11 SDG
7
SDG SDG
10 SDG 8
9
SPILLOVER INDEX AVERAGE PERFORMANCE BY SDG
100 (best) to 0 (worst)
100
80
60
40
20
0
CURRENT ASSESSMENT – SDG DASHBOARD
  Major challenges           Significant challenges          Challenges remain          SDG achieved          Information unavailable
SDG TRENDS
D D D L 5 5 D D D
• 5 • L 5 D D D
p  Decreasing       5  Stagnating       D  Moderately improving       L  On track or maintaining SDG achievement       •  Information unavailable
Notes: The full title of Goal 2 “Zero Hunger” is “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”.    
  The full title of each SDG is available here: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabledevelopmentgoals
182
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
CÔTE D’IVOIRE
Performance by Indicator
SDG1 – No Poverty    Val u e Yea  rRa t ingTr e nd SDG9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure    Val u e Ye a rRa t ingTr e nd
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%)    18.32020 • L Population using the internet (%)    46.82018 • L
Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%)    40.82020 • D Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population)    53.62018 • L
SDG2 – Zero Hunger                Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related     2.92018 • L
Prevalence of undernourishment (%)    19.02017 • D infrastructure (worst 1–5 best)
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%)    21.62016 • D The Times Higher Education Universities Ranking: Average score of top 3 * 0.02020 • •
PPrreevvaalleennccee  ooff  wobaesstiintyg,  BinM cIh ≥il d3r0e n(% u nodf aedr u5 lyt epaorps uolfa atigoen )(%)      160..0322001166 •• Lp Scuiennivteifrisci taiensd ( tweochrsnt i0ca–l1 j0o0u rbneaslt a)rticles (per 1,000 population)    0.02018 • 5
Human Trophic Level (best 2–3 worst)    2.12017 • L Expenditure on research and development (% of GDP)    0.12016 • •
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land)    2.12017 • 5 SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities               
Sustainable Nitrogen Management Index (best 0–1.41 worst)    0.92015 • 5 Gini coefficient adjusted for top income    47.02015 • •
SDG3 – Good Health and Well-Being                SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities               
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)     6172017 • D Annual mean concentration of particulate matter of less than      25.92017 • p
NMeoorntaaltitayl  rmatoer,t ualnitdye rra-t5e ( (ppeerr 1 1,0,00000 l ilvivee b birirtthhss))      3830..5922001188 •• 5D Ac2c.5e sms itcor oimnsp irno vdeiadm weatteerr ( sPoMu2rc.5e),  (pμipg/emd 3(%) of urban population)    62.42017 • p
Incidence of tuberculosis (per 100,000 population)   142.02018 • D Satisfaction with public transport (%)    47.62019 • L
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population)    0.72018 • L SDG12 – Responsible Consumption and Production                 
Municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)    1.02010 • •
Agdeia-bsteatneds,a ordr iczherdo ndieca rtehs prairtaet dourye d tois ecaasred iionv aadscuultlsa ra dgiesde a3s0e–, c7a0n yceear,r s (%)    29.12016 • p Electronic waste (kg/capita)    0.92016 • •
Agame-bstiaenndt aarird pizoeldlu dtieoant h(p reart e1 0at0t,r0ib0u0 tpaobpleu tloat hioonu)sehold air pollution and    2692016 • • PSOro2d eumctiisosnio-bnas seemd bSoOd2i eedm iinss iimonpso (rktgs /(ckgap/citaap)ita)       50..7322001122 •• ••
Traffic deaths (per 100,000 population)    23.62016 • 5 Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita)    4.22010 • •
Life expectancy at birth (years)    54.62016 • 5 Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)    0.32010 • •
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19)  117.62017 • 5 SDG13 – Climate Action               
Births attended by skilled health personnel (%)    73.62016 • L Energy-related CO2 emissions (tCO2/capita)    0.52017 • L
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%)   712018 • L CO2 emissions embodied in imports (tCO2/capita)    0.02015 • L
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best)   47.02017 • D CO2 emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita)    0.02018 • •
Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best)    5.42019 • L
SDG14 – Life Below Water                 
SDG4 – Quality Education                Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)    NA NA • •
Net primary enrollment rate (%)    90.32018 • L Ocean Health Index: Clean Waters score (worst 0–100 best)    40.72019 • p
Lower secondary completion rate (%)    49.42018 • L Fish caught from overexploited or collapsed stocks (% of total catch)    25.82014 • p
Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24)    58.42018 • • Fish caught by trawling (%)    4.32014 • L
SDG5 – Gender Equality                      Marine biodiversity threats embodied in imports (per million population)    0.02018 • •
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods (% of females    39.42018 • 5 SDG15 – Life on Land               
aged 15 to 49 who are married or in unions) Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%)   71.22018 • L
Ratio of female-to-male mean years of education received (%)    65.12018 • 5 Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%)   75.62018 • L
Ratio of female-to-male labor force participation rate (%)    73.42019 • L Red List Index of species survival (worst 0–1 best)    0.92019 • 5
Seats held by women in national parliament (%)    11.42020 • 5 Permanent deforestation (% of forest area, 5-year average)    1.12018 • •
SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation               
Population using at least basic drinking water services (%)    72.92017 • 5 Te(rpreers tmriailll iaonnd p forepsuhlwataiotenr) biodiversity threats embodied in imports      0.02018 • •
Population using at least basic sanitation services (%)    32.12017 • 5 SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions               
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available freshwater resources)    5.12015 • • Homicides (per 100,000 population) * 11.62015 • •
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%)    0.62018 • • Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population)    34.72018 • L
Scarce water consumption embodied in imports (m3/capita)    0.42013 • L Percentage of population who feel safe walking alone at night in the      45.52019 • p
SDG7 – Affordable and Clean Energy                city or area where they live (%)
Population with access to electricity (%)    65.62017 • D Property Rights (worst 1–7 best)    3.92019 • •
Population with access to clean fuels and technology for cooking (%)    18.22016 • p Birth registrations with civil authority (% of children under age 5)    71.72018 • •
COto2t aelm eilsesciotrnicsi tfyro omut fpuuetl  (cMomtCbOu2s/tTioWnh f)or electricity and heating per      1.12017 • L CCohrilrdurpetnio innv Poelvrceedp itnio cnh Iinldd leaxb (owr o(%rs to 0f –p1o0p0u blaetsiot)n aged 5 to 14)      263.5422001196 •• 5•
5
SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth                Exports of major conventional weapons (TIV constant million USD      0.02019 • • . C
Adjusted GDP growth (%)    -0.72018 • • per 100,000 population) ou
Victims of modern slavery (per 1,000 population)    5.92018 • • Press Freedom Index (best 0–100 worst)    29.52019 • L ntr
y
Admuoltbsi lwe-itmh oanne ayc-cseoruvnicte a tp aro bvaidnekr  o(%r o othf epro fpinualantcioianl  iangsteidtu 1ti5o no ro or vwerit)h a     41.32017 • D SGoDvGer1nm7 e–n tP sapretnndeinrgs ohni phse aflothr a tnhde e dGuocaatliosn (% of GDP)      6 . 5201  6 •   D    Prof
Unemployment rate (% of total labor force)    3.32019 • L For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional    NA NA • • iles
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population)   0.02010 • L public finance, including official development assistance (% of GNI)
Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP)    16.52017 • D
Corporate Tax Haven Score (best 0–100 worst) * 0.02019 • •
* Imputed data point
183
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
CROATIA  
Eastern Europe and Central Asia
OVERALL PERFORMANCE
SDG SDG
17 1
SDG 100 SDG
16 2
75
Index score Regional average score SDG SDG
15 50 3
25
SDG
SDG 4
14
78.4 70.9
Croatia
SDG SDG
13 5
SDG
12 SDG
6
SDG Global rank 19 (OF 166)
SDG
11 SDG
7
SDG SDG
10 SDG 8
9
SPILLOVER INDEX AVERAGE PERFORMANCE BY SDG
100 (best) to 0 (worst)
100
80
60
40
20
0
CURRENT ASSESSMENT – SDG DASHBOARD
  Major challenges           Significant challenges          Challenges remain          SDG achieved          Information unavailable
SDG TRENDS
L D D p D L D L D
• 5 • 5 D L D •
p  Decreasing       5  Stagnating       D  Moderately improving       L  On track or maintaining SDG achievement       •  Information unavailable
Notes: The full title of Goal 2 “Zero Hunger” is “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”.    
  The full title of each SDG is available here: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabledevelopmentgoals
184
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
CROATIA
Performance by Indicator
SDG1 – No Poverty    Val u e Yea  rRa t ingTr e nd SDG9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure    Val u e Ye a rRa t ingTr e nd
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%)    0.62020 • L Population using the internet (%)    75.32018 • L
Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%)    1.12020 • L Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population)    79.52018 • L
SDG2 – Zero Hunger                Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related     3.02018 • L
Prevalence of undernourishment (%)    2.52017 • L infrastructure (worst 1–5 best)
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%) * 2.62016 • L The Times Higher Education Universities Ranking: Average score of top 3    24.12020 • •
PPHrrueemvvaaalleennn Tccreeo  poohff  iwocb aLesestviinetylg ,(  BbinMe csIth ≥ 2il d–3r30e  wn(% ou rnosdft )aedr u5 lyt epaorps uolfa atigoen )(%) *     2024...744222000111667 ••• LpL SExcupieneninvtdeifiritscui rtaeien osdn ( t wreeocshersantr ic0cha– la1 nj0od0u  drbneeavselt la)orptimcleens t( (p%e ro 1f ,G0D0P0) population)      10..0922001187 •• LD
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land)    5.72017 • L SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities               
Sustainable Nitrogen Management Index (best 0–1.41 worst)    0.52015 • L Gini coefficient adjusted for top income    36.62015 • •
SDG3 – Good Health and Well-Being                SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities               
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)     82017 • L Annual mean concentration of particulate matter of less than      17.92017 • 5
2.5 microns in diameter (PM2.5) (μg/m3)
NMeoorntaaltitayl  rmatoer,t ualnitdye rra-t5e ( (ppeerr 1 1,0,00000 l ilvivee b birirtthhss))      24..6722001188 •• LL Access to improved water source, piped (% of urban population)    99.02017 • L
Incidence of tuberculosis (per 100,000 population)    8.42018 • L Satisfaction with public transport (%)    47.82018 • p
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population)    0.02018 • L SDG12 – Responsible Consumption and Production                 
Municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)    1.92015 • •
Agdeia-bsteatneds,a ordr iczherdo ndieca rtehs prairtaet dourye d tois ecaasred iionv aadscuultlsa ra dgiesde a3s0e–, c7a0n yceear,r s (%)    16.72016 • L Electronic waste (kg/capita)    12.62016 • •
Agame-bstiaenndt aarird pizoeldlu dtieoant h(p reart e1 0at0t,r0ib0u0 tpaobpleu tloat hioonu)sehold air pollution and    352016 • • PSOro2d eumctiisosnio-bnas seemd bSoOd2i eedm iinss iimonpso (rktgs /(ckgap/citaap)ita)       579..5622001122 •• ••
Traffic deaths (per 100,000 population)    8.12016 • L Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita)    20.52010 • •
Life expectancy at birth (years)    78.32016 • L Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)    5.72010 • •
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19)   8.72017 • L SDG13 – Climate Action               
Births attended by skilled health personnel (%)    99.92015 • L Energy-related CO2 emissions (tCO2/capita)    4.22017 • 5
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%)   932018 • L CO2 emissions embodied in imports (tCO2/capita)    1.42015 • 5
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best)   71.02017 • 5 CO2 emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita)   115.82018 • •
Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best)    5.52018 • L
SDG14 – Life Below Water                 
SDG4 – Quality Education                Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)    75.22018 • L
Net primary enrollment rate (%)    88.02017 • p Ocean Health Index: Clean Waters score (worst 0–100 best)    64.62019 • D
Lower secondary completion rate (%)    93.12016 • • Fish caught from overexploited or collapsed stocks (% of total catch)    7.02014 • L
Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24)    99.72011 • • Fish caught by trawling (%)    17.92014 • L
SDG5 – Gender Equality                      Marine biodiversity threats embodied in imports (per million population)    0.02018 • •
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods (% of females * 61.52017 • D SDG15 – Life on Land               
aged 15 to 49 who are married or in unions) Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%)   74.12018 • L
Ratio of female-to-male mean years of education received (%)    90.82018 • 5 Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%)   86.82018 • L
Ratio of female-to-male labor force participation rate (%)    78.82019 • L Red List Index of species survival (worst 0–1 best)    0.92019 • L
Seats held by women in national parliament (%)    19.22020 • 5 Permanent deforestation (% of forest area, 5-year average)    0.02018 • •
SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation               
Population using at least basic drinking water services (%)    99.62017 • L Te(rpreers tmriailll iaonnd p forepsuhlwataiotenr) biodiversity threats embodied in imports      1.42018 • •
Population using at least basic sanitation services (%)    96.52017 • L SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions               
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available freshwater resources)    1.52015 • • Homicides (per 100,000 population)    1.12017 • L
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%)    51.72018 • • Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population)    27.62018 • L
Scarce water consumption embodied in imports (m3/capita)    13.22013 • L Percentage of population who feel safe walking alone at night in the      75.12018 • L
SDG7 – Affordable and Clean Energy                city or area where they live (%)
Population with access to electricity (%)   100.02017 • L Property Rights (worst 1–7 best)    3.82019 • •
Population with access to clean fuels and technology for cooking (%)    92.72016 • L Birth registrations with civil authority (% of children under age 5)   100.02018 • •
COto2t aelm eilsesciotrnicsi tfyro omut fpuuetl  (cMomtCbOu2s/tTioWnh f)or electricity and heating per      1.42017 • 5 CCohrilrdurpetnio innv Poelvrceedp itnio cnh Iinldd leaxb (owr o(%rs to 0f –p1o0p0u blaetsiot)n aged 5 to 14)      N4A720N1A9 •• p•
5
SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth                Exports of major conventional weapons (TIV constant million USD      0.12019 • • . C
Adjusted GDP growth (%)    1.52018 • • per 100,000 population) ou
Victims of modern slavery (per 1,000 population)    6.02018 • • Press Freedom Index (best 0–100 worst)    29.02019 • L ntr
y
Admuoltbsi lwe-itmh oanne ayc-cseoruvnicte a tp aro bvaidnekr  o(%r o othf epro fpinualantcioianl  iangsteidtu 1ti5o no ro or vwerit)h a     86.12017 • L SGoDvGer1nm7 e–n tP sapretnndeinrgs ohni phse aflothr a tnhde e dGuocaatliosn (% of GDP)      10 . 1201  3 •   •    Prof
Unemployment rate (% of total labor force)    6.92019 • L For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional    NA NA • • iles
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population)   0.62010 • L public finance, including official development assistance (% of GNI)
Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP)    NA NA • •
Corporate Tax Haven Score (best 0–100 worst)    54.52019 • •
* Imputed data point
185
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
CUBA  
Latin America and the Caribbean
OVERALL PERFORMANCE
SDG SDG
17 1
SDG 100 SDG
16 2
75
Index score Regional average score SDG SDG
15 50 3
25
SDG
SDG 4
14
72.6 70.4
Cuba
SDG SDG
13 5
SDG
12 SDG
6
SDG Global rank 55 (OF 166)
SDG
11 SDG
7
SDG SDG
10 SDG 8
9
SPILLOVER INDEX AVERAGE PERFORMANCE BY SDG
100 (best) to 0 (worst)
100
80
60
40
20
0
CURRENT ASSESSMENT – SDG DASHBOARD
  Major challenges           Significant challenges          Challenges remain          SDG achieved          Information unavailable
SDG TRENDS
• 5 D L D D L L D
• 5 • D 5 5 5 •
p  Decreasing       5  Stagnating       D  Moderately improving       L  On track or maintaining SDG achievement       •  Information unavailable
Notes: The full title of Goal 2 “Zero Hunger” is “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”.    
  The full title of each SDG is available here: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabledevelopmentgoals
186
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
CUBA
Performance by Indicator
SDG1 – No Poverty    Val u e Yea  rRa t ingTr e nd SDG9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure    Val u e Ye a rRa t ingTr e nd
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%) * NA NA • • Population using the internet (%)    57.12017 • L
Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%) * NA NA • • Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population)    14.32018 • D
SDG2 – Zero Hunger                Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related     2.02018 • D
Prevalence of undernourishment (%)    2.52017 • L infrastructure (worst 1–5 best)
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%)    7.02000 • L The Times Higher Education Universities Ranking: Average score of top 3    16.42020 • •
PPHrrueemvvaaalleennn Tccreeo  poohff  iwocb aLesestviinetylg ,(  BbinMe csIth ≥ 2il d–3r30e  wn(% ou rnosdft )aedr u5 lyt epaorps uolfa atigoen )(%)        2224...426222000011067 ••• 5Lp SExcupieneninvtdeifiritscui rtaeien osdn ( t wreeocshersantr ic0cha– la1 nj0od0u  drbneeavselt la)orptimcleens t( (p%e ro 1f ,G0D0P0) population)      00..1322001186 •• pp
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land)    2.92017 • L SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities               
Sustainable Nitrogen Management Index (best 0–1.41 worst)    1.12015 • p Gini coefficient adjusted for top income    NA NA • •
SDG3 – Good Health and Well-Being                SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities               
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)     362017 • L Annual mean concentration of particulate matter of less than      19.72017 • D
2.5 microns in diameter (PM2.5) (μg/m3)
NMeoorntaaltitayl  rmatoer,t ualnitdye rra-t5e ( (ppeerr 1 1,0,00000 l ilvivee b birirtthhss))      25..1022001188 •• LL Access to improved water source, piped (% of urban population)    86.12017 • 5
Incidence of tuberculosis (per 100,000 population)    7.22018 • L Satisfaction with public transport (%)    7.92006 • •
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population)    0.22018 • L SDG12 – Responsible Consumption and Production                 
Municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)    0.82007 • •
Agdeia-bsteatneds,a ordr iczherdo ndieca rtehs prairtaet dourye d tois ecaasred iionv aadscuultlsa ra dgiesde a3s0e–, c7a0n yceear,r s (%)    16.42016 • L Electronic waste (kg/capita)    NA NA • •
Agame-bstiaenndt aarird pizoeldlu dtieoant h(p reart e1 0at0t,r0ib0u0 tpaobpleu tloat hioonu)sehold air pollution and    502016 • • PSOro2d eumctiisosnio-bnas seemd bSoOd2i eedm iinss iimonpso (rktgs /(ckgap/citaap)ita)       551..9822001122 •• ••
Traffic deaths (per 100,000 population)    8.52016 • p Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita)    20.62010 • •
Life expectancy at birth (years)    79.02016 • D Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)    1.22010 • •
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19)   51.62017 • 5 SDG13 – Climate Action               
Births attended by skilled health personnel (%)    99.92016 • L Energy-related CO2 emissions (tCO2/capita)    3.32017 • 5
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%)   992018 • L CO2 emissions embodied in imports (tCO2/capita)    0.32015 • L
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best)   83.02017 • L CO2 emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita)    NA NA • •
Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best)    5.42006 • •
SDG14 – Life Below Water                 
SDG4 – Quality Education                Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)    60.02018 • L
Net primary enrollment rate (%)    97.72018 • L Ocean Health Index: Clean Waters score (worst 0–100 best)    58.12019 • p
Lower secondary completion rate (%)    93.02018 • L Fish caught from overexploited or collapsed stocks (% of total catch)    58.02014 • 5
Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24)    99.92012 • • Fish caught by trawling (%)    2.92014 • L
SDG5 – Gender Equality                      Marine biodiversity threats embodied in imports (per million population)    0.02018 • •
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods (% of females    88.82014 • L SDG15 – Life on Land               
aged 15 to 49 who are married or in unions) Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%)   55.92018 • L
Ratio of female-to-male mean years of education received (%)   100.92018 • L Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%)   15.92018 • 5
Ratio of female-to-male labor force participation rate (%)    59.32019 • p Red List Index of species survival (worst 0–1 best)    0.72019 • p
Seats held by women in national parliament (%)    53.22020 • L Permanent deforestation (% of forest area, 5-year average)    0.32018 • •
SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation               
Population using at least basic drinking water services (%)    95.32017 • 5 Te(rpreers tmriailll iaonnd p forepsuhlwataiotenr) biodiversity threats embodied in imports      0.22018 • •
Population using at least basic sanitation services (%)    92.82017 • L SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions               
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available freshwater resources)    23.92015 • • Homicides (per 100,000 population)    5.02016 • 5
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%)    3.62018 • • Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population)    NA NA • •
Scarce water consumption embodied in imports (m3/capita)    2.32013 • L Percentage of population who feel safe walking alone at night in the      50.82006 • •
SDG7 – Affordable and Clean Energy                city or area where they live (%)
Population with access to electricity (%)   100.02017 • L Property Rights (worst 1–7 best)    NA NA • •
Population with access to clean fuels and technology for cooking (%)    79.42016 • L Birth registrations with civil authority (% of children under age 5)   100.02018 • •
COto2t aelm eilsesciotrnicsi tfyro omut fpuuetl  (cMomtCbOu2s/tTioWnh f)or electricity and heating per      1.42017 • L CCohrilrdurpetnio innv Poelvrceedp itnio cnh Iinldd leaxb (owr o(%rs to 0f –p1o0p0u blaetsiot)n aged 5 to 14)      N4A820N1A9 •• 5•
5
SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth                Exports of major conventional weapons (TIV constant million USD   * 0.02019 • • . C
Adjusted GDP growth (%)    NA NA • • per 100,000 population) ou
Victims of modern slavery (per 1,000 population)    3.82018 • • Press Freedom Index (best 0–100 worst)    63.82019 • D ntr
y
Admuoltbsi lwe-itmh oanne ayc-cseoruvnicte a tp aro bvaidnekr  o(%r o othf epro fpinualantcioianl  iangsteidtu 1ti5o no ro or vwerit)h a     NA NA • • SGoDvGer1nm7 e–n tP sapretnndeinrgs ohni phse aflothr a tnhde e dGuocaatliosn (% of GDP)      22 . 5201  0 •   •    Prof
Unemployment rate (% of total labor force)    1.62019 • L For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional    NA NA • • iles
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population)   0.22010 • L public finance, including official development assistance (% of GNI)
Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP)    NA NA • •
Corporate Tax Haven Score (best 0–100 worst) * 0.02019 • •
* Imputed data point
187
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
CYPRUS  
Eastern Europe and Central Asia
OVERALL PERFORMANCE
SDG SDG
17 1
SDG 100 SDG
16 2
75
Index score Regional average score SDG SDG
15 50 3
25
SDG
SDG 4
14
75.2 70.9
Cyprus
SDG SDG
13 5
SDG
12 SDG
6
SDG Global rank 34 (OF 166)
SDG
11 SDG
7
SDG SDG
10 SDG 8
9
SPILLOVER INDEX AVERAGE PERFORMANCE BY SDG
100 (best) to 0 (worst)
100
80
60
40
20
0
CURRENT ASSESSMENT – SDG DASHBOARD
  Major challenges           Significant challenges          Challenges remain          SDG achieved          Information unavailable
SDG TRENDS
L D L L D D D L D
• D • 5 D L D p
p  Decreasing       5  Stagnating       D  Moderately improving       L  On track or maintaining SDG achievement       •  Information unavailable
Notes: The full title of Goal 2 “Zero Hunger” is “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”.    
  The full title of each SDG is available here: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabledevelopmentgoals
188
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
CYPRUS
Performance by Indicator
SDG1 – No Poverty    Val u e Yea  rRa t ingTr e nd SDG9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure    Val u e Ye a rRa t ingTr e nd
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%)    0.12020 • L Population using the internet (%)    84.42018 • L
Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%)    0.12020 • L Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population)   111.22018 • L
SDG2 – Zero Hunger                Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related     2.92018 • D
Prevalence of undernourishment (%)    5.62017 • L infrastructure (worst 1–5 best)
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%) * 2.62016 • L The Times Higher Education Universities Ranking: Average score of top 3    43.12020 • •
PPHrrueemvvaaalleennn Tccreeo  poohff  iwocb aLesestviinetylg ,(  BbinMe csIth ≥ 2il d–3r30e  wn(% ou rnosdft )aedr u5 lyt epaorps uolfa atigoen )(%) *     2021...748222000111667 ••• 5Lp SExcupieneninvtdeifiritscui rtaeien osdn ( t wreeocshersantr ic0cha– la1 nj0od0u  drbneeavselt la)orptimcleens t( (p%e ro 1f ,G0D0P0) population)      10..0622001187 •• 5L
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land)    2.02017 • L SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities               
Sustainable Nitrogen Management Index (best 0–1.41 worst)    1.12015 • 5 Gini coefficient adjusted for top income    34.02015 • •
SDG3 – Good Health and Well-Being                SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities               
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)     62017 • L Annual mean concentration of particulate matter of less than      17.32017 • D
2.5 microns in diameter (PM2.5) (μg/m3)
NMeoorntaaltitayl  rmatoer,t ualnitdye rra-t5e ( (ppeerr 1 1,0,00000 l ilvivee b birirtthhss))      12..4422001188 •• LL Access to improved water source, piped (% of urban population)    99.02017 • L
Incidence of tuberculosis (per 100,000 population)    5.42018 • L Satisfaction with public transport (%)    49.82018 • p
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population)    NA NA • • SDG12 – Responsible Consumption and Production                 
Municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)    1.92015 • •
Agdeia-bsteatneds,a ordr iczherdo ndieca rtehs prairtaet dourye d tois ecaasred iionv aadscuultlsa ra dgiesde a3s0e–, c7a0n yceear,r s (%)    11.32016 • L Electronic waste (kg/capita)    19.12016 • •
Agame-bstiaenndt aarird pizoeldlu dtieoant h(p reart e1 0at0t,r0ib0u0 tpaobpleu tloat hioonu)sehold air pollution and    202016 • • PSOro2d eumctiisosnio-bnas seemd bSoOd2i eedm iinss iimonpso (rktgs /(ckgap/citaap)ita)      11963..6122001122 •• ••
Traffic deaths (per 100,000 population)    5.12016 • L Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita)    27.32010 • •
Life expectancy at birth (years)    80.72016 • L Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)    10.92010 • •
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19)   4.62017 • L SDG13 – Climate Action               
Births attended by skilled health personnel (%)    97.42014 • • Energy-related CO2 emissions (tCO2/capita)    5.52017 • 5
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%)   902018 • L CO2 emissions embodied in imports (tCO2/capita)    2.52015 • 5
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best)   78.02017 • L CO2 emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita)    0.02017 • •
Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best)    6.32018 • L
SDG14 – Life Below Water                 
SDG4 – Quality Education                Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)    39.22018 • 5
Net primary enrollment rate (%)    97.52017 • L Ocean Health Index: Clean Waters score (worst 0–100 best)    58.62019 • D
Lower secondary completion rate (%)    97.62015 • • Fish caught from overexploited or collapsed stocks (% of total catch)    25.12014 • L
Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24)    99.82011 • • Fish caught by trawling (%)    NA NA • •
SDG5 – Gender Equality                      Marine biodiversity threats embodied in imports (per million population)    0.32018 • •
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods (% of females    NA NA • • SDG15 – Life on Land               
aged 15 to 49 who are married or in unions) Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%)   66.12018 • L
Ratio of female-to-male mean years of education received (%)    98.42018 • L Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%)   NA NA • •
Ratio of female-to-male labor force participation rate (%)    85.52019 • L Red List Index of species survival (worst 0–1 best)    1.02019 • L
Seats held by women in national parliament (%)    19.62020 • D Permanent deforestation (% of forest area, 5-year average)    0.12018 • •
SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation               
Population using at least basic drinking water services (%)    99.62017 • L Te(rpreers tmriailll iaonnd p forepsuhlwataiotenr) biodiversity threats embodied in imports      1.32018 • •
Population using at least basic sanitation services (%)    99.22017 • L SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions               
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available freshwater resources)    29.82015 • • Homicides (per 100,000 population)    0.62017 • L
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%)    50.02018 • • Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population)    26.32018 • L
Scarce water consumption embodied in imports (m3/capita)    42.12013 • 5 Percentage of population who feel safe walking alone at night in the      73.62018 • L
SDG7 – Affordable and Clean Energy                city or area where they live (%)
Population with access to electricity (%)   100.02017 • L Property Rights (worst 1–7 best)    5.02019 • •
Population with access to clean fuels and technology for cooking (%)   100.02016 • L Birth registrations with civil authority (% of children under age 5)   100.02018 • •
COto2t aelm eilsesciotrnicsi tfyro omut fpuuetl  (cMomtCbOu2s/tTioWnh f)or electricity and heating per      1.32017 • D CCohrilrdurpetnio innv Poelvrceedp itnio cnh Iinldd leaxb (owr o(%rs to 0f –p1o0p0u blaetsiot)n aged 5 to 14)      N5A820N1A9 •• p•
5
SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth                Exports of major conventional weapons (TIV constant million USD   * 0.02019 • • . C
Adjusted GDP growth (%)    2.22018 • • per 100,000 population) ou
Victims of modern slavery (per 1,000 population)    4.22018 • • Press Freedom Index (best 0–100 worst)    21.72019 • L ntr
y
Admuoltbsi lwe-itmh oanne ayc-cseoruvnicte a tp aro bvaidnekr  o(%r o othf epro fpinualantcioianl  iangsteidtu 1ti5o no ro or vwerit)h a     88.72017 • L SGoDvGer1nm7 e–n tP sapretnndeinrgs ohni phse aflothr a tnhde e dGuocaatliosn (% of GDP)      9 . 2201  6 •   p    Prof
Unemployment rate (% of total labor force)    7.32019 • L For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional    0.12015 • • iles
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population)   1.32010 • L public finance, including official development assistance (% of GNI)
Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP)    NA NA • •
Corporate Tax Haven Score (best 0–100 worst)    71.12019 • •
* Imputed data point
189
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
CZECH REPUBLIC   
OECD Countries
OVERALL PERFORMANCE
SDG SDG
17 1
SDG 100 SDG
16 2
75
Index score Regional average score SDG SDG
15 50 3
25
SDG
SDG 4
14
80.6 7777..33 Czech 
SDG Republic SDG
13 5
SDG
12 SDG
6
SDG Global rank 8 (OF 166)
SDG
11 SDG
7
SDG SDG
10 SDG 8
9
SPILLOVER INDEX AVERAGE PERFORMANCE BY SDG
100 (best) to 0 (worst)
100
80
60
40
20
0
CURRENT ASSESSMENT – SDG DASHBOARD
  Major challenges           Significant challenges          Challenges remain          SDG achieved          Information unavailable
SDG TRENDS
L D D D D L D L D
D D • 5 • L D D
p  Decreasing       5  Stagnating       D  Moderately improving       L  On track or maintaining SDG achievement       •  Information unavailable
Notes: The full title of Goal 2 “Zero Hunger” is “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”.    
  The full title of each SDG is available here: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabledevelopmentgoals
190
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
CZECH REPUBLIC 
Performance by Indicator
SDG1 – No Poverty    Va lu e Ye a rRa t ingTr e nd SDG9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure    Va lu e Yea  rRa t ingTr e nd
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%)    0.3 2020 • L Population using the internet (%)    80.7 2018 • L
Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%)    0.4 2020 • L Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population)    88.0 2018 • L
Poverty rate after taxes and transfers (%)    5.6 2017 • L Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related     3.5 2018 • L
SDG2 – Zero Hunger                infrastructure (worst 1–5 best)
Prevalence of undernourishment (%)    2.5 2017 • L Thuen Tivimerseist iHesig (wheorr Estd 0u–c1at0io0 nb eUsnt)iversities Ranking: Average score of top 3    34.7 2020 • •
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%)    2.6 2001 • L Scientific and technical journal articles (per 1,000 population)    1.5 2018 • L
Prevalence of wasting in children under 5 years of age (%)    4.6 2001 • L Expenditure on research and development (% of GDP)    1.8 2017 • L
Prevalence of obesity, BMI ≥ 30 (% of adult population)    26.0 2016 • p Researchers (per 1,000 employed population)    7.6 2018 • L
Human Trophic Level (best 2–3 worst)    2.4 2017 • p  Triadic patent families filed (per million population)    4.2 2017 • 5
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land)    5.5 2017 • L Gap in internet access by income (percentage points)    35.5 2019 • L
SYuiesltda ignaapb lcel oNsiutrroe g(%en o Mf panoategnetmiael ynite Ilndd)ex (best 0–1.41 worst)      507..85 22001155 •• p• Waonmde enn ignin seceiernincge) and engineering (% of tertiary graduates in science     32.2 2015 • •
SDG3 – Good Health and Well-Being                SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities               
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)     3 2017 • L Gini coefficient adjusted for top income    30.0 2015 • L
Neonatal mortality rate (per 1,000 live births)    1.8 2018 • L Palma ratio    0.9 2017 • L
Mortality rate, under-5 (per 1,000 live births)    3.4 2018 • L Elderly poverty rate (% of population aged 66 or over)    7.4 2017 • p
Incidence of tuberculosis (per 100,000 population)    5.4 2018 • L SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities               
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population)    0.1 2018 • L
Age-standardized death rate due to cardiovascular disease, cancer,     15.0 2016 • L An2.n5u mali cmroenasn  icno dnicaemnetrtaetri o(PnM o2f .p5a) r(tμicgu/mlat3e) matter of less than      16.1 2017 • D
diabetes, or chronic respiratory disease in adults aged 30–70 years (%) Access to improved water source, piped (% of urban population)    99.0 2017 • L
Age-standardized death rate attributable to household air pollution and    30 2016 • • Satisfaction with public transport (%)    70.5 2018 • 5
Traamffibc ideenat tahirs  p(poellru 1ti0o0n,0 (0p0e rp 1o0p0u,0la0t0io pno)pulation)    5.9 2016 • L Population with rent overburden (%)    2.5 2017 • •
Life expectancy at birth (years)    79.2 2016 • L SDG12 – Responsible Consumption and Production               
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19)   12.0 2017 • L Electronic waste (kg/capita)    15.9 2016 • •
Births attended by skilled health personnel (%)    99.8 2013 • • Production-based SO2 emissions (kg/capita)    51.8 2012 • •
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%)   96.0 2018 • L SO2 emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)     9.1 2012 • •
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best)   76.0 2017 • L Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita)    31.7 2010 • •
Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best)    7.0 2018 • L Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)    7.5 2010 • •
Gap in life expectancy at birth among regions (years)    3.4 2016 • • Non-recycled municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)    0.6 2018 • •
Gap in self-reported health status by income (percentage points)    41.8 2018 • p SDG13 – Climate Action               
Daily smokers (% of population aged 15 and over)    18.4 2017 • L Energy-related CO2 emissions (tCO2/capita)    9.1 2017 • p
SDG4 – Quality Education                CO2 emissions embodied in imports (tCO2/capita)    1.7 2015 • 5
Net primary enrollment rate (%) * 98.1 2017 • L CO2 emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita)   671.4 2019 • •
Lower secondary completion rate (%) * 98.1 2017 • L Effective carbon rate (EUR/tCO2)    7.6 2016 • •
Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24) NA NA • • SDG14 – Life Below Water               
Participation rate in pre-primary organized learning (% of children aged 4 to 6)    89.4 2017 • p Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)    NA NA • •
Tertiary educational attainment (% of population aged 25 to 34)    33.3 2018 • L Ocean Health Index: Clean Waters score (worst 0–100 best)    NA NA • •
PISA score (worst 0–600 best)   495.3 2018 • L Fish caught from overexploited or collapsed stocks (% of total catch)    NA NA • •
VURaenrsdiialetieiroannct  hisnite usvcdeieernns tcisne   ispnce sirecfnoiercmnec a(e%n (c %eo f e o1xfp5 1l-a5yie-nyaeerd-a obr-lydo ssldo)sc)io-economic status (%)        113680...985 222000111888 ••• LLL FMisahri ncaeu bgihotd bivye rtsraitwy ltihnrge a(%ts) embodied in imports (per million population)     N0.A1 20N1A8 •• ••
SDG15 – Life on Land               
SDG5 – Gender Equality                Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%)   92.3 2018 • L
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods      85.7 2008 • L Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%)   92.1 2018 • L
RRaa(%ttiioo o  oof fff  effeemmmaaalellees-- attoog--emmd aa1ll5ee   tmlaob e4oa9rn  wf yoehrcaoer s ap roeafr  metidcaiurprcaiaettdioio nonr r  rainetc eue (ni%vioe)nds ()%)      9766..29 22001189 •• pL RPeerdm Laisnte Inntd dexe foofr espsteactiieosn s (u%rv oivf afol (rwesot rasrte 0a–, 15 -byeesatr) average)      10..00 22001198 •• L•
Seats held by women in national parliament (%)    22.5 2020 • 5 Terrestrial and freshwater biodiversity threats embodied in imports      1.6 2018 • •
Gender wage gap (% of male median wage)    15.1 2018 • D (per million population)
Gender gap in time spent doing unpaid work (minutes/day)    NA NA • • SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions               
Homicides (per 100,000 population)    0.6 2017 • L
SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation                Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population)    8.4 2018 • L
PPooppuullaattiioonn  uussiinngg  aatt  lleeaasstt  bbaassiicc  dsarninitkaintigo nw saetrevri cseersv (i%ce)s (%)      9999..91 22001177 •• •• Pecrictye notra agree ao wf phoepreu ltahteioyn l iwveh (o% f)eel safe walking alone at night in the      72.4 2018 • L
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available freshwater resources)    24.9 2015 • • Property Rights (worst 1–7 best)    4.7 2019 • •
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%)    60.8 2018 • • Birth registrations with civil authority (% of children under age 5)   100.0 2018 • • 5
SPPcooappruuclleaa ttwiiooannte  uur ssciinnoggn  sssuaamffeepllyyt  immonaa nneaamggbeeoddd  wsiaeandtie tianr ts iieomrnvp isoceerrtsvs i (c(%me)s3 (/%ca)pita)        199774...795 222000111377 ••• LLL CCExohprilrodurrptestn ioo ifnn mv Poealjvroceerd pc oitnino cvnhe Iinnldtdi oleanxb a(olw rw o(%ersa tpo 0of –pn1os0 p(0Tu IblVae tcsioot)nn satganetd m 5 itlloio 1n4 U)SD    *    5600...090 222000111969 ••• 5•• . Country
SDG7 – Affordable and Clean Energy                per 100,000 population)  P
PPooppuullaattiioonn  wwiitthh  aacccceessss  ttoo  eclleeacntr ifcuiteyls ( %an)d technology for cooking (%)     19070..10 22001176 •• LL PPererssso nFrse heedlodm in I npdriesoxn (b (pesetr  01–0100,000 w0 oprospt)ulation)     22048..97 22001197 •• Lp rofile
s
COel2e cetmricisistyio onus tfproumt ( MfuteCl Oco2/mTWbuhs)tion for electricity and heating per total    1.3 2017 • 5 SGoDvGer1n7m e–n Pt sapretnndeinrgs honip hse aflothr  atnhde e Gduocaatlison (% of GDP)      11 . 4 201  6 •   L  
Share of renewable energy in total primary energy supply (%)    10.3 2018 • 5 For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional    0.2 2017 • 5
SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth                public finance, including official development assistance (% of GNI)
Adjusted GDP growth (%)    1.5 2018 • • Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP)    NA NA • •
VAidmcutoilmtbsis lw eo-iftm hm oaonnde aeycr-ncseo srulvanivctee ar ytp  ar(op bveairdn 1ek,r0  o(0%r0 o  pothfo epprou fplianutailoantncio)ianl  iangsteidtu 1ti5o no ro or vwerit)h a       821..09 22001187 •• L• CFSihonirafptneocdria aptle rSo Tefaictxrse  Hocafy v mSecunol tSrienc oa(brteieo s(ntb a0els–s t1( U00–S01$ w0 b0oi lrwlsioto)nr)st)        55852...294 222000121906 ••• •••
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population)   0.8 2010 • L
Employment-to-population ratio (%)    75.1 2019 • L
Youth not in employment, education or training (NEET)      10.0 2018 • L
(% of population aged 15 to 29)
* Imputed data point
191
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO 
Sub-Saharan Africa
OVERALL PERFORMANCE
SDG SDG
17 1
SDG 100 SDG
16 2
75
Index score Regional average score SDG SDG
15 50 3
25
SDG
SDG 4
14
49.7 53.1 Dem. Rep. 
SDG Congo SDG
13 5
SDG
12 SDG
6
SDG Global rank 158 (OF 166)
SDG
11 SDG
7
SDG SDG
10 SDG 8
9
SPILLOVER INDEX AVERAGE PERFORMANCE BY SDG
100 (best) to 0 (worst)
100
80
60
40
20
0
CURRENT ASSESSMENT – SDG DASHBOARD
  Major challenges           Significant challenges          Challenges remain          SDG achieved          Information unavailable
SDG TRENDS
5 5 5 • D 5 5 D 5
• 5 • L • D p 5
p  Decreasing       5  Stagnating       D  Moderately improving       L  On track or maintaining SDG achievement       •  Information unavailable
Notes: The full title of Goal 2 “Zero Hunger” is “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”.    
  The full title of each SDG is available here: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabledevelopmentgoals
192
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO
Performance by Indicator
SDG1 – No Poverty    Valu  e Yea  rRa t ingTr e nd SDG9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure    Valu  e Ye a rRa t ingTr e nd
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%)    74.22020 • 5 Population using the internet (%)    8.62017 • 5
Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%)    91.32020 • 5 Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population)    15.92018 • D
SDG2 – Zero Hunger                Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related     2.12018 • D
Prevalence of undernourishment (%)    NA NA • • infrastructure (worst 1–5 best)
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%)    42.62013 • 5 The Times Higher Education Universities Ranking: Average score of top 3 * 0.02020 • •
PPrreevvaalleennccee  ooff  wobaesstiintyg,  BinM cIh ≥il d3r0e n(% u nodf aedr u5 lyt epaorps uolfa atigoen )(%)      86..1722001136 •• LL Scuiennivteifrisci taiensd ( tweochrsnt i0ca–l1 j0o0u rbneaslt a)rticles (per 1,000 population)    0.02018 • 5
Expenditure on research and development (% of GDP)    0.42015 • •
Human Trophic Level (best 2–3 worst)    2.02007 • •
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land)    0.82017 • p SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities               
Sustainable Nitrogen Management Index (best 0–1.41 worst)    0.92015 • p Gini coefficient adjusted for top income    42.12012 • •
SDG3 – Good Health and Well-Being                SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities               
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)     4732017 • 5 Annual mean concentration of particulate matter of less than      44.92017 • p
NMeoorntaaltitayl  rmatoer,t ualnitdye rra-t5e ( (ppeerr 1 1,0,00000 l ilvivee b birirtthhss))      2888..3122001188 •• 5D Ac2c.5e sms itcor oimnsp irno vdeiadm weatteerr ( sPoMu2rc.5e),  (pμipg/emd 3(%) of urban population)    62.92017 • 5
Incidence of tuberculosis (per 100,000 population)   321.02018 • 5 Satisfaction with public transport (%)    40.82017 • •
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population)    0.22018 • L SDG12 – Responsible Consumption and Production               
Municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)    1.12016 • •
Agdeia-bsteatneds,a ordr iczherdo ndieca rtehs prairtaet dourye d tois ecaasred iionv aadscuultlsa ra dgiesde a3s0e–, c7a0n yceear,r s (%)    19.42016 • 5 Electronic waste (kg/capita)    NA NA • •
Agame-bstiaenndt aarird pizoeldlu dtieoant h(p reart e1 0at0t,r0ib0u0 tpaobpleu tloat hioonu)sehold air pollution and    1642016 • • PSOro2d eumctiisosnio-bnas seemd bSoOd2i eedm iinss iimonpso (rktgs /(ckgap/citaap)ita)       40..0322001122 •• ••
Traffic deaths (per 100,000 population)    33.72016 • p Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita)    9.92010 • •
Life expectancy at birth (years)    60.52016 • 5 Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)    0.22010 • •
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19)  124.22017 • 5 SDG13 – Climate Action               
Births attended by skilled health personnel (%)    80.12014 • • Energy-related CO2 emissions (tCO2/capita)    0.02017 • L
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%)   802018 • 5 CO2 emissions embodied in imports (tCO2/capita)    0.02015 • L
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best)   41.02017 • D CO2 emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita)    NA NA • •
Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best)    4.32017 • •
SDG14 – Life Below Water               
SDG4 – Quality Education                Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)    NA NA • •
Net primary enrollment rate (%)    NA NA • • Ocean Health Index: Clean Waters score (worst 0–100 best)    39.52019 • p
Lower secondary completion rate (%)    50.42014 • • Fish caught from overexploited or collapsed stocks (% of total catch)    NA NA • •
Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24)    85.02016 • • Fish caught by trawling (%)    NA NA • •
SDG5 – Gender Equality                Marine biodiversity threats embodied in imports (per million population)    0.02018 • •
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods (% of females    18.92014 • 5 SDG15 – Life on Land               
aged 15 to 49 who are married or in unions) Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%)   52.72018 • L
Ratio of female-to-male mean years of education received (%)    63.12018 • D Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%)   58.32018 • L
Ratio of female-to-male labor force participation rate (%)    91.42019 • L Red List Index of species survival (worst 0–1 best)    0.92019 • 5
Seats held by women in national parliament (%)    12.82020 • 5 Permanent deforestation (% of forest area, 5-year average)    0.32018 • •
SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation               
Population using at least basic drinking water services (%)    43.22017 • 5 Te(rpreers tmriailll iaonnd p forepsuhlwataiotenr) biodiversity threats embodied in imports      0.22018 • •
Population using at least basic sanitation services (%)    20.52017 • 5 SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions               
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available freshwater resources)    0.22005 • • Homicides (per 100,000 population) * 13.52015 • •
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%)    0.02018 • • Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population)    73.02015 • •
Scarce water consumption embodied in imports (m3/capita)    0.22013 • L Percentage of population who feel safe walking alone at night in the      45.22017 • •
SDG7 – Affordable and Clean Energy                city or area where they live (%)
Population with access to electricity (%)    19.12017 • 5 Property Rights (worst 1–7 best)    3.12019 • •
Population with access to clean fuels and technology for cooking (%)    4.02016 • 5 Birth registrations with civil authority (% of children under age 5)    24.62018 • •
COto2t aelm eilsesciotrnicsi tfyro omut fpuuetl  (cMomtCbOu2s/tTioWnh f)or electricity and heating per      0.22017 • L CCohrilrdurpetnio innv Poelvrceedp itnio cnh Iinldd leaxb (owr o(%rs to 0f –p1o0p0u blaetsiot)n aged 5 to 14)      381.8422001196 •• p•
5
SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth                Exports of major conventional weapons (TIV constant million USD   * 0.02019 • • . C
Adjusted GDP growth (%)    -7.22018 • • per 100,000 population) ou
Victims of modern slavery (per 1,000 population)    13.72018 • • Press Freedom Index (best 0–100 worst)    51.72019 • p ntr
y
Admuoltbsi lwe-itmh oanne ayc-cseoruvnicte a tp aro bvaidnekr  o(%r o othf epro fpinualantcioianl  iangsteidtu 1ti5o no ro or vwerit)h a     25.82017 • D SGoDvGer1nm7 e–n tP sapretnndeinrgs ohni phse aflothr a tnhde e dGuocaatliosn (% of GDP)      2. 6  201  6 •   5    Prof
Unemployment rate (% of total labor force)    4.22019 • L For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional    NA NA • • iles
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population)   0.12010 • L public finance, including official development assistance (% of GNI)
Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP)    NA NA • •
Corporate Tax Haven Score (best 0–100 worst) * 0.02019 • •
* Imputed data point
193
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
DENMARK  
OECD Countries
OVERALL PERFORMANCE
SDG SDG
17 1
SDG 100 SDG
16 2
75
Index score Regional average score SDG SDG
15 50 3
25
SDG
SDG 4
14
84.6 77.3 Denmark
SDG SDG
13 5
SDG
12 SDG
6
SDG Global rank 2 (OF 166)
SDG
11 SDG
7
SDG SDG
10 SDG 8
9
SPILLOVER INDEX AVERAGE PERFORMANCE BY SDG
100 (best) to 0 (worst)
100
80
60
40
20
0
CURRENT ASSESSMENT – SDG DASHBOARD
  Major challenges           Significant challenges          Challenges remain          SDG achieved          Information unavailable
SDG TRENDS
L D D 5 L D L D L
L D • D D L D L
p  Decreasing       5  Stagnating       D  Moderately improving       L  On track or maintaining SDG achievement       •  Information unavailable
Notes: The full title of Goal 2 “Zero Hunger” is “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”.    
  The full title of each SDG is available here: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabledevelopmentgoals
194
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
DENMARK
Performance by Indicator
SDG1 – No Poverty    Va lu e Ye a rRa t ingTr e nd SDG9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure    Va lu e Yea  rRa t ingTr e nd
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%)    0.2 2020 • L Population using the internet (%)    97.3 2018 • L
Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%)    0.3 2020 • L Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population)   136.7 2018 • L
Poverty rate after taxes and transfers (%)    5.8 2016 • L Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related     4.0 2018 • L
SDG2 – Zero Hunger                  infrastructure (worst 1–5 best)
Prevalence of undernourishment (%)    2.5 2017 • L Thuen Tivimerseist iHesig (wheorr Estd 0u–c1at0io0 nb eUsnt)iversities Ranking: Average score of top 3    59.1 2020 • •
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%) * 2.6 2016 • L Scientific and technical journal articles (per 1,000 population)    2.4 2018 • L
Prevalence of wasting in children under 5 years of age (%) * 0.7 2016 • L Expenditure on research and development (% of GDP)    3.1 2017 • L
Prevalence of obesity, BMI ≥ 30 (% of adult population)    19.7 2016 • p Researchers (per 1,000 employed population)    15.7 2018 • L
Human Trophic Level (best 2–3 worst)    2.5 2017 • p  Triadic patent families filed (per million population)    55.0 2017 • L
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land)    6.9 2017 • L Gap in internet access by income (percentage points)    9.8 2019 • L
SYuiesltda ignaapb lcel oNsiutrroe g(%en o Mf panoategnetmiael ynite Ilndd)ex (best 0–1.41 worst)      706..74 22001155 •• 5• Waonmde enn ignin seceiernincge) and engineering (% of tertiary graduates in science     27.8 2015 • •
SDG3 – Good Health and Well-Being                    SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities               
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)     4 2017 • L Gini coefficient adjusted for top income    28.4 2015 • L
Neonatal mortality rate (per 1,000 live births)    3.1 2018 • L Palma ratio    0.9 2016 • L
Mortality rate, under-5 (per 1,000 live births)    4.2 2018 • L Elderly poverty rate (% of population aged 66 or over)    3.0 2016 • L
Incidence of tuberculosis (per 100,000 population)    5.4 2018 • L SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities               
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population)    0.0 2018 • L
Age-standardized death rate due to cardiovascular disease, cancer,     11.3 2016 • L An2.n5u mali cmroenasn  icno dnicaemnetrtaetri o(PnM o2f .p5a) r(tμicgu/mlat3e) matter of less than      10.0 2017 • L
diabetes, or chronic respiratory disease in adults aged 30–70 years (%) Access to improved water source, piped (% of urban population)    99.0 2017 • L
Age-standardized death rate attributable to household air pollution and    13 2016 • • Satisfaction with public transport (%)    66.4 2019 • L
Traamffibc ideenat tahirs  p(poellru 1ti0o0n,0 (0p0e rp 1o0p0u,0la0t0io pno)pulation)    4.0 2016 • L Population with rent overburden (%)    15.7 2017 • p
Life expectancy at birth (years)    81.2 2016 • L SDG12 – Responsible Consumption and Production               
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19)   4.1 2017 • L Electronic waste (kg/capita)    24.8 2016 • •
Births attended by skilled health personnel (%)    94.4 2016 • p Production-based SO2 emissions (kg/capita)   124.3 2012 • •
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%)   95.0 2018 • L SO2 emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)     19.1 2012 • •
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best)   81.0 2017 • L Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita)    57.3 2010 • •
Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best)    7.7 2019 • L Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)    16.1 2010 • •
Gap in life expectancy at birth among regions (years)    1.3 2016 • • Non-recycled municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)    1.1 2018 • •
Gap in self-reported health status by income (percentage points)    17.0 2018 • L SDG13 – Climate Action               
Daily smokers (% of population aged 15 and over)    16.9 2017 • L Energy-related CO2 emissions (tCO2/capita)    5.3 2017 • D
SDG4 – Quality Education                CO2 emissions embodied in imports (tCO2/capita)    2.9 2015 • 5
Net primary enrollment rate (%) * 99.4 2017 • L CO2 emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita)    0.0 2019 • •
Lower secondary completion rate (%) * 99.4 2017 • L Effective carbon rate (EUR/tCO2)    67.0 2016 • •
Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24)    NA NA • • SDG14 – Life Below Water               
Participation rate in pre-primary organized learning (% of children aged 4 to 6)    93.7 2017 • L Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)    89.4 2018 • L
Tertiary educational attainment (% of population aged 25 to 34)    44.8 2018 • L Ocean Health Index: Clean Waters score (worst 0–100 best)    52.5 2019 • p
PISA score (worst 0–600 best)   501.0 2018 • L Fish caught from overexploited or collapsed stocks (% of total catch)    45.1 2014 • L
VURaenrsdiialetieiroannct  hisnite usvcdeieernns tcisne   ispnce sirecfnoiercmnec a(e%n (c %eo f e o1xfp5 1l-a5yie-nyaeerd-a obr-lydo ssldo)sc)io-economic status (%)        112184...678 222000111888 ••• ppp FMisahri ncaeu bgihotd bivye rtsraitwy ltihnrge a(%ts) embodied in imports (per million population)     710..12 22001148 •• 5•
SDG15 – Life on Land               
SDG5 – Gender Equality                Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%)   89.7 2018 • L
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods   * 83.7 2017 • L Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%)  100.0 2018 • L
RRaa(%ttiioo o  oof fff  effeemmmaaalellees-- attoog--emmd aa1ll5ee   tmlaob e4oa9rn  wf yoehrcaoer s ap roeafr  metidcaiurprcaiaettdioio nonr r  rainetc eue (ni%vioe)nds ()%)     18082..14 22001189 •• LL RPeerdm Laisnte Inntd dexe foofr espsteactiieosn s (u%rv oivf afol (rwesot rasrte 0a–, 15 -byeesatr) average)      10..00 22001198 •• L•
Seats held by women in national parliament (%)    39.7 2020 • L Terrestrial and freshwater biodiversity threats embodied in imports      1.7 2018 • •
Gender wage gap (% of male median wage)    5.3 2017 • L (per million population)
Gender gap in time spent doing unpaid work (minutes/day)    56.7 2001 • • SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions               
Homicides (per 100,000 population)    1.2 2017 • L
SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation                Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population)    32.8 2018 • p
PPooppuullaattiioonn  uussiinngg  aatt  lleeaasstt  bbaassiicc  dsarninitkaintigo nw saetrevri cseersv (i%ce)s (%)     19090..60 22001177 •• •• Pecrictye notra agree ao wf phoepreu ltahteioyn l iwveh (o% f)eel safe walking alone at night in the      87.5 2019 • L
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available freshwater resources)    17.2 2010 • • Property Rights (worst 1–7 best)    6.0 2019 • •
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%)   100.0 2018 • • Birth registrations with civil authority (% of children under age 5)   100.0 2018 • • 5
SPPcooappruuclleaa ttwiiooannte  uur ssciinnoggn  sssuaamffeepllyyt  immonaa nneaamggbeeoddd  wsiaeandtie tianr ts iieomrnvp isoceerrtsvs i (c(%me)s3 (/%ca)pita)        399964...678 222000111377 ••• 5LL CCExohprilrodurrptestn ioo ifnn mv Poealjvroceerd pc oitnino cvnhe Iinnldtdi oleanxb a(olw rw o(%ersa tpo 0of –pn1os0 p(0Tu IblVae tcsioot)nn satganetd m 5 itlloio 1n4 U)SD    *    8700...040 222000111969 ••• L•• . Country
SDG7 – Affordable and Clean Energy                per 100,000 population)  P
PPooppuullaattiioonn  wwiitthh  aacccceessss  ttoo  eclleeacntr ifcuiteyls ( %an)d technology for cooking (%)     110000..00 22001176 •• LL PPererssso nFrse heedlodm in I npdriesoxn (b (pesetr  01–0100,000 w0 oprospt)ulation)      693..94 22001197 •• LL rofile
s
COel2e cetmricisistyio onus tfproumt ( MfuteCl Oco2/mTWbuhs)tion for electricity and heating per total    1.0 2017 • L SGoDvGer1n7m e–n Pt sapretnndeinrgs honip hse aflothr  atnhde e Gduocaatlison (% of GDP)      16 . 2 201  4 •   •  
Share of renewable energy in total primary energy supply (%)    33.4 2018 • L For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional    0.7 2017 • L
SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth                public finance, including official development assistance (% of GNI)
Adjusted GDP growth (%)    0.7 2018 • • Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP)    NA NA • •
VAidmcutoilmtbsis lw eo-iftm hm oaonnde aeycr-ncseo srulvanivctee ar ytp  ar(op bveairdn 1ek,r0  o(0%r0 o  pothfo epprou fplianutailoantncio)ianl  iangsteidtu 1ti5o no ro or vwerit)h a       919..96 22001187 •• L• CFSihonirafptneocdria aptle rSo Tefaictxrse  Hocafy v mSecunol tSrienc oa(brteieo s(ntb a0els–s t1( U00–S01$ w0 b0oi lrwlsioto)nr)st)        54154...573 222000121906 ••• •••
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population)   1.6 2010 • L
Employment-to-population ratio (%)    75.0 2019 • L
Youth not in employment, education or training (NEET)      10.8 2018 • 5
(% of population aged 15 to 29)
* Imputed data point
195
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
DJIBOUTI  
Sub-Saharan Africa
OVERALL PERFORMANCE
SDG SDG
17 1
SDG 100 SDG
16 2
75
Index score Regional average score SDG SDG
15 50 3
25
SDG
SDG 4
14
54.6 53.1
Djibouti
SDG SDG
13 5
SDG
12 SDG
6
SDG Global rank 138 (OF 166)
SDG
11 SDG
7
SDG SDG
10 SDG 8
9
SPILLOVER INDEX AVERAGE PERFORMANCE BY SDG
100 (best) to 0 (worst)
100
80
60
40
20
0
CURRENT ASSESSMENT – SDG DASHBOARD
  Major challenges           Significant challenges          Challenges remain          SDG achieved          Information unavailable
SDG TRENDS
D 5 D 5 D D 5 D D
• D • L 5 p 5 •
p  Decreasing       5  Stagnating       D  Moderately improving       L  On track or maintaining SDG achievement       •  Information unavailable
Notes: The full title of Goal 2 “Zero Hunger” is “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”.    
  The full title of each SDG is available here: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabledevelopmentgoals
196
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
DJIBOUTI
Performance by Indicator
SDG1 – No Poverty    Val u e Yea  rRa t ingTr e nd SDG9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure    Val u e Ye a rRa t ingTr e nd
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%)    13.92020 • L Population using the internet (%)    55.72017 • L
Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%)    34.42020 • D Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population)    20.62018 • L
SDG2 – Zero Hunger                Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related     2.82018 • L
Prevalence of undernourishment (%)    18.92017 • 5 infrastructure (worst 1–5 best)
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%)    33.52012 • 5 The Times Higher Education Universities Ranking: Average score of top 3 * 0.02020 • •
PPrreevvaalleennccee  ooff  wobaesstiintyg,  BinM cIh ≥il d3r0e n(% u nodf aedr u5 lyt epaorps uolfa atigoen )(%)      2113..5522001126 •• 5p Scuiennivteifrisci taiensd ( tweochrsnt i0ca–l1 j0o0u rbneaslt a)rticles (per 1,000 population)    0.02018 • 5
Human Trophic Level (best 2–3 worst)    2.12017 • L Expenditure on research and development (% of GDP)    NA NA • •
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land)    1.92017 • 5 SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities               
Sustainable Nitrogen Management Index (best 0–1.41 worst)    1.22015 • 5 Gini coefficient adjusted for top income    53.22017 • •
SDG3 – Good Health and Well-Being                SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities               
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)     2482017 • 5 Annual mean concentration of particulate matter of less than      45.62017 • p
NMeoorntaaltitayl  rmatoer,t ualnitdye rra-t5e ( (ppeerr 1 1,0,00000 l ilvivee b birirtthhss))      3519..7322001188 •• DD Ac2c.5e sms itcor oimnsp irno vdeiadm weatteerr ( sPoMu2rc.5e),  (pμipg/emd 3(%) of urban population)    97.92017 • L
Incidence of tuberculosis (per 100,000 population)   260.02018 • L Satisfaction with public transport (%)    60.82011 • •
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population)    0.62018 • 5 SDG12 – Responsible Consumption and Production                 
Municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)    0.42002 • •
Agdeia-bsteatneds,a ordr iczherdo ndieca rtehs prairtaet dourye d tois ecaasred iionv aadscuultlsa ra dgiesde a3s0e–, c7a0n yceear,r s (%)    19.62016 • p Electronic waste (kg/capita)    0.92016 • •
Agame-bstiaenndt aarird pizoeldlu dtieoant h(p reart e1 0at0t,r0ib0u0 tpaobpleu tloat hioonu)sehold air pollution and    1592016 • • PSOro2d eumctiisosnio-bnas seemd bSoOd2i eedm iinss iimonpso (rktgs /(ckgap/citaap)ita)      1417..6222001122 •• ••
Traffic deaths (per 100,000 population)    24.72013 • • Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita)    19.62010 • •
Life expectancy at birth (years)    63.82016 • 5 Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)    0.82010 • •
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19)   18.82017 • L SDG13 – Climate Action               
Births attended by skilled health personnel (%)    87.42012 • • Energy-related CO2 emissions (tCO2/capita)    0.62017 • L
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%)   842018 • L CO2 emissions embodied in imports (tCO2/capita)    0.12015 • L
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best)   47.02017 • D CO2 emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita) * 0.02018 • •
Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best)    4.42011 • •
SDG14 – Life Below Water                 
SDG4 – Quality Education                Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)    0.02018 • 5
Net primary enrollment rate (%)    66.52019 • 5 Ocean Health Index: Clean Waters score (worst 0–100 best)    51.62019 • 5
Lower secondary completion rate (%)    49.92019 • 5 Fish caught from overexploited or collapsed stocks (% of total catch)    NA NA • •
Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24)    NA NA • • Fish caught by trawling (%)    NA NA • •
SDG5 – Gender Equality                    Marine biodiversity threats embodied in imports (per million population)    0.02018 • •
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods (% of females * 44.92017 • D SDG15 – Life on Land               
aged 15 to 49 who are married or in unions) Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%)   0.92018 • 5
Ratio of female-to-male mean years of education received (%)    NA NA • • Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%)   0.02018 • 5
Ratio of female-to-male labor force participation rate (%)    77.22019 • L Red List Index of species survival (worst 0–1 best)    0.82019 • p
Seats held by women in national parliament (%)    26.22020 • L Permanent deforestation (% of forest area, 5-year average)    NA NA • •
SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation               
Population using at least basic drinking water services (%)    75.62017 • 5 Te(rpreers tmriailll iaonnd p forepsuhlwataiotenr) biodiversity threats embodied in imports      0.02018 • •
Population using at least basic sanitation services (%)    63.62017 • D SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions               
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available freshwater resources)    6.32000 • • Homicides (per 100,000 population) * 6.52015 • •
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%)    0.02018 • • Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population)    38.02018 • L
Scarce water consumption embodied in imports (m3/capita)    2.02013 • L Percentage of population who feel safe walking alone at night in the      71.62011 • •
SDG7 – Affordable and Clean Energy                city or area where they live (%)
Population with access to electricity (%)    60.22017 • 5 Property Rights (worst 1–7 best)    NA NA • •
Population with access to clean fuels and technology for cooking (%)    11.52016 • 5 Birth registrations with civil authority (% of children under age 5)    91.72018 • •
COto2t aelm eilsesciotrnicsi tfyro omut fpuuetl  (cMomtCbOu2s/tTioWnh f)or electricity and heating per      NA NA • • CCohrilrdurpetnio innv Poelvrceedp itnio cnh Iinldd leaxb (owr o(%rs to 0f –p1o0p0u blaetsiot)n aged 5 to 14)      73.0722001196 •• p•
5
SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth                Exports of major conventional weapons (TIV constant million USD   * 0.02019 • • . C
Adjusted GDP growth (%)    NA NA • • per 100,000 population) ou
Victims of modern slavery (per 1,000 population)    7.12018 • • Press Freedom Index (best 0–100 worst)    71.42019 • p ntr
y
Admuoltbsi lwe-itmh oanne ayc-cseoruvnicte a tp aro bvaidnekr  o(%r o othf epro fpinualantcioianl  iangsteidtu 1ti5o no ro or vwerit)h a     12.32011 • • SGoDvGer1nm7 e–n tP sapretnndeinrgs ohni phse aflothr a tnhde e dGuocaatliosn (% of GDP)      7 . 4201  6 •   •    Prof
Unemployment rate (% of total labor force)    10.32019 • 5 For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional    NA NA • • iles
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population)   0.22010 • L public finance, including official development assistance (% of GNI)
Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP)    NA NA • •
Corporate Tax Haven Score (best 0–100 worst) * 0.02019 • •
* Imputed data point
197
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
DOMINICA  
Latin America and the Caribbean
OVERALL PERFORMANCE
SDG SDG
17 1
SDG 100 SDG
16 2
75
Index score Regional average score SDG SDG
15 50 3
25
SDG
SDG 4
14
 na 70.4
Dominica
SDG SDG
13 5
SDG
12 SDG
6
SDG Global rank NA (OF 166)
SDG
11 SDG
7
SDG SDG
10 SDG 8
9
SPILLOVER INDEX AVERAGE PERFORMANCE BY SDG
100 (best) to 0 (worst)
100
80
60
40
20
0
CURRENT ASSESSMENT – SDG DASHBOARD
  Major challenges           Significant challenges          Challenges remain          SDG achieved          Information unavailable
SDG TRENDS
• 5 5 • • • L • D
• • • L 5 p • •
p  Decreasing       5  Stagnating       D  Moderately improving       L  On track or maintaining SDG achievement       •  Information unavailable
Notes: The full title of Goal 2 “Zero Hunger” is “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”.    
  The full title of each SDG is available here: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabledevelopmentgoals
198
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
DOMINICA
Performance by Indicator
SDG1 – No Poverty    Val u e Yea  rRa t ingTr e nd SDG9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure    Val u e Ye a rRa t ingTr e nd
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%)    NA NA • • Population using the internet (%)    69.62017 • L
Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%)    NA NA • • Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population)    93.92018 • L
SDG2 – Zero Hunger                Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related     NA NA • •
Prevalence of undernourishment (%)    6.22017 • L infrastructure (worst 1–5 best)
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%)    NA NA • • The Times Higher Education Universities Ranking: Average score of top 3 * 0.02020 • •
PPrreevvaalleennccee  ooff  wobaesstiintyg,  BinM cIh ≥il d3r0e n(% u nodf aedr u5 lyt epaorps uolfa atigoen )(%)      2N7.A920N1A6 •• p• Scuiennivteifrisci taiensd ( tweochrsnt i0ca–l1 j0o0u rbneaslt a)rticles (per 1,000 population)    0.22018 • 5
Human Trophic Level (best 2–3 worst)    2.22017 • 5 Expenditure on research and development (% of GDP)    NA NA • •
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land)    1.72017 • D SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities               
Sustainable Nitrogen Management Index (best 0–1.41 worst)    1.12015 • 5 Gini coefficient adjusted for top income    NA NA • •
SDG3 – Good Health and Well-Being                SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities               
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)     NA NA • • Annual mean concentration of particulate matter of less than      19.52017 • D
2.5 microns in diameter (PM2.5) (μg/m3)
Neonatal mortality rate (per 1,000 live births)    28.32018 • p
Mortality rate, under-5 (per 1,000 live births)    35.72018 • p Access to improved water source, piped (% of urban population)    NA NA • •
Incidence of tuberculosis (per 100,000 population)    6.42018 • L Satisfaction with public transport (%)    NA NA • •
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population)    0.32018 • 5 SDG12 – Responsible Consumption and Production                 
Municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)    0.72013 • •
Agdeia-bsteatneds,a ordr iczherdo ndieca rtehs prairtaet dourye d tois ecaasred iionv aadscuultlsa ra dgiesde a3s0e–, c7a0n yceear,r s (%)    NA NA • • Electronic waste (kg/capita)    7.72016 • •
Agame-bstiaenndt aarird pizoeldlu dtieoant h(p reart e1 0at0t,r0ib0u0 tpaobpleu tloat hioonu)sehold air pollution and    NA NA • • PSOro2d eumctiisosnio-bnas seemd bSoOd2i eedm iinss iimonpso (rktgs /(ckgap/citaap)ita)       NNAA NNAA •• ••
Traffic deaths (per 100,000 population)    10.92016 • L Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita)    NA NA • •
Life expectancy at birth (years)    NA NA • • Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)    NA NA • •
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19)   NA NA • • SDG13 – Climate Action               
Births attended by skilled health personnel (%)    96.02016 • p Energy-related CO2 emissions (tCO2/capita)    2.02017 • L
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%)   842018 • p CO2 emissions embodied in imports (tCO2/capita)    NA NA • •
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best)   NA NA • • CO2 emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita) * 0.02018 • •
Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best)    NA NA • •
SDG14 – Life Below Water                 
SDG4 – Quality Education                Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)    0.02018 • 5
Net primary enrollment rate (%)    95.42016 • • Ocean Health Index: Clean Waters score (worst 0–100 best)    58.92019 • D
Lower secondary completion rate (%)    90.72015 • • Fish caught from overexploited or collapsed stocks (% of total catch)    NA NA • •
Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24)    NA NA • • Fish caught by trawling (%)    92.12014 • 5
SDG5 – Gender Equality                    Marine biodiversity threats embodied in imports (per million population)    NA NA • •
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods (% of females    NA NA • • SDG15 – Life on Land               
aged 15 to 49 who are married or in unions) Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%)   29.52018 • 5
Ratio of female-to-male mean years of education received (%)    NA NA • • Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%)   0.12018 • 5
Ratio of female-to-male labor force participation rate (%)    NA NA • • Red List Index of species survival (worst 0–1 best)    0.72019 • p
Seats held by women in national parliament (%)    34.42020 • L Permanent deforestation (% of forest area, 5-year average)    4.32018 • •
SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation               
Population using at least basic drinking water services (%)    96.52015 • • Te(rpreers tmriailll iaonnd p forepsuhlwataiotenr) biodiversity threats embodied in imports      NA NA • •
Population using at least basic sanitation services (%)    77.92015 • • SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions               
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available freshwater resources)    10.02010 • • Homicides (per 100,000 population)    25.72017 • p
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%)    1.02018 • • Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population)    30.42018 • p
Scarce water consumption embodied in imports (m3/capita)    NA NA • • Percentage of population who feel safe walking alone at night in the      NA NA • •
SDG7 – Affordable and Clean Energy                city or area where they live (%)
Population with access to electricity (%)   100.02017 • L Property Rights (worst 1–7 best)    NA NA • •
Population with access to clean fuels and technology for cooking (%)    90.62016 • L Birth registrations with civil authority (% of children under age 5)    NA NA • •
COto2t aelm eilsesciotrnicsi tfyro omut fpuuetl  (cMomtCbOu2s/tTioWnh f)or electricity and heating per      NA NA • • CCohrilrdurpetnio innv Poelvrceedp itnio cnh Iinldd leaxb (owr o(%rs to 0f –p1o0p0u blaetsiot)n aged 5 to 14)      N5A520N1A9 •• p•
5
SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth                Exports of major conventional weapons (TIV constant million USD   * 0.02019 • • . C
Adjusted GDP growth (%)    -5.12018 • • per 100,000 population) ou
Victims of modern slavery (per 1,000 population)    NA NA • • Press Freedom Index (best 0–100 worst)    NA NA • • ntr
y
Admuoltbsi lwe-itmh oanne ayc-cseoruvnicte a tp aro bvaidnekr  o(%r o othf epro fpinualantcioianl  iangsteidtu 1ti5o no ro or vwerit)h a     NA NA • • SGoDvGer1nm7 e–n tP sapretnndeinrgs ohni phse aflothr a tnhde e dGuocaatliosn (% of GDP)      7 . 0201  5 •   •    Prof
Unemployment rate (% of total labor force)    NA NA • • For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional    NA NA • • iles
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population)   NA NA • • public finance, including official development assistance (% of GNI)
Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP) * 26.32014 • •
Corporate Tax Haven Score (best 0–100 worst) * 0.02019 • •
* Imputed data point
199
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC  
Latin America and the Caribbean
OVERALL PERFORMANCE
SDG SDG
17 1
SDG 100 SDG
16 2
75
Index score Regional average score SDG SDG
15 50 3
25
SDG
SDG 4
14
70.2 70.4 Dominican 
SDG Republic SDG
13 5
SDG
12 SDG
6
SDG Global rank 73 (OF 166)
SDG
11 SDG
7
SDG SDG
10 SDG 8
9
SPILLOVER INDEX AVERAGE PERFORMANCE BY SDG
100 (best) to 0 (worst)
100
80
60
40
20
0
CURRENT ASSESSMENT – SDG DASHBOARD
  Major challenges           Significant challenges          Challenges remain          SDG achieved          Information unavailable
SDG TRENDS
L D D L L D D D D
• 5 • L D D 5 5
p  Decreasing       5  Stagnating       D  Moderately improving       L  On track or maintaining SDG achievement       •  Information unavailable
Notes: The full title of Goal 2 “Zero Hunger” is “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”.    
  The full title of each SDG is available here: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabledevelopmentgoals
200
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
Performance by Indicator
SDG1 – No Poverty    Val u e Yea  rRa t ingTr e nd SDG9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure    Val u e Ye a rRa t ingTr e nd
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%)    0.02020 • L Population using the internet (%)    74.82018 • L
Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%)    4.82020 • L Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population)    60.82018 • L
SDG2 – Zero Hunger                Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related     2.42018 • p
Prevalence of undernourishment (%)    9.52017 • L infrastructure (worst 1–5 best)
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%)    7.12013 • L The Times Higher Education Universities Ranking: Average score of top 3 * 0.02020 • •
PPrreevvaalleennccee  ooff  wobaesstiintyg,  BinM cIh ≥il d3r0e n(% u nodf aedr u5 lyt epaorps uolfa atigoen )(%)      227..4622001136 •• Lp Scuiennivteifrisci taiensd ( tweochrsnt i0ca–l1 j0o0u rbneaslt a)rticles (per 1,000 population)    0.02018 • 5
Human Trophic Level (best 2–3 worst)    2.22017 • 5 Expenditure on research and development (% of GDP)    NA NA • •
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land)    3.22017 • L SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities               
Sustainable Nitrogen Management Index (best 0–1.41 worst)    1.02015 • 5 Gini coefficient adjusted for top income    51.52016 • •
SDG3 – Good Health and Well-Being                SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities               
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)     952017 • 5 Annual mean concentration of particulate matter of less than      13.72017 • D
NMeoorntaaltitayl  rmatoer,t ualnitdye rra-t5e ( (ppeerr 1 1,0,00000 l ilvivee b birirtthhss))      1298..4822001188 •• LD Ac2c.5e sms itcor oimnsp irno vdeiadm weatteerr ( sPoMu2rc.5e),  (pμipg/emd 3(%) of urban population)    84.22017 • p
Incidence of tuberculosis (per 100,000 population)    45.02018 • L Satisfaction with public transport (%)    62.12018 • p
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population)    0.32018 • L SDG12 – Responsible Consumption and Production                 
Municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)    1.32015 • •
Agdeia-bsteatneds,a ordr iczherdo ndieca rtehs prairtaet dourye d tois ecaasred iionv aadscuultlsa ra dgiesde a3s0e–, c7a0n yceear,r s (%)    19.02016 • 5 Electronic waste (kg/capita)    5.82016 • •
Agame-bstiaenndt aarird pizoeldlu dtieoant h(p reart e1 0at0t,r0ib0u0 tpaobpleu tloat hioonu)sehold air pollution and    432016 • • PSOro2d eumctiisosnio-bnas seemd bSoOd2i eedm iinss iimonpso (rktgs /(ckgap/citaap)ita)       312..3222001122 •• ••
Traffic deaths (per 100,000 population)    34.62016 • p Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita)    18.62010 • •
Life expectancy at birth (years)    73.52016 • D Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)    1.62010 • •
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19)   94.32017 • 5 SDG13 – Climate Action               
Births attended by skilled health personnel (%)    99.62015 • L Energy-related CO2 emissions (tCO2/capita)    1.92017 • L
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%)   942018 • L CO2 emissions embodied in imports (tCO2/capita)    0.42015 • L
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best)   74.02017 • L CO2 emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita)    0.02017 • •
Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best)    5.42018 • L
SDG14 – Life Below Water                 
SDG4 – Quality Education                Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)    79.22018 • L
Net primary enrollment rate (%)    92.72018 • L Ocean Health Index: Clean Waters score (worst 0–100 best)    50.42019 • 5
Lower secondary completion rate (%)    85.42017 • L Fish caught from overexploited or collapsed stocks (% of total catch)    3.82014 • L
Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24)    98.82016 • • Fish caught by trawling (%)    NA NA • •
SDG5 – Gender Equality                    Marine biodiversity threats embodied in imports (per million population)    0.12018 • •
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods (% of females    81.72014 • L SDG15 – Life on Land               
aged 15 to 49 who are married or in unions) Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%)   73.62018 • L
Ratio of female-to-male mean years of education received (%)   109.22018 • L Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%)   98.92018 • L
Ratio of female-to-male labor force participation rate (%)    65.72019 • L Red List Index of species survival (worst 0–1 best)    0.72019 • p
Seats held by women in national parliament (%)    27.92020 • L Permanent deforestation (% of forest area, 5-year average)    0.42018 • •
SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation               
Population using at least basic drinking water services (%)    96.72017 • L Te(rpreers tmriailll iaonnd p forepsuhlwataiotenr) biodiversity threats embodied in imports      0.22018 • •
Population using at least basic sanitation services (%)    83.92017 • 5 SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions               
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available freshwater resources)    39.72010 • • Homicides (per 100,000 population)    11.32017 • L
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%)    5.82018 • • Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population)    60.32018 • p
Scarce water consumption embodied in imports (m3/capita)    2.82013 • L Percentage of population who feel safe walking alone at night in the      36.82018 • 5
SDG7 – Affordable and Clean Energy                city or area where they live (%)
Population with access to electricity (%)   100.02017 • L Property Rights (worst 1–7 best)    4.32019 • •
Population with access to clean fuels and technology for cooking (%)    90.42016 • L Birth registrations with civil authority (% of children under age 5)    88.02018 • •
COto2t aelm eilsesciotrnicsi tfyro omut fpuuetl  (cMomtCbOu2s/tTioWnh f)or electricity and heating per      1.22017 • 5 CCohrilrdurpetnio innv Poelvrceedp itnio cnh Iinldd leaxb (owr o(%rs to 0f –p1o0p0u blaetsiot)n aged 5 to 14)      122.8822001196 •• p•
5
SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth                Exports of major conventional weapons (TIV constant million USD      0.02019 • • . C
Adjusted GDP growth (%)    1.42018 • • per 100,000 population) ou
Victims of modern slavery (per 1,000 population)    4.02018 • • Press Freedom Index (best 0–100 worst)    27.92019 • L ntr
y
Admuoltbsi lwe-itmh oanne ayc-cseoruvnicte a tp aro bvaidnekr  o(%r o othf epro fpinualantcioianl  iangsteidtu 1ti5o no ro or vwerit)h a     56.22017 • 5 SGoDvGer1nm7 e–n tP sapretnndeinrgs ohni phse aflothr a tnhde e dGuocaatliosn (% of GDP)      3 . 7200  7 •   •    Prof
Unemployment rate (% of total labor force)    5.82019 • L For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional    NA NA • • iles
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population)   0.12010 • L public finance, including official development assistance (% of GNI)
Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP)    15.22018 • 5
Corporate Tax Haven Score (best 0–100 worst) * 0.02019 • •
* Imputed data point
201
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
ECUADOR  
Latin America and the Caribbean
OVERALL PERFORMANCE
SDG SDG
17 1
SDG 100 SDG
16 2
75
Index score Regional average score 1SD5G 50 S3DG
25
SDG
SDG 4
14
74.3 70.4
Ecuador
SDG SDG
13 5
12 SDG
6
SDG Global rank 46 (OF 166)
SDG
11 SDG
7
SDG SDG
10 SDG 8
9
SPILLOVER INDEX AVERAGE PERFORMANCE BY SDG
100 (best) to 0 (worst)
100
80
60
40
20
0
CURRENT ASSESSMENT – SDG DASHBOARD
  Major challenges           Significant challenges          Challenges remain          SDG achieved          Information unavailable
SDG TRENDS
D D D D D L L D D
• L • L L 5 D p
p  Decreasing       5  Stagnating       D  Moderately improving       L  On track or maintaining SDG achievement       •  Information unavailable
Notes: The full title of Goal 2 “Zero Hunger” is “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”.    
  The full title of each SDG is available here: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabledevelopmentgoals
202
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
ECUADOR
Performance by Indicator
SDG1 – No Poverty    Val u e Yea  rRa t ingTr e nd SDG9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure    Val u e Ye a rRa t ingTr e nd
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%)    2.72020 • L Population using the internet (%)    57.32017 • L
Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%)    10.12020 • 5 Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population)    54.72018 • L
SDG2 – Zero Hunger                Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related     2.72018 • L
Prevalence of undernourishment (%)    7.92017 • L infrastructure (worst 1–5 best)
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%)    23.92014 • D The Times Higher Education Universities Ranking: Average score of top 3 * 13.62019 • •
PPrreevvaalleennccee  ooff  wobaesstiintyg,  BinM cIh ≥il d3r0e n(% u nodf aedr u5 lyt epaorps uolfa atigoen )(%)      119..6922001146 •• Lp Scuiennivteifrisci taiensd ( tweochrsnt i0ca–l1 j0o0u rbneaslt a)rticles (per 1,000 population)    0.12018 • D
Human Trophic Level (best 2–3 worst)    2.32017 • D Expenditure on research and development (% of GDP)    0.42014 • •
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land)    3.42017 • L SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities               
Sustainable Nitrogen Management Index (best 0–1.41 worst)    1.02015 • 5 Gini coefficient adjusted for top income    46.42017 • •
SDG3 – Good Health and Well-Being                SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities               
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)     592017 • L Annual mean concentration of particulate matter of less than      14.92017 • L
2.5 microns in diameter (PM2.5) (μg/m3)
NMeoorntaaltitayl  rmatoer,t ualnitdye rra-t5e ( (ppeerr 1 1,0,00000 l ilvivee b birirtthhss))      174..2222001188 •• LL Access to improved water source, piped (% of urban population)    97.92017 • L
Incidence of tuberculosis (per 100,000 population)    44.02018 • 5 Satisfaction with public transport (%)    71.92019 • L
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population)    0.12018 • L SDG12 – Responsible Consumption and Production                 
Municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)    1.32015 • •
Agdeia-bsteatneds,a ordr iczherdo ndieca rtehs prairtaet dourye d tois ecaasred iionv aadscuultlsa ra dgiesde a3s0e–, c7a0n yceear,r s (%)    13.02016 • L Electronic waste (kg/capita)    5.52016 • •
Agame-bstiaenndt aarird pizoeldlu dtieoant h(p reart e1 0at0t,r0ib0u0 tpaobpleu tloat hioonu)sehold air pollution and    252016 • • PSOro2d eumctiisosnio-bnas seemd bSoOd2i eedm iinss iimonpso (rktgs /(ckgap/citaap)ita)       241..9222001122 •• ••
Traffic deaths (per 100,000 population)    21.32016 • p Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita)    22.62010 • •
Life expectancy at birth (years)    76.52016 • D Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)    1.42010 • •
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19)   79.32017 • 5 SDG13 – Climate Action               
Births attended by skilled health personnel (%)    96.72016 • L Energy-related CO2 emissions (tCO2/capita)    2.22017 • L
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%)   832018 • L CO2 emissions embodied in imports (tCO2/capita)    0.32015 • L
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best)   77.02017 • L CO2 emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita)    0.02018 • •
Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best)    5.82019 • p
SDG14 – Life Below Water                 
SDG4 – Quality Education                Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)    76.92018 • L
Net primary enrollment rate (%)    90.92018 • 5 Ocean Health Index: Clean Waters score (worst 0–100 best)    68.52019 • L
Lower secondary completion rate (%)    97.82017 • L Fish caught from overexploited or collapsed stocks (% of total catch)    29.22014 • L
Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24)    99.32017 • • Fish caught by trawling (%)    5.92014 • L
SDG5 – Gender Equality                    Marine biodiversity threats embodied in imports (per million population)    0.02018 • •
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods (% of females    79.42012 • L SDG15 – Life on Land               
aged 15 to 49 who are married or in unions) Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%)   29.72018 • D
Ratio of female-to-male mean years of education received (%)    97.82018 • L Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%)   70.92018 • L
Ratio of female-to-male labor force participation rate (%)    69.32019 • L Red List Index of species survival (worst 0–1 best)    0.72019 • p
Seats held by women in national parliament (%)    39.42020 • p Permanent deforestation (% of forest area, 5-year average)    0.12018 • •
SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation               
Population using at least basic drinking water services (%)    94.02017 • L Te(rpreers tmriailll iaonnd p forepsuhlwataiotenr) biodiversity threats embodied in imports      0.32018 • •
Population using at least basic sanitation services (%)    88.02017 • L SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions               
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available freshwater resources)    6.82005 • • Homicides (per 100,000 population)    5.82017 • L
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%)    0.02018 • • Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population)    33.82018 • L
Scarce water consumption embodied in imports (m3/capita)    1.62013 • L Percentage of population who feel safe walking alone at night in the      45.32019 • p
SDG7 – Affordable and Clean Energy                city or area where they live (%)
Population with access to electricity (%)   100.02017 • L Property Rights (worst 1–7 best)    3.72019 • •
Population with access to clean fuels and technology for cooking (%)    95.62016 • L Birth registrations with civil authority (% of children under age 5)    82.12018 • •
COto2t aelm eilsesciotrnicsi tfyro omut fpuuetl  (cMomtCbOu2s/tTioWnh f)or electricity and heating per      1.22017 • L CCohrilrdurpetnio innv Poelvrceedp itnio cnh Iinldd leaxb (owr o(%rs to 0f –p1o0p0u blaetsiot)n aged 5 to 14)      43.8922001196 •• D•
5
SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth                Exports of major conventional weapons (TIV constant million USD      0.02019 • • . C
Adjusted GDP growth (%)    -4.92018 • • per 100,000 population) ou
Victims of modern slavery (per 1,000 population)    2.42018 • • Press Freedom Index (best 0–100 worst)    31.92019 • L ntr
y
Admuoltbsi lwe-itmh oanne ayc-cseoruvnicte a tp aro bvaidnekr  o(%r o othf epro fpinualantcioianl  iangsteidtu 1ti5o no ro or vwerit)h a     51.22017 • D SGoDvGer1nm7 e–n tP sapretnndeinrgs ohni phse aflothr a tnhde e dGuocaatliosn (% of GDP)      9 . 2201  5 •   p    Prof
Unemployment rate (% of total labor force)    4.02019 • L For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional    NA NA • • iles
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population)   0.12010 • L public finance, including official development assistance (% of GNI)
Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP)    NA NA • •
Corporate Tax Haven Score (best 0–100 worst) * 0.02019 • •
* Imputed data point
203
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
EGYPT, ARAB REPUBLIC OF  
Middle East and North Africa
OVERALL PERFORMANCE
SDG SDG
17 1
SDG 100 SDG
16 2
75
Index score Regional average score SDG SDG
15 50 3
25
SDG
SDG 4
14
68.8 66.3 Egypt, 
SDG Arab Rep. of SDG
13 5
SDG
12 SDG
6
SDG Global rank 83 (OF 166)
SDG
11 SDG
7
SDG SDG
10 SDG 8
9
SPILLOVER INDEX AVERAGE PERFORMANCE BY SDG
100 (best) to 0 (worst)
100
80
60
40
20
0
CURRENT ASSESSMENT – SDG DASHBOARD
  Major challenges           Significant challenges          Challenges remain          SDG achieved          Information unavailable
SDG TRENDS
L D D L 5 L D L 5
• D • 5 D 5 5 •
p  Decreasing       5  Stagnating       D  Moderately improving       L  On track or maintaining SDG achievement       •  Information unavailable
Notes: The full title of Goal 2 “Zero Hunger” is “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”.    
  The full title of each SDG is available here: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabledevelopmentgoals
204
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
EGYPT, ARAB REPUBLIC OF
Performance by Indicator
SDG1 – No Poverty    Val u e Yea  rRa t ingTr e nd SDG9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure    Val u e Ye a rRa t ingTr e nd
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%)    0.52020 • L Population using the internet (%)    46.92018 • L
Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%)    9.52020 • L Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population)    53.92018 • L
SDG2 – Zero Hunger                Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related     2.82018 • p
Prevalence of undernourishment (%)    4.52017 • L infrastructure (worst 1–5 best)
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%)    22.32014 • L The Times Higher Education Universities Ranking: Average score of top 3    39.42020 • •
PPHrrueemvvaaalleennn Tccreeo  poohff  iwocb aLesestviinetylg ,(  BbinMe csIth ≥ 2il d–3r30e  wn(% ou rnosdft )aedr u5 lyt epaorps uolfa atigoen )(%)        3922...520222000111467 ••• LpL SExcupieneninvtdeifiritscui rtaeien osdn ( t wreeocshersantr ic0cha– la1 nj0od0u  drbneeavselt la)orptimcleens t( (p%e ro 1f ,G0D0P0) population)      00..1622001187 •• 5p
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land)    7.32017 • L SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities               
Sustainable Nitrogen Management Index (best 0–1.41 worst)    0.62015 • p Gini coefficient adjusted for top income    49.62015 • •
SDG3 – Good Health and Well-Being                SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities               
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)     372017 • L Annual mean concentration of particulate matter of less than      87.02017 • p
2.5 microns in diameter (PM2.5) (μg/m3)
NMeoorntaaltitayl  rmatoer,t ualnitdye rra-t5e ( (ppeerr 1 1,0,00000 l ilvivee b birirtthhss))      1211..2222001188 •• LL Access to improved water source, piped (% of urban population)    98.62017 • L
Incidence of tuberculosis (per 100,000 population)    12.02018 • L Satisfaction with public transport (%)    71.02018 • L
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population)    0.02018 • L SDG12 – Responsible Consumption and Production                 
Municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)    1.42012 • •
Agdeia-bsteatneds,a ordr iczherdo ndieca rtehs prairtaet dourye d tois ecaasred iionv aadscuultlsa ra dgiesde a3s0e–, c7a0n yceear,r s (%)    27.72016 • 5 Electronic waste (kg/capita)    5.52016 • •
Agame-bstiaenndt aarird pizoeldlu dtieoant h(p reart e1 0at0t,r0ib0u0 tpaobpleu tloat hioonu)sehold air pollution and    1092016 • • PSOro2d eumctiisosnio-bnas seemd bSoOd2i eedm iinss iimonpso (rktgs /(ckgap/citaap)ita)       80..8722001122 •• ••
Traffic deaths (per 100,000 population)    9.72016 • L Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita)    10.92010 • •
Life expectancy at birth (years)    70.52016 • p Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)    0.62010 • •
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19)   53.82017 • 5 SDG13 – Climate Action               
Births attended by skilled health personnel (%)    91.52014 • • Energy-related CO2 emissions (tCO2/capita)    2.02017 • p
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%)   942018 • L CO2 emissions embodied in imports (tCO2/capita)    0.12015 • L
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best)   68.02017 • D CO2 emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita)    13.22018 • •
Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best)    4.02018 • p
SDG14 – Life Below Water                 
SDG4 – Quality Education                Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)    66.22018 • L
Net primary enrollment rate (%)    97.02018 • L Ocean Health Index: Clean Waters score (worst 0–100 best)    50.42019 • p
Lower secondary completion rate (%)    84.62018 • L Fish caught from overexploited or collapsed stocks (% of total catch)    27.72014 • L
Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24)    88.22017 • • Fish caught by trawling (%)    34.52014 • L
SDG5 – Gender Equality                    Marine biodiversity threats embodied in imports (per million population)    0.02018 • •
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods (% of females    80.02014 • L SDG15 – Life on Land               
aged 15 to 49 who are married or in unions) Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%)   40.32018 • 5
Ratio of female-to-male mean years of education received (%)    83.82018 • D Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%)   28.52018 • 5
Ratio of female-to-male labor force participation rate (%)    31.32019 • 5 Red List Index of species survival (worst 0–1 best)    0.92019 • L
Seats held by women in national parliament (%)    15.12020 • 5 Permanent deforestation (% of forest area, 5-year average)    0.02018 • •
SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation               
Population using at least basic drinking water services (%)    99.12017 • L Te(rpreers tmriailll iaonnd p forepsuhlwataiotenr) biodiversity threats embodied in imports      0.12018 • •
Population using at least basic sanitation services (%)    94.22017 • L SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions               
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available freshwater resources)   118.92015 • • Homicides (per 100,000 population)    2.52012 • •
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%)    42.02018 • • Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population)    9.92018 • •
Scarce water consumption embodied in imports (m3/capita)    1.62013 • L Percentage of population who feel safe walking alone at night in the      87.02018 • L
SDG7 – Affordable and Clean Energy                city or area where they live (%)
Population with access to electricity (%)   100.02017 • L Property Rights (worst 1–7 best)    5.12019 • •
Population with access to clean fuels and technology for cooking (%)    97.62016 • L Birth registrations with civil authority (% of children under age 5)    99.42018 • •
COto2t aelm eilsesciotrnicsi tfyro omut fpuuetl  (cMomtCbOu2s/tTioWnh f)or electricity and heating per      1.12017 • D CCohrilrdurpetnio innv Poelvrceedp itnio cnh Iinldd leaxb (owr o(%rs to 0f –p1o0p0u blaetsiot)n aged 5 to 14)      73.5022001196 •• p•
5
SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth                Exports of major conventional weapons (TIV constant million USD      0.02019 • • . C
Adjusted GDP growth (%)    -1.62018 • • per 100,000 population) ou
Victims of modern slavery (per 1,000 population)    5.52018 • • Press Freedom Index (best 0–100 worst)    56.52019 • p ntr
y
Admuoltbsi lwe-itmh oanne ayc-cseoruvnicte a tp aro bvaidnekr  o(%r o othf epro fpinualantcioianl  iangsteidtu 1ti5o no ro or vwerit)h a     32.82017 • L SGoDvGer1nm7 e–n tP sapretnndeinrgs ohni phse aflothr a tnhde e dGuocaatliosn (% of GDP)      5 . 3200  8 •   •    Prof
Unemployment rate (% of total labor force)    10.82019 • L For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional    NA NA • • iles
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population)   0.12010 • L public finance, including official development assistance (% of GNI)
Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP)    21.02015 • •
Corporate Tax Haven Score (best 0–100 worst) * 0.02019 • •
* Imputed data point
205
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
EL SALVADOR  
Latin America and the Caribbean
OVERALL PERFORMANCE
SDG SDG
17 1
SDG 100 SDG
16 2
75
Index score Regional average score SDG SDG
15 50 3
25
SDG
SDG 4
14
69.6 70.4
El Salvador
SDG SDG
13 5
SDG
12 SDG
6
SDG Global rank 77 (OF 166)
SDG
11 SDG
7
SDG SDG
10 SDG 8
9
SPILLOVER INDEX AVERAGE PERFORMANCE BY SDG
100 (best) to 0 (worst)
100
80
60
40
20
0
CURRENT ASSESSMENT – SDG DASHBOARD
  Major challenges           Significant challenges          Challenges remain          SDG achieved          Information unavailable
SDG TRENDS
L D D p 5 D D D 5
• D • L 5 5 5 D
p  Decreasing       5  Stagnating       D  Moderately improving       L  On track or maintaining SDG achievement       •  Information unavailable
Notes: The full title of Goal 2 “Zero Hunger” is “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”.    
  The full title of each SDG is available here: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabledevelopmentgoals
206
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
EL SALVADOR
Performance by Indicator
SDG1 – No Poverty    Val u e Yea  rRa t ingTr e nd SDG9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure    Val u e Ye a rRa t ingTr e nd
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%)    1.12020 • L Population using the internet (%)    33.82017 • D
Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%)    7.42020 • L Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population)    54.52018 • L
SDG2 – Zero Hunger                Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related     2.22018 • p
Prevalence of undernourishment (%)    9.02017 • L infrastructure (worst 1–5 best)
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%)    13.62014 • L The Times Higher Education Universities Ranking: Average score of top 3 * 0.02020 • •
PPHrrueemvvaaalleennn Tccreeo  poohff  iwocb aLesestviinetylg ,(  BbinMe csIth ≥ 2il d–3r30e  wn(% ou rnosdft )aedr u5 lyt epaorps uolfa atigoen )(%)        2224...136222000111467 ••• LpL SExcupieneninvtdeifiritscui rtaeien osdn ( t wreeocshersantr ic0cha– la1 nj0od0u  drbneeavselt la)orptimcleens t( (p%e ro 1f ,G0D0P0) population)      00..0122001186 •• 55
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land)    2.82017 • L SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities               
Sustainable Nitrogen Management Index (best 0–1.41 worst)    1.02015 • 5 Gini coefficient adjusted for top income    44.42017 • •
SDG3 – Good Health and Well-Being                SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities               
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)     462017 • L Annual mean concentration of particulate matter of less than      24.52017 • D
2.5 microns in diameter (PM2.5) (μg/m3)
NMeoorntaaltitayl  rmatoer,t ualnitdye rra-t5e ( (ppeerr 1 1,0,00000 l ilvivee b birirtthhss))      163..7722001188 •• LL Access to improved water source, piped (% of urban population)    94.62017 • D
Incidence of tuberculosis (per 100,000 population)    70.02018 • p Satisfaction with public transport (%)    80.32018 • L
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population)    0.12018 • L SDG12 – Responsible Consumption and Production                 
Municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)    1.02010 • •
Agdeia-bsteatneds,a ordr iczherdo ndieca rtehs prairtaet dourye d tois ecaasred iionv aadscuultlsa ra dgiesde a3s0e–, c7a0n yceear,r s (%)    14.02016 • L Electronic waste (kg/capita)    5.82016 • •
Agame-bstiaenndt aarird pizoeldlu dtieoant h(p reart e1 0at0t,r0ib0u0 tpaobpleu tloat hioonu)sehold air pollution and    422016 • • PSOro2d eumctiisosnio-bnas seemd bSoOd2i eedm iinss iimonpso (rktgs /(ckgap/citaap)ita)       303..3122001122 •• ••
Traffic deaths (per 100,000 population)    22.22016 • p Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita)    13.92010 • •
Life expectancy at birth (years)    73.72016 • D Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)    2.72010 • •
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19)   69.52017 • 5 SDG13 – Climate Action               
Births attended by skilled health personnel (%)    99.92016 • L Energy-related CO2 emissions (tCO2/capita)    1.22017 • L
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%)   812018 • p CO2 emissions embodied in imports (tCO2/capita)    0.42015 • L
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best)   76.02017 • L CO2 emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita)    0.02019 • •
Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best)    6.32018 • L
SDG14 – Life Below Water                 
SDG4 – Quality Education                Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)    46.62018 • 5
Net primary enrollment rate (%)    81.02018 • p Ocean Health Index: Clean Waters score (worst 0–100 best)    44.22019 • p
Lower secondary completion rate (%)    77.82017 • p Fish caught from overexploited or collapsed stocks (% of total catch)   100.02014 • p
Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24)    98.02018 • • Fish caught by trawling (%)    11.52014 • L
SDG5 – Gender Equality                    Marine biodiversity threats embodied in imports (per million population)    0.22018 • •
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods (% of females    80.02014 • L SDG15 – Life on Land               
aged 15 to 49 who are married or in unions) Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%)   26.62018 • 5
Ratio of female-to-male mean years of education received (%)    90.42018 • 5 Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%)   81.62018 • L
Ratio of female-to-male labor force participation rate (%)    58.62019 • p Red List Index of species survival (worst 0–1 best)    0.82019 • p
Seats held by women in national parliament (%)    33.32020 • 5 Permanent deforestation (% of forest area, 5-year average)    0.22018 • •
SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation               
Population using at least basic drinking water services (%)    97.42017 • L Te(rpreers tmriailll iaonnd p forepsuhlwataiotenr) biodiversity threats embodied in imports      1.82018 • •
Population using at least basic sanitation services (%)    87.42017 • 5 SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions               
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available freshwater resources)    13.22005 • • Homicides (per 100,000 population)    61.82017 • 5
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%)    0.12018 • • Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population)    30.42018 • p
Scarce water consumption embodied in imports (m3/capita)    2.02013 • L Percentage of population who feel safe walking alone at night in the      52.82018 • L
SDG7 – Affordable and Clean Energy                city or area where they live (%)
Population with access to electricity (%)    99.52017 • L Property Rights (worst 1–7 best)    3.62019 • •
Population with access to clean fuels and technology for cooking (%)    86.02016 • L Birth registrations with civil authority (% of children under age 5)    98.52018 • •
COto2t aelm eilsesciotrnicsi tfyro omut fpuuetl  (cMomtCbOu2s/tTioWnh f)or electricity and heating per      1.12017 • p CCohrilrdurpetnio innv Poelvrceedp itnio cnh Iinldd leaxb (owr o(%rs to 0f –p1o0p0u blaetsiot)n aged 5 to 14)      83.4922001196 •• p•
5
SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth                Exports of major conventional weapons (TIV constant million USD   * 0.02019 • • . C
Adjusted GDP growth (%)    -2.72018 • • per 100,000 population) ou
Victims of modern slavery (per 1,000 population)    2.52018 • • Press Freedom Index (best 0–100 worst)    29.82019 • L ntr
y
Admuoltbsi lwe-itmh oanne ayc-cseoruvnicte a tp aro bvaidnekr  o(%r o othf epro fpinualantcioianl  iangsteidtu 1ti5o no ro or vwerit)h a     30.42017 • p SGoDvGer1nm7 e–n tP sapretnndeinrgs ohni phse aflothr a tnhde e dGuocaatliosn (% of GDP)      8 . 3201  6 •   5    Prof
Unemployment rate (% of total labor force)    4.12019 • L For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional    NA NA • • iles
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population)   0.42010 • L public finance, including official development assistance (% of GNI)
Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP)    25.12017 • L
Corporate Tax Haven Score (best 0–100 worst) * 0.02019 • •
* Imputed data point
207
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
EQUATORIAL GUINEA  
Sub-Saharan Africa
OVERALL PERFORMANCE
SDG SDG
17 1
SDG 100 SDG
16 2
75
Index score Regional average score SDG SDG
15 50 3
25
SDG
SDG 4
14
na 53.1 Equatorial 
SDG Guinea SDG
13 5
SDG
12 SDG
6
SDG Global rank NA (OF 166)
SDG
11 SDG
7
SDG SDG
10 SDG 8
9
SPILLOVER INDEX AVERAGE PERFORMANCE BY SDG
100 (best) to 0 (worst)
100
80
60
40
20
0
CURRENT ASSESSMENT – SDG DASHBOARD
  Major challenges           Significant challenges          Challenges remain          SDG achieved          Information unavailable
SDG TRENDS
• D 5 • 5 5 5 5 5
• p • • 5 5 D p
p  Decreasing       5  Stagnating       D  Moderately improving       L  On track or maintaining SDG achievement       •  Information unavailable
Notes: The full title of Goal 2 “Zero Hunger” is “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”.    
  The full title of each SDG is available here: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabledevelopmentgoals
208
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
EQUATORIAL GUINEA
Performance by Indicator
SDG1 – No Poverty    Val u e Yea  rRa t ingTr e nd SDG9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure    Val u e Ye a rRa t ingTr e nd
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%) * NA NA • • Population using the internet (%)    26.22017 • D
Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%) * NA NA • • Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population)    0.12018 • 5
SDG2 – Zero Hunger                Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related     1.92018 • p
Prevalence of undernourishment (%)    NA NA • • infrastructure (worst 1–5 best)
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%)    26.22011 • D The Times Higher Education Universities Ranking: Average score of top 3 * 0.02020 • •
PPrreevvaalleennccee  ooff  wobaesstiintyg,  BinM cIh ≥il d3r0e n(% u nodf aedr u5 lyt epaorps uolfa atigoen )(%)      38..1022001116 •• LL Scuiennivteifrisci taiensd ( tweochrsnt i0ca–l1 j0o0u rbneaslt a)rticles (per 1,000 population)    0.02018 • p
Expenditure on research and development (% of GDP)    NA NA • •
Human Trophic Level (best 2–3 worst)    NA NA • •
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land)    NA NA • • SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities               
Sustainable Nitrogen Management Index (best 0–1.41 worst)    1.02015 • 5 Gini coefficient adjusted for top income    NA NA • •
SDG3 – Good Health and Well-Being                SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities               
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)     3012017 • 5 Annual mean concentration of particulate matter of less than      53.22017 • p
NMeoorntaaltitayl  rmatoer,t ualnitdye rra-t5e ( (ppeerr 1 1,0,00000 l ilvivee b birirtthhss))      2895..9322001188 •• 5D Ac2c.5e sms itcor oimnsp irno vdeiadm weatteerr ( sPoMu2rc.5e),  (pμipg/emd 3(%) of urban population)    48.12017 • 5
Incidence of tuberculosis (per 100,000 population)   201.02018 • p Satisfaction with public transport (%)    NA NA • •
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population)    4.22018 • 5 SDG12 – Responsible Consumption and Production                 
Municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)    0.62016 • •
Agdeia-bsteatneds,a ordr iczherdo ndieca rtehs prairtaet dourye d tois ecaasred iionv aadscuultlsa ra dgiesde a3s0e–, c7a0n yceear,r s (%)    22.02016 • 5 Electronic waste (kg/capita)    NA NA • •
Agame-bstiaenndt aarird pizoeldlu dtieoant h(p reart e1 0at0t,r0ib0u0 tpaobpleu tloat hioonu)sehold air pollution and    1782016 • • PSOro2d eumctiisosnio-bnas seemd bSoOd2i eedm iinss iimonpso (rktgs /(ckgap/citaap)ita)       NNAA NNAA •• ••
Traffic deaths (per 100,000 population)    24.62016 • p Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita)    NA NA • •
Life expectancy at birth (years)    59.52016 • 5 Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)    NA NA • •
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19)  155.62017 • 5 SDG13 – Climate Action               
Births attended by skilled health personnel (%)    68.32011 • • Energy-related CO2 emissions (tCO2/capita)    4.82017 • 5
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%)   252018 • D CO2 emissions embodied in imports (tCO2/capita)    NA NA • •
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best)   45.02017 • D CO2 emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita)    NA NA • •
Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best)    NA NA • •
SDG14 – Life Below Water                 
SDG4 – Quality Education                Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)   100.02018 • L
Net primary enrollment rate (%)    43.52015 • • Ocean Health Index: Clean Waters score (worst 0–100 best)    57.52019 • p
Lower secondary completion rate (%)    24.22015 • • Fish caught from overexploited or collapsed stocks (% of total catch)    13.82014 • L
Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24)    98.02010 • • Fish caught by trawling (%)    23.22014 • p
SDG5 – Gender Equality                    Marine biodiversity threats embodied in imports (per million population)    NA NA • •
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods (% of females    20.72011 • 5 SDG15 – Life on Land               
aged 15 to 49 who are married or in unions) Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%)  100.02018 • L
Ratio of female-to-male mean years of education received (%)    54.22018 • p Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%)   NA NA • •
Ratio of female-to-male labor force participation rate (%)    82.12019 • L Red List Index of species survival (worst 0–1 best)    0.82019 • p
Seats held by women in national parliament (%)    21.02020 • p Permanent deforestation (% of forest area, 5-year average)    0.22018 • •
SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation               
Population using at least basic drinking water services (%)    64.72017 • 5 Te(rpreers tmriailll iaonnd p forepsuhlwataiotenr) biodiversity threats embodied in imports      NA NA • •
Population using at least basic sanitation services (%)    66.32017 • 5 SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions               
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available freshwater resources)    0.22000 • • Homicides (per 100,000 population) * 2.32015 • •
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%)    1.32018 • • Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population)    NA NA • •
Scarce water consumption embodied in imports (m3/capita)    NA NA • • Percentage of population who feel safe walking alone at night in the      NA NA • •
SDG7 – Affordable and Clean Energy                city or area where they live (%)
Population with access to electricity (%)    67.22017 • 5 Property Rights (worst 1–7 best)    NA NA • •
Population with access to clean fuels and technology for cooking (%)    34.42016 • 5 Birth registrations with civil authority (% of children under age 5)    53.52018 • •
COto2t aelm eilsesciotrnicsi tfyro omut fpuuetl  (cMomtCbOu2s/tTioWnh f)or electricity and heating per      NA NA • • CCohrilrdurpetnio innv Poelvrceedp itnio cnh Iinldd leaxb (owr o(%rs to 0f –p1o0p0u blaetsiot)n aged 5 to 14)      271.6822001196 •• ••
5
SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth                Exports of major conventional weapons (TIV constant million USD   * 0.02019 • • . C
Adjusted GDP growth (%)    -12.82018 • • per 100,000 population) ou
Victims of modern slavery (per 1,000 population)    6.42018 • • Press Freedom Index (best 0–100 worst)    58.42019 • D ntr
y
Admuoltbsi lwe-itmh oanne ayc-cseoruvnicte a tp aro bvaidnekr  o(%r o othf epro fpinualantcioianl  iangsteidtu 1ti5o no ro or vwerit)h a     NA NA • • SGoDvGer1nm7 e–n tP sapretnndeinrgs ohni phse aflothr a tnhde e dGuocaatliosn (% of GDP)      N  A N  A •   •    Prof
Unemployment rate (% of total labor force)    6.42019 • 5 For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional    NA NA • • iles
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population)   NA NA • • public finance, including official development assistance (% of GNI)
Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP)    17.22017 • p
Corporate Tax Haven Score (best 0–100 worst) * 0.02019 • •
* Imputed data point
209
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
ERITREA  
Sub-Saharan Africa
OVERALL PERFORMANCE
SDG SDG
17 1
SDG 100 SDG
16 2
75
Index score Regional average score SDG SDG
15 50 3
25
SDG
SDG 4
14
na 53.1
Eritrea
SDG SDG
13 5
SDG
12 SDG
6
SDG Global rank NA (OF 166)
SDG
11 SDG
7
SDG SDG
10 SDG 8
9
SPILLOVER INDEX AVERAGE PERFORMANCE BY SDG
100 (best) to 0 (worst)
100
80
60
40
20
0
CURRENT ASSESSMENT – SDG DASHBOARD
  Major challenges           Significant challenges          Challenges remain          SDG achieved          Information unavailable
SDG TRENDS
• 5 D p 5 5 5 L 5
• p • L 5 5 • •
p  Decreasing       5  Stagnating       D  Moderately improving       L  On track or maintaining SDG achievement       •  Information unavailable
Notes: The full title of Goal 2 “Zero Hunger” is “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”.    
  The full title of each SDG is available here: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabledevelopmentgoals
210
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
ERITREA
Performance by Indicator
SDG1 – No Poverty    Val u e Yea  rRa t ingTr e nd SDG9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure    Val u e Ye a rRa t ingTr e nd
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%) * NA NA • • Population using the internet (%)    1.32017 • 5
Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%) * NA NA • • Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population)    0.02017 • 5
SDG2 – Zero Hunger                Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related     1.92018 • D
Prevalence of undernourishment (%)    NA NA • • infrastructure (worst 1–5 best)
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%)    50.32010 • 5 The Times Higher Education Universities Ranking: Average score of top 3 * 0.02020 • •
PPrreevvaalleennccee  ooff  wobaesstiintyg,  BinM cIh ≥il d3r0e n(% u nodf aedr u5 lyt epaorps uolfa atigoen )(%)      155..0322001106 •• 5L Scuiennivteifrisci taiensd ( tweochrsnt i0ca–l1 j0o0u rbneaslt a)rticles (per 1,000 population)    0.02018 • 5
Expenditure on research and development (% of GDP) * 0.02017 • •
Human Trophic Level (best 2–3 worst)    2.12007 • •
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land)    0.62017 • p SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities               
Sustainable Nitrogen Management Index (best 0–1.41 worst)    1.02015 • 5 Gini coefficient adjusted for top income    NA NA • •
SDG3 – Good Health and Well-Being                SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities               
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)     4802017 • D Annual mean concentration of particulate matter of less than      48.02017 • p
NMeoorntaaltitayl  rmatoer,t ualnitdye rra-t5e ( (ppeerr 1 1,0,00000 l ilvivee b birirtthhss))      1481..4922001188 •• LD Ac2c.5e sms itcor oimnsp irno vdeiadm weatteerr ( sPoMu2rc.5e),  (pμipg/emd 3(%) of urban population)    69.02016 • 5
Incidence of tuberculosis (per 100,000 population)    89.02018 • D Satisfaction with public transport (%)    NA NA • •
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population)    0.22018 • L SDG12 – Responsible Consumption and Production                 
Municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)    1.02011 • •
Agdeia-bsteatneds,a ordr iczherdo ndieca rtehs prairtaet dourye d tois ecaasred iionv aadscuultlsa ra dgiesde a3s0e–, c7a0n yceear,r s (%)    23.92016 • 5 Electronic waste (kg/capita)    0.62016 • •
Agame-bstiaenndt aarird pizoeldlu dtieoant h(p reart e1 0at0t,r0ib0u0 tpaobpleu tloat hioonu)sehold air pollution and    1742016 • • PSOro2d eumctiisosnio-bnas seemd bSoOd2i eedm iinss iimonpso (rktgs /(ckgap/citaap)ita)       380..3022001122 •• ••
Traffic deaths (per 100,000 population)    25.32016 • p Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita)    28.02010 • •
Life expectancy at birth (years)    65.02016 • 5 Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)    0.22010 • •
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19)   52.62017 • D SDG13 – Climate Action               
Births attended by skilled health personnel (%)    34.12010 • • Energy-related CO2 emissions (tCO2/capita)    0.22017 • L
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%)   952018 • L CO2 emissions embodied in imports (tCO2/capita)    0.02015 • L
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best)   38.02017 • 5 CO2 emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita) * 0.02018 • •
Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best)    NA NA • •
SDG14 – Life Below Water                 
SDG4 – Quality Education                Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)    0.02018 • 5
Net primary enrollment rate (%)    51.52018 • p Ocean Health Index: Clean Waters score (worst 0–100 best)    54.02019 • p
Lower secondary completion rate (%)    47.22017 • p Fish caught from overexploited or collapsed stocks (% of total catch)    10.72014 • L
Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24)    93.32018 • • Fish caught by trawling (%)    NA NA • •
SDG5 – Gender Equality                    Marine biodiversity threats embodied in imports (per million population)    0.02018 • •
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods (% of females    21.02010 • 5 SDG15 – Life on Land               
aged 15 to 49 who are married or in unions) Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%)   13.32018 • 5
Ratio of female-to-male mean years of education received (%)    NA NA • • Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%)   0.02018 • 5
Ratio of female-to-male labor force participation rate (%)    85.22019 • L Red List Index of species survival (worst 0–1 best)    0.92019 • L
Seats held by women in national parliament (%)    22.02019 • 5 Permanent deforestation (% of forest area, 5-year average)    NA NA • •
SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation               
Population using at least basic drinking water services (%)    51.92016 • 5 Te(rpreers tmriailll iaonnd p forepsuhlwataiotenr) biodiversity threats embodied in imports      0.02018 • •
Population using at least basic sanitation services (%)    11.92016 • 5 SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions               
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available freshwater resources)    11.22005 • • Homicides (per 100,000 population) * 8.02015 • •
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%)    0.02018 • • Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population)    NA NA • •
Scarce water consumption embodied in imports (m3/capita)    0.32013 • L Percentage of population who feel safe walking alone at night in the      NA NA • •
SDG7 – Affordable and Clean Energy                city or area where they live (%)
Population with access to electricity (%)    48.42017 • 5 Property Rights (worst 1–7 best)    NA NA • •
Population with access to clean fuels and technology for cooking (%)    16.32016 • 5 Birth registrations with civil authority (% of children under age 5)    NA NA • •
COto2t aelm eilsesciotrnicsi tfyro omut fpuuetl  (cMomtCbOu2s/tTioWnh f)or electricity and heating per      1.62017 • 5 CCohrilrdurpetnio innv Poelvrceedp itnio cnh Iinldd leaxb (owr o(%rs to 0f –p1o0p0u blaetsiot)n aged 5 to 14)      N2A320N1A9 •• 5•
5
SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth                Exports of major conventional weapons (TIV constant million USD   * 0.02019 • • . C
Adjusted GDP growth (%)    NA NA • • per 100,000 population) ou
Victims of modern slavery (per 1,000 population)    93.02018 • • Press Freedom Index (best 0–100 worst)    80.32019 • 5 ntr
y
Admuoltbsi lwe-itmh oanne ayc-cseoruvnicte a tp aro bvaidnekr  o(%r o othf epro fpinualantcioianl  iangsteidtu 1ti5o no ro or vwerit)h a     NA NA • • SGoDvGer1nm7 e–n tP sapretnndeinrgs ohni phse aflothr a tnhde e dGuocaatliosn (% of GDP)      2 . 8200  6 •   •    Prof
Unemployment rate (% of total labor force)    5.12019 • L For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional    NA NA • • iles
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population)   0.02010 • L public finance, including official development assistance (% of GNI)
Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP)    NA NA • •
Corporate Tax Haven Score (best 0–100 worst) * 0.02019 • •
* Imputed data point
211
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
ESTONIA  
OECD Countries
OVERALL PERFORMANCE
SDG SDG
17 1
SDG 100 SDG
16 2
75
Index score Regional average score SDG SDG
15 50 3
25
SDG
SDG 4
14
80.1 77.3
Estonia
SDG SDG
13 5
SDG
12 SDG
6
SDG Global rank 10 (OF 166)
SDG
11 SDG
7
SDG SDG
10 SDG 8
9
SPILLOVER INDEX AVERAGE PERFORMANCE BY SDG
100 (best) to 0 (worst)
100
80
60
40
20
0
CURRENT ASSESSMENT – SDG DASHBOARD
  Major challenges           Significant challenges          Challenges remain          SDG achieved          Information unavailable
SDG TRENDS
D D D L D D L D D
D L • 5 5 L L D
p  Decreasing       5  Stagnating       D  Moderately improving       L  On track or maintaining SDG achievement       •  Information unavailable
Notes: The full title of Goal 2 “Zero Hunger” is “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”.    
  The full title of each SDG is available here: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabledevelopmentgoals
212
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
ESTONIA
Performance by Indicator
SDG1 – No Poverty    Va lu e Ye a rRa t ingTr e nd SDG9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure    Va lu e Yea  rRa t ingTr e nd
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%)    0.1 2020 • L Population using the internet (%)    89.4 2018 • L
Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%)    0.2 2020 • L Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population)   146.7 2018 • L
Poverty rate after taxes and transfers (%)    15.8 2017 • 5 Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related     3.1 2018 • L
SDG2 – Zero Hunger                  infrastructure (worst 1–5 best)
Prevalence of undernourishment (%)    2.9 2017 • L Thuen Tivimerseist iHesig (wheorr Estd 0u–c1at0io0 nb eUsnt)iversities Ranking: Average score of top 3    32.0 2020 • •
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%) * 2.6 2016 • L Scientific and technical journal articles (per 1,000 population)    1.1 2018 • L
Prevalence of wasting in children under 5 years of age (%) * 0.7 2016 • L Expenditure on research and development (% of GDP)    1.3 2017 • p
Prevalence of obesity, BMI ≥ 30 (% of adult population)    21.2 2016 • p Researchers (per 1,000 employed population)    7.7 2018 • L
Human Trophic Level (best 2–3 worst)    2.5 2017 • p  Triadic patent families filed (per million population)    3.0 2017 • p
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land)    4.0 2017 • L Gap in internet access by income (percentage points)    25.3 2019 • D
SYuiesltda ignaapb lcel oNsiutrroe g(%en o Mf panoategnetmiael ynite Ilndd)ex (best 0–1.41 worst)      400..76 22001155 •• 5• Waonmde enn ignin seceiernincge) and engineering (% of tertiary graduates in science     35.0 2015 • •
SDG3 – Good Health and Well-Being                    SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities               
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)     9 2017 • L Gini coefficient adjusted for top income    34.9 2015 • L
Neonatal mortality rate (per 1,000 live births)    1.2 2018 • L Palma ratio    1.1 2017 • L
Mortality rate, under-5 (per 1,000 live births)    2.6 2018 • L Elderly poverty rate (% of population aged 66 or over)    37.2 2017 • p
Incidence of tuberculosis (per 100,000 population)    13.0 2018 • L SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities               
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population)    0.2 2018 • L
Age-standardized death rate due to cardiovascular disease, cancer,     17.0 2016 • L An2.n5u mali cmroenasn  icno dnicaemnetrtaetri o(PnM o2f .p5a) r(tμicgu/mlat3e) matter of less than      6.7 2017 • L
diabetes, or chronic respiratory disease in adults aged 30–70 years (%) Access to improved water source, piped (% of urban population)    99.0 2017 • L
Age-standardized death rate attributable to household air pollution and    25 2016 • • Satisfaction with public transport (%)    67.4 2019 • L
Traamffibc ideenat tahirs  p(poellru 1ti0o0n,0 (0p0e rp 1o0p0u,0la0t0io pno)pulation)    6.1 2016 • L Population with rent overburden (%)    4.7 2017 • L
Life expectancy at birth (years)    77.8 2016 • L SDG12 – Responsible Consumption and Production               
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19)   7.7 2017 • L Electronic waste (kg/capita)    14.4 2016 • •
Births attended by skilled health personnel (%)    99.4 2016 • L Production-based SO2 emissions (kg/capita)   186.6 2012 • •
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%)   87.0 2018 • p SO2 emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)     16.0 2012 • •
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best)   75.0 2017 • L Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita)    40.5 2010 • •
Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best)    6.0 2019 • L Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)    7.9 2010 • •
Gap in life expectancy at birth among regions (years)    3.7 2015 • • Non-recycled municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)    0.8 2018 • •
Gap in self-reported health status by income (percentage points)    44.7 2017 • p SDG13 – Climate Action               
Daily smokers (% of population aged 15 and over)    17.2 2018 • L Energy-related CO2 emissions (tCO2/capita)    15.5 2017 • p
SDG4 – Quality Education                CO2 emissions embodied in imports (tCO2/capita)    2.0 2015 • 5
Net primary enrollment rate (%) * 97.1 2017 • L CO2 emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita)    0.0 2019 • •
Lower secondary completion rate (%) * 97.1 2017 • L Effective carbon rate (EUR/tCO2)    12.1 2016 • •
Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24)    99.9 2011 • • SDG14 – Life Below Water               
Participation rate in pre-primary organized learning (% of children aged 4 to 6)    93.2 2017 • L Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)    97.8 2018 • L
Tertiary educational attainment (% of population aged 25 to 34)    43.6 2018 • L Ocean Health Index: Clean Waters score (worst 0–100 best)    66.0 2019 • p
PISA score (worst 0–600 best)   525.3 2018 • L Fish caught from overexploited or collapsed stocks (% of total catch)    1.4 2014 • L
VURaenrsdiialetieiroannct  hisnite usvcdeieernns tcisne   ispnce sirecfnoiercmnec a(e%n (c %eo f e o1xfp5 1l-a5yie-nyaeerd-a obr-lydo ssldo)sc)io-economic status (%)        5784...028 222000111888 ••• LLL FMisahri ncaeu bgihotd bivye rtsraitwy ltihnrge a(%ts) embodied in imports (per million population)     290..16 22001148 •• p•
SDG15 – Life on Land               
SDG5 – Gender Equality                Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%)   94.8 2018 • L
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods   * 78.4 2017 • L Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%)   93.5 2018 • L
RRaa(%ttiioo o  oof fff  effeemmmaaalellees-- attoog--emmd aa1ll5ee   tmlaob e4oa9rn  wf yoehrcaoer s ap roeafr  metidcaiurprcaiaettdioio nonr r  rainetc eue (ni%vioe)nds ()%)     18006..53 22001189 •• LL RPeerdm Laisnte Inntd dexe foofr espsteactiieosn s (u%rv oivf afol (rwesot rasrte 0a–, 15 -byeesatr) average)      10..00 22001198 •• L•
Seats held by women in national parliament (%)    28.7 2020 • D Terrestrial and freshwater biodiversity threats embodied in imports      0.3 2018 • •
Gender wage gap (% of male median wage)    28.3 2014 • • (per million population)
Gender gap in time spent doing unpaid work (minutes/day)    89.0 2010 • • SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions               
Homicides (per 100,000 population)    2.2 2017 • L
SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation                Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population)    20.7 2018 • L
PPooppuullaattiioonn  uussiinngg  aatt  lleeaasstt  bbaassiicc  dsarninitkaintigo nw saetrevri cseersv (i%ce)s (%)      9999..71 22001177 •• •• Pecrictye notra agree ao wf phoepreu ltahteioyn l iwveh (o% f)eel safe walking alone at night in the      72.1 2019 • L
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available freshwater resources)    18.6 2015 • • Property Rights (worst 1–7 best)    5.4 2019 • •
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%)    69.6 2018 • • Birth registrations with civil authority (% of children under age 5)   100.0 2018 • • 5
SPPcooappruuclleaa ttwiiooannte  uur ssciinnoggn  sssuaamffeepllyyt  immonaa nneaamggbeeoddd  wsiaeandtie tianr ts iieomrnvp isoceerrtsvs i (c(%me)s3 (/%ca)pita)        199837...734 222000111377 ••• LpL CCExohprilrodurrptestn ioo ifnn mv Poealjvroceerd pc oitnino cvnhe Iinnldtdi oleanxb a(olw rw o(%ersa tpo 0of –pn1os0 p(0Tu IblVae tcsioot)nn satganetd m 5 itlloio 1n4 U)SD    *    7400...000 222000111969 ••• L•• . Country
SDG7 – Affordable and Clean Energy                per 100,000 population)  P
PPooppuullaattiioonn  wwiitthh  aacccceessss  ttoo  eclleeacntr ifcuiteyls ( %an)d technology for cooking (%)     19020..90 22001176 •• LL PPererssso nFrse heedlodm in I npdriesoxn (b (pesetr  01–0100,000 w0 oprospt)ulation)     11926..36 22001197 •• LL rofile
s
COel2e cetmricisistyio onus tfproumt ( MfuteCl Oco2/mTWbuhs)tion for electricity and heating per total    1.3 2017 • L SGoDvGer1n7m e–n Pt sapretnndeinrgs honip hse aflothr  atnhde e Gduocaatlison (% of GDP)      10 . 2 201  6 •   L  
Share of renewable energy in total primary energy supply (%)    19.2 2018 • L For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional    0.2 2017 • 5
SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth                public finance, including official development assistance (% of GNI)
Adjusted GDP growth (%)    2.6 2018 • • Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP)    NA NA • •
VAidmcutoilmtbsis lw eo-iftm hm oaonnde aeycr-ncseo srulvanivctee ar ytp  ar(op bveairdn 1ek,r0  o(0%r0 o  pothfo epprou fplianutailoantncio)ianl  iangsteidtu 1ti5o no ro or vwerit)h a       938..06 22001187 •• L• CFSihonirafptneocdria aptle rSo Tefaictxrse  Hocafy v mSecunol tSrienc oa(brteieo s(ntb a0els–s t1( U00–S01$ w0 b0oi lrwlsioto)nr)st)        64630...351 222000121906 ••• •••
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population)   0.7 2010 • L
Employment-to-population ratio (%)    75.3 2019 • L
Youth not in employment, education or training (NEET)      12.7 2018 • 5
(% of population aged 15 to 29)
* Imputed data point
213
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
ESWATINI  
Sub-Saharan Africa
OVERALL PERFORMANCE
SDG SDG
17 1
SDG 100 SDG
16 2
75
Index score Regional average score SDG SDG
15 50 3
25
SDG
SDG 4
14
53.4 53.1
Eswatini
SDG SDG
13 5
SDG
12 SDG
6
SDG Global rank 144 (OF 166)
SDG
11 SDG
7
SDG SDG
10 SDG 8
9
SPILLOVER INDEX AVERAGE PERFORMANCE BY SDG
100 (best) to 0 (worst)
100
80
60
40
20
0
CURRENT ASSESSMENT – SDG DASHBOARD
  Major challenges           Significant challenges          Challenges remain          SDG achieved          Information unavailable
SDG TRENDS
5 5 D D 5 5 D D 5
• D • D • 5 5 p
p  Decreasing       5  Stagnating       D  Moderately improving       L  On track or maintaining SDG achievement       •  Information unavailable
Notes: The full title of Goal 2 “Zero Hunger” is “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”.    
  The full title of each SDG is available here: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabledevelopmentgoals
214
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
ESWATINI
Performance by Indicator
SDG1 – No Poverty    Val u e Yea  rRa t ingTr e nd SDG9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure    Val u e Ye a rRa t ingTr e nd
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%)    39.32020 • 5 Population using the internet (%)    47.02017 • L
Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%)    59.52020 • 5 Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population)    15.92017 • 5
SDG2 – Zero Hunger                Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related     NA NA • •
Prevalence of undernourishment (%)    20.62017 • D infrastructure (worst 1–5 best)
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%)    25.52014 • L The Times Higher Education Universities Ranking: Average score of top 3 * 0.02020 • •
PPrreevvaalleennccee  ooff  wobaesstiintyg,  BinM cIh ≥il d3r0e n(% u nodf aedr u5 lyt epaorps uolfa atigoen )(%)      126..0522001146 •• Lp Scuiennivteifrisci taiensd ( tweochrsnt i0ca–l1 j0o0u rbneaslt a)rticles (per 1,000 population)    0.02018 • 5
Human Trophic Level (best 2–3 worst)    4.02017 • p Expenditure on research and development (% of GDP)    0.32015 • •
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land)    1.12017 • 5 SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities               
Sustainable Nitrogen Management Index (best 0–1.41 worst)    0.82015 • 5 Gini coefficient adjusted for top income    65.92009 • •
SDG3 – Good Health and Well-Being                SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities               
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)     4372017 • p Annual mean concentration of particulate matter of less than      17.22017 • D
NMeoorntaaltitayl  rmatoer,t ualnitdye rra-t5e ( (ppeerr 1 1,0,00000 l ilvivee b birirtthhss))      1574..2422001188 •• LD Ac2c.5e sms itcor oimnsp irno vdeiadm weatteerr ( sPoMu2rc.5e),  (pμipg/emd 3(%) of urban population)    94.82017 • L
Incidence of tuberculosis (per 100,000 population)   329.02018 • L Satisfaction with public transport (%)    63.62019 • •
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population)    8.62018 • L SDG12 – Responsible Consumption and Production                 
Municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)    1.82016 • •
Agdeia-bsteatneds,a ordr iczherdo ndieca rtehs prairtaet dourye d tois ecaasred iionv aadscuultlsa ra dgiesde a3s0e–, c7a0n yceear,r s (%)    26.72016 • p Electronic waste (kg/capita)    5.12016 • •
Agame-bstiaenndt aarird pizoeldlu dtieoant h(p reart e1 0at0t,r0ib0u0 tpaobpleu tloat hioonu)sehold air pollution and    1372016 • • PSOro2d eumctiisosnio-bnas seemd bSoOd2i eedm iinss iimonpso (rktgs /(ckgap/citaap)ita)      11124..1822001122 •• ••
Traffic deaths (per 100,000 population)    26.92016 • p Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita)    27.22010 • •
Life expectancy at birth (years)    57.72016 • 5 Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)    5.32010 • •
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19)   76.72017 • 5 SDG13 – Climate Action               
Births attended by skilled health personnel (%)    88.32014 • • Energy-related CO2 emissions (tCO2/capita)    1.22017 • L
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%)   892018 • 5 CO2 emissions embodied in imports (tCO2/capita)    1.42015 • 5
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best)   63.02017 • D CO2 emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita)   162.72019 • •
Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best)    4.42019 • •
SDG14 – Life Below Water                 
SDG4 – Quality Education                Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)    NA NA • •
Net primary enrollment rate (%)    82.52017 • p Ocean Health Index: Clean Waters score (worst 0–100 best)    NA NA • •
Lower secondary completion rate (%)    67.42017 • L Fish caught from overexploited or collapsed stocks (% of total catch)    NA NA • •
Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24)    95.52018 • • Fish caught by trawling (%)    NA NA • •
SDG5 – Gender Equality                    Marine biodiversity threats embodied in imports (per million population)    0.52018 • •
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods (% of females    82.92014 • L SDG15 – Life on Land               
aged 15 to 49 who are married or in unions) Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%)   30.62018 • 5
Ratio of female-to-male mean years of education received (%)    87.52018 • p Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%)   NA NA • •
Ratio of female-to-male labor force participation rate (%)    62.92019 • 5 Red List Index of species survival (worst 0–1 best)    0.82019 • 5
Seats held by women in national parliament (%)    9.62020 • 5 Permanent deforestation (% of forest area, 5-year average)    0.12018 • •
SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation               
Population using at least basic drinking water services (%)    69.02017 • 5 Te(rpreers tmriailll iaonnd p forepsuhlwataiotenr) biodiversity threats embodied in imports      1.72018 • •
Population using at least basic sanitation services (%)    58.42017 • 5 SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions               
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available freshwater resources)    75.72000 • • Homicides (per 100,000 population)    9.52017 • 5
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%)    5.32018 • • Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population)    18.12012 • •
Scarce water consumption embodied in imports (m3/capita)    6.32013 • L Percentage of population who feel safe walking alone at night in the      45.32019 • •
SDG7 – Affordable and Clean Energy                city or area where they live (%)
Population with access to electricity (%)    73.52017 • L Property Rights (worst 1–7 best)    4.62019 • •
Population with access to clean fuels and technology for cooking (%)    49.72016 • D Birth registrations with civil authority (% of children under age 5)    53.52018 • •
COto2t aelm eilsesciotrnicsi tfyro omut fpuuetl  (cMomtCbOu2s/tTioWnh f)or electricity and heating per      NA NA • • CCohrilrdurpetnio innv Poelvrceedp itnio cnh Iinldd leaxb (owr o(%rs to 0f –p1o0p0u blaetsiot)n aged 5 to 14)      73.4322001196 •• p•
5
SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth                Exports of major conventional weapons (TIV constant million USD   * 0.02019 • • . C
Adjusted GDP growth (%)    -3.32018 • • per 100,000 population) ou
Victims of modern slavery (per 1,000 population)    8.82018 • • Press Freedom Index (best 0–100 worst)    49.12019 • D ntr
y
Admuoltbsi lwe-itmh oanne ayc-cseoruvnicte a tp aro bvaidnekr  o(%r o othf epro fpinualantcioianl  iangsteidtu 1ti5o no ro or vwerit)h a     28.62011 • • SGoDvGer1nm7 e–n tP sapretnndeinrgs ohni phse aflothr a tnhde e dGuocaatliosn (% of GDP)      11 . 6201  4 •   •    Prof
Unemployment rate (% of total labor force)    22.12019 • 5 For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional    NA NA • • iles
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population)   0.72010 • L public finance, including official development assistance (% of GNI)
Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP) * 24.52018 • p
Corporate Tax Haven Score (best 0–100 worst) * 0.02019 • •
* Imputed data point
215
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
ETHIOPIA  
Sub-Saharan Africa
OVERALL PERFORMANCE
SDG SDG
17 1
SDG 100 SDG
16 2
75
Index score Regional average score SDG SDG
15 50 3
25
SDG
SDG 4
14
55.2 53.1
Ethiopia
SDG SDG
13 5
SDG
12 SDG
6
SDG Global rank 136 (OF 166)
SDG
11 SDG
7
SDG SDG
10 SDG 8
9
SPILLOVER INDEX AVERAGE PERFORMANCE BY SDG
100 (best) to 0 (worst)
100
80
60
40
20
0
CURRENT ASSESSMENT – SDG DASHBOARD
  Major challenges           Significant challenges          Challenges remain          SDG achieved          Information unavailable
SDG TRENDS
L D D • 5 5 D L D
• 5 • L • 5 D 5
p  Decreasing       5  Stagnating       D  Moderately improving       L  On track or maintaining SDG achievement       •  Information unavailable
Notes: The full title of Goal 2 “Zero Hunger” is “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”.    
  The full title of each SDG is available here: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabledevelopmentgoals
216
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
ETHIOPIA
Performance by Indicator
SDG1 – No Poverty    Val u e Yea  rRa t ingTr e nd SDG9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure    Val u e Ye a rRa t ingTr e nd
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%)    25.32020 • L Population using the internet (%)    18.62017 • D
Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%)    59.32020 • D Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population)    13.92017 • L
SDG2 – Zero Hunger                Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related     2.12016 • •
Prevalence of undernourishment (%)    20.62017 • L infrastructure (worst 1–5 best)
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%)    38.42016 • 5 The Times Higher Education Universities Ranking: Average score of top 3 * 0.02020 • •
PPrreevvaalleennccee  ooff  wobaesstiintyg,  BinM cIh ≥il d3r0e n(% u nodf aedr u5 lyt epaorps uolfa atigoen )(%)      94..9522001166 •• 5L Scuiennivteifrisci taiensd ( tweochrsnt i0ca–l1 j0o0u rbneaslt a)rticles (per 1,000 population)    0.02018 • 5
Human Trophic Level (best 2–3 worst)    2.12017 • L Expenditure on research and development (% of GDP)    0.62013 • •
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land)    2.52017 • L SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities               
Sustainable Nitrogen Management Index (best 0–1.41 worst)    0.72015 • 5 Gini coefficient adjusted for top income    35.02015 • •
SDG3 – Good Health and Well-Being                SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities               
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)     4012017 • D Annual mean concentration of particulate matter of less than      39.02017 • p
NMInecooirdntaealntitacyle  rm oatfoe tr,ut uablnietdryce rura-lto5e s( i(psp e(eprr e1 1r,0, 01000000 l ,il0viv0ee0 b  bpiriortthphsus)l)ation)       1255851...120222000111888 ••• LLD ASac2tc.i5es fsmasc ittcoiro oinmn wsp irintoh vd epiadum bwleiactte etrrr a( sPnoMsup2roc.5ret),   ((p%μipg)/emd 3(%) of urban population)      8379..2922001179 •• 55
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population)    0.22018 • L SDG12 – Responsible Consumption and Production                 
Municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)    0.82015 • •
Agdeia-bsteatneds,a ordr iczherdo ndieca rtehs prairtaet dourye d tois ecaasred iionv aadscuultlsa ra dgiesde a3s0e–, c7a0n yceear,r s (%)    18.32016 • D Electronic waste (kg/capita)    0.52016 • •
Agame-bstiaenndt aarird pizoeldlu dtieoant h(p reart e1 0at0t,r0ib0u0 tpaobpleu tloat hioonu)sehold air pollution and    1442016 • • PSOro2d eumctiisosnio-bnas seemd bSoOd2i eedm iinss iimonpso (rktgs /(ckgap/citaap)ita)       00..5222001122 •• ••
Traffic deaths (per 100,000 population)    26.72016 • p Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita)    2.92010 • •
Life expectancy at birth (years)    65.52016 • D Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)    0.12010 • •
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19)   66.72017 • D SDG13 – Climate Action               
Births attended by skilled health personnel (%)    27.72016 • 5 Energy-related CO2 emissions (tCO2/capita)    0.12017 • L
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%)   612018 • p CO2 emissions embodied in imports (tCO2/capita)    0.02015 • L
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best)   39.02017 • D CO2 emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita)    0.02017 • •
Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best)    4.12019 • p
SDG14 – Life Below Water                 
SDG4 – Quality Education                Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)    NA NA • •
Net primary enrollment rate (%)    84.62015 • • Ocean Health Index: Clean Waters score (worst 0–100 best)    NA NA • •
Lower secondary completion rate (%)    29.52015 • • Fish caught from overexploited or collapsed stocks (% of total catch)    NA NA • •
Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24)    72.82017 • • Fish caught by trawling (%)    NA NA • •
SDG5 – Gender Equality                    Marine biodiversity threats embodied in imports (per million population)    0.02018 • •
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods (% of females    62.32018 • 5 SDG15 – Life on Land               
aged 15 to 49 who are married or in unions) Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%)   18.62018 • 5
Ratio of female-to-male mean years of education received (%)    41.02018 • p Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%)   16.22018 • 5
Ratio of female-to-male labor force participation rate (%)    86.02019 • L Red List Index of species survival (worst 0–1 best)    0.82019 • 5
Seats held by women in national parliament (%)    38.82020 • 5 Permanent deforestation (% of forest area, 5-year average)    0.12018 • •
SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation               
Population using at least basic drinking water services (%)    41.12017 • 5 Te(rpreers tmriailll iaonnd p forepsuhlwataiotenr) biodiversity threats embodied in imports      0.02018 • •
Population using at least basic sanitation services (%)    7.32017 • 5 SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions               
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available freshwater resources)    32.32015 • • Homicides (per 100,000 population) * 7.62015 • •
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%)    0.02018 • • Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population)    14.62015 • •
Scarce water consumption embodied in imports (m3/capita)    0.42013 • L Percentage of population who feel safe walking alone at night in the      53.72019 • p
SDG7 – Affordable and Clean Energy                city or area where they live (%)
Population with access to electricity (%)    44.32017 • L Property Rights (worst 1–7 best)    3.32019 • •
Population with access to clean fuels and technology for cooking (%)    3.52016 • 5 Birth registrations with civil authority (% of children under age 5)    2.72018 • •
COto2t aelm eilsesciotrnicsi tfyro omut fpuuetl  (cMomtCbOu2s/tTioWnh f)or electricity and heating per      1.02017 • L CCohrilrdurpetnio innv Poelvrceedp itnio cnh Iinldd leaxb (owr o(%rs to 0f –p1o0p0u blaetsiot)n aged 5 to 14)      273.7422001196 •• D•
5
SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth                Exports of major conventional weapons (TIV constant million USD   * 0.02019 • • . C
Adjusted GDP growth (%)    -1.12018 • • per 100,000 population) ou
Victims of modern slavery (per 1,000 population)    6.22018 • • Press Freedom Index (best 0–100 worst)    35.12019 • L ntr
y
Admuoltbsi lwe-itmh oanne ayc-cseoruvnicte a tp aro bvaidnekr  o(%r o othf epro fpinualantcioianl  iangsteidtu 1ti5o no ro or vwerit)h a     34.82017 • L SGoDvGer1nm7 e–n tP sapretnndeinrgs ohni phse aflothr a tnhde e dGuocaatliosn (% of GDP)      5 . 8201  5 •   5    Prof
Unemployment rate (% of total labor force)    2.12019 • L For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional    NA NA • • iles
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population)   0.02010 • L public finance, including official development assistance (% of GNI)
Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP)    9.02018 • p
Corporate Tax Haven Score (best 0–100 worst) * 0.02019 • •
* Imputed data point
217
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
FIJI  
Oceania
OVERALL PERFORMANCE
SDG SDG
17 1
SDG 100 SDG
16 2
75
Index score Regional average score SDG SDG
15 50 3
25
SDG
SDG 4
14
69.9 49.6
Fiji
SDG SDG
13 5
SDG
12 SDG
6
SDG Global rank 74 (OF 166)
SDG
11 SDG
7
SDG SDG
10 SDG 8
9
SPILLOVER INDEX AVERAGE PERFORMANCE BY SDG
100 (best) to 0 (worst)
100
80
60
40
20
0
CURRENT ASSESSMENT – SDG DASHBOARD
  Major challenges           Significant challenges          Challenges remain          SDG achieved          Information unavailable
SDG TRENDS
L D 5 p 5 D D L D
• D • D D p • L
p  Decreasing       5  Stagnating       D  Moderately improving       L  On track or maintaining SDG achievement       •  Information unavailable
Notes: The full title of Goal 2 “Zero Hunger” is “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”.    
  The full title of each SDG is available here: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabledevelopmentgoals
218
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
FIJI
Performance by Indicator
SDG1 – No Poverty    Val u e Yea  rRa t ingTr e nd SDG9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure    Val u e Ye a rRa t ingTr e nd
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%)    0.22020 • L Population using the internet (%)    50.02017 • L
Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%)    6.72020 • L Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population)   147.52018 • L
SDG2 – Zero Hunger                Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related     2.42018 • p
Prevalence of undernourishment (%)    3.72017 • L infrastructure (worst 1–5 best)
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%)    7.52004 • L The Times Higher Education Universities Ranking: Average score of top 3 * 0.02020 • •
PPrreevvaalleennccee  ooff  wobaesstiintyg,  BinM cIh ≥il d3r0e n(% u nodf aedr u5 lyt epaorps uolfa atigoen )(%)      360..3222000146 •• 5p Scuiennivteifrisci taiensd ( tweochrsnt i0ca–l1 j0o0u rbneaslt a)rticles (per 1,000 population)    0.22018 • 5
Human Trophic Level (best 2–3 worst)    2.22017 • L Expenditure on research and development (% of GDP)    NA NA • •
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land)    3.02017 • L SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities               
Sustainable Nitrogen Management Index (best 0–1.41 worst)    1.22015 • p Gini coefficient adjusted for top income    52.42013 • •
SDG3 – Good Health and Well-Being                SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities               
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)     342017 • L Annual mean concentration of particulate matter of less than      10.82017 • L
2.5 microns in diameter (PM2.5) (μg/m3)
NMeoorntaaltitayl  rmatoer,t ualnitdye rra-t5e ( (ppeerr 1 1,0,00000 l ilvivee b birirtthhss))      1205..9622001188 •• Lp Access to improved water source, piped (% of urban population)    97.02017 • 5
Incidence of tuberculosis (per 100,000 population)    54.02018 • 5 Satisfaction with public transport (%)    NA NA • •
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population)    NA NA • • SDG12 – Responsible Consumption and Production                 
Municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)    1.02011 • •
Agdeia-bsteatneds,a ordr iczherdo ndieca rtehs prairtaet dourye d tois ecaasred iionv aadscuultlsa ra dgiesde a3s0e–, c7a0n yceear,r s (%)    30.62016 • 5 Electronic waste (kg/capita)    5.12016 • •
Agame-bstiaenndt aarird pizoeldlu dtieoant h(p reart e1 0at0t,r0ib0u0 tpaobpleu tloat hioonu)sehold air pollution and    992016 • • PSOro2d eumctiisosnio-bnas seemd bSoOd2i eedm iinss iimonpso (rktgs /(ckgap/citaap)ita)      1267..4422001122 •• ••
Traffic deaths (per 100,000 population)    9.62016 • p Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita)    16.52010 • •
Life expectancy at birth (years)    69.92016 • 5 Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)    2.82010 • •
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19)   49.42017 • p SDG13 – Climate Action               
Births attended by skilled health personnel (%)    99.92015 • L Energy-related CO2 emissions (tCO2/capita)    1.72017 • L
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%)   942018 • L CO2 emissions embodied in imports (tCO2/capita)    0.52015 • D
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best)   64.02017 • L CO2 emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita)    0.02018 • •
Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best)    NA NA • •
SDG14 – Life Below Water                 
SDG4 – Quality Education                Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)    15.92018 • 5
Net primary enrollment rate (%)    96.82016 • p Ocean Health Index: Clean Waters score (worst 0–100 best)    73.12019 • L
Lower secondary completion rate (%)   102.62016 • • Fish caught from overexploited or collapsed stocks (% of total catch)    24.42014 • L
Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24)    99.72017 • • Fish caught by trawling (%)    NA NA • •
SDG5 – Gender Equality                    Marine biodiversity threats embodied in imports (per million population)    0.32018 • •
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods (% of females * 65.82017 • 5 SDG15 – Life on Land               
aged 15 to 49 who are married or in unions) Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%)   9.42018 • 5
Ratio of female-to-male mean years of education received (%)   102.82018 • L Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%)   0.12018 • 5
Ratio of female-to-male labor force participation rate (%)    50.42019 • p Red List Index of species survival (worst 0–1 best)    0.72019 • p
Seats held by women in national parliament (%)    19.62020 • 5 Permanent deforestation (% of forest area, 5-year average)    0.12018 • •
SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation               
Population using at least basic drinking water services (%)    93.82017 • 5 Te(rpreers tmriailll iaonnd p forepsuhlwataiotenr) biodiversity threats embodied in imports      0.02018 • •
Population using at least basic sanitation services (%)    95.12017 • L SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions               
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available freshwater resources)    0.52005 • • Homicides (per 100,000 population)    2.32014 • •
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%)    3.92018 • • Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population)    25.92018 • L
Scarce water consumption embodied in imports (m3/capita)    4.42013 • L Percentage of population who feel safe walking alone at night in the      NA NA • •
SDG7 – Affordable and Clean Energy                city or area where they live (%)
Population with access to electricity (%)    96.02017 • L Property Rights (worst 1–7 best)    NA NA • •
Population with access to clean fuels and technology for cooking (%)    39.62016 • 5 Birth registrations with civil authority (% of children under age 5)    NA NA • •
COto2t aelm eilsesciotrnicsi tfyro omut fpuuetl  (cMomtCbOu2s/tTioWnh f)or electricity and heating per      NA NA • • CCohrilrdurpetnio innv Poelvrceedp itnio cnh Iinldd leaxb (owr o(%rs to 0f –p1o0p0u blaetsiot)n aged 5 to 14)      NNAA NNAA •• ••
5
SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth                Exports of major conventional weapons (TIV constant million USD   * 0.02019 • • . C
Adjusted GDP growth (%)    -1.02018 • • per 100,000 population) ou
Victims of modern slavery (per 1,000 population)    NA NA • • Press Freedom Index (best 0–100 worst)    27.22019 • L ntr
y
Admuoltbsi lwe-itmh oanne ayc-cseoruvnicte a tp aro bvaidnekr  o(%r o othf epro fpinualantcioianl  iangsteidtu 1ti5o no ro or vwerit)h a     NA NA • • SGoDvGer1nm7 e–n tP sapretnndeinrgs ohni phse aflothr a tnhde e dGuocaatliosn (% of GDP)      5 . 9201  3 •   •    Prof
Unemployment rate (% of total labor force)    4.12019 • L For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional    NA NA • • iles
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population)   0.32010 • L public finance, including official development assistance (% of GNI)
Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP)    26.42018 • L
Corporate Tax Haven Score (best 0–100 worst) * 0.02019 • •
* Imputed data point
219
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
FINLAND  
OECD Countries
OVERALL PERFORMANCE
SDG SDG
17 1
SDG 100 SDG
16 2
75
Index score Regional average score SDG SDG
15 50 3
25
SDG
SDG 4
14
83.8 77.3
Finland
SDG SDG
13 5
SDG
12 SDG
6
SDG Global rank 3 (OF 166)
SDG
11 SDG
7
SDG SDG
10 SDG 8
9
SPILLOVER INDEX AVERAGE PERFORMANCE BY SDG
100 (best) to 0 (worst)
100
80
60
40
20
0
CURRENT ASSESSMENT – SDG DASHBOARD
  Major challenges           Significant challenges          Challenges remain          SDG achieved          Information unavailable
SDG TRENDS
L D D L D L L L L
L 5 • 5 5 L L 5
p  Decreasing       5  Stagnating       D  Moderately improving       L  On track or maintaining SDG achievement       •  Information unavailable
Notes: The full title of Goal 2 “Zero Hunger” is “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”.    
  The full title of each SDG is available here: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabledevelopmentgoals
220
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
FINLAND
Performance by Indicator
SDG1 – No Poverty    Va lu e Ye a rRa t ingTr e nd SDG9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure    Va lu e Yea  rRa t ingTr e nd
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%)    0.1 2020 • L Population using the internet (%)    88.9 2018 • L
Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%)    0.1 2020 • L Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population)   154.5 2018 • L
Poverty rate after taxes and transfers (%)    6.3 2017 • L Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related     4.0 2018 • L
SDG2 – Zero Hunger                  infrastructure (worst 1–5 best)
Prevalence of undernourishment (%)    2.5 2017 • L Thuen Tivimerseist iHesig (wheorr Estd 0u–c1at0io0 nb eUsnt)iversities Ranking: Average score of top 3    55.2 2020 • •
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%) * 2.6 2016 • L Scientific and technical journal articles (per 1,000 population)    1.9 2018 • L
Prevalence of wasting in children under 5 years of age (%) * 0.7 2016 • L Expenditure on research and development (% of GDP)    2.8 2017 • L
Prevalence of obesity, BMI ≥ 30 (% of adult population)    22.2 2016 • p Researchers (per 1,000 employed population)    14.5 2018 • L
Human Trophic Level (best 2–3 worst)    2.6 2017 • p  Triadic patent families filed (per million population)    47.0 2017 • L
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land)    4.0 2017 • L Gap in internet access by income (percentage points)    14.9 2019 • L
SYuiesltda ignaapb lcel oNsiutrroe g(%en o Mf panoategnetmiael ynite Ilndd)ex (best 0–1.41 worst)      501..66 22001155 •• p• Waonmde enn ignin seceiernincge) and engineering (% of tertiary graduates in science     23.0 2015 • •
SDG3 – Good Health and Well-Being                    SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities               
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)     3 2017 • L Gini coefficient adjusted for top income    28.7 2015 • L
Neonatal mortality rate (per 1,000 live births)    1.0 2018 • L Palma ratio    0.9 2017 • L
Mortality rate, under-5 (per 1,000 live births)    1.7 2018 • L Elderly poverty rate (% of population aged 66 or over)    6.3 2017 • L
Incidence of tuberculosis (per 100,000 population)    4.7 2018 • L SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities               
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population)    0.0 2018 • L
Age-standardized death rate due to cardiovascular disease, cancer,     10.2 2016 • L An2.n5u mali cmroenasn  icno dnicaemnetrtaetri o(PnM o2f .p5a) r(tμicgu/mlat3e) matter of less than      5.9 2017 • L
diabetes, or chronic respiratory disease in adults aged 30–70 years (%) Access to improved water source, piped (% of urban population)    99.0 2017 • L
Age-standardized death rate attributable to household air pollution and    7 2016 • • Satisfaction with public transport (%)    56.2 2019 • p
Traamffibc ideenat tahirs  p(poellru 1ti0o0n,0 (0p0e rp 1o0p0u,0la0t0io pno)pulation)    4.7 2016 • L Population with rent overburden (%)    8.4 2017 • p
Life expectancy at birth (years)    81.4 2016 • L SDG12 – Responsible Consumption and Production               
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19)   5.8 2017 • L Electronic waste (kg/capita)    21.1 2016 • •
Births attended by skilled health personnel (%)    99.9 2015 • L Production-based SO2 emissions (kg/capita)    96.1 2012 • •
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%)   91.0 2018 • L SO2 emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)     16.3 2012 • •
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best)   78.0 2017 • 5 Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita)    43.0 2010 • •
Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best)    7.8 2019 • L Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)    11.9 2010 • •
Gap in life expectancy at birth among regions (years)    1.1 2016 • • Non-recycled municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)    0.9 2018 • •
Gap in self-reported health status by income (percentage points)    26.3 2018 • p SDG13 – Climate Action               
Daily smokers (% of population aged 15 and over)    14.0 2018 • L Energy-related CO2 emissions (tCO2/capita)    8.1 2017 • 5
SDG4 – Quality Education                CO2 emissions embodied in imports (tCO2/capita)    2.6 2015 • 5
Net primary enrollment rate (%) * 98.5 2017 • L CO2 emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita)    0.0 2018 • •
Lower secondary completion rate (%) * 98.5 2017 • L Effective carbon rate (EUR/tCO2)    38.8 2016 • •
Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24)    NA NA • • SDG14 – Life Below Water               
Participation rate in pre-primary organized learning (% of children aged 4 to 6)    99.1 2017 • L Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)    54.3 2018 • L
Tertiary educational attainment (% of population aged 25 to 34)    41.3 2018 • L Ocean Health Index: Clean Waters score (worst 0–100 best)    70.0 2019 • p
PISA score (worst 0–600 best)   516.3 2018 • L Fish caught from overexploited or collapsed stocks (% of total catch)    6.2 2014 • L
VURaenrsdiialetieiroannct  hisnite usvcdeieernns tcisne   ispnce sirecfnoiercmnec a(e%n (c %eo f e o1xfp5 1l-a5yie-nyaeerd-a obr-lydo ssldo)sc)io-economic status (%)        114021...595 222000111888 ••• LLL FMisahri ncaeu bgihotd bivye rtsraitwy ltihnrge a(%ts) embodied in imports (per million population)     790..13 22001148 •• p•
SDG15 – Life on Land               
SDG5 – Gender Equality                Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%)   74.8 2018 • L
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods   * 89.9 2017 • L Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%)   74.0 2018 • L
RRaa(%ttiioo o  oof fff  effeemmmaaalellees-- attoog--emmd aa1ll5ee   tmlaob e4oa9rn  wf yoehrcaoer s ap roeafr  metidcaiurprcaiaettdioio nonr r  rainetc eue (ni%vioe)nds ()%)     18082..54 22001189 •• LL RPeerdm Laisnte Inntd dexe foofr espsteactiieosn s (u%rv oivf afol (rwesot rasrte 0a–, 15 -byeesatr) average)      10..00 22001198 •• L•
Seats held by women in national parliament (%)    46.0 2020 • L Terrestrial and freshwater biodiversity threats embodied in imports      2.0 2018 • •
Gender wage gap (% of male median wage)    17.7 2017 • D (per million population)
Gender gap in time spent doing unpaid work (minutes/day)    78.3 2010 • • SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions               
Homicides (per 100,000 population)    1.2 2017 • L
SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation                Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population)    19.0 2018 • L
PPooppuullaattiioonn  uussiinngg  aatt  lleeaasstt  bbaassiicc  dsarninitkaintigo nw saetrevri cseersv (i%ce)s (%)     19090..40 22001177 •• •• Pecrictye notra agree ao wf phoepreu ltahteioyn l iwveh (o% f)eel safe walking alone at night in the      84.3 2019 • L
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available freshwater resources)    15.6 2005 • • Property Rights (worst 1–7 best)    6.6 2019 • •
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%)   100.0 2018 • • Birth registrations with civil authority (% of children under age 5)   100.0 2018 • • 5
SPPcooappruuclleaa ttwiiooannte  uur ssciinnoggn  sssuaamffeepllyyt  immonaa nneaamggbeeoddd  wsiaeandtie tianr ts iieomrnvp isoceerrtsvs i (c(%me)s3 (/%ca)pita)        299399...662 222000111377 ••• LLL CCExohprilrodurrptestn ioo ifnn mv Poealjvroceerd pc oitnino cvnhe Iinnldtdi oleanxb a(olw rw o(%ersa tpo 0of –pn1os0 p(0Tu IblVae tcsioot)nn satganetd m 5 itlloio 1n4 U)SD    *    8600...060 222000111969 ••• L•• . Country
SDG7 – Affordable and Clean Energy                per 100,000 population)  P
PPooppuullaattiioonn  wwiitthh  aacccceessss  ttoo  eclleeacntr ifcuiteyls ( %an)d technology for cooking (%)     110000..00 22001176 •• LL PPererssso nFrse heedlodm in I npdriesoxn (b (pesetr  01–0100,000 w0 oprospt)ulation)      575..98 22001197 •• LL rofile
s
COel2e cetmricisistyio onus tfproumt ( MfuteCl Oco2/mTWbuhs)tion for electricity and heating per total    0.7 2017 • L SGoDvGer1n7m e–n Pt sapretnndeinrgs honip hse aflothr  atnhde e Gduocaatlison (% of GDP)      14 . 2 201  6 •   L  
Share of renewable energy in total primary energy supply (%)    33.8 2018 • L For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional    0.4 2017 • p
SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth                public finance, including official development assistance (% of GNI)
Adjusted GDP growth (%)    0.6 2018 • • Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP)    NA NA • •
VAidmcutoilmtbsis lw eo-iftm hm oaonnde aeycr-ncseo srulvanivctee ar ytp  ar(op bveairdn 1ek,r0  o(0%r0 o  pothfo epprou fplianutailoantncio)ianl  iangsteidtu 1ti5o no ro or vwerit)h a       919..87 22001187 •• L• CFSihonirafptneocdria aptle rSo Tefaictxrse  Hocafy v mSecunol tSrienc oa(brteieo s(ntb a0els–s t1( U00–S01$ w0 b0oi lrwlsioto)nr)st)        55523...201 222000121906 ••• •••
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population)   1.0 2010 • L
Employment-to-population ratio (%)    72.1 2018 • L
Youth not in employment, education or training (NEET)      11.9 2018 • L
(% of population aged 15 to 29)
* Imputed data point
221
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
FRANCE  
OECD Countries
OVERALL PERFORMANCE
SDG SDG
17 1
SDG 100 SDG
16 2
75
Index score Regional average score SDG SDG
15 50 3
25
SDG
SDG 4
14
81.1 77.3
France
SDG SDG
13 5
SDG
12 SDG
6
SDG Global rank 4 (OF 166)
SDG
11 SDG
7
SDG SDG
10 SDG 8
9
SPILLOVER INDEX AVERAGE PERFORMANCE BY SDG
100 (best) to 0 (worst)
100
80
60
40
20
0
CURRENT ASSESSMENT – SDG DASHBOARD
  Major challenges           Significant challenges          Challenges remain          SDG achieved          Information unavailable
SDG TRENDS
L D L D L D D D L
D D • 5 D D D D
p  Decreasing       5  Stagnating       D  Moderately improving       L  On track or maintaining SDG achievement       •  Information unavailable
Notes: The full title of Goal 2 “Zero Hunger” is “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”.    
  The full title of each SDG is available here: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabledevelopmentgoals
222
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
FRANCE
Performance by Indicator
SDG1 – No Poverty    Va lu e Ye a rRa t ingTr e nd SDG9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure    Va lu e Yea  rRa t ingTr e nd
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%)    0.2 2020 • L Population using the internet (%)    82.0 2018 • L
Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%)    0.3 2020 • L Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population)    91.6 2018 • L
Poverty rate after taxes and transfers (%)    8.1 2017 • L Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related     4.0 2018 • L
SDG2 – Zero Hunger                  infrastructure (worst 1–5 best)
Prevalence of undernourishment (%)    2.5 2017 • L Thuen Tivimerseist iHesig (wheorr Estd 0u–c1at0io0 nb eUsnt)iversities Ranking: Average score of top 3    66.6 2020 • •
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%) * 2.6 2016 • L Scientific and technical journal articles (per 1,000 population)    1.0 2018 • L
Prevalence of wasting in children under 5 years of age (%) * 0.7 2016 • L Expenditure on research and development (% of GDP)    2.2 2017 • L
Prevalence of obesity, BMI ≥ 30 (% of adult population)    21.6 2016 • p Researchers (per 1,000 employed population)    10.9 2018 • L
Human Trophic Level (best 2–3 worst)    2.5 2017 • 5  Triadic patent families filed (per million population)    33.4 2017 • L
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land)    6.9 2017 • L Gap in internet access by income (percentage points)    20.7 2019 • L
SYuiesltda ignaapb lcel oNsiutrroe g(%en o Mf panoategnetmiael ynite Ilndd)ex (best 0–1.41 worst)      707..34 22001155 •• p• Waonmde enn ignin seceiernincge) and engineering (% of tertiary graduates in science     29.2 2015 • •
SDG3 – Good Health and Well-Being                    SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities               
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)     8 2017 • L Gini coefficient adjusted for top income    33.3 2015 • D
Neonatal mortality rate (per 1,000 live births)    2.5 2018 • L Palma ratio    1.1 2017 • 5
Mortality rate, under-5 (per 1,000 live births)    4.0 2018 • L Elderly poverty rate (% of population aged 66 or over)    3.6 2017 • L
Incidence of tuberculosis (per 100,000 population)    8.9 2018 • L SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities               
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population)    0.1 2018 • L
Age-standardized death rate due to cardiovascular disease, cancer,     10.6 2016 • L An2.n5u mali cmroenasn  icno dnicaemnetrtaetri o(PnM o2f .p5a) r(tμicgu/mlat3e) matter of less than      11.8 2017 • L
diabetes, or chronic respiratory disease in adults aged 30–70 years (%) Access to improved water source, piped (% of urban population)    99.0 2017 • L
Age-standardized death rate attributable to household air pollution and    10 2016 • • Satisfaction with public transport (%)    67.9 2019 • p
Traamffibc ideenat tahirs  p(poellru 1ti0o0n,0 (0p0e rp 1o0p0u,0la0t0io pno)pulation)    5.5 2016 • L Population with rent overburden (%)    5.2 2017 • L
Life expectancy at birth (years)    82.9 2016 • L SDG12 – Responsible Consumption and Production               
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19)   4.7 2017 • L Electronic waste (kg/capita)    21.3 2016 • •
Births attended by skilled health personnel (%)    97.4 2016 • L Production-based SO2 emissions (kg/capita)    26.5 2012 • •
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%)   90.0 2018 • L SO2 emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)     11.2 2012 • •
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best)   78.0 2017 • L Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita)    42.1 2010 • •
Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best)    6.7 2019 • L Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)    16.3 2010 • •
Gap in life expectancy at birth among regions (years)    3.7 2016 • • Non-recycled municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)    0.8 2018 • •
Gap in self-reported health status by income (percentage points)    9.6 2017 • L SDG13 – Climate Action               
Daily smokers (% of population aged 15 and over)    22.4 2014 • • Energy-related CO2 emissions (tCO2/capita)    4.8 2017 • 5
SDG4 – Quality Education                CO2 emissions embodied in imports (tCO2/capita)    1.9 2015 • 5
Net primary enrollment rate (%) * 99.7 2017 • L CO2 emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita)    0.8 2018 • •
Lower secondary completion rate (%) * 99.7 2017 • L Effective carbon rate (EUR/tCO2)    11.8 2016 • •
Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24)    NA NA • • SDG14 – Life Below Water               
Participation rate in pre-primary organized learning (% of children aged 4 to 6)    99.8 2017 • L Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)    79.4 2018 • L
Tertiary educational attainment (% of population aged 25 to 34)    46.9 2018 • L Ocean Health Index: Clean Waters score (worst 0–100 best)    49.1 2019 • p
PVURaIenSrsdiAiale tiseirocannoct r hisenit e u(svwcdeieoernnsrs tcitsne  0  ispn–ce 6sirec0fnoi0erc mnbece a(es%n t(c) %eo f e o1xfp5 1l-a5yie-nyaeerd-a obr-lydo ssldo)sc)io-economic status (%)         422290083....1597 2222000011118888 •••• 5LLL FFMiissahhri  nccaaeuu bggihhottd  fbivryoe mrtsrai towyv lteihnrergex a(p%tlso) eitmedb oord cieodll ainp simedp sotrotcs k(sp e(%r m ofil ltiootna lp coaptcuhla)tion)       12670...408 222000111448 ••• LD•
SDG15 – Life on Land               
SDG5 – Gender Equality                Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%)   80.9 2018 • L
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods      95.5 2005 • L Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%)   78.0 2018 • L
RRaa(%ttiioo o  oof fff  effeemmmaaalellees-- attoog--emmd aa1ll5ee   tmlaob e4oa9rn  wf yoehrcaoer s ap roeafr  metidcaiurprcaiaettdioio nonr r  rainetc eue (ni%vioe)nds ()%)      9864..61 22001189 •• LL RPeerdm Laisnte Inntd dexe foofr espsteactiieosn s (u%rv oivf afol (rwesot rasrte 0a–, 15 -byeesatr) average)      00..90 22001198 •• p•
Seats held by women in national parliament (%)    39.5 2020 • L Terrestrial and freshwater biodiversity threats embodied in imports      7.1 2018 • •
Gender wage gap (% of male median wage)    13.0 2015 • • (per million population)
Gender gap in time spent doing unpaid work (minutes/day)    89.1 2010 • • SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions               
Homicides (per 100,000 population)    1.3 2017 • L
SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation                Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population)    28.6 2018 • L
PPooppuullaattiioonn  uussiinngg  aatt  lleeaasstt  bbaassiicc  dsarninitkaintigo nw saetrevri cseersv (i%ce)s (%)     19080..70 22001177 •• •• Pecrictye notra agree ao wf phoepreu ltahteioyn l iwveh (o% f)eel safe walking alone at night in the      74.1 2019 • L
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available freshwater resources)    26.1 2010 • • Property Rights (worst 1–7 best)    5.2 2019 • •
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%)    88.0 2018 • • Birth registrations with civil authority (% of children under age 5)   100.0 2018 • • 5
SPPcooappruuclleaa ttwiiooannte  uur ssciinnoggn  sssuaamffeepllyyt  immonaa nneaamggbeeoddd  wsiaeandtie tianr ts iieomrnvp isoceerrtsvs i (c(%me)s3 (/%ca)pita)        498178...094 222000111377 ••• 5LD CCExohprilrodurrptestn ioo ifnn mv Poealjvroceerd pc oitnino cvnhe Iinnldtdi oleanxb a(olw rw o(%ersa tpo 0of –pn1os0 p(0Tu IblVae tcsioot)nn satganetd m 5 itlloio 1n4 U)SD    *    6903...050 222000111969 ••• L•• . Country
SDG7 – Affordable and Clean Energy                per 100,000 population)  P
PPooppuullaattiioonn  wwiitthh  aacccceessss  ttoo  eclleeacntr ifcuiteyls ( %an)d technology for cooking (%)     110000..00 22001176 •• LL PPererssso nFrse heedlodm in I npdriesoxn (b (pesetr  01–0100,000 w0 oprospt)ulation)     12026..21 22001197 •• 5L rofile
s
COel2e cetmricisistyio onus tfproumt ( MfuteCl Oco2/mTWbuhs)tion for electricity and heating per total    0.6 2017 • L SGoDvGer1n7m e–n Pt sapretnndeinrgs honip hse aflothr  atnhde e Gduocaatlison (% of GDP)  *  13 . 2 201  8 •   L  
Share of renewable energy in total primary energy supply (%)    10.5 2018 • D For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional    0.4 2017 • D
SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth                public finance, including official development assistance (% of GNI)
Adjusted GDP growth (%)    -0.3 2018 • • Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP)    NA NA • •
VAidmcutoilmtbsis lw eo-iftm hm oaonnde aeycr-ncseo srulvanivctee ar ytp  ar(op bveairdn 1ek,r0  o(0%r0 o  pothfo epprou fplianutailoantncio)ianl  iangsteidtu 1ti5o no ro or vwerit)h a       924..00 22001187 •• L• CFSihonirafptneocdria aptle rSo Tefaictxrse  Hocafy v mSecunol tSrienc oa(brteieo s(ntb a0els–s t1( U00–S01$ w0 b0oi lrwlsioto)nr)st)        543596...790 222000121906 ••• •••
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population)   2.0 2010 • L
Employment-to-population ratio (%)    65.6 2019 • L
Youth not in employment, education or training (NEET)      16.1 2018 • D
(% of population aged 15 to 29)
* Imputed data point
223
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
GABON  
Sub-Saharan Africa
OVERALL PERFORMANCE
SDG SDG
17 1
SDG 100 SDG
16 2
75
Index score Regional average score SDG SDG
15 50 3
25
SDG
SDG 4
14
63.4 53.1
Gabon
SDG SDG
13 5
SDG
12 SDG
6
SDG Global rank 111 (OF 166)
SDG
11 SDG
7
SDG SDG
10 SDG 8
9
SPILLOVER INDEX AVERAGE PERFORMANCE BY SDG
100 (best) to 0 (worst)
100
80
60
40
20
0
CURRENT ASSESSMENT – SDG DASHBOARD
  Major challenges           Significant challenges          Challenges remain          SDG achieved          Information unavailable
SDG TRENDS
D 5 5 • 5 5 L D D
• 5 • L 5 L p p
p  Decreasing       5  Stagnating       D  Moderately improving       L  On track or maintaining SDG achievement       •  Information unavailable
Notes: The full title of Goal 2 “Zero Hunger” is “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”.    
  The full title of each SDG is available here: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabledevelopmentgoals
224
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
GABON
Performance by Indicator
SDG1 – No Poverty    Val u e Yea  rRa t ingTr e nd SDG9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure    Val u e Ye a rRa t ingTr e nd
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%)    2.52020 • L Population using the internet (%)    62.02017 • L
Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%)    12.42020 • D Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population)    91.82018 • L
SDG2 – Zero Hunger                Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related     2.12018 • 5
Prevalence of undernourishment (%)    10.52017 • p infrastructure (worst 1–5 best)
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%)    17.52012 • D The Times Higher Education Universities Ranking: Average score of top 3 * 0.02020 • •
PPrreevvaalleennccee  ooff  wobaesstiintyg,  BinM cIh ≥il d3r0e n(% u nodf aedr u5 lyt epaorps uolfa atigoen )(%)      135..4022001126 •• Lp Scuiennivteifrisci taiensd ( tweochrsnt i0ca–l1 j0o0u rbneaslt a)rticles (per 1,000 population)    0.02018 • p
Human Trophic Level (best 2–3 worst)    2.22017 • L Expenditure on research and development (% of GDP)    0.62009 • •
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land)    1.62017 • 5 SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities               
Sustainable Nitrogen Management Index (best 0–1.41 worst)    1.02015 • p Gini coefficient adjusted for top income    39.82017 • •
SDG3 – Good Health and Well-Being                SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities               
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)     2522017 • 5 Annual mean concentration of particulate matter of less than      44.42017 • p
NMInecooirdntaealntitacyle  rm oatfoe tr,ut uablnietdryce rura-lto5e s( i(psp e(eprr e1 1r,0, 01000000 l ,il0viv0ee0 b  bpiriortthphsus)l)ation)       5242145...080222000111888 ••• 5LD ASac2tc.i5es fsmasc ittcoiro oinmn wsp irintoh vd epiadum bwleiactte etrrr a( sPnoMsup2roc.5ret),   ((p%μipg)/emd 3(%) of urban population)      9247..5722001179 •• 55
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population)    1.02018 • L SDG12 – Responsible Consumption and Production                 
Municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)    NA NA • •
Agdeia-bsteatneds,a ordr iczherdo ndieca rtehs prairtaet dourye d tois ecaasred iionv aadscuultlsa ra dgiesde a3s0e–, c7a0n yceear,r s (%)    14.42016 • L Electronic waste (kg/capita)    7.62016 • •
Agame-bstiaenndt aarird pizoeldlu dtieoant h(p reart e1 0at0t,r0ib0u0 tpaobpleu tloat hioonu)sehold air pollution and    762016 • • PSOro2d eumctiisosnio-bnas seemd bSoOd2i eedm iinss iimonpso (rktgs /(ckgap/citaap)ita)       743..0222001122 •• ••
Traffic deaths (per 100,000 population)    23.22016 • p Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita)    7.22010 • •
Life expectancy at birth (years)    66.42016 • D Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)    2.82010 • •
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19)   96.22017 • 5 SDG13 – Climate Action               
Births attended by skilled health personnel (%)    89.32012 • • Energy-related CO2 emissions (tCO2/capita)    2.22017 • L
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%)   592018 • p CO2 emissions embodied in imports (tCO2/capita)    0.42015 • L
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best)   49.02017 • p CO2 emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita)    NA NA • •
Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best)    4.92019 • D
SDG14 – Life Below Water                 
SDG4 – Quality Education                Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)    51.32018 • L
Net primary enrollment rate (%)    NA NA • • Ocean Health Index: Clean Waters score (worst 0–100 best)    63.62019 • L
Lower secondary completion rate (%)    NA NA • • Fish caught from overexploited or collapsed stocks (% of total catch)    43.22014 • p
Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24)    89.82018 • • Fish caught by trawling (%)    39.62014 • p
SDG5 – Gender Equality                    Marine biodiversity threats embodied in imports (per million population)    0.12018 • •
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods (% of females    44.02012 • 5 SDG15 – Life on Land               
aged 15 to 49 who are married or in unions) Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%)   61.72018 • L
Ratio of female-to-male mean years of education received (%)    81.52018 • 5 Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%)   93.62018 • L
Ratio of female-to-male labor force participation rate (%)    72.52019 • L Red List Index of species survival (worst 0–1 best)    1.02019 • L
Seats held by women in national parliament (%)    14.82020 • 5 Permanent deforestation (% of forest area, 5-year average)    0.12018 • •
SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation               
Population using at least basic drinking water services (%)    85.82017 • 5 Te(rpreers tmriailll iaonnd p forepsuhlwataiotenr) biodiversity threats embodied in imports      2.52018 • •
Population using at least basic sanitation services (%)    47.42017 • 5 SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions               
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available freshwater resources)    0.52005 • • Homicides (per 100,000 population) * 8.02015 • •
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%)    0.02018 • • Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population)    50.02015 • •
Scarce water consumption embodied in imports (m3/capita)    4.02013 • L Percentage of population who feel safe walking alone at night in the      28.42019 • p
SDG7 – Affordable and Clean Energy                city or area where they live (%)
Population with access to electricity (%)    92.22017 • L Property Rights (worst 1–7 best)    3.52019 • •
Population with access to clean fuels and technology for cooking (%)    79.12016 • L Birth registrations with civil authority (% of children under age 5)    89.62018 • •
COto2t aelm eilsesciotrnicsi tfyro omut fpuuetl  (cMomtCbOu2s/tTioWnh f)or electricity and heating per      1.52017 • L CCohrilrdurpetnio innv Poelvrceedp itnio cnh Iinldd leaxb (owr o(%rs to 0f –p1o0p0u blaetsiot)n aged 5 to 14)      133.1422001196 •• p•
5
SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth                Exports of major conventional weapons (TIV constant million USD   * 0.02019 • • . C
Adjusted GDP growth (%)    -5.02018 • • per 100,000 population) ou
Victims of modern slavery (per 1,000 population)    4.82018 • • Press Freedom Index (best 0–100 worst)    35.62019 • p ntr
y
Admuoltbsi lwe-itmh oanne ayc-cseoruvnicte a tp aro bvaidnekr  o(%r o othf epro fpinualantcioianl  iangsteidtu 1ti5o no ro or vwerit)h a     58.62017 • L SGoDvGer1nm7 e–n tP sapretnndeinrgs ohni phse aflothr a tnhde e dGuocaatliosn (% of GDP)      4 . 2201  4 •   •    Prof
Unemployment rate (% of total labor force)    20.02019 • 5 For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional    NA NA • • iles
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population)   0.22010 • L public finance, including official development assistance (% of GNI)
Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP)    16.82018 • p
Corporate Tax Haven Score (best 0–100 worst) * 0.02019 • •
* Imputed data point
225
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
THE GAMBIA  
Sub-Saharan Africa
OVERALL PERFORMANCE
SDG SDG
17 1
SDG 100 SDG
16 2
75
Index score Regional average score SDG SDG
15 50 3
25
SDG
SDG 4
14
57.9 53.1
The Gambia
SDG SDG
13 5
SDG
12 SDG
6
SDG Global rank 129 (OF 166)
SDG
11 SDG
7
SDG SDG
10 SDG 8
9
SPILLOVER INDEX AVERAGE PERFORMANCE BY SDG
100 (best) to 0 (worst)
100
80
60
40
20
0
CURRENT ASSESSMENT – SDG DASHBOARD
  Major challenges           Significant challenges          Challenges remain          SDG achieved          Information unavailable
SDG TRENDS
D 5 5 L D 5 5 D 5
• p • L D D L p
p  Decreasing       5  Stagnating       D  Moderately improving       L  On track or maintaining SDG achievement       •  Information unavailable
Notes: The full title of Goal 2 “Zero Hunger” is “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”.    
  The full title of each SDG is available here: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabledevelopmentgoals
226
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
THE GAMBIA
Performance by Indicator
SDG1 – No Poverty    Val u e Yea  rRa t ingTr e nd SDG9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure    Val u e Ye a rRa t ingTr e nd
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%)    6.62020 • L Population using the internet (%)    19.82017 • 5
Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%)    29.12020 • D Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population)    36.82018 • L
SDG2 – Zero Hunger                Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related     1.82018 • p
Prevalence of undernourishment (%)    10.22017 • 5 infrastructure (worst 1–5 best)
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%)    25.02013 • 5 The Times Higher Education Universities Ranking: Average score of top 3 * 0.02020 • •
PPrreevvaalleennccee  ooff  wobaesstiintyg,  BinM cIh ≥il d3r0e n(% u nodf aedr u5 lyt epaorps uolfa atigoen )(%)      1110..1322001136 •• pp Scuiennivteifrisci taiensd ( tweochrsnt i0ca–l1 j0o0u rbneaslt a)rticles (per 1,000 population)    0.02018 • p
Human Trophic Level (best 2–3 worst)    2.32017 • 5 Expenditure on research and development (% of GDP)    0.12011 • •
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land)    0.82017 • 5 SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities               
Sustainable Nitrogen Management Index (best 0–1.41 worst)    0.92015 • p Gini coefficient adjusted for top income    35.92015 • •
SDG3 – Good Health and Well-Being                SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities               
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)     5972017 • 5 Annual mean concentration of particulate matter of less than      34.02017 • p
NMeoorntaaltitayl  rmatoer,t ualnitdye rra-t5e ( (ppeerr 1 1,0,00000 l ilvivee b birirtthhss))      2568..3422001188 •• DD Ac2c.5e sms itcor oimnsp irno vdeiadm weatteerr ( sPoMu2rc.5e),  (pμipg/emd 3(%) of urban population)    83.92017 • p
Incidence of tuberculosis (per 100,000 population)   174.02018 • 5 Satisfaction with public transport (%)    42.72019 • •
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population)    1.12018 • 5 SDG12 – Responsible Consumption and Production                 
Municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)    0.42002 • •
Agdeia-bsteatneds,a ordr iczherdo ndieca rtehs prairtaet dourye d tois ecaasred iionv aadscuultlsa ra dgiesde a3s0e–, c7a0n yceear,r s (%)    20.42016 • 5 Electronic waste (kg/capita)    1.12016 • •
Agame-bstiaenndt aarird pizoeldlu dtieoant h(p reart e1 0at0t,r0ib0u0 tpaobpleu tloat hioonu)sehold air pollution and    2372016 • • PSOro2d eumctiisosnio-bnas seemd bSoOd2i eedm iinss iimonpso (rktgs /(ckgap/citaap)ita)       620..5522001122 •• ••
Traffic deaths (per 100,000 population)    29.72016 • p Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita)    13.52010 • •
Life expectancy at birth (years)    61.92016 • 5 Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)    0.32010 • •
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19)   78.22017 • D SDG13 – Climate Action               
Births attended by skilled health personnel (%)    57.22013 • • Energy-related CO2 emissions (tCO2/capita)    0.32017 • L
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%)   912018 • L CO2 emissions embodied in imports (tCO2/capita)    0.02015 • L
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best)   44.02017 • 5 CO2 emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita)    0.02017 • •
Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best)    5.22019 • •
SDG14 – Life Below Water                 
SDG4 – Quality Education                Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)    54.42018 • L
Net primary enrollment rate (%)    76.82018 • L Ocean Health Index: Clean Waters score (worst 0–100 best)    50.12019 • 5
Lower secondary completion rate (%)    59.22014 • • Fish caught from overexploited or collapsed stocks (% of total catch)    NA NA • •
Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24)    67.22015 • • Fish caught by trawling (%)    1.42014 • L
SDG5 – Gender Equality                    Marine biodiversity threats embodied in imports (per million population)    0.02018 • •
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods (% of females    26.72013 • 5 SDG15 – Life on Land               
aged 15 to 49 who are married or in unions) Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%)   34.62018 • 5
Ratio of female-to-male mean years of education received (%)    69.82018 • L Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%)   NA NA • •
Ratio of female-to-male labor force participation rate (%)    76.62019 • L Red List Index of species survival (worst 0–1 best)    1.02019 • L
Seats held by women in national parliament (%)    8.62020 • p Permanent deforestation (% of forest area, 5-year average)    0.22018 • •
SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation               
Population using at least basic drinking water services (%)    78.02017 • 5 Te(rpreers tmriailll iaonnd p forepsuhlwataiotenr) biodiversity threats embodied in imports      0.02018 • •
Population using at least basic sanitation services (%)    39.22017 • p SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions               
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available freshwater resources)    2.02000 • • Homicides (per 100,000 population) * 9.12015 • •
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%)    0.02018 • • Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population)    24.12015 • •
Scarce water consumption embodied in imports (m3/capita)    0.62013 • L Percentage of population who feel safe walking alone at night in the      44.52019 • •
SDG7 – Affordable and Clean Energy                city or area where they live (%)
Population with access to electricity (%)    56.22017 • 5 Property Rights (worst 1–7 best)    4.52019 • •
Population with access to clean fuels and technology for cooking (%)    3.32016 • 5 Birth registrations with civil authority (% of children under age 5)    57.92018 • •
COto2t aelm eilsesciotrnicsi tfyro omut fpuuetl  (cMomtCbOu2s/tTioWnh f)or electricity and heating per      NA NA • • CCohrilrdurpetnio innv Poelvrceedp itnio cnh Iinldd leaxb (owr o(%rs to 0f –p1o0p0u blaetsiot)n aged 5 to 14)      193.7222001196 •• L•
5
SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth                Exports of major conventional weapons (TIV constant million USD   * 0.02019 • • . C
Adjusted GDP growth (%)    -5.02018 • • per 100,000 population) ou
Victims of modern slavery (per 1,000 population)    5.82018 • • Press Freedom Index (best 0–100 worst)    31.42019 • L ntr
y
Admuoltbsi lwe-itmh oanne ayc-cseoruvnicte a tp aro bvaidnekr  o(%r o othf epro fpinualantcioianl  iangsteidtu 1ti5o no ro or vwerit)h a     NA NA • • SGoDvGer1nm7 e–n tP sapretnndeinrgs ohni phse aflothr a tnhde e dGuocaatliosn (% of GDP)      2 . 9201  6 •   p    Prof
Unemployment rate (% of total labor force)    9.12019 • 5 For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional    NA NA • • iles
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population)   0.12010 • L public finance, including official development assistance (% of GNI)
Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP)    10.12009 • •
Corporate Tax Haven Score (best 0–100 worst)    48.02019 • •
* Imputed data point
227
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
GEORGIA  
Eastern Europe and Central Asia
OVERALL PERFORMANCE
SDG SDG
17 1
SDG 100 SDG
16 2
75
Index score Regional average score SDG SDG
15 50 3
25
SDG
SDG 4
14
71.9 70.9
Georgia
SDG SDG
13 5
SDG
12 SDG
6
SDG Global rank 58 (OF 166)
SDG
11 SDG
7
SDG SDG
10 SDG 8
9
SPILLOVER INDEX AVERAGE PERFORMANCE BY SDG
100 (best) to 0 (worst)
100
80
60
40
20
0
CURRENT ASSESSMENT – SDG DASHBOARD
  Major challenges           Significant challenges          Challenges remain          SDG achieved          Information unavailable
SDG TRENDS
D 5 D 5 D D L D D
• 5 • D 5 5 L D
p  Decreasing       5  Stagnating       D  Moderately improving       L  On track or maintaining SDG achievement       •  Information unavailable
Notes: The full title of Goal 2 “Zero Hunger” is “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”.    
  The full title of each SDG is available here: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabledevelopmentgoals
228
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
GEORGIA
Performance by Indicator
SDG1 – No Poverty    Val u e Yea  rRa t ingTr e nd SDG9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure    Val u e Ye a rRa t ingTr e nd
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%)    2.82020 • L Population using the internet (%)    62.72018 • L
Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%)    12.72020 • D Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population)    73.72018 • L
SDG2 – Zero Hunger                Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related     2.42018 • p
Prevalence of undernourishment (%)    7.92017 • p infrastructure (worst 1–5 best)
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%)    11.32009 • D The Times Higher Education Universities Ranking: Average score of top 3    16.42020 • •
PPHrrueemvvaaalleennn Tccreeo  poohff  iwocb aLesestviinetylg ,(  BbinMe csIth ≥ 2il d–3r30e  wn(% ou rnosdft )aedr u5 lyt epaorps uolfa atigoen )(%)        2121...637222000011967 ••• 5Lp SExcupieneninvtdeifiritscui rtaeien osdn ( t wreeocshersantr ic0cha– la1 nj0od0u  drbneeavselt la)orptimcleens t( (p%e ro 1f ,G0D0P0) population)      00..1322001187 •• 55
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land)    2.02017 • p SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities               
Sustainable Nitrogen Management Index (best 0–1.41 worst)    1.12015 • p Gini coefficient adjusted for top income    47.62017 • •
SDG3 – Good Health and Well-Being                SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities               
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)     252017 • L Annual mean concentration of particulate matter of less than      22.22017 • 5
2.5 microns in diameter (PM2.5) (μg/m3)
NMeoorntaaltitayl  rmatoer,t ualnitdye rra-t5e ( (ppeerr 1 1,0,00000 l ilvivee b birirtthhss))      59..9822001188 •• LL Access to improved water source, piped (% of urban population)    95.92017 • L
Incidence of tuberculosis (per 100,000 population)    80.02018 • L Satisfaction with public transport (%)    66.52019 • p
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population)    0.22018 • L SDG12 – Responsible Consumption and Production                 
Municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)    1.02015 • •
Agdeia-bsteatneds,a ordr iczherdo ndieca rtehs prairtaet dourye d tois ecaasred iionv aadscuultlsa ra dgiesde a3s0e–, c7a0n yceear,r s (%)    24.92016 • 5 Electronic waste (kg/capita)    5.72016 • •
Agame-bstiaenndt aarird pizoeldlu dtieoant h(p reart e1 0at0t,r0ib0u0 tpaobpleu tloat hioonu)sehold air pollution and    1022016 • • PSOro2d eumctiisosnio-bnas seemd bSoOd2i eedm iinss iimonpso (rktgs /(ckgap/citaap)ita)       545..2722001122 •• ••
Traffic deaths (per 100,000 population)    15.32016 • p Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita)    13.02010 • •
Life expectancy at birth (years)    72.62016 • p Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)    2.62010 • •
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19)   46.42017 • D SDG13 – Climate Action               
Births attended by skilled health personnel (%)    99.92015 • L Energy-related CO2 emissions (tCO2/capita)    1.72017 • L
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%)   932018 • L CO2 emissions embodied in imports (tCO2/capita)    0.92015 • D
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best)   66.02017 • D CO2 emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita)    4.82019 • •
Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best)    4.92019 • L
SDG14 – Life Below Water                 
SDG4 – Quality Education                Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)    26.52018 • 5
Net primary enrollment rate (%)    96.42018 • p Ocean Health Index: Clean Waters score (worst 0–100 best)    55.02019 • p
Lower secondary completion rate (%)   101.82018 • L Fish caught from overexploited or collapsed stocks (% of total catch)    NA NA • •
Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24)    99.62017 • • Fish caught by trawling (%)    6.42014 • L
SDG5 – Gender Equality                    Marine biodiversity threats embodied in imports (per million population)    0.02018 • •
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods (% of females    52.82010 • 5 SDG15 – Life on Land               
aged 15 to 49 who are married or in unions) Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%)   37.82018 • 5
Ratio of female-to-male mean years of education received (%)   100.02018 • L Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%)   36.12018 • 5
Ratio of female-to-male labor force participation rate (%)    73.52019 • L Red List Index of species survival (worst 0–1 best)    0.92019 • 5
Seats held by women in national parliament (%)    14.12020 • 5 Permanent deforestation (% of forest area, 5-year average)    0.02018 • •
SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation               
Population using at least basic drinking water services (%)    98.42017 • L Te(rpreers tmriailll iaonnd p forepsuhlwataiotenr) biodiversity threats embodied in imports      0.72018 • •
Population using at least basic sanitation services (%)    90.02017 • 5 SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions               
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available freshwater resources)    5.92010 • • Homicides (per 100,000 population)    1.02016 • L
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%)    46.62018 • • Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population)    11.82018 • L
Scarce water consumption embodied in imports (m3/capita)    15.42013 • L Percentage of population who feel safe walking alone at night in the      82.42019 • L
SDG7 – Affordable and Clean Energy                city or area where they live (%)
Population with access to electricity (%)   100.02017 • L Property Rights (worst 1–7 best)    4.82019 • •
Population with access to clean fuels and technology for cooking (%)    77.82016 • L Birth registrations with civil authority (% of children under age 5)    99.62018 • •
COto2t aelm eilsesciotrnicsi tfyro omut fpuuetl  (cMomtCbOu2s/tTioWnh f)or electricity and heating per      0.82017 • L CCohrilrdurpetnio innv Poelvrceedp itnio cnh Iinldd leaxb (owr o(%rs to 0f –p1o0p0u blaetsiot)n aged 5 to 14)      45.6222001196 •• L•
5
SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth                Exports of major conventional weapons (TIV constant million USD      0.22019 • • . C
Adjusted GDP growth (%)    0.02018 • • per 100,000 population) ou
Victims of modern slavery (per 1,000 population)    4.32018 • • Press Freedom Index (best 0–100 worst)    29.02019 • L ntr
y
Admuoltbsi lwe-itmh oanne ayc-cseoruvnicte a tp aro bvaidnekr  o(%r o othf epro fpinualantcioianl  iangsteidtu 1ti5o no ro or vwerit)h a     61.22017 • L SGoDvGer1nm7 e–n tP sapretnndeinrgs ohni phse aflothr a tnhde e dGuocaatliosn (% of GDP)      6 . 9201  6 •   L    Prof
Unemployment rate (% of total labor force)    14.42019 • D For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional    NA NA • • iles
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population)   0.32010 • L public finance, including official development assistance (% of GNI)
Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP)    23.02018 • 5
Corporate Tax Haven Score (best 0–100 worst) * 0.02019 • •
* Imputed data point
229
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
GERMANY  
OECD Countries
OVERALL PERFORMANCE
SDG SDG
17 1
SDG 100 SDG
16 2
75
Index score Regional average score SDG SDG
15 50 3
25
SDG
SDG 4
14
80.8 77.3
Germany
SDG SDG
13 5
SDG
12 SDG
6
SDG Global rank 5 (OF 166)
SDG
11 SDG
7
SDG SDG
10 SDG 8
9
SPILLOVER INDEX AVERAGE PERFORMANCE BY SDG
100 (best) to 0 (worst)
100
80
60
40
20
0
CURRENT ASSESSMENT – SDG DASHBOARD
  Major challenges           Significant challenges          Challenges remain          SDG achieved          Information unavailable
SDG TRENDS
D D D D 5 D L L L
5 D • 5 D L L L
p  Decreasing       5  Stagnating       D  Moderately improving       L  On track or maintaining SDG achievement       •  Information unavailable
Notes: The full title of Goal 2 “Zero Hunger” is “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”.    
  The full title of each SDG is available here: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabledevelopmentgoals
230
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
GERMANY
Performance by Indicator
SDG1 – No Poverty    Va lu e Ye a rRa t ingTr e nd SDG9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure    Va lu e Yea  rRa t ingTr e nd
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%)    0.2 2020 • L Population using the internet (%)    89.7 2018 • L
Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%)    0.2 2020 • L Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population)    82.6 2018 • L
Poverty rate after taxes and transfers (%)    10.4 2017 • p Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related     4.4 2018 • L
SDG2 – Zero Hunger                  infrastructure (worst 1–5 best)
Prevalence of undernourishment (%)    2.5 2017 • L Thuen Tivimerseist iHesig (wheorr Estd 0u–c1at0io0 nb eUsnt)iversities Ranking: Average score of top 3    75.1 2020 • •
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%)    1.3 2005 • L Scientific and technical journal articles (per 1,000 population)    1.3 2018 • L
Prevalence of wasting in children under 5 years of age (%)    1.0 2005 • L Expenditure on research and development (% of GDP)    3.0 2017 • L
Prevalence of obesity, BMI ≥ 30 (% of adult population)    22.3 2016 • p Researchers (per 1,000 employed population)    9.7 2018 • L
Human Trophic Level (best 2–3 worst)    2.4 2017 • p  Triadic patent families filed (per million population)    56.4 2017 • L
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land)    7.3 2017 • L Gap in internet access by income (percentage points)    14.5 2019 • L
SYuiesltda ignaapb lcel oNsiutrroe g(%en o Mf panoategnetmiael ynite Ilndd)ex (best 0–1.41 worst)      707..35 22001155 •• p• Waonmde enn ignin seceiernincge) and engineering (% of tertiary graduates in science     24.7 2015 • •
SDG3 – Good Health and Well-Being                    SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities               
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)     7 2017 • L Gini coefficient adjusted for top income    33.7 2015 • p
Neonatal mortality rate (per 1,000 live births)    2.2 2018 • L Palma ratio    1.1 2017 • D
Mortality rate, under-5 (per 1,000 live births)    3.7 2018 • L Elderly poverty rate (% of population aged 66 or over)    10.2 2017 • p
Incidence of tuberculosis (per 100,000 population)    7.3 2018 • L SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities               
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population)    0.0 2018 • L
Age-standardized death rate due to cardiovascular disease, cancer,     12.1 2016 • L An2.n5u mali cmroenasn  icno dnicaemnetrtaetri o(PnM o2f .p5a) r(tμicgu/mlat3e) matter of less than      12.0 2017 • L
diabetes, or chronic respiratory disease in adults aged 30–70 years (%) Access to improved water source, piped (% of urban population)    99.0 2017 • L
Age-standardized death rate attributable to household air pollution and    16 2016 • • Satisfaction with public transport (%)    67.3 2019 • p
Traamffibc ideenat tahirs  p(poellru 1ti0o0n,0 (0p0e rp 1o0p0u,0la0t0io pno)pulation)    4.1 2016 • L Population with rent overburden (%)    4.8 2017 • L
Life expectancy at birth (years)    81.0 2016 • L SDG12 – Responsible Consumption and Production               
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19)   8.1 2017 • L Electronic waste (kg/capita)    22.8 2016 • •
Births attended by skilled health personnel (%)    98.7 2015 • L Production-based SO2 emissions (kg/capita)    34.5 2012 • •
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%)   93.0 2018 • L SO2 emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)     15.0 2012 • •
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best)   83.0 2017 • L Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita)    37.1 2010 • •
Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best)    7.0 2019 • L Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)    17.0 2010 • •
Gap in life expectancy at birth among regions (years)    2.2 2016 • • Non-recycled municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)    0.5 2018 • •
Gap in self-reported health status by income (percentage points)    29.8 2017 • p SDG13 – Climate Action               
Daily smokers (% of population aged 15 and over)    18.8 2017 • L Energy-related CO2 emissions (tCO2/capita)    8.7 2017 • p
SDG4 – Quality Education                CO2 emissions embodied in imports (tCO2/capita)    2.4 2015 • 5
Net primary enrollment rate (%) * 98.7 2017 • L CO2 emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita)   231.9 2018 • •
Lower secondary completion rate (%) * 98.7 2017 • L Effective carbon rate (EUR/tCO2)    25.4 2016 • •
Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24)    NA NA • • SDG14 – Life Below Water               
Participation rate in pre-primary organized learning (% of children aged 4 to 6)    98.8 2017 • L Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)    85.6 2018 • L
Tertiary educational attainment (% of population aged 25 to 34)    32.3 2018 • L Ocean Health Index: Clean Waters score (worst 0–100 best)    51.0 2019 • 5
PISA score (worst 0–600 best)   500.3 2018 • L Fish caught from overexploited or collapsed stocks (% of total catch)    46.6 2014 • L
VURaenrsdiialetieiroannct  hisnite usvcdeieernns tcisne   ispnce sirecfnoiercmnec a(e%n (c %eo f e o1xfp5 1l-a5yie-nyaeerd-a obr-lydo ssldo)sc)io-economic status (%)        113897...665 222000111888 ••• ppL FMisahri ncaeu bgihotd bivye rtsraitwy ltihnrge a(%ts) embodied in imports (per million population)     800..36 22001148 •• 5•
SDG15 – Life on Land               
SDG5 – Gender Equality                Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%)   78.3 2018 • L
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods   * 83.0 2017 • L Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%)   81.1 2018 • L
RRaa(%ttiioo o  oof fff  effeemmmaaalellees-- attoog--emmd aa1ll5ee   tmlaob e4oa9rn  wf yoehrcaoer s ap roeafr  metidcaiurprcaiaettdioio nonr r  rainetc eue (ni%vioe)nds ()%)      9833..86 22001189 •• 5L RPeerdm Laisnte Inntd dexe foofr espsteactiieosn s (u%rv oivf afol (rwesot rasrte 0a–, 15 -byeesatr) average)      10..00 22001198 •• L•
Seats held by women in national parliament (%)    31.2 2020 • p Terrestrial and freshwater biodiversity threats embodied in imports      5.7 2018 • •
Gender wage gap (% of male median wage)    16.2 2017 • D (per million population)
Gender gap in time spent doing unpaid work (minutes/day)    91.8 2013 • • SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions               
Homicides (per 100,000 population)    1.0 2017 • L
SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation                Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population)    23.6 2018 • L
PPooppuullaattiioonn  uussiinngg  aatt  lleeaasstt  bbaassiicc  dsarninitkaintigo nw saetrevri cseersv (i%ce)s (%)     19090..20 22001177 •• •• Pecrictye notra agree ao wf phoepreu ltahteioyn l iwveh (o% f)eel safe walking alone at night in the      71.3 2019 • L
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available freshwater resources)    34.4 2010 • • Property Rights (worst 1–7 best)    5.3 2019 • •
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%)    97.0 2018 • • Birth registrations with civil authority (% of children under age 5)   100.0 2018 • • 5
SPPcooappruuclleaa ttwiiooannte  uur ssciinnoggn  sssuaamffeepllyyt  immonaa nneaamggbeeoddd  wsiaeandtie tianr ts iieomrnvp isoceerrtsvs i (c(%me)s3 (/%ca)pita)        499897...682 222000111377 ••• 5LL CCExohprilrodurrptestn ioo ifnn mv Poealjvroceerd pc oitnino cvnhe Iinnldtdi oleanxb a(olw rw o(%ersa tpo 0of –pn1os0 p(0Tu IblVae tcsioot)nn satganetd m 5 itlloio 1n4 U)SD    *    8002...000 222000111969 ••• L•• . Country
SDG7 – Affordable and Clean Energy                per 100,000 population)  P
PPooppuullaattiioonn  wwiitthh  aacccceessss  ttoo  eclleeacntr ifcuiteyls ( %an)d technology for cooking (%)     110000..00 22001176 •• LL PPererssso nFrse heedlodm in I npdriesoxn (b (pesetr  01–0100,000 w0 oprospt)ulation)      1746..66 22001197 •• LL rofile
s
COel2e cetmricisistyio onus tfproumt ( MfuteCl Oco2/mTWbuhs)tion for electricity and heating per total    1.2 2017 • L SGoDvGer1n7m e–n Pt sapretnndeinrgs honip hse aflothr  atnhde e Gduocaatlison (% of GDP)      14 . 2 201  6 •   L  
Share of renewable energy in total primary energy supply (%)    14.1 2018 • L For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional    0.7 2017 • L
SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth                public finance, including official development assistance (% of GNI)
Adjusted GDP growth (%)    0.0 2018 • • Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP)    NA NA • •
VAidmcutoilmtbsis lw eo-iftm hm oaonnde aeycr-ncseo srulvanivctee ar ytp  ar(op bveairdn 1ek,r0  o(0%r0 o  pothfo epprou fplianutailoantncio)ianl  iangsteidtu 1ti5o no ro or vwerit)h a       929..10 22001187 •• L• CFSihonirafptneocdria aptle rSo Tefaictxrse  Hocafy v mSecunol tSrienc oa(brteieo s(ntb a0els–s t1( U00–S01$ w0 b0oi lrwlsioto)nr)st)        556215...374 222000121906 ••• •••
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population)   1.8 2010 • L
Employment-to-population ratio (%)    76.7 2019 • L
Youth not in employment, education or training (NEET)      9.2 2018 • L
(% of population aged 15 to 29)
* Imputed data point
231
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
GHANA  
Sub-Saharan Africa
OVERALL PERFORMANCE
SDG SDG
17 1
SDG 100 SDG
16 2
75
Index score Regional average score SDG SDG
15 50 3
25
SDG
SDG 4
14
65.4 53.1
Ghana
SDG SDG
13 5
SDG
12 SDG
6
SDG Global rank 100 (OF 166)
SDG
11 SDG
7
SDG SDG
10 SDG 8
9
SPILLOVER INDEX AVERAGE PERFORMANCE BY SDG
100 (best) to 0 (worst)
100
80
60
40
20
0
CURRENT ASSESSMENT – SDG DASHBOARD
  Major challenges           Significant challenges          Challenges remain          SDG achieved          Information unavailable
SDG TRENDS
D D D D D D D L D
• 5 • L D 5 5 p
p  Decreasing       5  Stagnating       D  Moderately improving       L  On track or maintaining SDG achievement       •  Information unavailable
Notes: The full title of Goal 2 “Zero Hunger” is “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”.    
  The full title of each SDG is available here: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabledevelopmentgoals
232
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
GHANA
Performance by Indicator
SDG1 – No Poverty    Val u e Yea  rRa t ingTr e nd SDG9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure    Val u e Ye a rRa t ingTr e nd
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%)    9.92020 • L Population using the internet (%)    39.02017 • L
Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%)    23.62020 • D Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population)    91.82018 • L
SDG2 – Zero Hunger                Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related     2.42018 • p
Prevalence of undernourishment (%)    5.52017 • L infrastructure (worst 1–5 best)
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%)    18.82014 • L The Times Higher Education Universities Ranking: Average score of top 3    25.22020 • •
PPrreevvaalleennccee  ooff  wobaesstiintyg,  BinM cIh ≥il d3r0e n(% u nodf aedr u5 lyt epaorps uolfa atigoen )(%)      140..7922001146 •• Lp Scuiennivteifrisci taiensd ( tweochrsnt i0ca–l1 j0o0u rbneaslt a)rticles (per 1,000 population)    0.02018 • 5
Human Trophic Level (best 2–3 worst)    2.12017 • L Expenditure on research and development (% of GDP)    0.42010 • •
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land)    1.92017 • L SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities               
Sustainable Nitrogen Management Index (best 0–1.41 worst)    0.82015 • 5 Gini coefficient adjusted for top income    46.02016 • •
SDG3 – Good Health and Well-Being                SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities               
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)     3082017 • 5 Annual mean concentration of particulate matter of less than      34.72017 • p
NMeoorntaaltitayl  rmatoer,t ualnitdye rra-t5e ( (ppeerr 1 1,0,00000 l ilvivee b birirtthhss))      2437..9922001188 •• LD Ac2c.5e sms itcor oimnsp irno vdeiadm weatteerr ( sPoMu2rc.5e),  (pμipg/emd 3(%) of urban population)    39.92017 • p
Incidence of tuberculosis (per 100,000 population)   148.02018 • 5 Satisfaction with public transport (%)    58.42018 • L
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population)    0.72018 • D SDG12 – Responsible Consumption and Production                 
Municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)    0.62005 • •
Agdeia-bsteatneds,a ordr iczherdo ndieca rtehs prairtaet dourye d tois ecaasred iionv aadscuultlsa ra dgiesde a3s0e–, c7a0n yceear,r s (%)    20.82016 • p Electronic waste (kg/capita)    1.42016 • •
Agame-bstiaenndt aarird pizoeldlu dtieoant h(p reart e1 0at0t,r0ib0u0 tpaobpleu tloat hioonu)sehold air pollution and    2042016 • • PSOro2d eumctiisosnio-bnas seemd bSoOd2i eedm iinss iimonpso (rktgs /(ckgap/citaap)ita)       80..6622001122 •• ••
Traffic deaths (per 100,000 population)    24.92016 • 5 Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita)    6.52010 • •
Life expectancy at birth (years)    63.42016 • 5 Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)    0.32010 • •
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19)   66.62017 • 5 SDG13 – Climate Action               
Births attended by skilled health personnel (%)    70.82014 • • Energy-related CO2 emissions (tCO2/capita)    0.52017 • L
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%)   922018 • L CO2 emissions embodied in imports (tCO2/capita)    0.12015 • L
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best)   47.02017 • D CO2 emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita)    0.02018 • •
Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best)    5.02018 • L
SDG14 – Life Below Water                 
SDG4 – Quality Education                Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)    72.42018 • L
Net primary enrollment rate (%)    86.22019 • p Ocean Health Index: Clean Waters score (worst 0–100 best)    36.22019 • 5
Lower secondary completion rate (%)    78.02018 • L Fish caught from overexploited or collapsed stocks (% of total catch)    37.02014 • L
Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24)    92.52018 • • Fish caught by trawling (%)    7.82014 • L
SDG5 – Gender Equality                    Marine biodiversity threats embodied in imports (per million population)    0.02018 • •
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods (% of females    46.22017 • D SDG15 – Life on Land               
aged 15 to 49 who are married or in unions) Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%)   85.62018 • L
Ratio of female-to-male mean years of education received (%)    81.02018 • L Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%)   NA NA • •
Ratio of female-to-male labor force participation rate (%)    88.92019 • L Red List Index of species survival (worst 0–1 best)    0.82019 • p
Seats held by women in national parliament (%)    13.12020 • 5 Permanent deforestation (% of forest area, 5-year average)    0.82018 • •
SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation               
Population using at least basic drinking water services (%)    81.52017 • D Te(rpreers tmriailll iaonnd p forepsuhlwataiotenr) biodiversity threats embodied in imports      0.02018 • •
Population using at least basic sanitation services (%)    18.52017 • 5 SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions               
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available freshwater resources)    6.12015 • • Homicides (per 100,000 population)    2.12017 • 5
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%)    0.02018 • • Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population)    12.52018 • L
Scarce water consumption embodied in imports (m3/capita)    0.72013 • L Percentage of population who feel safe walking alone at night in the      66.72018 • p
SDG7 – Affordable and Clean Energy                city or area where they live (%)
Population with access to electricity (%)    79.02017 • 5 Property Rights (worst 1–7 best)    4.12019 • •
Population with access to clean fuels and technology for cooking (%)    21.72016 • 5 Birth registrations with civil authority (% of children under age 5)    70.52018 • •
COto2t aelm eilsesciotrnicsi tfyro omut fpuuetl  (cMomtCbOu2s/tTioWnh f)or electricity and heating per      1.02017 • L CCohrilrdurpetnio innv Poelvrceedp itnio cnh Iinldd leaxb (owr o(%rs to 0f –p1o0p0u blaetsiot)n aged 5 to 14)      214.1822001196 •• p•
5
SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth                Exports of major conventional weapons (TIV constant million USD   * 0.02019 • • . C
Adjusted GDP growth (%)    -1.92018 • • per 100,000 population) ou
Victims of modern slavery (per 1,000 population)    4.82018 • • Press Freedom Index (best 0–100 worst)    20.82019 • L ntr
y
Admuoltbsi lwe-itmh oanne ayc-cseoruvnicte a tp aro bvaidnekr  o(%r o othf epro fpinualantcioianl  iangsteidtu 1ti5o no ro or vwerit)h a     57.72017 • L SGoDvGer1nm7 e–n tP sapretnndeinrgs ohni phse aflothr a tnhde e dGuocaatliosn (% of GDP)      6 . 2201  6 •   p    Prof
Unemployment rate (% of total labor force)    4.32019 • L For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional    NA NA • • iles
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population)   0.02010 • L public finance, including official development assistance (% of GNI)
Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP)    27.22015 • •
Corporate Tax Haven Score (best 0–100 worst)    49.52019 • •
* Imputed data point
233
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
GREECE  
OECD Countries
OVERALL PERFORMANCE
SDG SDG
17 1
SDG 100 SDG
16 2
75
Index score Regional average score SDG SDG
15 50 3
25
SDG
SDG 4
14
74.3 7777..33
Greece
SDG SDG
13 5
SDG
12 SDG
6
SDG Global rank 43 (OF 166)
SDG
11 SDG
7
SDG SDG
10 SDG 8
9
SPILLOVER INDEX AVERAGE PERFORMANCE BY SDG
100 (best) to 0 (worst)
100
80
60
40
20
0
CURRENT ASSESSMENT – SDG DASHBOARD
  Major challenges           Significant challenges          Challenges remain          SDG achieved          Information unavailable
SDG TRENDS
L 5 D D D L L L D
D D • 5 5 D D 5
p  Decreasing       5  Stagnating       D  Moderately improving       L  On track or maintaining SDG achievement       •  Information unavailable
Notes: The full title of Goal 2 “Zero Hunger” is “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”.    
  The full title of each SDG is available here: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabledevelopmentgoals
234
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
GREECE
Performance by Indicator
SDG1 – No Poverty    Va lu e Ye a rRa t ingTr e nd SDG9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure    Va lu e Yea  rRa t ingTr e nd
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%)    1.4 2020 • L Population using the internet (%)    73.0 2018 • L
Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%)    2.4 2020 • D Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population)    81.4 2018 • L
Poverty rate after taxes and transfers (%)    12.6 2017 • L Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related     3.2 2018 • L
SDG2 – Zero Hunger                  infrastructure (worst 1–5 best)
Prevalence of undernourishment (%)    2.5 2017 • L Thuen Tivimerseist iHesig (wheorr Estd 0u–c1at0io0 nb eUsnt)iversities Ranking: Average score of top 3    37.4 2020 • •
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%) * 2.6 2016 • L Scientific and technical journal articles (per 1,000 population)    1.0 2018 • L
Prevalence of wasting in children under 5 years of age (%) * 0.7 2016 • L Expenditure on research and development (% of GDP)    1.1 2017 • L
Prevalence of obesity, BMI ≥ 30 (% of adult population)    24.9 2016 • p Researchers (per 1,000 employed population)    8.6 2018 • L
Human Trophic Level (best 2–3 worst)    2.4 2017 • 5  Triadic patent families filed (per million population)    1.3 2017 • p
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land)    3.8 2017 • L Gap in internet access by income (percentage points)    36.9 2019 • D
SYuiesltda ignaapb lcel oNsiutrroe g(%en o Mf panoategnetmiael ynite Ilndd)ex (best 0–1.41 worst)      501..76 22001155 •• p• Waonmde enn ignin seceiernincge) and engineering (% of tertiary graduates in science     NA NA • •
SDG3 – Good Health and Well-Being                    SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities               
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)     3 2017 • L Gini coefficient adjusted for top income    45.1 2015 • 5
Neonatal mortality rate (per 1,000 live births)    2.6 2018 • L Palma ratio    1.2 2017 • L
Mortality rate, under-5 (per 1,000 live births)    4.5 2018 • L Elderly poverty rate (% of population aged 66 or over)    7.2 2017 • L
Incidence of tuberculosis (per 100,000 population)    4.5 2018 • L SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities               
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population)    NA NA • •
Age-standardized death rate due to cardiovascular disease, cancer,     12.4 2016 • L An2.n5u mali cmroenasn  icno dnicaemnetrtaetri o(PnM o2f .p5a) r(tμicgu/mlat3e) matter of less than      16.2 2017 • D
diabetes, or chronic respiratory disease in adults aged 30–70 years (%) Access to improved water source, piped (% of urban population)    99.0 2017 • L
Age-standardized death rate attributable to household air pollution and    28 2016 • • Satisfaction with public transport (%)    57.0 2018 • D
Traamffibc ideenat tahirs  p(poellru 1ti0o0n,0 (0p0e rp 1o0p0u,0la0t0io pno)pulation)    9.2 2016 • 5 Population with rent overburden (%)    19.7 2017 • D
Life expectancy at birth (years)    81.2 2016 • L SDG12 – Responsible Consumption and Production               
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19)   7.2 2017 • L Electronic waste (kg/capita)    17.5 2016 • •
Births attended by skilled health personnel (%)    NA NA • • Production-based SO2 emissions (kg/capita)   102.5 2012 • •
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%)   97.0 2018 • L SO2 emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)     9.5 2012 • •
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best)   75.0 2017 • L Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita)    50.6 2010 • •
Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best)    5.4 2018 • p Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)    12.9 2010 • •
Gap in life expectancy at birth among regions (years)    2.4 2016 • • Non-recycled municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)    1.1 2017 • •
Gap in self-reported health status by income (percentage points)    6.5 2017 • L SDG13 – Climate Action               
Daily smokers (% of population aged 15 and over)    27.3 2014 • • Energy-related CO2 emissions (tCO2/capita)    6.1 2017 • p
SDG4 – Quality Education                CO2 emissions embodied in imports (tCO2/capita)    1.6 2015 • 5
Net primary enrollment rate (%) * 97.5 2017 • L CO2 emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita)    5.1 2019 • •
Lower secondary completion rate (%) * 97.5 2017 • L Effective carbon rate (EUR/tCO2)    22.6 2016 • •
Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24)    99.2 2018 • • SDG14 – Life Below Water               
Participation rate in pre-primary organized learning (% of children aged 4 to 6)    92.7 2017 • L Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)    86.4 2018 • L
Tertiary educational attainment (% of population aged 25 to 34)    42.8 2018 • L Ocean Health Index: Clean Waters score (worst 0–100 best)    58.5 2019 • p
PISA score (worst 0–600 best)   453.3 2018 • p Fish caught from overexploited or collapsed stocks (% of total catch)    48.5 2014 • p
VURaenrsdiialetieiroannct  hisnite usvcdeieernns tcisne   ispnce sirecfnoiercmnec a(e%n (c %eo f e o1xfp5 1l-a5yie-nyaeerd-a obr-lydo ssldo)sc)io-economic status (%)        131019...975 222000111888 ••• 55L FMisahri ncaeu bgihotd bivye rtsraitwy ltihnrge a(%ts) embodied in imports (per million population)     210..28 22001148 •• D•
SDG15 – Life on Land               
SDG5 – Gender Equality                Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%)   85.8 2018 • L
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods   * 62.0 2017 • D Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%)   87.2 2018 • L
RRaa(%ttiioo o  oof fff  effeemmmaaalellees-- attoog--emmd aa1ll5ee   tmlaob e4oa9rn  wf yoehrcaoer s ap roeafr  metidcaiurprcaiaettdioio nonr r  rainetc eue (ni%vioe)nds ()%)      9754..48 22001189 •• LL RPeerdm Laisnte Inntd dexe foofr espsteactiieosn s (u%rv oivf afol (rwesot rasrte 0a–, 15 -byeesatr) average)      00..80 22001198 •• 5•
Seats held by women in national parliament (%)    20.7 2020 • 5 Terrestrial and freshwater biodiversity threats embodied in imports      2.9 2018 • •
Gender wage gap (% of male median wage)    4.5 2017 • L (per million population)
Gender gap in time spent doing unpaid work (minutes/day)   164.4 2013 • • SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions               
Homicides (per 100,000 population)    0.7 2017 • L
SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation                Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population)    31.1 2018 • p
PPooppuullaattiioonn  uussiinngg  aatt  lleeaasstt  bbaassiicc  dsarninitkaintigo nw saetrevri cseersv (i%ce)s (%)     19090..00 22001177 •• •• Pecrictye notra agree ao wf phoepreu ltahteioyn l iwveh (o% f)eel safe walking alone at night in the      57.5 2018 • p
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available freshwater resources)    19.3 2005 • • Property Rights (worst 1–7 best)    4.0 2019 • •
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%)    81.7 2018 • • Birth registrations with civil authority (% of children under age 5)   100.0 2018 • • 5
SPPcooappruuclleaa ttwiiooannte  uur ssciinnoggn  sssuaamffeepllyyt  immonaa nneaamggbeeoddd  wsiaeandtie tianr ts iieomrnvp isoceerrtsvs i (c(%me)s3 (/%ca)pita)       1390400...840 222000111377 ••• LLL CCExohprilrodurrptestn ioo ifnn mv Poealjvroceerd pc oitnino cvnhe Iinnldtdi oleanxb a(olw rw o(%ersa tpo 0of –pn1os0 p(0Tu IblVae tcsioot)nn satganetd m 5 itlloio 1n4 U)SD    *    4800...030 222000111969 ••• D•• . Country
SDG7 – Affordable and Clean Energy                per 100,000 population)  P
PPooppuullaattiioonn  wwiitthh  aacccceessss  ttoo  eclleeacntr ifcuiteyls ( %an)d technology for cooking (%)     19040..30 22001176 •• LL PPererssso nFrse heedlodm in I npdriesoxn (b (pesetr  01–0100,000 w0 oprospt)ulation)      2899..17 22001197 •• LL rofile
s
COel2e cetmricisistyio onus tfproumt ( MfuteCl Oco2/mTWbuhs)tion for electricity and heating per total    1.2 2017 • L SGoDvGer1n7m e–n Pt sapretnndeinrgs honip hse aflothr  atnhde e Gduocaatlison (% of GDP)  *  8 . 9 201  8 •   p  
Share of renewable energy in total primary energy supply (%)    13.0 2018 • L For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional    0.2 2017 • 5
SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth                public finance, including official development assistance (% of GNI)
Adjusted GDP growth (%)    -1.3 2018 • • Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP)    NA NA • •
VAidmcutoilmtbsis lw eo-iftm hm oaonnde aeycr-ncseo srulvanivctee ar ytp  ar(op bveairdn 1ek,r0  o(0%r0 o  pothfo epprou fplianutailoantncio)ianl  iangsteidtu 1ti5o no ro or vwerit)h a       875..59 22001187 •• L• CFSihonirafptneocdria aptle rSo Tefaictxrse  Hocafy v mSecunol tSrienc oa(brteieo s(ntb a0els–s t1( U00–S01$ w0 b0oi lrwlsioto)nr)st)        35911...715 222000121906 ••• •••
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population)   1.3 2010 • L
Employment-to-population ratio (%)    56.5 2019 • L
Youth not in employment, education or training (NEET)      21.5 2018 • L
(% of population aged 15 to 29)
* Imputed data point
235
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
GRENADA  
Latin America and the Caribbean
OVERALL PERFORMANCE
SDG SDG
17 1
SDG 100 SDG
16 2
75
Index score Regional average score SDG SDG
15 50 3
25
SDG
SDG 4
14
 na 70.4
Grenada
SDG SDG
13 5
SDG
12 SDG
6
SDG Global rank NA (OF 166)
SDG
11 SDG
7
SDG SDG
10 SDG 8
9
SPILLOVER INDEX AVERAGE PERFORMANCE BY SDG
100 (best) to 0 (worst)
100
80
60
40
20
0
CURRENT ASSESSMENT – SDG DASHBOARD
  Major challenges           Significant challenges          Challenges remain          SDG achieved          Information unavailable
SDG TRENDS
• p D L L 5 L • D
• • • 5 • p • •
p  Decreasing       5  Stagnating       D  Moderately improving       L  On track or maintaining SDG achievement       •  Information unavailable
Notes: The full title of Goal 2 “Zero Hunger” is “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”.    
  The full title of each SDG is available here: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabledevelopmentgoals
236
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
GRENADA
Performance by Indicator
SDG1 – No Poverty    Val u e Yea  rRa t ingTr e nd SDG9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure    Val u e Ye a rRa t ingTr e nd
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%)    NA NA • • Population using the internet (%)    59.12017 • L
Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%)    NA NA • • Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population)    32.92017 • D
SDG2 – Zero Hunger                Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related     NA NA • •
Prevalence of undernourishment (%)    NA NA • • infrastructure (worst 1–5 best)
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%)    NA NA • • The Times Higher Education Universities Ranking: Average score of top 3 * 0.02020 • •
PPrreevvaalleennccee  ooff  wobaesstiintyg,  BinM cIh ≥il d3r0e n(% u nodf aedr u5 lyt epaorps uolfa atigoen )(%)      2N1.A320N1A6 •• p• Scuiennivteifrisci taiensd ( tweochrsnt i0ca–l1 j0o0u rbneaslt a)rticles (per 1,000 population)    0.42018 • L
Human Trophic Level (best 2–3 worst)    2.32017 • 5 Expenditure on research and development (% of GDP)    NA NA • •
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land)    1.02017 • 5 SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities               
Sustainable Nitrogen Management Index (best 0–1.41 worst)    1.02015 • 5 Gini coefficient adjusted for top income    NA NA • •
SDG3 – Good Health and Well-Being                SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities               
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)     252017 • L Annual mean concentration of particulate matter of less than      22.72017 • D
2.5 microns in diameter (PM2.5) (μg/m3)
Neonatal mortality rate (per 1,000 live births)    9.92018 • L
Mortality rate, under-5 (per 1,000 live births)    15.22018 • L Access to improved water source, piped (% of urban population)    NA NA • •
Incidence of tuberculosis (per 100,000 population)    2.12018 • L Satisfaction with public transport (%)    NA NA • •
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population)    0.32018 • L SDG12 – Responsible Consumption and Production                 
Municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)    2.12012 • •
Agdeia-bsteatneds,a ordr iczherdo ndieca rtehs prairtaet dourye d tois ecaasred iionv aadscuultlsa ra dgiesde a3s0e–, c7a0n yceear,r s (%)    21.42016 • D Electronic waste (kg/capita)    7.82016 • •
Agame-bstiaenndt aarird pizoeldlu dtieoant h(p reart e1 0at0t,r0ib0u0 tpaobpleu tloat hioonu)sehold air pollution and    452016 • • PSOro2d eumctiisosnio-bnas seemd bSoOd2i eedm iinss iimonpso (rktgs /(ckgap/citaap)ita)       NNAA NNAA •• ••
Traffic deaths (per 100,000 population)    9.32016 • p Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita)    NA NA • •
Life expectancy at birth (years)    73.42016 • 5 Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)    NA NA • •
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19)   29.22017 • L SDG13 – Climate Action               
Births attended by skilled health personnel (%)    99.32016 • L Energy-related CO2 emissions (tCO2/capita)    2.32017 • 5
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%)   842018 • p CO2 emissions embodied in imports (tCO2/capita)    NA NA • •
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best)   72.02017 • L CO2 emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita) * 0.02018 • •
Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best)    NA NA • •
SDG14 – Life Below Water                 
SDG4 – Quality Education                Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)    52.22018 • L
Net primary enrollment rate (%)    95.92018 • • Ocean Health Index: Clean Waters score (worst 0–100 best)    59.92019 • D
Lower secondary completion rate (%)   104.82017 • L Fish caught from overexploited or collapsed stocks (% of total catch)    NA NA • •
Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24)    99.22014 • • Fish caught by trawling (%)    NA NA • •
SDG5 – Gender Equality                    Marine biodiversity threats embodied in imports (per million population)    NA NA • •
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods (% of females * 79.72017 • L SDG15 – Life on Land               
aged 15 to 49 who are married or in unions) Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%)   34.52018 • 5
Ratio of female-to-male mean years of education received (%)    NA NA • • Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%)   NA NA • •
Ratio of female-to-male labor force participation rate (%)    NA NA • • Red List Index of species survival (worst 0–1 best)    0.82019 • p
Seats held by women in national parliament (%)    46.72020 • L Permanent deforestation (% of forest area, 5-year average)    0.22018 • •
SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation               
Population using at least basic drinking water services (%)    95.62017 • 5 Te(rpreers tmriailll iaonnd p forepsuhlwataiotenr) biodiversity threats embodied in imports      NA NA • •
Population using at least basic sanitation services (%)    91.52017 • 5 SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions               
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available freshwater resources)    7.12015 • • Homicides (per 100,000 population)    11.12017 • p
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%)    0.92018 • • Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population)    19.92018 • L
Scarce water consumption embodied in imports (m3/capita)    NA NA • • Percentage of population who feel safe walking alone at night in the      NA NA • •
SDG7 – Affordable and Clean Energy                city or area where they live (%)
Population with access to electricity (%)    94.72017 • L Property Rights (worst 1–7 best)    NA NA • •
Population with access to clean fuels and technology for cooking (%)    96.62016 • L Birth registrations with civil authority (% of children under age 5)    NA NA • •
COto2t aelm eilsesciotrnicsi tfyro omut fpuuetl  (cMomtCbOu2s/tTioWnh f)or electricity and heating per      NA NA • • CCohrilrdurpetnio innv Poelvrceedp itnio cnh Iinldd leaxb (owr o(%rs to 0f –p1o0p0u blaetsiot)n aged 5 to 14)      N5A320N1A9 •• p•
5
SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth                Exports of major conventional weapons (TIV constant million USD   * 0.02019 • • . C
Adjusted GDP growth (%)    -0.22018 • • per 100,000 population) ou
Victims of modern slavery (per 1,000 population)    NA NA • • Press Freedom Index (best 0–100 worst)    NA NA • • ntr
y
Admuoltbsi lwe-itmh oanne ayc-cseoruvnicte a tp aro bvaidnekr  o(%r o othf epro fpinualantcioianl  iangsteidtu 1ti5o no ro or vwerit)h a     NA NA • • SGoDvGer1nm7 e–n tP sapretnndeinrgs ohni phse aflothr a tnhde e dGuocaatliosn (% of GDP)      6 . 2200  3 •   •    Prof
Unemployment rate (% of total labor force)    NA NA • • For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional    NA NA • • iles
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population)   NA NA • • public finance, including official development assistance (% of GNI)
Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP) * 20.42014 • •
Corporate Tax Haven Score (best 0–100 worst) * 0.02019 • •
* Imputed data point
237
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
GUATEMALA  
Latin America and the Caribbean
OVERALL PERFORMANCE
SDG SDG
17 1
SDG 100 SDG
16 2
75
Index score Regional average score SDG SDG
15 50 3
25
SDG
SDG 4
14
61.5 70.4
Guatemala
SDG SDG
13 5
SDG
12 SDG
6
SDG Global rank 120 (OF 166)
SDG
11 SDG
7
SDG SDG
10 SDG 8
9
SPILLOVER INDEX AVERAGE PERFORMANCE BY SDG
100 (best) to 0 (worst)
100
80
60
40
20
0
CURRENT ASSESSMENT – SDG DASHBOARD
  Major challenges           Significant challenges          Challenges remain          SDG achieved          Information unavailable
SDG TRENDS
D 5 D 5 D D 5 D 5
• D • L D 5 D p
p  Decreasing       5  Stagnating       D  Moderately improving       L  On track or maintaining SDG achievement       •  Information unavailable
Notes: The full title of Goal 2 “Zero Hunger” is “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”.    
  The full title of each SDG is available here: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabledevelopmentgoals
238
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
GUATEMALA
Performance by Indicator
SDG1 – No Poverty    Val u e Yea  rRa t ingTr e nd SDG9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure    Val u e Ye a rRa t ingTr e nd
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%)    6.92020 • D Population using the internet (%)    65.02017 • L
Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%)    20.42020 • 5 Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population)    16.52017 • D
SDG2 – Zero Hunger                Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related     2.22018 • p
Prevalence of undernourishment (%)    15.22017 • D infrastructure (worst 1–5 best)
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%)    46.52015 • 5 The Times Higher Education Universities Ranking: Average score of top 3 * 0.02020 • •
PPrreevvaalleennccee  ooff  wobaesstiintyg,  BinM cIh ≥il d3r0e n(% u nodf aedr u5 lyt epaorps uolfa atigoen )(%)      201..7222001156 •• Lp Scuiennivteifrisci taiensd ( tweochrsnt i0ca–l1 j0o0u rbneaslt a)rticles (per 1,000 population)    0.02018 • 5
Human Trophic Level (best 2–3 worst)    2.22017 • 5 Expenditure on research and development (% of GDP)    0.02015 • •
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land)    2.22017 • L SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities               
Sustainable Nitrogen Management Index (best 0–1.41 worst)    1.02015 • p Gini coefficient adjusted for top income    55.32014 • •
SDG3 – Good Health and Well-Being                SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities               
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)     952017 • L Annual mean concentration of particulate matter of less than      24.12017 • D
2.5 microns in diameter (PM2.5) (μg/m3)
NMeoorntaaltitayl  rmatoer,t ualnitdye rra-t5e ( (ppeerr 1 1,0,00000 l ilvivee b birirtthhss))      1226..3222001188 •• LL Access to improved water source, piped (% of urban population)    92.12017 • 5
Incidence of tuberculosis (per 100,000 population)    26.02018 • 5 Satisfaction with public transport (%)    72.52019 • L
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population)    0.12018 • L SDG12 – Responsible Consumption and Production                 
Municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)    0.92015 • •
Agdeia-bsteatneds,a ordr iczherdo ndieca rtehs prairtaet dourye d tois ecaasred iionv aadscuultlsa ra dgiesde a3s0e–, c7a0n yceear,r s (%)    14.92016 • L Electronic waste (kg/capita)    4.02016 • •
Agame-bstiaenndt aarird pizoeldlu dtieoant h(p reart e1 0at0t,r0ib0u0 tpaobpleu tloat hioonu)sehold air pollution and    742016 • • PSOro2d eumctiisosnio-bnas seemd bSoOd2i eedm iinss iimonpso (rktgs /(ckgap/citaap)ita)       141..6222001122 •• ••
Traffic deaths (per 100,000 population)    16.62016 • L Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita)    10.92010 • •
Life expectancy at birth (years)    73.22016 • D Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)    1.42010 • •
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19)   70.92017 • 5 SDG13 – Climate Action               
Births attended by skilled health personnel (%)    65.52015 • D Energy-related CO2 emissions (tCO2/capita)    0.92017 • L
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%)   862018 • L CO2 emissions embodied in imports (tCO2/capita)    0.22015 • L
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best)   55.02017 • p CO2 emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita)    0.02019 • •
Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best)    6.32019 • L
SDG14 – Life Below Water                 
SDG4 – Quality Education                Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)    39.32018 • L
Net primary enrollment rate (%)    86.92018 • 5 Ocean Health Index: Clean Waters score (worst 0–100 best)    31.92019 • 5
Lower secondary completion rate (%)    56.42018 • p Fish caught from overexploited or collapsed stocks (% of total catch)    15.02014 • L
Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24)    94.42014 • • Fish caught by trawling (%)    30.92014 • L
SDG5 – Gender Equality                    Marine biodiversity threats embodied in imports (per million population)    0.12018 • •
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods (% of females    66.12015 • D SDG15 – Life on Land               
aged 15 to 49 who are married or in unions) Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%)   29.62018 • 5
Ratio of female-to-male mean years of education received (%)    98.52018 • L Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%)   24.82018 • 5
Ratio of female-to-male labor force participation rate (%)    48.32019 • 5 Red List Index of species survival (worst 0–1 best)    0.72019 • p
Seats held by women in national parliament (%)    19.42020 • D Permanent deforestation (% of forest area, 5-year average)    0.72018 • •
SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation               
Population using at least basic drinking water services (%)    94.22017 • L Te(rpreers tmriailll iaonnd p forepsuhlwataiotenr) biodiversity threats embodied in imports      0.52018 • •
Population using at least basic sanitation services (%)    65.12017 • 5 SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions               
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available freshwater resources)    5.72005 • • Homicides (per 100,000 population)    26.12017 • D
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%)    6.82018 • • Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population)    51.82018 • p
Scarce water consumption embodied in imports (m3/capita)    1.42013 • L Percentage of population who feel safe walking alone at night in the      56.32019 • L
SDG7 – Affordable and Clean Energy                city or area where they live (%)
Population with access to electricity (%)    93.32017 • L Property Rights (worst 1–7 best)    4.22019 • •
Population with access to clean fuels and technology for cooking (%)    45.22016 • 5 Birth registrations with civil authority (% of children under age 5)    96.42018 • •
COto2t aelm eilsesciotrnicsi tfyro omut fpuuetl  (cMomtCbOu2s/tTioWnh f)or electricity and heating per      1.32017 • 5 CCohrilrdurpetnio innv Poelvrceedp itnio cnh Iinldd leaxb (owr o(%rs to 0f –p1o0p0u blaetsiot)n aged 5 to 14)      252.6822001196 •• p•
5
SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth                Exports of major conventional weapons (TIV constant million USD   * 0.02019 • • . C
Adjusted GDP growth (%)    -3.62018 • • per 100,000 population) ou
Victims of modern slavery (per 1,000 population)    2.92018 • • Press Freedom Index (best 0–100 worst)    35.92019 • D ntr
y
Admuoltbsi lwe-itmh oanne ayc-cseoruvnicte a tp aro bvaidnekr  o(%r o othf epro fpinualantcioianl  iangsteidtu 1ti5o no ro or vwerit)h a     44.12017 • 5 SGoDvGer1nm7 e–n tP sapretnndeinrgs ohni phse aflothr a tnhde e dGuocaatliosn (% of GDP)      5 . 0201  6 •   p    Prof
Unemployment rate (% of total labor force)    2.52019 • L For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional    NA NA • • iles
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population)   0.12010 • L public finance, including official development assistance (% of GNI)
Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP)    11.02016 • p
Corporate Tax Haven Score (best 0–100 worst) * 0.02019 • •
* Imputed data point
239
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
GUINEA  
Sub-Saharan Africa
OVERALL PERFORMANCE
SDG SDG
17 1
SDG 100 SDG
16 2
75
Index score Regional average score SDG SDG
15 50 3
25
SDG
SDG 4
14
52.5 53.1
Guinea
SDG SDG
13 5
SDG
12 SDG
6
SDG Global rank 150 (OF 166)
SDG
11 SDG
7
SDG SDG
10 SDG 8
9
SPILLOVER INDEX AVERAGE PERFORMANCE BY SDG
100 (best) to 0 (worst)
100
80
60
40
20
0
CURRENT ASSESSMENT – SDG DASHBOARD
  Major challenges           Significant challenges          Challenges remain          SDG achieved          Information unavailable
SDG TRENDS
D 5 D p 5 5 5 L 5
• 5 • L D D 5 5
p  Decreasing       5  Stagnating       D  Moderately improving       L  On track or maintaining SDG achievement       •  Information unavailable
Notes: The full title of Goal 2 “Zero Hunger” is “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”.    
  The full title of each SDG is available here: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabledevelopmentgoals
240
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
GUINEA
Performance by Indicator
SDG1 – No Poverty    Val u e Yea  rRa t ingTr e nd SDG9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure    Val u e Ye a rRa t ingTr e nd
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%)    22.22020 • L Population using the internet (%)    18.02017 • D
Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%)    54.42020 • D Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population)    23.82018 • D
SDG2 – Zero Hunger                Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related     1.62018 • p
Prevalence of undernourishment (%)    16.52017 • p infrastructure (worst 1–5 best)
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%)    32.42016 • D The Times Higher Education Universities Ranking: Average score of top 3 * 0.02020 • •
PPrreevvaalleennccee  ooff  wobaesstiintyg,  BinM cIh ≥il d3r0e n(% u nodf aedr u5 lyt epaorps uolfa atigoen )(%)      87..1722001166 •• 5L Scuiennivteifrisci taiensd ( tweochrsnt i0ca–l1 j0o0u rbneaslt a)rticles (per 1,000 population)    0.02018 • p
Human Trophic Level (best 2–3 worst)    2.12017 • L Expenditure on research and development (% of GDP) * 0.02017 • •
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land)    1.22017 • 5 SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities               
Sustainable Nitrogen Management Index (best 0–1.41 worst)    0.92015 • p Gini coefficient adjusted for top income    38.32012 • •
SDG3 – Good Health and Well-Being                SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities               
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)     5762017 • L Annual mean concentration of particulate matter of less than      26.12017 • p
NMeoorntaaltitayl  rmatoer,t ualnitdye rra-t5e ( (ppeerr 1 1,0,00000 l ilvivee b birirtthhss))     13010..1822001188 •• 55 Ac2c.5e sms itcor oimnsp irno vdeiadm weatteerr ( sPoMu2rc.5e),  (pμipg/emd 3(%) of urban population)    65.02017 • p
Incidence of tuberculosis (per 100,000 population)   176.02018 • 5 Satisfaction with public transport (%)    37.62019 • L
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population)    0.52018 • L SDG12 – Responsible Consumption and Production               
Municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)    NA NA • •
Agdeia-bsteatneds,a ordr iczherdo ndieca rtehs prairtaet dourye d tois ecaasred iionv aadscuultlsa ra dgiesde a3s0e–, c7a0n yceear,r s (%)    22.42016 • 5 Electronic waste (kg/capita)    0.62016 • •
Agame-bstiaenndt aarird pizoeldlu dtieoant h(p reart e1 0at0t,r0ib0u0 tpaobpleu tloat hioonu)sehold air pollution and    2432016 • • PSOro2d eumctiisosnio-bnas seemd bSoOd2i eedm iinss iimonpso (rktgs /(ckgap/citaap)ita)       106..4622001122 •• ••
Traffic deaths (per 100,000 population)    28.22016 • p Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita)    21.92010 • •
Life expectancy at birth (years)    59.82016 • 5 Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)    0.22010 • •
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19)  135.32017 • 5 SDG13 – Climate Action               
Births attended by skilled health personnel (%)    62.72016 • L Energy-related CO2 emissions (tCO2/capita)    0.32017 • L
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%)   452018 • 5 CO2 emissions embodied in imports (tCO2/capita)    0.02015 • L
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best)   37.02017 • 5 CO2 emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita) * 0.02018 • •
Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best)    4.82019 • L
SDG14 – Life Below Water               
SDG4 – Quality Education                Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)    74.32018 • L
Net primary enrollment rate (%)    76.02016 • p Ocean Health Index: Clean Waters score (worst 0–100 best)    44.02019 • 5
Lower secondary completion rate (%)    35.42014 • • Fish caught from overexploited or collapsed stocks (% of total catch)    3.52014 • L
Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24)    46.32014 • • Fish caught by trawling (%)    17.42014 • L
SDG5 – Gender Equality                Marine biodiversity threats embodied in imports (per million population)    0.02018 • •
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods (% of females    21.52016 • 5 SDG15 – Life on Land               
aged 15 to 49 who are married or in unions) Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%)   78.92018 • L
Ratio of female-to-male mean years of education received (%)    38.52018 • 5 Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%)   98.52018 • L
Ratio of female-to-male labor force participation rate (%)    98.52019 • L Red List Index of species survival (worst 0–1 best)    0.92019 • 5
Seats held by women in national parliament (%)    22.82019 • 5 Permanent deforestation (% of forest area, 5-year average)    1.22018 • •
SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation               
Population using at least basic drinking water services (%)    61.92017 • p Te(rpreers tmriailll iaonnd p forepsuhlwataiotenr) biodiversity threats embodied in imports      0.02018 • •
Population using at least basic sanitation services (%)    22.72017 • 5 SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions               
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available freshwater resources)    0.92000 • • Homicides (per 100,000 population) * 8.82015 • •
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%)    0.02018 • • Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population)    68.12009 • •
Scarce water consumption embodied in imports (m3/capita)    0.52013 • L Percentage of population who feel safe walking alone at night in the      54.32019 • D
SDG7 – Affordable and Clean Energy                city or area where they live (%)
Population with access to electricity (%)    35.42017 • 5 Property Rights (worst 1–7 best)    3.62019 • •
Population with access to clean fuels and technology for cooking (%)    1.22016 • 5 Birth registrations with civil authority (% of children under age 5)    62.02018 • •
COto2t aelm eilsesciotrnicsi tfyro omut fpuuetl  (cMomtCbOu2s/tTioWnh f)or electricity and heating per      NA NA • • CCohrilrdurpetnio innv Poelvrceedp itnio cnh Iinldd leaxb (owr o(%rs to 0f –p1o0p0u blaetsiot)n aged 5 to 14)      282.9322001196 •• 5•
5
SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth                Exports of major conventional weapons (TIV constant million USD   * 0.02019 • • . C
Adjusted GDP growth (%)    -0.42018 • • per 100,000 population) ou
Victims of modern slavery (per 1,000 population)    7.82018 • • Press Freedom Index (best 0–100 worst)    33.52019 • 5 ntr
y
Admuoltbsi lwe-itmh oanne ayc-cseoruvnicte a tp aro bvaidnekr  o(%r o othf epro fpinualantcioianl  iangsteidtu 1ti5o no ro or vwerit)h a     23.52017 • L SGoDvGer1nm7 e–n tP sapretnndeinrgs ohni phse aflothr a tnhde e dGuocaatliosn (% of GDP)      3 . 2201  6 •   5    Prof
Unemployment rate (% of total labor force)    4.32019 • L For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional    NA NA • • iles
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population)   0.02010 • L public finance, including official development assistance (% of GNI)
Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP)    NA NA • •
Corporate Tax Haven Score (best 0–100 worst) * 0.02019 • •
* Imputed data point
241
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
GUINEA-BISSAU  
Sub-Saharan Africa
OVERALL PERFORMANCE
SDG SDG
17 1
SDG 100 SDG
16 2
75
Index score Regional average score SDG SDG
15 50 3
25
SDG
SDG 4
14
 na 53.1
Guinea-Bissau
SDG SDG
13 5
SDG
12 SDG
6
SDG Global rank NA (OF 166)
SDG
11 SDG
7
SDG SDG
10 SDG 8
9
SPILLOVER INDEX AVERAGE PERFORMANCE BY SDG
100 (best) to 0 (worst)
100
80
60
40
20
0
CURRENT ASSESSMENT – SDG DASHBOARD
  Major challenges           Significant challenges          Challenges remain          SDG achieved          Information unavailable
SDG TRENDS
D D 5 • 5 5 5 L 5
• p • L 5 L D •
p  Decreasing       5  Stagnating       D  Moderately improving       L  On track or maintaining SDG achievement       •  Information unavailable
Notes: The full title of Goal 2 “Zero Hunger” is “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”.    
  The full title of each SDG is available here: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabledevelopmentgoals
242
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
GUINEA-BISSAU
Performance by Indicator
SDG1 – No Poverty    Val u e Yea  rRa t ingTr e nd SDG9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure    Val u e Ye a rRa t ingTr e nd
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%)    52.22020 • D Population using the internet (%)    3.92017 • 5
Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%)    75.62020 • 5 Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population)    17.72018 • L
SDG2 – Zero Hunger                Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related     1.82018 • p
Prevalence of undernourishment (%)    28.02017 • p infrastructure (worst 1–5 best)
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%)    27.62014 • D The Times Higher Education Universities Ranking: Average score of top 3 * 0.02020 • •
PPrreevvaalleennccee  ooff  wobaesstiintyg,  BinM cIh ≥il d3r0e n(% u nodf aedr u5 lyt epaorps uolfa atigoen )(%)      69..0522001146 •• LL Scuiennivteifrisci taiensd ( tweochrsnt i0ca–l1 j0o0u rbneaslt a)rticles (per 1,000 population)    0.02018 • 5
Human Trophic Level (best 2–3 worst)    2.12017 • L Expenditure on research and development (% of GDP) * 0.02017 • •
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land)    1.62017 • D SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities               
Sustainable Nitrogen Management Index (best 0–1.41 worst)    1.02015 • p Gini coefficient adjusted for top income    55.12010 • •
SDG3 – Good Health and Well-Being                SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities               
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)     6672017 • 5 Annual mean concentration of particulate matter of less than      29.82017 • p
NMeoorntaaltitayl  rmatoer,t ualnitdye rra-t5e ( (ppeerr 1 1,0,00000 l ilvivee b birirtthhss))      3861..6522001188 •• 5D Ac2c.5e sms itcor oimnsp irno vdeiadm weatteerr ( sPoMu2rc.5e),  (pμipg/emd 3(%) of urban population)    35.62016 • 5
Incidence of tuberculosis (per 100,000 population)   361.02018 • 5 Satisfaction with public transport (%)    NA NA • •
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population)    1.42018 • D SDG12 – Responsible Consumption and Production                 
Municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)    1.02015 • •
Agdeia-bsteatneds,a ordr iczherdo ndieca rtehs prairtaet dourye d tois ecaasred iionv aadscuultlsa ra dgiesde a3s0e–, c7a0n yceear,r s (%)    20.02016 • D Electronic waste (kg/capita)    0.52016 • •
Agame-bstiaenndt aarird pizoeldlu dtieoant h(p reart e1 0at0t,r0ib0u0 tpaobpleu tloat hioonu)sehold air pollution and    2152016 • • PSOro2d eumctiisosnio-bnas seemd bSoOd2i eedm iinss iimonpso (rktgs /(ckgap/citaap)ita)       NNAA NNAA •• ••
Traffic deaths (per 100,000 population)    31.12016 • p Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita)    NA NA • •
Life expectancy at birth (years)    59.82016 • 5 Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)    NA NA • •
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19)  104.82017 • 5 SDG13 – Climate Action               
Births attended by skilled health personnel (%)    45.02014 • • Energy-related CO2 emissions (tCO2/capita)    0.22017 • L
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%)   862018 • D CO2 emissions embodied in imports (tCO2/capita)    NA NA • •
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best)   40.02017 • 5 CO2 emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita) * 0.02018 • •
Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best)    NA NA • •
SDG14 – Life Below Water                 
SDG4 – Quality Education                Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)    53.82018 • L
Net primary enrollment rate (%)    71.32010 • • Ocean Health Index: Clean Waters score (worst 0–100 best)    56.12019 • 5
Lower secondary completion rate (%)    36.82010 • • Fish caught from overexploited or collapsed stocks (% of total catch)    54.12014 • p
Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24)    60.42014 • • Fish caught by trawling (%)    1.22003 • •
SDG5 – Gender Equality                    Marine biodiversity threats embodied in imports (per million population)    NA NA • •
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods (% of females    55.72014 • 5 SDG15 – Life on Land               
aged 15 to 49 who are married or in unions) Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%)   52.62018 • L
Ratio of female-to-male mean years of education received (%)    NA NA • • Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%)   NA NA • •
Ratio of female-to-male labor force participation rate (%)    85.52019 • L Red List Index of species survival (worst 0–1 best)    1.02019 • L
Seats held by women in national parliament (%)    13.72020 • 5 Permanent deforestation (% of forest area, 5-year average)    0.62018 • •
SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation               
Population using at least basic drinking water services (%)    66.62017 • 5 Te(rpreers tmriailll iaonnd p forepsuhlwataiotenr) biodiversity threats embodied in imports      NA NA • •
Population using at least basic sanitation services (%)    20.52017 • 5 SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions               
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available freshwater resources)    1.52000 • • Homicides (per 100,000 population) * 1.12017 • L
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%)    0.02018 • • Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population)    55.52018 • L
Scarce water consumption embodied in imports (m3/capita)    NA NA • • Percentage of population who feel safe walking alone at night in the      NA NA • •
SDG7 – Affordable and Clean Energy                city or area where they live (%)
Population with access to electricity (%)    26.02017 • D Property Rights (worst 1–7 best)    NA NA • •
Population with access to clean fuels and technology for cooking (%)    1.52016 • 5 Birth registrations with civil authority (% of children under age 5)    23.72018 • •
COto2t aelm eilsesciotrnicsi tfyro omut fpuuetl  (cMomtCbOu2s/tTioWnh f)or electricity and heating per      NA NA • • CCohrilrdurpetnio innv Poelvrceedp itnio cnh Iinldd leaxb (owr o(%rs to 0f –p1o0p0u blaetsiot)n aged 5 to 14)      511.8122001196 •• 5•
5
SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth                Exports of major conventional weapons (TIV constant million USD   * 0.02019 • • . C
Adjusted GDP growth (%)    -4.22018 • • per 100,000 population) ou
Victims of modern slavery (per 1,000 population)    7.52018 • • Press Freedom Index (best 0–100 worst)    31.02019 • p ntr
y
Admuoltbsi lwe-itmh oanne ayc-cseoruvnicte a tp aro bvaidnekr  o(%r o othf epro fpinualantcioianl  iangsteidtu 1ti5o no ro or vwerit)h a     NA NA • • SGoDvGer1nm7 e–n tP sapretnndeinrgs ohni phse aflothr a tnhde e dGuocaatliosn (% of GDP)      4 . 0201  3 •   •    Prof
Unemployment rate (% of total labor force)    2.52019 • L For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional    NA NA • • iles
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population)   NA NA • • public finance, including official development assistance (% of GNI)
Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP)    12.72017 • •
Corporate Tax Haven Score (best 0–100 worst) * 0.02019 • •
* Imputed data point
243
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
GUYANA  
Latin America and the Caribbean
OVERALL PERFORMANCE
SDG SDG
17 1
SDG 100 SDG
16 2
75
Index score Regional average score SDG SDG
15 50 3
25
SDG
SDG 4
14
59.7 70.4
Guyana
SDG SDG
13 5
SDG
12 SDG
6
SDG Global rank 124 (OF 166)
SDG
11 SDG
7
SDG SDG
10 SDG 8
9
SPILLOVER INDEX AVERAGE PERFORMANCE BY SDG
100 (best) to 0 (worst)
100
80
60
40
20
0
CURRENT ASSESSMENT – SDG DASHBOARD
  Major challenges           Significant challenges          Challenges remain          SDG achieved          Information unavailable
SDG TRENDS
L D D • D D L p 5
• 5 • p D L L 5
p  Decreasing       5  Stagnating       D  Moderately improving       L  On track or maintaining SDG achievement       •  Information unavailable
Notes: The full title of Goal 2 “Zero Hunger” is “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”.    
  The full title of each SDG is available here: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabledevelopmentgoals
244
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
GUYANA
Performance by Indicator
SDG1 – No Poverty    Val u e Yea  rRa t ingTr e nd SDG9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure    Val u e Ye a rRa t ingTr e nd
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%)    2.52020 • L Population using the internet (%)    37.32017 • D
Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%)    4.52020 • L Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population)    26.42017 • L
SDG2 – Zero Hunger                Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related     2.12018 • p
Prevalence of undernourishment (%)    8.12017 • L infrastructure (worst 1–5 best)
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%)    12.02014 • L The Times Higher Education Universities Ranking: Average score of top 3 * 0.02020 • •
PPrreevvaalleennccee  ooff  wobaesstiintyg,  BinM cIh ≥il d3r0e n(% u nodf aedr u5 lyt epaorps uolfa atigoen )(%)      260..4222001146 •• pD Scuiennivteifrisci taiensd ( tweochrsnt i0ca–l1 j0o0u rbneaslt a)rticles (per 1,000 population)    0.02018 • 5
Human Trophic Level (best 2–3 worst)    2.22017 • L Expenditure on research and development (% of GDP)    NA NA • •
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land)    3.62017 • L SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities               
Sustainable Nitrogen Management Index (best 0–1.41 worst)    0.72015 • p Gini coefficient adjusted for top income    NA NA • •
SDG3 – Good Health and Well-Being                SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities               
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)     1692017 • 5 Annual mean concentration of particulate matter of less than      22.42017 • 5
2.5 microns in diameter (PM2.5) (μg/m3)
NMeoorntaaltitayl  rmatoer,t ualnitdye rra-t5e ( (ppeerr 1 1,0,00000 l ilvivee b birirtthhss))      1380..2122001188 •• LL Access to improved water source, piped (% of urban population)    86.82017 • 5
Incidence of tuberculosis (per 100,000 population)    83.02018 • D Satisfaction with public transport (%)    71.82007 • •
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population)    0.52018 • D SDG12 – Responsible Consumption and Production                 
Municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)    2.42010 • •
Agdeia-bsteatneds,a ordr iczherdo ndieca rtehs prairtaet dourye d tois ecaasred iionv aadscuultlsa ra dgiesde a3s0e–, c7a0n yceear,r s (%)    30.52016 • 5 Electronic waste (kg/capita)    6.12016 • •
Agame-bstiaenndt aarird pizoeldlu dtieoant h(p reart e1 0at0t,r0ib0u0 tpaobpleu tloat hioonu)sehold air pollution and    1082016 • • PSOro2d eumctiisosnio-bnas seemd bSoOd2i eedm iinss iimonpso (rktgs /(ckgap/citaap)ita)      413384..2322001122 •• ••
Traffic deaths (per 100,000 population)    24.62016 • p Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita)   234.22010 • •
Life expectancy at birth (years)    66.22016 • 5 Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)   166.92010 • •
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19)   74.42017 • D SDG13 – Climate Action               
Births attended by skilled health personnel (%)    85.72014 • • Energy-related CO2 emissions (tCO2/capita)    2.72017 • 5
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%)   952018 • L CO2 emissions embodied in imports (tCO2/capita)    36.72015 • p
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best)   72.02017 • L CO2 emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita)    0.02018 • •
Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best)    6.02007 • •
SDG14 – Life Below Water                 
SDG4 – Quality Education                Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)    NA NA • •
Net primary enrollment rate (%)    93.12012 • • Ocean Health Index: Clean Waters score (worst 0–100 best)    74.82019 • L
Lower secondary completion rate (%)    79.12010 • • Fish caught from overexploited or collapsed stocks (% of total catch)    35.42014 • L
Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24)    96.72014 • • Fish caught by trawling (%)    54.82014 • p
SDG5 – Gender Equality                    Marine biodiversity threats embodied in imports (per million population)    5.42018 • •
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods (% of females    51.52014 • D SDG15 – Life on Land               
aged 15 to 49 who are married or in unions) Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%)   NA NA • •
Ratio of female-to-male mean years of education received (%)   111.32018 • L Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%)   NA NA • •
Ratio of female-to-male labor force participation rate (%)    56.22019 • 5 Red List Index of species survival (worst 0–1 best)    0.92019 • L
Seats held by women in national parliament (%)    31.92019 • D Permanent deforestation (% of forest area, 5-year average)    0.02018 • •
SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation               
Population using at least basic drinking water services (%)    95.52017 • L Te(rpreers tmriailll iaonnd p forepsuhlwataiotenr) biodiversity threats embodied in imports      47.22018 • •
Population using at least basic sanitation services (%)    85.82017 • 5 SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions               
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available freshwater resources)    3.32010 • • Homicides (per 100,000 population)    14.82017 • L
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%)    0.02018 • • Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population)    32.12018 • L
Scarce water consumption embodied in imports (m3/capita)   101.62013 • L Percentage of population who feel safe walking alone at night in the      46.72007 • •
SDG7 – Affordable and Clean Energy                city or area where they live (%)
Population with access to electricity (%)    90.92017 • L Property Rights (worst 1–7 best)    NA NA • •
Population with access to clean fuels and technology for cooking (%)    74.52016 • L Birth registrations with civil authority (% of children under age 5)    88.72018 • •
COto2t aelm eilsesciotrnicsi tfyro omut fpuuetl  (cMomtCbOu2s/tTioWnh f)or electricity and heating per      NA NA • • CCohrilrdurpetnio innv Poelvrceedp itnio cnh Iinldd leaxb (owr o(%rs to 0f –p1o0p0u blaetsiot)n aged 5 to 14)      184.0322001196 •• L•
5
SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth                Exports of major conventional weapons (TIV constant million USD   * 0.02019 • • . C
Adjusted GDP growth (%)    -1.92018 • • per 100,000 population) ou
Victims of modern slavery (per 1,000 population)    2.62018 • • Press Freedom Index (best 0–100 worst)    26.62019 • L ntr
y
Admuoltbsi lwe-itmh oanne ayc-cseoruvnicte a tp aro bvaidnekr  o(%r o othf epro fpinualantcioianl  iangsteidtu 1ti5o no ro or vwerit)h a     NA NA • • SGoDvGer1nm7 e–n tP sapretnndeinrgs ohni phse aflothr a tnhde e dGuocaatliosn (% of GDP)      8 . 6201  6 •   5    Prof
Unemployment rate (% of total labor force)    11.92019 • 5 For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional    NA NA • • iles
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population)   20.12010 • p public finance, including official development assistance (% of GNI)
Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP)    NA NA • •
Corporate Tax Haven Score (best 0–100 worst) * 0.02019 • •
* Imputed data point
245
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
HAITI  
Latin America and the Caribbean
OVERALL PERFORMANCE
SDG SDG
17 1
SDG 100 SDG
16 2
75
Index score Regional average score SDG SDG
15 50 3
25
SDG
SDG 4
14
51.7 70.4
Haiti
SDG SDG
13 5
SDG
12 SDG
6
SDG Global rank 154 (OF 166)
SDG
11 SDG
7
SDG SDG
10 SDG 8
9
SPILLOVER INDEX AVERAGE PERFORMANCE BY SDG
100 (best) to 0 (worst)
100
80
60
40
20
0
CURRENT ASSESSMENT – SDG DASHBOARD
  Major challenges           Significant challenges          Challenges remain          SDG achieved          Information unavailable
SDG TRENDS
5 5 5 • 5 5 5 D D
• 5 • L 5 p 5 p
p  Decreasing       5  Stagnating       D  Moderately improving       L  On track or maintaining SDG achievement       •  Information unavailable
Notes: The full title of Goal 2 “Zero Hunger” is “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”.    
  The full title of each SDG is available here: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabledevelopmentgoals
246
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
HAITI
Performance by Indicator
SDG1 – No Poverty    Val u e Yea  rRa t ingTr e nd SDG9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure    Val u e Ye a rRa t ingTr e nd
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%)    23.52020 • 5 Population using the internet (%)    32.52018 • L
Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%)    48.32020 • 5 Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population)    30.02018 • L
SDG2 – Zero Hunger                Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related     1.92018 • p
Prevalence of undernourishment (%)    49.32017 • 5 infrastructure (worst 1–5 best)
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%)    21.92012 • 5 The Times Higher Education Universities Ranking: Average score of top 3 * 0.02020 • •
PPrreevvaalleennccee  ooff  wobaesstiintyg,  BinM cIh ≥il d3r0e n(% u nodf aedr u5 lyt epaorps uolfa atigoen )(%)      252..2722001126 •• Lp Scuiennivteifrisci taiensd ( tweochrsnt i0ca–l1 j0o0u rbneaslt a)rticles (per 1,000 population)    0.02018 • 5
Human Trophic Level (best 2–3 worst)    2.12017 • L Expenditure on research and development (% of GDP) * 0.02017 • •
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land)    1.12017 • 5 SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities               
Sustainable Nitrogen Management Index (best 0–1.41 worst)    0.92015 • 5 Gini coefficient adjusted for top income    41.52012 • •
SDG3 – Good Health and Well-Being                SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities               
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)     4802017 • 5 Annual mean concentration of particulate matter of less than      15.02017 • L
NMInecooirdntaealntitacyle  rm oatfoe tr,ut uablnietdryce rura-lto5e s( i(psp e(eprr e1 1r,0, 01000000 l ,il0viv0ee0 b  bpiriortthphsus)l)ation)       1267646...080222000111888 ••• 55D ASac2tc.i5es fsmasc ittcoiro oinmn wsp irintoh vd epiadum bwleiactte etrrr a( sPnoMsup2roc.5ret),   ((p%μipg)/emd 3(%) of urban population)      2300..7022001178 •• 5p
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population)    0.72018 • D SDG12 – Responsible Consumption and Production                 
Municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)    1.02015 • •
Agdeia-bsteatneds,a ordr iczherdo ndieca rtehs prairtaet dourye d tois ecaasred iionv aadscuultlsa ra dgiesde a3s0e–, c7a0n yceear,r s (%)    26.52016 • p Electronic waste (kg/capita)    NA NA • •
Agame-bstiaenndt aarird pizoeldlu dtieoant h(p reart e1 0at0t,r0ib0u0 tpaobpleu tloat hioonu)sehold air pollution and    1842016 • • PSOro2d eumctiisosnio-bnas seemd bSoOd2i eedm iinss iimonpso (rktgs /(ckgap/citaap)ita)       130..3122001122 •• ••
Traffic deaths (per 100,000 population)    15.12013 • • Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita)    9.82010 • •
Life expectancy at birth (years)    63.52016 • 5 Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)    0.22010 • •
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19)   51.72017 • D SDG13 – Climate Action               
Births attended by skilled health personnel (%)    41.62017 • 5 Energy-related CO2 emissions (tCO2/capita)    0.32017 • L
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%)   642018 • 5 CO2 emissions embodied in imports (tCO2/capita)    0.02015 • L
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best)   49.02017 • D CO2 emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita) * 0.02018 • •
Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best)    3.62018 • 5
SDG14 – Life Below Water                 
SDG4 – Quality Education                Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)    0.02018 • 5
Net primary enrollment rate (%)    NA NA • • Ocean Health Index: Clean Waters score (worst 0–100 best)    41.62019 • 5
Lower secondary completion rate (%)    NA NA • • Fish caught from overexploited or collapsed stocks (% of total catch)    9.72014 • L
Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24)    83.02016 • • Fish caught by trawling (%)    NA NA • •
SDG5 – Gender Equality                    Marine biodiversity threats embodied in imports (per million population)    0.02018 • •
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods (% of females    43.12017 • 5 SDG15 – Life on Land               
aged 15 to 49 who are married or in unions) Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%)   10.52018 • 5
Ratio of female-to-male mean years of education received (%)    65.22018 • D Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%)   0.02018 • 5
Ratio of female-to-male labor force participation rate (%)    87.12019 • L Red List Index of species survival (worst 0–1 best)    0.72019 • p
Seats held by women in national parliament (%)    2.52019 • p Permanent deforestation (% of forest area, 5-year average)    0.42018 • •
SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation               
Population using at least basic drinking water services (%)    65.52017 • 5 Te(rpreers tmriailll iaonnd p forepsuhlwataiotenr) biodiversity threats embodied in imports      0.02018 • •
Population using at least basic sanitation services (%)    34.72017 • 5 SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions               
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available freshwater resources)    13.42010 • • Homicides (per 100,000 population)    9.52016 • 5
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%)    0.02018 • • Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population)    66.82018 • 5
Scarce water consumption embodied in imports (m3/capita)    0.32013 • L Percentage of population who feel safe walking alone at night in the      49.52018 • 5
SDG7 – Affordable and Clean Energy                city or area where they live (%)
Population with access to electricity (%)    43.82017 • 5 Property Rights (worst 1–7 best)    2.42019 • •
Population with access to clean fuels and technology for cooking (%)    4.32016 • 5 Birth registrations with civil authority (% of children under age 5)    84.82018 • •
COto2t aelm eilsesciotrnicsi tfyro omut fpuuetl  (cMomtCbOu2s/tTioWnh f)or electricity and heating per      3.42017 • 5 CCohrilrdurpetnio innv Poelvrceedp itnio cnh Iinldd leaxb (owr o(%rs to 0f –p1o0p0u blaetsiot)n aged 5 to 14)      241.8422001196 •• 5•
5
SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth                Exports of major conventional weapons (TIV constant million USD   * 0.02019 • • . C
Adjusted GDP growth (%)    -6.72018 • • per 100,000 population) ou
Victims of modern slavery (per 1,000 population)    5.62018 • • Press Freedom Index (best 0–100 worst)    29.02019 • L ntr
y
Admuoltbsi lwe-itmh oanne ayc-cseoruvnicte a tp aro bvaidnekr  o(%r o othf epro fpinualantcioianl  iangsteidtu 1ti5o no ro or vwerit)h a     32.62017 • L SGoDvGer1nm7 e–n tP sapretnndeinrgs ohni phse aflothr a tnhde e dGuocaatliosn (% of GDP)      3 . 3201  6 •   p    Prof
Unemployment rate (% of total labor force)    13.82019 • 5 For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional    NA NA • • iles
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population)   0.02010 • L public finance, including official development assistance (% of GNI)
Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP)    NA NA • •
Corporate Tax Haven Score (best 0–100 worst) * 0.02019 • •
* Imputed data point
247
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
HONDURAS  
Latin America and the Caribbean
OVERALL PERFORMANCE
SDG SDG
17 1
SDG 100 SDG
16 2
75
Index score Regional average score SDG SDG
15 50 3
25
SDG
SDG 4
14
64.4 70.4
Honduras
SDG SDG
13 5
SDG
12 SDG
6
SDG Global rank 105 (OF 166)
SDG
11 SDG
7
SDG SDG
10 SDG 8
9
SPILLOVER INDEX AVERAGE PERFORMANCE BY SDG
100 (best) to 0 (worst)
100
80
60
40
20
0
CURRENT ASSESSMENT – SDG DASHBOARD
  Major challenges           Significant challenges          Challenges remain          SDG achieved          Information unavailable
SDG TRENDS
5 5 D 5 D L 5 L D
• L • L 5 5 5 L
p  Decreasing       5  Stagnating       D  Moderately improving       L  On track or maintaining SDG achievement       •  Information unavailable
Notes: The full title of Goal 2 “Zero Hunger” is “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”.    
  The full title of each SDG is available here: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabledevelopmentgoals
248
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
HONDURAS
Performance by Indicator
SDG1 – No Poverty    Val u e Yea  rRa t ingTr e nd SDG9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure    Val u e Ye a rRa t ingTr e nd
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%)    17.12020 • 5 Population using the internet (%)    31.72017 • L
Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%)    30.32020 • 5 Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population)    32.12018 • L
SDG2 – Zero Hunger                Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related     2.52018 • L
Prevalence of undernourishment (%)    12.92017 • L infrastructure (worst 1–5 best)
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%)    22.72012 • 5 The Times Higher Education Universities Ranking: Average score of top 3 * 0.02020 • •
PPrreevvaalleennccee  ooff  wobaesstiintyg,  BinM cIh ≥il d3r0e n(% u nodf aedr u5 lyt epaorps uolfa atigoen )(%)      211..4422001126 •• Lp Scuiennivteifrisci taiensd ( tweochrsnt i0ca–l1 j0o0u rbneaslt a)rticles (per 1,000 population)    0.02018 • 5
Human Trophic Level (best 2–3 worst)    2.32017 • D Expenditure on research and development (% of GDP)    0.02015 • •
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land)    1.82017 • 5 SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities               
Sustainable Nitrogen Management Index (best 0–1.41 worst)    1.02015 • p Gini coefficient adjusted for top income    52.32017 • •
SDG3 – Good Health and Well-Being                SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities               
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)     652017 • L Annual mean concentration of particulate matter of less than      20.62017 • L
2.5 microns in diameter (PM2.5) (μg/m3)
NMeoorntaaltitayl  rmatoer,t ualnitdye rra-t5e ( (ppeerr 1 1,0,00000 l ilvivee b birirtthhss))      197..6622001188 •• LL Access to improved water source, piped (% of urban population)    96.12017 • L
Incidence of tuberculosis (per 100,000 population)    37.02018 • D Satisfaction with public transport (%)    71.92019 • L
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population)    0.12018 • L SDG12 – Responsible Consumption and Production                 
Municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)    1.12016 • •
Agdeia-bsteatneds,a ordr iczherdo ndieca rtehs prairtaet dourye d tois ecaasred iionv aadscuultlsa ra dgiesde a3s0e–, c7a0n yceear,r s (%)    14.02016 • L Electronic waste (kg/capita)    2.32016 • •
Agame-bstiaenndt aarird pizoeldlu dtieoant h(p reart e1 0at0t,r0ib0u0 tpaobpleu tloat hioonu)sehold air pollution and    612016 • • PSOro2d eumctiisosnio-bnas seemd bSoOd2i eedm iinss iimonpso (rktgs /(ckgap/citaap)ita)       231..9622001122 •• ••
Traffic deaths (per 100,000 population)    16.72016 • 5 Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita)    13.22010 • •
Life expectancy at birth (years)    75.22016 • D Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)    1.72010 • •
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19)   72.92017 • 5 SDG13 – Climate Action               
Births attended by skilled health personnel (%)    82.82012 • • Energy-related CO2 emissions (tCO2/capita)    1.02017 • L
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%)   892018 • p CO2 emissions embodied in imports (tCO2/capita)    0.32015 • L
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best)   65.02017 • 5 CO2 emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita)    0.02015 • •
Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best)    5.92019 • L
SDG14 – Life Below Water                 
SDG4 – Quality Education                Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)    48.92018 • 5
Net primary enrollment rate (%)    80.12017 • 5 Ocean Health Index: Clean Waters score (worst 0–100 best)    59.22019 • p
Lower secondary completion rate (%)    45.82016 • • Fish caught from overexploited or collapsed stocks (% of total catch)    12.62014 • L
Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24)    96.52018 • • Fish caught by trawling (%)    18.32014 • p
SDG5 – Gender Equality                    Marine biodiversity threats embodied in imports (per million population)    0.12018 • •
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods (% of females    76.02012 • L SDG15 – Life on Land               
aged 15 to 49 who are married or in unions) Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%)   65.42018 • L
Ratio of female-to-male mean years of education received (%)   100.02018 • L Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%)   NA NA • •
Ratio of female-to-male labor force participation rate (%)    56.62019 • 5 Red List Index of species survival (worst 0–1 best)    0.72019 • p
Seats held by women in national parliament (%)    21.12020 • p Permanent deforestation (% of forest area, 5-year average)    0.82018 • •
SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation               
Population using at least basic drinking water services (%)    94.82017 • L Te(rpreers tmriailll iaonnd p forepsuhlwataiotenr) biodiversity threats embodied in imports      0.62018 • •
Population using at least basic sanitation services (%)    81.32017 • D SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions               
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available freshwater resources)    4.62005 • • Homicides (per 100,000 population)    41.72017 • L
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%)    3.22018 • • Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population)    55.42018 • p
Scarce water consumption embodied in imports (m3/capita)    1.32013 • L Percentage of population who feel safe walking alone at night in the      59.42019 • L
SDG7 – Affordable and Clean Energy                city or area where they live (%)
Population with access to electricity (%)    86.52017 • p Property Rights (worst 1–7 best)    4.12019 • •
Population with access to clean fuels and technology for cooking (%)    53.12016 • D Birth registrations with civil authority (% of children under age 5)    93.62018 • •
COto2t aelm eilsesciotrnicsi tfyro omut fpuuetl  (cMomtCbOu2s/tTioWnh f)or electricity and heating per      1.12017 • 5 CCohrilrdurpetnio innv Poelvrceedp itnio cnh Iinldd leaxb (owr o(%rs to 0f –p1o0p0u blaetsiot)n aged 5 to 14)      142.6122001196 •• p•
5
SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth                Exports of major conventional weapons (TIV constant million USD   * 0.02019 • • . C
Adjusted GDP growth (%)    -2.92018 • • per 100,000 population) ou
Victims of modern slavery (per 1,000 population)    3.42018 • • Press Freedom Index (best 0–100 worst)    48.52019 • p ntr
y
Admuoltbsi lwe-itmh oanne ayc-cseoruvnicte a tp aro bvaidnekr  o(%r o othf epro fpinualantcioianl  iangsteidtu 1ti5o no ro or vwerit)h a     45.32017 • L SGoDvGer1nm7 e–n tP sapretnndeinrgs ohni phse aflothr a tnhde e dGuocaatliosn (% of GDP)      9 . 4201  5 •   L    Prof
Unemployment rate (% of total labor force)    5.42019 • L For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional    NA NA • • iles
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population)   0.22010 • L public finance, including official development assistance (% of GNI)
Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP)    23.42015 • •
Corporate Tax Haven Score (best 0–100 worst) * 0.02019 • •
* Imputed data point
249
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
HUNGARY  
OECD Countries
OVERALL PERFORMANCE
SDG SDG
17 1
SDG 100 SDG
16 2
75
Index score Regional average score SDG SDG
15 50 3
25
SDG
SDG 4
14
77.3 77.3
Hungary
SDG SDG
13 5
SDG
12 SDG
6
SDG Global rank 29 (OF 166)
SDG
11 SDG
7
SDG SDG
10 SDG 8
9
SPILLOVER INDEX AVERAGE PERFORMANCE BY SDG
100 (best) to 0 (worst)
100
80
60
40
20
0
CURRENT ASSESSMENT – SDG DASHBOARD
  Major challenges           Significant challenges          Challenges remain          SDG achieved          Information unavailable
SDG TRENDS
L 5 D 5 D L 5 L D
D D • p • L 5 D
p  Decreasing       5  Stagnating       D  Moderately improving       L  On track or maintaining SDG achievement       •  Information unavailable
Notes: The full title of Goal 2 “Zero Hunger” is “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”.    
  The full title of each SDG is available here: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabledevelopmentgoals
250
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
HUNGARY
Performance by Indicator
SDG1 – No Poverty    Va lu e Ye a rRa t ingTr e nd SDG9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure    Va lu e Yea  rRa t ingTr e nd
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%)    0.5 2020 • L Population using the internet (%)    76.1 2018 • 5
Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%)    0.7 2020 • L Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population)    67.8 2018 • L
Poverty rate after taxes and transfers (%)    8.0 2017 • L Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related     3.3 2018 • L
SDG2 – Zero Hunger                  infrastructure (worst 1–5 best)
Prevalence of undernourishment (%)    2.5 2017 • L Thuen Tivimerseist iHesig (wheorr Estd 0u–c1at0io0 nb eUsnt)iversities Ranking: Average score of top 3    32.5 2020 • •
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%) * 2.6 2016 • L Scientific and technical journal articles (per 1,000 population)    0.7 2018 • L
Prevalence of wasting in children under 5 years of age (%) * 0.7 2016 • L Expenditure on research and development (% of GDP)    1.4 2017 • 5
Prevalence of obesity, BMI ≥ 30 (% of adult population)    26.4 2016 • p Researchers (per 1,000 employed population)    6.8 2018 • L
Human Trophic Level (best 2–3 worst)    2.4 2017 • p  Triadic patent families filed (per million population)    3.4 2017 • p
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land)    5.8 2017 • L Gap in internet access by income (percentage points)    50.5 2019 • 5
SYuiesltda ignaapb lcel oNsiutrroe g(%en o Mf panoategnetmiael ynite Ilndd)ex (best 0–1.41 worst)      604..44 22001155 •• 5• Waonmde enn ignin seceiernincge) and engineering (% of tertiary graduates in science     29.2 2015 • •
SDG3 – Good Health and Well-Being                    SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities               
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)     12 2017 • L Gini coefficient adjusted for top income    35.8 2015 • L
Neonatal mortality rate (per 1,000 live births)    2.3 2018 • L Palma ratio    1.0 2017 • 5
Mortality rate, under-5 (per 1,000 live births)    4.3 2018 • L Elderly poverty rate (% of population aged 66 or over)    4.9 2017 • L
Incidence of tuberculosis (per 100,000 population)    6.4 2018 • L SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities               
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population)    0.0 2018 • L
Age-standardized death rate due to cardiovascular disease, cancer,     23.0 2016 • 5 An2.n5u mali cmroenasn  icno dnicaemnetrtaetri o(PnM o2f .p5a) r(tμicgu/mlat3e) matter of less than      15.9 2017 • 5
diabetes, or chronic respiratory disease in adults aged 30–70 years (%) Access to improved water source, piped (% of urban population)    99.0 2017 • L
Age-standardized death rate attributable to household air pollution and    39 2016 • • Satisfaction with public transport (%)    63.1 2019 • L
Traamffibc ideenat tahirs  p(poellru 1ti0o0n,0 (0p0e rp 1o0p0u,0la0t0io pno)pulation)    7.8 2016 • L Population with rent overburden (%)    8.9 2017 • L
Life expectancy at birth (years)    76.0 2016 • D SDG12 – Responsible Consumption and Production               
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19)   24.0 2017 • L Electronic waste (kg/capita)    13.8 2016 • •
Births attended by skilled health personnel (%)    99.2 2014 • • Production-based SO2 emissions (kg/capita)    38.2 2012 • •
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%)   99.0 2018 • L SO2 emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)     5.9 2012 • •
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best)   74.0 2017 • L Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita)    32.8 2010 • •
Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best)    6.0 2019 • L Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)    3.4 2010 • •
Gap in life expectancy at birth among regions (years)    3.0 2016 • • Non-recycled municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)    0.7 2018 • •
Gap in self-reported health status by income (percentage points)    21.6 2018 • p SDG13 – Climate Action               
Daily smokers (% of population aged 15 and over)    25.8 2014 • • Energy-related CO2 emissions (tCO2/capita)    4.8 2017 • p
SDG4 – Quality Education                CO2 emissions embodied in imports (tCO2/capita)    1.1 2015 • 5
Net primary enrollment rate (%) * 95.5 2017 • p CO2 emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita)   266.3 2019 • •
Lower secondary completion rate (%) * 95.5 2017 • L Effective carbon rate (EUR/tCO2)    5.9 2016 • •
Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24)    98.8 2014 • • SDG14 – Life Below Water               
Participation rate in pre-primary organized learning (% of children aged 4 to 6)    87.1 2017 • p Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)    NA NA • •
Tertiary educational attainment (% of population aged 25 to 34)    30.6 2018 • p Ocean Health Index: Clean Waters score (worst 0–100 best)    NA NA • •
PVURaIenSrsdiAiale tiseirocannoct r hisenit e u(svwcdeieoernnsrs tcitsne  0  ispn–ce 6sirec0fnoi0erc mnbece a(es%n t(c) %eo f e o1xfp5 1l-a5yie-nyaeerd-a obr-lydo ssldo)sc)io-economic status (%)         422271429....2173 2222000011118888 •••• 5LDD FFMiissahhri  nccaaeuu bggihhottd  fbivryoe mrtsrai towyv lteihnrergex a(p%tlso) eitmedb oord cieodll ainp simedp sotrotcs k(sp e(%r m ofil ltiootna lp coaptcuhla)tion)       NN0.AA0 20NN1AA8 ••• •••
SDG15 – Life on Land               
SDG5 – Gender Equality                Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%)   83.1 2018 • L
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods   * 75.6 2017 • L Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%)   84.9 2018 • L
RRaa(%ttiioo o  oof fff  effeemmmaaalellees-- attoog--emmd aa1ll5ee   tmlaob e4oa9rn  wf yoehrcaoer s ap roeafr  metidcaiurprcaiaettdioio nonr r  rainetc eue (ni%vioe)nds ()%)      9764..75 22001189 •• LL RPeerdm Laisnte Inntd dexe foofr espsteactiieosn s (u%rv oivf afol (rwesot rasrte 0a–, 15 -byeesatr) average)      00..90 22001198 •• L•
Seats held by women in national parliament (%)    12.1 2020 • 5 Terrestrial and freshwater biodiversity threats embodied in imports      0.4 2018 • •
Gender wage gap (% of male median wage)    9.4 2016 • p (per million population)
Gender gap in time spent doing unpaid work (minutes/day)   131.4 2010 • • SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions               
Homicides (per 100,000 population)    2.5 2017 • p
SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation                Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population)    20.1 2018 • L
PPooppuullaattiioonn  uussiinngg  aatt  lleeaasstt  bbaassiicc  dsarninitkaintigo nw saetrevri cseersv (i%ce)s (%)     19080..00 22001177 •• •• Pecrictye notra agree ao wf phoepreu ltahteioyn l iwveh (o% f)eel safe walking alone at night in the      63.2 2019 • L
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available freshwater resources)    7.2 2015 • • Property Rights (worst 1–7 best)    4.0 2019 • •
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%)    53.8 2018 • • Birth registrations with civil authority (% of children under age 5)   100.0 2018 • • 5
SPPcooappruuclleaa ttwiiooannte  uur ssciinnoggn  sssuaamffeepllyyt  immonaa nneaamggbeeoddd  wsiaeandtie tianr ts iieomrnvp isoceerrtsvs i (c(%me)s3 (/%ca)pita)        89895...670 222000111377 ••• LLL CCExohprilrodurrptestn ioo ifnn mv Poealjvroceerd pc oitnino cvnhe Iinnldtdi oleanxb a(olw rw o(%ersa tpo 0of –pn1os0 p(0Tu IblVae tcsioot)nn satganetd m 5 itlloio 1n4 U)SD    **  4400...000 222000111969 ••• p•• . Country
SDG7 – Affordable and Clean Energy                per 100,000 population)  P
PPooppuullaattiioonn  wwiitthh  aacccceessss  ttoo  eclleeacntr ifcuiteyls ( %an)d technology for cooking (%)     110000..00 22001176 •• LL PPererssso nFrse heedlodm in I npdriesoxn (b (pesetr  01–0100,000 w0 oprospt)ulation)     13708..44 22001197 •• 5p rofile
s
COel2e cetmricisistyio onus tfproumt ( MfuteCl Oco2/mTWbuhs)tion for electricity and heating per total    1.5 2017 • 5 SGoDvGer1n7m e–n Pt sapretnndeinrgs honip hse aflothr  atnhde e Gduocaatlison (% of GDP)      9 . 6 201  6 •   L  
Share of renewable energy in total primary energy supply (%)    10.6 2018 • p For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional    0.1 2017 • 5
SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth                public finance, including official development assistance (% of GNI)
Adjusted GDP growth (%)    0.7 2018 • • Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP)    NA NA • •
VAidmcutoilmtbsis lw eo-iftm hm oaonnde aeycr-ncseo srulvanivctee ar ytp  ar(op bveairdn 1ek,r0  o(0%r0 o  pothfo epprou fplianutailoantncio)ianl  iangsteidtu 1ti5o no ro or vwerit)h a       734..97 22001187 •• L• CFSihonirafptneocdria aptle rSo Tefaictxrse  Hocafy v mSecunol tSrienc oa(brteieo s(ntb a0els–s t1( U00–S01$ w0 b0oi lrwlsioto)nr)st)        65933...718 222000121906 ••• •••
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population)   0.4 2010 • L
Employment-to-population ratio (%)    70.1 2019 • L
Youth not in employment, education or training (NEET)      13.5 2018 • L
(% of population aged 15 to 29)
* Imputed data point
251
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
ICELAND  
OECD Countries
OVERALL PERFORMANCE
SDG SDG
17 1
SDG 100 SDG
16 2
75
Index score Regional average score SDG SDG
15 50 3
25
SDG
SDG 4
14
77.5 77.3
Iceland
SDG SDG
13 5
SDG
12 SDG
6
SDG Global rank 26 (OF 166)
SDG
11 SDG
7
SDG SDG
10 SDG 8
9
SPILLOVER INDEX AVERAGE PERFORMANCE BY SDG
100 (best) to 0 (worst)
100
80
60
40
20
0
CURRENT ASSESSMENT – SDG DASHBOARD
  Major challenges           Significant challenges          Challenges remain          SDG achieved          Information unavailable
SDG TRENDS
L D L D D D L L L
L D • p 5 p L D
p  Decreasing       5  Stagnating       D  Moderately improving       L  On track or maintaining SDG achievement       •  Information unavailable
Notes: The full title of Goal 2 “Zero Hunger” is “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”.    
  The full title of each SDG is available here: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabledevelopmentgoals
252
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
ICELAND
Performance by Indicator
SDG1 – No Poverty    Va lu e Ye a rRa t ingTr e nd SDG9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure    Va lu e Yea  rRa t ingTr e nd
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%)    0.2 2020 • L Population using the internet (%)    99.0 2018 • L
Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%)    0.2 2020 • L Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population)   125.1 2018 • L
Poverty rate after taxes and transfers (%)    5.4 2015 • L Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related     3.2 2018 • L
SDG2 – Zero Hunger                  infrastructure (worst 1–5 best)
Prevalence of undernourishment (%)    2.5 2017 • L Thuen Tivimerseist iHesig (wheorr Estd 0u–c1at0io0 nb eUsnt)iversities Ranking: Average score of top 3    44.5 2020 • •
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%) * 2.6 2016 • L Scientific and technical journal articles (per 1,000 population)    2.0 2018 • L
Prevalence of wasting in children under 5 years of age (%) * 0.7 2016 • L Expenditure on research and development (% of GDP)    2.2 2017 • L
Prevalence of obesity, BMI ≥ 30 (% of adult population)    21.9 2016 • p Researchers (per 1,000 employed population)    10.3 2017 • L
Human Trophic Level (best 2–3 worst)    2.6 2017 • 5  Triadic patent families filed (per million population)    7.0 2017 • L
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land)    NA NA • • Gap in internet access by income (percentage points)    4.9 2017 • L
SYuiesltda ignaapb lcel oNsiutrroe g(%en o Mf panoategnetmiael ynite Ilndd)ex (best 0–1.41 worst)      N0.A6 20N1A5 •• 5• Waonmde enn ignin seceiernincge) and engineering (% of tertiary graduates in science     NA NA • •
SDG3 – Good Health and Well-Being                    SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities               
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)     4 2017 • L Gini coefficient adjusted for top income    29.7 2014 • L
Neonatal mortality rate (per 1,000 live births)    1.0 2018 • L Palma ratio    0.9 2015 • L
Mortality rate, under-5 (per 1,000 live births)    2.0 2018 • L Elderly poverty rate (% of population aged 66 or over)    3.0 2015 • L
Incidence of tuberculosis (per 100,000 population)    2.7 2018 • L SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities               
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population)    0.1 2018 • L
Age-standardized death rate due to cardiovascular disease, cancer,     9.1 2016 • L An2.n5u mali cmroenasn  icno dnicaemnetrtaetri o(PnM o2f .p5a) r(tμicgu/mlat3e) matter of less than      6.5 2017 • L
diabetes, or chronic respiratory disease in adults aged 30–70 years (%) Access to improved water source, piped (% of urban population)    99.0 2017 • L
Age-standardized death rate attributable to household air pollution and    9 2016 • • Satisfaction with public transport (%)    64.1 2017 • •
Traamffibc ideenat tahirs  p(poellru 1ti0o0n,0 (0p0e rp 1o0p0u,0la0t0io pno)pulation)    6.6 2016 • L Population with rent overburden (%)    18.0 2016 • 5
Life expectancy at birth (years)    82.4 2016 • L SDG12 – Responsible Consumption and Production               
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19)   6.3 2017 • L Electronic waste (kg/capita)    22.6 2016 • •
Births attended by skilled health personnel (%)    97.9 2016 • L Production-based SO2 emissions (kg/capita)   344.9 2012 • •
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%)   91.0 2018 • L SO2 emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)     29.7 2012 • •
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best)   84.0 2017 • L Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita)    34.6 2010 • •
Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best)    7.5 2017 • • Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)    18.0 2010 • •
Gap in life expectancy at birth among regions (years)    NA NA • • Non-recycled municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)    1.4 2017 • •
Gap in self-reported health status by income (percentage points)    14.5 2016 • L SDG13 – Climate Action               
Daily smokers (% of population aged 15 and over)    8.6 2018 • L Energy-related CO2 emissions (tCO2/capita)    7.8 2017 • p
SDG4 – Quality Education                CO2 emissions embodied in imports (tCO2/capita)    4.5 2015 • 5
Net primary enrollment rate (%) * 99.0 2017 • L CO2 emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita)    0.0 2017 • •
Lower secondary completion rate (%) * 99.0 2017 • L Effective carbon rate (EUR/tCO2)    18.1 2016 • •
Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24)    NA NA • • SDG14 – Life Below Water               
Participation rate in pre-primary organized learning (% of children aged 4 to 6)    94.2 2017 • L Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)    14.6 2018 • 5
TPeISrAtia srcyo ered u(wcaotriostn 0a–l a6t0t0a ibnemset)nt (% of population aged 25 to 34)     44871..03 22001188 •• 5L OFische acna uHgehatlt fhro Inmd oexv:e Crelexapnlo Witeadte orsr  sccoollraep (swedo rsstto 0c–k1s 0(%0  boef stto)tal catch)      7598..33 22001194 •• Lp
VURaenrsdiialetieiroannct  hisnite usvcdeieernns tcisne   ispnce sirecfnoiercmnec a(e%n (c %eo f e o1xfp5 1l-a5yie-nyaeerd-a obr-lydo ssldo)sc)io-economic status (%)        21858...069 222000111888 ••• 55L FMisahri ncaeu bgihotd bivye rtsraitwy ltihnrge a(%ts) embodied in imports (per million population)     700..03 22001148 •• p•
SDG15 – Life on Land               
SDG5 – Gender Equality                Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%)   15.0 2018 • 5
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods      NA NA • • Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%)   33.9 2018 • 5
RRaa(%ttiioo o  oof fff  effeemmmaaalellees-- attoog--emmd aa1ll5ee   tmlaob e4oa9rn  wf yoehrcaoer s ap roeafr  metidcaiurprcaiaettdioio nonr r  rainetc eue (ni%vioe)nds ()%)      9869..95 22001189 •• 5L RPeerdm Laisnte Inntd dexe foofr espsteactiieosn s (u%rv oivf afol (rwesot rasrte 0a–, 15 -byeesatr) average)      N0.A9 20N1A9 •• p•
Seats held by women in national parliament (%)    38.1 2020 • p Terrestrial and freshwater biodiversity threats embodied in imports      0.4 2018 • •
Gender wage gap (% of male median wage)    11.5 2016 • L (per million population)
Gender gap in time spent doing unpaid work (minutes/day)    NA NA • • SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions               
Homicides (per 100,000 population)    0.9 2017 • L
SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation                Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population)    10.6 2018 • L
PPooppuullaattiioonn  uussiinngg  aatt  lleeaasstt  bbaassiicc  dsarninitkaintigo nw saetrevri cseersv (i%ce)s (%)     19080..80 22001177 •• •• Pecrictye notra agree ao wf phoepreu ltahteioyn l iwveh (o% f)eel safe walking alone at night in the      84.0 2017 • •
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available freshwater resources)    0.4 2015 • • Property Rights (worst 1–7 best)    5.9 2019 • •
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%)    15.5 2018 • • Birth registrations with civil authority (% of children under age 5)   100.0 2018 • • 5
SPPcooappruuclleaa ttwiiooannte  uur ssciinnoggn  sssuaamffeepllyyt  immonaa nneaamggbeeoddd  wsiaeandtie tianr ts iieomrnvp isoceerrtsvs i (c(%me)s3 (/%ca)pita)       1480010...980 222000111377 ••• pLL CCExohprilrodurrptestn ioo ifnn mv Poealjvroceerd pc oitnino cvnhe Iinnldtdi oleanxb a(olw rw o(%ersa tpo 0of –pn1os0 p(0Tu IblVae tcsioot)nn satganetd m 5 itlloio 1n4 U)SD    **  7800...000 222000111969 ••• L•• . Country
SDG7 – Affordable and Clean Energy                per 100,000 population)  P
PPooppuullaattiioonn  wwiitthh  aacccceessss  ttoo  eclleeacntr ifcuiteyls ( %an)d technology for cooking (%)     110000..00 22001176 •• LL PPererssso nFrse heedlodm in I npdriesoxn (b (pesetr  01–0100,000 w0 oprospt)ulation)      1349..71 22001197 •• LL rofile
s
COel2e cetmricisistyio onus tfproumt ( MfuteCl Oco2/mTWbuhs)tion for electricity and heating per total    0.1 2017 • L SGoDvGer1n7m e–n Pt sapretnndeinrgs honip hse aflothr  atnhde e Gduocaatlison (% of GDP)      14 . 2 201  6 •   L  
Share of renewable energy in total primary energy supply (%)    88.7 2018 • L For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional    0.3 2017 • D
SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth                public finance, including official development assistance (% of GNI)
Adjusted GDP growth (%)    1.9 2018 • • Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP)    NA NA • •
VAidmcutoilmtbsis lw eo-iftm hm oaonnde aeycr-ncseo srulvanivctee ar ytp  ar(op bveairdn 1ek,r0  o(0%r0 o  pothfo epprou fplianutailoantncio)ianl  iangsteidtu 1ti5o no ro or vwerit)h a       N2.A1 20N1A8 •• •• CFSihonirafptneocdria aptle rSo Tefaictxrse  Hocafy v mSecunol tSrienc oa(brteieo s(ntb a0els–s t1( U00–S01$ w0 b0oi lrwlsioto)nr)st) *     5070...054 222000121906 ••• •••
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population)   2.0 2010 • L
Employment-to-population ratio (%)    85.1 2018 • L
Youth not in employment, education or training (NEET)      6.1 2018 • L
(% of population aged 15 to 29)
* Imputed data point
253
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
INDIA  
East and South Asia
OVERALL PERFORMANCE
SDG SDG
17 1
SDG 100 SDG
16 2
75
Index score Regional average score 1SD5G 50 S3DG
25
SDG
SDG 4
14
61.9 67.2
India
SDG SDG
13 5
12 SDG
6
SDG Global rank 117 (OF 166)
SDG
11 SDG
7
SDG SDG
10 SDG 8
9
SPILLOVER INDEX AVERAGE PERFORMANCE BY SDG
100 (best) to 0 (worst)
100
80
60
40
20
0
CURRENT ASSESSMENT – SDG DASHBOARD
  Major challenges           Significant challenges          Challenges remain          SDG achieved          Information unavailable
SDG TRENDS
L D D 5 5 L D L D
• 5 • L 5 p 5 5
p  Decreasing       5  Stagnating       D  Moderately improving       L  On track or maintaining SDG achievement       •  Information unavailable
Notes: The full title of Goal 2 “Zero Hunger” is “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”.    
  The full title of each SDG is available here: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabledevelopmentgoals
254
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
INDIA
Performance by Indicator
SDG1 – No Poverty    Val u e Yea  rRa t ingTr e nd SDG9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure    Val u e Ye a rRa t ingTr e nd
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%)    2.32020 • L Population using the internet (%)    34.52017 • L
Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%)    24.62020 • L Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population)    37.52018 • L
SDG2 – Zero Hunger                Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related     2.92018 • D
Prevalence of undernourishment (%)    14.52017 • L infrastructure (worst 1–5 best)
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%)    38.42015 • D The Times Higher Education Universities Ranking: Average score of top 3    44.92020 • •
PPrreevvaalleennccee  ooff  wobaesstiintyg,  BinM cIh ≥il d3r0e n(% u nodf aedr u5 lyt epaorps uolfa atigoen )(%)      231..9022001156 •• 5L Scuiennivteifrisci taiensd ( tweochrsnt i0ca–l1 j0o0u rbneaslt a)rticles (per 1,000 population)    0.12018 • 5
Human Trophic Level (best 2–3 worst)    2.22017 • 5 Expenditure on research and development (% of GDP)    0.62015 • •
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land)    3.22017 • L SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities               
Sustainable Nitrogen Management Index (best 0–1.41 worst)    0.92015 • 5 Gini coefficient adjusted for top income    43.22011 • •
SDG3 – Good Health and Well-Being                SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities               
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)     1452017 • L Annual mean concentration of particulate matter of less than      90.92017 • p
2.5 microns in diameter (PM2.5) (μg/m3)
NMeoorntaaltitayl  rmatoer,t ualnitdye rra-t5e ( (ppeerr 1 1,0,00000 l ilvivee b birirtthhss))      2326..7622001188 •• LL Access to improved water source, piped (% of urban population)    67.92017 • p
Incidence of tuberculosis (per 100,000 population)   199.02018 • 5 Satisfaction with public transport (%)    71.92018 • L
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population)    NA NA • • SDG12 – Responsible Consumption and Production                 
Municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)    1.02001 • •
Agdeia-bsteatneds,a ordr iczherdo ndieca rtehs prairtaet dourye d tois ecaasred iionv aadscuultlsa ra dgiesde a3s0e–, c7a0n yceear,r s (%)    23.32016 • 5 Electronic waste (kg/capita)    1.52016 • •
Agame-bstiaenndt aarird pizoeldlu dtieoant h(p reart e1 0at0t,r0ib0u0 tpaobpleu tloat hioonu)sehold air pollution and    1842016 • • PSOro2d eumctiisosnio-bnas seemd bSoOd2i eedm iinss iimonpso (rktgs /(ckgap/citaap)ita)       70..0422001122 •• ••
Traffic deaths (per 100,000 population)    22.62016 • p Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita)    13.22010 • •
Life expectancy at birth (years)    68.82016 • 5 Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)    0.62010 • •
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19)   13.22017 • L SDG13 – Climate Action               
Births attended by skilled health personnel (%)    81.42016 • • Energy-related CO2 emissions (tCO2/capita)    1.82017 • L
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%)   892018 • L CO2 emissions embodied in imports (tCO2/capita)    0.12015 • L
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best)   55.02017 • D CO2 emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita)    1.62018 • •
Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best)    3.82018 • p
SDG14 – Life Below Water                 
SDG4 – Quality Education                Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)    37.72018 • 5
Net primary enrollment rate (%)    92.32013 • • Ocean Health Index: Clean Waters score (worst 0–100 best)    29.52019 • 5
Lower secondary completion rate (%)    85.02017 • 5 Fish caught from overexploited or collapsed stocks (% of total catch)    12.02014 • L
Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24)    91.72018 • • Fish caught by trawling (%)    10.22014 • 5
SDG5 – Gender Equality                    Marine biodiversity threats embodied in imports (per million population)    0.02018 • •
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods (% of females    67.22016 • D SDG15 – Life on Land               
aged 15 to 49 who are married or in unions) Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%)   25.72018 • 5
Ratio of female-to-male mean years of education received (%)    57.32018 • p Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%)   15.12018 • 5
Ratio of female-to-male labor force participation rate (%)    29.82019 • 5 Red List Index of species survival (worst 0–1 best)    0.72019 • p
Seats held by women in national parliament (%)    14.42020 • 5 Permanent deforestation (% of forest area, 5-year average)    0.02018 • •
SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation               
Population using at least basic drinking water services (%)    92.72017 • L Te(rpreers tmriailll iaonnd p forepsuhlwataiotenr) biodiversity threats embodied in imports      0.12018 • •
Population using at least basic sanitation services (%)    59.52017 • D SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions               
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available freshwater resources)    66.52010 • • Homicides (per 100,000 population)    3.22016 • L
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%)    2.22018 • • Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population)    67.72018 • p
Scarce water consumption embodied in imports (m3/capita)    2.92013 • L Percentage of population who feel safe walking alone at night in the      69.32018 • L
SDG7 – Affordable and Clean Energy                city or area where they live (%)
Population with access to electricity (%)    92.62017 • L Property Rights (worst 1–7 best)    4.42019 • •
Population with access to clean fuels and technology for cooking (%)    41.02016 • 5 Birth registrations with civil authority (% of children under age 5)    79.72018 • •
COto2t aelm eilsesciotrnicsi tfyro omut fpuuetl  (cMomtCbOu2s/tTioWnh f)or electricity and heating per      1.52017 • L CCohrilrdurpetnio innv Poelvrceedp itnio cnh Iinldd leaxb (owr o(%rs to 0f –p1o0p0u blaetsiot)n aged 5 to 14)      114.1822001196 •• D•
5
SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth                Exports of major conventional weapons (TIV constant million USD      0.02019 • • . C
Adjusted GDP growth (%)    1.42018 • • per 100,000 population) ou
Victims of modern slavery (per 1,000 population)    6.12018 • • Press Freedom Index (best 0–100 worst)    45.72019 • p ntr
y
Admuoltbsi lwe-itmh oanne ayc-cseoruvnicte a tp aro bvaidnekr  o(%r o othf epro fpinualantcioianl  iangsteidtu 1ti5o no ro or vwerit)h a     79.92017 • L SGoDvGer1nm7 e–n tP sapretnndeinrgs ohni phse aflothr a tnhde e dGuocaatliosn (% of GDP)      4 . 7201  3 •   •    Prof
Unemployment rate (% of total labor force)    5.42019 • L For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional    NA NA • • iles
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population)   0.12010 • L public finance, including official development assistance (% of GNI)
Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP)    12.92017 • 5
Corporate Tax Haven Score (best 0–100 worst) * 0.02019 • •
* Imputed data point
255
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
INDONESIA  
East and South Asia
OVERALL PERFORMANCE
SDG SDG
17 1
SDG 100 SDG
16 2
75
Index score Regional average score SDG SDG
15 50 3
25
SDG
SDG 4
14
65.3 67.2
Indonesia
SDG SDG
13 5
SDG
12 SDG
6
SDG Global rank 101 (OF 166)
SDG
11 SDG
7
SDG SDG
10 SDG 8
9
SPILLOVER INDEX AVERAGE PERFORMANCE BY SDG
100 (best) to 0 (worst)
100
80
60
40
20
0
CURRENT ASSESSMENT – SDG DASHBOARD
  Major challenges           Significant challenges          Challenges remain          SDG achieved          Information unavailable
SDG TRENDS
L D D D 5 L D L D
• 5 • L 5 5 D 5
p  Decreasing       5  Stagnating       D  Moderately improving       L  On track or maintaining SDG achievement       •  Information unavailable
Notes: The full title of Goal 2 “Zero Hunger” is “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”.    
  The full title of each SDG is available here: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabledevelopmentgoals
256
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
INDONESIA
Performance by Indicator
SDG1 – No Poverty    Val u e Yea  rRa t ingTr e nd SDG9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure    Val u e Ye a rRa t ingTr e nd
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%)    3.72020 • L Population using the internet (%)    39.92018 • L
Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%)    22.22020 • L Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population)    87.12018 • L
SDG2 – Zero Hunger                Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related     2.92018 • 5
Prevalence of undernourishment (%)    8.32017 • L infrastructure (worst 1–5 best)
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%)    36.42013 • 5 The Times Higher Education Universities Ranking: Average score of top 3    21.52020 • •
PPHrrueemvvaaalleennn Tccreeo  poohff  iwocb aLesestviinetylg ,(  BbinMe csIth ≥ 2il d–3r30e  wn(% ou rnosdft )aedr u5 lyt epaorps uolfa atigoen )(%)        1623...925222000111367 ••• LLD SExcupieneninvtdeifiritscui rtaeien osdn ( t wreeocshersantr ic0cha– la1 nj0od0u  drbneeavselt la)orptimcleens t( (p%e ro 1f ,G0D0P0) population)      00..1222001187 •• 5D
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land)    5.22017 • L SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities               
Sustainable Nitrogen Management Index (best 0–1.41 worst)    0.72015 • 5 Gini coefficient adjusted for top income    50.52016 • •
SDG3 – Good Health and Well-Being                SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities               
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)     1772017 • D Annual mean concentration of particulate matter of less than      16.52017 • 5
2.5 microns in diameter (PM2.5) (μg/m3)
NMeoorntaaltitayl  rmatoer,t ualnitdye rra-t5e ( (ppeerr 1 1,0,00000 l ilvivee b birirtthhss))      1225..7022001188 •• LL Access to improved water source, piped (% of urban population)    22.72017 • p
Incidence of tuberculosis (per 100,000 population)   316.02018 • 5 Satisfaction with public transport (%)    78.42019 • L
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population)    0.22018 • L SDG12 – Responsible Consumption and Production                 
Municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)    1.22016 • •
Agdeia-bsteatneds,a ordr iczherdo ndieca rtehs prairtaet dourye d tois ecaasred iionv aadscuultlsa ra dgiesde a3s0e–, c7a0n yceear,r s (%)    26.42016 • 5 Electronic waste (kg/capita)    4.92016 • •
Agame-bstiaenndt aarird pizoeldlu dtieoant h(p reart e1 0at0t,r0ib0u0 tpaobpleu tloat hioonu)sehold air pollution and    1122016 • • PSOro2d eumctiisosnio-bnas seemd bSoOd2i eedm iinss iimonpso (rktgs /(ckgap/citaap)ita)       101..2822001122 •• ••
Traffic deaths (per 100,000 population)    12.22016 • L Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita)    14.12010 • •
Life expectancy at birth (years)    69.32016 • 5 Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)    1.12010 • •
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19)   47.42017 • 5 SDG13 – Climate Action               
Births attended by skilled health personnel (%)    92.62016 • L Energy-related CO2 emissions (tCO2/capita)    1.72017 • L
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%)   752018 • 5 CO2 emissions embodied in imports (tCO2/capita)    0.22015 • L
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best)   57.02017 • L CO2 emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita)   3001.82018 • •
Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best)    5.32019 • L
SDG14 – Life Below Water                 
SDG4 – Quality Education                Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)    23.42018 • 5
Net primary enrollment rate (%)    93.52018 • L Ocean Health Index: Clean Waters score (worst 0–100 best)    58.02019 • 5
Lower secondary completion rate (%)    90.02017 • p Fish caught from overexploited or collapsed stocks (% of total catch)    21.22014 • L
Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24)    99.72018 • • Fish caught by trawling (%)    36.92014 • p
SDG5 – Gender Equality                    Marine biodiversity threats embodied in imports (per million population)    0.02018 • •
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods (% of females    77.62017 • p SDG15 – Life on Land               
aged 15 to 49 who are married or in unions) Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%)   24.42018 • 5
Ratio of female-to-male mean years of education received (%)    90.52018 • D Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%)   35.52018 • 5
Ratio of female-to-male labor force participation rate (%)    63.92019 • L Red List Index of species survival (worst 0–1 best)    0.82019 • p
Seats held by women in national parliament (%)    20.42020 • 5 Permanent deforestation (% of forest area, 5-year average)    1.12018 • •
SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation               
Population using at least basic drinking water services (%)    89.32017 • L Te(rpreers tmriailll iaonnd p forepsuhlwataiotenr) biodiversity threats embodied in imports      0.22018 • •
Population using at least basic sanitation services (%)    73.12017 • L SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions               
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available freshwater resources)    28.02015 • • Homicides (per 100,000 population)    0.42017 • L
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%)    0.02018 • • Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population)    32.72018 • D
Scarce water consumption embodied in imports (m3/capita)    2.72013 • L Percentage of population who feel safe walking alone at night in the      80.82019 • L
SDG7 – Affordable and Clean Energy                city or area where they live (%)
Population with access to electricity (%)    98.12017 • L Property Rights (worst 1–7 best)    4.72019 • •
Population with access to clean fuels and technology for cooking (%)    58.42016 • L Birth registrations with civil authority (% of children under age 5)    71.92018 • •
COto2t aelm eilsesciotrnicsi tfyro omut fpuuetl  (cMomtCbOu2s/tTioWnh f)or electricity and heating per      2.12017 • 5 CCohrilrdurpetnio innv Poelvrceedp itnio cnh Iinldd leaxb (owr o(%rs to 0f –p1o0p0u blaetsiot)n aged 5 to 14)      64.0922001196 •• D•
5
SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth                Exports of major conventional weapons (TIV constant million USD      0.02019 • • . C
Adjusted GDP growth (%)    -0.12018 • • per 100,000 population) ou
Victims of modern slavery (per 1,000 population)    4.72018 • • Press Freedom Index (best 0–100 worst)    36.82019 • L ntr
y
Admuoltbsi lwe-itmh oanne ayc-cseoruvnicte a tp aro bvaidnekr  o(%r o othf epro fpinualantcioianl  iangsteidtu 1ti5o no ro or vwerit)h a     48.92017 • L SGoDvGer1nm7 e–n tP sapretnndeinrgs ohni phse aflothr a tnhde e dGuocaatliosn (% of GDP)      4 . 8201  5 •   D    Prof
Unemployment rate (% of total labor force)    4.72019 • L For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional    NA NA • • iles
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population)   0.12010 • L public finance, including official development assistance (% of GNI)
Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP)    12.22017 • p
Corporate Tax Haven Score (best 0–100 worst) * 0.02019 • •
* Imputed data point
257
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF  
Middle East and North Africa
OVERALL PERFORMANCE
SDG SDG
17 1
SDG 100 SDG
16 2
75
Index score Regional average score SDG SDG
15 50 3
25
SDG
SDG 4
14
71.8 66.3 Iran, Islamic 
SDG Rep. of SDG
13 5
SDG
12 SDG
6
SDG Global rank 59 (OF 166)
SDG
11 SDG
7
SDG SDG
10 SDG 8
9
SPILLOVER INDEX AVERAGE PERFORMANCE BY SDG
100 (best) to 0 (worst)
100
80
60
40
20
0
CURRENT ASSESSMENT – SDG DASHBOARD
  Major challenges           Significant challenges          Challenges remain          SDG achieved          Information unavailable
SDG TRENDS
5 D D L D 5 D D L
• 5 • D D p 5 L
p  Decreasing       5  Stagnating       D  Moderately improving       L  On track or maintaining SDG achievement       •  Information unavailable
Notes: The full title of Goal 2 “Zero Hunger” is “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”.    
  The full title of each SDG is available here: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabledevelopmentgoals
258
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF
Performance by Indicator
SDG1 – No Poverty    Val u e Yea  rRa t ingTr e nd SDG9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure    Val u e Ye a rRa t ingTr e nd
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%)    0.22020 • L Population using the internet (%)    70.02018 • L
Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%)    4.22020 • p Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population)    68.22018 • L
SDG2 – Zero Hunger                Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related     2.82018 • •
Prevalence of undernourishment (%)    4.92017 • L infrastructure (worst 1–5 best)
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%)    6.82011 • L The Times Higher Education Universities Ranking: Average score of top 3    40.32020 • •
PPrreevvaalleennccee  ooff  wobaesstiintyg,  BinM cIh ≥il d3r0e n(% u nodf aedr u5 lyt epaorps uolfa atigoen )(%)      245..0822001116 •• Lp Scuiennivteifrisci taiensd ( tweochrsnt i0ca–l1 j0o0u rbneaslt a)rticles (per 1,000 population)    0.62018 • L
Human Trophic Level (best 2–3 worst)    2.22017 • L Expenditure on research and development (% of GDP)    0.32013 • •
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land)    2.32017 • L SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities               
Sustainable Nitrogen Management Index (best 0–1.41 worst)    0.82015 • 5 Gini coefficient adjusted for top income    41.72016 • •
SDG3 – Good Health and Well-Being                SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities               
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)     162017 • L Annual mean concentration of particulate matter of less than      39.02017 • p
2.5 microns in diameter (PM2.5) (μg/m3)
NMeoorntaaltitayl  rmatoer,t ualnitdye rra-t5e ( (ppeerr 1 1,0,00000 l ilvivee b birirtthhss))      184..9422001188 •• LL Access to improved water source, piped (% of urban population)    95.82017 • 5
Incidence of tuberculosis (per 100,000 population)    14.02018 • L Satisfaction with public transport (%)    64.62019 • L
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population)    0.12018 • L SDG12 – Responsible Consumption and Production                 
Municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)    0.82017 • •
Agdeia-bsteatneds,a ordr iczherdo ndieca rtehs prairtaet dourye d tois ecaasred iionv aadscuultlsa ra dgiesde a3s0e–, c7a0n yceear,r s (%)    14.82016 • L Electronic waste (kg/capita)    7.82016 • •
Agame-bstiaenndt aarird pizoeldlu dtieoant h(p reart e1 0at0t,r0ib0u0 tpaobpleu tloat hioonu)sehold air pollution and    512016 • • PSOro2d eumctiisosnio-bnas seemd bSoOd2i eedm iinss iimonpso (rktgs /(ckgap/citaap)ita)       222..3022001122 •• ••
Traffic deaths (per 100,000 population)    20.52016 • L Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita)    26.82010 • •
Life expectancy at birth (years)    75.72016 • D Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)    1.42010 • •
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19)   40.62017 • p SDG13 – Climate Action               
Births attended by skilled health personnel (%)    99.02014 • • Energy-related CO2 emissions (tCO2/capita)    8.12017 • 5
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%)   992018 • L CO2 emissions embodied in imports (tCO2/capita)    0.52015 • L
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best)   72.02017 • L CO2 emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita)   387.82017 • •
Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best)    5.02019 • D
SDG14 – Life Below Water                 
SDG4 – Quality Education                Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)    60.32018 • L
Net primary enrollment rate (%)    99.72017 • L Ocean Health Index: Clean Waters score (worst 0–100 best)    66.12019 • 5
Lower secondary completion rate (%)    90.22017 • L Fish caught from overexploited or collapsed stocks (% of total catch)    25.42014 • L
Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24)    98.12016 • • Fish caught by trawling (%)    5.12014 • L
SDG5 – Gender Equality                    Marine biodiversity threats embodied in imports (per million population)    0.02018 • •
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods (% of females    68.62011 • L SDG15 – Life on Land               
aged 15 to 49 who are married or in unions) Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%)   45.02018 • 5
Ratio of female-to-male mean years of education received (%)    98.02018 • L Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%)   36.22018 • 5
Ratio of female-to-male labor force participation rate (%)    23.32019 • 5 Red List Index of species survival (worst 0–1 best)    0.82019 • p
Seats held by women in national parliament (%)    8.22020 • 5 Permanent deforestation (% of forest area, 5-year average)    0.02018 • •
SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation               
Population using at least basic drinking water services (%)    95.22017 • 5 Te(rpreers tmriailll iaonnd p forepsuhlwataiotenr) biodiversity threats embodied in imports      0.22018 • •
Population using at least basic sanitation services (%)    88.42017 • 5 SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions               
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available freshwater resources)    81.42005 • • Homicides (per 100,000 population)    2.52014 • •
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%)    3.72018 • • Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population)    25.12015 • •
Scarce water consumption embodied in imports (m3/capita)    6.52013 • L Percentage of population who feel safe walking alone at night in the      70.92019 • L
SDG7 – Affordable and Clean Energy                city or area where they live (%)
Population with access to electricity (%)   100.02017 • L Property Rights (worst 1–7 best)    3.52019 • •
Population with access to clean fuels and technology for cooking (%)    98.52016 • L Birth registrations with civil authority (% of children under age 5)    98.62018 • •
COto2t aelm eilsesciotrnicsi tfyro omut fpuuetl  (cMomtCbOu2s/tTioWnh f)or electricity and heating per      2.02017 • D CCohrilrdurpetnio innv Poelvrceedp itnio cnh Iinldd leaxb (owr o(%rs to 0f –p1o0p0u blaetsiot)n aged 5 to 14)      112.6422001196 •• p•
5
SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth                Exports of major conventional weapons (TIV constant million USD      0.02019 • • . C
Adjusted GDP growth (%)    0.52018 • • per 100,000 population) ou
Victims of modern slavery (per 1,000 population)    16.22018 • • Press Freedom Index (best 0–100 worst)    64.42019 • 5 ntr
y
Admuoltbsi lwe-itmh oanne ayc-cseoruvnicte a tp aro bvaidnekr  o(%r o othf epro fpinualantcioianl  iangsteidtu 1ti5o no ro or vwerit)h a     94.02017 • L SGoDvGer1nm7 e–n tP sapretnndeinrgs ohni phse aflothr a tnhde e dGuocaatliosn (% of GDP)      7 . 8201  6 •   L    Prof
Unemployment rate (% of total labor force)    11.42019 • p For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional    NA NA • • iles
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population)   0.22010 • L public finance, including official development assistance (% of GNI)
Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP)    25.42009 • •
Corporate Tax Haven Score (best 0–100 worst) * 0.02019 • •
* Imputed data point
259
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
IRAQ  
Middle East and North Africa
OVERALL PERFORMANCE
SDG SDG
17 1
SDG 100 SDG
16 2
75
Index score Regional average score SDG SDG
15 50 3
25
SDG
SDG 4
14
63.1 66.3
Iraq
SDG SDG
13 5
SDG
12 SDG
6
SDG Global rank 113 (OF 166)
SDG
11 SDG
7
SDG SDG
10 SDG 8
9
SPILLOVER INDEX AVERAGE PERFORMANCE BY SDG
100 (best) to 0 (worst)
100
80
60
40
20
0
CURRENT ASSESSMENT – SDG DASHBOARD
  Major challenges           Significant challenges          Challenges remain          SDG achieved          Information unavailable
SDG TRENDS
D D D • 5 L L D D
• 5 • D 5 p D p
p  Decreasing       5  Stagnating       D  Moderately improving       L  On track or maintaining SDG achievement       •  Information unavailable
Notes: The full title of Goal 2 “Zero Hunger” is “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”.    
  The full title of each SDG is available here: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabledevelopmentgoals
260
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
IRAQ
Performance by Indicator
SDG1 – No Poverty    Val u e Yea  rRa t ingTr e nd SDG9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure    Val u e Ye a rRa t ingTr e nd
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%)    1.12020 • L Population using the internet (%)    75.02018 • L
Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%)    14.52020 • D Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population)    39.82018 • L
SDG2 – Zero Hunger                Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related     2.02018 • p
Prevalence of undernourishment (%)    29.02017 • p infrastructure (worst 1–5 best)
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%)    22.62011 • D The Times Higher Education Universities Ranking: Average score of top 3    20.82020 • •
PPHrrueemvvaaalleennn Tccreeo  poohff  iwocb aLesestviinetylg ,(  BbinMe csIth ≥ 2il d–3r30e  wn(% ou rnosdft )aedr u5 lyt epaorps uolfa atigoen )(%)        3720...414222000111167 ••• pLD SExcupieneninvtdeifiritscui rtaeien osdn ( t wreeocshersantr ic0cha– la1 nj0od0u  drbneeavselt la)orptimcleens t( (p%e ro 1f ,G0D0P0) population)      00..2022001187 •• 5D
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land)    2.82017 • L SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities               
Sustainable Nitrogen Management Index (best 0–1.41 worst)    0.82015 • D Gini coefficient adjusted for top income    41.82012 • •
SDG3 – Good Health and Well-Being                SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities               
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)     792017 • L Annual mean concentration of particulate matter of less than      61.62017 • p
2.5 microns in diameter (PM2.5) (μg/m3)
NMInecooirdntaealntitacyle  rm oatfoe tr,ut uablnietdryce rura-lto5e s( i(psp e(eprr e1 1r,0, 01000000 l ,il0viv0ee0 b  bpiriortthphsus)l)ation)        124562...370222000111888 ••• 5LL ASactciesfsasc ttoio inm wpritohv epdu bwliact etrra snosuprocret,  (p%ip)ed (% of urban population)      8547..5922001178 •• pD
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population)    NA NA • • SDG12 – Responsible Consumption and Production                 
Municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)    1.32015 • •
Agdeia-bsteatneds,a ordr iczherdo ndieca rtehs prairtaet dourye d tois ecaasred iionv aadscuultlsa ra dgiesde a3s0e–, c7a0n yceear,r s (%)    21.32016 • D Electronic waste (kg/capita)    6.12016 • •
Agame-bstiaenndt aarird pizoeldlu dtieoant h(p reart e1 0at0t,r0ib0u0 tpaobpleu tloat hioonu)sehold air pollution and    752016 • • PSOro2d eumctiisosnio-bnas seemd bSoOd2i eedm iinss iimonpso (rktgs /(ckgap/citaap)ita)       301..1022001122 •• ••
Traffic deaths (per 100,000 population)    20.72016 • p Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita)    13.22010 • •
Life expectancy at birth (years)    69.82016 • p Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)    0.62010 • •
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19)   71.72017 • 5 SDG13 – Climate Action               
Births attended by skilled health personnel (%)    70.42012 • • Energy-related CO2 emissions (tCO2/capita)    5.02017 • 5
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%)   832018 • L CO2 emissions embodied in imports (tCO2/capita)    0.22015 • L
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best)   61.02017 • D CO2 emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita)    0.02016 • •
Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best)    5.12018 • L
SDG14 – Life Below Water                 
SDG4 – Quality Education                Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)    0.02018 • 5
Net primary enrollment rate (%)    92.82007 • • Ocean Health Index: Clean Waters score (worst 0–100 best)    44.92019 • p
Lower secondary completion rate (%)    48.42007 • • Fish caught from overexploited or collapsed stocks (% of total catch)    NA NA • •
Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24)    93.52017 • • Fish caught by trawling (%)    30.02014 • 5
SDG5 – Gender Equality                    Marine biodiversity threats embodied in imports (per million population)    0.02018 • •
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods (% of females    54.62018 • D SDG15 – Life on Land               
aged 15 to 49 who are married or in unions) Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%)   3.82018 • 5
Ratio of female-to-male mean years of education received (%)    69.82018 • 5 Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%)   5.12018 • 5
Ratio of female-to-male labor force participation rate (%)    17.12019 • 5 Red List Index of species survival (worst 0–1 best)    0.82019 • p
Seats held by women in national parliament (%)    26.42020 • p Permanent deforestation (% of forest area, 5-year average)    NA NA • •
SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation               
Population using at least basic drinking water services (%)    96.52017 • L Te(rpreers tmriailll iaonnd p forepsuhlwataiotenr) biodiversity threats embodied in imports      0.02018 • •
Population using at least basic sanitation services (%)    94.12017 • L SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions               
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available freshwater resources)    54.12015 • • Homicides (per 100,000 population)    9.92013 • •
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%)    19.52018 • • Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population)    26.52015 • •
Scarce water consumption embodied in imports (m3/capita)    1.92013 • L Percentage of population who feel safe walking alone at night in the      67.02018 • L
SDG7 – Affordable and Clean Energy                city or area where they live (%)
Population with access to electricity (%)   100.02017 • L Property Rights (worst 1–7 best)    NA NA • •
Population with access to clean fuels and technology for cooking (%)    97.62016 • L Birth registrations with civil authority (% of children under age 5)    98.82018 • •
COto2t aelm eilsesciotrnicsi tfyro omut fpuuetl  (cMomtCbOu2s/tTioWnh f)or electricity and heating per      1.72017 • L CCohrilrdurpetnio innv Poelvrceedp itnio cnh Iinldd leaxb (owr o(%rs to 0f –p1o0p0u blaetsiot)n aged 5 to 14)      42.0722001196 •• 5•
5
SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth                Exports of major conventional weapons (TIV constant million USD   * 0.02019 • • . C
Adjusted GDP growth (%)    -2.42018 • • per 100,000 population) ou
Victims of modern slavery (per 1,000 population) * NA NA • • Press Freedom Index (best 0–100 worst)    52.62019 • 5 ntr
y
Admuoltbsi lwe-itmh oanne ayc-cseoruvnicte a tp aro bvaidnekr  o(%r o othf epro fpinualantcioianl  iangsteidtu 1ti5o no ro or vwerit)h a     22.72017 • D SGoDvGer1nm7 e–n tP sapretnndeinrgs ohni phse aflothr a tnhde e dGuocaatliosn (% of GDP)      N  A N  A •   •    Prof
Unemployment rate (% of total labor force)    12.82019 • p For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional    NA NA • • iles
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population)   0.12010 • L public finance, including official development assistance (% of GNI)
Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP)    26.32016 • p
Corporate Tax Haven Score (best 0–100 worst) * 0.02019 • •
* Imputed data point
261
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
IRELAND  
OECD Countries
OVERALL PERFORMANCE
SDG SDG
17 1
SDG 100 SDG
16 2
75
Index score Regional average score SDG SDG
15 50 3
25
SDG
SDG 4
14
79.4 77.3
Ireland
SDG SDG
13 5
SDG
12 SDG
6
SDG Global rank 14 (OF 166)
SDG
11 SDG
7
SDG SDG
10 SDG 8
9
SPILLOVER INDEX AVERAGE PERFORMANCE BY SDG
100 (best) to 0 (worst)
100
80
60
40
20
0
CURRENT ASSESSMENT – SDG DASHBOARD
  Major challenges           Significant challenges          Challenges remain          SDG achieved          Information unavailable
SDG TRENDS
L D D D D D L L D
D D • 5 D L L p
p  Decreasing       5  Stagnating       D  Moderately improving       L  On track or maintaining SDG achievement       •  Information unavailable
Notes: The full title of Goal 2 “Zero Hunger” is “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”.    
  The full title of each SDG is available here: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabledevelopmentgoals
262
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
IRELAND
Performance by Indicator
SDG1 – No Poverty    Va lu e Ye a rRa t ingTr e nd SDG9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure    Va lu e Yea  rRa t ingTr e nd
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%)    0.2 2020 • L Population using the internet (%)    84.5 2018 • L
Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%)    0.2 2020 • L Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population)   103.8 2018 • L
Poverty rate after taxes and transfers (%)    9.0 2017 • L Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related     3.3 2018 • L
SDG2 – Zero Hunger                  infrastructure (worst 1–5 best)
Prevalence of undernourishment (%)    2.5 2017 • L Thuen Tivimerseist iHesig (wheorr Estd 0u–c1at0io0 nb eUsnt)iversities Ranking: Average score of top 3    53.4 2020 • •
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%) * 2.6 2016 • L Scientific and technical journal articles (per 1,000 population)    1.5 2018 • L
Prevalence of wasting in children under 5 years of age (%) * 0.7 2016 • L Expenditure on research and development (% of GDP)    1.0 2017 • p
Prevalence of obesity, BMI ≥ 30 (% of adult population)    25.3 2016 • p Researchers (per 1,000 employed population)    11.6 2018 • L
Human Trophic Level (best 2–3 worst)    2.4 2017 • D  Triadic patent families filed (per million population)    21.8 2017 • L
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land)    8.8 2017 • L Gap in internet access by income (percentage points)    25.4 2018 • •
SYuiesltda ignaapb lcel oNsiutrroe g(%en o Mf panoategnetmiael ynite Ilndd)ex (best 0–1.41 worst)      704..50 22001155 •• L• Waonmde enn ignin seceiernincge) and engineering (% of tertiary graduates in science     23.4 2015 • •
SDG3 – Good Health and Well-Being                    SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities               
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)     5 2017 • L Gini coefficient adjusted for top income    33.1 2015 • L
Neonatal mortality rate (per 1,000 live births)    2.3 2018 • L Palma ratio    1.1 2017 • L
Mortality rate, under-5 (per 1,000 live births)    3.7 2018 • L Elderly poverty rate (% of population aged 66 or over)    11.4 2017 • p
Incidence of tuberculosis (per 100,000 population)    7.0 2018 • L SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities               
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population)    0.1 2018 • L
Age-standardized death rate due to cardiovascular disease, cancer,     10.3 2016 • L An2.n5u mali cmroenasn  icno dnicaemnetrtaetri o(PnM o2f .p5a) r(tμicgu/mlat3e) matter of less than      8.2 2017 • L
diabetes, or chronic respiratory disease in adults aged 30–70 years (%) Access to improved water source, piped (% of urban population)    97.0 2017 • 5
Age-standardized death rate attributable to household air pollution and    12 2016 • • Satisfaction with public transport (%)    60.6 2019 • 5
Traamffibc ideenat tahirs  p(poellru 1ti0o0n,0 (0p0e rp 1o0p0u,0la0t0io pno)pulation)    4.1 2016 • L Population with rent overburden (%)    6.9 2017 • L
Life expectancy at birth (years)    81.5 2016 • L SDG12 – Responsible Consumption and Production               
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19)   7.5 2017 • L Electronic waste (kg/capita)    19.9 2016 • •
Births attended by skilled health personnel (%)    99.7 2015 • L Production-based SO2 emissions (kg/capita)   103.0 2012 • •
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%)   92.0 2018 • L SO2 emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)     19.5 2012 • •
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best)   76.0 2017 • D Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita)    57.0 2010 • •
Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best)    7.3 2019 • L Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)    19.8 2010 • •
Gap in life expectancy at birth among regions (years)    0.1 2016 • • Non-recycled municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)    0.9 2017 • •
Gap in self-reported health status by income (percentage points)    20.0 2017 • L SDG13 – Climate Action               
Daily smokers (% of population aged 15 and over)    17.0 2018 • L Energy-related CO2 emissions (tCO2/capita)    7.6 2017 • p
SDG4 – Quality Education                CO2 emissions embodied in imports (tCO2/capita)    2.8 2015 • 5
Net primary enrollment rate (%) *100.0 2017 • L CO2 emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita)    10.1 2018 • •
Lower secondary completion rate (%) *100.0 2017 • L Effective carbon rate (EUR/tCO2)    21.8 2016 • •
Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24)    NA NA • • SDG14 – Life Below Water               
Participation rate in pre-primary organized learning (% of children aged 4 to 6)    99.9 2017 • L Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)    84.5 2018 • L
Tertiary educational attainment (% of population aged 25 to 34)    56.2 2018 • L Ocean Health Index: Clean Waters score (worst 0–100 best)    61.3 2019 • 5
PISA score (worst 0–600 best)   504.7 2018 • L Fish caught from overexploited or collapsed stocks (% of total catch)    21.4 2014 • L
VURaenrsdiialetieiroannct  hisnite usvcdeieernns tcisne   ispnce sirecfnoiercmnec a(e%n (c %eo f e o1xfp5 1l-a5yie-nyaeerd-a obr-lydo ssldo)sc)io-economic status (%)        113174...100 222000111888 ••• LpL FMisahri ncaeu bgihotd bivye rtsraitwy ltihnrge a(%ts) embodied in imports (per million population)     850..19 22001148 •• 5•
SDG15 – Life on Land               
SDG5 – Gender Equality                Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%)   87.7 2018 • L
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods   * 80.2 2017 • L Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%)   97.7 2018 • L
RRaa(%ttiioo o  oof fff  effeemmmaaalellees-- attoog--emmd aa1ll5ee   tmlaob e4oa9rn  wf yoehrcaoer s ap roeafr  metidcaiurprcaiaettdioio nonr r  rainetc eue (ni%vioe)nds ()%)     18013..23 22001189 •• LL RPeerdm Laisnte Inntd dexe foofr espsteactiieosn s (u%rv oivf afol (rwesot rasrte 0a–, 15 -byeesatr) average)      00..90 22001198 •• L•
Seats held by women in national parliament (%)    22.5 2020 • D Terrestrial and freshwater biodiversity threats embodied in imports      1.7 2018 • •
Gender wage gap (% of male median wage)    10.6 2014 • • (per million population)
Gender gap in time spent doing unpaid work (minutes/day)   165.5 2005 • • SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions               
Homicides (per 100,000 population)    0.9 2017 • L
SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation                Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population)    18.7 2018 • L
PPooppuullaattiioonn  uussiinngg  aatt  lleeaasstt  bbaassiicc  dsarninitkaintigo nw saetrevri cseersv (i%ce)s (%)      9971..42 22001177 •• •• Pecrictye notra agree ao wf phoepreu ltahteioyn l iwveh (o% f)eel safe walking alone at night in the      75.9 2019 • L
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available freshwater resources)    3.6 2010 • • Property Rights (worst 1–7 best)    5.7 2019 • •
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%)    89.7 2018 • • Birth registrations with civil authority (% of children under age 5)   100.0 2018 • • 5
SPPcooappruuclleaa ttwiiooannte  uur ssciinnoggn  sssuaamffeepllyyt  immonaa nneaamggbeeoddd  wsiaeandtie tianr ts iieomrnvp isoceerrtsvs i (c(%me)s3 (/%ca)pita)        398972...334 222000111377 ••• LLD CCExohprilrodurrptestn ioo ifnn mv Poealjvroceerd pc oitnino cvnhe Iinnldtdi oleanxb a(olw rw o(%ersa tpo 0of –pn1os0 p(0Tu IblVae tcsioot)nn satganetd m 5 itlloio 1n4 U)SD    **  7400...000 222000111969 ••• L•• . Country
SDG7 – Affordable and Clean Energy                per 100,000 population)  P
PPooppuullaattiioonn  wwiitthh  aacccceessss  ttoo  eclleeacntr ifcuiteyls ( %an)d technology for cooking (%)     110000..00 22001176 •• LL PPererssso nFrse heedlodm in I npdriesoxn (b (pesetr  01–0100,000 w0 oprospt)ulation)      1758..05 22001197 •• LL rofile
s
COel2e cetmricisistyio onus tfproumt ( MfuteCl Oco2/mTWbuhs)tion for electricity and heating per total    1.2 2017 • L SGoDvGer1n7m e–n Pt sapretnndeinrgs honip hse aflothr  atnhde e Gduocaatlison (% of GDP)      9 . 0 201  6 •   p  
Share of renewable energy in total primary energy supply (%)    10.3 2018 • D For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional    0.3 2017 • p
SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth                public finance, including official development assistance (% of GNI)
Adjusted GDP growth (%)    3.3 2018 • • Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP)    NA NA • •
VAidmcutoilmtbsis lw eo-iftm hm oaonnde aeycr-ncseo srulvanivctee ar ytp  ar(op bveairdn 1ek,r0  o(0%r0 o  pothfo epprou fplianutailoantncio)ianl  iangsteidtu 1ti5o no ro or vwerit)h a       915..37 22001187 •• L• CFSihonirafptneocdria aptle rSo Tefaictxrse  Hocafy v mSecunol tSrienc oa(brteieo s(ntb a0els–s t1( U00–S01$ w0 b0oi lrwlsioto)nr)st)       -1741587...721 222000121906 ••• •••
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population)   1.7 2010 • L
Employment-to-population ratio (%)    69.6 2019 • L
Youth not in employment, education or training (NEET)      11.7 2018 • L
(% of population aged 15 to 29)
* Imputed data point
263
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
ISRAEL  
OECD Countries
OVERALL PERFORMANCE
SDG SDG
17 1
SDG 100 SDG
16 2
75
Index score Regional average score SDG SDG
15 50 3
25
SDG
SDG 4
14
74.6 77.3
Israel
SDG SDG
13 5
SDG
12 SDG
6
SDG Global rank 40 (OF 166)
SDG
11 SDG
7
SDG SDG
10 SDG 8
9
SPILLOVER INDEX AVERAGE PERFORMANCE BY SDG
100 (best) to 0 (worst)
100
80
60
40
20
0
CURRENT ASSESSMENT – SDG DASHBOARD
  Major challenges           Significant challenges          Challenges remain          SDG achieved          Information unavailable
SDG TRENDS
D D L 5 5 L D D D
D 5 • 5 5 5 L D
p  Decreasing       5  Stagnating       D  Moderately improving       L  On track or maintaining SDG achievement       •  Information unavailable
Notes: The full title of Goal 2 “Zero Hunger” is “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”.    
  The full title of each SDG is available here: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabledevelopmentgoals
264
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
ISRAEL
Performance by Indicator
SDG1 – No Poverty    Va lu e Ye a rRa t ingTr e nd SDG9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure    Va lu e Yea  rRa t ingTr e nd
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%)    0.2 2020 • L Population using the internet (%)    83.7 2018 • L
Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%)    0.6 2020 • L Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population)   113.3 2018 • L
Poverty rate after taxes and transfers (%)    16.9 2018 • D Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related     3.3 2018 • L
SDG2 – Zero Hunger                  infrastructure (worst 1–5 best)
Prevalence of undernourishment (%)    2.5 2017 • L Thuen Tivimerseist iHesig (wheorr Estd 0u–c1at0io0 nb eUsnt)iversities Ranking: Average score of top 3    48.9 2020 • •
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%) * 2.6 2016 • L Scientific and technical journal articles (per 1,000 population)    1.5 2018 • L
Prevalence of wasting in children under 5 years of age (%) * 0.7 2016 • L Expenditure on research and development (% of GDP)    4.6 2017 • L
Prevalence of obesity, BMI ≥ 30 (% of adult population)    26.1 2016 • p Researchers (per 1,000 employed population)    NA NA • •
Human Trophic Level (best 2–3 worst)    2.4 2017 • p  Triadic patent families filed (per million population)    59.4 2017 • L
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land)    3.6 2017 • L Gap in internet access by income (percentage points)    39.5 2017 • D
SYuiesltda ignaapb lcel oNsiutrroe g(%en o Mf panoategnetmiael ynite Ilndd)ex (best 0–1.41 worst)      N0.A9 20N1A5 •• 5• Waonmde enn ignin seceiernincge) and engineering (% of tertiary graduates in science     NA NA • •
SDG3 – Good Health and Well-Being                    SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities               
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)     3 2017 • L Gini coefficient adjusted for top income    43.2 2016 • D
Neonatal mortality rate (per 1,000 live births)    1.9 2018 • L Palma ratio    1.4 2018 • D
Mortality rate, under-5 (per 1,000 live births)    3.7 2018 • L Elderly poverty rate (% of population aged 66 or over)    20.6 2018 • D
Incidence of tuberculosis (per 100,000 population)    4.0 2018 • L SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities               
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population)    0.1 2018 • L
Age-standardized death rate due to cardiovascular disease, cancer,     9.6 2016 • L An2.n5u mali cmroenasn  icno dnicaemnetrtaetri o(PnM o2f .p5a) r(tμicgu/mlat3e) matter of less than      21.4 2017 • 5
diabetes, or chronic respiratory disease in adults aged 30–70 years (%) Access to improved water source, piped (% of urban population)    99.0 2017 • L
Age-standardized death rate attributable to household air pollution and    15 2016 • • Satisfaction with public transport (%)    57.4 2018 • p
Traamffibc ideenat tahirs  p(poellru 1ti0o0n,0 (0p0e rp 1o0p0u,0la0t0io pno)pulation)    4.2 2016 • L Population with rent overburden (%)    NA NA • •
Life expectancy at birth (years)    82.3 2016 • L SDG12 – Responsible Consumption and Production               
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19)   9.6 2017 • L Electronic waste (kg/capita)    14.1 2016 • •
Births attended by skilled health personnel (%)    NA NA • • Production-based SO2 emissions (kg/capita)   113.8 2012 • •
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%)   98.0 2018 • L SO2 emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)     8.0 2012 • •
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best)   82.0 2017 • L Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita)    60.5 2010 • •
Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best)    6.9 2018 • L Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)    6.2 2010 • •
Gap in life expectancy at birth among regions (years)    2.7 2016 • • Non-recycled municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)    1.4 2018 • •
Gap in self-reported health status by income (percentage points)    8.7 2017 • L SDG13 – Climate Action               
Daily smokers (% of population aged 15 and over)    16.9 2017 • L Energy-related CO2 emissions (tCO2/capita)    8.2 2017 • 5
SDG4 – Quality Education                CO2 emissions embodied in imports (tCO2/capita)    1.4 2015 • 5
Net primary enrollment rate (%) * 97.0 2017 • p CO2 emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita)    17.5 2018 • •
Lower secondary completion rate (%) * 97.0 2017 • L Effective carbon rate (EUR/tCO2)    28.8 2016 • •
Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24)    NA NA • • SDG14 – Life Below Water               
Participation rate in pre-primary organized learning (% of children aged 4 to 6)    99.1 2017 • L Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)    NA NA • •
Tertiary educational attainment (% of population aged 25 to 34)    48.0 2017 • L Ocean Health Index: Clean Waters score (worst 0–100 best)    30.2 2019 • 5
PISA score (worst 0–600 best)   465.0 2018 • p Fish caught from overexploited or collapsed stocks (% of total catch)    NA NA • •
VURaenrsdiialetieiroannct  hisnite usvcdeieernns tcisne   ispnce sirecfnoiercmnec a(e%n (c %eo f e o1xfp5 1l-a5yie-nyaeerd-a obr-lydo ssldo)sc)io-economic status (%)        131336...610 222000111888 ••• 5pp FMisahri ncaeu bgihotd bivye rtsraitwy ltihnrge a(%ts) embodied in imports (per million population)     520..03 22001148 •• D•
SDG15 – Life on Land               
SDG5 – Gender Equality                Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%)   20.9 2018 • 5
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods   * 71.1 2017 • 5 Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%)   26.1 2018 • 5
RRaa(%ttiioo o  oof fff  effeemmmaaalellees-- attoog--emmd aa1ll5ee   tmlaob e4oa9rn  wf yoehrcaoer s ap roeafr  metidcaiurprcaiaettdioio nonr r  rainetc eue (ni%vioe)nds ()%)     18050..80 22001189 •• LL RPeerdm Laisnte Inntd dexe foofr espsteactiieosn s (u%rv oivf afol (rwesot rasrte 0a–, 15 -byeesatr) average)      00..80 22001198 •• 5•
Seats held by women in national parliament (%)    25.0 2020 • p Terrestrial and freshwater biodiversity threats embodied in imports      2.1 2018 • •
Gender wage gap (% of male median wage)    21.8 2017 • p (per million population)
Gender gap in time spent doing unpaid work (minutes/day)    NA NA • • SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions               
Homicides (per 100,000 population)    1.4 2015 • •
SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation                Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population)    27.0 2015 • •
PPooppuullaattiioonn  uussiinngg  aatt  lleeaasstt  bbaassiicc  dsarninitkaintigo nw saetrevri cseersv (i%ce)s (%)     110000..00 22001177 •• •• Pecrictye notra agree ao wf phoepreu ltahteioyn l iwveh (o% f)eel safe walking alone at night in the      75.1 2018 • L
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available freshwater resources)   122.4 2005 • • Property Rights (worst 1–7 best)    5.4 2019 • •
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%)    81.7 2018 • • Birth registrations with civil authority (% of children under age 5)   100.0 2018 • • 5
SPPcooappruuclleaa ttwiiooannte  uur ssciinnoggn  sssuaamffeepllyyt  immonaa nneaamggbeeoddd  wsiaeandtie tianr ts iieomrnvp isoceerrtsvs i (c(%me)s3 (/%ca)pita)        199793...847 222000111377 ••• LLL CCExohprilrodurrptestn ioo ifnn mv Poealjvroceerd pc oitnino cvnhe Iinnldtdi oleanxb a(olw rw o(%ersa tpo 0of –pn1os0 p(0Tu IblVae tcsioot)nn satganetd m 5 itlloio 1n4 U)SD    *    61000...002 222000111969 ••• L•• . Country
SDG7 – Affordable and Clean Energy                per 100,000 population)  P
PPooppuullaattiioonn  wwiitthh  aacccceessss  ttoo  eclleeacntr ifcuiteyls ( %an)d technology for cooking (%)     110000..00 22001176 •• LL PPererssso nFrse heedlodm in I npdriesoxn (b (pesetr  01–0100,000 w0 oprospt)ulation)     23302..82 22001197 •• LD rofile
s
COel2e cetmricisistyio onus tfproumt ( MfuteCl Oco2/mTWbuhs)tion for electricity and heating per total    1.0 2017 • L SGoDvGer1n7m e–n Pt sapretnndeinrgs honip hse aflothr  atnhde e Gduocaatlison (% of GDP)      10 . 4 201  6 •   L  
Share of renewable energy in total primary energy supply (%)    2.6 2018 • 5 For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional    0.1 2017 • 5
SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth                public finance, including official development assistance (% of GNI)
Adjusted GDP growth (%)    -0.1 2018 • • Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP)    NA NA • •
VAidmcutoilmtbsis lw eo-iftm hm oaonnde aeycr-ncseo srulvanivctee ar ytp  ar(op bveairdn 1ek,r0  o(0%r0 o  pothfo epprou fplianutailoantncio)ianl  iangsteidtu 1ti5o no ro or vwerit)h a       932..89 22001187 •• L• CFSihonirafptneocdria aptle rSo Tefaictxrse  Hocafy v mSecunol tSrienc oa(brteieo s(ntb a0els–s t1( U00–S01$ w0 b0oi lrwlsioto)nr)st) *     5082...047 222000121906 ••• •••
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population)   0.7 2010 • L
Employment-to-population ratio (%)    68.9 2019 • L
Youth not in employment, education or training (NEET)      13.3 2018 • D
(% of population aged 15 to 29)
* Imputed data point
265
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
ITALY  
OECD Countries
OVERALL PERFORMANCE
SDG SDG
17 1
SDG 100 SDG
16 2
75
Index score Regional average score SDG SDG
15 50 3
25
SDG
SDG 4
14
77.0 77.3
Italy
SDG SDG
13 5
SDG
12 SDG
6
SDG Global rank 30 (OF 166)
SDG
11 SDG
7
SDG SDG
10 SDG 8
9
SPILLOVER INDEX AVERAGE PERFORMANCE BY SDG
100 (best) to 0 (worst)
100
80
60
40
20
0
CURRENT ASSESSMENT – SDG DASHBOARD
  Major challenges           Significant challenges          Challenges remain          SDG achieved          Information unavailable
SDG TRENDS
D D D D D L D L D
5 5 • 5 5 L D L
p  Decreasing       5  Stagnating       D  Moderately improving       L  On track or maintaining SDG achievement       •  Information unavailable
Notes: The full title of Goal 2 “Zero Hunger” is “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”.    
  The full title of each SDG is available here: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabledevelopmentgoals
266
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
ITALY
Performance by Indicator
SDG1 – No Poverty    Va lu e Ye a rRa t ingTr e nd SDG9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure    Va lu e Yea  rRa t ingTr e nd
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%)    1.4 2020 • L Population using the internet (%)    74.4 2018 • L
Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%)    1.8 2020 • L Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population)    89.9 2018 • L
Poverty rate after taxes and transfers (%)    13.9 2017 • p Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related     3.9 2018 • L
SDG2 – Zero Hunger                  infrastructure (worst 1–5 best)
Prevalence of undernourishment (%)    2.5 2017 • L Thuen Tivimerseist iHesig (wheorr Estd 0u–c1at0io0 nb eUsnt)iversities Ranking: Average score of top 3    56.8 2020 • •
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%) * 2.6 2016 • L Scientific and technical journal articles (per 1,000 population)    1.2 2018 • L
Prevalence of wasting in children under 5 years of age (%) * 0.7 2016 • L Expenditure on research and development (% of GDP)    1.4 2017 • D
Prevalence of obesity, BMI ≥ 30 (% of adult population)    19.9 2016 • p Researchers (per 1,000 employed population)    5.5 2018 • D
Human Trophic Level (best 2–3 worst)    2.4 2017 • 5  Triadic patent families filed (per million population)    12.8 2017 • p
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land)    5.2 2017 • L Gap in internet access by income (percentage points)    47.4 2013 • •
SYuiesltda ignaapb lcel oNsiutrroe g(%en o Mf panoategnetmiael ynite Ilndd)ex (best 0–1.41 worst)      508..96 22001155 •• 5• Waonmde enn ignin seceiernincge) and engineering (% of tertiary graduates in science     NA NA • •
SDG3 – Good Health and Well-Being                    SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities               
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)     2 2017 • L Gini coefficient adjusted for top income    38.8 2015 • 5
Neonatal mortality rate (per 1,000 live births)    2.0 2018 • L Palma ratio    1.3 2017 • p
Mortality rate, under-5 (per 1,000 live births)    3.0 2018 • L Elderly poverty rate (% of population aged 66 or over)    9.7 2017 • p
Incidence of tuberculosis (per 100,000 population)    7.0 2018 • L SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities               
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population)    0.1 2018 • L
Age-standardized death rate due to cardiovascular disease, cancer,     9.5 2016 • L An2.n5u mali cmroenasn  icno dnicaemnetrtaetri o(PnM o2f .p5a) r(tμicgu/mlat3e) matter of less than      16.8 2017 • D
diabetes, or chronic respiratory disease in adults aged 30–70 years (%) Access to improved water source, piped (% of urban population)    97.5 2016 • 5
Age-standardized death rate attributable to household air pollution and    15 2016 • • Satisfaction with public transport (%)    34.4 2019 • p
Traamffibc ideenat tahirs  p(poellru 1ti0o0n,0 (0p0e rp 1o0p0u,0la0t0io pno)pulation)    5.6 2016 • L Population with rent overburden (%)    9.1 2017 • D
Life expectancy at birth (years)    82.8 2016 • L SDG12 – Responsible Consumption and Production               
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19)   5.2 2017 • L Electronic waste (kg/capita)    18.9 2016 • •
Births attended by skilled health personnel (%)    99.9 2014 • • Production-based SO2 emissions (kg/capita)    38.7 2012 • •
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%)   93.0 2018 • L SO2 emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)     8.2 2012 • •
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best)   82.0 2017 • L Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita)    37.3 2010 • •
Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best)    6.4 2019 • L Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)    10.1 2010 • •
Gap in life expectancy at birth among regions (years)    2.6 2016 • • Non-recycled municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)    0.6 2018 • •
Gap in self-reported health status by income (percentage points)    7.6 2017 • L SDG13 – Climate Action               
Daily smokers (% of population aged 15 and over)    19.9 2017 • 5 Energy-related CO2 emissions (tCO2/capita)    5.4 2017 • p
SDG4 – Quality Education                CO2 emissions embodied in imports (tCO2/capita)    1.3 2015 • 5
Net primary enrollment rate (%) * 97.6 2017 • L CO2 emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita)    8.2 2018 • •
Lower secondary completion rate (%) * 97.6 2017 • L Effective carbon rate (EUR/tCO2)    20.5 2016 • •
Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24)    99.9 2018 • • SDG14 – Life Below Water               
Participation rate in pre-primary organized learning (% of children aged 4 to 6)    93.9 2017 • L Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)    73.8 2018 • L
Tertiary educational attainment (% of population aged 25 to 34)    27.7 2018 • D Ocean Health Index: Clean Waters score (worst 0–100 best)    50.0 2019 • p
PISA score (worst 0–600 best)   477.0 2018 • p Fish caught from overexploited or collapsed stocks (% of total catch)    75.1 2014 • p
VURaenrsdiialetieiroannct  hisnite usvcdeieernns tcisne   ispnce sirecfnoiercmnec a(e%n (c %eo f e o1xfp5 1l-a5yie-nyaeerd-a obr-lydo ssldo)sc)io-economic status (%)        22857...945 222000111888 ••• 5Lp FMisahri ncaeu bgihotd bivye rtsraitwy ltihnrge a(%ts) embodied in imports (per million population)     510..38 22001148 •• D•
SDG15 – Life on Land               
SDG5 – Gender Equality                Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%)   77.9 2018 • L
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods   * 68.2 2017 • D Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%)   84.7 2018 • L
RRaa(%ttiioo o  oof fff  effeemmmaaalellees-- attoog--emmd aa1ll5ee   tmlaob e4oa9rn  wf yoehrcaoer s ap roeafr  metidcaiurprcaiaettdioio nonr r  rainetc eue (ni%vioe)nds ()%)      9658..27 22001189 •• pL RPeerdm Laisnte Inntd dexe foofr espsteactiieosn s (u%rv oivf afol (rwesot rasrte 0a–, 15 -byeesatr) average)      00..90 22001198 •• L•
Seats held by women in national parliament (%)    35.7 2020 • L Terrestrial and freshwater biodiversity threats embodied in imports      3.5 2018 • •
Gender wage gap (% of male median wage)    5.6 2016 • L (per million population)
Gender gap in time spent doing unpaid work (minutes/day)   175.6 2014 • • SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions               
Homicides (per 100,000 population)    0.7 2016 • L
SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation                Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population)    18.1 2018 • L
PPooppuullaattiioonn  uussiinngg  aatt  lleeaasstt  bbaassiicc  dsarninitkaintigo nw saetrevri cseersv (i%ce)s (%)      9998..48 22001177 •• •• Pecrictye notra agree ao wf phoepreu ltahteioyn l iwveh (o% f)eel safe walking alone at night in the      68.3 2019 • L
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available freshwater resources)    30.1 2015 • • Property Rights (worst 1–7 best)    4.4 2019 • •
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%)    58.8 2018 • • Birth registrations with civil authority (% of children under age 5)   100.0 2018 • • 5
SPPcooappruuclleaa ttwiiooannte  uur ssciinnoggn  sssuaamffeepllyyt  immonaa nneaamggbeeoddd  wsiaeandtie tianr ts iieomrnvp isoceerrtsvs i (c(%me)s3 (/%ca)pita)        299556...802 222000111377 ••• LLL CCExohprilrodurrptestn ioo ifnn mv Poealjvroceerd pc oitnino cvnhe Iinnldtdi oleanxb a(olw rw o(%ersa tpo 0of –pn1os0 p(0Tu IblVae tcsioot)nn satganetd m 5 itlloio 1n4 U)SD    *    5301...000 222000111969 ••• L•• . Country
SDG7 – Affordable and Clean Energy                per 100,000 population)  P
PPooppuullaattiioonn  wwiitthh  aacccceessss  ttoo  eclleeacntr ifcuiteyls ( %an)d technology for cooking (%)     110000..00 22001176 •• LL PPererssso nFrse heedlodm in I npdriesoxn (b (pesetr  01–0100,000 w0 oprospt)ulation)     12050..05 22001197 •• Lp rofile
s
COel2e cetmricisistyio onus tfproumt ( MfuteCl Oco2/mTWbuhs)tion for electricity and heating per total    1.1 2017 • L SGoDvGer1n7m e–n Pt sapretnndeinrgs honip hse aflothr  atnhde e Gduocaatlison (% of GDP)      10 . 5 201  6 •   L  
Share of renewable energy in total primary energy supply (%)    17.9 2018 • p For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional    0.3 2017 • L
SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth                public finance, including official development assistance (% of GNI)
Adjusted GDP growth (%)    0.2 2018 • • Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP)    NA NA • •
VAidmcutoilmtbsis lw eo-iftm hm oaonnde aeycr-ncseo srulvanivctee ar ytp  ar(op bveairdn 1ek,r0  o(0%r0 o  pothfo epprou fplianutailoantncio)ianl  iangsteidtu 1ti5o no ro or vwerit)h a       923..84 22001187 •• L• CFSihonirafptneocdria aptle rSo Tefaictxrse  Hocafy v mSecunol tSrienc oa(brteieo s(ntb a0els–s t1( U00–S01$ w0 b0oi lrwlsioto)nr)st)        552004...540 222000121906 ••• •••
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population)   1.0 2010 • L
Employment-to-population ratio (%)    59.1 2019 • L
Youth not in employment, education or training (NEET)      23.9 2018 • L
(% of population aged 15 to 29)
* Imputed data point
267
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
JAMAICA  
Latin America and the Caribbean
OVERALL PERFORMANCE
SDG SDG
17 1
SDG 100 SDG
16 2
75
Index score Regional average score SDG SDG
15 50 3
25
SDG
SDG 4
14
68.7 70.4
Jamaica
SDG SDG
13 5
SDG
12 SDG
6
SDG Global rank 84 (OF 166)
SDG
11 SDG
7
SDG SDG
10 SDG 8
9
SPILLOVER INDEX AVERAGE PERFORMANCE BY SDG
100 (best) to 0 (worst)
100
80
60
40
20
0
CURRENT ASSESSMENT – SDG DASHBOARD
  Major challenges           Significant challenges          Challenges remain          SDG achieved          Information unavailable
SDG TRENDS
D 5 D p D D D L 5
• 5 • 5 p p 5 D
p  Decreasing       5  Stagnating       D  Moderately improving       L  On track or maintaining SDG achievement       •  Information unavailable
Notes: The full title of Goal 2 “Zero Hunger” is “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”.    
  The full title of each SDG is available here: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabledevelopmentgoals
268
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
JAMAICA
Performance by Indicator
SDG1 – No Poverty    Val u e Yea  rRa t ingTr e nd SDG9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure    Val u e Ye a rRa t ingTr e nd
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%)    1.02020 • L Population using the internet (%)    55.12017 • L
Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%)    13.72020 • 5 Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population)    51.22018 • p
SDG2 – Zero Hunger                Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related     2.32018 • p
Prevalence of undernourishment (%)    8.02017 • L infrastructure (worst 1–5 best)
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%)    6.22014 • L The Times Higher Education Universities Ranking: Average score of top 3    37.02020 • •
PPrreevvaalleennccee  ooff  wobaesstiintyg,  BinM cIh ≥il d3r0e n(% u nodf aedr u5 lyt epaorps uolfa atigoen )(%)      234..6722001146 •• Lp Scuiennivteifrisci taiensd ( tweochrsnt i0ca–l1 j0o0u rbneaslt a)rticles (per 1,000 population)    0.12018 • 5
Human Trophic Level (best 2–3 worst)    2.32017 • 5 Expenditure on research and development (% of GDP)    0.12002 • •
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land)    1.22017 • 5 SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities               
Sustainable Nitrogen Management Index (best 0–1.41 worst)    1.12015 • 5 Gini coefficient adjusted for top income    49.62004 • •
SDG3 – Good Health and Well-Being                SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities               
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)     802017 • 5 Annual mean concentration of particulate matter of less than      13.42017 • D
2.5 microns in diameter (PM2.5) (μg/m3)
NMeoorntaaltitayl  rmatoer,t ualnitdye rra-t5e ( (ppeerr 1 1,0,00000 l ilvivee b birirtthhss))      1104..2422001188 •• LL Access to improved water source, piped (% of urban population)    93.42017 • 5
Incidence of tuberculosis (per 100,000 population)    2.92018 • L Satisfaction with public transport (%)    72.22017 • •
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population)    NA NA • • SDG12 – Responsible Consumption and Production                 
Municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)    1.82016 • •
Agdeia-bsteatneds,a ordr iczherdo ndieca rtehs prairtaet dourye d tois ecaasred iionv aadscuultlsa ra dgiesde a3s0e–, c7a0n yceear,r s (%)    14.72016 • L Electronic waste (kg/capita)    5.92016 • •
Agame-bstiaenndt aarird pizoeldlu dtieoant h(p reart e1 0at0t,r0ib0u0 tpaobpleu tloat hioonu)sehold air pollution and    252016 • • PSOro2d eumctiisosnio-bnas seemd bSoOd2i eedm iinss iimonpso (rktgs /(ckgap/citaap)ita)      1338..4422001122 •• ••
Traffic deaths (per 100,000 population)    13.62016 • p Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita)    16.52010 • •
Life expectancy at birth (years)    76.02016 • D Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)    3.22010 • •
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19)   52.82017 • D SDG13 – Climate Action               
Births attended by skilled health personnel (%)    99.12011 • • Energy-related CO2 emissions (tCO2/capita)    2.52017 • 5
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%)   892018 • p CO2 emissions embodied in imports (tCO2/capita)    0.62015 • 5
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best)   65.02017 • D CO2 emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita)    0.02017 • •
Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best)    5.92017 • •
SDG14 – Life Below Water                 
SDG4 – Quality Education                Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)    30.62018 • 5
Net primary enrollment rate (%)    81.02018 • p Ocean Health Index: Clean Waters score (worst 0–100 best)    44.72019 • 5
Lower secondary completion rate (%)    82.42018 • p Fish caught from overexploited or collapsed stocks (% of total catch)    74.12014 • p
Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24)    96.32014 • • Fish caught by trawling (%)    NA NA • •
SDG5 – Gender Equality                    Marine biodiversity threats embodied in imports (per million population)    0.22018 • •
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods (% of females    79.22009 • L SDG15 – Life on Land               
aged 15 to 49 who are married or in unions) Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%)   20.42018 • 5
Ratio of female-to-male mean years of education received (%)   105.32018 • L Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%)   NA NA • •
Ratio of female-to-male labor force participation rate (%)    82.02019 • L Red List Index of species survival (worst 0–1 best)    0.72019 • p
Seats held by women in national parliament (%)    17.52020 • D Permanent deforestation (% of forest area, 5-year average)    0.22018 • •
SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation               
Population using at least basic drinking water services (%)    90.62017 • 5 Te(rpreers tmriailll iaonnd p forepsuhlwataiotenr) biodiversity threats embodied in imports      0.62018 • •
Population using at least basic sanitation services (%)    87.32017 • 5 SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions               
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available freshwater resources)    26.92015 • • Homicides (per 100,000 population)    57.02017 • p
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%)    3.02018 • • Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population)    29.32018 • L
Scarce water consumption embodied in imports (m3/capita)    3.72013 • L Percentage of population who feel safe walking alone at night in the      62.12017 • •
SDG7 – Affordable and Clean Energy                city or area where they live (%)
Population with access to electricity (%)    99.52017 • L Property Rights (worst 1–7 best)    4.42019 • •
Population with access to clean fuels and technology for cooking (%)    90.52016 • L Birth registrations with civil authority (% of children under age 5)    98.02018 • •
COto2t aelm eilsesciotrnicsi tfyro omut fpuuetl  (cMomtCbOu2s/tTioWnh f)or electricity and heating per      1.72017 • D CCohrilrdurpetnio innv Poelvrceedp itnio cnh Iinldd leaxb (owr o(%rs to 0f –p1o0p0u blaetsiot)n aged 5 to 14)      34.3322001196 •• 5•
5
SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth                Exports of major conventional weapons (TIV constant million USD   * 0.02019 • • . C
Adjusted GDP growth (%)    -3.52018 • • per 100,000 population) ou
Victims of modern slavery (per 1,000 population)    2.62018 • • Press Freedom Index (best 0–100 worst)    11.12019 • L ntr
y
Admuoltbsi lwe-itmh oanne ayc-cseoruvnicte a tp aro bvaidnekr  o(%r o othf epro fpinualantcioianl  iangsteidtu 1ti5o no ro or vwerit)h a     78.52014 • • SGoDvGer1nm7 e–n tP sapretnndeinrgs ohni phse aflothr a tnhde e dGuocaatliosn (% of GDP)      9 . 0201  6 •   p    Prof
Unemployment rate (% of total labor force)    8.02019 • L For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional    NA NA • • iles
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population)   0.22010 • L public finance, including official development assistance (% of GNI)
Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP)    29.32017 • L
Corporate Tax Haven Score (best 0–100 worst) * 0.02019 • •
* Imputed data point
269
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
JAPAN  
OECD Countries
OVERALL PERFORMANCE
SDG SDG
17 1
SDG 100 SDG
16 2
75
Index score Regional average score SDG SDG
15 50 3
25
SDG
SDG 4
14
79.2 7777..33
Japan
SDG SDG
13 5
SDG
12 SDG
6
SDG Global rank 17 (OF 166)
SDG
11 SDG
7
SDG SDG
10 SDG 8
9
SPILLOVER INDEX AVERAGE PERFORMANCE BY SDG
100 (best) to 0 (worst)
100
80
60
40
20
0
CURRENT ASSESSMENT – SDG DASHBOARD
  Major challenges           Significant challenges          Challenges remain          SDG achieved          Information unavailable
SDG TRENDS
D D L L 5 L D L L
p L • 5 5 D L D
p  Decreasing       5  Stagnating       D  Moderately improving       L  On track or maintaining SDG achievement       •  Information unavailable
Notes: The full title of Goal 2 “Zero Hunger” is “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”.    
  The full title of each SDG is available here: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabledevelopmentgoals
270
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
JAPAN
Performance by Indicator
SDG1 – No Poverty    Va lu e Ye a rRa t ingTr e nd SDG9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure    Va lu e Yea  rRa t ingTr e nd
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%)    0.5 2020 • L Population using the internet (%)    91.3 2018 • L
Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%)    0.7 2020 • L Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population)   193.3 2018 • L
Poverty rate after taxes and transfers (%)    15.7 2015 • 5 Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related     4.2 2018 • L
SDG2 – Zero Hunger                  infrastructure (worst 1–5 best)
Prevalence of undernourishment (%)    2.5 2017 • L Thuen Tivimerseist iHesig (wheorr Estd 0u–c1at0io0 nb eUsnt)iversities Ranking: Average score of top 3    64.0 2020 • •
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%)    7.1 2010 • L Scientific and technical journal articles (per 1,000 population)    0.8 2018 • L
Prevalence of wasting in children under 5 years of age (%)    2.3 2010 • L Expenditure on research and development (% of GDP)    3.2 2017 • L
Prevalence of obesity, BMI ≥ 30 (% of adult population)    4.3 2016 • L Researchers (per 1,000 employed population)    9.8 2018 • L
Human Trophic Level (best 2–3 worst)    2.4 2017 • 5  Triadic patent families filed (per million population)   142.9 2017 • L
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land)    6.0 2017 • L Gap in internet access by income (percentage points)    NA NA • •
SYuiesltda ignaapb lcel oNsiutrroe g(%en o Mf panoategnetmiael ynite Ilndd)ex (best 0–1.41 worst)      N0.A6 20N1A5 •• p• Waonmde enn ignin seceiernincge) and engineering (% of tertiary graduates in science     NA NA • •
SDG3 – Good Health and Well-Being                    SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities               
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)     5 2017 • L Gini coefficient adjusted for top income    35.7 2008 • •
Neonatal mortality rate (per 1,000 live births)    0.9 2018 • L Palma ratio    1.3 2015 • p
Mortality rate, under-5 (per 1,000 live births)    2.5 2018 • L Elderly poverty rate (% of population aged 66 or over)    19.6 2015 • p
Incidence of tuberculosis (per 100,000 population)    14.0 2018 • L SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities               
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population)    0.0 2018 • L
Age-standardized death rate due to cardiovascular disease, cancer,     8.4 2016 • L An2.n5u mali cmroenasn  icno dnicaemnetrtaetri o(PnM o2f .p5a) r(tμicgu/mlat3e) matter of less than      11.7 2017 • L
diabetes, or chronic respiratory disease in adults aged 30–70 years (%) Access to improved water source, piped (% of urban population)    NA NA • •
Age-standardized death rate attributable to household air pollution and    12 2016 • • Satisfaction with public transport (%)    58.0 2019 • D
Traamffibc ideenat tahirs  p(poellru 1ti0o0n,0 (0p0e rp 1o0p0u,0la0t0io pno)pulation)    4.1 2016 • L Population with rent overburden (%)    8.1 2016 • L
Life expectancy at birth (years)    84.2 2016 • L SDG12 – Responsible Consumption and Production               
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19)   3.8 2017 • L Electronic waste (kg/capita)    16.9 2016 • •
Births attended by skilled health personnel (%)    99.9 2015 • L Production-based SO2 emissions (kg/capita)    42.0 2012 • •
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%)   97.0 2018 • L SO2 emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)     9.5 2012 • •
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best)   83.0 2017 • L Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita)    28.3 2010 • •
Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best)    5.9 2019 • D Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)    9.5 2010 • •
Gap in life expectancy at birth among regions (years)    0.9 2010 • • Non-recycled municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)    0.7 2017 • •
Gap in self-reported health status by income (percentage points)    11.4 2016 • L SDG13 – Climate Action               
Daily smokers (% of population aged 15 and over)    17.7 2017 • L Energy-related CO2 emissions (tCO2/capita)    8.8 2017 • 5
SDG4 – Quality Education                CO2 emissions embodied in imports (tCO2/capita)    1.8 2015 • 5
Net primary enrollment rate (%) *100.0 2017 • L CO2 emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita)    0.0 2019 • •
Lower secondary completion rate (%) *100.0 2017 • L Effective carbon rate (EUR/tCO2)    7.8 2016 • •
Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24)    NA NA • • SDG14 – Life Below Water               
Participation rate in pre-primary organized learning (% of children aged 4 to 6) * 91.0 2016 • • Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)    73.5 2018 • L
Tertiary educational attainment (% of population aged 25 to 34)    60.7 2018 • L Ocean Health Index: Clean Waters score (worst 0–100 best)    59.4 2019 • p
PISA score (worst 0–600 best)   520.0 2018 • L Fish caught from overexploited or collapsed stocks (% of total catch)    70.8 2014 • p
VURaenrsdiialetieiroannct  hisnite usvcdeieernns tcisne   ispnce sirecfnoiercmnec a(e%n (c %eo f e o1xfp5 1l-a5yie-nyaeerd-a obr-lydo ssldo)sc)io-economic status (%)        15700...827 222000111888 ••• LLL FMisahri ncaeu bgihotd bivye rtsraitwy ltihnrge a(%ts) embodied in imports (per million population)     241..02 22001148 •• p•
SDG15 – Life on Land               
SDG5 – Gender Equality                Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%)   65.8 2018 • L
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods   * 60.1 2017 • p Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%)   67.0 2018 • L
RRaa(%ttiioo o  oof fff  effeemmmaaalellees-- attoog--emmd aa1ll5ee   tmlaob e4oa9rn  wf yoehrcaoer s ap roeafr  metidcaiurprcaiaettdioio nonr r  rainetc eue (ni%vioe)nds ()%)     17033..02 22001189 •• LL RPeerdm Laisnte Inntd dexe foofr espsteactiieosn s (u%rv oivf afol (rwesot rasrte 0a–, 15 -byeesatr) average)      00..80 22001198 •• p•
Seats held by women in national parliament (%)    9.9 2020 • 5 Terrestrial and freshwater biodiversity threats embodied in imports      5.1 2018 • •
Gender wage gap (% of male median wage)    24.5 2017 • 5 (per million population)
Gender gap in time spent doing unpaid work (minutes/day)   183.5 2016 • • SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions               
Homicides (per 100,000 population)    0.2 2017 • L
SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation                Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population)    11.3 2018 • L
PPooppuullaattiioonn  uussiinngg  aatt  lleeaasstt  bbaassiicc  dsarninitkaintigo nw saetrevri cseersv (i%ce)s (%)      9999..09 22001177 •• •• Pecrictye notra agree ao wf phoepreu ltahteioyn l iwveh (o% f)eel safe walking alone at night in the      73.3 2019 • L
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available freshwater resources)    37.3 2010 • • Property Rights (worst 1–7 best)    6.2 2019 • •
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%)    75.3 2018 • • Birth registrations with civil authority (% of children under age 5)   100.0 2018 • • 5
SPPcooappruuclleaa ttwiiooannte  uur ssciinnoggn  sssuaamffeepllyyt  immonaa nneaamggbeeoddd  wsiaeandtie tianr ts iieomrnvp isoceerrtsvs i (c(%me)s3 (/%ca)pita)        299088...958 222000111377 ••• LLL CCExohprilrodurrptestn ioo ifnn mv Poealjvroceerd pc oitnino cvnhe Iinnldtdi oleanxb a(olw rw o(%ersa tpo 0of –pn1os0 p(0Tu IblVae tcsioot)nn satganetd m 5 itlloio 1n4 U)SD    *    7300...000 222000111969 ••• L•• . Country
SDG7 – Affordable and Clean Energy                per 100,000 population)  P
PPooppuullaattiioonn  wwiitthh  aacccceessss  ttoo  eclleeacntr ifcuiteyls ( %an)d technology for cooking (%)     110000..00 22001176 •• LL PPererssso nFrse heedlodm in I npdriesoxn (b (pesetr  01–0100,000 w0 oprospt)ulation)      2490..46 22001197 •• LL rofile
s
COel2e cetmricisistyio onus tfproumt ( MfuteCl Oco2/mTWbuhs)tion for electricity and heating per total    1.1 2017 • D SGoDvGer1n7m e–n Pt sapretnndeinrgs honip hse aflothr  atnhde e Gduocaatlison (% of GDP)      12 . 3 201  6 •   L  
Share of renewable energy in total primary energy supply (%)    5.9 2018 • 5 For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional    0.2 2017 • 5
SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth                public finance, including official development assistance (% of GNI)
Adjusted GDP growth (%)    -2.0 2018 • • Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP)    NA NA • •
VAidmcutoilmtbsis lw eo-iftm hm oaonnde aeycr-ncseo srulvanivctee ar ytp  ar(op bveairdn 1ek,r0  o(0%r0 o  pothfo epprou fplianutailoantncio)ianl  iangsteidtu 1ti5o no ro or vwerit)h a       908..23 22001187 •• L• CFSihonirafptneocdria aptle rSo Tefaictxrse  Hocafy v mSecunol tSrienc oa(brteieo s(ntb a0els–s t1( U00–S01$ w0 b0oi lrwlsioto)nr)st) *     61021...098 222000121906 ••• •••
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population)   1.2 2010 • L
Employment-to-population ratio (%)    77.7 2019 • L
Youth not in employment, education or training (NEET)      9.8 2014 • •
(% of population aged 15 to 29)
* Imputed data point
271
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
JORDAN  
Middle East and North Africa
OVERALL PERFORMANCE
SDG SDG
17 1
SDG 100 SDG
16 2
75
Index score Regional average score SDG SDG
15 50 3
25
SDG
SDG 4
14
68.1 66.3
Jordan
SDG SDG
13 5
SDG
12 SDG
6
SDG Global rank 89 (OF 166)
SDG
11 SDG
7
SDG SDG
10 SDG 8
9
SPILLOVER INDEX AVERAGE PERFORMANCE BY SDG
100 (best) to 0 (worst)
100
80
60
40
20
0
CURRENT ASSESSMENT – SDG DASHBOARD
  Major challenges           Significant challenges          Challenges remain          SDG achieved          Information unavailable
SDG TRENDS
D D D 5 5 L L D L
• 5 • L • 5 D p
p  Decreasing       5  Stagnating       D  Moderately improving       L  On track or maintaining SDG achievement       •  Information unavailable
Notes: The full title of Goal 2 “Zero Hunger” is “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”.    
  The full title of each SDG is available here: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabledevelopmentgoals
272
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
JORDAN
Performance by Indicator
SDG1 – No Poverty    Val u e Yea  rRa t ingTr e nd SDG9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure    Val u e Ye a rRa t ingTr e nd
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%)    0.42020 • L Population using the internet (%)    66.82017 • L
Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%)    9.22020 • 5 Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population)    87.62018 • L
SDG2 – Zero Hunger                Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related     2.72018 • L
Prevalence of undernourishment (%)    12.22017 • p infrastructure (worst 1–5 best)
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%)    7.82012 • L The Times Higher Education Universities Ranking: Average score of top 3    31.32020 • •
PPrreevvaalleennccee  ooff  wobaesstiintyg,  BinM cIh ≥il d3r0e n(% u nodf aedr u5 lyt epaorps uolfa atigoen )(%)      325..4522001126 •• Lp Scuiennivteifrisci taiensd ( tweochrsnt i0ca–l1 j0o0u rbneaslt a)rticles (per 1,000 population)    0.32018 • D
Human Trophic Level (best 2–3 worst)    2.22017 • L Expenditure on research and development (% of GDP)    0.72016 • •
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land)    1.62017 • D SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities               
Sustainable Nitrogen Management Index (best 0–1.41 worst)    0.62015 • L Gini coefficient adjusted for top income    41.12010 • •
SDG3 – Good Health and Well-Being                SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities               
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)     462017 • L Annual mean concentration of particulate matter of less than      33.02017 • 5
2.5 microns in diameter (PM2.5) (μg/m3)
NMeoorntaaltitayl  rmatoer,t ualnitdye rra-t5e ( (ppeerr 1 1,0,00000 l ilvivee b birirtthhss))      196..5222001188 •• LL Access to improved water source, piped (% of urban population)    88.82017 • p
Incidence of tuberculosis (per 100,000 population)    5.02018 • L Satisfaction with public transport (%)    63.92019 • L
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population)    0.02018 • L SDG12 – Responsible Consumption and Production                 
Municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)    0.82013 • •
Agdeia-bsteatneds,a ordr iczherdo ndieca rtehs prairtaet dourye d tois ecaasred iionv aadscuultlsa ra dgiesde a3s0e–, c7a0n yceear,r s (%)    19.22016 • D Electronic waste (kg/capita)    5.62016 • •
Agame-bstiaenndt aarird pizoeldlu dtieoant h(p reart e1 0at0t,r0ib0u0 tpaobpleu tloat hioonu)sehold air pollution and    512016 • • PSOro2d eumctiisosnio-bnas seemd bSoOd2i eedm iinss iimonpso (rktgs /(ckgap/citaap)ita)       294..0122001122 •• ••
Traffic deaths (per 100,000 population)    24.42016 • D Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita)    10.02010 • •
Life expectancy at birth (years)    74.32016 • 5 Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)    3.42010 • •
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19)   25.92017 • L SDG13 – Climate Action               
Births attended by skilled health personnel (%)    99.72018 • L Energy-related CO2 emissions (tCO2/capita)    1.82017 • L
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%)   922018 • L CO2 emissions embodied in imports (tCO2/capita)    0.62015 • L
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best)   76.02017 • D CO2 emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita)    0.02017 • •
Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best)    4.52019 • p
SDG14 – Life Below Water                 
SDG4 – Quality Education                Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)    NA NA • •
Net primary enrollment rate (%)    80.92018 • D Ocean Health Index: Clean Waters score (worst 0–100 best)    47.22019 • p
Lower secondary completion rate (%)    59.02018 • p Fish caught from overexploited or collapsed stocks (% of total catch)    NA NA • •
Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24)    99.32018 • • Fish caught by trawling (%)    NA NA • •
SDG5 – Gender Equality                    Marine biodiversity threats embodied in imports (per million population)    0.22018 • •
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods (% of females    56.72018 • 5 SDG15 – Life on Land               
aged 15 to 49 who are married or in unions) Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%)   8.72018 • 5
Ratio of female-to-male mean years of education received (%)    95.32018 • L Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%)   9.82018 • 5
Ratio of female-to-male labor force participation rate (%)    22.22019 • 5 Red List Index of species survival (worst 0–1 best)    1.02019 • L
Seats held by women in national parliament (%)    15.42020 • 5 Permanent deforestation (% of forest area, 5-year average)    NA NA • •
SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation               
Population using at least basic drinking water services (%)    98.92017 • L Te(rpreers tmriailll iaonnd p forepsuhlwataiotenr) biodiversity threats embodied in imports      0.22018 • •
Population using at least basic sanitation services (%)    97.32017 • L SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions               
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available freshwater resources)   100.12015 • • Homicides (per 100,000 population)    1.42017 • L
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%)    18.62018 • • Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population)    41.72015 • •
Scarce water consumption embodied in imports (m3/capita)    26.32013 • L Percentage of population who feel safe walking alone at night in the      73.42019 • L
SDG7 – Affordable and Clean Energy                city or area where they live (%)
Population with access to electricity (%)   100.02017 • L Property Rights (worst 1–7 best)    5.02019 • •
Population with access to clean fuels and technology for cooking (%)    99.12016 • L Birth registrations with civil authority (% of children under age 5)    98.02018 • •
COto2t aelm eilsesciotrnicsi tfyro omut fpuuetl  (cMomtCbOu2s/tTioWnh f)or electricity and heating per      1.32017 • L CCohrilrdurpetnio innv Poelvrceedp itnio cnh Iinldd leaxb (owr o(%rs to 0f –p1o0p0u blaetsiot)n aged 5 to 14)      14.8722001196 •• p•
5
SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth                Exports of major conventional weapons (TIV constant million USD      0.42019 • • . C
Adjusted GDP growth (%)    -4.72018 • • per 100,000 population) ou
Victims of modern slavery (per 1,000 population)    1.82018 • • Press Freedom Index (best 0–100 worst)    43.12019 • 5 ntr
y
Admuoltbsi lwe-itmh oanne ayc-cseoruvnicte a tp aro bvaidnekr  o(%r o othf epro fpinualantcioianl  iangsteidtu 1ti5o no ro or vwerit)h a     42.52017 • L SGoDvGer1nm7 e–n tP sapretnndeinrgs ohni phse aflothr a tnhde e dGuocaatliosn (% of GDP)      7 . 3201  6 •   •    Prof
Unemployment rate (% of total labor force)    14.72019 • p For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional    NA NA • • iles
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population)   0.42010 • L public finance, including official development assistance (% of GNI)
Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP)    23.22017 • p
Corporate Tax Haven Score (best 0–100 worst) * 0.02019 • •
* Imputed data point
273
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
KAZAKHSTAN  
Eastern Europe and Central Asia
OVERALL PERFORMANCE
SDG SDG
17 1
SDG 100 SDG
16 2
75
Index score Regional average score SDG SDG
15 50 3
25
SDG
SDG 4
14
71.1 70.9
Kazakhstan
SDG SDG
13 5
SDG
12 SDG
6
SDG Global rank 65 (OF 166)
SDG
11 SDG
7
SDG SDG
10 SDG 8
9
SPILLOVER INDEX AVERAGE PERFORMANCE BY SDG
100 (best) to 0 (worst)
100
80
60
40
20
0
CURRENT ASSESSMENT – SDG DASHBOARD
  Major challenges           Significant challenges          Challenges remain          SDG achieved          Information unavailable
SDG TRENDS
L D L D D L D D D
• 5 • D • 5 D p
p  Decreasing       5  Stagnating       D  Moderately improving       L  On track or maintaining SDG achievement       •  Information unavailable
Notes: The full title of Goal 2 “Zero Hunger” is “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”.    
  The full title of each SDG is available here: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabledevelopmentgoals
274
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
KAZAKHSTAN
Performance by Indicator
SDG1 – No Poverty    Val u e Yea  rRa t ingTr e nd SDG9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure    Val u e Ye a rRa t ingTr e nd
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%)    0.02020 • L Population using the internet (%)    78.92018 • L
Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%)    0.12020 • L Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population)    77.62018 • L
SDG2 – Zero Hunger                Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related     2.52018 • L
Prevalence of undernourishment (%)    2.52017 • L infrastructure (worst 1–5 best)
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%)    8.02015 • L The Times Higher Education Universities Ranking: Average score of top 3    16.42020 • •
PPHrrueemvvaaalleennn Tccreeo  poohff  iwocb aLesestviinetylg ,(  BbinMe csIth ≥ 2il d–3r30e  wn(% ou rnosdft )aedr u5 lyt epaorps uolfa atigoen )(%)        2321...140222000111567 ••• Lpp SExcupieneninvtdeifiritscui rtaeien osdn ( t wreeocshersantr ic0cha– la1 nj0od0u  drbneeavselt la)orptimcleens t( (p%e ro 1f ,G0D0P0) population)      00..1122001187 •• 5p
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land)    1.42017 • D SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities               
Sustainable Nitrogen Management Index (best 0–1.41 worst)    0.82015 • 5 Gini coefficient adjusted for top income    41.72017 • •
SDG3 – Good Health and Well-Being                SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities               
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)     102017 • L Annual mean concentration of particulate matter of less than      13.82017 • 5
2.5 microns in diameter (PM2.5) (μg/m3)
NMInecooirdntaealntitacyle  rm oatfoe tr,ut uablnietdryce rura-lto5e s( i(psp e(eprr e1 1r,0, 01000000 l ,il0viv0ee0 b  bpiriortthphsus)l)ation)        6598...690222000111888 ••• LLD ASactciesfsasc ttoio inm wpritohv epdu bwliact etrra snosuprocret,  (p%ip)ed (% of urban population)      9642..0122001179 •• DD
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population)    0.12018 • L SDG12 – Responsible Consumption and Production                 
Municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)    1.22012 • •
Agdeia-bsteatneds,a ordr iczherdo ndieca rtehs prairtaet dourye d tois ecaasred iionv aadscuultlsa ra dgiesde a3s0e–, c7a0n yceear,r s (%)    26.82016 • L Electronic waste (kg/capita)    8.22016 • •
Agame-bstiaenndt aarird pizoeldlu dtieoant h(p reart e1 0at0t,r0ib0u0 tpaobpleu tloat hioonu)sehold air pollution and    632016 • • PSOro2d eumctiisosnio-bnas seemd bSoOd2i eedm iinss iimonpso (rktgs /(ckgap/citaap)ita)      1030..6322001122 •• ••
Traffic deaths (per 100,000 population)    17.62016 • L Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita)    46.42010 • •
Life expectancy at birth (years)    71.12016 • D Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)    2.42010 • •
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19)   29.82017 • D SDG13 – Climate Action               
Births attended by skilled health personnel (%)    99.42015 • L Energy-related CO2 emissions (tCO2/capita)    14.92017 • 5
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%)   982018 • L CO2 emissions embodied in imports (tCO2/capita)    0.72015 • L
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best)   76.02017 • L CO2 emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita)   4963.32019 • •
Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best)    6.32019 • L
SDG14 – Life Below Water                 
SDG4 – Quality Education                Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)    NA NA • •
Net primary enrollment rate (%)    86.92019 • 5 Ocean Health Index: Clean Waters score (worst 0–100 best)    NA NA • •
Lower secondary completion rate (%)   113.62018 • L Fish caught from overexploited or collapsed stocks (% of total catch)    NA NA • •
Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24)    99.92018 • • Fish caught by trawling (%)    NA NA • •
SDG5 – Gender Equality                    Marine biodiversity threats embodied in imports (per million population)    0.02018 • •
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods (% of females    79.42018 • D SDG15 – Life on Land               
aged 15 to 49 who are married or in unions) Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%)   15.72018 • 5
Ratio of female-to-male mean years of education received (%)   101.72018 • L Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%)   17.02018 • 5
Ratio of female-to-male labor force participation rate (%)    84.32019 • L Red List Index of species survival (worst 0–1 best)    0.92019 • 5
Seats held by women in national parliament (%)    27.12020 • 5 Permanent deforestation (% of forest area, 5-year average)    0.02018 • •
SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation               
Population using at least basic drinking water services (%)    95.62017 • L Te(rpreers tmriailll iaonnd p forepsuhlwataiotenr) biodiversity threats embodied in imports      0.32018 • •
Population using at least basic sanitation services (%)    97.92017 • L SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions               
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available freshwater resources)    27.72010 • • Homicides (per 100,000 population)    5.02017 • 5
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%)    28.62018 • • Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population)    11.32018 • L
Scarce water consumption embodied in imports (m3/capita)    7.52013 • L Percentage of population who feel safe walking alone at night in the      70.22019 • L
SDG7 – Affordable and Clean Energy                city or area where they live (%)
Population with access to electricity (%)   100.02017 • L Property Rights (worst 1–7 best)    4.42019 • •
Population with access to clean fuels and technology for cooking (%)    95.32016 • L Birth registrations with civil authority (% of children under age 5)    99.72018 • •
COto2t aelm eilsesciotrnicsi tfyro omut fpuuetl  (cMomtCbOu2s/tTioWnh f)or electricity and heating per      2.62017 • 5 CCohrilrdurpetnio innv Poelvrceedp itnio cnh Iinldd leaxb (owr o(%rs to 0f –p1o0p0u blaetsiot)n aged 5 to 14)      23.4222001196 •• D•
5
SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth                Exports of major conventional weapons (TIV constant million USD   * 0.02019 • • . C
Adjusted GDP growth (%)    -1.12018 • • per 100,000 population) ou
Victims of modern slavery (per 1,000 population)    4.22018 • • Press Freedom Index (best 0–100 worst)    52.82019 • 5 ntr
y
Admuoltbsi lwe-itmh oanne ayc-cseoruvnicte a tp aro bvaidnekr  o(%r o othf epro fpinualantcioianl  iangsteidtu 1ti5o no ro or vwerit)h a     58.72017 • D SGoDvGer1nm7 e–n tP sapretnndeinrgs ohni phse aflothr a tnhde e dGuocaatliosn (% of GDP)      5 . 1201  6 •   •    Prof
Unemployment rate (% of total labor force)    4.62019 • L For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional    NA NA • • iles
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population)   0.32010 • L public finance, including official development assistance (% of GNI)
Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP)    16.02018 • p
Corporate Tax Haven Score (best 0–100 worst) * 0.02019 • •
* Imputed data point
275
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
KENYA  
Sub-Saharan Africa
OVERALL PERFORMANCE
SDG SDG
17 1
SDG 100 SDG
16 2
75
Index score Regional average score SDG SDG
15 50 3
25
SDG
SDG 4
14
60.2 53.1
Kenya
SDG SDG
13 5
SDG
12 SDG
6
SDG Global rank 123 (OF 166)
SDG
11 SDG
7
SDG SDG
10 SDG 8
9
SPILLOVER INDEX AVERAGE PERFORMANCE BY SDG
100 (best) to 0 (worst)
100
80
60
40
20
0
CURRENT ASSESSMENT – SDG DASHBOARD
  Major challenges           Significant challenges          Challenges remain          SDG achieved          Information unavailable
SDG TRENDS
D 5 D • D 5 D L D
• 5 • L 5 p 5 5
p  Decreasing       5  Stagnating       D  Moderately improving       L  On track or maintaining SDG achievement       •  Information unavailable
Notes: The full title of Goal 2 “Zero Hunger” is “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”.    
  The full title of each SDG is available here: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabledevelopmentgoals
276
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
KENYA
Performance by Indicator
SDG1 – No Poverty    Val u e Yea  rRa t ingTr e nd SDG9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure    Val u e Ye a rRa t ingTr e nd
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%)    15.92020 • D Population using the internet (%)    17.82017 • 5
Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%)    41.82020 • 5 Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population)    41.92018 • L
SDG2 – Zero Hunger                Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related     2.62018 • L
Prevalence of undernourishment (%)    29.42017 • p infrastructure (worst 1–5 best)
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%)    26.02014 • 5 The Times Higher Education Universities Ranking: Average score of top 3    25.22020 • •
PPrreevvaalleennccee  ooff  wobaesstiintyg,  BinM cIh ≥il d3r0e n(% u nodf aedr u5 lyt epaorps uolfa atigoen )(%)      47..0122001146 •• LL Scuiennivteifrisci taiensd ( tweochrsnt i0ca–l1 j0o0u rbneaslt a)rticles (per 1,000 population)    0.02018 • 5
Human Trophic Level (best 2–3 worst)    2.22017 • 5 Expenditure on research and development (% of GDP)    0.82010 • •
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land)    1.52017 • p SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities               
Sustainable Nitrogen Management Index (best 0–1.41 worst)    0.92015 • 5 Gini coefficient adjusted for top income    48.52015 • •
SDG3 – Good Health and Well-Being                SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities               
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)     3422017 • 5 Annual mean concentration of particulate matter of less than      28.62017 • 5
NMeoorntaaltitayl  rmatoer,t ualnitdye rra-t5e ( (ppeerr 1 1,0,00000 l ilvivee b birirtthhss))      1491..6122001188 •• LD Ac2c.5e sms itcor oimnsp irno vdeiadm weatteerr ( sPoMu2rc.5e),  (pμipg/emd 3(%) of urban population)    61.72017 • p
Incidence of tuberculosis (per 100,000 population)   292.02018 • L Satisfaction with public transport (%)    60.62019 • L
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population)    1.02018 • L SDG12 – Responsible Consumption and Production                 
Municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)    1.12010 • •
Agdeia-bsteatneds,a ordr iczherdo ndieca rtehs prairtaet dourye d tois ecaasred iionv aadscuultlsa ra dgiesde a3s0e–, c7a0n yceear,r s (%)    13.42016 • L Electronic waste (kg/capita)    0.82016 • •
Agame-bstiaenndt aarird pizoeldlu dtieoant h(p reart e1 0at0t,r0ib0u0 tpaobpleu tloat hioonu)sehold air pollution and    782016 • • PSOro2d eumctiisosnio-bnas seemd bSoOd2i eedm iinss iimonpso (rktgs /(ckgap/citaap)ita)       70..4922001122 •• ••
Traffic deaths (per 100,000 population)    27.82016 • 5 Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita)    26.82010 • •
Life expectancy at birth (years)    66.72016 • D Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)    2.32010 • •
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19)   75.12017 • D SDG13 – Climate Action               
Births attended by skilled health personnel (%)    61.82014 • • Energy-related CO2 emissions (tCO2/capita)    0.32017 • L
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%)   892018 • 5 CO2 emissions embodied in imports (tCO2/capita)    0.12015 • L
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best)   55.02017 • 5 CO2 emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita)    0.02018 • •
Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best)    4.62019 • D
SDG14 – Life Below Water                 
SDG4 – Quality Education                Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)    60.22018 • L
Net primary enrollment rate (%)    80.02012 • • Ocean Health Index: Clean Waters score (worst 0–100 best)    46.92019 • p
Lower secondary completion rate (%)    79.22016 • • Fish caught from overexploited or collapsed stocks (% of total catch)    44.92014 • p
Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24)    87.82018 • • Fish caught by trawling (%)    8.02014 • 5
SDG5 – Gender Equality                    Marine biodiversity threats embodied in imports (per million population)    0.02018 • •
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods (% of females    76.02017 • L SDG15 – Life on Land               
aged 15 to 49 who are married or in unions) Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%)   35.12018 • 5
Ratio of female-to-male mean years of education received (%)    83.32018 • D Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%)   34.42018 • 5
Ratio of female-to-male labor force participation rate (%)    92.02019 • L Red List Index of species survival (worst 0–1 best)    0.82019 • p
Seats held by women in national parliament (%)    21.82020 • 5 Permanent deforestation (% of forest area, 5-year average)    0.22018 • •
SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation               
Population using at least basic drinking water services (%)    58.92017 • 5 Te(rpreers tmriailll iaonnd p forepsuhlwataiotenr) biodiversity threats embodied in imports      0.72018 • •
Population using at least basic sanitation services (%)    29.12017 • p SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions               
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available freshwater resources)    33.22015 • • Homicides (per 100,000 population)    5.02017 • 5
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%)    0.52018 • • Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population)    38.82018 • D
Scarce water consumption embodied in imports (m3/capita)    2.22013 • L Percentage of population who feel safe walking alone at night in the      57.52019 • D
SDG7 – Affordable and Clean Energy                city or area where they live (%)
Population with access to electricity (%)    63.82017 • L Property Rights (worst 1–7 best)    4.42019 • •
Population with access to clean fuels and technology for cooking (%)    13.42016 • 5 Birth registrations with civil authority (% of children under age 5)    66.92018 • •
COto2t aelm eilsesciotrnicsi tfyro omut fpuuetl  (cMomtCbOu2s/tTioWnh f)or electricity and heating per      1.62017 • 5 CCohrilrdurpetnio innv Poelvrceedp itnio cnh Iinldd leaxb (owr o(%rs to 0f –p1o0p0u blaetsiot)n aged 5 to 14)      252.8922001196 •• 5•
5
SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth                Exports of major conventional weapons (TIV constant million USD   * 0.02019 • • . C
Adjusted GDP growth (%)    -2.72018 • • per 100,000 population) ou
Victims of modern slavery (per 1,000 population)    6.92018 • • Press Freedom Index (best 0–100 worst)    32.42019 • p ntr
y
Admuoltbsi lwe-itmh oanne ayc-cseoruvnicte a tp aro bvaidnekr  o(%r o othf epro fpinualantcioianl  iangsteidtu 1ti5o no ro or vwerit)h a     81.62017 • L SGoDvGer1nm7 e–n tP sapretnndeinrgs ohni phse aflothr a tnhde e dGuocaatliosn (% of GDP)      7 . 0201  6 •   p    Prof
Unemployment rate (% of total labor force)    2.62019 • L For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional    NA NA • • iles
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population)   0.52010 • L public finance, including official development assistance (% of GNI)
Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP)    22.02017 • 5
Corporate Tax Haven Score (best 0–100 worst)    50.82019 • •
* Imputed data point
277
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
KIRIBATI  
Oceania
OVERALL PERFORMANCE
SDG SDG
17 1
SDG 100 SDG
16 2
75
Index score Regional average score SDG SDG
15 50 3
25
SDG
SDG 4
14
 na 49.6
Kiribati
SDG SDG
13 5
SDG
12 SDG
6
SDG Global rank NA (OF 166)
SDG
11 SDG
7
SDG SDG
10 SDG 8
9
SPILLOVER INDEX AVERAGE PERFORMANCE BY SDG
100 (best) to 0 (worst)
100
80
60
40
20
0
CURRENT ASSESSMENT – SDG DASHBOARD
  Major challenges           Significant challenges          Challenges remain          SDG achieved          Information unavailable
SDG TRENDS
• 5 D p 5 D D • 5
• • • • 5 • • L
p  Decreasing       5  Stagnating       D  Moderately improving       L  On track or maintaining SDG achievement       •  Information unavailable
Notes: The full title of Goal 2 “Zero Hunger” is “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”.    
  The full title of each SDG is available here: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabledevelopmentgoals
278
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
KIRIBATI
Performance by Indicator
SDG1 – No Poverty    Val u e Yea  rRa t ingTr e nd SDG9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure    Val u e Ye a rRa t ingTr e nd
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%)    NA NA • • Population using the internet (%)    14.62017 • 5
Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%)    NA NA • • Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population)    1.52017 • 5
SDG2 – Zero Hunger                Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related     NA NA • •
Prevalence of undernourishment (%)    2.72017 • L infrastructure (worst 1–5 best)
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%)    NA NA • • The Times Higher Education Universities Ranking: Average score of top 3 * 0.02020 • •
PPrreevvaalleennccee  ooff  wobaesstiintyg,  BinM cIh ≥il d3r0e n(% u nodf aedr u5 lyt epaorps uolfa atigoen )(%)      4N6.A020N1A6 •• p• Scuiennivteifrisci taiensd ( tweochrsnt i0ca–l1 j0o0u rbneaslt a)rticles (per 1,000 population)    0.02018 • p
Human Trophic Level (best 2–3 worst)    2.32017 • 5 Expenditure on research and development (% of GDP)    NA NA • •
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land)    NA NA • • SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities               
Sustainable Nitrogen Management Index (best 0–1.41 worst)    1.02015 • p Gini coefficient adjusted for top income    37.02006 • •
SDG3 – Good Health and Well-Being                SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities               
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)     922017 • L Annual mean concentration of particulate matter of less than      10.62017 • L
Neonatal mortality rate (per 1,000 live births)    22.82018 • D 2.5 microns in diameter (PM2.5) (μg/m3)
Mortality rate, under-5 (per 1,000 live births)    52.52018 • D Access to improved water source, piped (% of urban population)    NA NA • •
Incidence of tuberculosis (per 100,000 population)   349.02018 • L Satisfaction with public transport (%)    NA NA • •
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population)    NA NA • • SDG12 – Responsible Consumption and Production                 
Municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)    1.52016 • •
Agdeia-bsteatneds,a ordr iczherdo ndieca rtehs prairtaet dourye d tois ecaasred iionv aadscuultlsa ra dgiesde a3s0e–, c7a0n yceear,r s (%)    28.42016 • 5 Electronic waste (kg/capita)    0.82016 • •
Agame-bstiaenndt aarird pizoeldlu dtieoant h(p reart e1 0at0t,r0ib0u0 tpaobpleu tloat hioonu)sehold air pollution and    1402016 • • PSOro2d eumctiisosnio-bnas seemd bSoOd2i eedm iinss iimonpso (rktgs /(ckgap/citaap)ita)       NNAA NNAA •• ••
Traffic deaths (per 100,000 population)    4.42016 • L Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita)    NA NA • •
Life expectancy at birth (years)    66.12016 • 5 Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)    NA NA • •
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19)   16.22017 • L SDG13 – Climate Action               
Births attended by skilled health personnel (%)    98.32010 • • Energy-related CO2 emissions (tCO2/capita)    0.72017 • L
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%)   842018 • L CO2 emissions embodied in imports (tCO2/capita)    NA NA • •
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best)   41.02017 • 5 CO2 emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita)    NA NA • •
Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best)    NA NA • •
SDG14 – Life Below Water                 
SDG4 – Quality Education                Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)    40.22018 • 5
Net primary enrollment rate (%)    94.72017 • p Ocean Health Index: Clean Waters score (worst 0–100 best)    28.22019 • 5
Lower secondary completion rate (%)    94.62016 • • Fish caught from overexploited or collapsed stocks (% of total catch)    3.62014 • L
Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24)    NA NA • • Fish caught by trawling (%)    NA NA • •
SDG5 – Gender Equality                    Marine biodiversity threats embodied in imports (per million population)    NA NA • •
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods (% of females    35.82009 • 5 SDG15 – Life on Land               
aged 15 to 49 who are married or in unions) Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%)   32.02018 • 5
Ratio of female-to-male mean years of education received (%)    NA NA • • Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%)   NA NA • •
Ratio of female-to-male labor force participation rate (%)    NA NA • • Red List Index of species survival (worst 0–1 best)    0.82019 • p
Seats held by women in national parliament (%)    8.92020 • 5 Permanent deforestation (% of forest area, 5-year average)    NA NA • •
SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation               
Population using at least basic drinking water services (%)    71.62017 • D Te(rpreers tmriailll iaonnd p forepsuhlwataiotenr) biodiversity threats embodied in imports      NA NA • •
Population using at least basic sanitation services (%)    47.82017 • 5 SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions               
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available freshwater resources)    NA NA • • Homicides (per 100,000 population)    7.52012 • •
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%)    0.02018 • • Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population)    5.42018 • •
Scarce water consumption embodied in imports (m3/capita)    NA NA • • Percentage of population who feel safe walking alone at night in the      NA NA • •
SDG7 – Affordable and Clean Energy                city or area where they live (%)
Population with access to electricity (%)    98.62017 • L Property Rights (worst 1–7 best)    NA NA • •
Population with access to clean fuels and technology for cooking (%)    5.52016 • 5 Birth registrations with civil authority (% of children under age 5)    93.52018 • •
COto2t aelm eilsesciotrnicsi tfyro omut fpuuetl  (cMomtCbOu2s/tTioWnh f)or electricity and heating per      NA NA • • CCohrilrdurpetnio innv Poelvrceedp itnio cnh Iinldd leaxb (owr o(%rs to 0f –p1o0p0u blaetsiot)n aged 5 to 14)      NNAA NNAA •• ••
5
SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth                Exports of major conventional weapons (TIV constant million USD   * 0.02019 • • . C
Adjusted GDP growth (%)    -5.52018 • • per 100,000 population) ou
Victims of modern slavery (per 1,000 population)    NA NA • • Press Freedom Index (best 0–100 worst)    NA NA • • ntr
y
Admuoltbsi lwe-itmh oanne ayc-cseoruvnicte a tp aro bvaidnekr  o(%r o othf epro fpinualantcioianl  iangsteidtu 1ti5o no ro or vwerit)h a     NA NA • • SGoDvGer1nm7 e–n tP sapretnndeinrgs ohni phse aflothr a tnhde e dGuocaatliosn (% of GDP)      23 . 9200  1 •   •    Prof
Unemployment rate (% of total labor force)    NA NA • • For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional    NA NA • • iles
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population)   NA NA • • public finance, including official development assistance (% of GNI)
Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP)   100.52017 • L
Corporate Tax Haven Score (best 0–100 worst) * 0.02019 • •
* Imputed data point
279
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
KOREA, DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF  
East and South Asia
OVERALL PERFORMANCE
SDG SDG
17 1
SDG 100 SDG
16 2
75
Index score Regional average score 1SD5G 50 S3DG
25
SDG
SDG 4
14
na 67.2 Korea, Dem. 
SDG Rep. of SDG
13 5
12 SDG
6
SDG Global rank NA (OF 166)
SDG
11 SDG
7
SDG SDG
10 SDG 8
9
SPILLOVER INDEX AVERAGE PERFORMANCE BY SDG
100 (best) to 0 (worst)
100
80
60
40
20
0
CURRENT ASSESSMENT – SDG DASHBOARD
  Major challenges           Significant challenges          Challenges remain          SDG achieved          Information unavailable
SDG TRENDS
• D D • D D D L 5
• 5 • L 5 p 5 •
p  Decreasing       5  Stagnating       D  Moderately improving       L  On track or maintaining SDG achievement       •  Information unavailable
Notes: The full title of Goal 2 “Zero Hunger” is “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”.    
  The full title of each SDG is available here: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabledevelopmentgoals
280
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
KOREA, DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF
Performance by Indicator
SDG1 – No Poverty    Val u e Yea  rRa t ingTr e nd SDG9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure    Val u e Ye a rRa t ingTr e nd
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%) * NA NA • • Population using the internet (%)    0.02012 • •
Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%) * NA NA • • Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population)    15.02017 • 5
SDG2 – Zero Hunger                Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related     NA NA • •
Prevalence of undernourishment (%)    47.82017 • p infrastructure (worst 1–5 best)
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%)    27.92012 • D The Times Higher Education Universities Ranking: Average score of top 3 * 0.02020 • •
PPrreevvaalleennccee  ooff  wobaesstiintyg,  BinM cIh ≥il d3r0e n(% u nodf aedr u5 lyt epaorps uolfa atigoen )(%)      46..0822001126 •• LL Scuiennivteifrisci taiensd ( tweochrsnt i0ca–l1 j0o0u rbneaslt a)rticles (per 1,000 population)    0.02018 • 5
Human Trophic Level (best 2–3 worst)    2.12017 • L Expenditure on research and development (% of GDP) * 0.02017 • •
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land)    4.02017 • L SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities               
Sustainable Nitrogen Management Index (best 0–1.41 worst)    0.52015 • 5 Gini coefficient adjusted for top income    NA NA • •
SDG3 – Good Health and Well-Being                SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities               
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)     892017 • D Annual mean concentration of particulate matter of less than      32.02017 • D
2.5 microns in diameter (PM2.5) (μg/m3)
NMeoorntaaltitayl  rmatoer,t ualnitdye rra-t5e ( (ppeerr 1 1,0,00000 l ilvivee b birirtthhss))      198..7222001188 •• LL Access to improved water source, piped (% of urban population)    76.02017 • p
Incidence of tuberculosis (per 100,000 population)   513.02018 • 5 Satisfaction with public transport (%)    NA NA • •
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population)    NA NA • • SDG12 – Responsible Consumption and Production                 
Municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)    NA NA • •
Agdeia-bsteatneds,a ordr iczherdo ndieca rtehs prairtaet dourye d tois ecaasred iionv aadscuultlsa ra dgiesde a3s0e–, c7a0n yceear,r s (%)    25.62016 • 5 Electronic waste (kg/capita)    NA NA • •
Agame-bstiaenndt aarird pizoeldlu dtieoant h(p reart e1 0at0t,r0ib0u0 tpaobpleu tloat hioonu)sehold air pollution and    2072016 • • PSOro2d eumctiisosnio-bnas seemd bSoOd2i eedm iinss iimonpso (rktgs /(ckgap/citaap)ita)       240..1522001122 •• ••
Traffic deaths (per 100,000 population)    20.82013 • • Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita)    5.52010 • •
Life expectancy at birth (years)    71.92016 • 5 Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)    0.12010 • •
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19)   0.32017 • L SDG13 – Climate Action               
Births attended by skilled health personnel (%)   100.02009 • • Energy-related CO2 emissions (tCO2/capita)    1.82017 • L
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%)   972018 • L CO2 emissions embodied in imports (tCO2/capita)    0.02015 • L
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best)   71.02017 • L CO2 emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita)    NA NA • •
Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best)    NA NA • •
SDG14 – Life Below Water                 
SDG4 – Quality Education                Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)    0.02018 • 5
Net primary enrollment rate (%)    94.02009 • • Ocean Health Index: Clean Waters score (worst 0–100 best)    53.62019 • 5
Lower secondary completion rate (%)    NA NA • • Fish caught from overexploited or collapsed stocks (% of total catch)    21.82014 • L
Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24)   100.02008 • • Fish caught by trawling (%)    30.02014 • p
SDG5 – Gender Equality                    Marine biodiversity threats embodied in imports (per million population)    0.02018 • •
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods (% of females    89.82014 • L SDG15 – Life on Land               
aged 15 to 49 who are married or in unions) Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%)   11.62018 • 5
Ratio of female-to-male mean years of education received (%)    NA NA • • Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%)   0.02018 • 5
Ratio of female-to-male labor force participation rate (%)    85.12019 • L Red List Index of species survival (worst 0–1 best)    0.92019 • p
Seats held by women in national parliament (%)    17.62020 • 5 Permanent deforestation (% of forest area, 5-year average)    0.12018 • •
SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation               
Population using at least basic drinking water services (%)    94.52017 • 5 Te(rpreers tmriailll iaonnd p forepsuhlwataiotenr) biodiversity threats embodied in imports      0.02018 • •
Population using at least basic sanitation services (%)    83.22017 • D SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions               
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available freshwater resources)    27.72005 • • Homicides (per 100,000 population) * 4.42015 • •
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%)    0.02018 • • Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population)    NA NA • •
Scarce water consumption embodied in imports (m3/capita)    0.22013 • L Percentage of population who feel safe walking alone at night in the      NA NA • •
SDG7 – Affordable and Clean Energy                city or area where they live (%)
Population with access to electricity (%)    43.92017 • D Property Rights (worst 1–7 best)    NA NA • •
Population with access to clean fuels and technology for cooking (%)    10.82016 • 5 Birth registrations with civil authority (% of children under age 5)   100.02018 • •
COto2t aelm eilsesciotrnicsi tfyro omut fpuuetl  (cMomtCbOu2s/tTioWnh f)or electricity and heating per      1.22017 • L CCohrilrdurpetnio innv Poelvrceedp itnio cnh Iinldd leaxb (owr o(%rs to 0f –p1o0p0u blaetsiot)n aged 5 to 14)      N1A720N1A9 •• D•
5
SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth                Exports of major conventional weapons (TIV constant million USD   * 0.02019 • • . C
Adjusted GDP growth (%)    NA NA • • per 100,000 population) ou
Victims of modern slavery (per 1,000 population)   104.62018 • • Press Freedom Index (best 0–100 worst)    83.42019 • 5 ntr
y
Admuoltbsi lwe-itmh oanne ayc-cseoruvnicte a tp aro bvaidnekr  o(%r o othf epro fpinualantcioianl  iangsteidtu 1ti5o no ro or vwerit)h a     NA NA • • SGoDvGer1nm7 e–n tP sapretnndeinrgs ohni phse aflothr a tnhde e dGuocaatliosn (% of GDP)      N  A N  A •   •    Prof
Unemployment rate (% of total labor force)    2.72019 • L For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional    NA NA • • iles
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population)   0.02010 • L public finance, including official development assistance (% of GNI)
Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP)    NA NA • •
Corporate Tax Haven Score (best 0–100 worst) * 0.02019 • •
* Imputed data point
281
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
KOREA, REPUBLIC OF  
OECD countries
OVERALL PERFORMANCE
SDG SDG
17 1
SDG 100 SDG
16 2
75
Index score Regional average score SDG SDG
15 50 3
25
SDG
SDG 4
14
78.3 77.3 Korea, 
SDG Rep. of SDG
13 5
SDG
12 SDG
6
SDG Global rank 20 (OF 166)
SDG
11 SDG
7
SDG SDG
10 SDG 8
9
SPILLOVER INDEX AVERAGE PERFORMANCE BY SDG
100 (best) to 0 (worst)
100
80
60
40
20
0
CURRENT ASSESSMENT – SDG DASHBOARD
  Major challenges           Significant challenges          Challenges remain          SDG achieved          Information unavailable
SDG TRENDS
L D L L D L D L L
• D • 5 5 p D D
p  Decreasing       5  Stagnating       D  Moderately improving       L  On track or maintaining SDG achievement       •  Information unavailable
Notes: The full title of Goal 2 “Zero Hunger” is “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”.    
  The full title of each SDG is available here: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabledevelopmentgoals
282
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
KOREA, REPUBLIC OF
Performance by Indicator
SDG1 – No Poverty    Va lu e Ye a rRa t ingTr e nd SDG9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure    Va lu e Yea  rRa t ingTr e nd
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%)    0.5 2020 • L Population using the internet (%)    96.0 2018 • L
Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%)    0.7 2020 • L Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population)   113.6 2018 • L
Poverty rate after taxes and transfers (%)    17.4 2017 • • Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related     3.7 2018 • L
SDG2 – Zero Hunger                  infrastructure (worst 1–5 best)
Prevalence of undernourishment (%)    2.5 2017 • L Thuen Tivimerseist iHesig (wheorr Estd 0u–c1at0io0 nb eUsnt)iversities Ranking: Average score of top 3    64.1 2020 • •
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%)    2.5 2010 • L Scientific and technical journal articles (per 1,000 population)    1.3 2018 • L
Prevalence of wasting in children under 5 years of age (%)    1.2 2010 • L Expenditure on research and development (% of GDP)    4.6 2017 • L
Prevalence of obesity, BMI ≥ 30 (% of adult population)    4.7 2016 • L Researchers (per 1,000 employed population)    15.3 2018 • L
Human Trophic Level (best 2–3 worst)    2.3 2017 • p  Triadic patent families filed (per million population)    42.8 2017 • L
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land)    6.7 2017 • L Gap in internet access by income (percentage points)    1.9 2018 • L
SYuiesltda ignaapb lcel oNsiutrroe g(%en o Mf panoategnetmiael ynite Ilndd)ex (best 0–1.41 worst)      N0.A6 20N1A5 •• p• Waonmde enn ignin seceiernincge) and engineering (% of tertiary graduates in science     24.0 2015 • •
SDG3 – Good Health and Well-Being                    SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities               
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)     11 2017 • L Gini coefficient adjusted for top income    32.3 2012 • •
Neonatal mortality rate (per 1,000 live births)    1.5 2018 • L Palma ratio    1.4 2017 • •
Mortality rate, under-5 (per 1,000 live births)    3.2 2018 • L Elderly poverty rate (% of population aged 66 or over)    43.8 2017 • •
Incidence of tuberculosis (per 100,000 population)    66.0 2018 • D SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities               
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population)    NA NA • •
Age-standardized death rate due to cardiovascular disease, cancer,     7.8 2016 • L An2.n5u mali cmroenasn  icno dnicaemnetrtaetri o(PnM o2f .p5a) r(tμicgu/mlat3e) matter of less than      25.0 2017 • D
diabetes, or chronic respiratory disease in adults aged 30–70 years (%) Access to improved water source, piped (% of urban population)    NA NA • •
Age-standardized death rate attributable to household air pollution and    20 2016 • • Satisfaction with public transport (%)    73.2 2019 • L
Traamffibc ideenat tahirs  p(poellru 1ti0o0n,0 (0p0e rp 1o0p0u,0la0t0io pno)pulation)    9.8 2016 • L Population with rent overburden (%)    3.1 2012 • •
Life expectancy at birth (years)    82.7 2016 • L SDG12 – Responsible Consumption and Production               
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19)   1.4 2017 • L Electronic waste (kg/capita)    13.1 2016 • •
Births attended by skilled health personnel (%)   100.0 2015 • L Production-based SO2 emissions (kg/capita)    39.7 2012 • •
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%)   98.0 2018 • L SO2 emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)     9.9 2012 • •
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best)   86.0 2017 • L Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita)    30.2 2010 • •
Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best)    5.9 2019 • L Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)    6.9 2010 • •
Gap in life expectancy at birth among regions (years)    2.5 2014 • • Non-recycled municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)    0.4 2016 • •
Gap in self-reported health status by income (percentage points)    14.4 2017 • L SDG13 – Climate Action               
Daily smokers (% of population aged 15 and over)    17.5 2017 • L Energy-related CO2 emissions (tCO2/capita)    11.8 2017 • p
SDG4 – Quality Education                CO2 emissions embodied in imports (tCO2/capita)    1.7 2015 • 5
Net primary enrollment rate (%) * 97.4 2017 • L CO2 emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita)    1.3 2018 • •
Lower secondary completion rate (%) * 97.4 2017 • L Effective carbon rate (EUR/tCO2)    9.9 2016 • •
Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24)    NA NA • • SDG14 – Life Below Water               
Participation rate in pre-primary organized learning (% of children aged 4 to 6)    95.9 2017 • L Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)    24.2 2018 • 5
Tertiary educational attainment (% of population aged 25 to 34)    69.6 2018 • L Ocean Health Index: Clean Waters score (worst 0–100 best)    59.8 2019 • p
PISA score (worst 0–600 best)   519.7 2018 • L Fish caught from overexploited or collapsed stocks (% of total catch)    6.1 2014 • L
VURaenrsdiialetieiroannct  hisnite usvcdeieernns tcisne   ispnce sirecfnoiercmnec a(e%n (c %eo f e o1xfp5 1l-a5yie-nyaeerd-a obr-lydo ssldo)sc)io-economic status (%)        14845...200 222000111888 ••• LLL FMisahri ncaeu bgihotd bivye rtsraitwy ltihnrge a(%ts) embodied in imports (per million population)     450..41 22001148 •• 5•
SDG15 – Life on Land               
SDG5 – Gender Equality                Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%)   32.5 2018 • 5
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods   * 83.4 2017 • L Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%)   36.8 2018 • 5
RRaa(%ttiioo o  oof fff  effeemmmaaalellees-- attoog--emmd aa1ll5ee   tmlaob e4oa9rn  wf yoehrcaoer s ap roeafr  metidcaiurprcaiaettdioio nonr r  rainetc eue (ni%vioe)nds ()%)      8791..19 22001189 •• 5L RPeerdm Laisnte Inntd dexe foofr espsteactiieosn s (u%rv oivf afol (rwesot rasrte 0a–, 15 -byeesatr) average)      00..70 22001198 •• p•
Seats held by women in national parliament (%)    19.0 2020 • 5 Terrestrial and freshwater biodiversity threats embodied in imports      2.5 2018 • •
Gender wage gap (% of male median wage)    34.1 2018 • 5 (per million population)
Gender gap in time spent doing unpaid work (minutes/day)   166.0 2014 • • SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions               
Homicides (per 100,000 population)    0.6 2017 • L
SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation                Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population)    35.4 2018 • p
PPooppuullaattiioonn  uussiinngg  aatt  lleeaasstt  bbaassiicc  dsarninitkaintigo nw saetrevri cseersv (i%ce)s (%)     19090..80 22001177 •• •• Pecrictye notra agree ao wf phoepreu ltahteioyn l iwveh (o% f)eel safe walking alone at night in the      74.8 2019 • L
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available freshwater resources)    84.8 2005 • • Property Rights (worst 1–7 best)    5.0 2019 • •
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%)    76.8 2018 • • Birth registrations with civil authority (% of children under age 5)    NA NA • • 5
SPPcooappruuclleaa ttwiiooannte  uur ssciinnoggn  sssuaamffeepllyyt  immonaa nneaamggbeeoddd  wsiaeandtie tianr ts iieomrnvp isoceerrtsvs i (c(%me)s3 (/%ca)pita)        199789...729 222000111377 ••• LLL CCExohprilrodurrptestn ioo ifnn mv Poealjvroceerd pc oitnino cvnhe Iinnldtdi oleanxb a(olw rw o(%ersa tpo 0of –pn1os0 p(0Tu IblVae tcsioot)nn satganetd m 5 itlloio 1n4 U)SD    *    5901...020 222000111969 ••• L•• . Country
SDG7 – Affordable and Clean Energy                per 100,000 population)  P
PPooppuullaattiioonn  wwiitthh  aacccceessss  ttoo  eclleeacntr ifcuiteyls ( %an)d technology for cooking (%)     19060..70 22001176 •• LL PPererssso nFrse heedlodm in I npdriesoxn (b (pesetr  01–0100,000 w0 oprospt)ulation)     12048..93 22001197 •• 5L rofile
s
COel2e cetmricisistyio onus tfproumt ( MfuteCl Oco2/mTWbuhs)tion for electricity and heating per total    1.1 2017 • 5 SGoDvGer1n7m e–n Pt sapretnndeinrgs honip hse aflothr  atnhde e Gduocaatlison (% of GDP)  *  8 . 9 201  7 •   L  
Share of renewable energy in total primary energy supply (%)    1.9 2018 • 5 For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional    0.1 2017 • 5
SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth                public finance, including official development assistance (% of GNI)
Adjusted GDP growth (%)    -0.2 2018 • • Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP)    NA NA • •
VAidmcutoilmtbsis lw eo-iftm hm oaonnde aeycr-ncseo srulvanivctee ar ytp  ar(op bveairdn 1ek,r0  o(0%r0 o  pothfo epprou fplianutailoantncio)ianl  iangsteidtu 1ti5o no ro or vwerit)h a       914..99 22001187 •• L• CFSihonirafptneocdria aptle rSo Tefaictxrse  Hocafy v mSecunol tSrienc oa(brteieo s(ntb a0els–s t1( U00–S01$ w0 b0oi lrwlsioto)nr)st) *     6014...076 222000121906 ••• •••
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population)   1.0 2010 • L
Employment-to-population ratio (%)    66.8 2019 • L
Youth not in employment, education or training (NEET)      NA NA • •
(% of population aged 15 to 29)
* Imputed data point
283
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
KUWAIT  
Middle East and North Africa
OVERALL PERFORMANCE
SDG SDG
17 1
SDG 100 SDG
16 2
75
Index score Regional average score SDG SDG
15 50 3
25
SDG
SDG 4
14
63.1 66.3
Kuwait
SDG SDG
13 5
SDG
12 SDG
6
SDG Global rank 112 (OF 166)
SDG
11 SDG
7
SDG SDG
10 SDG 8
9
SPILLOVER INDEX AVERAGE PERFORMANCE BY SDG
100 (best) to 0 (worst)
100
80
60
40
20
0
CURRENT ASSESSMENT – SDG DASHBOARD
  Major challenges           Significant challenges          Challenges remain          SDG achieved          Information unavailable
SDG TRENDS
• 5 D 5 5 D D L D
• D • 5 p 5 p •
p  Decreasing       5  Stagnating       D  Moderately improving       L  On track or maintaining SDG achievement       •  Information unavailable
Notes: The full title of Goal 2 “Zero Hunger” is “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”.    
  The full title of each SDG is available here: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabledevelopmentgoals
284
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
KUWAIT
Performance by Indicator
SDG1 – No Poverty    Val u e Yea  rRa t ingTr e nd SDG9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure    Val u e Ye a rRa t ingTr e nd
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%) * NA NA • • Population using the internet (%)    99.62018 • L
Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%) * NA NA • • Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population)   131.12018 • L
SDG2 – Zero Hunger                Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related     3.02018 • L
Prevalence of undernourishment (%)    2.82017 • L infrastructure (worst 1–5 best)
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%)    4.92015 • L The Times Higher Education Universities Ranking: Average score of top 3    25.22020 • •
PPHrrueemvvaaalleennn Tccreeo  poohff  iwocb aLesestviinetylg ,(  BbinMe csIth ≥ 2il d–3r30e  wn(% ou rnosdft )aedr u5 lyt epaorps uolfa atigoen )(%)        3327...129222000111567 ••• Lpp SExcupieneninvtdeifiritscui rtaeien osdn ( t wreeocshersantr ic0cha– la1 nj0od0u  drbneeavselt la)orptimcleens t( (p%e ro 1f ,G0D0P0) population)      00..2122001187 •• 5p
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land)    5.72017 • L SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities               
Sustainable Nitrogen Management Index (best 0–1.41 worst)    0.72015 • p Gini coefficient adjusted for top income    NA NA • •
SDG3 – Good Health and Well-Being                SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities               
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)     122017 • L Annual mean concentration of particulate matter of less than      60.72017 • p
2.5 microns in diameter (PM2.5) (μg/m3)
Neonatal mortality rate (per 1,000 live births)    4.52018 • L
Mortality rate, under-5 (per 1,000 live births)    7.92018 • L Access to improved water source, piped (% of urban population)    NA NA • •
Incidence of tuberculosis (per 100,000 population)    23.02018 • 5 Satisfaction with public transport (%)    67.92018 • L
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population)    0.02018 • L SDG12 – Responsible Consumption and Production                 
Municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)    1.12010 • •
Agdeia-bsteatneds,a ordr iczherdo ndieca rtehs prairtaet dourye d tois ecaasred iionv aadscuultlsa ra dgiesde a3s0e–, c7a0n yceear,r s (%)    17.42016 • L Electronic waste (kg/capita)    15.82016 • •
Agame-bstiaenndt aarird pizoeldlu dtieoant h(p reart e1 0at0t,r0ib0u0 tpaobpleu tloat hioonu)sehold air pollution and    1042016 • • PSOro2d eumctiisosnio-bnas seemd bSoOd2i eedm iinss iimonpso (rktgs /(ckgap/citaap)ita)      23854..5222001122 •• ••
Traffic deaths (per 100,000 population)    17.62016 • D Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita)    32.02010 • •
Life expectancy at birth (years)    74.82016 • 5 Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)    57.82010 • •
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19)   8.22017 • L SDG13 – Climate Action               
Births attended by skilled health personnel (%)    99.92015 • L Energy-related CO2 emissions (tCO2/capita)    23.32017 • 5
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%)   992018 • L CO2 emissions embodied in imports (tCO2/capita)    4.72015 • D
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best)   76.02017 • L CO2 emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita)    0.32018 • •
Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best)    6.22018 • L
SDG14 – Life Below Water                 
SDG4 – Quality Education                Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)    32.12018 • 5
Net primary enrollment rate (%)    82.62018 • p Ocean Health Index: Clean Waters score (worst 0–100 best)    59.62019 • p
Lower secondary completion rate (%)    94.32018 • L Fish caught from overexploited or collapsed stocks (% of total catch)    NA NA • •
Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24)    99.12018 • • Fish caught by trawling (%)    48.42014 • p
SDG5 – Gender Equality                    Marine biodiversity threats embodied in imports (per million population)    0.42018 • •
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods (% of females * 64.62017 • 5 SDG15 – Life on Land               
aged 15 to 49 who are married or in unions) Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%)   59.02018 • L
Ratio of female-to-male mean years of education received (%)   115.92018 • L Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%)   NA NA • •
Ratio of female-to-male labor force participation rate (%)    67.22019 • 5 Red List Index of species survival (worst 0–1 best)    0.82019 • p
Seats held by women in national parliament (%)    6.42020 • 5 Permanent deforestation (% of forest area, 5-year average)    NA NA • •
SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation               
Population using at least basic drinking water services (%)   100.02017 • L Te(rpreers tmriailll iaonnd p forepsuhlwataiotenr) biodiversity threats embodied in imports      5.22018 • •
Population using at least basic sanitation services (%)   100.02017 • L SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions               
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available freshwater resources)   2075.02000 • • Homicides (per 100,000 population)    1.82012 • •
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%)    43.12018 • • Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population)    9.12015 • •
Scarce water consumption embodied in imports (m3/capita)   287.92013 • D Percentage of population who feel safe walking alone at night in the      85.82006 • •
SDG7 – Affordable and Clean Energy                city or area where they live (%)
Population with access to electricity (%)   100.02017 • L Property Rights (worst 1–7 best)    4.42019 • •
Population with access to clean fuels and technology for cooking (%)   100.02016 • L Birth registrations with civil authority (% of children under age 5)    NA NA • •
COto2t aelm eilsesciotrnicsi tfyro omut fpuuetl  (cMomtCbOu2s/tTioWnh f)or electricity and heating per      1.32017 • D CCohrilrdurpetnio innv Poelvrceedp itnio cnh Iinldd leaxb (owr o(%rs to 0f –p1o0p0u blaetsiot)n aged 5 to 14)      N4A020N1A9 •• p•
5
SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth                Exports of major conventional weapons (TIV constant million USD   * 0.02019 • • . C
Adjusted GDP growth (%)    -3.92018 • • per 100,000 population) ou
Victims of modern slavery (per 1,000 population) * NA NA • • Press Freedom Index (best 0–100 worst)    33.92019 • p ntr
y
Admuoltbsi lwe-itmh oanne ayc-cseoruvnicte a tp aro bvaidnekr  o(%r o othf epro fpinualantcioianl  iangsteidtu 1ti5o no ro or vwerit)h a     79.82017 • L SGoDvGer1nm7 e–n tP sapretnndeinrgs ohni phse aflothr a tnhde e dGuocaatliosn (% of GDP)      5 . 6200  6 •   •    Prof
Unemployment rate (% of total labor force)    2.22019 • L For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional    NA NA • • iles
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population)   7.32010 • L public finance, including official development assistance (% of GNI)
Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP)    NA NA • •
Corporate Tax Haven Score (best 0–100 worst) * 0.02019 • •
* Imputed data point
285
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC  
Eastern Europe and Central Asia
OVERALL PERFORMANCE
SDG SDG
17 1
SDG 100 SDG
16 2
75
Index score Regional average score SDG SDG
15 50 3
25
SDG
SDG 4
14
73.0 70.9 Kyrgyz 
SDG Republic SDG
13 5
SDG
12 SDG
6
SDG Global rank 52 (OF 166)
SDG
11 SDG
7
SDG SDG
10 SDG 8
9
SPILLOVER INDEX AVERAGE PERFORMANCE BY SDG
100 (best) to 0 (worst)
100
80
60
40
20
0
CURRENT ASSESSMENT – SDG DASHBOARD
  Major challenges           Significant challenges          Challenges remain          SDG achieved          Information unavailable
SDG TRENDS
L D D D 5 D L L D
• 5 • L • 5 D p
p  Decreasing       5  Stagnating       D  Moderately improving       L  On track or maintaining SDG achievement       •  Information unavailable
Notes: The full title of Goal 2 “Zero Hunger” is “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”.    
  The full title of each SDG is available here: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabledevelopmentgoals
286
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
Performance by Indicator
SDG1 – No Poverty    Val u e Yea  rRa t ingTr e nd SDG9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure    Val u e Ye a rRa t ingTr e nd
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%)    0.82020 • L Population using the internet (%)    38.02017 • L
Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%)    15.62020 • L Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population)    94.02018 • L
SDG2 – Zero Hunger                Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related     2.42018 • L
Prevalence of undernourishment (%)    7.12017 • L infrastructure (worst 1–5 best)
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%)    12.92014 • D The Times Higher Education Universities Ranking: Average score of top 3 * 0.02020 • •
PPHrrueemvvaaalleennn Tccreeo  poohff  iwocb aLesestviinetylg ,(  BbinMe csIth ≥ 2il d–3r30e  wn(% ou rnosdft )aedr u5 lyt epaorps uolfa atigoen )(%)        1226...836222000111467 ••• LpD SExcupieneninvtdeifiritscui rtaeien osdn ( t wreeocshersantr ic0cha– la1 nj0od0u  drbneeavselt la)orptimcleens t( (p%e ro 1f ,G0D0P0) population)      00..0122001187 •• 5p
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land)    3.12017 • L SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities               
Sustainable Nitrogen Management Index (best 0–1.41 worst)    0.62015 • p Gini coefficient adjusted for top income    32.82017 • •
SDG3 – Good Health and Well-Being                SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities               
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)     602017 • L Annual mean concentration of particulate matter of less than      22.72017 • 5
2.5 microns in diameter (PM2.5) (μg/m3)
NMInecooirdntaealntitacyle  rm oatfoe tr,ut uablnietdryce rura-lto5e s( i(psp e(eprr e1 1r,0, 01000000 l ,il0viv0ee0 b  bpiriortthphsus)l)ation)       1111386...290222000111888 ••• LLD ASactciesfsasc ttoio inm wpritohv epdu bwliact etrra snosuprocret,  (p%ip)ed (% of urban population)      9676..8722001179 •• 5p
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population)    0.12018 • L SDG12 – Responsible Consumption and Production                 
Municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)    1.42015 • •
Agdeia-bsteatneds,a ordr iczherdo ndieca rtehs prairtaet dourye d tois ecaasred iionv aadscuultlsa ra dgiesde a3s0e–, c7a0n yceear,r s (%)    24.92016 • D Electronic waste (kg/capita)    1.22016 • •
Agame-bstiaenndt aarird pizoeldlu dtieoant h(p reart e1 0at0t,r0ib0u0 tpaobpleu tloat hioonu)sehold air pollution and    1112016 • • PSOro2d eumctiisosnio-bnas seemd bSoOd2i eedm iinss iimonpso (rktgs /(ckgap/citaap)ita)       672..4322001122 •• ••
Traffic deaths (per 100,000 population)    15.42016 • L Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita)    18.92010 • •
Life expectancy at birth (years)    71.42016 • D Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)    0.82010 • •
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19)   32.82017 • L SDG13 – Climate Action               
Births attended by skilled health personnel (%)    98.42014 • • Energy-related CO2 emissions (tCO2/capita)    1.42017 • L
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%)   942018 • L CO2 emissions embodied in imports (tCO2/capita)    0.52015 • L
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best)   70.02017 • L CO2 emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita)   114.52018 • •
Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best)    5.72019 • L
SDG14 – Life Below Water                 
SDG4 – Quality Education                Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)    NA NA • •
Net primary enrollment rate (%)    89.92018 • 5 Ocean Health Index: Clean Waters score (worst 0–100 best)    NA NA • •
Lower secondary completion rate (%)    95.12018 • L Fish caught from overexploited or collapsed stocks (% of total catch)    NA NA • •
Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24)    99.82018 • • Fish caught by trawling (%)    NA NA • •
SDG5 – Gender Equality                    Marine biodiversity threats embodied in imports (per million population)    0.02018 • •
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods (% of females    66.22014 • 5 SDG15 – Life on Land               
aged 15 to 49 who are married or in unions) Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%)   26.72018 • 5
Ratio of female-to-male mean years of education received (%)   101.92018 • L Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%)   36.72018 • 5
Ratio of female-to-male labor force participation rate (%)    63.02019 • p Red List Index of species survival (worst 0–1 best)    1.02019 • L
Seats held by women in national parliament (%)    19.22020 • p Permanent deforestation (% of forest area, 5-year average)    0.02018 • •
SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation               
Population using at least basic drinking water services (%)    87.52017 • 5 Te(rpreers tmriailll iaonnd p forepsuhlwataiotenr) biodiversity threats embodied in imports      0.02018 • •
Population using at least basic sanitation services (%)    96.52017 • L SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions               
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available freshwater resources)    50.02005 • • Homicides (per 100,000 population)    4.22017 • L
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%)    0.22018 • • Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population)    16.52018 • L
Scarce water consumption embodied in imports (m3/capita)    6.82013 • L Percentage of population who feel safe walking alone at night in the      62.32019 • L
SDG7 – Affordable and Clean Energy                city or area where they live (%)
Population with access to electricity (%)   100.02017 • L Property Rights (worst 1–7 best)    3.52019 • •
Population with access to clean fuels and technology for cooking (%)    81.32016 • L Birth registrations with civil authority (% of children under age 5)    98.92018 • •
COto2t aelm eilsesciotrnicsi tfyro omut fpuuetl  (cMomtCbOu2s/tTioWnh f)or electricity and heating per      0.62017 • L CCohrilrdurpetnio innv Poelvrceedp itnio cnh Iinldd leaxb (owr o(%rs to 0f –p1o0p0u blaetsiot)n aged 5 to 14)      253.0822001196 •• 5•
5
SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth                Exports of major conventional weapons (TIV constant million USD      0.12019 • • . C
Adjusted GDP growth (%)    -3.62018 • • per 100,000 population) ou
Victims of modern slavery (per 1,000 population)    4.12018 • • Press Freedom Index (best 0–100 worst)    29.92019 • L ntr
y
Admuoltbsi lwe-itmh oanne ayc-cseoruvnicte a tp aro bvaidnekr  o(%r o othf epro fpinualantcioianl  iangsteidtu 1ti5o no ro or vwerit)h a     39.92017 • L SGoDvGer1nm7 e–n tP sapretnndeinrgs ohni phse aflothr a tnhde e dGuocaatliosn (% of GDP)      9 . 2201  6 •   p    Prof
Unemployment rate (% of total labor force)    6.32019 • L For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional    NA NA • • iles
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population)   0.12010 • L public finance, including official development assistance (% of GNI)
Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP)    28.62018 • p
Corporate Tax Haven Score (best 0–100 worst) * 0.02019 • •
* Imputed data point
287
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
LAO PEOPLE’S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
East and South Asia
OVERALL PERFORMANCE
SDG SDG
17 1
SDG 100 SDG
16 2
75
Index score Regional average score SDG SDG
15 50 3
25
SDG
SDG 4
14
62.1 67.2
Lao PDR
SDG SDG
13 5
SDG
12 SDG
6
SDG Global rank 116 (OF 166)
SDG
11 SDG
7
SDG SDG
10 SDG 8
9
SPILLOVER INDEX AVERAGE PERFORMANCE BY SDG
100 (best) to 0 (worst)
100
80
60
40
20
0
CURRENT ASSESSMENT – SDG DASHBOARD
  Major challenges           Significant challenges          Challenges remain          SDG achieved          Information unavailable
SDG TRENDS
L D D 5 D L D L D
• L • L • p D p
p  Decreasing       5  Stagnating       D  Moderately improving       L  On track or maintaining SDG achievement       •  Information unavailable
Notes: The full title of Goal 2 “Zero Hunger” is “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”.    
  The full title of each SDG is available here: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabledevelopmentgoals
288
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
LAO PEOPLE’S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
Performance by Indicator
SDG1 – No Poverty    Val u e Yea  rRa t ingTr e nd SDG9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure    Val u e Ye a rRa t ingTr e nd
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%)    8.92020 • L Population using the internet (%)    25.52017 • D
Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%)    36.22020 • D Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population)    42.02018 • L
SDG2 – Zero Hunger                Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related     2.42018 • L
Prevalence of undernourishment (%)    16.52017 • 5 infrastructure (worst 1–5 best)
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%)    43.82011 • 5 The Times Higher Education Universities Ranking: Average score of top 3 * 0.02020 • •
PPrreevvaalleennccee  ooff  wobaesstiintyg,  BinM cIh ≥il d3r0e n(% u nodf aedr u5 lyt epaorps uolfa atigoen )(%)      65..4322001116 •• 5L Scuiennivteifrisci taiensd ( tweochrsnt i0ca–l1 j0o0u rbneaslt a)rticles (per 1,000 population)    0.02018 • 5
Human Trophic Level (best 2–3 worst)    2.12017 • L Expenditure on research and development (% of GDP)    0.02002 • •
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land)    4.52017 • L SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities               
Sustainable Nitrogen Management Index (best 0–1.41 worst)    0.42015 • 5 Gini coefficient adjusted for top income    46.82012 • •
SDG3 – Good Health and Well-Being                SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities               
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)     1852017 • L Annual mean concentration of particulate matter of less than      25.12017 • D
NMeoorntaaltitayl  rmatoer,t ualnitdye rra-t5e ( (ppeerr 1 1,0,00000 l ilvivee b birirtthhss))      2427..7322001188 •• LD Ac2c.5e sms itcor oimnsp irno vdeiadm weatteerr ( sPoMu2rc.5e),  (pμipg/emd 3(%) of urban population)    82.32017 • L
Incidence of tuberculosis (per 100,000 population)   162.02018 • D Satisfaction with public transport (%)    71.62018 • •
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population)    0.12018 • L SDG12 – Responsible Consumption and Production                 
Municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)    0.42015 • •
Agdeia-bsteatneds,a ordr iczherdo ndieca rtehs prairtaet dourye d tois ecaasred iionv aadscuultlsa ra dgiesde a3s0e–, c7a0n yceear,r s (%)    27.02016 • 5 Electronic waste (kg/capita)    1.02016 • •
Agame-bstiaenndt aarird pizoeldlu dtieoant h(p reart e1 0at0t,r0ib0u0 tpaobpleu tloat hioonu)sehold air pollution and    1882016 • • PSOro2d eumctiisosnio-bnas seemd bSoOd2i eedm iinss iimonpso (rktgs /(ckgap/citaap)ita)       180..6722001122 •• ••
Traffic deaths (per 100,000 population)    16.62016 • p Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita)    7.62010 • •
Life expectancy at birth (years)    65.82016 • 5 Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)    0.32010 • •
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19)   65.42017 • 5 SDG13 – Climate Action               
Births attended by skilled health personnel (%)    40.12012 • • Energy-related CO2 emissions (tCO2/capita)    0.12017 • L
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%)   682018 • p CO2 emissions embodied in imports (tCO2/capita)    0.12015 • L
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best)   51.02017 • D CO2 emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita)    12.72018 • •
Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best)    4.92018 • •
SDG14 – Life Below Water                 
SDG4 – Quality Education                Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)    NA NA • •
Net primary enrollment rate (%)    91.52018 • p Ocean Health Index: Clean Waters score (worst 0–100 best)    NA NA • •
Lower secondary completion rate (%)    67.12018 • D Fish caught from overexploited or collapsed stocks (% of total catch)    NA NA • •
Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24)    92.52015 • • Fish caught by trawling (%)    NA NA • •
SDG5 – Gender Equality                    Marine biodiversity threats embodied in imports (per million population)    0.02018 • •
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods (% of females    71.62017 • D SDG15 – Life on Land               
aged 15 to 49 who are married or in unions) Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%)   46.52018 • 5
Ratio of female-to-male mean years of education received (%)    85.72018 • L Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%)   19.92018 • 5
Ratio of female-to-male labor force participation rate (%)    96.32019 • L Red List Index of species survival (worst 0–1 best)    0.82019 • p
Seats held by women in national parliament (%)    27.52020 • D Permanent deforestation (% of forest area, 5-year average)    1.02018 • •
SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation               
Population using at least basic drinking water services (%)    82.12017 • L Te(rpreers tmriailll iaonnd p forepsuhlwataiotenr) biodiversity threats embodied in imports      0.02018 • •
Population using at least basic sanitation services (%)    74.52017 • L SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions               
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available freshwater resources)    2.32005 • • Homicides (per 100,000 population) * 7.02015 • •
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%)    0.02018 • • Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population)    NA NA • •
Scarce water consumption embodied in imports (m3/capita)    0.72013 • L Percentage of population who feel safe walking alone at night in the      60.72018 • •
SDG7 – Affordable and Clean Energy                city or area where they live (%)
Population with access to electricity (%)    93.62017 • L Property Rights (worst 1–7 best)    3.92019 • •
Population with access to clean fuels and technology for cooking (%)    5.62016 • 5 Birth registrations with civil authority (% of children under age 5)    73.02018 • •
COto2t aelm eilsesciotrnicsi tfyro omut fpuuetl  (cMomtCbOu2s/tTioWnh f)or electricity and heating per      NA NA • • CCohrilrdurpetnio innv Poelvrceedp itnio cnh Iinldd leaxb (owr o(%rs to 0f –p1o0p0u blaetsiot)n aged 5 to 14)      102.9122001196 •• 5•
5
SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth                Exports of major conventional weapons (TIV constant million USD   * 0.02019 • • . C
Adjusted GDP growth (%)    0.22018 • • per 100,000 population) ou
Victims of modern slavery (per 1,000 population)    9.42018 • • Press Freedom Index (best 0–100 worst)    64.52019 • D ntr
y
Admuoltbsi lwe-itmh oanne ayc-cseoruvnicte a tp aro bvaidnekr  o(%r o othf epro fpinualantcioianl  iangsteidtu 1ti5o no ro or vwerit)h a     29.12017 • • SGoDvGer1nm7 e–n tP sapretnndeinrgs ohni phse aflothr a tnhde e dGuocaatliosn (% of GDP)      3 . 6201  4 •   •    Prof
Unemployment rate (% of total labor force)    0.62019 • L For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional    NA NA • • iles
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population)   0.02010 • L public finance, including official development assistance (% of GNI)
Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP) * 14.32018 • p
Corporate Tax Haven Score (best 0–100 worst) * 0.02019 • •
* Imputed data point
289
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
LATVIA  
OECD Countries
OVERALL PERFORMANCE
SDG SDG
17 1
SDG 100 SDG
16 2
75
Index score Regional average score SDG SDG
15 50 3
25
SDG
SDG 4
14
77.7 77.3
Latvia
SDG SDG
13 5
SDG
12 SDG
6
SDG Global rank 24 (OF 166)
SDG
11 SDG
7
SDG SDG
10 SDG 8
9
SPILLOVER INDEX AVERAGE PERFORMANCE BY SDG
100 (best) to 0 (worst)
100
80
60
40
20
0
CURRENT ASSESSMENT – SDG DASHBOARD
  Major challenges           Significant challenges          Challenges remain          SDG achieved          Information unavailable
SDG TRENDS
D 5 D D L L L L 5
5 D • 5 5 L 5 p
p  Decreasing       5  Stagnating       D  Moderately improving       L  On track or maintaining SDG achievement       •  Information unavailable
Notes: The full title of Goal 2 “Zero Hunger” is “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”.    
  The full title of each SDG is available here: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabledevelopmentgoals
290
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
LATVIA
Performance by Indicator
SDG1 – No Poverty    Va lu e Ye a rRa t ingTr e nd SDG9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure    Va lu e Yea  rRa t ingTr e nd
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%)    0.5 2020 • L Population using the internet (%)    83.6 2018 • L
Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%)    0.9 2020 • L Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population)   130.2 2018 • L
Poverty rate after taxes and transfers (%)    16.6 2017 • p Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related     3.0 2018 • p
SDG2 – Zero Hunger                  infrastructure (worst 1–5 best)
Prevalence of undernourishment (%)    2.5 2017 • L Thuen Tivimerseist iHesig (wheorr Estd 0u–c1at0io0 nb eUsnt)iversities Ranking: Average score of top 3    19.3 2020 • •
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%) * 2.6 2016 • L Scientific and technical journal articles (per 1,000 population)    0.7 2018 • L
Prevalence of wasting in children under 5 years of age (%) * 0.7 2016 • L Expenditure on research and development (% of GDP)    0.5 2017 • p
Prevalence of obesity, BMI ≥ 30 (% of adult population)    23.6 2016 • p Researchers (per 1,000 employed population)    4.1 2018 • p
Human Trophic Level (best 2–3 worst)    2.4 2017 • p  Triadic patent families filed (per million population)    1.8 2017 • 5
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land)    4.3 2017 • L Gap in internet access by income (percentage points)    39.6 2019 • D
SYuiesltda ignaapb lcel oNsiutrroe g(%en o Mf panoategnetmiael ynite Ilndd)ex (best 0–1.41 worst)      404..66 22001155 •• 5• Waonmde enn ignin seceiernincge) and engineering (% of tertiary graduates in science     27.0 2015 • •
SDG3 – Good Health and Well-Being                    SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities               
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)     19 2017 • L Gini coefficient adjusted for top income    39.1 2015 • L
Neonatal mortality rate (per 1,000 live births)    2.0 2018 • L Palma ratio    1.4 2017 • p
Mortality rate, under-5 (per 1,000 live births)    3.9 2018 • L Elderly poverty rate (% of population aged 66 or over)    35.3 2017 • p
Incidence of tuberculosis (per 100,000 population)    29.0 2018 • L SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities               
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population)    0.2 2018 • L
Age-standardized death rate due to cardiovascular disease, cancer,     21.9 2016 • L An2.n5u mali cmroenasn  icno dnicaemnetrtaetri o(PnM o2f .p5a) r(tμicgu/mlat3e) matter of less than      13.4 2017 • L
diabetes, or chronic respiratory disease in adults aged 30–70 years (%) Access to improved water source, piped (% of urban population)    97.2 2017 • L
Age-standardized death rate attributable to household air pollution and    41 2016 • • Satisfaction with public transport (%)    66.5 2018 • 5
Traamffibc ideenat tahirs  p(poellru 1ti0o0n,0 (0p0e rp 1o0p0u,0la0t0io pno)pulation)    9.3 2016 • L Population with rent overburden (%)    2.9 2017 • L
Life expectancy at birth (years)    75.0 2016 • D SDG12 – Responsible Consumption and Production               
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19)   16.2 2017 • L Electronic waste (kg/capita)    11.0 2016 • •
Births attended by skilled health personnel (%)    99.9 2016 • L Production-based SO2 emissions (kg/capita)   114.6 2012 • •
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%)   96.0 2018 • L SO2 emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)     16.0 2012 • •
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best)   71.0 2017 • L Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita)    36.3 2010 • •
Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best)    5.9 2018 • D Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)    7.0 2010 • •
Gap in life expectancy at birth among regions (years)    3.4 2015 • • Non-recycled municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)    0.8 2018 • •
Gap in self-reported health status by income (percentage points)    45.7 2018 • p SDG13 – Climate Action               
Daily smokers (% of population aged 15 and over)    24.1 2014 • • Energy-related CO2 emissions (tCO2/capita)    3.4 2017 • 5
SDG4 – Quality Education                CO2 emissions embodied in imports (tCO2/capita)    1.7 2015 • 5
Net primary enrollment rate (%) * 98.4 2017 • L CO2 emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita)    0.0 2018 • •
Lower secondary completion rate (%) * 98.4 2017 • L Effective carbon rate (EUR/tCO2)    NA NA • •
Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24)    99.8 2018 • • SDG14 – Life Below Water               
Participation rate in pre-primary organized learning (% of children aged 4 to 6)    98.1 2017 • L Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)    95.8 2018 • L
TPeISrAtia srcyo ered u(wcaotriostn 0a–l a6t0t0a ibnemset)nt (% of population aged 25 to 34)     44817..63 22001188 •• LD OFische acna uHgehatlt fhro Inmd oexv:e Crelexapnlo Witeadte orsr  sccoollraep (swedo rsstto 0c–k1s 0(%0  boef stto)tal catch)      5534..60 22001194 •• 5p
VURaenrsdiialetieiroannct  hisnite usvcdeieernns tcisne   ispnce sirecfnoiercmnec a(e%n (c %eo f e o1xfp5 1l-a5yie-nyaeerd-a obr-lydo ssldo)sc)io-economic status (%)        13883...504 222000111888 ••• Lpp FMisahri ncaeu bgihotd bivye rtsraitwy ltihnrge a(%ts) embodied in imports (per million population)     610..02 22001148 •• L•
SDG15 – Life on Land               
SDG5 – Gender Equality                Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%)   97.3 2018 • L
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods   * 77.9 2017 • L Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%)   97.5 2018 • L
RRaa(%ttiioo o  oof fff  effeemmmaaalellees-- attoog--emmd aa1ll5ee   tmlaob e4oa9rn  wf yoehrcaoer s ap roeafr  metidcaiurprcaiaettdioio nonr r  rainetc eue (ni%vioe)nds ()%)     18014..78 22001189 •• LL RPeerdm Laisnte Inntd dexe foofr espsteactiieosn s (u%rv oivf afol (rwesot rasrte 0a–, 15 -byeesatr) average)      10..00 22001198 •• L•
Seats held by women in national parliament (%)    30.0 2020 • L Terrestrial and freshwater biodiversity threats embodied in imports      0.2 2018 • •
Gender wage gap (% of male median wage)    21.1 2014 • • (per million population)
Gender gap in time spent doing unpaid work (minutes/day)   123.5 2003 • • SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions               
Homicides (per 100,000 population)    4.2 2017 • p
SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation                Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population)    28.6 2018 • L
PPooppuullaattiioonn  uussiinngg  aatt  lleeaasstt  bbaassiicc  dsarninitkaintigo nw saetrevri cseersv (i%ce)s (%)      9982..61 22001177 •• •• Pecrictye notra agree ao wf phoepreu ltahteioyn l iwveh (o% f)eel safe walking alone at night in the      58.2 2018 • p
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available freshwater resources)    1.3 2015 • • Property Rights (worst 1–7 best)    4.7 2019 • •
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%)    90.7 2018 • • Birth registrations with civil authority (% of children under age 5)   100.0 2018 • • 5
SPPcooappruuclleaa ttwiiooannte  uur ssciinnoggn  sssuaamffeepllyyt  immonaa nneaamggbeeoddd  wsiaeandtie tianr ts iieomrnvp isoceerrtsvs i (c(%me)s3 (/%ca)pita)        198755...428 222000111377 ••• LLL CCExohprilrodurrptestn ioo ifnn mv Poealjvroceerd pc oitnino cvnhe Iinnldtdi oleanxb a(olw rw o(%ersa tpo 0of –pn1os0 p(0Tu IblVae tcsioot)nn satganetd m 5 itlloio 1n4 U)SD    **  5600...000 222000111969 ••• 5•• . Country
SDG7 – Affordable and Clean Energy                per 100,000 population)  P
PPooppuullaattiioonn  wwiitthh  aacccceessss  ttoo  eclleeacntr ifcuiteyls ( %an)d technology for cooking (%)     19050..30 22001176 •• LL PPererssso nFrse heedlodm in I npdriesoxn (b (pesetr  01–0100,000 w0 oprospt)ulation)     11993..51 22001197 •• LL rofile
s
COel2e cetmricisistyio onus tfproumt ( MfuteCl Oco2/mTWbuhs)tion for electricity and heating per total    0.9 2017 • L SGoDvGer1n7m e–n Pt sapretnndeinrgs honip hse aflothr  atnhde e Gduocaatlison (% of GDP)      8 . 1 201  6 •   p  
Share of renewable energy in total primary energy supply (%)    40.0 2018 • L For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional    0.1 2017 • 5
SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth                public finance, including official development assistance (% of GNI)
Adjusted GDP growth (%)    2.2 2018 • • Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP)    NA NA • •
VAidmcutoilmtbsis lw eo-iftm hm oaonnde aeycr-ncseo srulvanivctee ar ytp  ar(op bveairdn 1ek,r0  o(0%r0 o  pothfo epprou fplianutailoantncio)ianl  iangsteidtu 1ti5o no ro or vwerit)h a       933..29 22001187 •• L• CFSihonirafptneocdria aptle rSo Tefaictxrse  Hocafy v mSecunol tSrienc oa(brteieo s(ntb a0els–s t1( U00–S01$ w0 b0oi lrwlsioto)nr)st)        65890...311 222000121906 ••• •••
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population)   0.5 2010 • L
Employment-to-population ratio (%)    72.3 2019 • L
Youth not in employment, education or training (NEET)      11.2 2018 • L
(% of population aged 15 to 29)
* Imputed data point
291
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
LEBANON  
Middle East and North Africa
OVERALL PERFORMANCE
SDG SDG
17 1
SDG 100 SDG
16 2
75
Index score Regional average score SDG SDG
15 50 3
25
SDG
SDG 4
14
66.7 66.3
Lebanon
SDG SDG
13 5
SDG
12 SDG
6
SDG Global rank 95 (OF 166)
SDG
11 SDG
7
SDG SDG
10 SDG 8
9
SPILLOVER INDEX AVERAGE PERFORMANCE BY SDG
100 (best) to 0 (worst)
100
80
60
40
20
0
CURRENT ASSESSMENT – SDG DASHBOARD
  Major challenges           Significant challenges          Challenges remain          SDG achieved          Information unavailable
SDG TRENDS
L 5 D 5 5 D D 5 D
• p • L 5 5 5 p
p  Decreasing       5  Stagnating       D  Moderately improving       L  On track or maintaining SDG achievement       •  Information unavailable
Notes: The full title of Goal 2 “Zero Hunger” is “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”.    
  The full title of each SDG is available here: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabledevelopmentgoals
292
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
LEBANON
Performance by Indicator
SDG1 – No Poverty    Val u e Yea  rRa t ingTr e nd SDG9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure    Val u e Ye a rRa t ingTr e nd
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%)    0.02020 • L Population using the internet (%)    78.22017 • L
Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%)    0.12020 • L Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population)    45.22018 • 5
SDG2 – Zero Hunger                Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related     2.62018 • D
Prevalence of undernourishment (%)    11.02017 • 5 infrastructure (worst 1–5 best)
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%)    16.52004 • D The Times Higher Education Universities Ranking: Average score of top 3    31.32020 • •
PPrreevvaalleennccee  ooff  wobaesstiintyg,  BinM cIh ≥il d3r0e n(% u nodf aedr u5 lyt epaorps uolfa atigoen )(%)      362..6022000146 •• Lp Scuiennivteifrisci taiensd ( tweochrsnt i0ca–l1 j0o0u rbneaslt a)rticles (per 1,000 population)    0.32018 • D
Human Trophic Level (best 2–3 worst)    2.22017 • L Expenditure on research and development (% of GDP)    NA NA • •
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land)    3.12017 • L SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities               
Sustainable Nitrogen Management Index (best 0–1.41 worst)    0.92015 • p Gini coefficient adjusted for top income    36.22011 • •
SDG3 – Good Health and Well-Being                SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities               
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)     292017 • L Annual mean concentration of particulate matter of less than      30.62017 • p
2.5 microns in diameter (PM2.5) (μg/m3)
Neonatal mortality rate (per 1,000 live births)    4.32018 • L
Mortality rate, under-5 (per 1,000 live births)    7.42018 • L Access to improved water source, piped (% of urban population)    NA NA • •
Incidence of tuberculosis (per 100,000 population)    11.02018 • L Satisfaction with public transport (%)    51.82018 • p
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population)    0.02018 • L SDG12 – Responsible Consumption and Production                 
Municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)    1.02014 • •
Agdeia-bsteatneds,a ordr iczherdo ndieca rtehs prairtaet dourye d tois ecaasred iionv aadscuultlsa ra dgiesde a3s0e–, c7a0n yceear,r s (%)    17.92016 • 5 Electronic waste (kg/capita)    11.12016 • •
Agame-bstiaenndt aarird pizoeldlu dtieoant h(p reart e1 0at0t,r0ib0u0 tpaobpleu tloat hioonu)sehold air pollution and    512016 • • PSOro2d eumctiisosnio-bnas seemd bSoOd2i eedm iinss iimonpso (rktgs /(ckgap/citaap)ita)       555..9522001122 •• ••
Traffic deaths (per 100,000 population)    18.12016 • L Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita)    15.12010 • •
Life expectancy at birth (years)    76.32016 • 5 Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)    5.92010 • •
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19)   14.52017 • L SDG13 – Climate Action               
Births attended by skilled health personnel (%)    98.22004 • • Energy-related CO2 emissions (tCO2/capita)    2.12017 • L
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%)   822018 • 5 CO2 emissions embodied in imports (tCO2/capita)    0.92015 • L
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best)   73.02017 • L CO2 emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita)    0.02018 • •
Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best)    5.22018 • p
SDG14 – Life Below Water                 
SDG4 – Quality Education                Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)    5.12018 • 5
Net primary enrollment rate (%) * 86.32017 • L Ocean Health Index: Clean Waters score (worst 0–100 best)    33.02019 • 5
Lower secondary completion rate (%)    52.42017 • p Fish caught from overexploited or collapsed stocks (% of total catch)    NA NA • •
Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24)    99.82018 • • Fish caught by trawling (%)    10.02008 • •
SDG5 – Gender Equality                    Marine biodiversity threats embodied in imports (per million population)    0.22018 • •
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods (% of females * 63.82017 • 5 SDG15 – Life on Land               
aged 15 to 49 who are married or in unions) Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%)   13.32018 • 5
Ratio of female-to-male mean years of education received (%)    95.52018 • 5 Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%)   21.12018 • 5
Ratio of female-to-male labor force participation rate (%)    33.22019 • 5 Red List Index of species survival (worst 0–1 best)    1.02019 • L
Seats held by women in national parliament (%)    4.72020 • 5 Permanent deforestation (% of forest area, 5-year average)    0.12018 • •
SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation               
Population using at least basic drinking water services (%)    92.62017 • D Te(rpreers tmriailll iaonnd p forepsuhlwataiotenr) biodiversity threats embodied in imports      0.62018 • •
Population using at least basic sanitation services (%)    98.52017 • L SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions               
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available freshwater resources)    57.32015 • • Homicides (per 100,000 population)    4.02016 • D
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%)    38.22018 • • Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population)    42.32018 • 5
Scarce water consumption embodied in imports (m3/capita)    45.82013 • 5 Percentage of population who feel safe walking alone at night in the      55.32018 • p
SDG7 – Affordable and Clean Energy                city or area where they live (%)
Population with access to electricity (%)   100.02017 • L Property Rights (worst 1–7 best)    4.02019 • •
Population with access to clean fuels and technology for cooking (%)    NA NA • • Birth registrations with civil authority (% of children under age 5)    99.52018 • •
COto2t aelm eilsesciotrnicsi tfyro omut fpuuetl  (cMomtCbOu2s/tTioWnh f)or electricity and heating per      1.42017 • 5 CCohrilrdurpetnio innv Poelvrceedp itnio cnh Iinldd leaxb (owr o(%rs to 0f –p1o0p0u blaetsiot)n aged 5 to 14)      12.8922001196 •• 5•
5
SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth                Exports of major conventional weapons (TIV constant million USD   * 0.02019 • • . C
Adjusted GDP growth (%)    -4.62018 • • per 100,000 population) ou
Victims of modern slavery (per 1,000 population)    1.72018 • • Press Freedom Index (best 0–100 worst)    32.42019 • 5 ntr
y
Admuoltbsi lwe-itmh oanne ayc-cseoruvnicte a tp aro bvaidnekr  o(%r o othf epro fpinualantcioianl  iangsteidtu 1ti5o no ro or vwerit)h a     44.82017 • p SGoDvGer1nm7 e–n tP sapretnndeinrgs ohni phse aflothr a tnhde e dGuocaatliosn (% of GDP)      6 . 3201  3 •   •    Prof
Unemployment rate (% of total labor force)    6.22019 • 5 For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional    NA NA • • iles
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population)   0.72010 • L public finance, including official development assistance (% of GNI)
Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP)    19.82017 • p
Corporate Tax Haven Score (best 0–100 worst)    72.82019 • •
* Imputed data point
293
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
LESOTHO  
Sub-Saharan Africa
OVERALL PERFORMANCE
SDG SDG
17 1
SDG 100 SDG
16 2
75
Index score Regional average score SDG SDG
15 50 3
25
SDG
SDG 4
14
54.0 53.1
Lesotho
SDG SDG
13 5
SDG
12 SDG
6
SDG Global rank 141 (OF 166)
SDG
11 SDG
7
SDG SDG
10 SDG 8
9
SPILLOVER INDEX AVERAGE PERFORMANCE BY SDG
100 (best) to 0 (worst)
100
80
60
40
20
0
CURRENT ASSESSMENT – SDG DASHBOARD
  Major challenges           Significant challenges          Challenges remain          SDG achieved          Information unavailable
SDG TRENDS
5 D 5 D D D 5 D 5
• D • L • D 5 L
p  Decreasing       5  Stagnating       D  Moderately improving       L  On track or maintaining SDG achievement       •  Information unavailable
Notes: The full title of Goal 2 “Zero Hunger” is “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”.    
  The full title of each SDG is available here: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabledevelopmentgoals
294
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
LESOTHO
Performance by Indicator
SDG1 – No Poverty    Val u e Yea  rRa t ingTr e nd SDG9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure    Val u e Ye a rRa t ingTr e nd
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%)    52.32020 • 5 Population using the internet (%)    29.02017 • D
Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%)    71.62020 • 5 Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population)    59.02018 • L
SDG2 – Zero Hunger                Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related     2.02018 • p
Prevalence of undernourishment (%)    13.12017 • 5 infrastructure (worst 1–5 best)
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%)    33.22014 • 5 The Times Higher Education Universities Ranking: Average score of top 3 * 0.02020 • •
PPrreevvaalleennccee  ooff  wobaesstiintyg,  BinM cIh ≥il d3r0e n(% u nodf aedr u5 lyt epaorps uolfa atigoen )(%)      126..8622001146 •• Lp Scuiennivteifrisci taiensd ( tweochrsnt i0ca–l1 j0o0u rbneaslt a)rticles (per 1,000 population)    0.02018 • 5
Human Trophic Level (best 2–3 worst)    2.12017 • L Expenditure on research and development (% of GDP)    0.02015 • •
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land)    1.02017 • L SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities               
Sustainable Nitrogen Management Index (best 0–1.41 worst)    1.02015 • 5 Gini coefficient adjusted for top income    63.02010 • •
SDG3 – Good Health and Well-Being                SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities               
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)     5442017 • 5 Annual mean concentration of particulate matter of less than      28.02017 • L
NMInecooirdntaealntitacyle  rm oatfoe tr,ut uablnietdryce rura-lto5e s( i(psp e(eprr e1 1r,0, 01000000 l ,il0viv0ee0 b  bpiriortthphsus)l)ation)       6381411...910222000111888 ••• 5LD ASac2tc.i5es fsmasc ittcoiro oinmn wsp irintoh vd epiadum bwleiactte etrrr a( sPnoMsup2roc.5ret),   ((p%μipg)/emd 3(%) of urban population)      8581..5822001179 •• 5D
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population)    7.82018 • L SDG12 – Responsible Consumption and Production                 
Municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)    0.32006 • •
Agdeia-bsteatneds,a ordr iczherdo ndieca rtehs prairtaet dourye d tois ecaasred iionv aadscuultlsa ra dgiesde a3s0e–, c7a0n yceear,r s (%)    26.62016 • 5 Electronic waste (kg/capita)    0.92016 • •
Agame-bstiaenndt aarird pizoeldlu dtieoant h(p reart e1 0at0t,r0ib0u0 tpaobpleu tloat hioonu)sehold air pollution and    1782016 • • PSOro2d eumctiisosnio-bnas seemd bSoOd2i eedm iinss iimonpso (rktgs /(ckgap/citaap)ita)       634..5522001122 •• ••
Traffic deaths (per 100,000 population)    28.92016 • p Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita)    21.52010 • •
Life expectancy at birth (years)    52.92016 • 5 Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)    2.12010 • •
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19)   92.72017 • p SDG13 – Climate Action               
Births attended by skilled health personnel (%)    77.92014 • • Energy-related CO2 emissions (tCO2/capita)    1.32017 • L
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%)   902018 • L CO2 emissions embodied in imports (tCO2/capita)    0.42015 • L
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best)   48.02017 • 5 CO2 emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita)    0.02017 • •
Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best)    3.52019 • p
SDG14 – Life Below Water                 
SDG4 – Quality Education                Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)    NA NA • •
Net primary enrollment rate (%)    93.32017 • L Ocean Health Index: Clean Waters score (worst 0–100 best)    NA NA • •
Lower secondary completion rate (%)    47.42017 • 5 Fish caught from overexploited or collapsed stocks (% of total catch)    NA NA • •
Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24)    86.62014 • • Fish caught by trawling (%)    NA NA • •
SDG5 – Gender Equality                    Marine biodiversity threats embodied in imports (per million population)    0.02018 • •
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods (% of females    78.92014 • L SDG15 – Life on Land               
aged 15 to 49 who are married or in unions) Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%)   16.72018 • 5
Ratio of female-to-male mean years of education received (%)   127.32018 • L Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%)   NA NA • •
Ratio of female-to-male labor force participation rate (%)    79.72019 • L Red List Index of species survival (worst 0–1 best)    1.02019 • L
Seats held by women in national parliament (%)    23.32020 • p Permanent deforestation (% of forest area, 5-year average)    0.02018 • •
SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation               
Population using at least basic drinking water services (%)    68.72017 • 5 Te(rpreers tmriailll iaonnd p forepsuhlwataiotenr) biodiversity threats embodied in imports      0.52018 • •
Population using at least basic sanitation services (%)    42.82017 • D SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions               
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available freshwater resources)    2.22015 • • Homicides (per 100,000 population)    41.22015 • •
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%)    0.32018 • • Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population)    19.52015 • •
Scarce water consumption embodied in imports (m3/capita)    3.22013 • L Percentage of population who feel safe walking alone at night in the      34.02019 • p
SDG7 – Affordable and Clean Energy                city or area where they live (%)
Population with access to electricity (%)    33.72017 • 5 Property Rights (worst 1–7 best)    3.42019 • •
Population with access to clean fuels and technology for cooking (%)    35.62016 • 5 Birth registrations with civil authority (% of children under age 5)    43.32018 • •
COto2t aelm eilsesciotrnicsi tfyro omut fpuuetl  (cMomtCbOu2s/tTioWnh f)or electricity and heating per      NA NA • • CCohrilrdurpetnio innv Poelvrceedp itnio cnh Iinldd leaxb (owr o(%rs to 0f –p1o0p0u blaetsiot)n aged 5 to 14)      224.0922001196 •• p•
5
SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth                Exports of major conventional weapons (TIV constant million USD   * 0.02019 • • . C
Adjusted GDP growth (%)    -6.12018 • • per 100,000 population) ou
Victims of modern slavery (per 1,000 population)    4.22018 • • Press Freedom Index (best 0–100 worst)    29.72019 • L ntr
y
Admuoltbsi lwe-itmh oanne ayc-cseoruvnicte a tp aro bvaidnekr  o(%r o othf epro fpinualantcioianl  iangsteidtu 1ti5o no ro or vwerit)h a     45.62017 • • SGoDvGer1nm7 e–n tP sapretnndeinrgs ohni phse aflothr a tnhde e dGuocaatliosn (% of GDP)      16 . 2200  8 •   •    Prof
Unemployment rate (% of total labor force)    23.42019 • 5 For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional    NA NA • • iles
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population)   0.42010 • L public finance, including official development assistance (% of GNI)
Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP)    33.82017 • L
Corporate Tax Haven Score (best 0–100 worst) * 0.02019 • •
* Imputed data point
295
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
LIBERIA  
Sub-Saharan Africa
OVERALL PERFORMANCE
SDG SDG
17 1
SDG 100 SDG
16 2
75
Index score Regional average score SDG SDG
15 50 3
25
SDG
SDG 4
14
47.1 53.1
Liberia
SDG SDG
13 5
SDG
12 SDG
6
SDG Global rank 162 (OF 166)
SDG
11 SDG
7
SDG SDG
10 SDG 8
9
SPILLOVER INDEX AVERAGE PERFORMANCE BY SDG
100 (best) to 0 (worst)
100
80
60
40
20
0
CURRENT ASSESSMENT – SDG DASHBOARD
  Major challenges           Significant challenges          Challenges remain          SDG achieved          Information unavailable
SDG TRENDS
5 D D D D 5 5 L 5
• p • L D 5 5 •
p  Decreasing       5  Stagnating       D  Moderately improving       L  On track or maintaining SDG achievement       •  Information unavailable
Notes: The full title of Goal 2 “Zero Hunger” is “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”.    
  The full title of each SDG is available here: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabledevelopmentgoals
296
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
LIBERIA
Performance by Indicator
SDG1 – No Poverty    Val u e Yea  rRa t ingTr e nd SDG9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure    Val u e Ye a rRa t ingTr e nd
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%)    39.22020 • 5 Population using the internet (%)    8.02017 • 5
Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%)    70.42020 • 5 Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population)    11.72017 • D
SDG2 – Zero Hunger                Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related     1.92018 • p
Prevalence of undernourishment (%)    37.22017 • 5 infrastructure (worst 1–5 best)
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%)    32.12013 • D The Times Higher Education Universities Ranking: Average score of top 3 * 0.02020 • •
PPrreevvaalleennccee  ooff  wobaesstiintyg,  BinM cIh ≥il d3r0e n(% u nodf aedr u5 lyt epaorps uolfa atigoen )(%)      59..6922001136 •• LL Scuiennivteifrisci taiensd ( tweochrsnt i0ca–l1 j0o0u rbneaslt a)rticles (per 1,000 population)    0.02018 • 5
Human Trophic Level (best 2–3 worst)    2.12017 • L Expenditure on research and development (% of GDP) * 0.02017 • •
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land)    1.32017 • 5 SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities               
Sustainable Nitrogen Management Index (best 0–1.41 worst)    1.02015 • p Gini coefficient adjusted for top income    39.12016 • •
SDG3 – Good Health and Well-Being                SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities               
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)     6612017 • 5 Annual mean concentration of particulate matter of less than      18.02017 • p
NMInecooirdntaealntitacyle  rm oatfoe tr,ut uablnietdryce rura-lto5e s( i(psp e(eprr e1 1r,0, 01000000 l ,il0viv0ee0 b  bpiriortthphsus)l)ation)       3270408...590222000111888 ••• 5DD ASac2tc.i5es fsmasc ittcoiro oinmn wsp irintoh vd epiadum bwleiactte etrrr a( sPnoMsup2roc.5ret),   ((p%μipg)/emd 3(%) of urban population)      196..3022001179 •• 5p
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population)    0.42018 • L SDG12 – Responsible Consumption and Production                 
Municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)    0.62007 • •
Agdeia-bsteatneds,a ordr iczherdo ndieca rtehs prairtaet dourye d tois ecaasred iionv aadscuultlsa ra dgiesde a3s0e–, c7a0n yceear,r s (%)    17.62016 • 5 Electronic waste (kg/capita)    NA NA • •
Agame-bstiaenndt aarird pizoeldlu dtieoant h(p reart e1 0at0t,r0ib0u0 tpaobpleu tloat hioonu)sehold air pollution and    1702016 • • PSOro2d eumctiisosnio-bnas seemd bSoOd2i eedm iinss iimonpso (rktgs /(ckgap/citaap)ita)       230..3122001122 •• ••
Traffic deaths (per 100,000 population)    35.92016 • p Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita)    1.42010 • •
Life expectancy at birth (years)    62.92016 • 5 Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)    0.12010 • •
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19)  136.02017 • 5 SDG13 – Climate Action               
Births attended by skilled health personnel (%)    61.12013 • • Energy-related CO2 emissions (tCO2/capita)    0.22017 • L
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%)   842018 • L CO2 emissions embodied in imports (tCO2/capita)    0.02015 • L
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best)   39.02017 • 5 CO2 emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita) * 0.02018 • •
Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best)    5.12019 • L
SDG14 – Life Below Water                 
SDG4 – Quality Education                Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)    NA NA • •
Net primary enrollment rate (%)    44.32017 • D Ocean Health Index: Clean Waters score (worst 0–100 best)    49.62019 • 5
Lower secondary completion rate (%)    44.22017 • D Fish caught from overexploited or collapsed stocks (% of total catch)    13.42014 • L
Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24)    55.42017 • • Fish caught by trawling (%)    6.12005 • •
SDG5 – Gender Equality                    Marine biodiversity threats embodied in imports (per million population)    0.02018 • •
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods (% of females    41.42013 • L SDG15 – Life on Land               
aged 15 to 49 who are married or in unions) Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%)   15.92018 • 5
Ratio of female-to-male mean years of education received (%)    59.32018 • D Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%)   32.42018 • 5
Ratio of female-to-male labor force participation rate (%)    95.22019 • L Red List Index of species survival (worst 0–1 best)    0.92019 • 5
Seats held by women in national parliament (%)    12.32020 • 5 Permanent deforestation (% of forest area, 5-year average)    1.02018 • •
SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation               
Population using at least basic drinking water services (%)    72.92017 • 5 Te(rpreers tmriailll iaonnd p forepsuhlwataiotenr) biodiversity threats embodied in imports      0.02018 • •
Population using at least basic sanitation services (%)    17.02017 • 5 SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions               
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available freshwater resources)    0.22000 • • Homicides (per 100,000 population)    3.22012 • •
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%)    0.02018 • • Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population)    63.02018 • L
Scarce water consumption embodied in imports (m3/capita)    0.32013 • L Percentage of population who feel safe walking alone at night in the      33.02019 • p
SDG7 – Affordable and Clean Energy                city or area where they live (%)
Population with access to electricity (%)    21.52017 • D Property Rights (worst 1–7 best)    NA NA • •
Population with access to clean fuels and technology for cooking (%)    0.72016 • 5 Birth registrations with civil authority (% of children under age 5)    24.62018 • •
COto2t aelm eilsesciotrnicsi tfyro omut fpuuetl  (cMomtCbOu2s/tTioWnh f)or electricity and heating per      NA NA • • CCohrilrdurpetnio innv Poelvrceedp itnio cnh Iinldd leaxb (owr o(%rs to 0f –p1o0p0u blaetsiot)n aged 5 to 14)      202.8822001196 •• p•
5
SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth                Exports of major conventional weapons (TIV constant million USD   * 0.02019 • • . C
Adjusted GDP growth (%)    -9.12018 • • per 100,000 population) ou
Victims of modern slavery (per 1,000 population)    7.42018 • • Press Freedom Index (best 0–100 worst)    31.52019 • 5 ntr
y
Admuoltbsi lwe-itmh oanne ayc-cseoruvnicte a tp aro bvaidnekr  o(%r o othf epro fpinualantcioianl  iangsteidtu 1ti5o no ro or vwerit)h a     35.72017 • • SGoDvGer1nm7 e–n tP sapretnndeinrgs ohni phse aflothr a tnhde e dGuocaatliosn (% of GDP)      3 . 1201  4 •   •    Prof
Unemployment rate (% of total labor force)    2.82019 • L For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional    NA NA • • iles
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population)   0.02010 • L public finance, including official development assistance (% of GNI)
Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP)    15.72013 • •
Corporate Tax Haven Score (best 0–100 worst)    49.02019 • •
* Imputed data point
297
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
LIBYA  
Middle East and North Africa
OVERALL PERFORMANCE
SDG SDG
17 1
SDG 100 SDG
16 2
75
Index score Regional average score SDG SDG
15 50 3
25
SDG
SDG 4
14
 na 66.3
Libya
SDG SDG
13 5
SDG
12 SDG
6
SDG Global rank NA (OF 166)
SDG
11 SDG
7
SDG SDG
10 SDG 8
9
SPILLOVER INDEX AVERAGE PERFORMANCE BY SDG
100 (best) to 0 (worst)
100
80
60
40
20
0
CURRENT ASSESSMENT – SDG DASHBOARD
  Major challenges           Significant challenges          Challenges remain          SDG achieved          Information unavailable
SDG TRENDS
• 5 5 • 5 L 5 D 5
• p • D p D 5 •
p  Decreasing       5  Stagnating       D  Moderately improving       L  On track or maintaining SDG achievement       •  Information unavailable
Notes: The full title of Goal 2 “Zero Hunger” is “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”.    
  The full title of each SDG is available here: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabledevelopmentgoals
298
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
LIBYA
Performance by Indicator
SDG1 – No Poverty    Val u e Yea  rRa t ingTr e nd SDG9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure    Val u e Ye a rRa t ingTr e nd
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%) * NA NA • • Population using the internet (%)    21.82017 • 5
Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%) * NA NA • • Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population)    35.82017 • D
SDG2 – Zero Hunger                Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related     2.22018 • p
Prevalence of undernourishment (%)    NA NA • • infrastructure (worst 1–5 best)
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%)    21.02007 • 5 The Times Higher Education Universities Ranking: Average score of top 3 * 0.02020 • •
PPrreevvaalleennccee  ooff  wobaesstiintyg,  BinM cIh ≥il d3r0e n(% u nodf aedr u5 lyt epaorps uolfa atigoen )(%)      362..5522000176 •• 5p Scuiennivteifrisci taiensd ( tweochrsnt i0ca–l1 j0o0u rbneaslt a)rticles (per 1,000 population)    0.02018 • p
Expenditure on research and development (% of GDP)    NA NA • •
Human Trophic Level (best 2–3 worst)    2.22007 • •
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land)    0.82017 • 5 SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities               
Sustainable Nitrogen Management Index (best 0–1.41 worst)    0.92015 • 5 Gini coefficient adjusted for top income    NA NA • •
SDG3 – Good Health and Well-Being                SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities               
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)     722017 • p Annual mean concentration of particulate matter of less than      54.32017 • p
2.5 microns in diameter (PM2.5) (μg/m3)
Neonatal mortality rate (per 1,000 live births)    6.42018 • L
Mortality rate, under-5 (per 1,000 live births)    12.02018 • L Access to improved water source, piped (% of urban population)    NA NA • •
Incidence of tuberculosis (per 100,000 population)    40.02018 • 5 Satisfaction with public transport (%)    45.72018 • p
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population)    0.12018 • L SDG12 – Responsible Consumption and Production                 
Municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)    1.12011 • •
Agdeia-bsteatneds,a ordr iczherdo ndieca rtehs prairtaet dourye d tois ecaasred iionv aadscuultlsa ra dgiesde a3s0e–, c7a0n yceear,r s (%)    20.12016 • 5 Electronic waste (kg/capita)    11.02016 • •
Agame-bstiaenndt aarird pizoeldlu dtieoant h(p reart e1 0at0t,r0ib0u0 tpaobpleu tloat hioonu)sehold air pollution and    722016 • • PSOro2d eumctiisosnio-bnas seemd bSoOd2i eedm iinss iimonpso (rktgs /(ckgap/citaap)ita)       423..1422001122 •• ••
Traffic deaths (per 100,000 population)    26.12016 • p Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita)    19.72010 • •
Life expectancy at birth (years)    71.92016 • p Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)    1.92010 • •
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19)   5.82017 • L SDG13 – Climate Action               
Births attended by skilled health personnel (%)    99.92013 • • Energy-related CO2 emissions (tCO2/capita)    7.92017 • D
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%)   972018 • L CO2 emissions embodied in imports (tCO2/capita)    0.42015 • L
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best)   64.02017 • 5 CO2 emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita)    NA NA • •
Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best)    5.52018 • p
SDG14 – Life Below Water                 
SDG4 – Quality Education                Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)    0.32018 • 5
Net primary enrollment rate (%)    NA NA • • Ocean Health Index: Clean Waters score (worst 0–100 best)    56.42019 • p
Lower secondary completion rate (%)    NA NA • • Fish caught from overexploited or collapsed stocks (% of total catch)    67.52014 • p
Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24)    99.62004 • • Fish caught by trawling (%)    19.92014 • p
SDG5 – Gender Equality                    Marine biodiversity threats embodied in imports (per million population)    0.02018 • •
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods (% of females    24.02014 • D SDG15 – Life on Land               
aged 15 to 49 who are married or in unions) Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%)   4.62018 • 5
Ratio of female-to-male mean years of education received (%)   111.12018 • L Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%)   NA NA • •
Ratio of female-to-male labor force participation rate (%)    32.62019 • p Red List Index of species survival (worst 0–1 best)    1.02019 • L
Seats held by women in national parliament (%)    16.02020 • p Permanent deforestation (% of forest area, 5-year average)    NA NA • •
SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation               
Population using at least basic drinking water services (%)    98.52017 • L Te(rpreers tmriailll iaonnd p forepsuhlwataiotenr) biodiversity threats embodied in imports      0.12018 • •
Population using at least basic sanitation services (%)   100.02017 • L SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions               
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available freshwater resources)   822.92010 • • Homicides (per 100,000 population) * 2.52015 • •
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%)    9.62018 • • Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population)    86.72015 • •
Scarce water consumption embodied in imports (m3/capita)    5.02013 • L Percentage of population who feel safe walking alone at night in the      54.12018 • •
SDG7 – Affordable and Clean Energy                city or area where they live (%)
Population with access to electricity (%)    70.12017 • p Property Rights (worst 1–7 best)    NA NA • •
Population with access to clean fuels and technology for cooking (%)    NA NA • • Birth registrations with civil authority (% of children under age 5)    NA NA • •
COto2t aelm eilsesciotrnicsi tfyro omut fpuuetl  (cMomtCbOu2s/tTioWnh f)or electricity and heating per      1.22017 • L CCohrilrdurpetnio innv Poelvrceedp itnio cnh Iinldd leaxb (owr o(%rs to 0f –p1o0p0u blaetsiot)n aged 5 to 14)      N1A820N1A9 •• 5•
5
SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth                Exports of major conventional weapons (TIV constant million USD   * 0.02019 • • . C
Adjusted GDP growth (%)    5.12018 • • per 100,000 population) ou
Victims of modern slavery (per 1,000 population) * NA NA • • Press Freedom Index (best 0–100 worst)    55.82019 • 5 ntr
y
Admuoltbsi lwe-itmh oanne ayc-cseoruvnicte a tp aro bvaidnekr  o(%r o othf epro fpinualantcioianl  iangsteidtu 1ti5o no ro or vwerit)h a     65.72017 • • SGoDvGer1nm7 e–n tP sapretnndeinrgs ohni phse aflothr a tnhde e dGuocaatliosn (% of GDP)      N  A N  A •   •    Prof
Unemployment rate (% of total labor force)    18.62019 • 5 For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional    NA NA • • iles
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population)   0.12010 • L public finance, including official development assistance (% of GNI)
Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP)    NA NA • •
Corporate Tax Haven Score (best 0–100 worst) * 0.02019 • •
* Imputed data point
299
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
LIECHTENSTEIN  
Western Europe
OVERALL PERFORMANCE
SDG SDG
17 1
SDG 100 SDG
16 2
75
Index score Regional average score SDG SDG
15 50 3
25
SDG
SDG 4
14
 na 70.9
Liechtenstein
SDG SDG
13 5
SDG
12 SDG
6
SDG Global rank NA (OF 166)
SDG
11 SDG
7
SDG SDG
10 SDG 8
9
SPILLOVER INDEX AVERAGE PERFORMANCE BY SDG
100 (best) to 0 (worst)
100
80
60
40
20
0
CURRENT ASSESSMENT – SDG DASHBOARD
  Major challenges           Significant challenges          Challenges remain          SDG achieved          Information unavailable
SDG TRENDS
• • • L • L • • L
• • • D • L L •
p  Decreasing       5  Stagnating       D  Moderately improving       L  On track or maintaining SDG achievement       •  Information unavailable
Notes: The full title of Goal 2 “Zero Hunger” is “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”.    
  The full title of each SDG is available here: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabledevelopmentgoals
300
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
LIECHTENSTEIN
Performance by Indicator
SDG1 – No Poverty    Val u e Yea  rRa t ingTr e nd SDG9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure    Val u e Ye a rRa t ingTr e nd
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%)    NA NA • • Population using the internet (%)    98.12017 • L
Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%)    NA NA • • Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population)   130.02018 • L
SDG2 – Zero Hunger                Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related     NA NA • •
Prevalence of undernourishment (%) * 1.22017 • • infrastructure (worst 1–5 best)
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%) * 2.62016 • • The Times Higher Education Universities Ranking: Average score of top 3 * 0.02020 • •
PPrreevvaalleennccee  ooff  wobaesstiintyg,  BinM cIh ≥il d3r0e n(% u nodf aedr u5 lyt epaorps uolfa atigoen )(%) *   N0.A720N1A6 •• •• Scuiennivteifrisci taiensd ( tweochrsnt i0ca–l1 j0o0u rbneaslt a)rticles (per 1,000 population)    0.82018 • L
Expenditure on research and development (% of GDP)    NA NA • •
Human Trophic Level (best 2–3 worst)    NA NA • •
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land)    NA NA • • SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities               
Sustainable Nitrogen Management Index (best 0–1.41 worst)    NA NA • • Gini coefficient adjusted for top income    NA NA • •
SDG3 – Good Health and Well-Being                SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities               
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)     NA NA • • Annual mean concentration of particulate matter of less than      NA NA • •
2.5 microns in diameter (PM2.5) (μg/m3)
Neonatal mortality rate (per 1,000 live births)    NA NA • •
Mortality rate, under-5 (per 1,000 live births)    NA NA • • Access to improved water source, piped (% of urban population)    NA NA • •
Incidence of tuberculosis (per 100,000 population)    NA NA • • Satisfaction with public transport (%)    NA NA • •
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population)    NA NA • • SDG12 – Responsible Consumption and Production                 
Municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)    16.22015 • •
Agdeia-bsteatneds,a ordr iczherdo ndieca rtehs prairtaet dourye d tois ecaasred iionv aadscuultlsa ra dgiesde a3s0e–, c7a0n yceear,r s (%)    NA NA • • Electronic waste (kg/capita)    NA NA • •
Agame-bstiaenndt aarird pizoeldlu dtieoant h(p reart e1 0at0t,r0ib0u0 tpaobpleu tloat hioonu)sehold air pollution and    NA NA • • PSOro2d eumctiisosnio-bnas seemd bSoOd2i eedm iinss iimonpso (rktgs /(ckgap/citaap)ita)       8257..7922001122 •• ••
Traffic deaths (per 100,000 population)    NA NA • • Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita)    42.22010 • •
Life expectancy at birth (years)    NA NA • • Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)    12.02010 • •
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19)   NA NA • • SDG13 – Climate Action               
Births attended by skilled health personnel (%)    NA NA • • Energy-related CO2 emissions (tCO2/capita)    3.72017 • D
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%)   NA NA • • CO2 emissions embodied in imports (tCO2/capita)    1.02015 • D
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best)   NA NA • • CO2 emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita)    NA NA • •
Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best)    NA NA • •
SDG14 – Life Below Water                 
SDG4 – Quality Education                Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)    NA NA • •
Net primary enrollment rate (%)    92.12016 • L Ocean Health Index: Clean Waters score (worst 0–100 best)    NA NA • •
Lower secondary completion rate (%)    86.02016 • • Fish caught from overexploited or collapsed stocks (% of total catch)    NA NA • •
Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24)    NA NA • • Fish caught by trawling (%)    NA NA • •
SDG5 – Gender Equality                    Marine biodiversity threats embodied in imports (per million population)    0.02018 • •
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods (% of females    NA NA • • SDG15 – Life on Land               
aged 15 to 49 who are married or in unions) Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%)   75.82018 • L
Ratio of female-to-male mean years of education received (%)    NA NA • • Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%)   NA NA • •
Ratio of female-to-male labor force participation rate (%)    NA NA • • Red List Index of species survival (worst 0–1 best)    1.02019 • L
Seats held by women in national parliament (%)    12.02019 • p Permanent deforestation (% of forest area, 5-year average)    NA NA • •
SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation               
Population using at least basic drinking water services (%)   100.02017 • L Te(rpreers tmriailll iaonnd p forepsuhlwataiotenr) biodiversity threats embodied in imports      0.42018 • •
Population using at least basic sanitation services (%)   100.02017 • L SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions               
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available freshwater resources)    NA NA • • Homicides (per 100,000 population)    2.72014 • •
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%)    NA NA • • Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population)    24.72018 • L
Scarce water consumption embodied in imports (m3/capita)    25.52013 • L Percentage of population who feel safe walking alone at night in the      NA NA • •
SDG7 – Affordable and Clean Energy                city or area where they live (%)
Population with access to electricity (%)   100.02017 • L Property Rights (worst 1–7 best)    NA NA • •
Population with access to clean fuels and technology for cooking (%)    NA NA • • Birth registrations with civil authority (% of children under age 5)   100.02018 • •
COto2t aelm eilsesciotrnicsi tfyro omut fpuuetl  (cMomtCbOu2s/tTioWnh f)or electricity and heating per      NA NA • • CCohrilrdurpetnio innv Poelvrceedp itnio cnh Iinldd leaxb (owr o(%rs to 0f –p1o0p0u blaetsiot)n aged 5 to 14)      NNAA NNAA •• ••
5
SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth                Exports of major conventional weapons (TIV constant million USD   * 0.02019 • • . C
Adjusted GDP growth (%)    NA NA • • per 100,000 population) ou
Victims of modern slavery (per 1,000 population)    NA NA • • Press Freedom Index (best 0–100 worst)    20.52019 • L ntr
y
Admuoltbsi lwe-itmh oanne ayc-cseoruvnicte a tp aro bvaidnekr  o(%r o othf epro fpinualantcioianl  iangsteidtu 1ti5o no ro or vwerit)h a     NA NA • • SGoDvGer1nm7 e–n tP sapretnndeinrgs ohni phse aflothr a tnhde e dGuocaatliosn (% of GDP)      N  A N  A •   •    Prof
Unemployment rate (% of total labor force)    NA NA • • For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional    0.52014 • • iles
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population)   1.82010 • L public finance, including official development assistance (% of GNI)
Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP)    NA NA • •
Corporate Tax Haven Score (best 0–100 worst)    69.52019 • •
* Imputed data point
301
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
LITHUANIA  
OECD Countries
OVERALL PERFORMANCE
SDG SDG
17 1
SDG 100 SDG
16 2
75
Index score Regional average score 1SD5G 50 S3DG
25
SDG
SDG 4
14
75.0 77.3
Lithuania
SDG SDG
13 5
12 SDG
6
SDG Global rank 36 (OF 166)
SDG
11 SDG
7
SDG SDG
10 SDG 8
9
SPILLOVER INDEX AVERAGE PERFORMANCE BY SDG
100 (best) to 0 (worst)
100
80
60
40
20
0
CURRENT ASSESSMENT – SDG DASHBOARD
  Major challenges           Significant challenges          Challenges remain          SDG achieved          Information unavailable
SDG TRENDS
D 5 D D D L D L 5
p D • p D L L 5
p  Decreasing       5  Stagnating       D  Moderately improving       L  On track or maintaining SDG achievement       •  Information unavailable
Notes: The full title of Goal 2 “Zero Hunger” is “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”.    
  The full title of each SDG is available here: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabledevelopmentgoals
302
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
LITHUANIA
Performance by Indicator
SDG1 – No Poverty    Va lu e Ye a rRa t ingTr e nd SDG9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure    Va lu e Yea  rRa t ingTr e nd
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%)    0.6 2020 • L Population using the internet (%)    79.7 2018 • L
Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%)    1.1 2020 • L Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population)    98.6 2018 • L
Poverty rate after taxes and transfers (%)    17.3 2017 • p Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related     2.7 2018 • p
SDG2 – Zero Hunger                  infrastructure (worst 1–5 best)
Prevalence of undernourishment (%)    2.5 2017 • L Thuen Tivimerseist iHesig (wheorr Estd 0u–c1at0io0 nb eUsnt)iversities Ranking: Average score of top 3    19.3 2020 • •
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%) * 2.6 2016 • L Scientific and technical journal articles (per 1,000 population)    0.8 2018 • L
Prevalence of wasting in children under 5 years of age (%) * 0.7 2016 • L Expenditure on research and development (% of GDP)    0.9 2017 • p
Prevalence of obesity, BMI ≥ 30 (% of adult population)    26.3 2016 • p Researchers (per 1,000 employed population)    6.4 2018 • p
Human Trophic Level (best 2–3 worst)    2.5 2017 • p  Triadic patent families filed (per million population)    1.0 2017 • p
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land)    4.2 2017 • L Gap in internet access by income (percentage points)    41.3 2019 • L
SYuiesltda ignaapb lcel oNsiutrroe g(%en o Mf panoategnetmiael ynite Ilndd)ex (best 0–1.41 worst)      405..65 22001155 •• p• Waonmde enn ignin seceiernincge) and engineering (% of tertiary graduates in science     29.7 2015 • •
SDG3 – Good Health and Well-Being                    SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities               
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)     8 2017 • L Gini coefficient adjusted for top income    44.2 2015 • p
Neonatal mortality rate (per 1,000 live births)    2.1 2018 • L Palma ratio    1.6 2017 • p
Mortality rate, under-5 (per 1,000 live births)    4.0 2018 • L Elderly poverty rate (% of population aged 66 or over)    28.2 2017 • p
Incidence of tuberculosis (per 100,000 population)    44.0 2018 • L SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities               
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population)    NA NA • •
Age-standardized death rate due to cardiovascular disease, cancer,     20.7 2016 • L An2.n5u mali cmroenasn  icno dnicaemnetrtaetri o(PnM o2f .p5a) r(tμicgu/mlat3e) matter of less than      11.9 2017 • L
diabetes, or chronic respiratory disease in adults aged 30–70 years (%) Access to improved water source, piped (% of urban population)    99.0 2017 • L
Age-standardized death rate attributable to household air pollution and    34 2016 • • Satisfaction with public transport (%)    44.1 2018 • p
Traamffibc ideenat tahirs  p(poellru 1ti0o0n,0 (0p0e rp 1o0p0u,0la0t0io pno)pulation)    8.0 2016 • L Population with rent overburden (%)    4.5 2017 • L
Life expectancy at birth (years)    75.0 2016 • L SDG12 – Responsible Consumption and Production               
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19)   10.9 2017 • L Electronic waste (kg/capita)    13.4 2016 • •
Births attended by skilled health personnel (%)   100.0 2014 • • Production-based SO2 emissions (kg/capita)    94.1 2012 • •
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%)   92.0 2018 • L SO2 emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)     11.9 2012 • •
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best)   73.0 2017 • L Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita)    48.6 2010 • •
Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best)    6.3 2018 • L Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)    8.0 2010 • •
Gap in life expectancy at birth among regions (years)    2.3 2015 • • Non-recycled municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)    0.5 2018 • •
Gap in self-reported health status by income (percentage points)    40.0 2017 • p SDG13 – Climate Action               
Daily smokers (% of population aged 15 and over)    20.3 2014 • • Energy-related CO2 emissions (tCO2/capita)    4.9 2017 • p
SDG4 – Quality Education                CO2 emissions embodied in imports (tCO2/capita)    1.8 2015 • 5
Net primary enrollment rate (%) *100.0 2017 • L CO2 emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita)    0.0 2018 • •
Lower secondary completion rate (%) *100.0 2017 • L Effective carbon rate (EUR/tCO2)    NA NA • •
Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24)    99.9 2011 • • SDG14 – Life Below Water               
Participation rate in pre-primary organized learning (% of children aged 4 to 6)    99.9 2017 • L Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)    67.3 2018 • L
Tertiary educational attainment (% of population aged 25 to 34)    55.6 2018 • L Ocean Health Index: Clean Waters score (worst 0–100 best)    45.1 2019 • 5
PISA score (worst 0–600 best)   479.7 2018 • L Fish caught from overexploited or collapsed stocks (% of total catch)    NA NA • •
VURaenrsdiialetieiroannct  hisnite usvcdeieernns tcisne   ispnce sirecfnoiercmnec a(e%n (c %eo f e o1xfp5 1l-a5yie-nyaeerd-a obr-lydo ssldo)sc)io-economic status (%)        122226...524 222000111888 ••• pLL FMisahri ncaeu bgihotd bivye rtsraitwy ltihnrge a(%ts) embodied in imports (per million population)     40..21 22001148 •• L•
SDG15 – Life on Land               
SDG5 – Gender Equality                Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%)   90.5 2018 • L
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods   * 72.6 2017 • D Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%)   95.2 2018 • L
RRaa(%ttiioo o  oof fff  effeemmmaaalellees-- attoog--emmd aa1ll5ee   tmlaob e4oa9rn  wf yoehrcaoer s ap roeafr  metidcaiurprcaiaettdioio nonr r  rainetc eue (ni%vioe)nds ()%)     18040..60 22001189 •• LL RPeerdm Laisnte Inntd dexe foofr espsteactiieosn s (u%rv oivf afol (rwesot rasrte 0a–, 15 -byeesatr) average)  *  10..00 22001198 •• L•
Seats held by women in national parliament (%)    24.1 2020 • 5 Terrestrial and freshwater biodiversity threats embodied in imports      0.8 2018 • •
Gender wage gap (% of male median wage)    12.5 2014 • • (per million population)
Gender gap in time spent doing unpaid work (minutes/day)   140.3 2003 • • SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions               
Homicides (per 100,000 population)    4.5 2017 • L
SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation                Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population)    9.1 2018 • L
PPooppuullaattiioonn  uussiinngg  aatt  lleeaasstt  bbaassiicc  dsarninitkaintigo nw saetrevri cseersv (i%ce)s (%)      9973..54 22001177 •• •• Pecrictye notra agree ao wf phoepreu ltahteioyn l iwveh (o% f)eel safe walking alone at night in the      69.0 2018 • L
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available freshwater resources)    19.9 2015 • • Property Rights (worst 1–7 best)    4.7 2019 • •
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%)    51.4 2018 • • Birth registrations with civil authority (% of children under age 5)   100.0 2018 • • 5
SPPcooappruuclleaa ttwiiooannte  uur ssciinnoggn  sssuaamffeepllyyt  immonaa nneaamggbeeoddd  wsiaeandtie tianr ts iieomrnvp isoceerrtsvs i (c(%me)s3 (/%ca)pita)        299121...503 222000111377 ••• LLL CCExohprilrodurrptestn ioo ifnn mv Poealjvroceerd pc oitnino cvnhe Iinnldtdi oleanxb a(olw rw o(%ersa tpo 0of –pn1os0 p(0Tu IblVae tcsioot)nn satganetd m 5 itlloio 1n4 U)SD    *    6002...020 222000111969 ••• L•• . Country
SDG7 – Affordable and Clean Energy                per 100,000 population)  P
PPooppuullaattiioonn  wwiitthh  aacccceessss  ttoo  eclleeacntr ifcuiteyls ( %an)d technology for cooking (%)     110000..00 22001176 •• LL PPererssso nFrse heedlodm in I npdriesoxn (b (pesetr  01–0100,000 w0 oprospt)ulation)     22228..13 22001197 •• LL rofile
s
COel2e cetmricisistyio onus tfproumt ( MfuteCl Oco2/mTWbuhs)tion for electricity and heating per total    3.5 2017 • 5 SGoDvGer1n7m e–n Pt sapretnndeinrgs honip hse aflothr  atnhde e Gduocaatlison (% of GDP)      8 . 4 201  6 •   p  
Share of renewable energy in total primary energy supply (%)    19.3 2018 • L For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional    0.1 2017 • 5
SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth                public finance, including official development assistance (% of GNI)
Adjusted GDP growth (%)    2.7 2018 • • Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP)    NA NA • •
VAidmcutoilmtbsis lw eo-iftm hm oaonnde aeycr-ncseo srulvanivctee ar ytp  ar(op bveairdn 1ek,r0  o(0%r0 o  pothfo epprou fplianutailoantncio)ianl  iangsteidtu 1ti5o no ro or vwerit)h a       852..98 22001187 •• L• CFSihonirafptneocdria aptle rSo Tefaictxrse  Hocafy v mSecunol tSrienc oa(brteieo s(ntb a0els–s t1( U00–S01$ w0 b0oi lrwlsioto)nr)st)        55N40..A83 2200N12A90 ••• •••
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population)   0.6 2010 • L
Employment-to-population ratio (%)    73.0 2019 • L
Youth not in employment, education or training (NEET)      10.5 2018 • L
(% of population aged 15 to 29)
* Imputed data point
303
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
LUXEMBOURG  
OECD Countries
OVERALL PERFORMANCE
SDG SDG
17 1
SDG 100 SDG
16 2
75
Index score Regional average score SDG SDG
15 50 3
25
SDG
SDG 4
14
74.3 77.3
Luxembourg
SDG SDG
13 5
SDG
12 SDG
6
SDG Global rank 44 (OF 166)
SDG
11 SDG
7
SDG SDG
10 SDG 8
9
SPILLOVER INDEX AVERAGE PERFORMANCE BY SDG
100 (best) to 0 (worst)
100
80
60
40
20
0
CURRENT ASSESSMENT – SDG DASHBOARD
  Major challenges           Significant challenges          Challenges remain          SDG achieved          Information unavailable
SDG TRENDS
L D L 5 5 D D L D
5 D • 5 • D D 5
p  Decreasing       5  Stagnating       D  Moderately improving       L  On track or maintaining SDG achievement       •  Information unavailable
Notes: The full title of Goal 2 “Zero Hunger” is “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”.    
  The full title of each SDG is available here: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabledevelopmentgoals
304
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
LUXEMBOURG
Performance by Indicator
SDG1 – No Poverty    Va lu e Ye a rRa t ingTr e nd SDG9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure    Va lu e Yea  rRa t ingTr e nd
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%)    0.1 2020 • L Population using the internet (%)    97.1 2018 • L
Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%)    0.1 2020 • L Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population)    94.0 2018 • L
Poverty rate after taxes and transfers (%)    12.2 2017 • • Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related     3.6 2018 • L
SDG2 – Zero Hunger                  infrastructure (worst 1–5 best)
Prevalence of undernourishment (%)    2.5 2017 • L Thuen Tivimerseist iHesig (wheorr Estd 0u–c1at0io0 nb eUsnt)iversities Ranking: Average score of top 3    51.9 2020 • •
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%) * 2.6 2016 • L Scientific and technical journal articles (per 1,000 population)    1.4 2018 • L
Prevalence of wasting in children under 5 years of age (%) * 0.7 2016 • L Expenditure on research and development (% of GDP)    1.3 2017 • p
Prevalence of obesity, BMI ≥ 30 (% of adult population)    22.6 2016 • p Researchers (per 1,000 employed population)    6.7 2018 • 5
Human Trophic Level (best 2–3 worst)    2.3 2017 • 5  Triadic patent families filed (per million population)    48.2 2017 • L
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land)    5.3 2017 • L Gap in internet access by income (percentage points)    7.7 2019 • 5
SYuiesltda ignaapb lcel oNsiutrroe g(%en o Mf panoategnetmiael ynite Ilndd)ex (best 0–1.41 worst)      605..07 22001155 •• p• Waonmde enn ignin seceiernincge) and engineering (% of tertiary graduates in science     18.3 2015 • •
SDG3 – Good Health and Well-Being                    SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities               
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)     5 2017 • L Gini coefficient adjusted for top income    34.8 2015 • 5
Neonatal mortality rate (per 1,000 live births)    1.4 2018 • L Palma ratio    1.2 2017 • •
Mortality rate, under-5 (per 1,000 live births)    2.4 2018 • L Elderly poverty rate (% of population aged 66 or over)    10.9 2017 • •
Incidence of tuberculosis (per 100,000 population)    8.0 2018 • L SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities               
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population)    0.1 2018 • L
Age-standardized death rate due to cardiovascular disease, cancer,     10.0 2016 • L An2.n5u mali cmroenasn  icno dnicaemnetrtaetri o(PnM o2f .p5a) r(tμicgu/mlat3e) matter of less than      10.4 2017 • L
diabetes, or chronic respiratory disease in adults aged 30–70 years (%) Access to improved water source, piped (% of urban population)    99.0 2017 • L
Age-standardized death rate attributable to household air pollution and    12 2016 • • Satisfaction with public transport (%)    78.8 2019 • L
Traamffibc ideenat tahirs  p(poellru 1ti0o0n,0 (0p0e rp 1o0p0u,0la0t0io pno)pulation)    6.3 2016 • L Population with rent overburden (%)    16.9 2017 • p
Life expectancy at birth (years)    82.4 2016 • L SDG12 – Responsible Consumption and Production               
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19)   4.7 2017 • L Electronic waste (kg/capita)    20.9 2016 • •
Births attended by skilled health personnel (%)    99.9 2009 • • Production-based SO2 emissions (kg/capita)   225.9 2012 • •
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%)   99.0 2018 • L SO2 emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)     81.2 2012 • •
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best)   83.0 2017 • L Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita)    99.5 2010 • •
Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best)    7.4 2019 • L Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)    67.6 2010 • •
Gap in life expectancy at birth among regions (years)    NA NA • • Non-recycled municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)    0.8 2018 • •
Gap in self-reported health status by income (percentage points)    10.6 2017 • L SDG13 – Climate Action               
Daily smokers (% of population aged 15 and over)    14.5 2018 • L Energy-related CO2 emissions (tCO2/capita)    15.1 2017 • D
SDG4 – Quality Education                CO2 emissions embodied in imports (tCO2/capita)    15.7 2015 • 5
Net primary enrollment rate (%) * 96.4 2017 • p CO2 emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita)    0.0 2018 • •
Lower secondary completion rate (%) * 96.4 2017 • L Effective carbon rate (EUR/tCO2)    6.3 2016 • •
Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24)    NA NA • • SDG14 – Life Below Water               
Participation rate in pre-primary organized learning (% of children aged 4 to 6)    98.2 2017 • L Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)    NA NA • •
Tertiary educational attainment (% of population aged 25 to 34)    54.8 2018 • L Ocean Health Index: Clean Waters score (worst 0–100 best)    NA NA • •
PISA score (worst 0–600 best)   476.7 2018 • p Fish caught from overexploited or collapsed stocks (% of total catch)    NA NA • •
VURaenrsdiialetieiroannct  hisnite usvcdeieernns tcisne   ispnce sirecfnoiercmnec a(e%n (c %eo f e o1xfp5 1l-a5yie-nyaeerd-a obr-lydo ssldo)sc)io-economic status (%)        222064...985 222000111888 ••• ppL FMisahri ncaeu bgihotd bivye rtsraitwy ltihnrge a(%ts) embodied in imports (per million population)     N0.A7 20N1A8 •• ••
SDG15 – Life on Land               
SDG5 – Gender Equality                Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%)   83.3 2018 • L
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods      NA NA • • Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%)   37.1 2018 • 5
RRaa(%ttiioo o  oof fff  effeemmmaaalellees-- attoog--emmd aa1ll5ee   tmlaob e4oa9rn  wf yoehrcaoer s ap roeafr  metidcaiurprcaiaettdioio nonr r  rainetc eue (ni%vioe)nds ()%)      9835..75 22001189 •• 5L RPeerdm Laisnte Inntd dexe foofr espsteactiieosn s (u%rv oivf afol (rwesot rasrte 0a–, 15 -byeesatr) average)      10..00 22001198 •• L•
Seats held by women in national parliament (%)    30.0 2020 • 5 Terrestrial and freshwater biodiversity threats embodied in imports      7.9 2018 • •
Gender wage gap (% of male median wage)    3.4 2014 • • (per million population)
Gender gap in time spent doing unpaid work (minutes/day)   118.5 2013 • • SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions               
Homicides (per 100,000 population)    0.3 2017 • L
SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation                Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population)    45.9 2018 • p
PPooppuullaattiioonn  uussiinngg  aatt  lleeaasstt  bbaassiicc  dsarninitkaintigo nw saetrevri cseersv (i%ce)s (%)      9997..96 22001177 •• •• Pecrictye notra agree ao wf phoepreu ltahteioyn l iwveh (o% f)eel safe walking alone at night in the      86.6 2019 • L
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available freshwater resources)    3.6 2015 • • Property Rights (worst 1–7 best)    6.1 2019 • •
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%)    98.5 2018 • • Birth registrations with civil authority (% of children under age 5)   100.0 2018 • • 5
SPPcooappruuclleaa ttwiiooannte  uur ssciinnoggn  sssuaamffeepllyyt  immonaa nneaamggbeeoddd  wsiaeandtie tianr ts iieomrnvp isoceerrtsvs i (c(%me)s3 (/%ca)pita)       1995966...760 222000111377 ••• 5LL CCExohprilrodurrptestn ioo ifnn mv Poealjvroceerd pc oitnino cvnhe Iinnldtdi oleanxb a(olw rw o(%ersa tpo 0of –pn1os0 p(0Tu IblVae tcsioot)nn satganetd m 5 itlloio 1n4 U)SD    **  8000...000 222000111969 ••• L•• . Country
SDG7 – Affordable and Clean Energy                per 100,000 population)  P
PPooppuullaattiioonn  wwiitthh  aacccceessss  ttoo  eclleeacntr ifcuiteyls ( %an)d technology for cooking (%)     110000..00 22001176 •• LL PPererssso nFrse heedlodm in I npdriesoxn (b (pesetr  01–0100,000 w0 oprospt)ulation)     11151..75 22001197 •• 5L rofile
s
COel2e cetmricisistyio onus tfproumt ( MfuteCl Oco2/mTWbuhs)tion for electricity and heating per total    22.5 2017 • p SGoDvGer1n7m e–n Pt sapretnndeinrgs honip hse aflothr  atnhde e Gduocaatlison (% of GDP)      9 . 0 201  5 •   p  
Share of renewable energy in total primary energy supply (%)    7.5 2018 • D For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional    1.0 2017 • L
SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth                public finance, including official development assistance (% of GNI)
Adjusted GDP growth (%)    0.5 2018 • • Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP)    NA NA • •
VAidmcutoilmtbsis lw eo-iftm hm oaonnde aeycr-ncseo srulvanivctee ar ytp  ar(op bveairdn 1ek,r0  o(0%r0 o  pothfo epprou fplianutailoantncio)ianl  iangsteidtu 1ti5o no ro or vwerit)h a       918..85 22001187 •• L• CFSihonirafptneocdria aptle rSo Tefaictxrse  Hocafy v mSecunol tSrienc oa(brteieo s(ntb a0els–s t1( U00–S01$ w0 b0oi lrwlsioto)nr)st)        -755250...451 222000121906 ••• •••
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population)   6.4 2010 • L
Employment-to-population ratio (%)    67.9 2019 • L
Youth not in employment, education or training (NEET)      8.4 2018 • L
(% of population aged 15 to 29)
* Imputed data point
305
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
MADAGASCAR  
Sub-Saharan Africa
OVERALL PERFORMANCE
SDG SDG
17 1
SDG 100 SDG
16 2
75
Index score Regional average score SDG SDG
15 50 3
25
SDG
SDG 4
14
49.1 53.1
Madagascar
SDG SDG
13 5
SDG
12 SDG
6
SDG Global rank 161 (OF 166)
SDG
11 SDG
7
SDG SDG
10 SDG 8
9
SPILLOVER INDEX AVERAGE PERFORMANCE BY SDG
100 (best) to 0 (worst)
100
80
60
40
20
0
CURRENT ASSESSMENT – SDG DASHBOARD
  Major challenges           Significant challenges          Challenges remain          SDG achieved          Information unavailable
SDG TRENDS
5 5 5 p D 5 5 D 5
• D • L 5 5 5 D
p  Decreasing       5  Stagnating       D  Moderately improving       L  On track or maintaining SDG achievement       •  Information unavailable
Notes: The full title of Goal 2 “Zero Hunger” is “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”.    
  The full title of each SDG is available here: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabledevelopmentgoals
306
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
MADAGASCAR
Performance by Indicator
SDG1 – No Poverty    Val u e Yea  rRa t ingTr e nd SDG9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure    Val u e Ye a rRa t ingTr e nd
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%)    75.72020 • 5 Population using the internet (%)    9.82017 • 5
Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%)    92.02020 • 5 Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population)    15.62018 • 5
SDG2 – Zero Hunger                Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related     2.22018 • 5
Prevalence of undernourishment (%)    44.42017 • p infrastructure (worst 1–5 best)
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%)    49.22009 • 5 The Times Higher Education Universities Ranking: Average score of top 3 * 0.02020 • •
PPHrrueemvvaaalleennn Tccreeo  poohff  iwocb aLesestviinetylg ,(  BbinMe csIth ≥ 2il d–3r30e  wn(% ou rnosdft )aedr u5 lyt epaorps uolfa atigoen )(%)        1525...312222000011467 ••• 5LL SExcupieneninvtdeifiritscui rtaeien osdn ( t wreeocshersantr ic0cha– la1 nj0od0u  drbneeavselt la)orptimcleens t( (p%e ro 1f ,G0D0P0) population)      00..0022001187 •• 5p
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land)    3.82017 • L SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities               
Sustainable Nitrogen Management Index (best 0–1.41 worst)    0.72015 • 5 Gini coefficient adjusted for top income    51.72012 • •
SDG3 – Good Health and Well-Being                SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities               
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)     3352017 • D Annual mean concentration of particulate matter of less than      22.52017 • 5
NMeoorntaaltitayl  rmatoer,t ualnitdye rra-t5e ( (ppeerr 1 1,0,00000 l ilvivee b birirtthhss))      2503..6622001188 •• DD Ac2c.5e sms itcor oimnsp irno vdeiadm weatteerr ( sPoMu2rc.5e),  (pμipg/emd 3(%) of urban population)    69.62017 • 5
Incidence of tuberculosis (per 100,000 population)   233.02018 • 5 Satisfaction with public transport (%)    46.62019 • L
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population)    0.22018 • p SDG12 – Responsible Consumption and Production                 
Municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)    1.12016 • •
Agdeia-bsteatneds,a ordr iczherdo ndieca rtehs prairtaet dourye d tois ecaasred iionv aadscuultlsa ra dgiesde a3s0e–, c7a0n yceear,r s (%)    22.92016 • D Electronic waste (kg/capita)    0.52016 • •
Agame-bstiaenndt aarird pizoeldlu dtieoant h(p reart e1 0at0t,r0ib0u0 tpaobpleu tloat hioonu)sehold air pollution and    1602016 • • PSOro2d eumctiisosnio-bnas seemd bSoOd2i eedm iinss iimonpso (rktgs /(ckgap/citaap)ita)       50..9422001122 •• ••
Traffic deaths (per 100,000 population)    28.62016 • p Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita)    6.62010 • •
Life expectancy at birth (years)    66.12016 • 5 Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)    0.22010 • •
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19)  109.62017 • 5 SDG13 – Climate Action               
Births attended by skilled health personnel (%)    44.32013 • • Energy-related CO2 emissions (tCO2/capita)    0.12017 • L
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%)   622018 • D CO2 emissions embodied in imports (tCO2/capita)    0.02015 • L
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best)   28.02017 • 5 CO2 emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita)    0.02018 • •
Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best)    4.32019 • L
SDG14 – Life Below Water                 
SDG4 – Quality Education                Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)    18.32018 • D
Net primary enrollment rate (%)    95.62018 • • Ocean Health Index: Clean Waters score (worst 0–100 best)    57.72019 • p
Lower secondary completion rate (%)    37.02018 • p Fish caught from overexploited or collapsed stocks (% of total catch)    17.42014 • L
Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24)    81.22018 • • Fish caught by trawling (%)    13.62014 • 5
SDG5 – Gender Equality                    Marine biodiversity threats embodied in imports (per million population)    0.02018 • •
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods (% of females    60.52017 • D SDG15 – Life on Land               
aged 15 to 49 who are married or in unions) Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%)   24.62018 • 5
Ratio of female-to-male mean years of education received (%)   110.32018 • L Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%)   57.42018 • L
Ratio of female-to-male labor force participation rate (%)    93.72019 • L Red List Index of species survival (worst 0–1 best)    0.82019 • p
Seats held by women in national parliament (%)    15.92020 • p Permanent deforestation (% of forest area, 5-year average)    1.32018 • •
SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation               
Population using at least basic drinking water services (%)    54.42017 • 5 Te(rpreers tmriailll iaonnd p forepsuhlwataiotenr) biodiversity threats embodied in imports      0.02018 • •
Population using at least basic sanitation services (%)    10.52017 • 5 SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions               
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available freshwater resources)    11.32005 • • Homicides (per 100,000 population) * 7.72015 • •
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%)    0.02018 • • Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population)    56.12018 • p
Scarce water consumption embodied in imports (m3/capita)    0.62013 • L Percentage of population who feel safe walking alone at night in the      43.42019 • p
SDG7 – Affordable and Clean Energy                city or area where they live (%)
Population with access to electricity (%)    24.12017 • 5 Property Rights (worst 1–7 best)    3.22019 • •
Population with access to clean fuels and technology for cooking (%)    0.92016 • p Birth registrations with civil authority (% of children under age 5)    83.02018 • •
COto2t aelm eilsesciotrnicsi tfyro omut fpuuetl  (cMomtCbOu2s/tTioWnh f)or electricity and heating per      NA NA • • CCohrilrdurpetnio innv Poelvrceedp itnio cnh Iinldd leaxb (owr o(%rs to 0f –p1o0p0u blaetsiot)n aged 5 to 14)      222.4922001196 •• p•
5
SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth                Exports of major conventional weapons (TIV constant million USD   * 0.02019 • • . C
Adjusted GDP growth (%)    -5.42018 • • per 100,000 population) ou
Victims of modern slavery (per 1,000 population)    7.52018 • • Press Freedom Index (best 0–100 worst)    27.82019 • L ntr
y
Admuoltbsi lwe-itmh oanne ayc-cseoruvnicte a tp aro bvaidnekr  o(%r o othf epro fpinualantcioianl  iangsteidtu 1ti5o no ro or vwerit)h a     17.92017 • D SGoDvGer1nm7 e–n tP sapretnndeinrgs ohni phse aflothr a tnhde e dGuocaatliosn (% of GDP)      6 . 1201  6 •   L    Prof
Unemployment rate (% of total labor force)    1.82019 • L For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional    NA NA • • iles
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population)   0.02010 • L public finance, including official development assistance (% of GNI)
Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP)    11.42018 • 5
Corporate Tax Haven Score (best 0–100 worst) * 0.02019 • •
* Imputed data point
307
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
MALAWI  
Sub-Saharan Africa
OVERALL PERFORMANCE
SDG SDG
17 1
SDG 100 SDG
16 2
75
Index score Regional average score SDG SDG
15 50 3
25
SDG
SDG 4
14
52.2 53.1
Malawi
SDG SDG
13 5
SDG
12 SDG
6
SDG Global rank 152 (OF 166)
SDG
11 SDG
7
SDG SDG
10 SDG 8
9
SPILLOVER INDEX AVERAGE PERFORMANCE BY SDG
100 (best) to 0 (worst)
100
80
60
40
20
0
CURRENT ASSESSMENT – SDG DASHBOARD
  Major challenges           Significant challenges          Challenges remain          SDG achieved          Information unavailable
SDG TRENDS
5 D D • D D 5 D 5
• 5 • L • 5 D 5
p  Decreasing       5  Stagnating       D  Moderately improving       L  On track or maintaining SDG achievement       •  Information unavailable
Notes: The full title of Goal 2 “Zero Hunger” is “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”.    
  The full title of each SDG is available here: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabledevelopmentgoals
308
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
MALAWI
Performance by Indicator
SDG1 – No Poverty    Val u e Yea  rRa t ingTr e nd SDG9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure    Val u e Ye a rRa t ingTr e nd
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%)    66.52020 • 5 Population using the internet (%)    13.82017 • D
Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%)    87.42020 • 5 Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population)    27.22018 • D
SDG2 – Zero Hunger                Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related     2.22018 • p
Prevalence of undernourishment (%)    17.52017 • 5 infrastructure (worst 1–5 best)
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%)    37.12015 • 5 The Times Higher Education Universities Ranking: Average score of top 3 * 0.02020 • •
PPrreevvaalleennccee  ooff  wobaesstiintyg,  BinM cIh ≥il d3r0e n(% u nodf aedr u5 lyt epaorps uolfa atigoen )(%)      25..7822001156 •• LL Scuiennivteifrisci taiensd ( tweochrsnt i0ca–l1 j0o0u rbneaslt a)rticles (per 1,000 population)    0.02018 • 5
Human Trophic Level (best 2–3 worst)    2.12017 • L Expenditure on research and development (% of GDP) * 0.02017 • •
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land)    1.92017 • p SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities               
Sustainable Nitrogen Management Index (best 0–1.41 worst)    0.72015 • 5 Gini coefficient adjusted for top income    49.42016 • •
SDG3 – Good Health and Well-Being                SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities               
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)     3492017 • D Annual mean concentration of particulate matter of less than      23.62017 • D
NMInecooirdntaealntitacyle  rm oatfoe tr,ut uablnietdryce rura-lto5e s( i(psp e(eprr e1 1r,0, 01000000 l ,il0viv0ee0 b  bpiriortthphsus)l)ation)       1248291...470222000111888 ••• LDD ASac2tc.i5es fsmasc ittcoiro oinmn wsp irintoh vd epiadum bwleiactte etrrr a( sPnoMsup2roc.5ret),   ((p%μipg)/emd 3(%) of urban population)      8413..5122001179 •• 5D
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population)    2.32018 • L SDG12 – Responsible Consumption and Production                 
Municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)    1.12013 • •
Agdeia-bsteatneds,a ordr iczherdo ndieca rtehs prairtaet dourye d tois ecaasred iionv aadscuultlsa ra dgiesde a3s0e–, c7a0n yceear,r s (%)    16.42016 • L Electronic waste (kg/capita)    0.52016 • •
Agame-bstiaenndt aarird pizoeldlu dtieoant h(p reart e1 0at0t,r0ib0u0 tpaobpleu tloat hioonu)sehold air pollution and    1152016 • • PSOro2d eumctiisosnio-bnas seemd bSoOd2i eedm iinss iimonpso (rktgs /(ckgap/citaap)ita)       80..2422001122 •• ••
Traffic deaths (per 100,000 population)    31.02016 • D Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita)    5.32010 • •
Life expectancy at birth (years)    64.22016 • D Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)    0.42010 • •
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19)  132.72017 • 5 SDG13 – Climate Action               
Births attended by skilled health personnel (%)    89.82016 • • Energy-related CO2 emissions (tCO2/capita)    0.12017 • L
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%)   872018 • 5 CO2 emissions embodied in imports (tCO2/capita)    0.02015 • L
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best)   46.02017 • 5 CO2 emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita)    0.82017 • •
Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best)    3.92019 • 5
SDG14 – Life Below Water                 
SDG4 – Quality Education                Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)    NA NA • •
Net primary enrollment rate (%)    97.62009 • • Ocean Health Index: Clean Waters score (worst 0–100 best)    NA NA • •
Lower secondary completion rate (%)    21.62013 • • Fish caught from overexploited or collapsed stocks (% of total catch)    NA NA • •
Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24)    72.92015 • • Fish caught by trawling (%)    NA NA • •
SDG5 – Gender Equality                    Marine biodiversity threats embodied in imports (per million population)    0.02018 • •
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods (% of females    73.92016 • L SDG15 – Life on Land               
aged 15 to 49 who are married or in unions) Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%)   83.42018 • L
Ratio of female-to-male mean years of education received (%)    80.42018 • D Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%)   44.72018 • 5
Ratio of female-to-male labor force participation rate (%)    88.62019 • L Red List Index of species survival (worst 0–1 best)    0.82019 • 5
Seats held by women in national parliament (%)    22.92020 • D Permanent deforestation (% of forest area, 5-year average)    1.02018 • •
SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation               
Population using at least basic drinking water services (%)    68.82017 • 5 Te(rpreers tmriailll iaonnd p forepsuhlwataiotenr) biodiversity threats embodied in imports      0.32018 • •
Population using at least basic sanitation services (%)    26.22017 • 5 SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions               
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available freshwater resources)    17.52005 • • Homicides (per 100,000 population)    1.72012 • •
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%)    0.02018 • • Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population)    14.42018 • L
Scarce water consumption embodied in imports (m3/capita)    0.42013 • L Percentage of population who feel safe walking alone at night in the      47.32019 • D
SDG7 – Affordable and Clean Energy                city or area where they live (%)
Population with access to electricity (%)    12.72017 • 5 Property Rights (worst 1–7 best)    4.22019 • •
Population with access to clean fuels and technology for cooking (%)    2.52016 • 5 Birth registrations with civil authority (% of children under age 5)    5.62018 • •
COto2t aelm eilsesciotrnicsi tfyro omut fpuuetl  (cMomtCbOu2s/tTioWnh f)or electricity and heating per      NA NA • • CCohrilrdurpetnio innv Poelvrceedp itnio cnh Iinldd leaxb (owr o(%rs to 0f –p1o0p0u blaetsiot)n aged 5 to 14)      393.1322001196 •• 5•
5
SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth                Exports of major conventional weapons (TIV constant million USD   * 0.02019 • • . C
Adjusted GDP growth (%)    -6.72018 • • per 100,000 population) ou
Victims of modern slavery (per 1,000 population)    7.52018 • • Press Freedom Index (best 0–100 worst)    29.42019 • L ntr
y
Admuoltbsi lwe-itmh oanne ayc-cseoruvnicte a tp aro bvaidnekr  o(%r o othf epro fpinualantcioianl  iangsteidtu 1ti5o no ro or vwerit)h a     33.72017 • L SGoDvGer1nm7 e–n tP sapretnndeinrgs ohni phse aflothr a tnhde e dGuocaatliosn (% of GDP)      7 . 5201  6 •   5    Prof
Unemployment rate (% of total labor force)    5.72019 • D For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional    NA NA • • iles
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population)   0.12010 • L public finance, including official development assistance (% of GNI)
Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP)    18.12018 • 5
Corporate Tax Haven Score (best 0–100 worst) * 0.02019 • •
* Imputed data point
309
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
MALAYSIA  
East and South Asia
OVERALL PERFORMANCE
SDG SDG
17 1
SDG 100 SDG
16 2
75
Index score Regional average score SDG SDG
15 50 3
25
SDG
SDG 4
14
71.8 67.2
Malaysia
SDG SDG
13 5
SDG
12 SDG
6
SDG Global rank 60 (OF 166)
SDG
11 SDG
7
SDG SDG
10 SDG 8
9
SPILLOVER INDEX AVERAGE PERFORMANCE BY SDG
100 (best) to 0 (worst)
100
80
60
40
20
0
CURRENT ASSESSMENT – SDG DASHBOARD
  Major challenges           Significant challenges          Challenges remain          SDG achieved          Information unavailable
SDG TRENDS
L 5 D 5 D D L L L
• D • 5 5 5 D p
p  Decreasing       5  Stagnating       D  Moderately improving       L  On track or maintaining SDG achievement       •  Information unavailable
Notes: The full title of Goal 2 “Zero Hunger” is “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”.    
  The full title of each SDG is available here: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabledevelopmentgoals
312
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
MALAYSIA
Performance by Indicator
SDG1 – No Poverty    Val u e Yea  rRa t ingTr e nd SDG9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure    Val u e Ye a rRa t ingTr e nd
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%)    0.02020 • L Population using the internet (%)    81.22018 • L
Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%)    0.02020 • L Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population)   116.72018 • L
SDG2 – Zero Hunger                Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related     3.12018 • L
Prevalence of undernourishment (%)    2.52017 • L infrastructure (worst 1–5 best)
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%)    20.72016 • 5 The Times Higher Education Universities Ranking: Average score of top 3    38.12020 • •
PPHrrueemvvaaalleennn Tccreeo  poohff  iwocb aLesestviinetylg ,(  BbinMe csIth ≥ 2il d–3r30e  wn(% ou rnosdft )aedr u5 lyt epaorps uolfa atigoen )(%)        11215...456222000111667 ••• 5pp SExcupieneninvtdeifiritscui rtaeien osdn ( t wreeocshersantr ic0cha– la1 nj0od0u  drbneeavselt la)orptimcleens t( (p%e ro 1f ,G0D0P0) population)      01..8422001186 •• LL
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land)    4.32017 • L SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities               
Sustainable Nitrogen Management Index (best 0–1.41 worst)    0.52015 • L Gini coefficient adjusted for top income    43.02015 • •
SDG3 – Good Health and Well-Being                SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities               
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)     292017 • L Annual mean concentration of particulate matter of less than      16.02017 • D
2.5 microns in diameter (PM2.5) (μg/m3)
NMeoorntaaltitayl  rmatoer,t ualnitdye rra-t5e ( (ppeerr 1 1,0,00000 l ilvivee b birirtthhss))      47..3822001188 •• LL Access to improved water source, piped (% of urban population)    98.92017 • L
Incidence of tuberculosis (per 100,000 population)    92.02018 • 5 Satisfaction with public transport (%)    61.02019 • p
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population)    0.22018 • L SDG12 – Responsible Consumption and Production                 
Municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)    1.52014 • •
Agdeia-bsteatneds,a ordr iczherdo ndieca rtehs prairtaet dourye d tois ecaasred iionv aadscuultlsa ra dgiesde a3s0e–, c7a0n yceear,r s (%)    17.22016 • L Electronic waste (kg/capita)    8.82016 • •
Agame-bstiaenndt aarird pizoeldlu dtieoant h(p reart e1 0at0t,r0ib0u0 tpaobpleu tloat hioonu)sehold air pollution and    472016 • • PSOro2d eumctiisosnio-bnas seemd bSoOd2i eedm iinss iimonpso (rktgs /(ckgap/citaap)ita)       375..1522001122 •• ••
Traffic deaths (per 100,000 population)    23.62016 • 5 Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita)    28.12010 • •
Life expectancy at birth (years)    75.32016 • D Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)    5.92010 • •
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19)   13.42017 • L SDG13 – Climate Action               
Births attended by skilled health personnel (%)    99.42015 • L Energy-related CO2 emissions (tCO2/capita)    7.72017 • 5
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%)   962018 • L CO2 emissions embodied in imports (tCO2/capita)    0.82015 • D
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best)   73.02017 • L CO2 emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita)   2200.72018 • •
Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best)    5.42019 • p
SDG14 – Life Below Water                 
SDG4 – Quality Education                Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)    28.52018 • 5
Net primary enrollment rate (%)    99.62017 • L Ocean Health Index: Clean Waters score (worst 0–100 best)    57.42019 • p
Lower secondary completion rate (%)    81.82018 • p Fish caught from overexploited or collapsed stocks (% of total catch)    23.22014 • L
Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24)    96.92018 • • Fish caught by trawling (%)    47.42014 • 5
SDG5 – Gender Equality                    Marine biodiversity threats embodied in imports (per million population)    0.22018 • •
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods (% of females * 54.52017 • D SDG15 – Life on Land               
aged 15 to 49 who are married or in unions) Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%)   39.52018 • 5
Ratio of female-to-male mean years of education received (%)    97.12018 • L Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%)   68.02018 • L
Ratio of female-to-male labor force participation rate (%)    65.92019 • D Red List Index of species survival (worst 0–1 best)    0.72019 • p
Seats held by women in national parliament (%)    14.42020 • 5 Permanent deforestation (% of forest area, 5-year average)    1.82018 • •
SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation               
Population using at least basic drinking water services (%)    96.72017 • 5 Te(rpreers tmriailll iaonnd p forepsuhlwataiotenr) biodiversity threats embodied in imports      2.12018 • •
Population using at least basic sanitation services (%)    99.62017 • L SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions               
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available freshwater resources)    5.72005 • • Homicides (per 100,000 population)    2.12013 • •
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%)    12.42018 • • Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population)    31.92018 • p
Scarce water consumption embodied in imports (m3/capita)    18.72013 • L Percentage of population who feel safe walking alone at night in the      61.02019 • L
SDG7 – Affordable and Clean Energy                city or area where they live (%)
Population with access to electricity (%)   100.02017 • L Property Rights (worst 1–7 best)    5.52019 • •
Population with access to clean fuels and technology for cooking (%)    96.32016 • L Birth registrations with civil authority (% of children under age 5)    NA NA • •
COto2t aelm eilsesciotrnicsi tfyro omut fpuuetl  (cMomtCbOu2s/tTioWnh f)or electricity and heating per      1.42017 • L CCohrilrdurpetnio innv Poelvrceedp itnio cnh Iinldd leaxb (owr o(%rs to 0f –p1o0p0u blaetsiot)n aged 5 to 14)      N5A320N1A9 •• L•
5
SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth                Exports of major conventional weapons (TIV constant million USD   * 0.02019 • • . C
Adjusted GDP growth (%)    0.92018 • • per 100,000 population) ou
Victims of modern slavery (per 1,000 population)    6.92018 • • Press Freedom Index (best 0–100 worst)    36.72019 • L ntr
y
Admuoltbsi lwe-itmh oanne ayc-cseoruvnicte a tp aro bvaidnekr  o(%r o othf epro fpinualantcioianl  iangsteidtu 1ti5o no ro or vwerit)h a     85.32017 • L SGoDvGer1nm7 e–n tP sapretnndeinrgs ohni phse aflothr a tnhde e dGuocaatliosn (% of GDP)      6 . 7201  6 •   p    Prof
Unemployment rate (% of total labor force)    3.32019 • L For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional    NA NA • • iles
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population)   1.02010 • L public finance, including official development assistance (% of GNI)
Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP)    16.12018 • p
Corporate Tax Haven Score (best 0–100 worst) * 0.02019 • •
* Imputed data point
313
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
MALDIVES  
East and South Asia
OVERALL PERFORMANCE
SDG SDG
17 1
SDG 100 SDG
16 2
75
Index score Regional average score SDG SDG
15 50 3
25
SDG
SDG 4
14
67.6 67.2
Maldives
SDG SDG
13 5
SDG
12 SDG
6
SDG Global rank 91 (OF 166)
SDG
11 SDG
7
SDG SDG
10 SDG 8
9
SPILLOVER INDEX AVERAGE PERFORMANCE BY SDG
100 (best) to 0 (worst)
100
80
60
40
20
0
CURRENT ASSESSMENT – SDG DASHBOARD
  Major challenges           Significant challenges          Challenges remain          SDG achieved          Information unavailable
SDG TRENDS
L D L 5 5 L L D D
• L • L 5 p 5 L
p  Decreasing       5  Stagnating       D  Moderately improving       L  On track or maintaining SDG achievement       •  Information unavailable
Notes: The full title of Goal 2 “Zero Hunger” is “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”.    
  The full title of each SDG is available here: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabledevelopmentgoals
314
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
MALDIVES
Performance by Indicator
SDG1 – No Poverty    Val u e Yea  rRa t ingTr e nd SDG9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure    Val u e Ye a rRa t ingTr e nd
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%)    1.32020 • L Population using the internet (%)    63.22017 • L
Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%)    7.62020 • L Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population)    54.52018 • D
SDG2 – Zero Hunger                Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related     2.72018 • L
Prevalence of undernourishment (%)    10.32017 • L infrastructure (worst 1–5 best)
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%)    20.32009 • D The Times Higher Education Universities Ranking: Average score of top 3 * 0.02020 • •
PPrreevvaalleennccee  ooff  wobaesstiintyg,  BinM cIh ≥il d3r0e n(% u nodf aedr u5 lyt epaorps uolfa atigoen )(%)      180..6222000196 •• LD Scuiennivteifrisci taiensd ( tweochrsnt i0ca–l1 j0o0u rbneaslt a)rticles (per 1,000 population)    0.02018 • p
Human Trophic Level (best 2–3 worst)    2.42017 • L Expenditure on research and development (% of GDP)    NA NA • •
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land)    2.62017 • L SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities               
Sustainable Nitrogen Management Index (best 0–1.41 worst)    1.12015 • p Gini coefficient adjusted for top income    59.12009 • •
SDG3 – Good Health and Well-Being                SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities               
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)     532017 • L Annual mean concentration of particulate matter of less than      7.82017 • L
2.5 microns in diameter (PM2.5) (μg/m3)
NMeoorntaaltitayl  rmatoer,t ualnitdye rra-t5e ( (ppeerr 1 1,0,00000 l ilvivee b birirtthhss))      48..8622001188 •• LL Access to improved water source, piped (% of urban population)    98.32017 • L
Incidence of tuberculosis (per 100,000 population)    33.02018 • L Satisfaction with public transport (%)    59.02017 • •
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population)    NA NA • • SDG12 – Responsible Consumption and Production                 
Municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)    3.32015 • •
Agdeia-bsteatneds,a ordr iczherdo ndieca rtehs prairtaet dourye d tois ecaasred iionv aadscuultlsa ra dgiesde a3s0e–, c7a0n yceear,r s (%)    13.42016 • L Electronic waste (kg/capita)    6.92016 • •
Agame-bstiaenndt aarird pizoeldlu dtieoant h(p reart e1 0at0t,r0ib0u0 tpaobpleu tloat hioonu)sehold air pollution and    262016 • • PSOro2d eumctiisosnio-bnas seemd bSoOd2i eedm iinss iimonpso (rktgs /(ckgap/citaap)ita)      2885..7822001122 •• ••
Traffic deaths (per 100,000 population)    0.92016 • L Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita)    11.72010 • •
Life expectancy at birth (years)    78.42016 • L Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)    5.02010 • •
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19)   7.82017 • L SDG13 – Climate Action               
Births attended by skilled health personnel (%)    99.52017 • L Energy-related CO2 emissions (tCO2/capita)    2.82017 • L
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%)   992018 • L CO2 emissions embodied in imports (tCO2/capita)    0.82015 • L
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best)   62.02017 • D CO2 emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita) * 0.02018 • •
Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best)    5.22017 • •
SDG14 – Life Below Water                 
SDG4 – Quality Education                Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)    0.02018 • 5
Net primary enrollment rate (%)    95.42017 • p Ocean Health Index: Clean Waters score (worst 0–100 best)    58.42019 • L
Lower secondary completion rate (%)   108.22017 • L Fish caught from overexploited or collapsed stocks (% of total catch)    30.82014 • p
Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24)    98.82016 • • Fish caught by trawling (%)    0.02010 • •
SDG5 – Gender Equality                    Marine biodiversity threats embodied in imports (per million population)    0.12018 • •
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods (% of females    42.52009 • D SDG15 – Life on Land               
aged 15 to 49 who are married or in unions) Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%)   0.02018 • 5
Ratio of female-to-male mean years of education received (%)    97.12018 • L Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%)   NA NA • •
Ratio of female-to-male labor force participation rate (%)    51.12019 • p Red List Index of species survival (worst 0–1 best)    0.82019 • p
Seats held by women in national parliament (%)    4.62020 • p Permanent deforestation (% of forest area, 5-year average)    NA NA • •
SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation               
Population using at least basic drinking water services (%)    99.32017 • L Te(rpreers tmriailll iaonnd p forepsuhlwataiotenr) biodiversity threats embodied in imports      0.32018 • •
Population using at least basic sanitation services (%)    99.42017 • L SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions               
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available freshwater resources)    15.72010 • • Homicides (per 100,000 population)    0.82013 • •
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%)    4.62018 • • Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population)    NA NA • •
Scarce water consumption embodied in imports (m3/capita)    18.92013 • L Percentage of population who feel safe walking alone at night in the      49.52017 • •
SDG7 – Affordable and Clean Energy                city or area where they live (%)
Population with access to electricity (%)    99.82017 • L Property Rights (worst 1–7 best)    NA NA • •
Population with access to clean fuels and technology for cooking (%)    93.82016 • L Birth registrations with civil authority (% of children under age 5)    98.82018 • •
COto2t aelm eilsesciotrnicsi tfyro omut fpuuetl  (cMomtCbOu2s/tTioWnh f)or electricity and heating per      NA NA • • CCohrilrdurpetnio innv Poelvrceedp itnio cnh Iinldd leaxb (owr o(%rs to 0f –p1o0p0u blaetsiot)n aged 5 to 14)      N2A920N1A9 •• p•
5
SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth                Exports of major conventional weapons (TIV constant million USD   * 0.02019 • • . C
Adjusted GDP growth (%)    -1.42018 • • per 100,000 population) ou
Victims of modern slavery (per 1,000 population)    NA NA • • Press Freedom Index (best 0–100 worst)    32.22019 • L ntr
y
Admuoltbsi lwe-itmh oanne ayc-cseoruvnicte a tp aro bvaidnekr  o(%r o othf epro fpinualantcioianl  iangsteidtu 1ti5o no ro or vwerit)h a     NA NA • • SGoDvGer1nm7 e–n tP sapretnndeinrgs ohni phse aflothr a tnhde e dGuocaatliosn (% of GDP)      11 . 8201  6 •   L    Prof
Unemployment rate (% of total labor force)    6.12019 • 5 For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional    NA NA • • iles
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population)   1.12010 • L public finance, including official development assistance (% of GNI)
Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP)    25.72014 • •
Corporate Tax Haven Score (best 0–100 worst) * 0.02019 • •
* Imputed data point
315
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
MALI  
Sub-Saharan Africa
OVERALL PERFORMANCE
SDG SDG
17 1
SDG 100 SDG
16 2
75
Index score Regional average score SDG SDG
15 50 3
25
SDG
SDG 4
14
51.4 53.1
Mali
SDG SDG
13 5
SDG
12 SDG
6
SDG Global rank 156 (OF 166)
SDG
11 SDG
7
SDG SDG
10 SDG 8
9
SPILLOVER INDEX AVERAGE PERFORMANCE BY SDG
100 (best) to 0 (worst)
100
80
60
40
20
0
CURRENT ASSESSMENT – SDG DASHBOARD
  Major challenges           Significant challenges          Challenges remain          SDG achieved          Information unavailable
SDG TRENDS
D 5 5 p 5 D 5 D 5
• D • L • 5 5 D
p  Decreasing       5  Stagnating       D  Moderately improving       L  On track or maintaining SDG achievement       •  Information unavailable
Notes: The full title of Goal 2 “Zero Hunger” is “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”.    
  The full title of each SDG is available here: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabledevelopmentgoals
316
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
MALI
Performance by Indicator
SDG1 – No Poverty    Val u e Yea  rRa t ingTr e nd SDG9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure    Val u e Ye a rRa t ingTr e nd
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%)    34.32020 • D Population using the internet (%)    13.02017 • 5
Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%)    66.72020 • 5 Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population)    30.32018 • L
SDG2 – Zero Hunger                Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related     2.32018 • D
Prevalence of undernourishment (%)    6.32017 • L infrastructure (worst 1–5 best)
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%)    30.42015 • 5 The Times Higher Education Universities Ranking: Average score of top 3 * 0.02020 • •
PPHrrueemvvaaalleennn Tccreeo  poohff  iwocb aLesestviinetylg ,(  BbinMe csIth ≥ 2il d–3r30e  wn(% ou rnosdft )aedr u5 lyt epaorps uolfa atigoen )(%)        1823...625222000111567 ••• pLL SExcupieneninvtdeifiritscui rtaeien osdn ( t wreeocshersantr ic0cha– la1 nj0od0u  drbneeavselt la)orptimcleens t( (p%e ro 1f ,G0D0P0) population)      00..0322001187 •• 5p
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land)    1.52017 • p SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities               
Sustainable Nitrogen Management Index (best 0–1.41 worst)    0.82015 • 5 Gini coefficient adjusted for top income    37.02009 • •
SDG3 – Good Health and Well-Being                SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities               
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)     5622017 • D Annual mean concentration of particulate matter of less than      38.52017 • p
NMeoorntaaltitayl  rmatoer,t ualnitdye rra-t5e ( (ppeerr 1 1,0,00000 l ilvivee b birirtthhss))      3927..7822001188 •• 5D Ac2c.5e sms itcor oimnsp irno vdeiadm weatteerr ( sPoMu2rc.5e),  (pμipg/emd 3(%) of urban population)    81.62017 • L
Incidence of tuberculosis (per 100,000 population)    53.02018 • 5 Satisfaction with public transport (%)    46.02019 • L
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population)    0.82018 • 5 SDG12 – Responsible Consumption and Production                 
Municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)    0.72012 • •
Agdeia-bsteatneds,a ordr iczherdo ndieca rtehs prairtaet dourye d tois ecaasred iionv aadscuultlsa ra dgiesde a3s0e–, c7a0n yceear,r s (%)    24.62016 • 5 Electronic waste (kg/capita)    0.72016 • •
Agame-bstiaenndt aarird pizoeldlu dtieoant h(p reart e1 0at0t,r0ib0u0 tpaobpleu tloat hioonu)sehold air pollution and    2092016 • • PSOro2d eumctiisosnio-bnas seemd bSoOd2i eedm iinss iimonpso (rktgs /(ckgap/citaap)ita)       90..5322001122 •• ••
Traffic deaths (per 100,000 population)    23.12016 • D Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita)    30.52010 • •
Life expectancy at birth (years)    58.02016 • 5 Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)    0.22010 • •
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19)  169.12017 • 5 SDG13 – Climate Action               
Births attended by skilled health personnel (%)    43.72015 • p Energy-related CO2 emissions (tCO2/capita)    0.12017 • L
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%)   702018 • L CO2 emissions embodied in imports (tCO2/capita)    0.02015 • L
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best)   38.02017 • 5 CO2 emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita)    0.02017 • •
Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best)    5.02019 • L
SDG14 – Life Below Water                 
SDG4 – Quality Education                Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)    NA NA • •
Net primary enrollment rate (%)    58.92018 • p Ocean Health Index: Clean Waters score (worst 0–100 best)    NA NA • •
Lower secondary completion rate (%)    29.72017 • p Fish caught from overexploited or collapsed stocks (% of total catch)    NA NA • •
Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24)    50.12018 • • Fish caught by trawling (%)    NA NA • •
SDG5 – Gender Equality                    Marine biodiversity threats embodied in imports (per million population)    0.02018 • •
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods (% of females    35.02015 • 5 SDG15 – Life on Land               
aged 15 to 49 who are married or in unions) Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%)   33.82018 • 5
Ratio of female-to-male mean years of education received (%)    56.72018 • 5 Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%)   43.72018 • 5
Ratio of female-to-male labor force participation rate (%)    75.82019 • L Red List Index of species survival (worst 0–1 best)    1.02019 • L
Seats held by women in national parliament (%)    9.52019 • 5 Permanent deforestation (% of forest area, 5-year average)    0.32018 • •
SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation               
Population using at least basic drinking water services (%)    78.32017 • L Te(rpreers tmriailll iaonnd p forepsuhlwataiotenr) biodiversity threats embodied in imports      0.02018 • •
Population using at least basic sanitation services (%)    39.32017 • 5 SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions               
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available freshwater resources)    8.02005 • • Homicides (per 100,000 population) * 10.92015 • •
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%)    0.02018 • • Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population)    51.52015 • •
Scarce water consumption embodied in imports (m3/capita)    0.32013 • L Percentage of population who feel safe walking alone at night in the      55.02019 • p
SDG7 – Affordable and Clean Energy                city or area where they live (%)
Population with access to electricity (%)    43.12017 • D Property Rights (worst 1–7 best)    3.62019 • •
Population with access to clean fuels and technology for cooking (%)    1.02016 • p Birth registrations with civil authority (% of children under age 5)    86.72018 • •
COto2t aelm eilsesciotrnicsi tfyro omut fpuuetl  (cMomtCbOu2s/tTioWnh f)or electricity and heating per      NA NA • • CCohrilrdurpetnio innv Poelvrceedp itnio cnh Iinldd leaxb (owr o(%rs to 0f –p1o0p0u blaetsiot)n aged 5 to 14)      552.9822001196 •• p•
5
SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth                Exports of major conventional weapons (TIV constant million USD   * 0.02019 • • . C
Adjusted GDP growth (%)    -4.32018 • • per 100,000 population) ou
Victims of modern slavery (per 1,000 population)    3.62018 • • Press Freedom Index (best 0–100 worst)    35.22019 • L ntr
y
Admuoltbsi lwe-itmh oanne ayc-cseoruvnicte a tp aro bvaidnekr  o(%r o othf epro fpinualantcioianl  iangsteidtu 1ti5o no ro or vwerit)h a     35.42017 • L SGoDvGer1nm7 e–n tP sapretnndeinrgs ohni phse aflothr a tnhde e dGuocaatliosn (% of GDP)      4 . 3201  6 •   5    Prof
Unemployment rate (% of total labor force)    7.22019 • D For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional    NA NA • • iles
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population)   0.02010 • L public finance, including official development assistance (% of GNI)
Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP)    17.42017 • L
Corporate Tax Haven Score (best 0–100 worst) * 0.02019 • •
* Imputed data point
317
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
MALTA  
Eastern Europe and Central Asia
OVERALL PERFORMANCE
SDG SDG
17 1
SDG 100 SDG
16 2
75
Index score Regional average score SDG SDG
15 50 3
25
SDG
SDG 4
14
76.0 70.9
Malta
SDG SDG
13 5
SDG
12 SDG
6
SDG Global rank 32 (OF 166)
SDG
11 SDG
7
SDG SDG
10 SDG 8
9
SPILLOVER INDEX AVERAGE PERFORMANCE BY SDG
100 (best) to 0 (worst)
100
80
60
40
20
0
CURRENT ASSESSMENT – SDG DASHBOARD
  Major challenges           Significant challenges          Challenges remain          SDG achieved          Information unavailable
SDG TRENDS
L D D L D D L L D
• D • 5 D D D D
p  Decreasing       5  Stagnating       D  Moderately improving       L  On track or maintaining SDG achievement       •  Information unavailable
Notes: The full title of Goal 2 “Zero Hunger” is “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”.    
  The full title of each SDG is available here: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabledevelopmentgoals
318
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
MALTA
Performance by Indicator
SDG1 – No Poverty    Val u e Yea  rRa t ingTr e nd SDG9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure    Val u e Ye a rRa t ingTr e nd
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%)    0.12020 • L Population using the internet (%)    81.72018 • L
Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%)    0.22020 • L Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population)   104.32018 • L
SDG2 – Zero Hunger                Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related     2.92018 • p
Prevalence of undernourishment (%)    2.52017 • L infrastructure (worst 1–5 best)
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%) * 2.62016 • L The Times Higher Education Universities Ranking: Average score of top 3    31.82020 • •
PPHrrueemvvaaalleennn Tccreeo  poohff  iwocb aLesestviinetylg ,(  BbinMe csIth ≥ 2il d–3r30e  wn(% ou rnosdft )aedr u5 lyt epaorps uolfa atigoen )(%) *     2028...739222000111667 ••• 5Lp SExcupieneninvtdeifiritscui rtaeien osdn ( t wreeocshersantr ic0cha– la1 nj0od0u  drbneeavselt la)orptimcleens t( (p%e ro 1f ,G0D0P0) population)      10..0522001187 •• Lp
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land)    4.82017 • L SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities               
Sustainable Nitrogen Management Index (best 0–1.41 worst)    0.92015 • p Gini coefficient adjusted for top income    29.62015 • •
SDG3 – Good Health and Well-Being                SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities               
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)     62017 • L Annual mean concentration of particulate matter of less than      13.92017 • D
2.5 microns in diameter (PM2.5) (μg/m3)
NMeoorntaaltitayl  rmatoer,t ualnitdye rra-t5e ( (ppeerr 1 1,0,00000 l ilvivee b birirtthhss))      47..7022001188 •• LL Access to improved water source, piped (% of urban population)    99.02017 • L
Incidence of tuberculosis (per 100,000 population)    14.02018 • p Satisfaction with public transport (%)    60.32019 • L
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population)    NA NA • • SDG12 – Responsible Consumption and Production                 
Municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)    1.82015 • •
Agdeia-bsteatneds,a ordr iczherdo ndieca rtehs prairtaet dourye d tois ecaasred iionv aadscuultlsa ra dgiesde a3s0e–, c7a0n yceear,r s (%)    10.82016 • L Electronic waste (kg/capita)    15.52016 • •
Agame-bstiaenndt aarird pizoeldlu dtieoant h(p reart e1 0at0t,r0ib0u0 tpaobpleu tloat hioonu)sehold air pollution and    202016 • • PSOro2d eumctiisosnio-bnas seemd bSoOd2i eedm iinss iimonpso (rktgs /(ckgap/citaap)ita)      51575..0822001122 •• ••
Traffic deaths (per 100,000 population)    6.12016 • L Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita)    34.32010 • •
Life expectancy at birth (years)    81.52016 • L Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)    17.42010 • •
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19)   12.92017 • L SDG13 – Climate Action               
Births attended by skilled health personnel (%)    99.82016 • L Energy-related CO2 emissions (tCO2/capita)**    6.32017 • 5
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%)   962018 • L CO2 emissions embodied in imports (tCO2/capita)    2.82015 • 5
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best)   82.02017 • L CO2 emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita)    0.02019 • •
Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best)    6.72019 • L
SDG14 – Life Below Water                 
SDG4 – Quality Education                Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)    98.92018 • L
Net primary enrollment rate (%)    99.52017 • L Ocean Health Index: Clean Waters score (worst 0–100 best)    41.12019 • p
Lower secondary completion rate (%)   100.42016 • • Fish caught from overexploited or collapsed stocks (% of total catch)    12.52014 • L
Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24)    99.32018 • • Fish caught by trawling (%)    93.62014 • 5
SDG5 – Gender Equality                    Marine biodiversity threats embodied in imports (per million population)    0.12018 • •
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods (% of females * 74.82017 • L SDG15 – Life on Land               
aged 15 to 49 who are married or in unions) Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%)   99.32018 • L
Ratio of female-to-male mean years of education received (%)    94.82018 • 5 Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%)   NA NA • •
Ratio of female-to-male labor force participation rate (%)    65.52019 • L Red List Index of species survival (worst 0–1 best)    0.92019 • 5
Seats held by women in national parliament (%)    13.42020 • 5 Permanent deforestation (% of forest area, 5-year average)    NA NA • •
SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation               
Population using at least basic drinking water services (%)   100.02017 • L Te(rpreers tmriailll iaonnd p forepsuhlwataiotenr) biodiversity threats embodied in imports      1.12018 • •
Population using at least basic sanitation services (%)   100.02017 • L SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions               
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available freshwater resources)    52.32015 • • Homicides (per 100,000 population)    0.92015 • •
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%) *100.02018 • • Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population)    27.92018 • L
Scarce water consumption embodied in imports (m3/capita)    39.22013 • 5 Percentage of population who feel safe walking alone at night in the      74.52019 • L
SDG7 – Affordable and Clean Energy                city or area where they live (%)
Population with access to electricity (%)   100.02017 • L Property Rights (worst 1–7 best)    5.12019 • •
Population with access to clean fuels and technology for cooking (%)   100.02016 • L Birth registrations with civil authority (% of children under age 5)   100.02018 • •
COto2t aelm eilsesciotrnicsi tfyro omut fpuuetl  (cMomtCbOu2s/tTioWnh f)or electricity and heating per      1.02017 • L CCohrilrdurpetnio innv Poelvrceedp itnio cnh Iinldd leaxb (owr o(%rs to 0f –p1o0p0u blaetsiot)n aged 5 to 14)      N5A420N1A9 •• p•
5
SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth                Exports of major conventional weapons (TIV constant million USD      1.12019 • • . C
Adjusted GDP growth (%)    1.52018 • • per 100,000 population) ou
Victims of modern slavery (per 1,000 population)    NA NA • • Press Freedom Index (best 0–100 worst)    29.72019 • L ntr
y
Admuoltbsi lwe-itmh oanne ayc-cseoruvnicte a tp aro bvaidnekr  o(%r o othf epro fpinualantcioianl  iangsteidtu 1ti5o no ro or vwerit)h a     97.42017 • L SGoDvGer1nm7 e–n tP sapretnndeinrgs ohni phse aflothr a tnhde e dGuocaatliosn (% of GDP)      10 . 9201  5 •   L    Prof
Unemployment rate (% of total labor force)    3.52019 • L For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional    0.22017 • 5 iles
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population)   1.42010 • L public finance, including official development assistance (% of GNI)
Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP)    NA NA • •
Corporate Tax Haven Score (best 0–100 worst)    73.52019 • •
* Imputed data point
**In Malta, the "Country-Reported" data of CO2 emissions from energy is significantly lower than the "Third-Party" estimate used in this report and has improved since 2014 (Gütschow et al, 2019). 
The "Country-Reported" data reflects the shift made by Malta in 2014 to a gas-fired power plant from a Heavy Fuel Oil (HFO) plant in addition to the 2015 linkage to mainland Europe's interconnector.
319
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
MARSHALL ISLANDS  
Oceania
OVERALL PERFORMANCE
SDG SDG
17 1
SDG 100 SDG
16 2
75
Index score Regional average score SDG SDG
15 50 3
25
SDG
SDG 4
14
 na 49.6 Marshall 
SDG Islands SDG
13 5
SDG
12 SDG
6
SDG Global rank NA (OF 166)
SDG
11 SDG
7
SDG SDG
10 SDG 8
9
SPILLOVER INDEX AVERAGE PERFORMANCE BY SDG
100 (best) to 0 (worst)
100
80
60
40
20
0
CURRENT ASSESSMENT – SDG DASHBOARD
  Major challenges           Significant challenges          Challenges remain          SDG achieved          Information unavailable
SDG TRENDS
• • • 5 5 D D • 5
• 5 • • 5 • • L
p  Decreasing       5  Stagnating       D  Moderately improving       L  On track or maintaining SDG achievement       •  Information unavailable
Notes: The full title of Goal 2 “Zero Hunger” is “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”.    
  The full title of each SDG is available here: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabledevelopmentgoals
320
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
MARSHALL ISLANDS
Performance by Indicator
SDG1 – No Poverty    Val u e Yea  rRa t ingTr e nd SDG9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure    Val u e Ye a rRa t ingTr e nd
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%)    NA NA • • Population using the internet (%)    38.72017 • L
Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%)    NA NA • • Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population)    0.02017 • 5
SDG2 – Zero Hunger                Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related     NA NA • •
Prevalence of undernourishment (%)    NA NA • • infrastructure (worst 1–5 best)
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%)    NA NA • • The Times Higher Education Universities Ranking: Average score of top 3 * 0.02020 • •
PPrreevvaalleennccee  ooff  wobaesstiintyg,  BinM cIh ≥il d3r0e n(% u nodf aedr u5 lyt epaorps uolfa atigoen )(%)      5N2.A920N1A6 •• p• Scuiennivteifrisci taiensd ( tweochrsnt i0ca–l1 j0o0u rbneaslt a)rticles (per 1,000 population)    0.02018 • p
Expenditure on research and development (% of GDP)    NA NA • •
Human Trophic Level (best 2–3 worst)    NA NA • •
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land)    NA NA • • SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities               
Sustainable Nitrogen Management Index (best 0–1.41 worst)    1.32015 • p Gini coefficient adjusted for top income    NA NA • •
SDG3 – Good Health and Well-Being                SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities               
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)     NA NA • • Annual mean concentration of particulate matter of less than      10.22017 • L
2.5 microns in diameter (PM2.5) (μg/m3)
NMeoorntaaltitayl  rmatoer,t ualnitdye rra-t5e ( (ppeerr 1 1,0,00000 l ilvivee b birirtthhss))      1353..5122001188 •• LL Access to improved water source, piped (% of urban population)    13.02017 • p
Incidence of tuberculosis (per 100,000 population)   434.02018 • p Satisfaction with public transport (%)    NA NA • •
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population)    NA NA • • SDG12 – Responsible Consumption and Production                 
Municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)    0.62013 • •
Agdeia-bsteatneds,a ordr iczherdo ndieca rtehs prairtaet dourye d tois ecaasred iionv aadscuultlsa ra dgiesde a3s0e–, c7a0n yceear,r s (%)    NA NA • • Electronic waste (kg/capita)    NA NA • •
Agame-bstiaenndt aarird pizoeldlu dtieoant h(p reart e1 0at0t,r0ib0u0 tpaobpleu tloat hioonu)sehold air pollution and    NA NA • • PSOro2d eumctiisosnio-bnas seemd bSoOd2i eedm iinss iimonpso (rktgs /(ckgap/citaap)ita)       NNAA NNAA •• ••
Traffic deaths (per 100,000 population)    5.72013 • • Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita)    NA NA • •
Life expectancy at birth (years)    NA NA • • Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)    NA NA • •
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19)   NA NA • • SDG13 – Climate Action               
Births attended by skilled health personnel (%)    90.12011 • • Energy-related CO2 emissions (tCO2/capita)    2.42017 • 5
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%)   812018 • L CO2 emissions embodied in imports (tCO2/capita)    NA NA • •
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best)   NA NA • • CO2 emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita)    NA NA • •
Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best)    NA NA • •
SDG14 – Life Below Water                 
SDG4 – Quality Education                Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)    12.32018 • 5
Net primary enrollment rate (%)    73.22016 • 5 Ocean Health Index: Clean Waters score (worst 0–100 best)    36.32019 • 5
Lower secondary completion rate (%)   109.52011 • • Fish caught from overexploited or collapsed stocks (% of total catch)    1.52014 • L
Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24)    98.52011 • • Fish caught by trawling (%)    NA NA • •
SDG5 – Gender Equality                    Marine biodiversity threats embodied in imports (per million population)    NA NA • •
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods (% of females    80.52007 • • SDG15 – Life on Land               
aged 15 to 49 who are married or in unions) Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%)   15.02018 • 5
Ratio of female-to-male mean years of education received (%)    97.32018 • L Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%)   NA NA • •
Ratio of female-to-male labor force participation rate (%)    NA NA • • Red List Index of species survival (worst 0–1 best)    0.82019 • p
Seats held by women in national parliament (%)    6.12020 • p Permanent deforestation (% of forest area, 5-year average)    NA NA • •
SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation               
Population using at least basic drinking water services (%)    88.52017 • L Te(rpreers tmriailll iaonnd p forepsuhlwataiotenr) biodiversity threats embodied in imports      NA NA • •
Population using at least basic sanitation services (%)    83.52017 • 5 SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions               
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available freshwater resources)    NA NA • • Homicides (per 100,000 population)    NA NA • •
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%)    0.02018 • • Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population)    8.52015 • •
Scarce water consumption embodied in imports (m3/capita)    NA NA • • Percentage of population who feel safe walking alone at night in the      NA NA • •
SDG7 – Affordable and Clean Energy                city or area where they live (%)
Population with access to electricity (%)    94.82017 • L Property Rights (worst 1–7 best)    NA NA • •
Population with access to clean fuels and technology for cooking (%)    65.42016 • D Birth registrations with civil authority (% of children under age 5)    83.82018 • •
COto2t aelm eilsesciotrnicsi tfyro omut fpuuetl  (cMomtCbOu2s/tTioWnh f)or electricity and heating per      NA NA • • CCohrilrdurpetnio innv Poelvrceedp itnio cnh Iinldd leaxb (owr o(%rs to 0f –p1o0p0u blaetsiot)n aged 5 to 14)      NNAA NNAA •• ••
5
SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth                Exports of major conventional weapons (TIV constant million USD   * 0.02019 • • . C
Adjusted GDP growth (%)    -3.32018 • • per 100,000 population) ou
Victims of modern slavery (per 1,000 population)    NA NA • • Press Freedom Index (best 0–100 worst)    NA NA • • ntr
y
Admuoltbsi lwe-itmh oanne ayc-cseoruvnicte a tp aro bvaidnekr  o(%r o othf epro fpinualantcioianl  iangsteidtu 1ti5o no ro or vwerit)h a     NA NA • • SGoDvGer1nm7 e–n tP sapretnndeinrgs ohni phse aflothr a tnhde e dGuocaatliosn (% of GDP)      22 . 5200  3 •   •    Prof
Unemployment rate (% of total labor force)    NA NA • • For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional    NA NA • • iles
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population)   NA NA • • public finance, including official development assistance (% of GNI)
Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP)    32.22018 • L
Corporate Tax Haven Score (best 0–100 worst) * 0.02019 • •
* Imputed data point
321
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
MAURITANIA  
Sub-Saharan Africa
OVERALL PERFORMANCE
SDG SDG
17 1
SDG 100 SDG
16 2
75
Index score Regional average score SDG SDG
15 50 3
25
SDG
SDG 4
14
57.7 53.1
Mauritania
SDG SDG
13 5
SDG
12 SDG
6
SDG Global rank 130 (OF 166)
SDG
11 SDG
7
SDG SDG
10 SDG 8
9
SPILLOVER INDEX AVERAGE PERFORMANCE BY SDG
100 (best) to 0 (worst)
100
80
60
40
20
0
CURRENT ASSESSMENT – SDG DASHBOARD
  Major challenges           Significant challenges          Challenges remain          SDG achieved          Information unavailable
SDG TRENDS
L p 5 D 5 D 5 5 5
• 5 • L D D 5 p
p  Decreasing       5  Stagnating       D  Moderately improving       L  On track or maintaining SDG achievement       •  Information unavailable
Notes: The full title of Goal 2 “Zero Hunger” is “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”.    
  The full title of each SDG is available here: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabledevelopmentgoals
322
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
MAURITANIA
Performance by Indicator
SDG1 – No Poverty    Val u e Yea  rRa t ingTr e nd SDG9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure    Val u e Ye a rRa t ingTr e nd
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%)    3.22020 • L Population using the internet (%)    20.82017 • D
Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%)    16.92020 • L Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population)    52.92018 • L
SDG2 – Zero Hunger                Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related     2.32018 • p
Prevalence of undernourishment (%)    10.42017 • p infrastructure (worst 1–5 best)
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%)    27.92015 • p The Times Higher Education Universities Ranking: Average score of top 3 * 0.02020 • •
PPrreevvaalleennccee  ooff  wobaesstiintyg,  BinM cIh ≥il d3r0e n(% u nodf aedr u5 lyt epaorps uolfa atigoen )(%)      1142..8722001156 •• pp Scuiennivteifrisci taiensd ( tweochrsnt i0ca–l1 j0o0u rbneaslt a)rticles (per 1,000 population)    0.02018 • 5
Human Trophic Level (best 2–3 worst)    2.32017 • 5 Expenditure on research and development (% of GDP)    NA NA • •
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land)    1.42017 • p SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities               
Sustainable Nitrogen Management Index (best 0–1.41 worst)    0.92015 • 5 Gini coefficient adjusted for top income    32.62014 • •
SDG3 – Good Health and Well-Being                SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities               
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)     7662017 • 5 Annual mean concentration of particulate matter of less than      47.42017 • p
NMInecooirdntaealntitacyle  rm oatfoe tr,ut uablnietdryce rura-lto5e s( i(psp e(eprr e1 1r,0, 01000000 l ,il0viv0ee0 b  bpiriortthphsus)l)ation)        379353...570222000111888 ••• 5DD ASac2tc.i5es fsmasc ittcoiro oinmn wsp irintoh vd epiadum bwleiactte etrrr a( sPnoMsup2roc.5ret),   ((p%μipg)/emd 3(%) of urban population)      6452..5522001179 •• 5D
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population)    0.02018 • L SDG12 – Responsible Consumption and Production                 
Municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)    0.52009 • •
Agdeia-bsteatneds,a ordr iczherdo ndieca rtehs prairtaet dourye d tois ecaasred iionv aadscuultlsa ra dgiesde a3s0e–, c7a0n yceear,r s (%)    18.12016 • p Electronic waste (kg/capita)    1.32016 • •
Agame-bstiaenndt aarird pizoeldlu dtieoant h(p reart e1 0at0t,r0ib0u0 tpaobpleu tloat hioonu)sehold air pollution and    1692016 • • PSOro2d eumctiisosnio-bnas seemd bSoOd2i eedm iinss iimonpso (rktgs /(ckgap/citaap)ita)       331..8022001122 •• ••
Traffic deaths (per 100,000 population)    24.72016 • p Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita)    36.92010 • •
Life expectancy at birth (years)    63.92016 • 5 Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)    0.72010 • •
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19)   71.02017 • D SDG13 – Climate Action               
Births attended by skilled health personnel (%)    69.32015 • D Energy-related CO2 emissions (tCO2/capita)    0.72017 • L
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%)   782018 • L CO2 emissions embodied in imports (tCO2/capita)    0.12015 • L
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best)   41.02017 • 5 CO2 emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita)    NA NA • •
Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best)    4.22019 • 5
SDG14 – Life Below Water                 
SDG4 – Quality Education                Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)    64.42018 • L
Net primary enrollment rate (%)    79.62018 • D Ocean Health Index: Clean Waters score (worst 0–100 best)    60.82019 • p
Lower secondary completion rate (%)    41.92018 • D Fish caught from overexploited or collapsed stocks (% of total catch)    15.62014 • L
Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24)    63.92017 • • Fish caught by trawling (%)    23.02014 • L
SDG5 – Gender Equality                    Marine biodiversity threats embodied in imports (per million population)    0.12018 • •
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods (% of females    30.42015 • 5 SDG15 – Life on Land               
aged 15 to 49 who are married or in unions) Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%)   14.62018 • 5
Ratio of female-to-male mean years of education received (%)    67.32018 • D Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%)   NA NA • •
Ratio of female-to-male labor force participation rate (%)    46.32019 • 5 Red List Index of species survival (worst 0–1 best)    1.02019 • L
Seats held by women in national parliament (%)    20.32020 • p Permanent deforestation (% of forest area, 5-year average)    0.02018 • •
SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation               
Population using at least basic drinking water services (%)    70.72017 • D Te(rpreers tmriailll iaonnd p forepsuhlwataiotenr) biodiversity threats embodied in imports      0.12018 • •
Population using at least basic sanitation services (%)    48.42017 • D SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions               
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available freshwater resources)    13.22005 • • Homicides (per 100,000 population) * 9.92015 • •
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%)    0.02018 • • Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population)    41.02015 • •
Scarce water consumption embodied in imports (m3/capita)    1.62013 • L Percentage of population who feel safe walking alone at night in the      50.62019 • D
SDG7 – Affordable and Clean Energy                city or area where they live (%)
Population with access to electricity (%)    42.92017 • 5 Property Rights (worst 1–7 best)    2.22019 • •
Population with access to clean fuels and technology for cooking (%)    46.62016 • 5 Birth registrations with civil authority (% of children under age 5)    65.62018 • •
COto2t aelm eilsesciotrnicsi tfyro omut fpuuetl  (cMomtCbOu2s/tTioWnh f)or electricity and heating per      NA NA • • CCohrilrdurpetnio innv Poelvrceedp itnio cnh Iinldd leaxb (owr o(%rs to 0f –p1o0p0u blaetsiot)n aged 5 to 14)      372.8622001196 •• p•
5
SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth                Exports of major conventional weapons (TIV constant million USD   * 0.02019 • • . C
Adjusted GDP growth (%)    -5.62018 • • per 100,000 population) ou
Victims of modern slavery (per 1,000 population)    21.42018 • • Press Freedom Index (best 0–100 worst)    31.72019 • p ntr
y
Admuoltbsi lwe-itmh oanne ayc-cseoruvnicte a tp aro bvaidnekr  o(%r o othf epro fpinualantcioianl  iangsteidtu 1ti5o no ro or vwerit)h a     20.92017 • p SGoDvGer1nm7 e–n tP sapretnndeinrgs ohni phse aflothr a tnhde e dGuocaatliosn (% of GDP)      4 . 2201  6 •   p    Prof
Unemployment rate (% of total labor force)    9.52019 • 5 For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional    NA NA • • iles
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population)   0.12010 • L public finance, including official development assistance (% of GNI)
Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP)    NA NA • •
Corporate Tax Haven Score (best 0–100 worst) * 0.02019 • •
* Imputed data point
323
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
MAURITIUS  
Sub-Saharan Africa
OVERALL PERFORMANCE
SDG SDG
17 1
SDG 100 SDG
16 2
75
Index score Regional average score SDG SDG
15 50 3
25
SDG
SDG 4
14
63.8 53.1
Mauritius
SDG SDG
13 5
SDG
12 SDG
6
SDG Global rank 108 (OF 166)
SDG
11 SDG
7
SDG SDG
10 SDG 8
9
SPILLOVER INDEX AVERAGE PERFORMANCE BY SDG
100 (best) to 0 (worst)
100
80
60
40
20
0
CURRENT ASSESSMENT – SDG DASHBOARD
  Major challenges           Significant challenges          Challenges remain          SDG achieved          Information unavailable
SDG TRENDS
L D D D D D D D D
• D • 5 p p 5 D
p  Decreasing       5  Stagnating       D  Moderately improving       L  On track or maintaining SDG achievement       •  Information unavailable
Notes: The full title of Goal 2 “Zero Hunger” is “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”.    
  The full title of each SDG is available here: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabledevelopmentgoals
324
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
MAURITIUS
Performance by Indicator
SDG1 – No Poverty    Val u e Yea  rRa t ingTr e nd SDG9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure    Val u e Ye a rRa t ingTr e nd
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%)    0.22020 • L Population using the internet (%)    58.62018 • L
Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%)    1.12020 • L Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population)    65.32018 • L
SDG2 – Zero Hunger                Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related     2.82018 • L
Prevalence of undernourishment (%)    6.52017 • L infrastructure (worst 1–5 best)
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%)    NA NA • • The Times Higher Education Universities Ranking: Average score of top 3 * 0.02020 • •
PPrreevvaalleennccee  ooff  wobaesstiintyg,  BinM cIh ≥il d3r0e n(% u nodf aedr u5 lyt epaorps uolfa atigoen )(%)      1N0.A820N1A6 •• p• Scuiennivteifrisci taiensd ( tweochrsnt i0ca–l1 j0o0u rbneaslt a)rticles (per 1,000 population)    0.12018 • 5
Human Trophic Level (best 2–3 worst)    2.22017 • L Expenditure on research and development (% of GDP)    0.42017 • •
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land)    5.22017 • L SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities               
Sustainable Nitrogen Management Index (best 0–1.41 worst)    1.12015 • 5 Gini coefficient adjusted for top income    50.42012 • •
SDG3 – Good Health and Well-Being                SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities               
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)     612017 • L Annual mean concentration of particulate matter of less than      14.52017 • D
2.5 microns in diameter (PM2.5) (μg/m3)
NMeoorntaaltitayl  rmatoer,t ualnitdye rra-t5e ( (ppeerr 1 1,0,00000 l ilvivee b birirtthhss))      195..2522001188 •• LL Access to improved water source, piped (% of urban population)    99.02017 • L
Incidence of tuberculosis (per 100,000 population)    13.02018 • 5 Satisfaction with public transport (%)    70.22019 • L
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population)    0.72018 • 5 SDG12 – Responsible Consumption and Production                 
Municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)    2.32016 • •
Agdeia-bsteatneds,a ordr iczherdo ndieca rtehs prairtaet dourye d tois ecaasred iionv aadscuultlsa ra dgiesde a3s0e–, c7a0n yceear,r s (%)    22.62016 • D Electronic waste (kg/capita)    8.62016 • •
Agame-bstiaenndt aarird pizoeldlu dtieoant h(p reart e1 0at0t,r0ib0u0 tpaobpleu tloat hioonu)sehold air pollution and    382016 • • PSOro2d eumctiisosnio-bnas seemd bSoOd2i eedm iinss iimonpso (rktgs /(ckgap/citaap)ita)      21215..0422001122 •• ••
Traffic deaths (per 100,000 population)    13.72016 • p Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita)    26.82010 • •
Life expectancy at birth (years)    74.82016 • D Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)    19.22010 • •
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19)   25.72017 • L SDG13 – Climate Action               
Births attended by skilled health personnel (%)    99.82016 • L Energy-related CO2 emissions (tCO2/capita)    3.62017 • 5
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%)   972018 • L CO2 emissions embodied in imports (tCO2/capita)    1.72015 • 5
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best)   63.02017 • D CO2 emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita)    0.02016 • •
Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best)    6.22019 • L
SDG14 – Life Below Water                 
SDG4 – Quality Education                Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)    11.82018 • 5
Net primary enrollment rate (%)    94.82018 • 5 Ocean Health Index: Clean Waters score (worst 0–100 best)    65.02019 • 5
Lower secondary completion rate (%)    86.82018 • L Fish caught from overexploited or collapsed stocks (% of total catch)    47.92014 • p
Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24)    99.02018 • • Fish caught by trawling (%)    6.52008 • •
SDG5 – Gender Equality                    Marine biodiversity threats embodied in imports (per million population)    1.82018 • •
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods (% of females    40.82014 • D SDG15 – Life on Land               
aged 15 to 49 who are married or in unions) Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%)   9.32018 • 5
Ratio of female-to-male mean years of education received (%)    97.92018 • L Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%)   NA NA • •
Ratio of female-to-male labor force participation rate (%)    62.92019 • 5 Red List Index of species survival (worst 0–1 best)    0.42019 • p
Seats held by women in national parliament (%)    20.02020 • D Permanent deforestation (% of forest area, 5-year average)    0.12018 • •
SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation               
Population using at least basic drinking water services (%)    99.92017 • L Te(rpreers tmriailll iaonnd p forepsuhlwataiotenr) biodiversity threats embodied in imports      22.12018 • •
Population using at least basic sanitation services (%)    95.52017 • L SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions               
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available freshwater resources)    26.32005 • • Homicides (per 100,000 population)    1.82016 • p
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%)    2.52018 • • Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population)    40.72018 • p
Scarce water consumption embodied in imports (m3/capita)    72.42013 • p Percentage of population who feel safe walking alone at night in the      65.12019 • L
SDG7 – Affordable and Clean Energy                city or area where they live (%)
Population with access to electricity (%)    98.02017 • L Property Rights (worst 1–7 best)    5.32019 • •
Population with access to clean fuels and technology for cooking (%)    93.32016 • L Birth registrations with civil authority (% of children under age 5)    NA NA • •
COto2t aelm eilsesciotrnicsi tfyro omut fpuuetl  (cMomtCbOu2s/tTioWnh f)or electricity and heating per      1.42017 • 5 CCohrilrdurpetnio innv Poelvrceedp itnio cnh Iinldd leaxb (owr o(%rs to 0f –p1o0p0u blaetsiot)n aged 5 to 14)      N5A220N1A9 •• p•
5
SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth                Exports of major conventional weapons (TIV constant million USD   * 0.02019 • • . C
Adjusted GDP growth (%)    0.72018 • • per 100,000 population) ou
Victims of modern slavery (per 1,000 population)    1.02018 • • Press Freedom Index (best 0–100 worst)    28.52019 • L ntr
y
Admuoltbsi lwe-itmh oanne ayc-cseoruvnicte a tp aro bvaidnekr  o(%r o othf epro fpinualantcioianl  iangsteidtu 1ti5o no ro or vwerit)h a     89.82017 • L SGoDvGer1nm7 e–n tP sapretnndeinrgs ohni phse aflothr a tnhde e dGuocaatliosn (% of GDP)      7 . 5201  6 •   L    Prof
Unemployment rate (% of total labor force)    6.72019 • L For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional    NA NA • • iles
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population)   3.32010 • p public finance, including official development assistance (% of GNI)
Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP)    22.62018 • p
Corporate Tax Haven Score (best 0–100 worst)    79.82019 • •
* Imputed data point
325
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
MEXICO  
OECD Countries
OVERALL PERFORMANCE
SDG SDG
17 1
SDG 100 SDG
16 2
75
Index score Regional average score SDG SDG
15 50 3
25
SDG
SDG 4
14
70.4 77.3
Mexico
SDG SDG
13 5
SDG
12 SDG
6
SDG Global rank 69 (OF 166)
SDG
11 SDG
7
SDG SDG
10 SDG 8
9
SPILLOVER INDEX AVERAGE PERFORMANCE BY SDG
100 (best) to 0 (worst)
100
80
60
40
20
0
CURRENT ASSESSMENT – SDG DASHBOARD
  Major challenges           Significant challenges          Challenges remain          SDG achieved          Information unavailable
SDG TRENDS
D D D D D D D 5 5
5 L • D D 5 5 5
p  Decreasing       5  Stagnating       D  Moderately improving       L  On track or maintaining SDG achievement       •  Information unavailable
Notes: The full title of Goal 2 “Zero Hunger” is “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”.    
  The full title of each SDG is available here: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabledevelopmentgoals
326
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
MEXICO
Performance by Indicator
SDG1 – No Poverty    Va lu e Ye a rRa t ingTr e nd SDG9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure    Va lu e Yea  rRa t ingTr e nd
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%)    1.7 2020 • L Population using the internet (%)    65.8 2018 • L
Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%)    11.9 2020 • D Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population)    70.0 2018 • L
Poverty rate after taxes and transfers (%)    16.6 2016 • 5 Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related     2.8 2018 • p
SDG2 – Zero Hunger                  infrastructure (worst 1–5 best)
Prevalence of undernourishment (%)    3.6 2017 • L Thuen Tivimerseist iHesig (wheorr Estd 0u–c1at0io0 nb eUsnt)iversities Ranking: Average score of top 3    31.8 2020 • •
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%)    12.4 2015 • L Scientific and technical journal articles (per 1,000 population)    0.1 2018 • 5
Prevalence of wasting in children under 5 years of age (%)    1.0 2015 • L Expenditure on research and development (% of GDP)    0.5 2016 • p
Prevalence of obesity, BMI ≥ 30 (% of adult population)    28.9 2016 • p Researchers (per 1,000 employed population)    1.0 2016 • 5
Human Trophic Level (best 2–3 worst)    2.3 2017 • 5  Triadic patent families filed (per million population)    0.2 2017 • p
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land)    3.8 2017 • L Gap in internet access by income (percentage points)    59.8 2012 • •
SYuiesltda ignaapb lcel oNsiutrroe g(%en o Mf panoategnetmiael ynite Ilndd)ex (best 0–1.41 worst)      N0.A8 20N1A5 •• p• Waonmde enn ignin seceiernincge) and engineering (% of tertiary graduates in science     29.2 2015 • •
SDG3 – Good Health and Well-Being                    SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities               
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)     33 2017 • L Gini coefficient adjusted for top income    55.4 2016 • 5
Neonatal mortality rate (per 1,000 live births)    7.5 2018 • L Palma ratio    2.5 2016 • 5
Mortality rate, under-5 (per 1,000 live births)    12.7 2018 • L Elderly poverty rate (% of population aged 66 or over)    24.7 2016 • 5
Incidence of tuberculosis (per 100,000 population)    23.0 2018 • 5 SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities               
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population)    0.1 2018 • L
Age-standardized death rate due to cardiovascular disease, cancer,     15.7 2016 • L An2.n5u mali cmroenasn  icno dnicaemnetrtaetri o(PnM o2f .p5a) r(tμicgu/mlat3e) matter of less than      20.9 2017 • D
diabetes, or chronic respiratory disease in adults aged 30–70 years (%) Access to improved water source, piped (% of urban population)    98.1 2017 • L
Age-standardized death rate attributable to household air pollution and    37 2016 • • Satisfaction with public transport (%)    60.7 2018 • L
Traamffibc ideenat tahirs  p(poellru 1ti0o0n,0 (0p0e rp 1o0p0u,0la0t0io pno)pulation)    13.1 2016 • p Population with rent overburden (%)    6.7 2014 • •
Life expectancy at birth (years)    76.6 2016 • 5 SDG12 – Responsible Consumption and Production               
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19)   60.4 2017 • 5 Electronic waste (kg/capita)    8.2 2016 • •
Births attended by skilled health personnel (%)    97.7 2015 • p Production-based SO2 emissions (kg/capita)    18.1 2012 • •
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%)   88.0 2018 • L SO2 emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)     2.1 2012 • •
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best)   76.0 2017 • L Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita)    26.8 2010 • •
Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best)    6.6 2018 • L Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)    3.5 2010 • •
Gap in life expectancy at birth among regions (years)    3.7 2016 • • Non-recycled municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)    0.9 2012 • •
Gap in self-reported health status by income (percentage points)    NA NA • • SDG13 – Climate Action               
Daily smokers (% of population aged 15 and over)    7.6 2017 • L Energy-related CO2 emissions (tCO2/capita)    4.0 2017 • 5
SDG4 – Quality Education                CO2 emissions embodied in imports (tCO2/capita)    0.4 2015 • L
Net primary enrollment rate (%) *100.0 2017 • L CO2 emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita)   651.8 2019 • •
Lower secondary completion rate (%) *100.0 2017 • L Effective carbon rate (EUR/tCO2)    0.3 2016 • •
Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24)    99.3 2018 • • SDG14 – Life Below Water               
Participation rate in pre-primary organized learning (% of children aged 4 to 6)    99.0 2017 • L Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)    78.6 2018 • L
TPeISrAtia srcyo ered u(wcaotriostn 0a–l a6t0t0a ibnemset)nt (% of population aged 25 to 34)     42136..40 22001188 •• 5D OFische acna uHgehatlt fhro Inmd oexv:e Crelexapnlo Witeadte orsr  sccoollraep (swedo rsstto 0c–k1s 0(%0  boef stto)tal catch)      6345..45 22001194 •• pD
VURaenrsdiialetieiroannct  hisnite usvcdeieernns tcisne   ispnce sirecfnoiercmnec a(e%n (c %eo f e o1xfp5 1l-a5yie-nyaeerd-a obr-lydo ssldo)sc)io-economic status (%)        142261...186 222000111888 ••• 5pL FMisahri ncaeu bgihotd bivye rtsraitwy ltihnrge a(%ts) embodied in imports (per million population)     120..04 22001148 •• L•
SDG15 – Life on Land               
SDG5 – Gender Equality                Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%)   31.7 2018 • 5
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods      79.8 2015 • L Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%)   15.1 2018 • 5
RRaa(%ttiioo o  oof fff  effeemmmaaalellees-- attoog--emmd aa1ll5ee   tmlaob e4oa9rn  wf yoehrcaoer s ap roeafr  metidcaiurprcaiaettdioio nonr r  rainetc eue (ni%vioe)nds ()%)      9555..57 22001189 •• 55 RPeerdm Laisnte Inntd dexe foofr espsteactiieosn s (u%rv oivf afol (rwesot rasrte 0a–, 15 -byeesatr) average)      00..73 22001198 •• p•
Seats held by women in national parliament (%)    48.2 2020 • L Terrestrial and freshwater biodiversity threats embodied in imports      0.7 2018 • •
Gender wage gap (% of male median wage)    14.0 2018 • L (per million population)
Gender gap in time spent doing unpaid work (minutes/day)   199.9 2014 • • SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions               
Homicides (per 100,000 population)    24.8 2017 • p
SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation                Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population)    34.3 2018 • L
PPooppuullaattiioonn  uussiinngg  aatt  lleeaasstt  bbaassiicc  dsarninitkaintigo nw saetrevri cseersv (i%ce)s (%)      9991..32 22001177 •• •• Pecrictye notra agree ao wf phoepreu ltahteioyn l iwveh (o% f)eel safe walking alone at night in the      42.0 2018 • 5
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available freshwater resources)    32.2 2015 • • Property Rights (worst 1–7 best)    4.1 2019 • •
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%)    31.6 2018 • • Birth registrations with civil authority (% of children under age 5)    95.0 2018 • • 5
SPPcooappruuclleaa ttwiiooannte  uur ssciinnoggn  sssuaamffeepllyyt  immonaa nneaamggbeeoddd  wsiaeandtie tianr ts iieomrnvp isoceerrtsvs i (c(%me)s3 (/%ca)pita)        45420...943 222000111377 ••• 5LD CCExohprilrodurrptestn ioo ifnn mv Poealjvroceerd pc oitnino cvnhe Iinnldtdi oleanxb a(olw rw o(%ersa tpo 0of –pn1os0 p(0Tu IblVae tcsioot)nn satganetd m 5 itlloio 1n4 U)SD          21920...004 222000111969 ••• p•• . Country
SDG7 – Affordable and Clean Energy                per 100,000 population)  P
PPooppuullaattiioonn  wwiitthh  aacccceessss  ttoo  eclleeacntr ifcuiteyls ( %an)d technology for cooking (%)     18050..40 22001176 •• LL PPererssso nFrse heedlodm in I npdriesoxn (b (pesetr  01–0100,000 w0 oprospt)ulation)     14460..89 22001197 •• 5L rofile
s
COel2e cetmricisistyio onus tfproumt ( MfuteCl Oco2/mTWbuhs)tion for electricity and heating per total    1.5 2017 • D SGoDvGer1n7m e–n Pt sapretnndeinrgs honip hse aflothr  atnhde e Gduocaatlison (% of GDP)      7 . 8 201  6 •   p  
Share of renewable energy in total primary energy supply (%)    9.0 2018 • 5 For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional    NA NA • •
SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth                public finance, including official development assistance (% of GNI)
Adjusted GDP growth (%)    -2.3 2018 • • Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP)    18.9 2018 • 5
VAidmcutoilmtbsis lw eo-iftm hm oaonnde aeycr-ncseo srulvanivctee ar ytp  ar(op bveairdn 1ek,r0  o(0%r0 o  pothfo epprou fplianutailoantncio)ianl  iangsteidtu 1ti5o no ro or vwerit)h a       326..97 22001187 •• p• CFSihonirafptneocdria aptle rSo Tefaictxrse  Hocafy v mSecunol tSrienc oa(brteieo s(ntb a0els–s t1( U00–S01$ w0 b0oi lrwlsioto)nr)st) *     51021...081 222000121906 ••• •••
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population)   0.2 2010 • L
Employment-to-population ratio (%)    62.2 2019 • L
Youth not in employment, education or training (NEET)      20.9 2018 • 5
(% of population aged 15 to 29)
* Imputed data point
327
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
MICRONESIA, FEDERATED STATES OF  
Oceania
OVERALL PERFORMANCE
SDG SDG
17 1
SDG 100 SDG
16 2
75
Index score Regional average score SDG SDG
15 50 3
25
SDG
SDG 4
14
 na 49.6 Micronesia, 
1SD3G Fed. Sts. S5DG
SDG
12 SDG
6
SDG Global rank NA (OF 166)
SDG
11 SDG
7
SDG SDG
10 SDG 8
9
SPILLOVER INDEX AVERAGE PERFORMANCE BY SDG
100 (best) to 0 (worst)
100
80
60
40
20
0
CURRENT ASSESSMENT – SDG DASHBOARD
  Major challenges           Significant challenges          Challenges remain          SDG achieved          Information unavailable
SDG TRENDS
• • D • • D D • 5
• • • L 5 p • L
p  Decreasing       5  Stagnating       D  Moderately improving       L  On track or maintaining SDG achievement       •  Information unavailable
Notes: The full title of Goal 2 “Zero Hunger” is “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”.    
  The full title of each SDG is available here: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabledevelopmentgoals
328
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
MICRONESIA, FEDERATED STATES OF
Performance by Indicator
SDG1 – No Poverty    Val u e Yea  rRa t ingTr e nd SDG9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure    Val u e Ye a rRa t ingTr e nd
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%)    NA NA • • Population using the internet (%)    35.32017 • D
Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%)    NA NA • • Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population)    0.02017 • 5
SDG2 – Zero Hunger                Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related     NA NA • •
Prevalence of undernourishment (%)    NA NA • • infrastructure (worst 1–5 best)
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%)    NA NA • • The Times Higher Education Universities Ranking: Average score of top 3 * 0.02020 • •
PPrreevvaalleennccee  ooff  wobaesstiintyg,  BinM cIh ≥il d3r0e n(% u nodf aedr u5 lyt epaorps uolfa atigoen )(%)      4N5.A820N1A6 •• p• Scuiennivteifrisci taiensd ( tweochrsnt i0ca–l1 j0o0u rbneaslt a)rticles (per 1,000 population)    0.02018 • p
Expenditure on research and development (% of GDP)    NA NA • •
Human Trophic Level (best 2–3 worst)    NA NA • •
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land)    1.72017 • 5 SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities               
Sustainable Nitrogen Management Index (best 0–1.41 worst)    1.12015 • 5 Gini coefficient adjusted for top income    45.72013 • •
SDG3 – Good Health and Well-Being                SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities               
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)     882017 • L Annual mean concentration of particulate matter of less than      11.32017 • L
2.5 microns in diameter (PM2.5) (μg/m3)
Neonatal mortality rate (per 1,000 live births)    16.02018 • L
Mortality rate, under-5 (per 1,000 live births)    30.82018 • L Access to improved water source, piped (% of urban population)    NA NA • •
Incidence of tuberculosis (per 100,000 population)   108.02018 • D Satisfaction with public transport (%)    NA NA • •
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population)    NA NA • • SDG12 – Responsible Consumption and Production                 
Municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)    0.22016 • •
Agdeia-bsteatneds,a ordr iczherdo ndieca rtehs prairtaet dourye d tois ecaasred iionv aadscuultlsa ra dgiesde a3s0e–, c7a0n yceear,r s (%)    26.12016 • 5 Electronic waste (kg/capita)    1.72016 • •
Agame-bstiaenndt aarird pizoeldlu dtieoant h(p reart e1 0at0t,r0ib0u0 tpaobpleu tloat hioonu)sehold air pollution and    1522016 • • PSOro2d eumctiisosnio-bnas seemd bSoOd2i eedm iinss iimonpso (rktgs /(ckgap/citaap)ita)       NNAA NNAA •• ••
Traffic deaths (per 100,000 population)    1.92016 • L Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita)    NA NA • •
Life expectancy at birth (years)    69.62016 • 5 Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)    NA NA • •
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19)   13.92017 • L SDG13 – Climate Action               
Births attended by skilled health personnel (%)   100.02009 • • Energy-related CO2 emissions (tCO2/capita)    0.32017 • L
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%)   732018 • 5 CO2 emissions embodied in imports (tCO2/capita)    NA NA • •
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best)   47.02017 • 5 CO2 emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita) * 0.02017 • •
Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best)    NA NA • •
SDG14 – Life Below Water                 
SDG4 – Quality Education                Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)    1.62018 • 5
Net primary enrollment rate (%)    85.52015 • • Ocean Health Index: Clean Waters score (worst 0–100 best)    63.72019 • L
Lower secondary completion rate (%)    NA NA • • Fish caught from overexploited or collapsed stocks (% of total catch)    94.42014 • p
Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24)    NA NA • • Fish caught by trawling (%)    NA NA • •
SDG5 – Gender Equality                    Marine biodiversity threats embodied in imports (per million population)    NA NA • •
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods (% of females    NA NA • • SDG15 – Life on Land               
aged 15 to 49 who are married or in unions) Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%)   0.02018 • 5
Ratio of female-to-male mean years of education received (%)    NA NA • • Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%)   NA NA • •
Ratio of female-to-male labor force participation rate (%)    NA NA • • Red List Index of species survival (worst 0–1 best)    0.72019 • p
Seats held by women in national parliament (%)    0.02020 • 5 Permanent deforestation (% of forest area, 5-year average) * 0.02018 • •
SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation               
Population using at least basic drinking water services (%)    78.62017 • p Te(rpreers tmriailll iaonnd p forepsuhlwataiotenr) biodiversity threats embodied in imports      NA NA • •
Population using at least basic sanitation services (%)    88.32017 • L SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions               
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available freshwater resources)    NA NA • • Homicides (per 100,000 population) * 4.72015 • •
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%)    0.12018 • • Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population)    17.72015 • •
Scarce water consumption embodied in imports (m3/capita)    NA NA • • Percentage of population who feel safe walking alone at night in the      NA NA • •
SDG7 – Affordable and Clean Energy                city or area where they live (%)
Population with access to electricity (%)    80.82017 • L Property Rights (worst 1–7 best)    NA NA • •
Population with access to clean fuels and technology for cooking (%)    12.02016 • 5 Birth registrations with civil authority (% of children under age 5)    NA NA • •
COto2t aelm eilsesciotrnicsi tfyro omut fpuuetl  (cMomtCbOu2s/tTioWnh f)or electricity and heating per      NA NA • • CCohrilrdurpetnio innv Poelvrceedp itnio cnh Iinldd leaxb (owr o(%rs to 0f –p1o0p0u blaetsiot)n aged 5 to 14)      NNAA NNAA •• ••
5
SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth                Exports of major conventional weapons (TIV constant million USD   * 0.02019 • • . C
Adjusted GDP growth (%)    -5.72018 • • per 100,000 population) ou
Victims of modern slavery (per 1,000 population)    NA NA • • Press Freedom Index (best 0–100 worst)    NA NA • • ntr
y
Admuoltbsi lwe-itmh oanne ayc-cseoruvnicte a tp aro bvaidnekr  o(%r o othf epro fpinualantcioianl  iangsteidtu 1ti5o no ro or vwerit)h a     NA NA • • SGoDvGer1nm7 e–n tP sapretnndeinrgs ohni phse aflothr a tnhde e dGuocaatliosn (% of GDP)      15 . 7201  5 •   •    Prof
Unemployment rate (% of total labor force)    NA NA • • For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional    NA NA • • iles
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population)   NA NA • • public finance, including official development assistance (% of GNI)
Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP)    44.72018 • L
Corporate Tax Haven Score (best 0–100 worst) * 0.02019 • •
* Imputed data point
329
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
MOLDOVA  
Eastern Europe and Central Asia
OVERALL PERFORMANCE
SDG SDG
17 1
SDG 100 SDG
16 2
75
Index score Regional average score SDG SDG
15 50 3
25
SDG
SDG 4
14
74.4 70.9
Moldova
SDG SDG
13 5
SDG
12 SDG
6
SDG Global rank 42 (OF 166)
SDG
11 SDG
7
SDG SDG
10 SDG 8
9
SPILLOVER INDEX AVERAGE PERFORMANCE BY SDG
100 (best) to 0 (worst)
100
80
60
40
20
0
CURRENT ASSESSMENT – SDG DASHBOARD
  Major challenges           Significant challenges          Challenges remain          SDG achieved          Information unavailable
SDG TRENDS
L 5 D 5 D D D D 5
• D • L • 5 D D
p  Decreasing       5  Stagnating       D  Moderately improving       L  On track or maintaining SDG achievement       •  Information unavailable
Notes: The full title of Goal 2 “Zero Hunger” is “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”.    
  The full title of each SDG is available here: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabledevelopmentgoals
330
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
MOLDOVA
Performance by Indicator
SDG1 – No Poverty    Val u e Yea  rRa t ingTr e nd SDG9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure    Val u e Ye a rRa t ingTr e nd
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%)    0.02020 • L Population using the internet (%)    76.12017 • L
Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%)    0.32020 • L Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population)    53.52018 • L
SDG2 – Zero Hunger                Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related     2.02018 • p
Prevalence of undernourishment (%)    NA NA • • infrastructure (worst 1–5 best)
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%)    6.42012 • L The Times Higher Education Universities Ranking: Average score of top 3 * 0.02020 • •
PPHrrueemvvaaalleennn Tccreeo  poohff  iwocb aLesestviinetylg ,(  BbinMe csIth ≥ 2il d–3r30e  wn(% ou rnosdft )aedr u5 lyt epaorps uolfa atigoen )(%)        1128...949222000111267 ••• 5Lp SExcupieneninvtdeifiritscui rtaeien osdn ( t wreeocshersantr ic0cha– la1 nj0od0u  drbneeavselt la)orptimcleens t( (p%e ro 1f ,G0D0P0) population)      00..1322001187 •• 5p
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land)    3.62017 • L SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities               
Sustainable Nitrogen Management Index (best 0–1.41 worst)    0.62015 • p Gini coefficient adjusted for top income    31.42017 • •
SDG3 – Good Health and Well-Being                SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities               
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)     192017 • L Annual mean concentration of particulate matter of less than      16.32017 • 5
2.5 microns in diameter (PM2.5) (μg/m3)
NMeoorntaaltitayl  rmatoer,t ualnitdye rra-t5e ( (ppeerr 1 1,0,00000 l ilvivee b birirtthhss))      1115..9822001188 •• LL Access to improved water source, piped (% of urban population)    90.92017 • L
Incidence of tuberculosis (per 100,000 population)    86.02018 • D Satisfaction with public transport (%)    59.02019 • L
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population)    0.32018 • L SDG12 – Responsible Consumption and Production                 
Municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)    6.32015 • •
Agdeia-bsteatneds,a ordr iczherdo ndieca rtehs prairtaet dourye d tois ecaasred iionv aadscuultlsa ra dgiesde a3s0e–, c7a0n yceear,r s (%)    24.92016 • L Electronic waste (kg/capita)    1.82016 • •
Agame-bstiaenndt aarird pizoeldlu dtieoant h(p reart e1 0at0t,r0ib0u0 tpaobpleu tloat hioonu)sehold air pollution and    782016 • • PSOro2d eumctiisosnio-bnas seemd bSoOd2i eedm iinss iimonpso (rktgs /(ckgap/citaap)ita)       90..7322001122 •• ••
Traffic deaths (per 100,000 population)    9.72016 • L Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita)    2.22010 • •
Life expectancy at birth (years)    71.52016 • 5 Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)    0.12010 • •
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19)   22.42017 • L SDG13 – Climate Action               
Births attended by skilled health personnel (%)    99.72014 • • Energy-related CO2 emissions (tCO2/capita)    1.32017 • L
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%)   932018 • L CO2 emissions embodied in imports (tCO2/capita)    0.02015 • L
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best)   69.02017 • L CO2 emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita)    0.02018 • •
Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best)    5.82019 • p
SDG14 – Life Below Water                 
SDG4 – Quality Education                Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)    NA NA • •
Net primary enrollment rate (%)    86.32018 • p Ocean Health Index: Clean Waters score (worst 0–100 best)    NA NA • •
Lower secondary completion rate (%)    85.12018 • D Fish caught from overexploited or collapsed stocks (% of total catch)    NA NA • •
Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24)    99.82014 • • Fish caught by trawling (%)    NA NA • •
SDG5 – Gender Equality                    Marine biodiversity threats embodied in imports (per million population)    0.02018 • •
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods (% of females    60.42012 • D SDG15 – Life on Land               
aged 15 to 49 who are married or in unions) Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%)   23.62018 • 5
Ratio of female-to-male mean years of education received (%)   100.92018 • L Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%)   10.82018 • 5
Ratio of female-to-male labor force participation rate (%)    84.62019 • L Red List Index of species survival (worst 0–1 best)    1.02019 • L
Seats held by women in national parliament (%)    24.82020 • 5 Permanent deforestation (% of forest area, 5-year average) * 0.02018 • •
SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation               
Population using at least basic drinking water services (%)    89.12017 • D Te(rpreers tmriailll iaonnd p forepsuhlwataiotenr) biodiversity threats embodied in imports      0.02018 • •
Population using at least basic sanitation services (%)    76.32017 • 5 SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions               
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available freshwater resources)    15.82005 • • Homicides (per 100,000 population)    3.22014 • •
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%)    9.02018 • • Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population)    17.52018 • L
Scarce water consumption embodied in imports (m3/capita)    0.32013 • L Percentage of population who feel safe walking alone at night in the      66.12019 • L
SDG7 – Affordable and Clean Energy                city or area where they live (%)
Population with access to electricity (%)   100.02017 • L Property Rights (worst 1–7 best)    3.92019 • •
Population with access to clean fuels and technology for cooking (%)    92.22016 • L Birth registrations with civil authority (% of children under age 5)    99.62018 • •
COto2t aelm eilsesciotrnicsi tfyro omut fpuuetl  (cMomtCbOu2s/tTioWnh f)or electricity and heating per      1.62017 • 5 CCohrilrdurpetnio innv Poelvrceedp itnio cnh Iinldd leaxb (owr o(%rs to 0f –p1o0p0u blaetsiot)n aged 5 to 14)      163.2322001196 •• p•
5
SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth                Exports of major conventional weapons (TIV constant million USD   * 0.02019 • • . C
Adjusted GDP growth (%)    -0.62018 • • per 100,000 population) ou
Victims of modern slavery (per 1,000 population)    5.52018 • • Press Freedom Index (best 0–100 worst)    31.22019 • p ntr
y
Admuoltbsi lwe-itmh oanne ayc-cseoruvnicte a tp aro bvaidnekr  o(%r o othf epro fpinualantcioianl  iangsteidtu 1ti5o no ro or vwerit)h a     43.82017 • L SGoDvGer1nm7 e–n tP sapretnndeinrgs ohni phse aflothr a tnhde e dGuocaatliosn (% of GDP)      10 . 0201  6 •   p    Prof
Unemployment rate (% of total labor force)    5.52019 • p For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional    NA NA • • iles
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population)   0.02010 • L public finance, including official development assistance (% of GNI)
Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP)    27.72018 • L
Corporate Tax Haven Score (best 0–100 worst) * 0.02019 • •
* Imputed data point
331
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
MONACO  
Western Europe
OVERALL PERFORMANCE
SDG SDG
17 1
SDG 100 SDG
16 2
75
Index score Regional average score SDG SDG
15 50 3
25
SDG
SDG 4
14
 na 70.9
Monaco
SDG SDG
13 5
SDG
12 SDG
6
SDG Global rank NA (OF 166)
SDG
11 SDG
7
SDG SDG
10 SDG 8
9
SPILLOVER INDEX AVERAGE PERFORMANCE BY SDG
100 (best) to 0 (worst)
100
80
60
40
20
0
CURRENT ASSESSMENT – SDG DASHBOARD
  Major challenges           Significant challenges          Challenges remain          SDG achieved          Information unavailable
SDG TRENDS
• • • • • D L • L
• • • D • • • p
p  Decreasing       5  Stagnating       D  Moderately improving       L  On track or maintaining SDG achievement       •  Information unavailable
Notes: The full title of Goal 2 “Zero Hunger” is “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”.    
  The full title of each SDG is available here: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabledevelopmentgoals
332
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
MONACO
Performance by Indicator
SDG1 – No Poverty    Val u e Yea  rRa t ingTr e nd SDG9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure    Val u e Ye a rRa t ingTr e nd
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%)    NA NA • • Population using the internet (%)    97.12017 • L
Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%)    NA NA • • Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population)    84.12018 • L
SDG2 – Zero Hunger                Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related     NA NA • •
Prevalence of undernourishment (%) * 1.22017 • • infrastructure (worst 1–5 best)
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%) * 2.62016 • • The Times Higher Education Universities Ranking: Average score of top 3 * 0.02020 • •
PPrreevvaalleennccee  ooff  wobaesstiintyg,  BinM cIh ≥il d3r0e n(% u nodf aedr u5 lyt epaorps uolfa atigoen )(%) *   N0.A720N1A6 •• •• Scuiennivteifrisci taiensd ( tweochrsnt i0ca–l1 j0o0u rbneaslt a)rticles (per 1,000 population)    1.22018 • L
Expenditure on research and development (% of GDP)    0.02005 • •
Human Trophic Level (best 2–3 worst)    NA NA • •
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land)    NA NA • • SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities               
Sustainable Nitrogen Management Index (best 0–1.41 worst)    NA NA • • Gini coefficient adjusted for top income    NA NA • •
SDG3 – Good Health and Well-Being                SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities               
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)     NA NA • • Annual mean concentration of particulate matter of less than      NA NA • •
2.5 microns in diameter (PM2.5) (μg/m3)
NMeoorntaaltitayl  rmatoer,t ualnitdye rra-t5e ( (ppeerr 1 1,0,00000 l ilvivee b birirtthhss))      13..7222001188 •• LL Access to improved water source, piped (% of urban population)    99.02017 • L
Incidence of tuberculosis (per 100,000 population)    0.02018 • L Satisfaction with public transport (%)    NA NA • •
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population)    NA NA • • SDG12 – Responsible Consumption and Production                 
Municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)    3.22012 • •
Agdeia-bsteatneds,a ordr iczherdo ndieca rtehs prairtaet dourye d tois ecaasred iionv aadscuultlsa ra dgiesde a3s0e–, c7a0n yceear,r s (%)    NA NA • • Electronic waste (kg/capita)    NA NA • •
Agame-bstiaenndt aarird pizoeldlu dtieoant h(p reart e1 0at0t,r0ib0u0 tpaobpleu tloat hioonu)sehold air pollution and    NA NA • • PSOro2d eumctiisosnio-bnas seemd bSoOd2i eedm iinss iimonpso (rktgs /(ckgap/citaap)ita)      13009..9522001122 •• ••
Traffic deaths (per 100,000 population)    0.02013 • • Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita)    48.02010 • •
Life expectancy at birth (years)    NA NA • • Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)    13.82010 • •
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19)   NA NA • • SDG13 – Climate Action               
Births attended by skilled health personnel (%)    NA NA • • Energy-related CO2 emissions (tCO2/capita)    1.82017 • L
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%)   872018 • 5 CO2 emissions embodied in imports (tCO2/capita)    1.12015 • D
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best)   NA NA • • CO2 emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita)    NA NA • •
Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best)    NA NA • •
SDG14 – Life Below Water                 
SDG4 – Quality Education                Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)    NA NA • •
Net primary enrollment rate (%)    NA NA • • Ocean Health Index: Clean Waters score (worst 0–100 best)    19.62019 • p
Lower secondary completion rate (%)    NA NA • • Fish caught from overexploited or collapsed stocks (% of total catch)    NA NA • •
Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24)    NA NA • • Fish caught by trawling (%)    NA NA • •
SDG5 – Gender Equality                    Marine biodiversity threats embodied in imports (per million population)    0.02018 • •
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods (% of females    NA NA • • SDG15 – Life on Land               
aged 15 to 49 who are married or in unions) Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%)   NA NA • •
Ratio of female-to-male mean years of education received (%)    NA NA • • Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%)   NA NA • •
Ratio of female-to-male labor force participation rate (%)    NA NA • • Red List Index of species survival (worst 0–1 best)    0.82019 • p
Seats held by women in national parliament (%)    33.32020 • L Permanent deforestation (% of forest area, 5-year average)    NA NA • •
SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation               
Population using at least basic drinking water services (%)   100.02017 • L Te(rpreers tmriailll iaonnd p forepsuhlwataiotenr) biodiversity threats embodied in imports      0.42018 • •
Population using at least basic sanitation services (%)   100.02017 • L SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions               
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available freshwater resources)    NA NA • • Homicides (per 100,000 population)    2.92006 • •
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%)   100.02018 • • Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population)    35.52018 • L
Scarce water consumption embodied in imports (m3/capita)    28.12013 • D Percentage of population who feel safe walking alone at night in the      NA NA • •
SDG7 – Affordable and Clean Energy                city or area where they live (%)
Population with access to electricity (%)   100.02017 • L Property Rights (worst 1–7 best)    NA NA • •
Population with access to clean fuels and technology for cooking (%)   100.02016 • L Birth registrations with civil authority (% of children under age 5)   100.02018 • •
COto2t aelm eilsesciotrnicsi tfyro omut fpuuetl  (cMomtCbOu2s/tTioWnh f)or electricity and heating per      NA NA • • CCohrilrdurpetnio innv Poelvrceedp itnio cnh Iinldd leaxb (owr o(%rs to 0f –p1o0p0u blaetsiot)n aged 5 to 14)      NNAA NNAA •• ••
5
SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth                Exports of major conventional weapons (TIV constant million USD   * 0.02019 • • . C
Adjusted GDP growth (%)    NA NA • • per 100,000 population) ou
Victims of modern slavery (per 1,000 population)    NA NA • • Press Freedom Index (best 0–100 worst)    NA NA • • ntr
y
Admuoltbsi lwe-itmh oanne ayc-cseoruvnicte a tp aro bvaidnekr  o(%r o othf epro fpinualantcioianl  iangsteidtu 1ti5o no ro or vwerit)h a     NA NA • • SGoDvGer1nm7 e–n tP sapretnndeinrgs ohni phse aflothr a tnhde e dGuocaatliosn (% of GDP)      2 . 8201  6 •   p    Prof
Unemployment rate (% of total labor force)    NA NA • • For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional    NA NA • • iles
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population)   2.02010 • L public finance, including official development assistance (% of GNI)
Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP)    NA NA • •
Corporate Tax Haven Score (best 0–100 worst)    67.62019 • •
* Imputed data point
333
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
MONGOLIA  
East and South Asia
OVERALL PERFORMANCE
SDG SDG
17 1
SDG 100 SDG
16 2
75
Index score Regional average score SDG SDG
15 50 3
25
SDG
SDG 4
14
64.0 67.2
Mongolia
SDG SDG
13 5
SDG
12 SDG
6
SDG Global rank 107 (OF 166)
SDG
11 SDG
7
SDG SDG
10 SDG 8
9
SPILLOVER INDEX AVERAGE PERFORMANCE BY SDG
100 (best) to 0 (worst)
100
80
60
40
20
0
CURRENT ASSESSMENT – SDG DASHBOARD
  Major challenges           Significant challenges          Challenges remain          SDG achieved          Information unavailable
SDG TRENDS
D 5 D L D D D D 5
• 5 • 5 • L D 5
p  Decreasing       5  Stagnating       D  Moderately improving       L  On track or maintaining SDG achievement       •  Information unavailable
Notes: The full title of Goal 2 “Zero Hunger” is “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”.    
  The full title of each SDG is available here: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabledevelopmentgoals
334
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
MONGOLIA
Performance by Indicator
SDG1 – No Poverty    Val u e Yea  rRa t ingTr e nd SDG9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure    Val u e Ye a rRa t ingTr e nd
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%)    0.32020 • L Population using the internet (%)    47.22018 • L
Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%)    4.32020 • 5 Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population)    83.72018 • L
SDG2 – Zero Hunger                Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related     2.12018 • p
Prevalence of undernourishment (%)    13.42017 • L infrastructure (worst 1–5 best)
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%)    10.82013 • D The Times Higher Education Universities Ranking: Average score of top 3 * 0.02020 • •
PPHrrueemvvaaalleennn Tccreeo  poohff  iwocb aLesestviinetylg ,(  BbinMe csIth ≥ 2il d–3r30e  wn(% ou rnosdft )aedr u5 lyt epaorps uolfa atigoen )(%)        2120...056222000111367 ••• Lpp SExcupieneninvtdeifiritscui rtaeien osdn ( t wreeocshersantr ic0cha– la1 nj0od0u  drbneeavselt la)orptimcleens t( (p%e ro 1f ,G0D0P0) population)      00..0122001187 •• 5p
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land)    0.62017 • p SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities               
Sustainable Nitrogen Management Index (best 0–1.41 worst)    1.12015 • p Gini coefficient adjusted for top income    40.52016 • •
SDG3 – Good Health and Well-Being                SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities               
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)     452017 • L Annual mean concentration of particulate matter of less than      40.12017 • p
2.5 microns in diameter (PM2.5) (μg/m3)
NMInecooirdntaealntitacyle  rm oatfoe tr,ut uablnietdryce rura-lto5e s( i(psp e(eprr e1 1r,0, 01000000 l ,il0viv0ee0 b  bpiriortthphsus)l)ation)       412868...730222000111888 ••• 5LL ASactciesfsasc ttoio inm wpritohv epdu bwliact etrra snosuprocret,  (p%ip)ed (% of urban population)      3447..5722001179 •• pD
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population)    0.02018 • L SDG12 – Responsible Consumption and Production                 
Municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)    3.72016 • •
Agdeia-bsteatneds,a ordr iczherdo ndieca rtehs prairtaet dourye d tois ecaasred iionv aadscuultlsa ra dgiesde a3s0e–, c7a0n yceear,r s (%)    30.22016 • 5 Electronic waste (kg/capita)    4.72016 • •
Agame-bstiaenndt aarird pizoeldlu dtieoant h(p reart e1 0at0t,r0ib0u0 tpaobpleu tloat hioonu)sehold air pollution and    1562016 • • PSOro2d eumctiisosnio-bnas seemd bSoOd2i eedm iinss iimonpso (rktgs /(ckgap/citaap)ita)       594..2122001122 •• ••
Traffic deaths (per 100,000 population)    16.52016 • L Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita)    78.92010 • •
Life expectancy at birth (years)    69.82016 • 5 Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)    1.42010 • •
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19)   31.02017 • 5 SDG13 – Climate Action               
Births attended by skilled health personnel (%)    98.92014 • • Energy-related CO2 emissions (tCO2/capita)    8.22017 • p
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%)   992018 • L CO2 emissions embodied in imports (tCO2/capita)    0.62015 • L
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best)   62.02017 • D CO2 emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita) 2  0728.82018 • •
Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best)    5.62019 • L
SDG14 – Life Below Water                 
SDG4 – Quality Education                Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)    NA NA • •
Net primary enrollment rate (%)    97.72018 • L Ocean Health Index: Clean Waters score (worst 0–100 best)    NA NA • •
Lower secondary completion rate (%)   105.22018 • • Fish caught from overexploited or collapsed stocks (% of total catch)    NA NA • •
Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24)    98.62018 • • Fish caught by trawling (%)    NA NA • •
SDG5 – Gender Equality                    Marine biodiversity threats embodied in imports (per million population)    0.02018 • •
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods (% of females    65.22013 • D SDG15 – Life on Land               
aged 15 to 49 who are married or in unions) Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%)   43.72018 • L
Ratio of female-to-male mean years of education received (%)   106.12018 • L Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%)   42.12018 • L
Ratio of female-to-male labor force participation rate (%)    79.82019 • L Red List Index of species survival (worst 0–1 best)    0.92019 • L
Seats held by women in national parliament (%)    17.32020 • 5 Permanent deforestation (% of forest area, 5-year average)    0.02018 • •
SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation               
Population using at least basic drinking water services (%)    83.32017 • D Te(rpreers tmriailll iaonnd p forepsuhlwataiotenr) biodiversity threats embodied in imports      0.02018 • •
Population using at least basic sanitation services (%)    58.52017 • 5 SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions               
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available freshwater resources)    3.42015 • • Homicides (per 100,000 population)    6.22017 • L
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%)    3.32018 • • Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population)    23.12018 • L
Scarce water consumption embodied in imports (m3/capita)    3.62013 • L Percentage of population who feel safe walking alone at night in the      50.02019 • p
SDG7 – Affordable and Clean Energy                city or area where they live (%)
Population with access to electricity (%)    85.92017 • L Property Rights (worst 1–7 best)    3.52019 • •
Population with access to clean fuels and technology for cooking (%)    42.82016 • D Birth registrations with civil authority (% of children under age 5)    99.32018 • •
COto2t aelm eilsesciotrnicsi tfyro omut fpuuetl  (cMomtCbOu2s/tTioWnh f)or electricity and heating per      3.42017 • 5 CCohrilrdurpetnio innv Poelvrceedp itnio cnh Iinldd leaxb (owr o(%rs to 0f –p1o0p0u blaetsiot)n aged 5 to 14)      173.5322001196 •• p•
5
SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth                Exports of major conventional weapons (TIV constant million USD   * 0.02019 • • . C
Adjusted GDP growth (%)    -1.22018 • • per 100,000 population) ou
Victims of modern slavery (per 1,000 population)    12.32018 • • Press Freedom Index (best 0–100 worst)    29.52019 • L ntr
y
Admuoltbsi lwe-itmh oanne ayc-cseoruvnicte a tp aro bvaidnekr  o(%r o othf epro fpinualantcioianl  iangsteidtu 1ti5o no ro or vwerit)h a     93.02017 • L SGoDvGer1nm7 e–n tP sapretnndeinrgs ohni phse aflothr a tnhde e dGuocaatliosn (% of GDP)      7 . 3201  6 •   D    Prof
Unemployment rate (% of total labor force)    6.02019 • p For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional    NA NA • • iles
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population)   0.22010 • L public finance, including official development assistance (% of GNI)
Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP)    24.92017 • p
Corporate Tax Haven Score (best 0–100 worst) * 0.02019 • •
* Imputed data point
335
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
MONTENEGRO  
Eastern Europe and Central Asia
OVERALL PERFORMANCE
SDG SDG
17 1
SDG 100 SDG
16 2
75
Index score Regional average score SDG SDG
15 50 3
25
SDG
SDG 4
14
70.2 70.9
Montenegro
SDG SDG
13 5
SDG
12 SDG
6
SDG Global rank 72 (OF 166)
SDG
11 SDG
7
SDG SDG
10 SDG 8
9
SPILLOVER INDEX AVERAGE PERFORMANCE BY SDG
100 (best) to 0 (worst)
100
80
60
40
20
0
CURRENT ASSESSMENT – SDG DASHBOARD
  Major challenges           Significant challenges          Challenges remain          SDG achieved          Information unavailable
SDG TRENDS
L 5 D L D L D D 5
• 5 • 5 5 p D •
p  Decreasing       5  Stagnating       D  Moderately improving       L  On track or maintaining SDG achievement       •  Information unavailable
Notes: The full title of Goal 2 “Zero Hunger” is “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”.    
  The full title of each SDG is available here: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabledevelopmentgoals
336
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
MONTENEGRO
Performance by Indicator
SDG1 – No Poverty    Val u e Yea  rRa t ingTr e nd SDG9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure    Val u e Ye a rRa t ingTr e nd
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%)    0.02020 • L Population using the internet (%)    71.52018 • L
Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%)    0.12020 • L Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population)    73.22018 • L
SDG2 – Zero Hunger                Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related     2.62018 • p
Prevalence of undernourishment (%)    2.52017 • L infrastructure (worst 1–5 best)
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%)    9.42013 • 5 The Times Higher Education Universities Ranking: Average score of top 3    16.42020 • •
PPHrrueemvvaaalleennn Tccreeo  poohff  iwocb aLesestviinetylg ,(  BbinMe csIth ≥ 2il d–3r30e  wn(% ou rnosdft )aedr u5 lyt epaorps uolfa atigoen )(%)        2223...853222000111367 ••• 5Lp SExcupieneninvtdeifiritscui rtaeien osdn ( t wreeocshersantr ic0cha– la1 nj0od0u  drbneeavselt la)orptimcleens t( (p%e ro 1f ,G0D0P0) population)      00..4322001186 •• pD
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land)    3.32017 • L SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities               
Sustainable Nitrogen Management Index (best 0–1.41 worst)    1.12015 • p Gini coefficient adjusted for top income    40.52014 • •
SDG3 – Good Health and Well-Being                SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities               
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)     62017 • L Annual mean concentration of particulate matter of less than      20.82017 • D
2.5 microns in diameter (PM2.5) (μg/m3)
NMeoorntaaltitayl  rmatoer,t ualnitdye rra-t5e ( (ppeerr 1 1,0,00000 l ilvivee b birirtthhss))      12..7522001188 •• LL Access to improved water source, piped (% of urban population)    94.12017 • 5
Incidence of tuberculosis (per 100,000 population)    15.02018 • 5 Satisfaction with public transport (%)    46.12019 • p
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population)    0.12018 • L SDG12 – Responsible Consumption and Production                 
Municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)    2.22015 • •
Agdeia-bsteatneds,a ordr iczherdo ndieca rtehs prairtaet dourye d tois ecaasred iionv aadscuultlsa ra dgiesde a3s0e–, c7a0n yceear,r s (%)    20.62016 • D Electronic waste (kg/capita)    10.02016 • •
Agame-bstiaenndt aarird pizoeldlu dtieoant h(p reart e1 0at0t,r0ib0u0 tpaobpleu tloat hioonu)sehold air pollution and    792016 • • PSOro2d eumctiisosnio-bnas seemd bSoOd2i eedm iinss iimonpso (rktgs /(ckgap/citaap)ita)       4233..2022001122 •• ••
Traffic deaths (per 100,000 population)    10.72016 • L Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita)    30.82010 • •
Life expectancy at birth (years)    76.82016 • D Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)    10.72010 • •
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19)   9.32017 • L SDG13 – Climate Action               
Births attended by skilled health personnel (%)    99.02013 • • Energy-related CO2 emissions (tCO2/capita)    4.12017 • 5
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%)   582018 • p CO2 emissions embodied in imports (tCO2/capita)    0.82015 • D
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best)   68.02017 • D CO2 emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita)   131.12018 • •
Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best)    5.42019 • L
SDG14 – Life Below Water                 
SDG4 – Quality Education                Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)    0.02018 • 5
Net primary enrollment rate (%)    96.52018 • L Ocean Health Index: Clean Waters score (worst 0–100 best)    61.32019 • D
Lower secondary completion rate (%)    99.42017 • L Fish caught from overexploited or collapsed stocks (% of total catch)    NA NA • •
Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24)    99.12018 • • Fish caught by trawling (%)    52.82014 • p
SDG5 – Gender Equality                    Marine biodiversity threats embodied in imports (per million population)    1.12018 • •
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods (% of females    42.82013 • 5 SDG15 – Life on Land               
aged 15 to 49 who are married or in unions) Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%)   12.52018 • 5
Ratio of female-to-male mean years of education received (%)    88.42018 • p Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%)   NA NA • •
Ratio of female-to-male labor force participation rate (%)    75.22019 • L Red List Index of species survival (worst 0–1 best)    0.82019 • p
Seats held by women in national parliament (%)    29.62020 • L Permanent deforestation (% of forest area, 5-year average) * 0.02018 • •
SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation               
Population using at least basic drinking water services (%)    97.02017 • L Te(rpreers tmriailll iaonnd p forepsuhlwataiotenr) biodiversity threats embodied in imports      5.32018 • •
Population using at least basic sanitation services (%)    97.82017 • L SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions               
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available freshwater resources)    NA NA • • Homicides (per 100,000 population)    2.42017 • L
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%)    8.42018 • • Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population)    28.72018 • L
Scarce water consumption embodied in imports (m3/capita)    21.62013 • L Percentage of population who feel safe walking alone at night in the      79.22019 • L
SDG7 – Affordable and Clean Energy                city or area where they live (%)
Population with access to electricity (%)   100.02017 • L Property Rights (worst 1–7 best)    4.32019 • •
Population with access to clean fuels and technology for cooking (%)    69.42016 • D Birth registrations with civil authority (% of children under age 5)    99.42018 • •
COto2t aelm eilsesciotrnicsi tfyro omut fpuuetl  (cMomtCbOu2s/tTioWnh f)or electricity and heating per      0.92017 • L CCohrilrdurpetnio innv Poelvrceedp itnio cnh Iinldd leaxb (owr o(%rs to 0f –p1o0p0u blaetsiot)n aged 5 to 14)      124.5522001196 •• 5•
5
SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth                Exports of major conventional weapons (TIV constant million USD      0.02019 • • . C
Adjusted GDP growth (%)    2.92018 • • per 100,000 population) ou
Victims of modern slavery (per 1,000 population)    5.92018 • • Press Freedom Index (best 0–100 worst)    32.72019 • 5 ntr
y
Admuoltbsi lwe-itmh oanne ayc-cseoruvnicte a tp aro bvaidnekr  o(%r o othf epro fpinualantcioianl  iangsteidtu 1ti5o no ro or vwerit)h a     68.42017 • L SGoDvGer1nm7 e–n tP sapretnndeinrgs ohni phse aflothr a tnhde e dGuocaatliosn (% of GDP)      N  A N  A •   •    Prof
Unemployment rate (% of total labor force)    14.92019 • D For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional    NA NA • • iles
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population)   1.52010 • p public finance, including official development assistance (% of GNI)
Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP)    NA NA • •
Corporate Tax Haven Score (best 0–100 worst) * 0.02019 • •
* Imputed data point
337
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
MOROCCO  
Middle East and North Africa
OVERALL PERFORMANCE
SDG SDG
17 1
SDG 100 SDG
16 2
75
Index score Regional average score SDG SDG
15 50 3
25
SDG
SDG 4
14
71.3 66.3
Morocco
SDG SDG
13 5
SDG
12 SDG
6
SDG Global rank 64 (OF 166)
SDG
11 SDG
7
SDG SDG
10 SDG 8
9
SPILLOVER INDEX AVERAGE PERFORMANCE BY SDG
100 (best) to 0 (worst)
100
80
60
40
20
0
CURRENT ASSESSMENT – SDG DASHBOARD
  Major challenges           Significant challenges          Challenges remain          SDG achieved          Information unavailable
SDG TRENDS
L D D 5 D L D D D
• p • L 5 D 5 p
p  Decreasing       5  Stagnating       D  Moderately improving       L  On track or maintaining SDG achievement       •  Information unavailable
Notes: The full title of Goal 2 “Zero Hunger” is “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”.    
  The full title of each SDG is available here: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabledevelopmentgoals
338
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
MOROCCO
Performance by Indicator
SDG1 – No Poverty    Val u e Yea  rRa t ingTr e nd SDG9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure    Val u e Ye a rRa t ingTr e nd
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%)    0.22020 • L Population using the internet (%)    64.82018 • L
Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%)    4.52020 • L Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population)    59.12018 • L
SDG2 – Zero Hunger                Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related     2.42018 • •
Prevalence of undernourishment (%)    3.42017 • L infrastructure (worst 1–5 best)
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%)    14.92011 • D The Times Higher Education Universities Ranking: Average score of top 3    21.52020 • •
PPrreevvaalleennccee  ooff  wobaesstiintyg,  BinM cIh ≥il d3r0e n(% u nodf aedr u5 lyt epaorps uolfa atigoen )(%)      226..3122001116 •• Lp Scuiennivteifrisci taiensd ( tweochrsnt i0ca–l1 j0o0u rbneaslt a)rticles (per 1,000 population)    0.12018 • 5
Human Trophic Level (best 2–3 worst)    2.22017 • L Expenditure on research and development (% of GDP)    0.72010 • •
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land)    1.82017 • L SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities               
Sustainable Nitrogen Management Index (best 0–1.41 worst)    0.82015 • 5 Gini coefficient adjusted for top income    39.82013 • •
SDG3 – Good Health and Well-Being                SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities               
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)     702017 • L Annual mean concentration of particulate matter of less than      32.62017 • p
2.5 microns in diameter (PM2.5) (μg/m3)
NMeoorntaaltitayl  rmatoer,t ualnitdye rra-t5e ( (ppeerr 1 1,0,00000 l ilvivee b birirtthhss))      1232..8422001188 •• LL Access to improved water source, piped (% of urban population)    94.12017 • 5
Incidence of tuberculosis (per 100,000 population)    99.02018 • 5 Satisfaction with public transport (%)    49.22019 • p
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population)    0.02018 • L SDG12 – Responsible Consumption and Production                 
Municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)    0.82014 • •
Agdeia-bsteatneds,a ordr iczherdo ndieca rtehs prairtaet dourye d tois ecaasred iionv aadscuultlsa ra dgiesde a3s0e–, c7a0n yceear,r s (%)    12.42016 • L Electronic waste (kg/capita)    3.72016 • •
Agame-bstiaenndt aarird pizoeldlu dtieoant h(p reart e1 0at0t,r0ib0u0 tpaobpleu tloat hioonu)sehold air pollution and    492016 • • PSOro2d eumctiisosnio-bnas seemd bSoOd2i eedm iinss iimonpso (rktgs /(ckgap/citaap)ita)       121..2822001122 •• ••
Traffic deaths (per 100,000 population)    19.62016 • D Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita)    10.32010 • •
Life expectancy at birth (years)    76.02016 • D Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)    0.72010 • •
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19)   31.02017 • L SDG13 – Climate Action               
Births attended by skilled health personnel (%)    73.62011 • • Energy-related CO2 emissions (tCO2/capita)    1.62017 • L
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%)   992018 • L CO2 emissions embodied in imports (tCO2/capita)    0.22015 • L
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best)   70.02017 • L CO2 emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita)    0.02018 • •
Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best)    5.12019 • p
SDG14 – Life Below Water                 
SDG4 – Quality Education                Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)    38.72018 • 5
Net primary enrollment rate (%)    99.12018 • L Ocean Health Index: Clean Waters score (worst 0–100 best)    55.32019 • p
Lower secondary completion rate (%)    64.92018 • p Fish caught from overexploited or collapsed stocks (% of total catch)    6.22014 • L
Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24)    97.72018 • • Fish caught by trawling (%)    62.02014 • 5
SDG5 – Gender Equality                    Marine biodiversity threats embodied in imports (per million population)    0.02018 • •
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods (% of females    68.62018 • L SDG15 – Life on Land               
aged 15 to 49 who are married or in unions) Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%)   51.92018 • L
Ratio of female-to-male mean years of education received (%)    71.92018 • L Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%)   82.62018 • L
Ratio of female-to-male labor force participation rate (%)    30.42019 • p Red List Index of species survival (worst 0–1 best)    0.92019 • 5
Seats held by women in national parliament (%)    20.52020 • 5 Permanent deforestation (% of forest area, 5-year average)    0.22018 • •
SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation               
Population using at least basic drinking water services (%)    86.82017 • L Te(rpreers tmriailll iaonnd p forepsuhlwataiotenr) biodiversity threats embodied in imports      0.12018 • •
Population using at least basic sanitation services (%)    88.52017 • L SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions               
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available freshwater resources)    49.72010 • • Homicides (per 100,000 population)    2.12017 • p
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%)    5.42018 • • Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population)    23.42018 • L
Scarce water consumption embodied in imports (m3/capita)    2.02013 • L Percentage of population who feel safe walking alone at night in the      57.42019 • p
SDG7 – Affordable and Clean Energy                city or area where they live (%)
Population with access to electricity (%)   100.02017 • L Property Rights (worst 1–7 best)    5.32019 • •
Population with access to clean fuels and technology for cooking (%)    96.82016 • L Birth registrations with civil authority (% of children under age 5)    96.12018 • •
COto2t aelm eilsesciotrnicsi tfyro omut fpuuetl  (cMomtCbOu2s/tTioWnh f)or electricity and heating per      2.02017 • 5 CCohrilrdurpetnio innv Poelvrceedp itnio cnh Iinldd leaxb (owr o(%rs to 0f –p1o0p0u blaetsiot)n aged 5 to 14)      84.1322001196 •• D•
5
SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth                Exports of major conventional weapons (TIV constant million USD   * 0.02019 • • . C
Adjusted GDP growth (%)    -3.22018 • • per 100,000 population) ou
Victims of modern slavery (per 1,000 population)    2.42018 • • Press Freedom Index (best 0–100 worst)    44.02019 • p ntr
y
Admuoltbsi lwe-itmh oanne ayc-cseoruvnicte a tp aro bvaidnekr  o(%r o othf epro fpinualantcioianl  iangsteidtu 1ti5o no ro or vwerit)h a     28.62017 • • SGoDvGer1nm7 e–n tP sapretnndeinrgs ohni phse aflothr a tnhde e dGuocaatliosn (% of GDP)      7 . 8200  9 •   •    Prof
Unemployment rate (% of total labor force)    9.02019 • 5 For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional    NA NA • • iles
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population)   0.12010 • L public finance, including official development assistance (% of GNI)
Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP)    25.82018 • p
Corporate Tax Haven Score (best 0–100 worst) * 0.02019 • •
* Imputed data point
339
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
MOZAMBIQUE  
Sub-Saharan Africa
OVERALL PERFORMANCE
SDG SDG
17 1
SDG 100 SDG
16 2
75
Index score Regional average score SDG SDG
15 50 3
25
SDG
SDG 4
14
54.1 53.1
Mozambique
SDG SDG
13 5
SDG
12 SDG
6
SDG Global rank 140 (OF 166)
SDG
11 SDG
7
SDG SDG
10 SDG 8
9
SPILLOVER INDEX AVERAGE PERFORMANCE BY SDG
100 (best) to 0 (worst)
100
80
60
40
20
0
CURRENT ASSESSMENT – SDG DASHBOARD
  Major challenges           Significant challenges          Challenges remain          SDG achieved          Information unavailable
SDG TRENDS
5 D D D D D 5 L p
• D • L D 5 5 5
p  Decreasing       5  Stagnating       D  Moderately improving       L  On track or maintaining SDG achievement       •  Information unavailable
Notes: The full title of Goal 2 “Zero Hunger” is “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”.    
  The full title of each SDG is available here: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabledevelopmentgoals
340
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
MOZAMBIQUE
Performance by Indicator
SDG1 – No Poverty    Val u e Yea  rRa t ingTr e nd SDG9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure    Val u e Ye a rRa t ingTr e nd
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%)    55.52020 • 5 Population using the internet (%)    10.02017 • 5
Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%)    77.52020 • 5 Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population)    15.12018 • p
SDG2 – Zero Hunger                Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related     2.22016 • •
Prevalence of undernourishment (%)    27.92017 • p infrastructure (worst 1–5 best)
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%)    43.12011 • 5 The Times Higher Education Universities Ranking: Average score of top 3 * 0.02020 • •
PPrreevvaalleennccee  ooff  wobaesstiintyg,  BinM cIh ≥il d3r0e n(% u nodf aedr u5 lyt epaorps uolfa atigoen )(%)      67..1222001116 •• LL Scuiennivteifrisci taiensd ( tweochrsnt i0ca–l1 j0o0u rbneaslt a)rticles (per 1,000 population)    0.02018 • 5
Human Trophic Level (best 2–3 worst)    2.12017 • L Expenditure on research and development (% of GDP)    0.32015 • •
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land)    0.92017 • D SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities               
Sustainable Nitrogen Management Index (best 0–1.41 worst)    0.92015 • 5 Gini coefficient adjusted for top income    53.92014 • •
SDG3 – Good Health and Well-Being                SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities               
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)     2892017 • D Annual mean concentration of particulate matter of less than      21.32017 • D
NMeoorntaaltitayl  rmatoer,t ualnitdye rra-t5e ( (ppeerr 1 1,0,00000 l ilvivee b birirtthhss))      2773..8222001188 •• DD Ac2c.5e sms itcor oimnsp irno vdeiadm weatteerr ( sPoMu2rc.5e),  (pμipg/emd 3(%) of urban population)    74.62017 • D
Incidence of tuberculosis (per 100,000 population)   551.02018 • 5 Satisfaction with public transport (%)    58.32019 • L
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population)    5.32018 • D SDG12 – Responsible Consumption and Production                 
Municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)    0.62014 • •
Agdeia-bsteatneds,a ordr iczherdo ndieca rtehs prairtaet dourye d tois ecaasred iionv aadscuultlsa ra dgiesde a3s0e–, c7a0n yceear,r s (%)    18.42016 • L Electronic waste (kg/capita)    0.62016 • •
Agame-bstiaenndt aarird pizoeldlu dtieoant h(p reart e1 0at0t,r0ib0u0 tpaobpleu tloat hioonu)sehold air pollution and    1102016 • • PSOro2d eumctiisosnio-bnas seemd bSoOd2i eedm iinss iimonpso (rktgs /(ckgap/citaap)ita)       50..7422001122 •• ••
Traffic deaths (per 100,000 population)    30.12016 • 5 Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita)    6.62010 • •
Life expectancy at birth (years)    60.12016 • D Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)    0.22010 • •
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19)  148.62017 • 5 SDG13 – Climate Action               
Births attended by skilled health personnel (%)    54.32011 • • Energy-related CO2 emissions (tCO2/capita)    0.32017 • L
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%)   802018 • 5 CO2 emissions embodied in imports (tCO2/capita)    0.02015 • L
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best)   46.02017 • D CO2 emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita)   733.22018 • •
Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best)    4.92019 • D
SDG14 – Life Below Water                 
SDG4 – Quality Education                Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)    66.12018 • L
Net primary enrollment rate (%)    93.92018 • L Ocean Health Index: Clean Waters score (worst 0–100 best)    54.12019 • p
Lower secondary completion rate (%)    22.82017 • p Fish caught from overexploited or collapsed stocks (% of total catch)    19.92014 • L
Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24)    70.92017 • • Fish caught by trawling (%)    14.12014 • L
SDG5 – Gender Equality                    Marine biodiversity threats embodied in imports (per million population)    0.02018 • •
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods (% of females    55.52015 • D SDG15 – Life on Land               
aged 15 to 49 who are married or in unions) Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%)   26.12018 • 5
Ratio of female-to-male mean years of education received (%)    54.32018 • 5 Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%)   90.02018 • L
Ratio of female-to-male labor force participation rate (%)    97.22019 • L Red List Index of species survival (worst 0–1 best)    0.82019 • p
Seats held by women in national parliament (%)    41.22020 • L Permanent deforestation (% of forest area, 5-year average)    0.42018 • •
SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation               
Population using at least basic drinking water services (%)    55.72017 • D Te(rpreers tmriailll iaonnd p forepsuhlwataiotenr) biodiversity threats embodied in imports      0.02018 • •
Population using at least basic sanitation services (%)    29.42017 • 5 SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions               
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available freshwater resources)    1.82015 • • Homicides (per 100,000 population)    3.42011 • •
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%)    0.22018 • • Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population)    34.82018 • 5
Scarce water consumption embodied in imports (m3/capita)    0.22013 • L Percentage of population who feel safe walking alone at night in the      53.22019 • D
SDG7 – Affordable and Clean Energy                city or area where they live (%)
Population with access to electricity (%)    27.42017 • 5 Property Rights (worst 1–7 best)    3.42019 • •
Population with access to clean fuels and technology for cooking (%)    3.72016 • 5 Birth registrations with civil authority (% of children under age 5)    55.02018 • •
COto2t aelm eilsesciotrnicsi tfyro omut fpuuetl  (cMomtCbOu2s/tTioWnh f)or electricity and heating per      0.52017 • L CCohrilrdurpetnio innv Poelvrceedp itnio cnh Iinldd leaxb (owr o(%rs to 0f –p1o0p0u blaetsiot)n aged 5 to 14)      222.6222001196 •• p•
5
SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth                Exports of major conventional weapons (TIV constant million USD   * 0.02019 • • . C
Adjusted GDP growth (%)    -6.52018 • • per 100,000 population) ou
Victims of modern slavery (per 1,000 population)    5.42018 • • Press Freedom Index (best 0–100 worst)    32.72019 • p ntr
y
Admuoltbsi lwe-itmh oanne ayc-cseoruvnicte a tp aro bvaidnekr  o(%r o othf epro fpinualantcioianl  iangsteidtu 1ti5o no ro or vwerit)h a     41.72017 • • SGoDvGer1nm7 e–n tP sapretnndeinrgs ohni phse aflothr a tnhde e dGuocaatliosn (% of GDP)      9 . 1201  6 •   L    Prof
Unemployment rate (% of total labor force)    3.22019 • L For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional    NA NA • • iles
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population)   0.02010 • L public finance, including official development assistance (% of GNI)
Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP) * 23.82018 • p
Corporate Tax Haven Score (best 0–100 worst) * 0.02019 • •
* Imputed data point
341
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
MYANMAR  
East and South Asia
OVERALL PERFORMANCE
SDG SDG
17 1
SDG 100 SDG
16 2
75
Index score Regional average score SDG SDG
15 50 3
25
SDG
SDG 4
14
64.6 67.2
Myanmar
SDG SDG
13 5
SDG
12 SDG
6
SDG Global rank 104 (OF 166)
SDG
11 SDG
7
SDG SDG
10 SDG 8
9
SPILLOVER INDEX AVERAGE PERFORMANCE BY SDG
100 (best) to 0 (worst)
100
80
60
40
20
0
CURRENT ASSESSMENT – SDG DASHBOARD
  Major challenges           Significant challenges          Challenges remain          SDG achieved          Information unavailable
SDG TRENDS
L D D L 5 D D D D
• D • L D 5 5 p
p  Decreasing       5  Stagnating       D  Moderately improving       L  On track or maintaining SDG achievement       •  Information unavailable
Notes: The full title of Goal 2 “Zero Hunger” is “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”.    
  The full title of each SDG is available here: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabledevelopmentgoals
342
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
MYANMAR
Performance by Indicator
SDG1 – No Poverty    Val u e Yea  rRa t ingTr e nd SDG9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure    Val u e Ye a rRa t ingTr e nd
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%)    2.12020 • L Population using the internet (%)    30.72017 • L
Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%)    13.82020 • L Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population)    92.72018 • L
SDG2 – Zero Hunger                Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related     2.02018 • p
Prevalence of undernourishment (%)    10.62017 • L infrastructure (worst 1–5 best)
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%)    29.22016 • D The Times Higher Education Universities Ranking: Average score of top 3 * 0.02020 • •
PPrreevvaalleennccee  ooff  wobaesstiintyg,  BinM cIh ≥il d3r0e n(% u nodf aedr u5 lyt epaorps uolfa atigoen )(%)      75..0822001166 •• LL Scuiennivteifrisci taiensd ( tweochrsnt i0ca–l1 j0o0u rbneaslt a)rticles (per 1,000 population)    0.02018 • 5
Human Trophic Level (best 2–3 worst)    2.32017 • 5 Expenditure on research and development (% of GDP)    0.02017 • •
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land)    3.62017 • L SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities               
Sustainable Nitrogen Management Index (best 0–1.41 worst)    0.62015 • p Gini coefficient adjusted for top income    38.82015 • •
SDG3 – Good Health and Well-Being                SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities               
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)     2502017 • 5 Annual mean concentration of particulate matter of less than      35.62017 • D
NMeoorntaaltitayl  rmatoer,t ualnitdye rra-t5e ( (ppeerr 1 1,0,00000 l ilvivee b birirtthhss))      2436..1222001188 •• LD Ac2c.5e sms itcor oimnsp irno vdeiadm weatteerr ( sPoMu2rc.5e),  (pμipg/emd 3(%) of urban population)    56.92017 • D
Incidence of tuberculosis (per 100,000 population)   338.02018 • D Satisfaction with public transport (%)    77.02019 • L
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population)    0.22018 • L SDG12 – Responsible Consumption and Production                 
Municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)    0.82000 • •
Agdeia-bsteatneds,a ordr iczherdo ndieca rtehs prairtaet dourye d tois ecaasred iionv aadscuultlsa ra dgiesde a3s0e–, c7a0n yceear,r s (%)    24.22016 • 5 Electronic waste (kg/capita)    1.02016 • •
Agame-bstiaenndt aarird pizoeldlu dtieoant h(p reart e1 0at0t,r0ib0u0 tpaobpleu tloat hioonu)sehold air pollution and    1562016 • • PSOro2d eumctiisosnio-bnas seemd bSoOd2i eedm iinss iimonpso (rktgs /(ckgap/citaap)ita)       30..2022001122 •• ••
Traffic deaths (per 100,000 population)    19.92016 • 5 Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita)    9.32010 • •
Life expectancy at birth (years)    66.82016 • 5 Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)    0.02010 • •
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19)   28.52017 • D SDG13 – Climate Action               
Births attended by skilled health personnel (%)    60.22016 • • Energy-related CO2 emissions (tCO2/capita)    0.52017 • L
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%)   912018 • L CO2 emissions embodied in imports (tCO2/capita)    0.02015 • L
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best)   61.02017 • L CO2 emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita)   748.62018 • •
Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best)    4.42019 • 5
SDG14 – Life Below Water                 
SDG4 – Quality Education                Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)    21.42018 • L
Net primary enrollment rate (%)    97.92018 • L Ocean Health Index: Clean Waters score (worst 0–100 best)    48.52019 • p
Lower secondary completion rate (%)    61.12017 • L Fish caught from overexploited or collapsed stocks (% of total catch)    19.52014 • L
Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24)    84.82016 • • Fish caught by trawling (%)    46.92014 • 5
SDG5 – Gender Equality                    Marine biodiversity threats embodied in imports (per million population)    0.02018 • •
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods (% of females    74.92016 • L SDG15 – Life on Land               
aged 15 to 49 who are married or in unions) Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%)   27.52018 • 5
Ratio of female-to-male mean years of education received (%)   102.02018 • L Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%)   27.92018 • 5
Ratio of female-to-male labor force participation rate (%)    61.72019 • p Red List Index of species survival (worst 0–1 best)    0.82019 • p
Seats held by women in national parliament (%)    11.12020 • p Permanent deforestation (% of forest area, 5-year average)    0.42018 • •
SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation               
Population using at least basic drinking water services (%)    81.82017 • D Te(rpreers tmriailll iaonnd p forepsuhlwataiotenr) biodiversity threats embodied in imports      0.02018 • •
Population using at least basic sanitation services (%)    64.32017 • p SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions               
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available freshwater resources)    5.82000 • • Homicides (per 100,000 population)    2.32016 • D
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%)    0.02018 • • Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population)    11.12009 • •
Scarce water consumption embodied in imports (m3/capita)    0.02013 • L Percentage of population who feel safe walking alone at night in the      67.32019 • p
SDG7 – Affordable and Clean Energy                city or area where they live (%)
Population with access to electricity (%)    69.82017 • L Property Rights (worst 1–7 best)    NA NA • •
Population with access to clean fuels and technology for cooking (%)    18.42016 • 5 Birth registrations with civil authority (% of children under age 5)    81.32018 • •
COto2t aelm eilsesciotrnicsi tfyro omut fpuuetl  (cMomtCbOu2s/tTioWnh f)or electricity and heating per      1.42017 • 5 CCohrilrdurpetnio innv Poelvrceedp itnio cnh Iinldd leaxb (owr o(%rs to 0f –p1o0p0u blaetsiot)n aged 5 to 14)      92.9322001196 •• D•
5
SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth                Exports of major conventional weapons (TIV constant million USD   * 0.02019 • • . C
Adjusted GDP growth (%)    0.62018 • • per 100,000 population) ou
Victims of modern slavery (per 1,000 population)    11.02018 • • Press Freedom Index (best 0–100 worst)    44.92019 • 5 ntr
y
Admuoltbsi lwe-itmh oanne ayc-cseoruvnicte a tp aro bvaidnekr  o(%r o othf epro fpinualantcioianl  iangsteidtu 1ti5o no ro or vwerit)h a     26.02017 • 5 SGoDvGer1nm7 e–n tP sapretnndeinrgs ohni phse aflothr a tnhde e dGuocaatliosn (% of GDP)      1 . 0201  1 •   •    Prof
Unemployment rate (% of total labor force)    1.62019 • L For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional    NA NA • • iles
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population)   0.02010 • L public finance, including official development assistance (% of GNI)
Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP)    15.82017 • p
Corporate Tax Haven Score (best 0–100 worst) * 0.02019 • •
* Imputed data point
343
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
NAMIBIA  
Sub-Saharan Africa
OVERALL PERFORMANCE
SDG SDG
17 1
SDG 100 SDG
16 2
75
Index score Regional average score SDG SDG
15 50 3
25
SDG
SDG 4
14
61.6 53.1
Namibia
SDG SDG
13 5
SDG
12 SDG
6
SDG Global rank 119 (OF 166)
SDG
11 SDG
7
SDG SDG
10 SDG 8
9
SPILLOVER INDEX AVERAGE PERFORMANCE BY SDG
100 (best) to 0 (worst)
100
80
60
40
20
0
CURRENT ASSESSMENT – SDG DASHBOARD
  Major challenges           Significant challenges          Challenges remain          SDG achieved          Information unavailable
SDG TRENDS
5 5 D L L 5 5 D D
• 5 • D D L 5 L
p  Decreasing       5  Stagnating       D  Moderately improving       L  On track or maintaining SDG achievement       •  Information unavailable
Notes: The full title of Goal 2 “Zero Hunger” is “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”.    
  The full title of each SDG is available here: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabledevelopmentgoals
344
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
NAMIBIA
Performance by Indicator
SDG1 – No Poverty    Val u e Yea  rRa t ingTr e nd SDG9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure    Val u e Ye a rRa t ingTr e nd
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%)    19.62020 • 5 Population using the internet (%)    51.02017 • L
Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%)    31.22020 • 5 Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population)    73.42018 • L
SDG2 – Zero Hunger                Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related     2.82016 • •
Prevalence of undernourishment (%)    27.32017 • D infrastructure (worst 1–5 best)
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%)    23.12013 • D The Times Higher Education Universities Ranking: Average score of top 3 * 0.02020 • •
PPrreevvaalleennccee  ooff  wobaesstiintyg,  BinM cIh ≥il d3r0e n(% u nodf aedr u5 lyt epaorps uolfa atigoen )(%)      177..1222001136 •• pD Scuiennivteifrisci taiensd ( tweochrsnt i0ca–l1 j0o0u rbneaslt a)rticles (per 1,000 population)    0.12018 • 5
Human Trophic Level (best 2–3 worst)    2.22017 • 5 Expenditure on research and development (% of GDP)    0.32014 • •
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land)    0.42017 • 5 SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities               
Sustainable Nitrogen Management Index (best 0–1.41 worst)    1.22015 • p Gini coefficient adjusted for top income    64.22015 • •
SDG3 – Good Health and Well-Being                SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities               
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)     1952017 • D Annual mean concentration of particulate matter of less than      25.42017 • 5
NMeoorntaaltitayl  rmatoer,t ualnitdye rra-t5e ( (ppeerr 1 1,0,00000 l ilvivee b birirtthhss))      1359..6622001188 •• LD Ac2c.5e sms itcor oimnsp irno vdeiadm weatteerr ( sPoMu2rc.5e),  (pμipg/emd 3(%) of urban population)    97.52017 • 5
Incidence of tuberculosis (per 100,000 population)   524.02018 • D Satisfaction with public transport (%)    48.62019 • p
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population)    2.82018 • L SDG12 – Responsible Consumption and Production                 
Municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)    NA NA • •
Agdeia-bsteatneds,a ordr iczherdo ndieca rtehs prairtaet dourye d tois ecaasred iionv aadscuultlsa ra dgiesde a3s0e–, c7a0n yceear,r s (%)    21.32016 • D Electronic waste (kg/capita)    6.02016 • •
Agame-bstiaenndt aarird pizoeldlu dtieoant h(p reart e1 0at0t,r0ib0u0 tpaobpleu tloat hioonu)sehold air pollution and    1452016 • • PSOro2d eumctiisosnio-bnas seemd bSoOd2i eedm iinss iimonpso (rktgs /(ckgap/citaap)ita)      11006..2222001122 •• ••
Traffic deaths (per 100,000 population)    30.42016 • p Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita)    42.62010 • •
Life expectancy at birth (years)    63.72016 • 5 Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)    4.12010 • •
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19)   63.62017 • L SDG13 – Climate Action               
Births attended by skilled health personnel (%)    88.22013 • • Energy-related CO2 emissions (tCO2/capita)    1.62017 • L
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%)   822018 • p CO2 emissions embodied in imports (tCO2/capita)    1.22015 • D
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best)   62.02017 • 5 CO2 emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita)    0.02018 • •
Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best)    4.42019 • p
SDG14 – Life Below Water                 
SDG4 – Quality Education                Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)    91.32018 • L
Net primary enrollment rate (%)    97.52018 • L Ocean Health Index: Clean Waters score (worst 0–100 best)    83.22019 • L
Lower secondary completion rate (%)    69.82017 • • Fish caught from overexploited or collapsed stocks (% of total catch)    12.32014 • L
Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24)    95.22018 • • Fish caught by trawling (%)    88.12014 • 5
SDG5 – Gender Equality                    Marine biodiversity threats embodied in imports (per million population)    0.32018 • •
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods (% of females    80.42013 • L SDG15 – Life on Land               
aged 15 to 49 who are married or in unions) Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%)   83.52018 • L
Ratio of female-to-male mean years of education received (%)   110.62018 • L Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%)   85.42018 • L
Ratio of female-to-male labor force participation rate (%)    85.72019 • L Red List Index of species survival (worst 0–1 best)    1.02019 • L
Seats held by women in national parliament (%)    43.32020 • L Permanent deforestation (% of forest area, 5-year average)    0.32018 • •
SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation               
Population using at least basic drinking water services (%)    82.52017 • 5 Te(rpreers tmriailll iaonnd p forepsuhlwataiotenr) biodiversity threats embodied in imports      1.32018 • •
Population using at least basic sanitation services (%)    34.52017 • 5 SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions               
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available freshwater resources)    0.92000 • • Homicides (per 100,000 population)    17.12012 • •
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%)    6.32018 • • Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population)    3.22015 • •
Scarce water consumption embodied in imports (m3/capita)    5.42013 • L Percentage of population who feel safe walking alone at night in the      39.52019 • p
SDG7 – Affordable and Clean Energy                city or area where they live (%)
Population with access to electricity (%)    52.52017 • 5 Property Rights (worst 1–7 best)    5.02019 • •
Population with access to clean fuels and technology for cooking (%)    42.22016 • 5 Birth registrations with civil authority (% of children under age 5)    77.42018 • •
COto2t aelm eilsesciotrnicsi tfyro omut fpuuetl  (cMomtCbOu2s/tTioWnh f)or electricity and heating per      2.52017 • 5 CCohrilrdurpetnio innv Poelvrceedp itnio cnh Iinldd leaxb (owr o(%rs to 0f –p1o0p0u blaetsiot)n aged 5 to 14)      N5A220N1A9 •• p•
5
SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth                Exports of major conventional weapons (TIV constant million USD   * 0.02019 • • . C
Adjusted GDP growth (%)    -6.02018 • • per 100,000 population) ou
Victims of modern slavery (per 1,000 population)    3.32018 • • Press Freedom Index (best 0–100 worst)    19.02019 • L ntr
y
Admuoltbsi lwe-itmh oanne ayc-cseoruvnicte a tp aro bvaidnekr  o(%r o othf epro fpinualantcioianl  iangsteidtu 1ti5o no ro or vwerit)h a     80.62017 • L SGoDvGer1nm7 e–n tP sapretnndeinrgs ohni phse aflothr a tnhde e dGuocaatliosn (% of GDP)      8 . 4201  4 •   •    Prof
Unemployment rate (% of total labor force)    20.32019 • 5 For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional    NA NA • • iles
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population)   0.62010 • L public finance, including official development assistance (% of GNI)
Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP)    31.62018 • L
Corporate Tax Haven Score (best 0–100 worst) * 0.02019 • •
* Imputed data point
345
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
NAURU  
Oceania
OVERALL PERFORMANCE
SDG SDG
17 1
SDG 100 SDG
16 2
75
Index score Regional average score SDG SDG
15 50 3
25
SDG
SDG 4
14
 na 49.6
Nauru
SDG SDG
13 5
SDG
12 SDG
6
SDG Global rank NA (OF 166)
SDG
11 SDG
7
SDG SDG
10 SDG 8
9
SPILLOVER INDEX AVERAGE PERFORMANCE BY SDG
100 (best) to 0 (worst)
100
80
60
40
20
0
CURRENT ASSESSMENT – SDG DASHBOARD
  Major challenges           Significant challenges          Challenges remain          SDG achieved          Information unavailable
SDG TRENDS
• p • p 5 D L • 5
• • • 5 5 • • •
p  Decreasing       5  Stagnating       D  Moderately improving       L  On track or maintaining SDG achievement       •  Information unavailable
Notes: The full title of Goal 2 “Zero Hunger” is “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”.    
  The full title of each SDG is available here: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabledevelopmentgoals
346
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
NAURU
Performance by Indicator
SDG1 – No Poverty    Val u e Yea  rRa t ingTr e nd SDG9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure    Val u e Ye a rRa t ingTr e nd
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%)    NA NA • • Population using the internet (%)    57.02017 • •
Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%)    NA NA • • Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population)    37.82017 • L
SDG2 – Zero Hunger                Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related     NA NA • •
Prevalence of undernourishment (%)    NA NA • • infrastructure (worst 1–5 best)
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%)    24.02007 • • The Times Higher Education Universities Ranking: Average score of top 3 * 0.02020 • •
PPrreevvaalleennccee  ooff  wobaesstiintyg,  BinM cIh ≥il d3r0e n(% u nodf aedr u5 lyt epaorps uolfa atigoen )(%)      611..0022000176 •• p• Scuiennivteifrisci taiensd ( tweochrsnt i0ca–l1 j0o0u rbneaslt a)rticles (per 1,000 population)    0.02018 • p
Expenditure on research and development (% of GDP)    NA NA • •
Human Trophic Level (best 2–3 worst)    NA NA • •
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land)    NA NA • • SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities               
Sustainable Nitrogen Management Index (best 0–1.41 worst)    1.02015 • 5 Gini coefficient adjusted for top income    NA NA • •
SDG3 – Good Health and Well-Being                SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities               
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)     NA NA • • Annual mean concentration of particulate matter of less than      NA NA • •
2.5 microns in diameter (PM2.5) (μg/m3)
NMeoorntaaltitayl  rmatoer,t ualnitdye rra-t5e ( (ppeerr 1 1,0,00000 l ilvivee b birirtthhss))      1391..9822001188 •• LL Access to improved water source, piped (% of urban population)    52.82017 • 5
Incidence of tuberculosis (per 100,000 population)    54.02018 • L Satisfaction with public transport (%)    NA NA • •
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population)    NA NA • • SDG12 – Responsible Consumption and Production                 
Municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)    1.52016 • •
Agdeia-bsteatneds,a ordr iczherdo ndieca rtehs prairtaet dourye d tois ecaasred iionv aadscuultlsa ra dgiesde a3s0e–, c7a0n yceear,r s (%)    NA NA • • Electronic waste (kg/capita)    NA NA • •
Agame-bstiaenndt aarird pizoeldlu dtieoant h(p reart e1 0at0t,r0ib0u0 tpaobpleu tloat hioonu)sehold air pollution and    NA NA • • PSOro2d eumctiisosnio-bnas seemd bSoOd2i eedm iinss iimonpso (rktgs /(ckgap/citaap)ita)       NNAA NNAA •• ••
Traffic deaths (per 100,000 population)    NA NA • • Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita)    NA NA • •
Life expectancy at birth (years)    NA NA • • Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)    NA NA • •
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19)   NA NA • • SDG13 – Climate Action               
Births attended by skilled health personnel (%)    97.42007 • • Energy-related CO2 emissions (tCO2/capita)    5.52017 • 5
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%)   902018 • L CO2 emissions embodied in imports (tCO2/capita)    NA NA • •
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best)   NA NA • • CO2 emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita) * 0.02018 • •
Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best)    NA NA • •
SDG14 – Life Below Water                 
SDG4 – Quality Education                Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)    0.02018 • 5
Net primary enrollment rate (%)    93.72016 • p Ocean Health Index: Clean Waters score (worst 0–100 best)    24.22019 • p
Lower secondary completion rate (%)    73.32012 • • Fish caught from overexploited or collapsed stocks (% of total catch)    13.32014 • L
Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24)    NA NA • • Fish caught by trawling (%)    NA NA • •
SDG5 – Gender Equality                    Marine biodiversity threats embodied in imports (per million population)    NA NA • •
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods (% of females    42.52007 • • SDG15 – Life on Land               
aged 15 to 49 who are married or in unions) Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%)   0.02018 • 5
Ratio of female-to-male mean years of education received (%)    NA NA • • Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%)   NA NA • •
Ratio of female-to-male labor force participation rate (%)    NA NA • • Red List Index of species survival (worst 0–1 best)    0.82019 • p
Seats held by women in national parliament (%)    10.52020 • 5 Permanent deforestation (% of forest area, 5-year average)    NA NA • •
SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation               
Population using at least basic drinking water services (%)    99.52017 • L Te(rpreers tmriailll iaonnd p forepsuhlwataiotenr) biodiversity threats embodied in imports      NA NA • •
Population using at least basic sanitation services (%)    65.62017 • 5 SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions               
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available freshwater resources)    NA NA • • Homicides (per 100,000 population) * NA NA • •
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%)    0.92018 • • Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population)    NA NA • •
Scarce water consumption embodied in imports (m3/capita)    NA NA • • Percentage of population who feel safe walking alone at night in the      NA NA • •
SDG7 – Affordable and Clean Energy                city or area where they live (%)
Population with access to electricity (%)    99.62017 • L Property Rights (worst 1–7 best)    NA NA • •
Population with access to clean fuels and technology for cooking (%)    91.32016 • L Birth registrations with civil authority (% of children under age 5)    95.92018 • •
COto2t aelm eilsesciotrnicsi tfyro omut fpuuetl  (cMomtCbOu2s/tTioWnh f)or electricity and heating per      NA NA • • CCohrilrdurpetnio innv Poelvrceedp itnio cnh Iinldd leaxb (owr o(%rs to 0f –p1o0p0u blaetsiot)n aged 5 to 14)      NNAA NNAA •• ••
5
SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth                Exports of major conventional weapons (TIV constant million USD   * 0.02019 • • . C
Adjusted GDP growth (%)    2.42018 • • per 100,000 population) ou
Victims of modern slavery (per 1,000 population)    NA NA • • Press Freedom Index (best 0–100 worst)    NA NA • • ntr
y
Admuoltbsi lwe-itmh oanne ayc-cseoruvnicte a tp aro bvaidnekr  o(%r o othf epro fpinualantcioianl  iangsteidtu 1ti5o no ro or vwerit)h a     NA NA • • SGoDvGer1nm7 e–n tP sapretnndeinrgs ohni phse aflothr a tnhde e dGuocaatliosn (% of GDP)      N  A N  A •   •    Prof
Unemployment rate (% of total labor force)    NA NA • • For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional    NA NA • • iles
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population)   NA NA • • public finance, including official development assistance (% of GNI)
Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP)    96.82017 • L
Corporate Tax Haven Score (best 0–100 worst) * NA NA • •
* Imputed data point
347
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
NEPAL  
East and South Asia
OVERALL PERFORMANCE
SDG SDG
17 1
SDG 100 SDG
16 2
75
Index score Regional average score SDG SDG
15 50 3
25
SDG
SDG 4
14
65.9 67.2
Nepal
SDG SDG
13 5
SDG
12 SDG
6
SDG Global rank 96 (OF 166)
SDG
11 SDG
7
SDG SDG
10 SDG 8
9
SPILLOVER INDEX AVERAGE PERFORMANCE BY SDG
100 (best) to 0 (worst)
100
80
60
40
20
0
CURRENT ASSESSMENT – SDG DASHBOARD
  Major challenges           Significant challenges          Challenges remain          SDG achieved          Information unavailable
SDG TRENDS
D D D D D L 5 L D
• 5 • L • 5 5 L
p  Decreasing       5  Stagnating       D  Moderately improving       L  On track or maintaining SDG achievement       •  Information unavailable
Notes: The full title of Goal 2 “Zero Hunger” is “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”.    
  The full title of each SDG is available here: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabledevelopmentgoals
348
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
NEPAL
Performance by Indicator
SDG1 – No Poverty    Val u e Yea  rRa t ingTr e nd SDG9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure    Val u e Ye a rRa t ingTr e nd
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%)    6.82020 • L Population using the internet (%)    34.02017 • L
Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%)    33.02020 • 5 Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population)    47.52018 • L
SDG2 – Zero Hunger                Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related     2.22018 • p
Prevalence of undernourishment (%)    8.72017 • L infrastructure (worst 1–5 best)
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%)    35.82016 • 5 The Times Higher Education Universities Ranking: Average score of top 3    16.42020 • •
PPrreevvaalleennccee  ooff  wobaesstiintyg,  BinM cIh ≥il d3r0e n(% u nodf aedr u5 lyt epaorps uolfa atigoen )(%)      94..7122001166 •• LD Scuiennivteifrisci taiensd ( tweochrsnt i0ca–l1 j0o0u rbneaslt a)rticles (per 1,000 population)    0.02018 • 5
Human Trophic Level (best 2–3 worst)    2.12017 • L Expenditure on research and development (% of GDP)    0.32010 • •
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land)    2.82017 • L SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities               
Sustainable Nitrogen Management Index (best 0–1.41 worst)    0.72015 • p Gini coefficient adjusted for top income    33.42010 • •
SDG3 – Good Health and Well-Being                SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities               
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)     1862017 • L Annual mean concentration of particulate matter of less than      99.72017 • p
2.5 microns in diameter (PM2.5) (μg/m3)
NMeoorntaaltitayl  rmatoer,t ualnitdye rra-t5e ( (ppeerr 1 1,0,00000 l ilvivee b birirtthhss))      1392..9222001188 •• LL Access to improved water source, piped (% of urban population)    55.32017 • p
Incidence of tuberculosis (per 100,000 population)   151.02018 • 5 Satisfaction with public transport (%)    71.22019 • L
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population)    0.02018 • L SDG12 – Responsible Consumption and Production                 
Municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)    0.82016 • •
Agdeia-bsteatneds,a ordr iczherdo ndieca rtehs prairtaet dourye d tois ecaasred iionv aadscuultlsa ra dgiesde a3s0e–, c7a0n yceear,r s (%)    21.82016 • D Electronic waste (kg/capita)    0.82016 • •
Agame-bstiaenndt aarird pizoeldlu dtieoant h(p reart e1 0at0t,r0ib0u0 tpaobpleu tloat hioonu)sehold air pollution and    1942016 • • PSOro2d eumctiisosnio-bnas seemd bSoOd2i eedm iinss iimonpso (rktgs /(ckgap/citaap)ita)       50..4522001122 •• ••
Traffic deaths (per 100,000 population)    15.92016 • D Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita)    10.02010 • •
Life expectancy at birth (years)    70.22016 • D Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)    0.42010 • •
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19)   65.12017 • D SDG13 – Climate Action               
Births attended by skilled health personnel (%)    58.02016 • L Energy-related CO2 emissions (tCO2/capita)    0.32017 • L
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%)   912018 • L CO2 emissions embodied in imports (tCO2/capita)    0.12015 • L
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best)   48.02017 • 5 CO2 emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita)    0.02017 • •
Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best)    5.42019 • L
SDG14 – Life Below Water                 
SDG4 – Quality Education                Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)    NA NA • •
Net primary enrollment rate (%)    96.32019 • p Ocean Health Index: Clean Waters score (worst 0–100 best)    NA NA • •
Lower secondary completion rate (%)    94.62017 • L Fish caught from overexploited or collapsed stocks (% of total catch)    NA NA • •
Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24)    92.42018 • • Fish caught by trawling (%)    NA NA • •
SDG5 – Gender Equality                    Marine biodiversity threats embodied in imports (per million population)    0.02018 • •
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods (% of females    56.02017 • 5 SDG15 – Life on Land               
aged 15 to 49 who are married or in unions) Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%)   52.32018 • L
Ratio of female-to-male mean years of education received (%)    65.62018 • L Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%)   36.52018 • 5
Ratio of female-to-male labor force participation rate (%)    96.92019 • L Red List Index of species survival (worst 0–1 best)    0.82019 • 5
Seats held by women in national parliament (%)    32.72020 • D Permanent deforestation (% of forest area, 5-year average)    0.02018 • •
SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation               
Population using at least basic drinking water services (%)    88.82017 • D Te(rpreers tmriailll iaonnd p forepsuhlwataiotenr) biodiversity threats embodied in imports      0.02018 • •
Population using at least basic sanitation services (%)    62.12017 • L SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions               
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available freshwater resources)    8.32005 • • Homicides (per 100,000 population)    2.22016 • 5
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%)    0.02018 • • Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population)    NA NA • •
Scarce water consumption embodied in imports (m3/capita)    1.62013 • L Percentage of population who feel safe walking alone at night in the      57.52019 • p
SDG7 – Affordable and Clean Energy                city or area where they live (%)
Population with access to electricity (%)    95.52017 • L Property Rights (worst 1–7 best)    4.02019 • •
Population with access to clean fuels and technology for cooking (%)    27.62016 • 5 Birth registrations with civil authority (% of children under age 5)    56.22018 • •
COto2t aelm eilsesciotrnicsi tfyro omut fpuuetl  (cMomtCbOu2s/tTioWnh f)or electricity and heating per      2.22017 • 5 CCohrilrdurpetnio innv Poelvrceedp itnio cnh Iinldd leaxb (owr o(%rs to 0f –p1o0p0u blaetsiot)n aged 5 to 14)      373.4422001196 •• D•
5
SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth                Exports of major conventional weapons (TIV constant million USD   * 0.02019 • • . C
Adjusted GDP growth (%)    -2.42018 • • per 100,000 population) ou
Victims of modern slavery (per 1,000 population)    6.02018 • • Press Freedom Index (best 0–100 worst)    33.42019 • 5 ntr
y
Admuoltbsi lwe-itmh oanne ayc-cseoruvnicte a tp aro bvaidnekr  o(%r o othf epro fpinualantcioianl  iangsteidtu 1ti5o no ro or vwerit)h a     45.42017 • L SGoDvGer1nm7 e–n tP sapretnndeinrgs ohni phse aflothr a tnhde e dGuocaatliosn (% of GDP)      5 . 6201  6 •   L    Prof
Unemployment rate (% of total labor force)    1.42019 • L For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional    NA NA • • iles
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population)   0.12010 • L public finance, including official development assistance (% of GNI)
Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP)    22.92017 • L
Corporate Tax Haven Score (best 0–100 worst) * 0.02019 • •
* Imputed data point
349
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
NETHERLANDS  
OECD Countries
OVERALL PERFORMANCE
SDG SDG
17 1
SDG 100 SDG
16 2
75
Index score Regional average score 1SD5G 50 S3DG
25
SDG
SDG 4
14
80.4 7777..33
Netherlands
SDG SDG
13 5
12 SDG
6
SDG Global rank 9 (OF 166)
SDG
11 SDG
7
SDG SDG
10 SDG 8
9
SPILLOVER INDEX AVERAGE PERFORMANCE BY SDG
100 (best) to 0 (worst)
100
80
60
40
20
0
CURRENT ASSESSMENT – SDG DASHBOARD
  Major challenges           Significant challenges          Challenges remain          SDG achieved          Information unavailable
SDG TRENDS
L D D D D D D L L
L L • 5 D L L 5
p  Decreasing       5  Stagnating       D  Moderately improving       L  On track or maintaining SDG achievement       •  Information unavailable
Notes: The full title of Goal 2 “Zero Hunger” is “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”.    
  The full title of each SDG is available here: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabledevelopmentgoals
350
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
NETHERLANDS
Performance by Indicator
SDG1 – No Poverty    Va lu e Ye a rRa t ingTr e nd SDG9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure    Va lu e Yea  rRa t ingTr e nd
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%)    0.2 2020 • L Population using the internet (%)    94.7 2018 • L
Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%)    0.3 2020 • L Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population)    90.9 2017 • L
Poverty rate after taxes and transfers (%)    8.3 2016 • L Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related     4.2 2018 • L
SDG2 – Zero Hunger                  infrastructure (worst 1–5 best)
Prevalence of undernourishment (%)    2.5 2017 • L Thuen Tivimerseist iHesig (wheorr Estd 0u–c1at0io0 nb eUsnt)iversities Ranking: Average score of top 3    68.1 2020 • •
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%) * 2.6 2016 • L Scientific and technical journal articles (per 1,000 population)    1.8 2018 • L
Prevalence of wasting in children under 5 years of age (%) * 0.7 2016 • L Expenditure on research and development (% of GDP)    2.0 2017 • L
Prevalence of obesity, BMI ≥ 30 (% of adult population)    20.4 2016 • p Researchers (per 1,000 employed population)    10.3 2018 • L
Human Trophic Level (best 2–3 worst)    2.5 2017 • p  Triadic patent families filed (per million population)    69.1 2017 • L
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land)    8.8 2017 • L Gap in internet access by income (percentage points)    3.4 2019 • L
SYuiesltda ignaapb lcel oNsiutrroe g(%en o Mf panoategnetmiael ynite Ilndd)ex (best 0–1.41 worst)      706..28 22001155 •• p• Waonmde enn ignin seceiernincge) and engineering (% of tertiary graduates in science     26.1 2015 • •
SDG3 – Good Health and Well-Being                    SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities               
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)     5 2017 • L Gini coefficient adjusted for top income    28.8 2015 • L
Neonatal mortality rate (per 1,000 live births)    2.1 2018 • L Palma ratio    1.0 2016 • L
Mortality rate, under-5 (per 1,000 live births)    3.9 2018 • L Elderly poverty rate (% of population aged 66 or over)    3.1 2016 • L
Incidence of tuberculosis (per 100,000 population)    5.3 2018 • L SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities               
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population)    0.0 2017 • L
Age-standardized death rate due to cardiovascular disease, cancer,     11.2 2016 • L An2.n5u mali cmroenasn  icno dnicaemnetrtaetri o(PnM o2f .p5a) r(tμicgu/mlat3e) matter of less than      12.0 2017 • L
diabetes, or chronic respiratory disease in adults aged 30–70 years (%) Access to improved water source, piped (% of urban population)    99.0 2017 • L
Age-standardized death rate attributable to household air pollution and    14 2016 • • Satisfaction with public transport (%)    73.9 2019 • L
Traamffibc ideenat tahirs  p(poellru 1ti0o0n,0 (0p0e rp 1o0p0u,0la0t0io pno)pulation)    3.8 2016 • L Population with rent overburden (%)    7.0 2017 • L
Life expectancy at birth (years)    81.6 2016 • L SDG12 – Responsible Consumption and Production               
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19)   3.8 2017 • L Electronic waste (kg/capita)    23.9 2016 • •
Births attended by skilled health personnel (%)   100.0 2003 • • Production-based SO2 emissions (kg/capita)    50.8 2012 • •
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%)   93.0 2018 • L SO2 emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)     16.9 2012 • •
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best)   86.0 2017 • L Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita)    62.6 2010 • •
Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best)    7.4 2019 • L Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)    20.4 2010 • •
Gap in life expectancy at birth among regions (years)    1.3 2016 • • Non-recycled municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)    0.6 2018 • •
Gap in self-reported health status by income (percentage points)    24.0 2017 • p SDG13 – Climate Action               
Daily smokers (% of population aged 15 and over)    16.8 2017 • L Energy-related CO2 emissions (tCO2/capita)    10.1 2017 • p
SDG4 – Quality Education                CO2 emissions embodied in imports (tCO2/capita)    2.9 2015 • 5
Net primary enrollment rate (%) * 99.7 2017 • L CO2 emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita)    37.8 2018 • •
Lower secondary completion rate (%) * 99.7 2017 • L Effective carbon rate (EUR/tCO2)    54.0 2016 • •
Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24)    NA NA • • SDG14 – Life Below Water               
Participation rate in pre-primary organized learning (% of children aged 4 to 6)    99.7 2017 • L Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)    81.5 2018 • L
Tertiary educational attainment (% of population aged 25 to 34)    47.6 2018 • L Ocean Health Index: Clean Waters score (worst 0–100 best)    45.4 2019 • 5
PISA score (worst 0–600 best)   502.3 2018 • L Fish caught from overexploited or collapsed stocks (% of total catch)    31.7 2014 • L
VURaenrsdiialetieiroannct  hisnite usvcdeieernns tcisne   ispnce sirecfnoiercmnec a(e%n (c %eo f e o1xfp5 1l-a5yie-nyaeerd-a obr-lydo ssldo)sc)io-economic status (%)        123204...909 222000111888 ••• ppL FMisahri ncaeu bgihotd bivye rtsraitwy ltihnrge a(%ts) embodied in imports (per million population)     970..34 22001148 •• 5•
SDG15 – Life on Land               
SDG5 – Gender Equality                Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%)   90.6 2018 • L
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods   * 86.3 2017 • L Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%)   93.4 2018 • L
RRaa(%ttiioo o  oof fff  effeemmmaaalellees-- attoog--emmd aa1ll5ee   tmlaob e4oa9rn  wf yoehrcaoer s ap roeafr  metidcaiurprcaiaettdioio nonr r  rainetc eue (ni%vioe)nds ()%)      9854..24 22001189 •• LL RPeerdm Laisnte Inntd dexe foofr espsteactiieosn s (u%rv oivf afol (rwesot rasrte 0a–, 15 -byeesatr) average)      00..90 22001198 •• L•
Seats held by women in national parliament (%)    33.3 2020 • p Terrestrial and freshwater biodiversity threats embodied in imports      6.0 2018 • •
Gender wage gap (% of male median wage)    14.1 2014 • • (per million population)
Gender gap in time spent doing unpaid work (minutes/day)    79.5 2016 • • SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions               
Homicides (per 100,000 population)    0.8 2017 • L
SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation                Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population)    25.8 2018 • L
PPooppuullaattiioonn  uussiinngg  aatt  lleeaasstt  bbaassiicc  dsarninitkaintigo nw saetrevri cseersv (i%ce)s (%)     19070..70 22001177 •• •• Pecrictye notra agree ao wf phoepreu ltahteioyn l iwveh (o% f)eel safe walking alone at night in the      80.1 2019 • L
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available freshwater resources)    16.9 2015 • • Property Rights (worst 1–7 best)    6.1 2019 • •
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%)   100.0 2018 • • Birth registrations with civil authority (% of children under age 5)   100.0 2018 • • 5
SPPcooappruuclleaa ttwiiooannte  uur ssciinnoggn  sssuaamffeepllyyt  immonaa nneaamggbeeoddd  wsiaeandtie tianr ts iieomrnvp isoceerrtsvs i (c(%me)s3 (/%ca)pita)       1490970...350 222000111377 ••• LLD CCExohprilrodurrptestn ioo ifnn mv Poealjvroceerd pc oitnino cvnhe Iinnldtdi oleanxb a(olw rw o(%ersa tpo 0of –pn1os0 p(0Tu IblVae tcsioot)nn satganetd m 5 itlloio 1n4 U)SD    *    8203...020 222000111969 ••• L•• . Country
SDG7 – Affordable and Clean Energy                per 100,000 population)  P
PPooppuullaattiioonn  wwiitthh  aacccceessss  ttoo  eclleeacntr ifcuiteyls ( %an)d technology for cooking (%)     110000..00 22001176 •• LL PPererssso nFrse heedlodm in I npdriesoxn (b (pesetr  01–0100,000 w0 oprospt)ulation)      681..64 22001197 •• LL rofile
s
COel2e cetmricisistyio onus tfproumt ( MfuteCl Oco2/mTWbuhs)tion for electricity and heating per total    1.4 2017 • L SGoDvGer1n7m e–n Pt sapretnndeinrgs honip hse aflothr  atnhde e Gduocaatlison (% of GDP)      13 . 9 201  6 •   L  
Share of renewable energy in total primary energy supply (%)    6.4 2018 • 5 For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional    0.6 2017 • p
SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth                public finance, including official development assistance (% of GNI)
Adjusted GDP growth (%)    0.3 2018 • • Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP)    NA NA • •
VAidmcutoilmtbsis lw eo-iftm hm oaonnde aeycr-ncseo srulvanivctee ar ytp  ar(op bveairdn 1ek,r0  o(0%r0 o  pothfo epprou fplianutailoantncio)ianl  iangsteidtu 1ti5o no ro or vwerit)h a       919..68 22001187 •• L• CFSihonirafptneocdria aptle rSo Tefaictxrse  Hocafy v mSecunol tSrienc oa(brteieo s(ntb a0els–s t1( U00–S01$ w0 b0oi lrwlsioto)nr)st)       -1770814...086 222000121906 ••• •••
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population)   2.2 2010 • L
Employment-to-population ratio (%)    78.2 2019 • L
Youth not in employment, education or training (NEET)      7.0 2018 • L
(% of population aged 15 to 29)
* Imputed data point
351
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
NEW ZEALAND   
OECD Countries
OVERALL PERFORMANCE
SDG SDG
17 1
SDG 100 SDG
16 2
75
Index score Regional average score SDG SDG
15 50 3
25
SDG
SDG 4
14
79.2 77.3
New Zealand
SDG SDG
13 5
SDG
12 SDG
6
SDG Global rank 16 (OF 166)
SDG
11 SDG
7
SDG SDG
10 SDG 8
9
SPILLOVER INDEX AVERAGE PERFORMANCE BY SDG
100 (best) to 0 (worst)
100
80
60
40
20
0
CURRENT ASSESSMENT – SDG DASHBOARD
  Major challenges           Significant challenges          Challenges remain          SDG achieved          Information unavailable
SDG TRENDS
L D D D L L L L D
• D • 5 D p D 5
p  Decreasing       5  Stagnating       D  Moderately improving       L  On track or maintaining SDG achievement       •  Information unavailable
Notes: The full title of Goal 2 “Zero Hunger” is “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”.    
  The full title of each SDG is available here: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabledevelopmentgoals
352
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
NEW ZEALAND 
Performance by Indicator
SDG1 – No Poverty    Va lu e Ye a rRa t ingTr e nd SDG9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure    Va lu e Yea  rRa t ingTr e nd
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%)    0.0 2020 • L Population using the internet (%)    90.8 2017 • L
Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%)    0.0 2020 • L Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population)   114.5 2018 • L
Poverty rate after taxes and transfers (%)    10.9 2014 • • Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related     4.0 2018 • L
SDG2 – Zero Hunger                  infrastructure (worst 1–5 best)
Prevalence of undernourishment (%)    2.5 2017 • L Thuen Tivimerseist iHesig (wheorr Estd 0u–c1at0io0 nb eUsnt)iversities Ranking: Average score of top 3    51.9 2020 • •
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%) * 2.6 2016 • L Scientific and technical journal articles (per 1,000 population)    1.7 2018 • L
Prevalence of wasting in children under 5 years of age (%) * 0.7 2016 • L Expenditure on research and development (% of GDP)    1.2 2015 • •
Prevalence of obesity, BMI ≥ 30 (% of adult population)    30.8 2016 • p Researchers (per 1,000 employed population)    10.1 2017 • L
Human Trophic Level (best 2–3 worst)    2.4 2017 • p  Triadic patent families filed (per million population)    15.2 2017 • p
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land)    8.5 2017 • L Gap in internet access by income (percentage points)    19.0 2012 • •
SYuiesltda ignaapb lcel oNsiutrroe g(%en o Mf panoategnetmiael ynite Ilndd)ex (best 0–1.41 worst)      N0.A6 20N1A5 •• 5• Waonmde enn ignin seceiernincge) and engineering (% of tertiary graduates in science     26.7 2015 • •
SDG3 – Good Health and Well-Being                    SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities               
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)     9 2017 • L Gini coefficient adjusted for top income    NA NA • •
Neonatal mortality rate (per 1,000 live births)    3.5 2018 • L Palma ratio    1.4 2014 • •
Mortality rate, under-5 (per 1,000 live births)    5.7 2018 • L Elderly poverty rate (% of population aged 66 or over)    10.6 2014 • •
Incidence of tuberculosis (per 100,000 population)    7.3 2018 • L SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities               
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population)    0.0 2018 • L
Age-standardized death rate due to cardiovascular disease, cancer,     10.1 2016 • L An2.n5u mali cmroenasn  icno dnicaemnetrtaetri o(PnM o2f .p5a) r(tμicgu/mlat3e) matter of less than      6.0 2017 • L
diabetes, or chronic respiratory disease in adults aged 30–70 years (%) Access to improved water source, piped (% of urban population)    99.0 2017 • L
Age-standardized death rate attributable to household air pollution and    7 2016 • • Satisfaction with public transport (%)    49.9 2019 • 5
Traamffibc ideenat tahirs  p(poellru 1ti0o0n,0 (0p0e rp 1o0p0u,0la0t0io pno)pulation)    7.8 2016 • L Population with rent overburden (%)    NA NA • •
Life expectancy at birth (years)    82.2 2016 • L SDG12 – Responsible Consumption and Production               
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19)   19.3 2017 • L Electronic waste (kg/capita)    20.1 2016 • •
Births attended by skilled health personnel (%)    96.3 2015 • 5 Production-based SO2 emissions (kg/capita)   142.7 2012 • •
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%)   92.0 2018 • L SO2 emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)     15.6 2012 • •
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best)   87.0 2017 • L Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita)    94.0 2010 • •
Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best)    7.2 2019 • L Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)    8.2 2010 • •
Gap in life expectancy at birth among regions (years)    4.0 2013 • • Non-recycled municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)    NA NA • •
Gap in self-reported health status by income (percentage points)    2.1 2018 • L SDG13 – Climate Action               
Daily smokers (% of population aged 15 and over)    13.1 2018 • L Energy-related CO2 emissions (tCO2/capita)    7.8 2017 • p
SDG4 – Quality Education                CO2 emissions embodied in imports (tCO2/capita)    1.9 2015 • 5
Net primary enrollment rate (%)    NA NA • • CO2 emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita)   113.7 2019 • •
Lower secondary completion rate (%)    NA NA • • Effective carbon rate (EUR/tCO2)    1.5 2016 • •
Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24)    NA NA • • SDG14 – Life Below Water               
Participation rate in pre-primary organized learning (% of children aged 4 to 6)    91.8 2016 • L Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)    44.6 2018 • 5
Tertiary educational attainment (% of population aged 25 to 34)    45.8 2018 • L Ocean Health Index: Clean Waters score (worst 0–100 best)    78.3 2019 • L
PISA score (worst 0–600 best)   502.7 2018 • L Fish caught from overexploited or collapsed stocks (% of total catch)    35.3 2014 • L
VURaenrsdiialetieiroannct  hisnite usvcdeieernns tcisne   ispnce sirecfnoiercmnec a(e%n (c %eo f e o1xfp5 1l-a5yie-nyaeerd-a obr-lydo ssldo)sc)io-economic status (%)        113388...904 222000111888 ••• ppL FMisahri ncaeu bgihotd bivye rtsraitwy ltihnrge a(%ts) embodied in imports (per million population)     430..41 22001148 •• p•
SDG15 – Life on Land               
SDG5 – Gender Equality                Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%)   43.0 2018 • 5
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods   * 84.7 2017 • L Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%)   29.3 2018 • 5
RRaa(%ttiioo o  oof fff  effeemmmaaalellees-- attoog--emmd aa1ll5ee   tmlaob e4oa9rn  wf yoehrcaoer s ap roeafr  metidcaiurprcaiaettdioio nonr r  rainetc eue (ni%vioe)nds ()%)      9885..44 22001189 •• LL RPeerdm Laisnte Inntd dexe foofr espsteactiieosn s (u%rv oivf afol (rwesot rasrte 0a–, 15 -byeesatr) average)      00..60 22001198 •• p•
Seats held by women in national parliament (%)    40.8 2020 • L Terrestrial and freshwater biodiversity threats embodied in imports      2.6 2018 • •
Gender wage gap (% of male median wage)    7.9 2018 • L (per million population)
Gender gap in time spent doing unpaid work (minutes/day)   123.0 2010 • • SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions               
Homicides (per 100,000 population)    0.7 2017 • L
SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation                Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population)    18.4 2018 • L
PPooppuullaattiioonn  uussiinngg  aatt  lleeaasstt  bbaassiicc  dsarninitkaintigo nw saetrevri cseersv (i%ce)s (%)     110000..00 22001177 •• •• Pecrictye notra agree ao wf phoepreu ltahteioyn l iwveh (o% f)eel safe walking alone at night in the      68.0 2019 • L
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available freshwater resources)    4.2 2010 • • Property Rights (worst 1–7 best)    5.9 2019 • •
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%)    79.9 2018 • • Birth registrations with civil authority (% of children under age 5)   100.0 2018 • • 5
SPPcooappruuclleaa ttwiiooannte  uur ssciinnoggn  sssuaamffeepllyyt  immonaa nneaamggbeeoddd  wsiaeandtie tianr ts iieomrnvp isoceerrtsvs i (c(%me)s3 (/%ca)pita)       1180880...270 222000111377 ••• LLL CCExohprilrodurrptestn ioo ifnn mv Poealjvroceerd pc oitnino cvnhe Iinnldtdi oleanxb a(olw rw o(%ersa tpo 0of –pn1os0 p(0Tu IblVae tcsioot)nn satganetd m 5 itlloio 1n4 U)SD    *    8700...010 222000111969 ••• L•• . Country
SDG7 – Affordable and Clean Energy                per 100,000 population)  P
PPooppuullaattiioonn  wwiitthh  aacccceessss  ttoo  eclleeacntr ifcuiteyls ( %an)d technology for cooking (%)     110000..00 22001176 •• LL PPererssso nFrse heedlodm in I npdriesoxn (b (pesetr  01–0100,000 w0 oprospt)ulation)     21201..87 22001197 •• Lp rofile
s
COel2e cetmricisistyio onus tfproumt ( MfuteCl Oco2/mTWbuhs)tion for electricity and heating per total    0.8 2017 • L SGoDvGer1n7m e–n Pt sapretnndeinrgs honip hse aflothr  atnhde e Gduocaatlison (% of GDP)      13 . 7 201  6 •   L  
Share of renewable energy in total primary energy supply (%)    41.8 2018 • L For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional    0.2 2017 • p
SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth                public finance, including official development assistance (% of GNI)
Adjusted GDP growth (%)    -1.0 2018 • • Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP)    NA NA • •
VAidmcutoilmtbsis lw eo-iftm hm oaonnde aeycr-ncseo srulvanivctee ar ytp  ar(op bveairdn 1ek,r0  o(0%r0 o  pothfo epprou fplianutailoantncio)ianl  iangsteidtu 1ti5o no ro or vwerit)h a       909..26 22001187 •• L• CFSihonirafptneocdria aptle rSo Tefaictxrse  Hocafy v mSecunol tSrienc oa(brteieo s(ntb a0els–s t1( U00–S01$ w0 b0oi lrwlsioto)nr)st) *     6041...098 222000121906 ••• •••
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population)   1.0 2010 • L
Employment-to-population ratio (%)    77.4 2019 • L
Youth not in employment, education or training (NEET)      10.2 2018 • L
(% of population aged 15 to 29)
* Imputed data point
353
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
NICARAGUA  
Latin America and the Caribbean
OVERALL PERFORMANCE
SDG SDG
17 1
SDG 100 SDG
16 2
75
Index score Regional average score SDG SDG
15 50 3
25
SDG
SDG 4
14
68.7 70.4
Nicaragua
SDG SDG
13 5
SDG
12 SDG
6
SDG Global rank 85 (OF 166)
SDG
11 SDG
7
SDG SDG
10 SDG 8
9
SPILLOVER INDEX AVERAGE PERFORMANCE BY SDG
100 (best) to 0 (worst)
100
80
60
40
20
0
CURRENT ASSESSMENT – SDG DASHBOARD
  Major challenges           Significant challenges          Challenges remain          SDG achieved          Information unavailable
SDG TRENDS
p 5 D • D D D D D
• D • L L D 5 D
p  Decreasing       5  Stagnating       D  Moderately improving       L  On track or maintaining SDG achievement       •  Information unavailable
Notes: The full title of Goal 2 “Zero Hunger” is “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”.    
  The full title of each SDG is available here: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabledevelopmentgoals
354
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
NICARAGUA
Performance by Indicator
SDG1 – No Poverty    Val u e Yea  rRa t ingTr e nd SDG9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure    Val u e Ye a rRa t ingTr e nd
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%)    2.92020 • 5 Population using the internet (%)    27.92017 • D
Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%)    13.52020 • p Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population)    18.72018 • D
SDG2 – Zero Hunger                Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related     2.52016 • •
Prevalence of undernourishment (%)    17.02017 • 5 infrastructure (worst 1–5 best)
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%)    17.32012 • D The Times Higher Education Universities Ranking: Average score of top 3 * 0.02020 • •
PPrreevvaalleennccee  ooff  wobaesstiintyg,  BinM cIh ≥il d3r0e n(% u nodf aedr u5 lyt epaorps uolfa atigoen )(%)      223..2722001126 •• Lp Scuiennivteifrisci taiensd ( tweochrsnt i0ca–l1 j0o0u rbneaslt a)rticles (per 1,000 population)    0.02018 • 5
Human Trophic Level (best 2–3 worst)    2.32017 • D Expenditure on research and development (% of GDP)    0.12015 • •
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land)    2.12017 • L SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities               
Sustainable Nitrogen Management Index (best 0–1.41 worst)    1.02015 • p Gini coefficient adjusted for top income    46.12014 • •
SDG3 – Good Health and Well-Being                SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities               
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)     982017 • D Annual mean concentration of particulate matter of less than      17.62017 • L
2.5 microns in diameter (PM2.5) (μg/m3)
NMeoorntaaltitayl  rmatoer,t ualnitdye rra-t5e ( (ppeerr 1 1,0,00000 l ilvivee b birirtthhss))      198..4322001188 •• LL Access to improved water source, piped (% of urban population)    95.62017 • L
Incidence of tuberculosis (per 100,000 population)    41.02018 • L Satisfaction with public transport (%)    52.72018 • p
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population)    0.12018 • L SDG12 – Responsible Consumption and Production                 
Municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)    1.12010 • •
Agdeia-bsteatneds,a ordr iczherdo ndieca rtehs prairtaet dourye d tois ecaasred iionv aadscuultlsa ra dgiesde a3s0e–, c7a0n yceear,r s (%)    14.22016 • L Electronic waste (kg/capita)    2.22016 • •
Agame-bstiaenndt aarird pizoeldlu dtieoant h(p reart e1 0at0t,r0ib0u0 tpaobpleu tloat hioonu)sehold air pollution and    562016 • • PSOro2d eumctiisosnio-bnas seemd bSoOd2i eedm iinss iimonpso (rktgs /(ckgap/citaap)ita)       281..3322001122 •• ••
Traffic deaths (per 100,000 population)    15.32013 • • Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita)    16.42010 • •
Life expectancy at birth (years)    75.52016 • D Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)    0.82010 • •
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19)   85.02017 • 5 SDG13 – Climate Action               
Births attended by skilled health personnel (%)    88.02012 • • Energy-related CO2 emissions (tCO2/capita)    0.92017 • L
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%)   982018 • L CO2 emissions embodied in imports (tCO2/capita)    0.22015 • L
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best)   73.02017 • L CO2 emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita)    0.02017 • •
Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best)    5.82018 • p
SDG14 – Life Below Water                 
SDG4 – Quality Education                Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)    52.92018 • L
Net primary enrollment rate (%)    94.92010 • • Ocean Health Index: Clean Waters score (worst 0–100 best)    65.12019 • L
Lower secondary completion rate (%)    66.42010 • • Fish caught from overexploited or collapsed stocks (% of total catch)    21.72014 • L
Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24)    91.62015 • • Fish caught by trawling (%)    21.72014 • L
SDG5 – Gender Equality                    Marine biodiversity threats embodied in imports (per million population)    0.02018 • •
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods (% of females    92.62012 • L SDG15 – Life on Land               
aged 15 to 49 who are married or in unions) Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%)   73.72018 • L
Ratio of female-to-male mean years of education received (%)   109.22018 • L Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%)   65.82018 • L
Ratio of female-to-male labor force participation rate (%)    60.92019 • D Red List Index of species survival (worst 0–1 best)    0.92019 • 5
Seats held by women in national parliament (%)    47.32020 • L Permanent deforestation (% of forest area, 5-year average)    0.72018 • •
SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation               
Population using at least basic drinking water services (%)    81.52017 • 5 Te(rpreers tmriailll iaonnd p forepsuhlwataiotenr) biodiversity threats embodied in imports      0.52018 • •
Population using at least basic sanitation services (%)    74.42017 • 5 SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions               
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available freshwater resources)    2.72010 • • Homicides (per 100,000 population)    7.42016 • L
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%)    0.02018 • • Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population)    21.42018 • •
Scarce water consumption embodied in imports (m3/capita)    0.82013 • L Percentage of population who feel safe walking alone at night in the      46.22018 • p
SDG7 – Affordable and Clean Energy                city or area where they live (%)
Population with access to electricity (%)    86.82017 • L Property Rights (worst 1–7 best)    3.62019 • •
Population with access to clean fuels and technology for cooking (%)    52.32016 • D Birth registrations with civil authority (% of children under age 5)    84.72018 • •
COto2t aelm eilsesciotrnicsi tfyro omut fpuuetl  (cMomtCbOu2s/tTioWnh f)or electricity and heating per      1.22017 • 5 CCohrilrdurpetnio innv Poelvrceedp itnio cnh Iinldd leaxb (owr o(%rs to 0f –p1o0p0u blaetsiot)n aged 5 to 14)      142.2522001196 •• p•
5
SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth                Exports of major conventional weapons (TIV constant million USD   * 0.02019 • • . C
Adjusted GDP growth (%)    -4.72018 • • per 100,000 population) ou
Victims of modern slavery (per 1,000 population)    2.92018 • • Press Freedom Index (best 0–100 worst)    35.52019 • p ntr
y
Admuoltbsi lwe-itmh oanne ayc-cseoruvnicte a tp aro bvaidnekr  o(%r o othf epro fpinualantcioianl  iangsteidtu 1ti5o no ro or vwerit)h a     30.92017 • L SGoDvGer1nm7 e–n tP sapretnndeinrgs ohni phse aflothr a tnhde e dGuocaatliosn (% of GDP)      9 . 4201  6 •   L    Prof
Unemployment rate (% of total labor force)    6.82019 • p For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional    NA NA • • iles
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population)   0.12010 • L public finance, including official development assistance (% of GNI)
Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP)    16.82018 • 5
Corporate Tax Haven Score (best 0–100 worst) * 0.02019 • •
* Imputed data point
355
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
NIGER  
Sub-Saharan Africa
OVERALL PERFORMANCE
SDG SDG
17 1
SDG 100 SDG
16 2
75
Index score Regional average score SDG SDG
15 50 3
25
SDG
SDG 4
14
50.1 53.1
Niger
SDG SDG
13 5
SDG
12 SDG
6
SDG Global rank 157 (OF 166)
SDG
11 SDG
7
SDG SDG
10 SDG 8
9
SPILLOVER INDEX AVERAGE PERFORMANCE BY SDG
100 (best) to 0 (worst)
100
80
60
40
20
0
CURRENT ASSESSMENT – SDG DASHBOARD
  Major challenges           Significant challenges          Challenges remain          SDG achieved          Information unavailable
SDG TRENDS
5 5 D 5 D 5 5 D 5
• 5 • L • 5 5 p
p  Decreasing       5  Stagnating       D  Moderately improving       L  On track or maintaining SDG achievement       •  Information unavailable
Notes: The full title of Goal 2 “Zero Hunger” is “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”.    
  The full title of each SDG is available here: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabledevelopmentgoals
356
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
NIGER
Performance by Indicator
SDG1 – No Poverty    Val u e Yea  rRa t ingTr e nd SDG9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure    Val u e Ye a rRa t ingTr e nd
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%)    62.32020 • 5 Population using the internet (%)    5.32018 • 5
Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%)    88.32020 • 5 Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population)    3.92017 • 5
SDG2 – Zero Hunger                Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related     2.02018 • p
Prevalence of undernourishment (%)    16.52017 • p infrastructure (worst 1–5 best)
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%)    42.22016 • 5 The Times Higher Education Universities Ranking: Average score of top 3 * 0.02020 • •
PPrreevvaalleennccee  ooff  wobaesstiintyg,  BinM cIh ≥il d3r0e n(% u nodf aedr u5 lyt epaorps uolfa atigoen )(%)      150..5322001166 •• 5L Scuiennivteifrisci taiensd ( tweochrsnt i0ca–l1 j0o0u rbneaslt a)rticles (per 1,000 population)    0.02018 • p
Human Trophic Level (best 2–3 worst)    2.12017 • L Expenditure on research and development (% of GDP) * 0.02017 • •
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land)    0.52017 • 5 SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities               
Sustainable Nitrogen Management Index (best 0–1.41 worst)    0.92015 • 5 Gini coefficient adjusted for top income    34.32014 • •
SDG3 – Good Health and Well-Being                SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities               
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)     5092017 • D Annual mean concentration of particulate matter of less than      94.12017 • p
NMeoorntaaltitayl  rmatoer,t ualnitdye rra-t5e ( (ppeerr 1 1,0,00000 l ilvivee b birirtthhss))      2853..2722001188 •• DD Ac2c.5e sms itcor oimnsp irno vdeiadm weatteerr ( sPoMu2rc.5e),  (pμipg/emd 3(%) of urban population)    82.92017 • p
Incidence of tuberculosis (per 100,000 population)    87.02018 • 5 Satisfaction with public transport (%)    66.72019 • L
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population)    0.12018 • L SDG12 – Responsible Consumption and Production                 
Municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)    NA NA • •
Agdeia-bsteatneds,a ordr iczherdo ndieca rtehs prairtaet dourye d tois ecaasred iionv aadscuultlsa ra dgiesde a3s0e–, c7a0n yceear,r s (%)    20.02016 • 5 Electronic waste (kg/capita)    0.42016 • •
Agame-bstiaenndt aarird pizoeldlu dtieoant h(p reart e1 0at0t,r0ib0u0 tpaobpleu tloat hioonu)sehold air pollution and    2522016 • • PSOro2d eumctiisosnio-bnas seemd bSoOd2i eedm iinss iimonpso (rktgs /(ckgap/citaap)ita)       70..6322001122 •• ••
Traffic deaths (per 100,000 population)    26.22016 • 5 Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita)    33.52010 • •
Life expectancy at birth (years)    59.82016 • 5 Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)    0.32010 • •
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19)  186.52017 • 5 SDG13 – Climate Action               
Births attended by skilled health personnel (%)    39.72015 • D Energy-related CO2 emissions (tCO2/capita)    0.12017 • L
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%)   772018 • p CO2 emissions embodied in imports (tCO2/capita)    0.02015 • L
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best)   37.02017 • 5 CO2 emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita)    0.02015 • •
Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best)    5.02019 • L
SDG14 – Life Below Water                 
SDG4 – Quality Education                Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)    NA NA • •
Net primary enrollment rate (%)    65.12017 • D Ocean Health Index: Clean Waters score (worst 0–100 best)    NA NA • •
Lower secondary completion rate (%)    19.02018 • 5 Fish caught from overexploited or collapsed stocks (% of total catch)    NA NA • •
Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24)    39.82012 • • Fish caught by trawling (%)    NA NA • •
SDG5 – Gender Equality                    Marine biodiversity threats embodied in imports (per million population)    0.02018 • •
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods (% of females    45.52018 • D SDG15 – Life on Land               
aged 15 to 49 who are married or in unions) Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%)   46.32018 • 5
Ratio of female-to-male mean years of education received (%)    51.92018 • p Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%)   45.32018 • 5
Ratio of female-to-male labor force participation rate (%)    74.42019 • L Red List Index of species survival (worst 0–1 best)    0.92019 • L
Seats held by women in national parliament (%)    17.02020 • 5 Permanent deforestation (% of forest area, 5-year average)    0.02018 • •
SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation               
Population using at least basic drinking water services (%)    50.32017 • 5 Te(rpreers tmriailll iaonnd p forepsuhlwataiotenr) biodiversity threats embodied in imports      0.02018 • •
Population using at least basic sanitation services (%)    13.62017 • 5 SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions               
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available freshwater resources)    7.52015 • • Homicides (per 100,000 population)    4.42012 • •
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%)    0.02018 • • Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population)    53.92015 • •
Scarce water consumption embodied in imports (m3/capita)    0.32013 • L Percentage of population who feel safe walking alone at night in the      60.32019 • p
SDG7 – Affordable and Clean Energy                city or area where they live (%)
Population with access to electricity (%)    20.02017 • 5 Property Rights (worst 1–7 best)    NA NA • •
Population with access to clean fuels and technology for cooking (%)    1.92016 • 5 Birth registrations with civil authority (% of children under age 5)    63.92018 • •
COto2t aelm eilsesciotrnicsi tfyro omut fpuuetl  (cMomtCbOu2s/tTioWnh f)or electricity and heating per      3.92017 • L CCohrilrdurpetnio innv Poelvrceedp itnio cnh Iinldd leaxb (owr o(%rs to 0f –p1o0p0u blaetsiot)n aged 5 to 14)      303.2522001196 •• p•
5
SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth                Exports of major conventional weapons (TIV constant million USD   * 0.02019 • • . C
Adjusted GDP growth (%)    -6.22018 • • per 100,000 population) ou
Victims of modern slavery (per 1,000 population)    6.72018 • • Press Freedom Index (best 0–100 worst)    29.32019 • L ntr
y
Admuoltbsi lwe-itmh oanne ayc-cseoruvnicte a tp aro bvaidnekr  o(%r o othf epro fpinualantcioianl  iangsteidtu 1ti5o no ro or vwerit)h a     15.52017 • D SGoDvGer1nm7 e–n tP sapretnndeinrgs ohni phse aflothr a tnhde e dGuocaatliosn (% of GDP)      5 . 6201  6 •   p    Prof
Unemployment rate (% of total labor force)    0.52019 • L For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional    NA NA • • iles
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population)   0.02010 • L public finance, including official development assistance (% of GNI)
Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP)    NA NA • •
Corporate Tax Haven Score (best 0–100 worst) * 0.02019 • •
* Imputed data point
357
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
NIGERIA  
Sub-Saharan Africa
OVERALL PERFORMANCE
SDG SDG
17 1
SDG 100 SDG
16 2
75
Index score Regional average score SDG SDG
15 50 3
25
SDG
SDG 4
14
49.3 53.1
Nigeria
SDG SDG
13 5
SDG
12 SDG
6
SDG Global rank 160 (OF 166)
SDG
11 SDG
7
SDG SDG
10 SDG 8
9
SPILLOVER INDEX AVERAGE PERFORMANCE BY SDG
100 (best) to 0 (worst)
100
80
60
40
20
0
CURRENT ASSESSMENT – SDG DASHBOARD
  Major challenges           Significant challenges          Challenges remain          SDG achieved          Information unavailable
SDG TRENDS
p 5 5 • 5 D 5 5 D
• 5 • L 5 D p •
p  Decreasing       5  Stagnating       D  Moderately improving       L  On track or maintaining SDG achievement       •  Information unavailable
Notes: The full title of Goal 2 “Zero Hunger” is “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”.    
  The full title of each SDG is available here: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabledevelopmentgoals
358
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
NIGERIA
Performance by Indicator
SDG1 – No Poverty    Val u e Yea  rRa t ingTr e nd SDG9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure    Val u e Ye a rRa t ingTr e nd
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%)    47.62020 • p Population using the internet (%)    42.02017 • L
Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%)    76.92020 • p Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population)    30.72018 • D
SDG2 – Zero Hunger                Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related     2.62018 • 5
Prevalence of undernourishment (%)    13.42017 • p infrastructure (worst 1–5 best)
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%)    43.62016 • L The Times Higher Education Universities Ranking: Average score of top 3    34.32020 • •
PPrreevvaalleennccee  ooff  wobaesstiintyg,  BinM cIh ≥il d3r0e n(% u nodf aedr u5 lyt epaorps uolfa atigoen )(%)      180..9822001166 •• 5L Scuiennivteifrisci taiensd ( tweochrsnt i0ca–l1 j0o0u rbneaslt a)rticles (per 1,000 population)    0.02018 • 5
Human Trophic Level (best 2–3 worst)    2.02017 • L Expenditure on research and development (% of GDP)    0.22007 • •
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land)    1.52017 • 5 SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities               
Sustainable Nitrogen Management Index (best 0–1.41 worst)    0.82015 • p Gini coefficient adjusted for top income    56.12003 • •
SDG3 – Good Health and Well-Being                SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities               
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)     9172017 • 5 Annual mean concentration of particulate matter of less than      71.82017 • p
NMeoorntaaltitayl  rmatoer,t ualnitdye rra-t5e ( (ppeerr 1 1,0,00000 l ilvivee b birirtthhss))     13169..0922001188 •• 55 Ac2c.5e sms itcor oimnsp irno vdeiadm weatteerr ( sPoMu2rc.5e),  (pμipg/emd 3(%) of urban population)    14.62017 • p
Incidence of tuberculosis (per 100,000 population)   219.02018 • 5 Satisfaction with public transport (%)    64.82018 • L
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population)    0.72018 • 5 SDG12 – Responsible Consumption and Production                 
Municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)    0.82009 • •
Agdeia-bsteatneds,a ordr iczherdo ndieca rtehs prairtaet dourye d tois ecaasred iionv aadscuultlsa ra dgiesde a3s0e–, c7a0n yceear,r s (%)    22.52016 • 5 Electronic waste (kg/capita)    1.52016 • •
Agame-bstiaenndt aarird pizoeldlu dtieoant h(p reart e1 0at0t,r0ib0u0 tpaobpleu tloat hioonu)sehold air pollution and    3072016 • • PSOro2d eumctiisosnio-bnas seemd bSoOd2i eedm iinss iimonpso (rktgs /(ckgap/citaap)ita)       20..2622001122 •• ••
Traffic deaths (per 100,000 population)    21.42016 • p Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita)    10.72010 • •
Life expectancy at birth (years)    55.22016 • 5 Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)    0.32010 • •
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19)  107.32017 • 5 SDG13 – Climate Action               
Births attended by skilled health personnel (%)    40.32017 • 5 Energy-related CO2 emissions (tCO2/capita)    0.62017 • L
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%)   572018 • L CO2 emissions embodied in imports (tCO2/capita)    0.12015 • L
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best)   42.02017 • 5 CO2 emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita)   110.22018 • •
Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best)    5.32018 • L
SDG14 – Life Below Water                 
SDG4 – Quality Education                Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)    NA NA • •
Net primary enrollment rate (%)    64.12010 • • Ocean Health Index: Clean Waters score (worst 0–100 best)    37.12019 • p
Lower secondary completion rate (%)    47.12010 • • Fish caught from overexploited or collapsed stocks (% of total catch)    14.22014 • L
Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24)    75.02018 • • Fish caught by trawling (%)    28.52014 • 5
SDG5 – Gender Equality                    Marine biodiversity threats embodied in imports (per million population)    0.02018 • •
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods (% of females    42.82018 • 5 SDG15 – Life on Land               
aged 15 to 49 who are married or in unions) Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%)   79.62018 • L
Ratio of female-to-male mean years of education received (%)    69.72018 • 5 Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%)   59.12018 • L
Ratio of female-to-male labor force participation rate (%)    84.82019 • L Red List Index of species survival (worst 0–1 best)    0.92019 • 5
Seats held by women in national parliament (%)    3.62020 • p Permanent deforestation (% of forest area, 5-year average)    0.52018 • •
SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation               
Population using at least basic drinking water services (%)    71.42017 • D Te(rpreers tmriailll iaonnd p forepsuhlwataiotenr) biodiversity threats embodied in imports      0.02018 • •
Population using at least basic sanitation services (%)    39.22017 • 5 SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions               
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available freshwater resources)    9.72010 • • Homicides (per 100,000 population) * 9.82015 • •
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%)    0.22018 • • Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population)    67.82018 • 5
Scarce water consumption embodied in imports (m3/capita)    0.72013 • L Percentage of population who feel safe walking alone at night in the      54.32018 • p
SDG7 – Affordable and Clean Energy                city or area where they live (%)
Population with access to electricity (%)    54.42017 • p Property Rights (worst 1–7 best)    3.62019 • •
Population with access to clean fuels and technology for cooking (%)    4.92016 • 5 Birth registrations with civil authority (% of children under age 5)    42.62018 • •
COto2t aelm eilsesciotrnicsi tfyro omut fpuuetl  (cMomtCbOu2s/tTioWnh f)or electricity and heating per      2.82017 • 5 CCohrilrdurpetnio innv Poelvrceedp itnio cnh Iinldd leaxb (owr o(%rs to 0f –p1o0p0u blaetsiot)n aged 5 to 14)      242.6722001196 •• 5•
5
SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth                Exports of major conventional weapons (TIV constant million USD   * 0.02019 • • . C
Adjusted GDP growth (%)    -7.22018 • • per 100,000 population) ou
Victims of modern slavery (per 1,000 population) * NA NA • • Press Freedom Index (best 0–100 worst)    36.52019 • p ntr
y
Admuoltbsi lwe-itmh oanne ayc-cseoruvnicte a tp aro bvaidnekr  o(%r o othf epro fpinualantcioianl  iangsteidtu 1ti5o no ro or vwerit)h a     39.72017 • p SGoDvGer1nm7 e–n tP sapretnndeinrgs ohni phse aflothr a tnhde e dGuocaatliosn (% of GDP)      N  A N  A •   •    Prof
Unemployment rate (% of total labor force)    8.12019 • p For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional    NA NA • • iles
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population)   0.02010 • L public finance, including official development assistance (% of GNI)
Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP) * 5.02013 • •
Corporate Tax Haven Score (best 0–100 worst) * 0.02019 • •
* Imputed data point
359
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
NORTH MACEDONIA  
Eastern Europe and Central Asia
OVERALL PERFORMANCE
SDG SDG
17 1
SDG 100 SDG
16 2
75
Index score Regional average score SDG SDG
15 50 3
25
SDG
SDG 4
14
71.4 70.9 North 
SDG Macedonia SDG
13 5
SDG
12 SDG
6
SDG Global rank 62 (OF 166)
SDG
11 SDG
7
SDG SDG
10 SDG 8
9
SPILLOVER INDEX AVERAGE PERFORMANCE BY SDG
100 (best) to 0 (worst)
100
80
60
40
20
0
CURRENT ASSESSMENT – SDG DASHBOARD
  Major challenges           Significant challenges          Challenges remain          SDG achieved          Information unavailable
SDG TRENDS
D D D L 5 D D L 5
• 5 • 5 • D D D
p  Decreasing       5  Stagnating       D  Moderately improving       L  On track or maintaining SDG achievement       •  Information unavailable
Notes: The full title of Goal 2 “Zero Hunger” is “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”.    
  The full title of each SDG is available here: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabledevelopmentgoals
360
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
NORTH MACEDONIA
Performance by Indicator
SDG1 – No Poverty    Val u e Yea  rRa t ingTr e nd SDG9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure    Val u e Ye a rRa t ingTr e nd
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%)    3.22020 • L Population using the internet (%)    79.22018 • L
Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%)    8.12020 • D Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population)    64.72018 • L
SDG2 – Zero Hunger                Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related     2.52018 • p
Prevalence of undernourishment (%)    3.22017 • L infrastructure (worst 1–5 best)
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%)    4.92011 • L The Times Higher Education Universities Ranking: Average score of top 3 * 0.02020 • •
PPHrrueemvvaaalleennn Tccreeo  poohff  iwocb aLesestviinetylg ,(  BbinMe csIth ≥ 2il d–3r30e  wn(% ou rnosdft )aedr u5 lyt epaorps uolfa atigoen )(%)        2122...834222000111167 ••• 5Lp SExcupieneninvtdeifiritscui rtaeien osdn ( t wreeocshersantr ic0cha– la1 nj0od0u  drbneeavselt la)orptimcleens t( (p%e ro 1f ,G0D0P0) population)      00..2422001187 •• pp
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land)    3.92016 • L SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities               
Sustainable Nitrogen Management Index (best 0–1.41 worst)    0.72015 • 5 Gini coefficient adjusted for top income    44.02015 • •
SDG3 – Good Health and Well-Being                SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities               
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)     72017 • L Annual mean concentration of particulate matter of less than      29.72017 • D
2.5 microns in diameter (PM2.5) (μg/m3)
NMeoorntaaltitayl  rmatoer,t ualnitdye rra-t5e ( (ppeerr 1 1,0,00000 l ilvivee b birirtthhss))      79..4922001188 •• LL Access to improved water source, piped (% of urban population)    98.32017 • L
Incidence of tuberculosis (per 100,000 population)    13.02018 • L Satisfaction with public transport (%)    50.82019 • p
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population)    0.02018 • L SDG12 – Responsible Consumption and Production                 
Municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)    1.82016 • •
Agdeia-bsteatneds,a ordr iczherdo ndieca rtehs prairtaet dourye d tois ecaasred iionv aadscuultlsa ra dgiesde a3s0e–, c7a0n yceear,r s (%)    20.32016 • L Electronic waste (kg/capita)    7.22016 • •
Agame-bstiaenndt aarird pizoeldlu dtieoant h(p reart e1 0at0t,r0ib0u0 tpaobpleu tloat hioonu)sehold air pollution and    822016 • • PSOro2d eumctiisosnio-bnas seemd bSoOd2i eedm iinss iimonpso (rktgs /(ckgap/citaap)ita)      1434..9622001122 •• ••
Traffic deaths (per 100,000 population)    6.42016 • L Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita)    17.12010 • •
Life expectancy at birth (years)    75.92016 • 5 Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)    2.92010 • •
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19)   15.72017 • L SDG13 – Climate Action               
Births attended by skilled health personnel (%)    99.92016 • L Energy-related CO2 emissions (tCO2/capita)    3.52017 • 5
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%)   832018 • p CO2 emissions embodied in imports (tCO2/capita)    0.62015 • 5
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best)   72.02017 • L CO2 emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita)    2.32019 • •
Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best)    5.02019 • 5
SDG14 – Life Below Water                 
SDG4 – Quality Education                Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)    NA NA • •
Net primary enrollment rate (%)    94.92017 • L Ocean Health Index: Clean Waters score (worst 0–100 best)    NA NA • •
Lower secondary completion rate (%)    88.12015 • • Fish caught from overexploited or collapsed stocks (% of total catch)    NA NA • •
Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24)    98.62014 • • Fish caught by trawling (%)    NA NA • •
SDG5 – Gender Equality                    Marine biodiversity threats embodied in imports (per million population)    0.02018 • •
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods (% of females    22.32011 • 5 SDG15 – Life on Land               
aged 15 to 49 who are married or in unions) Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%)   23.62018 • 5
Ratio of female-to-male mean years of education received (%)    90.22018 • 5 Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%)   93.62018 • L
Ratio of female-to-male labor force participation rate (%)    63.42019 • p Red List Index of species survival (worst 0–1 best)    1.02019 • L
Seats held by women in national parliament (%)    40.02020 • L Permanent deforestation (% of forest area, 5-year average)    0.02018 • •
SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation               
Population using at least basic drinking water services (%)    93.12017 • 5 Te(rpreers tmriailll iaonnd p forepsuhlwataiotenr) biodiversity threats embodied in imports      0.72018 • •
Population using at least basic sanitation services (%)    99.12017 • L SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions               
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available freshwater resources)    13.32005 • • Homicides (per 100,000 population)    1.52017 • L
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%)    0.92018 • • Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population)    10.02018 • L
Scarce water consumption embodied in imports (m3/capita)    6.52013 • L Percentage of population who feel safe walking alone at night in the      68.32019 • L
SDG7 – Affordable and Clean Energy                city or area where they live (%)
Population with access to electricity (%)   100.02017 • L Property Rights (worst 1–7 best)    3.62019 • •
Population with access to clean fuels and technology for cooking (%)    65.62016 • D Birth registrations with civil authority (% of children under age 5)    99.72018 • •
COto2t aelm eilsesciotrnicsi tfyro omut fpuuetl  (cMomtCbOu2s/tTioWnh f)or electricity and heating per      1.42017 • D CCohrilrdurpetnio innv Poelvrceedp itnio cnh Iinldd leaxb (owr o(%rs to 0f –p1o0p0u blaetsiot)n aged 5 to 14)      123.5522001196 •• p•
5
SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth                Exports of major conventional weapons (TIV constant million USD   * 0.02019 • • . C
Adjusted GDP growth (%)    0.22018 • • per 100,000 population) ou
Victims of modern slavery (per 1,000 population)    8.72018 • • Press Freedom Index (best 0–100 worst)    31.72019 • L ntr
y
Admuoltbsi lwe-itmh oanne ayc-cseoruvnicte a tp aro bvaidnekr  o(%r o othf epro fpinualantcioianl  iangsteidtu 1ti5o no ro or vwerit)h a     76.62017 • L SGoDvGer1nm7 e–n tP sapretnndeinrgs ohni phse aflothr a tnhde e dGuocaatliosn (% of GDP)      8 . 0200  2 •   •    Prof
Unemployment rate (% of total labor force)    17.82019 • L For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional    NA NA • • iles
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population)   0.22010 • L public finance, including official development assistance (% of GNI)
Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP)    26.82018 • D
Corporate Tax Haven Score (best 0–100 worst) * 0.02019 • •
* Imputed data point
361
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
NORWAY  
OECD Countries
OVERALL PERFORMANCE
SDG SDG
17 1
SDG 100 SDG
16 2
75
Index score Regional average score SDG SDG
15 50 3
25
SDG
SDG 4
14
80.8 77.3
Norway
SDG SDG
13 5
SDG
12 SDG
6
SDG Global rank 6 (OF 166)
SDG
11 SDG
7
SDG SDG
10 SDG 8
9
SPILLOVER INDEX AVERAGE PERFORMANCE BY SDG
100 (best) to 0 (worst)
100
80
60
40
20
0
CURRENT ASSESSMENT – SDG DASHBOARD
  Major challenges           Significant challenges          Challenges remain          SDG achieved          Information unavailable
SDG TRENDS
L D L D L 5 L L D
L L • 5 D L L L
p  Decreasing       5  Stagnating       D  Moderately improving       L  On track or maintaining SDG achievement       •  Information unavailable
Notes: The full title of Goal 2 “Zero Hunger” is “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”.    
  The full title of each SDG is available here: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabledevelopmentgoals
362
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
NORWAY
Performance by Indicator
SDG1 – No Poverty    Va lu e Ye a rRa t ingTr e nd SDG9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure    Va lu e Yea  rRa t ingTr e nd
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%)    0.3 2020 • L Population using the internet (%)    96.5 2018 • L
Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%)    0.3 2020 • L Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population)    99.2 2018 • L
Poverty rate after taxes and transfers (%)    8.4 2017 • L Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related     3.7 2018 • L
SDG2 – Zero Hunger                  infrastructure (worst 1–5 best)
Prevalence of undernourishment (%)    2.5 2017 • L Thuen Tivimerseist iHesig (wheorr Estd 0u–c1at0io0 nb eUsnt)iversities Ranking: Average score of top 3    50.4 2020 • •
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%) * 2.6 2016 • L Scientific and technical journal articles (per 1,000 population)    2.2 2018 • L
Prevalence of wasting in children under 5 years of age (%) * 0.7 2016 • L Expenditure on research and development (% of GDP)    2.1 2017 • L
Prevalence of obesity, BMI ≥ 30 (% of adult population)    23.1 2016 • p Researchers (per 1,000 employed population)    12.2 2018 • L
Human Trophic Level (best 2–3 worst)    2.5 2017 • 5  Triadic patent families filed (per million population)    18.8 2017 • p
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land)    4.5 2017 • L Gap in internet access by income (percentage points)    3.6 2019 • L
SYuiesltda ignaapb lcel oNsiutrroe g(%en o Mf panoategnetmiael ynite Ilndd)ex (best 0–1.41 worst)      506..98 22001155 •• p• Waonmde enn ignin seceiernincge) and engineering (% of tertiary graduates in science     26.6 2015 • •
SDG3 – Good Health and Well-Being                    SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities               
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)     2 2017 • L Gini coefficient adjusted for top income    27.4 2015 • L
Neonatal mortality rate (per 1,000 live births)    1.5 2018 • L Palma ratio    0.9 2017 • L
Mortality rate, under-5 (per 1,000 live births)    2.5 2018 • L Elderly poverty rate (% of population aged 66 or over)    4.3 2017 • L
Incidence of tuberculosis (per 100,000 population)    4.1 2018 • L SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities               
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population)    0.0 2018 • L
Age-standardized death rate due to cardiovascular disease, cancer,     9.2 2016 • L An2.n5u mali cmroenasn  icno dnicaemnetrtaetri o(PnM o2f .p5a) r(tμicgu/mlat3e) matter of less than      7.0 2017 • L
diabetes, or chronic respiratory disease in adults aged 30–70 years (%) Access to improved water source, piped (% of urban population)    99.0 2017 • L
Age-standardized death rate attributable to household air pollution and    9 2016 • • Satisfaction with public transport (%)    60.2 2019 • D
Traamffibc ideenat tahirs  p(poellru 1ti0o0n,0 (0p0e rp 1o0p0u,0la0t0io pno)pulation)    2.7 2016 • L Population with rent overburden (%)    7.4 2017 • L
Life expectancy at birth (years)    82.5 2016 • L SDG12 – Responsible Consumption and Production               
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19)   5.1 2017 • L Electronic waste (kg/capita)    28.5 2016 • •
Births attended by skilled health personnel (%)    99.1 2016 • L Production-based SO2 emissions (kg/capita)    94.2 2012 • •
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%)   96.0 2018 • L SO2 emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)     27.8 2012 • •
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best)   87.0 2017 • L Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita)    43.0 2010 • •
Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best)    7.4 2019 • L Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)    20.4 2010 • •
Gap in life expectancy at birth among regions (years)    1.3 2016 • • Non-recycled municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)    1.2 2018 • •
Gap in self-reported health status by income (percentage points)    16.6 2017 • L SDG13 – Climate Action               
Daily smokers (% of population aged 15 and over)    12.0 2018 • L Energy-related CO2 emissions (tCO2/capita)    8.8 2017 • 5
SDG4 – Quality Education                CO2 emissions embodied in imports (tCO2/capita)    3.7 2015 • 5
Net primary enrollment rate (%) * 99.4 2017 • L CO2 emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita) 4  5780.3 2018 • •
Lower secondary completion rate (%) * 99.4 2017 • L Effective carbon rate (EUR/tCO2)    51.0 2016 • •
Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24)    NA NA • • SDG14 – Life Below Water               
Participation rate in pre-primary organized learning (% of children aged 4 to 6)    96.2 2017 • L Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)    55.2 2018 • L
Tertiary educational attainment (% of population aged 25 to 34)    48.2 2018 • L Ocean Health Index: Clean Waters score (worst 0–100 best)    77.0 2019 • L
PISA score (worst 0–600 best)   496.7 2018 • L Fish caught from overexploited or collapsed stocks (% of total catch)    21.2 2014 • L
VURaenrsdiialetieiroannct  hisnite usvcdeieernns tcisne   ispnce sirecfnoiercmnec a(e%n (c %eo f e o1xfp5 1l-a5yie-nyaeerd-a obr-lydo ssldo)sc)io-economic status (%)        22805...879 222000111888 ••• Lpp FMisahri ncaeu bgihotd bivye rtsraitwy ltihnrge a(%ts) embodied in imports (per million population)     400..43 22001148 •• p•
SDG15 – Life on Land               
SDG5 – Gender Equality                Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%)   51.3 2018 • L
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods   * 84.3 2017 • L Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%)   55.9 2018 • L
RRaa(%ttiioo o  oof fff  effeemmmaaalellees-- attoog--emmd aa1ll5ee   tmlaob e4oa9rn  wf yoehrcaoer s ap roeafr  metidcaiurprcaiaettdioio nonr r  rainetc eue (ni%vioe)nds ()%)     19000..58 22001189 •• LL RPeerdm Laisnte Inntd dexe foofr espsteactiieosn s (u%rv oivf afol (rwesot rasrte 0a–, 15 -byeesatr) average)      00..90 22001198 •• L•
Seats held by women in national parliament (%)    41.4 2020 • L Terrestrial and freshwater biodiversity threats embodied in imports      3.8 2018 • •
Gender wage gap (% of male median wage)    7.1 2015 • • (per million population)
Gender gap in time spent doing unpaid work (minutes/day)    58.9 2011 • • SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions               
Homicides (per 100,000 population)    0.5 2017 • L
SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation                Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population)    25.2 2018 • L
PPooppuullaattiioonn  uussiinngg  aatt  lleeaasstt  bbaassiicc  dsarninitkaintigo nw saetrevri cseersv (i%ce)s (%)     19080..10 22001177 •• •• Pecrictye notra agree ao wf phoepreu ltahteioyn l iwveh (o% f)eel safe walking alone at night in the      92.2 2019 • L
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available freshwater resources)    2.3 2005 • • Property Rights (worst 1–7 best)    5.8 2019 • •
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%)    64.3 2018 • • Birth registrations with civil authority (% of children under age 5)   100.0 2018 • • 5
SPPcooappruuclleaa ttwiiooannte  uur ssciinnoggn  sssuaamffeepllyyt  immonaa nneaamggbeeoddd  wsiaeandtie tianr ts iieomrnvp isoceerrtsvs i (c(%me)s3 (/%ca)pita)        697086...133 222000111377 ••• 5pL CCExohprilrodurrptestn ioo ifnn mv Poealjvroceerd pc oitnino cvnhe Iinnldtdi oleanxb a(olw rw o(%ersa tpo 0of –pn1os0 p(0Tu IblVae tcsioot)nn satganetd m 5 itlloio 1n4 U)SD    *    8402...010 222000111969 ••• L•• . Country
SDG7 – Affordable and Clean Energy                per 100,000 population)  P
PPooppuullaattiioonn  wwiitthh  aacccceessss  ttoo  eclleeacntr ifcuiteyls ( %an)d technology for cooking (%)     110000..00 22001176 •• LL PPererssso nFrse heedlodm in I npdriesoxn (b (pesetr  01–0100,000 w0 oprospt)ulation)      673..86 22001197 •• LL rofile
s
COel2e cetmricisistyio onus tfproumt ( MfuteCl Oco2/mTWbuhs)tion for electricity and heating per total    0.2 2017 • L SGoDvGer1n7m e–n Pt sapretnndeinrgs honip hse aflothr  atnhde e Gduocaatlison (% of GDP)      16 . 9 201  6 •   L  
Share of renewable energy in total primary energy supply (%)    47.1 2018 • L For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional    1.0 2017 • L
SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth                public finance, including official development assistance (% of GNI)
Adjusted GDP growth (%)    -0.6 2018 • • Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP)    NA NA • •
VAidmcutoilmtbsis lw eo-iftm hm oaonnde aeycr-ncseo srulvanivctee ar ytp  ar(op bveairdn 1ek,r0  o(0%r0 o  pothfo epprou fplianutailoantncio)ianl  iangsteidtu 1ti5o no ro or vwerit)h a       919..78 22001187 •• L• CFSihonirafptneocdria aptle rSo Tefaictxrse  Hocafy v mSecunol tSrienc oa(brteieo s(ntb a0els–s t1( U00–S01$ w0 b0oi lrwlsioto)nr)st) *     4046...023 222000121906 ••• •••
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population)   2.3 2010 • L
Employment-to-population ratio (%)    75.3 2019 • L
Youth not in employment, education or training (NEET)      8.7 2018 • L
(% of population aged 15 to 29)
* Imputed data point
363
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
OMAN  
Middle East and North Africa
OVERALL PERFORMANCE
SDG SDG
17 1
SDG 100 SDG
16 2
75
Index score Regional average score SDG SDG
15 50 3
25
SDG
SDG 4
14
69.7 66.3
Oman
SDG SDG
13 5
SDG
12 SDG
6
SDG Global rank 76 (OF 166)
SDG
11 SDG
7
SDG SDG
10 SDG 8
9
SPILLOVER INDEX AVERAGE PERFORMANCE BY SDG
100 (best) to 0 (worst)
100
80
60
40
20
0
CURRENT ASSESSMENT – SDG DASHBOARD
  Major challenges           Significant challenges          Challenges remain          SDG achieved          Information unavailable
SDG TRENDS
• 5 D 5 5 D L D D
• 5 • D 5 5 D •
p  Decreasing       5  Stagnating       D  Moderately improving       L  On track or maintaining SDG achievement       •  Information unavailable
Notes: The full title of Goal 2 “Zero Hunger” is “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”.    
  The full title of each SDG is available here: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabledevelopmentgoals
364
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
OMAN
Performance by Indicator
SDG1 – No Poverty    Val u e Yea  rRa t ingTr e nd SDG9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure    Val u e Ye a rRa t ingTr e nd
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%) * NA NA • • Population using the internet (%)    80.22017 • L
Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%) * NA NA • • Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population)    85.22018 • L
SDG2 – Zero Hunger                Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related     3.22018 • L
Prevalence of undernourishment (%)    6.82017 • L infrastructure (worst 1–5 best)
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%)    14.12014 • p The Times Higher Education Universities Ranking: Average score of top 3    25.22020 • •
PPHrrueemvvaaalleennn Tccreeo  poohff  iwocb aLesestviinetylg ,(  BbinMe csIth ≥ 2il d–3r30e  wn(% ou rnosdft )aedr u5 lyt epaorps uolfa atigoen )(%)        2727...530222000111467 ••• 5pD SExcupieneninvtdeifiritscui rtaeien osdn ( t wreeocshersantr ic0cha– la1 nj0od0u  drbneeavselt la)orptimcleens t( (p%e ro 1f ,G0D0P0) population)      00..2222001187 •• 55
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land)    13.02017 • L SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities               
Sustainable Nitrogen Management Index (best 0–1.41 worst)    0.72015 • D Gini coefficient adjusted for top income    NA NA • •
SDG3 – Good Health and Well-Being                SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities               
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)     192017 • L Annual mean concentration of particulate matter of less than      41.12017 • p
2.5 microns in diameter (PM2.5) (μg/m3)
NMeoorntaaltitayl  rmatoer,t ualnitdye rra-t5e ( (ppeerr 1 1,0,00000 l ilvivee b birirtthhss))      151..1422001188 •• LL Access to improved water source, piped (% of urban population)    93.22017 • L
Incidence of tuberculosis (per 100,000 population)    5.92018 • L Satisfaction with public transport (%)    72.82011 • •
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population)    0.12018 • L SDG12 – Responsible Consumption and Production                 
Municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)    1.22014 • •
Agdeia-bsteatneds,a ordr iczherdo ndieca rtehs prairtaet dourye d tois ecaasred iionv aadscuultlsa ra dgiesde a3s0e–, c7a0n yceear,r s (%)    17.82016 • L Electronic waste (kg/capita)    14.92016 • •
Agame-bstiaenndt aarird pizoeldlu dtieoant h(p reart e1 0at0t,r0ib0u0 tpaobpleu tloat hioonu)sehold air pollution and    542016 • • PSOro2d eumctiisosnio-bnas seemd bSoOd2i eedm iinss iimonpso (rktgs /(ckgap/citaap)ita)       498..0422001122 •• ••
Traffic deaths (per 100,000 population)    16.12016 • L Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita)    23.02010 • •
Life expectancy at birth (years)    77.02016 • D Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)    7.72010 • •
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19)   13.12017 • L SDG13 – Climate Action               
Births attended by skilled health personnel (%)    99.12014 • • Energy-related CO2 emissions (tCO2/capita)    13.22017 • D
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%)   992018 • L CO2 emissions embodied in imports (tCO2/capita)    1.42015 • L
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best)   69.02017 • 5 CO2 emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita)   4773.12018 • •
Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best)    6.92011 • •
SDG14 – Life Below Water                 
SDG4 – Quality Education                Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)    10.42018 • 5
Net primary enrollment rate (%)    86.32018 • p Ocean Health Index: Clean Waters score (worst 0–100 best)    66.12019 • p
Lower secondary completion rate (%)   103.52018 • L Fish caught from overexploited or collapsed stocks (% of total catch)    4.52014 • L
Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24)    98.62018 • • Fish caught by trawling (%)    0.42014 • L
SDG5 – Gender Equality                    Marine biodiversity threats embodied in imports (per million population)    0.12018 • •
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods (% of females    39.62014 • 5 SDG15 – Life on Land               
aged 15 to 49 who are married or in unions) Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%)   11.12018 • 5
Ratio of female-to-male mean years of education received (%)   112.82018 • L Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%)   NA NA • •
Ratio of female-to-male labor force participation rate (%)    34.62019 • 5 Red List Index of species survival (worst 0–1 best)    0.92019 • 5
Seats held by women in national parliament (%)    2.32020 • 5 Permanent deforestation (% of forest area, 5-year average)    NA NA • •
SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation               
Population using at least basic drinking water services (%)    91.92017 • L Te(rpreers tmriailll iaonnd p forepsuhlwataiotenr) biodiversity threats embodied in imports      0.72018 • •
Population using at least basic sanitation services (%)   100.02017 • L SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions               
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available freshwater resources)    90.12005 • • Homicides (per 100,000 population) * 0.52017 • L
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%)    13.42018 • • Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population)    NA NA • •
Scarce water consumption embodied in imports (m3/capita)    55.52013 • 5 Percentage of population who feel safe walking alone at night in the      NA NA • •
SDG7 – Affordable and Clean Energy                city or area where they live (%)
Population with access to electricity (%)   100.02017 • L Property Rights (worst 1–7 best)    5.62019 • •
Population with access to clean fuels and technology for cooking (%)    95.22016 • L Birth registrations with civil authority (% of children under age 5)   100.02018 • •
COto2t aelm eilsesciotrnicsi tfyro omut fpuuetl  (cMomtCbOu2s/tTioWnh f)or electricity and heating per      1.92017 • L CCohrilrdurpetnio innv Poelvrceedp itnio cnh Iinldd leaxb (owr o(%rs to 0f –p1o0p0u blaetsiot)n aged 5 to 14)      N5A220N1A9 •• L•
5
SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth                Exports of major conventional weapons (TIV constant million USD      0.12019 • • . C
Adjusted GDP growth (%)    -3.92018 • • per 100,000 population) ou
Victims of modern slavery (per 1,000 population) * NA NA • • Press Freedom Index (best 0–100 worst)    43.42019 • p ntr
y
Admuoltbsi lwe-itmh oanne ayc-cseoruvnicte a tp aro bvaidnekr  o(%r o othf epro fpinualantcioianl  iangsteidtu 1ti5o no ro or vwerit)h a     73.62011 • • SGoDvGer1nm7 e–n tP sapretnndeinrgs ohni phse aflothr a tnhde e dGuocaatliosn (% of GDP)      7 . 4201  3 •   •    Prof
Unemployment rate (% of total labor force)    2.72019 • L For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional    NA NA • • iles
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population)   1.32010 • 5 public finance, including official development assistance (% of GNI)
Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP) * NA NA • •
Corporate Tax Haven Score (best 0–100 worst) * 0.02019 • •
* Imputed data point
365
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
PAKISTAN  
East and South Asia
OVERALL PERFORMANCE
SDG SDG
17 1
SDG 100 SDG
16 2
75
Index score Regional average score SDG SDG
15 50 3
25
SDG
SDG 4
14
56.2 67.2
Pakistan
SDG SDG
13 5
SDG
12 SDG
6
SDG Global rank 134 (OF 166)
SDG
11 SDG
7
SDG SDG
10 SDG 8
9
SPILLOVER INDEX AVERAGE PERFORMANCE BY SDG
100 (best) to 0 (worst)
100
80
60
40
20
0
CURRENT ASSESSMENT – SDG DASHBOARD
  Major challenges           Significant challenges          Challenges remain          SDG achieved          Information unavailable
SDG TRENDS
L 5 D 5 5 D 5 D 5
• 5 • L 5 p D 5
p  Decreasing       5  Stagnating       D  Moderately improving       L  On track or maintaining SDG achievement       •  Information unavailable
Notes: The full title of Goal 2 “Zero Hunger” is “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”.    
  The full title of each SDG is available here: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabledevelopmentgoals
366
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
PAKISTAN
Performance by Indicator
SDG1 – No Poverty    Val u e Yea  rRa t ingTr e nd SDG9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure    Val u e Ye a rRa t ingTr e nd
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%)    0.92020 • L Population using the internet (%)    15.52017 • 5
Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%)    20.72020 • L Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population)    29.22018 • L
SDG2 – Zero Hunger                Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related     2.22018 • p
Prevalence of undernourishment (%)    20.32017 • 5 infrastructure (worst 1–5 best)
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%)    45.02012 • 5 The Times Higher Education Universities Ranking: Average score of top 3    32.52020 • •
PPHrrueemvvaaalleennn Tccreeo  poohff  iwocb aLesestviinetylg ,(  BbinMe csIth ≥ 2il d–3r30e  wn(% ou rnosdft )aedr u5 lyt epaorps uolfa atigoen )(%)        1820...655222000111267 ••• LpD SExcupieneninvtdeifiritscui rtaeien osdn ( t wreeocshersantr ic0cha– la1 nj0od0u  drbneeavselt la)orptimcleens t( (p%e ro 1f ,G0D0P0) population)      00..1222001187 •• 5p
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land)    3.22017 • L SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities               
Sustainable Nitrogen Management Index (best 0–1.41 worst)    0.92015 • 5 Gini coefficient adjusted for top income    43.02015 • •
SDG3 – Good Health and Well-Being                SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities               
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)     1402017 • L Annual mean concentration of particulate matter of less than      58.32017 • 5
NMInecooirdntaealntitacyle  rm oatfoe tr,ut uablnietdryce rura-lto5e s( i(psp e(eprr e1 1r,0, 01000000 l ,il0viv0ee0 b  bpiriortthphsus)l)ation)       2466295...030222000111888 ••• 55D ASac2tc.i5es fsmasc ittcoiro oinmn wsp irintoh vd epiadum bwleiactte etrrr a( sPnoMsup2roc.5ret),   ((p%μipg)/emd 3(%) of urban population)      5610..3222001178 •• pD
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population)    0.12018 • L SDG12 – Responsible Consumption and Production                 
Municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)    1.12017 • •
Agdeia-bsteatneds,a ordr iczherdo ndieca rtehs prairtaet dourye d tois ecaasred iionv aadscuultlsa ra dgiesde a3s0e–, c7a0n yceear,r s (%)    24.72016 • 5 Electronic waste (kg/capita)    1.62016 • •
Agame-bstiaenndt aarird pizoeldlu dtieoant h(p reart e1 0at0t,r0ib0u0 tpaobpleu tloat hioonu)sehold air pollution and    1742016 • • PSOro2d eumctiisosnio-bnas seemd bSoOd2i eedm iinss iimonpso (rktgs /(ckgap/citaap)ita)       50..5222001122 •• ••
Traffic deaths (per 100,000 population)    14.32016 • p Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita)    15.12010 • •
Life expectancy at birth (years)    66.52016 • 5 Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)    0.12010 • •
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19)   38.82017 • D SDG13 – Climate Action               
Births attended by skilled health personnel (%)    69.32018 • L Energy-related CO2 emissions (tCO2/capita)    0.92017 • L
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%)   752018 • D CO2 emissions embodied in imports (tCO2/capita)    0.02015 • L
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best)   45.02017 • D CO2 emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita)    0.02018 • •
Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best)    5.52018 • L
SDG14 – Life Below Water                 
SDG4 – Quality Education                Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)    39.32018 • 5
Net primary enrollment rate (%)    67.62018 • 5 Ocean Health Index: Clean Waters score (worst 0–100 best)    45.52019 • 5
Lower secondary completion rate (%)    48.22018 • 5 Fish caught from overexploited or collapsed stocks (% of total catch)    40.32014 • p
Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24)    74.52017 • • Fish caught by trawling (%)    23.92014 • 5
SDG5 – Gender Equality                    Marine biodiversity threats embodied in imports (per million population)    0.02018 • •
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods (% of females    48.52018 • D SDG15 – Life on Land               
aged 15 to 49 who are married or in unions) Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%)   36.62018 • 5
Ratio of female-to-male mean years of education received (%)    58.52018 • 5 Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%)   37.02018 • 5
Ratio of female-to-male labor force participation rate (%)    29.62019 • 5 Red List Index of species survival (worst 0–1 best)    0.92019 • p
Seats held by women in national parliament (%)    20.22020 • p Permanent deforestation (% of forest area, 5-year average)    0.02018 • •
SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation               
Population using at least basic drinking water services (%)    91.52017 • D Te(rpreers tmriailll iaonnd p forepsuhlwataiotenr) biodiversity threats embodied in imports      0.02018 • •
Population using at least basic sanitation services (%)    59.92017 • D SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions               
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available freshwater resources)   112.52010 • • Homicides (per 100,000 population)    4.22017 • L
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%)    0.12018 • • Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population)    69.12015 • •
Scarce water consumption embodied in imports (m3/capita)    0.32013 • L Percentage of population who feel safe walking alone at night in the      68.52018 • L
SDG7 – Affordable and Clean Energy                city or area where they live (%)
Population with access to electricity (%)    70.82017 • p Property Rights (worst 1–7 best)    4.12019 • •
Population with access to clean fuels and technology for cooking (%)    43.32016 • 5 Birth registrations with civil authority (% of children under age 5)    42.22018 • •
COto2t aelm eilsesciotrnicsi tfyro omut fpuuetl  (cMomtCbOu2s/tTioWnh f)or electricity and heating per      1.52017 • 5 CCohrilrdurpetnio innv Poelvrceedp itnio cnh Iinldd leaxb (owr o(%rs to 0f –p1o0p0u blaetsiot)n aged 5 to 14)      N3A220N1A9 •• 5•
5
SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth                Exports of major conventional weapons (TIV constant million USD      0.02019 • • . C
Adjusted GDP growth (%)    -1.82018 • • per 100,000 population) ou
Victims of modern slavery (per 1,000 population) * NA NA • • Press Freedom Index (best 0–100 worst)    45.82019 • D ntr
y
Admuoltbsi lwe-itmh oanne ayc-cseoruvnicte a tp aro bvaidnekr  o(%r o othf epro fpinualantcioianl  iangsteidtu 1ti5o no ro or vwerit)h a     21.32017 • D SGoDvGer1nm7 e–n tP sapretnndeinrgs ohni phse aflothr a tnhde e dGuocaatliosn (% of GDP)      3 . 8201  6 •   5    Prof
Unemployment rate (% of total labor force)    4.52019 • L For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional    NA NA • • iles
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population)   0.02010 • L public finance, including official development assistance (% of GNI)
Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP) * 14.42015 • •
Corporate Tax Haven Score (best 0–100 worst) * 0.02019 • •
* Imputed data point
367
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
PALAU  
Oceania
OVERALL PERFORMANCE
SDG SDG
17 1
SDG 100 SDG
16 2
75
Index score Regional average score SDG SDG
15 50 3
25
SDG
SDG 4
14
 na 49.6
Palau
SDG SDG
13 5
SDG
12 SDG
6
SDG Global rank NA (OF 166)
SDG
11 SDG
7
SDG SDG
10 SDG 8
9
SPILLOVER INDEX AVERAGE PERFORMANCE BY SDG
100 (best) to 0 (worst)
100
80
60
40
20
0
CURRENT ASSESSMENT – SDG DASHBOARD
  Major challenges           Significant challenges          Challenges remain          SDG achieved          Information unavailable
SDG TRENDS
• p • • • L L • D
• • • • • • • •
p  Decreasing       5  Stagnating       D  Moderately improving       L  On track or maintaining SDG achievement       •  Information unavailable
Notes: The full title of Goal 2 “Zero Hunger” is “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”.    
  The full title of each SDG is available here: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabledevelopmentgoals
368
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
PALAU
Performance by Indicator
SDG1 – No Poverty    Val u e Yea  rRa t ingTr e nd SDG9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure    Val u e Ye a rRa t ingTr e nd
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%)    NA NA • • Population using the internet (%)    27.02004 • •
Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%)    NA NA • • Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population)    NA NA • •
SDG2 – Zero Hunger                Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related     NA NA • •
Prevalence of undernourishment (%) * 1.22017 • • infrastructure (worst 1–5 best)
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%) * 2.62016 • • The Times Higher Education Universities Ranking: Average score of top 3 * 0.02020 • •
PPrreevvaalleennccee  ooff  wobaesstiintyg,  BinM cIh ≥il d3r0e n(% u nodf aedr u5 lyt epaorps uolfa atigoen )(%) *   505..7322001166 •• p• Scuiennivteifrisci taiensd ( tweochrsnt i0ca–l1 j0o0u rbneaslt a)rticles (per 1,000 population)    0.42018 • D
Expenditure on research and development (% of GDP)    NA NA • •
Human Trophic Level (best 2–3 worst)    NA NA • •
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land)    NA NA • • SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities               
Sustainable Nitrogen Management Index (best 0–1.41 worst)    NA NA • • Gini coefficient adjusted for top income    NA NA • •
SDG3 – Good Health and Well-Being                SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities               
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)     NA NA • • Annual mean concentration of particulate matter of less than      NA NA • •
2.5 microns in diameter (PM2.5) (μg/m3)
NMeoorntaaltitayl  rmatoer,t ualnitdye rra-t5e ( (ppeerr 1 1,0,00000 l ilvivee b birirtthhss))      197..4922001188 •• LL Access to improved water source, piped (% of urban population)    99.02017 • L
Incidence of tuberculosis (per 100,000 population)   109.02018 • 5 Satisfaction with public transport (%)    NA NA • •
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population)    NA NA • • SDG12 – Responsible Consumption and Production                 
Municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)    1.52016 • •
Agdeia-bsteatneds,a ordr iczherdo ndieca rtehs prairtaet dourye d tois ecaasred iionv aadscuultlsa ra dgiesde a3s0e–, c7a0n yceear,r s (%)    NA NA • • Electronic waste (kg/capita)    9.32016 • •
Agame-bstiaenndt aarird pizoeldlu dtieoant h(p reart e1 0at0t,r0ib0u0 tpaobpleu tloat hioonu)sehold air pollution and    NA NA • • PSOro2d eumctiisosnio-bnas seemd bSoOd2i eedm iinss iimonpso (rktgs /(ckgap/citaap)ita)       NNAA NNAA •• ••
Traffic deaths (per 100,000 population)    4.82013 • • Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita)    NA NA • •
Life expectancy at birth (years)    NA NA • • Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)    NA NA • •
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19)   NA NA • • SDG13 – Climate Action               
Births attended by skilled health personnel (%)   100.02016 • L Energy-related CO2 emissions (tCO2/capita)    17.92017 • p
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%)   902018 • L CO2 emissions embodied in imports (tCO2/capita)    NA NA • •
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best)   NA NA • • CO2 emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita)    NA NA • •
Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best)    NA NA • •
SDG14 – Life Below Water                 
SDG4 – Quality Education                Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)    NA NA • •
Net primary enrollment rate (%)    94.92014 • • Ocean Health Index: Clean Waters score (worst 0–100 best)    72.02019 • L
Lower secondary completion rate (%)   108.52014 • • Fish caught from overexploited or collapsed stocks (% of total catch)    4.12014 • L
Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24)    98.72015 • • Fish caught by trawling (%)    NA NA • •
SDG5 – Gender Equality                    Marine biodiversity threats embodied in imports (per million population)    NA NA • •
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods (% of females    NA NA • • SDG15 – Life on Land               
aged 15 to 49 who are married or in unions) Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%)   NA NA • •
Ratio of female-to-male mean years of education received (%)    NA NA • • Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%)   NA NA • •
Ratio of female-to-male labor force participation rate (%)    NA NA • • Red List Index of species survival (worst 0–1 best)    0.72019 • p
Seats held by women in national parliament (%)    12.52020 • D Permanent deforestation (% of forest area, 5-year average)    0.02018 • •
SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation               
Population using at least basic drinking water services (%)   100.02017 • L Te(rpreers tmriailll iaonnd p forepsuhlwataiotenr) biodiversity threats embodied in imports      NA NA • •
Population using at least basic sanitation services (%)   100.02017 • L SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions               
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available freshwater resources)    NA NA • • Homicides (per 100,000 population) * 3.12012 • •
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%)    40.02018 • • Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population)    4.12006 • •
Scarce water consumption embodied in imports (m3/capita)    NA NA • • Percentage of population who feel safe walking alone at night in the      NA NA • •
SDG7 – Affordable and Clean Energy                city or area where they live (%)
Population with access to electricity (%)   100.02017 • L Property Rights (worst 1–7 best)    NA NA • •
Population with access to clean fuels and technology for cooking (%)    86.92016 • L Birth registrations with civil authority (% of children under age 5)    NA NA • •
COto2t aelm eilsesciotrnicsi tfyro omut fpuuetl  (cMomtCbOu2s/tTioWnh f)or electricity and heating per      NA NA • • CCohrilrdurpetnio innv Poelvrceedp itnio cnh Iinldd leaxb (owr o(%rs to 0f –p1o0p0u blaetsiot)n aged 5 to 14)      NNAA NNAA •• ••
5
SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth                Exports of major conventional weapons (TIV constant million USD   * 0.02019 • • . C
Adjusted GDP growth (%)    -4.12018 • • per 100,000 population) ou
Victims of modern slavery (per 1,000 population)    NA NA • • Press Freedom Index (best 0–100 worst)    NA NA • • ntr
y
Admuoltbsi lwe-itmh oanne ayc-cseoruvnicte a tp aro bvaidnekr  o(%r o othf epro fpinualantcioianl  iangsteidtu 1ti5o no ro or vwerit)h a     NA NA • • SGoDvGer1nm7 e–n tP sapretnndeinrgs ohni phse aflothr a tnhde e dGuocaatliosn (% of GDP)      11 . 2200  2 •   •    Prof
Unemployment rate (% of total labor force)    NA NA • • For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional    NA NA • • iles
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population)   NA NA • • public finance, including official development assistance (% of GNI)
Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP)    NA NA • •
Corporate Tax Haven Score (best 0–100 worst) * 0.02019 • •
* Imputed data point
369
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
PANAMA  
Latin America and the Caribbean
OVERALL PERFORMANCE
SDG SDG
17 1
SDG 100 SDG
16 2
75
Index score Regional average score SDG SDG
15 50 3
25
SDG
SDG 4
14
69.2 70.4
Panama
SDG SDG
13 5
SDG
12 SDG
6
SDG Global rank 81 (OF 166)
SDG
11 SDG
7
SDG SDG
10 SDG 8
9
SPILLOVER INDEX AVERAGE PERFORMANCE BY SDG
100 (best) to 0 (worst)
100
80
60
40
20
0
CURRENT ASSESSMENT – SDG DASHBOARD
  Major challenges           Significant challenges          Challenges remain          SDG achieved          Information unavailable
SDG TRENDS
L D D p D L L D D
• L • 5 D p D •
p  Decreasing       5  Stagnating       D  Moderately improving       L  On track or maintaining SDG achievement       •  Information unavailable
Notes: The full title of Goal 2 “Zero Hunger” is “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”.    
  The full title of each SDG is available here: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabledevelopmentgoals
370
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
PANAMA
Performance by Indicator
SDG1 – No Poverty    Val u e Yea  rRa t ingTr e nd SDG9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure    Val u e Ye a rRa t ingTr e nd
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%)    1.62020 • L Population using the internet (%)    57.92017 • L
Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%)    5.22020 • L Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population)    79.12018 • L
SDG2 – Zero Hunger                Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related     3.12018 • L
Prevalence of undernourishment (%)    10.02017 • 5 infrastructure (worst 1–5 best)
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%)    19.12008 • L The Times Higher Education Universities Ranking: Average score of top 3 * 3.42019 • •
PPrreevvaalleennccee  ooff  wobaesstiintyg,  BinM cIh ≥il d3r0e n(% u nodf aedr u5 lyt epaorps uolfa atigoen )(%)      212..2722000186 •• Lp Scuiennivteifrisci taiensd ( tweochrsnt i0ca–l1 j0o0u rbneaslt a)rticles (per 1,000 population)    0.02018 • p
Human Trophic Level (best 2–3 worst)    2.32017 • D Expenditure on research and development (% of GDP)    0.12013 • •
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land)    2.72017 • L SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities               
Sustainable Nitrogen Management Index (best 0–1.41 worst)    1.02015 • p Gini coefficient adjusted for top income    52.62017 • •
SDG3 – Good Health and Well-Being                SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities               
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)     522017 • L Annual mean concentration of particulate matter of less than      11.42017 • L
2.5 microns in diameter (PM2.5) (μg/m3)
NMeoorntaaltitayl  rmatoer,t ualnitdye rra-t5e ( (ppeerr 1 1,0,00000 l ilvivee b birirtthhss))      185..5322001188 •• LL Access to improved water source, piped (% of urban population)    98.32017 • L
Incidence of tuberculosis (per 100,000 population)    52.02018 • 5 Satisfaction with public transport (%)    73.02019 • L
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population)    0.32018 • L SDG12 – Responsible Consumption and Production                 
Municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)    1.42015 • •
Agdeia-bsteatneds,a ordr iczherdo ndieca rtehs prairtaet dourye d tois ecaasred iionv aadscuultlsa ra dgiesde a3s0e–, c7a0n yceear,r s (%)    13.02016 • L Electronic waste (kg/capita)    8.02016 • •
Agame-bstiaenndt aarird pizoeldlu dtieoant h(p reart e1 0at0t,r0ib0u0 tpaobpleu tloat hioonu)sehold air pollution and    262016 • • PSOro2d eumctiisosnio-bnas seemd bSoOd2i eedm iinss iimonpso (rktgs /(ckgap/citaap)ita)       586..4922001122 •• ••
Traffic deaths (per 100,000 population)    14.32016 • p Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita)    22.52010 • •
Life expectancy at birth (years)    78.02016 • D Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)    4.82010 • •
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19)   81.82017 • 5 SDG13 – Climate Action               
Births attended by skilled health personnel (%)    94.62016 • 5 Energy-related CO2 emissions (tCO2/capita)    2.42017 • p
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%)   882018 • L CO2 emissions embodied in imports (tCO2/capita)    1.02015 • D
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best)   79.02017 • L CO2 emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita)    0.02016 • •
Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best)    6.12019 • L
SDG14 – Life Below Water                 
SDG4 – Quality Education                Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)    32.02018 • 5
Net primary enrollment rate (%)    86.22017 • p Ocean Health Index: Clean Waters score (worst 0–100 best)    64.92019 • L
Lower secondary completion rate (%)    76.82017 • • Fish caught from overexploited or collapsed stocks (% of total catch)    39.92014 • L
Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24)    99.12018 • • Fish caught by trawling (%)    9.32014 • L
SDG5 – Gender Equality                    Marine biodiversity threats embodied in imports (per million population)    0.42018 • •
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods (% of females    73.32013 • D SDG15 – Life on Land               
aged 15 to 49 who are married or in unions) Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%)   38.32018 • 5
Ratio of female-to-male mean years of education received (%)   105.12018 • L Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%)   NA NA • •
Ratio of female-to-male labor force participation rate (%)    65.32019 • D Red List Index of species survival (worst 0–1 best)    0.72019 • p
Seats held by women in national parliament (%)    22.52020 • D Permanent deforestation (% of forest area, 5-year average)    0.22018 • •
SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation               
Population using at least basic drinking water services (%)    96.42017 • L Te(rpreers tmriailll iaonnd p forepsuhlwataiotenr) biodiversity threats embodied in imports      1.42018 • •
Population using at least basic sanitation services (%)    83.32017 • L SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions               
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available freshwater resources)    0.82010 • • Homicides (per 100,000 population)    9.72017 • L
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%)    23.12018 • • Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population)    52.82018 • L
Scarce water consumption embodied in imports (m3/capita)    6.02013 • L Percentage of population who feel safe walking alone at night in the      49.62019 • p
SDG7 – Affordable and Clean Energy                city or area where they live (%)
Population with access to electricity (%)   100.02017 • L Property Rights (worst 1–7 best)    4.52019 • •
Population with access to clean fuels and technology for cooking (%)    89.02016 • L Birth registrations with civil authority (% of children under age 5)    95.62018 • •
COto2t aelm eilsesciotrnicsi tfyro omut fpuuetl  (cMomtCbOu2s/tTioWnh f)or electricity and heating per      0.92017 • L CCohrilrdurpetnio innv Poelvrceedp itnio cnh Iinldd leaxb (owr o(%rs to 0f –p1o0p0u blaetsiot)n aged 5 to 14)      23.6522001196 •• p•
5
SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth                Exports of major conventional weapons (TIV constant million USD      0.02019 • • . C
Adjusted GDP growth (%)    -0.12018 • • per 100,000 population) ou
Victims of modern slavery (per 1,000 population)    2.12018 • • Press Freedom Index (best 0–100 worst)    29.82019 • L ntr
y
Admuoltbsi lwe-itmh oanne ayc-cseoruvnicte a tp aro bvaidnekr  o(%r o othf epro fpinualantcioianl  iangsteidtu 1ti5o no ro or vwerit)h a     46.52017 • 5 SGoDvGer1nm7 e–n tP sapretnndeinrgs ohni phse aflothr a tnhde e dGuocaatliosn (% of GDP)      7 . 3201  1 •   •    Prof
Unemployment rate (% of total labor force)    3.92019 • L For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional    NA NA • • iles
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population)   0.52010 • L public finance, including official development assistance (% of GNI)
Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP) * NA NA • •
Corporate Tax Haven Score (best 0–100 worst)    71.82019 • •
* Imputed data point
371
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
PAPUA NEW GUINEA  
Oceania
OVERALL PERFORMANCE
SDG SDG
17 1
SDG 100 SDG
16 2
75
Index score Regional average score SDG SDG
15 50 3
25
SDG
SDG 4
14
51.7 49.6 Papua New 
SDG Guinea SDG
13 5
SDG
12 SDG
6
SDG Global rank 155 (OF 166)
SDG
11 SDG
7
SDG SDG
10 SDG 8
9
SPILLOVER INDEX AVERAGE PERFORMANCE BY SDG
100 (best) to 0 (worst)
100
80
60
40
20
0
CURRENT ASSESSMENT – SDG DASHBOARD
  Major challenges           Significant challenges          Challenges remain          SDG achieved          Information unavailable
SDG TRENDS
5 5 5 • 5 5 D L 5
• 5 • L 5 p 5 p
p  Decreasing       5  Stagnating       D  Moderately improving       L  On track or maintaining SDG achievement       •  Information unavailable
Notes: The full title of Goal 2 “Zero Hunger” is “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”.    
  The full title of each SDG is available here: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabledevelopmentgoals
372
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
Performance by Indicator
SDG1 – No Poverty    Val u e Yea  rRa t ingTr e nd SDG9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure    Val u e Ye a rRa t ingTr e nd
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%)    27.92020 • 5 Population using the internet (%)    11.22017 • 5
Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%)    51.02020 • 5 Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population)    10.92017 • D
SDG2 – Zero Hunger                Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related     2.02018 • p
Prevalence of undernourishment (%)    NA NA • • infrastructure (worst 1–5 best)
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%)    49.52010 • 5 The Times Higher Education Universities Ranking: Average score of top 3 * 0.02020 • •
PPrreevvaalleennccee  ooff  wobaesstiintyg,  BinM cIh ≥il d3r0e n(% u nodf aedr u5 lyt epaorps uolfa atigoen )(%)      1241..3322001106 •• pD Scuiennivteifrisci taiensd ( tweochrsnt i0ca–l1 j0o0u rbneaslt a)rticles (per 1,000 population)    0.02018 • 5
Expenditure on research and development (% of GDP)    0.02016 • •
Human Trophic Level (best 2–3 worst)    NA NA • •
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land)    4.82017 • L SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities               
Sustainable Nitrogen Management Index (best 0–1.41 worst)    0.92015 • 5 Gini coefficient adjusted for top income    53.02009 • •
SDG3 – Good Health and Well-Being                SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities               
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)     1452017 • D Annual mean concentration of particulate matter of less than      12.32017 • L
NMeoorntaaltitayl  rmatoer,t ualnitdye rra-t5e ( (ppeerr 1 1,0,00000 l ilvivee b birirtthhss))      2427..1822001188 •• DD Ac2c.5e sms itcor oimnsp irno vdeiadm weatteerr ( sPoMu2rc.5e),  (pμipg/emd 3(%) of urban population)    55.42017 • p
Incidence of tuberculosis (per 100,000 population)   432.02018 • 5 Satisfaction with public transport (%)    NA NA • •
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population)    0.32018 • L SDG12 – Responsible Consumption and Production                 
Municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)    2.52014 • •
Agdeia-bsteatneds,a ordr iczherdo ndieca rtehs prairtaet dourye d tois ecaasred iionv aadscuultlsa ra dgiesde a3s0e–, c7a0n yceear,r s (%)    30.02016 • p Electronic waste (kg/capita)    0.92016 • •
Agame-bstiaenndt aarird pizoeldlu dtieoant h(p reart e1 0at0t,r0ib0u0 tpaobpleu tloat hioonu)sehold air pollution and    1522016 • • PSOro2d eumctiisosnio-bnas seemd bSoOd2i eedm iinss iimonpso (rktgs /(ckgap/citaap)ita)       202..0922001122 •• ••
Traffic deaths (per 100,000 population)    14.22016 • L Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita)    2.12010 • •
Life expectancy at birth (years)    65.92016 • 5 Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)    0.52010 • •
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19)   52.72017 • 5 SDG13 – Climate Action               
Births attended by skilled health personnel (%)    53.02006 • • Energy-related CO2 emissions (tCO2/capita)    0.92017 • L
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%)   612018 • p CO2 emissions embodied in imports (tCO2/capita)    0.22015 • L
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best)   40.02017 • 5 CO2 emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita)    NA NA • •
Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best)    NA NA • •
SDG14 – Life Below Water                 
SDG4 – Quality Education                Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)    1.92018 • 5
Net primary enrollment rate (%)    73.72016 • • Ocean Health Index: Clean Waters score (worst 0–100 best)    64.92019 • D
Lower secondary completion rate (%)    62.12016 • • Fish caught from overexploited or collapsed stocks (% of total catch)    56.92014 • p
Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24)    67.92010 • • Fish caught by trawling (%)    0.62014 • L
SDG5 – Gender Equality                    Marine biodiversity threats embodied in imports (per million population)    0.02018 • •
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods (% of females    40.62007 • 5 SDG15 – Life on Land               
aged 15 to 49 who are married or in unions) Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%)   7.52018 • 5
Ratio of female-to-male mean years of education received (%)    72.22018 • 5 Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%)   NA NA • •
Ratio of female-to-male labor force participation rate (%)    96.32019 • L Red List Index of species survival (worst 0–1 best)    0.82019 • p
Seats held by women in national parliament (%)    0.02020 • p Permanent deforestation (% of forest area, 5-year average)    0.12018 • •
SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation               
Population using at least basic drinking water services (%)    41.32017 • 5 Te(rpreers tmriailll iaonnd p forepsuhlwataiotenr) biodiversity threats embodied in imports      0.02018 • •
Population using at least basic sanitation services (%)    12.92017 • p SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions               
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available freshwater resources)    0.12005 • • Homicides (per 100,000 population)    10.02010 • •
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%)    0.02018 • • Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population)    38.32018 • 5
Scarce water consumption embodied in imports (m3/capita)    0.92013 • L Percentage of population who feel safe walking alone at night in the      NA NA • •
SDG7 – Affordable and Clean Energy                city or area where they live (%)
Population with access to electricity (%)    54.42017 • L Property Rights (worst 1–7 best)    NA NA • •
Population with access to clean fuels and technology for cooking (%)    13.42016 • 5 Birth registrations with civil authority (% of children under age 5)    NA NA • •
COto2t aelm eilsesciotrnicsi tfyro omut fpuuetl  (cMomtCbOu2s/tTioWnh f)or electricity and heating per      NA NA • • CCohrilrdurpetnio innv Poelvrceedp itnio cnh Iinldd leaxb (owr o(%rs to 0f –p1o0p0u blaetsiot)n aged 5 to 14)      N2A820N1A9 •• 5•
5
SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth                Exports of major conventional weapons (TIV constant million USD   * 0.02019 • • . C
Adjusted GDP growth (%)    -5.32018 • • per 100,000 population) ou
Victims of modern slavery (per 1,000 population)    10.32018 • • Press Freedom Index (best 0–100 worst)    24.72019 • L ntr
y
Admuoltbsi lwe-itmh oanne ayc-cseoruvnicte a tp aro bvaidnekr  o(%r o othf epro fpinualantcioianl  iangsteidtu 1ti5o no ro or vwerit)h a     NA NA • • SGoDvGer1nm7 e–n tP sapretnndeinrgs ohni phse aflothr a tnhde e dGuocaatliosn (% of GDP)      N  A N  A •   •    Prof
Unemployment rate (% of total labor force)    2.52019 • L For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional    NA NA • • iles
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population)   0.12010 • L public finance, including official development assistance (% of GNI)
Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP)    15.92018 • p
Corporate Tax Haven Score (best 0–100 worst) * 0.02019 • •
* Imputed data point
373
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
PARAGUAY  
Latin America and the Caribbean
OVERALL PERFORMANCE
SDG SDG
17 1
SDG 100 SDG
16 2
75
Index score Regional average score SDG SDG
15 50 3
25
SDG
SDG 4
14
67.7 70.4
Paraguay
SDG SDG
13 5
SDG
12 SDG
6
SDG Global rank 90 (OF 166)
SDG
11 SDG
7
SDG SDG
10 SDG 8
9
SPILLOVER INDEX AVERAGE PERFORMANCE BY SDG
100 (best) to 0 (worst)
100
80
60
40
20
0
CURRENT ASSESSMENT – SDG DASHBOARD
  Major challenges           Significant challenges          Challenges remain          SDG achieved          Information unavailable
SDG TRENDS
L D D • D L D L D
• D • L • 5 5 5
p  Decreasing       5  Stagnating       D  Moderately improving       L  On track or maintaining SDG achievement       •  Information unavailable
Notes: The full title of Goal 2 “Zero Hunger” is “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”.    
  The full title of each SDG is available here: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabledevelopmentgoals
374
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
PARAGUAY
Performance by Indicator
SDG1 – No Poverty    Val u e Yea  rRa t ingTr e nd SDG9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure    Val u e Ye a rRa t ingTr e nd
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%)    1.02020 • L Population using the internet (%)    65.02018 • L
Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%)    4.52020 • L Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population)    57.72018 • L
SDG2 – Zero Hunger                Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related     2.52018 • D
Prevalence of undernourishment (%)    10.72017 • L infrastructure (worst 1–5 best)
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%)    5.62016 • L The Times Higher Education Universities Ranking: Average score of top 3 * 0.02020 • •
PPHrrueemvvaaalleennn Tccreeo  poohff  iwocb aLesestviinetylg ,(  BbinMe csIth ≥ 2il d–3r30e  wn(% ou rnosdft )aedr u5 lyt epaorps uolfa atigoen )(%)        2120...023222000111667 ••• LpL SExcupieneninvtdeifiritscui rtaeien osdn ( t wreeocshersantr ic0cha– la1 nj0od0u  drbneeavselt la)orptimcleens t( (p%e ro 1f ,G0D0P0) population)      00..0222001186 •• 55
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land)    4.42017 • L SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities               
Sustainable Nitrogen Management Index (best 0–1.41 worst)    0.32015 • L Gini coefficient adjusted for top income    50.52017 • •
SDG3 – Good Health and Well-Being                SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities               
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)     1292017 • 5 Annual mean concentration of particulate matter of less than      11.92017 • L
2.5 microns in diameter (PM2.5) (μg/m3)
NMInecooirdntaealntitacyle  rm oatfoe tr,ut uablnietdryce rura-lto5e s( i(psp e(eprr e1 1r,0, 01000000 l ,il0viv0ee0 b  bpiriortthphsus)l)ation)        124003...720222000111888 ••• 5LL ASactciesfsasc ttoio inm wpritohv epdu bwliact etrra snosuprocret,  (p%ip)ed (% of urban population)      9478..3622001178 •• LD
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population)    0.22018 • L SDG12 – Responsible Consumption and Production                 
Municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)    1.22015 • •
Agdeia-bsteatneds,a ordr iczherdo ndieca rtehs prairtaet dourye d tois ecaasred iionv aadscuultlsa ra dgiesde a3s0e–, c7a0n yceear,r s (%)    17.52016 • L Electronic waste (kg/capita)    6.42016 • •
Agame-bstiaenndt aarird pizoeldlu dtieoant h(p reart e1 0at0t,r0ib0u0 tpaobpleu tloat hioonu)sehold air pollution and    572016 • • PSOro2d eumctiisosnio-bnas seemd bSoOd2i eedm iinss iimonpso (rktgs /(ckgap/citaap)ita)       263..6122001122 •• ••
Traffic deaths (per 100,000 population)    22.72016 • p Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita)    61.92010 • •
Life expectancy at birth (years)    74.22016 • 5 Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)    4.52010 • •
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19)   70.52017 • 5 SDG13 – Climate Action               
Births attended by skilled health personnel (%)    95.52016 • 5 Energy-related CO2 emissions (tCO2/capita)    0.82017 • L
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%)   882018 • L CO2 emissions embodied in imports (tCO2/capita)    0.62015 • L
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best)   69.02017 • D CO2 emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita)    NA NA • •
Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best)    5.62018 • p
SDG14 – Life Below Water                 
SDG4 – Quality Education                Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)    NA NA • •
Net primary enrollment rate (%)    87.22012 • • Ocean Health Index: Clean Waters score (worst 0–100 best)    NA NA • •
Lower secondary completion rate (%)    73.42012 • • Fish caught from overexploited or collapsed stocks (% of total catch)    NA NA • •
Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24)    98.32018 • • Fish caught by trawling (%)    NA NA • •
SDG5 – Gender Equality                    Marine biodiversity threats embodied in imports (per million population)    0.02018 • •
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods (% of females    78.92016 • L SDG15 – Life on Land               
aged 15 to 49 who are married or in unions) Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%)   36.32018 • 5
Ratio of female-to-male mean years of education received (%)   101.22018 • L Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%)   38.82018 • 5
Ratio of female-to-male labor force participation rate (%)    68.12019 • D Red List Index of species survival (worst 0–1 best)    0.92019 • L
Seats held by women in national parliament (%)    16.32020 • 5 Permanent deforestation (% of forest area, 5-year average)    1.62018 • •
SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation               
Population using at least basic drinking water services (%)    99.62017 • L Te(rpreers tmriailll iaonnd p forepsuhlwataiotenr) biodiversity threats embodied in imports      0.42018 • •
Population using at least basic sanitation services (%)    89.82017 • L SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions               
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available freshwater resources)    1.82010 • • Homicides (per 100,000 population)    8.92016 • 5
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%)    0.72018 • • Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population)    76.12018 • p
Scarce water consumption embodied in imports (m3/capita)    2.72013 • L Percentage of population who feel safe walking alone at night in the      51.12018 • L
SDG7 – Affordable and Clean Energy                city or area where they live (%)
Population with access to electricity (%)    99.32017 • L Property Rights (worst 1–7 best)    4.22019 • •
Population with access to clean fuels and technology for cooking (%)    66.22016 • D Birth registrations with civil authority (% of children under age 5)    69.12018 • •
COto2t aelm eilsesciotrnicsi tfyro omut fpuuetl  (cMomtCbOu2s/tTioWnh f)or electricity and heating per      0.12017 • L CCohrilrdurpetnio innv Poelvrceedp itnio cnh Iinldd leaxb (owr o(%rs to 0f –p1o0p0u blaetsiot)n aged 5 to 14)      272.8622001196 •• 5•
5
SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth                Exports of major conventional weapons (TIV constant million USD   * 0.02019 • • . C
Adjusted GDP growth (%)    -0.92018 • • per 100,000 population) ou
Victims of modern slavery (per 1,000 population)    1.62018 • • Press Freedom Index (best 0–100 worst)    32.42019 • L ntr
y
Admuoltbsi lwe-itmh oanne ayc-cseoruvnicte a tp aro bvaidnekr  o(%r o othf epro fpinualantcioianl  iangsteidtu 1ti5o no ro or vwerit)h a     48.62017 • • SGoDvGer1nm7 e–n tP sapretnndeinrgs ohni phse aflothr a tnhde e dGuocaatliosn (% of GDP)      7 . 6201  6 •   p    Prof
Unemployment rate (% of total labor force)    4.82019 • L For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional    NA NA • • iles
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population)   0.42010 • L public finance, including official development assistance (% of GNI)
Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP)    17.42017 • 5
Corporate Tax Haven Score (best 0–100 worst) * 0.02019 • •
* Imputed data point
375
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
PERU  
Latin America and the Caribbean
OVERALL PERFORMANCE
SDG SDG
17 1
SDG 100 SDG
16 2
75
Index score Regional average score SDG SDG
15 50 3
25
SDG
SDG 4
14
71.8 70.4
Peru
SDG SDG
13 5
SDG
12 SDG
6
SDG Global rank 61 (OF 166)
SDG
11 SDG
7
SDG SDG
10 SDG 8
9
SPILLOVER INDEX AVERAGE PERFORMANCE BY SDG
100 (best) to 0 (worst)
100
80
60
40
20
0
CURRENT ASSESSMENT – SDG DASHBOARD
  Major challenges           Significant challenges          Challenges remain          SDG achieved          Information unavailable
SDG TRENDS
D 5 D L D D L L 5
• D • 5 D p 5 5
p  Decreasing       5  Stagnating       D  Moderately improving       L  On track or maintaining SDG achievement       •  Information unavailable
Notes: The full title of Goal 2 “Zero Hunger” is “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”.    
  The full title of each SDG is available here: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabledevelopmentgoals
376
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
PERU
Performance by Indicator
SDG1 – No Poverty    Val u e Yea  rRa t ingTr e nd SDG9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure    Val u e Ye a rRa t ingTr e nd
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%)    2.32020 • L Population using the internet (%)    52.52018 • L
Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%)    8.52020 • D Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population)    65.72017 • L
SDG2 – Zero Hunger                Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related     2.32018 • p
Prevalence of undernourishment (%)    9.72017 • 5 infrastructure (worst 1–5 best)
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%)    13.12016 • L The Times Higher Education Universities Ranking: Average score of top 3    31.12020 • •
PPHrrueemvvaaalleennn Tccreeo  poohff  iwocb aLesestviinetylg ,(  BbinMe csIth ≥ 2il d–3r30e  wn(% ou rnosdft )aedr u5 lyt epaorps uolfa atigoen )(%)        1129...027222000111667 ••• Lpp SExcupieneninvtdeifiritscui rtaeien osdn ( t wreeocshersantr ic0cha– la1 nj0od0u  drbneeavselt la)orptimcleens t( (p%e ro 1f ,G0D0P0) population)      00..1122001187 •• 55
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land)    4.22017 • L SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities               
Sustainable Nitrogen Management Index (best 0–1.41 worst)    0.82015 • 5 Gini coefficient adjusted for top income    48.92017 • •
SDG3 – Good Health and Well-Being                SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities               
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)     882017 • L Annual mean concentration of particulate matter of less than      24.82017 • D
2.5 microns in diameter (PM2.5) (μg/m3)
NMInecooirdntaealntitacyle  rm oatfoe tr,ut uablnietdryce rura-lto5e s( i(psp e(eprr e1 1r,0, 01000000 l ,il0viv0ee0 b  bpiriortthphsus)l)ation)       112743...330222000111888 ••• 5LL ASactciesfsasc ttoio inm wpritohv epdu bwliact etrra snosuprocret,  (p%ip)ed (% of urban population)      9525..6322001179 •• 5L
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population)    0.12018 • L SDG12 – Responsible Consumption and Production                 
Municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)    0.92014 • •
Agdeia-bsteatneds,a ordr iczherdo ndieca rtehs prairtaet dourye d tois ecaasred iionv aadscuultlsa ra dgiesde a3s0e–, c7a0n yceear,r s (%)    12.62016 • L Electronic waste (kg/capita)    5.82016 • •
Agame-bstiaenndt aarird pizoeldlu dtieoant h(p reart e1 0at0t,r0ib0u0 tpaobpleu tloat hioonu)sehold air pollution and    642016 • • PSOro2d eumctiisosnio-bnas seemd bSoOd2i eedm iinss iimonpso (rktgs /(ckgap/citaap)ita)       272..0922001122 •• ••
Traffic deaths (per 100,000 population)    13.52016 • 5 Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita)    19.12010 • •
Life expectancy at birth (years)    75.92016 • D Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)    1.12010 • •
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19)   56.92017 • 5 SDG13 – Climate Action               
Births attended by skilled health personnel (%)    92.42016 • L Energy-related CO2 emissions (tCO2/capita)    2.02017 • p
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%)   842018 • p CO2 emissions embodied in imports (tCO2/capita)    0.32015 • L
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best)   77.02017 • L CO2 emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita)   365.42018 • •
Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best)    6.02019 • L
SDG14 – Life Below Water                 
SDG4 – Quality Education                Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)    77.92018 • L
Net primary enrollment rate (%)    95.72018 • L Ocean Health Index: Clean Waters score (worst 0–100 best)    57.02019 • 5
Lower secondary completion rate (%)    98.02018 • L Fish caught from overexploited or collapsed stocks (% of total catch)    4.92014 • L
Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24)    99.02018 • • Fish caught by trawling (%)    2.22014 • L
SDG5 – Gender Equality                    Marine biodiversity threats embodied in imports (per million population)    0.02018 • •
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods (% of females    66.62017 • L SDG15 – Life on Land               
aged 15 to 49 who are married or in unions) Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%)   19.12018 • p
Ratio of female-to-male mean years of education received (%)    89.72018 • D Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%)   48.82018 • 5
Ratio of female-to-male labor force participation rate (%)    82.82019 • L Red List Index of species survival (worst 0–1 best)    0.72019 • p
Seats held by women in national parliament (%)    26.22020 • D Permanent deforestation (% of forest area, 5-year average)    0.22018 • •
SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation               
Population using at least basic drinking water services (%)    91.12017 • L Te(rpreers tmriailll iaonnd p forepsuhlwataiotenr) biodiversity threats embodied in imports      0.72018 • •
Population using at least basic sanitation services (%)    74.32017 • 5 SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions               
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available freshwater resources)    2.52010 • • Homicides (per 100,000 population)    7.72017 • 5
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%)    46.42018 • • Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population)    40.82018 • L
Scarce water consumption embodied in imports (m3/capita)    1.62013 • L Percentage of population who feel safe walking alone at night in the      44.92019 • D
SDG7 – Affordable and Clean Energy                city or area where they live (%)
Population with access to electricity (%)    96.42017 • L Property Rights (worst 1–7 best)    3.52019 • •
Population with access to clean fuels and technology for cooking (%)    75.12016 • L Birth registrations with civil authority (% of children under age 5)    97.72018 • •
COto2t aelm eilsesciotrnicsi tfyro omut fpuuetl  (cMomtCbOu2s/tTioWnh f)or electricity and heating per      1.02017 • L CCohrilrdurpetnio innv Poelvrceedp itnio cnh Iinldd leaxb (owr o(%rs to 0f –p1o0p0u blaetsiot)n aged 5 to 14)      213.6822001196 •• 5•
5
SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth                Exports of major conventional weapons (TIV constant million USD   * 0.02019 • • . C
Adjusted GDP growth (%)    -2.02018 • • per 100,000 population) ou
Victims of modern slavery (per 1,000 population)    2.62018 • • Press Freedom Index (best 0–100 worst)    30.22019 • p ntr
y
Admuoltbsi lwe-itmh oanne ayc-cseoruvnicte a tp aro bvaidnekr  o(%r o othf epro fpinualantcioianl  iangsteidtu 1ti5o no ro or vwerit)h a     42.62017 • L SGoDvGer1nm7 e–n tP sapretnndeinrgs ohni phse aflothr a tnhde e dGuocaatliosn (% of GDP)      7 . 1201  6 •   L    Prof
Unemployment rate (% of total labor force)    3.32019 • L For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional    NA NA • • iles
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population)   0.12010 • L public finance, including official development assistance (% of GNI)
Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP)    17.02017 • p
Corporate Tax Haven Score (best 0–100 worst) * 0.02019 • •
* Imputed data point
377
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
PHILIPPINES  
East and South Asia
OVERALL PERFORMANCE
SDG SDG
17 1
SDG 100 SDG
16 2
75
Index score Regional average score SDG SDG
15 50 3
25
SDG
SDG 4
14
65.5 67.2
Philippines
SDG SDG
13 5
SDG
12 SDG
6
SDG Global rank 99 (OF 166)
SDG
11 SDG
7
SDG SDG
10 SDG 8
9
SPILLOVER INDEX AVERAGE PERFORMANCE BY SDG
100 (best) to 0 (worst)
100
80
60
40
20
0
CURRENT ASSESSMENT – SDG DASHBOARD
  Major challenges           Significant challenges          Challenges remain          SDG achieved          Information unavailable
SDG TRENDS
L D D p 5 D 5 D D
• 5 • L 5 p 5 5
p  Decreasing       5  Stagnating       D  Moderately improving       L  On track or maintaining SDG achievement       •  Information unavailable
Notes: The full title of Goal 2 “Zero Hunger” is “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”.    
  The full title of each SDG is available here: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabledevelopmentgoals
378
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
PHILIPPINES
Performance by Indicator
SDG1 – No Poverty    Val u e Yea  rRa t ingTr e nd SDG9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure    Val u e Ye a rRa t ingTr e nd
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%)    3.12020 • L Population using the internet (%)    60.12017 • L
Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%)    22.12020 • L Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population)    68.42017 • L
SDG2 – Zero Hunger                Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related     2.72018 • L
Prevalence of undernourishment (%)    13.32017 • D infrastructure (worst 1–5 best)
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%)    33.42015 • 5 The Times Higher Education Universities Ranking: Average score of top 3    28.52020 • •
PPrreevvaalleennccee  ooff  wobaesstiintyg,  BinM cIh ≥il d3r0e n(% u nodf aedr u5 lyt epaorps uolfa atigoen )(%)      76..1422001156 •• 5L Scuiennivteifrisci taiensd ( tweochrsnt i0ca–l1 j0o0u rbneaslt a)rticles (per 1,000 population)    0.02018 • 5
Human Trophic Level (best 2–3 worst)    2.22017 • L Expenditure on research and development (% of GDP)    0.12013 • •
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land)    3.72017 • L SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities               
Sustainable Nitrogen Management Index (best 0–1.41 worst)    0.82015 • p Gini coefficient adjusted for top income    50.12015 • •
SDG3 – Good Health and Well-Being                SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities               
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)     1212017 • D Annual mean concentration of particulate matter of less than      18.12017 • L
2.5 microns in diameter (PM2.5) (μg/m3)
NMeoorntaaltitayl  rmatoer,t ualnitdye rra-t5e ( (ppeerr 1 1,0,00000 l ilvivee b birirtthhss))      1238..5422001188 •• LL Access to improved water source, piped (% of urban population)    46.82017 • p
Incidence of tuberculosis (per 100,000 population)   554.02018 • p Satisfaction with public transport (%)    68.52019 • p
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population)    0.12018 • L SDG12 – Responsible Consumption and Production                 
Municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)    0.82016 • •
Agdeia-bsteatneds,a ordr iczherdo ndieca rtehs prairtaet dourye d tois ecaasred iionv aadscuultlsa ra dgiesde a3s0e–, c7a0n yceear,r s (%)    26.82016 • 5 Electronic waste (kg/capita)    2.82016 • •
Agame-bstiaenndt aarird pizoeldlu dtieoant h(p reart e1 0at0t,r0ib0u0 tpaobpleu tloat hioonu)sehold air pollution and    1852016 • • PSOro2d eumctiisosnio-bnas seemd bSoOd2i eedm iinss iimonpso (rktgs /(ckgap/citaap)ita)       91..2022001122 •• ••
Traffic deaths (per 100,000 population)    12.32016 • p Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita)    8.02010 • •
Life expectancy at birth (years)    69.32016 • 5 Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)    0.92010 • •
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19)   54.22017 • 5 SDG13 – Climate Action               
Births attended by skilled health personnel (%)    84.42017 • L Energy-related CO2 emissions (tCO2/capita)    1.22017 • L
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%)   652018 • D CO2 emissions embodied in imports (tCO2/capita)    0.22015 • L
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best)   61.02017 • L CO2 emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita)   101.12018 • •
Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best)    6.32019 • L
SDG14 – Life Below Water                 
SDG4 – Quality Education                Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)    44.22018 • 5
Net primary enrollment rate (%)    93.82017 • p Ocean Health Index: Clean Waters score (worst 0–100 best)    54.02019 • D
Lower secondary completion rate (%)    78.22017 • p Fish caught from overexploited or collapsed stocks (% of total catch)    30.92014 • p
Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24)    99.12015 • • Fish caught by trawling (%)    4.52014 • L
SDG5 – Gender Equality                    Marine biodiversity threats embodied in imports (per million population)    0.02018 • •
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods (% of females    52.52017 • 5 SDG15 – Life on Land               
aged 15 to 49 who are married or in unions) Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%)   40.92018 • 5
Ratio of female-to-male mean years of education received (%)   104.32018 • L Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%)   36.52018 • 5
Ratio of female-to-male labor force participation rate (%)    62.02019 • p Red List Index of species survival (worst 0–1 best)    0.62019 • p
Seats held by women in national parliament (%)    28.02020 • 5 Permanent deforestation (% of forest area, 5-year average)    0.42018 • •
SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation               
Population using at least basic drinking water services (%)    93.62017 • L Te(rpreers tmriailll iaonnd p forepsuhlwataiotenr) biodiversity threats embodied in imports      0.12018 • •
Population using at least basic sanitation services (%)    76.52017 • D SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions               
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available freshwater resources)    26.02015 • • Homicides (per 100,000 population)    8.42017 • D
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%)    0.72018 • • Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population)    74.72018 • p
Scarce water consumption embodied in imports (m3/capita)    1.92013 • L Percentage of population who feel safe walking alone at night in the      62.42019 • 5
SDG7 – Affordable and Clean Energy                city or area where they live (%)
Population with access to electricity (%)    93.02017 • L Property Rights (worst 1–7 best)    4.52019 • •
Population with access to clean fuels and technology for cooking (%)    43.22016 • 5 Birth registrations with civil authority (% of children under age 5)    91.82018 • •
COto2t aelm eilsesciotrnicsi tfyro omut fpuuetl  (cMomtCbOu2s/tTioWnh f)or electricity and heating per      1.42017 • 5 CCohrilrdurpetnio innv Poelvrceedp itnio cnh Iinldd leaxb (owr o(%rs to 0f –p1o0p0u blaetsiot)n aged 5 to 14)      113.4122001196 •• p•
5
SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth                Exports of major conventional weapons (TIV constant million USD   * 0.02019 • • . C
Adjusted GDP growth (%)    0.52018 • • per 100,000 population) ou
Victims of modern slavery (per 1,000 population)    7.72018 • • Press Freedom Index (best 0–100 worst)    43.92019 • 5 ntr
y
Admuoltbsi lwe-itmh oanne ayc-cseoruvnicte a tp aro bvaidnekr  o(%r o othf epro fpinualantcioianl  iangsteidtu 1ti5o no ro or vwerit)h a     34.52017 • 5 SGoDvGer1nm7 e–n tP sapretnndeinrgs ohni phse aflothr a tnhde e dGuocaatliosn (% of GDP)      4 . 0200  9 •   •    Prof
Unemployment rate (% of total labor force)    2.22019 • L For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional    NA NA • • iles
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population)   0.12010 • L public finance, including official development assistance (% of GNI)
Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP)    16.32018 • 5
Corporate Tax Haven Score (best 0–100 worst) * 0.02019 • •
* Imputed data point
379
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
POLAND  
OECD Countries
OVERALL PERFORMANCE
SDG SDG
17 1
SDG 100 SDG
16 2
75
Index score Regional average score SDG SDG
15 50 3
25
SDG
SDG 4
14
78.1 77.3
Poland
SDG SDG
13 5
SDG
12 SDG
6
SDG Global rank 23 (OF 166)
SDG
11 SDG
7
SDG SDG
10 SDG 8
9
SPILLOVER INDEX AVERAGE PERFORMANCE BY SDG
100 (best) to 0 (worst)
100
80
60
40
20
0
CURRENT ASSESSMENT – SDG DASHBOARD
  Major challenges           Significant challenges          Challenges remain          SDG achieved          Information unavailable
SDG TRENDS
L D D L D L 5 L D
5 D • p D L D 5
p  Decreasing       5  Stagnating       D  Moderately improving       L  On track or maintaining SDG achievement       •  Information unavailable
Notes: The full title of Goal 2 “Zero Hunger” is “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”.    
  The full title of each SDG is available here: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabledevelopmentgoals
380
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
POLAND
Performance by Indicator
SDG1 – No Poverty    Va lu e Ye a rRa t ingTr e nd SDG9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure    Va lu e Yea  rRa t ingTr e nd
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%)    0.0 2020 • L Population using the internet (%)    77.5 2018 • L
Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%)    0.1 2020 • L Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population)   171.7 2018 • L
Poverty rate after taxes and transfers (%)    9.6 2017 • L Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related     3.2 2018 • L
SDG2 – Zero Hunger                  infrastructure (worst 1–5 best)
Prevalence of undernourishment (%)    2.5 2017 • L Thuen Tivimerseist iHesig (wheorr Estd 0u–c1at0io0 nb eUsnt)iversities Ranking: Average score of top 3    29.6 2020 • •
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%) * 2.6 2016 • L Scientific and technical journal articles (per 1,000 population)    0.9 2018 • L
Prevalence of wasting in children under 5 years of age (%) * 0.7 2016 • L Expenditure on research and development (% of GDP)    1.0 2017 • D
Prevalence of obesity, BMI ≥ 30 (% of adult population)    23.1 2016 • p Researchers (per 1,000 employed population)    7.2 2018 • L
Human Trophic Level (best 2–3 worst)    2.4 2017 • p  Triadic patent families filed (per million population)    2.0 2017 • 5
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land)    4.2 2017 • L Gap in internet access by income (percentage points)    34.9 2019 • D
SYuiesltda ignaapb lcel oNsiutrroe g(%en o Mf panoategnetmiael ynite Ilndd)ex (best 0–1.41 worst)      404..56 22001155 •• 5• Waonmde enn ignin seceiernincge) and engineering (% of tertiary graduates in science     41.0 2015 • •
SDG3 – Good Health and Well-Being                    SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities               
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)     2 2017 • L Gini coefficient adjusted for top income    42.9 2016 • 5
Neonatal mortality rate (per 1,000 live births)    2.7 2018 • L Palma ratio    1.0 2017 • L
Mortality rate, under-5 (per 1,000 live births)    4.4 2018 • L Elderly poverty rate (% of population aged 66 or over)    11.2 2017 • p
Incidence of tuberculosis (per 100,000 population)    16.0 2018 • L SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities               
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population)    0.0 2018 • L
Age-standardized death rate due to cardiovascular disease, cancer,     18.7 2016 • L An2.n5u mali cmroenasn  icno dnicaemnetrtaetri o(PnM o2f .p5a) r(tμicgu/mlat3e) matter of less than      20.9 2017 • D
diabetes, or chronic respiratory disease in adults aged 30–70 years (%) Access to improved water source, piped (% of urban population)    99.0 2017 • L
Age-standardized death rate attributable to household air pollution and    38 2016 • • Satisfaction with public transport (%)    63.2 2018 • p
Traamffibc ideenat tahirs  p(poellru 1ti0o0n,0 (0p0e rp 1o0p0u,0la0t0io pno)pulation)    9.7 2016 • L Population with rent overburden (%)    6.2 2017 • L
Life expectancy at birth (years)    77.8 2016 • L SDG12 – Responsible Consumption and Production               
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19)   10.5 2017 • L Electronic waste (kg/capita)    11.9 2016 • •
Births attended by skilled health personnel (%)    99.8 2016 • L Production-based SO2 emissions (kg/capita)    30.7 2012 • •
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%)   93.0 2018 • L SO2 emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)     5.2 2012 • •
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best)   75.0 2017 • L Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita)    32.8 2010 • •
Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best)    6.1 2018 • L Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)    3.4 2010 • •
Gap in life expectancy at birth among regions (years)    2.8 2016 • • Non-recycled municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)    0.6 2018 • •
Gap in self-reported health status by income (percentage points)    24.2 2017 • p SDG13 – Climate Action               
Daily smokers (% of population aged 15 and over)    22.7 2014 • • Energy-related CO2 emissions (tCO2/capita)    8.0 2017 • p
SDG4 – Quality Education                CO2 emissions embodied in imports (tCO2/capita)    1.0 2015 • 5
Net primary enrollment rate (%)    NA NA • • CO2 emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita)   387.1 2019 • •
Lower secondary completion rate (%)    NA NA • • Effective carbon rate (EUR/tCO2)    11.9 2016 • •
Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24)    99.8 2008 • • SDG14 – Life Below Water               
Participation rate in pre-primary organized learning (% of children aged 4 to 6)    99.1 2017 • L Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)    83.8 2018 • L
Tertiary educational attainment (% of population aged 25 to 34)    43.5 2018 • L Ocean Health Index: Clean Waters score (worst 0–100 best)    44.3 2019 • D
PISA score (worst 0–600 best)   513.0 2018 • L Fish caught from overexploited or collapsed stocks (% of total catch)    59.9 2014 • L
VURaenrsdiialetieiroannct  hisnite usvcdeieernns tcisne   ispnce sirecfnoiercmnec a(e%n (c %eo f e o1xfp5 1l-a5yie-nyaeerd-a obr-lydo ssldo)sc)io-economic status (%)        113239...683 222000111888 ••• LLL FMisahri ncaeu bgihotd bivye rtsraitwy ltihnrge a(%ts) embodied in imports (per million population)     560..05 22001148 •• p•
SDG15 – Life on Land               
SDG5 – Gender Equality                Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%)   87.6 2018 • L
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods   * 68.2 2017 • D Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%)   91.8 2018 • L
RRaa(%ttiioo o  oof fff  effeemmmaaalellees-- attoog--emmd aa1ll5ee   tmlaob e4oa9rn  wf yoehrcaoer s ap roeafr  metidcaiurprcaiaettdioio nonr r  rainetc eue (ni%vioe)nds ()%)     17040..70 22001189 •• LL RPeerdm Laisnte Inntd dexe foofr espsteactiieosn s (u%rv oivf afol (rwesot rasrte 0a–, 15 -byeesatr) average)      10..00 22001198 •• L•
Seats held by women in national parliament (%)    28.7 2020 • 5 Terrestrial and freshwater biodiversity threats embodied in imports      1.0 2018 • •
Gender wage gap (% of male median wage)    9.4 2016 • L (per million population)
Gender gap in time spent doing unpaid work (minutes/day)   136.2 2013 • • SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions               
Homicides (per 100,000 population)    0.8 2017 • L
SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation                Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population)    9.1 2018 • L
PPooppuullaattiioonn  uussiinngg  aatt  lleeaasstt  bbaassiicc  dsarninitkaintigo nw saetrevri cseersv (i%ce)s (%)      9998..78 22001177 •• •• Pecrictye notra agree ao wf phoepreu ltahteioyn l iwveh (o% f)eel safe walking alone at night in the      73.9 2018 • L
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available freshwater resources)    36.6 2015 • • Property Rights (worst 1–7 best)    4.1 2019 • •
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%)    60.9 2018 • • Birth registrations with civil authority (% of children under age 5)   100.0 2018 • • 5
SPPcooappruuclleaa ttwiiooannte  uur ssciinnoggn  sssuaamffeepllyyt  immonaa nneaamggbeeoddd  wsiaeandtie tianr ts iieomrnvp isoceerrtsvs i (c(%me)s3 (/%ca)pita)        99993...230 222000111377 ••• LLL CCExohprilrodurrptestn ioo ifnn mv Poealjvroceerd pc oitnino cvnhe Iinnldtdi oleanxb a(olw rw o(%ersa tpo 0of –pn1os0 p(0Tu IblVae tcsioot)nn satganetd m 5 itlloio 1n4 U)SD    *    5800...000 222000111969 ••• p•• . Country
SDG7 – Affordable and Clean Energy                per 100,000 population)  P
PPooppuullaattiioonn  wwiitthh  aacccceessss  ttoo  eclleeacntr ifcuiteyls ( %an)d technology for cooking (%)     110000..00 22001176 •• LL PPererssso nFrse heedlodm in I npdriesoxn (b (pesetr  01–0100,000 w0 oprospt)ulation)     12985..91 22001197 •• LD rofile
s
COel2e cetmricisistyio onus tfproumt ( MfuteCl Oco2/mTWbuhs)tion for electricity and heating per total    1.9 2017 • 5 SGoDvGer1n7m e–n Pt sapretnndeinrgs honip hse aflothr  atnhde e Gduocaatlison (% of GDP)      9 . 2 201  6 •   p  
Share of renewable energy in total primary energy supply (%)    8.2 2018 • p For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional    0.1 2017 • 5
SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth                public finance, including official development assistance (% of GNI)
Adjusted GDP growth (%)    0.8 2018 • • Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP)    NA NA • •
VAidmcutoilmtbsis lw eo-iftm hm oaonnde aeycr-ncseo srulvanivctee ar ytp  ar(op bveairdn 1ek,r0  o(0%r0 o  pothfo epprou fplianutailoantncio)ianl  iangsteidtu 1ti5o no ro or vwerit)h a       836..74 22001187 •• L• CFSihonirafptneocdria aptle rSo Tefaictxrse  Hocafy v mSecunol tSrienc oa(brteieo s(ntb a0els–s t1( U00–S01$ w0 b0oi lrwlsioto)nr)st)        45054...246 222000121906 ••• •••
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population)   0.5 2010 • L
Employment-to-population ratio (%)    68.2 2019 • L
Youth not in employment, education or training (NEET)      12.7 2018 • L
(% of population aged 15 to 29)
* Imputed data point
381
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
PORTUGAL  
OECD Countries
OVERALL PERFORMANCE
SDG SDG
17 1
SDG 100 SDG
16 2
75
Index score Regional average score SDG SDG
15 50 3
25
SDG
SDG 4
14
77.6 77.3
Portugal
SDG SDG
13 5
SDG
12 SDG
6
SDG Global rank 25 (OF 166)
SDG
11 SDG
7
SDG SDG
10 SDG 8
9
SPILLOVER INDEX AVERAGE PERFORMANCE BY SDG
100 (best) to 0 (worst)
100
80
60
40
20
0
CURRENT ASSESSMENT – SDG DASHBOARD
  Major challenges           Significant challenges          Challenges remain          SDG achieved          Information unavailable
SDG TRENDS
L D D D L L L L D
5 D • p 5 D D 5
p  Decreasing       5  Stagnating       D  Moderately improving       L  On track or maintaining SDG achievement       •  Information unavailable
Notes: The full title of Goal 2 “Zero Hunger” is “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”.    
  The full title of each SDG is available here: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabledevelopmentgoals
382
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
PORTUGAL
Performance by Indicator
SDG1 – No Poverty    Va lu e Ye a rRa t ingTr e nd SDG9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure    Va lu e Yea  rRa t ingTr e nd
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%)    0.5 2020 • L Population using the internet (%)    74.7 2018 • L
Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%)    0.9 2020 • L Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population)    73.8 2018 • L
Poverty rate after taxes and transfers (%)    10.7 2017 • L Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related     3.2 2018 • L
SDG2 – Zero Hunger                  infrastructure (worst 1–5 best)
Prevalence of undernourishment (%)    2.5 2017 • L Thuen Tivimerseist iHesig (wheorr Estd 0u–c1at0io0 nb eUsnt)iversities Ranking: Average score of top 3    40.3 2020 • •
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%) * 2.6 2016 • L Scientific and technical journal articles (per 1,000 population)    1.4 2018 • L
Prevalence of wasting in children under 5 years of age (%) * 0.7 2016 • L Expenditure on research and development (% of GDP)    1.3 2017 • D
Prevalence of obesity, BMI ≥ 30 (% of adult population)    20.8 2016 • p Researchers (per 1,000 employed population)    9.5 2018 • L
Human Trophic Level (best 2–3 worst)    2.4 2017 • 5  Triadic patent families filed (per million population)    3.4 2017 • 5
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land)    4.7 2017 • L Gap in internet access by income (percentage points)    41.2 2019 • D
SYuiesltda ignaapb lcel oNsiutrroe g(%en o Mf panoategnetmiael ynite Ilndd)ex (best 0–1.41 worst)      218..51 22001155 •• 5• Waonmde enn ignin seceiernincge) and engineering (% of tertiary graduates in science     38.1 2015 • •
SDG3 – Good Health and Well-Being                    SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities               
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)     8 2017 • L Gini coefficient adjusted for top income    42.1 2015 • 5
Neonatal mortality rate (per 1,000 live births)    2.1 2018 • L Palma ratio    1.2 2017 • L
Mortality rate, under-5 (per 1,000 live births)    3.7 2018 • L Elderly poverty rate (% of population aged 66 or over)    10.1 2017 • p
Incidence of tuberculosis (per 100,000 population)    24.0 2018 • 5 SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities               
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population)    0.1 2018 • L
Age-standardized death rate due to cardiovascular disease, cancer,     11.1 2016 • L An2.n5u mali cmroenasn  icno dnicaemnetrtaetri o(PnM o2f .p5a) r(tμicgu/mlat3e) matter of less than      8.2 2017 • L
diabetes, or chronic respiratory disease in adults aged 30–70 years (%) Access to improved water source, piped (% of urban population)    99.0 2017 • L
Age-standardized death rate attributable to household air pollution and    10 2016 • • Satisfaction with public transport (%)    52.2 2019 • 5
Traamffibc ideenat tahirs  p(poellru 1ti0o0n,0 (0p0e rp 1o0p0u,0la0t0io pno)pulation)    7.4 2016 • L Population with rent overburden (%)    8.4 2017 • L
Life expectancy at birth (years)    81.5 2016 • L SDG12 – Responsible Consumption and Production               
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19)   8.4 2017 • L Electronic waste (kg/capita)    17.3 2016 • •
Births attended by skilled health personnel (%)    98.9 2015 • L Production-based SO2 emissions (kg/capita)    52.9 2012 • •
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%)   99.0 2018 • L SO2 emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)     8.4 2012 • •
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best)   82.0 2017 • L Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita)    35.5 2010 • •
Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best)    6.1 2019 • L Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)    12.9 2010 • •
Gap in life expectancy at birth among regions (years)    4.1 2016 • • Non-recycled municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)    1.0 2018 • •
Gap in self-reported health status by income (percentage points)    22.6 2017 • p SDG13 – Climate Action               
Daily smokers (% of population aged 15 and over)    16.8 2014 • • Energy-related CO2 emissions (tCO2/capita)    4.8 2017 • p
SDG4 – Quality Education                CO2 emissions embodied in imports (tCO2/capita)    1.6 2015 • 5
Net primary enrollment rate (%) * 98.6 2017 • L CO2 emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita)    0.0 2019 • •
Lower secondary completion rate (%) * 98.6 2017 • L Effective carbon rate (EUR/tCO2)    9.0 2016 • •
Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24)    99.7 2018 • • SDG14 – Life Below Water               
Participation rate in pre-primary organized learning (% of children aged 4 to 6)    99.3 2017 • L Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)    65.7 2018 • L
Tertiary educational attainment (% of population aged 25 to 34)    35.1 2018 • L Ocean Health Index: Clean Waters score (worst 0–100 best)    52.3 2019 • p
PISA score (worst 0–600 best)   492.0 2018 • p Fish caught from overexploited or collapsed stocks (% of total catch)    67.2 2014 • 5
VURaenrsdiialetieiroannct  hisnite usvcdeieernns tcisne   ispnce sirecfnoiercmnec a(e%n (c %eo f e o1xfp5 1l-a5yie-nyaeerd-a obr-lydo ssldo)sc)io-economic status (%)        114591...961 222000111888 ••• ppL FMisahri ncaeu bgihotd bivye rtsraitwy ltihnrge a(%ts) embodied in imports (per million population)     110..63 22001148 •• p•
SDG15 – Life on Land               
SDG5 – Gender Equality                Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%)   74.1 2018 • L
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods   * 79.1 2017 • L Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%)   64.0 2018 • L
RRaa(%ttiioo o  oof fff  effeemmmaaalellees-- attoog--emmd aa1ll5ee   tmlaob e4oa9rn  wf yoehrcaoer s ap roeafr  metidcaiurprcaiaettdioio nonr r  rainetc eue (ni%vioe)nds ()%)     18040..00 22001189 •• LL RPeerdm Laisnte Inntd dexe foofr espsteactiieosn s (u%rv oivf afol (rwesot rasrte 0a–, 15 -byeesatr) average)      00..90 22001198 •• p•
Seats held by women in national parliament (%)    40.0 2020 • L Terrestrial and freshwater biodiversity threats embodied in imports      4.0 2018 • •
Gender wage gap (% of male median wage)    14.8 2017 • L (per million population)
Gender gap in time spent doing unpaid work (minutes/day)    NA NA • • SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions               
Homicides (per 100,000 population)    0.7 2017 • L
SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation                Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population)    15.9 2018 • L
PPooppuullaattiioonn  uussiinngg  aatt  lleeaasstt  bbaassiicc  dsarninitkaintigo nw saetrevri cseersv (i%ce)s (%)      9999..96 22001177 •• •• Pecrictye notra agree ao wf phoepreu ltahteioyn l iwveh (o% f)eel safe walking alone at night in the      83.3 2019 • L
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available freshwater resources)    1.2 2005 • • Property Rights (worst 1–7 best)    4.9 2019 • •
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%)    55.0 2018 • • Birth registrations with civil authority (% of children under age 5)   100.0 2018 • • 5
SPPcooappruuclleaa ttwiiooannte  uur ssciinnoggn  sssuaamffeepllyyt  immonaa nneaamggbeeoddd  wsiaeandtie tianr ts iieomrnvp isoceerrtsvs i (c(%me)s3 (/%ca)pita)        298754...037 222000111377 ••• LLL CCExohprilrodurrptestn ioo ifnn mv Poealjvroceerd pc oitnino cvnhe Iinnldtdi oleanxb a(olw rw o(%ersa tpo 0of –pn1os0 p(0Tu IblVae tcsioot)nn satganetd m 5 itlloio 1n4 U)SD          6230...450 222000111969 ••• L•• . Country
SDG7 – Affordable and Clean Energy                per 100,000 population)  P
PPooppuullaattiioonn  wwiitthh  aacccceessss  ttoo  eclleeacntr ifcuiteyls ( %an)d technology for cooking (%)     110000..00 22001176 •• LL PPererssso nFrse heedlodm in I npdriesoxn (b (pesetr  01–0100,000 w0 oprospt)ulation)     11321..65 22001197 •• LD rofile
s
COel2e cetmricisistyio onus tfproumt ( MfuteCl Oco2/mTWbuhs)tion for electricity and heating per total    0.9 2017 • L SGoDvGer1n7m e–n Pt sapretnndeinrgs honip hse aflothr  atnhde e Gduocaatlison (% of GDP)      10 . 8 201  5 •   L  
Share of renewable energy in total primary energy supply (%)    24.7 2018 • L For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional    0.2 2017 • p
SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth                public finance, including official development assistance (% of GNI)
Adjusted GDP growth (%)    -0.3 2018 • • Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP)    NA NA • •
VAidmcutoilmtbsis lw eo-iftm hm oaonnde aeycr-ncseo srulvanivctee ar ytp  ar(op bveairdn 1ek,r0  o(0%r0 o  pothfo epprou fplianutailoantncio)ianl  iangsteidtu 1ti5o no ro or vwerit)h a       922..35 22001187 •• L• CFSihonirafptneocdria aptle rSo Tefaictxrse  Hocafy v mSecunol tSrienc oa(brteieo s(ntb a0els–s t1( U00–S01$ w0 b0oi lrwlsioto)nr)st)        45543...380 222000121906 ••• •••
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population)   1.1 2010 • L
Employment-to-population ratio (%)    70.5 2019 • L
Youth not in employment, education or training (NEET)      11.6 2018 • L
(% of population aged 15 to 29)
* Imputed data point
383
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
QATAR  
Middle East and North Africa
OVERALL PERFORMANCE
SDG SDG
17 1
SDG 100 SDG
16 2
75
Index score Regional average score SDG SDG
15 50 3
25
SDG
SDG 4
14
64.7 66.3
Qatar
SDG SDG
13 5
SDG
12 SDG
6
SDG Global rank 103 (OF 166)
SDG
11 SDG
7
SDG SDG
10 SDG 8
9
SPILLOVER INDEX AVERAGE PERFORMANCE BY SDG
100 (best) to 0 (worst)
100
80
60
40
20
0
CURRENT ASSESSMENT – SDG DASHBOARD
  Major challenges           Significant challenges          Challenges remain          SDG achieved          Information unavailable
SDG TRENDS
• 5 D D 5 D L L L
• p • 5 5 p 5 •
p  Decreasing       5  Stagnating       D  Moderately improving       L  On track or maintaining SDG achievement       •  Information unavailable
Notes: The full title of Goal 2 “Zero Hunger” is “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”.    
  The full title of each SDG is available here: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabledevelopmentgoals
384
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
QATAR
Performance by Indicator
SDG1 – No Poverty    Val u e Yea  rRa t ingTr e nd SDG9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure    Val u e Ye a rRa t ingTr e nd
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%) * NA NA • • Population using the internet (%)    99.72018 • L
Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%) * NA NA • • Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population)   125.92018 • L
SDG2 – Zero Hunger                Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related     3.42018 • L
Prevalence of undernourishment (%) * 1.22017 • • infrastructure (worst 1–5 best)
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%) * 2.62016 • L The Times Higher Education Universities Ranking: Average score of top 3    40.62020 • •
PPrreevvaalleennccee  ooff  wobaesstiintyg,  BinM cIh ≥il d3r0e n(% u nodf aedr u5 lyt epaorps uolfa atigoen )(%) *   305..7122001166 •• Lp Scuiennivteifrisci taiensd ( tweochrsnt i0ca–l1 j0o0u rbneaslt a)rticles (per 1,000 population)    0.52018 • L
Expenditure on research and development (% of GDP)    0.52015 • •
Human Trophic Level (best 2–3 worst)    NA NA • •
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land)    5.12017 • L SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities               
Sustainable Nitrogen Management Index (best 0–1.41 worst)    1.02015 • p Gini coefficient adjusted for top income    NA NA • •
SDG3 – Good Health and Well-Being                SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities               
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)     92017 • L Annual mean concentration of particulate matter of less than      91.22017 • p
2.5 microns in diameter (PM2.5) (μg/m3)
Neonatal mortality rate (per 1,000 live births)    3.52018 • L
Mortality rate, under-5 (per 1,000 live births)    6.82018 • L Access to improved water source, piped (% of urban population)    NA NA • •
Incidence of tuberculosis (per 100,000 population)    31.02018 • 5 Satisfaction with public transport (%)    64.72012 • •
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population)    NA NA • • SDG12 – Responsible Consumption and Production                 
Municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)    1.02012 • •
Agdeia-bsteatneds,a ordr iczherdo ndieca rtehs prairtaet dourye d tois ecaasred iionv aadscuultlsa ra dgiesde a3s0e–, c7a0n yceear,r s (%)    15.32016 • L Electronic waste (kg/capita)    11.32016 • •
Agame-bstiaenndt aarird pizoeldlu dtieoant h(p reart e1 0at0t,r0ib0u0 tpaobpleu tloat hioonu)sehold air pollution and    472016 • • PSOro2d eumctiisosnio-bnas seemd bSoOd2i eedm iinss iimonpso (rktgs /(ckgap/citaap)ita)       6161..7122001122 •• ••
Traffic deaths (per 100,000 population)    9.32016 • L Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita)    33.22010 • •
Life expectancy at birth (years)    78.12016 • D Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)    10.72010 • •
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19)   9.92017 • L SDG13 – Climate Action               
Births attended by skilled health personnel (%)   100.02015 • L Energy-related CO2 emissions (tCO2/capita)    44.02017 • p
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%)   982018 • L CO2 emissions embodied in imports (tCO2/capita)    1.72015 • L
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best)   68.02017 • 5 CO2 emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita) 10  7 901.62018 • •
Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best)    6.42014 • •
SDG14 – Life Below Water                 
SDG4 – Quality Education                Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)    40.02018 • 5
Net primary enrollment rate (%)    94.12018 • L Ocean Health Index: Clean Waters score (worst 0–100 best)    62.32019 • D
Lower secondary completion rate (%)    88.42018 • 5 Fish caught from overexploited or collapsed stocks (% of total catch)    NA NA • •
Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24)    94.62017 • • Fish caught by trawling (%)    NA NA • •
SDG5 – Gender Equality                    Marine biodiversity threats embodied in imports (per million population)    0.12018 • •
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods (% of females    68.92012 • 5 SDG15 – Life on Land               
aged 15 to 49 who are married or in unions) Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%)   33.32018 • 5
Ratio of female-to-male mean years of education received (%)   119.42018 • L Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%)   NA NA • •
Ratio of female-to-male labor force participation rate (%)    60.72019 • p Red List Index of species survival (worst 0–1 best)    0.82019 • p
Seats held by women in national parliament (%)    9.82020 • D Permanent deforestation (% of forest area, 5-year average)    NA NA • •
SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation               
Population using at least basic drinking water services (%)    99.62017 • L Te(rpreers tmriailll iaonnd p forepsuhlwataiotenr) biodiversity threats embodied in imports      1.02018 • •
Population using at least basic sanitation services (%)   100.02017 • L SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions               
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available freshwater resources)   374.12005 • • Homicides (per 100,000 population)    0.42014 • •
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%)    70.02018 • • Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population)    43.52015 • •
Scarce water consumption embodied in imports (m3/capita)    83.62013 • D Percentage of population who feel safe walking alone at night in the      92.12012 • •
SDG7 – Affordable and Clean Energy                city or area where they live (%)
Population with access to electricity (%)   100.02017 • L Property Rights (worst 1–7 best)    5.42019 • •
Population with access to clean fuels and technology for cooking (%)    98.52016 • L Birth registrations with civil authority (% of children under age 5)   100.02018 • •
COto2t aelm eilsesciotrnicsi tfyro omut fpuuetl  (cMomtCbOu2s/tTioWnh f)or electricity and heating per      1.92017 • L CCohrilrdurpetnio innv Poelvrceedp itnio cnh Iinldd leaxb (owr o(%rs to 0f –p1o0p0u blaetsiot)n aged 5 to 14)      N6A220N1A9 •• L•
5
SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth                Exports of major conventional weapons (TIV constant million USD      0.22019 • • . C
Adjusted GDP growth (%)    -1.42018 • • per 100,000 population) ou
Victims of modern slavery (per 1,000 population) * NA NA • • Press Freedom Index (best 0–100 worst)    42.52019 • p ntr
y
Admuoltbsi lwe-itmh oanne ayc-cseoruvnicte a tp aro bvaidnekr  o(%r o othf epro fpinualantcioianl  iangsteidtu 1ti5o no ro or vwerit)h a     65.92011 • • SGoDvGer1nm7 e–n tP sapretnndeinrgs ohni phse aflothr a tnhde e dGuocaatliosn (% of GDP)      5 . 7201  4 •   •    Prof
Unemployment rate (% of total labor force)    0.12019 • L For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional    NA NA • • iles
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population)   1.72010 • L public finance, including official development assistance (% of GNI)
Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP)    NA NA • •
Corporate Tax Haven Score (best 0–100 worst) * NA NA • •
* Imputed data point
385
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
ROMANIA  
Eastern Europe and Central Asia
OVERALL PERFORMANCE
SDG SDG
17 1
SDG 100 SDG
16 2
75
Index score Regional average score SDG SDG
15 50 3
25
SDG
SDG 4
14
74.8 70.9
Romania
SDG SDG
13 5
SDG
12 SDG
6
SDG Global rank 38 (OF 166)
SDG
11 SDG
7
SDG SDG
10 SDG 8
9
SPILLOVER INDEX AVERAGE PERFORMANCE BY SDG
100 (best) to 0 (worst)
100
80
60
40
20
0
CURRENT ASSESSMENT – SDG DASHBOARD
  Major challenges           Significant challenges          Challenges remain          SDG achieved          Information unavailable
SDG TRENDS
L D D p D D D D D
• 5 • 5 D L D p
p  Decreasing       5  Stagnating       D  Moderately improving       L  On track or maintaining SDG achievement       •  Information unavailable
Notes: The full title of Goal 2 “Zero Hunger” is “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”.    
  The full title of each SDG is available here: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabledevelopmentgoals
386
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
ROMANIA
Performance by Indicator
SDG1 – No Poverty    Val u e Yea  rRa t ingTr e nd SDG9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure    Val u e Ye a rRa t ingTr e nd
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%)    0.12020 • L Population using the internet (%)    70.72018 • L
Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%)    0.92020 • L Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population)    88.02018 • L
SDG2 – Zero Hunger                Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related     2.92018 • L
Prevalence of undernourishment (%)    2.52017 • L infrastructure (worst 1–5 best)
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%)    12.82002 • D The Times Higher Education Universities Ranking: Average score of top 3    22.32020 • •
PPHrrueemvvaaalleennn Tccreeo  poohff  iwocb aLesestviinetylg ,(  BbinMe csIth ≥ 2il d–3r30e  wn(% ou rnosdft )aedr u5 lyt epaorps uolfa atigoen )(%)        2322...535222000011267 ••• 5Lp SExcupieneninvtdeifiritscui rtaeien osdn ( t wreeocshersantr ic0cha– la1 nj0od0u  drbneeavselt la)orptimcleens t( (p%e ro 1f ,G0D0P0) population)      00..5522001187 •• pD
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land)    5.22017 • L SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities               
Sustainable Nitrogen Management Index (best 0–1.41 worst)    0.52015 • L Gini coefficient adjusted for top income    45.82016 • •
SDG3 – Good Health and Well-Being                SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities               
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)     192017 • L Annual mean concentration of particulate matter of less than      14.62017 • 5
2.5 microns in diameter (PM2.5) (μg/m3)
NMeoorntaaltitayl  rmatoer,t ualnitdye rra-t5e ( (ppeerr 1 1,0,00000 l ilvivee b birirtthhss))      37..4322001188 •• LL Access to improved water source, piped (% of urban population)    89.82017 • 5
Incidence of tuberculosis (per 100,000 population)    68.02018 • D Satisfaction with public transport (%)    57.52019 • p
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population)    0.02018 • L SDG12 – Responsible Consumption and Production                 
Municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)    1.32015 • •
Agdeia-bsteatneds,a ordr iczherdo ndieca rtehs prairtaet dourye d tois ecaasred iionv aadscuultlsa ra dgiesde a3s0e–, c7a0n yceear,r s (%)    21.42016 • D Electronic waste (kg/capita)    11.62016 • •
Agame-bstiaenndt aarird pizoeldlu dtieoant h(p reart e1 0at0t,r0ib0u0 tpaobpleu tloat hioonu)sehold air pollution and    592016 • • PSOro2d eumctiisosnio-bnas seemd bSoOd2i eedm iinss iimonpso (rktgs /(ckgap/citaap)ita)       293..3422001122 •• ••
Traffic deaths (per 100,000 population)    10.32016 • p Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita)    41.32010 • •
Life expectancy at birth (years)    75.22016 • 5 Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)    2.22010 • •
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19)   36.22017 • 5 SDG13 – Climate Action               
Births attended by skilled health personnel (%)    95.22015 • p Energy-related CO2 emissions (tCO2/capita)    3.52017 • 5
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%)   862018 • 5 CO2 emissions embodied in imports (tCO2/capita)    0.62015 • 5
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best)   74.02017 • L CO2 emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita)    7.32019 • •
Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best)    6.12019 • L
SDG14 – Life Below Water                 
SDG4 – Quality Education                Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)    99.32018 • L
Net primary enrollment rate (%)    82.22017 • p Ocean Health Index: Clean Waters score (worst 0–100 best)    58.12019 • 5
Lower secondary completion rate (%)    89.02016 • • Fish caught from overexploited or collapsed stocks (% of total catch)    NA NA • •
Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24)    99.42018 • • Fish caught by trawling (%)    70.32014 • L
SDG5 – Gender Equality                    Marine biodiversity threats embodied in imports (per million population)    0.02018 • •
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods (% of females    46.52004 • L SDG15 – Life on Land               
aged 15 to 49 who are married or in unions) Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%)   77.32018 • L
Ratio of female-to-male mean years of education received (%)    93.82018 • D Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%)   65.92018 • L
Ratio of female-to-male labor force participation rate (%)    70.82019 • L Red List Index of species survival (worst 0–1 best)    0.92019 • L
Seats held by women in national parliament (%)    21.92020 • D Permanent deforestation (% of forest area, 5-year average)    0.02018 • •
SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation               
Population using at least basic drinking water services (%)   100.02017 • L Te(rpreers tmriailll iaonnd p forepsuhlwataiotenr) biodiversity threats embodied in imports      0.52018 • •
Population using at least basic sanitation services (%)    84.32017 • D SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions               
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available freshwater resources)    6.02015 • • Homicides (per 100,000 population)    1.52017 • L
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%)    30.42018 • • Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population)    6.12018 • L
Scarce water consumption embodied in imports (m3/capita)    5.62013 • L Percentage of population who feel safe walking alone at night in the      60.02019 • L
SDG7 – Affordable and Clean Energy                city or area where they live (%)
Population with access to electricity (%)   100.02017 • L Property Rights (worst 1–7 best)    4.62019 • •
Population with access to clean fuels and technology for cooking (%)    85.92016 • L Birth registrations with civil authority (% of children under age 5)    NA NA • •
COto2t aelm eilsesciotrnicsi tfyro omut fpuuetl  (cMomtCbOu2s/tTioWnh f)or electricity and heating per      1.22017 • 5 CCohrilrdurpetnio innv Poelvrceedp itnio cnh Iinldd leaxb (owr o(%rs to 0f –p1o0p0u blaetsiot)n aged 5 to 14)      04.4922001196 •• p•
5
SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth                Exports of major conventional weapons (TIV constant million USD   * 0.02019 • • . C
Adjusted GDP growth (%)    4.42018 • • per 100,000 population) ou
Victims of modern slavery (per 1,000 population)    4.32018 • • Press Freedom Index (best 0–100 worst)    25.72019 • L ntr
y
Admuoltbsi lwe-itmh oanne ayc-cseoruvnicte a tp aro bvaidnekr  o(%r o othf epro fpinualantcioianl  iangsteidtu 1ti5o no ro or vwerit)h a     57.82017 • p SGoDvGer1nm7 e–n tP sapretnndeinrgs ohni phse aflothr a tnhde e dGuocaatliosn (% of GDP)      6 . 9201  6 •   p    Prof
Unemployment rate (% of total labor force)    4.02019 • L For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional    NA NA • • iles
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population)   0.22010 • L public finance, including official development assistance (% of GNI)
Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP)    28.62017 • p
Corporate Tax Haven Score (best 0–100 worst)    55.62019 • •
* Imputed data point
387
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
RUSSIAN FEDERATION  
Eastern Europe and Central Asia
OVERALL PERFORMANCE
SDG SDG
17 1
SDG 100 SDG
16 2
75
Index score Regional average score SDG SDG
15 50 3
25
SDG
SDG 4
14
71.9 70.9 Russian 
SDG Federation SDG
13 5
SDG
12 SDG
6
SDG Global rank 57 (OF 166)
SDG
11 SDG
7
SDG SDG
10 SDG 8
9
SPILLOVER INDEX AVERAGE PERFORMANCE BY SDG
100 (best) to 0 (worst)
100
80
60
40
20
0
CURRENT ASSESSMENT – SDG DASHBOARD
  Major challenges           Significant challenges          Challenges remain          SDG achieved          Information unavailable
SDG TRENDS
L 5 D L D D D L D
• D • D 5 5 D 5
p  Decreasing       5  Stagnating       D  Moderately improving       L  On track or maintaining SDG achievement       •  Information unavailable
Notes: The full title of Goal 2 “Zero Hunger” is “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”.    
  The full title of each SDG is available here: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabledevelopmentgoals
388
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
Performance by Indicator
SDG1 – No Poverty    Val u e Yea  rRa t ingTr e nd SDG9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure    Val u e Ye a rRa t ingTr e nd
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%)    0.02020 • L Population using the internet (%)    80.92018 • L
Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%)    0.02020 • L Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population)    87.32018 • L
SDG2 – Zero Hunger                Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related     2.82018 • L
Prevalence of undernourishment (%)    2.52017 • L infrastructure (worst 1–5 best)
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%)    NA NA • • The Times Higher Education Universities Ranking: Average score of top 3    51.62020 • •
PPHrrueemvvaaalleennn Tccreeo  poohff  iwocb aLesestviinetylg ,(  BbinMe csIth ≥ 2il d–3r30e  wn(% ou rnosdft )aedr u5 lyt epaorps uolfa atigoen )(%)        2N23..A412200N11A67 ••• 5p• SExcupieneninvtdeifiritscui rtaeien osdn ( t wreeocshersantr ic0cha– la1 nj0od0u  drbneeavselt la)orptimcleens t( (p%e ro 1f ,G0D0P0) population)      01..6122001187 •• 5L
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land)    3.02017 • L SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities               
Sustainable Nitrogen Management Index (best 0–1.41 worst)    0.62015 • 5 Gini coefficient adjusted for top income    44.02015 • •
SDG3 – Good Health and Well-Being                SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities               
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)     172017 • L Annual mean concentration of particulate matter of less than      16.22017 • 5
2.5 microns in diameter (PM2.5) (μg/m3)
NMInecooirdntaealntitacyle  rm oatfoe tr,ut uablnietdryce rura-lto5e s( i(psp e(eprr e1 1r,0, 01000000 l ,il0viv0ee0 b  bpiriortthphsus)l)ation)        5374...220222000111888 ••• LLL ASactciesfsasc ttoio inm wpritohv epdu bwliact etrra snosuprocret,  (p%ip)ed (% of urban population)      9569..3922001178 •• LD
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population)    NA NA • • SDG12 – Responsible Consumption and Production                 
Municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)    1.52012 • •
Agdeia-bsteatneds,a ordr iczherdo ndieca rtehs prairtaet dourye d tois ecaasred iionv aadscuultlsa ra dgiesde a3s0e–, c7a0n yceear,r s (%)    25.42016 • L Electronic waste (kg/capita)    9.72016 • •
Agame-bstiaenndt aarird pizoeldlu dtieoant h(p reart e1 0at0t,r0ib0u0 tpaobpleu tloat hioonu)sehold air pollution and    492016 • • PSOro2d eumctiisosnio-bnas seemd bSoOd2i eedm iinss iimonpso (rktgs /(ckgap/citaap)ita)       333..4222001122 •• ••
Traffic deaths (per 100,000 population)    18.02016 • 5 Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita)    27.22010 • •
Life expectancy at birth (years)    71.92016 • D Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)    4.02010 • •
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19)   20.72017 • L SDG13 – Climate Action               
Births attended by skilled health personnel (%)    99.72014 • • Energy-related CO2 emissions (tCO2/capita)    11.32017 • 5
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%)   972018 • L CO2 emissions embodied in imports (tCO2/capita)    0.52015 • L
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best)   74.02017 • L CO2 emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita)   3625.62018 • •
Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best)    5.52018 • p
SDG14 – Life Below Water                 
SDG4 – Quality Education                Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)    24.82018 • 5
Net primary enrollment rate (%)    95.12017 • L Ocean Health Index: Clean Waters score (worst 0–100 best)    67.92019 • D
Lower secondary completion rate (%)    95.92016 • • Fish caught from overexploited or collapsed stocks (% of total catch)    52.12014 • p
Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24)    99.72018 • • Fish caught by trawling (%)    60.02014 • D
SDG5 – Gender Equality                    Marine biodiversity threats embodied in imports (per million population)    0.12018 • •
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods (% of females    72.42011 • L SDG15 – Life on Land               
aged 15 to 49 who are married or in unions) Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%)   27.42018 • 5
Ratio of female-to-male mean years of education received (%)    98.32018 • L Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%)   27.32018 • 5
Ratio of female-to-male labor force participation rate (%)    77.82019 • L Red List Index of species survival (worst 0–1 best)    1.02019 • L
Seats held by women in national parliament (%)    15.82020 • 5 Permanent deforestation (% of forest area, 5-year average)    0.02018 • •
SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation               
Population using at least basic drinking water services (%)    97.12017 • L Te(rpreers tmriailll iaonnd p forepsuhlwataiotenr) biodiversity threats embodied in imports      0.92018 • •
Population using at least basic sanitation services (%)    90.52017 • L SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions               
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available freshwater resources)    4.42015 • • Homicides (per 100,000 population)    9.22017 • L
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%)    18.52018 • • Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population)    9.02018 • L
Scarce water consumption embodied in imports (m3/capita)    43.12013 • 5 Percentage of population who feel safe walking alone at night in the      57.52018 • L
SDG7 – Affordable and Clean Energy                city or area where they live (%)
Population with access to electricity (%)   100.02017 • L Property Rights (worst 1–7 best)    3.72019 • •
Population with access to clean fuels and technology for cooking (%)    98.32016 • L Birth registrations with civil authority (% of children under age 5)   100.02018 • •
COto2t aelm eilsesciotrnicsi tfyro omut fpuuetl  (cMomtCbOu2s/tTioWnh f)or electricity and heating per      1.52017 • D CCohrilrdurpetnio innv Poelvrceedp itnio cnh Iinldd leaxb (owr o(%rs to 0f –p1o0p0u blaetsiot)n aged 5 to 14)      N2A820N1A9 •• p•
5
SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth                Exports of major conventional weapons (TIV constant million USD      4.12019 • • . C
Adjusted GDP growth (%)    -0.62018 • • per 100,000 population) ou
Victims of modern slavery (per 1,000 population)    5.52018 • • Press Freedom Index (best 0–100 worst)    50.32019 • p ntr
y
Admuoltbsi lwe-itmh oanne ayc-cseoruvnicte a tp aro bvaidnekr  o(%r o othf epro fpinualantcioianl  iangsteidtu 1ti5o no ro or vwerit)h a     75.82017 • L SGoDvGer1nm7 e–n tP sapretnndeinrgs ohni phse aflothr a tnhde e dGuocaatliosn (% of GDP)      6 . 7201  6 •   p    Prof
Unemployment rate (% of total labor force)    4.62019 • L For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional    NA NA • • iles
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population)   0.42010 • L public finance, including official development assistance (% of GNI)
Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP)    27.52018 • D
Corporate Tax Haven Score (best 0–100 worst) * 0.02019 • •
* Imputed data point
389
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
RWANDA  
Sub-Saharan Africa
OVERALL PERFORMANCE
SDG SDG
17 1
SDG 100 SDG
16 2
75
Index score Regional average score SDG SDG
15 50 3
25
SDG
SDG 4
14
56.6 53.1
Rwanda
SDG SDG
13 5
SDG
12 SDG
6
SDG Global rank 132 (OF 166)
SDG
11 SDG
7
SDG SDG
10 SDG 8
9
SPILLOVER INDEX AVERAGE PERFORMANCE BY SDG
100 (best) to 0 (worst)
100
80
60
40
20
0
CURRENT ASSESSMENT – SDG DASHBOARD
  Major challenges           Significant challenges          Challenges remain          SDG achieved          Information unavailable
SDG TRENDS
5 5 D 5 D D 5 L D
• 5 • L • 5 5 5
p  Decreasing       5  Stagnating       D  Moderately improving       L  On track or maintaining SDG achievement       •  Information unavailable
Notes: The full title of Goal 2 “Zero Hunger” is “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”.    
  The full title of each SDG is available here: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabledevelopmentgoals
390
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
RWANDA
Performance by Indicator
SDG1 – No Poverty    Val u e Yea  rRa t ingTr e nd SDG9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure    Val u e Ye a rRa t ingTr e nd
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%)    45.92020 • 5 Population using the internet (%)    21.82017 • D
Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%)    72.92020 • 5 Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population)    39.02018 • L
SDG2 – Zero Hunger                Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related     2.82018 • L
Prevalence of undernourishment (%)    36.82017 • p infrastructure (worst 1–5 best)
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%)    37.92015 • 5 The Times Higher Education Universities Ranking: Average score of top 3 * 0.02020 • •
PPrreevvaalleennccee  ooff  wobaesstiintyg,  BinM cIh ≥il d3r0e n(% u nodf aedr u5 lyt epaorps uolfa atigoen )(%)      25..2822001156 •• LL Scuiennivteifrisci taiensd ( tweochrsnt i0ca–l1 j0o0u rbneaslt a)rticles (per 1,000 population)    0.02018 • 5
Human Trophic Level (best 2–3 worst)    2.12017 • L Expenditure on research and development (% of GDP) * 0.02017 • •
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land)    1.32017 • p SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities               
Sustainable Nitrogen Management Index (best 0–1.41 worst)    0.82015 • 5 Gini coefficient adjusted for top income    50.12016 • •
SDG3 – Good Health and Well-Being                SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities               
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)     2482017 • L Annual mean concentration of particulate matter of less than      43.22017 • p
2.5 microns in diameter (PM2.5) (μg/m3)
NMeoorntaaltitayl  rmatoer,t ualnitdye rra-t5e ( (ppeerr 1 1,0,00000 l ilvivee b birirtthhss))      1355..9322001188 •• LL Access to improved water source, piped (% of urban population)    75.02017 • 5
Incidence of tuberculosis (per 100,000 population)    59.02018 • 5 Satisfaction with public transport (%)    47.22019 • p
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population)    0.32018 • L SDG12 – Responsible Consumption and Production                 
Municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)    5.62016 • •
Agdeia-bsteatneds,a ordr iczherdo ndieca rtehs prairtaet dourye d tois ecaasred iionv aadscuultlsa ra dgiesde a3s0e–, c7a0n yceear,r s (%)    18.22016 • D Electronic waste (kg/capita)    0.52016 • •
Agame-bstiaenndt aarird pizoeldlu dtieoant h(p reart e1 0at0t,r0ib0u0 tpaobpleu tloat hioonu)sehold air pollution and    1212016 • • PSOro2d eumctiisosnio-bnas seemd bSoOd2i eedm iinss iimonpso (rktgs /(ckgap/citaap)ita)       130..7322001122 •• ••
Traffic deaths (per 100,000 population)    29.72016 • D Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita)    9.82010 • •
Life expectancy at birth (years)    68.02016 • D Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)    0.42010 • •
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19)   39.12017 • 5 SDG13 – Climate Action               
Births attended by skilled health personnel (%)    90.72015 • • Energy-related CO2 emissions (tCO2/capita)    0.12017 • L
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%)   972018 • L CO2 emissions embodied in imports (tCO2/capita)    0.02015 • L
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best)   57.02017 • D CO2 emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita)    0.02016 • •
Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best)    3.32019 • p
SDG14 – Life Below Water                 
SDG4 – Quality Education                Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)    NA NA • •
Net primary enrollment rate (%)    94.82018 • • Ocean Health Index: Clean Waters score (worst 0–100 best)    NA NA • •
Lower secondary completion rate (%)    36.82018 • 5 Fish caught from overexploited or collapsed stocks (% of total catch)    NA NA • •
Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24)    86.52018 • • Fish caught by trawling (%)    NA NA • •
SDG5 – Gender Equality                    Marine biodiversity threats embodied in imports (per million population)    0.02018 • •
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods (% of females    62.92015 • L SDG15 – Life on Land               
aged 15 to 49 who are married or in unions) Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%)   46.52018 • 5
Ratio of female-to-male mean years of education received (%)    79.62018 • D Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%)   50.02018 • 5
Ratio of female-to-male labor force participation rate (%)   100.82019 • L Red List Index of species survival (worst 0–1 best)    0.82019 • 5
Seats held by women in national parliament (%)    61.32020 • L Permanent deforestation (% of forest area, 5-year average)    0.62018 • •
SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation               
Population using at least basic drinking water services (%)    57.72017 • 5 Te(rpreers tmriailll iaonnd p forepsuhlwataiotenr) biodiversity threats embodied in imports      0.32018 • •
Population using at least basic sanitation services (%)    66.62017 • D SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions               
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available freshwater resources)    1.42000 • • Homicides (per 100,000 population)    2.52015 • •
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%)    0.02018 • • Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population)    6.82015 • •
Scarce water consumption embodied in imports (m3/capita)    0.62013 • L Percentage of population who feel safe walking alone at night in the      80.32019 • L
SDG7 – Affordable and Clean Energy                city or area where they live (%)
Population with access to electricity (%)    34.12017 • D Property Rights (worst 1–7 best)    5.02019 • •
Population with access to clean fuels and technology for cooking (%)    0.62016 • 5 Birth registrations with civil authority (% of children under age 5)    56.02018 • •
COto2t aelm eilsesciotrnicsi tfyro omut fpuuetl  (cMomtCbOu2s/tTioWnh f)or electricity and heating per      NA NA • • CCohrilrdurpetnio innv Poelvrceedp itnio cnh Iinldd leaxb (owr o(%rs to 0f –p1o0p0u blaetsiot)n aged 5 to 14)      285.3522001196 •• p•
5
SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth                Exports of major conventional weapons (TIV constant million USD   * 0.02019 • • . C
Adjusted GDP growth (%)    -2.52018 • • per 100,000 population) ou
Victims of modern slavery (per 1,000 population)    11.62018 • • Press Freedom Index (best 0–100 worst)    52.42019 • 5 ntr
y
Admuoltbsi lwe-itmh oanne ayc-cseoruvnicte a tp aro bvaidnekr  o(%r o othf epro fpinualantcioianl  iangsteidtu 1ti5o no ro or vwerit)h a     50.02017 • L SGoDvGer1nm7 e–n tP sapretnndeinrgs ohni phse aflothr a tnhde e dGuocaatliosn (% of GDP)      5 . 8201  6 •   p    Prof
Unemployment rate (% of total labor force)    1.02019 • L For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional    NA NA • • iles
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population)   0.12010 • L public finance, including official development assistance (% of GNI)
Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP)    20.02017 • D
Corporate Tax Haven Score (best 0–100 worst) * 0.02019 • •
* Imputed data point
391
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
SAMOA  
Oceania
OVERALL PERFORMANCE
SDG SDG
17 1
SDG 100 SDG
16 2
75
Index score Regional average score SDG SDG
15 50 3
25
SDG
SDG 4
14
 na 49.6
Samoa
SDG SDG
13 5
SDG
12 SDG
6
SDG Global rank NA (OF 166)
SDG
11 SDG
7
SDG SDG
10 SDG 8
9
SPILLOVER INDEX AVERAGE PERFORMANCE BY SDG
100 (best) to 0 (worst)
100
80
60
40
20
0
CURRENT ASSESSMENT – SDG DASHBOARD
  Major challenges           Significant challenges          Challenges remain          SDG achieved          Information unavailable
SDG TRENDS
L 5 D 5 5 L 5 D D
• D • L 5 D L L
p  Decreasing       5  Stagnating       D  Moderately improving       L  On track or maintaining SDG achievement       •  Information unavailable
Notes: The full title of Goal 2 “Zero Hunger” is “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”.    
  The full title of each SDG is available here: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabledevelopmentgoals
392
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
SAMOA
Performance by Indicator
SDG1 – No Poverty    Val u e Yea  rRa t ingTr e nd SDG9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure    Val u e Ye a rRa t ingTr e nd
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%)    0.22020 • L Population using the internet (%)    33.62017 • L
Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%)    4.12020 • L Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population)    26.22017 • L
SDG2 – Zero Hunger                Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related     NA NA • •
Prevalence of undernourishment (%)    2.72017 • L infrastructure (worst 1–5 best)
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%)    4.72014 • L The Times Higher Education Universities Ranking: Average score of top 3 * 0.02020 • •
PPrreevvaalleennccee  ooff  wobaesstiintyg,  BinM cIh ≥il d3r0e n(% u nodf aedr u5 lyt epaorps uolfa atigoen )(%)      437..7322001146 •• Lp Scuiennivteifrisci taiensd ( tweochrsnt i0ca–l1 j0o0u rbneaslt a)rticles (per 1,000 population)    0.12018 • p
Human Trophic Level (best 2–3 worst)    2.32017 • 5 Expenditure on research and development (% of GDP)    NA NA • •
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land)    NA NA • • SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities               
Sustainable Nitrogen Management Index (best 0–1.41 worst)    1.02015 • 5 Gini coefficient adjusted for top income    43.32013 • •
SDG3 – Good Health and Well-Being                SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities               
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)     432017 • L Annual mean concentration of particulate matter of less than      11.52017 • L
2.5 microns in diameter (PM2.5) (μg/m3)
NMeoorntaaltitayl  rmatoer,t ualnitdye rra-t5e ( (ppeerr 1 1,0,00000 l ilvivee b birirtthhss))      185..3822001188 •• LL Access to improved water source, piped (% of urban population)    90.12017 • 5
Incidence of tuberculosis (per 100,000 population)    6.42018 • L Satisfaction with public transport (%)    NA NA • •
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population)    NA NA • • SDG12 – Responsible Consumption and Production                 
Municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)    2.12011 • •
Agdeia-bsteatneds,a ordr iczherdo ndieca rtehs prairtaet dourye d tois ecaasred iionv aadscuultlsa ra dgiesde a3s0e–, c7a0n yceear,r s (%)    20.62016 • L Electronic waste (kg/capita)    2.62016 • •
Agame-bstiaenndt aarird pizoeldlu dtieoant h(p reart e1 0at0t,r0ib0u0 tpaobpleu tloat hioonu)sehold air pollution and    852016 • • PSOro2d eumctiisosnio-bnas seemd bSoOd2i eedm iinss iimonpso (rktgs /(ckgap/citaap)ita)      5565..8122001122 •• ••
Traffic deaths (per 100,000 population)    11.32016 • L Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita)    15.82010 • •
Life expectancy at birth (years)    75.12016 • D Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)    2.52010 • •
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19)   23.92017 • L SDG13 – Climate Action               
Births attended by skilled health personnel (%)    82.52014 • • Energy-related CO2 emissions (tCO2/capita)    1.42017 • L
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%)   312018 • p CO2 emissions embodied in imports (tCO2/capita)    0.32015 • L
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best)   58.02017 • D CO2 emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita)    0.02018 • •
Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best)    NA NA • •
SDG14 – Life Below Water                 
SDG4 – Quality Education                Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)    11.92018 • 5
Net primary enrollment rate (%)    94.42018 • p Ocean Health Index: Clean Waters score (worst 0–100 best)    92.22019 • L
Lower secondary completion rate (%)   105.52018 • L Fish caught from overexploited or collapsed stocks (% of total catch)    30.62014 • p
Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24)    99.12018 • • Fish caught by trawling (%)    NA NA • •
SDG5 – Gender Equality                    Marine biodiversity threats embodied in imports (per million population)    0.02018 • •
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods (% of females    39.42014 • 5 SDG15 – Life on Land               
aged 15 to 49 who are married or in unions) Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%)   37.12018 • L
Ratio of female-to-male mean years of education received (%)    NA NA • • Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%)   NA NA • •
Ratio of female-to-male labor force participation rate (%)    61.32019 • 5 Red List Index of species survival (worst 0–1 best)    0.82019 • p
Seats held by women in national parliament (%)    10.02020 • 5 Permanent deforestation (% of forest area, 5-year average)    NA NA • •
SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation               
Population using at least basic drinking water services (%)    97.42017 • L Te(rpreers tmriailll iaonnd p forepsuhlwataiotenr) biodiversity threats embodied in imports      0.42018 • •
Population using at least basic sanitation services (%)    98.22017 • L SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions               
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available freshwater resources)    NA NA • • Homicides (per 100,000 population)    3.12013 • •
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%)    0.32018 • • Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population)    6.52018 • •
Scarce water consumption embodied in imports (m3/capita)    4.72013 • L Percentage of population who feel safe walking alone at night in the      NA NA • •
SDG7 – Affordable and Clean Energy                city or area where they live (%)
Population with access to electricity (%)    96.82017 • 5 Property Rights (worst 1–7 best)    NA NA • •
Population with access to clean fuels and technology for cooking (%)    32.32016 • 5 Birth registrations with civil authority (% of children under age 5)    58.62018 • •
COto2t aelm eilsesciotrnicsi tfyro omut fpuuetl  (cMomtCbOu2s/tTioWnh f)or electricity and heating per      NA NA • • CCohrilrdurpetnio innv Poelvrceedp itnio cnh Iinldd leaxb (owr o(%rs to 0f –p1o0p0u blaetsiot)n aged 5 to 14)      NNAA NNAA •• ••
5
SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth                Exports of major conventional weapons (TIV constant million USD   * 0.02019 • • . C
Adjusted GDP growth (%)    -3.22018 • • per 100,000 population) ou
Victims of modern slavery (per 1,000 population)    NA NA • • Press Freedom Index (best 0–100 worst)    18.32019 • L ntr
y
Admuoltbsi lwe-itmh oanne ayc-cseoruvnicte a tp aro bvaidnekr  o(%r o othf epro fpinualantcioianl  iangsteidtu 1ti5o no ro or vwerit)h a     NA NA • • SGoDvGer1nm7 e–n tP sapretnndeinrgs ohni phse aflothr a tnhde e dGuocaatliosn (% of GDP)      8 . 3201  6 •   •    Prof
Unemployment rate (% of total labor force)    8.42019 • 5 For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional    NA NA • • iles
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population)   0.32010 • L public finance, including official development assistance (% of GNI)
Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP)    33.12018 • L
Corporate Tax Haven Score (best 0–100 worst) * 0.02019 • •
* Imputed data point
393
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
SAN MARINO  
Western Europe
OVERALL PERFORMANCE
SDG SDG
17 1
SDG 100 SDG
16 2
75
Index score Regional average score SDG SDG
15 50 3
25
SDG
SDG 4
14
 na 70.9
San Marino
SDG SDG
13 5
SDG
12 SDG
6
SDG Global rank NA (OF 166)
SDG
11 SDG
7
SDG SDG
10 SDG 8
9
SPILLOVER INDEX AVERAGE PERFORMANCE BY SDG
100 (best) to 0 (worst)
100
80
60
40
20
0
CURRENT ASSESSMENT – SDG DASHBOARD
  Major challenges           Significant challenges          Challenges remain          SDG achieved          Information unavailable
SDG TRENDS
• • • • • D L • L
• • • 5 • • • •
p  Decreasing       5  Stagnating       D  Moderately improving       L  On track or maintaining SDG achievement       •  Information unavailable
Notes: The full title of Goal 2 “Zero Hunger” is “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”.    
  The full title of each SDG is available here: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabledevelopmentgoals
394
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
SAN MARINO
Performance by Indicator
SDG1 – No Poverty    Val u e Yea  rRa t ingTr e nd SDG9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure    Val u e Ye a rRa t ingTr e nd
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%)    NA NA • • Population using the internet (%)    60.22017 • •
Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%)    NA NA • • Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population)   130.72017 • L
SDG2 – Zero Hunger                Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related     NA NA • •
Prevalence of undernourishment (%) * 1.22017 • • infrastructure (worst 1–5 best)
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%) * 2.62016 • • The Times Higher Education Universities Ranking: Average score of top 3 * 0.02020 • •
PPrreevvaalleennccee  ooff  wobaesstiintyg,  BinM cIh ≥il d3r0e n(% u nodf aedr u5 lyt epaorps uolfa atigoen )(%) *   N0.A720N1A6 •• •• Scuiennivteifrisci taiensd ( tweochrsnt i0ca–l1 j0o0u rbneaslt a)rticles (per 1,000 population)    0.32018 • L
Expenditure on research and development (% of GDP)    NA NA • •
Human Trophic Level (best 2–3 worst)    NA NA • •
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land)    NA NA • • SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities               
Sustainable Nitrogen Management Index (best 0–1.41 worst)    NA NA • • Gini coefficient adjusted for top income    NA NA • •
SDG3 – Good Health and Well-Being                SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities               
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)     NA NA • • Annual mean concentration of particulate matter of less than      NA NA • •
2.5 microns in diameter (PM2.5) (μg/m3)
Neonatal mortality rate (per 1,000 live births)    0.92018 • L
Mortality rate, under-5 (per 1,000 live births)    2.02018 • L Access to improved water source, piped (% of urban population)    NA NA • •
Incidence of tuberculosis (per 100,000 population)    0.02018 • L Satisfaction with public transport (%)    NA NA • •
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population)    NA NA • • SDG12 – Responsible Consumption and Production                 
Municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)    1.42016 • •
Agdeia-bsteatneds,a ordr iczherdo ndieca rtehs prairtaet dourye d tois ecaasred iionv aadscuultlsa ra dgiesde a3s0e–, c7a0n yceear,r s (%)    NA NA • • Electronic waste (kg/capita)    NA NA • •
Agame-bstiaenndt aarird pizoeldlu dtieoant h(p reart e1 0at0t,r0ib0u0 tpaobpleu tloat hioonu)sehold air pollution and    NA NA • • PSOro2d eumctiisosnio-bnas seemd bSoOd2i eedm iinss iimonpso (rktgs /(ckgap/citaap)ita)      215415..2622001122 •• ••
Traffic deaths (per 100,000 population)    0.02016 • L Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita)   148.12010 • •
Life expectancy at birth (years)    NA NA • • Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)    74.62010 • •
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19)   NA NA • • SDG13 – Climate Action               
Births attended by skilled health personnel (%)    NA NA • • Energy-related CO2 emissions (tCO2/capita)    5.22017 • 5
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%)   892018 • L CO2 emissions embodied in imports (tCO2/capita)    21.32015 • D
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best)   NA NA • • CO2 emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita)    NA NA • •
Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best)    NA NA • •
SDG14 – Life Below Water                 
SDG4 – Quality Education                Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)    NA NA • •
Net primary enrollment rate (%)    93.92004 • • Ocean Health Index: Clean Waters score (worst 0–100 best)    NA NA • •
Lower secondary completion rate (%)   103.22018 • • Fish caught from overexploited or collapsed stocks (% of total catch)    NA NA • •
Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24)   100.02018 • • Fish caught by trawling (%)    NA NA • •
SDG5 – Gender Equality                    Marine biodiversity threats embodied in imports (per million population)    6.52018 • •
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods (% of females    NA NA • • SDG15 – Life on Land               
aged 15 to 49 who are married or in unions) Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%)   NA NA • •
Ratio of female-to-male mean years of education received (%)    NA NA • • Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%)   NA NA • •
Ratio of female-to-male labor force participation rate (%)    NA NA • • Red List Index of species survival (worst 0–1 best)    1.02019 • L
Seats held by women in national parliament (%)    31.72020 • L Permanent deforestation (% of forest area, 5-year average)    NA NA • •
SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation               
Population using at least basic drinking water services (%)   100.02017 • L Te(rpreers tmriailll iaonnd p forepsuhlwataiotenr) biodiversity threats embodied in imports      59.12018 • •
Population using at least basic sanitation services (%)   100.02017 • L SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions               
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available freshwater resources)    NA NA • • Homicides (per 100,000 population)    3.62002 • •
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%)    6.22018 • • Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population)    83.32018 • L
Scarce water consumption embodied in imports (m3/capita)   177.32013 • p Percentage of population who feel safe walking alone at night in the      NA NA • •
SDG7 – Affordable and Clean Energy                city or area where they live (%)
Population with access to electricity (%)   100.02017 • L Property Rights (worst 1–7 best)    NA NA • •
Population with access to clean fuels and technology for cooking (%)   100.02016 • L Birth registrations with civil authority (% of children under age 5)   100.02018 • •
COto2t aelm eilsesciotrnicsi tfyro omut fpuuetl  (cMomtCbOu2s/tTioWnh f)or electricity and heating per      NA NA • • CCohrilrdurpetnio innv Poelvrceedp itnio cnh Iinldd leaxb (owr o(%rs to 0f –p1o0p0u blaetsiot)n aged 5 to 14)      NNAA NNAA •• ••
5
SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth                Exports of major conventional weapons (TIV constant million USD   * 0.02019 • • . C
Adjusted GDP growth (%)    NA NA • • per 100,000 population) ou
Victims of modern slavery (per 1,000 population)    NA NA • • Press Freedom Index (best 0–100 worst)    NA NA • • ntr
y
Admuoltbsi lwe-itmh oanne ayc-cseoruvnicte a tp aro bvaidnekr  o(%r o othf epro fpinualantcioianl  iangsteidtu 1ti5o no ro or vwerit)h a     NA NA • • SGoDvGer1nm7 e–n tP sapretnndeinrgs ohni phse aflothr a tnhde e dGuocaatliosn (% of GDP)      7 . 9201  1 •   •    Prof
Unemployment rate (% of total labor force)    NA NA • • For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional    NA NA • • iles
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population)   10.02010 • p public finance, including official development assistance (% of GNI)
Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP)    NA NA • •
Corporate Tax Haven Score (best 0–100 worst)    61.52019 • •
* Imputed data point
395
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
SÃO TOMÉ AND PRÍNCIPE  
Sub-Saharan Africa
OVERALL PERFORMANCE
SDG SDG
17 1
SDG 100 SDG
16 2
75
Index score Regional average score SDG SDG
15 50 3
25
SDG
SDG 4
14
62.6 53.1 São Tomé 
SDG and Príncipe SDG
13 5
SDG
12 SDG
6
SDG Global rank 115 (OF 166)
SDG
11 SDG
7
SDG SDG
10 SDG 8
9
SPILLOVER INDEX AVERAGE PERFORMANCE BY SDG
100 (best) to 0 (worst)
100
80
60
40
20
0
CURRENT ASSESSMENT – SDG DASHBOARD
  Major challenges           Significant challenges          Challenges remain          SDG achieved          Information unavailable
SDG TRENDS
D D D D 5 D 5 D 5
• D • L D 5 5 p
p  Decreasing       5  Stagnating       D  Moderately improving       L  On track or maintaining SDG achievement       •  Information unavailable
Notes: The full title of Goal 2 “Zero Hunger” is “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”.    
  The full title of each SDG is available here: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabledevelopmentgoals
396
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
SÃO TOMÉ AND PRÍNCIPE
Performance by Indicator
SDG1 – No Poverty    Val u e Yea  rRa t ingTr e nd SDG9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure    Val u e Ye a rRa t ingTr e nd
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%)    18.72020 • D Population using the internet (%)    29.92017 • D
Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%)    50.22020 • 5 Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population)    33.52018 • L
SDG2 – Zero Hunger                Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related     2.32018 • p
Prevalence of undernourishment (%)    7.02017 • L infrastructure (worst 1–5 best)
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%)    17.22014 • L The Times Higher Education Universities Ranking: Average score of top 3 * 0.02020 • •
PPrreevvaalleennccee  ooff  wobaesstiintyg,  BinM cIh ≥il d3r0e n(% u nodf aedr u5 lyt epaorps uolfa atigoen )(%)      142..0422001146 •• Lp Scuiennivteifrisci taiensd ( tweochrsnt i0ca–l1 j0o0u rbneaslt a)rticles (per 1,000 population)    0.02018 • p
Human Trophic Level (best 2–3 worst)    2.12017 • L Expenditure on research and development (% of GDP)    NA NA • •
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land)    2.12017 • p SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities               
Sustainable Nitrogen Management Index (best 0–1.41 worst)    1.12015 • p Gini coefficient adjusted for top income    44.12010 • •
SDG3 – Good Health and Well-Being                SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities               
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)     1302017 • 5 Annual mean concentration of particulate matter of less than      28.52017 • p
2.5 microns in diameter (PM2.5) (μg/m3)
NMeoorntaaltitayl  rmatoer,t ualnitdye rra-t5e ( (ppeerr 1 1,0,00000 l ilvivee b birirtthhss))      1341..0222001188 •• LL Access to improved water source, piped (% of urban population)    98.52017 • L
Incidence of tuberculosis (per 100,000 population)   124.02018 • L Satisfaction with public transport (%)    NA NA • •
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population)    0.12018 • L SDG12 – Responsible Consumption and Production                 
Municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)    0.52014 • •
Agdeia-bsteatneds,a ordr iczherdo ndieca rtehs prairtaet dourye d tois ecaasred iionv aadscuultlsa ra dgiesde a3s0e–, c7a0n yceear,r s (%)    18.52016 • 5 Electronic waste (kg/capita)    1.22016 • •
Agame-bstiaenndt aarird pizoeldlu dtieoant h(p reart e1 0at0t,r0ib0u0 tpaobpleu tloat hioonu)sehold air pollution and    1622016 • • PSOro2d eumctiisosnio-bnas seemd bSoOd2i eedm iinss iimonpso (rktgs /(ckgap/citaap)ita)      4859..1322001122 •• ••
Traffic deaths (per 100,000 population)    27.52016 • D Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita)    9.52010 • •
Life expectancy at birth (years)    68.72016 • 5 Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)    2.32010 • •
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19)   94.62017 • 5 SDG13 – Climate Action               
Births attended by skilled health personnel (%)    92.52014 • • Energy-related CO2 emissions (tCO2/capita)    0.72017 • L
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%)   952018 • L CO2 emissions embodied in imports (tCO2/capita)    0.22015 • L
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best)   55.02017 • 5 CO2 emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita) * 0.02018 • •
Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best)    NA NA • •
SDG14 – Life Below Water                 
SDG4 – Quality Education                Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)    86.42018 • L
Net primary enrollment rate (%)    93.12017 • L Ocean Health Index: Clean Waters score (worst 0–100 best)    57.82019 • 5
Lower secondary completion rate (%)    73.52017 • D Fish caught from overexploited or collapsed stocks (% of total catch)    8.62014 • L
Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24)    97.82018 • • Fish caught by trawling (%)    2.12014 • L
SDG5 – Gender Equality                    Marine biodiversity threats embodied in imports (per million population)    0.02018 • •
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods (% of females    52.22014 • D SDG15 – Life on Land               
aged 15 to 49 who are married or in unions) Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%)   76.32018 • L
Ratio of female-to-male mean years of education received (%)    79.22018 • p Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%)   39.82018 • 5
Ratio of female-to-male labor force participation rate (%)    56.82019 • 5 Red List Index of species survival (worst 0–1 best)    0.82019 • p
Seats held by women in national parliament (%)    14.62020 • p Permanent deforestation (% of forest area, 5-year average)    NA NA • •
SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation               
Population using at least basic drinking water services (%)    84.32017 • D Te(rpreers tmriailll iaonnd p forepsuhlwataiotenr) biodiversity threats embodied in imports      0.12018 • •
Population using at least basic sanitation services (%)    43.02017 • 5 SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions               
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available freshwater resources)    1.92015 • • Homicides (per 100,000 population)    3.42011 • •
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%)    0.22018 • • Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population)    33.22018 • p
Scarce water consumption embodied in imports (m3/capita)    4.92013 • L Percentage of population who feel safe walking alone at night in the      NA NA • •
SDG7 – Affordable and Clean Energy                city or area where they live (%)
Population with access to electricity (%)    72.52017 • D Property Rights (worst 1–7 best)    NA NA • •
Population with access to clean fuels and technology for cooking (%)    16.82016 • p Birth registrations with civil authority (% of children under age 5)    95.22018 • •
COto2t aelm eilsesciotrnicsi tfyro omut fpuuetl  (cMomtCbOu2s/tTioWnh f)or electricity and heating per      NA NA • • CCohrilrdurpetnio innv Poelvrceedp itnio cnh Iinldd leaxb (owr o(%rs to 0f –p1o0p0u blaetsiot)n aged 5 to 14)      264.6022001196 •• D•
5
SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth                Exports of major conventional weapons (TIV constant million USD   * 0.02019 • • . C
Adjusted GDP growth (%)    -4.32018 • • per 100,000 population) ou
Victims of modern slavery (per 1,000 population)    NA NA • • Press Freedom Index (best 0–100 worst)    NA NA • • ntr
y
Admuoltbsi lwe-itmh oanne ayc-cseoruvnicte a tp aro bvaidnekr  o(%r o othf epro fpinualantcioianl  iangsteidtu 1ti5o no ro or vwerit)h a     NA NA • • SGoDvGer1nm7 e–n tP sapretnndeinrgs ohni phse aflothr a tnhde e dGuocaatliosn (% of GDP)      7 . 6201  6 •   p    Prof
Unemployment rate (% of total labor force)    13.42019 • 5 For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional    NA NA • • iles
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population)   0.32010 • L public finance, including official development assistance (% of GNI)
Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP) * 14.52018 • p
Corporate Tax Haven Score (best 0–100 worst) * 0.02019 • •
* Imputed data point
397
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
SAUDI ARABIA  
Middle East and North Africa
OVERALL PERFORMANCE
SDG SDG
17 1
SDG 100 SDG
16 2
75
Index score Regional average score SDG SDG
15 50 3
25
SDG
SDG 4
14
65.8 66.3
Saudi Arabia
SDG SDG
13 5
SDG
12 SDG
6
SDG Global rank 97 (OF 166)
SDG
11 SDG
7
SDG SDG
10 SDG 8
9
SPILLOVER INDEX AVERAGE PERFORMANCE BY SDG
100 (best) to 0 (worst)
100
80
60
40
20
0
CURRENT ASSESSMENT – SDG DASHBOARD
  Major challenges           Significant challenges          Challenges remain          SDG achieved          Information unavailable
SDG TRENDS
• D D 5 5 D D D D
• D • D D 5 5 •
p  Decreasing       5  Stagnating       D  Moderately improving       L  On track or maintaining SDG achievement       •  Information unavailable
Notes: The full title of Goal 2 “Zero Hunger” is “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”.    
  The full title of each SDG is available here: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabledevelopmentgoals
398
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
SAUDI ARABIA
Performance by Indicator
SDG1 – No Poverty    Val u e Yea  rRa t ingTr e nd SDG9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure    Val u e Ye a rRa t ingTr e nd
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%) * NA NA • • Population using the internet (%)    93.32018 • L
Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%) * NA NA • • Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population)   111.12018 • L
SDG2 – Zero Hunger                Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related     3.12018 • L
Prevalence of undernourishment (%)    7.12017 • L infrastructure (worst 1–5 best)
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%)    9.32005 • D The Times Higher Education Universities Ranking: Average score of top 3    45.82020 • •
PPrreevvaalleennccee  ooff  wobaesstiintyg,  BinM cIh ≥il d3r0e n(% u nodf aedr u5 lyt epaorps uolfa atigoen )(%)      1315..8422000156 •• Lp Scuiennivteifrisci taiensd ( tweochrsnt i0ca–l1 j0o0u rbneaslt a)rticles (per 1,000 population)    0.32018 • 5
Human Trophic Level (best 2–3 worst)    2.32017 • 5 Expenditure on research and development (% of GDP)    0.82013 • •
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land)    5.62017 • L SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities               
Sustainable Nitrogen Management Index (best 0–1.41 worst)    0.62015 • L Gini coefficient adjusted for top income    NA NA • •
SDG3 – Good Health and Well-Being                SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities               
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)     172017 • L Annual mean concentration of particulate matter of less than      87.92017 • p
2.5 microns in diameter (PM2.5) (μg/m3)
Neonatal mortality rate (per 1,000 live births)    3.72018 • L
Mortality rate, under-5 (per 1,000 live births)    7.12018 • L Access to improved water source, piped (% of urban population)    NA NA • •
Incidence of tuberculosis (per 100,000 population)    10.02018 • L Satisfaction with public transport (%)    72.82019 • L
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population)    NA NA • • SDG12 – Responsible Consumption and Production                 
Municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)    1.62015 • •
Agdeia-bsteatneds,a ordr iczherdo ndieca rtehs prairtaet dourye d tois ecaasred iionv aadscuultlsa ra dgiesde a3s0e–, c7a0n yceear,r s (%)    16.42016 • L Electronic waste (kg/capita)    15.92016 • •
Agame-bstiaenndt aarird pizoeldlu dtieoant h(p reart e1 0at0t,r0ib0u0 tpaobpleu tloat hioonu)sehold air pollution and    842016 • • PSOro2d eumctiisosnio-bnas seemd bSoOd2i eedm iinss iimonpso (rktgs /(ckgap/citaap)ita)       729..1322001122 •• ••
Traffic deaths (per 100,000 population)    28.82016 • p Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita)    32.92010 • •
Life expectancy at birth (years)    74.82016 • 5 Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)    9.32010 • •
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19)   7.32017 • L SDG13 – Climate Action               
Births attended by skilled health personnel (%)    98.02013 • • Energy-related CO2 emissions (tCO2/capita)    17.92017 • 5
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%)   962018 • L CO2 emissions embodied in imports (tCO2/capita)    1.52015 • D
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best)   74.02017 • L CO2 emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita)   214.22018 • •
Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best)    6.62019 • L
SDG14 – Life Below Water                 
SDG4 – Quality Education                Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)    20.82018 • 5
Net primary enrollment rate (%)    94.52018 • p Ocean Health Index: Clean Waters score (worst 0–100 best)    62.52019 • 5
Lower secondary completion rate (%)   106.52017 • L Fish caught from overexploited or collapsed stocks (% of total catch)    20.42014 • L
Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24)    99.32017 • • Fish caught by trawling (%)    17.92014 • L
SDG5 – Gender Equality                    Marine biodiversity threats embodied in imports (per million population)    0.52018 • •
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods (% of females * 41.52017 • 5 SDG15 – Life on Land               
aged 15 to 49 who are married or in unions) Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%)   23.12018 • 5
Ratio of female-to-male mean years of education received (%)    89.12018 • 5 Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%)   17.72018 • 5
Ratio of female-to-male labor force participation rate (%)    29.52019 • 5 Red List Index of species survival (worst 0–1 best)    0.92019 • L
Seats held by women in national parliament (%)    19.92020 • p Permanent deforestation (% of forest area, 5-year average)    NA NA • •
SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation               
Population using at least basic drinking water services (%)   100.02017 • L Te(rpreers tmriailll iaonnd p forepsuhlwataiotenr) biodiversity threats embodied in imports      1.82018 • •
Population using at least basic sanitation services (%)   100.02017 • L SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions               
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available freshwater resources)   907.12015 • • Homicides (per 100,000 population)    1.32017 • L
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%)    11.82018 • • Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population)    48.32018 • •
Scarce water consumption embodied in imports (m3/capita)    70.32013 • p Percentage of population who feel safe walking alone at night in the      87.92019 • •
SDG7 – Affordable and Clean Energy                city or area where they live (%)
Population with access to electricity (%)   100.02017 • L Property Rights (worst 1–7 best)    5.72019 • •
Population with access to clean fuels and technology for cooking (%)    96.02016 • L Birth registrations with civil authority (% of children under age 5)    NA NA • •
COto2t aelm eilsesciotrnicsi tfyro omut fpuuetl  (cMomtCbOu2s/tTioWnh f)or electricity and heating per      1.62017 • D CCohrilrdurpetnio innv Poelvrceedp itnio cnh Iinldd leaxb (owr o(%rs to 0f –p1o0p0u blaetsiot)n aged 5 to 14)      N5A320N1A9 •• 5•
5
SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth                Exports of major conventional weapons (TIV constant million USD      0.02019 • • . C
Adjusted GDP growth (%)    -2.62018 • • per 100,000 population) ou
Victims of modern slavery (per 1,000 population) * NA NA • • Press Freedom Index (best 0–100 worst)    65.92019 • p ntr
y
Admuoltbsi lwe-itmh oanne ayc-cseoruvnicte a tp aro bvaidnekr  o(%r o othf epro fpinualantcioianl  iangsteidtu 1ti5o no ro or vwerit)h a     71.72017 • L SGoDvGer1nm7 e–n tP sapretnndeinrgs ohni phse aflothr a tnhde e dGuocaatliosn (% of GDP)      7 . 0200  8 •   •    Prof
Unemployment rate (% of total labor force)    5.92019 • 5 For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional    NA NA • • iles
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population)   1.32010 • L public finance, including official development assistance (% of GNI)
Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP)    NA NA • •
Corporate Tax Haven Score (best 0–100 worst) * 0.02019 • •
* Imputed data point
399
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
SENEGAL  
Sub-Saharan Africa
OVERALL PERFORMANCE
SDG SDG
17 1
SDG 100 SDG
16 2
75
Index score Regional average score SDG SDG
15 50 3
25
SDG
SDG 4
14
58.3 53.1
Senegal
SDG SDG
13 5
SDG
12 SDG
6
SDG Global rank 127 (OF 166)
SDG
11 SDG
7
SDG SDG
10 SDG 8
9
SPILLOVER INDEX AVERAGE PERFORMANCE BY SDG
100 (best) to 0 (worst)
100
80
60
40
20
0
CURRENT ASSESSMENT – SDG DASHBOARD
  Major challenges           Significant challenges          Challenges remain          SDG achieved          Information unavailable
SDG TRENDS
D D D 5 5 D 5 D D
• 5 • L D L 5 p
p  Decreasing       5  Stagnating       D  Moderately improving       L  On track or maintaining SDG achievement       •  Information unavailable
Notes: The full title of Goal 2 “Zero Hunger” is “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”.    
  The full title of each SDG is available here: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabledevelopmentgoals
400
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
SENEGAL
Performance by Indicator
SDG1 – No Poverty    Val u e Yea  rRa t ingTr e nd SDG9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure    Val u e Ye a rRa t ingTr e nd
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%)    27.22020 • D Population using the internet (%)    46.02017 • L
Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%)    52.92020 • D Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population)    42.12018 • L
SDG2 – Zero Hunger                Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related     2.22018 • p
Prevalence of undernourishment (%)    11.32017 • L infrastructure (worst 1–5 best)
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%)    17.02016 • D The Times Higher Education Universities Ranking: Average score of top 3 * 0.02020 • •
PPrreevvaalleennccee  ooff  wobaesstiintyg,  BinM cIh ≥il d3r0e n(% u nodf aedr u5 lyt epaorps uolfa atigoen )(%)      78..2822001166 •• LL Scuiennivteifrisci taiensd ( tweochrsnt i0ca–l1 j0o0u rbneaslt a)rticles (per 1,000 population)    0.02018 • p
Human Trophic Level (best 2–3 worst)    2.12017 • L Expenditure on research and development (% of GDP)    0.82015 • •
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land)    1.32017 • D SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities               
Sustainable Nitrogen Management Index (best 0–1.41 worst)    0.92015 • p Gini coefficient adjusted for top income    47.82011 • •
SDG3 – Good Health and Well-Being                SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities               
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)     3152017 • D Annual mean concentration of particulate matter of less than      40.72017 • p
NMeoorntaaltitayl  rmatoer,t ualnitdye rra-t5e ( (ppeerr 1 1,0,00000 l ilvivee b birirtthhss))      2403..6622001188 •• LD Ac2c.5e sms itcor oimnsp irno vdeiadm weatteerr ( sPoMu2rc.5e),  (pμipg/emd 3(%) of urban population)    86.22017 • 5
Incidence of tuberculosis (per 100,000 population)   118.02018 • 5 Satisfaction with public transport (%)    48.82019 • L
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population)    0.12018 • L SDG12 – Responsible Consumption and Production                 
Municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)    0.92016 • •
Agdeia-bsteatneds,a ordr iczherdo ndieca rtehs prairtaet dourye d tois ecaasred iionv aadscuultlsa ra dgiesde a3s0e–, c7a0n yceear,r s (%)    18.12016 • L Electronic waste (kg/capita)    1.02016 • •
Agame-bstiaenndt aarird pizoeldlu dtieoant h(p reart e1 0at0t,r0ib0u0 tpaobpleu tloat hioonu)sehold air pollution and    1612016 • • PSOro2d eumctiisosnio-bnas seemd bSoOd2i eedm iinss iimonpso (rktgs /(ckgap/citaap)ita)       130..5222001122 •• ••
Traffic deaths (per 100,000 population)    23.42016 • L Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita)    14.02010 • •
Life expectancy at birth (years)    66.82016 • D Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)    0.52010 • •
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19)   72.72017 • D SDG13 – Climate Action               
Births attended by skilled health personnel (%)    68.42017 • L Energy-related CO2 emissions (tCO2/capita)    0.52017 • L
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%)   812018 • D CO2 emissions embodied in imports (tCO2/capita)    0.12015 • L
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best)   45.02017 • 5 CO2 emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita)    0.02019 • •
Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best)    5.52019 • L
SDG14 – Life Below Water                 
SDG4 – Quality Education                Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)    31.52018 • D
Net primary enrollment rate (%)    75.42017 • 5 Ocean Health Index: Clean Waters score (worst 0–100 best)    46.62019 • 5
Lower secondary completion rate (%)    37.42017 • p Fish caught from overexploited or collapsed stocks (% of total catch)    26.52014 • L
Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24)    69.52017 • • Fish caught by trawling (%)    15.22014 • L
SDG5 – Gender Equality                    Marine biodiversity threats embodied in imports (per million population)    0.02018 • •
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods (% of females    50.92017 • D SDG15 – Life on Land               
aged 15 to 49 who are married or in unions) Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%)   43.02018 • L
Ratio of female-to-male mean years of education received (%)    40.92018 • p Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%)   NA NA • •
Ratio of female-to-male labor force participation rate (%)    60.32019 • 5 Red List Index of species survival (worst 0–1 best)    0.92019 • L
Seats held by women in national parliament (%)    43.02020 • L Permanent deforestation (% of forest area, 5-year average)    0.32018 • •
SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation               
Population using at least basic drinking water services (%)    80.72017 • D Te(rpreers tmriailll iaonnd p forepsuhlwataiotenr) biodiversity threats embodied in imports      0.12018 • •
Population using at least basic sanitation services (%)    51.52017 • 5 SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions               
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available freshwater resources)    11.82000 • • Homicides (per 100,000 population) * 7.42015 • •
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%)    0.52018 • • Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population)    42.12018 • •
Scarce water consumption embodied in imports (m3/capita)    0.92013 • L Percentage of population who feel safe walking alone at night in the      48.62019 • p
SDG7 – Affordable and Clean Energy                city or area where they live (%)
Population with access to electricity (%)    61.72017 • 5 Property Rights (worst 1–7 best)    4.32019 • •
Population with access to clean fuels and technology for cooking (%)    31.72016 • 5 Birth registrations with civil authority (% of children under age 5)    77.42018 • •
COto2t aelm eilsesciotrnicsi tfyro omut fpuuetl  (cMomtCbOu2s/tTioWnh f)or electricity and heating per      1.92017 • 5 CCohrilrdurpetnio innv Poelvrceedp itnio cnh Iinldd leaxb (owr o(%rs to 0f –p1o0p0u blaetsiot)n aged 5 to 14)      234.5022001196 •• 5•
5
SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth                Exports of major conventional weapons (TIV constant million USD   * 0.02019 • • . C
Adjusted GDP growth (%)    -2.02018 • • per 100,000 population) ou
Victims of modern slavery (per 1,000 population)    2.92018 • • Press Freedom Index (best 0–100 worst)    25.82019 • L ntr
y
Admuoltbsi lwe-itmh oanne ayc-cseoruvnicte a tp aro bvaidnekr  o(%r o othf epro fpinualantcioianl  iangsteidtu 1ti5o no ro or vwerit)h a     42.32017 • L SGoDvGer1nm7 e–n tP sapretnndeinrgs ohni phse aflothr a tnhde e dGuocaatliosn (% of GDP)      7 . 0201  6 •   p    Prof
Unemployment rate (% of total labor force)    6.62019 • 5 For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional    NA NA • • iles
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population)   0.12010 • L public finance, including official development assistance (% of GNI)
Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP)    19.22015 • •
Corporate Tax Haven Score (best 0–100 worst) * 0.02019 • •
* Imputed data point
401
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
SERBIA  
Eastern Europe and Central Asia
OVERALL PERFORMANCE
SDG SDG
17 1
SDG 100 SDG
16 2
75
Index score Regional average score SDG SDG
15 50 3
25
SDG
SDG 4
14
75.2 70.9
Serbia
SDG SDG
13 5
SDG
12 SDG
6
SDG Global rank 33 (OF 166)
SDG
11 SDG
7
SDG SDG
10 SDG 8
9
SPILLOVER INDEX AVERAGE PERFORMANCE BY SDG
100 (best) to 0 (worst)
100
80
60
40
20
0
CURRENT ASSESSMENT – SDG DASHBOARD
  Major challenges           Significant challenges          Challenges remain          SDG achieved          Information unavailable
SDG TRENDS
L D D 5 D D D D D
• 5 • 5 • 5 D p
p  Decreasing       5  Stagnating       D  Moderately improving       L  On track or maintaining SDG achievement       •  Information unavailable
Notes: The full title of Goal 2 “Zero Hunger” is “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”.    
  The full title of each SDG is available here: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabledevelopmentgoals
402
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
SERBIA
Performance by Indicator
SDG1 – No Poverty    Val u e Yea  rRa t ingTr e nd SDG9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure    Val u e Ye a rRa t ingTr e nd
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%)    0.12020 • L Population using the internet (%)    73.42018 • L
Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%)    0.42020 • L Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population)    66.02018 • L
SDG2 – Zero Hunger                Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related     2.62018 • p
Prevalence of undernourishment (%)    5.72017 • L infrastructure (worst 1–5 best)
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%)    6.02014 • L The Times Higher Education Universities Ranking: Average score of top 3    22.52019 • •
PPHrrueemvvaaalleennn Tccreeo  poohff  iwocb aLesestviinetylg ,(  BbinMe csIth ≥ 2il d–3r30e  wn(% ou rnosdft )aedr u5 lyt epaorps uolfa atigoen )(%)        2321...935222000111467 ••• 5Lp SExcupieneninvtdeifiritscui rtaeien osdn ( t wreeocshersantr ic0cha– la1 nj0od0u  drbneeavselt la)orptimcleens t( (p%e ro 1f ,G0D0P0) population)      00..5922001187 •• pL
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land)    4.02017 • L SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities               
Sustainable Nitrogen Management Index (best 0–1.41 worst)    0.52015 • L Gini coefficient adjusted for top income    33.82015 • •
SDG3 – Good Health and Well-Being                SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities               
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)     122017 • L Annual mean concentration of particulate matter of less than      24.72017 • D
2.5 microns in diameter (PM2.5) (μg/m3)
NMInecooirdntaealntitacyle  rm oatfoe tr,ut uablnietdryce rura-lto5e s( i(psp e(eprr e1 1r,0, 01000000 l ,il0viv0ee0 b  bpiriortthphsus)l)ation)        1357...450222000111888 ••• LLL ASactciesfsasc ttoio inm wpritohv epdu bwliact etrra snosuprocret,  (p%ip)ed (% of urban population)      9476..0422001178 •• 5D
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population)    0.02018 • L SDG12 – Responsible Consumption and Production                 
Municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)    1.02015 • •
Agdeia-bsteatneds,a ordr iczherdo ndieca rtehs prairtaet dourye d tois ecaasred iionv aadscuultlsa ra dgiesde a3s0e–, c7a0n yceear,r s (%)    19.12016 • L Electronic waste (kg/capita)    7.12016 • •
Agame-bstiaenndt aarird pizoeldlu dtieoant h(p reart e1 0at0t,r0ib0u0 tpaobpleu tloat hioonu)sehold air pollution and    622016 • • PSOro2d eumctiisosnio-bnas seemd bSoOd2i eedm iinss iimonpso (rktgs /(ckgap/citaap)ita)       1153..2922001122 •• ••
Traffic deaths (per 100,000 population)    7.42016 • L Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita)    21.62010 • •
Life expectancy at birth (years)    76.32016 • D Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)    3.82010 • •
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19)   14.72017 • L SDG13 – Climate Action               
Births attended by skilled health personnel (%)    98.42014 • • Energy-related CO2 emissions (tCO2/capita)    5.72017 • p
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%)   922018 • L CO2 emissions embodied in imports (tCO2/capita)    0.42015 • L
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best)   65.02017 • L CO2 emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita)    10.52019 • •
Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best)    5.92018 • L
SDG14 – Life Below Water                 
SDG4 – Quality Education                Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)    NA NA • •
Net primary enrollment rate (%)    94.62018 • p Ocean Health Index: Clean Waters score (worst 0–100 best)    NA NA • •
Lower secondary completion rate (%)    98.02018 • L Fish caught from overexploited or collapsed stocks (% of total catch)    NA NA • •
Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24)    99.72016 • • Fish caught by trawling (%)    NA NA • •
SDG5 – Gender Equality                    Marine biodiversity threats embodied in imports (per million population)    0.82018 • •
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods (% of females    38.72014 • D SDG15 – Life on Land               
aged 15 to 49 who are married or in unions) Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%)   29.52018 • 5
Ratio of female-to-male mean years of education received (%)    92.22018 • 5 Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%)   31.52018 • 5
Ratio of female-to-male labor force participation rate (%)    75.32019 • L Red List Index of species survival (worst 0–1 best)    1.02019 • L
Seats held by women in national parliament (%)    37.72020 • L Permanent deforestation (% of forest area, 5-year average)    0.02018 • •
SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation               
Population using at least basic drinking water services (%)    85.52017 • p Te(rpreers tmriailll iaonnd p forepsuhlwataiotenr) biodiversity threats embodied in imports      3.82018 • •
Population using at least basic sanitation services (%)    97.62017 • L SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions               
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available freshwater resources)    5.22015 • • Homicides (per 100,000 population)    1.12017 • L
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%)    1.72018 • • Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population)    15.62018 • L
Scarce water consumption embodied in imports (m3/capita)    9.42013 • L Percentage of population who feel safe walking alone at night in the      77.82018 • L
SDG7 – Affordable and Clean Energy                city or area where they live (%)
Population with access to electricity (%)   100.02017 • L Property Rights (worst 1–7 best)    3.92019 • •
Population with access to clean fuels and technology for cooking (%)    76.42016 • L Birth registrations with civil authority (% of children under age 5)    99.42018 • •
COto2t aelm eilsesciotrnicsi tfyro omut fpuuetl  (cMomtCbOu2s/tTioWnh f)or electricity and heating per      1.32017 • 5 CCohrilrdurpetnio innv Poelvrceedp itnio cnh Iinldd leaxb (owr o(%rs to 0f –p1o0p0u blaetsiot)n aged 5 to 14)      93.9522001196 •• p•
5
SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth                Exports of major conventional weapons (TIV constant million USD      0.22019 • • . C
Adjusted GDP growth (%)    -0.12018 • • per 100,000 population) ou
Victims of modern slavery (per 1,000 population)    3.32018 • • Press Freedom Index (best 0–100 worst)    31.22019 • p ntr
y
Admuoltbsi lwe-itmh oanne ayc-cseoruvnicte a tp aro bvaidnekr  o(%r o othf epro fpinualantcioianl  iangsteidtu 1ti5o no ro or vwerit)h a     71.42017 • p SGoDvGer1nm7 e–n tP sapretnndeinrgs ohni phse aflothr a tnhde e dGuocaatliosn (% of GDP)      8 . 9201  6 •   p    Prof
Unemployment rate (% of total labor force)    12.72019 • L For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional    NA NA • • iles
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population)   0.52010 • L public finance, including official development assistance (% of GNI)
Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP)    32.82012 • •
Corporate Tax Haven Score (best 0–100 worst) * 0.02019 • •
* Imputed data point
403
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
SEYCHELLES  
Sub-Saharan Africa
OVERALL PERFORMANCE
SDG SDG
17 1
SDG 100 SDG
16 2
75
Index score Regional average score SDG SDG
15 50 3
25
SDG
SDG 4
14
 na 53.1
Seychelles
SDG SDG
13 5
SDG
12 SDG
6
SDG Global rank NA (OF 166)
SDG
11 SDG
7
SDG SDG
10 SDG 8
9
SPILLOVER INDEX AVERAGE PERFORMANCE BY SDG
100 (best) to 0 (worst)
100
80
60
40
20
0
CURRENT ASSESSMENT – SDG DASHBOARD
  Major challenges           Significant challenges          Challenges remain          SDG achieved          Information unavailable
SDG TRENDS
• 5 D 5 • 5 L • D
• • • D D p L L
p  Decreasing       5  Stagnating       D  Moderately improving       L  On track or maintaining SDG achievement       •  Information unavailable
Notes: The full title of Goal 2 “Zero Hunger” is “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”.    
  The full title of each SDG is available here: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabledevelopmentgoals
404
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
SEYCHELLES
Performance by Indicator
SDG1 – No Poverty    Val u e Yea  rRa t ingTr e nd SDG9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure    Val u e Ye a rRa t ingTr e nd
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%)    NA NA • • Population using the internet (%)    58.82017 • L
Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%)    NA NA • • Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population)    80.52018 • L
SDG2 – Zero Hunger                Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related     NA NA • •
Prevalence of undernourishment (%) * 1.22017 • • infrastructure (worst 1–5 best)
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%)    7.92012 • 5 The Times Higher Education Universities Ranking: Average score of top 3 * 0.02020 • •
PPrreevvaalleennccee  ooff  wobaesstiintyg,  BinM cIh ≥il d3r0e n(% u nodf aedr u5 lyt epaorps uolfa atigoen )(%)      144..3022001126 •• Lp Scuiennivteifrisci taiensd ( tweochrsnt i0ca–l1 j0o0u rbneaslt a)rticles (per 1,000 population)    0.12018 • p
Expenditure on research and development (% of GDP)    0.22016 • •
Human Trophic Level (best 2–3 worst)    2.42007 • •
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land)    NA NA • • SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities               
Sustainable Nitrogen Management Index (best 0–1.41 worst)    1.22015 • 5 Gini coefficient adjusted for top income    49.12013 • •
SDG3 – Good Health and Well-Being                SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities               
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)     532017 • L Annual mean concentration of particulate matter of less than      20.22017 • 5
2.5 microns in diameter (PM2.5) (μg/m3)
Neonatal mortality rate (per 1,000 live births)    8.82018 • L
Mortality rate, under-5 (per 1,000 live births)    14.52018 • L Access to improved water source, piped (% of urban population)    NA NA • •
Incidence of tuberculosis (per 100,000 population)    18.02018 • p Satisfaction with public transport (%)    NA NA • •
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population)    NA NA • • SDG12 – Responsible Consumption and Production                 
Municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)    2.42012 • •
Agdeia-bsteatneds,a ordr iczherdo ndieca rtehs prairtaet dourye d tois ecaasred iionv aadscuultlsa ra dgiesde a3s0e–, c7a0n yceear,r s (%)    21.22016 • D Electronic waste (kg/capita)    11.52016 • •
Agame-bstiaenndt aarird pizoeldlu dtieoant h(p reart e1 0at0t,r0ib0u0 tpaobpleu tloat hioonu)sehold air pollution and    492016 • • PSOro2d eumctiisosnio-bnas seemd bSoOd2i eedm iinss iimonpso (rktgs /(ckgap/citaap)ita)      113505..1822001122 •• ••
Traffic deaths (per 100,000 population)    15.92016 • p Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita)    35.82010 • •
Life expectancy at birth (years)    73.32016 • 5 Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)    11.52010 • •
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19)   62.12017 • p SDG13 – Climate Action               
Births attended by skilled health personnel (%)    99.02012 • • Energy-related CO2 emissions (tCO2/capita)    4.22017 • L
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%)   962018 • L CO2 emissions embodied in imports (tCO2/capita)    2.42015 • 5
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best)   71.02017 • L CO2 emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita)    0.02017 • •
Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best)    NA NA • •
SDG14 – Life Below Water                 
SDG4 – Quality Education                Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)    22.92018 • 5
Net primary enrollment rate (%)    92.22018 • p Ocean Health Index: Clean Waters score (worst 0–100 best)    78.42019 • L
Lower secondary completion rate (%)   108.42018 • L Fish caught from overexploited or collapsed stocks (% of total catch)    29.72014 • L
Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24)    99.12018 • • Fish caught by trawling (%)    NA NA • •
SDG5 – Gender Equality                    Marine biodiversity threats embodied in imports (per million population)    0.02018 • •
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods (% of females    NA NA • • SDG15 – Life on Land               
aged 15 to 49 who are married or in unions) Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%)   19.22018 • 5
Ratio of female-to-male mean years of education received (%)    NA NA • • Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%)   NA NA • •
Ratio of female-to-male labor force participation rate (%)    NA NA • • Red List Index of species survival (worst 0–1 best)    0.72019 • p
Seats held by women in national parliament (%)    21.22020 • p Permanent deforestation (% of forest area, 5-year average)    NA NA • •
SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation               
Population using at least basic drinking water services (%)    96.22017 • 5 Te(rpreers tmriailll iaonnd p forepsuhlwataiotenr) biodiversity threats embodied in imports      0.52018 • •
Population using at least basic sanitation services (%)   100.02017 • L SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions               
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available freshwater resources)    NA NA • • Homicides (per 100,000 population)    12.72016 • L
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%)    1.72018 • • Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population)    15.12018 • L
Scarce water consumption embodied in imports (m3/capita)    34.62013 • 5 Percentage of population who feel safe walking alone at night in the      NA NA • •
SDG7 – Affordable and Clean Energy                city or area where they live (%)
Population with access to electricity (%)   100.02017 • L Property Rights (worst 1–7 best)    4.72019 • •
Population with access to clean fuels and technology for cooking (%)    90.42016 • L Birth registrations with civil authority (% of children under age 5)    NA NA • •
COto2t aelm eilsesciotrnicsi tfyro omut fpuuetl  (cMomtCbOu2s/tTioWnh f)or electricity and heating per      NA NA • • CCohrilrdurpetnio innv Poelvrceedp itnio cnh Iinldd leaxb (owr o(%rs to 0f –p1o0p0u blaetsiot)n aged 5 to 14)      N6A620N1A9 •• L•
5
SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth                Exports of major conventional weapons (TIV constant million USD   * 0.02019 • • . C
Adjusted GDP growth (%)    0.32018 • • per 100,000 population) ou
Victims of modern slavery (per 1,000 population)    NA NA • • Press Freedom Index (best 0–100 worst)    29.42019 • L ntr
y
Admuoltbsi lwe-itmh oanne ayc-cseoruvnicte a tp aro bvaidnekr  o(%r o othf epro fpinualantcioianl  iangsteidtu 1ti5o no ro or vwerit)h a     NA NA • • SGoDvGer1nm7 e–n tP sapretnndeinrgs ohni phse aflothr a tnhde e dGuocaatliosn (% of GDP)      8 . 2201  6 •   L    Prof
Unemployment rate (% of total labor force)    NA NA • • For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional    NA NA • • iles
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population)   1.82010 • L public finance, including official development assistance (% of GNI)
Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP)    NA NA • •
Corporate Tax Haven Score (best 0–100 worst)    68.12019 • •
* Imputed data point
405
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
SIERRA LEONE  
Sub-Saharan Africa
OVERALL PERFORMANCE
SDG SDG
17 1
SDG 100 SDG
16 2
75
Index score Regional average score SDG SDG
15 50 3
25
SDG
SDG 4
14
51.9 53.1
Sierra Leone
SDG SDG
13 5
SDG
12 SDG
6
SDG Global rank 153 (OF 166)
SDG
11 SDG
7
SDG SDG
10 SDG 8
9
SPILLOVER INDEX AVERAGE PERFORMANCE BY SDG
100 (best) to 0 (worst)
100
80
60
40
20
0
CURRENT ASSESSMENT – SDG DASHBOARD
  Major challenges           Significant challenges          Challenges remain          SDG achieved          Information unavailable
SDG TRENDS
5 D 5 D 5 D 5 D 5
• p • L 5 L 5 L
p  Decreasing       5  Stagnating       D  Moderately improving       L  On track or maintaining SDG achievement       •  Information unavailable
Notes: The full title of Goal 2 “Zero Hunger” is “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”.    
  The full title of each SDG is available here: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabledevelopmentgoals
406
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
SIERRA LEONE
Performance by Indicator
SDG1 – No Poverty    Val u e Yea  rRa t ingTr e nd SDG9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure    Val u e Ye a rRa t ingTr e nd
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%)    37.92020 • D Population using the internet (%)    9.02017 • 5
Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%)    70.32020 • 5 Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population)    25.82017 • L
SDG2 – Zero Hunger                Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related     1.82018 • •
Prevalence of undernourishment (%)    25.62017 • p infrastructure (worst 1–5 best)
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%)    37.92013 • 5 The Times Higher Education Universities Ranking: Average score of top 3 * 0.02020 • •
PPrreevvaalleennccee  ooff  wobaesstiintyg,  BinM cIh ≥il d3r0e n(% u nodf aedr u5 lyt epaorps uolfa atigoen )(%)      98..4722001136 •• LD Scuiennivteifrisci taiensd ( tweochrsnt i0ca–l1 j0o0u rbneaslt a)rticles (per 1,000 population)    0.02018 • 5
Human Trophic Level (best 2–3 worst)    2.22017 • L Expenditure on research and development (% of GDP) * 0.02017 • •
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land)    2.02017 • L SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities               
Sustainable Nitrogen Management Index (best 0–1.41 worst)    0.82015 • 5 Gini coefficient adjusted for top income    36.92011 • •
SDG3 – Good Health and Well-Being                SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities               
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)     11202017 • 5 Annual mean concentration of particulate matter of less than      21.62017 • p
NMInecooirdntaealntitacyle  rm oatfoe tr,ut uablnietdryce rura-lto5e s( i(psp e(eprr e1 1r,0, 01000000 l ,il0viv0ee0 b  bpiriortthphsus)l)ation)       12309258...810222000111888 ••• 5DD ASac2tc.i5es fsmasc ittcoiro oinmn wsp irintoh vd epiadum bwleiactte etrrr a( sPnoMsup2roc.5ret),   ((p%μipg)/emd 3(%) of urban population)      3278..8422001179 •• 5p
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population)    0.62018 • L SDG12 – Responsible Consumption and Production                 
Municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)    0.52004 • •
Agdeia-bsteatneds,a ordr iczherdo ndieca rtehs prairtaet dourye d tois ecaasred iionv aadscuultlsa ra dgiesde a3s0e–, c7a0n yceear,r s (%)    30.52016 • 5 Electronic waste (kg/capita)    0.52016 • •
Agame-bstiaenndt aarird pizoeldlu dtieoant h(p reart e1 0at0t,r0ib0u0 tpaobpleu tloat hioonu)sehold air pollution and    3242016 • • PSOro2d eumctiisosnio-bnas seemd bSoOd2i eedm iinss iimonpso (rktgs /(ckgap/citaap)ita)       200..5822001122 •• ••
Traffic deaths (per 100,000 population)    27.32013 • • Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita)    12.02010 • •
Life expectancy at birth (years)    53.12016 • 5 Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)    0.22010 • •
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19)  112.82017 • 5 SDG13 – Climate Action               
Births attended by skilled health personnel (%)    59.72013 • • Energy-related CO2 emissions (tCO2/capita)    0.12017 • L
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%)   802018 • D CO2 emissions embodied in imports (tCO2/capita)    0.02015 • L
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best)   39.02017 • D CO2 emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita)    0.02017 • •
Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best)    3.42019 • p
SDG14 – Life Below Water                 
SDG4 – Quality Education                Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)    57.62018 • L
Net primary enrollment rate (%)    98.12016 • L Ocean Health Index: Clean Waters score (worst 0–100 best)    43.22019 • 5
Lower secondary completion rate (%)    51.02018 • D Fish caught from overexploited or collapsed stocks (% of total catch)    2.52014 • L
Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24)    66.62018 • • Fish caught by trawling (%)    29.62014 • p
SDG5 – Gender Equality                    Marine biodiversity threats embodied in imports (per million population)    0.02018 • •
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods (% of females    44.72017 • 5 SDG15 – Life on Land               
aged 15 to 49 who are married or in unions) Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%)   68.82018 • L
Ratio of female-to-male mean years of education received (%)    63.62018 • 5 Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%)   72.52018 • L
Ratio of female-to-male labor force participation rate (%)    98.72019 • L Red List Index of species survival (worst 0–1 best)    0.92019 • L
Seats held by women in national parliament (%)    12.32020 • p Permanent deforestation (% of forest area, 5-year average)    2.02018 • •
SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation               
Population using at least basic drinking water services (%)    60.82017 • 5 Te(rpreers tmriailll iaonnd p forepsuhlwataiotenr) biodiversity threats embodied in imports      0.02018 • •
Population using at least basic sanitation services (%)    15.72017 • 5 SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions               
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available freshwater resources)    0.52005 • • Homicides (per 100,000 population)    1.72015 • •
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%)    0.02018 • • Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population)    30.12018 • L
Scarce water consumption embodied in imports (m3/capita)    0.52013 • L Percentage of population who feel safe walking alone at night in the      49.32019 • p
SDG7 – Affordable and Clean Energy                city or area where they live (%)
Population with access to electricity (%)    23.42017 • 5 Property Rights (worst 1–7 best)    NA NA • •
Population with access to clean fuels and technology for cooking (%)    1.02016 • 5 Birth registrations with civil authority (% of children under age 5)    81.12018 • •
COto2t aelm eilsesciotrnicsi tfyro omut fpuuetl  (cMomtCbOu2s/tTioWnh f)or electricity and heating per      NA NA • • CCohrilrdurpetnio innv Poelvrceedp itnio cnh Iinldd leaxb (owr o(%rs to 0f –p1o0p0u blaetsiot)n aged 5 to 14)      373.3422001196 •• 5•
5
SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth                Exports of major conventional weapons (TIV constant million USD   * 0.02019 • • . C
Adjusted GDP growth (%)    -4.72018 • • per 100,000 population) ou
Victims of modern slavery (per 1,000 population)    5.02018 • • Press Freedom Index (best 0–100 worst)    30.42019 • p ntr
y
Admuoltbsi lwe-itmh oanne ayc-cseoruvnicte a tp aro bvaidnekr  o(%r o othf epro fpinualantcioianl  iangsteidtu 1ti5o no ro or vwerit)h a     19.82017 • 5 SGoDvGer1nm7 e–n tP sapretnndeinrgs ohni phse aflothr a tnhde e dGuocaatliosn (% of GDP)      4 . 9201  6 •   L    Prof
Unemployment rate (% of total labor force)    4.42019 • L For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional    NA NA • • iles
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population)   0.02010 • L public finance, including official development assistance (% of GNI)
Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP) * 17.12018 • L
Corporate Tax Haven Score (best 0–100 worst) * 0.02019 • •
* Imputed data point
407
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
SINGAPORE  
East and South Asia
OVERALL PERFORMANCE
SDG SDG
17 1
SDG 100 SDG
16 2
75
Index score Regional average score SDG SDG
15 50 3
25
SDG
SDG 4
14
67.0 67.2
Singapore
SDG SDG
13 5
SDG
12 SDG
6
SDG Global rank 93 (OF 166)
SDG
11 SDG
7
SDG SDG
10 SDG 8
9
SPILLOVER INDEX AVERAGE PERFORMANCE BY SDG
100 (best) to 0 (worst)
100
80
60
40
20
0
CURRENT ASSESSMENT – SDG DASHBOARD
  Major challenges           Significant challenges          Challenges remain          SDG achieved          Information unavailable
SDG TRENDS
L D D L D D L L L
• D • 5 p p D •
p  Decreasing       5  Stagnating       D  Moderately improving       L  On track or maintaining SDG achievement       •  Information unavailable
Notes: The full title of Goal 2 “Zero Hunger” is “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”.    
  The full title of each SDG is available here: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabledevelopmentgoals
408
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
SINGAPORE
Performance by Indicator
SDG1 – No Poverty    Val u e Yea  rRa t ingTr e nd SDG9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure    Val u e Ye a rRa t ingTr e nd
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%)    0.92020 • L Population using the internet (%)    88.22018 • L
Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%)    1.12020 • L Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population)   148.82018 • L
SDG2 – Zero Hunger                Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related     4.12018 • L
Prevalence of undernourishment (%) * 1.22017 • • infrastructure (worst 1–5 best)
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%)    4.42000 • L The Times Higher Education Universities Ranking: Average score of top 3    77.42020 • •
PPrreevvaalleennccee  ooff  wobaesstiintyg,  BinM cIh ≥il d3r0e n(% u nodf aedr u5 lyt epaorps uolfa atigoen )(%)      36..6122000106 •• LL SExcupieneninvtdeifiritscui rtaeien osdn ( t wreeocshersantr ic0cha– la1 nj0od0u  drbneeavselt la)orptimcleens t( (p%e ro 1f ,G0D0P0) population)      22..0222001186 •• LL
Human Trophic Level (best 2–3 worst)    NA NA • •
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land)    NA NA • • SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities               
Sustainable Nitrogen Management Index (best 0–1.41 worst)    1.12015 • p Gini coefficient adjusted for top income    NA NA • •
SDG3 – Good Health and Well-Being                SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities               
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)     82017 • L Annual mean concentration of particulate matter of less than      19.12017 • p
2.5 microns in diameter (PM2.5) (μg/m3)
NMeoorntaaltitayl  rmatoer,t ualnitdye rra-t5e ( (ppeerr 1 1,0,00000 l ilvivee b birirtthhss))      12..1822001188 •• LL Access to improved water source, piped (% of urban population)    99.02017 • L
Incidence of tuberculosis (per 100,000 population)    47.02018 • 5 Satisfaction with public transport (%)    94.52019 • L
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population)    0.02018 • L SDG12 – Responsible Consumption and Production                 
Municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)    3.62017 • •
Agdeia-bsteatneds,a ordr iczherdo ndieca rtehs prairtaet dourye d tois ecaasred iionv aadscuultlsa ra dgiesde a3s0e–, c7a0n yceear,r s (%)    9.32016 • L Electronic waste (kg/capita)    17.92016 • •
Agame-bstiaenndt aarird pizoeldlu dtieoant h(p reart e1 0at0t,r0ib0u0 tpaobpleu tloat hioonu)sehold air pollution and    262016 • • PSOro2d eumctiisosnio-bnas seemd bSoOd2i eedm iinss iimonpso (rktgs /(ckgap/citaap)ita)      25382..1622001122 •• ••
Traffic deaths (per 100,000 population)    2.82016 • L Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita)    76.72010 • •
Life expectancy at birth (years)    82.92016 • L Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)    44.32010 • •
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19)   3.52017 • L SDG13 – Climate Action               
Births attended by skilled health personnel (%)    99.62016 • L Energy-related CO2 emissions (tCO2/capita)    11.92017 • p
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%)   952018 • L CO2 emissions embodied in imports (tCO2/capita)    9.32015 • 5
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best)   86.02017 • L CO2 emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita)    0.02018 • •
Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best)    6.42019 • L
SDG14 – Life Below Water                 
SDG4 – Quality Education                Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)    3.32018 • 5
Net primary enrollment rate (%)    99.72017 • • Ocean Health Index: Clean Waters score (worst 0–100 best)    38.72019 • p
Lower secondary completion rate (%)   104.62017 • L Fish caught from overexploited or collapsed stocks (% of total catch)    NA NA • •
Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24)    99.92018 • • Fish caught by trawling (%)    NA NA • •
SDG5 – Gender Equality                    Marine biodiversity threats embodied in imports (per million population)    3.22018 • •
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods (% of females * 76.92017 • D SDG15 – Life on Land               
aged 15 to 49 who are married or in unions) Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%)   21.12018 • 5
Ratio of female-to-male mean years of education received (%)    92.52018 • L Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%)   NA NA • •
Ratio of female-to-male labor force participation rate (%)    79.32019 • L Red List Index of species survival (worst 0–1 best)    0.92019 • p
Seats held by women in national parliament (%)    24.02020 • 5 Permanent deforestation (% of forest area, 5-year average)    0.92018 • •
SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation               
Population using at least basic drinking water services (%)   100.02017 • L Te(rpreers tmriailll iaonnd p forepsuhlwataiotenr) biodiversity threats embodied in imports      12.62018 • •
Population using at least basic sanitation services (%)   100.02017 • L SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions               
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available freshwater resources)    NA NA • • Homicides (per 100,000 population)    0.22017 • L
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%)   100.02018 • • Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population)    11.52018 • L
Scarce water consumption embodied in imports (m3/capita)    97.32013 • 5 Percentage of population who feel safe walking alone at night in the      96.52019 • L
SDG7 – Affordable and Clean Energy                city or area where they live (%)
Population with access to electricity (%)   100.02017 • L Property Rights (worst 1–7 best)    6.42019 • •
Population with access to clean fuels and technology for cooking (%)   100.02016 • L Birth registrations with civil authority (% of children under age 5)    NA NA • •
COto2t aelm eilsesciotrnicsi tfyro omut fpuuetl  (cMomtCbOu2s/tTioWnh f)or electricity and heating per      1.02017 • L CCohrilrdurpetnio innv Poelvrceedp itnio cnh Iinldd leaxb (owr o(%rs to 0f –p1o0p0u blaetsiot)n aged 5 to 14)      N8A520N1A9 •• L•
5
SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth                Exports of major conventional weapons (TIV constant million USD      0.82019 • • . C
Adjusted GDP growth (%)    1.82018 • • per 100,000 population) ou
Victims of modern slavery (per 1,000 population)    3.42018 • • Press Freedom Index (best 0–100 worst)    51.42019 • 5 ntr
y
Admuoltbsi lwe-itmh oanne ayc-cseoruvnicte a tp aro bvaidnekr  o(%r o othf epro fpinualantcioianl  iangsteidtu 1ti5o no ro or vwerit)h a     97.92017 • L SGoDvGer1nm7 e–n tP sapretnndeinrgs ohni phse aflothr a tnhde e dGuocaatliosn (% of GDP)      4 . 6201  3 •   •    Prof
Unemployment rate (% of total labor force)    4.12019 • L For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional    NA NA • • iles
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population)   7.92010 • L public finance, including official development assistance (% of GNI)
Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP)    NA NA • •
Corporate Tax Haven Score (best 0–100 worst)    81.42019 • •
* Imputed data point
409
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
SLOVAK REPUBLIC  
OECD Countries
OVERALL PERFORMANCE
SDG SDG
17 1
SDG 100 SDG
16 2
75
Index score Regional average score 1SD5G 50 S3DG
25
SDG
SDG 4
14
77.5 77.3 Slovak 
SDG Republic SDG
13 5
12 SDG
6
SDG Global rank 27 (OF 166)
SDG
11 SDG
7
SDG SDG
10 SDG 8
9
SPILLOVER INDEX AVERAGE PERFORMANCE BY SDG
100 (best) to 0 (worst)
100
80
60
40
20
0
CURRENT ASSESSMENT – SDG DASHBOARD
  Major challenges           Significant challenges          Challenges remain          SDG achieved          Information unavailable
SDG TRENDS
L 5 D 5 D D 5 L D
D D • p • L D 5
p  Decreasing       5  Stagnating       D  Moderately improving       L  On track or maintaining SDG achievement       •  Information unavailable
Notes: The full title of Goal 2 “Zero Hunger” is “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”.    
  The full title of each SDG is available here: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabledevelopmentgoals
410
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
SLOVAK REPUBLIC
Performance by Indicator
SDG1 – No Poverty    Va lu e Ye a rRa t ingTr e nd SDG9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure    Va lu e Yea  rRa t ingTr e nd
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%)    0.9 2020 • L Population using the internet (%)    80.7 2018 • L
Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%)    1.2 2020 • L Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population)    86.0 2018 • L
Poverty rate after taxes and transfers (%)    8.5 2016 • L Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related     3.0 2018 • L
SDG2 – Zero Hunger                  infrastructure (worst 1–5 best)
Prevalence of undernourishment (%)    3.4 2017 • L Thuen Tivimerseist iHesig (wheorr Estd 0u–c1at0io0 nb eUsnt)iversities Ranking: Average score of top 3    16.4 2020 • •
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%) * 2.6 2016 • L Scientific and technical journal articles (per 1,000 population)    1.0 2018 • L
Prevalence of wasting in children under 5 years of age (%) * 0.7 2016 • L Expenditure on research and development (% of GDP)    0.9 2017 • 5
Prevalence of obesity, BMI ≥ 30 (% of adult population)    20.5 2016 • p Researchers (per 1,000 employed population)    6.8 2018 • 5
Human Trophic Level (best 2–3 worst)    2.4 2017 • p  Triadic patent families filed (per million population)    1.6 2017 • 5
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land)    4.9 2017 • L Gap in internet access by income (percentage points)    28.5 2019 • L
SYuiesltda ignaapb lcel oNsiutrroe g(%en o Mf panoategnetmiael ynite Ilndd)ex (best 0–1.41 worst)      408..95 22001155 •• p• Waonmde enn ignin seceiernincge) and engineering (% of tertiary graduates in science     33.9 2015 • •
SDG3 – Good Health and Well-Being                    SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities               
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)     5 2017 • L Gini coefficient adjusted for top income    33.9 2015 • p
Neonatal mortality rate (per 1,000 live births)    2.8 2018 • L Palma ratio    0.8 2016 • L
Mortality rate, under-5 (per 1,000 live births)    5.6 2018 • L Elderly poverty rate (% of population aged 66 or over)    4.4 2016 • L
Incidence of tuberculosis (per 100,000 population)    5.8 2018 • L SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities               
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population)    0.0 2018 • L
Age-standardized death rate due to cardiovascular disease, cancer,     17.2 2016 • L An2.n5u mali cmroenasn  icno dnicaemnetrtaetri o(PnM o2f .p5a) r(tμicgu/mlat3e) matter of less than      17.6 2017 • 5
diabetes, or chronic respiratory disease in adults aged 30–70 years (%) Access to improved water source, piped (% of urban population)    97.2 2017 • 5
Age-standardized death rate attributable to household air pollution and    34 2016 • • Satisfaction with public transport (%)    59.0 2018 • L
Traamffibc ideenat tahirs  p(poellru 1ti0o0n,0 (0p0e rp 1o0p0u,0la0t0io pno)pulation)    6.1 2016 • L Population with rent overburden (%)    3.8 2015 • •
Life expectancy at birth (years)    77.4 2016 • L SDG12 – Responsible Consumption and Production               
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19)   25.7 2017 • p Electronic waste (kg/capita)    12.3 2016 • •
Births attended by skilled health personnel (%)    98.5 2014 • • Production-based SO2 emissions (kg/capita)    80.1 2012 • •
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%)   96.0 2018 • L SO2 emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)     9.3 2012 • •
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best)   77.0 2017 • L Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita)    39.1 2010 • •
Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best)    6.2 2018 • L Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)    7.4 2010 • •
Gap in life expectancy at birth among regions (years)    1.9 2016 • • Non-recycled municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)    0.7 2018 • •
Gap in self-reported health status by income (percentage points)    16.9 2017 • L SDG13 – Climate Action               
Daily smokers (% of population aged 15 and over)    22.9 2014 • • Energy-related CO2 emissions (tCO2/capita)    5.9 2017 • p
SDG4 – Quality Education                CO2 emissions embodied in imports (tCO2/capita)    1.7 2015 • 5
Net primary enrollment rate (%) * 94.8 2017 • 5 CO2 emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita)    64.0 2018 • •
Lower secondary completion rate (%) * 94.8 2017 • L Effective carbon rate (EUR/tCO2)    18.1 2016 • •
Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24)    NA NA • • SDG14 – Life Below Water               
Participation rate in pre-primary organized learning (% of children aged 4 to 6)    82.3 2017 • p Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)    NA NA • •
Tertiary educational attainment (% of population aged 25 to 34)    37.2 2018 • L Ocean Health Index: Clean Waters score (worst 0–100 best)    NA NA • •
PISA score (worst 0–600 best)   469.3 2018 • L Fish caught from overexploited or collapsed stocks (% of total catch)    NA NA • •
VURaenrsdiialetieiroannct  hisnite usvcdeieernns tcisne   ispnce sirecfnoiercmnec a(e%n (c %eo f e o1xfp5 1l-a5yie-nyaeerd-a obr-lydo ssldo)sc)io-economic status (%)        121899...533 222000111888 ••• 55p FMisahri ncaeu bgihotd bivye rtsraitwy ltihnrge a(%ts) embodied in imports (per million population)     N0.A1 20N1A8 •• ••
SDG15 – Life on Land               
SDG5 – Gender Equality                Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%)   82.7 2018 • L
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods   * 75.1 2017 • L Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%)   81.5 2018 • L
RRaa(%ttiioo o  oof fff  effeemmmaaalellees-- attoog--emmd aa1ll5ee   tmlaob e4oa9rn  wf yoehrcaoer s ap roeafr  metidcaiurprcaiaettdioio nonr r  rainetc eue (ni%vioe)nds ()%)      9788..43 22001189 •• LL RPeerdm Laisnte Inntd dexe foofr espsteactiieosn s (u%rv oivf afol (rwesot rasrte 0a–, 15 -byeesatr) average)      10..00 22001198 •• L•
Seats held by women in national parliament (%)    20.0 2020 • 5 Terrestrial and freshwater biodiversity threats embodied in imports      1.4 2018 • •
Gender wage gap (% of male median wage)    15.7 2018 • p (per million population)
Gender gap in time spent doing unpaid work (minutes/day)    NA NA • • SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions               
Homicides (per 100,000 population)    1.5 2017 • L
SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation                Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population)    14.9 2018 • L
PPooppuullaattiioonn  uussiinngg  aatt  lleeaasstt  bbaassiicc  dsarninitkaintigo nw saetrevri cseersv (i%ce)s (%)      9997..89 22001177 •• •• Pecrictye notra agree ao wf phoepreu ltahteioyn l iwveh (o% f)eel safe walking alone at night in the      67.5 2018 • L
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available freshwater resources)    2.3 2015 • • Property Rights (worst 1–7 best)    4.4 2019 • •
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%)    43.7 2018 • • Birth registrations with civil authority (% of children under age 5)   100.0 2018 • • 5
SPPcooappruuclleaa ttwiiooannte  uur ssciinnoggn  sssuaamffeepllyyt  immonaa nneaamggbeeoddd  wsiaeandtie tianr ts iieomrnvp isoceerrtsvs i (c(%me)s3 (/%ca)pita)        198692...485 222000111377 ••• LLp CCExohprilrodurrptestn ioo ifnn mv Poealjvroceerd pc oitnino cvnhe Iinnldtdi oleanxb a(olw rw o(%ersa tpo 0of –pn1os0 p(0Tu IblVae tcsioot)nn satganetd m 5 itlloio 1n4 U)SD    *    5000...030 222000111969 ••• p•• . Country
SDG7 – Affordable and Clean Energy                per 100,000 population)  P
PPooppuullaattiioonn  wwiitthh  aacccceessss  ttoo  eclleeacntr ifcuiteyls ( %an)d technology for cooking (%)     19060..60 22001176 •• LL PPererssso nFrse heedlodm in I npdriesoxn (b (pesetr  01–0100,000 w0 oprospt)ulation)     12932..63 22001197 •• Lp rofile
s
COel2e cetmricisistyio onus tfproumt ( MfuteCl Oco2/mTWbuhs)tion for electricity and heating per total    1.2 2017 • 5 SGoDvGer1n7m e–n Pt sapretnndeinrgs honip hse aflothr  atnhde e Gduocaatlison (% of GDP)      9 . 6 201  6 •   5  
Share of renewable energy in total primary energy supply (%)    8.9 2018 • p For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional    0.1 2017 • 5
SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth                public finance, including official development assistance (% of GNI)
Adjusted GDP growth (%)    -0.3 2018 • • Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP)    NA NA • •
VAidmcutoilmtbsis lw eo-iftm hm oaonnde aeycr-ncseo srulvanivctee ar ytp  ar(op bveairdn 1ek,r0  o(0%r0 o  pothfo epprou fplianutailoantncio)ianl  iangsteidtu 1ti5o no ro or vwerit)h a       824..29 22001187 •• L• CFSihonirafptneocdria aptle rSo Tefaictxrse  Hocafy v mSecunol tSrienc oa(brteieo s(ntb a0els–s t1( U00–S01$ w0 b0oi lrwlsioto)nr)st)        55300...909 222000121906 ••• •••
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population)   0.7 2010 • L
Employment-to-population ratio (%)    68.4 2019 • L
Youth not in employment, education or training (NEET)      15.1 2018 • L
(% of population aged 15 to 29)
* Imputed data point
411
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
SLOVENIA  
OECD Countries
OVERALL PERFORMANCE
SDG SDG
17 1
SDG 100 SDG
16 2
75
Index score Regional average score SDG SDG
15 50 3
25
SDG
SDG 4
14
79.8 7777..33
Slovenia
SDG SDG
13 5
SDG
12 SDG
6
SDG Global rank 12 (OF 166)
SDG
11 SDG
7
SDG SDG
10 SDG 8
9
SPILLOVER INDEX AVERAGE PERFORMANCE BY SDG
100 (best) to 0 (worst)
100
80
60
40
20
0
CURRENT ASSESSMENT – SDG DASHBOARD
  Major challenges           Significant challenges          Challenges remain          SDG achieved          Information unavailable
SDG TRENDS
L D D D D D D L D
D D • p 5 L L D
p  Decreasing       5  Stagnating       D  Moderately improving       L  On track or maintaining SDG achievement       •  Information unavailable
Notes: The full title of Goal 2 “Zero Hunger” is “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”.    
  The full title of each SDG is available here: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabledevelopmentgoals
412
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
SLOVENIA
Performance by Indicator
SDG1 – No Poverty    Va lu e Ye a rRa t ingTr e nd SDG9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure    Va lu e Yea  rRa t ingTr e nd
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%)    0.2 2020 • L Population using the internet (%)    79.8 2018 • L
Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%)    0.2 2020 • L Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population)    77.7 2018 • L
Poverty rate after taxes and transfers (%)    8.5 2017 • L Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related     3.3 2018 • L
SDG2 – Zero Hunger                  infrastructure (worst 1–5 best)
Prevalence of undernourishment (%)    2.5 2017 • L Thuen Tivimerseist iHesig (wheorr Estd 0u–c1at0io0 nb eUsnt)iversities Ranking: Average score of top 3    28.5 2020 • •
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%) * 2.6 2016 • L Scientific and technical journal articles (per 1,000 population)    1.5 2018 • L
Prevalence of wasting in children under 5 years of age (%) * 0.7 2016 • L Expenditure on research and development (% of GDP)    1.9 2017 • L
Prevalence of obesity, BMI ≥ 30 (% of adult population)    20.2 2016 • p Researchers (per 1,000 employed population)    9.9 2018 • L
Human Trophic Level (best 2–3 worst)    2.4 2017 • p  Triadic patent families filed (per million population)    3.8 2017 • p
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land)    5.5 2017 • L Gap in internet access by income (percentage points)    29.3 2019 • L
SYuiesltda ignaapb lcel oNsiutrroe g(%en o Mf panoategnetmiael ynite Ilndd)ex (best 0–1.41 worst)      507..67 22001155 •• 5• Waonmde enn ignin seceiernincge) and engineering (% of tertiary graduates in science     31.1 2015 • •
SDG3 – Good Health and Well-Being                    SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities               
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)     7 2017 • L Gini coefficient adjusted for top income    27.4 2015 • L
Neonatal mortality rate (per 1,000 live births)    1.2 2018 • L Palma ratio    0.8 2017 • L
Mortality rate, under-5 (per 1,000 live births)    2.1 2018 • L Elderly poverty rate (% of population aged 66 or over)    13.2 2017 • p
Incidence of tuberculosis (per 100,000 population)    5.3 2018 • L SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities               
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population)    NA NA • •
Age-standardized death rate due to cardiovascular disease, cancer,     12.7 2016 • L An2.n5u mali cmroenasn  icno dnicaemnetrtaetri o(PnM o2f .p5a) r(tμicgu/mlat3e) matter of less than      16.0 2017 • 5
diabetes, or chronic respiratory disease in adults aged 30–70 years (%) Access to improved water source, piped (% of urban population)    99.0 2017 • L
Age-standardized death rate attributable to household air pollution and    23 2016 • • Satisfaction with public transport (%)    59.7 2019 • p
Traamffibc ideenat tahirs  p(poellru 1ti0o0n,0 (0p0e rp 1o0p0u,0la0t0io pno)pulation)    6.4 2016 • L Population with rent overburden (%)    5.2 2017 • L
Life expectancy at birth (years)    80.9 2016 • L SDG12 – Responsible Consumption and Production               
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19)   3.8 2017 • L Electronic waste (kg/capita)    16.1 2016 • •
Births attended by skilled health personnel (%)    99.8 2012 • • Production-based SO2 emissions (kg/capita)   126.2 2012 • •
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%)   93.0 2018 • L SO2 emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)     15.1 2012 • •
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best)   79.0 2017 • L Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita)    29.2 2010 • •
Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best)    6.7 2019 • L Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)    11.9 2010 • •
Gap in life expectancy at birth among regions (years)    2.4 2016 • • Non-recycled municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)    0.3 2018 • •
Gap in self-reported health status by income (percentage points)    25.7 2017 • p SDG13 – Climate Action               
Daily smokers (% of population aged 15 and over)    18.9 2014 • • Energy-related CO2 emissions (tCO2/capita)    6.4 2017 • p
SDG4 – Quality Education                CO2 emissions embodied in imports (tCO2/capita)    2.6 2015 • 5
Net primary enrollment rate (%) * 98.0 2017 • L CO2 emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita)    54.8 2018 • •
Lower secondary completion rate (%) * 98.0 2017 • L Effective carbon rate (EUR/tCO2)    23.3 2016 • •
Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24)    99.8 2014 • • SDG14 – Life Below Water               
Participation rate in pre-primary organized learning (% of children aged 4 to 6)    94.1 2017 • L Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)    88.6 2018 • L
Tertiary educational attainment (% of population aged 25 to 34)    40.7 2018 • L Ocean Health Index: Clean Waters score (worst 0–100 best)    28.4 2019 • p
PVURaIenSrsdiAiale tiseirocannoct r hisenit e u(svwcdeieoernnsrs tcitsne  0  ispn–ce 6sirec0fnoi0erc mnbece a(es%n t(c) %eo f e o1xfp5 1l-a5yie-nyaeerd-a obr-lydo ssldo)sc)io-economic status (%)         511303473....0677 2222000011118888 •••• LLLD FFMiissahhri  nccaaeuu bggihhottd  fbivryoe mrtsrai towyv lteihnrergex a(p%tlso) eitmedb oord cieodll ainp simedp sotrotcs k(sp e(%r m ofil ltiootna lp coaptcuhla)tion)       8N90..A17 2200N11A28 ••• •••
SDG15 – Life on Land               
SDG5 – Gender Equality                Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%)   85.1 2018 • L
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods   * 78.6 2017 • L Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%)   77.5 2018 • L
RRaa(%ttiioo o  oof fff  effeemmmaaalellees-- attoog--emmd aa1ll5ee   tmlaob e4oa9rn  wf yoehrcaoer s ap roeafr  metidcaiurprcaiaettdioio nonr r  rainetc eue (ni%vioe)nds ()%)      9895..23 22001189 •• LL RPeerdm Laisnte Inntd dexe foofr espsteactiieosn s (u%rv oivf afol (rwesot rasrte 0a–, 15 -byeesatr) average)  *  00..90 22001198 •• L•
Seats held by women in national parliament (%)    27.8 2020 • p Terrestrial and freshwater biodiversity threats embodied in imports      2.2 2018 • •
Gender wage gap (% of male median wage)    5.0 2014 • • (per million population)
Gender gap in time spent doing unpaid work (minutes/day)   119.7 2001 • • SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions               
Homicides (per 100,000 population)    0.9 2017 • L
SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation                Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population)    18.3 2018 • L
PPooppuullaattiioonn  uussiinngg  aatt  lleeaasstt  bbaassiicc  dsarninitkaintigo nw saetrevri cseersv (i%ce)s (%)      9999..51 22001177 •• •• Pecrictye notra agree ao wf phoepreu ltahteioyn l iwveh (o% f)eel safe walking alone at night in the      90.3 2019 • L
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available freshwater resources)    0.6 2015 • • Property Rights (worst 1–7 best)    4.6 2019 • •
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%)    89.1 2018 • • Birth registrations with civil authority (% of children under age 5)   100.0 2018 • • 5
SPPcooappruuclleaa ttwiiooannte  uur ssciinnoggn  sssuaamffeepllyyt  immonaa nneaamggbeeoddd  wsiaeandtie tianr ts iieomrnvp isoceerrtsvs i (c(%me)s3 (/%ca)pita)        298483...510 222000111377 ••• LLD CCExohprilrodurrptestn ioo ifnn mv Poealjvroceerd pc oitnino cvnhe Iinnldtdi oleanxb a(olw rw o(%ersa tpo 0of –pn1os0 p(0Tu IblVae tcsioot)nn satganetd m 5 itlloio 1n4 U)SD    *    6000...000 222000111969 ••• L•• . Country
SDG7 – Affordable and Clean Energy                per 100,000 population)  P
PPooppuullaattiioonn  wwiitthh  aacccceessss  ttoo  eclleeacntr ifcuiteyls ( %an)d technology for cooking (%)     19060..20 22001176 •• LL PPererssso nFrse heedlodm in I npdriesoxn (b (pesetr  01–0100,000 w0 oprospt)ulation)      2623..33 22001197 •• LL rofile
s
COel2e cetmricisistyio onus tfproumt ( MfuteCl Oco2/mTWbuhs)tion for electricity and heating per total    0.9 2017 • L SGoDvGer1n7m e–n Pt sapretnndeinrgs honip hse aflothr  atnhde e Gduocaatlison (% of GDP)      10 . 9 201  6 •   L  
Share of renewable energy in total primary energy supply (%)    16.8 2018 • p For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional    0.2 2017 • 5
SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth                public finance, including official development assistance (% of GNI)
Adjusted GDP growth (%)    2.1 2018 • • Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP)    NA NA • •
VAidmcutoilmtbsis lw eo-iftm hm oaonnde aeycr-ncseo srulvanivctee ar ytp  ar(op bveairdn 1ek,r0  o(0%r0 o  pothfo epprou fplianutailoantncio)ianl  iangsteidtu 1ti5o no ro or vwerit)h a       927..52 22001187 •• L• CFSihonirafptneocdria aptle rSo Tefaictxrse  Hocafy v mSecunol tSrienc oa(brteieo s(ntb a0els–s t1( U00–S01$ w0 b0oi lrwlsioto)nr)st)        43970...966 222000121906 ••• •••
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population)   1.0 2010 • L
Employment-to-population ratio (%)    71.9 2019 • L
Youth not in employment, education or training (NEET)      9.7 2018 • L
(% of population aged 15 to 29)
* Imputed data point
413
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
SOLOMON ISLANDS  
Oceania
OVERALL PERFORMANCE
SDG SDG
17 1
SDG 100 SDG
16 2
75
Index score Regional average score SDG SDG
15 50 3
25
SDG
SDG 4
14
 na 49.6 Solomon 
SDG Islands SDG
13 5
SDG
12 SDG
6
SDG Global rank NA (OF 166)
SDG
11 SDG
7
SDG SDG
10 SDG 8
9
SPILLOVER INDEX AVERAGE PERFORMANCE BY SDG
100 (best) to 0 (worst)
100
80
60
40
20
0
CURRENT ASSESSMENT – SDG DASHBOARD
  Major challenges           Significant challenges          Challenges remain          SDG achieved          Information unavailable
SDG TRENDS
5 5 D p 5 p D • 5
• 5 • L 5 p 5 L
p  Decreasing       5  Stagnating       D  Moderately improving       L  On track or maintaining SDG achievement       •  Information unavailable
Notes: The full title of Goal 2 “Zero Hunger” is “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”.    
  The full title of each SDG is available here: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabledevelopmentgoals
414
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
SOLOMON ISLANDS
Performance by Indicator
SDG1 – No Poverty    Val u e Yea  rRa t ingTr e nd SDG9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure    Val u e Ye a rRa t ingTr e nd
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%)    23.02020 • 5 Population using the internet (%)    11.92017 • 5
Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%)    52.92020 • 5 Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population)    17.52018 • D
SDG2 – Zero Hunger                Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related     2.22018 • p
Prevalence of undernourishment (%)    8.92017 • L infrastructure (worst 1–5 best)
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%)    31.62015 • 5 The Times Higher Education Universities Ranking: Average score of top 3 * 0.02020 • •
PPrreevvaalleennccee  ooff  wobaesstiintyg,  BinM cIh ≥il d3r0e n(% u nodf aedr u5 lyt epaorps uolfa atigoen )(%)      272..9522001156 •• Lp Scuiennivteifrisci taiensd ( tweochrsnt i0ca–l1 j0o0u rbneaslt a)rticles (per 1,000 population)    0.02018 • p
Human Trophic Level (best 2–3 worst)    2.12017 • L Expenditure on research and development (% of GDP)    NA NA • •
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land)    1.62017 • p SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities               
Sustainable Nitrogen Management Index (best 0–1.41 worst)    1.22015 • p Gini coefficient adjusted for top income    42.02013 • •
SDG3 – Good Health and Well-Being                SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities               
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)     1042017 • L Annual mean concentration of particulate matter of less than      11.92017 • D
2.5 microns in diameter (PM2.5) (μg/m3)
NMeoorntaaltitayl  rmatoer,t ualnitdye rra-t5e ( (ppeerr 1 1,0,00000 l ilvivee b birirtthhss))      280..2022001188 •• LL Access to improved water source, piped (% of urban population)    70.52017 • p
Incidence of tuberculosis (per 100,000 population)    74.02018 • D Satisfaction with public transport (%)    NA NA • •
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population)    NA NA • • SDG12 – Responsible Consumption and Production                 
Municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)    3.32013 • •
Agdeia-bsteatneds,a ordr iczherdo ndieca rtehs prairtaet dourye d tois ecaasred iionv aadscuultlsa ra dgiesde a3s0e–, c7a0n yceear,r s (%)    23.82016 • D Electronic waste (kg/capita)    0.72016 • •
Agame-bstiaenndt aarird pizoeldlu dtieoant h(p reart e1 0at0t,r0ib0u0 tpaobpleu tloat hioonu)sehold air pollution and    1372016 • • PSOro2d eumctiisosnio-bnas seemd bSoOd2i eedm iinss iimonpso (rktgs /(ckgap/citaap)ita)       NNAA NNAA •• ••
Traffic deaths (per 100,000 population)    17.42016 • D Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita)    NA NA • •
Life expectancy at birth (years)    71.12016 • 5 Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)    NA NA • •
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19)   78.02017 • 5 SDG13 – Climate Action               
Births attended by skilled health personnel (%)    86.22015 • • Energy-related CO2 emissions (tCO2/capita)    0.42017 • L
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%)   852018 • L CO2 emissions embodied in imports (tCO2/capita)    NA NA • •
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best)   47.02017 • 5 CO2 emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita)    0.02016 • •
Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best)    NA NA • •
SDG14 – Life Below Water                 
SDG4 – Quality Education                Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)    9.42018 • 5
Net primary enrollment rate (%)    67.52018 • p Ocean Health Index: Clean Waters score (worst 0–100 best)    72.62019 • L
Lower secondary completion rate (%)    71.42018 • • Fish caught from overexploited or collapsed stocks (% of total catch)    28.72014 • p
Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24)    NA NA • • Fish caught by trawling (%)    NA NA • •
SDG5 – Gender Equality                    Marine biodiversity threats embodied in imports (per million population)    NA NA • •
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods (% of females    38.02015 • 5 SDG15 – Life on Land               
aged 15 to 49 who are married or in unions) Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%)   9.02018 • 5
Ratio of female-to-male mean years of education received (%)    NA NA • • Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%)   NA NA • •
Ratio of female-to-male labor force participation rate (%)    77.72019 • L Red List Index of species survival (worst 0–1 best)    0.82019 • p
Seats held by women in national parliament (%)    6.12020 • 5 Permanent deforestation (% of forest area, 5-year average)    0.32018 • •
SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation               
Population using at least basic drinking water services (%)    67.82017 • p Te(rpreers tmriailll iaonnd p forepsuhlwataiotenr) biodiversity threats embodied in imports      NA NA • •
Population using at least basic sanitation services (%)    33.52017 • 5 SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions               
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available freshwater resources)    NA NA • • Homicides (per 100,000 population)    3.82008 • •
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%)    0.02018 • • Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population)    48.22018 • 5
Scarce water consumption embodied in imports (m3/capita)    NA NA • • Percentage of population who feel safe walking alone at night in the      NA NA • •
SDG7 – Affordable and Clean Energy                city or area where they live (%)
Population with access to electricity (%)    62.92017 • L Property Rights (worst 1–7 best)    NA NA • •
Population with access to clean fuels and technology for cooking (%)    8.52016 • 5 Birth registrations with civil authority (% of children under age 5)    88.02018 • •
COto2t aelm eilsesciotrnicsi tfyro omut fpuuetl  (cMomtCbOu2s/tTioWnh f)or electricity and heating per      NA NA • • CCohrilrdurpetnio innv Poelvrceedp itnio cnh Iinldd leaxb (owr o(%rs to 0f –p1o0p0u blaetsiot)n aged 5 to 14)      474.2822001196 •• 5•
5
SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth                Exports of major conventional weapons (TIV constant million USD   * 0.02019 • • . C
Adjusted GDP growth (%)    -5.52018 • • per 100,000 population) ou
Victims of modern slavery (per 1,000 population)    NA NA • • Press Freedom Index (best 0–100 worst)    NA NA • • ntr
y
Admuoltbsi lwe-itmh oanne ayc-cseoruvnicte a tp aro bvaidnekr  o(%r o othf epro fpinualantcioianl  iangsteidtu 1ti5o no ro or vwerit)h a     NA NA • • SGoDvGer1nm7 e–n tP sapretnndeinrgs ohni phse aflothr a tnhde e dGuocaatliosn (% of GDP)      14 . 1201  0 •   •    Prof
Unemployment rate (% of total labor force)    0.62019 • L For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional    NA NA • • iles
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population)   NA NA • • public finance, including official development assistance (% of GNI)
Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP)    33.82018 • L
Corporate Tax Haven Score (best 0–100 worst) * 0.02019 • •
* Imputed data point
415
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
SOMALIA  
Sub-Saharan Africa
OVERALL PERFORMANCE
SDG SDG
17 1
SDG 100 SDG
16 2
75
Index score Regional average score SDG SDG
15 50 3
25
SDG
SDG 4
14
46.2 53.1
Somalia
SDG SDG
13 5
SDG
12 SDG
6
SDG Global rank 163 (OF 166)
SDG
11 SDG
7
SDG SDG
10 SDG 8
9
SPILLOVER INDEX AVERAGE PERFORMANCE BY SDG
100 (best) to 0 (worst)
100
80
60
40
20
0
CURRENT ASSESSMENT – SDG DASHBOARD
  Major challenges           Significant challenges          Challenges remain          SDG achieved          Information unavailable
SDG TRENDS
5 5 5 • D D 5 D 5
• D • L 5 p 5 •
p  Decreasing       5  Stagnating       D  Moderately improving       L  On track or maintaining SDG achievement       •  Information unavailable
Notes: The full title of Goal 2 “Zero Hunger” is “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”.    
  The full title of each SDG is available here: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabledevelopmentgoals
416
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
SOMALIA
Performance by Indicator
SDG1 – No Poverty    Val u e Yea  rRa t ingTr e nd SDG9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure    Val u e Ye a rRa t ingTr e nd
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%)    50.52020 • 5 Population using the internet (%)    2.02017 • 5
Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%)    78.02020 • 5 Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population)    2.52017 • 5
SDG2 – Zero Hunger                Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related     1.82018 • D
Prevalence of undernourishment (%)    NA NA • • infrastructure (worst 1–5 best)
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%)    25.32009 • 5 The Times Higher Education Universities Ranking: Average score of top 3 * 0.02020 • •
PPrreevvaalleennccee  ooff  wobaesstiintyg,  BinM cIh ≥il d3r0e n(% u nodf aedr u5 lyt epaorps uolfa atigoen )(%)      185..3022000196 •• 5L Scuiennivteifrisci taiensd ( tweochrsnt i0ca–l1 j0o0u rbneaslt a)rticles (per 1,000 population)    0.02018 • 5
Expenditure on research and development (% of GDP) * 0.02017 • •
Human Trophic Level (best 2–3 worst)    NA NA • •
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land)    0.52017 • p SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities               
Sustainable Nitrogen Management Index (best 0–1.41 worst)    1.12015 • 5 Gini coefficient adjusted for top income    NA NA • •
SDG3 – Good Health and Well-Being                SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities               
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)     8292017 • 5 Annual mean concentration of particulate matter of less than      32.02017 • p
NMeoorntaaltitayl  rmatoer,t ualnitdye rra-t5e ( (ppeerr 1 1,0,00000 l ilvivee b birirtthhss))     13271..5522001188 •• 5D Ac2c.5e sms itcor oimnsp irno vdeiadm weatteerr ( sPoMu2rc.5e),  (pμipg/emd 3(%) of urban population)    75.42017 • L
Incidence of tuberculosis (per 100,000 population)   262.02018 • 5 Satisfaction with public transport (%)    62.02016 • •
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population)    0.02018 • L SDG12 – Responsible Consumption and Production                 
Municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)    0.92016 • •
Agdeia-bsteatneds,a ordr iczherdo ndieca rtehs prairtaet dourye d tois ecaasred iionv aadscuultlsa ra dgiesde a3s0e–, c7a0n yceear,r s (%)    21.82016 • p Electronic waste (kg/capita)    NA NA • •
Agame-bstiaenndt aarird pizoeldlu dtieoant h(p reart e1 0at0t,r0ib0u0 tpaobpleu tloat hioonu)sehold air pollution and    2132016 • • PSOro2d eumctiisosnio-bnas seemd bSoOd2i eedm iinss iimonpso (rktgs /(ckgap/citaap)ita)       100..0222001122 •• ••
Traffic deaths (per 100,000 population)    27.12016 • p Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita)    30.82010 • •
Life expectancy at birth (years)    55.42016 • 5 Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)    0.02010 • •
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19)  100.12017 • 5 SDG13 – Climate Action               
Births attended by skilled health personnel (%)    9.42006 • • Energy-related CO2 emissions (tCO2/capita)    0.02017 • L
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%)   422018 • 5 CO2 emissions embodied in imports (tCO2/capita)    0.02015 • L
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best)   25.02017 • 5 CO2 emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita) * 0.02018 • •
Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best)    4.72016 • •
SDG14 – Life Below Water                 
SDG4 – Quality Education                Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)    0.02018 • 5
Net primary enrollment rate (%)    NA NA • • Ocean Health Index: Clean Waters score (worst 0–100 best)    61.02019 • 5
Lower secondary completion rate (%)    NA NA • • Fish caught from overexploited or collapsed stocks (% of total catch)    15.42014 • L
Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24)    NA NA • • Fish caught by trawling (%)    10.42014 • 5
SDG5 – Gender Equality                    Marine biodiversity threats embodied in imports (per million population)    0.02018 • •
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods (% of females * 48.32017 • D SDG15 – Life on Land               
aged 15 to 49 who are married or in unions) Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%)   0.02018 • 5
Ratio of female-to-male mean years of education received (%)    NA NA • • Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%)   0.02018 • 5
Ratio of female-to-male labor force participation rate (%)    25.82019 • 5 Red List Index of species survival (worst 0–1 best)    0.92019 • p
Seats held by women in national parliament (%)    24.42020 • L Permanent deforestation (% of forest area, 5-year average)    0.02018 • •
SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation               
Population using at least basic drinking water services (%)    52.42017 • D Te(rpreers tmriailll iaonnd p forepsuhlwataiotenr) biodiversity threats embodied in imports      0.02018 • •
Population using at least basic sanitation services (%)    38.32017 • 5 SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions               
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available freshwater resources)    24.52005 • • Homicides (per 100,000 population) * 4.32015 • •
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%)    0.02018 • • Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population)    NA NA • •
Scarce water consumption embodied in imports (m3/capita)    0.02013 • L Percentage of population who feel safe walking alone at night in the      85.42016 • •
SDG7 – Affordable and Clean Energy                city or area where they live (%)
Population with access to electricity (%)    32.92017 • 5 Property Rights (worst 1–7 best)    NA NA • •
Population with access to clean fuels and technology for cooking (%)    2.32016 • 5 Birth registrations with civil authority (% of children under age 5)    3.02018 • •
COto2t aelm eilsesciotrnicsi tfyro omut fpuuetl  (cMomtCbOu2s/tTioWnh f)or electricity and heating per      NA NA • • CCohrilrdurpetnio innv Poelvrceedp itnio cnh Iinldd leaxb (owr o(%rs to 0f –p1o0p0u blaetsiot)n aged 5 to 14)      49.9022001196 •• 5•
5
SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth                Exports of major conventional weapons (TIV constant million USD   * 0.02019 • • . C
Adjusted GDP growth (%)    NA NA • • per 100,000 population) ou
Victims of modern slavery (per 1,000 population)    15.52018 • • Press Freedom Index (best 0–100 worst)    57.22019 • D ntr
y
Admuoltbsi lwe-itmh oanne ayc-cseoruvnicte a tp aro bvaidnekr  o(%r o othf epro fpinualantcioianl  iangsteidtu 1ti5o no ro or vwerit)h a     38.72014 • • SGoDvGer1nm7 e–n tP sapretnndeinrgs ohni phse aflothr a tnhde e dGuocaatliosn (% of GDP)      N  A N  A •   •    Prof
Unemployment rate (% of total labor force)    11.42019 • 5 For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional    NA NA • • iles
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population)   0.02010 • L public finance, including official development assistance (% of GNI)
Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP)    0.02018 • •
Corporate Tax Haven Score (best 0–100 worst) * 0.02019 • •
* Imputed data point
417
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
SOUTH AFRICA  
Sub-Saharan Africa
OVERALL PERFORMANCE
SDG SDG
17 1
SDG 100 SDG
16 2
75
Index score Regional average score SDG SDG
15 50 3
25
SDG
SDG 4
14
63.4 53.1
South Africa
SDG SDG
13 5
SDG
12 SDG
6
SDG Global rank 110 (OF 166)
SDG
11 SDG
7
SDG SDG
10 SDG 8
9
SPILLOVER INDEX AVERAGE PERFORMANCE BY SDG
100 (best) to 0 (worst)
100
80
60
40
20
0
CURRENT ASSESSMENT – SDG DASHBOARD
  Major challenges           Significant challenges          Challenges remain          SDG achieved          Information unavailable
SDG TRENDS
5 D D L D D D 5 D
• 5 • D 5 5 5 L
p  Decreasing       5  Stagnating       D  Moderately improving       L  On track or maintaining SDG achievement       •  Information unavailable
Notes: The full title of Goal 2 “Zero Hunger” is “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”.    
  The full title of each SDG is available here: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabledevelopmentgoals
416
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
SOUTH AFRICA
Performance by Indicator
SDG1 – No Poverty    Val u e Yea  rRa t ingTr e nd SDG9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure    Val u e Ye a rRa t ingTr e nd
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%)    24.52020 • 5 Population using the internet (%)    56.22017 • L
Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%)    34.12020 • 5 Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population)    77.52018 • L
SDG2 – Zero Hunger                Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related     3.22018 • L
Prevalence of undernourishment (%)    6.22017 • L infrastructure (worst 1–5 best)
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%)    27.42016 • D The Times Higher Education Universities Ranking: Average score of top 3    53.62020 • •
PPHrrueemvvaaalleennn Tccreeo  poohff  iwocb aLesestviinetylg ,(  BbinMe csIth ≥ 2il d–3r30e  wn(% ou rnosdft )aedr u5 lyt epaorps uolfa atigoen )(%)        2228...533222000111667 ••• 5Lp SExcupieneninvtdeifiritscui rtaeien osdn ( t wreeocshersantr ic0cha– la1 nj0od0u  drbneeavselt la)orptimcleens t( (p%e ro 1f ,G0D0P0) population)      00..2822001186 •• 5D
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land)    5.62017 • L SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities               
Sustainable Nitrogen Management Index (best 0–1.41 worst)    0.52015 • D Gini coefficient adjusted for top income    67.32014 • •
SDG3 – Good Health and Well-Being                SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities               
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)     1192017 • D Annual mean concentration of particulate matter of less than      25.12017 • D
2.5 microns in diameter (PM2.5) (μg/m3)
NMeoorntaaltitayl  rmatoer,t ualnitdye rra-t5e ( (ppeerr 1 1,0,00000 l ilvivee b birirtthhss))      1303..7822001188 •• LL Access to improved water source, piped (% of urban population)    98.32017 • L
Incidence of tuberculosis (per 100,000 population)   520.02018 • L Satisfaction with public transport (%)    57.12018 • p
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population)    4.92018 • L SDG12 – Responsible Consumption and Production                 
Municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)    1.32011 • •
Agdeia-bsteatneds,a ordr iczherdo ndieca rtehs prairtaet dourye d tois ecaasred iionv aadscuultlsa ra dgiesde a3s0e–, c7a0n yceear,r s (%)    26.22016 • D Electronic waste (kg/capita)    5.72016 • •
Agame-bstiaenndt aarird pizoeldlu dtieoant h(p reart e1 0at0t,r0ib0u0 tpaobpleu tloat hioonu)sehold air pollution and    872016 • • PSOro2d eumctiisosnio-bnas seemd bSoOd2i eedm iinss iimonpso (rktgs /(ckgap/citaap)ita)       432..9122001122 •• ••
Traffic deaths (per 100,000 population)    25.92016 • p Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita)    24.42010 • •
Life expectancy at birth (years)    63.62016 • D Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)    3.02010 • •
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19)   67.92017 • 5 SDG13 – Climate Action               
Births attended by skilled health personnel (%)    96.72016 • • Energy-related CO2 emissions (tCO2/capita)    9.12017 • D
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%)   702018 • p CO2 emissions embodied in imports (tCO2/capita)    0.52015 • L
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best)   69.02017 • L CO2 emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita)   1690.12018 • •
Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best)    4.92018 • p
SDG14 – Life Below Water                 
SDG4 – Quality Education                Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)    51.92018 • L
Net primary enrollment rate (%)    87.02017 • L Ocean Health Index: Clean Waters score (worst 0–100 best)    55.62019 • 5
Lower secondary completion rate (%)    80.82016 • • Fish caught from overexploited or collapsed stocks (% of total catch)    33.62014 • p
Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24)    95.32017 • • Fish caught by trawling (%)    26.62014 • p
SDG5 – Gender Equality                    Marine biodiversity threats embodied in imports (per million population)    0.12018 • •
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods (% of females    77.92016 • 5 SDG15 – Life on Land               
aged 15 to 49 who are married or in unions) Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%)   30.72018 • 5
Ratio of female-to-male mean years of education received (%)    95.22018 • 5 Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%)   35.82018 • 5
Ratio of female-to-male labor force participation rate (%)    77.92019 • L Red List Index of species survival (worst 0–1 best)    0.82019 • p
Seats held by women in national parliament (%)    46.62020 • L Permanent deforestation (% of forest area, 5-year average)    0.12018 • •
SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation               
Population using at least basic drinking water services (%)    92.72017 • L Te(rpreers tmriailll iaonnd p forepsuhlwataiotenr) biodiversity threats embodied in imports      0.82018 • •
Population using at least basic sanitation services (%)    75.72017 • D SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions               
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available freshwater resources)    44.42015 • • Homicides (per 100,000 population)    35.92017 • p
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%)    21.72018 • • Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population)    27.02018 • L
Scarce water consumption embodied in imports (m3/capita)    5.82013 • L Percentage of population who feel safe walking alone at night in the      31.52018 • p
SDG7 – Affordable and Clean Energy                city or area where they live (%)
Population with access to electricity (%)    84.42017 • p Property Rights (worst 1–7 best)    4.12019 • •
Population with access to clean fuels and technology for cooking (%)    84.82016 • L Birth registrations with civil authority (% of children under age 5)    88.62018 • •
COto2t aelm eilsesciotrnicsi tfyro omut fpuuetl  (cMomtCbOu2s/tTioWnh f)or electricity and heating per      1.82017 • D CCohrilrdurpetnio innv Poelvrceedp itnio cnh Iinldd leaxb (owr o(%rs to 0f –p1o0p0u blaetsiot)n aged 5 to 14)      N4A420N1A9 •• 5•
5
SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth                Exports of major conventional weapons (TIV constant million USD      0.12019 • • . C
Adjusted GDP growth (%)    -4.32018 • • per 100,000 population) ou
Victims of modern slavery (per 1,000 population)    2.82018 • • Press Freedom Index (best 0–100 worst)    22.22019 • L ntr
y
Admuoltbsi lwe-itmh oanne ayc-cseoruvnicte a tp aro bvaidnekr  o(%r o othf epro fpinualantcioianl  iangsteidtu 1ti5o no ro or vwerit)h a     69.22017 • p SGoDvGer1nm7 e–n tP sapretnndeinrgs ohni phse aflothr a tnhde e dGuocaatliosn (% of GDP)      10 . 3201  6 •   L    Prof
Unemployment rate (% of total labor force)    28.22019 • p For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional    NA NA • • iles
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population)   0.32010 • L public finance, including official development assistance (% of GNI)
Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP)    30.92017 • L
Corporate Tax Haven Score (best 0–100 worst)    47.12019 • •
* Imputed data point
417
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
SOUTH SUDAN  
Sub-Saharan Africa
OVERALL PERFORMANCE
SDG SDG
17 1
SDG 100 SDG
16 2
75
Index score Regional average score SDG SDG
15 50 3
25
SDG
SDG 4
14
43.7 53.1
South Sudan
SDG SDG
13 5
SDG
12 SDG
6
SDG Global rank 165 (OF 166)
SDG
11 SDG
7
SDG SDG
10 SDG 8
9
SPILLOVER INDEX AVERAGE PERFORMANCE BY SDG
100 (best) to 0 (worst)
100
80
60
40
20
0
CURRENT ASSESSMENT – SDG DASHBOARD
  Major challenges           Significant challenges          Challenges remain          SDG achieved          Information unavailable
SDG TRENDS
p D 5 • 5 5 5 D 5
• p • L • D p •
p  Decreasing       5  Stagnating       D  Moderately improving       L  On track or maintaining SDG achievement       •  Information unavailable
Notes: The full title of Goal 2 “Zero Hunger” is “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”.    
  The full title of each SDG is available here: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabledevelopmentgoals
418
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
SOUTH SUDAN
Performance by Indicator
SDG1 – No Poverty    Val u e Yea  rRa t ingTr e nd SDG9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure    Val u e Ye a rRa t ingTr e nd
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%)    78.32020 • p Population using the internet (%)    8.02017 • 5
Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%)    94.02020 • p Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population)    6.02018 • 5
SDG2 – Zero Hunger                Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related     NA NA • •
Prevalence of undernourishment (%)    NA NA • • infrastructure (worst 1–5 best)
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%)    31.12010 • 5 The Times Higher Education Universities Ranking: Average score of top 3 * 0.02020 • •
PPrreevvaalleennccee  ooff  wobaesstiintyg,  BinM cIh ≥il d3r0e n(% u nodf aedr u5 lyt epaorps uolfa atigoen )(%)      2N2.A720N1A0 •• D• Scuiennivteifrisci taiensd ( tweochrsnt i0ca–l1 j0o0u rbneaslt a)rticles (per 1,000 population)    0.02018 • 5
Human Trophic Level (best 2–3 worst)    2.32017 • L Expenditure on research and development (% of GDP) * 0.02017 • •
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land)    1.42017 • D SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities               
Sustainable Nitrogen Management Index (best 0–1.41 worst)    NA NA • • Gini coefficient adjusted for top income    48.02009 • •
SDG3 – Good Health and Well-Being                SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities               
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)     11502017 • p Annual mean concentration of particulate matter of less than      45.62017 • p
NMeoorntaaltitayl  rmatoer,t ualnitdye rra-t5e ( (ppeerr 1 1,0,00000 l ilvivee b birirtthhss))      4908..0622001188 •• 55 Ac2c.5e sms itcor oimnsp irno vdeiadm weatteerr ( sPoMu2rc.5e),  (pμipg/emd 3(%) of urban population)    7.82017 • p
Incidence of tuberculosis (per 100,000 population)   146.02018 • 5 Satisfaction with public transport (%)    17.72017 • •
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population)    1.62018 • 5 SDG12 – Responsible Consumption and Production                 
Municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)    2.92013 • •
Agdeia-bsteatneds,a ordr iczherdo ndieca rtehs prairtaet dourye d tois ecaasred iionv aadscuultlsa ra dgiesde a3s0e–, c7a0n yceear,r s (%)    19.82016 • 5 Electronic waste (kg/capita)    NA NA • •
Agame-bstiaenndt aarird pizoeldlu dtieoant h(p reart e1 0at0t,r0ib0u0 tpaobpleu tloat hioonu)sehold air pollution and    1652016 • • PSOro2d eumctiisosnio-bnas seemd bSoOd2i eedm iinss iimonpso (rktgs /(ckgap/citaap)ita)       00..2122001122 •• ••
Traffic deaths (per 100,000 population)    29.92016 • p Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita)    50.02010 • •
Life expectancy at birth (years)    58.62016 • 5 Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)    0.02010 • •
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19)   62.02017 • L SDG13 – Climate Action               
Births attended by skilled health personnel (%)    19.42010 • • Energy-related CO2 emissions (tCO2/capita)    0.22017 • L
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%)   492018 • 5 CO2 emissions embodied in imports (tCO2/capita)    0.02015 • L
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best)   31.02017 • 5 CO2 emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita)    NA NA • •
Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best)    2.82017 • •
SDG14 – Life Below Water                 
SDG4 – Quality Education                Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)    NA NA • •
Net primary enrollment rate (%)    35.22015 • • Ocean Health Index: Clean Waters score (worst 0–100 best)    NA NA • •
Lower secondary completion rate (%)    18.02011 • • Fish caught from overexploited or collapsed stocks (% of total catch)    NA NA • •
Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24)    47.92018 • • Fish caught by trawling (%)    NA NA • •
SDG5 – Gender Equality                    Marine biodiversity threats embodied in imports (per million population)    0.02018 • •
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods (% of females    5.62010 • 5 SDG15 – Life on Land               
aged 15 to 49 who are married or in unions) Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%)   33.62018 • 5
Ratio of female-to-male mean years of education received (%)    75.52018 • 5 Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%)   58.62018 • L
Ratio of female-to-male labor force participation rate (%)    96.82019 • L Red List Index of species survival (worst 0–1 best)    0.92019 • L
Seats held by women in national parliament (%)    28.52020 • 5 Permanent deforestation (% of forest area, 5-year average)    0.02018 • •
SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation               
Population using at least basic drinking water services (%)    40.72017 • p Te(rpreers tmriailll iaonnd p forepsuhlwataiotenr) biodiversity threats embodied in imports      0.02018 • •
Population using at least basic sanitation services (%)    11.32017 • 5 SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions               
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available freshwater resources)    4.22010 • • Homicides (per 100,000 population)    13.92012 • •
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%)    0.02018 • • Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population)    28.92015 • •
Scarce water consumption embodied in imports (m3/capita)    0.12013 • L Percentage of population who feel safe walking alone at night in the      42.12017 • •
SDG7 – Affordable and Clean Energy                city or area where they live (%)
Population with access to electricity (%)    25.42017 • D Property Rights (worst 1–7 best)    NA NA • •
Population with access to clean fuels and technology for cooking (%)    0.62016 • 5 Birth registrations with civil authority (% of children under age 5)    35.42018 • •
COto2t aelm eilsesciotrnicsi tfyro omut fpuuetl  (cMomtCbOu2s/tTioWnh f)or electricity and heating per      3.02017 • D CCohrilrdurpetnio innv Poelvrceedp itnio cnh Iinldd leaxb (owr o(%rs to 0f –p1o0p0u blaetsiot)n aged 5 to 14)      N1A220N1A9 •• p•
5
SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth                Exports of major conventional weapons (TIV constant million USD   * 0.02019 • • . C
Adjusted GDP growth (%)    NA NA • • per 100,000 population) ou
Victims of modern slavery (per 1,000 population) * NA NA • • Press Freedom Index (best 0–100 worst)    45.72019 • p ntr
y
Admuoltbsi lwe-itmh oanne ayc-cseoruvnicte a tp aro bvaidnekr  o(%r o othf epro fpinualantcioianl  iangsteidtu 1ti5o no ro or vwerit)h a     8.62017 • • SGoDvGer1nm7 e–n tP sapretnndeinrgs ohni phse aflothr a tnhde e dGuocaatliosn (% of GDP)      N  A N  A •   •    Prof
Unemployment rate (% of total labor force)    12.22019 • 5 For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional    NA NA • • iles
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population)   0.02010 • L public finance, including official development assistance (% of GNI)
Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP)    NA NA • •
Corporate Tax Haven Score (best 0–100 worst) * 0.02019 • •
* Imputed data point
419
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
SPAIN  
OECD Countries
OVERALL PERFORMANCE
SDG SDG
17 1
SDG 100 SDG
16 2
75
Index score Regional average score SDG SDG
15 50 3
25
SDG
SDG 4
14
78.1 77.3
Spain
SDG SDG
13 5
SDG
12 SDG
6
SDG Global rank 22 (OF 166)
SDG
11 SDG
7
SDG SDG
10 SDG 8
9
SPILLOVER INDEX AVERAGE PERFORMANCE BY SDG
100 (best) to 0 (worst)
100
80
60
40
20
0
CURRENT ASSESSMENT – SDG DASHBOARD
  Major challenges           Significant challenges          Challenges remain          SDG achieved          Information unavailable
SDG TRENDS
D D L D D L D L D
5 D • p D 5 L D
p  Decreasing       5  Stagnating       D  Moderately improving       L  On track or maintaining SDG achievement       •  Information unavailable
Notes: The full title of Goal 2 “Zero Hunger” is “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”.    
  The full title of each SDG is available here: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabledevelopmentgoals
420
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
SPAIN
Performance by Indicator
SDG1 – No Poverty    Va lu e Ye a rRa t ingTr e nd SDG9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure    Va lu e Yea  rRa t ingTr e nd
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%)    0.9 2020 • L Population using the internet (%)    86.1 2018 • L
Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%)    1.3 2020 • L Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population)    98.5 2018 • L
Poverty rate after taxes and transfers (%)    14.8 2017 • D Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related     3.8 2018 • L
SDG2 – Zero Hunger                infrastructure (worst 1–5 best)
Prevalence of undernourishment (%)    2.5 2017 • L Thuen Tivimerseist iHesig (wheorr Estd 0u–c1at0io0 nb eUsnt)iversities Ranking: Average score of top 3    55.5 2020 • •
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%) * 2.6 2016 • L Scientific and technical journal articles (per 1,000 population)    1.2 2018 • L
Prevalence of wasting in children under 5 years of age (%) * 0.7 2016 • L Expenditure on research and development (% of GDP)    1.2 2017 • p
Prevalence of obesity, BMI ≥ 30 (% of adult population)    23.8 2016 • p Researchers (per 1,000 employed population)    7.0 2018 • D
Human Trophic Level (best 2–3 worst)    2.4 2017 • p  Triadic patent families filed (per million population)    5.8 2017 • 5
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land)    2.8 2017 • L Gap in internet access by income (percentage points)    21.2 2019 • L
SYuiesltda ignaapb lcel oNsiutrroe g(%en o Mf panoategnetmiael ynite Ilndd)ex (best 0–1.41 worst)      405..78 22001155 •• p• Waonmde enn ignin seceiernincge) and engineering (% of tertiary graduates in science     27.1 2015 • •
SDG3 – Good Health and Well-Being                SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities               
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)     4 2017 • L Gini coefficient adjusted for top income    38.6 2015 • p
Neonatal mortality rate (per 1,000 live births)    1.7 2018 • L Palma ratio    1.3 2017 • D
Mortality rate, under-5 (per 1,000 live births)    3.0 2018 • L Elderly poverty rate (% of population aged 66 or over)    10.2 2017 • p
Incidence of tuberculosis (per 100,000 population)    9.4 2018 • L SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities               
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population)    0.1 2018 • L
Age-standardized death rate due to cardiovascular disease, cancer,     9.9 2016 • L An2.n5u mali cmroenasn  icno dnicaemnetrtaetri o(PnM o2f .p5a) r(tμicgu/mlat3e) matter of less than      9.7 2017 • L
diabetes, or chronic respiratory disease in adults aged 30–70 years (%) Access to improved water source, piped (% of urban population)    99.0 2017 • L
Age-standardized death rate attributable to household air pollution and    10 2016 • • Satisfaction with public transport (%)    63.4 2019 • p
Traamffibc ideenat tahirs  p(poellru 1ti0o0n,0 (0p0e rp 1o0p0u,0la0t0io pno)pulation)    4.1 2016 • L Population with rent overburden (%)    12.9 2017 • L
Life expectancy at birth (years)    83.1 2016 • L SDG12 – Responsible Consumption and Production               
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19)   7.7 2017 • L Electronic waste (kg/capita)    20.1 2016 • •
Births attended by skilled health personnel (%)    NA NA • • Production-based SO2 emissions (kg/capita)    37.2 2012 • •
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%)   93.0 2018 • L SO2 emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)     8.2 2012 • •
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best)   83.0 2017 • L Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita)    45.0 2010 • •
Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best)    6.5 2019 • L Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)    11.0 2010 • •
Gap in life expectancy at birth among regions (years)    3.0 2016 • • Non-recycled municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)    0.8 2018 • •
Gap in self-reported health status by income (percentage points)    12.3 2017 • L SDG13 – Climate Action               
Daily smokers (% of population aged 15 and over)    22.1 2017 • D Energy-related CO2 emissions (tCO2/capita)    5.3 2017 • p
SDG4 – Quality Education                CO2 emissions embodied in imports (tCO2/capita)    1.3 2015 • 5
Net primary enrollment rate (%) * 97.2 2017 • L CO2 emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita)    22.7 2018 • •
Lower secondary completion rate (%) * 97.2 2017 • L Effective carbon rate (EUR/tCO2)    12.5 2016 • •
Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24)    99.7 2018 • • SDG14 – Life Below Water               
Participation rate in pre-primary organized learning (% of children aged 4 to 6)    93.2 2017 • L Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)    85.6 2018 • L
Tertiary educational attainment (% of population aged 25 to 34)    44.3 2018 • L Ocean Health Index: Clean Waters score (worst 0–100 best)    48.6 2019 • p
PISA score (worst 0–600 best)**   486.7 2018 • p Fish caught from overexploited or collapsed stocks (% of total catch)    35.5 2014 • L
VURaenrsdiialetieiroannct  hisnite usvcdeieernns tcisne   ispnce sirecfnoiercmnec a(e%n (c %eo f e o1xfp5 1l-a5yie-nyaeerd-a obr-lydo ssldo)sc)io-economic status (%)        123017...033 222000111888 ••• Lpp FMisahri ncaeu bgihotd bivye rtsraitwy ltihnrge a(%ts) embodied in imports (per million population)     330..66 22001148 •• L•
SDG15 – Life on Land               
SDG5 – Gender Equality                Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%)   56.6 2018 • L
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods   * 84.5 2017 • L Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%)   46.1 2018 • 5
RRaa(%ttiioo o  oof fff  effeemmmaaalellees-- attoog--emmd aa1ll5ee   tmlaob e4oa9rn  wf yoehrcaoer s ap roeafr  metidcaiurprcaiaettdioio nonr r  rainetc eue (ni%vioe)nds ()%)      9871..08 22001189 •• 5L RPeerdm Laisnte Inntd dexe foofr espsteactiieosn s (u%rv oivf afol (rwesot rasrte 0a–, 15 -byeesatr) average)      00..80 22001198 •• p•
Seats held by women in national parliament (%)    44.0 2020 • L Terrestrial and freshwater biodiversity threats embodied in imports      3.6 2018 • •
Gender wage gap (% of male median wage)    11.5 2014 • • (per million population)
Gender gap in time spent doing unpaid work (minutes/day)   143.2 2010 • • SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions               
Homicides (per 100,000 population)    0.7 2017 • L
SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation                Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population)    14.4 2018 • L
PPooppuullaattiioonn  uussiinngg  aatt  lleeaasstt  bbaassiicc  dsarninitkaintigo nw saetrevri cseersv (i%ce)s (%)      9999..99 22001177 •• •• Pecrictye notra agree ao wf phoepreu ltahteioyn l iwveh (o% f)eel safe walking alone at night in the      77.5 2019 • L
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available freshwater resources)    44.0 2015 • • Property Rights (worst 1–7 best)    4.8 2019 • •
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%)    91.5 2018 • • Birth registrations with civil authority (% of children under age 5)   100.0 2018 • • 5
SPPcooappruuclleaa ttwiiooannte  uur ssciinnoggn  sssuaamffeepllyyt  immonaa nneaamggbeeoddd  wsiaeandtie tianr ts iieomrnvp isoceerrtsvs i (c(%me)s3 (/%ca)pita)        299486...046 222000111377 ••• LLL CCExohprilrodurrptestn ioo ifnn mv Poealjvroceerd pc oitnino cvnhe Iinnldtdi oleanxb a(olw rw o(%ersa tpo 0of –pn1os0 p(0Tu IblVae tcsioot)nn satganetd m 5 itlloio 1n4 U)SD    *    6201...090 222000111969 ••• L•• . Country
SDG7 – Affordable and Clean Energy                per 100,000 population)  P
PPooppuullaattiioonn  wwiitthh  aacccceessss  ttoo  eclleeacntr ifcuiteyls ( %an)d technology for cooking (%)     110000..00 22001176 •• LL PPererssso nFrse heedlodm in I npdriesoxn (b (pesetr  01–0100,000 w0 oprospt)ulation)     12226..09 22001197 •• LL rofile
s
COel2e cetmricisistyio onus tfproumt ( MfuteCl Oco2/mTWbuhs)tion for electricity and heating per total    1.0 2017 • L SGoDvGer1n7m e–n Pt sapretnndeinrgs honip hse aflothr  atnhde e Gduocaatlison (% of GDP)      10 . 6 201  6 •   L  
Share of renewable energy in total primary energy supply (%)    14.6 2018 • p For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional    0.2 2017 • D
SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth                public finance, including official development assistance (% of GNI)
Adjusted GDP growth (%)    0.3 2018 • • Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP)    NA NA • •
VAidmcutoilmtbsis lw eo-iftm hm oaonnde aeycr-ncseo srulvanivctee ar ytp  ar(op bveairdn 1ek,r0  o(0%r0 o  pothfo epprou fplianutailoantncio)ianl  iangsteidtu 1ti5o no ro or vwerit)h a       923..83 22001187 •• L• CFSihonirafptneocdria aptle rSo Tefaictxrse  Hocafy v mSecunol tSrienc oa(brteieo s(ntb a0els–s t1( U00–S01$ w0 b0oi lrwlsioto)nr)st)        541444...507 222000121906 ••• •••
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population)   1.8 2010 • L
Employment-to-population ratio (%)    63.3 2019 • L
Youth not in employment, education or training (NEET)      19.1 2018 • L
(% of population aged 15 to 29)
* Imputed data point **For Spain, the reading score for 2015 was carried forward to 2018.
421
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
SRI LANKA  
East and South Asia
OVERALL PERFORMANCE
SDG SDG
17 1
SDG 100 SDG
16 2
75
Index score Regional average score SDG SDG
15 50 3
25
SDG
SDG 4
14
66.9 67.2
Sri Lanka
SDG SDG
13 5
SDG
12 SDG
6
SDG Global rank 94 (OF 166)
SDG
11 SDG
7
SDG SDG
10 SDG 8
9
SPILLOVER INDEX AVERAGE PERFORMANCE BY SDG
100 (best) to 0 (worst)
100
80
60
40
20
0
CURRENT ASSESSMENT – SDG DASHBOARD
  Major challenges           Significant challenges          Challenges remain          SDG achieved          Information unavailable
SDG TRENDS
L D D L 5 D 5 D D
• 5 • L 5 p 5 D
p  Decreasing       5  Stagnating       D  Moderately improving       L  On track or maintaining SDG achievement       •  Information unavailable
Notes: The full title of Goal 2 “Zero Hunger” is “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”.    
  The full title of each SDG is available here: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabledevelopmentgoals
422
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
SRI LANKA
Performance by Indicator
SDG1 – No Poverty    Val u e Yea  rRa t ingTr e nd SDG9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure    Val u e Ye a rRa t ingTr e nd
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%)    0.32020 • L Population using the internet (%)    34.12017 • D
Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%)    8.02020 • L Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population)    65.02018 • L
SDG2 – Zero Hunger                Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related     2.52018 • L
Prevalence of undernourishment (%)    9.02017 • L infrastructure (worst 1–5 best)
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%)    17.32016 • D The Times Higher Education Universities Ranking: Average score of top 3    28.52020 • •
PPrreevvaalleennccee  ooff  wobaesstiintyg,  BinM cIh ≥il d3r0e n(% u nodf aedr u5 lyt epaorps uolfa atigoen )(%)      155..2122001166 •• LD Scuiennivteifrisci taiensd ( tweochrsnt i0ca–l1 j0o0u rbneaslt a)rticles (per 1,000 population)    0.12018 • 5
Human Trophic Level (best 2–3 worst)    2.22017 • L Expenditure on research and development (% of GDP)    0.12015 • •
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land)    2.12017 • p SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities               
Sustainable Nitrogen Management Index (best 0–1.41 worst)    0.92015 • 5 Gini coefficient adjusted for top income    51.42016 • •
SDG3 – Good Health and Well-Being                SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities               
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)     362017 • L Annual mean concentration of particulate matter of less than      11.12017 • L
2.5 microns in diameter (PM2.5) (μg/m3)
NMeoorntaaltitayl  rmatoer,t ualnitdye rra-t5e ( (ppeerr 1 1,0,00000 l ilvivee b birirtthhss))      47..5422001188 •• LL Access to improved water source, piped (% of urban population)    73.82017 • p
Incidence of tuberculosis (per 100,000 population)    64.02018 • 5 Satisfaction with public transport (%)    67.32018 • p
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population)    0.02018 • L SDG12 – Responsible Consumption and Production                 
Municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)    1.92016 • •
Agdeia-bsteatneds,a ordr iczherdo ndieca rtehs prairtaet dourye d tois ecaasred iionv aadscuultlsa ra dgiesde a3s0e–, c7a0n yceear,r s (%)    17.42016 • 5 Electronic waste (kg/capita)    4.52016 • •
Agame-bstiaenndt aarird pizoeldlu dtieoant h(p reart e1 0at0t,r0ib0u0 tpaobpleu tloat hioonu)sehold air pollution and    802016 • • PSOro2d eumctiisosnio-bnas seemd bSoOd2i eedm iinss iimonpso (rktgs /(ckgap/citaap)ita)       111..8522001122 •• ••
Traffic deaths (per 100,000 population)    14.92016 • L Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita)    4.32010 • •
Life expectancy at birth (years)    75.32016 • 5 Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)    1.02010 • •
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19)   20.92017 • L SDG13 – Climate Action               
Births attended by skilled health personnel (%)   100.02014 • • Energy-related CO2 emissions (tCO2/capita)    1.32017 • L
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%)   992018 • L CO2 emissions embodied in imports (tCO2/capita)    0.32015 • L
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best)   66.02017 • L CO2 emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita)    0.02017 • •
Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best)    4.42018 • p
SDG14 – Life Below Water                 
SDG4 – Quality Education                Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)    43.42018 • 5
Net primary enrollment rate (%)    99.12018 • L Ocean Health Index: Clean Waters score (worst 0–100 best)    58.12019 • D
Lower secondary completion rate (%)    96.42017 • L Fish caught from overexploited or collapsed stocks (% of total catch)    20.92014 • L
Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24)    98.82018 • • Fish caught by trawling (%)    35.82014 • p
SDG5 – Gender Equality                    Marine biodiversity threats embodied in imports (per million population)    0.12018 • •
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods (% of females    74.32016 • D SDG15 – Life on Land               
aged 15 to 49 who are married or in unions) Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%)   43.72018 • 5
Ratio of female-to-male mean years of education received (%)    90.52018 • 5 Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%)   40.62018 • 5
Ratio of female-to-male labor force participation rate (%)    48.42019 • 5 Red List Index of species survival (worst 0–1 best)    0.62019 • p
Seats held by women in national parliament (%)    5.32020 • 5 Permanent deforestation (% of forest area, 5-year average)    0.12018 • •
SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation               
Population using at least basic drinking water services (%)    89.42017 • D Te(rpreers tmriailll iaonnd p forepsuhlwataiotenr) biodiversity threats embodied in imports      0.12018 • •
Population using at least basic sanitation services (%)    95.82017 • L SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions               
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available freshwater resources)    90.82005 • • Homicides (per 100,000 population)    2.32017 • L
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%)    0.02018 • • Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population)    53.42018 • p
Scarce water consumption embodied in imports (m3/capita)    5.12013 • L Percentage of population who feel safe walking alone at night in the      63.82018 • p
SDG7 – Affordable and Clean Energy                city or area where they live (%)
Population with access to electricity (%)    97.52017 • L Property Rights (worst 1–7 best)    3.92019 • •
Population with access to clean fuels and technology for cooking (%)    26.32016 • 5 Birth registrations with civil authority (% of children under age 5)    97.22018 • •
COto2t aelm eilsesciotrnicsi tfyro omut fpuuetl  (cMomtCbOu2s/tTioWnh f)or electricity and heating per      1.52017 • 5 CCohrilrdurpetnio innv Poelvrceedp itnio cnh Iinldd leaxb (owr o(%rs to 0f –p1o0p0u blaetsiot)n aged 5 to 14)      13.8022001196 •• 5•
5
SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth                Exports of major conventional weapons (TIV constant million USD   * 0.02019 • • . C
Adjusted GDP growth (%)    -1.32018 • • per 100,000 population) ou
Victims of modern slavery (per 1,000 population)    2.12018 • • Press Freedom Index (best 0–100 worst)    39.62019 • L ntr
y
Admuoltbsi lwe-itmh oanne ayc-cseoruvnicte a tp aro bvaidnekr  o(%r o othf epro fpinualantcioianl  iangsteidtu 1ti5o no ro or vwerit)h a     73.62017 • p SGoDvGer1nm7 e–n tP sapretnndeinrgs ohni phse aflothr a tnhde e dGuocaatliosn (% of GDP)      5 . 1201  6 •   L    Prof
Unemployment rate (% of total labor force)    4.22019 • L For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional    NA NA • • iles
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population)   0.22010 • L public finance, including official development assistance (% of GNI)
Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP)    13.32018 • 5
Corporate Tax Haven Score (best 0–100 worst) * 0.02019 • •
* Imputed data point
423
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
ST. KITTS AND NEVIS  
Latin America and the Caribbean
OVERALL PERFORMANCE
SDG SDG
17 1
SDG 100 SDG
16 2
75
Index score Regional average score SDG SDG
15 50 3
25
SDG
SDG 4
14
 na 70.4 St. Kitts 
SDG and Nevis SDG
13 5
SDG
12 SDG
6
SDG Global rank NA (OF 166)
SDG
11 SDG
7
SDG SDG
10 SDG 8
9
SPILLOVER INDEX AVERAGE PERFORMANCE BY SDG
100 (best) to 0 (worst)
100
80
60
40
20
0
CURRENT ASSESSMENT – SDG DASHBOARD
  Major challenges           Significant challenges          Challenges remain          SDG achieved          Information unavailable
SDG TRENDS
• 5 • p • • L • D
• • • 5 • p • •
p  Decreasing       5  Stagnating       D  Moderately improving       L  On track or maintaining SDG achievement       •  Information unavailable
Notes: The full title of Goal 2 “Zero Hunger” is “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”.    
  The full title of each SDG is available here: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabledevelopmentgoals
424
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
ST. KITTS AND NEVIS
Performance by Indicator
SDG1 – No Poverty    Val u e Yea  rRa t ingTr e nd SDG9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure    Val u e Ye a rRa t ingTr e nd
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%)    NA NA • • Population using the internet (%)    80.72017 • L
Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%)    NA NA • • Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population)    69.92017 • p
SDG2 – Zero Hunger                Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related     NA NA • •
Prevalence of undernourishment (%) * 1.22017 • • infrastructure (worst 1–5 best)
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%) * 2.62016 • • The Times Higher Education Universities Ranking: Average score of top 3 * 0.02020 • •
PPrreevvaalleennccee  ooff  wobaesstiintyg,  BinM cIh ≥il d3r0e n(% u nodf aedr u5 lyt epaorps uolfa atigoen )(%) *   202..7922001166 •• p• Scuiennivteifrisci taiensd ( tweochrsnt i0ca–l1 j0o0u rbneaslt a)rticles (per 1,000 population)    0.52018 • L
Human Trophic Level (best 2–3 worst)    2.42017 • D Expenditure on research and development (% of GDP)    NA NA • •
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land)    NA NA • • SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities               
Sustainable Nitrogen Management Index (best 0–1.41 worst)    1.22015 • 5 Gini coefficient adjusted for top income    NA NA • •
SDG3 – Good Health and Well-Being                SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities               
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)     NA NA • • Annual mean concentration of particulate matter of less than      NA NA • •
2.5 microns in diameter (PM2.5) (μg/m3)
Neonatal mortality rate (per 1,000 live births)    7.92018 • L
Mortality rate, under-5 (per 1,000 live births)    12.02018 • L Access to improved water source, piped (% of urban population)    NA NA • •
Incidence of tuberculosis (per 100,000 population)    0.02018 • L Satisfaction with public transport (%)    NA NA • •
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population)    0.32018 • 5 SDG12 – Responsible Consumption and Production                 
Municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)    5.22015 • •
Agdeia-bsteatneds,a ordr iczherdo ndieca rtehs prairtaet dourye d tois ecaasred iionv aadscuultlsa ra dgiesde a3s0e–, c7a0n yceear,r s (%)    NA NA • • Electronic waste (kg/capita)    12.12016 • •
Agame-bstiaenndt aarird pizoeldlu dtieoant h(p reart e1 0at0t,r0ib0u0 tpaobpleu tloat hioonu)sehold air pollution and    NA NA • • PSOro2d eumctiisosnio-bnas seemd bSoOd2i eedm iinss iimonpso (rktgs /(ckgap/citaap)ita)       NNAA NNAA •• ••
Traffic deaths (per 100,000 population)    NA NA • • Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita)    NA NA • •
Life expectancy at birth (years)    NA NA • • Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)    NA NA • •
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19)   NA NA • • SDG13 – Climate Action               
Births attended by skilled health personnel (%)   100.02014 • • Energy-related CO2 emissions (tCO2/capita)    4.62017 • 5
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%)   962018 • L CO2 emissions embodied in imports (tCO2/capita)    NA NA • •
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best)   NA NA • • CO2 emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita) * 0.02018 • •
Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best)    NA NA • •
SDG14 – Life Below Water                 
SDG4 – Quality Education                Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)    19.52018 • 5
Net primary enrollment rate (%)    93.82016 • p Ocean Health Index: Clean Waters score (worst 0–100 best)    56.62019 • 5
Lower secondary completion rate (%)   111.22016 • • Fish caught from overexploited or collapsed stocks (% of total catch)    NA NA • •
Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24)    NA NA • • Fish caught by trawling (%)    NA NA • •
SDG5 – Gender Equality                    Marine biodiversity threats embodied in imports (per million population)    NA NA • •
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods (% of females    NA NA • • SDG15 – Life on Land               
aged 15 to 49 who are married or in unions) Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%)   29.22018 • 5
Ratio of female-to-male mean years of education received (%)    NA NA • • Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%)   NA NA • •
Ratio of female-to-male labor force participation rate (%)    NA NA • • Red List Index of species survival (worst 0–1 best)    0.72019 • p
Seats held by women in national parliament (%)    20.02020 • D Permanent deforestation (% of forest area, 5-year average)    0.02018 • •
SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation               
Population using at least basic drinking water services (%)    99.02013 • • Te(rpreers tmriailll iaonnd p forepsuhlwataiotenr) biodiversity threats embodied in imports      NA NA • •
Population using at least basic sanitation services (%)    91.62013 • • SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions               
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available freshwater resources)    51.32010 • • Homicides (per 100,000 population)    34.22012 • •
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%)    0.62018 • • Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population)    30.52018 • p
Scarce water consumption embodied in imports (m3/capita)    NA NA • • Percentage of population who feel safe walking alone at night in the      NA NA • •
SDG7 – Affordable and Clean Energy                city or area where they live (%)
Population with access to electricity (%)   100.02017 • L Property Rights (worst 1–7 best)    NA NA • •
Population with access to clean fuels and technology for cooking (%)   100.02016 • L Birth registrations with civil authority (% of children under age 5)    NA NA • •
COto2t aelm eilsesciotrnicsi tfyro omut fpuuetl  (cMomtCbOu2s/tTioWnh f)or electricity and heating per      NA NA • • CCohrilrdurpetnio innv Poelvrceedp itnio cnh Iinldd leaxb (owr o(%rs to 0f –p1o0p0u blaetsiot)n aged 5 to 14)      NNAA NNAA •• ••
5
SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth                Exports of major conventional weapons (TIV constant million USD   * 0.02019 • • . C
Adjusted GDP growth (%)    -2.22018 • • per 100,000 population) ou
Victims of modern slavery (per 1,000 population)    NA NA • • Press Freedom Index (best 0–100 worst)    NA NA • • ntr
y
Admuoltbsi lwe-itmh oanne ayc-cseoruvnicte a tp aro bvaidnekr  o(%r o othf epro fpinualantcioianl  iangsteidtu 1ti5o no ro or vwerit)h a     NA NA • • SGoDvGer1nm7 e–n tP sapretnndeinrgs ohni phse aflothr a tnhde e dGuocaatliosn (% of GDP)      4 . 7201  5 •   •    Prof
Unemployment rate (% of total labor force)    NA NA • • For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional    NA NA • • iles
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population)   NA NA • • public finance, including official development assistance (% of GNI)
Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP)    NA NA • •
Corporate Tax Haven Score (best 0–100 worst) * 0.02019 • •
* Imputed data point
425
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
ST. LUCIA  
Latin America and the Caribbean
OVERALL PERFORMANCE
SDG SDG
17 1
SDG 100 SDG
16 2
75
Index score Regional average score SDG SDG
15 50 3
25
SDG
SDG 4
14
 na 70.4
St. Lucia
SDG SDG
13 5
SDG
12 SDG
6
SDG Global rank NA (OF 166)
SDG
11 SDG
7
SDG SDG
10 SDG 8
9
SPILLOVER INDEX AVERAGE PERFORMANCE BY SDG
100 (best) to 0 (worst)
100
80
60
40
20
0
CURRENT ASSESSMENT – SDG DASHBOARD
  Major challenges           Significant challenges          Challenges remain          SDG achieved          Information unavailable
SDG TRENDS
D 5 5 5 D D L • D
• D • 5 • p p D
p  Decreasing       5  Stagnating       D  Moderately improving       L  On track or maintaining SDG achievement       •  Information unavailable
Notes: The full title of Goal 2 “Zero Hunger” is “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”.    
  The full title of each SDG is available here: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabledevelopmentgoals
426
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
ST. LUCIA
Performance by Indicator
SDG1 – No Poverty    Val u e Yea  rRa t ingTr e nd SDG9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure    Val u e Ye a rRa t ingTr e nd
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%)    4.82020 • L Population using the internet (%)    50.82017 • L
Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%)    10.42020 • D Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population)    42.52018 • D
SDG2 – Zero Hunger                Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related     NA NA • •
Prevalence of undernourishment (%)    NA NA • • infrastructure (worst 1–5 best)
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%)    2.52012 • L The Times Higher Education Universities Ranking: Average score of top 3 * 0.02020 • •
PPrreevvaalleennccee  ooff  wobaesstiintyg,  BinM cIh ≥il d3r0e n(% u nodf aedr u5 lyt epaorps uolfa atigoen )(%)      139..7722001126 •• Lp Scuiennivteifrisci taiensd ( tweochrsnt i0ca–l1 j0o0u rbneaslt a)rticles (per 1,000 population)    0.02018 • 5
Human Trophic Level (best 2–3 worst)    2.42017 • D Expenditure on research and development (% of GDP)    NA NA • •
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land)    NA NA • • SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities               
Sustainable Nitrogen Management Index (best 0–1.41 worst)    1.32015 • p Gini coefficient adjusted for top income    51.32016 • •
SDG3 – Good Health and Well-Being                SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities               
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)     1172017 • 5 Annual mean concentration of particulate matter of less than      22.42017 • D
2.5 microns in diameter (PM2.5) (μg/m3)
NMeoorntaaltitayl  rmatoer,t ualnitdye rra-t5e ( (ppeerr 1 1,0,00000 l ilvivee b birirtthhss))      1126..4622001188 •• LL Access to improved water source, piped (% of urban population)    99.02017 • L
Incidence of tuberculosis (per 100,000 population)    3.22018 • L Satisfaction with public transport (%)    NA NA • •
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population)    0.32018 • 5 SDG12 – Responsible Consumption and Production                 
Municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)    6.32015 • •
Agdeia-bsteatneds,a ordr iczherdo ndieca rtehs prairtaet dourye d tois ecaasred iionv aadscuultlsa ra dgiesde a3s0e–, c7a0n yceear,r s (%)    18.82016 • 5 Electronic waste (kg/capita)    9.32016 • •
Agame-bstiaenndt aarird pizoeldlu dtieoant h(p reart e1 0at0t,r0ib0u0 tpaobpleu tloat hioonu)sehold air pollution and    302016 • • PSOro2d eumctiisosnio-bnas seemd bSoOd2i eedm iinss iimonpso (rktgs /(ckgap/citaap)ita)       NNAA NNAA •• ••
Traffic deaths (per 100,000 population)    35.42016 • p Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita)    NA NA • •
Life expectancy at birth (years)    75.62016 • D Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)    NA NA • •
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19)   40.52017 • D SDG13 – Climate Action               
Births attended by skilled health personnel (%)    98.72012 • • Energy-related CO2 emissions (tCO2/capita)    2.42017 • 5
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%)   862018 • p CO2 emissions embodied in imports (tCO2/capita)    NA NA • •
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best)   68.02017 • L CO2 emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita)    0.02016 • •
Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best)    NA NA • •
SDG14 – Life Below Water                 
SDG4 – Quality Education                Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)    15.52018 • 5
Net primary enrollment rate (%)    95.42018 • L Ocean Health Index: Clean Waters score (worst 0–100 best)    52.82019 • p
Lower secondary completion rate (%)    86.22018 • p Fish caught from overexploited or collapsed stocks (% of total catch)    NA NA • •
Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24)    NA NA • • Fish caught by trawling (%)    NA NA • •
SDG5 – Gender Equality                    Marine biodiversity threats embodied in imports (per million population)    NA NA • •
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods (% of females    72.42012 • D SDG15 – Life on Land               
aged 15 to 49 who are married or in unions) Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%)   46.02018 • 5
Ratio of female-to-male mean years of education received (%)   107.32018 • L Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%)   NA NA • •
Ratio of female-to-male labor force participation rate (%)    80.22019 • L Red List Index of species survival (worst 0–1 best)    0.82019 • p
Seats held by women in national parliament (%)    16.72020 • p Permanent deforestation (% of forest area, 5-year average)    0.12018 • •
SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation               
Population using at least basic drinking water services (%)    98.22017 • L Te(rpreers tmriailll iaonnd p forepsuhlwataiotenr) biodiversity threats embodied in imports      NA NA • •
Population using at least basic sanitation services (%)    88.42017 • 5 SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions               
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available freshwater resources)    14.32005 • • Homicides (per 100,000 population)    29.62017 • p
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%)    0.92018 • • Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population)    51.82018 • •
Scarce water consumption embodied in imports (m3/capita)    NA NA • • Percentage of population who feel safe walking alone at night in the      NA NA • •
SDG7 – Affordable and Clean Energy                city or area where they live (%)
Population with access to electricity (%)    98.82017 • L Property Rights (worst 1–7 best)    NA NA • •
Population with access to clean fuels and technology for cooking (%)    97.22016 • L Birth registrations with civil authority (% of children under age 5)    92.02018 • •
COto2t aelm eilsesciotrnicsi tfyro omut fpuuetl  (cMomtCbOu2s/tTioWnh f)or electricity and heating per      NA NA • • CCohrilrdurpetnio innv Poelvrceedp itnio cnh Iinldd leaxb (owr o(%rs to 0f –p1o0p0u blaetsiot)n aged 5 to 14)      35.5922001196 •• p•
5
SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth                Exports of major conventional weapons (TIV constant million USD   * 0.02019 • • . C
Adjusted GDP growth (%)    -2.22018 • • per 100,000 population) ou
Victims of modern slavery (per 1,000 population)    NA NA • • Press Freedom Index (best 0–100 worst)    NA NA • • ntr
y
Admuoltbsi lwe-itmh oanne ayc-cseoruvnicte a tp aro bvaidnekr  o(%r o othf epro fpinualantcioianl  iangsteidtu 1ti5o no ro or vwerit)h a     NA NA • • SGoDvGer1nm7 e–n tP sapretnndeinrgs ohni phse aflothr a tnhde e dGuocaatliosn (% of GDP)      8 . 0201  6 •   L    Prof
Unemployment rate (% of total labor force)    20.72019 • D For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional    NA NA • • iles
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population)   NA NA • • public finance, including official development assistance (% of GNI)
Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP)    21.42017 • p
Corporate Tax Haven Score (best 0–100 worst) * 0.02019 • •
* Imputed data point
427
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
Latin America  
ST. VINCENT AND THE GRENADINES 
and the Caribbean
OVERALL PERFORMANCE
SDG SDG
17 1
SDG 100 SDG
16 2
75
Index score Regional average score SDG SDG
15 50 3
25
SDG
SDG 4
14
St. Vincent 
 na 70.4
and the 
SDG SDG
13 Grenadines 5
SDG
12 SDG
6
SDG Global rank NA (OF 166)
SDG
11 SDG
7
SDG SDG
10 SDG 8
9
SPILLOVER INDEX AVERAGE PERFORMANCE BY SDG
100 (best) to 0 (worst)
100
80
60
40
20
0
CURRENT ASSESSMENT – SDG DASHBOARD
  Major challenges           Significant challenges          Challenges remain          SDG achieved          Information unavailable
SDG TRENDS
• 5 D L D 5 L • 5
• • • L D p • 5
p  Decreasing       5  Stagnating       D  Moderately improving       L  On track or maintaining SDG achievement       •  Information unavailable
Notes: The full title of Goal 2 “Zero Hunger” is “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”.    
  The full title of each SDG is available here: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabledevelopmentgoals
428
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
ST. VINCENT AND THE GRENADINES
Performance by Indicator
SDG1 – No Poverty    Val u e Yea  rRa t ingTr e nd SDG9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure    Val u e Ye a rRa t ingTr e nd
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%) * NA NA • • Population using the internet (%)    22.42018 • p
Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%) * NA NA • • Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population)    53.92018 • L
SDG2 – Zero Hunger                Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related     NA NA • •
Prevalence of undernourishment (%)    5.72017 • L infrastructure (worst 1–5 best)
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%)    NA NA • • The Times Higher Education Universities Ranking: Average score of top 3 * 0.02020 • •
PPrreevvaalleennccee  ooff  wobaesstiintyg,  BinM cIh ≥il d3r0e n(% u nodf aedr u5 lyt epaorps uolfa atigoen )(%)      2N3.A720N1A6 •• p• Scuiennivteifrisci taiensd ( tweochrsnt i0ca–l1 j0o0u rbneaslt a)rticles (per 1,000 population)    0.02018 • 5
Human Trophic Level (best 2–3 worst)    2.32017 • 5 Expenditure on research and development (% of GDP)    0.12002 • •
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land)    26.12017 • L SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities               
Sustainable Nitrogen Management Index (best 0–1.41 worst)    0.92015 • 5 Gini coefficient adjusted for top income    NA NA • •
SDG3 – Good Health and Well-Being                SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities               
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)     682017 • L Annual mean concentration of particulate matter of less than      22.22017 • 5
2.5 microns in diameter (PM2.5) (μg/m3)
Neonatal mortality rate (per 1,000 live births)    9.72018 • L
Mortality rate, under-5 (per 1,000 live births)    16.42018 • L Access to improved water source, piped (% of urban population)    NA NA • •
Incidence of tuberculosis (per 100,000 population)    6.32018 • L Satisfaction with public transport (%)    NA NA • •
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population)    0.92018 • 5 SDG12 – Responsible Consumption and Production                 
Municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)    1.52015 • •
Agdeia-bsteatneds,a ordr iczherdo ndieca rtehs prairtaet dourye d tois ecaasred iionv aadscuultlsa ra dgiesde a3s0e–, c7a0n yceear,r s (%)    23.22016 • p Electronic waste (kg/capita)    8.32016 • •
Agame-bstiaenndt aarird pizoeldlu dtieoant h(p reart e1 0at0t,r0ib0u0 tpaobpleu tloat hioonu)sehold air pollution and    482016 • • PSOro2d eumctiisosnio-bnas seemd bSoOd2i eedm iinss iimonpso (rktgs /(ckgap/citaap)ita)       NNAA NNAA •• ••
Traffic deaths (per 100,000 population)    8.22013 • • Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita)    NA NA • •
Life expectancy at birth (years)    72.02016 • 5 Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)    NA NA • •
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19)   49.02017 • D SDG13 – Climate Action               
Births attended by skilled health personnel (%)    99.02014 • • Energy-related CO2 emissions (tCO2/capita)    2.02017 • L
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%)   972018 • L CO2 emissions embodied in imports (tCO2/capita)    NA NA • •
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best)   71.02017 • L CO2 emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita)    0.02017 • •
Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best)    NA NA • •
SDG14 – Life Below Water                 
SDG4 – Quality Education                Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)    26.32018 • 5
Net primary enrollment rate (%)    93.62017 • L Ocean Health Index: Clean Waters score (worst 0–100 best)    59.32019 • L
Lower secondary completion rate (%)    92.02018 • L Fish caught from overexploited or collapsed stocks (% of total catch)    NA NA • •
Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24)    NA NA • • Fish caught by trawling (%)    80.22012 • •
SDG5 – Gender Equality                    Marine biodiversity threats embodied in imports (per million population)    NA NA • •
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods (% of females * 81.02017 • L SDG15 – Life on Land               
aged 15 to 49 who are married or in unions) Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%)   42.82018 • 5
Ratio of female-to-male mean years of education received (%)    NA NA • • Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%)   NA NA • •
Ratio of female-to-male labor force participation rate (%)    72.62019 • L Red List Index of species survival (worst 0–1 best)    0.82019 • p
Seats held by women in national parliament (%)    13.02020 • 5 Permanent deforestation (% of forest area, 5-year average)    0.02018 • •
SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation               
Population using at least basic drinking water services (%)    95.12017 • 5 Te(rpreers tmriailll iaonnd p forepsuhlwataiotenr) biodiversity threats embodied in imports      NA NA • •
Population using at least basic sanitation services (%)    87.22017 • 5 SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions               
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available freshwater resources)    11.22015 • • Homicides (per 100,000 population)    36.52016 • •
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%)    0.72018 • • Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population)    24.32018 • L
Scarce water consumption embodied in imports (m3/capita)    NA NA • • Percentage of population who feel safe walking alone at night in the      NA NA • •
SDG7 – Affordable and Clean Energy                city or area where they live (%)
Population with access to electricity (%)   100.02017 • L Property Rights (worst 1–7 best)    NA NA • •
Population with access to clean fuels and technology for cooking (%)    96.02016 • L Birth registrations with civil authority (% of children under age 5)    NA NA • •
COto2t aelm eilsesciotrnicsi tfyro omut fpuuetl  (cMomtCbOu2s/tTioWnh f)or electricity and heating per      NA NA • • CCohrilrdurpetnio innv Poelvrceedp itnio cnh Iinldd leaxb (owr o(%rs to 0f –p1o0p0u blaetsiot)n aged 5 to 14)      N5A920N1A9 •• p•
5
SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth                Exports of major conventional weapons (TIV constant million USD   * 0.02019 • • . C
Adjusted GDP growth (%)    -2.62018 • • per 100,000 population) ou
Victims of modern slavery (per 1,000 population)    NA NA • • Press Freedom Index (best 0–100 worst)    NA NA • • ntr
y
Admuoltbsi lwe-itmh oanne ayc-cseoruvnicte a tp aro bvaidnekr  o(%r o othf epro fpinualantcioianl  iangsteidtu 1ti5o no ro or vwerit)h a     NA NA • • SGoDvGer1nm7 e–n tP sapretnndeinrgs ohni phse aflothr a tnhde e dGuocaatliosn (% of GDP)      8 . 5201  6 •   •    Prof
Unemployment rate (% of total labor force)    18.92019 • 5 For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional    NA NA • • iles
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population)   NA NA • • public finance, including official development assistance (% of GNI)
Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP)    27.22017 • 5
Corporate Tax Haven Score (best 0–100 worst) * 0.02019 • •
* Imputed data point
429
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
SUDAN  
Sub-Saharan Africa
OVERALL PERFORMANCE
SDG SDG
17 1
SDG 100 SDG
16 2
75
Index score Regional average score SDG SDG
15 50 3
25
SDG
SDG 4
14
49.6 53.1
Sudan
SDG SDG
13 5
SDG
12 SDG
6
SDG Global rank 159 (OF 166)
SDG
11 SDG
7
SDG SDG
10 SDG 8
9
SPILLOVER INDEX AVERAGE PERFORMANCE BY SDG
100 (best) to 0 (worst)
100
80
60
40
20
0
CURRENT ASSESSMENT – SDG DASHBOARD
  Major challenges           Significant challenges          Challenges remain          SDG achieved          Information unavailable
SDG TRENDS
p 5 D D 5 D D D 5
• 5 • L D D 5 p
p  Decreasing       5  Stagnating       D  Moderately improving       L  On track or maintaining SDG achievement       •  Information unavailable
Notes: The full title of Goal 2 “Zero Hunger” is “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”.    
  The full title of each SDG is available here: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabledevelopmentgoals
430
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
SUDAN
Performance by Indicator
SDG1 – No Poverty    Val u e Yea  rRa t ingTr e nd SDG9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure    Val u e Ye a rRa t ingTr e nd
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%)    24.62020 • p Population using the internet (%)    30.92017 • D
Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%)    53.12020 • p Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population)    32.42018 • 5
SDG2 – Zero Hunger                Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related     2.22018 • L
Prevalence of undernourishment (%)    20.12017 • 5 infrastructure (worst 1–5 best)
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%)    38.22014 • 5 The Times Higher Education Universities Ranking: Average score of top 3 * 0.02020 • •
PPrreevvaalleennccee  ooff  wobaesstiintyg,  BinM cIh ≥il d3r0e n(% u nodf aedr u5 lyt epaorps uolfa atigoen )(%)      1N6.A320N1A4 •• D• Scuiennivteifrisci taiensd ( tweochrsnt i0ca–l1 j0o0u rbneaslt a)rticles (per 1,000 population)    0.02018 • 5
Expenditure on research and development (% of GDP)    0.32005 • •
Human Trophic Level (best 2–3 worst)    2.42011 • •
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land)    0.72017 • p SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities               
Sustainable Nitrogen Management Index (best 0–1.41 worst)    NA NA • • Gini coefficient adjusted for top income    40.32009 • •
SDG3 – Good Health and Well-Being                SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities               
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)     2952017 • D Annual mean concentration of particulate matter of less than      55.42017 • p
NMeoorntaaltitayl  rmatoer,t ualnitdye rra-t5e ( (ppeerr 1 1,0,00000 l ilvivee b birirtthhss))      2680..6522001188 •• 5D Ac2c.5e sms itcor oimnsp irno vdeiadm weatteerr ( sPoMu2rc.5e),  (pμipg/emd 3(%) of urban population)    68.62017 • 5
Incidence of tuberculosis (per 100,000 population)    71.02018 • L Satisfaction with public transport (%)    33.32014 • •
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population)    0.12018 • L SDG12 – Responsible Consumption and Production                 
Municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)    0.52015 • •
Agdeia-bsteatneds,a ordr iczherdo ndieca rtehs prairtaet dourye d tois ecaasred iionv aadscuultlsa ra dgiesde a3s0e–, c7a0n yceear,r s (%)    26.02016 • 5 Electronic waste (kg/capita)    1.32016 • •
Agame-bstiaenndt aarird pizoeldlu dtieoant h(p reart e1 0at0t,r0ib0u0 tpaobpleu tloat hioonu)sehold air pollution and    1852016 • • PSOro2d eumctiisosnio-bnas seemd bSoOd2i eedm iinss iimonpso (rktgs /(ckgap/citaap)ita)       00..0022001122 •• ••
Traffic deaths (per 100,000 population)    25.72016 • p Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita)    57.02010 • •
Life expectancy at birth (years)    65.12016 • 5 Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)    0.02010 • •
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19)   64.02017 • L SDG13 – Climate Action               
Births attended by skilled health personnel (%)    77.52014 • • Energy-related CO2 emissions (tCO2/capita)    0.42017 • L
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%)   882018 • L CO2 emissions embodied in imports (tCO2/capita)    0.02015 • L
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best)   44.02017 • D CO2 emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita)    0.02017 • •
Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best)    4.12014 • •
SDG14 – Life Below Water                 
SDG4 – Quality Education                Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)    87.52018 • L
Net primary enrollment rate (%)    60.02017 • 5 Ocean Health Index: Clean Waters score (worst 0–100 best)    45.02019 • p
Lower secondary completion rate (%)    57.52017 • L Fish caught from overexploited or collapsed stocks (% of total catch)    39.22014 • D
Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24)    73.02018 • • Fish caught by trawling (%)    2.02014 • L
SDG5 – Gender Equality                    Marine biodiversity threats embodied in imports (per million population)    NA NA • •
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods (% of females    30.12014 • 5 SDG15 – Life on Land               
aged 15 to 49 who are married or in unions) Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%)   25.02018 • L
Ratio of female-to-male mean years of education received (%)    76.22018 • D Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%)   0.02018 • 5
Ratio of female-to-male labor force participation rate (%)    34.82019 • 5 Red List Index of species survival (worst 0–1 best)    0.92019 • L
Seats held by women in national parliament (%)    30.52018 • 5 Permanent deforestation (% of forest area, 5-year average)    0.02018 • •
SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation               
Population using at least basic drinking water services (%)    60.32017 • 5 Te(rpreers tmriailll iaonnd p forepsuhlwataiotenr) biodiversity threats embodied in imports      NA NA • •
Population using at least basic sanitation services (%)    36.62017 • 5 SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions               
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available freshwater resources)   118.72010 • • Homicides (per 100,000 population)    5.22008 • •
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%)    0.02018 • • Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population)    20.42015 • •
Scarce water consumption embodied in imports (m3/capita)    0.02013 • L Percentage of population who feel safe walking alone at night in the      71.32014 • •
SDG7 – Affordable and Clean Energy                city or area where they live (%)
Population with access to electricity (%)    56.52017 • L Property Rights (worst 1–7 best)    NA NA • •
Population with access to clean fuels and technology for cooking (%)    41.32016 • D Birth registrations with civil authority (% of children under age 5)    67.32018 • •
COto2t aelm eilsesciotrnicsi tfyro omut fpuuetl  (cMomtCbOu2s/tTioWnh f)or electricity and heating per      1.22017 • 5 CCohrilrdurpetnio innv Poelvrceedp itnio cnh Iinldd leaxb (owr o(%rs to 0f –p1o0p0u blaetsiot)n aged 5 to 14)      241.6922001196 •• 5•
5
SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth                Exports of major conventional weapons (TIV constant million USD   * 0.02019 • • . C
Adjusted GDP growth (%)    -5.72018 • • per 100,000 population) ou
Victims of modern slavery (per 1,000 population)    12.02018 • • Press Freedom Index (best 0–100 worst)    72.52019 • 5 ntr
y
Admuoltbsi lwe-itmh oanne ayc-cseoruvnicte a tp aro bvaidnekr  o(%r o othf epro fpinualantcioianl  iangsteidtu 1ti5o no ro or vwerit)h a     15.32014 • • SGoDvGer1nm7 e–n tP sapretnndeinrgs ohni phse aflothr a tnhde e dGuocaatliosn (% of GDP)      4 . 8200  9 •   •    Prof
Unemployment rate (% of total labor force)    16.52019 • 5 For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional    NA NA • • iles
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population)   0.02010 • L public finance, including official development assistance (% of GNI)
Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP)    9.52016 • p
Corporate Tax Haven Score (best 0–100 worst) * 0.02019 • •
* Imputed data point
431
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
SURINAME  
Latin America and the Caribbean
OVERALL PERFORMANCE
SDG SDG
17 1
SDG 100 SDG
16 2
75
Index score Regional average score SDG SDG
15 50 3
25
SDG
SDG 4
14
68.4 70.4
Suriname
SDG SDG
13 5
SDG
12 SDG
6
SDG Global rank 86 (OF 166)
SDG
11 SDG
7
SDG SDG
10 SDG 8
9
SPILLOVER INDEX AVERAGE PERFORMANCE BY SDG
100 (best) to 0 (worst)
100
80
60
40
20
0
CURRENT ASSESSMENT – SDG DASHBOARD
  Major challenges           Significant challenges          Challenges remain          SDG achieved          Information unavailable
SDG TRENDS
p D D p D D D D 5
• 5 • 5 D D D •
p  Decreasing       5  Stagnating       D  Moderately improving       L  On track or maintaining SDG achievement       •  Information unavailable
Notes: The full title of Goal 2 “Zero Hunger” is “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”.    
  The full title of each SDG is available here: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabledevelopmentgoals
432
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
SURINAME
Performance by Indicator
SDG1 – No Poverty    Val u e Yea  rRa t ingTr e nd SDG9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure    Val u e Ye a rRa t ingTr e nd
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%)    20.42020 • p Population using the internet (%)    48.92017 • L
Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%)    30.32020 • p Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population)    42.12018 • p
SDG2 – Zero Hunger                Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related     NA NA • •
Prevalence of undernourishment (%)    8.52017 • 5 infrastructure (worst 1–5 best)
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%)    8.82010 • L The Times Higher Education Universities Ranking: Average score of top 3 * 0.02020 • •
PPrreevvaalleennccee  ooff  wobaesstiintyg,  BinM cIh ≥il d3r0e n(% u nodf aedr u5 lyt epaorps uolfa atigoen )(%)      256..0422001106 •• Lp Scuiennivteifrisci taiensd ( tweochrsnt i0ca–l1 j0o0u rbneaslt a)rticles (per 1,000 population)    0.02018 • 5
Human Trophic Level (best 2–3 worst)    2.22017 • L Expenditure on research and development (% of GDP)    NA NA • •
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land)    4.52017 • L SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities               
Sustainable Nitrogen Management Index (best 0–1.41 worst)    0.72015 • 5 Gini coefficient adjusted for top income    NA NA • •
SDG3 – Good Health and Well-Being                SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities               
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)     1202017 • 5 Annual mean concentration of particulate matter of less than      24.82017 • 5
2.5 microns in diameter (PM2.5) (μg/m3)
NMeoorntaaltitayl  rmatoer,t ualnitdye rra-t5e ( (ppeerr 1 1,0,00000 l ilvivee b birirtthhss))      1108..0922001188 •• LL Access to improved water source, piped (% of urban population)    87.82017 • 5
Incidence of tuberculosis (per 100,000 population)    38.02018 • 5 Satisfaction with public transport (%)    73.32012 • •
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population)    0.52018 • L SDG12 – Responsible Consumption and Production                 
Municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)    0.62010 • •
Agdeia-bsteatneds,a ordr iczherdo ndieca rtehs prairtaet dourye d tois ecaasred iionv aadscuultlsa ra dgiesde a3s0e–, c7a0n yceear,r s (%)    21.72016 • D Electronic waste (kg/capita)    9.62016 • •
Agame-bstiaenndt aarird pizoeldlu dtieoant h(p reart e1 0at0t,r0ib0u0 tpaobpleu tloat hioonu)sehold air pollution and    572016 • • PSOro2d eumctiisosnio-bnas seemd bSoOd2i eedm iinss iimonpso (rktgs /(ckgap/citaap)ita)      2086..2822001122 •• ••
Traffic deaths (per 100,000 population)    14.52016 • L Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita)    22.72010 • •
Life expectancy at birth (years)    71.82016 • 5 Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)    3.62010 • •
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19)   61.72017 • 5 SDG13 – Climate Action               
Births attended by skilled health personnel (%)    80.02015 • • Energy-related CO2 emissions (tCO2/capita)    4.22017 • 5
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%)   952018 • L CO2 emissions embodied in imports (tCO2/capita)    1.02015 • 5
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best)   71.02017 • L CO2 emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita)    NA NA • •
Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best)    6.32012 • •
SDG14 – Life Below Water                 
SDG4 – Quality Education                Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)    74.22018 • L
Net primary enrollment rate (%)    86.02018 • p Ocean Health Index: Clean Waters score (worst 0–100 best)    78.82019 • L
Lower secondary completion rate (%)    45.22018 • p Fish caught from overexploited or collapsed stocks (% of total catch)    30.02014 • p
Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24)    98.62018 • • Fish caught by trawling (%)    22.52014 • L
SDG5 – Gender Equality                    Marine biodiversity threats embodied in imports (per million population)    0.02018 • •
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods (% of females    73.22010 • D SDG15 – Life on Land               
aged 15 to 49 who are married or in unions) Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%)   51.22018 • L
Ratio of female-to-male mean years of education received (%)    97.82018 • D Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%)   49.42018 • 5
Ratio of female-to-male labor force participation rate (%)    61.52019 • p Red List Index of species survival (worst 0–1 best)    1.02019 • L
Seats held by women in national parliament (%)    31.42020 • L Permanent deforestation (% of forest area, 5-year average)    0.12018 • •
SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation               
Population using at least basic drinking water services (%)    95.42017 • L Te(rpreers tmriailll iaonnd p forepsuhlwataiotenr) biodiversity threats embodied in imports      0.32018 • •
Population using at least basic sanitation services (%)    84.52017 • 5 SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions               
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available freshwater resources)    4.02005 • • Homicides (per 100,000 population)    5.52017 • 5
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%)    0.02018 • • Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population)   221.02015 • •
Scarce water consumption embodied in imports (m3/capita)    8.22013 • L Percentage of population who feel safe walking alone at night in the      60.22012 • •
SDG7 – Affordable and Clean Energy                city or area where they live (%)
Population with access to electricity (%)    96.82017 • L Property Rights (worst 1–7 best)    NA NA • •
Population with access to clean fuels and technology for cooking (%)    89.62016 • L Birth registrations with civil authority (% of children under age 5)    98.32018 • •
COto2t aelm eilsesciotrnicsi tfyro omut fpuuetl  (cMomtCbOu2s/tTioWnh f)or electricity and heating per      1.12017 • 5 CCohrilrdurpetnio innv Poelvrceedp itnio cnh Iinldd leaxb (owr o(%rs to 0f –p1o0p0u blaetsiot)n aged 5 to 14)      44.4122001196 •• L•
5
SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth                Exports of major conventional weapons (TIV constant million USD   * 0.02019 • • . C
Adjusted GDP growth (%)    -5.32018 • • per 100,000 population) ou
Victims of modern slavery (per 1,000 population)    2.32018 • • Press Freedom Index (best 0–100 worst)    16.42019 • L ntr
y
Admuoltbsi lwe-itmh oanne ayc-cseoruvnicte a tp aro bvaidnekr  o(%r o othf epro fpinualantcioianl  iangsteidtu 1ti5o no ro or vwerit)h a     NA NA • • SGoDvGer1nm7 e–n tP sapretnndeinrgs ohni phse aflothr a tnhde e dGuocaatliosn (% of GDP)      N  A N  A •   •    Prof
Unemployment rate (% of total labor force)    7.32019 • 5 For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional    NA NA • • iles
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population)   0.52010 • L public finance, including official development assistance (% of GNI)
Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP) * 25.72012 • •
Corporate Tax Haven Score (best 0–100 worst) * 0.02019 • •
* Imputed data point
433
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
SWEDEN  
OECD Countries
OVERALL PERFORMANCE
SDG SDG
17 1
SDG 100 SDG
16 2
75
Index score Regional average score SDG SDG
15 50 3
25
SDG
SDG 4
14
84.7 77.3
Sweden
SDG SDG
13 5
SDG
12 SDG
6
SDG Global rank 1 (OF 166)
SDG
11 SDG
7
SDG SDG
10 SDG 8
9
SPILLOVER INDEX AVERAGE PERFORMANCE BY SDG
100 (best) to 0 (worst)
100
80
60
40
20
0
CURRENT ASSESSMENT – SDG DASHBOARD
  Major challenges           Significant challenges          Challenges remain          SDG achieved          Information unavailable
SDG TRENDS
L D L D L D L L L
5 D • 5 5 L L L
p  Decreasing       5  Stagnating       D  Moderately improving       L  On track or maintaining SDG achievement       •  Information unavailable
Notes: The full title of Goal 2 “Zero Hunger” is “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”.    
  The full title of each SDG is available here: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabledevelopmentgoals
434
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
SWEDEN
Performance by Indicator
SDG1 – No Poverty    Va lu e Ye a rRa t ingTr e nd SDG9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure    Va lu e Yea  rRa t ingTr e nd
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%)    0.5 2020 • L Population using the internet (%)    92.1 2018 • L
Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%)    0.6 2020 • L Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population)   127.0 2018 • L
Poverty rate after taxes and transfers (%)    9.3 2017 • L Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related     4.2 2018 • L
SDG2 – Zero Hunger                  infrastructure (worst 1–5 best)
Prevalence of undernourishment (%)    2.5 2017 • L Thuen Tivimerseist iHesig (wheorr Estd 0u–c1at0io0 nb eUsnt)iversities Ranking: Average score of top 3    66.3 2020 • •
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%) * 2.6 2016 • L Scientific and technical journal articles (per 1,000 population)    2.0 2018 • L
Prevalence of wasting in children under 5 years of age (%) * 0.7 2016 • L Expenditure on research and development (% of GDP)    3.3 2017 • L
Prevalence of obesity, BMI ≥ 30 (% of adult population)    20.6 2016 • p Researchers (per 1,000 employed population)    14.8 2018 • L
Human Trophic Level (best 2–3 worst)    2.5 2017 • 5  Triadic patent families filed (per million population)    74.0 2017 • L
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land)    6.0 2017 • L Gap in internet access by income (percentage points)    6.3 2019 • L
SYuiesltda ignaapb lcel oNsiutrroe g(%en o Mf panoategnetmiael ynite Ilndd)ex (best 0–1.41 worst)      608..65 22001155 •• p• Waonmde enn ignin seceiernincge) and engineering (% of tertiary graduates in science     30.0 2015 • •
SDG3 – Good Health and Well-Being                    SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities               
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)     4 2017 • L Gini coefficient adjusted for top income    29.8 2015 • L
Neonatal mortality rate (per 1,000 live births)    1.5 2018 • L Palma ratio    1.0 2017 • p
Mortality rate, under-5 (per 1,000 live births)    2.7 2018 • L Elderly poverty rate (% of population aged 66 or over)    11.3 2017 • p
Incidence of tuberculosis (per 100,000 population)    5.5 2018 • L SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities               
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population)    NA NA • •
Age-standardized death rate due to cardiovascular disease, cancer,     9.1 2016 • L An2.n5u mali cmroenasn  icno dnicaemnetrtaetri o(PnM o2f .p5a) r(tμicgu/mlat3e) matter of less than      6.2 2017 • L
diabetes, or chronic respiratory disease in adults aged 30–70 years (%) Access to improved water source, piped (% of urban population)    99.0 2017 • L
Age-standardized death rate attributable to household air pollution and    7 2016 • • Satisfaction with public transport (%)    62.6 2019 • 5
Traamffibc ideenat tahirs  p(poellru 1ti0o0n,0 (0p0e rp 1o0p0u,0la0t0io pno)pulation)    2.8 2016 • L Population with rent overburden (%)    9.9 2017 • p
Life expectancy at birth (years)    82.4 2016 • L SDG12 – Responsible Consumption and Production               
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19)   5.1 2017 • L Electronic waste (kg/capita)    21.5 2016 • •
Births attended by skilled health personnel (%)    NA NA • • Production-based SO2 emissions (kg/capita)    63.3 2012 • •
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%)   97.0 2018 • L SO2 emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)     18.4 2012 • •
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best)   86.0 2017 • L Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita)    36.1 2010 • •
Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best)    7.4 2019 • L Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)    13.3 2010 • •
Gap in life expectancy at birth among regions (years)    1.2 2016 • • Non-recycled municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)    0.7 2018 • •
Gap in self-reported health status by income (percentage points)    19.9 2017 • L SDG13 – Climate Action               
Daily smokers (% of population aged 15 and over)    10.4 2017 • L Energy-related CO2 emissions (tCO2/capita)    4.3 2017 • 5
SDG4 – Quality Education                CO2 emissions embodied in imports (tCO2/capita)    2.7 2015 • 5
Net primary enrollment rate (%) *100.0 2017 • L CO2 emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita)    0.0 2019 • •
Lower secondary completion rate (%) *100.0 2017 • L Effective carbon rate (EUR/tCO2)    43.8 2016 • •
Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24)    NA NA • • SDG14 – Life Below Water               
Participation rate in pre-primary organized learning (% of children aged 4 to 6)    99.9 2017 • L Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)    59.1 2018 • L
Tertiary educational attainment (% of population aged 25 to 34)    47.5 2018 • L Ocean Health Index: Clean Waters score (worst 0–100 best)    63.4 2019 • p
PISA score (worst 0–600 best)   502.3 2018 • L Fish caught from overexploited or collapsed stocks (% of total catch)    41.3 2014 • p
VURaenrsdiialetieiroannct  hisnite usvcdeieernns tcisne   ispnce sirecfnoiercmnec a(e%n (c %eo f e o1xfp5 1l-a5yie-nyaeerd-a obr-lydo ssldo)sc)io-economic status (%)        113290...704 222000111888 ••• pLL FMisahri ncaeu bgihotd bivye rtsraitwy ltihnrge a(%ts) embodied in imports (per million population)     790..13 22001148 •• 5•
SDG15 – Life on Land               
SDG5 – Gender Equality                Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%)   58.4 2018 • L
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods   * 80.0 2017 • L Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%)   61.9 2018 • L
RRaa(%ttiioo o  oof fff  effeemmmaaalellees-- attoog--emmd aa1ll5ee   tmlaob e4oa9rn  wf yoehrcaoer s ap roeafr  metidcaiurprcaiaettdioio nonr r  rainetc eue (ni%vioe)nds ()%)     19001..56 22001189 •• LL RPeerdm Laisnte Inntd dexe foofr espsteactiieosn s (u%rv oivf afol (rwesot rasrte 0a–, 15 -byeesatr) average)      10..00 22001198 •• L•
Seats held by women in national parliament (%)    47.0 2020 • L Terrestrial and freshwater biodiversity threats embodied in imports      1.6 2018 • •
Gender wage gap (% of male median wage)    7.1 2018 • L (per million population)
Gender gap in time spent doing unpaid work (minutes/day)    49.2 2010 • • SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions               
Homicides (per 100,000 population)    1.1 2017 • L
SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation                Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population)    26.9 2018 • L
PPooppuullaattiioonn  uussiinngg  aatt  lleeaasstt  bbaassiicc  dsarninitkaintigo nw saetrevri cseersv (i%ce)s (%)     19090..30 22001177 •• •• Pecrictye notra agree ao wf phoepreu ltahteioyn l iwveh (o% f)eel safe walking alone at night in the      76.7 2019 • L
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available freshwater resources)    3.9 2010 • • Property Rights (worst 1–7 best)    5.5 2019 • •
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%)   100.0 2018 • • Birth registrations with civil authority (% of children under age 5)   100.0 2018 • • 5
SPPcooappruuclleaa ttwiiooannte  uur ssciinnoggn  sssuaamffeepllyyt  immonaa nneaamggbeeoddd  wsiaeandtie tianr ts iieomrnvp isoceerrtsvs i (c(%me)s3 (/%ca)pita)        399293...394 222000111377 ••• 5LL CCExohprilrodurrptestn ioo ifnn mv Poealjvroceerd pc oitnino cvnhe Iinnldtdi oleanxb a(olw rw o(%ersa tpo 0of –pn1os0 p(0Tu IblVae tcsioot)nn satganetd m 5 itlloio 1n4 U)SD    *    8501...080 222000111969 ••• L•• . Country
SDG7 – Affordable and Clean Energy                per 100,000 population)  P
PPooppuullaattiioonn  wwiitthh  aacccceessss  ttoo  eclleeacntr ifcuiteyls ( %an)d technology for cooking (%)     110000..00 22001176 •• LL PPererssso nFrse heedlodm in I npdriesoxn (b (pesetr  01–0100,000 w0 oprospt)ulation)      587..36 22001197 •• LL rofile
s
COel2e cetmricisistyio onus tfproumt ( MfuteCl Oco2/mTWbuhs)tion for electricity and heating per total    0.2 2017 • L SGoDvGer1n7m e–n Pt sapretnndeinrgs honip hse aflothr  atnhde e Gduocaatlison (% of GDP)      16 . 8 201  6 •   L  
Share of renewable energy in total primary energy supply (%)    37.8 2018 • L For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional    1.0 2017 • L
SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth                public finance, including official development assistance (% of GNI)
Adjusted GDP growth (%)    -0.8 2018 • • Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP)    NA NA • •
VAidmcutoilmtbsis lw eo-iftm hm oaonnde aeycr-ncseo srulvanivctee ar ytp  ar(op bveairdn 1ek,r0  o(0%r0 o  pothfo epprou fplianutailoantncio)ianl  iangsteidtu 1ti5o no ro or vwerit)h a       919..76 22001187 •• L• CFSihonirafptneocdria aptle rSo Tefaictxrse  Hocafy v mSecunol tSrienc oa(brteieo s(ntb a0els–s t1( U00–S01$ w0 b0oi lrwlsioto)nr)st)        541650...073 222000121906 ••• •••
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population)   1.3 2010 • L
Employment-to-population ratio (%)    77.1 2019 • L
Youth not in employment, education or training (NEET)      8.9 2018 • L
(% of population aged 15 to 29)
* Imputed data point
435
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
SWITZERLAND  
OECD Countries
OVERALL PERFORMANCE
SDG SDG
17 1
SDG 100 SDG
16 2
75
Index score Regional average score SDG SDG
15 50 3
25
SDG
SDG 4
14
79.4 77.3
Switzerland
SDG SDG
13 5
SDG
12 SDG
6
SDG Global rank 15 (OF 166)
SDG
11 SDG
7
SDG SDG
10 SDG 8
9
SPILLOVER INDEX AVERAGE PERFORMANCE BY SDG
100 (best) to 0 (worst)
100
80
60
40
20
0
CURRENT ASSESSMENT – SDG DASHBOARD
  Major challenges           Significant challenges          Challenges remain          SDG achieved          Information unavailable
SDG TRENDS
L D L D D D L L L
p L • 5 • D D 5
p  Decreasing       5  Stagnating       D  Moderately improving       L  On track or maintaining SDG achievement       •  Information unavailable
Notes: The full title of Goal 2 “Zero Hunger” is “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”.    
  The full title of each SDG is available here: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabledevelopmentgoals
436
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
SWITZERLAND
Performance by Indicator
SDG1 – No Poverty    Va lu e Ye a rRa t ingTr e nd SDG9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure    Va lu e Yea  rRa t ingTr e nd
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%)    0.1 2020 • L Population using the internet (%)    89.7 2017 • L
Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%)    0.1 2020 • L Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population)    99.4 2018 • L
Poverty rate after taxes and transfers (%)    9.1 2015 • L Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related     4.0 2018 • L
SDG2 – Zero Hunger                  infrastructure (worst 1–5 best)
Prevalence of undernourishment (%)    2.5 2017 • L Thuen Tivimerseist iHesig (wheorr Estd 0u–c1at0io0 nb eUsnt)iversities Ranking: Average score of top 3    75.5 2020 • •
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%) * 2.6 2016 • L Scientific and technical journal articles (per 1,000 population)    2.5 2018 • L
Prevalence of wasting in children under 5 years of age (%) * 0.7 2016 • L Expenditure on research and development (% of GDP)    3.4 2015 • •
Prevalence of obesity, BMI ≥ 30 (% of adult population)    19.5 2016 • p Researchers (per 1,000 employed population)    9.2 2017 • L
Human Trophic Level (best 2–3 worst)    2.5 2017 • 5  Triadic patent families filed (per million population)   151.9 2017 • L
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land)    6.8 2017 • L Gap in internet access by income (percentage points)    26.7 2014 • •
SYuiesltda ignaapb lcel oNsiutrroe g(%en o Mf panoategnetmiael ynite Ilndd)ex (best 0–1.41 worst)      604..27 22001155 •• p• Waonmde enn ignin seceiernincge) and engineering (% of tertiary graduates in science     21.6 2015 • •
SDG3 – Good Health and Well-Being                    SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities               
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)     5 2017 • L Gini coefficient adjusted for top income    34.3 2015 • p
Neonatal mortality rate (per 1,000 live births)    2.9 2018 • L Palma ratio    1.1 2015 • 5
Mortality rate, under-5 (per 1,000 live births)    4.1 2018 • L Elderly poverty rate (% of population aged 66 or over)    19.5 2015 • 5
Incidence of tuberculosis (per 100,000 population)    6.4 2018 • L SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities               
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population)    NA NA • •
Age-standardized death rate due to cardiovascular disease, cancer,     8.6 2016 • L An2.n5u mali cmroenasn  icno dnicaemnetrtaetri o(PnM o2f .p5a) r(tμicgu/mlat3e) matter of less than      10.3 2017 • L
diabetes, or chronic respiratory disease in adults aged 30–70 years (%) Access to improved water source, piped (% of urban population)    99.0 2017 • L
Age-standardized death rate attributable to household air pollution and    10 2016 • • Satisfaction with public transport (%)    83.3 2019 • L
Traamffibc ideenat tahirs  p(poellru 1ti0o0n,0 (0p0e rp 1o0p0u,0la0t0io pno)pulation)    2.7 2016 • L Population with rent overburden (%)    6.7 2016 • L
Life expectancy at birth (years)    83.3 2016 • L SDG12 – Responsible Consumption and Production               
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19)   2.8 2017 • L Electronic waste (kg/capita)    22.2 2016 • •
Births attended by skilled health personnel (%)   100.0 2006 • • Production-based SO2 emissions (kg/capita)    58.3 2012 • •
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%)   96.0 2018 • L SO2 emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)     27.5 2012 • •
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best)   83.0 2017 • L Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita)    43.3 2010 • •
Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best)    7.7 2019 • L Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)    21.8 2010 • •
Gap in life expectancy at birth among regions (years)    1.9 2016 • • Non-recycled municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)    0.9 2018 • •
Gap in self-reported health status by income (percentage points)    21.4 2017 • L SDG13 – Climate Action               
Daily smokers (% of population aged 15 and over)    19.1 2017 • • Energy-related CO2 emissions (tCO2/capita)    3.9 2017 • 5
SDG4 – Quality Education                CO2 emissions embodied in imports (tCO2/capita)    4.8 2015 • 5
Net primary enrollment rate (%) * 99.9 2017 • L CO2 emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita)    0.0 2019 • •
Lower secondary completion rate (%) * 99.9 2017 • L Effective carbon rate (EUR/tCO2)    28.6 2016 • •
Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24)    NA NA • • SDG14 – Life Below Water               
Participation rate in pre-primary organized learning (% of children aged 4 to 6)    99.4 2017 • L Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)    NA NA • •
Tertiary educational attainment (% of population aged 25 to 34)    51.2 2018 • L Ocean Health Index: Clean Waters score (worst 0–100 best)    NA NA • •
PISA score (worst 0–600 best)   498.0 2018 • L Fish caught from overexploited or collapsed stocks (% of total catch)    NA NA • •
VURaenrsdiialetieiroannct  hisnite usvcdeieernns tcisne   ispnce sirecfnoiercmnec a(e%n (c %eo f e o1xfp5 1l-a5yie-nyaeerd-a obr-lydo ssldo)sc)io-economic status (%)        123601...322 222000111888 ••• ppL FMisahri ncaeu bgihotd bivye rtsraitwy ltihnrge a(%ts) embodied in imports (per million population)     N0.A5 20N1A8 •• ••
SDG15 – Life on Land               
SDG5 – Gender Equality                Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%)   35.2 2018 • 5
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods   * 86.4 2017 • L Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%)   60.1 2018 • L
RRaa(%ttiioo o  oof fff  effeemmmaaalellees-- attoog--emmd aa1ll5ee   tmlaob e4oa9rn  wf yoehrcaoer s ap roeafr  metidcaiurprcaiaettdioio nonr r  rainetc eue (ni%vioe)nds ()%)      9834..48 22001189 •• 5L RPeerdm Laisnte Inntd dexe foofr espsteactiieosn s (u%rv oivf afol (rwesot rasrte 0a–, 15 -byeesatr) average)      10..00 22001198 •• L•
Seats held by women in national parliament (%)    41.5 2020 • L Terrestrial and freshwater biodiversity threats embodied in imports      5.8 2018 • •
Gender wage gap (% of male median wage)    14.8 2016 • L (per million population)
Gender gap in time spent doing unpaid work (minutes/day)    NA NA • • SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions               
Homicides (per 100,000 population)    0.5 2017 • L
SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation                Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population)    43.2 2018 • p
PPooppuullaattiioonn  uussiinngg  aatt  lleeaasstt  bbaassiicc  dsarninitkaintigo nw saetrevri cseersv (i%ce)s (%)     19090..90 22001177 •• •• Pecrictye notra agree ao wf phoepreu ltahteioyn l iwveh (o% f)eel safe walking alone at night in the      87.6 2019 • L
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available freshwater resources)    7.6 2010 • • Property Rights (worst 1–7 best)    6.4 2019 • •
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%)    96.7 2018 • • Birth registrations with civil authority (% of children under age 5)   100.0 2018 • • 5
SPPcooappruuclleaa ttwiiooannte  uur ssciinnoggn  sssuaamffeepllyyt  immonaa nneaamggbeeoddd  wsiaeandtie tianr ts iieomrnvp isoceerrtsvs i (c(%me)s3 (/%ca)pita)        499759...655 222000111377 ••• 5LL CCExohprilrodurrptestn ioo ifnn mv Poealjvroceerd pc oitnino cvnhe Iinnldtdi oleanxb a(olw rw o(%ersa tpo 0of –pn1os0 p(0Tu IblVae tcsioot)nn satganetd m 5 itlloio 1n4 U)SD    *    8503...010 222000111969 ••• L•• . Country
SDG7 – Affordable and Clean Energy                per 100,000 population)  P
PPooppuullaattiioonn  wwiitthh  aacccceessss  ttoo  eclleeacntr ifcuiteyls ( %an)d technology for cooking (%)     110000..00 22001176 •• LL PPererssso nFrse heedlodm in I npdriesoxn (b (pesetr  01–0100,000 w0 oprospt)ulation)      1707..54 22001197 •• LL rofile
s
COel2e cetmricisistyio onus tfproumt ( MfuteCl Oco2/mTWbuhs)tion for electricity and heating per total    0.6 2017 • L SGoDvGer1n7m e–n Pt sapretnndeinrgs honip hse aflothr  atnhde e Gduocaatlison (% of GDP)      12 . 8 201  6 •   L  
Share of renewable energy in total primary energy supply (%)    21.5 2018 • L For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional    0.5 2017 • p
SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth                public finance, including official development assistance (% of GNI)
Adjusted GDP growth (%)    -1.1 2018 • • Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP)    NA NA • •
VAidmcutoilmtbsis lw eo-iftm hm oaonnde aeycr-ncseo srulvanivctee ar ytp  ar(op bveairdn 1ek,r0  o(0%r0 o  pothfo epprou fplianutailoantncio)ianl  iangsteidtu 1ti5o no ro or vwerit)h a       918..47 22001187 •• L• CFSihonirafptneocdria aptle rSo Tefaictxrse  Hocafy v mSecunol tSrienc oa(brteieo s(ntb a0els–s t1( U00–S01$ w0 b0oi lrwlsioto)nr)st)        -877343...312 222000121906 ••• •••
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population)   2.8 2010 • L
Employment-to-population ratio (%)    80.5 2019 • L
Youth not in employment, education or training (NEET)      8.1 2018 • •
(% of population aged 15 to 29)
* Imputed data point
437
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC  
Middle East and North Africa
OVERALL PERFORMANCE
SDG SDG
17 1
SDG 100 SDG
16 2
75
Index score Regional average score SDG SDG
15 50 3
25
SDG
SDG 4
14
59.3 66.3 Syrian Arab 
SDG Republic SDG
13 5
SDG
12 SDG
6
SDG Global rank 126 (OF 166)
SDG
11 SDG
7
SDG SDG
10 SDG 8
9
SPILLOVER INDEX AVERAGE PERFORMANCE BY SDG
100 (best) to 0 (worst)
100
80
60
40
20
0
CURRENT ASSESSMENT – SDG DASHBOARD
  Major challenges           Significant challenges          Challenges remain          SDG achieved          Information unavailable
SDG TRENDS
• 5 D • 5 D 5 D D
• p • 5 5 5 5 •
p  Decreasing       5  Stagnating       D  Moderately improving       L  On track or maintaining SDG achievement       •  Information unavailable
Notes: The full title of Goal 2 “Zero Hunger” is “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”.    
  The full title of each SDG is available here: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabledevelopmentgoals
438
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC
Performance by Indicator
SDG1 – No Poverty    Val u e Yea  rRa t ingTr e nd SDG9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure    Val u e Ye a rRa t ingTr e nd
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%)    NA NA • • Population using the internet (%)    34.32017 • D
Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%)    NA NA • • Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population)    16.52018 • 5
SDG2 – Zero Hunger                Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related     2.52018 • L
Prevalence of undernourishment (%)    NA NA • • infrastructure (worst 1–5 best)
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%)    27.52009 • 5 The Times Higher Education Universities Ranking: Average score of top 3 * 0.02020 • •
PPrreevvaalleennccee  ooff  wobaesstiintyg,  BinM cIh ≥il d3r0e n(% u nodf aedr u5 lyt epaorps uolfa atigoen )(%)      1217..5822000196 •• pp Scuiennivteifrisci taiensd ( tweochrsnt i0ca–l1 j0o0u rbneaslt a)rticles (per 1,000 population)    0.02018 • 5
Expenditure on research and development (% of GDP)    0.02015 • •
Human Trophic Level (best 2–3 worst)    2.22007 • •
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land)    1.62017 • L SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities               
Sustainable Nitrogen Management Index (best 0–1.41 worst)    0.72015 • 5 Gini coefficient adjusted for top income    46.52004 • •
SDG3 – Good Health and Well-Being                SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities               
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)     312017 • L Annual mean concentration of particulate matter of less than      43.82017 • p
2.5 microns in diameter (PM2.5) (μg/m3)
NMeoorntaaltitayl  rmatoer,t ualnitdye rra-t5e ( (ppeerr 1 1,0,00000 l ilvivee b birirtthhss))      186..8722001188 •• LL Access to improved water source, piped (% of urban population)    74.72017 • p
Incidence of tuberculosis (per 100,000 population)    19.02018 • 5 Satisfaction with public transport (%)    15.32015 • •
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population)    0.02018 • L SDG12 – Responsible Consumption and Production                 
Municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)    1.22009 • •
Agdeia-bsteatneds,a ordr iczherdo ndieca rtehs prairtaet dourye d tois ecaasred iionv aadscuultlsa ra dgiesde a3s0e–, c7a0n yceear,r s (%)    21.82016 • 5 Electronic waste (kg/capita)    NA NA • •
Agame-bstiaenndt aarird pizoeldlu dtieoant h(p reart e1 0at0t,r0ib0u0 tpaobpleu tloat hioonu)sehold air pollution and    752016 • • PSOro2d eumctiisosnio-bnas seemd bSoOd2i eedm iinss iimonpso (rktgs /(ckgap/citaap)ita)       241..0922001122 •• ••
Traffic deaths (per 100,000 population)    26.52016 • p Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita)    10.42010 • •
Life expectancy at birth (years)    63.82016 • D Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)    0.52010 • •
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19)   38.62017 • D SDG13 – Climate Action               
Births attended by skilled health personnel (%)    96.22009 • • Energy-related CO2 emissions (tCO2/capita)    2.62017 • p
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%)   472018 • D CO2 emissions embodied in imports (tCO2/capita)    0.22015 • L
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best)   60.02017 • 5 CO2 emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita)    NA NA • •
Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best)    3.52015 • •
SDG14 – Life Below Water                 
SDG4 – Quality Education                Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)    0.02018 • 5
Net primary enrollment rate (%)    68.02013 • • Ocean Health Index: Clean Waters score (worst 0–100 best)    37.62019 • 5
Lower secondary completion rate (%)    53.82013 • • Fish caught from overexploited or collapsed stocks (% of total catch)    NA NA • •
Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24)    92.52004 • • Fish caught by trawling (%)    22.02014 • L
SDG5 – Gender Equality                    Marine biodiversity threats embodied in imports (per million population)    0.02018 • •
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods (% of females    53.32009 • 5 SDG15 – Life on Land               
aged 15 to 49 who are married or in unions) Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%)   0.92018 • 5
Ratio of female-to-male mean years of education received (%)    82.12018 • 5 Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%)   3.22018 • 5
Ratio of female-to-male labor force participation rate (%)    16.82019 • p Red List Index of species survival (worst 0–1 best)    0.92019 • L
Seats held by women in national parliament (%)    12.42020 • 5 Permanent deforestation (% of forest area, 5-year average)    0.22018 • •
SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation               
Population using at least basic drinking water services (%)    97.22017 • L Te(rpreers tmriailll iaonnd p forepsuhlwataiotenr) biodiversity threats embodied in imports      0.12018 • •
Population using at least basic sanitation services (%)    91.22017 • 5 SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions               
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available freshwater resources)   126.02005 • • Homicides (per 100,000 population)    2.22010 • •
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%)    48.02018 • • Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population)    50.52006 • •
Scarce water consumption embodied in imports (m3/capita)    1.92013 • L Percentage of population who feel safe walking alone at night in the      32.22015 • •
SDG7 – Affordable and Clean Energy                city or area where they live (%)
Population with access to electricity (%)    89.62017 • 5 Property Rights (worst 1–7 best)    NA NA • •
Population with access to clean fuels and technology for cooking (%)    99.02016 • L Birth registrations with civil authority (% of children under age 5)    96.02018 • •
COto2t aelm eilsesciotrnicsi tfyro omut fpuuetl  (cMomtCbOu2s/tTioWnh f)or electricity and heating per      1.32017 • 5 CCohrilrdurpetnio innv Poelvrceedp itnio cnh Iinldd leaxb (owr o(%rs to 0f –p1o0p0u blaetsiot)n aged 5 to 14)      41.3022001196 •• p•
5
SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth                Exports of major conventional weapons (TIV constant million USD   * 0.02019 • • . C
Adjusted GDP growth (%)    NA NA • • per 100,000 population) ou
Victims of modern slavery (per 1,000 population) * NA NA • • Press Freedom Index (best 0–100 worst)    71.82019 • D ntr
y
Admuoltbsi lwe-itmh oanne ayc-cseoruvnicte a tp aro bvaidnekr  o(%r o othf epro fpinualantcioianl  iangsteidtu 1ti5o no ro or vwerit)h a     23.32011 • • SGoDvGer1nm7 e–n tP sapretnndeinrgs ohni phse aflothr a tnhde e dGuocaatliosn (% of GDP)      6 . 7200  9 •   •    Prof
Unemployment rate (% of total labor force)    8.42019 • 5 For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional    NA NA • • iles
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population)   0.12010 • L public finance, including official development assistance (% of GNI)
Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP)    NA NA • •
Corporate Tax Haven Score (best 0–100 worst) * 0.02019 • •
* Imputed data point
439
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
TAJIKISTAN  
Eastern Europe and Central Asia
OVERALL PERFORMANCE
SDG SDG
17 1
SDG 100 SDG
16 2
75
Index score Regional average score SDG SDG
15 50 3
25
SDG
SDG 4
14
69.4 70.9
Tajikistan
SDG SDG
13 5
SDG
12 SDG
6
SDG Global rank 78 (OF 166)
SDG
11 SDG
7
SDG SDG
10 SDG 8
9
SPILLOVER INDEX AVERAGE PERFORMANCE BY SDG
100 (best) to 0 (worst)
100
80
60
40
20
0
CURRENT ASSESSMENT – SDG DASHBOARD
  Major challenges           Significant challenges          Challenges remain          SDG achieved          Information unavailable
SDG TRENDS
L 5 D L 5 L L D 5
• 5 • L • 5 5 L
p  Decreasing       5  Stagnating       D  Moderately improving       L  On track or maintaining SDG achievement       •  Information unavailable
Notes: The full title of Goal 2 “Zero Hunger” is “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”.    
  The full title of each SDG is available here: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabledevelopmentgoals
440
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
TAJIKISTAN
Performance by Indicator
SDG1 – No Poverty    Val u e Yea  rRa t ingTr e nd SDG9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure    Val u e Ye a rRa t ingTr e nd
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%)    1.52020 • L Population using the internet (%)    22.02017 • 5
Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%)    11.62020 • L Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population)    22.82017 • L
SDG2 – Zero Hunger                Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related     2.22018 • p
Prevalence of undernourishment (%)    NA NA • • infrastructure (worst 1–5 best)
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%)    26.82012 • 5 The Times Higher Education Universities Ranking: Average score of top 3 * 0.02020 • •
PPHrrueemvvaaalleennn Tccreeo  poohff  iwocb aLesestviinetylg ,(  BbinMe csIth ≥ 2il d–3r30e  wn(% ou rnosdft )aedr u5 lyt epaorps uolfa atigoen )(%)        1924...912222000111267 ••• 5pL SExcupieneninvtdeifiritscui rtaeien osdn ( t wreeocshersantr ic0cha– la1 nj0od0u  drbneeavselt la)orptimcleens t( (p%e ro 1f ,G0D0P0) population)      00..0122001187 •• 55
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land)    3.52017 • L SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities               
Sustainable Nitrogen Management Index (best 0–1.41 worst)    0.72015 • 5 Gini coefficient adjusted for top income    35.32015 • •
SDG3 – Good Health and Well-Being                SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities               
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)     172017 • L Annual mean concentration of particulate matter of less than      46.22017 • 5
2.5 microns in diameter (PM2.5) (μg/m3)
NMeoorntaaltitayl  rmatoer,t ualnitdye rra-t5e ( (ppeerr 1 1,0,00000 l ilvivee b birirtthhss))      1354..0822001188 •• LL Access to improved water source, piped (% of urban population)    90.82017 • 5
Incidence of tuberculosis (per 100,000 population)    84.02018 • 5 Satisfaction with public transport (%)    84.72018 • L
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population)    0.12018 • L SDG12 – Responsible Consumption and Production                 
Municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)    2.02013 • •
Agdeia-bsteatneds,a ordr iczherdo ndieca rtehs prairtaet dourye d tois ecaasred iionv aadscuultlsa ra dgiesde a3s0e–, c7a0n yceear,r s (%)    25.32016 • 5 Electronic waste (kg/capita)    NA NA • •
Agame-bstiaenndt aarird pizoeldlu dtieoant h(p reart e1 0at0t,r0ib0u0 tpaobpleu tloat hioonu)sehold air pollution and    1292016 • • PSOro2d eumctiisosnio-bnas seemd bSoOd2i eedm iinss iimonpso (rktgs /(ckgap/citaap)ita)       172..1222001122 •• ••
Traffic deaths (per 100,000 population)    18.12016 • 5 Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita)    9.32010 • •
Life expectancy at birth (years)    70.82016 • 5 Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)    0.52010 • •
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19)   57.12017 • p SDG13 – Climate Action               
Births attended by skilled health personnel (%)    94.82017 • L Energy-related CO2 emissions (tCO2/capita)    0.42017 • L
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%)   962018 • L CO2 emissions embodied in imports (tCO2/capita)    0.22015 • L
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best)   68.02017 • L CO2 emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita)    NA NA • •
Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best)    5.52018 • L
SDG14 – Life Below Water                 
SDG4 – Quality Education                Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)    NA NA • •
Net primary enrollment rate (%)    98.32017 • L Ocean Health Index: Clean Waters score (worst 0–100 best)    NA NA • •
Lower secondary completion rate (%)    96.22017 • L Fish caught from overexploited or collapsed stocks (% of total catch)    NA NA • •
Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24)    99.92014 • • Fish caught by trawling (%)    NA NA • •
SDG5 – Gender Equality                    Marine biodiversity threats embodied in imports (per million population)    0.02018 • •
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods (% of females    44.82017 • 5 SDG15 – Life on Land               
aged 15 to 49 who are married or in unions) Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%)   20.82018 • 5
Ratio of female-to-male mean years of education received (%)    90.22018 • 5 Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%)   35.22018 • 5
Ratio of female-to-male labor force participation rate (%)    46.22019 • p Red List Index of species survival (worst 0–1 best)    1.02019 • L
Seats held by women in national parliament (%)    23.82020 • D Permanent deforestation (% of forest area, 5-year average) * 0.02018 • •
SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation               
Population using at least basic drinking water services (%)    81.22017 • L Te(rpreers tmriailll iaonnd p forepsuhlwataiotenr) biodiversity threats embodied in imports      0.02018 • •
Population using at least basic sanitation services (%)    97.02017 • L SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions               
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available freshwater resources)    73.92005 • • Homicides (per 100,000 population)    1.62011 • •
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%)    2.32018 • • Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population)    15.02009 • •
Scarce water consumption embodied in imports (m3/capita)    5.12013 • L Percentage of population who feel safe walking alone at night in the      88.12018 • L
SDG7 – Affordable and Clean Energy                city or area where they live (%)
Population with access to electricity (%)    99.32017 • L Property Rights (worst 1–7 best)    4.62019 • •
Population with access to clean fuels and technology for cooking (%)    80.42016 • L Birth registrations with civil authority (% of children under age 5)    95.82018 • •
COto2t aelm eilsesciotrnicsi tfyro omut fpuuetl  (cMomtCbOu2s/tTioWnh f)or electricity and heating per      0.32017 • L CCohrilrdurpetnio innv Poelvrceedp itnio cnh Iinldd leaxb (owr o(%rs to 0f –p1o0p0u blaetsiot)n aged 5 to 14)      102.5022001196 •• p•
5
SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth                Exports of major conventional weapons (TIV constant million USD   * 0.02019 • • . C
Adjusted GDP growth (%)    -1.32018 • • per 100,000 population) ou
Victims of modern slavery (per 1,000 population)    4.52018 • • Press Freedom Index (best 0–100 worst)    54.02019 • p ntr
y
Admuoltbsi lwe-itmh oanne ayc-cseoruvnicte a tp aro bvaidnekr  o(%r o othf epro fpinualantcioianl  iangsteidtu 1ti5o no ro or vwerit)h a     47.02017 • L SGoDvGer1nm7 e–n tP sapretnndeinrgs ohni phse aflothr a tnhde e dGuocaatliosn (% of GDP)      7 . 2201  5 •   L    Prof
Unemployment rate (% of total labor force)    11.02019 • 5 For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional    NA NA • • iles
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population)   0.12010 • L public finance, including official development assistance (% of GNI)
Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP)    13.52004 • •
Corporate Tax Haven Score (best 0–100 worst) * 0.02019 • •
* Imputed data point
441
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
TANZANIA  
Sub-Saharan Africa
OVERALL PERFORMANCE
SDG SDG
17 1
SDG 100 SDG
16 2
75
Index score Regional average score SDG SDG
15 50 3
25
SDG
SDG 4
14
56.6 53.1
Tanzania
SDG SDG
13 5
SDG
12 SDG
6
SDG Global rank 131 (OF 166)
SDG
11 SDG
7
SDG SDG
10 SDG 8
9
SPILLOVER INDEX AVERAGE PERFORMANCE BY SDG
100 (best) to 0 (worst)
100
80
60
40
20
0
CURRENT ASSESSMENT – SDG DASHBOARD
  Major challenges           Significant challenges          Challenges remain          SDG achieved          Information unavailable
SDG TRENDS
5 D D p D D D D 5
• 5 • L D 5 D 5
p  Decreasing       5  Stagnating       D  Moderately improving       L  On track or maintaining SDG achievement       •  Information unavailable
Notes: The full title of Goal 2 “Zero Hunger” is “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”.    
  The full title of each SDG is available here: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabledevelopmentgoals
442
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
TANZANIA
Performance by Indicator
SDG1 – No Poverty    Val u e Yea  rRa t ingTr e nd SDG9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure    Val u e Ye a rRa t ingTr e nd
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%)    38.62020 • 5 Population using the internet (%)    25.02017 • L
Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%)    70.62020 • 5 Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population)    9.12018 • p
SDG2 – Zero Hunger                Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related     2.82016 • •
Prevalence of undernourishment (%)    30.72017 • 5 infrastructure (worst 1–5 best)
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%)    34.42015 • D The Times Higher Education Universities Ranking: Average score of top 3    16.42020 • •
PPrreevvaalleennccee  ooff  wobaesstiintyg,  BinM cIh ≥il d3r0e n(% u nodf aedr u5 lyt epaorps uolfa atigoen )(%)      48..5422001156 •• LL Scuiennivteifrisci taiensd ( tweochrsnt i0ca–l1 j0o0u rbneaslt a)rticles (per 1,000 population)    0.02018 • 5
Human Trophic Level (best 2–3 worst)    2.12017 • L Expenditure on research and development (% of GDP)    0.52013 • •
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land)    1.52017 • p SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities               
Sustainable Nitrogen Management Index (best 0–1.41 worst)    0.82015 • 5 Gini coefficient adjusted for top income    43.02011 • •
SDG3 – Good Health and Well-Being                SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities               
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)     5242017 • D Annual mean concentration of particulate matter of less than      29.12017 • p
NMeoorntaaltitayl  rmatoer,t ualnitdye rra-t5e ( (ppeerr 1 1,0,00000 l ilvivee b birirtthhss))      2513..3022001188 •• DD Ac2c.5e sms itcor oimnsp irno vdeiadm weatteerr ( sPoMu2rc.5e),  (pμipg/emd 3(%) of urban population)    58.82017 • p
Incidence of tuberculosis (per 100,000 population)   253.02018 • D Satisfaction with public transport (%)    62.92019 • L
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population)    1.42018 • L SDG12 – Responsible Consumption and Production                 
Municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)    1.32012 • •
Agdeia-bsteatneds,a ordr iczherdo ndieca rtehs prairtaet dourye d tois ecaasred iionv aadscuultlsa ra dgiesde a3s0e–, c7a0n yceear,r s (%)    17.92016 • 5 Electronic waste (kg/capita)    0.82016 • •
Agame-bstiaenndt aarird pizoeldlu dtieoant h(p reart e1 0at0t,r0ib0u0 tpaobpleu tloat hioonu)sehold air pollution and    1392016 • • PSOro2d eumctiisosnio-bnas seemd bSoOd2i eedm iinss iimonpso (rktgs /(ckgap/citaap)ita)       20..8322001122 •• ••
Traffic deaths (per 100,000 population)    29.22016 • D Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita)    10.62010 • •
Life expectancy at birth (years)    63.92016 • D Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)    0.42010 • •
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19)  118.42017 • 5 SDG13 – Climate Action               
Births attended by skilled health personnel (%)    63.72016 • 5 Energy-related CO2 emissions (tCO2/capita)    0.22017 • L
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%)   982018 • L CO2 emissions embodied in imports (tCO2/capita)    0.02015 • L
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best)   43.02017 • 5 CO2 emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita)    1.92018 • •
Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best)    3.62019 • p
SDG14 – Life Below Water                 
SDG4 – Quality Education                Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)    55.72018 • L
Net primary enrollment rate (%)    81.32018 • p Ocean Health Index: Clean Waters score (worst 0–100 best)    50.52019 • 5
Lower secondary completion rate (%)    29.62018 • p Fish caught from overexploited or collapsed stocks (% of total catch)    17.02014 • L
Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24)    85.82015 • • Fish caught by trawling (%)    2.82014 • L
SDG5 – Gender Equality                    Marine biodiversity threats embodied in imports (per million population)    0.02018 • •
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods (% of females    54.02016 • D SDG15 – Life on Land               
aged 15 to 49 who are married or in unions) Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%)   64.02018 • L
Ratio of female-to-male mean years of education received (%)    87.52018 • D Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%)   43.12018 • 5
Ratio of female-to-male labor force participation rate (%)    90.92019 • L Red List Index of species survival (worst 0–1 best)    0.72019 • p
Seats held by women in national parliament (%)    36.92020 • D Permanent deforestation (% of forest area, 5-year average)    0.32018 • •
SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation               
Population using at least basic drinking water services (%)    56.72017 • D Te(rpreers tmriailll iaonnd p forepsuhlwataiotenr) biodiversity threats embodied in imports      0.02018 • •
Population using at least basic sanitation services (%)    29.92017 • 5 SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions               
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available freshwater resources)    13.02000 • • Homicides (per 100,000 population)    6.22016 • L
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%)    1.42018 • • Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population)    48.62015 • •
Scarce water consumption embodied in imports (m3/capita)    0.62013 • L Percentage of population who feel safe walking alone at night in the      70.72019 • L
SDG7 – Affordable and Clean Energy                city or area where they live (%)
Population with access to electricity (%)    32.82017 • D Property Rights (worst 1–7 best)    4.22019 • •
Population with access to clean fuels and technology for cooking (%)    2.22016 • 5 Birth registrations with civil authority (% of children under age 5)    26.42018 • •
COto2t aelm eilsesciotrnicsi tfyro omut fpuuetl  (cMomtCbOu2s/tTioWnh f)or electricity and heating per      1.32017 • L CCohrilrdurpetnio innv Poelvrceedp itnio cnh Iinldd leaxb (owr o(%rs to 0f –p1o0p0u blaetsiot)n aged 5 to 14)      283.7822001196 •• D•
5
SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth                Exports of major conventional weapons (TIV constant million USD   * 0.02019 • • . C
Adjusted GDP growth (%)    -3.02018 • • per 100,000 population) ou
Victims of modern slavery (per 1,000 population)    6.22018 • • Press Freedom Index (best 0–100 worst)    36.32019 • p ntr
y
Admuoltbsi lwe-itmh oanne ayc-cseoruvnicte a tp aro bvaidnekr  o(%r o othf epro fpinualantcioianl  iangsteidtu 1ti5o no ro or vwerit)h a     46.82017 • D SGoDvGer1nm7 e–n tP sapretnndeinrgs ohni phse aflothr a tnhde e dGuocaatliosn (% of GDP)      4 . 6201  4 •   •    Prof
Unemployment rate (% of total labor force)    2.02019 • L For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional    NA NA • • iles
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population)   0.12010 • L public finance, including official development assistance (% of GNI)
Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP)    13.72018 • 5
Corporate Tax Haven Score (best 0–100 worst)    46.12019 • •
* Imputed data point
443
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
THAILAND  
East and South Asia
OVERALL PERFORMANCE
SDG SDG
17 1
SDG 100 SDG
16 2
75
Index score Regional average score 1SD5G 50 S3DG
25
SDG
SDG 4
14
74.5 67.2
Thailand
SDG SDG
13 5
12 SDG
6
SDG Global rank 41 (OF 166)
SDG
11 SDG
7
SDG SDG
10 SDG 8
9
SPILLOVER INDEX AVERAGE PERFORMANCE BY SDG
100 (best) to 0 (worst)
100
80
60
40
20
0
CURRENT ASSESSMENT – SDG DASHBOARD
  Major challenges           Significant challenges          Challenges remain          SDG achieved          Information unavailable
SDG TRENDS
L D D p D L D L L
• D • D 5 5 5 p
p  Decreasing       5  Stagnating       D  Moderately improving       L  On track or maintaining SDG achievement       •  Information unavailable
Notes: The full title of Goal 2 “Zero Hunger” is “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”.    
  The full title of each SDG is available here: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabledevelopmentgoals
444
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
THAILAND
Performance by Indicator
SDG1 – No Poverty    Val u e Yea  rRa t ingTr e nd SDG9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure    Val u e Ye a rRa t ingTr e nd
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%)    0.02020 • L Population using the internet (%)    56.82018 • L
Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%)    0.02020 • L Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population)   104.72018 • L
SDG2 – Zero Hunger                Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related     3.12018 • L
Prevalence of undernourishment (%)    7.82017 • L infrastructure (worst 1–5 best)
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%)    10.52016 • 5 The Times Higher Education Universities Ranking: Average score of top 3    29.62020 • •
PPHrrueemvvaaalleennn Tccreeo  poohff  iwocb aLesestviinetylg ,(  BbinMe csIth ≥ 2il d–3r30e  wn(% ou rnosdft )aedr u5 lyt epaorps uolfa atigoen )(%)        1520...420222000111667 ••• 5LL SExcupieneninvtdeifiritscui rtaeien osdn ( t wreeocshersantr ic0cha– la1 nj0od0u  drbneeavselt la)orptimcleens t( (p%e ro 1f ,G0D0P0) population)      00..2822001186 •• 5L
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land)    3.22017 • L SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities               
Sustainable Nitrogen Management Index (best 0–1.41 worst)    0.92015 • p Gini coefficient adjusted for top income    40.92017 • •
SDG3 – Good Health and Well-Being                SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities               
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)     372017 • L Annual mean concentration of particulate matter of less than      26.32017 • D
2.5 microns in diameter (PM2.5) (μg/m3)
NMeoorntaaltitayl  rmatoer,t ualnitdye rra-t5e ( (ppeerr 1 1,0,00000 l ilvivee b birirtthhss))      59..0122001188 •• LL Access to improved water source, piped (% of urban population)    86.82017 • L
Incidence of tuberculosis (per 100,000 population)   153.02018 • 5 Satisfaction with public transport (%)    75.72019 • L
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population)    0.12018 • L SDG12 – Responsible Consumption and Production                 
Municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)    2.12015 • •
Agdeia-bsteatneds,a ordr iczherdo ndieca rtehs prairtaet dourye d tois ecaasred iionv aadscuultlsa ra dgiesde a3s0e–, c7a0n yceear,r s (%)    14.52016 • L Electronic waste (kg/capita)    7.42016 • •
Agame-bstiaenndt aarird pizoeldlu dtieoant h(p reart e1 0at0t,r0ib0u0 tpaobpleu tloat hioonu)sehold air pollution and    612016 • • PSOro2d eumctiisosnio-bnas seemd bSoOd2i eedm iinss iimonpso (rktgs /(ckgap/citaap)ita)       283..3422001122 •• ••
Traffic deaths (per 100,000 population)    32.72016 • D Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita)    23.82010 • •
Life expectancy at birth (years)    75.52016 • D Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)    1.82010 • •
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19)   44.92017 • D SDG13 – Climate Action               
Births attended by skilled health personnel (%)    99.12016 • L Energy-related CO2 emissions (tCO2/capita)    4.62017 • 5
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%)   962018 • L CO2 emissions embodied in imports (tCO2/capita)    0.62015 • L
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best)   80.02017 • L CO2 emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita)    1.72018 • •
Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best)    6.02019 • L
SDG14 – Life Below Water                 
SDG4 – Quality Education                Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)    60.42018 • L
Net primary enrollment rate (%)    98.12009 • • Ocean Health Index: Clean Waters score (worst 0–100 best)    60.22019 • L
Lower secondary completion rate (%)    78.42017 • p Fish caught from overexploited or collapsed stocks (% of total catch)    55.62014 • p
Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24)    98.12018 • • Fish caught by trawling (%)    17.72014 • p
SDG5 – Gender Equality                    Marine biodiversity threats embodied in imports (per million population)    0.12018 • •
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods (% of females    89.22016 • L SDG15 – Life on Land               
aged 15 to 49 who are married or in unions) Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%)   71.32018 • L
Ratio of female-to-male mean years of education received (%)    93.82018 • 5 Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%)   43.62018 • 5
Ratio of female-to-male labor force participation rate (%)    78.02019 • L Red List Index of species survival (worst 0–1 best)    0.82019 • p
Seats held by women in national parliament (%)    15.82020 • D Permanent deforestation (% of forest area, 5-year average)    0.22018 • •
SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation               
Population using at least basic drinking water services (%)    99.92017 • L Te(rpreers tmriailll iaonnd p forepsuhlwataiotenr) biodiversity threats embodied in imports      1.02018 • •
Population using at least basic sanitation services (%)    98.82017 • L SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions               
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available freshwater resources)    23.02005 • • Homicides (per 100,000 population)    3.22016 • L
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%)    2.02018 • • Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population)    17.22018 • L
Scarce water consumption embodied in imports (m3/capita)    3.92013 • L Percentage of population who feel safe walking alone at night in the      63.92019 • p
SDG7 – Affordable and Clean Energy                city or area where they live (%)
Population with access to electricity (%)   100.02017 • L Property Rights (worst 1–7 best)    4.32019 • •
Population with access to clean fuels and technology for cooking (%)    74.42016 • 5 Birth registrations with civil authority (% of children under age 5)    99.52018 • •
COto2t aelm eilsesciotrnicsi tfyro omut fpuuetl  (cMomtCbOu2s/tTioWnh f)or electricity and heating per      1.42017 • L CCohrilrdurpetnio innv Poelvrceedp itnio cnh Iinldd leaxb (owr o(%rs to 0f –p1o0p0u blaetsiot)n aged 5 to 14)      83.6322001196 •• p•
5
SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth                Exports of major conventional weapons (TIV constant million USD      0.02019 • • . C
Adjusted GDP growth (%)    0.12018 • • per 100,000 population) ou
Victims of modern slavery (per 1,000 population)    8.92018 • • Press Freedom Index (best 0–100 worst)    44.12019 • 5 ntr
y
Admuoltbsi lwe-itmh oanne ayc-cseoruvnicte a tp aro bvaidnekr  o(%r o othf epro fpinualantcioianl  iangsteidtu 1ti5o no ro or vwerit)h a     81.62017 • L SGoDvGer1nm7 e–n tP sapretnndeinrgs ohni phse aflothr a tnhde e dGuocaatliosn (% of GDP)      6 . 8201  3 •   •    Prof
Unemployment rate (% of total labor force)    0.82019 • L For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional    NA NA • • iles
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population)   0.32010 • L public finance, including official development assistance (% of GNI)
Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP)    19.52018 • p
Corporate Tax Haven Score (best 0–100 worst) * 0.02019 • •
* Imputed data point
445
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
TIMOR-LESTE  
East and South Asia
OVERALL PERFORMANCE
SDG SDG
17 1
SDG 100 SDG
16 2
75
Index score Regional average score SDG SDG
15 50 3
25
SDG
SDG 4
14
na 67.2
Timor-Leste
SDG SDG
13 5
SDG
12 SDG
6
SDG Global rank NA (OF 166)
SDG
11 SDG
7
SDG SDG
10 SDG 8
9
SPILLOVER INDEX AVERAGE PERFORMANCE BY SDG
100 (best) to 0 (worst)
100
80
60
40
20
0
CURRENT ASSESSMENT – SDG DASHBOARD
  Major challenges           Significant challenges          Challenges remain          SDG achieved          Information unavailable
SDG TRENDS
5 D D L 5 D D L 5
• D • • 5 p L L
p  Decreasing       5  Stagnating       D  Moderately improving       L  On track or maintaining SDG achievement       •  Information unavailable
Notes: The full title of Goal 2 “Zero Hunger” is “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”.    
  The full title of each SDG is available here: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabledevelopmentgoals
446
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
TIMOR-LESTE
Performance by Indicator
SDG1 – No Poverty    Val u e Yea  rRa t ingTr e nd SDG9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure    Val u e Ye a rRa t ingTr e nd
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%)    28.12020 • D Population using the internet (%)    27.52017 • D
Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%)    69.22020 • 5 Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population)    31.62018 • p
SDG2 – Zero Hunger                Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related     NA NA • •
Prevalence of undernourishment (%)    24.92017 • 5 infrastructure (worst 1–5 best)
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%)    50.22013 • 5 The Times Higher Education Universities Ranking: Average score of top 3 * 0.02020 • •
PPrreevvaalleennccee  ooff  wobaesstiintyg,  BinM cIh ≥il d3r0e n(% u nodf aedr u5 lyt epaorps uolfa atigoen )(%)      131..8022001136 •• LD Scuiennivteifrisci taiensd ( tweochrsnt i0ca–l1 j0o0u rbneaslt a)rticles (per 1,000 population)    0.02018 • 5
Human Trophic Level (best 2–3 worst)    2.12017 • L Expenditure on research and development (% of GDP)    NA NA • •
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land)    2.52017 • L SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities               
Sustainable Nitrogen Management Index (best 0–1.41 worst)    0.92015 • 5 Gini coefficient adjusted for top income    30.92014 • •
SDG3 – Good Health and Well-Being                SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities               
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)     1422017 • L Annual mean concentration of particulate matter of less than      19.32017 • D
NMeoorntaaltitayl  rmatoer,t ualnitdye rra-t5e ( (ppeerr 1 1,0,00000 l ilvivee b birirtthhss))      2405..4822001188 •• DD Ac2c.5e sms itcor oimnsp irno vdeiadm weatteerr ( sPoMu2rc.5e),  (pμipg/emd 3(%) of urban population)    82.72017 • L
Incidence of tuberculosis (per 100,000 population)   498.02018 • 5 Satisfaction with public transport (%)    NA NA • •
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population)    NA NA • • SDG12 – Responsible Consumption and Production                 
Municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)    0.42016 • •
Agdeia-bsteatneds,a ordr iczherdo ndieca rtehs prairtaet dourye d tois ecaasred iionv aadscuultlsa ra dgiesde a3s0e–, c7a0n yceear,r s (%)    19.92016 • L Electronic waste (kg/capita)    3.02016 • •
Agame-bstiaenndt aarird pizoeldlu dtieoant h(p reart e1 0at0t,r0ib0u0 tpaobpleu tloat hioonu)sehold air pollution and    1402016 • • PSOro2d eumctiisosnio-bnas seemd bSoOd2i eedm iinss iimonpso (rktgs /(ckgap/citaap)ita)       NNAA NNAA •• ••
Traffic deaths (per 100,000 population)    12.72016 • L Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita)    NA NA • •
Life expectancy at birth (years)    68.62016 • 5 Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)    NA NA • •
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19)   33.82017 • L SDG13 – Climate Action               
Births attended by skilled health personnel (%)    56.72016 • • Energy-related CO2 emissions (tCO2/capita)    0.42017 • L
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%)   772018 • L CO2 emissions embodied in imports (tCO2/capita)    NA NA • •
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best)   52.02017 • D CO2 emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita)    NA NA • •
Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best)    NA NA • •
SDG14 – Life Below Water                 
SDG4 – Quality Education                Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)    18.82018 • 5
Net primary enrollment rate (%)    92.32018 • D Ocean Health Index: Clean Waters score (worst 0–100 best)    53.32019 • 5
Lower secondary completion rate (%)    90.92018 • L Fish caught from overexploited or collapsed stocks (% of total catch)    10.02014 • L
Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24)    83.52018 • • Fish caught by trawling (%)    NA NA • •
SDG5 – Gender Equality                    Marine biodiversity threats embodied in imports (per million population)    NA NA • •
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods (% of females    37.42016 • 5 SDG15 – Life on Land               
aged 15 to 49 who are married or in unions) Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%)   33.62018 • 5
Ratio of female-to-male mean years of education received (%)    67.92018 • 5 Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%)   NA NA • •
Ratio of female-to-male labor force participation rate (%)    47.42019 • p Red List Index of species survival (worst 0–1 best)    0.92019 • p
Seats held by women in national parliament (%)    38.52020 • 5 Permanent deforestation (% of forest area, 5-year average)    0.12018 • •
SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation               
Population using at least basic drinking water services (%)    78.32017 • L Te(rpreers tmriailll iaonnd p forepsuhlwataiotenr) biodiversity threats embodied in imports      NA NA • •
Population using at least basic sanitation services (%)    53.52017 • 5 SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions               
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available freshwater resources)    28.32005 • • Homicides (per 100,000 population)    3.92015 • •
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%)    0.32018 • • Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population)    23.82018 • L
Scarce water consumption embodied in imports (m3/capita)    NA NA • • Percentage of population who feel safe walking alone at night in the      NA NA • •
SDG7 – Affordable and Clean Energy                city or area where they live (%)
Population with access to electricity (%)    80.42017 • L Property Rights (worst 1–7 best)    NA NA • •
Population with access to clean fuels and technology for cooking (%)    6.92016 • 5 Birth registrations with civil authority (% of children under age 5)    60.42018 • •
COto2t aelm eilsesciotrnicsi tfyro omut fpuuetl  (cMomtCbOu2s/tTioWnh f)or electricity and heating per      NA NA • • CCohrilrdurpetnio innv Poelvrceedp itnio cnh Iinldd leaxb (owr o(%rs to 0f –p1o0p0u blaetsiot)n aged 5 to 14)      43.8222001196 •• L•
5
SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth                Exports of major conventional weapons (TIV constant million USD   * 0.02019 • • . C
Adjusted GDP growth (%)    -8.52018 • • per 100,000 population) ou
Victims of modern slavery (per 1,000 population)    7.72018 • • Press Freedom Index (best 0–100 worst)    29.92019 • L ntr
y
Admuoltbsi lwe-itmh oanne ayc-cseoruvnicte a tp aro bvaidnekr  o(%r o othf epro fpinualantcioianl  iangsteidtu 1ti5o no ro or vwerit)h a     NA NA • • SGoDvGer1nm7 e–n tP sapretnndeinrgs ohni phse aflothr a tnhde e dGuocaatliosn (% of GDP)      7 . 6201  6 •   L    Prof
Unemployment rate (% of total labor force)    4.52019 • L For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional    NA NA • • iles
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population)   NA NA • • public finance, including official development assistance (% of GNI)
Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP)    38.42017 • L
Corporate Tax Haven Score (best 0–100 worst) * 0.02019 • •
* Imputed data point
447
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
TOGO  
Sub-Saharan Africa
OVERALL PERFORMANCE
SDG SDG
17 1
SDG 100 SDG
16 2
75
Index score Regional average score SDG SDG
15 50 3
25
SDG
SDG 4
14
52.7 53.1
Togo
SDG SDG
13 5
SDG
12 SDG
6
SDG Global rank 147 (OF 166)
SDG
11 SDG
7
SDG SDG
10 SDG 8
9
SPILLOVER INDEX AVERAGE PERFORMANCE BY SDG
100 (best) to 0 (worst)
100
80
60
40
20
0
CURRENT ASSESSMENT – SDG DASHBOARD
  Major challenges           Significant challenges          Challenges remain          SDG achieved          Information unavailable
SDG TRENDS
5 5 5 5 5 D D L D
• p • L p D 5 5
p  Decreasing       5  Stagnating       D  Moderately improving       L  On track or maintaining SDG achievement       •  Information unavailable
Notes: The full title of Goal 2 “Zero Hunger” is “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”.    
  The full title of each SDG is available here: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabledevelopmentgoals
448
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
TOGO
Performance by Indicator
SDG1 – No Poverty    Val u e Yea  rRa t ingTr e nd SDG9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure    Val u e Ye a rRa t ingTr e nd
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%)    41.02020 • 5 Population using the internet (%)    12.42017 • 5
Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%)    65.52020 • 5 Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population)    32.02018 • L
SDG2 – Zero Hunger                Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related     2.22018 • D
Prevalence of undernourishment (%)    16.12017 • D infrastructure (worst 1–5 best)
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%)    27.52014 • D The Times Higher Education Universities Ranking: Average score of top 3 * 0.02020 • •
PPrreevvaalleennccee  ooff  wobaesstiintyg,  BinM cIh ≥il d3r0e n(% u nodf aedr u5 lyt epaorps uolfa atigoen )(%)      68..7422001146 •• pL Scuiennivteifrisci taiensd ( tweochrsnt i0ca–l1 j0o0u rbneaslt a)rticles (per 1,000 population)    0.02018 • 5
Human Trophic Level (best 2–3 worst)    2.12017 • L Expenditure on research and development (% of GDP)    0.32014 • •
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land)    1.12017 • p SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities               
Sustainable Nitrogen Management Index (best 0–1.41 worst)    0.92015 • 5 Gini coefficient adjusted for top income    48.92015 • •
SDG3 – Good Health and Well-Being                SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities               
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)     3962017 • 5 Annual mean concentration of particulate matter of less than      35.72017 • p
NMInecooirdntaealntitacyle  rm oatfoe tr,ut uablnietdryce rura-lto5e s( i(psp e(eprr e1 1r,0, 01000000 l ,il0viv0ee0 b  bpiriortthphsus)l)ation)        263496...980222000111888 ••• 5LD ASac2tc.i5es fsmasc ittcoiro oinmn wsp irintoh vd epiadum bwleiactte etrrr a( sPnoMsup2roc.5ret),   ((p%μipg)/emd 3(%) of urban population)      4342..7422001179 •• 5p
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population)    0.72018 • L SDG12 – Responsible Consumption and Production                 
Municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)    0.92014 • •
Agdeia-bsteatneds,a ordr iczherdo ndieca rtehs prairtaet dourye d tois ecaasred iionv aadscuultlsa ra dgiesde a3s0e–, c7a0n yceear,r s (%)    23.62016 • 5 Electronic waste (kg/capita)    0.92016 • •
Agame-bstiaenndt aarird pizoeldlu dtieoant h(p reart e1 0at0t,r0ib0u0 tpaobpleu tloat hioonu)sehold air pollution and    2502016 • • PSOro2d eumctiisosnio-bnas seemd bSoOd2i eedm iinss iimonpso (rktgs /(ckgap/citaap)ita)       190..6022001122 •• ••
Traffic deaths (per 100,000 population)    29.22016 • 5 Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita)    9.92010 • •
Life expectancy at birth (years)    60.62016 • 5 Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)    0.62010 • •
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19)   89.12017 • 5 SDG13 – Climate Action               
Births attended by skilled health personnel (%)    44.62014 • • Energy-related CO2 emissions (tCO2/capita)    0.32017 • L
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%)   852018 • 5 CO2 emissions embodied in imports (tCO2/capita)    0.02015 • L
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best)   43.02017 • D CO2 emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita)    0.02017 • •
Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best)    4.22019 • D
SDG14 – Life Below Water                 
SDG4 – Quality Education                Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)    NA NA • •
Net primary enrollment rate (%)    90.72018 • 5 Ocean Health Index: Clean Waters score (worst 0–100 best)    21.42019 • 5
Lower secondary completion rate (%)    47.92018 • D Fish caught from overexploited or collapsed stocks (% of total catch)    NA NA • •
Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24)    84.32015 • • Fish caught by trawling (%)    15.42014 • p
SDG5 – Gender Equality                    Marine biodiversity threats embodied in imports (per million population)    0.02018 • •
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods (% of females    37.42014 • 5 SDG15 – Life on Land               
aged 15 to 49 who are married or in unions) Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%)   97.02018 • L
Ratio of female-to-male mean years of education received (%)    50.02018 • p Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%)   NA NA • •
Ratio of female-to-male labor force participation rate (%)    95.62019 • L Red List Index of species survival (worst 0–1 best)    0.92019 • 5
Seats held by women in national parliament (%)    18.72020 • 5 Permanent deforestation (% of forest area, 5-year average)    0.72018 • •
SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation               
Population using at least basic drinking water services (%)    65.12017 • 5 Te(rpreers tmriailll iaonnd p forepsuhlwataiotenr) biodiversity threats embodied in imports      0.02018 • •
Population using at least basic sanitation services (%)    16.12017 • 5 SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions               
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available freshwater resources)    2.62000 • • Homicides (per 100,000 population) * 9.02015 • •
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%)    0.02018 • • Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population)    64.62018 • p
Scarce water consumption embodied in imports (m3/capita)    0.42013 • L Percentage of population who feel safe walking alone at night in the      50.62019 • p
SDG7 – Affordable and Clean Energy                city or area where they live (%)
Population with access to electricity (%)    48.02017 • 5 Property Rights (worst 1–7 best)    NA NA • •
Population with access to clean fuels and technology for cooking (%)    6.72016 • 5 Birth registrations with civil authority (% of children under age 5)    78.12018 • •
COto2t aelm eilsesciotrnicsi tfyro omut fpuuetl  (cMomtCbOu2s/tTioWnh f)or electricity and heating per      8.92017 • L CCohrilrdurpetnio innv Poelvrceedp itnio cnh Iinldd leaxb (owr o(%rs to 0f –p1o0p0u blaetsiot)n aged 5 to 14)      272.9922001196 •• p•
5
SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth                Exports of major conventional weapons (TIV constant million USD   * 0.02019 • • . C
Adjusted GDP growth (%)    -4.62018 • • per 100,000 population) ou
Victims of modern slavery (per 1,000 population)    6.82018 • • Press Freedom Index (best 0–100 worst)    29.72019 • L ntr
y
Admuoltbsi lwe-itmh oanne ayc-cseoruvnicte a tp aro bvaidnekr  o(%r o othf epro fpinualantcioianl  iangsteidtu 1ti5o no ro or vwerit)h a     45.32017 • L SGoDvGer1nm7 e–n tP sapretnndeinrgs ohni phse aflothr a tnhde e dGuocaatliosn (% of GDP)      6 . 4201  6 •   D    Prof
Unemployment rate (% of total labor force)    2.02019 • L For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional    NA NA • • iles
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population)   0.02010 • L public finance, including official development assistance (% of GNI)
Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP)    20.32018 • 5
Corporate Tax Haven Score (best 0–100 worst) * 0.02019 • •
* Imputed data point
449
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
TONGA  
Oceania
OVERALL PERFORMANCE
SDG SDG
17 1
SDG 100 SDG
16 2
75
Index score Regional average score SDG SDG
15 50 3
25
SDG
SDG 4
14
 na 49.6
Tonga
SDG SDG
13 5
SDG
12 SDG
6
SDG Global rank NA (OF 166)
SDG
11 SDG
7
SDG SDG
10 SDG 8
9
SPILLOVER INDEX AVERAGE PERFORMANCE BY SDG
100 (best) to 0 (worst)
100
80
60
40
20
0
CURRENT ASSESSMENT – SDG DASHBOARD
  Major challenges           Significant challenges          Challenges remain          SDG achieved          Information unavailable
SDG TRENDS
L 5 D • 5 D D • D
• L • L 5 • L L
p  Decreasing       5  Stagnating       D  Moderately improving       L  On track or maintaining SDG achievement       •  Information unavailable
Notes: The full title of Goal 2 “Zero Hunger” is “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”.    
  The full title of each SDG is available here: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabledevelopmentgoals
450
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
TONGA
Performance by Indicator
SDG1 – No Poverty    Val u e Yea  rRa t ingTr e nd SDG9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure    Val u e Ye a rRa t ingTr e nd
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%)    0.12020 • L Population using the internet (%)    41.22017 • D
Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%)    4.22020 • L Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population)    65.12018 • L
SDG2 – Zero Hunger                Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related     NA NA • •
Prevalence of undernourishment (%)    NA NA • • infrastructure (worst 1–5 best)
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%)    8.12012 • D The Times Higher Education Universities Ranking: Average score of top 3 * 0.02020 • •
PPrreevvaalleennccee  ooff  wobaesstiintyg,  BinM cIh ≥il d3r0e n(% u nodf aedr u5 lyt epaorps uolfa atigoen )(%)      458..2222001126 •• Lp Scuiennivteifrisci taiensd ( tweochrsnt i0ca–l1 j0o0u rbneaslt a)rticles (per 1,000 population)    0.02018 • 5
Expenditure on research and development (% of GDP)    NA NA • •
Human Trophic Level (best 2–3 worst)    NA NA • •
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land)    NA NA • • SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities               
Sustainable Nitrogen Management Index (best 0–1.41 worst)    1.02015 • p Gini coefficient adjusted for top income    40.12015 • •
SDG3 – Good Health and Well-Being                SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities               
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)     522017 • L Annual mean concentration of particulate matter of less than      10.82017 • L
2.5 microns in diameter (PM2.5) (μg/m3)
NMeoorntaaltitayl  rmatoer,t ualnitdye rra-t5e ( (ppeerr 1 1,0,00000 l ilvivee b birirtthhss))      165..5622001188 •• LL Access to improved water source, piped (% of urban population)    99.02017 • L
Incidence of tuberculosis (per 100,000 population)    10.02018 • L Satisfaction with public transport (%)    NA NA • •
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population)    NA NA • • SDG12 – Responsible Consumption and Production                 
Municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)    1.92012 • •
Agdeia-bsteatneds,a ordr iczherdo ndieca rtehs prairtaet dourye d tois ecaasred iionv aadscuultlsa ra dgiesde a3s0e–, c7a0n yceear,r s (%)    23.32016 • 5 Electronic waste (kg/capita)    2.42016 • •
Agame-bstiaenndt aarird pizoeldlu dtieoant h(p reart e1 0at0t,r0ib0u0 tpaobpleu tloat hioonu)sehold air pollution and    732016 • • PSOro2d eumctiisosnio-bnas seemd bSoOd2i eedm iinss iimonpso (rktgs /(ckgap/citaap)ita)       NNAA NNAA •• ••
Traffic deaths (per 100,000 population)    16.82016 • p Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita)    NA NA • •
Life expectancy at birth (years)    73.42016 • 5 Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)    NA NA • •
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19)   14.72017 • L SDG13 – Climate Action               
Births attended by skilled health personnel (%)    95.52012 • • Energy-related CO2 emissions (tCO2/capita)    1.52017 • L
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%)   812018 • L CO2 emissions embodied in imports (tCO2/capita)    NA NA • •
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best)   58.02017 • 5 CO2 emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita) * 0.02018 • •
Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best)    NA NA • •
SDG14 – Life Below Water                 
SDG4 – Quality Education                Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)    5.92018 • 5
Net primary enrollment rate (%)    85.92015 • • Ocean Health Index: Clean Waters score (worst 0–100 best)    66.92019 • L
Lower secondary completion rate (%)    78.72004 • • Fish caught from overexploited or collapsed stocks (% of total catch)    39.82014 • p
Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24)    99.42018 • • Fish caught by trawling (%)    NA NA • •
SDG5 – Gender Equality                    Marine biodiversity threats embodied in imports (per million population)    NA NA • •
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods (% of females    47.92012 • 5 SDG15 – Life on Land               
aged 15 to 49 who are married or in unions) Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%)   9.32018 • 5
Ratio of female-to-male mean years of education received (%)   100.92018 • L Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%)   NA NA • •
Ratio of female-to-male labor force participation rate (%)    61.02019 • 5 Red List Index of species survival (worst 0–1 best)    0.72019 • p
Seats held by women in national parliament (%)    7.42020 • D Permanent deforestation (% of forest area, 5-year average)    NA NA • •
SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation               
Population using at least basic drinking water services (%)    99.92017 • L Te(rpreers tmriailll iaonnd p forepsuhlwataiotenr) biodiversity threats embodied in imports      NA NA • •
Population using at least basic sanitation services (%)    93.42017 • 5 SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions               
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available freshwater resources)    NA NA • • Homicides (per 100,000 population)    1.02012 • •
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%)    0.32018 • • Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population)    7.42015 • •
Scarce water consumption embodied in imports (m3/capita)    NA NA • • Percentage of population who feel safe walking alone at night in the      NA NA • •
SDG7 – Affordable and Clean Energy                city or area where they live (%)
Population with access to electricity (%)    98.02017 • L Property Rights (worst 1–7 best)    NA NA • •
Population with access to clean fuels and technology for cooking (%)    59.22016 • 5 Birth registrations with civil authority (% of children under age 5)    93.42018 • •
COto2t aelm eilsesciotrnicsi tfyro omut fpuuetl  (cMomtCbOu2s/tTioWnh f)or electricity and heating per      NA NA • • CCohrilrdurpetnio innv Poelvrceedp itnio cnh Iinldd leaxb (owr o(%rs to 0f –p1o0p0u blaetsiot)n aged 5 to 14)      NNAA NNAA •• ••
5
SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth                Exports of major conventional weapons (TIV constant million USD   * 0.02019 • • . C
Adjusted GDP growth (%)    -3.72018 • • per 100,000 population) ou
Victims of modern slavery (per 1,000 population)    NA NA • • Press Freedom Index (best 0–100 worst)    25.42019 • L ntr
y
Admuoltbsi lwe-itmh oanne ayc-cseoruvnicte a tp aro bvaidnekr  o(%r o othf epro fpinualantcioianl  iangsteidtu 1ti5o no ro or vwerit)h a     NA NA • • SGoDvGer1nm7 e–n tP sapretnndeinrgs ohni phse aflothr a tnhde e dGuocaatliosn (% of GDP)      6 . 3200  4 •   •    Prof
Unemployment rate (% of total labor force)    1.12019 • L For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional    NA NA • • iles
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population)   NA NA • • public finance, including official development assistance (% of GNI)
Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP)    25.62017 • L
Corporate Tax Haven Score (best 0–100 worst) * 0.02019 • •
* Imputed data point
451
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO  
Latin America and the Caribbean
OVERALL PERFORMANCE
SDG SDG
17 1
SDG 100 SDG
16 2
75
Index score Regional average score SDG SDG
15 50 3
25
SDG
SDG 4
14
65.8 70.4 Trinidad 
SDG and Tobago SDG
13 5
SDG
12 SDG
6
SDG Global rank 98 (OF 166)
SDG
11 SDG
7
SDG SDG
10 SDG 8
9
SPILLOVER INDEX AVERAGE PERFORMANCE BY SDG
100 (best) to 0 (worst)
100
80
60
40
20
0
CURRENT ASSESSMENT – SDG DASHBOARD
  Major challenges           Significant challenges          Challenges remain          SDG achieved          Information unavailable
SDG TRENDS
L 5 D • D D L L D
• 5 • 5 p p 5 •
p  Decreasing       5  Stagnating       D  Moderately improving       L  On track or maintaining SDG achievement       •  Information unavailable
Notes: The full title of Goal 2 “Zero Hunger” is “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”.    
  The full title of each SDG is available here: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabledevelopmentgoals
452
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
Performance by Indicator
SDG1 – No Poverty    Val u e Yea  rRa t ingTr e nd SDG9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure    Val u e Ye a rRa t ingTr e nd
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%)    0.32020 • L Population using the internet (%)    77.32017 • L
Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%)    1.32020 • L Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population)    40.72018 • D
SDG2 – Zero Hunger                Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related     2.42018 • •
Prevalence of undernourishment (%)    5.52017 • L infrastructure (worst 1–5 best)
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%)    11.02011 • L The Times Higher Education Universities Ranking: Average score of top 3 * 0.02020 • •
PPHrrueemvvaaalleennn Tccreeo  poohff  iwocb aLesestviinetylg ,(  BbinMe csIth ≥ 2il d–3r30e  wn(% ou rnosdft )aedr u5 lyt epaorps uolfa atigoen )(%)        1628...336222000111167 ••• 5Lp SExcupieneninvtdeifiritscui rtaeien osdn ( t wreeocshersantr ic0cha– la1 nj0od0u  drbneeavselt la)orptimcleens t( (p%e ro 1f ,G0D0P0) population)      00..2122001186 •• 55
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land)    1.42017 • 5 SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities               
Sustainable Nitrogen Management Index (best 0–1.41 worst)    1.32015 • p Gini coefficient adjusted for top income    NA NA • •
SDG3 – Good Health and Well-Being                SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities               
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)     672017 • L Annual mean concentration of particulate matter of less than      24.12017 • 5
2.5 microns in diameter (PM2.5) (μg/m3)
Neonatal mortality rate (per 1,000 live births)    11.72018 • L
Mortality rate, under-5 (per 1,000 live births)    18.32018 • L Access to improved water source, piped (% of urban population)    NA NA • •
Incidence of tuberculosis (per 100,000 population)    21.02018 • 5 Satisfaction with public transport (%)    56.22017 • •
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population)    NA NA • • SDG12 – Responsible Consumption and Production                 
Municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)    2.72010 • •
Agdeia-bsteatneds,a ordr iczherdo ndieca rtehs prairtaet dourye d tois ecaasred iionv aadscuultlsa ra dgiesde a3s0e–, c7a0n yceear,r s (%)    21.32016 • D Electronic waste (kg/capita)    15.82016 • •
Agame-bstiaenndt aarird pizoeldlu dtieoant h(p reart e1 0at0t,r0ib0u0 tpaobpleu tloat hioonu)sehold air pollution and    392016 • • PSOro2d eumctiisosnio-bnas seemd bSoOd2i eedm iinss iimonpso (rktgs /(ckgap/citaap)ita)       648..1722001122 •• ••
Traffic deaths (per 100,000 population)    12.12016 • L Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita)    14.02010 • •
Life expectancy at birth (years)    71.82016 • 5 Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)    6.72010 • •
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19)   30.12017 • L SDG13 – Climate Action               
Births attended by skilled health personnel (%)   100.02015 • L Energy-related CO2 emissions (tCO2/capita)    30.42017 • D
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%)   902018 • L CO2 emissions embodied in imports (tCO2/capita)    1.32015 • 5
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best)   74.02017 • L CO2 emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita) 1  7806.52015 • •
Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best)    6.22017 • •
SDG14 – Life Below Water                 
SDG4 – Quality Education                Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)    23.72018 • 5
Net primary enrollment rate (%)    95.32010 • • Ocean Health Index: Clean Waters score (worst 0–100 best)    62.32019 • p
Lower secondary completion rate (%)    80.92010 • • Fish caught from overexploited or collapsed stocks (% of total catch)    26.82014 • p
Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24)    99.62010 • • Fish caught by trawling (%)    23.02014 • p
SDG5 – Gender Equality                    Marine biodiversity threats embodied in imports (per million population)    0.12018 • •
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods (% of females    58.22011 • 5 SDG15 – Life on Land               
aged 15 to 49 who are married or in unions) Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%)   40.72018 • 5
Ratio of female-to-male mean years of education received (%)   101.82018 • L Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%)   NA NA • •
Ratio of female-to-male labor force participation rate (%)    70.92019 • L Red List Index of species survival (worst 0–1 best)    0.82019 • p
Seats held by women in national parliament (%)    31.02020 • p Permanent deforestation (% of forest area, 5-year average)    0.12018 • •
SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation               
Population using at least basic drinking water services (%)    98.22017 • L Te(rpreers tmriailll iaonnd p forepsuhlwataiotenr) biodiversity threats embodied in imports      0.62018 • •
Population using at least basic sanitation services (%)    93.42017 • 5 SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions               
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available freshwater resources)    20.32010 • • Homicides (per 100,000 population)    30.92015 • •
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%)    3.22018 • • Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population)    59.72018 • p
Scarce water consumption embodied in imports (m3/capita)    13.72013 • L Percentage of population who feel safe walking alone at night in the      51.72017 • •
SDG7 – Affordable and Clean Energy                city or area where they live (%)
Population with access to electricity (%)   100.02017 • L Property Rights (worst 1–7 best)    4.32019 • •
Population with access to clean fuels and technology for cooking (%)    99.32016 • L Birth registrations with civil authority (% of children under age 5)    96.52018 • •
COto2t aelm eilsesciotrnicsi tfyro omut fpuuetl  (cMomtCbOu2s/tTioWnh f)or electricity and heating per      1.72017 • L CCohrilrdurpetnio innv Poelvrceedp itnio cnh Iinldd leaxb (owr o(%rs to 0f –p1o0p0u blaetsiot)n aged 5 to 14)      04.0722001196 •• 5•
5
SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth                Exports of major conventional weapons (TIV constant million USD   * 0.02019 • • . C
Adjusted GDP growth (%)    -5.92018 • • per 100,000 population) ou
Victims of modern slavery (per 1,000 population)    3.02018 • • Press Freedom Index (best 0–100 worst)    24.72019 • L ntr
y
Admuoltbsi lwe-itmh oanne ayc-cseoruvnicte a tp aro bvaidnekr  o(%r o othf epro fpinualantcioianl  iangsteidtu 1ti5o no ro or vwerit)h a     80.82017 • • SGoDvGer1nm7 e–n tP sapretnndeinrgs ohni phse aflothr a tnhde e dGuocaatliosn (% of GDP)      5 . 1200  3 •   •    Prof
Unemployment rate (% of total labor force)    2.72019 • L For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional    NA NA • • iles
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population)   0.62010 • L public finance, including official development assistance (% of GNI)
Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP)    NA NA • •
Corporate Tax Haven Score (best 0–100 worst) * 0.02019 • •
* Imputed data point
453
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
TUNISIA  
Middle East and North Africa
OVERALL PERFORMANCE
SDG SDG
17 1
SDG 100 SDG
16 2
75
Index score Regional average score SDG SDG
15 50 3
25
SDG
SDG 4
14
71.4 66.3
Tunisia
SDG SDG
13 5
SDG
12 SDG
6
SDG Global rank 63 (OF 166)
SDG
11 SDG
7
SDG SDG
10 SDG 8
9
SPILLOVER INDEX AVERAGE PERFORMANCE BY SDG
100 (best) to 0 (worst)
100
80
60
40
20
0
CURRENT ASSESSMENT – SDG DASHBOARD
  Major challenges           Significant challenges          Challenges remain          SDG achieved          Information unavailable
SDG TRENDS
L 5 D L 5 L D D 5
• 5 • L 5 5 5 L
p  Decreasing       5  Stagnating       D  Moderately improving       L  On track or maintaining SDG achievement       •  Information unavailable
Notes: The full title of Goal 2 “Zero Hunger” is “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”.    
  The full title of each SDG is available here: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabledevelopmentgoals
454
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
TUNISIA
Performance by Indicator
SDG1 – No Poverty    Val u e Yea  rRa t ingTr e nd SDG9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure    Val u e Ye a rRa t ingTr e nd
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%)    0.22020 • L Population using the internet (%)    64.22018 • L
Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%)    2.22020 • L Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population)    76.12018 • L
SDG2 – Zero Hunger                Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related     2.12018 • p
Prevalence of undernourishment (%)    4.32017 • L infrastructure (worst 1–5 best)
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%)    10.12012 • D The Times Higher Education Universities Ranking: Average score of top 3    16.42020 • •
PPHrrueemvvaaalleennn Tccreeo  poohff  iwocb aLesestviinetylg ,(  BbinMe csIth ≥ 2il d–3r30e  wn(% ou rnosdft )aedr u5 lyt epaorps uolfa atigoen )(%)        2226...829222000111267 ••• 5Lp SExcupieneninvtdeifiritscui rtaeien osdn ( t wreeocshersantr ic0cha– la1 nj0od0u  drbneeavselt la)orptimcleens t( (p%e ro 1f ,G0D0P0) population)      00..5622001186 •• pD
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land)    1.52017 • p SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities               
Sustainable Nitrogen Management Index (best 0–1.41 worst)    1.02015 • p Gini coefficient adjusted for top income    40.02015 • •
SDG3 – Good Health and Well-Being                SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities               
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)     432017 • L Annual mean concentration of particulate matter of less than      37.72017 • p
2.5 microns in diameter (PM2.5) (μg/m3)
NMInecooirdntaealntitacyle  rm oatfoe tr,ut uablnietdryce rura-lto5e s( i(psp e(eprr e1 1r,0, 01000000 l ,il0viv0ee0 b  bpiriortthphsus)l)ation)        113175...500222000111888 ••• LLD ASactciesfsasc ttoio inm wpritohv epdu bwliact etrra snosuprocret,  (p%ip)ed (% of urban population)      9492..0622001179 •• 5L
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population)    0.02018 • L SDG12 – Responsible Consumption and Production                 
Municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)    0.92014 • •
Agdeia-bsteatneds,a ordr iczherdo ndieca rtehs prairtaet dourye d tois ecaasred iionv aadscuultlsa ra dgiesde a3s0e–, c7a0n yceear,r s (%)    16.12016 • L Electronic waste (kg/capita)    5.62016 • •
Agame-bstiaenndt aarird pizoeldlu dtieoant h(p reart e1 0at0t,r0ib0u0 tpaobpleu tloat hioonu)sehold air pollution and    562016 • • PSOro2d eumctiisosnio-bnas seemd bSoOd2i eedm iinss iimonpso (rktgs /(ckgap/citaap)ita)       212..5122001122 •• ••
Traffic deaths (per 100,000 population)    22.82016 • D Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita)    13.72010 • •
Life expectancy at birth (years)    76.02016 • D Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)    2.32010 • •
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19)   7.82017 • L SDG13 – Climate Action               
Births attended by skilled health personnel (%)    73.62012 • • Energy-related CO2 emissions (tCO2/capita)    1.82017 • L
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%)   962018 • L CO2 emissions embodied in imports (tCO2/capita)    0.52015 • L
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best)   70.02017 • D CO2 emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita)    0.02017 • •
Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best)    4.32019 • p
SDG14 – Life Below Water                 
SDG4 – Quality Education                Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)    31.12018 • 5
Net primary enrollment rate (%)    97.82013 • • Ocean Health Index: Clean Waters score (worst 0–100 best)    49.12019 • 5
Lower secondary completion rate (%)    77.42018 • L Fish caught from overexploited or collapsed stocks (% of total catch)    5.12014 • L
Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24)    96.22014 • • Fish caught by trawling (%)    28.12014 • p
SDG5 – Gender Equality                    Marine biodiversity threats embodied in imports (per million population)    0.12018 • •
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods (% of females    73.22012 • L SDG15 – Life on Land               
aged 15 to 49 who are married or in unions) Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%)   40.22018 • 5
Ratio of female-to-male mean years of education received (%)    81.02018 • 5 Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%)   43.42018 • 5
Ratio of female-to-male labor force participation rate (%)    34.32019 • p Red List Index of species survival (worst 0–1 best)    1.02019 • L
Seats held by women in national parliament (%)    24.92020 • p Permanent deforestation (% of forest area, 5-year average)    0.52018 • •
SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation               
Population using at least basic drinking water services (%)    96.32017 • L Te(rpreers tmriailll iaonnd p forepsuhlwataiotenr) biodiversity threats embodied in imports      0.32018 • •
Population using at least basic sanitation services (%)    90.92017 • L SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions               
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available freshwater resources)   121.12015 • • Homicides (per 100,000 population)    3.02012 • •
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%)    43.02018 • • Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population)    50.92018 • 5
Scarce water consumption embodied in imports (m3/capita)    10.12013 • L Percentage of population who feel safe walking alone at night in the      57.92019 • p
SDG7 – Affordable and Clean Energy                city or area where they live (%)
Population with access to electricity (%)   100.02017 • L Property Rights (worst 1–7 best)    4.32019 • •
Population with access to clean fuels and technology for cooking (%)    99.12016 • L Birth registrations with civil authority (% of children under age 5)    99.92018 • •
COto2t aelm eilsesciotrnicsi tfyro omut fpuuetl  (cMomtCbOu2s/tTioWnh f)or electricity and heating per      1.42017 • 5 CCohrilrdurpetnio innv Poelvrceedp itnio cnh Iinldd leaxb (owr o(%rs to 0f –p1o0p0u blaetsiot)n aged 5 to 14)      24.3122001196 •• D•
5
SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth                Exports of major conventional weapons (TIV constant million USD   * 0.02019 • • . C
Adjusted GDP growth (%)    -3.22018 • • per 100,000 population) ou
Victims of modern slavery (per 1,000 population)    2.22018 • • Press Freedom Index (best 0–100 worst)    29.62019 • L ntr
y
Admuoltbsi lwe-itmh oanne ayc-cseoruvnicte a tp aro bvaidnekr  o(%r o othf epro fpinualantcioianl  iangsteidtu 1ti5o no ro or vwerit)h a     36.92017 • D SGoDvGer1nm7 e–n tP sapretnndeinrgs ohni phse aflothr a tnhde e dGuocaatliosn (% of GDP)      10 . 6201  5 •   L    Prof
Unemployment rate (% of total labor force)    16.02019 • p For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional    NA NA • • iles
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population)   0.32010 • L public finance, including official development assistance (% of GNI)
Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP)    31.42012 • •
Corporate Tax Haven Score (best 0–100 worst) * 0.02019 • •
* Imputed data point
455
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
TURKEY  
OECD Countries
OVERALL PERFORMANCE
SDG SDG
17 1
SDG 100 SDG
16 2
75
Index score Regional average score SDG SDG
15 50 3
25
SDG
SDG 4
14
70.3 77.3
Turkey
SDG SDG
13 5
SDG
12 SDG
6
SDG Global rank 70 (OF 166)
SDG
11 SDG
7
SDG SDG
10 SDG 8
9
SPILLOVER INDEX AVERAGE PERFORMANCE BY SDG
100 (best) to 0 (worst)
100
80
60
40
20
0
CURRENT ASSESSMENT – SDG DASHBOARD
  Major challenges           Significant challenges          Challenges remain          SDG achieved          Information unavailable
SDG TRENDS
D D D D 5 D D D D
5 5 • 5 5 5 p 5
p  Decreasing       5  Stagnating       D  Moderately improving       L  On track or maintaining SDG achievement       •  Information unavailable
Notes: The full title of Goal 2 “Zero Hunger” is “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”.    
  The full title of each SDG is available here: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabledevelopmentgoals
456
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
TURKEY
Performance by Indicator
SDG1 – No Poverty    Va lu e Ye a rRa t ingTr e nd SDG9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure    Va lu e Yea  rRa t ingTr e nd
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%)    0.0 2020 • L Population using the internet (%)    71.0 2018 • L
Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%)    0.3 2020 • L Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population)    74.2 2018 • L
Poverty rate after taxes and transfers (%)    17.2 2015 • p Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related     3.2 2018 • L
SDG2 – Zero Hunger                  infrastructure (worst 1–5 best)
Prevalence of undernourishment (%)    2.5 2017 • L Thuen Tivimerseist iHesig (wheorr Estd 0u–c1at0io0 nb eUsnt)iversities Ranking: Average score of top 3    39.4 2020 • •
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%)    9.5 2013 • L Scientific and technical journal articles (per 1,000 population)    0.4 2018 • p
Prevalence of wasting in children under 5 years of age (%)    1.7 2013 • L Expenditure on research and development (% of GDP)    1.0 2017 • D
Prevalence of obesity, BMI ≥ 30 (% of adult population)    32.1 2016 • p Researchers (per 1,000 employed population)    4.0 2017 • D
Human Trophic Level (best 2–3 worst)    2.3 2017 • D  Triadic patent families filed (per million population)    0.7 2017 • 5
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land)    3.3 2017 • L Gap in internet access by income (percentage points)    NA NA • •
SYuiesltda ignaapb lcel oNsiutrroe g(%en o Mf panoategnetmiael ynite Ilndd)ex (best 0–1.41 worst)      N0.A6 20N1A5 •• 5• Waonmde enn ignin seceiernincge) and engineering (% of tertiary graduates in science     30.7 2015 • •
SDG3 – Good Health and Well-Being                    SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities               
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)     17 2017 • L Gini coefficient adjusted for top income    49.0 2016 • p
Neonatal mortality rate (per 1,000 live births)    5.5 2018 • L Palma ratio    1.9 2015 • p
Mortality rate, under-5 (per 1,000 live births)    10.6 2018 • L Elderly poverty rate (% of population aged 66 or over)    17.0 2015 • L
Incidence of tuberculosis (per 100,000 population)    16.0 2018 • L SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities               
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population)    NA NA • •
Age-standardized death rate due to cardiovascular disease, cancer,     16.1 2016 • L An2.n5u mali cmroenasn  icno dnicaemnetrtaetri o(PnM o2f .p5a) r(tμicgu/mlat3e) matter of less than      44.3 2017 • p
diabetes, or chronic respiratory disease in adults aged 30–70 years (%) Access to improved water source, piped (% of urban population)    98.6 2017 • L
Age-standardized death rate attributable to household air pollution and    47 2016 • • Satisfaction with public transport (%)    57.8 2018 • p
Traamffibc ideenat tahirs  p(poellru 1ti0o0n,0 (0p0e rp 1o0p0u,0la0t0io pno)pulation)    12.3 2016 • p Population with rent overburden (%)    NA NA • •
Life expectancy at birth (years)    76.4 2016 • L SDG12 – Responsible Consumption and Production               
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19)   26.6 2017 • L Electronic waste (kg/capita)    7.9 2016 • •
Births attended by skilled health personnel (%)    97.4 2014 • • Production-based SO2 emissions (kg/capita)    28.7 2012 • •
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%)   96.0 2018 • L SO2 emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)     2.7 2012 • •
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best)   74.0 2017 • L Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita)    25.5 2010 • •
Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best)    5.2 2018 • p Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)    1.7 2010 • •
Gap in life expectancy at birth among regions (years)    2.9 2016 • • Non-recycled municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)    1.0 2018 • •
Gap in self-reported health status by income (percentage points)    13.1 2017 • L SDG13 – Climate Action               
Daily smokers (% of population aged 15 and over)    26.5 2016 • D Energy-related CO2 emissions (tCO2/capita)    4.4 2017 • p
SDG4 – Quality Education                CO2 emissions embodied in imports (tCO2/capita)    0.5 2015 • L
Net primary enrollment rate (%) * 99.0 2017 • L CO2 emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita)    3.0 2018 • •
Lower secondary completion rate (%) * 99.0 2017 • L Effective carbon rate (EUR/tCO2)    8.1 2016 • •
Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24)    99.8 2017 • • SDG14 – Life Below Water               
Participation rate in pre-primary organized learning (% of children aged 4 to 6)    67.6 2017 • p Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)    4.1 2018 • 5
Tertiary educational attainment (% of population aged 25 to 34)    33.3 2018 • L Ocean Health Index: Clean Waters score (worst 0–100 best)    50.5 2019 • p
PISA score (worst 0–600 best)   462.7 2018 • L Fish caught from overexploited or collapsed stocks (% of total catch)    61.6 2014 • p
VURaenrsdiialetieiroannct  hisnite usvcdeieernns tcisne   ispnce sirecfnoiercmnec a(e%n (c %eo f e o1xfp5 1l-a5yie-nyaeerd-a obr-lydo ssldo)sc)io-economic status (%)        124158...022 222000111888 ••• pLL FMisahri ncaeu bgihotd bivye rtsraitwy ltihnrge a(%ts) embodied in imports (per million population)     330..08 22001148 •• D•
SDG15 – Life on Land               
SDG5 – Gender Equality                Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%)   2.5 2018 • 5
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods      59.7 2013 • 5 Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%)   4.4 2018 • 5
RRaa(%ttiioo o  oof fff  effeemmmaaalellees-- attoog--emmd aa1ll5ee   tmlaob e4oa9rn  wf yoehrcaoer s ap roeafr  metidcaiurprcaiaettdioio nonr r  rainetc eue (ni%vioe)nds ()%)      8426..12 22001189 •• 55 RPeerdm Laisnte Inntd dexe foofr espsteactiieosn s (u%rv oivf afol (rwesot rasrte 0a–, 15 -byeesatr) average)      00..90 22001198 •• 5•
Seats held by women in national parliament (%)    17.3 2020 • 5 Terrestrial and freshwater biodiversity threats embodied in imports      0.7 2018 • •
Gender wage gap (% of male median wage)    6.9 2014 • • (per million population)
Gender gap in time spent doing unpaid work (minutes/day)   237.5 2015 • • SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions               
Homicides (per 100,000 population)    4.3 2012 • •
SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation                Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population)    30.6 2018 • p
PPooppuullaattiioonn  uussiinngg  aatt  lleeaasstt  bbaassiicc  dsarninitkaintigo nw saetrevri cseersv (i%ce)s (%)      9987..93 22001177 •• •• Pecrictye notra agree ao wf phoepreu ltahteioyn l iwveh (o% f)eel safe walking alone at night in the      56.8 2018 • p
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available freshwater resources)    42.9 2015 • • Property Rights (worst 1–7 best)    4.3 2019 • •
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%)    30.4 2018 • • Birth registrations with civil authority (% of children under age 5)    98.8 2018 • • 5
SPPcooappruuclleaa ttwiiooannte  uur ssciinnoggn  sssuaamffeepllyyt  immonaa nneaamggbeeoddd  wsiaeandtie tianr ts iieomrnvp isoceerrtsvs i (c(%me)s3 (/%ca)pita)        16N35..A22 2200N11A37 ••• 5L• CCExohprilrodurrptestn ioo ifnn mv Poealjvroceerd pc oitnino cvnhe Iinnldtdi oleanxb a(olw rw o(%ersa tpo 0of –pn1os0 p(0Tu IblVae tcsioot)nn satganetd m 5 itlloio 1n4 U)SD          3950...930 222000111969 ••• p•• . Country
SDG7 – Affordable and Clean Energy                per 100,000 population)  P
PPooppuullaattiioonn  wwiitthh  aacccceessss  ttoo  eclleeacntr ifcuiteyls ( %an)d technology for cooking (%)     10N0.A0 20N1A7 •• L• PPererssso nFrse heedlodm in I npdriesoxn (b (pesetr  01–0100,000 w0 oprospt)ulation)     35222..80 22001197 •• pp rofile
s
COel2e cetmricisistyio onus tfproumt ( MfuteCl Oco2/mTWbuhs)tion for electricity and heating per total    1.3 2017 • 5 SGoDvGer1n7m e–n Pt sapretnndeinrgs honip hse aflothr  atnhde e Gduocaatlison (% of GDP)  *  7 . 0 201  5 •   p  
Share of renewable energy in total primary energy supply (%)    13.1 2018 • L For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional    NA NA • •
SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth                public finance, including official development assistance (% of GNI)
Adjusted GDP growth (%)    -1.5 2018 • • Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP)    30.7 2018 • L
VAidmcutoilmtbsis lw eo-iftm hm oaonnde aeycr-ncseo srulvanivctee ar ytp  ar(op bveairdn 1ek,r0  o(0%r0 o  pothfo epprou fplianutailoantncio)ianl  iangsteidtu 1ti5o no ro or vwerit)h a       668..65 22001187 •• L• CFSihonirafptneocdria aptle rSo Tefaictxrse  Hocafy v mSecunol tSrienc oa(brteieo s(ntb a0els–s t1( U00–S01$ w0 b0oi lrwlsioto)nr)st) *     5093...095 222000121906 ••• •••
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population)   0.2 2010 • L
Employment-to-population ratio (%)    50.3 2019 • 5
Youth not in employment, education or training (NEET)      26.5 2018 • D
(% of population aged 15 to 29)
* Imputed data point
457
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
TURKMENISTAN  
Eastern Europe and Central Asia
OVERALL PERFORMANCE
SDG SDG
17 1
SDG 100 SDG
16 2
75
Index score Regional average score SDG SDG
15 50 3
25
SDG
SDG 4
14
63.0 70.9
Turkmenistan
SDG SDG
13 5
SDG
12 SDG
6
SDG Global rank 114 (OF 166)
SDG
11 SDG
7
SDG SDG
10 SDG 8
9
SPILLOVER INDEX AVERAGE PERFORMANCE BY SDG
100 (best) to 0 (worst)
100
80
60
40
20
0
CURRENT ASSESSMENT – SDG DASHBOARD
  Major challenges           Significant challenges          Challenges remain          SDG achieved          Information unavailable
SDG TRENDS
D 5 D • 5 L D L 5
• 5 • 5 • 5 5 •
p  Decreasing       5  Stagnating       D  Moderately improving       L  On track or maintaining SDG achievement       •  Information unavailable
Notes: The full title of Goal 2 “Zero Hunger” is “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”.    
  The full title of each SDG is available here: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabledevelopmentgoals
458
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
TURKMENISTAN
Performance by Indicator
SDG1 – No Poverty    Val u e Yea  rRa t ingTr e nd SDG9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure    Val u e Ye a rRa t ingTr e nd
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%)    26.62020 • L Population using the internet (%)    21.32017 • D
Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%)    54.12020 • D Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population)    15.32017 • D
SDG2 – Zero Hunger                Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related     2.22018 • D
Prevalence of undernourishment (%)    5.42017 • L infrastructure (worst 1–5 best)
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%)    11.52015 • L The Times Higher Education Universities Ranking: Average score of top 3 * 0.02020 • •
PPrreevvaalleennccee  ooff  wobaesstiintyg,  BinM cIh ≥il d3r0e n(% u nodf aedr u5 lyt epaorps uolfa atigoen )(%)      148..2622001156 •• Lp Scuiennivteifrisci taiensd ( tweochrsnt i0ca–l1 j0o0u rbneaslt a)rticles (per 1,000 population)    0.02018 • 5
Human Trophic Level (best 2–3 worst)    2.32017 • 5 Expenditure on research and development (% of GDP)    NA NA • •
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land)    1.12017 • 5 SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities               
Sustainable Nitrogen Management Index (best 0–1.41 worst)    0.72015 • p Gini coefficient adjusted for top income    NA NA • •
SDG3 – Good Health and Well-Being                SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities               
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)     72017 • L Annual mean concentration of particulate matter of less than      21.82017 • 5
NMeoorntaaltitayl  rmatoer,t ualnitdye rra-t5e ( (ppeerr 1 1,0,00000 l ilvivee b birirtthhss))      2415..0822001188 •• DD Ac2c.5e sms itcor oimnsp irno vdeiadm weatteerr ( sPoMu2rc.5e),  (pμipg/emd 3(%) of urban population)    77.82017 • p
Incidence of tuberculosis (per 100,000 population)    46.02018 • 5 Satisfaction with public transport (%)    71.02019 • p
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population)    NA NA • • SDG12 – Responsible Consumption and Production                 
Municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)    0.52013 • •
Agdeia-bsteatneds,a ordr iczherdo ndieca rtehs prairtaet dourye d tois ecaasred iionv aadscuultlsa ra dgiesde a3s0e–, c7a0n yceear,r s (%)    29.52016 • 5 Electronic waste (kg/capita)    NA NA • •
Agame-bstiaenndt aarird pizoeldlu dtieoant h(p reart e1 0at0t,r0ib0u0 tpaobpleu tloat hioonu)sehold air pollution and    792016 • • PSOro2d eumctiisosnio-bnas seemd bSoOd2i eedm iinss iimonpso (rktgs /(ckgap/citaap)ita)       298..2622001122 •• ••
Traffic deaths (per 100,000 population)    14.52016 • L Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita)    30.12010 • •
Life expectancy at birth (years)    68.22016 • 5 Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)    2.42010 • •
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19)   24.42017 • L SDG13 – Climate Action               
Births attended by skilled health personnel (%)   100.02016 • • Energy-related CO2 emissions (tCO2/capita)    14.62017 • p
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%)   992018 • L CO2 emissions embodied in imports (tCO2/capita)    1.02015 • L
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best)   70.02017 • L CO2 emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita)    NA NA • •
Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best)    5.52019 • p
SDG14 – Life Below Water                 
SDG4 – Quality Education                Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)    NA NA • •
Net primary enrollment rate (%)    NA NA • • Ocean Health Index: Clean Waters score (worst 0–100 best)    NA NA • •
Lower secondary completion rate (%)    NA NA • • Fish caught from overexploited or collapsed stocks (% of total catch)    NA NA • •
Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24)    99.82014 • • Fish caught by trawling (%)    NA NA • •
SDG5 – Gender Equality                    Marine biodiversity threats embodied in imports (per million population)    0.02018 • •
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods (% of females    75.62016 • D SDG15 – Life on Land               
aged 15 to 49 who are married or in unions) Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%)   14.42018 • 5
Ratio of female-to-male mean years of education received (%)    NA NA • • Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%)   13.12018 • 5
Ratio of female-to-male labor force participation rate (%)    67.42019 • 5 Red List Index of species survival (worst 0–1 best)    1.02019 • L
Seats held by women in national parliament (%)    25.02020 • p Permanent deforestation (% of forest area, 5-year average)    0.02018 • •
SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation               
Population using at least basic drinking water services (%)    98.82017 • L Te(rpreers tmriailll iaonnd p forepsuhlwataiotenr) biodiversity threats embodied in imports      0.22018 • •
Population using at least basic sanitation services (%)    98.72017 • L SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions               
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available freshwater resources)   143.62005 • • Homicides (per 100,000 population)    4.22006 • •
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%)    9.82018 • • Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population)    14.02012 • •
Scarce water consumption embodied in imports (m3/capita)    13.22013 • L Percentage of population who feel safe walking alone at night in the      92.52019 • L
SDG7 – Affordable and Clean Energy                city or area where they live (%)
Population with access to electricity (%)   100.02017 • L Property Rights (worst 1–7 best)    NA NA • •
Population with access to clean fuels and technology for cooking (%)    99.32016 • L Birth registrations with civil authority (% of children under age 5)    99.62018 • •
COto2t aelm eilsesciotrnicsi tfyro omut fpuuetl  (cMomtCbOu2s/tTioWnh f)or electricity and heating per      3.32017 • D CCohrilrdurpetnio innv Poelvrceedp itnio cnh Iinldd leaxb (owr o(%rs to 0f –p1o0p0u blaetsiot)n aged 5 to 14)      01.9322001196 •• 5•
5
SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth                Exports of major conventional weapons (TIV constant million USD   * 0.02019 • • . C
Adjusted GDP growth (%)    1.12018 • • per 100,000 population) ou
Victims of modern slavery (per 1,000 population)    11.22018 • • Press Freedom Index (best 0–100 worst)    85.42019 • p ntr
y
Admuoltbsi lwe-itmh oanne ayc-cseoruvnicte a tp aro bvaidnekr  o(%r o othf epro fpinualantcioianl  iangsteidtu 1ti5o no ro or vwerit)h a     40.62017 • • SGoDvGer1nm7 e–n tP sapretnndeinrgs ohni phse aflothr a tnhde e dGuocaatliosn (% of GDP)      4 . 3201  2 •   •    Prof
Unemployment rate (% of total labor force)    3.92019 • L For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional    NA NA • • iles
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population)   0.42010 • L public finance, including official development assistance (% of GNI)
Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP)    NA NA • •
Corporate Tax Haven Score (best 0–100 worst) * 0.02019 • •
* Imputed data point
459
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
TUVALU  
Oceania
OVERALL PERFORMANCE
SDG SDG
17 1
SDG 100 SDG
16 2
75
Index score Regional average score SDG SDG
15 50 3
25
SDG
SDG 4
14
 na 49.6
Tuvalu
SDG SDG
13 5
SDG
12 SDG
6
SDG Global rank NA (OF 166)
SDG
11 SDG
7
SDG SDG
10 SDG 8
9
SPILLOVER INDEX AVERAGE PERFORMANCE BY SDG
100 (best) to 0 (worst)
100
80
60
40
20
0
CURRENT ASSESSMENT – SDG DASHBOARD
  Major challenges           Significant challenges          Challenges remain          SDG achieved          Information unavailable
SDG TRENDS
• p • p p 5 D • 5
• • • L • • • •
p  Decreasing       5  Stagnating       D  Moderately improving       L  On track or maintaining SDG achievement       •  Information unavailable
Notes: The full title of Goal 2 “Zero Hunger” is “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”.    
  The full title of each SDG is available here: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabledevelopmentgoals
460
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
TUVALU
Performance by Indicator
SDG1 – No Poverty    Val u e Yea  rRa t ingTr e nd SDG9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure    Val u e Ye a rRa t ingTr e nd
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%)    NA NA • • Population using the internet (%)    49.32017 • L
Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%)    NA NA • • Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population)    0.02017 • 5
SDG2 – Zero Hunger                Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related     NA NA • •
Prevalence of undernourishment (%)    NA NA • • infrastructure (worst 1–5 best)
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%)    10.02007 • • The Times Higher Education Universities Ranking: Average score of top 3 * 0.02020 • •
PPrreevvaalleennccee  ooff  wobaesstiintyg,  BinM cIh ≥il d3r0e n(% u nodf aedr u5 lyt epaorps uolfa atigoen )(%)      531..3622000176 •• p• Scuiennivteifrisci taiensd ( tweochrsnt i0ca–l1 j0o0u rbneaslt a)rticles (per 1,000 population)    0.12018 • 5
Expenditure on research and development (% of GDP)    NA NA • •
Human Trophic Level (best 2–3 worst)    NA NA • •
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land)    NA NA • • SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities               
Sustainable Nitrogen Management Index (best 0–1.41 worst)    1.32015 • p Gini coefficient adjusted for top income    39.42010 • •
SDG3 – Good Health and Well-Being                SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities               
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)     NA NA • • Annual mean concentration of particulate matter of less than      NA NA • •
2.5 microns in diameter (PM2.5) (μg/m3)
NMeoorntaaltitayl  rmatoer,t ualnitdye rra-t5e ( (ppeerr 1 1,0,00000 l ilvivee b birirtthhss))      1254..7422001188 •• LL Access to improved water source, piped (% of urban population)    99.02017 • L
Incidence of tuberculosis (per 100,000 population)   270.02018 • p Satisfaction with public transport (%)    NA NA • •
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population)    NA NA • • SDG12 – Responsible Consumption and Production                 
Municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)    1.62016 • •
Agdeia-bsteatneds,a ordr iczherdo ndieca rtehs prairtaet dourye d tois ecaasred iionv aadscuultlsa ra dgiesde a3s0e–, c7a0n yceear,r s (%)    NA NA • • Electronic waste (kg/capita)    1.22016 • •
Agame-bstiaenndt aarird pizoeldlu dtieoant h(p reart e1 0at0t,r0ib0u0 tpaobpleu tloat hioonu)sehold air pollution and    NA NA • • PSOro2d eumctiisosnio-bnas seemd bSoOd2i eedm iinss iimonpso (rktgs /(ckgap/citaap)ita)       NNAA NNAA •• ••
Traffic deaths (per 100,000 population)    NA NA • • Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita)    NA NA • •
Life expectancy at birth (years)    NA NA • • Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)    NA NA • •
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19)   NA NA • • SDG13 – Climate Action               
Births attended by skilled health personnel (%)    93.12007 • • Energy-related CO2 emissions (tCO2/capita)    1.22017 • L
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%)   882018 • p CO2 emissions embodied in imports (tCO2/capita)    NA NA • •
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best)   NA NA • • CO2 emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita) * 0.02017 • •
Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best)    NA NA • •
SDG14 – Life Below Water                 
SDG4 – Quality Education                Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)    NA NA • •
Net primary enrollment rate (%)    76.22016 • p Ocean Health Index: Clean Waters score (worst 0–100 best)    52.42019 • 5
Lower secondary completion rate (%)    61.12016 • • Fish caught from overexploited or collapsed stocks (% of total catch)    3.82014 • L
Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24)    NA NA • • Fish caught by trawling (%)    NA NA • •
SDG5 – Gender Equality                    Marine biodiversity threats embodied in imports (per million population)    NA NA • •
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods (% of females    41.02007 • • SDG15 – Life on Land               
aged 15 to 49 who are married or in unions) Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%)   NA NA • •
Ratio of female-to-male mean years of education received (%)    NA NA • • Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%)   NA NA • •
Ratio of female-to-male labor force participation rate (%)    NA NA • • Red List Index of species survival (worst 0–1 best)    0.82019 • p
Seats held by women in national parliament (%)    6.32020 • p Permanent deforestation (% of forest area, 5-year average)    NA NA • •
SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation               
Population using at least basic drinking water services (%)    99.32017 • L Te(rpreers tmriailll iaonnd p forepsuhlwataiotenr) biodiversity threats embodied in imports      NA NA • •
Population using at least basic sanitation services (%)    84.12017 • p SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions               
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available freshwater resources)    NA NA • • Homicides (per 100,000 population)    18.62012 • •
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%)    0.12018 • • Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population)    0.02015 • •
Scarce water consumption embodied in imports (m3/capita)    NA NA • • Percentage of population who feel safe walking alone at night in the      NA NA • •
SDG7 – Affordable and Clean Energy                city or area where they live (%)
Population with access to electricity (%)   100.02017 • L Property Rights (worst 1–7 best)    NA NA • •
Population with access to clean fuels and technology for cooking (%)    50.42016 • D Birth registrations with civil authority (% of children under age 5)    49.92018 • •
COto2t aelm eilsesciotrnicsi tfyro omut fpuuetl  (cMomtCbOu2s/tTioWnh f)or electricity and heating per      NA NA • • CCohrilrdurpetnio innv Poelvrceedp itnio cnh Iinldd leaxb (owr o(%rs to 0f –p1o0p0u blaetsiot)n aged 5 to 14)      NNAA NNAA •• ••
5
SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth                Exports of major conventional weapons (TIV constant million USD   * 0.02019 • • . C
Adjusted GDP growth (%)    -3.72018 • • per 100,000 population) ou
Victims of modern slavery (per 1,000 population)    NA NA • • Press Freedom Index (best 0–100 worst)    NA NA • • ntr
y
Admuoltbsi lwe-itmh oanne ayc-cseoruvnicte a tp aro bvaidnekr  o(%r o othf epro fpinualantcioianl  iangsteidtu 1ti5o no ro or vwerit)h a     NA NA • • SGoDvGer1nm7 e–n tP sapretnndeinrgs ohni phse aflothr a tnhde e dGuocaatliosn (% of GDP)      N  A N  A •   •    Prof
Unemployment rate (% of total labor force)    NA NA • • For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional    NA NA • • iles
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population)   NA NA • • public finance, including official development assistance (% of GNI)
Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP)    NA NA • •
Corporate Tax Haven Score (best 0–100 worst) * 0.02019 • •
* Imputed data point
461
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
UGANDA  
Sub-Saharan Africa
OVERALL PERFORMANCE
SDG SDG
17 1
SDG 100 SDG
16 2
75
Index score Regional average score SDG SDG
15 50 3
25
SDG
SDG 4
14
53.5 53.1
Uganda
SDG SDG
13 5
SDG
12 SDG
6
SDG Global rank 142 (OF 166)
SDG
11 SDG
7
SDG SDG
10 SDG 8
9
SPILLOVER INDEX AVERAGE PERFORMANCE BY SDG
100 (best) to 0 (worst)
100
80
60
40
20
0
CURRENT ASSESSMENT – SDG DASHBOARD
  Major challenges           Significant challenges          Challenges remain          SDG achieved          Information unavailable
SDG TRENDS
5 5 D p D 5 5 L D
• p • L • D 5 5
p  Decreasing       5  Stagnating       D  Moderately improving       L  On track or maintaining SDG achievement       •  Information unavailable
Notes: The full title of Goal 2 “Zero Hunger” is “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”.    
  The full title of each SDG is available here: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabledevelopmentgoals
462
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
UGANDA
Performance by Indicator
SDG1 – No Poverty    Val u e Yea  rRa t ingTr e nd SDG9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure    Val u e Ye a rRa t ingTr e nd
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%)    37.02020 • 5 Population using the internet (%)    23.72017 • D
Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%)    64.32020 • 5 Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population)    33.62018 • L
SDG2 – Zero Hunger                Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related     2.22018 • •
Prevalence of undernourishment (%)    41.02017 • p infrastructure (worst 1–5 best)
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%)    28.92016 • 5 The Times Higher Education Universities Ranking: Average score of top 3    31.82020 • •
PPrreevvaalleennccee  ooff  wobaesstiintyg,  BinM cIh ≥il d3r0e n(% u nodf aedr u5 lyt epaorps uolfa atigoen )(%)      35..6322001166 •• LL Scuiennivteifrisci taiensd ( tweochrsnt i0ca–l1 j0o0u rbneaslt a)rticles (per 1,000 population)    0.02018 • 5
Human Trophic Level (best 2–3 worst)    2.12017 • L Expenditure on research and development (% of GDP)    0.22014 • •
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land)    2.12017 • 5 SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities               
Sustainable Nitrogen Management Index (best 0–1.41 worst)    0.82015 • 5 Gini coefficient adjusted for top income    42.72016 • •
SDG3 – Good Health and Well-Being                SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities               
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)     3752017 • 5 Annual mean concentration of particulate matter of less than      50.52017 • p
NMeoorntaaltitayl  rmatoer,t ualnitdye rra-t5e ( (ppeerr 1 1,0,00000 l ilvivee b birirtthhss))      1496..9422001188 •• LD Ac2c.5e sms itcor oimnsp irno vdeiadm weatteerr ( sPoMu2rc.5e),  (pμipg/emd 3(%) of urban population)    53.32017 • p
Incidence of tuberculosis (per 100,000 population)   200.02018 • 5 Satisfaction with public transport (%)    46.22018 • p
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population)    1.42018 • L SDG12 – Responsible Consumption and Production                 
Municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)    1.82011 • •
Agdeia-bsteatneds,a ordr iczherdo ndieca rtehs prairtaet dourye d tois ecaasred iionv aadscuultlsa ra dgiesde a3s0e–, c7a0n yceear,r s (%)    21.92016 • 5 Electronic waste (kg/capita)    0.62016 • •
Agame-bstiaenndt aarird pizoeldlu dtieoant h(p reart e1 0at0t,r0ib0u0 tpaobpleu tloat hioonu)sehold air pollution and    1562016 • • PSOro2d eumctiisosnio-bnas seemd bSoOd2i eedm iinss iimonpso (rktgs /(ckgap/citaap)ita)       50..6522001122 •• ••
Traffic deaths (per 100,000 population)    29.02016 • p Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita)    16.42010 • •
Life expectancy at birth (years)    62.52016 • D Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)    0.32010 • •
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19)  118.82017 • 5 SDG13 – Climate Action               
Births attended by skilled health personnel (%)    74.22016 • L Energy-related CO2 emissions (tCO2/capita)    0.12017 • L
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%)   862018 • L CO2 emissions embodied in imports (tCO2/capita)    0.12015 • L
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best)   45.02017 • 5 CO2 emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita)    0.02018 • •
Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best)    4.32018 • 5
SDG14 – Life Below Water                 
SDG4 – Quality Education                Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)    NA NA • •
Net primary enrollment rate (%)    95.52013 • • Ocean Health Index: Clean Waters score (worst 0–100 best)    NA NA • •
Lower secondary completion rate (%)    26.42017 • p Fish caught from overexploited or collapsed stocks (% of total catch)    NA NA • •
Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24)    89.42018 • • Fish caught by trawling (%)    NA NA • •
SDG5 – Gender Equality                    Marine biodiversity threats embodied in imports (per million population)    0.02018 • •
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods (% of females    53.52018 • L SDG15 – Life on Land               
aged 15 to 49 who are married or in unions) Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%)   75.72018 • L
Ratio of female-to-male mean years of education received (%)    64.92018 • p Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%)   65.72018 • L
Ratio of female-to-male labor force participation rate (%)    89.72019 • L Red List Index of species survival (worst 0–1 best)    0.72019 • p
Seats held by women in national parliament (%)    34.92020 • p Permanent deforestation (% of forest area, 5-year average)    0.62018 • •
SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation               
Population using at least basic drinking water services (%)    49.12017 • 5 Te(rpreers tmriailll iaonnd p forepsuhlwataiotenr) biodiversity threats embodied in imports      0.22018 • •
Population using at least basic sanitation services (%)    18.52017 • 5 SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions               
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available freshwater resources)    5.82010 • • Homicides (per 100,000 population)    11.02017 • 5
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%)    0.42018 • • Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population)    51.22018 • D
Scarce water consumption embodied in imports (m3/capita)    0.62013 • L Percentage of population who feel safe walking alone at night in the      52.32018 • p
SDG7 – Affordable and Clean Energy                city or area where they live (%)
Population with access to electricity (%)    22.02017 • 5 Property Rights (worst 1–7 best)    4.12019 • •
Population with access to clean fuels and technology for cooking (%)    0.82016 • p Birth registrations with civil authority (% of children under age 5)    32.22018 • •
COto2t aelm eilsesciotrnicsi tfyro omut fpuuetl  (cMomtCbOu2s/tTioWnh f)or electricity and heating per      NA NA • • CCohrilrdurpetnio innv Poelvrceedp itnio cnh Iinldd leaxb (owr o(%rs to 0f –p1o0p0u blaetsiot)n aged 5 to 14)      162.8322001196 •• 5•
5
SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth                Exports of major conventional weapons (TIV constant million USD      0.02019 • • . C
Adjusted GDP growth (%)    -5.62018 • • per 100,000 population) ou
Victims of modern slavery (per 1,000 population)    7.62018 • • Press Freedom Index (best 0–100 worst)    39.42019 • p ntr
y
Admuoltbsi lwe-itmh oanne ayc-cseoruvnicte a tp aro bvaidnekr  o(%r o othf epro fpinualantcioianl  iangsteidtu 1ti5o no ro or vwerit)h a     59.22017 • L SGoDvGer1nm7 e–n tP sapretnndeinrgs ohni phse aflothr a tnhde e dGuocaatliosn (% of GDP)      3 . 6201  6 •   5    Prof
Unemployment rate (% of total labor force)    1.82019 • L For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional    NA NA • • iles
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population)   0.12010 • L public finance, including official development assistance (% of GNI)
Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP)    15.02018 • 5
Corporate Tax Haven Score (best 0–100 worst) * 0.02019 • •
* Imputed data point
463
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
UKRAINE  
Eastern Europe and Central Asia
OVERALL PERFORMANCE
SDG SDG
17 1
SDG 100 SDG
16 2
75
Index score Regional average score SDG SDG
15 50 3
25
SDG
SDG 4
14
74.2 70.9
Ukraine
SDG SDG
13 5
SDG
12 SDG
6
SDG Global rank 47 (OF 166)
SDG
11 SDG
7
SDG SDG
10 SDG 8
9
SPILLOVER INDEX AVERAGE PERFORMANCE BY SDG
100 (best) to 0 (worst)
100
80
60
40
20
0
CURRENT ASSESSMENT – SDG DASHBOARD
  Major challenges           Significant challenges          Challenges remain          SDG achieved          Information unavailable
SDG TRENDS
L D D • D D L D 5
• p • L 5 5 D 5
p  Decreasing       5  Stagnating       D  Moderately improving       L  On track or maintaining SDG achievement       •  Information unavailable
Notes: The full title of Goal 2 “Zero Hunger” is “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”.    
  The full title of each SDG is available here: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabledevelopmentgoals
464
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
UKRAINE
Performance by Indicator
SDG1 – No Poverty    Val u e Yea  rRa t ingTr e nd SDG9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure    Val u e Ye a rRa t ingTr e nd
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%)    0.12020 • L Population using the internet (%)    62.62018 • L
Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%)    0.22020 • L Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population)    47.22018 • L
SDG2 – Zero Hunger                Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related     2.22018 • p
Prevalence of undernourishment (%)    3.52017 • L infrastructure (worst 1–5 best)
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%)    22.92000 • 5 The Times Higher Education Universities Ranking: Average score of top 3    19.32020 • •
PPHrrueemvvaaalleennn Tccreeo  poohff  iwocb aLesestviinetylg ,(  BbinMe csIth ≥ 2il d–3r30e  wn(% ou rnosdft )aedr u5 lyt epaorps uolfa atigoen )(%)        2824...231222000011067 ••• 5Lp SExcupieneninvtdeifiritscui rtaeien osdn ( t wreeocshersantr ic0cha– la1 nj0od0u  drbneeavselt la)orptimcleens t( (p%e ro 1f ,G0D0P0) population)      00..2422001187 •• pD
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land)    4.32017 • L SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities               
Sustainable Nitrogen Management Index (best 0–1.41 worst)    0.42015 • L Gini coefficient adjusted for top income    28.02016 • •
SDG3 – Good Health and Well-Being                SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities               
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)     192017 • L Annual mean concentration of particulate matter of less than      20.32017 • 5
2.5 microns in diameter (PM2.5) (μg/m3)
NMeoorntaaltitayl  rmatoer,t ualnitdye rra-t5e ( (ppeerr 1 1,0,00000 l ilvivee b birirtthhss))      58..2722001188 •• LL Access to improved water source, piped (% of urban population)    81.52017 • p
Incidence of tuberculosis (per 100,000 population)    80.02018 • D Satisfaction with public transport (%)    53.12019 • p
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population)    0.32018 • D SDG12 – Responsible Consumption and Production                 
Municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)    1.42016 • •
Agdeia-bsteatneds,a ordr iczherdo ndieca rtehs prairtaet dourye d tois ecaasred iionv aadscuultlsa ra dgiesde a3s0e–, c7a0n yceear,r s (%)    24.72016 • L Electronic waste (kg/capita)    6.52016 • •
Agame-bstiaenndt aarird pizoeldlu dtieoant h(p reart e1 0at0t,r0ib0u0 tpaobpleu tloat hioonu)sehold air pollution and    712016 • • PSOro2d eumctiisosnio-bnas seemd bSoOd2i eedm iinss iimonpso (rktgs /(ckgap/citaap)ita)       322..9322001122 •• ••
Traffic deaths (per 100,000 population)    13.72016 • p Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita)    23.52010 • •
Life expectancy at birth (years)    72.52016 • D Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)    1.62010 • •
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19)   23.72017 • L SDG13 – Climate Action               
Births attended by skilled health personnel (%)    99.92014 • • Energy-related CO2 emissions (tCO2/capita)    3.92017 • L
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%)   502018 • L CO2 emissions embodied in imports (tCO2/capita)    0.52015 • L
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best)   68.02017 • L CO2 emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita)    24.72018 • •
Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best)    4.72019 • L
SDG14 – Life Below Water                 
SDG4 – Quality Education                Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)    47.92018 • 5
Net primary enrollment rate (%)    91.72014 • • Ocean Health Index: Clean Waters score (worst 0–100 best)    58.92019 • p
Lower secondary completion rate (%)    94.42014 • • Fish caught from overexploited or collapsed stocks (% of total catch)    21.52014 • L
Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24)   100.02012 • • Fish caught by trawling (%)    90.02014 • p
SDG5 – Gender Equality                    Marine biodiversity threats embodied in imports (per million population)    0.02018 • •
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods (% of females    68.02012 • D SDG15 – Life on Land               
aged 15 to 49 who are married or in unions) Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%)   23.82018 • 5
Ratio of female-to-male mean years of education received (%)   100.02018 • L Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%)   17.52018 • 5
Ratio of female-to-male labor force participation rate (%)    74.22019 • L Red List Index of species survival (worst 0–1 best)    0.92019 • L
Seats held by women in national parliament (%)    20.82020 • D Permanent deforestation (% of forest area, 5-year average)    0.02018 • •
SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation               
Population using at least basic drinking water services (%)    93.82017 • 5 Te(rpreers tmriailll iaonnd p forepsuhlwataiotenr) biodiversity threats embodied in imports      0.32018 • •
Population using at least basic sanitation services (%)    96.22017 • L SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions               
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available freshwater resources)    12.82015 • • Homicides (per 100,000 population)    6.22017 • 5
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%)    14.12018 • • Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population)    33.82018 • •
Scarce water consumption embodied in imports (m3/capita)    6.22013 • L Percentage of population who feel safe walking alone at night in the      52.62019 • L
SDG7 – Affordable and Clean Energy                city or area where they live (%)
Population with access to electricity (%)   100.02017 • L Property Rights (worst 1–7 best)    3.32019 • •
Population with access to clean fuels and technology for cooking (%)    95.72016 • L Birth registrations with civil authority (% of children under age 5)    99.82018 • •
COto2t aelm eilsesciotrnicsi tfyro omut fpuuetl  (cMomtCbOu2s/tTioWnh f)or electricity and heating per      1.22017 • L CCohrilrdurpetnio innv Poelvrceedp itnio cnh Iinldd leaxb (owr o(%rs to 0f –p1o0p0u blaetsiot)n aged 5 to 14)      23.0422001196 •• 5•
5
SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth                Exports of major conventional weapons (TIV constant million USD      0.62019 • • . C
Adjusted GDP growth (%)    -1.32018 • • per 100,000 population) ou
Victims of modern slavery (per 1,000 population)    6.42018 • • Press Freedom Index (best 0–100 worst)    32.52019 • D ntr
y
Admuoltbsi lwe-itmh oanne ayc-cseoruvnicte a tp aro bvaidnekr  o(%r o othf epro fpinualantcioianl  iangsteidtu 1ti5o no ro or vwerit)h a     62.92017 • L SGoDvGer1nm7 e–n tP sapretnndeinrgs ohni phse aflothr a tnhde e dGuocaatliosn (% of GDP)      7 . 9201  6 •   p    Prof
Unemployment rate (% of total labor force)    8.92019 • 5 For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional    NA NA • • iles
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population)   0.22010 • L public finance, including official development assistance (% of GNI)
Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP)    32.12018 • L
Corporate Tax Haven Score (best 0–100 worst) * 0.02019 • •
* Imputed data point
465
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
UNITED ARAB EMIRATES  
Middle East and North Africa
OVERALL PERFORMANCE
SDG SDG
17 1
SDG 100 SDG
16 2
75
Index score Regional average score SDG SDG
15 50 3
25
SDG
SDG 4
14
70.3 66.3 United Arab 
SDG Emirates SDG
13 5
SDG
12 SDG
6
SDG Global rank 71 (OF 166)
SDG
11 SDG
7
SDG SDG
10 SDG 8
9
SPILLOVER INDEX AVERAGE PERFORMANCE BY SDG
100 (best) to 0 (worst)
100
80
60
40
20
0
CURRENT ASSESSMENT – SDG DASHBOARD
  Major challenges           Significant challenges          Challenges remain          SDG achieved          Information unavailable
SDG TRENDS
• 5 D L D D D L L
• 5 • p L 5 D L
p  Decreasing       5  Stagnating       D  Moderately improving       L  On track or maintaining SDG achievement       •  Information unavailable
Notes: The full title of Goal 2 “Zero Hunger” is “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”.    
  The full title of each SDG is available here: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabledevelopmentgoals
466
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
UNITED ARAB EMIRATES
Performance by Indicator
SDG1 – No Poverty    Val u e Yea  rRa t ingTr e nd SDG9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure    Val u e Ye a rRa t ingTr e nd
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%) * NA NA • • Population using the internet (%)    98.52018 • L
Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%) * NA NA • • Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population)   250.02018 • L
SDG2 – Zero Hunger                Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related     4.02018 • L
Prevalence of undernourishment (%)    2.62017 • L infrastructure (worst 1–5 best)
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%) * 2.62016 • L The Times Higher Education Universities Ranking: Average score of top 3    40.32020 • •
PPHrrueemvvaaalleennn Tccreeo  poohff  iwocb aLesestviinetylg ,(  BbinMe csIth ≥ 2il d–3r30e  wn(% ou rnosdft )aedr u5 lyt epaorps uolfa atigoen )(%) *     3021...737222000111667 ••• LpL SExcupieneninvtdeifiritscui rtaeien osdn ( t wreeocshersantr ic0cha– la1 nj0od0u  drbneeavselt la)orptimcleens t( (p%e ro 1f ,G0D0P0) population)      01..3322001188 •• LD
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land)    23.62017 • L SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities               
Sustainable Nitrogen Management Index (best 0–1.41 worst)    1.22015 • 5 Gini coefficient adjusted for top income * 32.52017 • •
SDG3 – Good Health and Well-Being                SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities               
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)     32017 • L Annual mean concentration of particulate matter of less than      40.92017 • p
2.5 microns in diameter (PM2.5) (μg/m3)
Neonatal mortality rate (per 1,000 live births)    4.02018 • L
Mortality rate, under-5 (per 1,000 live births)    7.62018 • L Access to improved water source, piped (% of urban population)    NA NA • •
Incidence of tuberculosis (per 100,000 population)    1.02018 • L Satisfaction with public transport (%)    81.32019 • L
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population)    NA NA • • SDG12 – Responsible Consumption and Production                 
Municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)    1.82016 • •
Agdeia-bsteatneds,a ordr iczherdo ndieca rtehs prairtaet dourye d tois ecaasred iionv aadscuultlsa ra dgiesde a3s0e–, c7a0n yceear,r s (%)    16.82016 • L Electronic waste (kg/capita)    13.62016 • •
Agame-bstiaenndt aarird pizoeldlu dtieoant h(p reart e1 0at0t,r0ib0u0 tpaobpleu tloat hioonu)sehold air pollution and    552016 • • PSOro2d eumctiisosnio-bnas seemd bSoOd2i eedm iinss iimonpso (rktgs /(ckgap/citaap)ita)       4235..4222001122 •• ••
Traffic deaths (per 100,000 population)    18.12016 • p Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita)    41.42010 • •
Life expectancy at birth (years)    77.22016 • D Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)    22.52010 • •
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19)   6.52017 • L SDG13 – Climate Action               
Births attended by skilled health personnel (%)    99.92015 • L Energy-related CO2 emissions (tCO2/capita)    23.52017 • p
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%)   992018 • L CO2 emissions embodied in imports (tCO2/capita)    4.32015 • 5
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best)   76.02017 • L CO2 emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita)   6281.12018 • •
Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best)    6.72019 • L
SDG14 – Life Below Water                 
SDG4 – Quality Education                Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)    49.72018 • L
Net primary enrollment rate (%)    95.02017 • L Ocean Health Index: Clean Waters score (worst 0–100 best)    68.32019 • L
Lower secondary completion rate (%)    81.72014 • • Fish caught from overexploited or collapsed stocks (% of total catch)    17.72014 • L
Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24)    99.42015 • • Fish caught by trawling (%) * 0.02014 • L
SDG5 – Gender Equality                    Marine biodiversity threats embodied in imports (per million population)    1.02018 • •
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods (% of females * 60.92017 • 5 SDG15 – Life on Land               
aged 15 to 49 who are married or in unions) Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%)   57.92018 • L
Ratio of female-to-male mean years of education received (%)   122.42018 • L Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%)   NA NA • •
Ratio of female-to-male labor force participation rate (%)    54.72019 • D Red List Index of species survival (worst 0–1 best)    0.92019 • p
Seats held by women in national parliament (%)    50.02020 • L Permanent deforestation (% of forest area, 5-year average)    NA NA • •
SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation               
Population using at least basic drinking water services (%)    98.02017 • L Te(rpreers tmriailll iaonnd p forepsuhlwataiotenr) biodiversity threats embodied in imports      4.62018 • •
Population using at least basic sanitation services (%)    98.62017 • L SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions               
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available freshwater resources)   1866.72005 • • Homicides (per 100,000 population)    0.52017 • L
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%)    76.82018 • • Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population)    35.82015 • •
Scarce water consumption embodied in imports (m3/capita)    91.42013 • 5 Percentage of population who feel safe walking alone at night in the      92.02019 • •
SDG7 – Affordable and Clean Energy                city or area where they live (%)
Population with access to electricity (%)   100.02017 • L Property Rights (worst 1–7 best)    5.72019 • •
Population with access to clean fuels and technology for cooking (%)    98.52016 • L Birth registrations with civil authority (% of children under age 5)   100.02018 • •
COto2t aelm eilsesciotrnicsi tfyro omut fpuuetl  (cMomtCbOu2s/tTioWnh f)or electricity and heating per      1.62017 • 5 CCohrilrdurpetnio innv Poelvrceedp itnio cnh Iinldd leaxb (owr o(%rs to 0f –p1o0p0u blaetsiot)n aged 5 to 14)      N7A120N1A9 •• L•
5
SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth                Exports of major conventional weapons (TIV constant million USD      1.12019 • • . C
Adjusted GDP growth (%)    -0.82018 • • per 100,000 population) ou
Victims of modern slavery (per 1,000 population) * NA NA • • Press Freedom Index (best 0–100 worst)    43.62019 • p ntr
y
Admuoltbsi lwe-itmh oanne ayc-cseoruvnicte a tp aro bvaidnekr  o(%r o othf epro fpinualantcioianl  iangsteidtu 1ti5o no ro or vwerit)h a     88.22017 • L SGoDvGer1nm7 e–n tP sapretnndeinrgs ohni phse aflothr a tnhde e dGuocaatliosn (% of GDP)      N  A N  A •   •    Prof
Unemployment rate (% of total labor force)    2.32019 • L For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional    1.02017 • L iles
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population)   4.52010 • L public finance, including official development assistance (% of GNI)
Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP)    NA NA • •
Corporate Tax Haven Score (best 0–100 worst)    98.32019 • •
* Imputed data point
467
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
UNITED KINGDOM  
OECD Countries
OVERALL PERFORMANCE
SDG SDG
17 1
SDG 100 SDG
16 2
75
Index score Regional average score SDG SDG
15 50 3
25
SDG
SDG 4
14
79.8 77.3 United 
SDG Kingdom SDG
13 5
SDG
12 SDG
6
SDG Global rank 13 (OF 166)
SDG
11 SDG
7
SDG SDG
10 SDG 8
9
SPILLOVER INDEX AVERAGE PERFORMANCE BY SDG
100 (best) to 0 (worst)
100
80
60
40
20
0
CURRENT ASSESSMENT – SDG DASHBOARD
  Major challenges           Significant challenges          Challenges remain          SDG achieved          Information unavailable
SDG TRENDS
D 5 D D D D L L L
p D • D D D D L
p  Decreasing       5  Stagnating       D  Moderately improving       L  On track or maintaining SDG achievement       •  Information unavailable
Notes: The full title of Goal 2 “Zero Hunger” is “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”.    
  The full title of each SDG is available here: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabledevelopmentgoals
468
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
UNITED KINGDOM
Performance by Indicator
SDG1 – No Poverty    Va lu e Ye a rRa t ingTr e nd SDG9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure    Va lu e Yea  rRa t ingTr e nd
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%)    0.2 2020 • L Population using the internet (%)    94.9 2018 • L
Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%)    0.2 2020 • L Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population)    98.5 2018 • L
Poverty rate after taxes and transfers (%)    11.9 2017 • p Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related     4.0 2018 • L
SDG2 – Zero Hunger                  infrastructure (worst 1–5 best)
Prevalence of undernourishment (%)    2.5 2017 • L Thuen Tivimerseist iHesig (wheorr Estd 0u–c1at0io0 nb eUsnt)iversities Ranking: Average score of top 3    93.2 2020 • •
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%) * 2.6 2016 • L Scientific and technical journal articles (per 1,000 population)    1.5 2018 • L
Prevalence of wasting in children under 5 years of age (%) * 0.7 2016 • L Expenditure on research and development (% of GDP)    1.7 2017 • L
Prevalence of obesity, BMI ≥ 30 (% of adult population)    27.8 2016 • p Researchers (per 1,000 employed population)    9.5 2018 • L
Human Trophic Level (best 2–3 worst)    2.4 2017 • 5  Triadic patent families filed (per million population)    23.5 2017 • L
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land)    7.2 2017 • L Gap in internet access by income (percentage points)    36.5 2008 • •
SYuiesltda ignaapb lcel oNsiutrroe g(%en o Mf panoategnetmiael ynite Ilndd)ex (best 0–1.41 worst)      607..86 22001155 •• p• Waonmde enn ignin seceiernincge) and engineering (% of tertiary graduates in science     35.3 2015 • •
SDG3 – Good Health and Well-Being                    SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities               
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)     7 2017 • L Gini coefficient adjusted for top income    37.0 2015 • p
Neonatal mortality rate (per 1,000 live births)    2.6 2018 • L Palma ratio    1.5 2017 • 5
Mortality rate, under-5 (per 1,000 live births)    4.3 2018 • L Elderly poverty rate (% of population aged 66 or over)    15.3 2017 • p
Incidence of tuberculosis (per 100,000 population)    8.0 2018 • L SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities               
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population)    NA NA • •
Age-standardized death rate due to cardiovascular disease, cancer,     10.9 2016 • L An2.n5u mali cmroenasn  icno dnicaemnetrtaetri o(PnM o2f .p5a) r(tμicgu/mlat3e) matter of less than      10.5 2017 • L
diabetes, or chronic respiratory disease in adults aged 30–70 years (%) Access to improved water source, piped (% of urban population)    99.0 2017 • L
Age-standardized death rate attributable to household air pollution and    14 2016 • • Satisfaction with public transport (%)    69.8 2019 • p
Traamffibc ideenat tahirs  p(poellru 1ti0o0n,0 (0p0e rp 1o0p0u,0la0t0io pno)pulation)    3.1 2016 • L Population with rent overburden (%)    10.4 2017 • L
Life expectancy at birth (years)    81.4 2016 • L SDG12 – Responsible Consumption and Production               
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19)   13.4 2017 • L Electronic waste (kg/capita)    24.9 2016 • •
Births attended by skilled health personnel (%)    NA NA • • Production-based SO2 emissions (kg/capita)    53.9 2012 • •
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%)   92.0 2018 • L SO2 emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)     17.0 2012 • •
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best)   87.0 2017 • L Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita)    38.0 2010 • •
Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best)    7.2 2019 • L Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)    16.2 2010 • •
Gap in life expectancy at birth among regions (years)    3.5 2016 • • Non-recycled municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)    0.7 2018 • •
Gap in self-reported health status by income (percentage points)    22.0 2017 • 5 SDG13 – Climate Action               
Daily smokers (% of population aged 15 and over)    17.2 2017 • L Energy-related CO2 emissions (tCO2/capita)    5.5 2017 • L
SDG4 – Quality Education                CO2 emissions embodied in imports (tCO2/capita)    3.2 2015 • 5
Net primary enrollment rate (%) * 98.4 2017 • L CO2 emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita)   331.4 2019 • •
Lower secondary completion rate (%) * 98.4 2017 • L Effective carbon rate (EUR/tCO2)    14.6 2016 • •
Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24)    NA NA • • SDG14 – Life Below Water               
Participation rate in pre-primary organized learning (% of children aged 4 to 6)    99.9 2017 • L Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)    84.0 2018 • L
Tertiary educational attainment (% of population aged 25 to 34)    50.8 2018 • L Ocean Health Index: Clean Waters score (worst 0–100 best)    64.2 2019 • 5
PISA score (worst 0–600 best)   503.7 2018 • L Fish caught from overexploited or collapsed stocks (% of total catch)    18.6 2014 • L
VURaenrsdiialetieiroannct  hisnite usvcdeieernns tcisne   ispnce sirecfnoiercmnec a(e%n (c %eo f e o1xfp5 1l-a5yie-nyaeerd-a obr-lydo ssldo)sc)io-economic status (%)        113077...740 222000111888 ••• 5pL FMisahri ncaeu bgihotd bivye rtsraitwy ltihnrge a(%ts) embodied in imports (per million population)     710..22 22001148 •• p•
SDG15 – Life on Land               
SDG5 – Gender Equality                Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%)   84.3 2018 • L
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods   * 93.0 2017 • L Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%)   88.1 2018 • L
RRaa(%ttiioo o  oof fff  effeemmmaaalellees-- attoog--emmd aa1ll5ee   tmlaob e4oa9rn  wf yoehrcaoer s ap roeafr  metidcaiurprcaiaettdioio nonr r  rainetc eue (ni%vioe)nds ()%)      9894..24 22001189 •• LL RPeerdm Laisnte Inntd dexe foofr espsteactiieosn s (u%rv oivf afol (rwesot rasrte 0a–, 15 -byeesatr) average)      00..80 22001198 •• p•
Seats held by women in national parliament (%)    33.9 2020 • L Terrestrial and freshwater biodiversity threats embodied in imports      3.2 2018 • •
Gender wage gap (% of male median wage)    16.4 2018 • 5 (per million population)
Gender gap in time spent doing unpaid work (minutes/day)   108.6 2015 • • SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions               
Homicides (per 100,000 population)    1.2 2017 • L
SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation                Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population)    8.8 2018 • L
PPooppuullaattiioonn  uussiinngg  aatt  lleeaasstt  bbaassiicc  dsarninitkaintigo nw saetrevri cseersv (i%ce)s (%)     19090..10 22001177 •• •• Pecrictye notra agree ao wf phoepreu ltahteioyn l iwveh (o% f)eel safe walking alone at night in the      74.5 2019 • L
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available freshwater resources)    13.7 2010 • • Property Rights (worst 1–7 best)    5.5 2019 • •
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%)    98.5 2018 • • Birth registrations with civil authority (% of children under age 5)   100.0 2018 • • 5
SPPcooappruuclleaa ttwiiooannte  uur ssciinnoggn  sssuaamffeepllyyt  immonaa nneaamggbeeoddd  wsiaeandtie tianr ts iieomrnvp isoceerrtsvs i (c(%me)s3 (/%ca)pita)       1390370...980 222000111377 ••• LLD CCExohprilrodurrptestn ioo ifnn mv Poealjvroceerd pc oitnino cvnhe Iinnldtdi oleanxb a(olw rw o(%ersa tpo 0of –pn1os0 p(0Tu IblVae tcsioot)nn satganetd m 5 itlloio 1n4 U)SD    *    7701...060 222000111969 ••• L•• . Country
SDG7 – Affordable and Clean Energy                per 100,000 population)  P
PPooppuullaattiioonn  wwiitthh  aacccceessss  ttoo  eclleeacntr ifcuiteyls ( %an)d technology for cooking (%)     110000..00 22001176 •• LL PPererssso nFrse heedlodm in I npdriesoxn (b (pesetr  01–0100,000 w0 oprospt)ulation)     12421..23 22001197 •• 5L rofile
s
COel2e cetmricisistyio onus tfproumt ( MfuteCl Oco2/mTWbuhs)tion for electricity and heating per total    1.1 2017 • L SGoDvGer1n7m e–n Pt sapretnndeinrgs honip hse aflothr  atnhde e Gduocaatlison (% of GDP)      13 . 3 201  6 •   L  
Share of renewable energy in total primary energy supply (%)    11.5 2018 • L For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional    0.7 2017 • L
SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth                public finance, including official development assistance (% of GNI)
Adjusted GDP growth (%)    -1.2 2018 • • Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP)    NA NA • •
VAidmcutoilmtbsis lw eo-iftm hm oaonnde aeycr-ncseo srulvanivctee ar ytp  ar(op bveairdn 1ek,r0  o(0%r0 o  pothfo epprou fplianutailoantncio)ianl  iangsteidtu 1ti5o no ro or vwerit)h a       926..41 22001187 •• L• CFSihonirafptneocdria aptle rSo Tefaictxrse  Hocafy v mSecunol tSrienc oa(brteieo s(ntb a0els–s t1( U00–S01$ w0 b0oi lrwlsioto)nr)st)       1710020...880 222000121906 ••• •••
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population)   1.8 2010 • L
Employment-to-population ratio (%)    75.2 2019 • L
Youth not in employment, education or training (NEET)      12.6 2018 • L
(% of population aged 15 to 29)
* Imputed data point
469
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
UNITED STATES  
OECD Countries
OVERALL PERFORMANCE
SDG SDG
17 1
SDG 100 SDG
16 2
75
Index score Regional average score SDG SDG
15 50 3
25
SDG
SDG 4
14
76.4 7777..33
United States
SDG SDG
13 5
SDG
12 SDG
6
SDG Global rank 31 (OF 166)
SDG
11 SDG
7
SDG SDG
10 SDG 8
9
SPILLOVER INDEX AVERAGE PERFORMANCE BY SDG
100 (best) to 0 (worst)
100
80
60
40
20
0
CURRENT ASSESSMENT – SDG DASHBOARD
  Major challenges           Significant challenges          Challenges remain          SDG achieved          Information unavailable
SDG TRENDS
D 5 D D D L D L L
5 L • 5 5 p D 5
p  Decreasing       5  Stagnating       D  Moderately improving       L  On track or maintaining SDG achievement       •  Information unavailable
Notes: The full title of Goal 2 “Zero Hunger” is “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”.    
  The full title of each SDG is available here: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabledevelopmentgoals
470
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
UNITED STATES
Performance by Indicator
SDG1 – No Poverty    Va lu e Ye a rRa t ingTr e nd SDG9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure    Va lu e Yea  rRa t ingTr e nd
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%)    0.5 2020 • L Population using the internet (%)    87.3 2017 • L
Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%)    0.7 2020 • L Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population)   144.8 2018 • L
Poverty rate after taxes and transfers (%)    17.8 2017 • p Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related     4.0 2018 • L
SDG2 – Zero Hunger                  infrastructure (worst 1–5 best)
Prevalence of undernourishment (%)    2.5 2017 • L Thuen Tivimerseist iHesig (wheorr Estd 0u–c1at0io0 nb eUsnt)iversities Ranking: Average score of top 3    94.1 2020 • •
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%)    2.1 2012 • L Scientific and technical journal articles (per 1,000 population)    1.3 2018 • L
Prevalence of wasting in children under 5 years of age (%)    0.5 2012 • L Expenditure on research and development (% of GDP)    2.8 2017 • L
Prevalence of obesity, BMI ≥ 30 (% of adult population)    36.2 2016 • p Researchers (per 1,000 employed population)    9.2 2017 • L
Human Trophic Level (best 2–3 worst)    2.5 2017 • p  Triadic patent families filed (per million population)    38.3 2017 • L
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land)    8.3 2017 • L Gap in internet access by income (percentage points)    29.1 2017 • L
SYuiesltda ignaapb lcel oNsiutrroe g(%en o Mf panoategnetmiael ynite Ilndd)ex (best 0–1.41 worst)      707..63 22001155 •• 5• Waonmde enn ignin seceiernincge) and engineering (% of tertiary graduates in science     28.6 2015 • •
SDG3 – Good Health and Well-Being                    SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities               
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)     19 2017 • L Gini coefficient adjusted for top income    46.1 2013 • •
Neonatal mortality rate (per 1,000 live births)    3.5 2018 • L Palma ratio    1.8 2017 • 5
Mortality rate, under-5 (per 1,000 live births)    6.5 2018 • L Elderly poverty rate (% of population aged 66 or over)    23.1 2017 • p
Incidence of tuberculosis (per 100,000 population)    3.0 2018 • L SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities               
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population)    0.1 2016 • •
Age-standardized death rate due to cardiovascular disease, cancer,     14.6 2016 • L An2.n5u mali cmroenasn  icno dnicaemnetrtaetri o(PnM o2f .p5a) r(tμicgu/mlat3e) matter of less than      7.4 2017 • L
diabetes, or chronic respiratory disease in adults aged 30–70 years (%) Access to improved water source, piped (% of urban population)    99.0 2017 • L
Age-standardized death rate attributable to household air pollution and    13 2016 • • Satisfaction with public transport (%)    64.0 2019 • L
Traamffibc ideenat tahirs  p(poellru 1ti0o0n,0 (0p0e rp 1o0p0u,0la0t0io pno)pulation)    12.4 2016 • p Population with rent overburden (%)    11.9 2016 • L
Life expectancy at birth (years)    78.5 2016 • 5 SDG12 – Responsible Consumption and Production               
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19)   19.9 2017 • L Electronic waste (kg/capita)    19.4 2016 • •
Births attended by skilled health personnel (%)    99.1 2015 • L Production-based SO2 emissions (kg/capita)    51.0 2012 • •
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%)   92.0 2018 • L SO2 emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)     11.3 2012 • •
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best)   84.0 2017 • L Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita)    54.0 2010 • •
Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best)    6.9 2019 • L Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)    8.4 2010 • •
Gap in life expectancy at birth among regions (years)    6.3 2010 • • Non-recycled municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)    1.3 2017 • •
Gap in self-reported health status by income (percentage points)    21.7 2017 • 5 SDG13 – Climate Action               
Daily smokers (% of population aged 15 and over)    10.5 2017 • L Energy-related CO2 emissions (tCO2/capita)    15.3 2017 • 5
SDG4 – Quality Education                CO2 emissions embodied in imports (tCO2/capita)    1.9 2015 • 5
Net primary enrollment rate (%) *100.0 2017 • L CO2 emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita)   869.0 2019 • •
Lower secondary completion rate (%) *100.0 2017 • L Effective carbon rate (EUR/tCO2)    0.8 2016 • •
Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24)    NA NA • • SDG14 – Life Below Water               
Participation rate in pre-primary organized learning (% of children aged 4 to 6) * 91.2 2016 • • Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)    61.4 2018 • L
Tertiary educational attainment (% of population aged 25 to 34)    49.4 2018 • L Ocean Health Index: Clean Waters score (worst 0–100 best)    72.6 2019 • L
PISA score (worst 0–600 best)   495.0 2018 • L Fish caught from overexploited or collapsed stocks (% of total catch)    29.8 2014 • p
VURaenrsdiialetieiroannct  hisnite usvcdeieernns tcisne   ispnce sirecfnoiercmnec a(e%n (c %eo f e o1xfp5 1l-a5yie-nyaeerd-a obr-lydo ssldo)sc)io-economic status (%)        113288...366 222000111888 ••• pLL FMisahri ncaeu bgihotd bivye rtsraitwy ltihnrge a(%ts) embodied in imports (per million population)     440..54 22001148 •• p•
SDG15 – Life on Land               
SDG5 – Gender Equality                Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%)   48.3 2018 • 5
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods      77.2 2015 • L Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%)   33.3 2018 • 5
RRaa(%ttiioo o  oof fff  effeemmmaaalellees-- attoog--emmd aa1ll5ee   tmlaob e4oa9rn  wf yoehrcaoer s ap roeafr  metidcaiurprcaiaettdioio nonr r  rainetc eue (ni%vioe)nds ()%)     18020..17 22001189 •• LL RPeerdm Laisnte Inntd dexe foofr espsteactiieosn s (u%rv oivf afol (rwesot rasrte 0a–, 15 -byeesatr) average)      00..80 22001198 •• p•
Seats held by women in national parliament (%)    23.8 2020 • D Terrestrial and freshwater biodiversity threats embodied in imports      3.7 2018 • •
Gender wage gap (% of male median wage)    18.9 2018 • p (per million population)
Gender gap in time spent doing unpaid work (minutes/day)    96.0 2018 • • SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions               
Homicides (per 100,000 population)    5.3 2017 • p
SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation                Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population)    23.4 2018 • L
PPooppuullaattiioonn  uussiinngg  aatt  lleeaasstt  bbaassiicc  dsarninitkaintigo nw saetrevri cseersv (i%ce)s (%)     19090..30 22001177 •• •• Pecrictye notra agree ao wf phoepreu ltahteioyn l iwveh (o% f)eel safe walking alone at night in the      74.5 2019 • L
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available freshwater resources)    30.6 2010 • • Property Rights (worst 1–7 best)    5.6 2019 • •
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%)    58.9 2018 • • Birth registrations with civil authority (% of children under age 5)   100.0 2018 • • 5
SPPcooappruuclleaa ttwiiooannte  uur ssciinnoggn  sssuaamffeepllyyt  immonaa nneaamggbeeoddd  wsiaeandtie tianr ts iieomrnvp isoceerrtsvs i (c(%me)s3 (/%ca)pita)        199890...300 222000111377 ••• LLL CCExohprilrodurrptestn ioo ifnn mv Poealjvroceerd pc oitnino cvnhe Iinnldtdi oleanxb a(olw rw o(%ersa tpo 0of –pn1os0 p(0Tu IblVae tcsioot)nn satganetd m 5 itlloio 1n4 U)SD    *    6903...020 222000111969 ••• L•• . Country
SDG7 – Affordable and Clean Energy                per 100,000 population)  P
PPooppuullaattiioonn  wwiitthh  aacccceessss  ttoo  eclleeacntr ifcuiteyls ( %an)d technology for cooking (%)     110000..00 22001176 •• LL PPererssso nFrse heedlodm in I npdriesoxn (b (pesetr  01–0100,000 w0 oprospt)ulation)     62751..71 22001196 •• 5L rofile
s
COel2e cetmricisistyio onus tfproumt ( MfuteCl Oco2/mTWbuhs)tion for electricity and heating per total    1.2 2017 • L SGoDvGer1n7m e–n Pt sapretnndeinrgs honip hse aflothr  atnhde e Gduocaatlison (% of GDP)  *  15 . 3 201  8 •   L  
Share of renewable energy in total primary energy supply (%)    7.8 2018 • 5 For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional    0.2 2017 • p
SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth                public finance, including official development assistance (% of GNI)
Adjusted GDP growth (%)    0.0 2018 • • Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP)    NA NA • •
VAidmcutoilmtbsis lw eo-iftm hm oaonnde aeycr-ncseo srulvanivctee ar ytp  ar(op bveairdn 1ek,r0  o(0%r0 o  pothfo epprou fplianutailoantncio)ianl  iangsteidtu 1ti5o no ro or vwerit)h a       913..13 22001187 •• L• CFSihonirafptneocdria aptle rSo Tefaictxrse  Hocafy v mSecunol tSrienc oa(brteieo s(ntb a0els–s t1( U00–S01$ w0 b0oi lrwlsioto)nr)st)       1471303...207 222000121906 ••• •••
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population)   1.4 2010 • L
Employment-to-population ratio (%)    71.4 2019 • L
Youth not in employment, education or training (NEET)      12.7 2018 • L
(% of population aged 15 to 29)
* Imputed data point
471
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
URUGUAY  
Latin America and the Caribbean
OVERALL PERFORMANCE
SDG SDG
17 1
SDG 100 SDG
16 2
75
Index score Regional average score SDG SDG
15 50 3
25
SDG
SDG 4
14
74.3 70.4
Uruguay
SDG SDG
13 5
SDG
12 SDG
6
SDG Global rank 45 (OF 166)
SDG
11 SDG
7
SDG SDG
10 SDG 8
9
SPILLOVER INDEX AVERAGE PERFORMANCE BY SDG
100 (best) to 0 (worst)
100
80
60
40
20
0
CURRENT ASSESSMENT – SDG DASHBOARD
  Major challenges           Significant challenges          Challenges remain          SDG achieved          Information unavailable
SDG TRENDS
L D D L D L L D D
• L • 5 D p 5 •
p  Decreasing       5  Stagnating       D  Moderately improving       L  On track or maintaining SDG achievement       •  Information unavailable
Notes: The full title of Goal 2 “Zero Hunger” is “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”.    
  The full title of each SDG is available here: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabledevelopmentgoals
472
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
URUGUAY
Performance by Indicator
SDG1 – No Poverty    Val u e Yea  rRa t ingTr e nd SDG9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure    Val u e Ye a rRa t ingTr e nd
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%)    0.02020 • L Population using the internet (%)    74.82018 • L
Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%)    0.12020 • L Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population)   123.92018 • L
SDG2 – Zero Hunger                Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related     2.42018 • p
Prevalence of undernourishment (%)    2.52017 • L infrastructure (worst 1–5 best)
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%)    10.72011 • D The Times Higher Education Universities Ranking: Average score of top 3 * 12.02019 • •
PPHrrueemvvaaalleennn Tccreeo  poohff  iwocb aLesestviinetylg ,(  BbinMe csIth ≥ 2il d–3r30e  wn(% ou rnosdft )aedr u5 lyt epaorps uolfa atigoen )(%)        2127...349222000111167 ••• LpD SExcupieneninvtdeifiritscui rtaeien osdn ( t wreeocshersantr ic0cha– la1 nj0od0u  drbneeavselt la)orptimcleens t( (p%e ro 1f ,G0D0P0) population)      00..2422001186 •• 55
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land)    4.32017 • L SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities               
Sustainable Nitrogen Management Index (best 0–1.41 worst)    0.52015 • p Gini coefficient adjusted for top income    42.92017 • •
SDG3 – Good Health and Well-Being                SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities               
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)     172017 • L Annual mean concentration of particulate matter of less than      9.32017 • L
2.5 microns in diameter (PM2.5) (μg/m3)
NMeoorntaaltitayl  rmatoer,t ualnitdye rra-t5e ( (ppeerr 1 1,0,00000 l ilvivee b birirtthhss))      47..5622001188 •• LL Access to improved water source, piped (% of urban population)    99.02017 • L
Incidence of tuberculosis (per 100,000 population)    33.02018 • 5 Satisfaction with public transport (%)    60.72018 • L
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population)    0.32018 • 5 SDG12 – Responsible Consumption and Production                 
Municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)    1.02015 • •
Agdeia-bsteatneds,a ordr iczherdo ndieca rtehs prairtaet dourye d tois ecaasred iionv aadscuultlsa ra dgiesde a3s0e–, c7a0n yceear,r s (%)    16.72016 • L Electronic waste (kg/capita)    10.82016 • •
Agame-bstiaenndt aarird pizoeldlu dtieoant h(p reart e1 0at0t,r0ib0u0 tpaobpleu tloat hioonu)sehold air pollution and    182016 • • PSOro2d eumctiisosnio-bnas seemd bSoOd2i eedm iinss iimonpso (rktgs /(ckgap/citaap)ita)      1254..9522001122 •• ••
Traffic deaths (per 100,000 population)    13.42016 • L Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita)   101.22010 • •
Life expectancy at birth (years)    77.12016 • D Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)    6.62010 • •
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19)   58.72017 • 5 SDG13 – Climate Action               
Births attended by skilled health personnel (%)    99.92014 • • Energy-related CO2 emissions (tCO2/capita)    2.52017 • p
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%)   912018 • L CO2 emissions embodied in imports (tCO2/capita)    1.12015 • D
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best)   80.02017 • L CO2 emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita)    0.02018 • •
Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best)    6.42018 • L
SDG14 – Life Below Water                 
SDG4 – Quality Education                Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)    52.52018 • L
Net primary enrollment rate (%)    99.42017 • L Ocean Health Index: Clean Waters score (worst 0–100 best)    58.32019 • 5
Lower secondary completion rate (%)    74.32010 • • Fish caught from overexploited or collapsed stocks (% of total catch)    36.32014 • L
Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24)    98.92018 • • Fish caught by trawling (%)    46.82014 • D
SDG5 – Gender Equality                    Marine biodiversity threats embodied in imports (per million population)    0.02018 • •
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods (% of females * 89.52017 • L SDG15 – Life on Land               
aged 15 to 49 who are married or in unions) Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%)   20.82018 • 5
Ratio of female-to-male mean years of education received (%)   107.12018 • L Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%)   2.32018 • 5
Ratio of female-to-male labor force participation rate (%)    75.82019 • L Red List Index of species survival (worst 0–1 best)    0.82019 • p
Seats held by women in national parliament (%)    21.22020 • D Permanent deforestation (% of forest area, 5-year average)    0.12018 • •
SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation               
Population using at least basic drinking water services (%)    99.42017 • L Te(rpreers tmriailll iaonnd p forepsuhlwataiotenr) biodiversity threats embodied in imports      0.72018 • •
Population using at least basic sanitation services (%)    96.62017 • L SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions               
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available freshwater resources)    9.82000 • • Homicides (per 100,000 population)    8.22017 • 5
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%)    2.22018 • • Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population)    69.72018 • p
Scarce water consumption embodied in imports (m3/capita)    5.82013 • L Percentage of population who feel safe walking alone at night in the      39.52018 • p
SDG7 – Affordable and Clean Energy                city or area where they live (%)
Population with access to electricity (%)   100.02017 • L Property Rights (worst 1–7 best)    5.12019 • •
Population with access to clean fuels and technology for cooking (%)    98.02016 • L Birth registrations with civil authority (% of children under age 5)    99.82018 • •
COto2t aelm eilsesciotrnicsi tfyro omut fpuuetl  (cMomtCbOu2s/tTioWnh f)or electricity and heating per      0.42017 • L CCohrilrdurpetnio innv Poelvrceedp itnio cnh Iinldd leaxb (owr o(%rs to 0f –p1o0p0u blaetsiot)n aged 5 to 14)      77.1922001196 •• L•
5
SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth                Exports of major conventional weapons (TIV constant million USD   * 0.02019 • • . C
Adjusted GDP growth (%)    -1.42018 • • per 100,000 population) ou
Victims of modern slavery (per 1,000 population)    1.02018 • • Press Freedom Index (best 0–100 worst)    16.12019 • L ntr
y
Admuoltbsi lwe-itmh oanne ayc-cseoruvnicte a tp aro bvaidnekr  o(%r o othf epro fpinualantcioianl  iangsteidtu 1ti5o no ro or vwerit)h a     63.92017 • L SGoDvGer1nm7 e–n tP sapretnndeinrgs ohni phse aflothr a tnhde e dGuocaatliosn (% of GDP)      11 . 3201  6 •   •    Prof
Unemployment rate (% of total labor force)    8.72019 • p For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional    NA NA • • iles
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population)   0.52010 • L public finance, including official development assistance (% of GNI)
Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP)    NA NA • •
Corporate Tax Haven Score (best 0–100 worst) * 0.02019 • •
* Imputed data point
473
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
UZBEKISTAN  
Eastern Europe and Central Asia
OVERALL PERFORMANCE
SDG SDG
17 1
SDG 100 SDG
16 2
75
Index score Regional average score SDG SDG
15 50 3
25
SDG
SDG 4
14
71.0 70.9
Uzbekistan
SDG SDG
13 5
SDG
12 SDG
6
SDG Global rank 66 (OF 166)
SDG
11 SDG
7
SDG SDG
10 SDG 8
9
SPILLOVER INDEX AVERAGE PERFORMANCE BY SDG
100 (best) to 0 (worst)
100
80
60
40
20
0
CURRENT ASSESSMENT – SDG DASHBOARD
  Major challenges           Significant challenges          Challenges remain          SDG achieved          Information unavailable
SDG TRENDS
L 5 D D D L L 5 D
• 5 • D • 5 D p
p  Decreasing       5  Stagnating       D  Moderately improving       L  On track or maintaining SDG achievement       •  Information unavailable
Notes: The full title of Goal 2 “Zero Hunger” is “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”.    
  The full title of each SDG is available here: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabledevelopmentgoals
474
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
UZBEKISTAN
Performance by Indicator
SDG1 – No Poverty    Val u e Yea  rRa t ingTr e nd SDG9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure    Val u e Ye a rRa t ingTr e nd
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%)    6.82020 • L Population using the internet (%)    55.22018 • L
Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%)    28.72020 • D Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population)    62.42018 • L
SDG2 – Zero Hunger                Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related     2.62018 • L
Prevalence of undernourishment (%)    6.32017 • L infrastructure (worst 1–5 best)
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%)    19.62006 • D The Times Higher Education Universities Ranking: Average score of top 3 * 0.02020 • •
PPHrrueemvvaaalleennn Tccreeo  poohff  iwocb aLesestviinetylg ,(  BbinMe csIth ≥ 2il d–3r30e  wn(% ou rnosdft )aedr u5 lyt epaorps uolfa atigoen )(%)        1426...536222000011667 ••• 5Lp SExcupieneninvtdeifiritscui rtaeien osdn ( t wreeocshersantr ic0cha– la1 nj0od0u  drbneeavselt la)orptimcleens t( (p%e ro 1f ,G0D0P0) population)      00..0222001187 •• 5p
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land)    4.32017 • L SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities               
Sustainable Nitrogen Management Index (best 0–1.41 worst)    0.72015 • p Gini coefficient adjusted for top income    44.82003 • •
SDG3 – Good Health and Well-Being                SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities               
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)     292017 • L Annual mean concentration of particulate matter of less than      28.52017 • 5
2.5 microns in diameter (PM2.5) (μg/m3)
NMeoorntaaltitayl  rmatoer,t ualnitdye rra-t5e ( (ppeerr 1 1,0,00000 l ilvivee b birirtthhss))      1211..6422001188 •• LL Access to improved water source, piped (% of urban population)    88.12017 • p
Incidence of tuberculosis (per 100,000 population)    70.02018 • D Satisfaction with public transport (%)    85.22019 • L
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population)    0.22018 • L SDG12 – Responsible Consumption and Production                 
Municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)    0.72012 • •
Agdeia-bsteatneds,a ordr iczherdo ndieca rtehs prairtaet dourye d tois ecaasred iionv aadscuultlsa ra dgiesde a3s0e–, c7a0n yceear,r s (%)    24.52016 • D Electronic waste (kg/capita)    NA NA • •
Agame-bstiaenndt aarird pizoeldlu dtieoant h(p reart e1 0at0t,r0ib0u0 tpaobpleu tloat hioonu)sehold air pollution and    812016 • • PSOro2d eumctiisosnio-bnas seemd bSoOd2i eedm iinss iimonpso (rktgs /(ckgap/citaap)ita)       230..9622001122 •• ••
Traffic deaths (per 100,000 population)    11.52016 • 5 Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita)    20.32010 • •
Life expectancy at birth (years)    72.32016 • 5 Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)    0.32010 • •
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19)   23.82017 • L SDG13 – Climate Action               
Births attended by skilled health personnel (%)   100.02015 • L Energy-related CO2 emissions (tCO2/capita)    3.32017 • D
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%)   962018 • L CO2 emissions embodied in imports (tCO2/capita)    0.12015 • L
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best)   73.02017 • L CO2 emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita)   468.22018 • •
Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best)    6.22019 • L
SDG14 – Life Below Water                 
SDG4 – Quality Education                Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)    NA NA • •
Net primary enrollment rate (%)    94.62018 • D Ocean Health Index: Clean Waters score (worst 0–100 best)    NA NA • •
Lower secondary completion rate (%)    95.92018 • L Fish caught from overexploited or collapsed stocks (% of total catch)    NA NA • •
Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24)   100.02018 • • Fish caught by trawling (%)    NA NA • •
SDG5 – Gender Equality                    Marine biodiversity threats embodied in imports (per million population)    0.02018 • •
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods (% of females * 83.52017 • L SDG15 – Life on Land               
aged 15 to 49 who are married or in unions) Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%)   15.52018 • 5
Ratio of female-to-male mean years of education received (%)    95.82018 • 5 Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%)   10.42018 • 5
Ratio of female-to-male labor force participation rate (%)    68.42019 • 5 Red List Index of species survival (worst 0–1 best)    1.02019 • L
Seats held by women in national parliament (%)    32.02020 • L Permanent deforestation (% of forest area, 5-year average) * 0.02018 • •
SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation               
Population using at least basic drinking water services (%)    97.82017 • L Te(rpreers tmriailll iaonnd p forepsuhlwataiotenr) biodiversity threats embodied in imports      0.02018 • •
Population using at least basic sanitation services (%)   100.02017 • L SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions               
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available freshwater resources)   136.92015 • • Homicides (per 100,000 population)    1.12017 • L
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%)    0.02018 • • Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population)    10.02009 • •
Scarce water consumption embodied in imports (m3/capita)    4.62013 • L Percentage of population who feel safe walking alone at night in the      87.12019 • L
SDG7 – Affordable and Clean Energy                city or area where they live (%)
Population with access to electricity (%)   100.02017 • L Property Rights (worst 1–7 best)    NA NA • •
Population with access to clean fuels and technology for cooking (%)    92.12016 • L Birth registrations with civil authority (% of children under age 5)    99.92018 • •
COto2t aelm eilsesciotrnicsi tfyro omut fpuuetl  (cMomtCbOu2s/tTioWnh f)or electricity and heating per      1.42017 • L CCohrilrdurpetnio innv Poelvrceedp itnio cnh Iinldd leaxb (owr o(%rs to 0f –p1o0p0u blaetsiot)n aged 5 to 14)      N2A520N1A9 •• D•
5
SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth                Exports of major conventional weapons (TIV constant million USD      0.22019 • • . C
Adjusted GDP growth (%)    -1.22018 • • per 100,000 population) ou
Victims of modern slavery (per 1,000 population)    5.22018 • • Press Freedom Index (best 0–100 worst)    53.52019 • D ntr
y
Admuoltbsi lwe-itmh oanne ayc-cseoruvnicte a tp aro bvaidnekr  o(%r o othf epro fpinualantcioianl  iangsteidtu 1ti5o no ro or vwerit)h a     37.12017 • p SGoDvGer1nm7 e–n tP sapretnndeinrgs ohni phse aflothr a tnhde e dGuocaatliosn (% of GDP)      8 . 6201  6 •   p    Prof
Unemployment rate (% of total labor force)    5.92019 • p For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional    NA NA • • iles
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population)   0.12010 • L public finance, including official development assistance (% of GNI)
Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP)    22.32018 • 5
Corporate Tax Haven Score (best 0–100 worst) * 0.02019 • •
* Imputed data point
475
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
VANUATU  
Oceania
OVERALL PERFORMANCE
SDG SDG
17 1
SDG 100 SDG
16 2
75
Index score Regional average score SDG SDG
15 50 3
25
SDG
SDG 4
14
60.9 49.6
Vanuatu
SDG SDG
13 5
SDG
12 SDG
6
SDG Global rank 122 (OF 166)
SDG
11 SDG
7
SDG SDG
10 SDG 8
9
SPILLOVER INDEX AVERAGE PERFORMANCE BY SDG
100 (best) to 0 (worst)
100
80
60
40
20
0
CURRENT ASSESSMENT – SDG DASHBOARD
  Major challenges           Significant challenges          Challenges remain          SDG achieved          Information unavailable
SDG TRENDS
D 5 D • 5 D D L D
• 5 • L 5 p L L
p  Decreasing       5  Stagnating       D  Moderately improving       L  On track or maintaining SDG achievement       •  Information unavailable
Notes: The full title of Goal 2 “Zero Hunger” is “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”.    
  The full title of each SDG is available here: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabledevelopmentgoals
476
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
VANUATU
Performance by Indicator
SDG1 – No Poverty    Val u e Yea  rRa t ingTr e nd SDG9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure    Val u e Ye a rRa t ingTr e nd
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%)    10.62020 • D Population using the internet (%)    25.72017 • D
Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%)    33.62020 • 5 Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population)    65.12018 • L
SDG2 – Zero Hunger                Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related     NA NA • •
Prevalence of undernourishment (%)    7.22017 • L infrastructure (worst 1–5 best)
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%)    28.52013 • 5 The Times Higher Education Universities Ranking: Average score of top 3 * 0.02020 • •
PPrreevvaalleennccee  ooff  wobaesstiintyg,  BinM cIh ≥il d3r0e n(% u nodf aedr u5 lyt epaorps uolfa atigoen )(%)      245..4222001136 •• Lp Scuiennivteifrisci taiensd ( tweochrsnt i0ca–l1 j0o0u rbneaslt a)rticles (per 1,000 population)    0.02018 • p
Human Trophic Level (best 2–3 worst)    2.22017 • L Expenditure on research and development (% of GDP)    NA NA • •
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land)    0.62017 • p SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities               
Sustainable Nitrogen Management Index (best 0–1.41 worst)    0.92015 • 5 Gini coefficient adjusted for top income    37.62010 • •
SDG3 – Good Health and Well-Being                SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities               
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)     722017 • L Annual mean concentration of particulate matter of less than      11.72017 • D
2.5 microns in diameter (PM2.5) (μg/m3)
NMeoorntaaltitayl  rmatoer,t ualnitdye rra-t5e ( (ppeerr 1 1,0,00000 l ilvivee b birirtthhss))      1216..5422001188 •• LL Access to improved water source, piped (% of urban population)    78.52017 • p
Incidence of tuberculosis (per 100,000 population)    46.02018 • L Satisfaction with public transport (%)    NA NA • •
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population)    NA NA • • SDG12 – Responsible Consumption and Production                 
Municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)    2.72016 • •
Agdeia-bsteatneds,a ordr iczherdo ndieca rtehs prairtaet dourye d tois ecaasred iionv aadscuultlsa ra dgiesde a3s0e–, c7a0n yceear,r s (%)    23.32016 • D Electronic waste (kg/capita)    1.02016 • •
Agame-bstiaenndt aarird pizoeldlu dtieoant h(p reart e1 0at0t,r0ib0u0 tpaobpleu tloat hioonu)sehold air pollution and    1362016 • • PSOro2d eumctiisosnio-bnas seemd bSoOd2i eedm iinss iimonpso (rktgs /(ckgap/citaap)ita)      4067..5722001122 •• ••
Traffic deaths (per 100,000 population)    15.92016 • 5 Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita)    23.92010 • •
Life expectancy at birth (years)    72.02016 • 5 Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)    2.62010 • •
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19)   49.42017 • 5 SDG13 – Climate Action               
Births attended by skilled health personnel (%)    89.42013 • • Energy-related CO2 emissions (tCO2/capita)    0.72017 • L
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%)   752018 • p CO2 emissions embodied in imports (tCO2/capita)    0.32015 • L
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best)   48.02017 • D CO2 emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita) * 0.02018 • •
Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best)    NA NA • •
SDG14 – Life Below Water                 
SDG4 – Quality Education                Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)    4.72018 • 5
Net primary enrollment rate (%)    79.82015 • • Ocean Health Index: Clean Waters score (worst 0–100 best)    61.92019 • p
Lower secondary completion rate (%)    53.32013 • • Fish caught from overexploited or collapsed stocks (% of total catch)    34.42014 • p
Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24)    96.32018 • • Fish caught by trawling (%)    1.02014 • L
SDG5 – Gender Equality                    Marine biodiversity threats embodied in imports (per million population)    0.02018 • •
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods (% of females    50.72013 • 5 SDG15 – Life on Land               
aged 15 to 49 who are married or in unions) Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%)   6.42018 • 5
Ratio of female-to-male mean years of education received (%)    NA NA • • Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%)   NA NA • •
Ratio of female-to-male labor force participation rate (%)    77.22019 • L Red List Index of species survival (worst 0–1 best)    0.72019 • p
Seats held by women in national parliament (%)    0.02020 • 5 Permanent deforestation (% of forest area, 5-year average)    0.02018 • •
SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation               
Population using at least basic drinking water services (%)    91.32017 • L Te(rpreers tmriailll iaonnd p forepsuhlwataiotenr) biodiversity threats embodied in imports      0.32018 • •
Population using at least basic sanitation services (%)    34.12017 • p SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions               
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available freshwater resources)    NA NA • • Homicides (per 100,000 population) * 2.12015 • •
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%)    0.02018 • • Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population)    22.42018 • L
Scarce water consumption embodied in imports (m3/capita)    5.12013 • L Percentage of population who feel safe walking alone at night in the      NA NA • •
SDG7 – Affordable and Clean Energy                city or area where they live (%)
Population with access to electricity (%)    62.82017 • L Property Rights (worst 1–7 best)    NA NA • •
Population with access to clean fuels and technology for cooking (%)    12.62016 • p Birth registrations with civil authority (% of children under age 5)    43.42018 • •
COto2t aelm eilsesciotrnicsi tfyro omut fpuuetl  (cMomtCbOu2s/tTioWnh f)or electricity and heating per      NA NA • • CCohrilrdurpetnio innv Poelvrceedp itnio cnh Iinldd leaxb (owr o(%rs to 0f –p1o0p0u blaetsiot)n aged 5 to 14)      154.6222001196 •• ••
5
SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth                Exports of major conventional weapons (TIV constant million USD   * 0.02019 • • . C
Adjusted GDP growth (%)    -4.92018 • • per 100,000 population) ou
Victims of modern slavery (per 1,000 population)    NA NA • • Press Freedom Index (best 0–100 worst)    NA NA • • ntr
y
Admuoltbsi lwe-itmh oanne ayc-cseoruvnicte a tp aro bvaidnekr  o(%r o othf epro fpinualantcioianl  iangsteidtu 1ti5o no ro or vwerit)h a     NA NA • • SGoDvGer1nm7 e–n tP sapretnndeinrgs ohni phse aflothr a tnhde e dGuocaatliosn (% of GDP)      7 . 6201  5 •   L    Prof
Unemployment rate (% of total labor force)    4.42019 • L For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional    NA NA • • iles
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population)   0.42010 • L public finance, including official development assistance (% of GNI)
Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP)    30.32018 • L
Corporate Tax Haven Score (best 0–100 worst) * 0.02019 • •
* Imputed data point
477
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
VENEZUELA, RB  
Latin America and the Caribbean
OVERALL PERFORMANCE
SDG SDG
17 1
SDG 100 SDG
16 2
75
Index score Regional average score SDG SDG
15 50 3
25
SDG
SDG 4
14
61.7 70.4
Venezuela, RB
SDG SDG
13 5
SDG
12 SDG
6
SDG Global rank 118 (OF 166)
SDG
11 SDG
7
SDG SDG
10 SDG 8
9
SPILLOVER INDEX AVERAGE PERFORMANCE BY SDG
100 (best) to 0 (worst)
100
80
60
40
20
0
CURRENT ASSESSMENT – SDG DASHBOARD
  Major challenges           Significant challenges          Challenges remain          SDG achieved          Information unavailable
SDG TRENDS
p 5 5 p D 5 L D 5
• 5 • D 5 D 5 •
p  Decreasing       5  Stagnating       D  Moderately improving       L  On track or maintaining SDG achievement       •  Information unavailable
Notes: The full title of Goal 2 “Zero Hunger” is “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”.    
  The full title of each SDG is available here: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabledevelopmentgoals
478
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
VENEZUELA, RB
Performance by Indicator
SDG1 – No Poverty    Val u e Yea  rRa t ingTr e nd SDG9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure    Val u e Ye a rRa t ingTr e nd
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%)    36.62020 • p Population using the internet (%)    72.02017 • L
Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%)    59.72020 • p Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population)    54.52018 • L
SDG2 – Zero Hunger                Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related     2.12018 • p
Prevalence of undernourishment (%)    21.22017 • p infrastructure (worst 1–5 best)
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%)    13.42009 • 5 The Times Higher Education Universities Ranking: Average score of top 3    16.42020 • •
PPHrrueemvvaaalleennn Tccreeo  poohff  iwocb aLesestviinetylg ,(  BbinMe csIth ≥ 2il d–3r30e  wn(% ou rnosdft )aedr u5 lyt epaorps uolfa atigoen )(%)        2425...136222000011967 ••• LpL SExcupieneninvtdeifiritscui rtaeien osdn ( t wreeocshersantr ic0cha– la1 nj0od0u  drbneeavselt la)orptimcleens t( (p%e ro 1f ,G0D0P0) population)      00..0122001186 •• pp
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land)    3.12017 • L SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities               
Sustainable Nitrogen Management Index (best 0–1.41 worst)    1.02015 • p Gini coefficient adjusted for top income    55.32006 • •
SDG3 – Good Health and Well-Being                SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities               
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)     1252017 • 5 Annual mean concentration of particulate matter of less than      17.02017 • L
Neonatal mortality rate (per 1,000 live births)    15.12018 • 5 2.5 microns in diameter (PM2.5) (μg/m3)
Mortality rate, under-5 (per 1,000 live births)    24.52018 • L Access to improved water source, piped (% of urban population)    NA NA • •
Incidence of tuberculosis (per 100,000 population)    48.02018 • 5 Satisfaction with public transport (%)    22.62019 • p
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population)    NA NA • • SDG12 – Responsible Consumption and Production                 
Municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)    0.92012 • •
Agdeia-bsteatneds,a ordr iczherdo ndieca rtehs prairtaet dourye d tois ecaasred iionv aadscuultlsa ra dgiesde a3s0e–, c7a0n yceear,r s (%)    18.12016 • 5 Electronic waste (kg/capita)    8.22016 • •
Agame-bstiaenndt aarird pizoeldlu dtieoant h(p reart e1 0at0t,r0ib0u0 tpaobpleu tloat hioonu)sehold air pollution and    352016 • • PSOro2d eumctiisosnio-bnas seemd bSoOd2i eedm iinss iimonpso (rktgs /(ckgap/citaap)ita)       321..8822001122 •• ••
Traffic deaths (per 100,000 population)    33.72016 • L Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita)    27.62010 • •
Life expectancy at birth (years)    74.12016 • 5 Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)    1.72010 • •
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19)   85.32017 • 5 SDG13 – Climate Action               
Births attended by skilled health personnel (%)    96.22016 • 5 Energy-related CO2 emissions (tCO2/capita)    5.32017 • D
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%)   602018 • p CO2 emissions embodied in imports (tCO2/capita)    0.32015 • L
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best)   74.02017 • L CO2 emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita)    NA NA • •
Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best)    5.12019 • p
SDG14 – Life Below Water                 
SDG4 – Quality Education                Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)    48.72018 • 5
Net primary enrollment rate (%)    87.42017 • p Ocean Health Index: Clean Waters score (worst 0–100 best)    62.02019 • 5
Lower secondary completion rate (%)    75.22017 • p Fish caught from overexploited or collapsed stocks (% of total catch)    80.12014 • p
Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24)    98.82016 • • Fish caught by trawling (%)    5.12014 • L
SDG5 – Gender Equality                    Marine biodiversity threats embodied in imports (per million population)    0.02018 • •
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods (% of females * 81.42017 • L SDG15 – Life on Land               
aged 15 to 49 who are married or in unions) Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%)   66.52018 • L
Ratio of female-to-male mean years of education received (%)   107.02018 • L Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%)   85.82018 • L
Ratio of female-to-male labor force participation rate (%)    62.12019 • p Red List Index of species survival (worst 0–1 best)    0.82019 • p
Seats held by women in national parliament (%)    22.22020 • D Permanent deforestation (% of forest area, 5-year average)    0.12018 • •
SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation               
Population using at least basic drinking water services (%)    95.72017 • 5 Te(rpreers tmriailll iaonnd p forepsuhlwataiotenr) biodiversity threats embodied in imports      0.82018 • •
Population using at least basic sanitation services (%)    93.92017 • 5 SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions               
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available freshwater resources)    7.52005 • • Homicides (per 100,000 population)    56.32016 • D
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%)    6.42018 • • Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population)    63.02018 • 5
Scarce water consumption embodied in imports (m3/capita)    1.92013 • L Percentage of population who feel safe walking alone at night in the      29.42019 • L
SDG7 – Affordable and Clean Energy                city or area where they live (%)
Population with access to electricity (%)   100.02017 • L Property Rights (worst 1–7 best)    1.62019 • •
Population with access to clean fuels and technology for cooking (%)    96.22016 • L Birth registrations with civil authority (% of children under age 5)    81.32018 • •
COto2t aelm eilsesciotrnicsi tfyro omut fpuuetl  (cMomtCbOu2s/tTioWnh f)or electricity and heating per      1.12017 • L CCohrilrdurpetnio innv Poelvrceedp itnio cnh Iinldd leaxb (owr o(%rs to 0f –p1o0p0u blaetsiot)n aged 5 to 14)      71.6722001196 •• p•
5
SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth                Exports of major conventional weapons (TIV constant million USD   * 0.02019 • • . C
Adjusted GDP growth (%)    NA NA • • per 100,000 population) ou
Victims of modern slavery (per 1,000 population)    5.62018 • • Press Freedom Index (best 0–100 worst)    49.12019 • p ntr
y
Admuoltbsi lwe-itmh oanne ayc-cseoruvnicte a tp aro bvaidnekr  o(%r o othf epro fpinualantcioianl  iangsteidtu 1ti5o no ro or vwerit)h a     73.52017 • L SGoDvGer1nm7 e–n tP sapretnndeinrgs ohni phse aflothr a tnhde e dGuocaatliosn (% of GDP)      8 . 9200  9 •   •    Prof
Unemployment rate (% of total labor force)    8.82019 • p For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional    NA NA • • iles
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population)   0.12010 • L public finance, including official development assistance (% of GNI)
Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP)    NA NA • •
Corporate Tax Haven Score (best 0–100 worst) * 0.02019 • •
* Imputed data point
479
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
VIETNAM  
East and South Asia
OVERALL PERFORMANCE
SDG SDG
17 1
SDG 100 SDG
16 2
75
Index score Regional average score SDG SDG
15 50 3
25
SDG
SDG 4
14
73.8 67.2
Vietnam
SDG SDG
13 5
SDG
12 SDG
6
SDG Global rank 49 (OF 166)
SDG
11 SDG
7
SDG SDG
10 SDG 8
9
SPILLOVER INDEX AVERAGE PERFORMANCE BY SDG
100 (best) to 0 (worst)
100
80
60
40
20
0
CURRENT ASSESSMENT – SDG DASHBOARD
  Major challenges           Significant challenges          Challenges remain          SDG achieved          Information unavailable
SDG TRENDS
L D D L D L D D D
• L • L 5 p D p
p  Decreasing       5  Stagnating       D  Moderately improving       L  On track or maintaining SDG achievement       •  Information unavailable
Notes: The full title of Goal 2 “Zero Hunger” is “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”.    
  The full title of each SDG is available here: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabledevelopmentgoals
480
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
VIETNAM
Performance by Indicator
SDG1 – No Poverty    Val u e Yea  rRa t ingTr e nd SDG9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure    Val u e Ye a rRa t ingTr e nd
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%)    0.62020 • L Population using the internet (%)    70.42018 • L
Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%)    3.52020 • L Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population)    71.92018 • L
SDG2 – Zero Hunger                Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related     3.02018 • L
Prevalence of undernourishment (%)    9.32017 • L infrastructure (worst 1–5 best)
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%)    24.62015 • L The Times Higher Education Universities Ranking: Average score of top 3    22.32020 • •
PPHrrueemvvaaalleennn Tccreeo  poohff  iwocb aLesestviinetylg ,(  BbinMe csIth ≥ 2il d–3r30e  wn(% ou rnosdft )aedr u5 lyt epaorps uolfa atigoen )(%)        622...412222000111567 ••• 5LL SExcupieneninvtdeifiritscui rtaeien osdn ( t wreeocshersantr ic0cha– la1 nj0od0u  drbneeavselt la)orptimcleens t( (p%e ro 1f ,G0D0P0) population)      00..0522001187 •• 5D
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land)    5.42017 • L SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities               
Sustainable Nitrogen Management Index (best 0–1.41 worst)    0.62015 • 5 Gini coefficient adjusted for top income    35.62016 • •
SDG3 – Good Health and Well-Being                SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities               
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)     432017 • L Annual mean concentration of particulate matter of less than      29.62017 • L
2.5 microns in diameter (PM2.5) (μg/m3)
NMeoorntaaltitayl  rmatoer,t ualnitdye rra-t5e ( (ppeerr 1 1,0,00000 l ilvivee b birirtthhss))      1200..6722001188 •• LL Access to improved water source, piped (% of urban population)    81.02017 • L
Incidence of tuberculosis (per 100,000 population)   182.02018 • 5 Satisfaction with public transport (%)    71.72019 • L
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population)    0.12018 • L SDG12 – Responsible Consumption and Production                 
Municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)    0.82010 • •
Agdeia-bsteatneds,a ordr iczherdo ndieca rtehs prairtaet dourye d tois ecaasred iionv aadscuultlsa ra dgiesde a3s0e–, c7a0n yceear,r s (%)    17.12016 • L Electronic waste (kg/capita)    1.52016 • •
Agame-bstiaenndt aarird pizoeldlu dtieoant h(p reart e1 0at0t,r0ib0u0 tpaobpleu tloat hioonu)sehold air pollution and    642016 • • PSOro2d eumctiisosnio-bnas seemd bSoOd2i eedm iinss iimonpso (rktgs /(ckgap/citaap)ita)       111..1722001122 •• ••
Traffic deaths (per 100,000 population)    26.42016 • p Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita)    14.22010 • •
Life expectancy at birth (years)    76.32016 • D Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)    0.62010 • •
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19)   30.92017 • L SDG13 – Climate Action               
Births attended by skilled health personnel (%)    93.82014 • • Energy-related CO2 emissions (tCO2/capita)    1.82017 • L
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%)   752018 • p CO2 emissions embodied in imports (tCO2/capita)    0.22015 • L
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best)   75.02017 • L CO2 emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita)    45.72018 • •
Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best)    5.52019 • L
SDG14 – Life Below Water                 
SDG4 – Quality Education                Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)    44.22018 • 5
Net primary enrollment rate (%)    98.02013 • • Ocean Health Index: Clean Waters score (worst 0–100 best)    45.22019 • 5
Lower secondary completion rate (%)    97.72018 • L Fish caught from overexploited or collapsed stocks (% of total catch)    1.62014 • L
Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24)    98.42018 • • Fish caught by trawling (%)    64.02014 • p
SDG5 – Gender Equality                    Marine biodiversity threats embodied in imports (per million population)    0.02018 • •
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods (% of females    69.62014 • L SDG15 – Life on Land               
aged 15 to 49 who are married or in unions) Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%)   41.12018 • 5
Ratio of female-to-male mean years of education received (%)    92.92018 • p Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%)   37.72018 • 5
Ratio of female-to-male labor force participation rate (%)    88.12019 • L Red List Index of species survival (worst 0–1 best)    0.72019 • p
Seats held by women in national parliament (%)    26.72020 • 5 Permanent deforestation (% of forest area, 5-year average)    1.12018 • •
SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation               
Population using at least basic drinking water services (%)    94.72017 • L Te(rpreers tmriailll iaonnd p forepsuhlwataiotenr) biodiversity threats embodied in imports      0.12018 • •
Population using at least basic sanitation services (%)    83.52017 • L SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions               
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available freshwater resources)    18.12005 • • Homicides (per 100,000 population)    1.52011 • •
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%)    0.32018 • • Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population)    12.52018 • L
Scarce water consumption embodied in imports (m3/capita)    1.22013 • L Percentage of population who feel safe walking alone at night in the      66.12019 • L
SDG7 – Affordable and Clean Energy                city or area where they live (%)
Population with access to electricity (%)   100.02017 • L Property Rights (worst 1–7 best)    4.02019 • •
Population with access to clean fuels and technology for cooking (%)    66.92016 • L Birth registrations with civil authority (% of children under age 5)    96.12018 • •
COto2t aelm eilsesciotrnicsi tfyro omut fpuuetl  (cMomtCbOu2s/tTioWnh f)or electricity and heating per      1.12017 • 5 CCohrilrdurpetnio innv Poelvrceedp itnio cnh Iinldd leaxb (owr o(%rs to 0f –p1o0p0u blaetsiot)n aged 5 to 14)      163.7422001196 •• D•
5
SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth                Exports of major conventional weapons (TIV constant million USD   * 0.02019 • • . C
Adjusted GDP growth (%)    0.82018 • • per 100,000 population) ou
Victims of modern slavery (per 1,000 population)    4.52018 • • Press Freedom Index (best 0–100 worst)    74.92019 • p ntr
y
Admuoltbsi lwe-itmh oanne ayc-cseoruvnicte a tp aro bvaidnekr  o(%r o othf epro fpinualantcioianl  iangsteidtu 1ti5o no ro or vwerit)h a     30.82017 • p SGoDvGer1nm7 e–n tP sapretnndeinrgs ohni phse aflothr a tnhde e dGuocaatliosn (% of GDP)      7 . 0201  6 •   p    Prof
Unemployment rate (% of total labor force)    2.02019 • L For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional    NA NA • • iles
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population)   0.12010 • L public finance, including official development assistance (% of GNI)
Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP) * 21.52013 • •
Corporate Tax Haven Score (best 0–100 worst) * 0.02019 • •
* Imputed data point
481
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
YEMEN, REPUBLIC OF  
Middle East and North Africa
OVERALL PERFORMANCE
SDG SDG
17 1
SDG 100 SDG
16 2
75
Index score Regional average score SDG SDG
15 50 3
25
SDG
SDG 4
14
52.3 66.3 Yemen, 
SDG Rep. of SDG
13 5
SDG
12 SDG
6
SDG Global rank 151 (OF 166)
SDG
11 SDG
7
SDG SDG
10 SDG 8
9
SPILLOVER INDEX AVERAGE PERFORMANCE BY SDG
100 (best) to 0 (worst)
100
80
60
40
20
0
CURRENT ASSESSMENT – SDG DASHBOARD
  Major challenges           Significant challenges          Challenges remain          SDG achieved          Information unavailable
SDG TRENDS
• 5 5 p 5 D D D 5
• 5 • L D 5 5 •
p  Decreasing       5  Stagnating       D  Moderately improving       L  On track or maintaining SDG achievement       •  Information unavailable
Notes: The full title of Goal 2 “Zero Hunger” is “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”.    
  The full title of each SDG is available here: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabledevelopmentgoals
482
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
YEMEN, REPUBLIC OF
Performance by Indicator
SDG1 – No Poverty    Val u e Yea  rRa t ingTr e nd SDG9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure    Val u e Ye a rRa t ingTr e nd
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%) * NA NA • • Population using the internet (%)    26.72017 • 5
Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%) * NA NA • • Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population)    6.02017 • 5
SDG2 – Zero Hunger                Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related     2.12018 • D
Prevalence of undernourishment (%)    38.92017 • p infrastructure (worst 1–5 best)
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%)    46.52013 • D The Times Higher Education Universities Ranking: Average score of top 3 * 0.02020 • •
PPrreevvaalleennccee  ooff  wobaesstiintyg,  BinM cIh ≥il d3r0e n(% u nodf aedr u5 lyt epaorps uolfa atigoen )(%)      1167..3122001136 •• pp Scuiennivteifrisci taiensd ( tweochrsnt i0ca–l1 j0o0u rbneaslt a)rticles (per 1,000 population)    0.02018 • 5
Human Trophic Level (best 2–3 worst)    2.12017 • L Expenditure on research and development (% of GDP) * 0.02017 • •
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land)    0.72017 • p SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities               
Sustainable Nitrogen Management Index (best 0–1.41 worst)    0.82015 • p Gini coefficient adjusted for top income    49.02014 • •
SDG3 – Good Health and Well-Being                SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities               
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)     1642017 • D Annual mean concentration of particulate matter of less than      50.52017 • p
NMInecooirdntaealntitacyle  rm oatfoe tr,ut uablnietdryce rura-lto5e s( i(psp e(eprr e1 1r,0, 01000000 l ,il0viv0ee0 b  bpiriortthphsus)l)ation)        254758...000222000111888 ••• 555 ASac2tc.i5es fsmasc ittcoiro oinmn wsp irintoh vd epiadum bwleiactte etrrr a( sPnoMsup2roc.5ret),   ((p%μipg)/emd 3(%) of urban population)      7372..0922001178 •• 5D
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population)    0.02018 • L SDG12 – Responsible Consumption and Production                 
Municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)    1.32016 • •
Agdeia-bsteatneds,a ordr iczherdo ndieca rtehs prairtaet dourye d tois ecaasred iionv aadscuultlsa ra dgiesde a3s0e–, c7a0n yceear,r s (%)    30.62016 • 5 Electronic waste (kg/capita)    1.52016 • •
Agame-bstiaenndt aarird pizoeldlu dtieoant h(p reart e1 0at0t,r0ib0u0 tpaobpleu tloat hioonu)sehold air pollution and    1942016 • • PSOro2d eumctiisosnio-bnas seemd bSoOd2i eedm iinss iimonpso (rktgs /(ckgap/citaap)ita)       110..7022001122 •• ••
Traffic deaths (per 100,000 population)    21.52013 • • Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita)    9.82010 • •
Life expectancy at birth (years)    65.32016 • 5 Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)    0.42010 • •
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19)   60.42017 • D SDG13 – Climate Action               
Births attended by skilled health personnel (%)    44.72013 • • Energy-related CO2 emissions (tCO2/capita)    0.82017 • L
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%)   642018 • p CO2 emissions embodied in imports (tCO2/capita)    0.12015 • L
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best)   42.02017 • 5 CO2 emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita)    0.02015 • •
Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best)    3.12018 • 5
SDG14 – Life Below Water                 
SDG4 – Quality Education                Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)    30.82018 • 5
Net primary enrollment rate (%)    84.22016 • p Ocean Health Index: Clean Waters score (worst 0–100 best)    53.62019 • p
Lower secondary completion rate (%)    53.12016 • • Fish caught from overexploited or collapsed stocks (% of total catch)    0.12014 • L
Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24)    77.02004 • • Fish caught by trawling (%)    8.22014 • L
SDG5 – Gender Equality                    Marine biodiversity threats embodied in imports (per million population)    0.02018 • •
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods (% of females    37.72013 • D SDG15 – Life on Land               
aged 15 to 49 who are married or in unions) Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%)   31.12018 • 5
Ratio of female-to-male mean years of education received (%)    43.22018 • 5 Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%)   7.72018 • 5
Ratio of female-to-male labor force participation rate (%)    8.22019 • p Red List Index of species survival (worst 0–1 best)    0.92019 • 5
Seats held by women in national parliament (%)    0.32020 • 5 Permanent deforestation (% of forest area, 5-year average)    NA NA • •
SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation               
Population using at least basic drinking water services (%)    63.52017 • 5 Te(rpreers tmriailll iaonnd p forepsuhlwataiotenr) biodiversity threats embodied in imports      0.02018 • •
Population using at least basic sanitation services (%)    59.12017 • 5 SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions               
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available freshwater resources)   168.32005 • • Homicides (per 100,000 population)    6.72013 • •
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%)    0.02018 • • Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population)    70.92015 • •
Scarce water consumption embodied in imports (m3/capita)    1.62013 • L Percentage of population who feel safe walking alone at night in the      53.02018 • p
SDG7 – Affordable and Clean Energy                city or area where they live (%)
Population with access to electricity (%)    79.22017 • L Property Rights (worst 1–7 best)    2.92019 • •
Population with access to clean fuels and technology for cooking (%)    64.92016 • 5 Birth registrations with civil authority (% of children under age 5)    30.72018 • •
COto2t aelm eilsesciotrnicsi tfyro omut fpuuetl  (cMomtCbOu2s/tTioWnh f)or electricity and heating per      2.02017 • L CCohrilrdurpetnio innv Poelvrceedp itnio cnh Iinldd leaxb (owr o(%rs to 0f –p1o0p0u blaetsiot)n aged 5 to 14)      221.5722001196 •• p•
5
SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth                Exports of major conventional weapons (TIV constant million USD   * 0.02019 • • . C
Adjusted GDP growth (%)    -15.82018 • • per 100,000 population) ou
Victims of modern slavery (per 1,000 population) * NA NA • • Press Freedom Index (best 0–100 worst)    61.72019 • D ntr
y
Admuoltbsi lwe-itmh oanne ayc-cseoruvnicte a tp aro bvaidnekr  o(%r o othf epro fpinualantcioianl  iangsteidtu 1ti5o no ro or vwerit)h a     6.42014 • • SGoDvGer1nm7 e–n tP sapretnndeinrgs ohni phse aflothr a tnhde e dGuocaatliosn (% of GDP)      6 . 8200  8 •   •    Prof
Unemployment rate (% of total labor force)    12.92019 • 5 For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional    NA NA • • iles
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population)   0.12010 • L public finance, including official development assistance (% of GNI)
Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP)    NA NA • •
Corporate Tax Haven Score (best 0–100 worst) * 0.02019 • •
* Imputed data point
483
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
ZAMBIA  
Sub-Saharan Africa
OVERALL PERFORMANCE
SDG SDG
17 1
SDG 100 SDG
16 2
75
Index score Regional average score SDG SDG
15 50 3
25
SDG
SDG 4
14
52.7 53.1
Zambia
SDG SDG
13 5
SDG
12 SDG
6
SDG Global rank 148 (OF 166)
SDG
11 SDG
7
SDG SDG
10 SDG 8
9
SPILLOVER INDEX AVERAGE PERFORMANCE BY SDG
100 (best) to 0 (worst)
100
80
60
40
20
0
CURRENT ASSESSMENT – SDG DASHBOARD
  Major challenges           Significant challenges          Challenges remain          SDG achieved          Information unavailable
SDG TRENDS
5 5 D p D 5 D D 5
• 5 • L • 5 p p
p  Decreasing       5  Stagnating       D  Moderately improving       L  On track or maintaining SDG achievement       •  Information unavailable
Notes: The full title of Goal 2 “Zero Hunger” is “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”.    
  The full title of each SDG is available here: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabledevelopmentgoals
484
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
ZAMBIA
Performance by Indicator
SDG1 – No Poverty    Val u e Yea  rRa t ingTr e nd SDG9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure    Val u e Ye a rRa t ingTr e nd
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%)    53.62020 • 5 Population using the internet (%)    14.32018 • p
Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%)    72.12020 • 5 Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population)    56.62018 • L
SDG2 – Zero Hunger                Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related     2.32018 • p
Prevalence of undernourishment (%)    46.72017 • p infrastructure (worst 1–5 best)
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%)    40.02013 • 5 The Times Higher Education Universities Ranking: Average score of top 3 * 0.02020 • •
PPrreevvaalleennccee  ooff  wobaesstiintyg,  BinM cIh ≥il d3r0e n(% u nodf aedr u5 lyt epaorps uolfa atigoen )(%)      68..3122001136 •• 5L Scuiennivteifrisci taiensd ( tweochrsnt i0ca–l1 j0o0u rbneaslt a)rticles (per 1,000 population)    0.02018 • 5
Human Trophic Level (best 2–3 worst)    2.12017 • L Expenditure on research and development (% of GDP)    0.32008 • •
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land)    2.52017 • p SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities               
Sustainable Nitrogen Management Index (best 0–1.41 worst)    0.82015 • 5 Gini coefficient adjusted for top income    62.72015 • •
SDG3 – Good Health and Well-Being                SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities               
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)     2132017 • D Annual mean concentration of particulate matter of less than      27.42017 • 5
NMeoorntaaltitayl  rmatoer,t ualnitdye rra-t5e ( (ppeerr 1 1,0,00000 l ilvivee b birirtthhss))      2537..5822001188 •• 5D Ac2c.5e sms itcor oimnsp irno vdeiadm weatteerr ( sPoMu2rc.5e),  (pμipg/emd 3(%) of urban population)    68.22017 • p
Incidence of tuberculosis (per 100,000 population)   346.02018 • D Satisfaction with public transport (%)    48.02019 • L
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population)    3.02018 • D SDG12 – Responsible Consumption and Production                 
Municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)    0.92011 • •
Agdeia-bsteatneds,a ordr iczherdo ndieca rtehs prairtaet dourye d tois ecaasred iionv aadscuultlsa ra dgiesde a3s0e–, c7a0n yceear,r s (%)    17.92016 • L Electronic waste (kg/capita)    0.92016 • •
Agame-bstiaenndt aarird pizoeldlu dtieoant h(p reart e1 0at0t,r0ib0u0 tpaobpleu tloat hioonu)sehold air pollution and    1272016 • • PSOro2d eumctiisosnio-bnas seemd bSoOd2i eedm iinss iimonpso (rktgs /(ckgap/citaap)ita)       111..1622001122 •• ••
Traffic deaths (per 100,000 population)    24.72013 • • Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita)    8.72010 • •
Life expectancy at birth (years)    62.32016 • D Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)    0.62010 • •
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19)  120.12017 • D SDG13 – Climate Action               
Births attended by skilled health personnel (%)    63.32014 • • Energy-related CO2 emissions (tCO2/capita)    0.22017 • L
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%)   902018 • L CO2 emissions embodied in imports (tCO2/capita)    0.12015 • L
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best)   53.02017 • 5 CO2 emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita)    0.52019 • •
Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best)    3.32019 • p
SDG14 – Life Below Water                 
SDG4 – Quality Education                Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)    NA NA • •
Net primary enrollment rate (%)    83.22017 • p Ocean Health Index: Clean Waters score (worst 0–100 best)    NA NA • •
Lower secondary completion rate (%)    54.82013 • • Fish caught from overexploited or collapsed stocks (% of total catch)    NA NA • •
Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24)    92.12018 • • Fish caught by trawling (%)    NA NA • •
SDG5 – Gender Equality                    Marine biodiversity threats embodied in imports (per million population)    0.02018 • •
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods (% of females    62.42014 • L SDG15 – Life on Land               
aged 15 to 49 who are married or in unions) Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%)   48.42018 • 5
Ratio of female-to-male mean years of education received (%)    89.32018 • L Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%)   57.42018 • L
Ratio of female-to-male labor force participation rate (%)    88.82019 • L Red List Index of species survival (worst 0–1 best)    0.92019 • 5
Seats held by women in national parliament (%)    16.82020 • 5 Permanent deforestation (% of forest area, 5-year average)    0.32018 • •
SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation               
Population using at least basic drinking water services (%)    60.02017 • 5 Te(rpreers tmriailll iaonnd p forepsuhlwataiotenr) biodiversity threats embodied in imports      0.52018 • •
Population using at least basic sanitation services (%)    26.42017 • 5 SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions               
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available freshwater resources)    2.82000 • • Homicides (per 100,000 population)    5.32015 • •
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%)    4.22018 • • Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population)    32.42018 • p
Scarce water consumption embodied in imports (m3/capita)    0.82013 • L Percentage of population who feel safe walking alone at night in the      44.12019 • p
SDG7 – Affordable and Clean Energy                city or area where they live (%)
Population with access to electricity (%)    40.32017 • D Property Rights (worst 1–7 best)    4.12019 • •
Population with access to clean fuels and technology for cooking (%)    16.42016 • 5 Birth registrations with civil authority (% of children under age 5)    11.32018 • •
COto2t aelm eilsesciotrnicsi tfyro omut fpuuetl  (cMomtCbOu2s/tTioWnh f)or electricity and heating per      0.42017 • L CCohrilrdurpetnio innv Poelvrceedp itnio cnh Iinldd leaxb (owr o(%rs to 0f –p1o0p0u blaetsiot)n aged 5 to 14)      403.4622001196 •• p•
5
SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth                Exports of major conventional weapons (TIV constant million USD   * 0.02019 • • . C
Adjusted GDP growth (%)    -5.02018 • • per 100,000 population) ou
Victims of modern slavery (per 1,000 population)    5.72018 • • Press Freedom Index (best 0–100 worst)    36.42019 • p ntr
y
Admuoltbsi lwe-itmh oanne ayc-cseoruvnicte a tp aro bvaidnekr  o(%r o othf epro fpinualantcioianl  iangsteidtu 1ti5o no ro or vwerit)h a     45.92017 • L SGoDvGer1nm7 e–n tP sapretnndeinrgs ohni phse aflothr a tnhde e dGuocaatliosn (% of GDP)      5 . 5201  6 •   •    Prof
Unemployment rate (% of total labor force)    11.42019 • p For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional    NA NA • • iles
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population)   0.12010 • L public finance, including official development assistance (% of GNI)
Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP)    16.92017 • p
Corporate Tax Haven Score (best 0–100 worst) * 0.02019 • •
* Imputed data point
485
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
ZIMBABWE  
Sub-Saharan Africa
OVERALL PERFORMANCE
SDG SDG
17 1
SDG 100 SDG
16 2
75
Index score Regional average score SDG SDG
15 50 3
25
SDG
SDG 4
14
59.5 53.1
Zimbabwe
SDG SDG
13 5
SDG
12 SDG
6
SDG Global rank 125 (OF 166)
SDG
11 SDG
7
SDG SDG
10 SDG 8
9
SPILLOVER INDEX AVERAGE PERFORMANCE BY SDG
100 (best) to 0 (worst)
100
80
60
40
20
0
CURRENT ASSESSMENT – SDG DASHBOARD
  Major challenges           Significant challenges          Challenges remain          SDG achieved          Information unavailable
SDG TRENDS
• 5 D • D 5 5 L 5
• p • L • D p p
p  Decreasing       5  Stagnating       D  Moderately improving       L  On track or maintaining SDG achievement       •  Information unavailable
Notes: The full title of Goal 2 “Zero Hunger” is “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”.    
  The full title of each SDG is available here: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabledevelopmentgoals
486
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
ZIMBABWE
Performance by Indicator
SDG1 – No Poverty    Val u e Yea  rRa t ingTr e nd SDG9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure    Val u e Ye a rRa t ingTr e nd
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%) * NA NA • • Population using the internet (%)    27.12017 • D
Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%) * NA NA • • Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population)    51.72018 • L
SDG2 – Zero Hunger                Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related     1.82018 • p
Prevalence of undernourishment (%)    51.32017 • p infrastructure (worst 1–5 best)
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%)    26.82015 • D The Times Higher Education Universities Ranking: Average score of top 3 * 0.02020 • •
PPrreevvaalleennccee  ooff  wobaesstiintyg,  BinM cIh ≥il d3r0e n(% u nodf aedr u5 lyt epaorps uolfa atigoen )(%)      135..2522001156 •• Lp Scuiennivteifrisci taiensd ( tweochrsnt i0ca–l1 j0o0u rbneaslt a)rticles (per 1,000 population)    0.02018 • 5
Human Trophic Level (best 2–3 worst)    2.22017 • L Expenditure on research and development (% of GDP)    NA NA • •
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land)    0.62017 • p SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities               
Sustainable Nitrogen Management Index (best 0–1.41 worst)    1.02015 • 5 Gini coefficient adjusted for top income    43.12011 • •
SDG3 – Good Health and Well-Being                SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities               
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)     4582017 • 5 Annual mean concentration of particulate matter of less than      22.32017 • 5
NMeoorntaaltitayl  rmatoer,t ualnitdye rra-t5e ( (ppeerr 1 1,0,00000 l ilvivee b birirtthhss))      2406..9222001188 •• LD Ac2c.5e sms itcor oimnsp irno vdeiadm weatteerr ( sPoMu2rc.5e),  (pμipg/emd 3(%) of urban population)    74.42017 • p
Incidence of tuberculosis (per 100,000 population)   210.02018 • D Satisfaction with public transport (%)    27.62019 • p
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population)    2.82018 • L SDG12 – Responsible Consumption and Production                 
Municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)    0.72002 • •
Agdeia-bsteatneds,a ordr iczherdo ndieca rtehs prairtaet dourye d tois ecaasred iionv aadscuultlsa ra dgiesde a3s0e–, c7a0n yceear,r s (%)    19.32016 • D Electronic waste (kg/capita)    0.92016 • •
Agame-bstiaenndt aarird pizoeldlu dtieoant h(p reart e1 0at0t,r0ib0u0 tpaobpleu tloat hioonu)sehold air pollution and    1332016 • • PSOro2d eumctiisosnio-bnas seemd bSoOd2i eedm iinss iimonpso (rktgs /(ckgap/citaap)ita)       31..9522001122 •• ••
Traffic deaths (per 100,000 population)    34.72016 • p Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita)    5.72010 • •
Life expectancy at birth (years)    61.42016 • D Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)    0.32010 • •
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19)   86.12017 • D SDG13 – Climate Action               
Births attended by skilled health personnel (%)    78.12015 • L Energy-related CO2 emissions (tCO2/capita)    0.92017 • L
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%)   882018 • L CO2 emissions embodied in imports (tCO2/capita)    0.22015 • L
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best)   54.02017 • D CO2 emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita)    13.12019 • •
Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best)    2.72019 • p
SDG14 – Life Below Water                 
SDG4 – Quality Education                Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)    NA NA • •
Net primary enrollment rate (%)    94.12013 • • Ocean Health Index: Clean Waters score (worst 0–100 best)    NA NA • •
Lower secondary completion rate (%)    71.12013 • • Fish caught from overexploited or collapsed stocks (% of total catch)    NA NA • •
Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24)    90.42014 • • Fish caught by trawling (%)    NA NA • •
SDG5 – Gender Equality                    Marine biodiversity threats embodied in imports (per million population)    0.02018 • •
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods (% of females    84.82015 • L SDG15 – Life on Land               
aged 15 to 49 who are married or in unions) Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%)   85.92018 • L
Ratio of female-to-male mean years of education received (%)    84.42018 • 5 Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%)   79.02018 • L
Ratio of female-to-male labor force participation rate (%)    88.42019 • L Red List Index of species survival (worst 0–1 best)    0.82019 • p
Seats held by women in national parliament (%)    31.92020 • 5 Permanent deforestation (% of forest area, 5-year average)    0.32018 • •
SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation               
Population using at least basic drinking water services (%)    64.12017 • p Te(rpreers tmriailll iaonnd p forepsuhlwataiotenr) biodiversity threats embodied in imports      0.32018 • •
Population using at least basic sanitation services (%)    36.22017 • p SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions               
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available freshwater resources)    33.52005 • • Homicides (per 100,000 population)    6.72012 • •
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%)    0.02018 • • Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population)    17.12015 • •
Scarce water consumption embodied in imports (m3/capita)    0.92013 • L Percentage of population who feel safe walking alone at night in the      45.12019 • p
SDG7 – Affordable and Clean Energy                city or area where they live (%)
Population with access to electricity (%)    40.42017 • D Property Rights (worst 1–7 best)    2.82019 • •
Population with access to clean fuels and technology for cooking (%)    29.12016 • p Birth registrations with civil authority (% of children under age 5)    38.22018 • •
COto2t aelm eilsesciotrnicsi tfyro omut fpuuetl  (cMomtCbOu2s/tTioWnh f)or electricity and heating per      1.32017 • 5 CCohrilrdurpetnio innv Poelvrceedp itnio cnh Iinldd leaxb (owr o(%rs to 0f –p1o0p0u blaetsiot)n aged 5 to 14)      N2A420N1A9 •• 5•
5
SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth                Exports of major conventional weapons (TIV constant million USD   * 0.02019 • • . C
Adjusted GDP growth (%)    -3.82018 • • per 100,000 population) ou
Victims of modern slavery (per 1,000 population)    6.72018 • • Press Freedom Index (best 0–100 worst)    42.22019 • p ntr
y
Admuoltbsi lwe-itmh oanne ayc-cseoruvnicte a tp aro bvaidnekr  o(%r o othf epro fpinualantcioianl  iangsteidtu 1ti5o no ro or vwerit)h a     55.32017 • L SGoDvGer1nm7 e–n tP sapretnndeinrgs ohni phse aflothr a tnhde e dGuocaatliosn (% of GDP)      9 . 2201  4 •   •    Prof
Unemployment rate (% of total labor force)    5.02019 • L For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional    NA NA • • iles
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population)   0.02010 • L public finance, including official development assistance (% of GNI)
Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP)    16.92017 • p
Corporate Tax Haven Score (best 0–100 worst) * 0.02019 • •
* Imputed data point
487
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
EAST AND SOUTH ASIA  
OVERALL PERFORMANCE
SDG SDG
17 1
SDG 100 SDG
16 2
75
Regional average score SDG SDG
15 50 3
25
SDG
SDG 4
14
67.2 East and 
SDG South Asia SDG
13 5
SDG
12 SDG
6
SDG Global rank NA (OF 166)
SDG
11 SDG
7
SDG SDG
10 SDG 8
9
SPILLOVER INDEX AVERAGE PERFORMANCE BY SDG
100 (best) to 0 (worst)
100
80
60
40
20
0
CURRENT ASSESSMENT – SDG DASHBOARD
  Major challenges           Significant challenges          Challenges remain          SDG achieved          Information unavailable
SDG TRENDS
L D D D 5 L D L D
• 5 • D 5 p D 5
p  Decreasing       5  Stagnating       D  Moderately improving       L  On track or maintaining SDG achievement       •  Information unavailable
Notes: The full title of Goal 2 “Zero Hunger” is “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”.    
  The full title of each SDG is available here: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabledevelopmentgoals
488
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
EAST AND SOUTH ASIA
Performance by Indicator
SDG1 – No Poverty    Val u e Yea  rRa t ingTr e nd SDG9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure    Val u e Ye a rRa t ingTr e nd
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%)    1.62020 • L Population using the internet (%)    42.42018 • L
Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%)    14.72020 • L Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population)    65.82018 • L
SDG2 – Zero Hunger                Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related     3.12018 • L
Prevalence of undernourishment (%)    12.02017 • L infrastructure (worst 1–5 best)
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%)    26.02016 • 5 The Times Higher Education Universities Ranking: Average score of top 3    50.02020 • •
PPrreevvaalleennccee  ooff  wobaesstiintyg,  BinM cIh ≥il d3r0e n(% u nodf aedr u5 lyt epaorps uolfa atigoen )(%)      151..5022001166 •• 5L Scuiennivteifrisci taiensd ( tweochrsnt i0ca–l1 j0o0u rbneaslt a)rticles (per 1,000 population)    0.22018 • 5
Human Trophic Level (best 2–3 worst)    2.22017 • 5 Expenditure on research and development (% of GDP)    1.12017 • •
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land)    4.52017 • L SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities               
Sustainable Nitrogen Management Index (best 0–1.41 worst)    0.82015 • 5 Gini coefficient adjusted for top income    42.62017 • •
SDG3 – Good Health and Well-Being                SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities               
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)     1002017 • L Annual mean concentration of particulate matter of less than      61.42017 • 5
2.5 microns in diameter (PM2.5) (μg/m3)
NMeoorntaaltitayl  rmatoer,t ualnitdye rra-t5e ( (ppeerr 1 1,0,00000 l ilvivee b birirtthhss))      1245..9622001188 •• LL Access to improved water source, piped (% of urban population)    71.72017 • p
Incidence of tuberculosis (per 100,000 population)   172.52018 • 5 Satisfaction with public transport (%)    74.52019 • L
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population)    0.12018 • L SDG12 – Responsible Consumption and Production                 
Municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)    0.92016 • •
Agdeia-bsteatneds,a ordr iczherdo ndieca rtehs prairtaet dourye d tois ecaasred iionv aadscuultlsa ra dgiesde a3s0e–, c7a0n yceear,r s (%)    20.92016 • 5 Electronic waste (kg/capita)    3.32016 • •
Agame-bstiaenndt aarird pizoeldlu dtieoant h(p reart e1 0at0t,r0ib0u0 tpaobpleu tloat hioonu)sehold air pollution and    1442016 • • PSOro2d eumctiisosnio-bnas seemd bSoOd2i eedm iinss iimonpso (rktgs /(ckgap/citaap)ita)       160..8722001122 •• ••
Traffic deaths (per 100,000 population)    19.32016 • p Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita)    16.92010 • •
Life expectancy at birth (years)    72.12016 • 5 Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)    0.72010 • •
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19)   20.82017 • L SDG13 – Climate Action               
Births attended by skilled health personnel (%)    87.52016 • • Energy-related CO2 emissions (tCO2/capita)    3.42017 • 5
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%)   912018 • L CO2 emissions embodied in imports (tCO2/capita)    0.12015 • L
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best)   64.52017 • L CO2 emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita)   270.02019 • •
Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best)    4.82019 • p
SDG14 – Life Below Water                 
SDG4 – Quality Education                Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)    30.82018 • 5
Net primary enrollment rate (%)    90.92018 • 5 Ocean Health Index: Clean Waters score (worst 0–100 best)    37.22019 • 5
Lower secondary completion rate (%)    88.42018 • L Fish caught from overexploited or collapsed stocks (% of total catch)    14.12014 • L
Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24)    94.82018 • • Fish caught by trawling (%)    34.02014 • p
SDG5 – Gender Equality                    Marine biodiversity threats embodied in imports (per million population)    0.02018 • •
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods (% of females    77.92017 • L SDG15 – Life on Land               
aged 15 to 49 who are married or in unions) Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%)   33.62018 • 5
Ratio of female-to-male mean years of education received (%)    76.92018 • 5 Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%)   27.62018 • 5
Ratio of female-to-male labor force participation rate (%)    56.52019 • p Red List Index of species survival (worst 0–1 best)    0.72019 • p
Seats held by women in national parliament (%)    20.12020 • 5 Permanent deforestation (% of forest area, 5-year average)    0.22018 • •
SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation               
Population using at least basic drinking water services (%)    92.62017 • L Te(rpreers tmriailll iaonnd p forepsuhlwataiotenr) biodiversity threats embodied in imports      0.32018 • •
Population using at least basic sanitation services (%)    71.82017 • L SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions               
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available freshwater resources)    50.02015 • • Homicides (per 100,000 population)    2.12017 • L
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%)    4.52018 • • Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population)    59.02018 • p
Scarce water consumption embodied in imports (m3/capita)    2.62013 • L Percentage of population who feel safe walking alone at night in the      75.62019 • L
SDG7 – Affordable and Clean Energy                city or area where they live (%)
Population with access to electricity (%)    94.12017 • L Property Rights (worst 1–7 best)    4.42019 • •
Population with access to clean fuels and technology for cooking (%)    49.02016 • 5 Birth registrations with civil authority (% of children under age 5)    75.82018 • •
COto2t aelm eilsesciotrnicsi tfyro omut fpuuetl  (cMomtCbOu2s/tTioWnh f)or electricity and heating per      2.02017 • D CCohrilrdurpetnio innv Poelvrceedp itnio cnh Iinldd leaxb (owr o(%rs to 0f –p1o0p0u blaetsiot)n aged 5 to 14)      103.9922001196 •• D•
5
SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth                Exports of major conventional weapons (TIV constant million USD      0.02019 • • . C
Adjusted GDP growth (%)    1.42018 • • per 100,000 population) ou
Victims of modern slavery (per 1,000 population)    5.52018 • • Press Freedom Index (best 0–100 worst)    58.12019 • 5 ntr
y
Admuoltbsi lwe-itmh oanne ayc-cseoruvnicte a tp aro bvaidnekr  o(%r o othf epro fpinualantcioianl  iangsteidtu 1ti5o no ro or vwerit)h a     69.52017 • L SGoDvGer1nm7 e–n tP sapretnndeinrgs ohni phse aflothr a tnhde e dGuocaatliosn (% of GDP)      4 . 5201  6 •   5    Prof
Unemployment rate (% of total labor force)    4.42019 • L For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional    NA NA • • iles
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population)   0.12010 • L public finance, including official development assistance (% of GNI)
Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP)    14.52018 • 5
Corporate Tax Haven Score (best 0–100 worst)    21.32019 • •
* Imputed data point
489
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
 E ASTERN EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA
OVERALL PERFORMANCE
SDG SDG
17 1
SDG 100 SDG
16 2
75
Regional average score SDG SDG
15 50 3
25
SDG
SDG 4
14
Eastern Europe 
70.9
and 
SDG SDG
13 Central Asia 5
SDG
12 SDG
6
SDG Global rank NA (OF 166)
SDG
11 SDG
7
SDG SDG
10 SDG 8
9
SPILLOVER INDEX AVERAGE PERFORMANCE BY SDG
100 (best) to 0 (worst)
100
80
60
40
20
0
CURRENT ASSESSMENT – SDG DASHBOARD
  Major challenges           Significant challenges          Challenges remain          SDG achieved          Information unavailable
SDG TRENDS
L 5 D 5 D D D L D
• 5 • D • 5 D p
p  Decreasing       5  Stagnating       D  Moderately improving       L  On track or maintaining SDG achievement       •  Information unavailable
Notes: The full title of Goal 2 “Zero Hunger” is “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”.    
  The full title of each SDG is available here: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabledevelopmentgoals
490
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
Performance by 
EASTERN EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA
Indicator
SDG1 – No Poverty    Val u e Yea  rRa t ingTr e nd SDG9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure    Val u e Ye a rRa t ingTr e nd
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%)    1.32020 • L Population using the internet (%)    64.82018 • L
Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%)    4.82020 • L Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population)    68.32018 • L
SDG2 – Zero Hunger                Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related     2.52018 • 5
Prevalence of undernourishment (%)    6.22017 • L infrastructure (worst 1–5 best)
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%)    19.52016 • 5 The Times Higher Education Universities Ranking: Average score of top 3    25.82020 • •
PPHrrueemvvaaalleennn Tccreeo  poohff  iwocb aLesestviinetylg ,(  BbinMe csIth ≥ 2il d–3r30e  wn(% ou rnosdft )aedr u5 lyt epaorps uolfa atigoen )(%)        2520...631222000111667 ••• 5Lp SExcupieneninvtdeifiritscui rtaeien osdn ( t wreeocshersantr ic0cha– la1 nj0od0u  drbneeavselt la)orptimcleens t( (p%e ro 1f ,G0D0P0) population)      00..3622001187 •• pD
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land)    3.32017 • L SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities               
Sustainable Nitrogen Management Index (best 0–1.41 worst)    0.62015 • 5 Gini coefficient adjusted for top income    40.42017 • •
SDG3 – Good Health and Well-Being                SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities               
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)     812017 • L Annual mean concentration of particulate matter of less than      23.42017 • 5
2.5 microns in diameter (PM2.5) (μg/m3)
NMeoorntaaltitayl  rmatoer,t ualnitdye rra-t5e ( (ppeerr 1 1,0,00000 l ilvivee b birirtthhss))      186..8222001188 •• LL Access to improved water source, piped (% of urban population)    88.02017 • 5
Incidence of tuberculosis (per 100,000 population)    72.32018 • D Satisfaction with public transport (%)    59.82019 • p
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population)    0.12018 • L SDG12 – Responsible Consumption and Production                 
Municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)    1.52016 • •
Agdeia-bsteatneds,a ordr iczherdo ndieca rtehs prairtaet dourye d tois ecaasred iionv aadscuultlsa ra dgiesde a3s0e–, c7a0n yceear,r s (%)    25.02016 • D Electronic waste (kg/capita)    7.72016 • •
Agame-bstiaenndt aarird pizoeldlu dtieoant h(p reart e1 0at0t,r0ib0u0 tpaobpleu tloat hioonu)sehold air pollution and    782016 • • PSOro2d eumctiisosnio-bnas seemd bSoOd2i eedm iinss iimonpso (rktgs /(ckgap/citaap)ita)       343..2222001122 •• ••
Traffic deaths (per 100,000 population)    14.92016 • 5 Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita)    23.52010 • •
Life expectancy at birth (years)    71.62016 • D Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)    2.42010 • •
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19)   29.62017 • L SDG13 – Climate Action               
Births attended by skilled health personnel (%)    94.32016 • • Energy-related CO2 emissions (tCO2/capita)    6.92017 • 5
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%)   872018 • L CO2 emissions embodied in imports (tCO2/capita)    0.42015 • L
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best)   68.32017 • L CO2 emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita)   1795.82019 • •
Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best)    5.32019 • p
SDG14 – Life Below Water                 
SDG4 – Quality Education                Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)    NA NA • •
Net primary enrollment rate (%)    92.92018 • 5 Ocean Health Index: Clean Waters score (worst 0–100 best)    NA NA • •
Lower secondary completion rate (%)    90.62018 • • Fish caught from overexploited or collapsed stocks (% of total catch)    NA NA • •
Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24)    96.22018 • • Fish caught by trawling (%)    NA NA • •
SDG5 – Gender Equality                    Marine biodiversity threats embodied in imports (per million population)    0.02018 • •
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods (% of females    63.92017 • D SDG15 – Life on Land               
aged 15 to 49 who are married or in unions) Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%)   28.52018 • p
Ratio of female-to-male mean years of education received (%)    90.72018 • 5 Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%)   27.22018 • p
Ratio of female-to-male labor force participation rate (%)    73.72019 • L Red List Index of species survival (worst 0–1 best)    0.92019 • L
Seats held by women in national parliament (%)    22.02020 • D Permanent deforestation (% of forest area, 5-year average)    0.02018 • •
SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation               
Population using at least basic drinking water services (%)    92.82017 • D Te(rpreers tmriailll iaonnd p forepsuhlwataiotenr) biodiversity threats embodied in imports      0.62018 • •
Population using at least basic sanitation services (%)    88.12017 • D SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions               
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available freshwater resources)    30.92015 • • Homicides (per 100,000 population)    5.82017 • D
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%)    13.92018 • • Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population)    15.82018 • L
Scarce water consumption embodied in imports (m3/capita)    20.02013 • L Percentage of population who feel safe walking alone at night in the      59.42019 • D
SDG7 – Affordable and Clean Energy                city or area where they live (%)
Population with access to electricity (%)    99.72017 • L Property Rights (worst 1–7 best)    3.92019 • •
Population with access to clean fuels and technology for cooking (%)    87.52016 • L Birth registrations with civil authority (% of children under age 5)    93.42018 • •
COto2t aelm eilsesciotrnicsi tfyro omut fpuuetl  (cMomtCbOu2s/tTioWnh f)or electricity and heating per      1.42017 • D CCohrilrdurpetnio innv Poelvrceedp itnio cnh Iinldd leaxb (owr o(%rs to 0f –p1o0p0u blaetsiot)n aged 5 to 14)      103.0022001196 •• 5•
5
SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth                Exports of major conventional weapons (TIV constant million USD      1.72019 • • . C
Adjusted GDP growth (%)    -1.32018 • • per 100,000 population) ou
Victims of modern slavery (per 1,000 population)    7.22018 • • Press Freedom Index (best 0–100 worst)    44.52019 • p ntr
y
Admuoltbsi lwe-itmh oanne ayc-cseoruvnicte a tp aro bvaidnekr  o(%r o othf epro fpinualantcioianl  iangsteidtu 1ti5o no ro or vwerit)h a     58.92017 • L SGoDvGer1nm7 e–n tP sapretnndeinrgs ohni phse aflothr a tnhde e dGuocaatliosn (% of GDP)      6 . 9201  6 •   p    Prof
Unemployment rate (% of total labor force)    6.72019 • L For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional    NA NA • • iles
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population)   0.32010 • L public finance, including official development assistance (% of GNI)
Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP)    25.62018 • p
Corporate Tax Haven Score (best 0–100 worst)    4.72019 • •
* Imputed data point
449911
SSuussttaaiinnaabbllee  DDeevveellooppmmeenntt  RReeppoorrtt  22002200             TThhee  SSuussttaaiinnaabbllee  DDeevveellooppmmeenntt  GGooaallss  aanndd  CCoovviidd--1199  
LATIN AMERICA AND THE CARIBBEAN
OVERALL PERFORMANCE
SDG SDG
17 1
SDG 100 SDG
16 2
75
Regional average score SDG SDG
15 50 3
25
SDG
SDG 4
14
Latin America 
70.4
and the 
SDG SDG
13 Caribbean 5
SDG
12 SDG
6
SDG Global rank NA (OF 166)
SDG
11 SDG
7
SDG SDG
10 SDG 8
9
SPILLOVER INDEX AVERAGE PERFORMANCE BY SDG
100 (best) to 0 (worst)
100
80
60
40
20
0
CURRENT ASSESSMENT – SDG DASHBOARD
  Major challenges           Significant challenges          Challenges remain          SDG achieved          Information unavailable
SDG TRENDS
p D D 5 D D L D D
• 5 • L 5 5 5 L
p  Decreasing       5  Stagnating       D  Moderately improving       L  On track or maintaining SDG achievement       •  Information unavailable
Notes: The full title of Goal 2 “Zero Hunger” is “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”.    
  The full title of each SDG is available here: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabledevelopmentgoals
492
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
Performance by 
LATIN AMERICA AND THE CARIBBEAN
Indicator
SDG1 – No Poverty    Val u e Yea  rRa t ingTr e nd SDG9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure    Val u e Ye a rRa t ingTr e nd
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%)    6.02020 • 5 Population using the internet (%)    64.62018 • L
Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%)    14.12020 • p Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population)    69.72018 • L
SDG2 – Zero Hunger                Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related     2.62018 • p
Prevalence of undernourishment (%)    7.42017 • L infrastructure (worst 1–5 best)
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%)    11.72016 • D The Times Higher Education Universities Ranking: Average score of top 3    25.52020 • •
PPrreevvaalleennccee  ooff  wobaesstiintyg,  BinM cIh ≥il d3r0e n(% u nodf aedr u5 lyt epaorps uolfa atigoen )(%)      212..7922001166 •• Lp Scuiennivteifrisci taiensd ( tweochrsnt i0ca–l1 j0o0u rbneaslt a)rticles (per 1,000 population)    0.22018 • 5
Human Trophic Level (best 2–3 worst)    2.32017 • 5 Expenditure on research and development (% of GDP)    0.72017 • •
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land)    4.32017 • L SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities               
Sustainable Nitrogen Management Index (best 0–1.41 worst)    0.72015 • p Gini coefficient adjusted for top income    52.02017 • •
SDG3 – Good Health and Well-Being                SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities               
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)     802017 • L Annual mean concentration of particulate matter of less than      15.62017 • L
2.5 microns in diameter (PM2.5) (μg/m3)
NMeoorntaaltitayl  rmatoer,t ualnitdye rra-t5e ( (ppeerr 1 1,0,00000 l ilvivee b birirtthhss))      196..1622001188 •• LL Access to improved water source, piped (% of urban population)    94.62017 • 5
Incidence of tuberculosis (per 100,000 population)    49.72018 • 5 Satisfaction with public transport (%)    54.12019 • p
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population)    0.22018 • 5 SDG12 – Responsible Consumption and Production                 
Municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)    1.12016 • •
Agdeia-bsteatneds,a ordr iczherdo ndieca rtehs prairtaet dourye d tois ecaasred iionv aadscuultlsa ra dgiesde a3s0e–, c7a0n yceear,r s (%)    16.22016 • L Electronic waste (kg/capita)    6.82016 • •
Agame-bstiaenndt aarird pizoeldlu dtieoant h(p reart e1 0at0t,r0ib0u0 tpaobpleu tloat hioonu)sehold air pollution and    412016 • • PSOro2d eumctiisosnio-bnas seemd bSoOd2i eedm iinss iimonpso (rktgs /(ckgap/citaap)ita)       222..3022001122 •• ••
Traffic deaths (per 100,000 population)    19.02016 • D Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita)    38.72010 • •
Life expectancy at birth (years)    75.02016 • D Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)    2.02010 • •
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19)   64.12017 • 5 SDG13 – Climate Action               
Births attended by skilled health personnel (%)    95.12016 • L Energy-related CO2 emissions (tCO2/capita)    2.42017 • L
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%)   842018 • p CO2 emissions embodied in imports (tCO2/capita)    0.42015 • L
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best)   75.42017 • L CO2 emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita)   635.52019 • •
Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best)    6.12019 • L
SDG14 – Life Below Water                 
SDG4 – Quality Education                Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)    58.72018 • L
Net primary enrollment rate (%)    94.12018 • L Ocean Health Index: Clean Waters score (worst 0–100 best)    60.92019 • 5
Lower secondary completion rate (%)    76.92018 • p Fish caught from overexploited or collapsed stocks (% of total catch)    34.02014 • p
Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24)    98.42018 • • Fish caught by trawling (%)    18.42014 • 5
SDG5 – Gender Equality                    Marine biodiversity threats embodied in imports (per million population)    0.12018 • •
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods (% of females    82.02017 • L SDG15 – Life on Land               
aged 15 to 49 who are married or in unions) Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%)   40.92018 • 5
Ratio of female-to-male mean years of education received (%)   102.22018 • L Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%)   31.82018 • 5
Ratio of female-to-male labor force participation rate (%)    70.12019 • L Red List Index of species survival (worst 0–1 best)    0.82019 • p
Seats held by women in national parliament (%)    22.72020 • 5 Permanent deforestation (% of forest area, 5-year average)    0.42018 • •
SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation               
Population using at least basic drinking water services (%)    96.02017 • L Te(rpreers tmriailll iaonnd p forepsuhlwataiotenr) biodiversity threats embodied in imports      0.62018 • •
Population using at least basic sanitation services (%)    85.52017 • D SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions               
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available freshwater resources)    5.92015 • • Homicides (per 100,000 population)    24.12017 • 5
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%)    28.42018 • • Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population)    42.72018 • D
Scarce water consumption embodied in imports (m3/capita)    2.52013 • L Percentage of population who feel safe walking alone at night in the      43.42019 • p
SDG7 – Affordable and Clean Energy                city or area where they live (%)
Population with access to electricity (%)    97.52017 • L Property Rights (worst 1–7 best)    3.72019 • •
Population with access to clean fuels and technology for cooking (%)    87.02016 • L Birth registrations with civil authority (% of children under age 5)    94.52018 • •
COto2t aelm eilsesciotrnicsi tfyro omut fpuuetl  (cMomtCbOu2s/tTioWnh f)or electricity and heating per      1.02017 • L CCohrilrdurpetnio innv Poelvrceedp itnio cnh Iinldd leaxb (owr o(%rs to 0f –p1o0p0u blaetsiot)n aged 5 to 14)      93.5822001196 •• p•
5
SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth                Exports of major conventional weapons (TIV constant million USD      0.02019 • • . C
Adjusted GDP growth (%)    -3.92018 • • per 100,000 population) ou
Victims of modern slavery (per 1,000 population)    2.42018 • • Press Freedom Index (best 0–100 worst)    34.62019 • 5 ntr
y
Admuoltbsi lwe-itmh oanne ayc-cseoruvnicte a tp aro bvaidnekr  o(%r o othf epro fpinualantcioianl  iangsteidtu 1ti5o no ro or vwerit)h a     58.62017 • L SGoDvGer1nm7 e–n tP sapretnndeinrgs ohni phse aflothr a tnhde e dGuocaatliosn (% of GDP)      9 . 4201  6 •   L    Prof
Unemployment rate (% of total labor force)    9.12019 • p For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional    NA NA • • iles
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population)   0.22010 • L public finance, including official development assistance (% of GNI)
Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP)    23.52018 • •
Corporate Tax Haven Score (best 0–100 worst)    0.72019 • •
* Imputed data point
449933
SSuussttaaiinnaabbllee  DDeevveellooppmmeenntt  RReeppoorrtt  22002200             TThhee  SSuussttaaiinnaabbllee  DDeevveellooppmmeenntt  GGooaallss  aanndd  CCoovviidd--1199  
MIDDLE EAST AND NORTH AFRICA
OVERALL PERFORMANCE
SDG SDG
17 1
SDG 100 SDG
16 2
75
Regional average score SDG SDG
15 50 3
25
SDG
SDG 4
14
Middle East 
66.3
and 
SDG SDG
13 North Africa 5
SDG
12 SDG
6
SDG Global rank NA (OF 166)
SDG
11 SDG
7
SDG SDG
10 SDG 8
9
SPILLOVER INDEX AVERAGE PERFORMANCE BY SDG
100 (best) to 0 (worst)
100
80
60
40
20
0
CURRENT ASSESSMENT – SDG DASHBOARD
  Major challenges           Significant challenges          Challenges remain          SDG achieved          Information unavailable
SDG TRENDS
• D D 5 5 D L D D
• 5 • D 5 5 5 •
p  Decreasing       5  Stagnating       D  Moderately improving       L  On track or maintaining SDG achievement       •  Information unavailable
Notes: The full title of Goal 2 “Zero Hunger” is “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”.    
  The full title of each SDG is available here: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabledevelopmentgoals
494
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
MIDDLE EAST AND NORTH AFRICA
Performance by Indicator
SDG1 – No Poverty    Val u e Yea  rRa t ingTr e nd SDG9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure    Val u e Ye a rRa t ingTr e nd
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%)    NA NA • • Population using the internet (%)    60.72018 • L
Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%)    NA NA • • Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population)    65.32018 • L
SDG2 – Zero Hunger                Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related     2.62018 • p
Prevalence of undernourishment (%)    9.62017 • 5 infrastructure (worst 1–5 best)
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%)    16.92016 • D The Times Higher Education Universities Ranking: Average score of top 3    29.42020 • •
PPrreevvaalleennccee  ooff  wobaesstiintyg,  BinM cIh ≥il d3r0e n(% u nodf aedr u5 lyt epaorps uolfa atigoen )(%)      278..1822001166 •• Lp Scuiennivteifrisci taiensd ( tweochrsnt i0ca–l1 j0o0u rbneaslt a)rticles (per 1,000 population)    0.22018 • D
Human Trophic Level (best 2–3 worst)    2.22017 • L Expenditure on research and development (% of GDP)    0.42017 • •
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land)    4.02017 • L SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities               
Sustainable Nitrogen Management Index (best 0–1.41 worst)    0.82015 • D Gini coefficient adjusted for top income    42.82017 • •
SDG3 – Good Health and Well-Being                SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities               
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)     532017 • L Annual mean concentration of particulate matter of less than      56.82017 • p
2.5 microns in diameter (PM2.5) (μg/m3)
NMeoorntaaltitayl  rmatoer,t ualnitdye rra-t5e ( (ppeerr 1 1,0,00000 l ilvivee b birirtthhss))      1210..5522001188 •• LL Access to improved water source, piped (% of urban population)    91.02017 • 5
Incidence of tuberculosis (per 100,000 population)    31.12018 • 5 Satisfaction with public transport (%)    59.62019 • L
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population)    0.02018 • L SDG12 – Responsible Consumption and Production                 
Municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)    1.22016 • •
Agdeia-bsteatneds,a ordr iczherdo ndieca rtehs prairtaet dourye d tois ecaasred iionv aadscuultlsa ra dgiesde a3s0e–, c7a0n yceear,r s (%)    19.92016 • D Electronic waste (kg/capita)    7.12016 • •
Agame-bstiaenndt aarird pizoeldlu dtieoant h(p reart e1 0at0t,r0ib0u0 tpaobpleu tloat hioonu)sehold air pollution and    802016 • • PSOro2d eumctiisosnio-bnas seemd bSoOd2i eedm iinss iimonpso (rktgs /(ckgap/citaap)ita)       253..1422001122 •• ••
Traffic deaths (per 100,000 population)    19.22016 • L Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita)    17.02010 • •
Life expectancy at birth (years)    72.92016 • 5 Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)    2.92010 • •
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19)   37.52017 • 5 SDG13 – Climate Action               
Births attended by skilled health personnel (%)    88.02016 • • Energy-related CO2 emissions (tCO2/capita)    5.92017 • 5
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%)   892018 • L CO2 emissions embodied in imports (tCO2/capita)    0.52015 • L
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best)   68.22017 • L CO2 emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita)   1128.12019 • •
Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best)    4.82019 • p
SDG14 – Life Below Water                 
SDG4 – Quality Education                Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)    39.92018 • 5
Net primary enrollment rate (%)    94.32018 • 5 Ocean Health Index: Clean Waters score (worst 0–100 best)    53.52019 • p
Lower secondary completion rate (%)    78.12018 • 5 Fish caught from overexploited or collapsed stocks (% of total catch)    25.92014 • p
Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24)    93.92018 • • Fish caught by trawling (%)    24.72014 • L
SDG5 – Gender Equality                    Marine biodiversity threats embodied in imports (per million population)    0.12018 • •
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods (% of females    64.62017 • D SDG15 – Life on Land               
aged 15 to 49 who are married or in unions) Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%)   33.82018 • 5
Ratio of female-to-male mean years of education received (%)    85.32018 • D Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%)   31.52018 • p
Ratio of female-to-male labor force participation rate (%)    26.42019 • 5 Red List Index of species survival (worst 0–1 best)    0.92019 • 5
Seats held by women in national parliament (%)    16.22020 • 5 Permanent deforestation (% of forest area, 5-year average)    NA NA • •
SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation               
Population using at least basic drinking water services (%)    94.02017 • D Te(rpreers tmriailll iaonnd p forepsuhlwataiotenr) biodiversity threats embodied in imports      0.42018 • •
Population using at least basic sanitation services (%)    90.42017 • D SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions               
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available freshwater resources)   233.92015 • • Homicides (per 100,000 population)    3.12017 • •
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%)    23.82018 • • Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population)    28.72018 • •
Scarce water consumption embodied in imports (m3/capita)    15.62013 • L Percentage of population who feel safe walking alone at night in the      71.02019 • L
SDG7 – Affordable and Clean Energy                city or area where they live (%)
Population with access to electricity (%)    97.82017 • L Property Rights (worst 1–7 best)    4.52019 • •
Population with access to clean fuels and technology for cooking (%)    95.02016 • L Birth registrations with civil authority (% of children under age 5)    93.62018 • •
COto2t aelm eilsesciotrnicsi tfyro omut fpuuetl  (cMomtCbOu2s/tTioWnh f)or electricity and heating per      1.62017 • L CCohrilrdurpetnio innv Poelvrceedp itnio cnh Iinldd leaxb (owr o(%rs to 0f –p1o0p0u blaetsiot)n aged 5 to 14)      83.3322001196 •• p•
5
SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth                Exports of major conventional weapons (TIV constant million USD      0.02019 • • . C
Adjusted GDP growth (%)    -2.82018 • • per 100,000 population) ou
Victims of modern slavery (per 1,000 population)    NA NA • • Press Freedom Index (best 0–100 worst)    55.12019 • p ntr
y
Admuoltbsi lwe-itmh oanne ayc-cseoruvnicte a tp aro bvaidnekr  o(%r o othf epro fpinualantcioianl  iangsteidtu 1ti5o no ro or vwerit)h a     48.42017 • D SGoDvGer1nm7 e–n tP sapretnndeinrgs ohni phse aflothr a tnhde e dGuocaatliosn (% of GDP)      6 . 9201  6 •   •    Prof
Unemployment rate (% of total labor force)    10.52019 • 5 For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional    NA NA • • iles
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population)   0.42010 • L public finance, including official development assistance (% of GNI)
Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP)    NA NA • •
Corporate Tax Haven Score (best 0–100 worst)    3.32019 • •
* Imputed data point
495
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
OCEANIA 
OVERALL PERFORMANCE
SDG SDG
17 1
SDG 100 SDG
16 2
75
Regional average score SDG SDG
15 50 3
25
SDG
SDG 4
14
49.6
Oceania
SDG SDG
13 5
SDG
12 SDG
6
SDG Global rank NA (OF 166)
SDG
11 SDG
7
SDG SDG
10 SDG 8
9
SPILLOVER INDEX AVERAGE PERFORMANCE BY SDG
100 (best) to 0 (worst)
100
80
60
40
20
0
CURRENT ASSESSMENT – SDG DASHBOARD
  Major challenges           Significant challenges          Challenges remain          SDG achieved          Information unavailable
SDG TRENDS
5 5 5 p 5 5 D • 5
• 5 • L 5 p • p
p  Decreasing       5  Stagnating       D  Moderately improving       L  On track or maintaining SDG achievement       •  Information unavailable
Notes: The full title of Goal 2 “Zero Hunger” is “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”.    
  The full title of each SDG is available here: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabledevelopmentgoals
496
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
OCEANIA
Performance by Indicator
SDG1 – No Poverty    Val u e Yea  rRa t ingTr e nd SDG9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure    Val u e Ye a rRa t ingTr e nd
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%)    24.12020 • 5 Population using the internet (%)    15.92018 • 5
Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%)    45.82020 • 5 Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population)    23.92018 • L
SDG2 – Zero Hunger                Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related     NA NA • •
Prevalence of undernourishment (%)    5.62017 • • infrastructure (worst 1–5 best)
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%)    43.12016 • 5 The Times Higher Education Universities Ranking: Average score of top 3    0.02020 • •
PPrreevvaalleennccee  ooff  wobaesstiintyg,  BinM cIh ≥il d3r0e n(% u nodf aedr u5 lyt epaorps uolfa atigoen )(%)      1223..7722001166 •• pD Scuiennivteifrisci taiensd ( tweochrsnt i0ca–l1 j0o0u rbneaslt a)rticles (per 1,000 population)    0.02018 • 5
Expenditure on research and development (% of GDP)    NA NA • •
Human Trophic Level (best 2–3 worst)    NA NA • •
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land)    NA NA • • SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities               
Sustainable Nitrogen Management Index (best 0–1.41 worst)    1.02015 • 5 Gini coefficient adjusted for top income    51.32017 • •
SDG3 – Good Health and Well-Being                SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities               
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)     1282017 • D Annual mean concentration of particulate matter of less than      12.12017 • L
NMeoorntaaltitayl  rmatoer,t ualnitdye rra-t5e ( (ppeerr 1 1,0,00000 l ilvivee b birirtthhss))      1492..6722001188 •• DD Ac2c.5e sms itcor oimnsp irno vdeiadm weatteerr ( sPoMu2rc.5e),  (pμipg/emd 3(%) of urban population)    61.22017 • p
Incidence of tuberculosis (per 100,000 population)   354.32018 • 5 Satisfaction with public transport (%)    NA NA • •
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population)    NA NA • • SDG12 – Responsible Consumption and Production                 
Municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)    2.42016 • •
Agdeia-bsteatneds,a ordr iczherdo ndieca rtehs prairtaet dourye d tois ecaasred iionv aadscuultlsa ra dgiesde a3s0e–, c7a0n yceear,r s (%)    29.22016 • p Electronic waste (kg/capita)    1.32016 • •
Agame-bstiaenndt aarird pizoeldlu dtieoant h(p reart e1 0at0t,r0ib0u0 tpaobpleu tloat hioonu)sehold air pollution and    1442016 • • PSOro2d eumctiisosnio-bnas seemd bSoOd2i eedm iinss iimonpso (rktgs /(ckgap/citaap)ita)       NNAA NNAA •• ••
Traffic deaths (per 100,000 population)    13.82016 • L Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita)    NA NA • •
Life expectancy at birth (years)    67.02016 • 5 Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)    NA NA • •
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19)   52.22017 • 5 SDG13 – Climate Action               
Births attended by skilled health personnel (%)    61.82016 • • Energy-related CO2 emissions (tCO2/capita)    1.02017 • L
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%)   662018 • p CO2 emissions embodied in imports (tCO2/capita)    NA NA • •
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best)   43.12017 • 5 CO2 emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita)    0.02019 • •
Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best)    NA NA • •
SDG14 – Life Below Water                 
SDG4 – Quality Education                Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)    4.22018 • p
Net primary enrollment rate (%)    76.12018 • p Ocean Health Index: Clean Waters score (worst 0–100 best)    65.82019 • L
Lower secondary completion rate (%)    67.22018 • • Fish caught from overexploited or collapsed stocks (% of total catch)    50.82014 • p
Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24)    72.62018 • • Fish caught by trawling (%)    NA NA • •
SDG5 – Gender Equality                    Marine biodiversity threats embodied in imports (per million population)    NA NA • •
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods (% of females    42.92017 • 5 SDG15 – Life on Land               
aged 15 to 49 who are married or in unions) Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%)   8.52018 • 5
Ratio of female-to-male mean years of education received (%)    NA NA • • Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%)   NA NA • •
Ratio of female-to-male labor force participation rate (%)    89.92019 • L Red List Index of species survival (worst 0–1 best)    0.82019 • p
Seats held by women in national parliament (%)    2.32020 • p Permanent deforestation (% of forest area, 5-year average)    0.12018 • •
SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation               
Population using at least basic drinking water services (%)    51.02017 • 5 Te(rpreers tmriailll iaonnd p forepsuhlwataiotenr) biodiversity threats embodied in imports      NA NA • •
Population using at least basic sanitation services (%)    25.12017 • p SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions               
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available freshwater resources)    NA NA • • Homicides (per 100,000 population)    8.52017 • •
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%)    0.42018 • • Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population)    35.92018 • 5
Scarce water consumption embodied in imports (m3/capita)    NA NA • • Percentage of population who feel safe walking alone at night in the      NA NA • •
SDG7 – Affordable and Clean Energy                city or area where they live (%)
Population with access to electricity (%)    60.62017 • L Property Rights (worst 1–7 best)    NA NA • •
Population with access to clean fuels and technology for cooking (%)    16.32016 • 5 Birth registrations with civil authority (% of children under age 5)    75.42018 • •
COto2t aelm eilsesciotrnicsi tfyro omut fpuuetl  (cMomtCbOu2s/tTioWnh f)or electricity and heating per      NA NA • • CCohrilrdurpetnio innv Poelvrceedp itnio cnh Iinldd leaxb (owr o(%rs to 0f –p1o0p0u blaetsiot)n aged 5 to 14)      NNAA NNAA •• ••
5
SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth                Exports of major conventional weapons (TIV constant million USD      0.02019 • • . C
Adjusted GDP growth (%)    -4.92018 • • per 100,000 population) ou
Victims of modern slavery (per 1,000 population)    NA NA • • Press Freedom Index (best 0–100 worst)    NA NA • • ntr
y
Admuoltbsi lwe-itmh oanne ayc-cseoruvnicte a tp aro bvaidnekr  o(%r o othf epro fpinualantcioianl  iangsteidtu 1ti5o no ro or vwerit)h a     NA NA • • SGoDvGer1nm7 e–n tP sapretnndeinrgs ohni phse aflothr a tnhde e dGuocaatliosn (% of GDP)      10 . 3201  6 •   •    Prof
Unemployment rate (% of total labor force)    2.62019 • L For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional    NA NA • • iles
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population)   NA NA • • public finance, including official development assistance (% of GNI)
Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP)    19.92018 • p
Corporate Tax Haven Score (best 0–100 worst)    0.02019 • •
* Imputed data point
497
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
OECD MEMBERS 
OVERALL PERFORMANCE
SDG SDG
17 1
SDG 100 SDG
16 2
75
Regional average score SDG SDG
15 50 3
25
SDG
SDG 4
14
77.3 OECD 
SDG members SDG
13 5
SDG
12 SDG
6
SDG Global rank NA (OF 166)
SDG
11 SDG
7
SDG SDG
10 SDG 8
9
SPILLOVER INDEX AVERAGE PERFORMANCE BY SDG
100 (best) to 0 (worst)
100
80
60
40
20
0
CURRENT ASSESSMENT – SDG DASHBOARD
  Major challenges           Significant challenges          Challenges remain          SDG achieved          Information unavailable
SDG TRENDS
L D L L D L D L L
• D • 5 5 D D D
p  Decreasing       5  Stagnating       D  Moderately improving       L  On track or maintaining SDG achievement       •  Information unavailable
Notes: The full title of Goal 2 “Zero Hunger” is “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”.    
  The full title of each SDG is available here: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabledevelopmentgoals
498
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
OECD MEMBERS
Performance by Indicator
SDG1 – No Poverty    Val u e Yea  rRa t ingTr e nd SDG9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure    Val u e Ye a rRa t ingTr e nd
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%)    0.62020 • L Population using the internet (%)    84.12018 • L
Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%)    1.72020 • L Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population)   115.62018 • L
SDG2 – Zero Hunger                Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related     3.82018 • L
Prevalence of undernourishment (%)    2.62017 • L infrastructure (worst 1–5 best)
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%)    4.22016 • L The Times Higher Education Universities Ranking: Average score of top 3    66.32020 • •
PPHrrueemvvaaalleennn Tccreeo  poohff  iwocb aLesestviinetylg ,(  BbinMe csIth ≥ 2il d–3r30e  wn(% ou rnosdft )aedr u5 lyt epaorps uolfa atigoen )(%)        2025...943222000111667 ••• Lpp SExcupieneninvtdeifiritscui rtaeien osdn ( t wreeocshersantr ic0cha– la1 nj0od0u  drbneeavselt la)orptimcleens t( (p%e ro 1f ,G0D0P0) population)      12..1222001187 •• LL
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land)    6.12017 • L SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities               
Sustainable Nitrogen Management Index (best 0–1.41 worst)    0.52015 • p Gini coefficient adjusted for top income    41.32017 • •
SDG3 – Good Health and Well-Being                SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities               
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)     132017 • L Annual mean concentration of particulate matter of less than      14.52017 • D
2.5 microns in diameter (PM2.5) (μg/m3)
NMInecooirdntaealntitacyle  rm oatfoe tr,ut uablnietdryce rura-lto5e s( i(psp e(eprr e1 1r,0, 01000000 l ,il0viv0ee0 b  bpiriortthphsus)l)ation)        1351...279222000111888 ••• LLL ASactciesfsasc ttoio inm wpritohv epdu bwliact etrra snosuprocret,  (p%ip)ed (% of urban population)      9682..6022001179 •• 5L
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population)    0.12018 • L SDG12 – Responsible Consumption and Production                 
Municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)    1.82016 • •
Agdeia-bsteatneds,a ordr iczherdo ndieca rtehs prairtaet dourye d tois ecaasred iionv aadscuultlsa ra dgiesde a3s0e–, c7a0n yceear,r s (%)    12.62016 • L Electronic waste (kg/capita)    17.42016 • •
Agame-bstiaenndt aarird pizoeldlu dtieoant h(p reart e1 0at0t,r0ib0u0 tpaobpleu tloat hioonu)sehold air pollution and    192016 • • PSOro2d eumctiisosnio-bnas seemd bSoOd2i eedm iinss iimonpso (rktgs /(ckgap/citaap)ita)       4160..4122001122 •• ••
Traffic deaths (per 100,000 population)    8.42016 • L Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita)    41.92010 • •
Life expectancy at birth (years)    80.22016 • L Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)    9.72010 • •
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19)   17.42017 • L SDG13 – Climate Action               
Births attended by skilled health personnel (%)    98.92016 • L Energy-related CO2 emissions (tCO2/capita)    9.12017 • 5
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%)   932018 • L CO2 emissions embodied in imports (tCO2/capita)    1.82015 • 5
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best)   81.62017 • L CO2 emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita)   1503.82019 • •
Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best)    6.62019 • L
SDG14 – Life Below Water                 
SDG4 – Quality Education                Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)    64.72018 • L
Net primary enrollment rate (%)    99.22018 • L Ocean Health Index: Clean Waters score (worst 0–100 best)    62.02019 • 5
Lower secondary completion rate (%)    99.22018 • L Fish caught from overexploited or collapsed stocks (% of total catch)    40.92014 • p
Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24)    NA NA • • Fish caught by trawling (%)    41.92014 • p
SDG5 – Gender Equality                    Marine biodiversity threats embodied in imports (per million population)    0.42018 • •
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods (% of females    77.62017 • L SDG15 – Life on Land               
aged 15 to 49 who are married or in unions) Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%)   55.02018 • L
Ratio of female-to-male mean years of education received (%)    97.42018 • L Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%)   50.12018 • L
Ratio of female-to-male labor force participation rate (%)    75.52019 • L Red List Index of species survival (worst 0–1 best)    0.82019 • p
Seats held by women in national parliament (%)    28.72020 • D Permanent deforestation (% of forest area, 5-year average)    0.02018 • •
SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation               
Population using at least basic drinking water services (%)    99.52017 • • Te(rpreers tmriailll iaonnd p forepsuhlwataiotenr) biodiversity threats embodied in imports      3.42018 • •
Population using at least basic sanitation services (%)    98.52017 • • SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions               
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available freshwater resources)    31.62015 • • Homicides (per 100,000 population)    4.62017 • 5
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%)    67.22018 • • Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population)    23.62018 • L
Scarce water consumption embodied in imports (m3/capita)    22.92013 • L Percentage of population who feel safe walking alone at night in the      69.42019 • L
SDG7 – Affordable and Clean Energy                city or area where they live (%)
Population with access to electricity (%)   100.02017 • L Property Rights (worst 1–7 best)    5.22019 • •
Population with access to clean fuels and technology for cooking (%)    98.12016 • L Birth registrations with civil authority (% of children under age 5)    99.42018 • •
COto2t aelm eilsesciotrnicsi tfyro omut fpuuetl  (cMomtCbOu2s/tTioWnh f)or electricity and heating per      1.22017 • D CCohrilrdurpetnio innv Poelvrceedp itnio cnh Iinldd leaxb (owr o(%rs to 0f –p1o0p0u blaetsiot)n aged 5 to 14)      16.3722001196 •• L•
5
SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth                Exports of major conventional weapons (TIV constant million USD      1.62019 • • . C
Adjusted GDP growth (%)    -0.62018 • • per 100,000 population) ou
Victims of modern slavery (per 1,000 population)    2.12018 • • Press Freedom Index (best 0–100 worst)    27.22019 • L ntr
y
Admuoltbsi lwe-itmh oanne ayc-cseoruvnicte a tp aro bvaidnekr  o(%r o othf epro fpinualantcioianl  iangsteidtu 1ti5o no ro or vwerit)h a     87.12017 • L SGoDvGer1nm7 e–n tP sapretnndeinrgs ohni phse aflothr a tnhde e dGuocaatliosn (% of GDP)      12 . 1201  6 •   L    Prof
Unemployment rate (% of total labor force)    5.42019 • • For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional    0.32017 • 5 iles
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population)   1.22010 • L public finance, including official development assistance (% of GNI)
Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP)    NA NA • •
Corporate Tax Haven Score (best 0–100 worst)    33.62019 • •
* Imputed data point
499
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
 SUB-SAHARAN AFRICA  
OVERALL PERFORMANCE
SDG SDG
17 1
SDG 100 SDG
16 2
75
Regional average score SDG SDG
15 50 3
25
SDG
SDG 4
14
53.1 Sub-Saharan 
SDG Africa SDG
13 5
SDG
12 SDG
6
SDG Global rank NA (OF 166)
SDG
11 SDG
7
SDG SDG
10 SDG 8
9
SPILLOVER INDEX AVERAGE PERFORMANCE BY SDG
100 (best) to 0 (worst)
100
80
60
40
20
0
CURRENT ASSESSMENT – SDG DASHBOARD
  Major challenges           Significant challenges          Challenges remain          SDG achieved          Information unavailable
SDG TRENDS
5 5 5 5 5 5 5 D D
• 5 • L D D 5 5
p  Decreasing       5  Stagnating       D  Moderately improving       L  On track or maintaining SDG achievement       •  Information unavailable
Notes: The full title of Goal 2 “Zero Hunger” is “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”.    
  The full title of each SDG is available here: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabledevelopmentgoals
500
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
SUB-SAHARAN AFRICA  
Performance by Indicator
SDG1 – No Poverty    Val u e Yea  rRa t ingTr e nd SDG9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure    Val u e Ye a rRa t ingTr e nd
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%)    40.22020 • 5 Population using the internet (%)    25.12018 • D
Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%)    65.12020 • 5 Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population)    29.42018 • D
SDG2 – Zero Hunger                Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related     2.42018 • 5
Prevalence of undernourishment (%)    21.42017 • p infrastructure (worst 1–5 best)
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%)    35.92016 • D The Times Higher Education Universities Ranking: Average score of top 3    13.02020 • •
PPrreevvaalleennccee  ooff  wobaesstiintyg,  BinM cIh ≥il d3r0e n(% u nodf aedr u5 lyt epaorps uolfa atigoen )(%)      88..2922001166 •• LD Scuiennivteifrisci taiensd ( tweochrsnt i0ca–l1 j0o0u rbneaslt a)rticles (per 1,000 population)    0.02018 • 5
Human Trophic Level (best 2–3 worst)    2.12017 • L Expenditure on research and development (% of GDP)    0.42017 • •
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land)    1.72017 • 5 SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities               
Sustainable Nitrogen Management Index (best 0–1.41 worst)    0.82015 • 5 Gini coefficient adjusted for top income    47.22017 • •
SDG3 – Good Health and Well-Being                SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities               
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)     5142017 • 5 Annual mean concentration of particulate matter of less than      44.72017 • p
NMInecooirdntaealntitacyle  rm oatfoe tr,ut uablnietdryce rura-lto5e s( i(psp e(eprr e1 1r,0, 01000000 l ,il0viv0ee0 b  bpiriortthphsus)l)ation)       2273740...177222000111888 ••• 5DD ASac2tc.i5es fsmasc ittcoiro oinmn wsp irintoh vd epiadum bwleiactte etrrr a( sPnoMsup2roc.5ret),   ((p%μipg)/emd 3(%) of urban population)      5590..2322001179 •• pD
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population)    1.12018 • L SDG12 – Responsible Consumption and Production                 
Municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)    1.02016 • •
Agdeia-bsteatneds,a ordr iczherdo ndieca rtehs prairtaet dourye d tois ecaasred iionv aadscuultlsa ra dgiesde a3s0e–, c7a0n yceear,r s (%)    20.82016 • 5 Electronic waste (kg/capita)    1.32016 • •
Agame-bstiaenndt aarird pizoeldlu dtieoant h(p reart e1 0at0t,r0ib0u0 tpaobpleu tloat hioonu)sehold air pollution and    1872016 • • PSOro2d eumctiisosnio-bnas seemd bSoOd2i eedm iinss iimonpso (rktgs /(ckgap/citaap)ita)       90..7722001122 •• ••
Traffic deaths (per 100,000 population)    26.92016 • p Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita)    15.92010 • •
Life expectancy at birth (years)    61.12016 • 5 Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)    0.62010 • •
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19)  102.82017 • 5 SDG13 – Climate Action               
Births attended by skilled health personnel (%)    58.12016 • • Energy-related CO2 emissions (tCO2/capita)    0.82017 • L
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%)   722018 • D CO2 emissions embodied in imports (tCO2/capita)    0.12015 • L
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best)   43.82017 • 5 CO2 emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita)   147.72019 • •
Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best)    4.52019 • 5
SDG14 – Life Below Water                 
SDG4 – Quality Education                Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)    50.72018 • L
Net primary enrollment rate (%)    78.82018 • 5 Ocean Health Index: Clean Waters score (worst 0–100 best)    44.32019 • p
Lower secondary completion rate (%)    44.52018 • 5 Fish caught from overexploited or collapsed stocks (% of total catch)    22.62014 • L
Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24)    76.52018 • • Fish caught by trawling (%)    17.22014 • •
SDG5 – Gender Equality                    Marine biodiversity threats embodied in imports (per million population)    0.02018 • •
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods (% of females    48.22017 • D SDG15 – Life on Land               
aged 15 to 49 who are married or in unions) Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%)   52.12018 • L
Ratio of female-to-male mean years of education received (%)    68.32018 • 5 Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%)   48.62018 • L
Ratio of female-to-male labor force participation rate (%)    83.92019 • L Red List Index of species survival (worst 0–1 best)    0.92019 • 5
Seats held by women in national parliament (%)    23.02020 • 5 Permanent deforestation (% of forest area, 5-year average)    0.42018 • •
SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation               
Population using at least basic drinking water services (%)    60.72017 • 5 Te(rpreers tmriailll iaonnd p forepsuhlwataiotenr) biodiversity threats embodied in imports      0.22018 • •
Population using at least basic sanitation services (%)    30.72017 • 5 SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions               
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available freshwater resources)    17.42015 • • Homicides (per 100,000 population)    9.12017 • •
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%)    1.42018 • • Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population)    45.12018 • 5
Scarce water consumption embodied in imports (m3/capita)    1.02013 • L Percentage of population who feel safe walking alone at night in the      53.22019 • p
SDG7 – Affordable and Clean Energy                city or area where they live (%)
Population with access to electricity (%)    44.42017 • D Property Rights (worst 1–7 best)    3.72019 • •
Population with access to clean fuels and technology for cooking (%)    14.12016 • 5 Birth registrations with civil authority (% of children under age 5)    45.92018 • •
COto2t aelm eilsesciotrnicsi tfyro omut fpuuetl  (cMomtCbOu2s/tTioWnh f)or electricity and heating per      1.92017 • D CCohrilrdurpetnio innv Poelvrceedp itnio cnh Iinldd leaxb (owr o(%rs to 0f –p1o0p0u blaetsiot)n aged 5 to 14)      292.9322001196 •• 5•
5
SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth                Exports of major conventional weapons (TIV constant million USD      0.02019 • • . C
Adjusted GDP growth (%)    -5.02018 • • per 100,000 population) ou
Victims of modern slavery (per 1,000 population)    8.32018 • • Press Freedom Index (best 0–100 worst)    37.42019 • 5 ntr
y
Admuoltbsi lwe-itmh oanne ayc-cseoruvnicte a tp aro bvaidnekr  o(%r o othf epro fpinualantcioianl  iangsteidtu 1ti5o no ro or vwerit)h a     40.02017 • D SGoDvGer1nm7 e–n tP sapretnndeinrgs ohni phse aflothr a tnhde e dGuocaatliosn (% of GDP)      5 . 7201  6 •   5    Prof
Unemployment rate (% of total labor force)    6.62019 • 5 For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional    NA NA • • iles
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population)   0.12010 • L public finance, including official development assistance (% of GNI)
Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP)    14.22018 • p
Corporate Tax Haven Score (best 0–100 worst)    9.22019 • •
* Imputed data point
501
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
 LOW-INCOME COUNTRIES 
OVERALL PERFORMANCE
SDG SDG
17 1
SDG 100 SDG
16 2
75
Regional average score SDG SDG
15 50 3
25
SDG
SDG 4
14
52.5 Low-income 
SDG Countries SDG
13 5
SDG
12 SDG
6
SDG Global rank NA (OF 166)
SDG
11 SDG
7
SDG SDG
10 SDG 8
9
SPILLOVER INDEX AVERAGE PERFORMANCE BY SDG
100 (best) to 0 (worst)
100
80
60
40
20
0
CURRENT ASSESSMENT – SDG DASHBOARD
  Major challenges           Significant challenges          Challenges remain          SDG achieved          Information unavailable
SDG TRENDS
5 5 5 • 5 5 5 D 5
• 5 • L p 5 5 5
p  Decreasing       5  Stagnating       D  Moderately improving       L  On track or maintaining SDG achievement       •  Information unavailable
Notes: The full title of Goal 2 “Zero Hunger” is “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”.    
  The full title of each SDG is available here: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabledevelopmentgoals
502
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
LOW-INCOME COUNTRIES  
Performance by Indicator
SDG1 – No Poverty    Val u e Yea  rRa t ingTr e nd SDG9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure    Val u e Ye a rRa t ingTr e nd
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%)    44.62020 • 5 Population using the internet (%)    16.02018 • D
Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%)    70.72020 • 5 Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population)    18.12018 • D
SDG2 – Zero Hunger                Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related     2.22018 • 5
Prevalence of undernourishment (%)    27.72017 • p infrastructure (worst 1–5 best)
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%)    37.12016 • 5 The Times Higher Education Universities Ranking: Average score of top 3    3.92020 • •
PPrreevvaalleennccee  ooff  wobaesstiintyg,  BinM cIh ≥il d3r0e n(% u nodf aedr u5 lyt epaorps uolfa atigoen )(%)      87..7622001166 •• 5L Scuiennivteifrisci taiensd ( tweochrsnt i0ca–l1 j0o0u rbneaslt a)rticles (per 1,000 population)    0.02018 • 5
Human Trophic Level (best 2–3 worst)    2.12017 • L Expenditure on research and development (% of GDP)    0.32017 • •
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land)    1.72017 • 5 SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities               
Sustainable Nitrogen Management Index (best 0–1.41 worst)    0.82015 • 5 Gini coefficient adjusted for top income    41.92017 • •
SDG3 – Good Health and Well-Being                SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities               
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)     4402017 • D Annual mean concentration of particulate matter of less than      43.22017 • p
NMInecooirdntaealntitacyle  rm oatfoe tr,ut uablnietdryce rura-lto5e s( i(psp e(eprr e1 1r,0, 01000000 l ,il0viv0ee0 b  bpiriortthphsus)l)ation)       2260545...773222000111888 ••• 5DD ASac2tc.i5es fsmasc ittcoiro oinmn wsp irintoh vd epiadum bwleiactte etrrr a( sPnoMsup2roc.5ret),   ((p%μipg)/emd 3(%) of urban population)      6476..0322001179 •• 5D
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population)    0.72018 • D SDG12 – Responsible Consumption and Production                 
Municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)    1.32016 • •
Agdeia-bsteatneds,a ordr iczherdo ndieca rtehs prairtaet dourye d tois ecaasred iionv aadscuultlsa ra dgiesde a3s0e–, c7a0n yceear,r s (%)    21.52016 • 5 Electronic waste (kg/capita)    0.72016 • •
Agame-bstiaenndt aarird pizoeldlu dtieoant h(p reart e1 0at0t,r0ib0u0 tpaobpleu tloat hioonu)sehold air pollution and    1732016 • • PSOro2d eumctiisosnio-bnas seemd bSoOd2i eedm iinss iimonpso (rktgs /(ckgap/citaap)ita)       80..5422001122 •• ••
Traffic deaths (per 100,000 population)    26.92016 • p Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita)    13.32010 • •
Life expectancy at birth (years)    63.02016 • 5 Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)    0.22010 • •
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19)   97.22017 • 5 SDG13 – Climate Action               
Births attended by skilled health personnel (%)    57.52016 • • Energy-related CO2 emissions (tCO2/capita)    0.32017 • L
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%)   742018 • 5 CO2 emissions embodied in imports (tCO2/capita)    0.02015 • L
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best)   42.12017 • 5 CO2 emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita)    41.72019 • •
Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best)    4.22019 • 5
SDG14 – Life Below Water                 
SDG4 – Quality Education                Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)    33.92018 • •
Net primary enrollment rate (%)    84.02018 • • Ocean Health Index: Clean Waters score (worst 0–100 best)    46.82019 • p
Lower secondary completion rate (%)    39.22018 • • Fish caught from overexploited or collapsed stocks (% of total catch)    14.22014 • •
Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24)    75.32018 • • Fish caught by trawling (%)    12.42014 • •
SDG5 – Gender Equality                    Marine biodiversity threats embodied in imports (per million population)    0.02018 • •
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods (% of females    47.32017 • 5 SDG15 – Life on Land               
aged 15 to 49 who are married or in unions) Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%)   41.42018 • 5
Ratio of female-to-male mean years of education received (%)    60.42018 • 5 Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%)   40.12018 • D
Ratio of female-to-male labor force participation rate (%)    80.92019 • L Red List Index of species survival (worst 0–1 best)    0.92019 • 5
Seats held by women in national parliament (%)    24.82020 • 5 Permanent deforestation (% of forest area, 5-year average)    0.32018 • •
SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation               
Population using at least basic drinking water services (%)    57.22017 • 5 Te(rpreers tmriailll iaonnd p forepsuhlwataiotenr) biodiversity threats embodied in imports      0.12018 • •
Population using at least basic sanitation services (%)    30.02017 • 5 SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions               
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available freshwater resources)    24.12015 • • Homicides (per 100,000 population)    7.22017 • •
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%)    1.32018 • • Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population)    44.92018 • •
Scarce water consumption embodied in imports (m3/capita)    0.72013 • L Percentage of population who feel safe walking alone at night in the      52.22019 • p
SDG7 – Affordable and Clean Energy                city or area where they live (%)
Population with access to electricity (%)    40.72017 • D Property Rights (worst 1–7 best)    3.62019 • •
Population with access to clean fuels and technology for cooking (%)    11.52016 • 5 Birth registrations with civil authority (% of children under age 5)    42.02018 • •
COto2t aelm eilsesciotrnicsi tfyro omut fpuuetl  (cMomtCbOu2s/tTioWnh f)or electricity and heating per      1.92017 • • CCohrilrdurpetnio innv Poelvrceedp itnio cnh Iinldd leaxb (owr o(%rs to 0f –p1o0p0u blaetsiot)n aged 5 to 14)      302.7522001196 •• 5•
5
SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth                Exports of major conventional weapons (TIV constant million USD      0.02019 • • . C
Adjusted GDP growth (%)    -5.22018 • • per 100,000 population) ou
Victims of modern slavery (per 1,000 population)    13.42018 • • Press Freedom Index (best 0–100 worst)    41.52019 • 5 ntr
y
Admuoltbsi lwe-itmh oanne ayc-cseoruvnicte a tp aro bvaidnekr  o(%r o othf epro fpinualantcioianl  iangsteidtu 1ti5o no ro or vwerit)h a     32.32017 • D SGoDvGer1nm7 e–n tP sapretnndeinrgs ohni phse aflothr a tnhde e dGuocaatliosn (% of GDP)      5 . 1201  6 •   5    Prof
Unemployment rate (% of total labor force)    4.42019 • L For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional    NA NA • • iles
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population)   0.02010 • L public finance, including official development assistance (% of GNI)
Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP)    14.02018 • •
Corporate Tax Haven Score (best 0–100 worst)    4.22019 • •
* Imputed data point
503
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
 L OWER-MIDDLE-INCOME COUNTRIES
OVERALL PERFORMANCE
SDG SDG
17 1
SDG 100 SDG
16 2
75
Regional average score SDG SDG
15 50 3
25
SDG
SDG 4
14
61.6 Lower-middle-
SDG income countries SDG
13 5
SDG
12 SDG
6
SDG Global rank NA (OF 166)
SDG
11 SDG
7
SDG SDG
10 SDG 8
9
SPILLOVER INDEX AVERAGE PERFORMANCE BY SDG
100 (best) to 0 (worst)
100
80
60
40
20
0
CURRENT ASSESSMENT – SDG DASHBOARD
  Major challenges           Significant challenges          Challenges remain          SDG achieved          Information unavailable
SDG TRENDS
D D D 5 5 D D D D
• 5 • L 5 5 5 5
p  Decreasing       5  Stagnating       D  Moderately improving       L  On track or maintaining SDG achievement       •  Information unavailable
Notes: The full title of Goal 2 “Zero Hunger” is “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”.    
  The full title of each SDG is available here: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabledevelopmentgoals
504
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
LOWER-MIDDLE-INCOME COUNTRIES
Performance by Indicator
SDG1 – No Poverty    Val u e Yea  rRa t ingTr e nd SDG9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure    Val u e Ye a rRa t ingTr e nd
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%)    7.22020 • L Population using the internet (%)    35.92018 • L
Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%)    27.52020 • D Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population)    46.52018 • L
SDG2 – Zero Hunger                Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related     2.72018 • p
Prevalence of undernourishment (%)    14.02017 • D infrastructure (worst 1–5 best)
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%)    35.62016 • D The Times Higher Education Universities Ranking: Average score of top 3    31.62020 • •
PPrreevvaalleennccee  ooff  wobaesstiintyg,  BinM cIh ≥il d3r0e n(% u nodf aedr u5 lyt epaorps uolfa atigoen )(%)      174..4622001166 •• 5L Scuiennivteifrisci taiensd ( tweochrsnt i0ca–l1 j0o0u rbneaslt a)rticles (per 1,000 population)    0.12018 • 5
Human Trophic Level (best 2–3 worst)    2.22017 • 5 Expenditure on research and development (% of GDP)    0.52017 • •
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land)    3.42017 • L SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities               
Sustainable Nitrogen Management Index (best 0–1.41 worst)    0.82015 • 5 Gini coefficient adjusted for top income    44.72017 • •
SDG3 – Good Health and Well-Being                SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities               
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)     2092017 • D Annual mean concentration of particulate matter of less than      64.32017 • p
NMeoorntaaltitayl  rmatoer,t ualnitdye rra-t5e ( (ppeerr 1 1,0,00000 l ilvivee b birirtthhss))      2422..2922001188 •• LD Ac2c.5e sms itcor oimnsp irno vdeiadm weatteerr ( sPoMu2rc.5e),  (pμipg/emd 3(%) of urban population)    58.92017 • p
Incidence of tuberculosis (per 100,000 population)   220.72018 • 5 Satisfaction with public transport (%)    68.72019 • L
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population)    0.32018 • L SDG12 – Responsible Consumption and Production                 
Municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)    1.02016 • •
Agdeia-bsteatneds,a ordr iczherdo ndieca rtehs prairtaet dourye d tois ecaasred iionv aadscuultlsa ra dgiesde a3s0e–, c7a0n yceear,r s (%)    23.12016 • 5 Electronic waste (kg/capita)    2.12016 • •
Agame-bstiaenndt aarird pizoeldlu dtieoant h(p reart e1 0at0t,r0ib0u0 tpaobpleu tloat hioonu)sehold air pollution and    1672016 • • PSOro2d eumctiisosnio-bnas seemd bSoOd2i eedm iinss iimonpso (rktgs /(ckgap/citaap)ita)       80..3622001122 •• ••
Traffic deaths (per 100,000 population)    19.82016 • p Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita)    13.72010 • •
Life expectancy at birth (years)    68.02016 • 5 Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)    0.62010 • •
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19)   40.42017 • L SDG13 – Climate Action               
Births attended by skilled health personnel (%)    76.72016 • • Energy-related CO2 emissions (tCO2/capita)    1.42017 • L
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%)   832018 • L CO2 emissions embodied in imports (tCO2/capita)    0.12015 • L
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best)   54.82017 • D CO2 emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita)   332.02019 • •
Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best)    4.52019 • p
SDG14 – Life Below Water                 
SDG4 – Quality Education                Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)    38.62018 • 5
Net primary enrollment rate (%)    88.12018 • 5 Ocean Health Index: Clean Waters score (worst 0–100 best)    39.12019 • 5
Lower secondary completion rate (%)    77.22018 • 5 Fish caught from overexploited or collapsed stocks (% of total catch)    17.62014 • L
Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24)    89.72018 • • Fish caught by trawling (%)    20.42014 • p
SDG5 – Gender Equality                    Marine biodiversity threats embodied in imports (per million population)    0.02018 • •
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods (% of females    64.22017 • D SDG15 – Life on Land               
aged 15 to 49 who are married or in unions) Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%)   35.12018 • 5
Ratio of female-to-male mean years of education received (%)    70.32018 • p Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%)   27.52018 • 5
Ratio of female-to-male labor force participation rate (%)    47.52019 • 5 Red List Index of species survival (worst 0–1 best)    0.82019 • p
Seats held by women in national parliament (%)    17.42020 • 5 Permanent deforestation (% of forest area, 5-year average)    0.32018 • •
SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation               
Population using at least basic drinking water services (%)    88.52017 • D Te(rpreers tmriailll iaonnd p forepsuhlwataiotenr) biodiversity threats embodied in imports      0.12018 • •
Population using at least basic sanitation services (%)    60.82017 • D SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions               
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available freshwater resources)    52.12015 • • Homicides (per 100,000 population)    4.02017 • •
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%)    3.02018 • • Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population)    55.32018 • p
Scarce water consumption embodied in imports (m3/capita)    2.12013 • L Percentage of population who feel safe walking alone at night in the      67.52019 • 5
SDG7 – Affordable and Clean Energy                city or area where they live (%)
Population with access to electricity (%)    85.92017 • L Property Rights (worst 1–7 best)    4.32019 • •
Population with access to clean fuels and technology for cooking (%)    42.62016 • 5 Birth registrations with civil authority (% of children under age 5)    73.32018 • •
COto2t aelm eilsesciotrnicsi tfyro omut fpuuetl  (cMomtCbOu2s/tTioWnh f)or electricity and heating per      1.62017 • D CCohrilrdurpetnio innv Poelvrceedp itnio cnh Iinldd leaxb (owr o(%rs to 0f –p1o0p0u blaetsiot)n aged 5 to 14)      133.6222001196 •• 5•
5
SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth                Exports of major conventional weapons (TIV constant million USD      0.02019 • • . C
Adjusted GDP growth (%)    -0.52018 • • per 100,000 population) ou
Victims of modern slavery (per 1,000 population)    6.02018 • • Press Freedom Index (best 0–100 worst)    44.82019 • p ntr
y
Admuoltbsi lwe-itmh oanne ayc-cseoruvnicte a tp aro bvaidnekr  o(%r o othf epro fpinualantcioianl  iangsteidtu 1ti5o no ro or vwerit)h a     57.42017 • L SGoDvGer1nm7 e–n tP sapretnndeinrgs ohni phse aflothr a tnhde e dGuocaatliosn (% of GDP)      4 . 8201  6 •   p    Prof
Unemployment rate (% of total labor force)    5.52019 • 5 For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional    NA NA • • iles
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population)   0.12010 • L public finance, including official development assistance (% of GNI)
Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP)    14.32018 • 5
Corporate Tax Haven Score (best 0–100 worst)    1.42019 • •
* Imputed data point
505
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
UPPER-MIDDLE-INCOME COUNTRIES
OVERALL PERFORMANCE
SDG SDG
17 1
SDG 100 SDG
16 2
75
Regional average score SDG SDG
15 50 3
25
SDG
SDG 4
14
73.2 Upper-middle-
SDG income countries SDG
13 5
SDG
12 SDG
6
SDG Global rank NA (OF 166)
SDG
11 SDG
7
SDG SDG
10 SDG 8
9
SPILLOVER INDEX AVERAGE PERFORMANCE BY SDG
100 (best) to 0 (worst)
100
80
60
40
20
0
CURRENT ASSESSMENT – SDG DASHBOARD
  Major challenges           Significant challenges          Challenges remain          SDG achieved          Information unavailable
SDG TRENDS
L D D D D L D D D
• D • D 5 p D p
p  Decreasing       5  Stagnating       D  Moderately improving       L  On track or maintaining SDG achievement       •  Information unavailable
Notes: The full title of Goal 2 “Zero Hunger” is “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”.    
  The full title of each SDG is available here: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabledevelopmentgoals
506
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
UPPER-MIDDLE-INCOME COUNTRIES
Performance by Indicator
SDG1 – No Poverty    Val u e Yea  rRa t ingTr e nd SDG9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure    Val u e Ye a rRa t ingTr e nd
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%)    1.82020 • L Population using the internet (%)    60.52018 • L
Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%)    5.22020 • L Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population)    85.12018 • L
SDG2 – Zero Hunger                Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related     3.32018 • L
Prevalence of undernourishment (%)    7.22017 • L infrastructure (worst 1–5 best)
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%)    10.02016 • D The Times Higher Education Universities Ranking: Average score of top 3    55.72020 • •
PPrreevvaalleennccee  ooff  wobaesstiintyg,  BinM cIh ≥il d3r0e n(% u nodf aedr u5 lyt epaorps uolfa atigoen )(%)      124..4522001166 •• Lp Scuiennivteifrisci taiensd ( tweochrsnt i0ca–l1 j0o0u rbneaslt a)rticles (per 1,000 population)    0.32018 • D
Human Trophic Level (best 2–3 worst)    2.22017 • 5 Expenditure on research and development (% of GDP)    1.52017 • •
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land)    4.92017 • L SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities               
Sustainable Nitrogen Management Index (best 0–1.41 worst)    0.72015 • 5 Gini coefficient adjusted for top income    44.72017 • •
SDG3 – Good Health and Well-Being                SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities               
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)     392017 • L Annual mean concentration of particulate matter of less than      38.92017 • D
2.5 microns in diameter (PM2.5) (μg/m3)
NMeoorntaaltitayl  rmatoer,t ualnitdye rra-t5e ( (ppeerr 1 1,0,00000 l ilvivee b birirtthhss))      151..9422001188 •• LL Access to improved water source, piped (% of urban population)    93.42017 • D
Incidence of tuberculosis (per 100,000 population)    66.22018 • D Satisfaction with public transport (%)    69.02019 • L
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population)    0.52018 • L SDG12 – Responsible Consumption and Production                 
Municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)    1.02016 • •
Agdeia-bsteatneds,a ordr iczherdo ndieca rtehs prairtaet dourye d tois ecaasred iionv aadscuultlsa ra dgiesde a3s0e–, c7a0n yceear,r s (%)    17.52016 • L Electronic waste (kg/capita)    6.32016 • •
Agame-bstiaenndt aarird pizoeldlu dtieoant h(p reart e1 0at0t,r0ib0u0 tpaobpleu tloat hioonu)sehold air pollution and    832016 • • PSOro2d eumctiisosnio-bnas seemd bSoOd2i eedm iinss iimonpso (rktgs /(ckgap/citaap)ita)       281..6522001122 •• ••
Traffic deaths (per 100,000 population)    18.62016 • D Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita)    26.22010 • •
Life expectancy at birth (years)    75.42016 • D Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)    1.52010 • •
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19)   26.12017 • L SDG13 – Climate Action               
Births attended by skilled health personnel (%)    98.52016 • • Energy-related CO2 emissions (tCO2/capita)    5.92017 • 5
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%)   942018 • L CO2 emissions embodied in imports (tCO2/capita)    0.32015 • L
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best)   76.72017 • L CO2 emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita)   460.52019 • •
Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best)    5.42019 • p
SDG14 – Life Below Water                 
SDG4 – Quality Education                Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)    34.42018 • 5
Net primary enrollment rate (%)    95.42018 • D Ocean Health Index: Clean Waters score (worst 0–100 best)    46.42019 • 5
Lower secondary completion rate (%)    92.72018 • L Fish caught from overexploited or collapsed stocks (% of total catch)    22.52014 • L
Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24)    99.22018 • • Fish caught by trawling (%)    44.82014 • p
SDG5 – Gender Equality                    Marine biodiversity threats embodied in imports (per million population)    0.12018 • •
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods (% of females    86.22017 • L SDG15 – Life on Land               
aged 15 to 49 who are married or in unions) Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%)   36.92018 • 5
Ratio of female-to-male mean years of education received (%)    93.52018 • D Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%)   32.62018 • 5
Ratio of female-to-male labor force participation rate (%)    71.62019 • L Red List Index of species survival (worst 0–1 best)    0.82019 • p
Seats held by women in national parliament (%)    24.32020 • 5 Permanent deforestation (% of forest area, 5-year average)    0.12018 • •
SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation               
Population using at least basic drinking water services (%)    94.72017 • L Te(rpreers tmriailll iaonnd p forepsuhlwataiotenr) biodiversity threats embodied in imports      0.62018 • •
Population using at least basic sanitation services (%)    87.32017 • L SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions               
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available freshwater resources)    38.32015 • • Homicides (per 100,000 population)    7.42017 • 5
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%)    15.92018 • • Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population)    29.62018 • L
Scarce water consumption embodied in imports (m3/capita)    5.82013 • L Percentage of population who feel safe walking alone at night in the      70.42019 • L
SDG7 – Affordable and Clean Energy                city or area where they live (%)
Population with access to electricity (%)    99.42017 • L Property Rights (worst 1–7 best)    4.32019 • •
Population with access to clean fuels and technology for cooking (%)    72.82016 • D Birth registrations with civil authority (% of children under age 5)    96.52018 • •
COto2t aelm eilsesciotrnicsi tfyro omut fpuuetl  (cMomtCbOu2s/tTioWnh f)or electricity and heating per      2.22017 • L CCohrilrdurpetnio innv Poelvrceedp itnio cnh Iinldd leaxb (owr o(%rs to 0f –p1o0p0u blaetsiot)n aged 5 to 14)      83.8322001196 •• 5•
5
SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth                Exports of major conventional weapons (TIV constant million USD      0.32019 • • . C
Adjusted GDP growth (%)    0.42018 • • per 100,000 population) ou
Victims of modern slavery (per 1,000 population)    3.72018 • • Press Freedom Index (best 0–100 worst)    61.82019 • 5 ntr
y
Admuoltbsi lwe-itmh oanne ayc-cseoruvnicte a tp aro bvaidnekr  o(%r o othf epro fpinualantcioianl  iangsteidtu 1ti5o no ro or vwerit)h a     72.12017 • L SGoDvGer1nm7 e–n tP sapretnndeinrgs ohni phse aflothr a tnhde e dGuocaatliosn (% of GDP)      8 . 1201  6 •   •    Prof
Unemployment rate (% of total labor force)    6.52019 • 5 For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional    NA NA • • iles
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population)   0.22010 • L public finance, including official development assistance (% of GNI)
Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP)    19.92018 • p
Corporate Tax Haven Score (best 0–100 worst)    32.72019 • •
* Imputed data point
507
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
HIGH-INCOME COUNTRIES 
OVERALL PERFORMANCE
SDG SDG
17 1
SDG 100 SDG
16 2
75
Regional average score SDG SDG
15 50 3
25
SDG
SDG 4
14
77.7 High-income 
1SD3G Countries S5DG
SDG
12 SDG
6
SDG Global rank NA (OF 166)
SDG
11 SDG
7
SDG SDG
10 SDG 8
9
SPILLOVER INDEX AVERAGE PERFORMANCE BY SDG
100 (best) to 0 (worst)
100
80
60
40
20
0
CURRENT ASSESSMENT – SDG DASHBOARD
  Major challenges           Significant challenges          Challenges remain          SDG achieved          Information unavailable
SDG TRENDS
L D L L D D D L L
• D • 5 5 D D D
p  Decreasing       5  Stagnating       D  Moderately improving       L  On track or maintaining SDG achievement       •  Information unavailable
Notes: The full title of Goal 2 “Zero Hunger” is “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture”.    
  The full title of each SDG is available here: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabledevelopmentgoals
508
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
HIGH-INCOME COUNTRIES  
Performance by Indicator
SDG1 – No Poverty    Val u e Yea  rRa t ingTr e nd SDG9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure    Val u e Ye a rRa t ingTr e nd
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90/day (%)    0.52020 • L Population using the internet (%)    87.42018 • L
Poverty headcount ratio at $3.20/day (%)    0.72020 • L Mobile broadband subscriptions (per 100 population)   124.22018 • L
SDG2 – Zero Hunger                Logistics Performance Index: Quality of trade and transport-related     3.92018 • L
Prevalence of undernourishment (%)    2.72017 • L infrastructure (worst 1–5 best)
Prevalence of stunting in children under 5 years of age (%)    3.22016 • L The Times Higher Education Universities Ranking: Average score of top 3    70.02020 • •
PPHrrueemvvaaalleennn Tccreeo  poohff  iwocb aLesestviinetylg ,(  BbinMe csIth ≥ 2il d–3r30e  wn(% ou rnosdft )aedr u5 lyt epaorps uolfa atigoen )(%)        2124...348222000111667 ••• Lpp SExcupieneninvtdeifiritscui rtaeien osdn ( t wreeocshersantr ic0cha– la1 nj0od0u  drbneeavselt la)orptimcleens t( (p%e ro 1f ,G0D0P0) population)      12..2322001187 •• LL
Cereal yield (tonnes per hectare of harvested land)    6.72017 • L SDG10 – Reduced Inequalities               
Sustainable Nitrogen Management Index (best 0–1.41 worst)    0.52015 • 5 Gini coefficient adjusted for top income    39.02017 • •
SDG3 – Good Health and Well-Being                SDG11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities               
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)     102017 • L Annual mean concentration of particulate matter of less than      14.62017 • 5
2.5 microns in diameter (PM2.5) (μg/m3)
NMInecooirdntaealntitacyle  rm oatfoe tr,ut uablnietdryce rura-lto5e s( i(psp e(eprr e1 1r,0, 01000000 l ,il0viv0ee0 b  bpiriortthphsus)l)ation)        1240...677222000111888 ••• LLL ASactciesfsasc ttoio inm wpritohv epdu bwliact etrra snosuprocret,  (p%ip)ed (% of urban population)      9683..7122001179 •• 5L
New HIV infections (per 1,000 uninfected population)    0.12018 • L SDG12 – Responsible Consumption and Production                 
Municipal solid waste (kg/capita/day)    1.92016 • •
Agdeia-bsteatneds,a ordr iczherdo ndieca rtehs prairtaet dourye d tois ecaasred iionv aadscuultlsa ra dgiesde a3s0e–, c7a0n yceear,r s (%)    12.22016 • L Electronic waste (kg/capita)    18.92016 • •
Agame-bstiaenndt aarird pizoeldlu dtieoant h(p reart e1 0at0t,r0ib0u0 tpaobpleu tloat hioonu)sehold air pollution and    182016 • • PSOro2d eumctiisosnio-bnas seemd bSoOd2i eedm iinss iimonpso (rktgs /(ckgap/citaap)ita)       5142..6022001122 •• ••
Traffic deaths (per 100,000 population)    8.42016 • L Production-based nitrogen emissions (kg/capita)    44.42010 • •
Life expectancy at birth (years)    80.72016 • L Nitrogen emissions embodied in imports (kg/capita)    11.42010 • •
Adolescent fertility rate (births per 1,000 adolescent females aged 15 to 19)   11.82017 • L SDG13 – Climate Action               
Births attended by skilled health personnel (%)    99.12016 • L Energy-related CO2 emissions (tCO2/capita)    10.52017 • 5
Percentage of surviving infants who received 2 WHO-recommended vaccines (%)   942018 • L CO2 emissions embodied in imports (tCO2/capita)    2.02015 • 5
Universal health coverage (UHC) index of service coverage (worst 0–100 best)   82.32017 • L CO2 emissions embodied in fossil fuel exports (kg/capita)   1980.32019 • •
Subjective well-being (average ladder score, worst 0–10 best)    6.72019 • L
SDG14 – Life Below Water                 
SDG4 – Quality Education                Mean area that is protected in marine sites important to biodiversity (%)    65.12018 • L
Net primary enrollment rate (%)    98.72018 • L Ocean Health Index: Clean Waters score (worst 0–100 best)    62.52019 • p
Lower secondary completion rate (%)    99.02018 • L Fish caught from overexploited or collapsed stocks (% of total catch)    38.82014 • 5
Literacy rate (% of population aged 15 to 24)    99.52018 • • Fish caught by trawling (%)    44.32014 • p
SDG5 – Gender Equality                    Marine biodiversity threats embodied in imports (per million population)    0.52018 • •
Demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods (% of females    77.12017 • D SDG15 – Life on Land               
aged 15 to 49 who are married or in unions) Mean area that is protected in terrestrial sites important to biodiversity (%)   59.82018 • L
Ratio of female-to-male mean years of education received (%)    98.92018 • L Mean area that is protected in freshwater sites important to biodiversity (%)   56.52018 • L
Ratio of female-to-male labor force participation rate (%)    78.02019 • L Red List Index of species survival (worst 0–1 best)    0.92019 • 5
Seats held by women in national parliament (%)    26.92020 • D Permanent deforestation (% of forest area, 5-year average)    0.02018 • •
SDG6 – Clean Water and Sanitation               
Population using at least basic drinking water services (%)    99.52017 • • Te(rpreers tmriailll iaonnd p forepsuhlwataiotenr) biodiversity threats embodied in imports      3.82018 • •
Population using at least basic sanitation services (%)    99.42017 • • SDG16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions               
Freshwater withdrawal (% of available freshwater resources)    80.52015 • • Homicides (per 100,000 population)    2.32017 • 5
Anthropogenic wastewater that receives treatment (%)    71.52018 • • Unsentenced detainees (% of prison population)    23.02018 • L
Scarce water consumption embodied in imports (m3/capita)    29.12013 • D Percentage of population who feel safe walking alone at night in the      74.12019 • L
SDG7 – Affordable and Clean Energy                city or area where they live (%)
Population with access to electricity (%)   100.02017 • L Property Rights (worst 1–7 best)    5.42019 • •
Population with access to clean fuels and technology for cooking (%)    99.42016 • L Birth registrations with civil authority (% of children under age 5)   100.02018 • •
COto2t aelm eilsesciotrnicsi tfyro omut fpuuetl  (cMomtCbOu2s/tTioWnh f)or electricity and heating per      1.22017 • D CCohrilrdurpetnio innv Poelvrceedp itnio cnh Iinldd leaxb (owr o(%rs to 0f –p1o0p0u blaetsiot)n aged 5 to 14)      06.8222001196 •• L•
5
SDG8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth                Exports of major conventional weapons (TIV constant million USD      1.82019 • • . C
Adjusted GDP growth (%)    -0.42018 • • per 100,000 population) ou
Victims of modern slavery (per 1,000 population)    1.72018 • • Press Freedom Index (best 0–100 worst)    24.82019 • L ntr
y
Admuoltbsi lwe-itmh oanne ayc-cseoruvnicte a tp aro bvaidnekr  o(%r o othf epro fpinualantcioianl  iangsteidtu 1ti5o no ro or vwerit)h a     93.22017 • L SGoDvGer1nm7 e–n tP sapretnndeinrgs ohni phse aflothr a tnhde e dGuocaatliosn (% of GDP)      12 . 6201  6 •   L    Prof
Unemployment rate (% of total labor force)    4.92019 • • For high-income and all OECD DAC countries: International concessional    0.32017 • 5 iles
Fatal work-related accidents embodied in imports (per 100,000 population)   1.52010 • L public finance, including official development assistance (% of GNI)
Other countries: Government revenue excluding grants (% of GDP)    NA NA • •
Corporate Tax Haven Score (best 0–100 worst)    39.32019 • •
* Imputed data point
509
Sustainable Development Report 2020       The Sustainable Development Goals and Covid-19 
v
Like to learn more?
SDG Index and Dashboards Reports
https://sustainabledevelopment.report
Global editions
v
S&D DGA ISNHDBEOXARDS IGnStDelrGon aIbntidoaneaxll   asRnpdilel oDvsaesrpsh biono aancrhdsise viRibnegpi olthirtte  2ige0o1as7ls GRGRSSSSDDDDGGGGEE    IIIILLNNNNDDDDEEEESSOOXXXX    AAAAPPNNNNDDDDBB    OODDDDAAAAAASSSSHHHHBBBBNNOOOOLLAAAARRRR  SSDDDDSSSS    RRRRIIEEEEBBPPPPOOOORRRRTTTTII    2222LL000011118888IITTIIEESS
A GLOBAL REPORT JULY 2016  IIMMPPLLEEMMEENNTTIINNGG  TTHHEE  GGOOAALLSS
Sustainable Development Goals: 
Are the rich countries ready? 
with a foCrehwrisotridan b Ky rKoollf i Annan
Regional editions
(cid:31)(cid:30)(cid:29)(cid:28)(cid:27)(cid:26)(cid:25)(cid:24)(cid:23)(cid:22)(cid:26)(cid:27)(cid:21)(cid:25)(cid:21)(cid:20)(cid:19)(cid:18)(cid:17)(cid:19)(cid:16)(cid:15)(cid:26)(cid:27)
2019 ARAB REGION SDG INDEX AND DASHBOARDS REPORT SDAADSGHB IORNADRDESX RA EAPNORDTB20 R19 EGION  (cid:14)TDIannocedlwuv (cid:26)mdeaeelrsom(cid:13)d tpbhseme (cid:26)r a Sse Dtsna(cid:15)Gttter  aIsG(cid:23)ntdeoegax(cid:22) ylasn  fd(cid:12)ion Dr  taahs(cid:26)chebh oEi(cid:17)eaurvdrios(cid:20)n pfgoer (cid:27) tat(cid:24)hhnee   EU(cid:26)Sunuroi(cid:22)spotenaa(cid:23)inn Uanb(cid:24)iolen  (cid:20)
Subnational editions
LITWJSeSHitsUheEs Eci  co2Uan0at .1rES8ibs.up vtCeioIynT,s iH IfEnraoSmy d SJgeoUnh nSD  BTaiAbNhemIrNmmaA noaB, nYLdinE  gL xaDUiunE rYieVe, . EMGSLaarOny dVP.eeMrr binuECorNg, Tan idG tJOuyaAn LP Suy BaINnaDeEX hind MLIInnoféossIr R SmOáAenb cuNjherbetDzai vndOooe  |sM  P HdaridmeAa erDCiraaegI esAada, iJ rcEarivóoLinel  lrF2o G0U 1aSr8ocTísaUt LeóRnpOeibz l:ye  CR eaIffnUa e1Dl0e A0Si scDtiouEdSa dSeOs SesTpEaNñoIBlaLsES RNoveempbreo 20r1t8 Italia SDRU20UEEN1PVSI8TOETELARDOTIN P SOAMTFABE TTLNHEETS E    
Per un’Italia sostenibile:
l’SDSN Italia SDGs City 
Index 2018
LLuacuara F Caarnviaal,l iF, oFnodnadzaizoinoen eE Enin Ei Enrnircioc oM Matattetiei
June 2018
Explore our data vizualisation tool!
https://dashboards.sdgindex.org
THIS IS AN AUTHORS’ MANUSCRIPT TO BE PUBLISHED BY CAMBRIDGE UNIVERSITY PRESS