
Sustainable Investing
E SG
2020 ANNUAL REPORT  
Environment, Social, and Governance (ESG) Annual Report.  
Issued May 2021.
Foreword 2020   Our ESG Investing  ESG Integration   Focus Themes   Corporate  Proxy Voting  Collaborations  Resources
in Review Approach  in Action Engagement 
Embedding ESG and sustainability 
principles throughout our investment 
process, as well as our business 
more broadly, is central to achieving 
T. Rowe Price’s core aim of being 
admirable stewards of client and 
stockholder capital. Indeed, the 
desire to act responsibly and bring 
about change should drive every 
organization, just as it does ours.
Bill Stromberg,   
CEO, T. Rowe Price
Foreword 2020   Our ESG Investing  ESG Integration   Focus Themes   Corporate  Proxy Voting  Collaborations  Resources
in Review Approach  in Action Engagement 
03  Foreword
04  2020 in Review  
  Responsible Investing
  Governance 
06  Our ESG Investing Approach
  ESG Integration
  Aligning to Global ESG Frameworks
  Principles for Responsible Investment
  ESG Accountability
1  4  ESG Integration in Action 
  ESG Integration in Action—Research Examples
  ESG Integration in Action—Portfolio Management  
24  Focus Themes 
  Why 2021 Could Be an Epic Year for Climate Regulation 
  Evaluating ESG-Labeled Bonds 
  Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion in the Spotlight 
  ESG and Public Policy—Navigating Interlinked Crises
32  Corporate Engagement 
  2020 Engagement Activity
  A Step-Change in Corporate Attitudes to Disclosure
36  Proxy Voting 
  2020 Proxy Voting Activity 
  Shareholder Proposals in Focus
40  Collaborations 
  Collaborative Engagement and Industry Leadership  
42  Resources 
  ESG Team 
  ESG Committee
   
| 01
Foreword 2020   Our ESG Investing  ESG Integration   Focus Themes   Corporate  Proxy Voting  Collaborations  Resources
in Review Approach  in Action Engagement 
OUR ESG 
JOURNEY
2021 Impact Strategy 
T. Rowe Price launches its first 
impact strategy
United Nations Global Compact 
T. Rowe Price becomes a signatory
RIIM Municipal Bonds   2020
RIIM Securitized Bonds 
Rollout of proprietary ESG rating 
system for municipal bonds and 
securitized bonds
Socially Responsible Strategies 
2019 RIIM Sovereigns
The firm launches its first socially 
The firm rolls out proprietary 
responsible strategies in Europe
ESG rating system for sovereigns
ESG Reporting
Implemented portfolio level  
ESG reporting
2018 RIIM Corporates
TCFD Sponsor Proprietary ESG rating system 
Commenced sponsorship of the  for equity and credit rolled out
Task Force on Climate-related 
Financial Disclosures
2017 Responsible Investing
Established in-house responsible 
investing research capabilities 
(environmental and social)
Sustainalytics 2014
Sustainalytics ESG ratings  
are embedded in company  
note templates 
2013 “E” and “S” Research
Sustainalytics appointed as 
specialized ESG data and 
research provider
CSR Report 2012
First Corporate Social 
Responsibility Report issued
2010 PRI1
T. Rowe Price becomes 
signatory to the Principles  
for Responsible Investment
Corporate Responsibility 2008
Investment policy on corporate 
responsibility established
2007 Governance
Established in-house governance 
research capabilities
RIIM = Responsible Investing Indicator Model
1 Principles for Responsible Investment. The PRI is an 
independent investor initiative supported by, but not 
   
part of, the United Nations. | 02
Foreword 2020   Our ESG Investing  ESG Integration   Focus Themes   Corporate  Proxy Voting  Collaborations  Resources
in Review Approach  in Action Engagement 
Foreword
The year 2020 was another dynamic one on the environmental, social, and governance 
(ESG) front for T. Rowe Price. Continued expansion of our ESG investment 
capabilities and a focus on improving ESG data integrity were principal objectives.
We expanded the teams dedicated to ESG analysis and the technology team that 
supports them. These investments support the entire research platform, allowing 
our portfolio managers and analysts to more easily integrate ESG factors to enhance 
investment decisions. They also facilitated the launch of new products that carry 
ESG objectives—in January 2020, we launched our socially responsible product 
range for European clients, which excludes certain types of investments, and we 
launched our first impact strategy in March 2021.
ROB SHARPS
Head of Investments and 
The rapid rise in the adoption of ESG—to try to enhance performance, pursue 
Group Chief Investment 
sustainable objectives, or both—has added to confusion in the industry on a number  Officer
of fronts. It has contributed to greenwashing, or misleading communications, by 
some corporates in their ESG disclosures and by some asset managers in their 
product offerings. To help address this, T. Rowe Price is an active participant in 
efforts with regulators around the world to help develop useful ESG disclosure 
guidance for the industry. We are also committed to providing clarity on our own 
strategies’ investment objectives and their ESG characteristics.
In 2020, regulators stepped in to help fill the ESG disclosure void in the industry. We 
welcome more comprehensive and clearer ESG regulation; however, we are concerned 
about a lack of global alignment. If each country takes a unique approach to ESG 
regulation, ESG disclosure requirements for asset managers can become misaligned 
with those required of the underlying securities in their portfolios. Uneven disclosure 
levels can ultimately distort the picture of a portfolio’s ESG characteristics for clients.
As the industry has moved faster than disclosure regulations, companies have 
struggled with what and how to disclose. Our message to investee companies is clear:
§ Report annually on ESG factors that have the most material impacts on the health 
of the business; ideally report alongside financial data, explaining the impacts.
§ For reporting standards, use the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB)  
and Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD).
§ Report data on diversity of the employee population and greenhouse gas 
emissions (including material scope 3 emissions).
Inadequate ESG disclosure does not automatically disqualify a company from  
our investment universe, but it makes it difficult to assess how they are positioned  
to handle environmental and social pressures—which are more financially material  
as the world grapples with the challenges of climate change and inequality.  
We remain committed to working with our investee companies to improve the 
quality and quantity of ESG data for our research and analysis, helping to pursue 
better long-term investment decision-making for our clients.
   
| 03
Foreword 2020   Our ESG Investing  ESG Integration   Focus Themes   Corporate  Proxy Voting  Collaborations  Resources
in Review Approach  in Action Engagement 
2020 IN REVIEW
Responsible Investing
Last year, I wrote my annual report letter working from home, practicing social 
distancing—a year later, I am sitting in the same place, but the global ESG 
landscape feels radically different. The coronavirus pandemic has been a high-impact 
event that has compelled world leaders and society in general to understand how 
intertwined economic outcomes are with the prosperity of the planet and the 
people on it. In many areas, the pandemic has served to accelerate existing 
environmental and social trends. It has moved consumers online at a rapid pace, 
forced companies to reexamine their supply chains, prompted government  
stimulus programs in green infrastructure, and exposed the depth of social inequality  
in the world today. 
MARIA ELENA DREW
ESG investing has had a remarkable rise over the past decade. Its critics have often  
Director of Research, 
placed it at odds with financial objectives, so it is interesting that the onset of one   Responsible Investing
of the most economically disruptive events in recent history has acted as a new  
catalyst for considering environmental, social and governance factors in the 
investment process.
While ESG investing has been around for a long time, the datasets that underpin it 
remain relatively nascent. We have seen a dramatic improvement in ESG disclosure 
levels from corporations (albeit from low levels), but the investment industry is 
introducing new analytical tools and product offerings at a quick pace. Disclosure 
standards need to keep up. A deficit of good ESG data has meant that our 
engagement program has featured a substantial focus on pushing companies to 
improve their disclosure. Thankfully, the tone of these engagements changed in 
2020; we discuss this further on page 34 of this report. 
The confusion corporations have around ESG disclosure is slowing the pace  The pandemic 
of improvements in this area. It also hampers the ability to advance onto next- 
has compelled 
generation analytical tools such as those that measure the implied temperature rise  
world leaders and 
of portfolios (due to the activities of underlying holdings) or climate scenario analysis.  
society in general 
In 2020, we made further progress on improving our ESG research platform. We 
to understand 
created frameworks within our proprietary Responsible Investing Indicator Model 
(RIIM) that cover municipal and securitized bond issuers. These complement our  how intertwined 
existing RIIM frameworks for corporate and sovereign issuers. Additionally, we  economic outcomes 
developed an impact investment framework, which supports our first impact strategy 
are with the 
launched in March 2021, and created a framework for analyzing green, social, and 
prosperity of the 
sustainability-linked bonds. Lastly, we continued to bolster the number of investment 
professionals and technology resources dedicated to ESG.  planet.
As we progress into 2021, we believe these enhancements can help our investment 
professionals address the ESG risks and opportunities in their portfolios that the 
pandemic has propelled into the spotlight more than ever before.
   
| 04
Foreword 2020   Our ESG Investing  ESG Integration   Focus Themes   Corporate  Proxy Voting  Collaborations  Resources
in Review Approach  in Action Engagement 
Governance
One year ago, as we were composing our 2019 ESG Annual Report, we were in the 
midst of global market upheaval caused by the coronavirus pandemic. At that time, 
we predicted:  
Companies’ previous statements about their management of human capital,  
health and safety, community involvement, and the overall importance of 
stakeholders to their businesses will be assessed in a whole new context  
by investors and other stakeholders, and we predict these topics will quickly 
become central to the engagement that takes place between investors  
and corporations. 
Looking back now, it is precisely these themes that emerged as some of the most  DONNA ANDERSON
Head of Corporate 
significant in our portfolios, albeit with one very important addition: diversity, equity, 
Governance
and inclusion (DEI).  
Our long-standing focus on DEI was amplified following the global wave of 
protests and activism against systemic racial inequality. For many companies in our 
portfolios, it was a moment when diversity and inclusion suddenly rose to the top 
of managements’ priority lists due to a strong mandate from their employees to 
accelerate the pace of progress. Other companies already had strong DEI programs 
in place, but felt it was important to focus externally at that moment and address 
Our long-standing 
economic inequality in their communities. We observed a continuum of corporate 
focus on DEI was 
responses to the social outcry, and a deeper discussion of these is included in this 
report on page 28.  amplified following 
the global wave  
Resilience was the core concept underlying most of our engagement discussions  
in 2020. The global pandemic affected all companies, but in very different ways.   of protests and 
For some, it had a devastating effect on their revenues for that fiscal year and beyond.  
activism against 
Others discovered their business models were highly adaptable to the challenges 
systemic racial 
before them. A select few even found that their businesses benefited from the 
sudden upheaval, such as companies that facilitate remote working, learning, or  inequality.
shopping. Most companies, however, found themselves somewhere in between—
struggling during the transition in the second quarter of last year, but showing 
remarkable recoveries as the second half of 2020 wore on.  
As investment professionals, we found ourselves consistently impressed by the 
flexibility and resourcefulness displayed by many companies over the past year, 
their concern for the welfare of their employees, and their resolve to balance the 
interests of multiple stakeholders—executives, employees, investors, customers,  
and communities— during both the crisis and recovery periods. This intense, and 
insight-rich, period of engagement was our team’s top priority in 2020.
   
| 05
Foreword 2020   Our ESG Investing  ESG Integration   Focus Themes   Corporate  Proxy Voting  Collaborations  Resources
in Review Approach  in Action Engagement 
OUR ESG INVESTING APPROACH
ESG Integration
Environmental, social, and governance (ESG) analysis is one of many building blocks  
that make up our global investment research platform. We have invested in people  
and technology to develop a comprehensive, systematic, and proactive process for  
evaluating and integrating ESG factors across a range of asset classes. Our ESG  
integration philosophy is based on the following principles: 
INTEGRATION COLLABORATION MATERIALITY
            
We have embedded environmental,  To support our investment  We focus on the ESG factors we 
social, and governance analysis into  professionals’ capacity to  consider most likely to have a 
the investment process, meaning   incorporate ESG factors into  material impact on the performance 
the responsibility for integrating ESG  their decision-making, we have  of the investments in our clients’ 
factors into investment decisions  ESG and public policy research  portfolios.
lies with our analysts and portfolio  specialists within our investment 
managers. teams. These specialists create 
and maintain proprietary ESG tools 
as well as provide security-specific 
and thematic research. Our ESG 
specialists also work closely with 
our analysts and portfolio managers 
to delve into situations where ESG 
issues are particularly significant.
ESG Specialist Teams A Proprietary Model for ESG Analysis
We have a team of 17 investment professionals1  Environmental, social, and governance factors are  
dedicated to environmental, social, and governance  not as straightforward to integrate into the investment 
research who support our analysts and portfolio  process as financial data, given their often qualitative 
managers. These ESG specialists are spread across  nature. Environmental and social data present an 
three teams—governance, regulatory research, and  additional challenge due to the under-developed 
responsible investing (RI). Together, they help our  nature of the dataset. 
analysts and portfolio managers identify, analyze,  
In order to address these issues, we have developed 
and integrate the ESG factors most likely to have  
our own proprietary framework to help our portfolio 
a material impact on an investment’s performance.
managers and analysts more easily integrate ESG 
Our ESG specialist teams are further supported by an  factors into their investment process. The framework 
operations team focused on proxy voting execution and  has been built so that it can easily evolve to incorporate 
a technology team focused on ESG data integration.     improvements in ESG datasets.
1 As of April 30, 2021
   
| 06
Foreword 2020   Our ESG Investing  ESG Integration   Focus Themes   Corporate  Proxy Voting  Collaborations  Resources
in Review Approach  in Action Engagement 
Our framework is called the Responsible Investing  We have developed RIIM frameworks across asset 
Indicator Model (RIIM). It offers two key advantages   classes covering equities and corporate bonds, 
in that it: sovereign bonds, municipal bonds, and securitized 
bonds. 
1. Proactively searches large universes of ESG data 
and presents an easy-to-digest profile of a specific  The RIIM frameworks are unique for each asset class 
security, portfolio, or benchmark; and as the level and type of data available vary across asset 
classes.
2. Gives us a systematic framework for measuring  
and comparing the ESG characteristics of individual 
securities as well as portfolios.
ESG Factors—Part of the Investment Mosaic
Corporations are a part of the fabric of society—what impacts society 
impacts corporations. Identifying how a company or issuer is  
positioned to navigate speciﬁc ESG issues will often help inform
Sovereign 
their prospects for future success.
Credit Rating 
Stakeholder
Risk
Relations  
Income 
Macro Duration Innovation Governance
Inequality
Management  Product 
Credit Spread Geopolitics Social Diversity
Quality Sustainability
Exposure 
Employee 
to Energy  Environment
Safety 
Transition
Carbon  
Footprint
For illustrative
purposes only.
   
| 07
Foreword 2020   Our ESG Investing  ESG Integration   Focus Themes   Corporate  Proxy Voting  Collaborations  Resources
in Review Approach  in Action Engagement 
RIIM Analysis Across Asset Classes
For equities, corporate bonds and sovereign bonds,  fundamental analysis on a narrower universe of 
we leverage ESG datasets and feed those directly  securities. The output of our quantitative analysis is also 
into our RIIM framework. This allows us to generate  instrumental in informing our engagement program.
a quantitative RIIM profile for approximately 15,000 
The ESG data universe for municipal and securitized 
companies and approximately 200 sovereign issuers.1
issuers is developing, but datasets are not yet identified 
This quantitative set of scores is an important starting  that reliably integrate directly into our investment 
point in our ESG evaluation process as it helps us   process. Instead, we use third-party ESG research 
quickly identify any outliers, both positive and negative.   alongside our own fundamental research to develop  
It creates a baseline of understanding of our investment  a RIIM profile for each issuer.
universe from which we delve deeper using 
1 2 3
IDENTIFICATION ANALYSIS INTEGRATION
RIIM creates a  Securities flagged in our  Analysts and portfolio 
Responsible Investing (RI)  RIIM and governance  managers incorporate 
Equities and  
profile for approximately  analysis are subject to  ESG factors (as 
Corporate Bonds 
15,000 companies using  further review, including  appropriate to their 
third-party ESG datasets,  engagement and, for  strategy) into:
company reported data  equities, proxy voting 
and datasets created  recommendations. § Investment theses
internally.
§ Company ratings
§ Price targets
RIIM creates an ESG 
profile for approximately  § Credit ratings
200 sovereign 
issuers, leveraging  § Engagements
Sovereign Bonds
datasets created by 
§ Position sizing
non-governmental 
organizations (NGOs)  § Proxy voting decisions
and third-parties as well 
as datasets created 
internally. 
Our municipal bond analysts create an ESG rating for 
issuers by evaluating specific criteria for individual 
Municipal Bonds issuers. To establish RIIM ratings, the analysts conduct 
research in-house.
Environmental and social analysis leverages geospatial 
research tools.
Our securitized bond analysts create an ESG rating for 
issuers by evaluating specific criteria for individual issuers. 
Securitized Bonds To establish RIIM ratings, the analysts conduct research 
in-house leveraging external data sources, as well as 
their own direct research.
Where there is overlap on issuers, the analysts can 
leverage RIIM scores from other asset classes.
1 As of April 30, 2021
   
| 08
Foreword 2020   Our ESG Investing  ESG Integration   Focus Themes   Corporate  Proxy Voting  Collaborations  Resources
in Review Approach  in Action Engagement 
Amazon —Illustrative Timeline  
of ESG Integration
FEBRUARY 2020
Responsible Investing team analysis
Our research provides a quantitative analysis of the firm across environmental, social, and 
ethical categories. It helps identify distinct areas, including any elevated risks, for further 
research and company engagement. 
MAY 2020
Engagement focused on employee treatment and safety
As with many of our engagements over the year, the coronavirus pandemic amplified the 
focus on employee treatment and safety issues. The engagement was conducted by an 
equity analyst and attended by portfolio managers.
SEPTEMBER 2020
Engagement on environment and employee treatment and safety
Amazon announced a very ambitious net zero carbon emissions target for 2040 (10 years 
ahead of the Paris Agreement guidance). However, limited environmental disclosure 
made it difficult to credit the firm for its targets or to monitor the management of its 
environmental impact. We requested more data on:
§  Breakdown of greenhouse gas emissions by business
§  Path to net zero 2040
§  Environmental product sustainability (i.e. efficiency of their platform versus traditional retail)
On social issues, we asked Amazon to explain how it assesses its performance relating to 
employee treatment. It pointed to several measures:
§  Employee satisfaction surveys
§ Third party hotlines where employees can report issues
§ ‘Voice of the associate’ boards for employees to post questions anonymously to 
management
WHAT’S NEXT
Ongoing research, engagement, and analysis
We view regulatory risks around anti-trust, employee treatment and use of gig-economy 
workers as key issues. We continue to monitor the company’s performance on employee 
treatment and safety and plan further engagement on the topic. Our insights inform our 
Responsible Investing Indicator Model and the ongoing analysis and decision making of 
our investment teams.
The security identified and described is intended to illustrate the ESG security evaluation process 
of T. Rowe Price investment professionals and does not necessarily represent securities purchased or 
sold by T. Rowe Price. No assumptions should be made that the security analyzed, or other securities 
analyzed, purchased or sold, was or will be profitable. This is not a recommendation to buy or sell any 
security. The views and opinions above as of April 2021 and are subject to change.
   
| 09
Foreword 2020   Our ESG Investing  ESG Integration   Focus Themes   Corporate  Proxy Voting  Collaborations  Resources
in Review Approach  in Action Engagement 
Aligning to Global ESG Frameworks
United Nations Sustainable  United Nations Global Compact
Development Goals 
T. Rowe Price is a signatory to the United Nations 
The UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) are  Global Compact (UNGC). Established in 1999, the 
a blueprint for a more sustainable world. Signatory  UNGC has 10 principles built around human rights, 
countries are expected to establish a national  labor standards, the environment, and anticorruption. 
framework for achieving each of the 17 SDGs.  In addition to capturing whether companies are 
signatories to the UNGC, RIIM measures UNGC 
While the SDGs are a tool to allow countries to  values at multiple levels:  
implement sustainability regulations, they are also 
commonly adopted as a framework for identifying  § Human Rights and Labor Standards: Management 
ESG-related pressure points that can impact  of human capital is assessed through supply chain 
corporate and other securities. Indeed, the goals  analysis for human rights violations, as well as an 
are represented across the range of factors that we  evaluation of employee treatment that looks at labor-
analyze within RIIM.  related incidents, accident rates, and other factors.  
§ Environment: This is assessed via energy use  
Companies are likely to face greater scrutiny in relation 
and emissions, water and waste outputs and targets, 
to the sustainability objectives of the SDGs over time.  
sustainable sourcing of raw materials, and end-
This could include greater regulatory burdens, taxation, 
product sustainability and impact on the environment. 
litigation, and/or consumer dissatisfaction. Conversely, 
companies that provide solutions are likely to have much   § Anticorruption: Programs in place and company 
more sustainable business models. It makes sense   track records are evaluated within the model’s 
therefore that our RIIM analysis is aligned with the SDGs.  ethics analysis. 
Sustainability Accounting Standards 
Board (SASB)
T. Rowe Price is a member of the SASB Alliance.  
We advocate for our investee companies to utilize  
the reporting framework. 
Task Force on Climate-related 
Financial Disclosures (TCFD)
T. Rowe Price is a supporter of the TCFD. We 
advocate for our investee companies to utilize  
the reporting framework.
 
Source: United Nations
The trademarks shown are the property of their respective owners.
   
| 10
Foreword 2020   Our ESG Investing  ESG Integration   Focus Themes   Corporate  Proxy Voting  Collaborations  Resources
in Review Approach  in Action Engagement 
Principles for Responsible 
Investment 
T. Rowe Price has been a signatory of the Principles of  The PRI Scorecard below provides an overview of 
Responsible Investment (PRI) since 2010, and we report  our aggregate score for each module assessed and 
to the PRI annually. We support the PRI framework as   the median score. These bands range from A+ (top 
an effective means of encouraging better dialogue  band) to E (lowest band). The PRI Assessment scoring 
among investors and better disclosure from companies  methodology is available at unpri.org. 
globally about these important issues. 
Under the PRI’s transparency requirements, all 
signatories complete an annual self-assessment. 
T. Rowe Price PRI Scorecard 2020
As of July 2020 
DIRECT AND ACTIVE OWNERSHIP MODULES
A+ A+ A+ A+ A+ A+ A+
A A
B B B B B
AUM1 >50% >50% <10% <10% <10% <10%
01 10 11 12 13 14 15
MODULE Strategy and  Listed Equity– Listed Equity– Fixed Income– Fixed Income– Fixed Income– Fixed Income–
NAME Governance Incorporation Active  SSA Corporate Corporate Securitized
Ownership Financial Nonfinancial
T. Rowe Price Score Peer Median Score
For illustrative purposes only. 
Under the PRI’s transparency requirements, all signatories complete an annual self-assessment. The PRI Summary Scorecard provides an 
overview of our aggregate score for each module assessed and the median score. These bands range from A+ (top band) to E (lowest 
band). The PRI Assessment scoring methodology is available at unpri.org.
SSA-Sovereign, Supranational and Agency
Source: PRI Assessment Report 2020, showing the applicable T. Rowe Price scores. 
1 Asset classes were aggregated to 4 ranges: 0%; <10%; 10%–50%, and >50%. 
   
| 11
Foreword 2020   Our ESG Investing  ESG Integration   Focus Themes   Corporate  Proxy Voting  Collaborations  Resources
in Review Approach  in Action Engagement 
ESG Accountability
Accountability for ESG Starts at the Top
T. Rowe Price Funds/Trusts (cid:31)
ESG Committee 
ESG Specialists 
T. Rowe Price Group Board of Directors/ provides a report 
report to the Board(cid:31)
on proxy voting, 
of Directors on an  Board of Directors Management Companies/ 
exclusion policies 
annual basis.
Investment Advisers and procedures.
ESG 
Specialist 
teams Management Committee
report into 
members  Oversees T. Rowe Price corporate (cid:31)
of the  strategy and implementation
Management 
Committee. 
Investment Steering Committees
U.S. Equity, International Equity, Fixed Income, Multi-Asset
Oversee investment activity, including T. Rowe Price investment 
products and strategies and implementation of ESG integration 
across the investment platform 
ESG Committee
Oversees ESG integration activities including framework of ESG policies, 
proxy voting, and exclusion lists 
Investment Platform
ESG Specialists  Investment Analysts  Portfolio Managers 
support analysts and  are accountable for  are accountable for 
portfolio managers in  integrating ESG factors  integrating ESG factors 
the integration of ESG  into their research  into portfolio holdings 
factors process, investment  and proxy voting as 
thesis, ratings, targets,  appropriate to their 
and engagements mandate
   
| 12
Foreword 2020   Our ESG Investing  ESG Integration   Focus Themes   Corporate  Proxy Voting  Collaborations  Resources
in Review Approach  in Action Engagement 
Last year, our Board took steps to heighten 
our focus on the company’s environmental, 
social, and governance matters. As such 
issues have become increasingly important  
to T. Rowe Price’s business, we determined 
the time was right to formalize Board oversight 
of ESG. In 2020, we amended the Nominating 
and Corporate Governance Committee’s 
charter to include oversight of these issues  
and their impact on our employees, stock-
holders, citizens, and communities.
Olympia Snowe  
Chair, Nominating and Corporate 
Governance Committee
T. ROWE PRICE GROUP BOARD OF DIRECTORS
BACK ROW FRONT ROW
Robert F. MacLellan  William J. Stromberg 
Non-Executive Chair, Northleaf  Chair and Chief Executive 
Capital Partners Officer, T. Rowe Price  
Group, Inc.
Dr. Freeman A. Hrabowski III 
President, University of  Olympia J. Snowe 
Maryland, Baltimore County Chair and Chief Executive 
Officer, Olympia Snowe, LLC
Dina Dublon 
Retired Executive Vice  Mark S. Bartlett 
President and Chief Financial  Retired Managing Partner, 
Officer, JPMorgan Chase & Co. Ernst & Young
Robert J. Stevens  Sandra S. Wijnberg 
Retired Chairman, President,  Former Partner and Chief 
and Chief Executive Officer,  Administrative Officer,  
Lockheed Martin Corporation Aquiline Holdings LLC
Mary K. Bush  Richard R. Verma  
Chairman, Bush International,  Executive Vice President, 
LLC Global Public Policy  
and Regulatory Affairs, 
Alan D. Wilson  Mastercard Inc.
Retired Executive Chairman,  
McCormick & Company, Inc. 
   
| 13
Foreword 2020   Our ESG Investing  ESG Integration   Focus Themes   Corporate  Proxy Voting  Collaborations  Resources
in Review Approach  in Action Engagement 
ESG INTEGRATION IN ACTION —RESEARCH EXAMPLES
Samsung Electronics
Clear progress across a range of environmental, social, and ethics issues. 
Technology sector equity analyst Alison Yip explains how Samsung’s 
commitment to best practices across the ESG spectrum was a feature 
in her investment analysis. 
Company Profile 
Samsung is one of the market leaders in the production of key components along  
the technology food chain, including memory, LCD panels, and logical semiconductors. 
The company is also a world leading seller of flat-screen TVs and the second-largest 
mobile handset company.
ALISON YIP  
Technology Sector Equity 
Analyst
Investment Analysis 
§ As of December 2020, Samsung held more than a 50% share of the world’s 
memory supply and has been strongly positioned within the industry due to cost 
leadership and technological innovation. 
§ The potential for increasing penetration of 5G phones and extensive data center 
buildout may drive further secular growth for memory demand.   
§ The company has made clear progress on a range of environmental, social,  
and ethics issues, showing a commitment to achieving standards in line with 
global best practices.   The company  
 
has made clear 
 
progress on a range 
   
of environmental, 
ESG in Depth 
social, and ethics 
§ Samsung has demonstrated notable improvement across a host of ESG areas, 
including disclosures, climate action, supply chain management, and compliance/ issues.
ethical oversight.  
§ In relation to ESG disclosure, the firm has aligned its reporting and climate 
action plan with the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures and the 
Sustainability Accounting Standards Board recommendations.
§ The recent conviction of Samsung’s vice chairman on bribery charges is a 
concern, but there have been notable improvements to oversight arrangements 
in 2020. A new independent compliance and ethics committee has been 
established, meeting regularly to review all potential compliance issues and 
decisions at Samsung. Also, the first independent Board chair was appointed, 
and the remit of the chief compliance officer has been extended.
The security identified and described is intended to illustrate the ESG security evaluation process of T. Rowe Price investment professionals 
and does not necessarily represent securities purchased or sold by T. Rowe Price. No assumptions should be made that the security analyzed, 
or other securities analyzed, purchased, or sold, was or will be profitable. This is not a recommendation to buy or sell any security. The views 
and opinions above are as of April 2021 and are subject to change.
   
| 14
Foreword 2020   Our ESG Investing  ESG Integration   Focus Themes   Corporate  Proxy Voting  Collaborations  Resources
in Review Approach  in Action Engagement 
State of California
Climate strategy and social dynamics key features in analysis. 
Municipal bond analyst Davis Collins explains how ESG-related factors 
were prominent in his overall evaluation of issuer risk. 
Issuer Profile 
California is the most populous state in the U.S. with a large and diverse economy. 
Major sectors include high-end technology, entertainment, manufacturing, tourism, 
construction, and services. In the years since the 2008 global financial crisis, California 
has benefited from prudent budgeting and strong economic growth. 
DAVIS COLLINS  
Investment Analysis  U.S. Municipal Bond 
Analyst 
§ In the fall of 2020, the state’s 10-year bond issue appeared to be undervalued 
versus historical levels and also relative to peer bond issues. 
§ While the impact of the coronavirus pandemic had been severe in California, we 
believed the state’s fiscal position was supported by strong credit fundamentals 
and liquidity.  
§ On the ESG front, California has been actively managing its elevated climate risks,  On the ESG front, 
and the state’s social dynamics have been attractive.  
California has been  
 
actively managing 
 
    its elevated climate 
ESG in Depth  risks, and the state’s 
§ Environmentally, California is vulnerable to the impact of climate change, but its  social dynamics have 
property value at risk is low. The state has had a climate adaptation strategy in 
been attractive.
place for over a decade, focusing on seven key areas: public health, biodiversity 
and habitat, oceans and coastal resources, water, agriculture, forestry, and 
transportation and energy. 
§ On the social front, a lack of housing affordability in the state is problematic. 
However, a high concentration of employment in technology means flexible 
working is increasing, allowing employees to move to more affordable areas. 
§ California has been hit hard by the coronavirus pandemic, with 44% of the 
population employed in immediately impacted industries. While this negatively 
impacts tax receipts, this is partly offset by the fact that these workers make up  
a disproportionately low portion of income tax receipts as California’s revenues  
are more reliant on capital gains and personal income taxes of high earners. 
The issuer identified and described is intended to illustrate the ESG security evaluation process of T. Rowe Price investment professionals 
and does not necessarily represent securities purchased or sold by T. Rowe Price. No assumptions should be made that the issuer analyzed, 
or securities analyzed, purchased, or sold, was or will be profitable. This is not a recommendation to buy or sell any security. The views and 
opinions above are as of April 2021 and are subject to change.
   
| 15
Foreword 2020   Our ESG Investing  ESG Integration   Focus Themes   Corporate  Proxy Voting  Collaborations  Resources
in Review Approach  in Action Engagement 
FirstRand
Significant improvement in ESG disclosure underpins our analysis.
Financials sector equity analyst Iona Dent puts the spotlight on 
improved climate-related disclosure in her analysis.
Company Profile 
FirstRand is the second-largest bank in South Africa by assets, providing a 
comprehensive range of retail, commercial, corporate, and investment banking 
services. FirstRand is a leading bank among local peers and one of the highest-
quality banks in emerging markets. 
IONA DENT  
Investment Analysis  Financials Sector Equity 
Analyst 
§ FirstRand’s three main domestic brands have been strongly positioned relative  
to peers.  
§ FirstRand has built a diverse business mix and a leading private equity franchise.   
§ Significant improvements have been made in the firm’s level of ESG disclosure 
over the past year, particularly in relation to climate change. The encouraging 
progress has been reflected in our proprietary RIIM model.  
 
 
   
Significant 
ESG in Depth  improvements  
§ During the 12-month period to December 2020, FirstRand greatly improved its  have been made  
reporting on climate-related risk. Having been the worst of the “Big 4” South 
in the firm’s level  
African banks on climate-related disclosure, FirstRand now ranks as second best 
and above average versus the broader emerging markets banking peer group.   of ESG disclosure.
§ Outside of its climate strategy, FirstRand continued to generally score well 
in both the social and ethical criteria in RIIM. Gender and minority group 
representation among the bank’s employees were strong relative to sector peers.  
§ We voted with the majority of shareholders (59%) against a pay-related proposal 
tabled by FirstRand at its 2020 annual general meeting —specifically due to 
problematic retention awards designed to compensate executives for long-term 
incentive plan awards that lapsed due to the impact of the pandemic. We have 
since engaged with company management to understand how they plan to 
respond to shareholder concerns.   
The security identified and described is intended to illustrate the ESG security evaluation process of T. Rowe Price investment professionals 
and does not necessarily represent securities purchased or sold by T. Rowe Price. No assumptions should be made that the security analyzed, 
or securities analyzed, purchased, or sold, was or will be profitable. This is not a recommendation to buy or sell any security. The views and 
opinions above are as of April 2021 and are subject to change.
   
| 16
Foreword 2020   Our ESG Investing  ESG Integration   Focus Themes   Corporate  Proxy Voting  Collaborations  Resources
in Review Approach  in Action Engagement 
Analysts and portfolio 
managers incorporate ESG 
factors into investment theses, 
alongside financial, economic, 
and industry-related insights.  
ESG factors may be integrated 
into company ratings, price 
targets, engagements, position 
sizing, credit ratings, and proxy 
voting decisions.
   
| 17
Foreword 2020   Our ESG Investing  ESG Integration   Focus Themes   Corporate  Proxy Voting  Collaborations  Resources
in Review Approach  in Action Engagement 
ESG INTEGRATION IN ACTION—PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT
Global Equities
Sustainability drives success in a post-coronavirus world
Crisis causes change. We know this as human beings and as experienced global  
investors. The 2008 global financial crisis (GFC) led to a reckoning in how businesses  
were run, especially in financial services. The GFC ultimately redefined fiduciary 
responsibilities, shifting emphasis toward clients and shareholders. Fueled by 
government bailouts, new regulations, and shareholder activism, the crisis led  
to more transparency and fundamentally changed the financial world—in most ways 
for the better.
The coronavirus pandemic has pulled forward many disruptive trends to a staggering 
degree. Social distancing and the shuttering of brick-and-mortar businesses 
accelerated e-commerce and communication adoption by years. Businesses leaned 
SCOTT BERG
on technology to help employees work-from-home—something that for many may  Portfolio Manager,  
become a more permanent way of life even after the pandemic wanes. Global Growth Equities
However, even as governments around the world have applied unprecedented 
monetary and fiscal policy stimulus to create and protect jobs, they have struggled 
to ease growing societal pressures.
Sustainability  
One of the consequences of the pandemic has been an intensified debate about 
how to address various dimensions of inequality, both societal and economic.  is fundamentally 
intertwined with 
Given this environment, it is more important than ever for companies to incorporate 
sustainability into their long-term strategies. Sustainability is fundamentally  visionary thought.
intertwined with visionary thought, disciplined leadership (especially in a crisis), 
being on the right side of societal change, and addressing the needs of others.
With Great Power Comes Great Responsibility 
Just as the GFC was a reckoning for financial companies, so has the current health 
crisis been for the technology sector. Big tech companies like Apple, Amazon, and 
Netflix are not unfamiliar with ESG controversy. Their business models have driven 
and benefited from tremendous societal changes in the way we communicate, shop, 
and watch TV. While these societal shifts have driven topline growth, they also have 
created operational risks. With so much at stake, many technology companies 
have been taking material steps to address their approach to ESG considerations in 
human capital management and ethics (such as supporting increased payment  
of international taxes).
It’s not just large firms that are recognizing their importance in supporting and 
improving our lives. Since the onset of the pandemic, smaller companies have also 
seen the difference they make to help us through challenging times. E-commerce 
platforms are playing a pivotal role in helping small businesses transition from 
offline to online. In health care, there are several smaller, niche biotech companies 
that are at the forefront of the coronavirus battle due to their capabilities in creating 
accurate testing, serology research, and vaccine support.
   
| 18
Foreword 2020   Our ESG Investing  ESG Integration   Focus Themes   Corporate  Proxy Voting  Collaborations  Resources
in Review Approach  in Action Engagement 
Never in history has such a collective focus been  Key investment areas 
applied to a problem, and the hope is that society 
for potential long-term 
can emerge with a greater sense of shared goals 
from this period. We are seeing the results of this  sustainability and impact
shift firsthand. Companies are initiating discussions 
on ESG considerations and outlining detailed plans, 
MATERIALS
where historically it was more common for us to begin 
Catastrophic weather events have 
the conversation. The conversation around ESG has 
demonstrated the reality of climate 
always been important to us, as we believe it creates 
change.
better companies over the long term.
Portfolio opportunities can arise  
by identifying companies that 
address climate change through 
How Do We Factor in ESG? 
carbon capture and storage, 
One reason we feel we are well suited to the era’s  sustainable packaging, or green 
increasing focus on ESG is that we fully embed ESG  alternatives that are actively 
analysis within our investment process. With an  reducing their carbon footprints.  
emphasis on durability and positive change, we feel 
informed and seek to invest in companies on the 
UTILITIES
right side of change with respect to the next stage 
of the ESG journey. Our Responsible Investing team  Utilities can be instrumental in 
sustainability initiatives due to their 
provides analysis on industry-level and stock-specific 
large infrastructure, potential for 
ESG issues, which we then incorporate into our 
durable income streams, and an 
company-specific analysis and investment theses. 
ability to invest in renewables to  
We also screen the entire portfolio using our proprietary  aid in the energy transition.
Responsible Investing Indicator Model not only to  
Opportunities can be found in high-
help understand the characteristics that relate to ESG,  quality, well-run utilities that dedicate  
but also to make us aware of any elevated exposures  significant resources into renewable 
to specific ESG factors.  energy infrastructure.
Integrating ESG is Crucial to Finding Good  HEALTH CARE
Growth Companies The pandemic intersected a period 
of growing demand and cost for 
A changing economic landscape powered by 
health care provision and created a 
technology has brought significant disruption to 
bifurcated landscape. 
societies around the world, and it has become clear 
It has also pulled forward telehealth 
that some form of intersection between society, 
trends by years, and companies that 
companies, investors, and governments is crucial to 
provide these services have been 
perpetuating economic stability and success. The  seeing rapid adoption while helping 
coronavirus pandemic has accelerated the adoption  patients to maintain essential and 
of sustainability trends by years, making it critical   safe communication with doctors.
to understand this increased emphasis and how it  
will reshape the investment landscape. 
TECHNOLOGY
ESG is a permanent part of this new order.  Given rising political and societal 
Businesses will need to think carefully about their  oversight, tech companies are  
effect on industries, people, and ultimately the planet.  rapidly addressing their respon-
sibilities to act as good stewards of 
Companies that understand these connections are 
sustainability, even if it comes at  
often the innovators that are positioning themselves 
the expense of short-term returns. 
for real and future growth. We believe this is a good 
We actively engage with a number  
disruption that we seek to be on the right side of.
of large tech companies to help 
guide their ESG journeys and 
This is an illustrative example of how ESG factors may be incorporated  
influence their decision-making 
into the investment process by Portfolio Managers. The views expressed 
may differ from those of other Investment Professionals at T. Rowe Price. where possible.
Foreword 2020   Our ESG Investing  ESG Integration   Focus Themes   Corporate  Proxy Voting  Collaborations  Resources
in Review Approach  in Action Engagement 
Global Fixed Income
How stronger incentives are changing ESG behavior
How do you think of ESG factors within your investment process? 
Our investment process relies on bottom-up analysis, which develops into security  
selection. The analyst weighs environmental, social, and governance factors in 
determining the quality potential for a particular investment. We do this systematically 
and consistently, applying our methodology across all the securities that we look 
at, in order to construct a portfolio of securities that we believe will reflect broader 
social concerns.
This method not only helps us to compare opportunities, it also makes us very 
conscious of the idiosyncratic risks we may be taking on, and where they might be 
concentrated. Just because an individual security screens poorly on one criterion, 
QUENTIN FITZSIMMONS  
that does not mean that it is automatically screened out of our universe. We’re very 
Portfolio Manager, Global 
interested in discovering opportunities where weaknesses are being addressed and  Fixed Income
there is scope for improvement as that can lead to improved valuations.
Our Responsible Investing Indicator Model analysis enables us to be systematic  
in the way we go about incorporating ESG factors into our investment decisions.  
It provides us with a very broad and detailed picture of the ESG profile of a particular 
investment proposition, which can then be compared with other investment 
propositions. The ability to put two assets side by side and objectively compare their 
ESG qualities is very powerful.  Analysts must 
consider the ESG 
How important are ESG factors in the global bond market?  factors of every 
They have become very important. As the markets have begun to understand the  investment they 
range of ESG criteria—and that it goes beyond just pollution or bad management—
look at because 
these criteria are becoming more clearly reflected in asset valuations. Simply put, 
those factors are 
ESG is something that cannot be ignored. Analysts must consider the ESG factors 
of every investment they look at because those factors are going to play a role in  going to play a 
determining the value of that investment.
role in determining 
We believe ESG is only going to become more important over time. We can already  the value of that 
see that there are going to be many competing external standards, which means  investment.
that any global fixed income strategy is likely to be increasingly measured with its 
shadow rating (an unofficial rating) under those different approaches. 
What are the ESG trends to watch in global fixed income? 
I think the proliferation of external standards is going to be key. I believe agencies 
such as Moody’s and S&P are going to increasingly incorporate ESG into the 
ratings they award. National governments and economic jurisdictions such as the 
European Union will likely be able to send strong price signals by committing to 
much more ambitious targets in areas such as lowering carbon emissions. It will 
also be worth monitoring whether central banks make a mark by steering asset 
purchase programs toward ESG criteria and ensuring that the capital costs of  
“bad” companies are higher than the companies that meet that criteria.
   
| 20
Foreword 2020   Our ESG Investing  ESG Integration   Focus Themes   Corporate  Proxy Voting  Collaborations  Resources
in Review Approach  in Action Engagement 
Stronger incentives would ultimately change behavior,  holistic, bottom-up credit assessment, are improving 
but they would not necessarily make things easy or  and reflected in ongoing ethical reforms, increased 
simple. Some companies and governments will score  compliance oversight, and moves to integrate ESG 
well on certain criteria and not others, which is why it  criteria into top executives’ compensation. We believe 
is important to be as systematic as possible.  that improving governance and the company’s strong 
environmental credentials—reflected in its leadership 
in developing electric vehicles and its aggressive 
What is an example of ESG factors directly 
decarbonization strategy—can help enhance its overall 
influencing your investment decision? 
ESG standing among investors and ultimately support 
A recent example involved a bond offer by a North  its bond valuations.
American oil company, where our analysis highlighted 
a number of elevated ESG risks. Principally, these 
included (i) meaningful exposure to energy transition 
risks, with an oil-heavy production mix and no clear 
path to lower carbon activities; (ii) a weak record  
on safety, with elevated worker fatality rates; and (iii)  This is an illustrative example of how ESG factors may be incorporated  
into the investment process by Portfolio Managers. The views expressed 
evidence of corruption reaching up to executive level.  may differ from those of other Investment Professionals at T. Rowe Price.
We believed the company would struggle to address 
these ESG challenges, particularly given its notable 
financial challenges and a low priority attached to  
sustainability. As a result, we decided not to participate 
in the bond offer.
On the corporate side, based on our analysis of a 
German auto manufacturer, we believe the company 
is trading below its underlying credit quality owing 
to perceived concerns over business ethics and 
corporate governance practices. We believe these 
ESG considerations, which are embedded in our 
   
| 21
Foreword 2020   Our ESG Investing  ESG Integration   Focus Themes   Corporate  Proxy Voting  Collaborations  Resources
in Review Approach  in Action Engagement 
Emerging Markets Corporate Debt 
Integrating ESG factors has the potential to provide a research edge
How do you think of ESG factors within your investment process?  
There are three features to highlight here. First, integrating ESG factors is a long-
standing part of our approach to risk management and potential alpha (excess return)  
generation. Credit analysts research company fundamentals to identify those that 
we believe are inefficient or have the potential for ratings upgrades—this includes 
the consideration of environmental, social, and governance factors alongside 
financial analysis. So, ESG isn’t new to the analysis and decision-making process  
in our space—it’s part of our long-standing investment philosophy. Certain cyclicals 
or extraction companies simply don’t meet our investment criteria. 
Second, we screen the portfolio using T. Rowe Price’s proprietary Responsible 
SAMY MUADDI
Investing Indicator Model (RIIM). RIIM and the research of the Responsible Investing 
Portfolio Manager, 
and Governance teams provide broad coverage of the ESG risks and opportunities  Emerging Market 
among companies in our universe. It offers a second perspective on the ESG  Corporate Bonds
characteristics and any elevated exposures in the portfolio.  
Last, we utilize sovereign research and analysis to inform macro and sovereign 
views that underpin our corporate positioning. An emerging market country with 
better sovereign ESG characteristics, and a more robust regulatory environment, 
will typically provide a better backdrop for corporate investing and potentially 
encourage better corporate ESG practices. RIIM is invaluable here—it evaluates  Integrating ESG 
sovereign issuers on ESG criteria. Our sovereign analysts provide added insights   factors is essential 
on transparency, geopolitical assessments, and social stability factors. 
to our alpha 
generation and risk 
How important are ESG factors in the emerging market corporate  
management goals.
bond space?  
Integrating ESG factors is essential to our alpha generation and risk management 
goals. The ESG profiles of companies in the emerging market universe can vary 
markedly—there are questionable companies and there are good ones. Some 
sectors are more prone to having riskier ESG characteristics, such as extraction 
industries, while others are leveraged to more sustainable business trends and have  
shown good progress on certain ESG factors, such as Chinese real estate companies.
Three key ESG risk categories that demand particular attention in the emerging 
markets corporate bond universe are:
1. Social and political risk: The policy direction of a country—institutional quality, 
free speech, rule of law, and wealth equality—can have a profoundly positive  
or negative impact on its population and businesses. Conversely, improvements 
in areas like property rights and education can create sustained opportunities  
in the private sector. Our sovereign analysis is vital to building an in-depth under- 
standing of the social and political profiles of each country in which we invest. 
2. Environmental risk: In areas such as energy, utilities, and mining, which 
comprise a relatively large share of the emerging markets universe, a company’s 
environmental practices can have significant effects on its business. On the 
positive side, companies that improve their practices are likely to enjoy lower 
capital costs and regulatory support. 
   
| 22
Foreword 2020   Our ESG Investing  ESG Integration   Focus Themes   Corporate  Proxy Voting  Collaborations  Resources
in Review Approach  in Action Engagement 
Assessing Company Vulnerability to Permafrost Thawing
Incorporating a risk premium1 for thawing into our bond evaluation
Lowest Risk Premium Medium Risk Premium Highest Risk Premium
  Lower risk exposure to    At risk from thawing but    Majority of assets in 
thawing. bearing capacity deterioration  permafrost areas, likely to 
not yet severe.  require significant investment. 
  Asset base is modern and 
able to better withstand    Likely to have flexibility    Under pressure to maintain 
permafrost changes.  for higher capital expenditure. elevated dividend payments 
to shareholders.
  Balance sheet flexibility to 
address possible disruptions    Balance sheet offers only a 
from environmental damage. modest margin of error for 
permafrost-related incidents.
3. Corporate governance risk: For emerging  What examples do you have of ESG factors 
markets, this is particularly important. Given the  directly influencing your investment decision?
risks inherent in emerging markets lending, we  A recent example is our analysis of the impact of 
require a high degree of comfort with the history,  climate change on a Russian mining company.  
reputation, and other business relationships of the  The company has infrastructure built on permafrost 
management teams we support. (ground that remains frozen at zero degrees or below 
for at least two years consecutively) in northern 
What are the ESG trends to watch within  Russia. As the permafrost layer has begun to thaw 
emerging market corporate bonds? and subside due to the warming of the climate,  
the company’s logistics infrastructure has suffered 
There are three dynamics at play here—client demand, 
collapses, including a rail line and storage tank. 
regulatory pressures, and markets. Clients around  
These issues will be costly to remedy and will require 
the globe are increasingly concerned with how ESG 
ongoing investment. As a result, we reassessed the 
factors play a part in their investment portfolios. It’s 
appropriate spread. 
rare for our institutional client meetings not to feature 
discussions on ESG.
Another example is a Chilean utility issuer. The 
company’s shift to renewables should lower the 
Regulation is also changing rapidly, driving changes 
group’s average carbon intensity. The company is also 
in the way companies conduct their business, and 
transitioning its coal assets from providing baseload 
the extent and quality of their ESG disclosure. 
power generation to providing crucial grid balancing 
Particularly when it comes to environmental regulation, 
services, which has the potential to facilitate deploy- 
the landscape will be very different going forward. 
ment of renewables in the electricity system. These 
For decades companies have borne little to no cost 
adaptations have potential benefits in a world where 
for the externalities of pollution or use of natural 
momentum is building for a transition to cleaner energy.
capital. Markets are increasingly pricing ESG factors 
into credit risk and spreads (the additional yield 
that investors require for holding riskier assets). For 
1 The additional return expected from an investment to compensate  
example, a Brazilian pulp and paper company we  for the level of risk being taken.
recently researched issued a sustainability-linked  This is an illustrative example of how ESG factors may be incorporated  
into the investment process by Portfolio Managers. The views expressed 
bond at a lower cost than traditional debt. may differ from those of other Investment Professionals at T. Rowe Price.
   
| 23
Foreword 2020   Our ESG Investing  ESG Integration   Focus Themes   Corporate  Proxy Voting  Collaborations  Resources
in Review Approach  in Action Engagement 
FOCUS THEMES
Why 2021 Could Be an Epic  
Year for Climate Regulation 
The impact of climate change presents a systemic investment risk, making the 
importance of an investment’s environmental footprint more critical than ever before. 
The world has already experienced a rise of around 1°C in global temperatures over 
the preindustrial period and has started seeing the impacts of climate change in the 
form of extraordinary weather events, shrinking glaciers, and changing rainfall patterns.  
To be successful in limiting the adverse impacts of climate change, a fundamental 
shift is needed in the relationship between the economy and the environment. While 
financial markets are well positioned to play a leading role, ultimately they will only 
be effective if climate change regulation is in place. In previous ESG annual reports 
we have highlighted the mismatch between policy and science when it comes to 
MARIA ELENA DREW
climate change. Over the past year, we have seen strong momentum to close that 
Director of Research, 
gap—a trend we expect to continue through 2021 as we lead up to the 26th United  Responsible Investing
Nations Climate Change Conference (COP 26) in Glasgow in November. 
Net zero carbon emissions targets (net zero targets) have been established by 61% 
of countries, 9% of states and regions in the largest emitting countries, and 13% of 
cities with a population of over half a million. In aggregate, they account for just over 
60% of the world’s carbon emissions.1 A focus of COP 26 will be securing greater 
adoption of net zero targets—more countries have signaled that they will make 
announcements in the lead-up to the conference. 
Global Carbon Emissions and Key Carbon Reduction Targets2
UNITED STATES EUROPEAN UNION CCHHIINNAA
Proposed 
15% 8% 2050 29% 2060
2050
Rejoined the Paris Agreement  2030 emissions reduction goal  National emissions trading 
in 2021. Pledged to cut carbon  of at least 55% below 1990  scheme target 2021.
emissions by 50-52% below  levels. Supported by European 
2005 levels by 2030. Green Deal legislation.
UNITED KINGDOM JJAAPPAANN
1% 2050 3% 2050
2030 emissions reduction  2030 goal to cut emissions 
target of at least 68%  by 46% below 2013 levels.
below 1990 levels.
INDIA
PROPORTION OF GLOBAL  NET ZERO  7% Under 
CARBON EMISSIONS TARGET consideration
Other Contributors to Global Carbon Emissions: Russia 5%, Iran 2%, Canada 
2%, South Korea 2%, Indonesia 1%, Saudi Arabia 1%, Mexico 1%, South Africa     
1%, Brazil 1%, Australia 1%, Turkey 1%, rest of world 18%  | 24
Foreword 2020   Our ESG Investing  ESG Integration   Focus Themes   Corporate  Proxy Voting  Collaborations  Resources
in Review Approach  in Action Engagement 
Except for a handful of countries that were already  effect around the world, we expect that performance 
advanced in implementing their climate agenda, direct  around climate issues will become increasingly more 
legislation to underpin net zero targets is largely  important to investment performance. Interestingly,  
absent. While we remain in the “early stages” in terms  we see a bifurcation in corporate approaches to 
of implementation, it appears that the urgency of the  climate change across all sectors of the economy.  
situation is increasingly understood. Simply put, the  As legislative initiatives start to directly impact financial 
odds of meaningful climate regulation coming into  performance, we believe the differentiation between 
force is very high.  winners and losers will become evident (and 
potentially quite quickly).
Carbon dioxide (CO ) makes up about three-quarters  
2
of greenhouse gas emissions and is one of the more   Of course, regulation is not the only factor moving 
readily available environmental statistics. As such,  the needle on how issuers are responding to climate 
it receives the most attention when it comes to  change. Other important factors are innovation and 
climate change analysis. However, staying within  consumer preferences. On the innovation front, new 
a global temperature rise of 1.5°C will require  advances have driven down costs in renewable power, 
mitigating more than just CO . In addition to regulation  which has sped up deployment of renewable capacity. 
2
focused on power generation, energy efficiency and  The International Renewable Energy Agency estimates 
transportation, the task will require comprehensive  that the 3.2 terawatts implied in current NDC power 
regulation to mitigate methane (CH ), nitrous oxide  targets for 2030 should be met as soon as 2022. On 
4
(N O), and fluorinated gases, as well as more  the consumer preferences front, we see companies 
2
sustainable land use and enhancement of carbon  adding environmental labeling to products as well as 
sinks. To date, most of the world’s climate regulation  increasing demand for more sustainable products 
has focused on carbon—mostly within the power  such as meat alternatives.    
sector—but that is changing. 
To put the potential impact of forthcoming regulation  Evaluating Climate Change in Investments
into perspective, most estimates indicate that the  At T. Rowe Price, we systematically evaluate climate 
world’s current climate change commitments put us  change factors for individual securities and portfolios 
on a path to 2.7°–3.0°C of global warming. This is  with our proprietary Responsible Investing Indicator 
based on climate commitments made through the  Model (RIIM). RIIM analysis provides two key benefits 
nationally determined contributions (NDCs) submitted  for our analysts and portfolio managers. First, RIIM 
by signatories of the Paris Agreement in 2015. Using  proactively searches for environmental indicators and 
a statistically based probabilistic framework, the  controversies on companies and sovereign issuers—
probability of staying below 2°C warming is only  this is an important feature as environmental data is 
5% assuming a continuation of current trends.3 If all  not required disclosure nor is it standardized like 
countries were to meet their NDCs, it rises to 26%.4  financial data. Second, RIIM provides a framework 
These low probabilities underpin the importance for  for evaluating environmental factors—in essence  
net zero commitments.   it creates a common language for our analysts and 
portfolio managers to discuss how an investment 
is performing on environmental factors as well as 
How Climate Change Affects Financial 
compare securities within the investment universe.  
Performance
While markets have anticipated some climate  Our evaluation of climate change factors focuses on 
legislation coming into force, namely in select sectors  energy transition and physical risk, but we also believe  
directly impacted by energy transition, we do not  that an issuer’s environmental footprint and track record  
see widespread evidence of dislocation in valuations  are important indicators of how they may perform in  
across the broader economy. As new rules come into  a tightening regulatory environment. 
   1 Taking Stock: A Global Assessment of Net Zero Targets, Energy and Climate Intelligence Unit (March 2021). Net zero means achieving a 
balance between the greenhouse gases put into the atmosphere and those taken out. This state is also referred to as carbon neutral.
   2  Source: The International Energy Agency (IEA). As of December 2020.
3,4  Liu & Raftery, Country-based rate of emissions reduction should increase by 80% beyond nationally determined contributions to meet the  
2°C target (Nature 2021).
   
| 25
Foreword 2020   Our ESG Investing  ESG Integration   Focus Themes   Corporate  Proxy Voting  Collaborations  Resources
in Review Approach  in Action Engagement 
Carbon Emissions Data Availability by Index5
100%
80
60
40
20
0
S&P 500 Russell 1000 Growth Russell 1000 Value Russell Midcap Value Russell Midcap Growth Russell 2500 Russell 2000 Value Russell 2000 Russell 2000 Growth MSCI Europe FTSE Europe ex UK MSCI ACWI HDY MSCI EAFE MSCI World Value MSCI World S&P/ASX 200 MSCI EM Latam MSCI World Growth MSCI ACWI MSCI Europe Small Cap TOPIX MSCI Asia ex Japan MSCI Emerging Markets P Global ex-U.S. Small Cap MSCI China All Shares MSCI Frontier Markets BB Euro-Agg Corp. Bond BB Global Agg. Corp. BB U.S. Inv Grade Bond JPM EM Corp. Bond BofA European Currency HY JPM Asia Credit Index ICE BofA US HY ICE BofA Global HY J.P. Morgan Global HY
% Data Reported % Data Estimated % No Data S& CE 
I
With our RIIM assessment, we consider our investments’  gradually being resolved and new sustainable finance 
environmental characteristics holistically—key areas   regulations will accelerate what had been a largely 
of focus include: voluntary trend from corporates, but we still have a 
long way to go. For example, carbon emissions is one 
§ Energy transition § Water use
of the most widely available statistics, but disclosure 
§ Physical risk § Track record on  levels for scope 1–2 emissions cover less than half 
§ Biodiversity impact environment our investible universe and disclosure for scope 3 
§ Accountability and  emissions is even lower.
§ Circular economy 
transparency for ESG 
contribution We purchase a data set from Sustainalytics that 
(including climate 
provides carbon emissions and intensity for a universe 
§ Land use change)
of more than 11,000 companies, of which nearly 75% 
Another critical element of our climate change-related   of the companies have estimated data. As illustrated 
analysis occurs through engagements. The most  in the chart above, for some indexes, upward of three 
common topics of our environmentally focused  quarters are covered with reported data; however, 
engagements in 2020 were disclosure, greenhouse  other indexes are almost entirely reliant on estimated 
gas emissions, product sustainability, and general  data. While a reliance on estimated data can sound 
environmental management. In relation to disclosure,  disconcerting to some investors, it has utility because it 
we continue to advocate for investee companies to  helps us understand the order of magnitude of carbon 
report using SASB and TCFD frameworks. In 2020,  emissions for our portfolios versus their benchmarks. 
we also put more emphasis on the importance of  However, we do have to be cognizant of the data 
reporting scope 1–3 greenhouse gas emissions.6 quality when considering it in our investment decisions. 
We work with an imperfect data set when it comes to   Climate change is increasingly a major concern for 
environmental analysis. This is partly a problem of limited  global communities, companies, our clients and our 
disclosure and lack of universal reporting standards,  investment teams. The focus on how companies are 
but it is partly because some environmentally oriented  working to mitigate the risks to their activities is only 
factors are qualitative in nature (i.e. controversies,   set to intensify, and COP 26 and regulatory efforts will 
targets). Issues of disclosure and standardization are  bring the issue further into the spotlight. 
5 Source: Sustainalytics (carbon data). As of 31 Dec 2020. Agg. Corp Bond = Aggregate Corporate Bond; BB = Bloomberg Barclays; HDY = High 
Dividend Yield; HY = High Yield; S&P/ASX 200 and TOPIX represent Australia and Japan stocks, respectively. Please see page 44 for Additional 
Disclosures about the Indexes featured in this chart. Chart depicts carbon emissions data disclosed by constituent companies of each Index.
6 Scope 1 (direct emissions from owned or controlled sources): Scope 2 (indirect emissions from the generation of purchased electricity, steam, 
or cooling): Scope 3 (all other indirect emissions).
   
| 26
Foreword 2020   Our ESG Investing  ESG Integration   Focus Themes   Corporate  Proxy Voting  Collaborations  Resources
in Review Approach  in Action Engagement 
Evaluating ESG-Labeled Bonds
Increased Issuance is encouraging, but caution is required
In 2020, USD 512 billion of ESG-labeled bonds were issued—an increase of 67%  
over the prior year.1 While much of this increase was driven by agencies, sovereigns, 
sub-sovereigns, and supranationals raising capital to address coronavirus pandemic 
relief efforts, issuance of ESG-labeled bonds from corporations was up an impressive 
19% in 2020 versus 2019.2 The largest proportion of ESG-labeled bonds continues 
to be green bonds, but 2020 saw social bonds and sustainability-linked bonds grow 
their share substantially.  
ESG bonds generally trade at a premium to their non-ESG counterparts (a valuation 
dislocation known as the “greenium”), making them a cheaper way for issuers to 
MATT LAWTON
borrow. Demand pressures from passive funds with ESG benchmarks and green 
Sector Portfolio Manager
bond mandates have helped create a situation where the greenium effect is applied 
almost uniformly across the bond market, despite the actual environmental and 
social credentials underpinning each bond.  
We are encouraged that companies are undertaking the green and social projects 
eligible for ESG-labeled bond financing. However, at T. Rowe Price, we need more 
than a label to validate the environmental or social credentials of a bond. We have  
concerns about some of the issuance practices around ESG-labeled bonds. 
Specifically, we are concerned about bonds lacking “additionality” (i.e., issuing a 
green bond for operational expenditures on renewable energy procurement that was 
already taking place) and, more worryingly, sustainability-linked bond structures that 
allow an issuer to recall the bond before sustainability target dates or where the 
step-up for meeting the target is immaterial. 
To validate the credentials of an ESG bond, we leverage our RIIM analysis and 
fundamental research to evaluate the issuer as well as its ESG-labeled bond 
framework. We focus on the credibility of the use of proceeds and the quality of  
the post-issuance reporting. We also look for alignment with industry standards  
and whether the issuer has obtained external verification.  
Global ESG-Labeled Bond Issuance Accelerated in 20203
200
Green4
150 Social5
n Sustainability-Linked6
o
Billi100 Sustainability7
D 
S
U
50
0
1Q 2Q 3Q 4Q 1Q 2Q 3Q 4Q 1Q 2Q 3Q 4Q 1Q 2Q 3Q 4Q 1Q 2Q 3Q 4Q
2016 2017 2018 2019 2020
1, 2,3  Source: Bloomberg Finance L.P.
4  Green bonds are issues where proceeds are used to finance or re-finance specific climate-related or environmental projects.
5  Social bonds are issues where proceeds are used to finance or re-finance projects specifically aimed at creating positive social outcomes in communities.
6  Sustainability-linked bonds are structurally linked to the issuer’s achievement of climate or broader sustainable development goals.
7  Sustainability bonds are issues where proceeds are used to finance or re-finance a combination of green and social projects or activities. 
   
| 27
Foreword 2020   Our ESG Investing  ESG Integration   Focus Themes   Corporate  Proxy Voting  Collaborations  Resources
in Review Approach  in Action Engagement 
Diversity, Equity, and 
Inclusion in the Spotlight 
From tragedy comes greater commitment to improve on equality dimensions 
Amid the tumultuous markets of 2020, as virtually every country grappled with the  
coronavirus pandemic, another important investment movement arose from a tragedy 
of a different kind. The concern of investors and other stakeholders around diversity, 
equity, and inclusion (DEI) amplified following the tragic death of George Floyd at 
the hands of Minneapolis police in May 2020. An extended period of protest against 
racial injustice followed, both across the U.S. and in cities around the world. 
DONNA ANDERSON
These incidents prompted many to examine how to better promote positive change   Head of Corporate 
Governance
in our own lives and communities. It also compelled corporations to examine their links 
to systemic racism and explore ways to change these persistent and destructive 
patterns. Corporations responded to a variety of stakeholders as they undertook this 
analysis: their existing and future employees, investors, communities, and boards  
of directors. Often, corporate leaders felt it was an important moment to speak out.
Collecting Data on Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion   MARIA ELENA DREW
Director of Research, 
There are four ways T. Rowe Price generates insights about DEI and corporate culture. 
Responsible Investing
However, a lack of available comprehensive and comparable data in this area 
remains a serious challenge.
1
Investment analysts’ fundamental research  
and analysis of the companies they follow.
2
Proxy voting guidelines that address board  
diversity specifically.
T. Rowe Price 
generates insights 
3
about DEI and  ESG corporate engagement program.
corporate culture  
in four ways. 4
Proprietary Responsible Investing Indicator Model, 
or RIIM
   
| 28
Foreword 2020   Our ESG Investing  ESG Integration   Focus Themes   Corporate  Proxy Voting  Collaborations  Resources
in Review Approach  in Action Engagement 
A Continuum of Corporate Action on DEI HIGH IMPACT 
ACTION
We had 633 ESG-focused engagements in the
second half of 2020. 58% of these featured DEI
New Business 
on the agenda. Lines
A select group 
Addressing 
of companies 
Economic 
Disparities  committed to:
Action Plans A smaller set of    creating new 
The majority of  companies discussed  business 
LOW IMPACT Public Statements companies  plans to directly  opportunities 
ACTION announced specific  address economic    using market 
Leaders of a larger 
action plans,  disparities, alongside  position to boost 
set of companies  
Philanthropic  alongside philan- other measures.  opportunities for 
made public state-
A few companies  thropic contributions  entrepreneurs 
ments about the 
made contributions  and public comments. from underrep-
importance of DEI 
to institutions or  resented 
in their company
charities focused  populations.
and society.
on the Black Lives 
Matter movement.
Disclosure levels by companies around DEI issues  Of course, achieving true equity and inclusion in the 
as of the end of 2019 were not impressive. For  corporate sector will be a long-term journey. In our 
example, even for the large-cap, S&P U.S. equity  recent discussions, we have observed that corporate 
universe, the levels of disclosure on gender diversity  reactions to stakeholders’ concerns in relation to DEI 
in management and within the broader workforce  have fallen along a continuum, as illustrated above. 
were poor, at just 38% and 62%, respectively. Data 
We believe there is no single correct response  
availability for ethnic diversity fared even worse at 
for a company to take on the issue of racial justice. 
just 12% and 24%, respectively.
However, we believe that companies that make 
Encouragingly, however, we think the trends are  substantive changes to promote workforce diversity 
improving, as dozens of larger U.S. companies have  will have better outcomes in the long term. 
already agreed to accommodate investors’ demands 
This will continue to be an important topic in our 
for more detailed diversity information. For example, 
discussions with companies, including following  
many have already begun publicly reporting EEO-1 
up on the commitments they have made. What  
data, which break down U.S. employee populations 
is clear already is that DEI is a core value for many 
by seniority, gender, race, and ethnicity. As such, we 
stakeholders of these companies—current and future 
expect to see a marked improvement in disclosure 
employees, customers, investors, leaders, and boards. 
rates moving forward.
Those companies that do not meet stakeholders’ 
expectations will likely see an erosion in their ability  
Racial Inequality: A Continuum of Responses to compete for talent and market share.
An intense focus by communities and corporations on  
systemic inequality sharpened with the tragic incidents 
of the spring of 2020 and has continued at a steady 
pace since. In our deep experience of engaging with 
companies on ESG issues, we have never seen such 
a level of unity, candor, and commitment on any single 
issue as exhibited recently on DEI. 
   
| 29
Foreword 2020   Our ESG Investing  ESG Integration   Focus Themes   Corporate  Proxy Voting  Collaborations  Resources
in Review Approach  in Action Engagement 
ESG and Public Policy—Navigating 
Interlinked Crises
Opportunities presented by public policy change in the Biden era
At T. Rowe Price, our Public Policy Research team supports our analysts and 
portfolio managers through all stages of the investment process. We work closely 
with our ESG team to integrate policy catalysts and risk factors into the Responsible 
Investing Indicator Model (RIIM), while helping our investors assess the likely 
outcomes and implications of legislative, regulatory, and legal decisions for their 
company holdings and sectors. 
Concerns Around U.S. Policy Remain, but of a Different Nature KATIE DEAL
Between 2016 and 2020, we experienced a marked increase in concern from  Analyst, Washington and 
Regulatory Research
investors regarding the political volatility driving the legislative and regulatory 
environment. Despite this spike in economic policy uncertainty, the U.S. equity 
market still marched higher—with the S&P 500 gaining more than 1,000 points.
More recently, investors have expressed concern regarding the legislative and 
regulatory backdrop, but for an entirely different reason: crisis management.  
With the coronavirus pandemic came a level of market and economic uncertainty 
that continues to transform investors’ expectations about the future—what a “new  
normal” might look like for the global economy, and what tools different 
governments will use to manage through to a post-crisis environment. 
To this end, we have seen U.S. President Joe Biden adapt his policy rhetoric from 
“transformation” to “crisis management,” framing the federal government as a source  
of stability for American families and businesses—not only for the dual public health 
and economic crises, but also for the risks posed by climate change and racial inequality. 
Economic Policy Uncertainty Index and the S&P 500 Index
Despite a spike in policy uncertainty, the S&P 500 marched higher.
600
2,000
500
1,500 e
400 c
s Pri
nt g 
oi300 1,000 n
P si
o
200 Cl
500
100
0
0
1985 1990 1995 2000 2005 2010 2015 2020
News-Based Policy Uncertainty Index (LHA) Three-component Index (LHA) S&P 500 Index (RHA)
Past performance is not a reliable indicator of future performance. 
Source: “Measuring Economic Policy Uncertainty” by Scott Baker, Nicholas Bloom and Steven J. Davis at http://www.policyuncertainty.com. 
S&P indices (see Additional Disclosures on page 44). As of January 31, 2021. The Three-component Index is constructed from three 
underlying datasets. One component quantifies newspaper coverage of policy-related economic uncertainty. A second component 
reflects the number of federal tax code provisions set to expire in future years. The third component uses disagreement among economic 
forecasters as a proxy for uncertainty. LHA=Left-Hand Axis; RHA=Right-Hand Axis. Data rebased to 100.
   
| 30
Foreword 2020   Our ESG Investing  ESG Integration   Focus Themes   Corporate  Proxy Voting  Collaborations  Resources
in Review Approach  in Action Engagement 
1. Coronavirus: Public Health and Economic  legislation, while disincentivizing the continued use 
Crises and expansion of fossil fuels through regulation, 
The Biden administration’s foremost priority is  which can be executed on a unilateral basis 
helping the nation heal from the public health   through federal agencies. The U.S. has rejoined the 
and economic fallout caused by the coronavirus  Paris Climate Accord and the president will look 
pandemic. As such, we expect landmark stimulus  to establish cross-department research initiatives 
proposals to dominate the Biden administration’s  to expand policy recommendations for climate 
capacity in the coming year: the American Rescue  innovations like decarbonization. We also anticipate 
Plan Act, comprising around USD 1.9 trillion in relief  that the Biden administration will pursue stronger 
spending, and signed into law on March 11, 2021,  disclosure requirements and assessment of climate 
and Biden’s Build Back Better plan, which has  risk from firms, affecting our analysis of these firms’ 
been proposed in two phases: the American Jobs  environmental risk. These changes present an 
Plan, containing clean energy and infrastructure  opportunity to actively engage with the companies 
investment; and the American Families Plan,  we are invested in, share our experience, and 
containing “human infrastructure” investments  advise on disclosure best practices where required.  
in health care, child-care, and the broader social 
3. Societal Division: Civil Rights, Wealth Inequality, 
safety net. Estimates for these proposals combined 
and Populism
range between USD 2 trillion and USD 4 trillion in 
President Biden has explicitly identified racial 
new spending and USD 1 trillion and USD 2 trillion 
injustice as a pivotal crisis facing the United States, 
in revenue raisers.
intersecting with issues like wealth inequality. 
Combined, these plans inject an unprecedented  We should expect the administration to pursue 
level of federal stimulus into the U.S. economy— regulations and policy developments that improve 
providing a striking amount of direct transfer  racial equity while addressing workers’ rights. 
payments to consumers and incentives for renewable  This includes mandated improvement of worker 
and green technologies. The Build Back Better  protections, rhetorical support for unionization 
platform also invests in legacy infrastructure,  efforts, and advocacy for a higher federal minimum 
creating opportunities in utilities and sectors  wage; as well as initiating federal investigations 
related to grid modernization, broadband internet,  to identify and penalize discriminatory practices. 
transportation, and water systems. The Biden  It also includes implementing more progressive 
administration may also attempt to incorporate  corporate and personal tax proposals to address 
significant labor reforms to expand the workforce  the inequitable distribution of wealth in the 
and increase the minimum wage—though they   United States. Though gridlock may prevent 
are unlikely to pass under the reconciliation  the Democratic majority from achieving several 
process in Congress. These changes would have  of these goals, we should expect the Biden 
dramatic implications for different sectors’ recoveries  administration to pursue these goals through  
during and after the pandemic and will likely shift  all executive and regulatory tools available.
investors’ overall expectations regarding tax policy, 
After the January 6 attack on the U.S. Capitol, 
gross domestic product growth, and inflation. 
concerns over falsified and propaganda-driven 
2. Climate Change: Legislative Incentives and  information prompted a renewed push for 
Regulatory Deterrents technology regulation. We will be monitoring 
Though a comprehensive, progressive environmental  how platform companies respond to data privacy, 
reform package like the Green New Deal is  content liability, and market concentration 
unlikely in this presidential term, we should expect a  concerns as Congress, the Department of Justice, 
significant reversal from the regulatory status quo  the Federal Trade Commission, and the Federal 
as President Biden seeks to build one of the most  Communications Commission begin to propose 
progressive environmental policy portfolios in  tools to regulate company behavior. From an 
U.S. history. Specifically, the Biden administration  investment perspective, the ramifications of such 
is seeking to heavily incentivize consumer and  regulatory actions on the operations—and the 
industrial adoption of green technologies—like  bottom lines—of those companies most impacted 
electric vehicles and renewable power—through  could prove substantial.   
   
| 31
Foreword 2020   Our ESG Investing  ESG Integration   Focus Themes   Corporate  Proxy Voting  Collaborations  Resources
in Review Approach  in Action Engagement 
CORPORATE ENGAGEMENT
2020 Engagement Activity 
At T. Rowe Price, we are fortunate to manage USD 1.47  Our investment-driven engagement program frequently  
trillion1 of assets for our clients, predominantly in  identifies targets through our proprietary RIIM analysis, 
actively managed portfolios. We believe the scale and   governance screening, and analysts’ fundamental 
scope of our business puts us in a powerful position  research. ESG engagement meetings are carried out  
compared with many of our peers when we carry out  by portfolio managers and analysts from our equity and 
our ESG engagements with companies. The sheer  fixed income teams as well as by our ESG specialists. 
size of our assets under management has clout. Simply  
While we engage with companies in a variety of 
put, it gives us better access to company management. 
investment contexts, ESG engagement focuses on 
Our active investment approach also affords us real  learning about, influencing, or exchanging perspectives 
influence. In most cases, if we see an impediment to  on the environmental practices, corporate governance, 
reaching our investment goals, such as a company’s  or social issues affecting their businesses. 
poor business practices or disclosure, we have the 
Through the course of 2020, we engaged with 
option not to invest. This contrasts with managers 
companies on 1,002 separate occasions, sometimes 
of passive portfolios, which typically have no choice 
more than once with the same company. 
but to hold an investment despite any evidence of 
business practice or disclosure concerns. 
Engagements by Topic (2020) Top 5 Engagement Topics
ENVIRONMENT
Responsible 
1. Disclosure of environmental data 
Investing 
Ethics <1% 2. Greenhouse gas emissions 
(Environment, 
Environment 3. Product sustainability 
Ethics, Social) 
Social and Governance 4. Environmental management 
Environment,  5. Water and waste management
SociaEl,t haincds  6% 4% SOCIAL
% 1. Disclosure of social data 
14 2. Diversity, equity and inclusion
53 3. Employee safety and treatment 
%
1,002 4. Society and community relations
Engagements 5. Product safety and sustainability 
ETHICS
22 1. Compliance programs 
33%%
2. Regulatory changes 
3. Bribery and corruption 
4. Lobbying activities 
Governance
5. Facial recognition technology 
GOVERNANCE
1. Executive compensation 
2. Board diversity 
3. Shareholder proposals 
4. Board composition 
5. ESG accountability 
1 As of December 31, 2020. Firmwide AUM includes assets managed by T. Rowe Price Associates, Inc. and its investment advisory affiliates.
   
| 32
Foreword 2020   Our ESG Investing  ESG Integration   Focus Themes   Corporate  Proxy Voting  Collaborations  Resources
in Review Approach  in Action Engagement 
ESG Engagements—Number by Market Capitalization 
Private
Companies (7)
USD 2 bn USD 2–10 bn USD 10–50 bn USD 50+ bn
111 303 377 204
ESG Engagements—Number per Region
Americas EMEA Asia Pacific
397 333 272
Number of ESG Engagements by Sector 2020
ESG Engagements—Number per Sector
Real  Communication 
Consumer  Estate Services
Staples Utilities
Materials Energy Sovereign (1)
Health Care Financials Industrials Consumer Information
Discretionary Technology
141 139 139 128 118 84 65 56 53 44 34
   
| 33
Foreword 2020   Our ESG Investing  ESG Integration   Focus Themes   Corporate  Proxy Voting  Collaborations  Resources
in Review Approach  in Action Engagement 
A Step-Change in Corporate 
Attitudes to Disclosure
Early in 2020, the outbreak of the coronavirus pandemic  the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) 
raised fears that the progress of global ESG initiatives  and the Task Force on Climate-related Financial  
would be undermined. As the full extent of measures  Disclosures (TCFD)—both globally recognized 
needed to control the pandemic became clear, and we   frameworks that emphasize financial materiality. 
became aware of the significant social and economic 
We also started to encourage companies we engage 
impacts of this action, some observers questioned 
with, particularly those within the most carbon 
how companies would respond, and to what extent 
intensive industries (energy, industrials, agriculture, 
they would (or could) sustain their commitment to ESG 
transportation) to report their scope 3 carbon 
principles and purpose.  
emissions. Scope 3 emissions are those that are 
However, we believe these early concerns have proved  indirectly created by the reporting company, as a result  
unfounded, with the pandemic having an almost  of both upstream and downstream activity along the 
opposite effect on the corporate environment to what  company’s value chain. We see disclosing scope  
was initially anticipated. The coronavirus pandemic has  3 emissions as being in a company’s best interests,  
sharpened the focus on long-term sustainability and  as those that elect not to disclose this information will 
the significant impact that ESG forces can have on  almost certainly see it estimated anyway, and with 
a business’s progress and risk management. Rather  variable accuracy. There are already many third-party 
than cutting back or eschewing ESG altogether,  commercial subscription services that are creating 
companies have instead doubled down, and ESG  and selling these estimates. 
initiatives have surged amid a growing climate of 
“building back better.”  
Disclosing Diversity Data as Best Practice
Finally, we advocate for companies we engage with 
Engagement Has Highlighted Positive  to actively disclose diversity data as a matter of 
Disclosure Trends best practice. While climate change has typically 
This positive trend has been reflected in our  dominated the ESG narrative in recent years, diversity 
engagement with companies over the past year. While  and equality have come sharply into focus over the 
the general tone of our interactions with company  past year. The onset of the pandemic and a rallying 
management teams had already begun to shift before  social justice movement have compelled companies 
the pandemic, we experienced a step-change in  to reconsider their approach to human capital 
corporate attitudes to ESG disclosure in 2020. Where   management. Encouragingly, while there is some 
discussions previously revolved around why companies  way to go, we are seeing many companies making 
should disclose ESG data at all, many companies  efforts to improve, such as implementing human 
now seek guidance on what ESG data to disclose and  rights policies, or raising expectations for senior 
how best to go about it. Not many companies needed  management to improve diversity efforts.  
convincing about the relevance and importance of 
In 2021, we anticipate further regulatory actions 
ESG, and increasingly sought guidance on ways to 
around the world to improve ESG data quality and 
improve the level and quality of their ESG disclosure. 
coverage. This would be a positive change, and we 
We continue to guide and encourage companies  will continue to actively engage with companies, 
toward industry best practice disclosure standards.   sharing our experience and expertise, and guiding  
To this end, we advocate for disclosures aligned to   on ESG disclosure best practices.
   
| 34
Foreword 2020   Our ESG Investing  ESG Integration   Focus Themes   Corporate  Proxy Voting  Collaborations  Resources
in Review Approach  in Action Engagement 
Where discussions 
previously revolved around 
why companies should 
disclose ESG data at all, 
many companies now seek 
guidance on what ESG 
data to disclose and how 
best to go about it.
   
| 35
Foreword 2020   Our ESG Investing  ESG Integration   Focus Themes   Corporate  Proxy Voting  Collaborations  Resources
in Review Approach  in Action Engagement 
PROXY VOTING
2020 Proxy Voting Activity 
Proxy voting is a crucial link in the chain of stewardship  They receive recommendations and support from  
responsibilities we execute on behalf of our clients.  a range of internal and external resources: 
Each vote represents both the privileges and the 
responsibilities that come with owning a company’s  § The T. Rowe Price ESG Committee 
equity instruments. § Our global industry analysts 
We take our responsibility to vote our clients’ shares  § Our specialists in corporate governance and 
very seriously—taking into account high-level principles  responsible investment 
of corporate governance and company-specific 
§ Institutional Shareholder Services (ISS), our external 
circumstances. Our overarching objective is to cast 
proxy advisory firm 
votes to foster long-term, sustainable success for the 
company and its investors.  Our proxy voting program serves as one element of our  
overall relationship with corporate issuers. We use 
T. Rowe Price portfolio managers are ultimately  our voting power in a way that complements the other 
responsible for the voting decisions within the strategies  aspects of our relationship with these companies, 
they manage.  including engagement, investment diligence, and 
investment decision-making. 
Proxy Voting  
77 3
by the Numbers1
Countries Regions
65,405 48.7% 21.7% 29.6%
Proposals Voted Americas APAC EMEA
2020 Highlights
The following tables illustrate T. Rowe Price’s global proxy   Other voting issues are unique to select regions.  
voting activity for 2020. We voted on 65,405 proposals.  The tables highlight the top five most common voting 
Some categories, such as the election of directors, are  issues in each category, including the number of 
universal across the markets where we invest.    proposals we voted on and the percentage of those 
that we voted with management.
   
| 36
Foreword 2020   Our ESG Investing  ESG Integration   Focus Themes   Corporate  Proxy Voting  Collaborations  Resources
in Review Approach  in Action Engagement 
Americas | 31,843 Management and Shareholder Proposals
# of   % With   # of   % With  
Management Proposals Shareholder Proposals
Proposals Mgmt Proposals Mgmt
Elect Directors (Uncontested) 21,540 89.3% Social, Political, or  206 71.8%
Environmental Matters
Management Compensation:  
4,060 83.8% Proposals to Adopt or Amend 
Say on Pay and Equity Plans 154 77.3%
Shareholder Rights
Appoint Auditors/Approve 
Auditor Fees 3,239 98.9% Related to Director Policies 113 58.4%
Routine Business and  Related to Compensation 
932 72.7% 39 82.1%
Operational Matters Policies
Capital Structure Items 775 75.0% Related to Auditors 33 97.0% 
Other 713 72.9% Other 39 53.9% 
Total 31,259 Total 584
APAC | 14,217 Management and Shareholder Proposals
# of   % With   # of   % With  
Management Proposals Shareholder Proposals
Proposals Mgmt Proposals Mgmt
Elect Directors (Uncontested) 8,600 93.8% Related to Director Policies 142 94.4%
Capital Structure Items   1,770 89.5%  Related to Routine Business   80 62.5% 
and Operational Matters
Routine Business and 
 1,476 91.9%  Social, Political, or 
Operational Matters 63 95.2% 
Environmental Matters
Management Compensation: 
Say on Pay and Equity Plans 1,266 83.9%  Related to Auditors 24 95.8% 
Mergers & Acquisitions  388 88.4% Related to Compensation  16 62.5%
Policies
Other  385   91.9% Other 7 71.5%
Total 13,885  Total 332
EMEA | 19,345 Management and Shareholder Proposals
# of   % With   # of   % With  
Management Proposals Shareholder Proposals
Proposals Mgmt Proposals Mgmt
Elect Directors (Uncontested)  6,656 88.9%  Related to Routine Business   120 91.7% 
and Operational Matters
Routine Business and 
Operational Matters 4,585 91.9%  Related to Director Policies 45 97.8% 
Management Compensation:    3,219 80.8%  Related to Auditors 41 100.0%
Say on Pay and Equity Plans
Social, Political, or 
Capital Structure Items 3,208 90.1%  Environmental Matters 31 58.1% 
Appoint Auditors/Approve  Related to Compensation 
978 92.4% 8 100.0%
Auditor Fees Policies
Other 452 84.7%  Other 2 50.0%
Total 19,098 Total 247
1 As of December 31, 2020.
   
| 37
Foreword 2020   Our ESG Investing  ESG Integration   Focus Themes   Corporate  Proxy Voting  Collaborations  Resources
in Review Approach  in Action Engagement 
Shareholder Proposals in Focus
Where proxy voting is concerned, our overarching objective is to vote our clients’ shares in  
a thoughtful, investment-centered way—in support of the path most likely to foster long-term, 
sustainable success for the company and its investors. 
In 2020, the T. Rowe Price portfolios voted on 1,431  It is important to note that our overall framework for 
shareholder resolutions across all markets. Of  integrating ESG factors into our investment process—
those, 500 were situations where shareholders were  which includes proxy voting—is research-centered. 
nominating directors to a company’s board. Another  Its purpose is to produce investment insights for our 
585 were resolutions asking companies to adopt a  internal teams of analysts and portfolio managers. 
specific corporate governance practice. 346 were 
As a global asset manager serving clients with different  
social and environmental resolutions.
perspectives, beliefs, time horizons, and investment 
goals, it is not our objective to build our investment 
Voting Framework: Principles-Based or Case  strategies around a specific set of values. Instead, our 
by Case?  objective is to use different lenses (environmental, social, 
When it comes to proxy voting issues, there is some  ethical, and governance) to deepen our understanding 
debate as to the best approach: is it best to look at  of the investments held in our clients’ portfolios. 
each issue individually and consider the company’s   
circumstances or to apply a set of principles evenly 
There are areas 
across all companies? In our view, the answer is both. 
There are many areas within proxy voting where   where a case-by-case 
a principles-based approach can be implemented 
effectively. For example, our proxy voting guidelines 
approach is necessary.
are generally designed to promote an appropriate 
level of board independence, robust shareholder 
rights, and strong linkage over time between   
executives’ compensation and company performance.  The Importance of an Investment Focused 
However, there are other areas where a case-by-case  Framework 
approach is necessary in order to achieve full alignment 
between our guidelines and our voting outcomes.  The quality, intent, and utility of shareholder resolutions 
on ESG matters are highly variable. Some well- 
One area where this is very much the case is shareholder  targeted resolutions are extremely helpful in persuading 
resolutions. The main reason shareholder resolutions  companies to strengthen their management of certain 
are hard to implement with a principles-based voting  risks, leading to improved outcomes for investors. Other 
approach is because they are more nuanced than  resolutions are not helpful—we would even call them 
other proxy voting categories. For example, we  harmful—if the objectives of the proponent do not 
employ an objective set of indicators to determine  align with economically oriented long-term investors. 
a director’s independence. It is a straightforward  This is why we believe the most responsible approach 
decision to vote against existing directors and indicate  to voting such resolutions is to apply a thoughtful, 
to the company that they should be replaced with  investment-focused framework. 
independent board members. Shareholder proposals 
can call for the company to make a change, but 
also to employ a prescriptive method to do so. We 
often find ourselves agreeing with a proponent that 
a company’s environmental or social disclosure is 
inadequate. However, we do not always agree with  
the prescriptive remedy put forth.
   
| 38
Foreword 2020   Our ESG Investing  ESG Integration   Focus Themes   Corporate  Proxy Voting  Collaborations  Resources
in Review Approach  in Action Engagement 
Shareholder Resolutions Voted on in 2020
Shareholders  Corporate 
Nominating  Governance 
Directors Resolutions
0
0
5 5
8
5
Total
1,431
346
Social and Environmental 
Resolutions
Social Environmental Political Spending  Anti-nuclear  Anti-ESG
148 RESOLUTIONS 81 RESOLUTIONS and Lobbying Power 12 RESOLUTIONS
62 RESOLUTIONS 43 RESOLUTIONS
19% supported 30% supported 100% opposed
80% opposed 63% opposed 32% supported 100% opposed
  1% elected    1% abstained  68% opposed
not to vote    6% elected 
due to share not to vote 
blocking* due to share 
blocking*
Chart shows the number of shareholder resolutions we voted on in 2020 by proposal topic.  For “Social and Environmental Resolutions” we 
classify the proposals into five distinct categories.
*Share-blocking is a requirement in certain markets that impose liquidity constraints in order to exercise voting rights. We generally do not vote 
in these markets.
As of December 31, 2020.
Source: T. Rowe Price.
   
| 39
Foreword 2020   Our ESG Investing  ESG Integration   Focus Themes   Corporate  Proxy Voting  Collaborations  Resources
in Review Approach  in Action Engagement 
COLLABORATIONS
Collaborative Engagement  
and Industry Leadership  
We participate in collaborative industry initiatives on a selective and strategic  
basis. These initiatives support our core engagement program. We seek to  
understand where collaboration can provide the most viable and impactful  
supplement to our powerful internal capabilities.
Five key considerations for collaborative engagement
When considering participation in a collaborative engagement initiative, we weigh  
the following factors: 
IMPACT  RESOURCE 
ALIGNMENT PRACTICALITY TANGIBILITY
POTENTIAL FOCUS
How closely aligned  Would our  Does the  Have we already  Is the scope of 
is this engagement  participation help  engagement  undertaken the same  the collaborative 
opportunity with our  the engagement  make the most  engagement or very  engagement clear, 
investment holdings?  initiative? Does it  efficient use of our  similar engagements  and are we confident 
Does it include  need a large asset  internally dedicated  unilaterally with  that it will not change  
companies where  manager merely to  engagement  success? over time?
we are significant  gain attention, or  resources?
shareholders? does it already have 
broad support?
As the pandemic subsides, we expect regulators  Commission supporting changes to the Nasdaq 
across global markets to examine issues such as  listing rules to promote board diversity 
capital formation, ESG objectives, share buybacks, 
§ Public comments to the Bangladesh Securities & 
executive compensation, working conditions, and 
Exchange Commission expressing concerns about 
corporate disclosure. T. Rowe Price will continue to 
extended market closures 
participate in these discussions at the industry and 
regulatory levels and advocate for stronger disclosure  § Representing the asset manager community on a 
requirements. In 2020, our advocacy initiatives included:  working group for the UK Pensions and Lifetime 
Savings Association (PLSA) 
§ Public comments to the U.S. Department of Labor 
on two occasions, noting potential shortcomings   § Participating in consultations for sustainable finance 
regulations in the European Union, United Kingdom, 
in the department’s proposed rules imposing limits 
Hong Kong, and Singapore
on ESG investments and proxy voting 
§ Public comment to the U.S. Securities & Exchange 
   
| 40
Foreword 2020   Our ESG Investing  ESG Integration   Focus Themes   Corporate  Proxy Voting  Collaborations  Resources
in Review Approach  in Action Engagement 
T. Rowe Price has joined or led the following initiatives:
Organization Description Joined
Council of Institutional Investors  U.S. association of institutional investors, corporate issuers, and 
1989
(CII) asset managers
Principles for Responsible 
Global initiative for responsible investment 2010
Investment (PRI) 
Public commitment to uphold stewardship principles for UK 
UK Stewardship Code 2010
investors
Public commitment to uphold stewardship principles for Japanese 
Japan Stewardship Code 2014
investors
Associacão Investidores no 
Association for minority investors in Brazil 2015
Mercado de Capitais (AMEC)
Asia Corporate Governance 
Pan-Asian association for institutional investors 2016
Association
Collaborative engagement association for investors in UK 
UK Investor Forum  2016
companies (Founding Member)
Investors advocating for core governance principles for U.S. market 
Investor Stewardship Group (ISG) 2017
participants (Founding Member)
Investor forum for stewardship solutions and sharing of best 
Japan Stewardship Initiative 2019
practices (Founding Member)
Investment Association Climate  Group to direct the work of the UK investment management industry 
2020
Change Working Group trade body in relation to climate change
Institutional Investors Group on  European membership body for investor collaboration on climate 
2020
Climate Change (IIGCC) change
Organization that facilitates investor advocacy to improve policies 
Emerging Markets Investors 
and practices of governments and companies in the emerging  2020
Alliance
markets 
Task Force on Climate-related  The Financial Stability Board created the TCFD to improve and 
2020
Financial Disclosures (TCFD) increase reporting of climate-related financial information
Responsible Investment Association  Champions responsible investing and a sustainable financial system 
2020
Australasia (RIAA) in Australia and New Zealand
A collaborative investor network that raises awareness of the ESG 
FAIRR 2020
risks and opportunities caused by intensive animal production
A tool for driving change in the pharmaceutical industry, through the 
identification of best practices, tracking progress and highlighting 
Access to Medicine Index 2021
where critical action is needed to improve access to medicine for 
vulnerable populations 
Supports the TCFD in Japan, by furthering the discussion on good 
TCFD Consortium (Japan) practice related to climate-linked disclosures and endorsing better- 2021
informed investment decisions
Global Impact Investing Network  Organization dedicated to increasing the scale and effectiveness of 
2021
(GIIN) impact investing around the world
Program designed for asset managers, asset owners, companies 
Sustainability Accounting Standards  and service providers to learn about the financial impact of ESG 
2021
Board (SASB) Alliance issues. It allows members to explore best practices to integrate 
material sustainability information into existing processes
The world’s largest corporate sustainability initiative. Its strategy 
UN Global Compact drives business awareness and action in support of achieving the  2021
UN Sustainable Development Goals by 2030
IMEA (Investment Management  A forum exclusively for investment management firms to discuss 
2021
Education Alliance) ESG Committee multiple aspects of the ESG investment and education
As of April 2021.
   
| 41
Foreword 2020   Our ESG Investing  ESG Integration   Focus Themes   Corporate  Proxy Voting  Collaborations  Resources
in Review Approach  in Action Engagement 
RESOURCES
ESG Team
Responsible Investing
           
MARIA ELENA  SUHA READ JOE BALDWIN ASHLEY HOGAN NATALIE  SCOTT PETRIE
DREW Business  Associate Analyst  Associate Analyst  MCGOWEN Associate Analyst 
Director of  Manager,  (London) (Baltimore) Associate Analyst  (London)
Research,  Responsible  (Baltimore)
Responsible  Investing (London)
Investing (London)
     
IONA  DUNCAN SCOTT KAOUTAR YAICHE
RICHARDSON Associate Analyst  Analyst (Baltimore)
Associate Analyst   (London)
(Hong Kong)
Proxy  
Governance Regulatory Research Services
     
DONNA  JOCELYN BROWN KARA MCCOY KATIE DEAL MICHAEL  AMANDA FALASCO
ANDERSON Head of  Governance  Analyst,  PINKERTON Lead Manager  
Head of Corporate  Governance,   Analyst (Baltimore) Washington  Associate Analyst,  (Baltimore)
Governance  EMEA and APAC  Research  Washington 
(Baltimore) (London) (Baltimore) Research 
(Baltimore)
T. Rowe Price Investment Management (TRPIM)1
CHRISTOPHER WHITEHOUSE  KEVIN KLASSEN  MOLLY SHUTT
Future Head of ESG, TRPIM  ESG Quantitative Analyst (Baltimore) Associate Analyst, Responsible 
(London)  Investing (Baltimore)
1 On 11/19/2020, T. Rowe Price Associates, Inc. (TRPA), announced its intent to create a new, separate, SEC-registered U.S. investment 
adviser, T. Rowe Price Investment Management (TRPIM). Pending all approvals, TRPA will transition 6 of our well-established U.S. equity and 
fixed income investment strategies from TRPA to TRPIM in the second quarter of 2022. For more information on T. Rowe Price Investment 
Management, the press release is available here.
   
| 42
Foreword 2020   Our ESG Investing  ESG Integration   Focus Themes   Corporate  Proxy Voting  Collaborations  Resources
in Review Approach  in Action Engagement 
ESG Committee
Donna F. Anderson   Maria Elena Drew  
Co-Chair, Head of Corporate Governance  Co-Chair, Director of Research, Responsible Investing 
Kamran Baig   Matt Lawton  
Director of Equity Research, EMEA and Latin America  Sector Portfolio Manager 
Hari Balkrishna   Matthew Leef  
Portfolio Manager, Global Impact Equity  Head of U.S. Investment, Middle Office
Oliver Bell   Ryan Nolan  
Associate Head, International Equity Senior Legal Counsel, Legal 
R. Scott Berg   Gonzalo Pángaro  
Portfolio Manager, Global Growth Equity  Portfolio Manager, Emerging Markets Equity 
Brian W. Berghuis   Sally Patterson  
Portfolio Manager, U.S. Mid-Cap Growth Equity  General Manager, International Equity 
Jocelyn Brown   Preeta Ragavan  
Head of Governance, EMEA and APAC Equity Investment Analyst 
Archibald Ciganer   Jeff Rottinghaus  
Portfolio Manager, Japan Equity  Portfolio Manager, U.S. Large-Cap Core Equity 
Anna M. Dopkin   John C.A. Sherman  
Strategic Project Manager  Equity Investment Analyst
Amanda Falasco   Justin Thomson  
Lead Manager, Proxy Services  Chief Investment Officer and Head of International Equities
Ryan Hedrick   Mitchell Todd  
Associate Portfolio Manager, U.S. Large-Cap Equity  Portfolio Manager, UK Equity 
LQ Huang   Eric Veiel  
General Manager, U.S. Equity  Co-head, Global Equity 
Arif Husain   Christopher Whitehouse1  
Head of International Fixed Income Future Head of ESG, TRPIM
Michael Lambe  Ernest Yeung  
Associate Director of Research Portfolio Manager, Emerging Markets Discovery Equity
1 On 11/19/2020, T. Rowe Price Associates, Inc. (TRPA), announced its intent to create a new, separate, SEC-registered U.S. investment 
adviser, T. Rowe Price Investment Management (TRPIM). Pending all approvals, TRPA will transition 6 of our well-established U.S. equity and 
fixed income investment strategies from TRPA to TRPIM in the second quarter of 2022. For more information on T. Rowe Price Investment 
Management, the press release is available here.
   
| 43
Foreword 2020   Our ESG Investing  ESG Integration   Focus Themes   Corporate  Proxy Voting  Collaborations  Resources
in Review Approach  in Action Engagement 
Additional Disclosures
MSCI and its affiliates and third party sources and  ICE Data Indices, LLC (“ICE DATA”), is used with 
providers (collectively, “MSCI”) makes no express or  permission. ICE DATA, ITS AFFILIATES AND 
implied warranties or representations and shall have  THEIR RESPECTIVE THIRD-PARTY SUPPLIERS 
no liability whatsoever with respect to any MSCI data  DISCLAIM ANY AND ALL WARRANTIES 
contained herein. The MSCI data may not be further  AND REPRESENTATIONS, EXPRESS AND/
redistributed or used as a basis for other indices or  OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING ANY WARRANTIES 
any securities or financial products. This report is not  OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A 
approved, reviewed, or produced by MSCI. Historical  PARTICULAR PURPOSE OR USE, INCLUDING THE 
MSCI data and analysis should not be taken as an  INDICES, INDEX DATA AND ANY DATA INCLUDED IN, 
indication or guarantee of any future performance  RELATED TO, OR DERIVED THEREFROM. NEITHER 
analysis, forecast or prediction. None of the MSCI  ICE DATA, ITS AFFILIATES NOR THEIR RESPECTIVE 
data is intended to constitute investment advice or a  THIRD-PARTY SUPPLIERS SHALL BE SUBJECT 
recommendation to make (or refrain from making) any  TO ANY DAMAGES OR LIABILITY WITH RESPECT 
kind of investment decision and may not be relied on  TO THE ADEQUACY, ACCURACY, TIMELINESS OR 
as such. COMPLETENESS OF THE INDICES OR THE INDEX 
DATA OR ANY COMPONENT THEREOF, AND THE 
The S&P 500 Index, the S&P/ASX 200 Index, and S&P 
INDICES AND INDEX DATA AND ALL COMPONENTS 
Global ex US Small Cap Index are products of S&P 
THEREOF ARE PROVIDED ON AN “AS IS” BASIS 
Dow Jones Indices LLC, a division of S&P Global, or 
AND YOUR USE IS AT YOUR OWN RISK. ICE DATA, 
its affiliates (“SPDJI”), and has been licensed for use 
ITS AFFILIATES AND THEIR RESPECTIVE THIRD-
by T. Rowe Price. Standard & Poor’s® and S&P® are 
PARTY SUPPLIERS DO NOT SPONSOR, ENDORSE, 
registered trademarks of Standard & Poor’s Financial 
OR RECOMMEND T. ROWE PRICE OR ANY OF ITS 
Services LLC, a division of S&P Global (“S&P”); 
PRODUCTS OR SERVICES.
Dow Jones® is a registered trademark of Dow Jones 
Trademark Holdings LLC (“Dow Jones”); T. Rowe Price  Bloomberg Index Services Limited. BLOOMBERG® is 
product is not sponsored, endorsed, sold or promoted  a trademark and service mark of Bloomberg Finance 
by SPDJI, Dow Jones, S&P, their respective affiliates,  L.P. and its affiliates (collectively “Bloomberg”). 
and none of such parties make any representation  BARCLAYS® is a trademark and service mark of 
regarding the advisability of investing in such product(s)  Barclays Bank Plc (collectively with its affiliates, 
nor do they have any liability for any errors, omissions,  “Barclays”), used under license. Bloomberg or 
or interruptions of the S&P 500 Index, the S&P/ASX  Bloomberg’s licensors, including Barclays, own 
200 Index, and S&P Global ex US Small Cap Index. all proprietary rights in the Bloomberg Barclays 
Indices. Neither Bloomberg nor Barclays approves 
London Stock Exchange Group plc and its group 
or endorses this material, or guarantees the accuracy 
undertakings (collectively, the “LSE Group”). © LSE 
or completeness of any information herein, or makes 
Group 2021. FTSE Russell is a trading name of certain 
any warranty, express or implied, as to the results 
of the LSE Group companies. FTSE Europe ex UK is 
to be obtained therefrom and, to the maximum 
a trade mark of the relevant LSE Group companies 
extent allowed by law, neither shall have any liability 
and is/are used by any other LSE Group company 
or responsibility for injury or damages arising in 
under license. All rights in the FTSE Russell indexes 
connection therewith. 
or data vest in the relevant LSE Group company 
which owns the index or the data. Neither LSE Group  TOPIX – Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc.
nor its licensors accept any liability for any errors 
Copyright ©2021 Sustainalytics. All rights reserved.  
or omissions in the indexes or data and no party 
The section on page 26 may be based on information 
may rely on any indexes or data contained in this 
developed by Sustainalytics, a leading independent 
communication. No further distribution of data from 
ESG and corporate governance research, ratings 
the LSE Group is permitted without the relevant LSE 
and analytics firm operating for over 25 years and 
Group company’s express written consent. The LSE 
supporting investors around the world with the 
Group does not promote, sponsor or endorse the 
development and implementation of responsible 
content of this communication. The LSE Group is 
investment strategies. 
not responsible for the formatting or configuration of 
 
this material or for any inaccuracy in T. Rowe Price 
 
Associates’ presentation thereof.
Information has been obtained from sources believed 
to be reliable but J.P. Morgan does not warrant its 
completeness or accuracy. The index is used with 
permission. The Index may not be copied, used, or 
distributed without J.P. Morgan’s prior written approval. 
Copyright © 2021, J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. All rights 
reserved.
   
| 44
Foreword 2020   Our ESG Investing  ESG Integration   Focus Themes   Corporate  Proxy Voting  Collaborations  Resources
in Review Approach  in Action Engagement 
Important Information
This material is provided for informational purposes only and is not intended to be investment advice or a 
recommendation to take any particular investment action.  
The views contained herein are those of the authors as of May 2021 and are subject to change without notice; 
these views may differ from those of other T. Rowe Price associates.  
This information is not intended to reflect a current or past recommendation concerning investments, investment 
strategies, or account types, advice of any kind, or a solicitation of an offer to buy or sell any securities or 
investment services. The opinions and commentary provided do not take into account the investment objectives 
or financial situation of any particular investor or class of investor. Please consider your own circumstances before 
making an investment decision.
Information contained herein is based upon sources we consider to be reliable; we do not, however, guarantee its 
accuracy. Actual future outcomes may differ materially from any estimates or forward-looking statements made.
Past performance is not a reliable indicator of future performance. All investments are subject to 
market risk, including the possible loss of principal. All charts and tables are shown for illustrative purposes 
only. International investments can be riskier than U.S. investments due to the adverse effects of currency 
exchange rates, differences in market structure and liquidity, as well as specific country, regional, and economic 
developments. The risks of international investing are heightened for investments in emerging market and frontier 
market countries. Emerging and frontier market countries tend to have economic structures that are less diverse 
and mature, and political systems that are less stable, than those of developed market countries. Fixed income 
securities are subject to credit risk, liquidity risk, call risk, and interest-rate risk. As interest rates rise, bond 
prices generally fall. Investments in high-yield bonds involve greater risk of price volatility, illiquidity, and default 
than higher-rated debt securities. Impact investing or ESG strategies may not succeed in generating a positive 
environmental and/or social impact. There is no assurance that any investment objective will be achieved.
T. Rowe Price Investment Services, Inc., distributor, T. Rowe Price mutual funds. T. Rowe Price Associates, Inc., 
investment advisor. 
© 2021 T. Rowe Price. All rights reserved. T. ROWE PRICE, INVEST WITH CONFIDENCE, and the bighorn sheep 
design are, collectively and/or apart, trademarks of T. Rowe Price Group, Inc.  
   
| 45
T. Rowe Price focuses on delivering 
investment management excellence  
that investors can rely on—now and  
over the long term.
CCON0071529 
202105-1602231