
Sustainability
Report
2020
001
Contents
SMBC Group has not published a booklet version of Sustainability Report, instead disclosing information on our 
website.(In order to improve convenience, we post a PDF version of our website, what we call Sustainability report.) 
This Report identifies and discusses key issues that should be addressed by the SMBC Group, as well as providing 
useful links within pages so that readers can view information relevant to their purpose. 
Looking ahead, the Group will focus on maintaining a dialogue with stakeholders by enhancing its communication 
activities.
Editorial Policy 002 For Next Generation 104
Sustainability at SMBC Group 004 　Support for Growth Industries 105
　SMBC Group GREEN×GLOBE 2030 006 　Promotion of Financial Literacy Education 107
　SMBC Group’s Value Creation Process 008 　Contribution Activities to Next Generation  113
　Sustainability Management System 011 Diversity & Inclusion 115
　Priority Issues (Materiality) 012 　Message from the Group CEO 118
　　Process to Identify Key Priority Issues 015 　Outline of Diversity Promotion 119
　Respect for Human Rights 017 　Work - life balance support 122
Stakeholder Engagement 020 　Empowerment of women 129
　Dialogue with Stakeholders 021 　LGBT Inclusion 135
Participation in Initiatives and 　Global HR Development 139
030
Reference Guidelines 　Empowerment of senior employees 142
ESG Information 033 　Empowerment of people with disabilities 144
　Environment 034 　Work style reform 147
　Social 044 　Health management 151
　Governance 046 List of Company Data 154
SMBC Group Businesses and SDGs 049 Recognition and Accreditation for SMBC Group
196
For Environment 051 sustainable initiatives
　Promotion of Environmental Businesses 052 　Recognition and Accreditation 197
　Management of Environmental Risks 060
　Reduction of Environmental Impacts 　 064
　Response to climate change
073
　(Working on TCFD Recommendations)
　SMBC Group Green Bond 078
　　SMBC Group Green Bond Framework 080
　Contribution Activities to Environment 082
For Community 084
　Contribution to Achieving and Developing Safe
085
　and Secure Communities
　Promotion of Social Inclusion in Collaboration 092
　Contribution Activities to Community  095
How to Use this Report
You can move between the pages of this report using the category tabs, navigation buttons and link buttons.
Category tabs Header nabigation buttons
Category TOP
001 SMFG SustainabilitySustainability at SMBC GroupParticipation in Initiatives and Reference Guidelines ReStakeholder EngagementportMpc 2aa0otg2eve0eg o otrfo ye tahceh gate Mthoe vceu trore tnhte p gaagtee  bpealogen gosf  teoa.ch category wMheorvee to theM“ oCvCMoeo nnotttoeven entt hsttseo”   ptphraeegv neioe0u0xs0t  ppaaggee
002
Editorial Policy
Sustainability Website Editorial Policy
This website has been created for the purpose of communicating to stakeholders the roles played by the SMBC Group in
helping to realize a sustainable society, as well as its initiatives.
The website compiles characteristic initiatives, including the latest examples, centering on policies,systems, and
programs related to Sustainability at SMBC and the holding company SMBC Group. We aim to continue to enhance the
range of information disclosed. Effective links are also provided to information disclosed on the websites of individual
Group companies in connection with examples of initiatives at those companies.
The sustainability report is a PDF file version of this site and allows stakeholders to review the sustainable initiatives of
the SMBC Group in a single document.
Note on Company Names
Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group, Inc. is referred to on this site and in the CSR report as the "holding company SMBC
Group" or "SMBC Group," and the overall corporate group that includes the main Group companies is referred to as the
"SMBC Group."
Scope of this Report
● Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group, Inc.
● Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation
● SMBC Trust Bank Ltd.
● Sumitomo Mitsui Finance and Leasing Company, Limited
● SMBC Nikko Securities Inc.
● SMBC Friend Securities Co., Ltd.(*1)
● Sumitomo Mitsui Card Company, Limited
● Cedyna Financial Corporation(*2)
● SMBC Consumer Finance Co., Ltd.
● The Japan Research Institute, Limited
● Sumitomo Mitsui Asset Management Company, Limited(*3)
(*1)SMBC Friend Securities has formed a merger with SMBC Nikko Securities in January 2018.
(*2)Cedyna Financial Corporation changed the name in July 2020 to SMBC Finance Service after merger with SMBC
Finance Service.
(*3)Sumitomo Mitsui Asset Management and Daiwa SB Investments merge to form Sumitomo Mitsui DS Asset
Management Company in April 2019.
Reporting period and other information
Reporting Period
The fiscal 2019 period, the 12-months from April 1, 2019 to March 31, 2020 
*The Report contains additional information including certain up-to-date data as well as future prospects where
considered.
Month of Issue
September 2020 (Previous issue: September 2019)
002
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
003
Reference Guidelines
We refer to GRI "Sustainability Reporting Guideline (G4)."
*GRI (Global Reporting Initiative): Established as an international standard for sustainability reporting, compliers set up
an international organization GRI in 1997 to encourage its adoption worldwide.
External Verification
Data on fiscal 2018 CO2 emissions by main Group companies under Scope 1, 2 and 3 (Category 6: Business Travel) has
been independently certified by the Japan Quality Assurance Organization to ensure its reliability.
Contact Information
1-1-2 Marunouchi, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo, Japan 100-0005
Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group, Inc.
Tel: +81-3-3282-8111
Diversity Reports
At the SMBC Group, we create Diversity Reports and carry out external transmission of information.
Click here for the 2018 SMBC Group Click here for SMBC Group Diversity Report
Diversity Report back numbers (2017- )
Downloadable Content
"SAFE" Corporate
Communication
ESG Data Book Environmental
Book
Magazine
Sustainability
Repot
003
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
004
Sustainability at SMBC Group
SMBC Group Statement on Sustainability
Throughout its 400-year history, SMBC Group has continuously upheld its commitment to sustainability. We hereby
declare that we will drive forward our efforts to make sustainability a reality.
Definition of Sustainability
SMBC Group defines sustainability as “creating a society in which today’s generation can enjoy economic prosperity and
well-being, and pass it on to future generations.”
Understanding of the Present Situation and Our Role
● As a financial institution, we will engage and act together with customers and other stakeholders to contribute to the
global transformation into a better society.
SMBC Group Statement on Sustainability(16KB)
FY2019 Dialogue (1) 
The content of the “SMBC Group Statement on Sustainability” and its penetration throughout the
company (September 5, 2019)
SMBC Group has established “SMBC Group GREEN×GLOBE 2030”, a ten-year plan that extends to 2030 and is based
upon the Sustainability Statement.
SMBC Group GREEN×GLOBE 2030
FY2019 Dialogue (2) 
Social impacts required for mega bank group required to solve social issues. (November 27, 2019)
Issues that SMBC Group focuses on
The SMBC Group has “Environment”, ”Community”, and ”Next Generation” as priority issues, aiming for a society in
which everyone can enjoy economic prosperity and well-being.
Priority Issues (Materiality) that SMBC Group Should Address
004
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
005
400 years of sustainability practice
For more than 400 years, we have consistently regarded sustainability as a cause fundamental to our business
operations, and to this day it remains the foundation of our management.
005
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
006
SMBC Group GREEN×GLOBE 2030
SMBC Group has established “SMBC Group GREEN×GLOBE 2030”, a ten-year plan that extends to 2030 and is based
upon the Sustainability Statement.
Basic concept
“Create the future of the earth and humanity with our customers.”
Thoughts in the name
“GREEN” represents SMBC Group’s corporate color and
the environment while “GLOBE” represents the earth and
a borderless world. The two terms are connected by “×” to
show the plan’s potential being measured in terms of
multiplication rather than mere addition.
Key pillars of the plan
006
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
007
Long-term goals within “SMBC Group GREEN×GLOBE 2030” (352KB)
007
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
008
SMBC Group’s Value Creation Process
SMBC Group’s Value Creation Process illustrates what value we creates through addressing the materiality to grow
together with stakeholders.
008
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
009
SMBC Group’s Value Creation Process
Business activities emphasizing  ueat1on and 1ntermed1at1on ot valUe 
three Materiality 
ー
("Environment," "Community,"  Business Units  fiye Values 
and "Next Generation)  ］ lntegr町 I 
••WRethoaliel sale  CPurostaoctimveer  F&i rIstnn ovative 
Global  Speed & Quality 
゜Global Markets  Ream―·sMBC Group" 
.111. 
江］。
•
• 出 卿
゜
Environment  Community  Next Gene『ation
 
戸ヽ
Renewable energy p『ojects
Green bond underwr�ing 
Services and products supplied 
,
throu釦OU『businessactivities  ヽu＇
"
Cash settlements Wealth management 
Financial inclusion 
g
New business development 
0
Dig�alt『ansfo『mations
雫
Financial literacy education 
 
• 
＝
'3 
Preservation of a healthy environment
Impacts on stakeholders derived 
、
from our business activities 
M•
�  Creation of a゜ society in 
Hi  which every necan�ve wah peace of mind
g
Fostering of people and industries that wm 
品
shape the future 
  II[
009 � 
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
Changes in stakeholders  Impact on society 
inspired by value created by 
SMBCGroup 
↓
⑥ Value Cycle  炒
A prosperous society whe『esociety bears 
b
abundant fru�s and is enjoyed by stakeholders 
Beyond the impacts, value  賃
returns to stakeholders t>y 
improving SMBC Group's  ヽ
corporate value, as well as 
enhancing intangit>le assets that 
Financial cap�al obtained f『omservices and products 
are a source of SM BC G『oup's fl'E� 
corporate value 
New seedtings fo『thenext generation 
Business activities emphasizing  ueat1on and 1ntermed1at1on ot valUe 
three Materiality 
ー
("Environment," "Community,"  Business Units  fiye Values 
and "Next Generation)  ］ lntegr町 I 
••WRethoaliel sale  CPurostaoctimveer  F&i rIstnn ovative 
Global  Speed & Quality 
゜Global Markets  Ream―·sMBC Group" 
.111. 
江］。
•
• 出 卿
゜
Environment  Community  Next Gene『ation
 
戸ヽ
Renewable energy p『ojects
Green bond underwr�ing 
Services and products supplied 
,
throu釦OU『businessactivities  ヽu＇
"
Cash settlements Wealth management 
Financial inclusion 
g
New business development 
0
Dig�alt『ansfo『mations
雫
Financial literacy education 
 
• 
＝
'3 
Preservation of a healthy environment
Impacts on stakeholders derived 
、
from our business activities 
M•
�  Creation of a゜ society in 
Hi  which every necan�ve wah peace of mind
g
Fostering of people and industries that wm 
品
shape the future 
  II[ 010
� 
Changes in stakeholders  Impact on society 
inspired by value created by 
SMBCGroup 
↓
⑥ Value Cycle  炒
A prosperous society whe『esociety bears 
b
abundant fru�s and is enjoyed by stakeholders 
Beyond the impacts, value  賃
returns to stakeholders t>y 
improving SMBC Group's  ヽ
corporate value, as well as 
enhancing intangit>le assets that 
Financial cap�al obtained f『omservices and products 
are a source of SM BC G『oup's fl'E� 
corporate value 
New seedtings fo『thenext generation 
010
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
011
Sustainability Management System
SMBC Group defines sustainability as "Creating and maintaining a society in which all of today's generation can enjoy
economic prosperity and well-being and pass it on to future generations." 
We take sustainability into account in our "Sustainability management"
SMBC Group sustainability management system
In the SMBC Group, SMFG Corporate Sustainability Dept. undertakes the planning execution of activities to promote
SDGs and ESG for the entire Group, including measures to deal with climate change, under the supervision of the
Group CSO, who is a board member. 
In addition, the promotion of plans and the important plans are discussed and decided in the "Corporate
Sustainability Committees" headed by chairperson, the Group CEO.
Discussions regarding promotion and planning for sustainability and progress management
systems
Click to enlarge
Stakeholder Engagement
011
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
012
Priority Issues (Materiality)
Priority Issues (Materiality) that SMBC Group Should Address
SMBC Group has set “Environment”, “Community”, and “Next Generation” as priority issues in order to respond to
requests from stakeholders and contribute to solving social issues. 
In addition, with a view to 2030, which is the goal of the SDGs, we are clarifying the items and issues to be tackled and
working on them.
012
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
013
Initiatives for Priority Issues
For Next
For Environment For Community
Generation
013
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
014
Review of Priority Issues (Materiality)
In light of constantly changing social trends and a reassessment of the relative importance of the Group's priority issues
among its stakeholders, and in order to adapt our activities to these developments, in fiscal 2013 SMBC Group reviewed
our priority issues and have derived three new themes - "Environment," " Community," and " Next Generation " - as our
medium- to long-term priority issues that form the core of SMBC Group's activities. In identifying these priority issues, we
made use of the G4 sustainability reporting guidelines issued by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), and with
participation from all Group companies, we derived an order of priority for various social issues. We also engaged in
dialog with experts to assess the relative importance assigned by our stakeholders to the issues.
Process to Identify Key Priority Issues
Management Base
Corporate Risk Management Compliance
Governance
Internal Audits Customer-Oriented Human Resource
Initiatives Strategy
014
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
015
Process to Identify Key Priority Issues
Process
In light of constantly changing social trends and in consideration of stakeholder viewpoints, SMBC Group reviewed our
existing priority issues in fiscal 2013 and have derived three new themes – "Environment," "Community," and "Next
Generation" – as our medium- to long-term priority issues. 
Specifically, the Group identifies and prioritizes issues and decides which ones are key priority issues by consulting with
experts. The issues thus identified were reported to, and approved by the SMBC Group Management Committee.
Thereafter, the Group continues to review the issues by consulting with experts and through internal and external
questionnaire surveys to gather opinions on the issues.
Step 1  Step 2  Step 3  Step 4 
Selection Reexamination Reporting to Review
and and Group top through
prioritization identification management, engagement
of issues through dialog and receiving
with experts approval
Step 1 
Selection and prioritization of issues
We derived around 150 wide-ranging CSR issues from the GRI Guidelines (G4), utilizing the ISO 26000 framework,
and based on the participation of each of the Group companies. 
We then assigned an order of priority to these issues from the standpoint of our stakeholders. They were first placed
into two categories - "our medium-to long term priority issues (environment, community, and next generation)," and
"key issues to be addressed on solid management base."
Standards used for reference in prioritization
Importance to Stakeholders Importance to SMBC Group
● International frameworks such as the ● Priority issues from 10 Group companies
GRI Guidelines ● Conformity with SMBC Group's Business Mission,
● Items to be researched or pointed by the business ethics, and medium-term management plan
Socially Responsible Investing (SRI)- ● Assessment of risks and possible business opportunities
related institutions (potential for enhancing enterprise value) in line with
● Suggestions from the strategy advisor to pursuit of sustainability
the SMBC Group CSR Committee
015
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
016
Step 2 
Reexamination and identification through dialog with experts
In February 2014, we conducted a dialog with selected group of experts on our "issues thought likely to be important over
the medium-to-long term," and "issues that must be effectively addressed in order to construct a solid management
base" to check, from the perspective of social nature, environment and global issues whether sufficient consideration and
recognition had been given to all the issues that should be put forward as candidate priority issues, and to ensure that no
important issues had slipped through the net. 
After carrying out step 2, we conducted revision in line with the opinions expressed, and identified the priority issues to
be addressed by SMBC Group after receiving the approval of the experts.
Step 3 
Reporting to Group top management, and receiving approval
In March 2014, the Group's Management Committee gave approval for the priority issues (Materiality) that SMBC Group
should address through the Group CSR Committee and the Corporate Sustainability Meeting. 
Moreover, approval was received for the examination of specific methods of addressing priority issues after discussion
and review with stakeholders both within and outside the Group and each Group company.
Step 4 
Review through engagement
Since July 2014, the Group has been gathering informative opinions, both internal and external, from the following: e.g.,
employee surveys conducted during internal training sessions; external surveys covered in the CSR reports featuring
priority challenges to be addressed by SMBC Group, etc. Also, the Group occasionally attempts to review the challenges
to be covered as time progresses, through dialogue with all relevant stakeholders. 
In September and November 2019, dialogue was held as a step towards compilation of the “SMBC Group Sustainability
Declaration,” and during the course of time, the said priority challenges were reviewed by the experts involved.
Fiscal 2015: Realizing the "Ten-Year Vision"
Fiscal 2016: Verifying Validity of Issues to Be Addressed within Priority Issues (Materiality)
Fiscal 2017: Roles and Expectations for Financial Institutions in Terms of the SDGs and ESG Investments
Fiscal 2019: The content of the "SMBC Group Statement on Sustainability" and its penetration throughout the
company (September 5, 2019) 
Social impacts required for mega bank group required to solve social issues. (November 27, 2019)
Refer to the following for details on the stakeholder dialogue.
Stakeholder Engagement
Priority Issues (Materiality)
016
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
017
Respect for Human Rights
Approach to Respecting Human Rights (SMBC Group)
SMBC Group supports the 10 principles of the "United Nations Global Compact," in the areas of human rights, labor
standards, environment and anti-corruption measures. We comply with laws and regulations in the regions and countries
where we do business, protect and respect human rights in accordance with international human rights standards, and
work to prevent complicity in human rights violations.
Policy on Human Rights (SMBC Group)
SMBC Group has formulated "Statement on Human Rights" as its basic policy on Human Rights.
Statement on Human Rights (107KB)
System for Promoting Human Rights Awareness (SMBC)
SMBC has implemented in its corporate principles of action the statements that "we will respect the individual human
dignity of our clients and employees" and "we will not allow any discrimination." Led by the Human Rights Awareness
Promotion Committee, the bank conducts initiatives to raise awareness of human rights among all employees.
Click to enlarge
017
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
018
Enhancing Awareness for Human Rights (SMBC Group)
The SMBC Group is a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact and the ten principles related to human rights,
labor, the environment, and anti-corruption. We are also actively raising internal awareness on human rights, with a
range of activities across each Group company, such as human rights training and collecting ideas for a promotional
slogan. 
As a Group, we participate in the "Industrial Federation for Human Rights, Tokyo" which aims to establish respect for
human rights as part of core corporate culture through awareness raising and initiatives. By participating in these
activities the SMBC Group will continue to engage with stakeholders to seek to identify salient human rights issues.
Human Rights Awareness Seminars (SMBC)
SMBC conducts the following initiatives to raise awareness of human rights among all employees.
(1)Human rights awareness training through group training
Seminars on human rights are held during new recruit training and level-based training, etc. Seminars were held
between fiscal 2017 and fiscal 2019 as follows.
(Person)
Training eligibility FY2017 FY2018 FY2019
New recruit training 1,534 823 676
New manager/new executive training 904 955 826
New branch manager training 132 144 121
(2)Human Rights Awareness Department and Branch Promotion Committee Training Seminar (for Department
and Branch Managers)
This seminar is led by experts in the field and is held once a year for all department and branch managers and HR
managers at Group companies.
Assimilation Issues and Human Rights: Elimination of discrimination against
the Burakumin
Examples of Training
Barrier Value: Converting Disability into Value
Themes
Power Harassment and Anger Management: How can you scold people
without resorting to power harassment?
018
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
019
(3)Department and Branch Human Rights Training Seminar and Confirmation Test
The Department and Branch Human Rights Training Seminar is held twice a year for discussions on human rights and is
led by department and branch managers. Confirmation tests are held periodically over the Intranet to confirm the degree
of dissemination of human rights awareness.
Workplace harassment and human rights 
Examples of Training
Community discrimination problem and human rights
Themes
Power harassment at the workplace and human rights
(44)) Human Rights Slogan Contest for Employ
Every year SMBC conducts a human rights slogan contest for all employees, including Group companies, as a part of
Human Rights Week.
Initiatives for Improving Workplace Environment (SMBC)
To ensure we maintain a healthy and comfortable work environment, each Group company develops a manual on
measure to prevent sexual and power harassment, as well as provides compliance training for all employees.
Additionally, in manager training sessions we include practical approaches to identifying and preventing harassment,
including specific case studies.  
SMBC has a Counseling Dept., a dedicated function that handles various inquiries and consultation requests from
employees. Also, SMBC has established a system comprised of an external whistleblowing desk, covered by concerned
lawyers, as well as an internal whistleblowing desk with dedicated staff members, for the purpose of ensuring early
detection and rectification of any illegal occurrences, actions that violate internal rules, cases of sexual harassment,
power harassment, etc. Furthermore, SMBC endeavors to enhance employee engagement level as a united team for the
entire bank by conducting a monthly engagement survey, for the ultimate purpose of creating an ideal work environment
where every employee can contribute to the Group at full throttle.  
Participating "Human Rights Due Diligence Workshop" (SMBC)
With human rights considerations becoming more important in international CSR guidelines such as the UN's Human
Rights Framework, ISO 26000, and OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises, SMBC participates in the Nippon
CSR Consortium's "Human Rights Due Diligence Workshop." This workshop was established for the purpose of raising
the competiveness of Japanese companies through CSR activities, and is sponsored by the Nippon CSR Consortium.
Through its participation in the workshop, SMBC surveys and researches future approaches to human rights issues.
Modern Slavery Act 2015 (SMBC)
In response to the Modern Slavery Act 2015 of the United Kingdom, SMBC has published a "Slavery and Human
Trafficking Statement", which provides disclosure concerning our efforts to address the issues of slavery and human
trafficking.
Slavery and Human Trafficking Statement 2019 (312KB)
019
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
020
Stakeholder Engagement
Basic policy of SMBC Group
SMBC Group will continue to contribute to the ongoing reform of society
through dialogue and joint actions with stakeholders (e.g. our clients) as
an entity pursuing the financial service business.
Build relationships with four sets of stakeholders: customers,
shareholders/markets, society and the environment, and employees
● Customers: We shall advance together with our clients by providing highly valued products and services.
● Shareholders and the market: We shall strive to maintain a sound management and maximize shareholder value by
having appropriate disclosure of information and improving the internal control system.
● The environment and society: We shall strive to contribute to the society and preserve the earth’s environment by
consistently and proactively involving and participating in the social and environmental activities and programs.
● Employees: We shall promote free-spirited and open-minded business culture under which individual employees are
respected and allowed to exercise each individual’s full potential.
Click to enlarge
020
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
021
Relationship with Customers
SMBC: Initiatives to Increase Customer Satisfaction (CS) (Japanese only)
RReellaattiioonnsshhiipp  wwiitthh  SShhaarreehhoollddeerrss  aanndd  tthhee  MMaarrkkeett
IR Calendar
IR Events & Presentations
Relationship with the Environment and Society
Dialogue with Stakeholders
Relationship with Employees
Initiatives for Diversity & Inclusion
Creating a Pleasant Work Environment for All Employees (Work-Life Balance)
Report on stakeholder dialogue
In fiscal 2019, we held two stakeholder dialogues to formulate the "SMBC
Group Sustainability Declaration". At the first dialogue held in September
2019, we discussed the content of the "SMBC Group Statement on
Sustainability" and its penetration throughout the company, and at the
second dialogue held in November 2019, we discussed the social impact
required for mega bank group.
Dialogue with
Stakeholders
021
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
022
Dialogue with Stakeholders
SMBC Group held a Stakeholder Dialog session annually, as an opportunity to communicate with our stakeholders about
the initiatives for sustainability that we should be pursuing as a financial group.
FY2019 Dialogue (1) FY2019 Dialogue (2) Back Number
FY2019 Dialogue (1) 
The content of the "SMBC Group Statement on Sustainability" and its
penetration throughout the company (September 5, 2019)
The world is currently facing a range of social issues, in particular, environmental issues are becoming extremely serious
around the world. To clarify our company's attitude of further contributing to the sound development of society, SMBC
Group has formulated the "SMBC Group Statement on Sustainability" as its basic policy in aiming to achieve a
sustainable society.
In formulating the Statement, we held a dialogue in September 2019 to receive opinions from experts on the questions of
"Does its content meet what is needed by society?" and "How should we penetrate the Statement throughout the
company?"
Note:Participants' company names, titles, etc., are  those at the time when the dialogue was held.
Experts who participated in the dialogue
Mr. Peter David Pedersen   Mr. Haruo Hatanaka 
Executive Director,   ESG Strategy Vice President, 
NELIS   ESG Division,  
(Next Leaders'   Kao Corporation  
Initiative for Sustainability)  
Professor,  
Graduate School of  
Leadership and Innovation, 
Shizenkan University  
022
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
023
Participants from SMBC Group
Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group, Inc.(SMFG) and other SMBC Group companies
Moderator：Eiichiro Adachi, Counselor, The Japan Research Institute, Limited(JRI)
SMBC Group finds it necessary to set long-term goals for society and the global environment toward achieving
a sustainable society. We would like to receive some advice on the content of the "SMBC Group Statement on
Sustainability " as our basic policy toward achieving a sustainable society and how to penetrate it into the
company.
SMFG Suehiro
Our Group has held dialogues in relation to identify our materialities, etc., to obtain opinions from experts. In 2018, we
held a dialogue on the theme of how we should perceive ESG/SDGs. 
( Dialogue with Stakehold)
We have a Medium-Term Management Plan as our medium-term business goal. Currently, however, there is no long-
term goal that looks at society and global environment. Since we will set the next Medium-Term Management Plan in the
next fiscal year, we are considering to formulate the "SMBC Group Statement on Sustainability" as our basic policy
toward achieving a sustainable society.
With regard to formulating the Statement, please provide us with some advice on its content and how to instill it into the
company.
JRI Adachi
Our Group holds a conference of employees in charge of sustainability planning at Group companies once every few
months to discuss related topics. For them, the theme of sustainability is their own affair, but for many other employees,
it is somebody else's business. So the employees in charge of Group companies worry about how to get the employees
to feel like they are involved in this theme. Please give us some advice on this point.
Q.Could you give us your honest opinion about the "SMBC Group Statement on Sustainability"?
Mr. Hatanaka
Honestly, I was surprised at the extensive history of Sumitomo and Mitsui which was described as the background of the 
"SMBC Group Statement on Sustainability"
Moreover, I can clearly see that many issues have been considered for the "three materiality (Environment, Community, 
and Next Generation)" consisting the Statement. I guess in formulating the Statement, you had trouble deciding what 
SMBC Group's "identity" is. I think that it is difficult to develop a consensus about the identity from the beginning, but 
that as you advance discussions, a consensus will be reached.
To cite our "Environmental Statement," the theme of environment was clear. However, after changing it to
"sustainability," the theme seemed to be unclear.
As SMBC Group has a strong background represented by its 400-year history, you should first decide "what kind of 
society you will aim at from now" following the long history. After that, I think you will need to formulate a statement and 
set specific actions.
I got the impression that the course of action on sustainability includes many initiatives. One idea would be to make the 
course of action separate, rather than including it in the Statement.
Mr. Pedersen
The Statement has sufficient background and in-depth content. I felt the Group's attitude of placing emphasis on the 
environment, and that had a strong impression on me. However, I think this alone will be unsatisfactory in terms of 
content because there are no specific action plans.
I think you should go a step further. Specifically, along with the Statement, you need to show how you will transform the 
sustainability framework, including organizational aspects.
I think the keyword is "sustainable finance."
For a specific example of action, overseas companies list their initiatives in detail. Looking at SMBC Group's IR 
materials, it seemed that immediate social issues are just listed in the corresponding part of sustainability. I hope that 
you will make a strenuous effort to gather information and enhance the descriptions concerning your Group's specific 
actions. I think that going forward, it will be necessary to look at not only Japan, but also the world.
023
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
024
Q. Could you give us some advice on instilling the Sustainability Statement into the company?
Mr. Hatanaka
Although SMBC Group is a financial group, I think the business conditions and environment are different for each Group
company. So it is necessary to instill the Statement into employees depending on each company's business condition.
If two companies are merged and each has a different history, their corporate culture is often different. On the other
hand, I think sharing the idea of sustainability and ESG will lead to thinking of each company's position in society in a
higher dimension. From this perspective, I feel that sustainability is a desirable theme that can be jointly considered.
Mr. Pedersen
In the world of sustainability, information and personal connections are crucial. It is important to focus on developing
human resources for sustainability. However, I think it will be difficult to do this during the period of personnel rotation at
a financial institution.
It is necessary to thoroughly disseminate the Statement throughout the company both in and outside Japan. To name a
reference example, some companies provide training and workshops repeatedly.
Q.Could you give us a brief message?
Mr. Pedersen
I hope you will deeply consider the specific measures that you will take, including the content of the Sustainability
Statement, and make the Statement stronger by clearly showing "what" and "how." I also hope that you will formulate
the Statement using the backcasting approach, a method to think about social issues backward from the future.
If you stick to your "identity," it could lead to discussions of the past. I would like to ask you to face changes that are
currently occurring and take initiatives with a unified force.
Mr. Hatanaka
What is probably needed in formulating the Statement is to be aware of what is cutting-edge in the world. I think it is
important to determine what driver can lead by mixing "cutting-edge" with "identity."
Receiving opinions from experts
Today we have received valuable comments on the "SMBC Group Statement on Sustainability." Although it is the first
time for our company to formulate such a statement, the Statement was highly evaluated as it shows awareness of
"SMBC Group's identity" and its structure is based on the careful examination of our history.
On the other hand, we have recognized that it is important to formulate measures and indicators to embody this project
after deciding our future ideal and to instill the Statement into the company. We have also felt that we will need to have
more in-depth discussions going forward.
To make the formulation of the Statement an effective project, not a paper plan, into which we put our thoughts toward
achieving a sustainable society, we will proceed with it while referring to the valuable comments that we have received
today.
Takanobu Suehiro
General Manager, Corporate Sustainability Dept.
Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group, Inc.
024
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
025
FY2019 Dialogue (2) 
Social impacts required for mega bank group required to solve social
issues. (November 27, 2019)
In November 2019, SMBC Group held the second dialogue for formulating the “SMBC Group Statement on
Sustainability” 
As the result of the dialogue held in September 2019, we clearly recognized that in order to formulate the Statement, it is
necessary to first determine our future ideal, and then to set specific initiatives and indicators to achieve that ideal.  
Therefore, we are required to set long-term plans and KPIs that have “social impacts.”
Our Group took the following two points into consideration:
1．What kind of “social impacts” we had as the result of the initiatives taken through our business activities.
2．Do the “social impacts” that we aim to have reflect what is needed by society?
Through this dialog, we received comments from experts  about appropriate factors required by society considering the
two points above, in order to set KPIs from the perspective of “social impacts,” not traditional financial KPIs.
Note: Participants’ company names, titles, etc., are  those at the time when the dialogue was held.
Experts who participated in the dialogue
Mr. Ken Ito  Ms. Miyuki Zeniya  
Executive Director   General Manager  
Social Value Japan Investment Planning Dept. &  
Responsible Investment Dept. 
The Dai-ichi Life  
Insurance Company, Limited
025
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
026
Participants from SMBC Group
Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group, Inc.(SMFG) and other SMBC Group companies
Moderator：Eiichiro Adachi, Counselor, The Japan Research Institute, Limited(JRI)
Q.Along with formulating the “SMBC Group Statement on Sustainability,” SMBC Group is considering specific
measures and KPIs. We would like to set KPIs based on the “social impacts” needed by society that we have not
considered thus far. Could you give us some advice on this?
SMFG Suehiro
Advice we received in the previous dialogue (held on September 5, 2019) to formulate the “SMBC Group Statement on
Sustainability,” is that it is necessary to set specific measures.
To present the impact needed by society in our long-term plan for sustainability, what kind of KPIs are preferable? We
would like to receive advice from experts to formulate future plans.
Q.First, we would like to ask Mr. Ito, a specialist of “social impact assessments” about the overview of social
impact assessments and the characteristics of individual methods.
Mr. Ito
Traditional business assessments only report the output (the results of the measures taken). Taking it one step further,
social impact assessments attempt to evaluate social impacts caused by outcome (impacts on society that the output is
expected to have). The difficult points about this methodology include that there is a time lag until the achievement of
the outcome, and that it is costly.
The key point is how to measure in concrete terms. As an example, there is a movement to ensure comparability by
using different standards such as 169 targets of the SDGs or IRIS standard. This movement is accelerating to ensure
mutual compatibility in social impact assessments.
JRI Adachi
There are two opinions on impact assessments. One is, “It’s not possible to assess things unless they are quantified,”
and the other is, “It’s sufficient if there is something qualitative, like a story.” I would like to ask Mr. Ito about how aware
you are of converting data into quantitative measurements.
Mr. Ito
Social impact involves both quantitative and qualitative aspects of impact, and the need to convert data into something
numerical is very strong. This is because indexing is always required for institutionalization and systematization. And
to  create a market, quantitative indicators to create a market mechanism are required. As such a movement, the
creation of standards has just started.
SMFG Mikami
Do quantitative indicators include something like customer satisfaction?
Mr. Ito
Yes. There is variety of ways to evaluate customer satisfaction. Quantitative data could be used to complement a
qualitative story.
Q.How are impact assessments conducted?
Ms. Zeniya
Our company mainly conducts individual corporate investments of unlisted domestic enterprises. Currently, there is no 
globally established social impact measurement method. Therefore, as an impact assessment for our impact 
investment, we first choose companies and enterprises that meet the internal criteria as our investment scope, and then 
judge what kind of impacts they have respectively.
Although it will be hard to monitor targeted companies if their number increases, this will result in increasing our own 
knowledge of impact investment, which will allow us to promote our initiatives in the future.
JRI Adachi
Regarding impact assessments, should we think simply that evaluation indicators and conversion formulas for 
quantification are different depending on project? In addition, are industry types divided into ones that are easy to 
assess and ones that are not?
026
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
027
Ms. Zeniya
As there are various areas of measurement with respect to the impact, evaluation indicators and conversion formulas
are different. Taking this into consideration, there may be some items in which our company cannot invest at the
moment, and therefore we lose them.
Mr. Ito
From a standpoint of a researcher in social impact, there are different industry standards for impact assessments such
as IRIS. IRIS’s latest version has more than 1,000 indicators and presents recommended indicators according to the
type of business.
It is not necessary to use all of them. Right now around 15,000 companies have signed up as users, so I think
comparability may be eventually ensured.
Among the impact funds, they usually have clear definition on industry focuses, priority policies as well as the targeted
social issues such as particular goals of the SDGs. It can be said that among them, the “environment” is a category that
is easy to evaluate because it has a vast amount of information and an enormous industrial scale. On the other hand,
there is a concern that social impact investments will be concentrated to the areas that are easy to handle, such as the
environment.
JRI Adachi
Our Group has also put effort into financial education. What do you think of evaluating the area of education, for
example?
Mr. Ito
Considering education’s social impact on the “personal growth,” I think it is necessary to see a long period of time to
realize its outcome. In the United States and the U.K., for example, there are indicators on education based on research
conducted for 15 to 20 years, so it helps to conduct social impact assessments. On the other hand, indicators on
education in Japan are short-term and the indicators are more on output level, such as changes of test scores. In such a
case, there will be a problem of whether or not those indicators correspond to an impact on the “personal growth”.
Q.As we consider the impacts brought about by our Group’s initiatives through businesses, what should we
think about “impacts” on society? Please give your opinions about this.
Mr. Ito
From the perspective of social impact assessments, the theory is to think using the four-quadrant method. The four 
quadrants are called “Positive impacts,” “Negative impacts,” “Intended outcomes” and “Unintended outcomes.”
From the standpoint of PR, PR highlights intended positive outcome. With impact assessments, however, the theory is 
to also consider the negative and measure both intended and unintended social impacts.
Negative outcomes are still generally expressed as “risks.” In order to reduce risks, communication with stakeholders 
are required.
Furthermore, I think that there is a trickle-down (ripple effect) impact. The trend of inquiries about social impact has been 
changing over the last two years. Thus far, the departments from which we received inquires used to be mostly CSR 
departments of companies. Recently, however, inquiries from IR departments are increasing aware of importance of 
social impact because they recognize the necessity to think about their business risks and impact from the viewpoint of 
investors.
Ms. Zeniya
Our company engages with investee companies by interviewing them every year. Up to three or four years ago, the 
management had no clear sense of solving social issues related to SDGs through business activities.
To solve social issues through core businesses, I think that it will be the first step for the management to recognize the 
necessity and then to reaffirm the answers to the questions of “What is their company’s value in society?” and “What 
role is their company expected to play by society?”
Mr. Ito
As an example, the IFC and the United Nations launched an Impact Management Project  in 2018. There are several 
thousands of funders who support the Project as partners, and a global stream of practicing social impact assessments 
has been created. In the world of impact assessments, there is also a movement toward integration. Regarding practice, 
however, the base is still narrow.
If this movement advances, social impact assessments and social impact investments will soon hit a tipping point(social 
tipping point).
027
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
028
Q.. What kind of social impacts are required for SMBC Group
SMFG Takeda
Social impacts that a pure-play company (project=corporate entity) has through business activities are directly linked to
its business itself and are easy to understand. On the other hand, when a financial group like us indirectly supports
customers’ business through funding, our business portfolio and resulting social impacts are diverse. What kind of
“social impacts” are financial groups, which indirectly have impacts on society, required to have? In addition, what
should we set as the outcome to achieve them?
Ms. Zeniya
Considering economically why banks are needed, it could probably be said that it is “because they have credit-creating
functions.” Credit creation is built upon trust and cannot be built without social trust. I think we have come to a period
where we need to reconsider what social trust is based on.
In the current era, financial institutions are not required to have only functions in the capital market. They need to play a
role as comprehensive social infrastructure including not only money but also services as a whole so that people will feel
like “if I associate with a bank, it will be beneficial to me and society.” I think this will be the sense of stability and
sustainability that financial institutions will be required to provide in the future society.
Mr. Ito
The change in consciousness of executives and regular employees has recently become an agenda for discussions on
corporate social value. If employees’ increased awareness of sustainability leads to personnel evaluation and corporate
culture, I think many potentials for impact business that exist in the company will come to the surface.
Ms. Zeniya
Even if the management externally announces that they would like to do something, it will unlikely to actually happen
unless that initiative and personnel system are linked.
It may be difficult to drastically change the personnel system at one time, but it is necessary to change it into a system
where employees who practice company’s policies are highly rated.
With regard to recruiting activities, if there is a major difference between what employees were told before joining the
company and the reality after joining the company, it will lead to the early retirement of young employees, which is an
issue that must be seriously considered. For financial institutions in particular, their next ten and twenty years depend on
whether they can gain superior human resources or not. They cannot hire excellent human resources unless they come
to an interview. And if there is a shortage of superior human resources, it will be difficult for them not only to provide and
develop good products and services, but also to maintain the current status.
This applies not only to Japanese people but also globally, and I think that particularly members of Generation Z choose
companies with such values.
SMFG Suehiro
We brought up this issue partly because our Group tended to lack perspective on employees. We can set goals but we
don’t know whether indicators established by the company will resonate in the heart of employees.
On the contrary, I think that if we announce that “Our Group will reduce CO2 emissions,” it will have the effect of helping
many people get to know what our company will do. It is true that there is no answer to what kind of social impacts are
needed, but we are going to think about it with a sense of urgency.
Ms. Zeniya
Regarding ESG investment evaluation, rating agencies are acquiring ESG evaluation companies at the present time.
The concept of ESG has been spreading not only to stock investments but also across finance including bonds and
loans at an accelerated pace for about a year.
While it is forecast that impact investments are yet to come, impact investments will not become popular unless the
impact assessment methodology is fully understood.
SDGs have individual major targets, but we have only ten years left until 2030. There are various issues concerning
funds required to solve problems. They include: “How should we apply funds?” “How should we promote the transition of
businesses that are considered negative from the perspective of ESG investment?” and “How should we create a
market for the provision of funds for the transition?”
Since these things cannot be done by our company alone, we would like to deal with them in an advanced manner while
discussing with the related parties so that we will be able to go in the right direction. I think it is necessary to change
actions while monitoring global trends.
028
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
029
Receiving opinions from experts
In formulating the “SMBC Group Statement on Sustainability,” SMBC Group held two
dialogues.
We received valuable comments from the following perspectives: the content of the Statement
and how to instill it in the company at the first dialogue; and the expectations and roles that
our Group is required to fulfill toward achieving a sustainable society through social impacts
and the kind of impacts that we can have on society in the second dialogue.
In particular, regarding funds required to solve issues, we received comments of “How we
should apply funds” and “How we should promote the transition of businesses that are
considered negative from the perspective of ESG investment.” These exactly apply to our
Group’s business activities, and I strongly felt that we need to face and consider them through formulation of plans.
With regard to the Sustainability Statement as our basic policy to aim at achieving a sustainable society, we strongly
recognize the importance of not only its content but also the measures and indicators that embody it, as well as the
importance of firmly instilling this initiative both inside and outside of the company.
All our Group companies will sincerely take on this initiative and accelerate sustainability management.
Takeshi Mikami
Executive Officer
Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group, Inc.
SMBC Group Statement on Sustainability
Back Number
Dialogue with Stakeholders 2017
FY2017 Dialog: Toward a Sustainable Society-Expected Actions on SDGs and ESG for Financial
Institutions(January 18, 2018)
Dialogue with Stakeholders 2016
FY2016 Dialog: Verification of Action Plan for Tackling Priority Issues (Materiality) 
(October 19, 2016)
Dialogue with Stakeholders 2015
Clarifying Matters and Issues That SMFG Should Address in Order to Get to “Where We Want to
be Ten Years from Now” (May 12,2015)
Dialogue with Stakeholders 2013
External Assessment Committee 4: SMBC Environmental Assessment Loan/Private Placement
Bond aimed at developing solutions for customers through core financial businesses. (July
26,2013)
029
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
030
Participation in Initiatives and Reference Guidelines
The significance of taking part in, and supporting initiatives in Japan and
overseas
The term "initiative" means taking a leading role, and refers to companies'
principles and codes of conduct. SMBC Group supports a range of
initiatives in Japan and overseas, such as the United Nations Global
Compact.  
Seamless cooperation between various organizations is essential to solve
problems on a global scale and create a sustainable society. Mindful of
the social impact of financial institutions, the Bank declares its intentions
to society by taking part in these initiatives and takes an active role as a
member of the global community.
Initiatives supported by the SMBC Group
United Nations Global Compact
Ten principles proposed by the United Nations concerning human rights, labor,
environment and corruption prevention. 
Human Rights
Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of
internationally proclaimed human rights; and 
Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses.
Labour
Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the
effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; 
Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; 
Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and 
Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and
occupation.
Environment
Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to
environmental challenges; 
Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility;
and 
Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly
technologies.
Anti-Corruption
Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including
extortion and bribery.
Links to related website
030
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
031
Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs)
The SDGs are a set of 17 goals and 169 targets for achieving human and global
prosperity adopted at the "United Nations Sustainable Development Summit." 
SMBC Group will contribute to the achievement of these goals as a member of
the Global Compact Network Japan.
Please refer to the following link for information about SMBC Group's initiatives
on the SDGs.
SMBC Group Businesses and SDGs
Links to related website
UNEP Finance Initiative (UNEP FI)
Organization which pursues, develops and promotes the ideal financial
institutions which pay attention to the environment and sustainability. 
Links to related website
Responsible investment Principles (PRI)
The principle which is intended to improve long-term investment performance by
incorporating environmental, social and corporate governance (ESG) issues into
investment decision making for customers and the beneficiaries. 
Announced in April 2006 by UN Secretary-General Kofi Annan (at that time). 
Links to related website
Principle of Responsible Banks (PRB)
The principle which is intended to promote transparent disclosure. 
Signatories is encouraged to set goals and strategy in line with the social goals
set out in the SDGs and the Paris Agreement to achieve sustainable
development of society. 
Links to related website
Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD)
The Financial Stability Board established this task force in April 2015. The task
force seeks individual companies to use financial reporting to disclose the impact
of climate change. The SMBC Group declared its support for the One Planet
Summit held in Paris in December 2017 
Links to related website
CDP
Initiatives which measures, manages and reduces effects of climate changes by
prompting institutional investors and business managers to have dialogues
regarding such climate changes. 
Links to related website
031
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
032
Equator Principles
Environmental and social standards which are set forth based on the International
Finance Corporation (IFC) guidelines for large-scale project finance projects. 
Links to related website
Principles for Financial Action toward a Sustainable Society (Principles for
Financial Action for the 21st Century)
Principles of action for financial institutions in Japan adopted in October 2011 for
the purpose of expanding and improving the quality of environmental finance. 
*As of July 2020 , the principles had been signed by 285 financial institutions,
including companies from SMBC Group; SMBC, Sumitomo Mitsui Finance and
Leasing, and SMBC Nikko Securities and Sumitomo Mitsui DS Asset
Management. SMBC has participated since fiscal 2012 as a steering member
and co-chairman from fiscal 2018 for the Steering Committee of the principle.
Links to related website
Guidelines Used for Reference
The Group refers to the following guidelines in its promotion development, and information disclosure for Sustainability
ISO26000
This is the "guidance document" with respect to social responsibilities. It consists of basic principles and seven core
subjects (governance, human rights, labor practices, the environment, fair operating practices, consumer issues, and
community involvement and development). 
At the Group's Corporate Sustainability Meeting, comprising departments responsible for sustainability  at each Group
company, the Group started ISO 26000 study groups in December 2010, and has now formulated its own checklist,
which is used by the Group companies to evaluate their own activities.
Please refer to the following link for information about SMBC Group's promotion system, including the Corporate
Sustainability Meeting.
Sustainability Management System
GRI Guidelines
"Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (G4)" of GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) is referred to for editing of Sustainability
website and preparation of Sustainability reports.
United Nations Global Compact, COP (Communication on Progress), Advanced Level
Criteria
SMBC Group supports the 10 principles of the "United Nations Global Compact," in the areas of human rights, labor
standards, environment and anti-corruption measures. We also refer to the 24 criteria presented for achieving "Advanced
Level" in creating Communication on Progress reports for the execution status of the principles.
032
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
033
ESG Information
ESG Information
The following website provides our approach and initiatives from each of the ESG perspectives.
Environment Social Governance
033
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
034
Environment
Management Approach
Recognition of Social Issues
The global environment is an important asset that is shared by all of humanity, regardless of region or age, and a healthy
environment is prerequisite to the realization of a sustainable society. SMBC Group is earnestly engaging with climate
change and various other environmental issues. By helping resolve such issues through our business, we aim to ensure
that we can pass on a healthy environment to future generations.
SMBC Group's Approach
Having recognition of social issues, in order to contribute to the realization of a sustainable society, SMBC group has set
forth a long-term vision toward 2050 that we as a global financial group will promote financial services consistent with the
country's goals to counter global warming, and contribute to global environmental protection by leveraging its financial
functions.
Group Environmental Policy
Promotion of Environmental Businesses
Management of Environmental Risks
Reduction of Environmental Impacts
034
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
035
Group Environmental Policy
Basic concepts
Recognizing the importance of realizing a sustainable society, SMBC Group is continuously making efforts to harmonize
environmental preservation and pollution control with corporate activities, in order to support the economy and contribute
to the betterment of society as a whole.
Group Environmental Policy
1.We provide environment-friendly financial products, information and solutions which support our clients in their efforts
to preserve the eco-system.
2.We devise means to reduce environmental risks posed by our own activities and the society.
3.We are determined to fulfill our social responsibilities through the conservation of resources and energy, and the
reduction of waste.
4.We strictly comply with environment-related laws and regulations.
5.We will continuously enhance our disclosure related to the Group's environmental activities and consistently improve
our efforts to contribute to environmental preservation by communicating with our staff as well as the third parties.
6.We thoroughly educate our staff about our environmental principles to ensure that they conform to these principles in
the performance of their work.
7.We actively and effectively implement "environmental management," and make continuous efforts to improve our
system to deal with environmental issues by setting goals and targets for every fiscal year and reviewing them as
deemed necessary.
8.These policies are disclosed on the Group's website, and the printed version is available upon request.
Environmental Policies of SMBC Group Companies Close
Sumitomo Mitsui Finance and Leasing Environmental Policy (Japanese only)
SMFL Rental Company, Limited Environmental Policy (Japanese only)
SMBC Nikko Securities Environmental Policy (Japanese only)
Sumitomo Mitsui Card Company Environmental Policy (Japanese only)
SMBC Finance Service Environmental Policy (Japanese only)
SMBC Consumer Finance Environmental Policy
Japan Research Institute Environmental Policy (Japanese only)
035
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
036
SMBC Group's Management
● SMBC Group’s environmental management is based on our environmental policy and ISO14001. As for our financial
services, we promote our business based on international principles such as UN Global Compact and the Equator
principles.
● SMBC Group regards three pillar points in Group Environmental Policy: "Environmental Business" "Environmental
risk" and "Reduction of Environmental Impacts". Every year, we set environment targets for, such as reducing
greenhouse gas emissions, conserving resources and promotes global warming countermeasures, in accordance
with the PDCA cycle.
Main Indicator
● Total of JPY 10 trillion in green financing to be conducted from FY2020 to FY2029
● CO2emissions volumes of SMBC to be reduced by 30% from FY2018 by FY2029
● Outstanding coal-fired thermal power generation loans to be reduced to zero by FY2040 (applicable to project
finance*)
*Excludes projects entailing technologies pertaining to carbon recycling and other projects that contribute to the
realization of a low-carbon society
Environmental Management System (EMS)
SMBC Group has developed an original structure for promoting Environmental Management System (EMS) that meets
the requirements of ISO14001* adoption across the Group led by the Corporate Planning Department, including
environmental officer(i.e. the director responsible for the Corporate Planning Department). 
Our EMS is operated in SMFG and its major companies (SMBC, Sumitomo Mitsui Finance and Leasing(including SMFL
Rental), SMBC Nikko Securities, Sumitomo Mitsui Card, SMBC Finance Service, SMBC Consumer Finance and The
Japan Research Institute).
*In 1998, SMBC was the first bank in Japan to obtain the environmental management certification of ISO14001. Since
then, it has been expanded to the group companies and continued to be operated, and the certification has been
maintained through an examination by an external organization. Although certification has been withdrawn, we have
continued our own EMS that meets the requirements of ISO14001 and continue to promote environmental efforts.
SMBC Group also conducts an EMS test every year aimed at employees trying to raise the environmental awareness of
individuals.
Environmental Compliance
There were no bleaches during Fiscal 2019.
Promotion of Environmental Businesses
SMBC group considers that environmental businesses are means to preserve and improve the global environment in its
core business operations as a financial institution. 
We will outline our environmental businesses, including solar power-based renewable energy operations and investment
projects with a positive environmental contribution, as well as other environment-related products and services.
Promotion of Environmental Businesses
036
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
037
Management of Environmental Risks
“Managing environmental risks” is one of SMBC Group's three key environmental themes, articulated in the Group’s
environment policy. As a global financial group, SMBC is working to strengthen its structure for managing
environmental and social risks.
Response to climate change(Working on TCFD Recommendations)
・Establishment of Group environmental policies
・ Reflection of climate change response measures in management strategies via the
Corporate Sustainability Committee
Governance
・ Reports on climate change risks at the Risk Committee, a committee positioned
within the Board of Directors, and the Management Committee
Physical Risks
・ Analyses of anticipated water damage-associated credit-related expenses to be
incurred in SMBC’s domestic operations under the Representative Concentration
Pathways (RCP) 2.6 scenario (2°C scenario) and RCP 8.5 scenario (4°C
scenario);aggregate costs of \JPY30.0 billion–\JPY40.0 billion to be incurred leading up
to FY2050
Transition Risks
・ Analyses of credit-related costs to be incurred in energy, power, and other sectors by
SMBC and overseas subsidiaries under the International Energy Agency’s Sustainable
Strategy Development Scenario; increase in annual costs of \JPY2.0 billion–\JPY10.0 billion to
be seen leading up to FY2050
・ Estimated carbon-related asset (power, energy, etc.) exposure ratio: 6.9% of all
loans*1
Opportunities
・Total financing of renewable energy projects of \JPY630.0 billion achieved in FY2019
・
Issuance of bonds based on the guidelines of the International Capital Market
Association and the Ministry of the Environment, Government of Japan
・  Climate change risks positioned among Top Risks and stress test impact analyses
conducted
Risk ・  Disclosure of financing policies for sectors with high climate change impacts (coal-
Management fired power generation, oil and gas, coalmining, etc.)
・Assessment of social and environmental risks based on Equator Principles
・Total of _JPY10 trillion in green financing to be conducted from FY2020 to FY2029
Metrics and ・CO2 emissions volumes of SMBC to be reduced by 30% from FY2018 by FY2029
Targets ・ Outstanding coal-fired thermal power generation loans to be reduced to zero by
FY2040 (applicable to project finance*2)
*1 Excludes loans for renewable energy projects to provide a more accurate picture of transition risk exposure
*2 Excludes projects entailing technologies pertaining to carbon recycling and other projects that contribute to the
realization of a low-carbon society
037
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
038
Environmental Risks That Financial Institutions Should Address
SMBC has adopted the Equator Principles, a set of principles for determining, assessing and managing social and
environmental risks in finance to large-scale development projects and has established the Environment Analysis
Department (ENAD) to assess the social and environmental risks in accordance with the principles. 
For details, please visit the Equator Principles' official website below.
Working with the Equator Principles
Consideration of ESG risks
In SMBC's Credit Policy, which contains our overall financing policy, guidelines and rules, we declare that we will cease
to provide financial support to borrowers engaged in businesses contrary to public responsibility, or which may have a
significant negative impact on the global environment. 
Also, we recognize our customers' environmental and social impacts from their business activities by understanding not
only their financial information, but also non-financial information represented by ESG. We will engage closely with
customers through gathering non-financial information, and strive to improve expected risk with customers while actively
supporting their environmental and social consideration activities. 
These policies are also rolled out to SMBC Group companies, which include SMBC Trust Bank, Sumitomo Mitsui
Finance and Leasing Company and SMBC Nikko Securities, in line with their business. This strengthens our risk
management system.
1.Coal-Fired Power Generation close
(Background) 
Since the adoption of the Paris Agreement, efforts to address climate change have been accelerated, and there is
a global movement toward decarbonization, including the Japanese government calling for an 80% reduction in
greenhouse gas emissions by 2050.
(Policy) 
Support for newly planned coal-fired power plants, in principle, is not provided. Exceptions may be considered for
those projects which use environmentally friendly technologies, such as ultra-supercritical* pressure and for those
projects which have been provided support before the revision. SMBC Group also support the development of
technologies which contribute to carbon recycling, such as carbon dioxide capture and storage / CCS. 
* Ultra-supercritical: Steam pressure > 240 bar and steam temperature ≥ 593. Or, CO2 emissions < 750g-
CO2/kWh.
038
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
039
2.Hydroelectric Power Generation close
(Background) 
As the transition to a low-carbon society progresses, hydroelectric power generation will play a greater role in
power supply. However, when constructing a hydroelectric power plant, it is important to consider the impact on
biodiversity associated with dam construction and also on local communities caused by resettlement.
(Policy) 
For those cases in which financing is used for hydroelectric power generation projects, SMBC Group carefully
monitors whether appropriate mitigation measures against the impact on biodiversity and local communities
caused by resettlement have been implemented and conducts environmental and social risk assessments when
we consider lending.
3.Oil and Gas close
(Background) 
Oil and gas will continue to be an important source of energy, and we actively consider measures that contribute
to the transition to a low-carbon society. On the other hand, as the transition to a low-carbon society progresses, it
is important to consider the risk of stranded assets that will cause the value of the assets owned to decline in the
future, measures to reduce the environmental impact associated with development, and give proper consideration
to the residents of the development area.
(Policy) 
The scope of environmental and social risk assessments that take into account Equator Principles is be expanded
for the following business and sectors when we consider lending. After identifying and evaluating environmental
and social risks, appropriate measures are considered.
(1)Oil Sand
Oil sand (tar sand) has relatively high carbon intensity and large environmental impacts are associated with its
development. As such, SMBC Group conducts environmental and social risk assessments, paying close attention
to soil and water pollution caused by wastewater, deforestation, and efforts to protect biodiversity and indigenous
communities, when we consider lending.
(2)Shale Oil and Shale Gas
During shale oil and shale gas development, the use of hydraulic fracturing methods is assumed to cause
groundwater contamination and induce earthquakes. SMBC Group carefully monitors whether appropriate
mitigation measures have been implemented for these issues, and then we conduct environmental and social risk
assessments when we consider lending.
(3)Oil and Gas Mining Projects in the Arctic
The Arctic Circle (an area north of the 66º33' latitude) is home to rare ecosystems and indigenous people with a
unique culture. For mining projects in this region, SMBC Group conducts environmental and social risk
assessments, playing close attention not only to environmental considerations but also to measures to protect
biodiversity and indigenous communities, when we consider lending.
(4)Oil and Gas Pipelines 
Pipelines are expected to have a wide range of environmental impacts due to oil spills and deforestation, as well
as social impacts on indigenous communities, not only at the time of construction but also when completed.
SMBC Group carefully monitors whether appropriate mitigation measures have been implemented for these
issues, and then we conduct environmental and social risk assessments when we consider lending.
4.Coal Mining close
(Background) 
In addition to the risks of stranded assets associated with the transition to a low-carbon society, it is important to
consider human rights with respect to the elimination of illegal labor and child labor in coal mines and biodiversity
issues associated with mining.
(Policy) 
The scope of environmental and social risk assessment that take into account Equator Principals is expanded for
coal mining businesses when we consider lending. Through this, environment and social risks are identified and
evaluated. In addition, we don't provide support for coal mining projects that are conducted using the Mountain
Top Removal (MTR) method, as this method has a large environmental impact.
039
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
040
5.Tobacco Manufacturing close
(Background) 
Smoking can cause health hazards, such as lung cancer and respiratory dysfunction. In addition, with the
cultivation of leaf tobacco (a raw material of cigarettes), it is important to consider human rights to eliminate illegal
labor and child labor.
(Policy) 
With regard for support for tobacco manufacturers, Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation has confirmed that
particular issues including health hazards and considering of human rights to eliminate illegal labor and child labor
are being addressed.
6.Nature Conservation Areas close
(Policy) 
SMBC Group does not provide support for new projects that are perceived to have a significant negative impact
on wetlands specified in the Ramsar Convention and UNESCO-designated World Natural Heritage sites.
7.Palm Oil Plantation Development close
(Policy) 
For palm oil plantation development projects, SMBC Group confirms that the palm oil which is produced is
produced with due consideration for the environment and society and has been certified by the Roundtable on
Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) or by an equivalent certifying body. Support is only provided after confirming that
forest resources and biodiversity are protected when new plantations are developed and that there are no human
rights violations, such as child labor. For those customers that have not yet been certified, SMBC Group
encourages and supports them to obtain certification.
8.Deforestation close
(Policy) 
For projects which involve deforestation, SMBC Group provides support after confirming that illegal logging and
incineration are not carried out and the laws and regulations of each country are observed. For large-scale
projects, environmental impacts, such as the destruction of primeval forests and ecosystems, are evaluated in
accordance with the Equator Principles when we consider lending.
9.Manufacturing of Cluster Bombs and Other Weapons of Destruction close
(Policy) 
Cluster bombs are considered inhumane, therefore SMBC Group prohibits credit to those manufacturers. In
addition, it is confirmed that loans are not used for manufacturing of other weapons of destruction.
Response to climate change(Working on TCFD Recommendations)
SMBC Group TCFD Report(678KB)
040
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
041
Reduction of Environmental Impacts
The three pillars of the environmental activities of SMBC Group are Promotion of Environmental Businesses,
Management of Environmental Risks, and Reduction of Environmental Impact. Each group company sets targets for
Reduction of Environmental Impact and implements diverse measures.
SMBC Group Environmental Data
Measurement Items Units Fiscal 2017 Fiscal 2018 Fiscal 2019
Thousand m3 2,479 2,225 1,930
City gas
t-CO2 5,566 4,993 4,329
t 10 10 9
Liquefied petroleum
gas（LPG）
t-CO2 31 29 27
kl 131 94 112
Heavy fuel oil
t-CO2 355 256 303
Direct energy
consumption
kl 3 3 3
Light oil
t-CO2 7 7 8
kl 46 44 37
Kerosene
t-CO2 114 109 93
kl 4,759 4,080 3,776
Gasoline (automobile)
t-CO2 11,047 9,470 8,765
Thousand kWh 323,731 291,045 275,868
Electricity(*3)
t-CO2 
（emission 162,148 135,916 121,732
coefficient）
GJ 30,538 30,785 30,835
Steam
Indirect
energy t-CO2 1,740 1,755 1,758
Consumption
GJ 3,600 3,397 6,607
Hot water
t-CO2 205 194 377
GJ 45,680 48,986 42,797
Cold water
t-CO2 2,604 2,792 2,439
041
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
042
Measurement Items Units Fiscal 2017 Fiscal 2018 Fiscal 2019
CO2 emissions from t-CO2 17,780 18,432 44,582
business trips(*4)
Water supply Thousand m3 34 36 39
Other energy
consumption Sewage Thousand m3 34 36 39
Thousand m3 2,594 2,662 2,303
Total water and
sewage
t-CO2 1,165 1,195 1,033
Direct energy CO2 t-CO2 17,120 14,863 13,526
emissions
Indirect energy CO2 （et-mCiOss2i on 166,697 140,657 126,305
emissions  coefficient）
Other 
t-CO2 18,945 19,628 45,615
Total CO2 emissions
t-CO2 
Total CO2 emissions （emission 202,762 175,148 185,447
coefficient）
t-CO2／Thousand
Total CO2 emissions  m2 119 106 115
(per m2) （emission
coefficient）
*The main reason for the increase in results of FY2019 compared to that of FY2018 is that the CO2 conversion factors 
for business trips have been updated to ver 3.0 in the "Database of emission intensity for calculating greenhouse gas 
emissions of the organization throughout its supply chain ", developed by MINISTRY OF THE ENVIRONMENT.
[Scope of data]
*Each item is simply the sum of the values of the following group companies. Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation, 
SMBC Trust Bank, Sumitomo Mitsui Finance and Leasing, SMBC Nikko Securities, SMBC Friend Securities(*1), 
Sumitomo Mitsui Card Company, SMBC Finance Service, SMBC Consumer Finance, The Japan Research Institute, 
Sumitomo Mitsui DS Asset Management Company, THE MINATO BANK(*2), and Kansai Urban Banking Corporation(*2)
(*1)Merged with SMBC Nikko Securities as of January 2018.
(*2)Excluded from the Group as of April 2018.
[CO2 conversion method]
(*3)Actual emission factor for each electric business company is used.
(*4)Refer to MINISTRY OF THE ENVIRONMENT's " Database of emission intensity for calculating greenhouse gas 
emissions of the organization throughout its supply chain".
Ver 2.2 is applied until FY2018, and ver 3.0 from FY2019.
(*5)Others uses "Support tool of Calculating CO2 Emissions from Energy Use" provided by the Agency for Natural 
Resources and Energy.
[Third party verification]
These data are being tested third-party certification from the Japan Quality Assurance Organization.
Reducing Energy Consumption
Fiscal 2018 Greenhouse Gas Emissions Verification Report (188KB) 
Environmental Impact Data of SMBC Group Companies 
042
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
043
Reducing Energy Consumption
SMBC Group conducts management in line with the Energy Conservation Law of Japan, and reports in line with the
"report Book System for Global Warming Countermeasures" handled by the Tokyo metropolitan government. Our actions
and targets are line with the measures taken by the governments, and industrial groups such as the Japan Federation of
Economic Organizations, the Japanese Bankers Association, and Japan Securities Dealers Association.
Reduction of Environmental Impacts
SMBC Group Green Bond
SMBC Group is a major issuer of green bonds both domestically and in international markets.
SMBC Group applies the net proceeds of green bonds to finance qualifying renewable energy generation and energy
efficiency projects. SMBC Group has a strong track record in providing project finance for renewal energy (solar energy,
wind energy, etc.) both domestically and internationally.
SMBC Group Green Bond
043
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
044
Social
Community 
Management approach
Recognition of Social Issues
As people live and the economy advances, communities to form connections between proponents in these areas and
thereby encourage mutual support and enable each other to act in peace of mind are needed. SMBC Group continues to
contribute to communities and society and to fulfill our social responsibility as an entity that acts as a member of these
communities.
SMBC Group's Approach
The Group recognizes that it is important to consider the public nature of financial institution and contribute to the
development of society through business operations. In addition to the contribution to society through daily business
operations, we pursue diverse social contribution activities in order to fulfil responsibilities as a "responsible corporate
citizen".  
To effectively promote these activities, we have identified the following three issues that SMBC Group should address.
・Achieving and Developing Safe and Secure Communities 
・Promotion of Social Inclusion through Collaboration
Policy for Social Contribution Activities
SMBC Group and Group companies fully recognize our roles as responsible corporate citizens and perform social
contribution activities for a prosperous and sustainable society. We continue to plan and execute social contribution
activities as a corporate citizen and support volunteer activities of employees, in order to proactively perform social
contribution activities.
SMBC Group's Management
In order to lead the form of social participation by each of our officers and employees, we emphasize their leadership
roles, aiming to increase the number participating in volunteer activities by engaging in social contribution activities.
Main Indicator
・Publicly release a report on the results of social impact measurements that target social contribution activities (at least
annually)
・Establish a community to address environmental and social issues
For Community
Next Generation 
Management Approach
Recognition of Social Issues
Ensuring the sustainability of our society and economy amid the changing social environment will require the cultivation
of human resources who can support society with the necessary knowledge and technologies. SMBC Group is promoting
sustainability by fostering the next-generation human resources and industries that will shape the society of the future
together with us.
044
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
045
SMBC Group's Approach
The Group's financial functions
Support for growing industries
Promotion of financial literacy education for all generations
Fostering of people and industries that will shape the future
SMBC Group's Management
In financial services, we conduct and manage business activities based on guidelines and principles including the UN
Global Compact’s 10 principles and Equator Principles initiatives. To improve financial literacy, we are promoting
initiatives to increase the number of volunteers of SMBC Group who can help financial and economics education
programs for high school and college students.
Main Indicator
1.5million participants in financial education programs held by SMBC Group.
For Next Generation
Human Resources Strategy
Our Approach
To achieve "Our Mission," SMBC Group has established the Five Values as a set of shared beliefs and behavioral
guidelines for all 100,000 employees on a global basis, and we are working toward the realization of these values. We
are also moving ahead with strategic development of talent and creation of an environment that enables diverse
personnel to perform their capacities to the fullest extent.
Human Resource Strategy
Diversity&Inclusion
Our approach 
SMBC Group regards "Diversity and Inclusion" as an important strategy for growth. Management is promoting greater
diversity and inclusion to create a working environment where people from various backgrounds can fulfill their potential
based on strong mutual respect, and where synergy borne of diversity generates new value. In this way, we can help to
create greater value for customers.
Diversity & Inclusion
045
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
046
Governance
Corporate Governance
Our Approach
We position “Our Mission” as the universal philosophy underpinning the management of SMBC Group and as the
foundation for all of our corporate activities. We are working toward effective corporate governance as we consider the
strengthening and enhancement of corporate governance to be one of our top priorities in realizing “Our Mission.”  
Corporate Governance
Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group’s Corporate Governance System
Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group’s Corporate Governance System
Board of Directors
Board of Directors
Internal Committees
Internal Committees
Evaluation of the Board of Directors’ Effectiveness
Evaluation of the Board of Directors’ Effectiveness
Compensation Program
Compensation Program
Executive Management Systems
Executive Management Systems
046
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
047
Risk Management
Our Approach
Strengthening of compliance and risk management is positioned as a key issue in SMBC Group’s Principles of Action on
Compliance and Risk. SMBC Group is therefore devoted to improving its systems in these areas in order to become a
truly outstanding global group. 
Risk Management
Risk Culture
Risk Culture
Risk Appetite Framework
Risk Appetite Framework
Risk Management System
Risk Management System
Compliance
Our Approach
We recognizeManagement positions the strengthening of compliance and risk management as a key issue in enabling
SMBC Group to fulfill its public mission and social responsibilities as a global financial group. We are therefore working to
entrench such practices into our operations , and fulfill our responsibility as we aim to become a truly outstanding global
group.  
Compliance
Compliance Management
Compliance Management
Anti-Money Laundering (AML) and Countering the Financing of Terrorism (CFT)
Anti-Money Laundering (AML) and Countering the Financing of Terrorism (CFT)
Response to Anti-Social Forces
Response to Anti-Social Forces
Customer Information Management
Customer Information Management
Anti-Bribery and Corruption
Anti-Bribery and Corruption
047
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
048
Internal Audits
Our Approach
As a part of SMBC Group's internal control framework, the audit department (the Department) verifies the effectiveness
of the internal control of business units, risk management units and other units from an independent standpoint and
pursues the quality of internal audits in order to contribute to development and the highest trust across the entire SMBC
Group. 
Internal Audits
Overview of the Group’s Internal Audit Framework
Overview of the Group’s Internal Audit Framework
Internal Audit Framework
Internal Audit Framework
Enhancement and Effectiveness of Internal Audit
Enhancement and Effectiveness of Internal Audit
Customer-Oriented Initiatives
Our Approach
SMBC Group companies are united in their efforts for customer experience (CX) and quality improvement in line with
“Our Mission,” which states “We grow and prosper together with our customers, by providing services of greater value to
them.”  
Customer-Oriented Initiatives
CX Improvement System
CX Improvement System
Customer Satisfaction-Related Initiatives of SMFG Group Companies
048
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
049
SMBC Group Businesses and SDGs
About SDGs
"SDGs" stand for "Sustainable Development Goals." They are a set of global goals enshrined under the 2030
Agenda for Sustainable Development, which was unanimously adopted at the United Nations Summit in September
2015. With the above 17 goals that are further subdivided into 169 targets, the Agenda is aimed at delivering a world
where "No one is left behind" by 2030.
049
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
050
SDGs for SMBC Group
SMBC Group has designated goals from among the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) as
areas of focus in 2018, addressing them within the three priority issues of "Environment," " Community," and " Next
Generation.," Under the strong commitment of top management, SMBC Group will seek to contribute to the
resolution of social issues around the world to accomplish the SDGs through its business activities as a global
financial group. 
Click to enlarge
Priority Issues (Materiality) that SMBC Group Should Address
050
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
051
For Environment
SMBC Group's Approach
The global environment is an important asset that is shared by all of
humanity, regardless of region or age, and a healthy environment
isprerequisite to the realization of a sustainable society. SMBC Group is
earnestly engaging with climate change and various other
environmentalissues. By helping resolve such issues through our
business, we aim to ensure that we can pass on a healthy environment to
future generations.
Promotion of Management of Reduction of
Environmental Environmental Environmental
Businesses Risks Impacts
Response to
Contribution
climate change SMBC Group 
Activities to
(Working on TCFD Green Bond
Environment
Recommendations)
051
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
052
Promotion of Environmental Businesses
SMBC group considers that environmental businesses are means to preserve and improve the global environment in its
core business operations as a financial institution.  
We will outline our environmental businesses, including solar power-based renewable energy operations and investment
projects with a positive environmental contribution, as well as other environment-related products and services. 
Main Measures
1.Measures Being Taken for Green Finance  ▼
2.Environmental business creation  ▼
3.Initiatives for Environmental Conservation Through Financial Products  ▼
4.Initiatives for Environmental Protection Through Investment  ▼
Measures Being Taken for Green Finance 
The SMBC Group proactively endeavors to solve environmental and social problems through the core businesses of the
respective Group companies. Particularly concerning environmental problems, a goal has been set to handle green
finance deals dedicated to the environmental field involving total financing in the amount of ¥10 trillion over ten years by
fiscal 2029.
For instance, in the area of power generation via renewables (where certain forms of nature’s power are employed, e.g.,
solar energy, wind power), various services are being provided by relevant Group companies leveraging their respective
advantages, for example, lending by SMBC; trust service by SMBC Trust Bank concerning power generation facilities,
construction sites, etc.; provision of leases by SMFL for power generation facilities; and equity investment by SMBC
Nikko Securities. Altogether, we will pursue such initiatives as an integrated group for general financial services. 
Project Financing for Renewable Energy 
For many years now, SMBC has been providing project finance for renewable energy businesses such as solar power
generation and wind power generation in Japan and overseas. The bank has a strong track record in this area. Since no
carbon dioxide is emitted in renewable energy in principle, these operations are deemed to reduce CO2 emissions
because the power they generate can replace energy from non-renewable sources such as coal, oil and natural gas.
Support for such projects contributes to reductions in CO2 emissions and environmental impact.
For further details on project finance, please refer to the following website.
SMBC: Project Finance (Japanese only)
052
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
053
Fiscal 2019 results
SMBC has conducted 68 renewable energy projects in fiscal 2019
FY2019: CO2 emissions reductions from renewable energy projects (*)
Renewable energy projects in fiscal 2018 contributed to total reductions in CO2 emissions equivalent to
17,643,260 tons.
(*) Estimated volume of reduction in carbon emissions: The estimated volume of power generation is calculated by
referencing the type of renewable-based generation and employing generation capacity as well as the operation rate
of target facilities by country; then the estimated volume of power generation is multiplied by the emissions coefficient
for the power generation sector of the respective countries to calculate the estimated reduction volume in carbon
emissions. Note that for the above calculations, the share of loans extended by SMBC among the total project
budget was not considered.  
Source: In terms of facility operation rate, data were quoted from Wind Europe “Wind Energy in Europe in 2019 -
Trends and Statistics” concerning wind power generation (overseas), with a breakdown for offshore vs. onshore; and
data were additionally quoted from the “Report on Validation of Power Generation Cost, as Submitted to the
Subcommittee of the Outlook on the Long-term Energy Supply-Demand Balance (held on May 26, 2015)” concerning
PV, wind power (domestic), water power, and geothermal power. Regarding biomass power generation, operation
rates were calculated by referencing the information disclosed by respective companies.   
The emissions coefficient for the power generation sector: Quoted from IEA “CO2 Emissions from Fuel Combustion,
2019 edition.”  
053
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
054
Initiatives for Renewable Energy Through Business
SMBC Trust Bank conducts renewable energy business initiatives that
include receiving on trust for solar power facilities and site usage rights
(ownership, leasehold, and surface rights) and managing them as trust
assets as the trustee paying dividends to beneficiaries on income from the
electricity sold. 
Initiatives for leasing "solar sharing" projects that combine agriculture with power
generation
Sumitomo Mitsui Finance and Leasing provides leases for solar power
generation equipment used in a solar sharing project where support
columns are erected on farmland for the installation of solar panels while
leaving space underneath to farm. The project is generating solar power on
unused farmland in Fukushima Prefecture, while enabling production of
ginger crops. Sales of electricity supplement the crop production to ensure
a reliable income stream. This approach is attracting attention as a potential
Solar panels attached to pillars built on
way to develop farmland in Japan, where many farmers are elderly and
farmland by Toyo Energy Farm Co., Ltd.
young people are moving to cities rather than take up farming.
Support for Green Bond Issuance
In September 2018, SMBC Nikko formed the SDGs Finance Dept., which is responsible for providing advice on funding
through SDG bonds (e.g. green bonds) and presenting related proposals. Also, SMBC Nikko became a member of the
Climate Bonds Partners Programme(*), which is run by the Climate Bonds Initiative (CBI), in order to further promote
support for activities related to the SDGs and climate change problems. SMBC Nikko will continue to support many green
bond issuance deals and pursue relevant investments going forward as well while strengthening the collaboration with
CBI through its membership in the said Programme. 
( *) The Programme is being promoted by the Climate Bonds Partners membership to support activities of relevant
investors and stakeholders as well as related educational projects, for the purpose of ensuring sustainable growth of the
green bond market which can contribute to adequate adaptation to climate change and effective investments for carbon
reduction
SMBC Nikko:underwriting such as SDGs bonds（Japanese Only）
054
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
055
Environmental business creation
Initiatives Towards Realizing a Low-Carbon Society
As part of its initiatives to realize a low-carbon society, SMBC has promoted business activities related to emissions
trading since 2005.  
Specifically, SMBC provides financial support for energy conservation and renewable energy development projects
conducted overseas with environmental technologies from Japan in connection with the Joint Crediting Mechanism
(JCM), a new framework promoted by the Japanese government in the post-Kyoto Protocol era. Since fiscal 2010, the
bank has conducted various business feasibility study for over thirty projects, primarily in Asia and Central and South
America, while planning and developing financing schemes. Going forward, SMBC intends to utilize JCM to support
overseas application of exceptional Japanese environmental technologies. It will take on environmental issues such as
climate change, and continue to contribute to the development of a sustainable society.   
*A mechanism utilized to achieve Japan's reduction targets that involves quantitatively assessing Japan's contribution to
greenhouse gas reduction and absorption realized through promotion of low-carbon technologies, an area of specialty for
Japanese companies, in developing countries and contributing to measures to combat global warming at the global level. 
Please click on the link below for details regarding emissions credits and specific related initiatives. 
SMBC: Emissions credit business (Japanese only)
Initiative Examples Close
Initiative Examples Content
Study on Energy-Saving In fiscal 2014, we participated in a study of an energy conservation
Systems for Caustic Soda project at a caustic soda and chlorine manufacturing plant in Central
and Chlorine Manufacturing and South America by converting from the mercury method to the ion
Processes exchange membrane method, utilizing the bilateral credit system.  
Caustic soda and chlorine manufacturing facility in Central and South
America. The study focused on converting from the conventional,
energy-inefficient mercury-based process to the highly energy efficient
ion exchange membrane method.   
The ion exchange membrane method is environmentally friendly, and
conserves energy while also helping reduce use of mercury.  
Use of mercury in the manufacturing process for caustic soda and
chlorine will be banned beginning in 2025 under the Minamata
Convention on Mercury, which goes into force in August 2017.
Thereafter, mercury use is expected to decrease as worldwide caustic
soda and chlorine manufacturing plants convert from a mercury-based
process to ion exchange membranes. 
Study on Capture, of carbon capture, utilization and storage (CCUS) projects utilizing
Utilization and Storage of bilateral credit mechanisms in the Mideast and Central America. Such
Carbon Dioxide  projects would utilize Japan's carbon capture technologies to capture
carbon dioxide emitted from power stations from other gases to prevent
its emission into the atmosphere and effectively utilize the captured
carbon dioxide. The projects are expected to contribute to the
achievement of new greenhouse gas reduction goals established in the
Paris Agreement, which went into effect at the end of 2016. 
055
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
056
Initiatives for Growth Sectors
SMBC Sustainable Business Promotion Department has identified three specific growth sectors : new energy/energy
management, the environment and agriculture society to promote the creation of new business opportunities in these
sectors for customers. Drawing on broad-ranging knowledge and networks developed through industry-government-
academia alliances in Japan and overseas, the bank provides business support in respective areas. 
Initiative Examples Content
Smart Grid Demonstration Project in A smart grid demonstration project utilizing Japan's grid
Poland  stabilization and power storage technologies has been carried out
in Poland by SMBC and other Japan-affiliated companies since
fiscal 2016 on a contract from the New Energy and Industrial
Technology Development Organization (NEDO). While renewable
energies are being utilized at an accelerating pace, their power
output varies depending on weather conditions, so as the amount
of renewable energy sources increase, problems arise related to
the power grid; specifically, maintaining the balance of power
supply and demand on distribution networks and dealing with
overloads. The demonstration project seeks to solve these grid
issues by utilizing Japanese technologies to expand use of
renewable energies in Poland and create a grid stabilization
system that simultaneously reduces capital investment in power
infrastructure and stabilizes the power grid. 
Study on Utilization of Green Climate The Green Climate Fund (GCF) is a multilateral fund established
Fund  based on the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate
Change in order to support reductions to greenhouse gases and
measures to address the impact of climate change in developing
countries. SMBC conducted a feasibility study in fiscal 2016 and
fiscal 2017 with multiple Japan-affiliated companies on
geothermal power projects using the GCF in Papua New Guinea
under the sponsorship of the Ministry of Economy, Trade and
Industry. Going forward, through further studies and other
initiatives, SMBC will work to form projects that utilize the GCF
and support measures to address climate change in developing
countries.
General Contractor Business for the Disposal of Facilities and Plant Sites
SMFL and SMFL MIRAI Partners started a general contractor business for the disposal of facilities and plant sites,
through the establishment of SMART Incorporated jointly with ARBIZ Corporation. Concerning machines and facilities for
which the lease period expired or is held by our clients but no longer needed, reusable items would be employed by
SMFL for resale, while items that cannot be reused would be purchased or taken over free of charge by the new
company. Machines and facilities to be disposed of would then be segregated into marketable items (e.g. metal scrap;
waste plastics) and industrial waste. Marketable items are sold to scrap traders, while industrial waste is handed over to
waste treatment dealers. Through facilitating the reuse of recycled items, companies are curbing the volume of industrial
waste and adequately supporting final disposal processes, while promoting 3R activities by leveraging knowledge and
know-how concerning a wide range of tangible products that are advantageously held by leasing companies, to
contribute to the realization of a circulating type of society. 
056
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
057
Consultation for Environment-Related Business
Environmental Advisory Business
It engages in numerous environmental projects mainly in the energy and smart community fields.  
It strives to contribute to the resolution of global-warming issues and development of environment-friendly businesses by
the creation of new businesses.
Proposals for Energy-Related Policies
The Great East Japan Earthquake led to the substantial review of the Japan's energy policy.  
JRI makes recommendations and proposals for energy systems of next-generation and energy strategies for Japan. For
detailed examples from JRI, please refer to the following website.
JRI: Economy & Policy report(Environment, Energy) (Japanese only)
Overseas Alliances Related to Environmental Business
In emerging countries, the need for economic development that is balanced with the global environment is driving
remarkable progress in local environmental business markets. SMBC has signed multiple memorandums of
understanding (MOUs) for building bridges with Japanese companies with environmental technologies in emerging
countries, financing environment-related projects, and providing know-know on emissions credit trading.   
Through these and other efforts, the bank continues to work to strengthen its environmental business networks with
emerging countries.  
Going forward, we will utilize our environmental business knowledge and experience as a diverse financial group to
meet a variety of needs in environment and energy and other fields. 
List of Service Agreements Close
Provision
Country Content
Period 
October 2014  Chile signed with Chilean government organization and Production
Development Corporation (CORFO) to collaborate on the
procurement of funds for renewable energy and mining
projects. 
July 2014 Mexico A Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) was concluded with
Petróleos Mexicanos (PEMEX), Mexico's largest state-owned
company, relating to cooperation in environmental sectors (to
reduce greenhouse gas emissions).
057
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
058
Provision
Country Content
Period 
March 2013 Colombia In partnership with the Japan Bank for International
Cooperation (JBIC), SMBC instituted a JBIC Green credit line
for Banco de Bogotá, the second-largest commercial bank in
Colombia. This helped to fund local projects that contribute to
greenhouse gas reduction in a two-step loan format. 
March 2013 Mongolia An MOU was concluded with Mongolia's largest commercial
bank, Khan Bank, to forge an alliance related to cooperation
in areas ranging from resource and infrastructure
development, financing for renewable energy and new energy
sectors, and trade finance, customer referrals, and exchange
of market entity related information, etc.
March 2012  Mexico An MOU was concluded with Petróleos Mexicanos (PEMEX),
Mexico's largest state-owned company, aimed at providing
support initiatives for reduction of greenhouse gases at the
company's own facilities.
March 2012 Mongolia An MOU was concluded with Mongolia's only state-affiliated
development bank, Development Bank of Mongolia (DBM), to
support cooperation in the financing of environmental
businesses and infrastructure projects that target greenhouse
gas emissions reductions.
June 2011 Estonia Estonia, a government institution that handles foreign
investment incentives and trade promotion in the Republic of
Estonia, in connection with a business alliance to provide
financial services to local companies and Japanese-owned
companies entering the Estonian market. The alliance will
also target the acquisition of new business opportunities in
the environmental sector, including development projects in
Estonia and emissions-trading ventures
February 2011 Uzbekistan  An MOU was concluded with the National Bank for Foreign
Economic Activity of the Republic of Uzbekistan, the country's
largest state-run bank in terms of assets, in connection with a
business alliance to provide various trade financing related to
trade between Japan and Uzbekistan and the provision of
financial services to Japanese-owned companies entering the
Uzbekistan market and local companies. The alliance will
target the acquisition of new business opportunities in the
environmental sector, including development projects in
Uzbekistan and emissions-trading ventures, and to
strengthen a collaborative framework for yen settlement
operations.
058
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
059
Initiatives for Environmental Conservation Through Financial Products
SMBC Group develops and supplies financial solutions and products for customers engaged in addressing various social
issues, notably climate change and other environmental issues through promotion of energy and resource conservation
and countermeasures for global warming.   
Please visit the link below for more details on SMBC Group's financial solutions lineup 
S MBC Group Businesses and SDG
Initiatives for Environmental Protection Through Investment
In October 2017, SMBC invested in Tokyo Green Bonds (*) issued by the Tokyo Metropolitan Government, an
initiative for contributing to society through asset management.  
*Green bonds are bonds issued to raise funds for green projects. Tokyo Green Bonds have been assessed by an
independent institution as being consistent with the characteristics of "green bonds" as defined by the International
Capital Market Association (ICMA).
SMBC plans to allocate funds raised through the issue of Tokyo Green Bonds to environmental measures, urban
development projects based on smart energy and a vision of the cool, clean and pleasant city, and projects for
adapting to the impact of climate change. 
Bond name Tokyo Green Bond (5-yr. / 30-yr.), first issue
Ratings A+（S&P）
Total amount ¥10.0 billion
issued 
SMBC will continue to contribute to the Sustainable development of society as a whole through initiatives for the
environment, which SMBC Group has specified as one of its key priority issues, and will continue to work to secure
investment income and raise corporate value through diverse investment initiatives for more highly advanced,
multifaceted forms of investment and by demonstrating its core functions as an institutional investor. 
S MBC: Invested in Tokyo Green Bonds issued by the Tokyo Metropolitan Government (Japanese
only)
059
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
060
Management of Environmental Risks
“Managing environmental risks” is one of the SMBC Group's three key environmental themes, articulated in the Group’s
environment policy. As a global financial group, SMBC is working to strengthen its structure for managing environmental
and social risks.
Environmental Risks That Financial Institutions Should Address
Financial institutions confront various types of environmental risk including:
●Credit risks associated with a deterioration in the customer's debt repayment capability. This can be attributed to such
factors as the suspension of business operations due to a breach of environmental regulations and restoration expenses
incurred as a result of soil pollution.
●The risk of a decline in the value of assets due to the disclosure of soil pollution or asbestos in real estate as collateral.
●Lender liability risks that accrue to the lender in connection with business and other loan proceeds that adversely
impact the environment.
●Reputation risks attributable to any of the aforementioned.
SMBC has adopted the Equator Principles, a set of principles for determining, assessing and managing social and
environmental risks in finance to large-scale development projects and has established the Environment Analysis
Department (ENAD) to assess the social and environmental risks in accordance with the principles.
060
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
061
Consideration of ESG risks
In SMBC's Credit Policy, which contains our overall financing policy, guidelines and rules, we declare that we will cease
to provide financial support to borrowers engaged in businesses contrary to public responsibility, or which may have a
significant negative impact on the global environment. 
Also, we recognize our customers' environmental and social impacts from their business activities by understanding not
only their financial information, but also non-financial information represented by ESG. We will engage closely with
customers through gathering non-financial information, and strive to improve expected risk with customers while actively
supporting their environmental and social consideration activities. 
In addition, for large-scale projects which may potentially exert a major impact on the environment and society, we will
continue to comply with the Equator Principles, a set of guidelines developed by private-sector financial institutions for
managing environmental and social risks related to financing large-scale projects. We will also conduct appropriate
environmental and social risk assessments by performing due diligence in our Environment Analysis Department.
Through such actions, we expect project companies to conduct activities for environmental and social consideration,
including climate change and human rights, to address the Task Force on Climate-related Finance Disclosures (TCFD),
and to respect the FPIC (free, prior and informed consent) of local residents. 
For further details about the Equator Principles, please refer to the following link.
Working with the Equator Principles
We establish loan policies for each business which is likely to have a significant impact on the environment and society. 
These policies are also rolled out to SMBC Group companies, which include SMBC Trust Bank, Sumitomo Mitsui
Finance and Leasing Company and SMBC Nikko Securities, in line with their business. This strengthens our risk
management system.
1.Coal-Fired Power Generation
(Background) Since the adoption of the Paris Agreement, efforts to address climate change have been accelerated,
and there is a global movement toward decarbonization, including the Japanese government calling
for an 80% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions by 2050.
(Policy) Support for newly planned coal-fired power plants, in principle, is not provided. Exceptions may be
considered for those projects which use environmentally friendly technologies, such as ultra-
supercritical* pressure and for those projects which have been provided support before the revision.
SMBC Group also support the development of technologies which contribute to carbon recycling,
such as carbon dioxide capture and storage / CCS. 
* Ultra-supercritical: Steam pressure > 240 bar and steam temperature ≥ 593. Or, CO2 emissions <
750g-CO2/kWh.
2.Hydroelectric Power Generation
(Background) As the transition to a low-carbon society progresses, hydroelectric power generation will play a
greater role in power supply. However, when constructing a hydroelectric power plant, it is important
to consider the impact on biodiversity associated with dam construction and also on local
communities caused by resettlement.
(Policy) For those cases in which financing is used for hydroelectric power generation projects, SMBC Group
carefully monitors whether appropriate mitigation measures against the impact on biodiversity and
local communities caused by resettlement have been implemented and conducts environmental and
social risk assessments when we consider lending.
061
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
062
3.Oil and Gas
(Background) Oil and gas will continue to be an important source of energy, and we actively consider measures
that contribute to the transition to a low-carbon society. On the other hand, as the transition to a low-
carbon society progresses, it is important to consider the risk of stranded assets that will cause the
value of the assets owned to decline in the future, measures to reduce the environmental impact
associated with development, and give proper consideration to the residents of the development
area.
(Policy) The scope of environmental and social risk assessments that take into account Equator Principles is
be expanded for the following business and sectors when we consider lending. After identifying and
evaluating environmental and social risks, appropriate measures are considered.
(1)Oil Sand
Oil sand (tar sand) has relatively high carbon intensity and large environmental impacts are associated with its
development. As such, SMBC Group conducts environmental and social risk assessments, paying close
attention to soil and water pollution caused by wastewater, deforestation, and efforts to protect biodiversity and
indigenous communities, when we consider lending.
(2)Shale Oil and Shale Gas
During shale oil and shale gas development, the use of hydraulic fracturing methods is assumed to cause
groundwater contamination and induce earthquakes. SMBC Group carefully monitors whether appropriate
mitigation measures have been implemented for these issues, and then we conduct environmental and social
risk assessments when we consider lending.
(3)Oil and Gas Mining Projects in the Arctic
The Arctic Circle (an area north of the 66º33' latitude) is home to rare ecosystems and indigenous people with a
unique culture. For mining projects in this region, SMBC Group conducts environmental and social risk
assessments, playing close attention not only to environmental considerations but also to measures to protect
biodiversity and indigenous communities, when we consider lending.
(4)Oil and Gas Pipelines
Pipelines are expected to have a wide range of environmental impacts due to oil spills and deforestation, as
well as social impacts on indigenous communities, not only at the time of construction but also when completed.
SMBC Group carefully monitors whether appropriate mitigation measures have been implemented for these
issues, and then we conduct environmental and social risk assessments when we consider lending.
4.Coal Mining
(Background) In addition to the risks of stranded assets associated with the transition to a low-carbon society, it is
important to consider human rights with respect to the elimination of illegal labor and child labor in
coal mines and biodiversity issues associated with mining.
(Policy) The scope of environmental and social risk assessment that take into account Equator Principals is
expanded for coal mining businesses when we consider lending. Through this, environment and
social risks are identified and evaluated. In addition, we don't provide support for coal mining projects
that are conducted using the Mountain Top Removal (MTR) method, as this method has a large
environmental impact.
5.Tobacco Manufacturing
(Background) Smoking can cause health hazards, such as lung cancer and respiratory dysfunction. In addition, with
the cultivation of leaf tobacco (a raw material of cigarettes), it is important to consider human rights to
eliminate illegal labor and child labor.
(Policy) With regard for support for tobacco manufacturers, Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation has
confirmed that particular issues including health hazards and considering of human rights to eliminate
illegal labor and child labor are being addressed.
062
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
063
6.Nature Conservation Areas
(Policy) SMBC Group does not provide support for new projects that are perceived to have a significant
negative impact on wetlands specified in the Ramsar Convention and UNESCO-designated World
Natural Heritage sites.
7.Palm Oil Plantation Development
(Policy) For palm oil plantation development projects, SMBC Group confirms that the palm oil which is
produced is produced with due consideration for the environment and society and has been certified
by the Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) or by an equivalent certifying body. Support is
only provided after confirming that forest resources and biodiversity are protected when new
plantations are developed and that there are no human rights violations, such as child labor. For
those customers that have not yet been certified, SMBC Group encourages and supports them to
obtain certification.
8.Deforestation
(Policy) For projects which involve deforestation, SMBC Group provides support after confirming that illegal
logging and incineration are not carried out and the laws and regulations of each country are
observed. For large-scale projects, environmental impacts, such as the destruction of primeval
forests and ecosystems, are evaluated in accordance with the Equator Principles when we consider
lending.
9.Manufacturing of Cluster Bombs and Other Weapons of Destruction
(Policy) Cluster bombs are considered inhumane, therefore SMBC Group prohibits credit to those
manufacturers. In addition, it is confirmed that loans are not used for manufacturing of other weapons
of destruction.
063
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
064
Reduction of Environmental Impacts
The three pillars of the environmental activities of the SMBC Group are Promotion of Environmental Businesses,
Management of Environmental Risks, and Reduction of Environmental Impact. Each group company sets targets for
Reduction of Environmental Impact and implements diverse measures.
Main Measures
SMBC Group Environmental Data 
Reducing Energy Consumption 
Reducing Environmental Impact Through Our Businesses 
Paper less initiatives 
SMBC Group Environmental Data
The SMBC Group is working to further promote
environmental activities by visualizing them. As a part
of this process of visualization, we have disclosed
environmental impact data from company office
activities. We have obtained third-party certification of
our data from the Japan Quality Assurance
Organization. As well, SMBC has expanded the scope
of disclosure to environmental accounting.
Environmental Impact Data of SMBC
Group Companies
Environmental Accounting at SMBC
Fiscal 2018 Greenhouse Gas 
Emissions Verification Report (188KB)
064
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
065
Total CO2 Emissions of SMBC Group
Measurement Items Units Fiscal 2017 Fiscal 2018 Fiscal 2019
Thousand m3 2,479 2,225 1,930
City gas
t-CO2 5,566 4,993 4,329
t 10 10 9
Liquefied petroleum gas
（LPG）
t-CO2 31 29 27
kl 131 94 112
Heavy fuel oil
t-CO2 355 256 303
Direct energy
consumption
kl 3 3 3
Light oil
t-CO2 7 7 8
kl 46 44 37
Kerosene
t-CO2 114 109 93
kl 4,759 4,080 3,776
Gasoline(automobile)
t-CO2 11,047 9,470 8,765
Thousand kWh 323,731 291,045 275,868
Electricity(*3)
t-CO2(emission
162,148 135,916 121,732
coefficient)
GJ 30,538 30,785 30,835
Steam
Indirect
energy t-CO2 1,740 1,755 1,758
Consumption
GJ 3,600 3,397 6,607
Hot water
t-CO2 205 194 377
GJ 45,680 48,986 42,797
Cold water
t-CO2 2,604 2,792 2,439
CO2 emissions from
t-CO2 17,780 18,432 44,582
business trips(*4)
Water supply Thousand m3 34 36 39
Other energy
consumption Sewage Thousand m3 34 36 39
Thousand m3 2,594 2,662 2,303
Total water and sewage
t-CO2 1,165 1,195 1,033
065
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
066
Measurement Items Units Fiscal 2017 Fiscal 2018 Fiscal 2019
Direct energy CO2
t-CO2 17,120 14,863 13,526
emissions
Indirect energy CO2 t-CO2(emission
166,697 140,657 126,305
emissions coefficient)
Total Other CO2 emissions t-CO2 18,945 19,628 45,615
t-CO2(emission
Total CO2 emissions 202,762 175,148 185,447
coefficient)
Total CO2 emissions (per t-CO2/Thous and m2 
119 106 115
m2) (emission coefficient)
*The main reason for the increase in results of FY2019 compared to that of FY2018 is that the CO2 conversion factors for
business trips have been updated to ver 3.0 in the "Database of emission intensity for calculating greenhouse gas
emissions of the organization throughout its supply chain ", developed by MINISTRY OF THE ENVIRONMENT.
[Scope of data] 
*Each item is simply the sum of the values of the following group companies. Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation,
SMBC Trust Bank, Sumitomo Mitsui Finance and Leasing, SMBC Nikko Securities, SMBC Friend Securities(*1),
Sumitomo Mitsui Card Company, SMBC Finance Service, SMBC Consumer Finance, The Japan Research Institute,
Sumitomo Mitsui DS Asset Management Company, THE MINATO BANK(*2), and Kansai Urban Banking Corporation(*2)
(*1)Merged with SMBC Nikko Securities as of January 2018.
(*2)Excluded from the Group as of April 2018.
[CO2 conversion method] 
(*3)Actual emission factor for each electric business company is used. 
(*4)Refer to MINISTRY OF THE ENVIRONMENT's " Database of emission intensity for calculating greenhouse gas 
emissions of the organization throughout its supply chain". 
Ver 2.2 is applied until FY2018, and ver 3.0 from FY2019.
(*5)Others uses "Support tool of Calculating CO2 Emissions from Energy Use" provided by the Agency for Natural 
Resources and Energy.
[Third party verification] 
These data are being tested third-party certification from the Japan Quality Assurance Organization.
Reducing Energy Consumption
Medium/Long-Term Reduction Target for Electricity Consumption
Approximately 90% of the energy used by SMBC is electricity. The bank is therefore prioritizing efforts to reduce
power consumption in order to lower its overall energy consumption. Since fiscal 2013, SMBC has conducted these
initiatives with a target of reducing its electricity consumption intensity (electricity consumption / total floor area) in
fiscal 2020 by 10.5% compared to fiscal 2009. This target has been established by the Japanese Bankers
Association for the banking industry as a whole in the Japan Business Federation's "Commitment to a Low-Carbon
Society" action plan. In fiscal 2015, a new target was established, reducing the electricity consumption intensity
(electricity consumption / total floor area) in fiscal 2030 by 19.0% compared to fiscal 2009. SMBC is continuing its
efforts to conserve electricity and achieve the target. 
SMBC Nikko Securities has set an environmental goal to reduce the amount of electricity used per 1 m2 of floor
space by more than 10% by fiscal 2020 as compared against fiscal 2009, and reduce usage by more than 20% by
fiscal 2030. This goal is a standard set for the securities industry by the Japan Securities Dealers Association in their
Securities Industry Action Plan for Environmental Issues.
066
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
067
Compliance with Amended Energy Saving Act
As a company (enterprise) with annual energy consumption (crude oil equivalent) of 1,500 kiloliters or more, under 
the Energy Saving Act SMBC is required to develop an energy management system, create a medium/long-term 
plan and reduce its energy consumption intensity by 1% or more each year. SMBC is not only firmly fulfilling these 
obligations but also conducting measures that include management practices based on the act and reduction of 
energy consumption at individual branches and offices.
Publication of Carbon Reduction Report for Small and Medium-Sized Facilities
Global warming countermeasures at offices and branches in Tokyo are reported along with CO2 emissions in
accordance with the Tokyo Metropolitan Government's Tokyo Carbon Reduction Reporting Program.
Bureau of Environment, Tokyo Metropolitan Government: Tokyo Carbon Reduction Reporting
Program for small and medium-sized (Data of SMBC) (Japanese only)
Reducing Environmental Impact through Products and Services
Paperless Initiative Through Devices in Store Operations
Paperless application procedures not only reduce environmental impact and raise customer convenience, they also
eliminate the risk of information leaks connected with disposal of paper application forms. Rigorous management of the
digitized data through access restrictions and other measures also further strengthens protection of customers' personal
information. There are advantages in terms of administrative efficiency as well, such as a smoother screening process,
so a number of Group companies are actively involved in this initiative.
SMBC has been undertaking efforts to improve hospitality by implementing paperless branches that utilize cutting-
edge technology to improve services for our customers. The Ginza branch that was reopened inside GINZA SIX in
April 2017 achieved digitalization of store services by using in-store transaction navigation, electronic signatures, and
electronic seals. 
In addition, this initiative was evaluated by the Japan Institute of Information Technology and received an award of
excellence in the Service & Hospitality Awards from the Institute in 2017, and the highest award of merit for the same
program in 2018.
067
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
068
Paperless Application Procedures
SMBC Finance Service has been promoting conversion from conventional duplicate application forms to paperless
credit card application tools that reduce environment impact. The company provides affiliated merchants with
systems and so forth for completing applications using Internet products and tablet devices, such as the online credit
system Cedyna C-Web, which enables applications to be completed online, and the Digital Pen ECO pen with an
infrared camera, which is used with a specialized contract form (application form).When a tablet device is used, the
entry method is simple, corrections are easy, and member application procedures are simplified, which reduces the
burden on customers as well. 
SMBC Consumer Finance is improving customer convenience through digitalization as well as reducing the
consumption of resources by actively expanding the App Loans service to promote cardless transactions. The SMBC
account opening app for smartphones allows customers to open an account easily with just ID and a smartphone. All
of these services not only offer greater convenience to our customers, but help to cut usage of paper resources.
Paperless Statements
SMBC, SMCC, SMBC Finance Service and SMBC Consumer Finance encourages customers to switch to the "Web
Account Statement Service" and "Web passbook" which allow customers to view their statements online rather than
receiving a paper version by mail, as a way for them to participate in environmental initiatives. 
SMBC provides an e-report service that enables customers to use the Internet to view reports that would normally be
sent in the mail, such as for investment products and loan products.
“SMBC Green Program” through Selling JGBs to Retail Clients
SMBC is pursuing the “SMBC Green Program” through selling JGBs to retail clients, in which SMBC implements certain
measures to reduce carbon emissions (e.g., donations for tree-planting projects) by using part of the profit earned in
such sales. In this Program, SMBC endeavors to ensure environmental conservation for the Earth jointly with clients
through the following: ① reduction in carbon emissions equal to 100kg; or ② tree planting for the equivalent of 1m2 of
forest (forest improvement, etc.) per client.
Please refer to the link below for more details:
SMBC: “SMBC Green Program” (JGB sales to retail clients)（Japanese Only）
068
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
069
Issue of Chikyuni Yasashii Card for Environmental Contributions through Credit
Cards
SMBC Finance Service issues the Chikyuni Yasashii Card to allow people to make donations for the environment
through simple, everyday use. The company issues 14 types of cards based on specific themes related to global
environmental protection. When people use the Chikyuni Yasashii Card for shopping, SMBC Finance Service
automatically donates 0.5% of the card usage amounts to protection and research organizations based on those themes
through The Defense of Great Earth Foundation.
For details regarding various activities, please refer to the following website
SMBC Finance Service: Initiatives for the environment through business activities (Japanese only)
Environmental Considerations in Leasing
Sumitomo Mitsui Finance and Leasing is completely in compliance with environment-related laws and regulations to
prevent contamination of the environment due to illegal disposals of industrial waste materials triggered by the
expiration of leases. In addition, multi-phased assessments of disposal contractors, mainly in terms of compliance,
local research and interviews, are conducted annually in order to prudently select the most appropriate company that
handles transportation and disposing of waste materials at the time of the expiration of a lease.
For details regarding various activities, please refer to SMFL's website.
SMFL: Environmental Activities (Compliance with Environment-Related Laws and Regulations)
(Japanese only)
Reduction of environmental impact within the company
Environmental Features in Buildings
Implementing company rules to reduce environmental impact
SMBC actively selects buildings with environmental friendly features  for 
its branches and offices. The head office building has rainwater storage 
tanks, solar power facilities, a rooftop garden and human sensors, and 
makes use of recycled materials. These various environmental features 
and facilities are designed to give the building 30% lower annual CO2 
emissions than the average leased office building in Tokyo. 
For example, SMBC reduces 187 tons in carbon per year as a result of 
recycling high efficiency filters for air conditioning systems and energy-
saving effects.
069
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
070
SMBC East Tower, which opened in the summer of 2015, has the 
environmental features on the head office building with the addition of 
all LED lighting and high-performance exterior walls  performance. 
These features enable a 35% reduction in annual CO2 emissions 
compared to the average leased office building in Tokyo. Thanks to 
these environmental facilities and features, the building has earned an 
"S" rank in the CASBEE rating system for building environmental 
performance and a "Platinum" rating from LEED-CI, an international 
environmental certification program.
Part of the power used by the East Tower was switched to non-carbon-
emitting power by hydroelectric plants (“Aqua Premium”(*) by TEPCO 
Energy Partner).   
(*) Aqua Premium represents the power generated by general 
hydroelectric facilities of the TEPCO Group (excluding power generated 
by pumped storage power plants and FIT electricity). It represents the 
power generated only by hydroelectric plants that do not emit carbon in 
the process of generation, and stable power supply is enabled 
throughout the day by procuring power from many hydroelectric plant 
sites. (FIT stands for the “Feed-in Tariff” system, whereby the 
government ensures that the power generated by renewables is 
purchased by utility companies at a fixed price.)  
The Osaka head office building underwent a major renovation that 
finished in fiscal 2015. We installed high performing exterior wall 
frames, LED lighting, and solar panels to substantially improve the 
environmental performance while retaining the original charm of the 
facilities.
Initiatives are also being conducted overseas to select and use 
buildings with environmental features and facilities. The Brussels 
Branch in Belgium is housed in a building certified through the 
BREEAM method (Building Research Establishment Environmental 
Assessment Method) for assessing building environmental 
performance.
070
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
071
Other Initiatives
company rules to reduce environmental impact Green Purchasing
Internal Recycling of Documents that are No Longer Needed Ban on Plastic Straws
Utilizing monitors and recycling office supplies
company rules to reduce environmental impact
Within the Group, various measures for resource-saving are being pursued concerning merchandise, ranging from
the procurement stage to use, disposition and recycling stages. 
For instance, at the stage of purchasing paper sheets in large quantity for use in copiers, SMBC selects and
purchases sheets that are environment-friendly (e.g., products that meet the requirements of the Act on Promoting
Green Purchasing) after confirming that material procurement and production were carried out adequately for the
products in accordance with the environmental conservation criteria publicly disclosed by suppliers. Also, at the
use stage, SMBC endeavors to reduce the quantity of use as per the rules specifically set internally (e.g., through
the promotion of paperless meetings). At the stage of disposition and recycling as well, SMBC takes certain
measures to achieve targeted reduction in the volume of paper waste to be processed. 
Also, each individual company, including Sumitomo Mitsui Card, SMBC Finance Service, and SMBC Consumer
Finance, endeavors to ensure resource-saving, energy-saving and waste segregation by type in compliance with
the internal rules specific to each respective company.
Green Purchasing
Concerning the purchase of office goods, etc., a “green purchasing” system is adopted by the Group, whereby it is
ensured that items that impose less of a burden on the environment are chosen and purchased to the extent
possible, for the purpose of protecting the environment.
Internal Recycling of Documents that are No Longer Needed
In addition to proactively pursuing measures such as reduction in waste volume and promotion of paperless
customs processing, we are attempting to recycle parts of documents no longer needed at the head office to
produce new paper for reuse within the bank by setting a “PaperLab” (an office-use paper production machine) in
the head office building.  
Developed by Seiko Epson, “PaperLab” can produce new paper by recycling documents no longer needed,
without having to ship old documents externally for recycling. It enables a significant reduction in the volume of
water used for production compared to conventional paper producing machines. Such a process will enable a
greater decline in the level of environmental burden during procurement than purchasing new paper sheets.  
As for the paper produced through such recycling, not only is effective use promoted both inside and outside the
bank, but the system can also function as a trigger to raise employees’ awareness of waste segregation and
recycling from the viewpoint of the importance of recycling in the office.
071
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
072
Ban on Plastic Straws
The use of plastic straws was banned in the dining and cafeteria areas for employees. (This applies only to the
head office building.
Utilizing monitors and recycling office supplies
Various measures for resource saving and for reducing waste volume are being pursued: e.g., reduction of printing
needs through more effective use of PC monitors; reduction in the number of paper sheets through encouraged
use of dual-sided printing; installation of a recycle box or some recycling boxes in the office for stationery items.
072
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
073
Response to climate change(Working on TCFD
Recommendations)
Climate change is one of the primary global issues to be addressed in the 21st century. Based on this recognition, the
Paris Agreement was adopted and came into force in 2016. In order to attain the long-term goals set under this
agreement, including restricting the rise in average global temperature to within two degrees Celsius above preindustrial
levels, countries have presented their greenhouse gas emission reduction targets to the United Nations and are
implementing relevant measures. Developed countries are pressing forward with measures to create a decarbonized
society while according to the report by International Energy Agency (IEA), constructions of new coal-fired power plants
are still underway in some Asian countries. In addition, the Japanese government has set the target of reducing the
country's greenhouse gas emissions by 80% by 2050. 
We have announced our support of the TCFD (*1) at the "One Planet Summit" held in Paris in December 2017.
Simultaneously, we will continuously support our customers in their efforts to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by such
measures as promoting the introduction of environment-friendly technologies through their business operations. Being
committed to reducing greenhouse gas emissions, we will conduct business in a manner that contributes to the growth of
both our customers and society, and will further enhance our actions towards climate change. 
(*1) The Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) was established by the Financial Stability
Board(FSB) in April 2015 to urge individual companies to disclose their impact on climate change in their financial
reports.
Working on the Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) Recommendations ▼
Governance on Climate Change ▼
Impact of Climate-Related Risks and Opportunities on the Organization's Businesses ▼
Management of Climate-Related Risks ▼
Working on the Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures
(TCFD) Recommendations▼
We have summarized our thinking on climate change, which has also been categorized into the four thematic areas of
disclosure set out by the TCFD (Governance, Strategy, Risk Management, and Metrics and Targets).
Content and Location of Disclosure Consistent with TCFD Recommendations
Overview of TCFD Recommendations References (click on link to relevant page)
Disclose the organization's governance regarding climate change-related risks and opportunities.
Describe the board's oversight of climate change- ●Governance on Climate Change
related risks and opportunities. ●Sustainability Management
Describe management's role in assessing and ●Governance on Climate Change
managing climate change-related risks and ●Sustainability Management
opportunities.
073
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
074
Disclose the actual and potential impacts of climate-related risks and opportunities on the organization's business,
strategy, and financial planning where such information is material.
Describe the climate-related risks and opportunities ●Impact of Climate-Related Risks and Opportunities
that the organization has identified over the short, on the Organization's Businesses
medium, and long term. ●Promotion of Environmental Businesses
●SMBC Group Green Bond
Describe the impact of climate-related risks and ●Impact of Climate-Related Risks and Opportunities
opportunities on the organization's businesses, on the Organization's Businesses
strategy, and financial planning. ●Promotion of Environmental Businesses
●SMBC Group Green Bond
Describe the resilience of the organization's strategy, ●Impact of Climate-Related Risks and Opportunities
taking into consideration different climate-related on the Organization's Businesses
scenarios, including a 2°C or lower scenario.
Disclose how the organization identifies, assesses, and manages climate-related risks.
Describe the organization's processes for identifying ●Management of Environmental Risks
and assessing climate-related risks.
Describe the organization's processes for managing ●Management of Environmental Risks
climate-related risks.
Describe how processes for identifying, assessing, ●Management of Climate-Related Risks
and managing climate-related risks are integrated into
the organization's overall risk management.
Disclose the metrics and targets used to assess and manage relevant climate-related risks and opportunities
where such information is material.
Disclose the metrics used by the organization to ●Reduction of Environmental Impacts
assess climate-related risks and opportunities in line
with its strategy and risk management process.
Disclose greenhouse gas emissions and the related ●Reduction of Environmental Impacts
risks of Scope1, Scope 2, and Scope 3 if appropriate.
Describe the targets used by the organization to ●Reduction of Environmental Impacts
manage climate-related risks and opportunities and
performance against targets.
074
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
075
Governance on Climate Change
Our Group Environmental Policy recognizes the importance of realizing a sustainable society. To this end, the SMBC
Group is making continuous efforts to harmonize environmental preservation and pollution prevention with corporate
activities. 
Our policies on climate change are reflected in our business strategy based on discussions of the Corporate
Sustainability Committee and Management Committee, while details of our sustainability initiatives are regularly reported
to the Board of Directors. Under this structure, we capture business opportunities and control the risks presented by
climate change.
Impact of Climate-Related Risks and Opportunities on the Organization's
Businesses
[Physical Risks]
There is a risk that the increase in extreme weather associated with climate change will negatively affect our customers'
business. In light of frequent climate change-related natural disasters in Japan in recent years, SMBC performed a
climate change scenario analysis for physical risks to assess impacts through 2050. 
Our analysis specifies as the risk event water disasters such as storms and flooding, which account for the majority of
climate change-related natural disasters. We apply the RCP (*2) 2.6 (2°C scenario) and RCP8.5 (4°C scenario)
scenarios used by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) as greenhouse gas concentration pathways
used as the basis for research. SMBC uses this analysis to calculate the estimated increase in credit-related costs for its
corporate customers associated with water disasters in Japan through 2050, taking into consideration the effects on
collateral held by SMBC and customers' financial condition as well as the probability of a water disaster occurring (*3) in
each climate change scenario. Based on our analysis, the estimated increase in credit-related costs through 2050 was
30-40 billion yen, or a simple annual average of approximately 1.0 billion yen. We thus conclude that at this stage,
climate change-related water disasters will have a limited impact on SMBC's financial condition in a particular year.
The results of the above calculations are tentative, based on certain assumptions for natural disasters and analysis 
targets. Going forward we intend to analyze risk volume in greater detail while expanding the scope of analysis.
(*2) Representative Concentration Pathways Scenario 
For example, RCP2.6 assumes radioactive forcing (the difference between energy absorbed by the earth and radiated 
back into space, which influences changes to the earth's climate system) is 2.6w/m2.
(*3) Based on data from the paper below 
"Hirabayashi Y, Mahendran R, Koirala S, Konoshima L, Yamazaki D, Watanabe S, Kim H and Kanae S (2013) Global 
flood risk under climate change. Nat Clim Chang., 3(9), 816-821. doi:10.1038/nclimate1911.
075
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
076
＜ Process of Analyzing Physical Risks ＞
[Transition Risks]
In the process of transition to a low-carbon society, we anticipate risks of a decline in the value of affected assets (asset 
stranding). SMBC conducted a climate change scenario analysis for transition risks based on Carbon-related assets(*4),
which account for 7.8% of all loans by SMBC. In this analysis, We apply Stated Policies Scenario (*5) and 2℃ Scenario 
(*6), which are stated by the International Energy Agency (IEA).
In addition, by estimating the impact on credit risk of each sector from the expected changes in resource prices and 
demands including crude oil and natural gas, and power generation costs (*7) in each scenario, total credit costs
expected by 2050 is estimated. Under the 2℃ scenario, estimated credit costs are expected to increase approximately 
2~10bln yen per fiscal year on or before 2050, compared with stated policy scenarios. This is first step in the scenario 
analysis, and SMBC Group will continue to strive to enhance it.
In the future, we will support for the customers' efforts to their climate change resilience in the period of transition to a 
low-carbon society.
(*4) TCFD: The Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures defines carbon-related assets as those of the 
energy and utilities industries (excluding water companies, independent power producers, and renewable energy 
companies) in the Global Industry Classification Standard (GICS).
(*5) A scenario assuming that energy plans currently stated by governments will be implemented
(*6) A scenario in which the global average temperature increase from before the Industrial Revolution to 2100 is held to 
2℃ with a probability of at least 50%
(*7) In Japan, the restarting of nuclear power plant is considered in align with the IEA scenario.
076
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
077
＜ Process of Analyzing Transition Risks ＞
[Opportunities]
As we work toward realizing a low-carbon society, we support businesses that help mitigate the effects of climate change
such as renewable energy and green building projects, the creation of cities and regions with infrastructures resilient to
natural disasters, and efforts to build sustainable lifestyles. Amid expectations that the market for these climate change-
related businesses will grow, we arranged project finance of around 520 billion yen in renewable energy in fiscal 2018.
We are actively supporting these projects, having made it to the top of the Project Finance league table (*8) in this
category. 
We also issue Green Bonds in accordance with the green bond framework pursuant to the Green Bond Principles
established by the International Capital Market Association (ICMA) and Green Bond Guidelines published by the Ministry
of the Environment, Japan, as a way to contribute toward the promotion of environmental businesses and reduce
environmental impact in Japan and overseas. We will continue our efforts to work with our customers to solve climate
change-related problems by supporting the issue of Green Bonds by our customers and providing investment support
services.
(*8) Results of IJ Global's 2018 Project Finance League Table
Physical Risks Transition Risks Opportunities
Physical Risks Based on Scenario Transition Risks Based on Scenario Value of renewable energy projects
Analysis  Analysis  financed  
(Credit-related costs expected to 2〜10 billion yen
increase)  (Per year through 2050)  520 billion yen
30-40 billion yen
(Accumulated through 2050) Exposure to carbon-related assets 
(As of March 2019) 
7.8%
Management of Climate-Related Risks
As a framework for risk management, SMBC Group follows the procedures of PDCA (Plan, Do, Check, Act) to identify 
external environmental and risk events, analyze their impact, and establish a system to undertake necessary 
management.
Recently, events related to climate change, such as the occurrence of large-scale disasters due to extreme weather and 
the deterioration of carbon-related assets in accordance with transition to a low-carbon society, have been newly 
selected as top risks. Under this framework, efforts to strengthen scenario analysis and consider countermeasures at the 
management level have begun. These measures are reported to the Management Committee and the Risk Committee 
and reviewed by external directors at Board of Directors meetings.
Going forward we remain aware of the increasing emergence of the effects of climate change, strive to understand the 
external environment and the risks on our business, and take action as appropriate.
077
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
078
SMBC Group Green Bond
Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation (SMBC) Group is a major issuer of green bonds both domestically and in
international markets. SMBC Group strives to further contribute to the sustainability and improvement of the global
environment through green bonds issuance.
SMBC Group applies the net proceeds of green bonds to finance qualifying renewable energy generation and energy
efficiency projects.
SMBC Group has a strong track record in providing project finance for renewal energy (solar energy, wind energy, etc.)
both domestically and internationally.
Track Record of Green Bond Issues
In October 2015, SMBC, SMBC Group's main operating bank, issued USD denominated green bonds. It was the first
green bond issuance among Japanese private financial institutions. Since then, SMBC Group regularly issues green
bonds; as of March 2020, the outstanding amount of the five issuances stands at EUR 1.7billion equivalent.
Green Bonds Issued by SMBC Group
Green Bond Framework
The green bonds were issued and managed by SMBC Group in a accordance with its green bond framework pursuant to
"Green Bond Principles" established by the International Capital Market Association (ICMA) and "Green Bond Guideline"
published by the Ministry of the Environment, Japan.
Framework Opinion
SMBC Group Green Bond  
SMBC Group Green Bond Framework
Framework-opinion
Annual Reporting
As of Mar.2020
External  Management  Investor 
Notes
Review Assertion Report
SMBC USD500mn 
KPMG Assuarance Report
2.450% due2020
SMFG EUR500mn  Sustianalytics Review 
0.934% due2024 SMFG 2017
SMFG 
SMBC USD227.8mn 
Annual Report
3.370% due2023 
Sustianalytics Review  SMBC
SMBC 2018
SMBC AUD83.2mn 
2.900% due2023
SMFG EUR500mn  Sustianalytics Review 
0.465% due2024 SMFG 2019
078
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
079
Reporting Archive Close
As of Mar.2019
External  Management  Investor 
Notes
Review Assertion Report
SMBC USD500mn  KPMG Asurance Report
2.450% due2020 SMBC 2015
Management
SMFG EUR500mn  Sustainalytics Annual Assertion
0.934% due2024 Review SMFG 2017 SMFG
FY3/2019 Annual
Report
Management
SMBC AUD83.2mn 
Assertion
2.900% due2023 
Sustainalytics Annual SMBC
Review SMBC 2018
SMBC AUD83.2mn 
2.900% due2023
As of Mar.2018
External  Management  Investor 
Notes
Review Assertion Report
SMBC USD500mn  KPMG assurance report 
SMBC Green Bonds impact Report 2018
2.450% due2020 (467KB)
SMFG EUR500mn  SMFG Green Bonds Monitoring Report (As
Annual Review 2018
0.934% due2024 of March 31, 2018)
As of Mar.2017
External  Management  Investor 
Notes
Review Assertion Report
SMBC USD500mn  KPMG assurance report 
SMBC Green Bonds impact Report 2017
2.450% due2020 (1,261KB)
As of Mar.2016
External  Management  Investor 
Notes
Review Assertion Report
SMBC USD500mn  KPMG assurance report 
SMBC Green Bonds impact Report 2016
2.450% due2020 (3,210KB)
Disclaimers: Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group does not guarantee the accuracy or timeliness of the information
on this website. The information on this website may be updated and modified at any time without prior notice.
Mitsui Sumitomo Financial Group will not bear any liability for losses arising from errors, lack of information or
any other such issue in relation to the website. 
This website is designed for information purposes only. It does not constitute an offer to sell or a solicitation of an
offer to buy bonds or other securities. Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group will not bear any liability for losses
arising from buying and selling bonds or other securities based on the information provided on this website. To
make decisions on investing in bonds or other securities, investors should obtain the necessary information from
their brokerage firms.
079
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
080
SMBC Group Green Bond Framework
SMBC Group i) sets criteria for eligible Green Project , ii) evaluates and selects Eligible Green Projects, iii) manages
green bond proceeds, and iv) publishes relevant reporting, under the green bond framework detailed below.
1.Eligibility criteria to qualify as a green project
To qualify as an Eligible Green Project, a project must meet all of the following conditions.
(1)The project is categorized as at least one of the Eligible Green Project Categories (A) to (E) below.
(2)The project is categorized as Category (B) or Category (C) under the Equator Principles as published by the Equator
Principles Association.
(3)An existing or new project which SMFG (or, SMBC, as the case may be) has agreed to lend (a) during the 24 months
prior to the relevant issue date of a green bond or (b) after the issue date of a green bond.
Eligible Green Project Categories
Projects to develop, construct and operate solar, wind, geothermal and
biomass power generation facilities (restricted to sustainable feedstock
(A) Renewable energy
and/or waste materials) and small-scale renewable hydropower generation
facilities with capacity of 25 megawatts or less
Projects related to energy conservation equipment, such as LED lighting,
(B) Energy efficiency efficient HVAC, building insulation materials and power consumption control
systems
Projects to construct and repair green buildings with a rating of at least Gold
(C) Green buildings
by LEED,*1 Excellent by BREEAM*2 or A Level by CASBEE*3
Projects related to public transportation, rail transport, non-motorized
transport (automobiles, etc.), manufacturing of electric vehicles and the
(D) Clean transportation
development, operation and upgrade of infrastructure/technology for the
expansion and improvement of integrated transport
Projects related to the development, construction and operation of facilities
(E)Pollution prevention and control for pollution prevention and waste management, such as waste recycling and
power generation from waste
*1LEED: Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design
*2BREEAM: Building Research Establishment Environmental Assessment Methodology
*3CASBEE: Comprehensive Assessment System for Built Environment Efficiency
For clarification purposes, the following are excluded from the Green Bond Framework: fossil fuel based assets, fossil 
fuel based transportation / infrastructure and transportation with the main objective of transporting fossil fuel, defense 
and security, palm oil, wood pulp, nuclear power generation, coal-fired power generation as well as all mining and 
tobacco sectors.
080
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
081
2.Project evaluation and selection process
SMFG's Corporate Treasury Department and SMBC's Planning Department, Treasury Unit worked together with SMFG's
Corporate Sustainability Department to establish the criteria for Eligible Green Projects, including Project Categories (A)
to (E) above, in conjunction with the support provided by The Japan Research Institute (JRI), the think tank subsidiary of
the group with extensive experience and knowledge in environmental fields. SMBC's Structured Finance Department
selects the projects which meet the criteria. SMFG's Corporate Treasury Department and SMBC's Planning Department,
Treasury Unit decide the eligible project for the green bond. Net proceeds of the green bond are to be allocated to
selected eligible projects
SMBC's credit policy, which describes underlying principles in making credit decisions and incorporates environmental
risk, stipulates the bank's determination not to lend to projects that may seriously damage the environment. For large-
scale projects, SMBC conducts social and environmental risk assessment based on the Equator Principles and
implements environmental monitoring through the Environment Analysis Department.
3.Management of bond proceeds
SMBC uses the net proceeds to finance existing or new Eligible Green Projects. The pending allocations will be invested
in short-term financial instruments until allocated to Eligible Green Projects.
Also, any of green bond proceeds allocated to projects that have been sold, prepaid, amortised or otherwise become
ineligible will be reallocated to other Eligible Green Projects. Further, the payment of principal and interest of relevant
green bonds will be made from general funds of SMFG and will not be directly linked to the performance of related
Eligible Green Projects.
4.Reporting
(1)Reporting on proceeds allocation
During the term of any relevant green bonds, SMFG/SMBC will publish on a dedicated website information regarding
the allocation of bond proceeds and keep such information available at any time. The information shall be updated at
least annually until the bond proceeds are fully allocated to Eligible Green Projects and as necessary thereafter in
the event of any new development.
The information includes i) allocation amount and loan execution date for each funded Eligible Green Project, and ii)
management assertions that bond proceeds are duly allocated to Eligible Green Projects or invested in short-term
financial instruments.
(2)Impact reporting
As long as any relevant green bonds are outstanding, SMFG will quantify and publish on a dedicated website the
environmental impact of funded Eligible Green Projects, such as the amount of CO2 reduced, with the support of
The Japan Research Institute (JRI). SMFG will keep such information available at any time and update it annually.
081
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
082
Contribution Activities to Environment
Main Measures
Issuing "SAFE," an environmental magazine  ▼
Sponsoring for the Furano Field  ▼
SMBC Group clean up campaigns   ▼
Tree Planting in Areas Damaged by the Great East Japan Earthquake of 2011  ▼
Issuing "SAFE," an environmental magazine
SMFG has regularly published “SAFE” magazine since 1996, which
contains a variety of articles such as top interviews with companies
advanced in handling environmental issues, and articles on business
trends and recent legal/regulatory moves that could help promote
corporate environmental activities.  
Also, since 2015, SMFG has been publishing “JUNIOR SAFE”
magazine, which provides children, who will inherit the Earth of the
future, with opportunities to learn more about the relationship between
money and the environment and about the work being conducted by
various companies that are pursuing certain measures to improve the
environment. In the Fifth Issue of “JUNIOR SAFE” published in
December 2019, “Comparison of ecological living among countries of
the world as viewed from card use” was adopted as the main subject,
which teaches about the background behind the differences in ways of
living between Japan and other countries. It gives readers some
episodical triggers to think about issues concerning environmental
problems and diversity in the world in an enjoyable manner, whereby
readers can ask themselves: “What type of living is ecological?”; “How
are ways that are viewed as ecological in Japan perceived overseas?”
and so forth.
Sponsoring for the Furano Field
Having started at the site of a former golf course in the spring of 2006,
Furano Field, led by So Kuramoto (book author) comprises two
categories of activities: the “nature restoration project,” which involves
reconstruction of an original forest through tree planting; and the
“educational program on the environment,” in which the field at the site
itself is used as a classroom. SMBC supports these activities as the
“SMBC Environmental Program: NPO C.C.C. Furano Field” based on a
deep compassion for Mr. Kuramoto’s thoughts and vision.
Furano Field(Japanese only)
(You will be taken to the Furano Field site.)
082
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
083
SMBC Group clean up campaigns
The SMBG Group conducts cleanup events through the efforts of
officers and employees of Group companies. 
In fiscal 2019, cleanups were held in Suma Coast (Hyogo) on October
26th, A total of 200 officers and employees from SMBC Group
companies and their families took part in the activities, working beyond
workplace and company boundaries, to help protect the environment.
Tree Planting in Areas Damaged by the Great East Japan Earthquake of
2011
The SMBC Group continues to pursue tree planting activities as a part 
of volunteer work to support areas damaged by the Great East Japan 
Earthquake of 2011. Every year, volunteer officers and employees 
undertake weed uprooting at planting sites to create tide prevention 
forests and seedling planting thereon in Yamamotocho, Watari-gun, 
Miyagi Prefecture, which was significantly damaged by the tsunami, in 
cooperation with the NPO Watari Green Belt Project.
083
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
084
For Community
SMBC Group's Commitment
We are committed to working as a citizen of the country and the
community to help create a society where senior citizens and people with
disabilities can live with complete peace of mind and safe communities
where members help and support one another in times of disaster. 
Recognizing that the role of a global financial group is to be a bridge to
the future, we work with various organizations involved in social issues
both in the regions where we do business and more broadly and intend to
continue voluntary, employee-led social contribution activities in diverse
fields such as finance and education. 
Through these activities, we will contribute to achieving SDGs No.1 (No
Poverty), No.11(Sustainable Cities and Communities). 
Below are SMBC Group's main activities that support communities
through volunteer work and donations by employees. 
Contribution to Promotion of Social Contribution
Achieving and Inclusion in Activities to
Developing Safe Collaboration Community 
and Secure
Communities
084
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
085
Contribution to Achieving and Developing Safe and
Secure Communities
SMBC Group is also promoting better branch design so that the elderly and people with disabilities can feel comfortable 
using these facilities. Below are some examples of group companies' branch design initiatives, including employee 
education and introduction of universal design services.
Main Initiatives
Policy recommendation
Public policy for a super-aging society
The year 2025, when baby boomers reach the age of 75, is fast approaching. Japan continues to see its population
shrink and the percentage of elderly people increase. The government is establishing an integrated community care
system so that elderly people can live out their lives in their familiar communities and extend their lifespans so that all
citizens can stay healthy throughout their lives. 
To achieve these goals, a complex structure is needed that involves not only social security systems such as healthcare
and long-term care, but also health promotion and disease prevention, working style and employment systems, and
social infrastructure such as housing and transport. 
With the theme of "public policy for a super-aging society," the Japan Research Institute harnesses the knowledge of
both public researchers and consultants on social security, long-term care and businesses targeting senior citizens,
medicine and healthcare, urban planning, etc., to promote recommendations and implementation of new policies and
business.
Japan Research Institute: Public policy for a super-aged society
Employee education
The SMBC works to create branches that can be visited with confidence by seniors and people with disabilities by
incorporating universal design principles and conducting a variety of other initiatives. We also put particular emphasis on
training employees who directly interact with customers so that our branches and services can be used with total peace
of mind. We have approximately 2,800 care service assistants, who undergo service care cast training, universal
etiquette and other training to ensure appropriate assistance is provided. Since fiscal 2014, we have also engaged in full-
scale training of cognitive impairment supporters to prepare for the aging of society. As of March 31, 2020, there are
approximately 16,500 specialized staff members to assist people with cognitive impairment assigned mostly at its
branches.
085
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
086
Implementation of Universal Design and Universal Service at Branches
SMBC is working to advance universal design compliance at branches. When installing new equipment or facilities at
branches, we check whether it will be easy for people with disabilities to use them during the development stage, and
also ask for feedback from customers after installation. SMBC Trust Bank is also conducting Web-based training for
all bank employees regarding universal manners, as we work to improve services as a group.
Customer feedback and specific service examples can be found at the following link.
SMBC: Utilizes Customer Feedback in its Operations (Japanese only)
Universal Design (Equipment Response)
Pictogram Display   Braille Blocks for Visually Impaired ATMs for the Visually-Impaired
Improvement of Reception Number Display Devices (EQ displays) Writing Tools
More Convenient Form Entry Installation of Automated External Defibrillators (AEDs)
Universal Design Introduction - Enhancing Facilities that All People Can Use with Ease
Pictogram Display
Visual indicators related to barrier-free information are posted in the branch information section of the SMBC
website as well as at branch entrances to allow customers to confirm in advance when using branch facilities.
Braille Blocks for Visually Impaired
Guidance tiles and rivets are placed to mark the path from a branch's entrance to its ATM area to assist people
with visual impairments to enter and use the branch. 
(Installed at 420 of 420 branches as of March 31, 2020)
086
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
087
ATMs for the Visually-Impaired
All ATMs at domestic branches and in non-branch locations are equipped with
handset-based audio guidance to serve customers with visual impairments.
More information on upgrading to ATMs for people with disabilities can be found
at the following link.
SMBC: ATM Upgrades for People with Visual Impairments (Japanese only)
Improvement of Reception Number Display Devices (EQ displays)
We received feedback that reception number display devices were difficult to
read, so we installed EQ display devices that incorporate universal design
principles for color, making them easier to read for seniors and people with
visual impairments.
Writing Tools
Writing tools are also made available at branches to ensure that we are able to accurately and smoothly determine
the needs of customers with hearing impairments
Writing board Guidance plate with  Communication board displays customer 
"ear" mark procedures in pictograms
087
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
088
More Convenient Form Entry
Branches also make available cane and umbrella holders and lap tables for filling out forms so that customers can
comfortably use both hands when filling out forms and operating devices.
Cane holders Lap tables for writing
Installation of Automated External Defibrillators (AEDs)
We have progressively installed AEDs in staffed ATM areas since August 2007
and are utilizing our nationwide branch infrastructure to help people in
emergency situations. Even though AEDs are now more readily available, there
have been few cases of them being used by the general public, and awareness
of first aid techniques has become a society-wide issue. SMBC Finance Service
holds basic life-saving classes to strengthen its in-office crisis management
system and has been increasing the number of personnel who have acquired
life-saving certification, which allows them to perform life-saving procedures
using an AED.
Basic life-saving class
Universal Design Introduction - Enhancing Facilities that All People Can Use with Ease
Since May 2015, we have been installing a desktop communication support system called "comuoon (Commune)"
on service counters at branches. "comuoon" is developed and manufactured by Universal Sound Design Inc.
(Headquarters: Minato-ku, Tokyo, Representative Director: Shinichiro Nakaishi). It is a communication support
system that improves communication with people with hearing difficulties. Its high-performance microphone
accurately picks up the speaker's voice, and the system then creates sounds that are easy for hearing-impaired
people to hear through its egg-shaped speakers. 
In addition, we have installed gently-sloped ramps and writing boards at all branches nationwide. We are also
installing cane holders as well as customer service counters, interphones, and other objects at heights that are
easy for people in wheelchairs to use.
088
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
089
Universal Service
Braille Services Voice recognition password card Lower Fees for Counter Transfer Orders
Reading and Writing Assistance Utilizing Customer Feedback
Acquisition of "Omotenashi Standard Certification 2019" Introduction of multilingual support tools
Establishment of global branches
Braille Services
We also have Braille versions of contractual terms for regular and time deposits, etc., end-of-month balance
notices and time deposit transaction notices.
Voice recognition password card
SMBC provides voice recognition password cards to customers with vision impairments.
For more information on voice recognition password cards, visit: (Japanese only)
Lower Fees for Counter Transfer Orders
When customers who have difficulty ordering bank transfers using an ATM machine, such as customers with
visual impairments, visit the bank and order a transfer at a teller counter, after the customer's intention is
confirmed, the same fee as the fee charged for ATM transfers is applied.
Reading and Writing Assistance
Procedures have also been established to provide reading and writing services for customers who are not able to
read a contract or enter their signatures due to a disability (how this is handed differs depending on the nature of
the transaction).
Utilizing Customer Feedback
We conduct various initiatives to sincerely consider customer feedback and provide greater levels of customer
satisfaction.
SMBC: Utilizes Customer Feedback in its Operations (Japanese only)
089
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
090
Acquisition of "Omotenashi Standard Certification 2019"
Omotenashi Standard Certification is a certification system established by the
Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry to promote and revitalize Japan's
service industry and regional vibrancy. Companies from sectors other than the
service sector are also obtaining this certification. SMBC Nikko received the
Omotenashi Standard Certification in 2019 in recognition of efforts to improve
the quality of services and to develop branches where all people can use
services with ease.
Introduction of multilingual support tools
We provide multilingual communication boards and leaflets on how to open an account, etc., to help foreign
customers understand registration procedures.
Communication board  Leaflets about opening an account, etc. 
(Example: Chinese) (Example: Chinese)
Establishment of global branches
We have positioned the Akasaka and Hiroo branches as "global branches" for
customers with global businesses. These branches offer English-language
pamphlets and product brochures to customers who wish to make transactions
in English, as well as providing competent consultations about products and
services in English.
090
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
091
Establishing an Inquiry Desk for People with Disabilities
Dedicated forms for customers with visual or language impairments Sign language / written inquiry
Dedicated forms for customers with visual or language impairments
Dedicated inquiry forms are made available for customers that have visual or language impairments.
SMBC: Dedicated forms for customers with visual or language impairments (Japanese only)
Sign language / written inquiry
SMCC provides a sign language and written inquiry service that uses a specialized video communication system
for people who have difficulty with phone conversations due to a hearing or speech disability.
SMCC Sign Language and Written Inquiry Service (Japanese only)
091
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
092
Promotion of Social Inclusion in Collaboration
Social inclusion is a principle whose objective is for all people to live healthy lives as members of their local community
by ensuring that no one is left behind in employment and community relations. The SMBC Group runs diverse programs
aligned with this principle, such as regional revitalization and other businesses and community contributions through
sports, food, and sponsorships, as shown below.
Main Measures
Structuring of Social Impact Bonds ▼
Handling of “Mirai 2030™,” a Leasing Service for SDGs ▼
Regional Revitalization Business ▼
Donations through Products and Services ▼
Structuring of Social Impact Bonds
SMBC and SMBC Trust Bank are jointly pursuing measures for the “social impact bonds” that typify a scheme for
public-private partnership. In July 2017, social impact bonds were structured for Kobe City’s project to prevent
diabetic nephropathy, etc. from becoming a serious issue, and in September 2019, social impact bonds were also
structured for Toyonaka City’s project to ensure smoking cessation; both were the first such projects in Japan.
Through the said scheme, Group companies will continue to provide financial support to solve social problems that
modern society and respective regional communities are facing going forward.
Structure of a social impact bond (e.g. project of Kobe City to prevent the diabetic nephropathy, etc. from becoming a
serious issue)
092
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
093
Handling of “Mirai 2030™,” a Leasing Service for SDGs
Support for GoalBall
Sumitomo Mitsui Finance and Leasing (hereinafter “SMFL”) began providing Mirai 2030™, which is a leasing service
for SDGs to enable their achievement, jointly with the Japan Research Institute (hereinafter “JRI”). SMFL is offering
two types of Mirai 2030™: Mirai 2030™ (donation type), where a part of the lease charge is donated by SMFL to
public interest incorporated foundations and NPOs that contribute to achieving the SDGs; and Mirai 2030™
(certification type), whereby a certificate is issued if visible effects from facility adoption or effective measures for
SDGs are confirmed with regard to facilities related to renewables and/or energy saving.
SMFL: SMFL, jointly with JRI, began providing Mirai 2030™ as the first SDG leasing service in
Japan.（Japanese only）
Regional Revitalization Business
SMBC Trust Bank received the land and buildings of an aquarium in trust 
and is involved in a regional revitalization business through design, 
management, and operational support of the aquarium. 
In January 2019, Sumitomo Mitsui Finance and Leasing established 
Dazaifu Co-Creation through joint investment with Nishi-Nippon Railroad 
Co., Ltd., and The Bank of Fukuoka, Ltd. Dazaifu Co-Creation, and 
operates a dispersed traditional Japanese dwelling lodging business via 
coordination with Dazaifu City, Fukuoka Prefecture, and Dazaifu Tenmangu 
Shrine, which entails renovating traditional Japanese dwellings located  Shikoku Aquarium
throughout the region to function as lodging facilities and restaurants. 
Sumitomo Mitsui Finance and Leasing supports this business by leasing 
interior fixtures, lodging facilities, kitchen equipment, and equipment and 
machinery used in restaurants and by providing other financial services. 
SMBC Group is supporting tourism and subsequently the development of 
regional economies by participating in such tourism projects as a partner 
and by providing leasing and various financial services.
Traditional Japanese dwelling converted
into lodging facility
093
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
094
Donations through Products and Services
Handling of ESG Investment Trusts and Social Contribution Bonds
In June 2016, SMBC Nikko launched sales of the Schroder Asia Pacific Excellent Companies Fund, a mutual fund
that invests in stocks in the Asia Pacific region focusing on ESG (Environment, Social, Governance). 
The fund is the first ESG fund with Asia-Pacific stocks and received the Outstanding Fund Award in the domestic
equity (global) category at the Morningstar Award Fund of the Year 2017. Since 2017, the company has been
donating a portion of obtained profits through funds to support sports development and provide financing for disabled
sports (para-sports). In July 2019, the company donated 2,849,108 yen to the Japan Sports Association and
Japanese Para-Sports Association. In addition, Nikko Asset Management provides opportunities for investing in
environmentally and socially conscious companies through its handling of green bonds and other social contribution
bonds.
Social Contribution Through Credit Card Use
SMBC Finance Service issues a credit card for social contribution through its credit card operations together with
cardholders. When members use their cards, a portion of the spent money will be donated to organizations at no
cost to the members. The "Atom Card" issued since 2003 is donating to charities that qualify as "activities that make
children's dreams come true" and "activities that help children."Approximately 2.53 million yen was donated in fiscal
2019, a cumulative total of approximately 56.0 million yen.
094
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
095
Contribution Activities to Community 
Main Measures
Pro Bono by Officers and Employees of the SMBC Group ▼
System to Ensure Matching Gifts for Funds Donated by Officers and Employees ▼
Participation in or Support through TABLE FOR TWO and WFP ▼
Participation in the FIT Charity Run ▼
In-company Charity Sales Event ▼
Support for the Vitalization of Sports Activities ▼
Co-sponsorship of Promise Essay Contest for a Future Filled with Smiles ▼
Social Contribution Activities in Emerging Countries ▼
Support for Reconstruction in Areas Impacted by Large-scale Natural Disasters ▼
Pro Bono by Officers and Employees of the SMBC Group
The SMBC Group is undertaking a “pro bono”(*) project, where skills and experience accumulated over time through
business operations can effectively be put into use.
*What is Pro Bono?
"Pro bono" is from the Latin "pro bono publico," meaning "for the public good." In practice it is a volunteer activity in
which people in the working world utilize the skills and experience they have acquired through sales, planning,
development, marketing, PR, and other areas to provide support from a business standpoint, which tends to be a
weakness of NPOs. People who lend their talents in this way are said to work pro bono, and in Japan the practice
is drawing attention as a new form of social contribution by businesspeople that also raises awareness.
095
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
096
SMBC Group Pro Bono Project
The SMBC Group Pro Bono Project promotes attempts to support NPOs
that endeavor to solve various social problems. It was initiated by SMBC in
fiscal 2011, and its participation scope was expanded to officers and
employees of SMBC Group companies starting in fiscal 2014. The activity
range of this Project includes the following: provision of advice and
proposals concerning improvement in operational flow needed to manage
donated funds and their use as well as operational base improvement (e.g.
information management of those who donated funds); pursuit of marketing
surveys and analysis to provide basic data necessary for solving social
problems and forming mid to long-term strategies, etc.  
In fiscal 2019, ten volunteers were chosen from among officers and
employees of relevant SMBC Group companies and were grouped into two
teams. On behalf of the NPOs that the SMBC Group supports, the
participants pursued the program to manage the donated funds as well as
the program to evaluate projects in progress, and specific proposals were
presented in both cases.  
As for the activity report of fiscal 2019, please refer to the following:
CSR Activity Report for Fiscal 2019(Japanese only)
SMBC Group Pro Bono Project（Japanese only）
(You will be taken to the NPO Service Grant site.)
Introduction of a Pro Bono Work System
In March 2020, SMBC Nikko introduced a “pro bono work” system, where part of employees’ working time is
sacrificed, a rare case for a Japanese financial institution. Considering the situation with regard to NPOs, which tend
to lack manpower, SMBC Nikko is contributing to society through providing certain NPOs with a variety of support,
leveraging the characteristics of the securities business during weekday working hours.
SMBC Nikko: Social Contribution Activities(Japanese only)
System to Ensure Matching Gifts for Funds Donated by Officers and
Employees
SMBC Volunteer Fund
The SMBC Volunteer Fund is a donation fund that collects money from willing SMBC officers and employees on a
monthly basis through automatic debit from their salary. As of March 2020, there were about 8,200 participating
members. It is operated as per the “matching gift” scheme, where SMBC donates an additional amount of money on
top of the total amount of funds gathered from members.  
For this Fund, participating officers and employees can proactively get involved in the process of selecting fund
recipients. Moreover, participation by certain external institutions and experts is also encouraged from the viewpoint
of leveraging their expertise. After the implementation of donations, reporting opportunities are provided for each of
the recipients of the donated funds to directly provide a briefing on their activities. Also, starting in fiscal 2013, a new
program commenced in relation to the Fund whereby willing officers and employees participate in volunteer works
available from recipients of the donations.  
Note that the total amount of donated funds in fiscal 2019 was ¥15.5 million.
SMBC: SMBC Volunteer Fund(Japanese only)
096
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
097
"Yakusoku no Mori" Initiatives
SMBC Consumer Finance introduced the "Yakusoku-no-Mori" donation matching program* in 2007 to enable
employees to think about and participate in social contributions in a more familiar way. Through the "Yakusoku-no-
Mori" program, support is provided for grants to children's homes that help children, the bearers of the future,
(Zenkoku Jido Yougo Shisetsu Kyogikai), for assistance in helping children become self-reliant (Zenkoku Jiritsu Enjo
Home Kyogikai), and for the breeding and training of hearing assistance dogs (Japan Hearing Dogs for Deaf
People). In addition, nine "donation vending machines" have been installed in the company's offices, and a portion of
their takings are donated to support Japan Hearing Dogs for Deaf People.  
*"Yakusoku-no-Mori" is a donation matching program that enables the company's employees to determine donation
recipients and the amount of monthly contributions. Money is raised by making deductions from employees' salaries,
and the company provides an additional gift of a certain amount on top of that. The total is then donated to the
recipient organization.
Participation in or Support through TABLE FOR TWO and WFP
Participation in the "TABLE FOR TWO" Program
"Table for two" means two people sharing the same table for a meal, and
based on this concept the TFT movement seeks to bring health both to
children in developing countries suffering from hunger or a lack of nutrition
and people in developed countries suffering from lifestyle diseases such as
obesity. When employees purchase one of the healthy meal options at the
staff cafeteria, a donation of 20 yen, worth one school lunch in a developing
country, is made via the NPO "TABLE FOR TWO International." SMBC has
introduced this program at all of its domestic offices and branches and its
New York Branch*. 
Sumitomo Mitsui Card has done likewise at five offices including the head
office, while SMBC Consumer Finance and Japan Research Institute have
introduced this program at their respective head offices.  
In addition, "Global Connection TABLE FOR TWO" vending machines make
it possible to donate just by buying a low-calorie drink, sports drink or other
high-function beverage or a vegetable juice or healthy 100% juice drink, for
example. The vending machines have been installed at SMBC group
companies, including SMBC, SMFL and SMBC Nikko Securities.  
* Participatesthrough a bento lunch box sales provider that is a partner
company of TFT
Donation to WFP School Meal Programs
SMBC Trust Bank donates a portion of sales from beverage vending machines (10 yen per drink) located in both the
Higashi-Shinjuku Office and the Okinawa Office to the School Meals Program* operated by the United Nations World
Food Programme (WFP).  
*The United Nations WFP School Meals Program has provided school meals in developing countries for more than
40 years. A donation of 30 yen provides a day's worth of meals, and providing these meals improves the nutritional
status of children. In addition, parents can send their children to school because they can eat free meals there, which
also leads to better learning opportunities for children.
School feeding
097
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
098
Participation in the FIT Charity Run
SMBC Trust Bank and SMBC Nikko are participating members of the FIT Charity Run (Financial Industry in Tokyo for
Charity Run), whose mission is to contribute to society through running activities. The program was started and is
being run by certain volunteers who work for companies in the financial service sector or who are deploying related
businesses. The companies support organizations involved in socially valuable activities through donating
sponsorship fees for FIT Charity Run events and admission fees paid by participating officers and employees.
In-company Charity Sales Event
Fair Trade Products Sale
SMBC Trust Bank held a “Fair Trade Marche” at its head office and the
Higashi-Shinjuku Liaison Office in cooperation with NGO Shapla Neer (an
international cooperation entity). Addressing the problem of poverty, gender
issues and so forth in Nepal and Bangladesh, the bank is attempting to help
solve such international challenges by purchasing locally produced
handicrafts, daily necessities and food products as well as through
donations from officers and employees.  
SMBC Finance Service partnered with Wakachiai Project Inc. to hold its fair
trade products sale since 2016 to help address societal problems in
developing countries, including issues related to human rights, the
environment, and child labor. The company will continue holding the sale to
deepen understanding of fair trade among employees and contribute to the
international community by aiding the expansion of the fair trade market.
Holding a vocational program products sale
SMFL has held special sales of vocational program products produced by the Setagaya Community Workshop and 
Cookie Studio Orange house for a total of 16 times since fiscal 2015, and each times many employees have 
purchase their products. 
Vocational program products are products produced as a part of work training programs at local community centers 
and facilities for people with disabilities. A portion of the sales proceeds from the products is used to pay the wages 
of the people with disabilities who make them, and so the program also helps the workers establish independence. 
Through purchases of vocational training products by employees, SMFL will continue this effort to help build a 
society where everyone can live together safely and securely.
098
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
099
Support for the Vitalization of Sports Activities
Support for GoalBall
SMBC Trust Bank is a supporter of the Japan GoalBall Association as a
part of its work to support sports for persons with disabilities. SMBC Trust
Bank supports the expansion and further development of sports for people
with disabilities by hosting trial sessions, sending employee volunteer staff
to tournaments, and other efforts.
Donation to Japanese Para-Sports Association (JPSA)
SMBC Trust Bank has been donating to the Japan Para-Sports Association (JPSA) since fiscal 2016 with the aim of
contributing to the spread and development of sports for people with disabilities. 
JPSA trains and develops players who can be active on the global stage, and the association is also a member of
the GoalBall Association, which the bank supports. Through JPSA, donations are used to support the smooth
operation of the athletic bodies that partner with the Japanese Paralympic Committee, to improve programs, to train
and develop candidate athletes, and other initiatives.
Support for Blind Soccer
SMBC Nikko is supporting blind soccer as one example of its support for
sports for people with disabilities in advance of the 2020 Tokyo Paralympic
Games. The Japan Blind Football Association envisions realizing a society
through blind soccer in which people with and without visual impairments
interact with each other as a matter of course, and this aspiration matches
SMBC Nikko's management philosophy of respect for diversity and its
stance towards diversity. SMBC Nikko and the Japan Blind Football
Association have concluded a partnership agreement, and company
executives and employees volunteer as staff at tournaments and at kids'
training events.
099
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
100
Consulting Partner Agreement with the Japan Football Association
JRI and the Japan Football Association (a public interest incorporated foundation; JFA) mutually exchanged a
consulting partner agreement concerning the improvement and promotion of football grounds and related facilities as
well as a supporter agreement for the “JFA Youth & Development Programme” (hereinafter “JYD”). The JYD program
commenced in 2016 for the purpose of further enhancing the visibility of football and nurturing next-generation
players. JRI will continue to support various related projects for the purpose of improving the athletic environment for
football going forward.
Co-sponsorship of Promise Essay Contest for a Future Filled with Smiles
SMBC Commercial Finance has co-sponsored the Promise Essay Contest
held by the Sankei Shimbun since the first time it was held in 1996. 
The contest was started based on the idea of re-examining life and the
importance of human relationships in contemporary society and reaffirming
the importance of promises. The contest solicits essays on promises,
whether promises to oneself, promises to loved ones, or promises for the
future. 
Over 6,000 essays are submitted each year from students and others in a
wide range of age groups. In fiscal 2018, the SMBC Group established the
Promise Customer Service Plaza Award to contribute toward regional
revitalization and inspire young people.
Promise Essay Contest Website (Japanese only)
100
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
101
Social Contribution Activities in Emerging Countries
Signing a Memorandum of Understanding on CSR Activities with Indonesian
Company
In Indonesia, SMBC is promoting vocational training
programs at the national and regional government level
for the purpose of economic development. On March 26,
2015, SMBC and PT Bank Sumitomo Mitsui
Indonesia(current BTPN) signed a memorandum of
understanding on promotion of CSR activities in
Indonesia with the Djarum Foundation in the Djarum Supported  Number of enrolled 
vocational schools  student Approx. 
Group, one of Indonesia's major corporate
6 curricula 2,400 (total) 
conglomerates. With the signing of the memorandum, the
two banks have collaborated to support training program
improvements and made monetary donations, or
employees have donated items, to vocational schools in
various types of industries, including maritime, nursing
and animation schools, contributing in the education field.
In 2017, the respective training schools were recognized
as model cases in the country, and SMBC's initiatives
were evaluated favorably at their locations.  
Going forward, we intend to carry out CSR activities in
various fields, such as supporting human resource
development and Japanese language education.
Promoting CSR Activities in Myanmar
In November 2015, SMBC signed a memorandum of
understanding with the Japan Committee for UNICEF
("UNICEF Japan") related to support for a teacher training
program being conducted by the Myanmar office of the
United Nations Children's Fund ("UNICEF"). 
Myanmar teachers face a variety of issues such as
Number of faculty  Number of students 
classes in regions where Burmese is not the mother
members enrolled  who received 
tongue and combined classes in which a single teacher in training Approx.  guidance Approx. 
simultaneously teaches students of different ages and 8,000 (total)  10,000 (total)
levels. This program provides training to raise skill levels
with respect to how to teach in multi-language settings
and how to handle mixed-grade classes will therefore
help to improve the quality of instruction given to children
and also significantly contribute to the development of
human resources for the country's future development.  
We received a medal of honor with a dark blue ribbon
from the Japanese Cabinet Office for this CSR activity.
SMBC will continue to be actively engaged in helping
develop human resources through teachers, and thereby
contribute to the country's further development.
Details on the memorandum of understanding related to support for the teacher training program in Myanmar can be
found at the following link.
SMBC: Memorandum of understanding concluded with UNICEF Japan on education support in
Myanmar (Japanese only)
Please see the link below for the Dark Blue Ribbon Honorable Award
SMBC: Dark Blue Ribbon Honorable Award for the support to teacher training program in Myanmar
(Japanese only) (81KB)
101
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
102
Support for Reconstruction in Areas Impacted by Large-scale Natural
Disasters
SMBC Group provides areas extensively damaged by large disasters with a wide range of support. The Group
provides support not only through the core businesses of the respective Group companies (e.g. support for recovery
via lending, resettlement through favorable modified terms for repayment) but also support through fund donation
and volunteer work by officers and employees. During the period between 2011 and the end of fiscal 2019, a
cumulative total of 1,451 officers and employees of SMBC Group companies plus their family members devoted their
time and energy to volunteer work in disaster-stricken areas.
Measures Being Taken by Relevant SMBC Group Companies
Measures Being Taken by Relevant SMBC Group Companies Close
SMBC Since November 2013, the SMBC Group has been sponsoring the “Tour de
Tohoku” for the purpose of supporting Tohoku’s recovery and redevelopment
by having a bicycle tour every year where people can directly get a feel of the
current situation in the region.
102
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
103
SMBC Nikko To support people affected by natural disasters throughout the world, SMBC
Nikko Securities donates a portion of its income from funds connected with
regions where disasters have occurred in addition to voluntary donations of
relief provisions. The company also opens disaster support bank accounts and
encourages executives and employees to make donations, working together
with employees to make a difference.
East Japan
At SMBC Nikko, from 2011 to 2013, new professional employees (Class II) and
executives and employees in leading roles visited the affected areas and
carried out reconstruction support activities such as agricultural support and
coastal clean-ups. From 2014, SMBC Group companies have been jointly
dispatching support volunteers to help in affected areas.
Kumamoto
Seiya Norimatsu, an SMBC Nikko employee-athlete (2016 Rio Paralympic
Games bronze medalist in wheelchair rugby) visited temporary housing in
Mashiki Town and Mifune Town in Kumamoto Prefecture. He showed
attendees his bronze medal, and spoke about his life and dreams as an
athlete. Through these visits, he strengthened ties with local residents in
disaster affected areas.
SMBC Finance In support of people impacted by the 2016 Kumamoto Earthquake and the
Service July 2018 heavy rain disaster,SMBC Finance Service provides ex-lease
vehicles that had been used for sales at no charge through an affiliated
company as a part of its support for the "Disaster Area Car Sharing Project"
being conducted by the Japan Car Sharing Association. The vehicles
provided by the company are used by people in disaster affected areas
when they are needed.
JRI JRI supports the reconstruction by administrating the "Imokoji" discussion
group for people affected by the nuclear disaster, which is sponsored by the
NPO Ukifuneno-sato.
Ukifuneno-sato (specified non-profit corporation) (Japanese
only)
Imokoji discussion group (Japanese only)
103
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
104
For Next Generation
SMBC Group's Approach
Ensuring the sustainability of our society and economy amid the changing
social environment will require the cultivation of human resources whocan
support society with the necessary knowledge and technologies. SMBC
Group is promoting sustainability by fostering the next-generationhuman
resources and industries that will shape the society of the future together
with us.
Promotion of Contribution
Support for Growth
Financial Literacy Activities to Next
Industries
Education Generation
104
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
105
Support for Growth Industries
SMBC Group is working on various measures to foster the next generation to build a vibrant society that strikes a
balance between maturity and growth. One of these is support for growth industries, helping new businesses create new
technologies and services.
Main Measures
Establish state-of-the-art SMBC Startup Hub to support new startups▼
Supporting Commercialization as the Foundation of Japan's Growth Strategy▼
Real Tech Fund: Support for R&D Ventures▼
Supporting Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs) Install Cashless Payment Systems▼
Establish state-of-the-art SMBC Startup Hub to support new startups
The SMBC Group has established SMBC Startup Hub, an activity base in Shibuya (home to many startups) to improve
and develop services for startups where we can work closely with them. SMBC Group head office employees with
specialist knowledge of supporting startups are deployed in Shibuya to help startups that are potential global players of
tomorrow by providing a range of services dedicated to these companies and offer collaborative open innovation
opportunities for startups, major corporations, and overseas organizations.
Supporting Commercialization as the Foundation of Japan's Growth
Strategy
The Japan Research Institute (JRI) and SMBC has launched the "Incubation & Innovation Initiative," a business
consortium of cross-sector alliances, together. The consortium will support the commercialization of highly progressive
technologies and business ideas that will form the foundation of Japan's growth strategy. The consortium will also
research factors that inhibit innovation and make policy recommendations, for example on designing legal systems and
making regulatory reforms that reflect actual conditions, thereby contributing to the further invigoration of Japan's
economy. 
Please see below for details.
Incubation & Innovation Initiative
(You will be transferred to the Incubation & Innovation website.)
Acceleration program ”MIRAI”
(You will be transferred to the Acceleration program “MIRAI” website.)
105
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
106
Real Tech Fund: Support for R&D Ventures
The Real Tech Fund supported by SMBC Nikko is a venture capital fund
created in April 2015 with euglena Co., Ltd. and Leave a Nest Co., Ltd. The
aim of the fund is to address social and environmental issues that we face,
revitalize Japanese economy and promote greater investment in Japan by
providing comprehensive support of human, finance and material resources
for venture companies with exceptional technologies. 
The fund targets venture companies seeking to integrate into society
innovative, R&D-oriented technologies ("real tech") that address social and
environment issues, in fields such as robotics, biotechnology, the
environment and energy, agriculture, new materials and IoT. It plans to
conduct investment and development using a total 7.5 billion yen from
funds invested by private companies in various industries.
Supporting Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs) Install Cashless
Payment Systems
We support SMEs around the country in installing cashless payment systems by promoting a payments service provided 
by U.S. business alliance partner Square, Inc.  
Square Readers is a simple card payment system in smartphones or tablets that can be installed anywhere, from retail 
stores to outdoor events. Signing up for the service is also simple, and the system can be used on the same day at the 
earliest. Payments will be deposited to the account on the next business day at the earliest, making the service almost 
the same as cash. Installing Square's POS register will facilitate smooth inventory management, sales analysis, and 
accounting software, helping to grow their business by streamlining payments and settlement.  
SMBC Group will continue to support Japan's transition to a cashless society by supporting installation of cashless 
payment systems to SMEs.  
106
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
107
Promotion of Financial Literacy Education
Our awareness of money is changing amid a widening gap between rich and poor and shifting economic conditions.
Various problems related to money such as multiple debts and financial crime have emerged in recent years. 
SMBC Group seeks to create a society where everyone can live safely, equipped with an accurate knowledge of money,
by providing financial literacy education for all ages as a group-wide program. Featured below is our hands-on
accounting tool and some of our finance and economics education programs for all age groups available online.
Financial information media and personal finance tools
SMBC Group publishes articles on personal finance and provides a personal finance tool over the Internet.
Sumitomo Mitsui Banking SMBC Nikko: 
Corporation:  Investing information service
Money VIVA, a Place to Enjoy "Nikko FROGGY" that allows
Learning about Money you to buy stocks from the
(Japanese only) articles (Japanese only).
Learn about money and take a
step forward toward the future.
Sumitomo Mitsui DS Asset
Management Company: 
Learning (Japanese only)
Providing useful information
for asset management, such
as the basics of investment
and financial systems
Financial and Economic Education
Initiatives of SMBC Group companies
SMBC: Financial and Economic Education (Japanese only)
SMBC Nikko: Financial and Economic Education
SMCC：Financial Education (Japanese only)
SMBCCF: The Realization of a Lively Society and a Happy and Healthy Lifestyle for People (Japanese
only)
107
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
108
For Elementary School Students
Initiatives for Elementary School Students Close
Events for Elementary school Students
SMBC Group Tankentai
SMBC Group holds the SMBC group Tankentai event in
which children and families of employees visit their
workplaces and learn about the finance business through
experience. The events in fiscal 2019 were held at the Tokyo
and Osaka head offices of the SMBC and the head office of
SMBC Nikko Securities (Shinmaru Building), with the
participation of 215 people from 84 teams in Group
companies. During the guided visit at the bank offices, visitors
were brought to a bank vault normally unseen by customers
and experienced the weight of 100 million yen in real bills,
after attending lessons on the finance business and how to
count paper money. The guided visit at SMBC Nikko Securities included an encounter with the Paralympic sport of
blind soccer and workplace visits. Employees' families were able to better understand what their work entails by
actually experiencing the workplace.
Natsuyasumi Kodomo Ginko Tankentai
SMBC has conducted the "Natsuyasumi Kodomo Ginko
Tankentai" program since 2006. The program that allows
elementary school students to learn about and experience
actual banking activities. On a tour of the bank, the students
take classes from employees and are provided the
opportunity to study the basics of finance and banking by
experiencing bank teller operations and visiting the ATM and
bank vault areas. In fiscal 2019, the program was conducted
at two sites, in Tokyo and Kobe, and a total of 130 students in
59 groups participated.
SMBC: Natsuyasumi Kodomo Ginko Tankentai Bank Tour Program (Japanese only)
Nikko Family Exciting Experience Day
SMBC Nikko Securities has held the "Nikko Family Exciting Experience Day," a special hands-on social learning 
program, during children's summer break at its nationwide branches since 2006. 
For the program, elementary school students and their families visit the company's branches and learn about the 
economy, money flows, the social role of financial institutions and more in a fun and exciting way through quizzes, 
hands-on experiments using information terminals and talks by employees.
Visiting Lectures
SMBC Nikko Securities has sent employees to elementary schools since 2016 to give visiting lectures and get 
children interested in the economy and finance. Elementary school is considered to be the time when children 
gradually come to understand the importance and role of money, and through various experiences begin to form a 
foundation for thriving in society in the future. Employees conduct classes using textbooks and experiential 
classes using card games for children in fourth through sixth grade.
108
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
109
Bank Tours and Vocational Workshops at Branches
SMBC promotes independently planned local community contribution activities by sales branches, and branches
around the country hold bank tours, conduct cleanup events around branches and at other outside locations, and
participate in community events and other activities.
Support for Finance Seminars, etc,
Support for Student City, an Economics Education Program for Elementary School Student
SMBC Trust Bank supports an economics education program called Student City targeted towards elementary
school students, with mock bank exhibits featured at institutions and employees dispatched as volunteer staff.
Through this initiative, we support finance and economics education, and cultivate human resources who will bear
responsibility for the future.
Support for KidZania Tokyo and KidZania Koshien
As an official sponsor of KidZania Tokyo and KidZania
Koshien, SMBC Group offers a vocational experience of
banking for children. At KidZania Tokyo (in Koto Ward,
Tokyo), SMBC has been a sponsor of the company since the
park's completion in October 2006, and operates a bank
branch that issues the Kidzania currency, "kidZos." At the
KidZania Koshien branch, which opened in March 2008, in
addition to issuing the currency, the bank also runs a program
that lets children experience the jobs of bank employees in a
fun and interesting way.
For further details, please refer to the following link.
KidZania (Japanese only)
Parent-Child Financial Seminars at F. League Matches
SMCC has held CSR-related events like financial education seminars at Japan Futsal League (F. League)
matches since fiscal 2016. The events are for elementary school children and their parents or guardians, with
programs that utilize skits to convey the importance of using money in a balanced manner and using it according
to a plan in a way that is easy for children to understand. Futsal events are also held. Going forward, SMCC will
continue conducting activities to help raise financial literacy while also enlivening local communities through sport.
109
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
110
Submitting a Tool Related to Finance and Economics Education
Hello! Money" Financial Education App
SMCC has released the "Hello! Money" allowance management learning tool, a free app for parents and children
for financial education. It helps children to learn the basics of personal finance through the management of their
own allowances from an early age. It also provides parents and their children the opportunity to learn together the
basics of money-spending, saving and increasing-in a fun way in order to help foster financial literacy in young
people.
SMCC: "Hello! Money" allowance management learning app for parents and children for
financial education (Japanese only)
Publication of "What Does a Bank Do?"
In May 2007, in cooperation with Gakken Co., Ltd., we published "What Does
a Bank Do?" as a part of a series on learning through comic books and
donated copies to approximately 23,000 elementary schools and 3,000 public
libraries throughout Japan. "What Does a Bank Do?" uses a comic book
format to provide basic explanations of the social roles and history of banks,
centering on the three main operations of a bank, deposits, loans, and
currency exchange.
110
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
111
For Junior High School and High School Students
Initiatives for Junior High and High School Students Close
Hosting Seminars
Cooperation with Company Tours and Visiting Instructors
SMBC cooperates with junior high and high schools by providing tours for students and sending employees to
serve as visiting instructors. On the tours, students learn about bank operations and the banking vocation through
tours of branch operations and the dealing rooms of market sales divisions.
Visiting lectures by public offering lecturers
SMCC invites instructors from among its employees to visit junior and senior high schools and universities to
lecture on "Cashless Society and Us" and "credit card literacy".
Finance and Economics Seminars for Forming a Sound Consumer Finance Market
SMBC Consumer Finance holds finance and economics education
seminars on topics such as managing household finances, loans and
credit, and financial pitfalls. This initiative aims to provide students, the
bearers of the future, and local residents accurate knowledge about
money to enable them to make appropriate decisions. The seminars are
provided primarily at 17 Customer Service Plazas nationwide. As the
seminars are designed to meet the needs of local communities and
educational institutions, they are requested by many organizations every
year. Since their start in 2011, the seminars have been held over 16,000
times and over 1,000,000 people have participated (as of March 31, 2020).
Cooperating with Educational Facilities
Support for Financial Park
SMBC has supported the activities of Financial Park, which offers
economic training programs for junior high school students operated by
the economic education organization Junior Achievement Japan.
Financial Park is a fictitious town where partner companies in various
sectors, such as finance, telecommunications, restaurants, and
supermarkets, and use specialized facilities to set up booths that
simulate actual offices, branches and stores. Students experience and
learn about various economic activities through the booths set up within
the park to develop their economic understanding. Following the
Shinagawa Financial Park that opened in June 2005, a new Financial
Park opened in Iwaki City, Fukushima Prefecture in June 2014, and
SMBC has set up a booth there as well. In 2019, SMBC Group
organized SMBC Group Financial Park Day for Tokyo public junior high
school students, offering experiential learning and group discussions
with SMBC Group employees about the meaning of work and what
makes their careers worthwhile.
111
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
112
For College Students
Initiatives for University Students Close
Internships and Lecturer Dispatch
Internships for University Students
Since 2006, SMBC has been accepting internships as an opportunity for students to consider options for their
future occupations. In fiscal 2019, 81 students from 46 universities participated in internships where they
experienced on-the-job training in the investment banking business, individual business planning, and market
trading.
Visiting Instructors
SMBC sends employees to various universities to serve as instructors. They provide lectures based on the needs
of each university, ranging from specialized case studies such as environment-related structured finance to topics
like women's empowerment. In fiscal 2019, we presented lectures to approximately 3,600 students at 79
universities.
Collaborating with Educational Institutions
Creating Newly Added Value by Cultivating Data Scientists and the Use and Application of Data
SMBC Trust Bank, along with the Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group,
concluded an agreement with Shiga University in September 2017 for
collaboration and cooperation in education and research fields related to
data science. SMBC is also cultivating human resources with expertise
and skills in data science by jointly establishing Japan's first data
science department with Shiga University in April 2017, dispatching
lecturers to the university and accepting student internships. The Group
is also undertaking initiatives to create newly added value by the use
and application of data collected through shared research in business fields.
Seminar at Kyoto Women's University
SMBC Trust Bank and SMCC held a "Trusts and the Trust Business",credit cards, and cashless services lecture at
Kyoto Women's University as part of an endowed course.
For Working Adults
Initiatives for Working Adults Close
Company Tours and Training Sessions
SMBC Nikko Securities provides company tours and training for students and the general public to help them
deepen their knowledge of finance and economics. Through program seminars, tours of the company's head
office, branches, overseas offices, and other facilities, participants deepen their understanding of lifestyle and
money in our society and acquire a variety of knowledge about the role of financial institutions and financial
transactions.
112
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
113
Contribution Activities to Next Generation 
Main Measures
Provision of Educational Materials on SDGs for Children ▼
Music Concerts for Children Presented by SMBC ▼
Support through the SMBC Foundation for International Cooperation ▼
Support for Young Artists ▼
Co-sponsoring Shiki Theatre's "Kokoro no Gekijo" ▼
Provision of Educational Materials on SDGs for Children
SMFG provides case examples in the form of an “SDGs Start Book,” which
is an educational material for children on SDGs. For example, in the SDGs
Start Book, an easy-to-understand explanation is given on how banks are
working to solve environmental problems (e.g. climate change issue).
Copies of the Book are being distributed to elementary schools and junior
high schools free of charge. Its content is also disclosed at the “EduTown
SDGs” which is a website dedicated for learning about SDGs.
EduTown SDGs: Top page（Japanese only）
EduTown SDGs: Create a sustainable society through
activating “green money flow”(Japanese only)
(You will be taken to the EduTown SDGs site.)
Music Concerts for Children Presented by SMBC
SMBC regularly hosts “Music Concerts for Children,” whereby professional
musicians are sent to event halls for children or the like in cooperation with
the New Japan Philharmonic (a public interest incorporated foundation).
The main purpose of these music events is to provide children with
opportunities to have direct exposure to real classic music to cultivate a
sophisticated mind and senses. In addition to live performances of classical
music, the events provide other attractions that can be enjoyed by smaller
children, such as a body percussion trial challenge for all participants, and a
briefing on the structure of musical instruments.
113
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
114
Support through the SMBC Foundation for International Cooperation
In 1990, the SMBC Foundation for International Cooperation was established for the purpose of developing capable
individuals and facilitating intercultural exchange that could contribute to economic growth in the Asian region. Since
its outset, the Foundation has been providing seven or eight Asian graduate students with an opportunity to study at
Japanese universities via a scholarship every year. Also, the Foundation provides financial support to research
institutions and researchers that are involved in activities for economic growth in developing countries.
SMBC Foundation for International Cooperation(Japanese only)
Support for Young Artists
SMBC Trust Bank supports the activities of young artists by displaying
works created by students from Joshibi University of Art and Design at the
Bank's Head Office, as well as works created by students from Osaka
University of Arts in Osaka representative offices.
Co-sponsoring Shiki Theatre's "Kokoro no Gekijo"
"Kokoro no Gekijo" (Theatre of the Heart) is a project that the Shiki Theatre 
Company has been running since 2008. Under this project, children from all 
over Japan are invited to theaters for free, where through drama they learn 
the importance of life, compassion, and the joy of trusting other people, 
among other important lessons for life. SMBC Nikko has been a special 
sponsor since August 2015, and employees volunteer to provide 
operational support and venue set-up assistance for performances held 
near SMBC Nikko offices and branches.
Photographer: Atsutoshi Shimosaka 
114
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
115
Message from  Outline of  Support for 
Interviews
the Group CEO Diversity Promotion various work styles
SMBC Group initiatives  SMBC Group company Diversity-related 
in ﬁgures initiatives topics
SMBC Group regards "Diversity and Inclusion" as an important strategy for growth.
Management is promoting greater diversity and inclusion to create a working
environment where people from various backgrounds can fulﬁll their potential based
on strong mutual respect, and where synergy borne of diversity generates new
value. In this way, we can help to create greater value for customers.
115
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
116
Creating a corporate culture which 
derives strength from diversity
Creating conditions for diverse human resources 
to support growth
SMBC Group sees diversity in its workforce as a source of growth. We are developing
a range of activities to ensure our workplace culture thrives on diversity and
enthusiasm. Below we will introduce programs from some of the SMBC Group
companies.
Work-life balance support Empowerment of women LGBT inclusion
Global HR development  Empowerment of senior Empowerment of people 
employees with disabilities
Creating a dynamic workplace that maximizes 
the strengths of employees
To maximize the strengths of individual employees, nurture motivation and foster
growth, SMBC Group strives to promote healthy work-life balance, workplace
reforms and health management.
Work style reforms Health management
Conﬁrming initiatives for the human resource strategy
116
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
117
Interview
Diversity as a source of competitiveness
SMBC Group initiatives in ﬁgures
Extracting examples from the ESG Data Book
These ﬁgures provide an insight into the promotion of diversity by the SMBC Group.
Link to details in ESG Data Book
Click to see historical diversity data
SMBC Group company initiatives
117
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
118
SMBC Group employs more than 100,000 people working in about 40 countries and regions worldwide.
The Group is comprised of many companies, each having unique culture with highly diverse employees.
This "diversity of people" is our greatest asset.
The environment surrounding the ﬁnancial industry is changing at a very rapid pace. 
Against this backdrop, what is expected of us is to create new values without being encumbered by past
practices or ﬁxed ideas. 
Innovations towards the future will not be borne by only having employees with diverse background, such as
gender, age, or nationalities. Innovations will be borne by collision and mixture of diverse thoughts and
values of those employees. 
Diversity is indeed the key to unlimited possibilities.
We aspire to be a vibrant corporate group where every employee enjoys good health, thinks freely and
proactively challenges towards respective dreams or goals. 
To realize this, my mission is to establish a corporate culture and workplace that embeds full diversity and
inclusion, so that we can make the best use of diverse thoughts and values of our employees.
Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group, Inc.
Director President and Group CEO
(Representative Executive Oﬃcer)
Jun Ohta
118
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
119
What does it take for a company to have employees who are highly motivated to achieve
growth hand in hand with their organization? 
We believe that "diversity" is the biggest key for achieving this, and is essential for the
advancement of our organization.
Diversity and Inclusion Statement Roadmap Diversity promotion framework
Initiatives to reform employee
SMBC Group diversity initiatives
awareness and behavior
Diversity and Inclusion Statement
At SMBC Group, our most valued resource is our people. 
Our Mission Statement reﬂects this conviction: "We create a work environment that encourages and
rewards diligent and highly motivated employees."
Ours is an organization in which employees of diﬀerent backgrounds treat one another with respect
and can apply their skills, express their individuality, and experience growth and fulﬁllment through
their work, regardless of race, nationality, age, gender, sexual orientation or gender identity, religion,
culture, disability, prior career or lifestyle. This is the source of SMBC Group's competitive strength.
We believe that institutions that promote diversity and encourage their employees to contribute
through their varied experience and talents are more dynamic and innovative than institutions in which
employees tend to share only similar backgrounds and perspectives.
In order to oﬀer our clients new and higher-value services and to continue to grow with our
stakeholders, we are promoting diversity and inclusion throughout SMBC Group as the core to our
growth strategy.
Approach and initiatives for human rights
119
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
120
Roadmap
Click to enlarge
Diversity promotion system
SMBC Group companies are undertaking various internal diversity and inclusion initiatives. At the holding
company (SMFG), eﬀorts are focused on reinforcing diversity promotion across the Group. To that end, the
SMFG Diversity Working Group was set up in 2016, and the HR Diversity Promotion Oﬃce was established as
a specialized unit in SMFG in 2017. 
The SMFG Diversity Promotion Committee was set up in 2018. It is chaired by the Group CEO and its
members comprise senior managers from SMBC Group companies. Based on a strong management
commitment, the committee is overseeing eﬀorts to accelerate promotion of diversity across the entire SMBC
Group. 
120
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
121
SMBC Group diversity initiatives
Across the SMBC Group, alongside measures to boost participation by people of various backgrounds and
foster related growth, we are promoting eﬀorts to cultivate an environment that makes it easier for
individual employees to work.
121
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
122
To ensure that all employees can live free from anxiety  
about balancing work and private life, 
and enable ambitious employees to continue pursuing their chosen careers, 
we are endeavoring to expand schemes for supporting work-life balance and nurture a
positive workplace climate in which people understand the importance of balance and
assist each other in achieving it.
System and initiatives for 
work-life balance support
Balancing work and childcare
In addition to a maternity and childcare leave system that exceeds
statutory requirements, we have various training programs and systems
in place at each company to support career formation and a smooth
return to work for those who took childcare leave. 
Click for details
Balancing work and nursing care
We have prepared a system to assist employees balancing a career with
care responsibilities for other family members. We organize nursing care
seminars and distribute materials on this topic to build employee
awareness in this area. Our focus is to help people balance continuing
work with care duties. 
Click for details
122
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
123
Interview
Creating an environment for all employees to thrive
At the SMBC Group, we are working on health management and workplace reforms 
to give every employee the opportunity to fulﬁl their potential through strong productivity 
and enthusiasm for work.
Work style reforms Health management
Balancing work and childcare
SMBC Group provides training and support systems to help employees balance work
and family commitments. We have also developed a range of initiatives to facilitate a
smooth return to work from maternity leave or childcare leave as part of career
development. These include programs across Group ﬁrms to support men in
childcare participation.
Link to details in ESG Data Book
123
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
124
Major systems to support balancing work and childcare
We have introduced systems to provide economic assistance and other support to
employees with pre-school children as part of creating workplaces that facilitate
balancing work with childcare responsibilities.
Work-related systems
Systems that support a smooth return to work from maternity or childcare leave include childcare leave,
leave to care for sick children, and ﬂexible working practices. 
Click to enlarge
(Example: SMBC)
A ﬂexible personnel system matched to each life stage
We prepare systems to match each personʼs life plan at all our Group Companies. We have a system in which
an employeeʼs workplace can be changed if they move due to marriage or the job transfer of a spouse. Also,
we rehire employees who left due to marriage, childbirth, childcare, nursing, or their spouseʼs job transfer.
And we also allow temporary retirement due to the transfer of a spouseʼs job or for overseas study.
Partnership with a company-led childcare service provider
SMBC is partnering with NICHIIGAKKAN to develop a business to operate company-
led childcare facilities in Tokyo and Osaka within bank-owned properties. The
facilities provide childcare services to bank employees as well as local companies
and residents. The partnership also covers a further company-led 70 childcare
facilities across Japan operated by NICHIIGAKKAN, providing additional support to
SMBC employees in returning to work.
124
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
125
Economic support for childcare
We oﬀer allowances to assist employees with the costs of taking care of children outside of normal hours,
including babysitting fees and the subsidy system aim to reduce burden of caring for sick children. The
system provides economic assistance in other ways, such as allowing employees to access babysitting
services at discounted rates based on contracts between the Group and babysitting agencies.
Major Initiatives to Balance Career and Childcare
Training and seminars
We have developed training on balancing career and childcare for
employees in managerial positions. Training is designed to help
employees planning to take maternity leave, those on childcare leave,
and those who have returned from childcare leave. 
Consultations with a superior are also organized for those employees
either going on, or returning from, maternity and childcare leave.
Training to support work-life balance
Development of guidebooks
We have created the "SMBC Group Career Guidebook for Mothers." Distributed to
female employees, aiming to help them in preparing for the next stage of life. 
The Group has also created a special management guidebook containing
communication pointers to distribute to managers with subordinates engaged in
raising children.
Promoting male participation in childcare
We aim to cultivate a workplace culture that supports active childcare
irrespective of gender. The SMBC Group's internal reporting line,
"SMBC Group Alarm Line" for whistle-blowers is ready to receive
information about any workplace discrimination shown against male
employees who take paternity leave. We also encourage men to take
advantage of the short-term childcare leave system, and organize
management training sessions on this topic.
125
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
126
Encouraging an understanding of work within employees' families
To help employees' family members gain a better understanding of
their work, we organize the evet so that children can visit their
parents' workplace. We also encourage employees to take leave in
the summer holiday season and promote leaving the oﬃce earlier in
the summer months.
External evaluation and accreditation
Platinum Kurumin accreditation
SMBC, Sumitomo Mitsui Card
Company and Japan Research
Institute have all been granted
"Platinum Kurumin" accreditation by
the Minister of Health, Labour and
Welfare in recognition of the high
level of support for childcare that they
provide as companies.
External evaluation/accreditation
Balancing work and nursing care
Even if it becomes necessary for an employee to care of a family member, our aim at
the SMBC Group is to ensure employees do not have to leave the company or
sacriﬁce their career out of a desire to provide care. We have put in place a range of
support systems for careers, and we also provide opportunities for employees to gain
information about nursing care. Our aim is to provide environment where employees
can continue to work with peace of mind while being able to prepare for nursing
care.
126
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
127
Major initiatives to balance work with nursing care 
for family members
We provide support to help employees continue working without
giving up their career due to their nursing care responsibilities. The
main support systems include nursing care leave and shortened
working hours for these employees.
Systems to Support Work-Life Balance
at SMBC Group Companies
(Example: SMBC)
Major Initiatives to Balance Career and Nursing Care
Training/seminar development
We have organized special seminars on nursing care every year since 
2015. These events are held on Saturdays or weekday evenings so all 
employees can participate easily, including those who already have 
nursing care responsibilities while working. Family members are also 
encouraged to take part. With expert lecturers invited to present, the 
events aim to provide the basic knowledge required while helping 
those facing this challenge learn more.
Guidebook production
We have created guidebooks on how to balance nursing care
responsibilities with a career. At SMBC, a book on this topic has been
distributed to all employees. The book is divided into four sections on
preparation, implementation, success stories, and advice. It is packed
with useful information on balancing a career with nursing care
responsibilities including articles on nursing care in Japan; a checklist
of how to prepare for providing nursing care; details of various
support systems and nursing care insurance services; case studies of providing nursing care at home, or
through service providers located at a distance; and relevant contact numbers for use in emergency
situations.
127
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
128
Nursing care help desk established
We have created a help desk to provide consulting services on nursing care to employees or family members.
The desk is available 24 hours a day, 365 days a year.
Initiatives of Diversity Promotion
Work-life balance Empowerment of LGBT inclusion Global HR
support women development
Empowerment of Empowerment of Work style reforms Health management
senior employees people with disabilities
128
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
129
With women comprising around half of employees, the SMBC Group realizes that
empowering women is essential to corporate growth. We are actively developing measures
to support the careers of female employees.
SMBC Group's women's empowerment in ﬁgures
Women comprise a high proportion of employees at the SMBC Group. We are
actively promoting the appointment of more women in managerial positions.
Link to details in ESG Data Book
129
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
130
Numerical targets/plans 
for Group companies
The Group has been proceeding with uniﬁed response when the Act on Promotion of
Women's Participation and Advancement in the Workplace came into force on April 1, 2016. 
Each company produces an action plan to ensure steady implementation of initiatives.
Numerical targets/plans related to the promotion 
of women into managerial positions
Key Initiatives to Support Women's
Empowerment
Career development support
130
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
131
Career support training
We hosted the SMBC Group joint women's career development forum
for young female employees every year since 2013, with the aim of
helping women gain "a stable axis for work" early on in their careers.
The event features lectures on work styles and other work-related
issues faced by women, along with group discussions.
Leadership training
In 2013, SMBC established the Women's Leader Program, a
leadership seminar for upper management positions, aiming to
develop a base to produce future female directors. The company
established the Women's Leader Program Next for mid-level leaders,
in order to build a "pipeline to the next generation" for women's
career advancement to higher levels. In the program, top
management members attend each session, creating an opportunity
for the top management to directly communicate their expectations for participants and provide advice and
support, chieﬂy through giving feedback to participants' commitment.
Mentoring systems
We have introduced mentoring systems so that senior female
employees can provide guidance to junior female colleagues with the
aim of cultivating women with high-class management skills and a
managerial perspective. These Group companies are all actively
seeking to develop female managers to assume leadership positions
as branch managers or executives.
Support for continued employment
Work-Life Balance Support
131
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
132
Interview
External evaluation and awards
Our eﬀorts to promote the empowerment of women have received
positive external recognition from various sources. SMBC has been
selected as a "Nadeshiko Brand" company by the Ministry of Economy,
Trade and Industry and the Tokyo Stock Exchange for ﬁve times in the
past, the most for our industry sector. SMBC also acquired "Eruboshi"
rankings for companies certiﬁed by the Minister of Health, Labour and
Welfare as having excellent initiatives in place to promote active
participation by women.
Nadeshiko Brand Bloomberg Gender-Equality Index
Listed companies jointly selected by the Developed by Bloomberg in 2017, the BGEI
Ministry of Enterprise, Trade and Industry and ranks ﬁrms according to their actions on
Tokyo Stock Exchange for excellence in gender equality, as well as related disclosures
promoting active participation by women  and outcomes.
132
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
133
MSCI Japan Empowering Woman Eruboshi
Index(WIN)
The index is designed by MSCI (Morgan
Stanley Capital International) to represent the Companies certiﬁed by the Minister of Health,
performance of companies that are highly Labour and Welfare as having excellent
recognized in terms of supporting women's initiatives in place to promote active
participation and advancement in the participation by women (*Acquired Second
workforce. rank: SMBC, SMBC Finance Service; third
rank: SMBC Trust Bank, JRI)
Disclaimer Close
THE INCLUSION OF SUMITOMO MITSUI
FINANCIAL GROUP IN ANY MSCI INDEX, AND
THE USE OF MSCI LOGOS, TRADEMARKS,
SERVICE MARKS OR INDEX NAMES HEREIN,
DO NOT CONSTITUTE A SPONSORSHIP,
ENDORSEMENT OR PROMOTION OF
SUMITOMO MITSUI FINANCIAL GROUP BY
MSCI OR ANY OF ITS AFFILIATES. 
THE MSCI INDEXES ARE THE EXCLUSIVE
PROPERTY OF MSCI. MSCI AND THE MSCI
INDEX NAMES AND LOGOS ARE TRADEMARKS
OR SERVICE MARKS OF MSCI OR ITS
AFFILIATES.
Catalyst Special Award
Received the Catalyst Special Award hosted by
Catalyst, a non-proﬁt organization established
in the United States to globally support eﬀorts
to promote women's participation
Recognition and Accreditation
133
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
134
Initiatives of Diversity Promotion
Work-life balance Empowerment of LGBT inclusion Global HR
support women development
Empowerment of Empowerment of Work style reforms Health management
senior employees people with disabilities
134
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
135
SMBC Group is working to deepen understanding of LGBT issues and provide support, 
while also ensuring our systems facilitate proper working environments.
Main initiatives to make it easier for LGBT
employees to work
Statement on LGBT Inclusion
In accordance with the SMBC Group's Statement on Human Rights, we will strive to create working
environment that are free of any harassment based on sexual orientation or gender identity, as well as any
discriminatory recruitment or promotion processes.
Educational activities
All our employees receive training and attend study seminars to promote better understanding of sexual
minorities, and to encourage greater awareness and behavioral changes towards LGBT issues.
Revision of work regulations
We have changed the work regulations at our Group Companies to conduct
"same-sex partner registration" for LGBT employees, thus allowing their
spouses and families to access the employee welfare program.
Establishment of consultation desks
SMBC Group companies have set up internal and external consultation desks to provide employees with the
opportunity to consult any issues relating to workplace harassment.
135
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
136
Creating a society in which LGBT people are
respected
Support for allies
Domestically, we support Tokyo Rainbow Pride, Asia's largest LGBT event. Through such eﬀorts, we engage
in employee enlightenment and networking with allies.
At overseas sites, too, we have put together teams to discuss ways of promoting understanding of LGBT
issues and creating more diverse workplaces. The teams also regularly host events.
In the Americas, we've launched a team called "NIJI PRIDE." Niji is the Japanese word for rainbow, and the
team organizes events for employees of SMBC and other ﬁnancial institutions. The team's members also
participate actively in volunteer activities organized by their local communities. In Europe, Middle-East, Africa
meanwhile, there's a similar team (NIJI EMEA), which organized a panel discussion on the topic of allies*. A
large number of employees were able to take part, as it was conducted remotely from oﬃces across the
region.
*An ally is a person who understands and supports sexual minorities. Sometimes refers to people who clearly advocate such a position.
Initiatives toward customers
SMBC has added "common-law spouse" and "same-sex partner" to the deﬁnition of spouse for customers
taking out joint-liability housing loans*, and began oﬀering home loans to same-sex partners in February
2020. We also provide training on how to interact with such customers at branches.
*A single loan taken out jointly by the occupants of a home that they will share ownership of
Click here for information 
about SMBC home loans
136
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
137
External evaluation and accreditation
PRIDE index "Gold" rank
In October 2019, the volunteer
organization "work with Pride" granted the
highest rank of "Gold" in its PRIDE Index in
recognition of the bank's LGBT-related
initiatives.
Recognition and Accreditation
Understanding the LGBT community
Toward a society where sexual diversity is widely accepted. 
LGBT is an acronym that stands for lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender, and is used as a generic
term to refer to sexual minorities. In addition to LGBT, there are various other sexual minorities in
society. 
Recently in the international community, a range of measures have been fostered to ensure that the
human rights of LGBT people are respected and to eliminate unfair discrimination against them. In
2011, the United Nations made its ﬁrst resolution on the human rights of LGBT, which Japan
supported. Subsequently in 2015, the Olympic Charter clearly prohibited discrimination due to
gender and sexual orientation. 
Also, in Japan, spearheaded by the issuance of "partnership certiﬁcates" to same-sex partners by
Shibuya City, Tokyo in 2015, municipalities across the country have been improving their legal
framework to protect the rights of LGBT people. Companies are also building a corporate culture and
systems to foster employees' understanding of LGBT, including providing internal training and
establishing a same-sex partner registration system under which partners are entitled to enjoy
welfare beneﬁts on an almost equal footing with married couples. In order to accept sexual diversity
and thereby enhance overall organizational strength, companies are working to make reforms in line
with the principle of diversity and inclusion.
137
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
138
Initiatives of Diversity Promotion
Work-life balance Empowerment of LGBT inclusion Global HR
support women development
Empowerment of Empowerment of Work style reforms Health management
senior employees people with disabilities
138
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
139
SMBC Group advances its operations in more than 40 countries and regions worldwide, and
these overseas businesses are driving the growth of the Group. To support these
businesses, we are developing talent management framework to enable optimal
assignments and promotions, regardless of their location of hire. 
Another area of focus is personnel exchanges between Japan and overseas, global training
programs, helping employees gain experience in cross-cultural communication, and
building a corporate culture that treats diversity as a source of competitiveness.
Globalization of human resources by in ﬁgres
* Consolidation of SMBC Group * Figures are for SMBC and its major subsidiaries
* The number of overseas employees in the Asia region rose
substantially in FY2018 due to the mergers with BTPN (PT Bank
Tabungan Pensiunan Nasional Tbk) and PT Bank Sumitomo Mitsui
Indonesia.
139
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
140
Major initiatives for the active eﬀorts of global human
resources
Global HR Depatment
SMBC and SMBC Nikko Securities has established the Global Human Resources Dept. in FY 2014 and FY
2017, respectively, and the SMFG Global Human Resources Dept. was established in FY 2017. We are
developing talent management framework to enable optimal assignments and promotions, regardless of the
hired location.
We also established standardized talent review framework and developed a database to enable centralized
management of talent information on overseas employees. In addition, we hold a Global Human Resources
meeting annually in Tokyo, welcoming representatives such as regional HR Heads and Heads of L&D
functions. In these ways and more, we are collaborating closely and working together as one global team to
develop and promote our talents.
Various training systems
For talent development, we oﬀer various training programs for
employees from oﬃces around the globe, including the leadership
training for management-level employees delivered in partnership
with The Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania in the
United States. Another area of focus is personnel exchanges,
promoted through programs, under which, employees from overseas
oﬃces are assigned to departments in Japan for up to one year. Global Co-working Program
In addition, we promote overseas trainee programs and ﬁnancial support for language skill improvement for
employees working in the domestic dept., and branches.
Overseas employee network
At SMBC Group's overseas companies, there are several employee
networks. The Women's Inclusion Network and the Balance cover
gender themes, NIJI Pride and NIJI EMEA advance enlightenment
regarding LGBT issues, and UNIQUE supports people with disabilities.
All Group Company employees are working together on initiatives to
promote diversity and inclusion.
NIJI Pride/NIJI EMEA
SMBC Americas
SMBC EMEA
140
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
141
Exchange with BTPN
In 2019, BTPN in Indonesia became a consolidated subsidiary of the
SMBC Group. We are promoting various initiatives, such as the Future
Leaders Program. This program is designed to promote a blend of
cultures and mutual understanding for management-level employees
Interview
Initiatives of Diversity Promotion
Work-life balance Empowerment of LGBT inclusion Global HR
support women development
Empowerment of Empowerment of Work style reforms Health management
senior employees people with disabilities
141
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
142
SMBC Group is developing a workplace that enables older workers to be active longer by
making the most of their rich experiences and skills
Expansion of the support system
SMBC has a system that extends retirement age to 65, making possible a variety of challenges over one's
lifetime.
Voluntary application We thoroughly apply our voluntary application system in order to support
system employees in taking on challenges for their desired work.
In order to support employees taking on challenges of voluntary work at
Support system for
other companies, we provide second career support payment (bonus
second careers
severance pay).
We introduced a ﬂexible system involving a three-day work week for
Dual-career Support
employees over the age of 60 to promote the compatibility of personal life
system
and side jobs.
Career support program
For employees who have passed the determined age, we provide a program which explains the system after 
compulsory retirement and the mindset method at all Group Companies. While the top management sends 
messages expressing their expectations, we also oﬀer a program that allows employees to think about the 
vision for the future and new ways of working.
142
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
143
Interview
Initiatives of Diversity Promotion
Work-life balance Empowerment of LGBT inclusion Global HR
support women development
Empowerment of Empowerment of Work style reforms Health management
senior employees people with disabilities
143
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
144
SMBC Group has developed various types of administrative processes and work Also, 
all companies maintain an employment rate of people with disabilities at or above the
statutory employment rate (2.2% as of July 2020)
Numerical results
maintain an employment rate of people with disabilities at or above the statutory
employment rate (2.2% as of July 2020)
FY2017 FY2018 FY2019
Ratio of employees with
2.3% 2.4% 2.5%
disabilities
* SMBC Group composite data
Provision of an environment where employees
with disabilities can demonstrate their abilities
SMBC Green Service
Green Service Co., Ltd., a special subsidiary of SMBC, employs about 
450 people with disabilities at eight sites across Japan. The company 
handles a range of back oﬃce operations such as telephone services 
for preparation of checks and promissory notes, and data-input 
processes. The Minister for Health, Labour and Welfare oﬃcially 
commended the company in September 2014 as an "Excellent 
Workplace for People with Disabilities." Preparing checks and promissory notes 
(SMBC Green Service)
144
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
145
Nikko MiRun
Headquartered in Nihonbashi-Koamicho, the SMBC Nikko Securities
special subsidiary Nikko MiRun Inc. has 20 employees with disabilities
who do light work duties for other Group ﬁrms. The company also
operates the MiRun Farm in Ichihara, Chiba Prefecture, where 22
employees with disabilities cultivate vegetable crops under the
guidance of eight farming supervisors. The farm also hosts
"normalization training," where SMBC Nikko Securities employees
undertake manual farm labor alongside their colleagues with disabilities. 
This initiative was selected as an example of best practice in March 2016 by the body* promoting the
Principles for Financial Action for the 21st Century by Ministry of the Environment.
*Formulated by Japan's Ministry of the Environment, the principles provide a guide for ﬁnancial institutions in the responsibilities and
roles they must follow to help realize a sustainable society.
Employing athletes with disabilities
We includes many athletes with disabilities competing at the elite
level in Japan and abroad. The company supports these athletes, and
also organizes lecture events as part of promoting deeper
understanding of people with disabilities.
SMBC signed an aﬃliation agreement with leading wheelchair tennis
player Yui Kamiji in April 2019.
Creating branches that customers with
impairments can easily visit
To enable customers who are elderly or have disabilities to visit our branches with peace of mind, we are
introducing the principles of universal design at branches. We also run study sessions and distribute a
manual aimed at equipping all employees with "universal manners."
Contribution to Achieving 
and Developing Safe and Secure Communities
145
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
146
Interview
Initiatives of Diversity Promotion
Work-life balance Empowerment of LGBT inclusion Global HR
support women development
Empowerment of Empowerment of Work style reforms Health management
senior employees people with disabilities
146
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
147
SMBC Group actively undertakes work style reforms to create working environments that
foster enthusiasm and stimulate the motivation of every employee, including those
working restricted hours. Reforms also aim to improve overall productivity.
Numerical results
To make sure that initiatives in the area of work style reform are implemented smoothly, we have set target
for the acquisition rate for paid leave.
Target Achievement time FY2017 FY2018 FY2019
Paid leave 
acquisition rate  FY2025 67.3％ 70.6％ 74.7％
85% or more
Main initiatives for increasing productivity and
motivation to work
Complying with laws and regulations and improving labor conditions
SMBC Group complies with all applicable laws and regulations, and improves labor conditions across the
Group, by regularly monitoring working conditions and working hours. All companies are compliant with the
requirements in the Act on the Arrangement of Related Acts to Promote Work Style Reform that went into
force in Japan in April 2019.
[Monitoring items] 
Overtime agreement violations 
Minimum wage violations 
No. of industrial accidents, etc.
147
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
148
Rectifying long working hours
Each company regularly monitors the numbers of overtime hours and
employees working long hours as part of ongoing eﬀorts to improve
the working conditions across the Group.  
At SMBC, as part of day-to-day working hours management, the
times that employees log in and out of their PCs are recorded, which
allows us to accurately gauge how many hours each individual is
working. We have also established work intervals and set upper limits
for working hours.  
We are also working to reduce long working hours via the introduction of robotic process automation (RPA)
for increased administrative eﬃciency, along with the management of total work hours by setting times for
people to leave oﬃces and designating days when workers are encouraged to leave early.
More ﬂexible working hours
SMBC Group companies are utilizing a variety of systems to increase ﬂexibility, including ﬂextime, staggered
start times, variable working hours, and discretionary working arrangements for planned or professional
duties.
Work site ﬂexibility
All SMBC Group Companies have a "Work from home system" in
place, and are rolling out satellite oﬃce* duty.
*Oﬃce space established inside a facility, or external oﬃce space for which a usage
contract has been signed.
Initiatives to increase work style reform awareness and productivity
At each Group Company, regarding changing thinking toward work styles and the importance of
management, the management ranks dispatched a message, and we are conducting seminars and
workshops for the purpose of increasing productivity and achieving business with higher added value. 
Also, we are incorporating accomplishments related to increasing productivity to the items we use to
evaluate achievements.
Flexibility on work attire
We are working to make reforms to our corporate culture. In order to create an environment in which it is
easy to take on new challenges that are not restrained by precedent or standard thinking, we introduced a
"Dress Code Free" policy. This makes it possible for employees to freely choose their own garments in line
with TPO.
148
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
149
Creating more innovative workplaces
In September 2017, the SMBC Group established "hoops links tokyo"
as an innovation space located in Shibuya, Tokyo. Bringing together a
variety of people from start-ups and larger ﬁrms, government,
academia, research institutions and NPOs, the aim of this initiative is
to forge connections to support the creation of dynamic, innovative
businesses and services with a focus on addressing societal issues.
Interview
External evaluation and accreditation
4 stars awarded in the 4th
Nikkei "Smart Work
Management" survey
In November 2020, SMFG was
awarded 4 stars in the 4th Nikkei * "Smart Work Management" refers to
maximizing the potential of workers through
"Smart Work Management*" survey varied and ﬂexible work styles, and developing
strategies to maximize productivity and the
conducted by Nikkei Inc.
broader performance of the organization using
positive feedback loops, thereby fostering
innovation and new market development.
Recognition and Accreditation
149
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
150
Initiatives of Diversity Promotion
Work-life balance Empowerment of LGBT inclusion Global HR
support women development
Empowerment of Empowerment of Work style reforms Health management
senior employees people with disabilities
150
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
151
SMBC Group is undertaking health management to help support the physical and mental
health and motivation of employees to underpin the continual provision of high value-
added for customers.
Main initiatives to promote and accelerate health
management
Statement on Health Management; Appointment of CHO
Each of our Group companies views the promotion of employee health as a management issue, and has
instituted a Statement on Health Management. 
The ﬁrm has also appointed a Chief Health Oﬃcer (CHO) and established a Health Promotion Oﬃce as part of
systematic eﬀorts to maintain and promote the health of employees and family members.
Various medical examinations
Alongside periodic health examinations, Group companies are active in providing speciﬁc health-related
guidance as a means of preventing lifestyle diseases.
151
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
152
Mental health initiatives
To enable individuals to manage their own metal health, we carry out a stress check for all employees. Also,
to support mental health self-care, line care (in which managers and supervisors who have daily contact with
workers improve the working environment and consult with them) and reassignment, we have consultation
services with outside specialist councilors. We perform follow up training for managers at oﬃces that have
particularly high stress numbers. In addition, at SMBC Nikko Securities, a metal health supporter is
designated at branches in order to promote self-care and quick responses to those who are in poor mental
health. In these ways and more, we are promoting eﬀorts for the mental health of our employees.
Action on smoking
We work closely with the health-insurance society to help employees quit smoking by subsidizing their
participation in an online smoking cessation program. Also, we have a "No Smoking Day" every month, and
provide e-learning on tobacco and secondhand smoke.
Health support for women
We are carrying out initiatives to raise awareness of women's health
issues at all our Group Companies. These include providing health
care seminars that teach speciﬁcs of the female constitution, illnesses
that occur at diﬀerent life stages, and self-care. Also, we oﬀer
educational programs and round table meetings with female
industrial physicians by using e-learning and videoconferencing.
Seminar at SMBC Finance Service
Interview
152
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
153
External evaluation and accreditation
Recognized as a 2020
Certiﬁed Health and
Productivity Management
Organization (large
enterprise category) by the
Ministry of Economy, Trade
and Industry Note: Since FY2016, METI's Certiﬁed Health &
Productivity Management Outstanding
Organizations Recognition Program has
In March 2020, we recognized for
recognized organizations with outstanding
the Fourth year running as a 2020 records in health management, based on their
engagement with local community health
Certiﬁed Health and Productivity initiatives or health promotion activities
Management Organization (large promoted by the Nippon Kenko Kaigi.
enterprise category) by the Ministry
of Economy, Trade and Industry.
Recognition and Accreditation
Initiatives of Diversity Promotion
Work-life balance Empowerment of LGBT inclusion Global HR
support women development
Empowerment of Empowerment of Work style reforms Health management
senior employees people with disabilities
153
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
154
List of Company Data
Main initiatives
1.Environmental Impact Data of SMBC Group Companies▼
2.SMBC Group Company Employee Data▼
3.Main systems for achieving a work-life balance at SMFG Group companies▼
4.Environmental accounting at SMBC▼
1. Environmental Impact Data of SMBC Group Companies
The figures of direct and indirect energy CO2 emissions are calculated by each group companies, based on the method
of amended energy saving act. 
Figures of other energy consumption are based on respective group company’s methodology.
Please refer to the link below for environmental performance data and goals of SMBC Group companies.
Performance Data and Goals of SMBC Group Companies
Sumitomo Mitsui Financial   Sumitomo Mitsui Banking  SMBC Trust Bank
Group (SMFG) Corporation (SMBC) (SMBCTB)
Sumitomo Mitsui Finance  SMBC Nikko Securities SMBC Friend Securities
and Leasing (SMFL) (SMBC Nikko) (SMBC Friend)(*1)
Sumitomo Mitsui Card Cedyna Financial SMBC Consumer Finance
Company (SMCC) Corporation (Cedyna)(*2) (SMBCCF)
The Japan Research Sumitomo Mitsui DS Asset
Institute (JRI) Management Company (SMDAM)
(*1)SMBC Friend Securities has formed a merger with SMBC Nikko Securities in January 2018.
(*2)Cedyna Financial Corporation changed the name in July 2020 to SMBC Finance Service after merger with SMBC
Finance Service.
154
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
155
Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group (SMFG)
Measurement Items Unit Fiscal Fiscal Fiscal
2017 2018 2019
Direct energy  t-CO2 0.0 0.0 0.0
CO2 emissions
Indirect energy  t-CO2 0.0 0.0 0.0
(emission
CO2 emissions coefficient)
Total CO2
emissions
Other t-CO2 175.1 185.1 830.4
CO2 emissions
CO2 emissions (t-eCmOis2sion 175.1 185.1 830.4
total
coefficient)
Other energy CO2 emissions t-CO2 175.1 185.1 830.4
from business
consumption
trips
Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation (SMBC)
Measurement Items Unit Fiscal Fiscal Fiscal
2017 2018 2019
Direct energy  t-CO2 9,227.9 8,454.8 7,336.7
CO2 emissions
Indirect energy  t-CO2 81,335.2 74,390.5 64,265.0
(emission
CO2 emissions coefficient)
Total CO2
emissions
Other t-CO2 8,634.8 9,324.9 22,576.8
CO2 emissions
t-CO2 99,197.9 92,170.2 94,178.5
CO2 emissions total (emission
coefficient)
155
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
156
Measurement Items Unit Fiscal Fiscal Fiscal
2017 2018 2019
Thousand m3 1,903.6 1,719.3 1,498.8
City gas
t-CO2 4,270.9 3,858.0 3,363.3
t 10.3 9.6 9.0
Liquefied petroleum
gas (LPG)
t-CO2 30.9 28.8 27.0
kl 7.0 4.8 5.0
Heavy fuel oil
Direct t-CO2 19.0 13.0 13.5
energy
consumption kl 0.6 0.5 1.1
Light oil
t-CO2 1.6 1.3 2.8
kl 5.9 6.6 6.8
Kerosene
t-CO2 14.7 16.4 16.9
kl 2,106.3 1,954.0 1,685.2
Gasoline
(automobile) 
t-CO2 4,890.9 4,537.3 3,913.1
Thousand 158,558.1 154,611.7 145,851.3
kWh
Electricity
t-CO2 78,581.5 71,493.8 62,171.2
(emission
coefficient)
GJ 22,412.8 24,298.1 24,127.5
Indirect Steam
energy
t-CO2 1,277.5 1,385.0 1,375.3
Consumption
GJ 1,897.4 1,861.0 2,129.7
Hot water
t-CO2 108.2 106.1 121.4
GJ 11,213.1 11,206.8 10,474.9
Cold water
t-CO2 639.1 638.8 597.1
CO2 emissions t-CO2 7,540.3 8,185.6 21,601.7
from business trips
Other energy
consumption Thousand m3 2,432.2 2,531.7 2,166.9
Total water and
sewage
t-CO2 1,094.5 1,139.3 975.1
156
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
157
SMBC Trust Bank (SMBCTB)
Measurement Items Unit Fiscal Fiscal Fiscal
2017 2018 2019
Direct energy  t-CO2 107.6 159.5 144.2
CO2 emissions
Indirect energy  t-CO2 3,895.0 3,985.0 2,966.6
(emission
CO2 emissions coefficient)
Total CO2
emissions
Other t-CO2 461.0 520.5 747.2
CO2 emissions
t-CO2 4,463.6 4,665.0 3,857.9
CO2 emissions total (emission
coefficient)
Thousand m3 42.8 65.1 60.7
City gas
Direct t-CO2 98.0 149.0 136.0
energy
consumption kl 4.1 4.5 3.5
Gasoline
(automobile)
t-CO2 9.6 10.5 8.2
Thousand 7,013.4 7,289.6 6,099.6
kWh
Electricity
t-CO2 3,696.0 3,820.0 2,854.6
(emission
coefficient)
GJ 283.2 176.1 110.6
Indirect Steam
energy
t-CO2 16.0 10.0 6.3
Consumption
GJ 173.3 136.9 135.4
Hot water
t-CO2 10.0 8.0 7.7
GJ 3,037.3 2,585.9 1,725.9
Cold water
t-CO2 173.0 147.0 98.0
157
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
158
Measurement Items Unit Fiscal Fiscal Fiscal
2017 2018 2019
CO2 emissions from t-CO2 459.0 516.7 744.3
business trips
Water supply Thousand m3 3.7 5.8 4.4
Other energy
consumption Sewage Thousand m3 3.7 5.8 4.4
Thousand m3 7.4 11.6 8.8
Total water and
sewage
t-CO2 2.0 3.8 2.9
Sumitomo Mitsui Finance and Leasing (SMFL)
Measurement Items Unit Fiscal Fiscal Fiscal
2017 2018 2019
Direct energy  t-CO2 854.6 741.7 1,148.8
CO2 emissions
Indirect energy  t-CO2 901.3 1,037.4 1,186.2
(emission
CO2 emissions coefficient)
Total CO2
emissions
Other t-CO2 1,388.7 1,424.0 3,905.9
CO2 emissions
CO2 emissions t(-eCmOis2sion 3,144.6 3,203.1 6,240.9
total
coefficient)
Thousand m3 20.5 19.0 27.8
City gas
t-CO2 45.2 42.0 61.4
kl 2.0 2.0 2.1
Direct energy
Light oil
consumption
t-CO2 5.3 5.3 5.5
kl 346.4 368.0 466.0
Gasoline
(automobile)
t-CO2 804.1 854.4 1,082.0
158
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
159
Measurement Items Unit Fiscal Fiscal Fiscal
2017 2018 2019
Thousand 1,770.7 2,038.1 2,534.6
kWh
Indirect
energy Electricity
Consumption t-CO2 901.3 1,037.4 1,186.2
(emission
coefficient)
CO2 emissions t-CO2 1,388.7 1,424.0 3,903.0
from business
trips
Water supply Thousand m3 - - 4.1
Other energy
consumption
Sewage Thousand m3 - - 4.1
Thousand m3 - - 8.2
Total water and
sewage
t-CO2 - - 2.8
SMBC Nikko Securities (SMBC Nikko)
Measurement Items Unit Fiscal Fiscal Fiscal
2017 2018 2019
Direct energy  t-CO2 4,102.9 3,492.1 3,199.2
CO2 emissions
Indirect energy  t-CO2 18,852.0 17,490.5 15,372.8
(emission
CO2 emissions coefficient)
Total CO2
emissions
Other t-CO2 3,825.0 4,191.2 9,166.5
CO2 emissions
CO2 emissions t(-eCmOis2sion 26,779.9 25,173.9 27,738.4
total
coefficient)
Thousand m3 105.5 119.8 102.6
City gas
t-CO2 235.7 267.6 229.2
kl 5.9 2.2 2.1
Direct energy
Heavy fuel oil
consumption
t-CO2 16.0 6.0 5.7
kl 1,660.0 1,387.3 1,277.7
Gasoline
(automobile)
t-CO2 3,851.2 3,218.5 2,964.3
159
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
160
Measurement Items Unit Fiscal Fiscal Fiscal
2017 2018 2019
Thousand 30,889.5 32,778.4 29,886.6
kWh
Electricity
t-CO2 17,300.4 15,723.4 13,626.8
(emission
coefficient)
GJ 7,842.0 6,310.4 6,596.6
Indirect Steam
energy
t-CO2 447.0 359.7 376.0
Consumption
GJ 873.1 918.5 3,816.4
Hot water
t-CO2 49.8 52.4 217.5
GJ 18,506.00 23,772.40 20,218.6
Cold water
t-CO2 1,054.8 1,355.0 1,152.5
CO2 emissions t-CO2 3,799.2 4,165.0 9,141.3
from business
trips
Water supply Thousand m3 28.6 29.1 28.0
Other energy
consumption
Sewage Thousand m3 28.6 29.1 28.0
Thousand m3 57.3 58.2 56.0
Total water and
sewage
t-CO2 25.8 26.2 25.2
160
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
161
SMBC Friend Securities (SMBC Friend)
*SMBC Friend Securities has formed a merger with SMBC Nikko Securities in January 2018.
Measurement Items Unit Fiscal Fiscal Fiscal
2017 2018 2019
Direct energy  t-CO2 41.2 - -
CO2 emissions
Indirect energy  t-CO2 1,837.5 - -
(emission
CO2 emissions coefficient)
Total CO2
emissions
Other t-CO2 473.8 - -
CO2 emissions
t-CO2 2,352.5 - -
CO2 emissions total (emission
coefficient)
Thousand m3 18.0 - -
Direct
City gas
energy
t-CO2 41.2 - -
Thousand 3,304.8 - -
kWh
Indirect
energy Electricity
Consumption t-CO2 1,837.5 - -
(emission
coefficient)
Other energy CO2 emissions from t-CO2 473.8 - -
consumption business trips
161
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
162
Sumitomo Mitsui Card Company (SMCC)
Measurement Items Unit Fiscal Fiscal Fiscal
2017 2018 2019
Direct energy  t-CO2 516.2 484.9 342.1
CO2 emissions
Indirect energy  t-CO2 4,200.0 3,690.0 3,091.6
(emission
CO2 emissions coefficient)
Total CO2
emissions
Other t-CO2 726.1 801.9 1,294.6
CO2 emissions
t-CO2 5,442.3 4,976.8 4,728.3
CO2 emissions total (emission
coefficient)
Thousand m3 187.0 173.3 110.8
City gas
Direct t-CO2 419.6 388.9 248.6
energy
consumption kl 41.6 41.4 40.3
Gasoline
(automobile)
t-CO2 96.5 96.0 93.5
Thousand 8,390.7 8,106.7 7,560.0
kWh
Indirect
energy Electricity
Consumption t-CO2 4,200.0 3,690.0 3,091.6
(emission
coefficient)
CO2 emissions from t-CO2 700.2 776.4 1,269.2
business trips
Other energy
consumption Thousand m3 59.1 58.1 57.7
Total water and
sewage
t-CO2 25.9 25.5 25.3
162
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
163
Cedyna Financial Corporation (Cedyna)
* Cedyna Financial Corporation changed the name in July 2020 to SMBC Finance Service after merger with SMBC
Finance Service.
Measurement Items Unit Fiscal Fiscal Fiscal
2017 2018 2019
Direct energy  t-CO2 778.2 707.1 663.0
CO2 emissions
Indirect energy  t-CO2 4,074.0 3,829.5 3,338.2
(emission
CO2 emissions coefficient)
Total CO2
emissions
Other t-CO2 921.2 827.8 1,109.1
CO2 emissions
t-CO2 5,773.4 5,364.4 5,110.3
CO2 emissions total (emission
coefficient)
kl 335.1 304.5 285.8
Direct Gasoline
energy (automobile)
consumption t-CO2 778.2 707.1 663.0
Thousand 8,265.9 8,141.1 7,681.0
kWh
Indirect
energy Electricity
Consumption t-CO2 4,074.0 3,829.5 3,338.2
(emission
coefficient)
Other energy CO2 emissions from t-CO2 921.2 827.8 1,109.1
consumption business trips
163
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
164
SMBC Consumer Finance (SMBCCF)
Measurement Items Unit Fiscal Fiscal Fiscal
2017 2018 2019
Direct energy  t-CO2 0.0 0.0 0.0
CO2 emissions
Indirect energy  t-CO2 1,928.9 1,709.9 1,646.6
(emission
CO2 emissions coefficient)
Total CO2
emissions
Other t-CO2 698.9 790.1 2,043.9
CO2 emissions
CO2 emissions (t-eCmOis2sion 2,627.8 2,500.0 3,690.5
total
coefficient)
Thousand 2,376.3 2,171.7 2,158.2
kWh
Electricity
t-CO2 1,154.9 1,031.6 1,025.1
(emission
coefficient)
GJ 0.0 0.0 0.0
Steam
Indirect
energy t-CO2 0.0 0.0 0.0
Consumption
GJ 656.6 480.4 525.1
Hot water
t-CO2 37.4 27.4 29.9
GJ 12,923.3 11,420.5 10,377.6
Cold water
t-CO2 736.6 651.0 591.5
CO2 emissions t-CO2 698.2 789.4 2,042.3
from business
trips
Other energy
consumption
Thousand m3 2.3 2.2 4.8
Total water and
sewage
t-CO2 0.7 0.7 1.7
164
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
165
The Japan Research Institute (JRI)
Measurement Items Unit Fiscal Fiscal Fiscal
2017 2018 2019
Direct energy CO2 t-CO2 567.8 477.0 505.9
emissions
InDirect energy t-CO2 37,956.2 34,814.7 33,957.2
(emission
CO2 emissions coefficient)
Total CO2
emissions
Other t-CO2 1,063.0 1,127.7 2,596.2
CO2 emissions
t-CO2 39,587.0 36,419.5 37,059.3
CO2 emissions total (emission
coefficient)
Thousand m3 52.3 47.7 48.9
City gas
t-CO2 117.4 107.0 109.7
kl 116.8 87.4 104.9
Heavy fuel oil
Direct t-CO2 316.5 236.8 284.2
energy
consumption kl 34.5 37.2 30.6
Kerosene
t-CO2 85.9 92.6 76.2
kl 20.7 17.5 15.4
Gasoline
(automobile)
t-CO2 48.0 40.6 35.8
Thousand 77,169.2 74,926.5 73,107.0
kWh
Indirect
energy Electricity
Consumption t-CO2 37,956.2 34,814.7 33,957.2
(emission
coefficient)
Other energy CO2 emissions from t-CO2 1,063.0 1,127.7 2,596.2
consumption business trips
165
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
166
Sumitomo Mitsui DS Asset Management Company (SMDAM)
*1Started from 2017, due to the reorganaization.
*2Sumitomo Mitsui Asset Management and Daiwa SB Investments merge to form Sumitomo Mitsui DS Asset
Management Company in April 2019.
Measurement Items Unit Fiscal Fiscal Fiscal
2017 2018 2019
Direct energy CO2 t-CO2 186.8 186.2 186.1
emissions
InDirect energy CO2 t(-eCmOis2sion 484.5 476.0 481.0
emissions
coefficient)
Total CO2
emissions
Other t-CO2 452.5 434.3 1,344.8
CO2 emissions
t-CO2 1,123.8 1,096.5 2,011.9
CO2 emissions total (emission
coefficient)
Thousand m3 80.8 80.4 80.6
City gas
Direct t-CO2 181.4 180.4 181.0
energy
consumption kl 2.3 2.5 2.2
Gasoline
(automobile)
t-CO2 5.4 5.8 5.1
Thousand 996.9 979.4 989.8
kWh
Indirect
energy Electricity
Consumption t-CO2 484.5 476.0 481.0
(emission
coefficient)
Other energy CO2 emissions from t-CO2 452.5 434.3 1,344.8
consumption business trips
2. SMBC Group Company Employee Data
* Sumitomo Mitsui Asset Management changed the name in April 2019 to Sumitomo Mitsui DS Asset Management
Campany after merger with Daiwa SB Investments
* Cedyna Financial Corporation changed the name in July 2020 to SMBC Finance Service after merger with SMBC
Finance Service.
Data for Employees Data for Executives/Managers Data for Recruitment
Data for HR systems and leave
166
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
167
Status of employees
(No. of people, %)
March 31, March 31, March 31,
2018 2019 2020
Number of employees (*1) 27,935 27,154 26,457
Male 12,989 12,471 12,021
Ratio 46.50% 45.93% 45.44%
Female 14,946 14,683 14,436
Ratio 53.50% 54.07% 54.56%
Average age 37 yrs 1 mos. 37 yrs 5 mos. 37 yrs 9 mos.
Male 40 yrs 5 mos. 40 yrs 4 mos. 40 yrs 3 mos.
34 yrs 10
Female 34 yrs 2 mos. 35 yrs 8 mos.
mos.
13 yrs 11
Average years of service 13 yrs 1 mos. 13 yrs 6 mos.
mos.
Sumitomo
Mitsui
15 yrs 10 15 yrs 11
Banking Male 16 yrs 0 mos.
mos. mos.
Corporation
Female 10 yrs 9 mos. 11 yrs 4 mos. 12 yrs 1 mos.
Voluntary separation rate 2% 3% 3%
Ratio of employees with
disabilities (As of March 1 of 2.38% 2.47% 2.65%
each year)
724,440 559,743 515,140
Total training hours/year
hours hours hours
Average training per
25.9 hours 20.6 hours 19.5 hours
person (hours)
2,790 million 2,404 million 2,433 million
Annual training expenses
yen yen yen
Average training per
99,875 yen 88,532 yen 91,961 yen
person (hours)
167
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
168
March 31, March 31, March 31,
2018 2019 2020
Number of employees (*1) 1,937 1,985 2,084
Male 907 948 987
Ratio 46.82% 47.76% 47.36%
Female 1,030 1,037 1,097
Ratio 53.18% 52.24% 52.64%
Average age 42 yrs 5 mos. 44 yrs 7 mos. 44 yrs 3 mos.
SMBC Trust 46 yrs 11
Male 44 yrs 4 mos. 46 yrs 3 mos.
Bank mos.
Female 40 yrs 9 mos. 41 yrs 4 mos. 42 yrs 5 mos.
Average years of service 9 yrs 1 mos. 7 yrs 3 mos. 9 yrs 0 mos.
Male 8 yrs 6 mos. 6 yrs 3 mos. 7 yrs 9 mos.
Female 9 yrs 7 mos. 8 yrs 2 mos. 10 yrs 1 mos.
Ratio of employees with
disabilities (As of March 1 of 1.96% 2.51% 2.31%
each year)
168
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
169
March 31, March 31, March 31,
2018 2019 2020
Number of employees (*1) 1,683 2,434 2,448
Male 1,072 1,581 1,590
Ratio 63.70% 64.95% 64.95%
Female 611 853 858
Ratio 36.30% 35.05% 35.05%
Average age 40 yrs 6 mos. 40 yrs 7 mos. 42 yrs 2 mos.
Male 42 yrs 5 mos. 42 yrs 8 mos. 43 yrs 8 mos.
Sumitomo
Mitsui
Finance and Female 37 yrs 1 mos. 37 yrs 2 mos. 39 yrs 2 mos.
Leasing
Average years of service 15 yrs 0 mos. 15 yrs 0 mos. 15 yrs 0 mos.
16 yrs 10 16 yrs 11
Male 16 yrs 3 mos.
mos. mos.
11 yrs 11 11 yrs 10
Female 12 yrs 6 mos.
mos. mos.
Voluntary separation rate 3% 2% 3%
Ratio of employees with
disabilities (As of March 1 of 2.18% 2.05% 1.80%
each year)
169
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
170
March 31, March 31, March 31,
2018 2019 2020
Number of employees (*1) 10,678 10,394 10,187
Male 6,579 6,411 6,330
Ratio 61.61% 61.68% 62.14%
Female 4,099 3,983 3,857
Ratio 38.39% 38.32% 37.86%
Average age 40 yrs 0 mos. 40 yrs 7 mos. 41 yrs 4 mos.
SMBC Nikko Male 41 yrs 4 mos. 41 yrs 9 mos. 42 yrs 5 mos.
Securities
37 yrs 11
Female 38 yrs 8 mos. 39 yrs 7 mos.
mos.
11 yrs 10
Average years of service 12 yrs 6 mos. 13 yrs 3 mos.
mos.
Male 12 yrs 1 mos. 12 yrs 8 mos. 13 yrs 4 mos.
Female 11 yrs 5 mos. 12 yrs 3 mos. 13 yrs 2 mos.
Ratio of employees with
disabilities (As of March 31 of 2.16% 2.38% 2.49%
each year)
170
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
171
March 31, March 31, March 31,
2018 2019 2020
Number of employees (*1) 2,482 2,495 2,533
Male 1,151 1,141 1,159
Ratio 46.37% 45.73% 45.76%
Female 1,331 1,354 1,374
Ratio 53.63% 54.27% 54.24%
39 yrs 11
Average age 39 yrs 0 mos. 39 yrs 6 mos.
mos.
Sumitomo
Mitsui Card Male 41 yrs 0 mos. 41 yrs 5 mos. 41 yrs 9 mos.
Company
37 yrs 10
Female 37 yrs 4 mos. 38 yrs 4 mos.
mos.
Average years of service 14 yrs 8 mos. 15 yrs 0 mos. 15 yrs 3 mos.
15 yrs 11
Male 16 yrs 2 mos. 16 yrs 3 mos.
mos.
Female 13 yrs 8 mos. 14 yrs 0 mos. 14 yrs 5 mos.
Ratio of employees with
disabilities (As of March 31 of 2.32% 2.45% 2.68%
each year)
171
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
172
March 31, March 31, March 31,
2018 2019 2020
Number of employees (*1) 3,425 3,349 3,252
Male 1,971 1,897 1,820
Ratio 57.55% 56.64% 55.97%
Female 1,454 1,452 1,432
Ratio 42.45% 43.36% 44.03%
Average age 42 yrs 8 mos. 43 yrs 0 mos. 43 yrs 5 mos.
44 yrs 10
Male 45 yrs 2 mos. 45 yrs 6 mos.
Cedyna mos.
Financial
Corporation
40 yrs 11
Female 39 yrs 7 mos. 40 yrs 2 mos.
mos.
Average years of service 18 yrs 2 mos. 18 yrs 6 mos. 19 yrs 0 mos.
Male 20 yrs 6 mos. 20 yrs 9 mos. 21 yrs 1 mos.
Female 15 yrs 1 mos. 15 yrs 7 mos. 16 yrs 3 mos.
Voluntary separation rate 2% 2% 2%
Ratio of employees with
disabilities (As of March 1 of 2.39% 2.32% 2.32%
each year)
172
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
173
March 31, March 31, March 31,
2018 2019 2020
Number of employees (*1) 2,134 2,263 2,475
Male 1,386 1,425 1,454
Ratio 64.95% 62.97% 58.75%
Female 748 838 1,021
Ratio 35.05% 37.03% 41.25%
Average age 41 yrs 0 mos. 41 yrs 2 mos. 41 yrs 8 mos.
SMBC Male 42 yrs 7 mos. 42 yrs 8 mos. 43 yrs 1 mos.
Consumer
Finance
Female 38 yrs 1 mos. 38 yrs 8 mos. 39 yrs 7 mos.
Average years of service 16 yrs 8 mos. 16 yrs 4 mos. 16 yrs 1 mos.
Male 18 yrs 7 mos. 18 yrs 1 mos. 18 yrs 1 mos.
Female 13 yrs 3 mos. 13 yrs 6 mos. 13 yrs 2 mos.
Voluntary separation rate 3% 2% 3%
Ratio of employees with
disabilities (As of March 31 of 2.32% 2.43% 3.00%
each year)
173
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
174
March 31, March 31, March 31,
2018 2019 2020
Number of employees (*1) 2,357 2,427 2,510
Male 1,710 1,773 1,841
Ratio 72.55% 73.05% 73.35%
Female 647 654 669
Ratio 27.45% 26.95% 26.65%
Average age 40 yrs 6 mos. 40 yrs 9 mos. 41 yrs 1 mos.
Male 41 yrs 4 mos. 41 yrs 6 mos. 41 yrs 8 mos.
The Japan
Research
38 yrs 10
Institute Female 38 yrs 6 mos. 39 yrs 3 mos.
mos.
12 yrs 10
Average years of service 12 yrs 6 mos. 12 yrs 8 mos.
mos.
12 yrs 10
Male 13 yrs 1 mos. 13 yrs 3 mos.
mos.
11 yrs 10
Female 11 yrs 7 mos. 11 yrs 8 mos.
mos.
Ratio of employees with
disabilities (As of March 31 of 2.40% 2.27% 2.23%
each year)
174
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
175
March 31, March 31, March 31,
2018 2019 2020
Number of employees (*1) 551 552 845
Male 388 386 614
Ratio 70.42% 69.93% 72.66%
Female 163 166 231
Ratio 29.58% 30.07% 27.34%
Sumitomo
Mitsui DS
Asset 45 yrs 11
Average age 44 yrs 1 mos. 44 yrs 7 mos.
Management mos.
Company
(*2)
45 yrs 10
Male 46 yrs 3 mos. 47 yrs 5 mos.
mos.
39 yrs 10
Female 40 yrs 6 mos. 42 yrs 0 mos.
mos.
Average years of service 8 yrs 5 mos 9 yrs 3 mos 15 yrs 3 mos
Male 8 yrs 10 mos 9 yrs 9 mos 16 yrs 6 mos
Female 7 yrs 5 mos 8 yrs 2 mos 11 yrs 8 mos
*1 The number of full-time employees. The following list of employees is deducted from the total number of
employees: executive officers, part-time employees, employees of temporary employment agencies, and national
staff at overseas branches.
*2 Figures for March 31, 2018 and 2019, include those for the former Sumitomo Mitsui Asset Management Company,
Limited.
175
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
176
Data for Executives/Managers
(No. of people)
April 30, April 30, April 30,
2018 2019 2020
Total (of whom are 21  23  24 
female) (1) (1) (1)
Sumitomo
Mitsui Directors/executives Outside
Financial directors 7  7  7 
Group (of whom (1) (1) (1)
(SMFG)  are female)
(*1)
Total (of whom are 50  51  63 
Executive officers
female) (2) (2) (3)
Total (of whom are 11  13  17 
female) (0) (0) (1)
Directors Outside
directors 3  3  5 
(of whom (0) (0) (1)
are female)
Sumitomo
Mitsui
Total (of whom are 84  86  87 
Banking Executive officers
female) (3) (3) (3)
Corporation
(*2)
Total (of whom are 6  6 
-
female) (0) (0)
Corporate auditors Outside
corporate
3  3 
auditors (of -
(0) (0)
whom are
female)
*1 New holding company-based management structure adopted in April 2017; governance shifted to Company with
Committees model in June 2017
*2 Transitioned to the Company with Audit and Supervisory Committee in June 2019
176
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
177
(No. of people, %)
March 31, March 31, March 31,
2018 2019 2020
Dept. head
1,190 1,163 1,104
level
Female 66 82 96
Ratio 5.5% 7.1% 8.7%
No. of
managers
Section chief
3,332 3,309 3,206
level
Female 630 722 728
Sumitomo
Mitsui
Banking Ratio 18.9% 21.8% 22.7%
Corporation
(*1) Total no. of managers 4,522 4,472 4,310
Female 696 804 824
Ratio 15.4% 18.0% 19.1%
Total 431 470 382
Newly
appointed Female 115 136 93
managers
Ratio 26.7% 28.9% 24.3%
No. of Female 90 95 84
SMBC Trust
female
Bank
managers Ratio 29.3% 28.1% 27.6%
Sumitomo No. of managers 428 598 667
Mitsui
Finance and
Female 19 36 38
Leasing (*1)
Ratio 4.4% 6.0% 5.7%
177
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
178
March 31, March 31, March 31,
2018 2019 2020
SMBC Nikko
No. of female managers 166 171 178
Securities
Sumitomo No. of Female 5 17 23
Mitsui Card female
Company managers
Ratio 1.5% 4.9% 6.2%
(*1)
Total no. of managers 866 863 855
Cedyna
Financial Female 75 88 94
Corporation
Ratio 8.7% 10.2% 11.0%
Total no. of managers 879 900 906
SMBC
Consumer Female 112 118 126
Finance
Ratio 12.7% 13.1% 13.9%
The Japan
Research Ratio of female manager 11.0% 12.0% 11.7%
Institute
Sumitomo
Mitsui DS
Asset No. of female managers  10  9  11 
Management (Ratio) (8.8%) (8.0%) (10.5%)
Company
(*1)(*2)
*1 Retroactive revisions have been made to previous fiscal years due to change in definition.
*2 Figures for March 31, 2018 and 2019, include those for the former Sumitomo Mitsui Asset Management Company,
Limited.
178
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
179
Recruitment Status
(No. of people, %)
April, 2018 April, 2019 April, 2020
New graduate recruits 803 667 622
Management
595 574 622
track
Number of newly employed
372 269 201
female graduates
Sumitomo Management
164 176 201
Mitsui track
Banking
Corporation
Ratio of newly employed
46.3% 40.3% 32.3%
female graduates
Ratio of newly employed
female graduates in 27.6% 30.7% 32.3%
managerial positions
32  16  25 
Number of career hires
(Fiscal 2017) (Fiscal 2018) (Fiscal 2019)
New graduate recruits 54 44 52
Newly employed female
28 18 16
graduates
SMBC Trust
Bank
Ratio of newly employed
51.9% 40.9% 30.8%
female graduates
35  28  25 
Number of career hires
(Fiscal 2017) (Fiscal 2018) (Fiscal 2019)
New graduate recruits 56 76 81
Number of newly employed
28 43 33
Sumitomo female graduates
Mitsui
Finance and Ratio of newly employed
50.0% 56.6% 40.7%
Leasing female graduates
7  16  18 
Number of career hires
(Fiscal 2017) (Fiscal 2018) (Fiscal 2019)
179
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
180
April, 2018 April, 2019 April, 2020
New graduate recruits 354 325 341
Number of newly employed
133 114 118
female graduates
SMBC Nikko
Securities Ratio of newly employed
37.6% 35.1% 34.6%
female graduates
89  59  56 
Number of career hires
(Fiscal 2017) (Fiscal 2018) (Fiscal 2019)
New graduate recruits 69 54 78
Number of newly employed
42 28 36
female graduates
Sumitomo
Mitsui Card
Company Ratio of newly employed 60.9% 51.9% 46.2%
female graduates
22  16  48 
Number of career hires
(Fiscal 2017) (Fiscal 2018) (Fiscal 2019)
New graduate recruits 60 51 53
Number of newly employed
38 25 32
female graduates
Cedyna
Financial
Corporation Ratio of newly employed 63.3% 49.0% 60.4%
female graduates
0  0  0 
Number of career hires
(Fiscal 2017) (Fiscal 2018) (Fiscal 2019)
180
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
181
April, 2018 April, 2019 April, 2020
New graduate recruits 55 48 57
Number of newly employed
24 24 37
SMBC female graduates
Consumer
Finance Ratio of newly employed
43.6% 50.0% 64.9%
female graduates
1  1  0 
Number of career hires
(Fiscal 2017) (Fiscal 2018) (Fiscal 2019)
New graduate recruits 105 110 119
Number of newly employed
female graduates  32 30 35
The Japan (General hires)
Research
Institute Ratio of newly employed
30.5% 27.3% 29.4%
female graduates
33  46  60 
Number of career hires
(Fiscal 2017) (Fiscal 2018) (Fiscal 2019)
New graduate recruits 11 15 12
Sumitomo Number of newly employed 5 6 6
Mitsui DS female graduates
Asset
Management Ratio of newly employed
45.5% 40.0% 50.0%
Company female graduates
(*1)
32  15  2 
Number of career hires
(Fiscal 2017) (Fiscal 2018) (Fiscal 2019)
*1 Figures for March 31, 2018 and 2019, include those for the former Sumitomo Mitsui Asset Management Company,
Limited.
181
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
182
Data for HR Systems and Leave Acquisition
(No. of people, %)
March 31, March 31, March 31,
2018 2019 2020
Number of people taking
2,217 2,370 2,948
childcare leave (*1)
Number of male
223 316 838
employees
Number of male
employees taking 33.5% 53.7% 100.0%
Sumitomo childcare leave
Mitsui
Banking
Paid leave acquisition rate 67.5% 69.8% 74.5%
Corporation
Average paid leave taken (days) 13.5 days 14.0 days 14.9 days
Overtime (average hours/month) 17.4 hours 17.3 hours 16.5 hours
Proportion of employees
working over 60 hours of 0% 0% 0%
overtime per month (*2)
Number of people taking
94 95 117
childcare leave
Number of male
1 33 25
employees
SMBC Trust
Number of male
Bank
employees taking 3.4% 91.7% 100.0%
childcare leave
Paid leave acquisition rate 82.5% 85.7% 90.9%
Overtime (average hours/month) 11.1 hours 11.2 hours 9.2 hours
Number of people taking
69 44 48
childcare leave (*1)
Number of male
35 17 9
employees
Sumitomo
Mitsui
Number of male
Finance and
employees taking 56.5% 48.6% 16.7%
Leasing
childcare leave
Paid leave acquisition rate 78.0% 80.7% 82.2%
Overtime (average hours/month) 12.3 hours 13.8 hours 8.2 hours
182
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
183
March 31, March 31, March 31,
2018 2019 2020
Number of people taking
399 409 446
childcare leave (*1)
SMBC Nikko
Number of male
Securities 62 64 101
employees
Ratio of paid leave acquisition 58.7% 61.7% 67.2%
Number of people taking
187 202 218
childcare leave (*1)
Number of male
29 33 36
employees
Sumitomo
Mitsui Card Number of male
Company employees taking 64.4% 70.2% 60.0%
childcare leave
Paid leave acquisition rate 81.6% 81.9% 81.9%
Overtime (average hours/month) 13.7 hours 14.0 hours 15.8 hours
Number of people taking
136 180 135
childcare leave (*1)
Number of male
3 32 35
employees
Cedyna
Financial
Number of male
Corporation
employees taking 6.4% 74.4% 100.0%
childcare leave
Paid leave acquisition rate 65.0% 78.2% 78.7%
Overtime (average hours/month) 6.2 hours 5.6 hours 5.9 hours
183
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
184
March 31, March 31, March 31,
2018 2019 2020
Number of people taking
59 58 85
childcare leave (*3)
Number of male
3 3 7
employees
SMBC
Consumer Number of male
Finance employees taking 6.3% 6.4% 21.9%
childcare leave
Paid leave acquisition rate 74.3% 77.5% 79.1%
Overtime (average hours/month) 24.7 hours 23.5 hours 21.4 hours
Number of people taking
64 75 84
childcare leave
Number of male
21 30 35
employees
The Japan
Research Number of male
Institute employees taking 35.0% 46.9% 58.3%
childcare leave
Paid leave acquisition rate 78.2% 78.6% 77.5%
Overtime (average hours/month) 16.3 hours 14.4 hours 12.9 hours
Number of people taking
11 10 19
childcare leave
Number of male
Sumitomo 1 0 8
employees
Mitsui DS
Asset
Management Number of male
Company employees taking 8.3% 0.0% 40.0%
(*4) childcare leave
Paid leave acquisition rate 58.3% 64.9% 68.0%
Overtime (average hours/month) 17.0 hours 17.0 hours 18.6 hours
*1 Including short-term childcare leave
*2 Excluding management supervisors and discretionary laborers
*3 Retroactive revisions have been made to previous fiscal years due to change in definition.
*4 Figures for March 31, 2018 and 2019, include those for the former Sumitomo Mitsui Asset Management Company,
Limited.
184
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
185
3. Main systems for achieving a work-life balance at SMFG Group
companies
Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation (SMBC) SMBC Trust Bank (SMBCTB)
Sumitomo Mitsui Finance and Leasing (SMFL) SMBC Nikko Securities (SMBC Nikko)
Sumitomo Mitsui Card Company (SMCC) Cedyna Financial Corporation (Cedyna)(*)
SMBC Consumer Finance (SMBCCF) The Japan Research Institute (JRI)
Sumitomo Mitsui DS Asset Management Company (SMDAM)
*Cedyna Financial Corporation changed the name in July 2020 to SMBC Finance Service after merger with SMBC
Finance Service
Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation
18 months or maximum of 2 years in case of inability to place in daycare
Parental leave
center
Until March 31 of the 6th grade 
Leave for taking care of (10 days per annum per child, 20 days for two or more children) 
sick children *Applicable for caring for sick children as well as for school events and other
reasons
Employees can choose shorter working hours for each day or fewer days
Shorter working hours
worked per week, both applicable until March 31 of the 6th grade
Restrictions on overtime Until March 31 of the 6th grade
Exemption from late-night Until March 31 of the 6th grade
work
185
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
186
● Short-term childcare leave
● Work relocations
● Primary Work Location Registration system
● Work Location of Choice system
● Childcare subsidies
● Leave for nursing care
● Shorter working hours allowed for nursing care
● Nursing care leave system
Other principal systems ● Career design leave system
● System for rehiring former employees
● Special leave for childbirth
● Carryover leave (infertility treatment)
● Half day paid leave
● Flexibility in the work place
● Telework
● Staggered working hours
● Dual-Career Support system for side work
SMBC Trust Bank
1 year or maximum of 18 months in case of inability to place in daycare
Parental leave
center Up to 26 months if other conditions are met
Leave for taking care of Until March 31 of the 6th grade 
sick children (10 days per annum per child; 20 days for two or more children)
Employees can work shortened hours equivalent to working a minimum of 6
Shorter working hours
hours per day until March 31 of the 6th grade
Restrictions on overtime Until March 31 of the 6th grade
Exemption from late-night Until March 31 of the 6th grade
work
● Flextime system
● Flexibility in the work place
● Paternity leave (3 days)
● Leave for nursing care
Other principal systems ● Shorter working hours allowed for nursing care
● Family care time off
● Family support leave
● Short-term childcare leave
● Annual leave in hour increments
186
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
187
Sumitomo Mitsui Finance and Leasing
Parental leave 1 year or maximum of 2 years in case of inability to place in daycare center
Leave for taking care of Until entry into elementary school 
sick children (5 days per annum per child, 10 days for two or more children)
Employees can reduce daily working hours to a minimum of 5 hours 30
Shorter working hours
minutes until March 31 of the 6th grade
Restrictions on overtime Until entry into elementary school
Exemption from late-night Until entry into elementary school
work
● Work relocation
● System for rehiring former employees
● Short-term childcare leave
● Leave for nursing care
● Shorter working hours allowed for nursing care
Other principal systems ● Half day paid leave
● Staggered start times
● Nursing care leave
● Flextime system
● Flexibility in the work place
● Life support leave system
187
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
188
SMBC Nikko Securities
Parental leave Until 3 years of age
Leave for taking care of Until the entry into junior high school 
sick children (5 days per annum per child, 10 days for two or more children)
Employees may reduce daily working hours in increments of 30 minutes up to
Shorter working hours
2.5 hours until March 31 of the 6th grade
Restrictions on overtime Until March 31 of the 6th grade
Exemption from late-night Until March 31 of the 6th grade
work
● Short-term childcare leave
● Discounted rates for daycare center
● Nursing care leave
● Special days off for nursing care
● Shorter working hours allowed for nursing care
● Short-term leave for nursing care
● Staggered working hours (working in shifts)
● Rehiring former employees
Other principal systems
● Childcare subsidies
● Work-from-Home Policy
● Half-day paid leave
● Hourly paid leave
● Amortized Holiday Reserving Policy
● Side business
● Long-Term Self Development Leave Policy a.k.a. "Challenge Leave"
● Three-day and four-day workweeks
188
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
189
Sumitomo Mitsui Card Company
18 months or maximum of 2 years in case of inability to place in daycare
Parental leave
center
Leave for taking care of Until March 31 of the 6th grade 
sick children (5 days per annum per child, 10 days for two or more children)
Employees can choose to reduce daily working hours by 30, 60, or 90
Shorter working hours minutes or reduce the number of days worked a week until March 31 of child’s
3rd-grade year
Restrictions on overtime Until March 31 of the 3rd grade
Exemption from late-night 
Until March 31 of the 3rd grade
work
● Work relocation
● Staggered start times
● Half-day paid leave
● Special leave for childbirth
● Childcare subsidies
Other principal systems ● Nursing care leave, days off for nursing care
● Shorter working hours allowed for nursing care
● Rehiring former employees
● Telework
● Flextime system
● Health-purpose or anniversary leave
189
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
190
Cedyna Financial Corporation
*Cedyna Financial Corporation changed the name in July 2020 to SMBC Finance Service after merger with SMBC
Finance Service
Parental leave Until 3 years of age
Leave for taking care of Until completion of the 6th grade 
sick children (40 hours per annum per child; 80 hours for two or more children)
Until completion of the 6th grade 
Shorter working hours
Employee can choose to work 5, 6 or 7 hours per day.
Restrictions on overtime Until entry into elementary school
Exemption from late-night Until entry into elementary school
work
● Work relocations
● Staggered working hours
● Half-day paid leave
● Special leave for childbirth
● Maternity leave
Other principal systems ● Maternity work system
● Short-term childcare leave
● Leave for nursing care
● Shorter working hours allowed for nursing care
● Nursing care and sick child care leave system (by the hour)
● System for rehiring former employees
190
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
191
SMBC Consumer Finance
18 months or maximum of 2 years in case of inability to place in daycare
Parental leave
center
Leave for taking care of Until entry into elementary school 
sick children (5 days per annum per child, 10 days for two or more children)
Employees can choose to work 6, 6.5, 7, or 7.5 hours a day until March 31 of
Shorter working hours
6th grade
Restrictions on overtime Until the entry into junior high school
Exemption from late-night 
Until the entry into junior high school
work
● Area-limited employment system
● Rehiring retirees
● A grace period for job rotation
● Leave for nursing care
● Shorter working hours allowed for nursing care
● Paid leave by the hour
● Half-day paid leave
● Leave for supporting return-to-work after childcare leave
Other principal systems
● Childcare leave (2 days)
● School-visiting day (2 days a year)
● Rehiring of former employees who quit for childcare or care-giving
reasons
● Paternity leave (3 days)
● Rollover of unused paid vacation
● Nursing care leave
● Adjustment of work start and end times
191
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
192
The Japan Research Institute
18 months or maximum of 2 years in case of inability to place in daycare
Parental leave
center
Leave for taking care of Until March 31 of the 6th grade 
sick children (5 days per annum per child; no upper limit)
Employees can choose to work 4, 5, 6 or 7 hours per day until March 31 of
Shorter working hours the 3rd grade 
(this system can be combined with flextime)
Restrictions on overtime Until entry into elementary school
Exemption from late-night For employees who are pregnant or have given birth within previous 12
work months
● Childcare subsidies
● Telecommuting
● Flextime system
● Nursing care leave
● Shorter working hours (for nursing care, etc.)
● Time off and shorter working hours
Other principal systems
● Days off for nursing care
● Special leave for childbirth
● Paid leave for initial 15 days of childcare
● Half day leave
● Leave system for receiving treatment while working
● Career design leave system
192
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
193
Sumitomo Mitsui DS Asset Management Campany
1 year or maximum of 36 months in case of inability to place in daycare
Parental leave
center
Leave for taking care of Until the entry of child into elementary school 
sick children (5 days per annum per child, 10 days for two or more children)
Until March 31 of the 6th grade 
Shorter working hours
(Employees can choose to work 5, 6, 6.5, or 7 hours a day)
Restrictions on overtime Until child completes 6th grade of elementary school 
Exemption from late-night
Until child completes 3th grade of elementary school 
work
● Leave for childbirth by spouse
● Leave for taking care of sick children
● Annual leave in half-day increments
● Telecommuting
● Leave for nursing care
● Shorter working hours allowed for nursing care
● Lifestyle enriching leave
Other principal systems
● Paid leave for initial 15 days of childcare
● Annual leave in hour increments
● Flextime system
● Daycare subsidies
● Celebratory gifts for birth of 3rd child
● Leave for accompanying spouse undergoing job relocation
● Job return system
193
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
194
4. Environmental accounting at SMBC
SMBC tracks environmental protection costs, notably the costs of installing more energy-efficient lighting and 
air-conditioning equipment, as well as the environmental benefits accrued due to reduced energy consumption.
1.Environmental Conservation Costs
Figures here reflect initiatives at four head office buildings (Tokyo, East Tower, Osaka and Kobe head offices).
(Millions of yen)
Description of YoY
2017  2018  2019 
Cost Category Key Actions change 
Fiscal Fiscal Fiscal
Taken (*1)
(1)Business area costs - 1,125 2,178 841 -1,337
・Asbestos
inspection and
(1)-1 
removal
Pollution 11 310 234 -76
・PCB storage,
prevention
removal and
disposal
・Replacement
Breakdown (1)-2  of obsolete air-
Global conditioners
1,085 1,841 581 -1,260
environmental ・Replacement
conservation of obsolete
lighting
(1)-3  ・Treatment of
Resource re- general and 29 27 26 -1
use/recycling industrial waste
(2)Upstream and downstream - - - - -
Development
and operation of
environmental
management
(3)Administrative costs 17 16 0 -16
framework,
disclosure of
environmental
information, etc.
(4)Research and development
- - - - -
costs
Donations
related to
(5)Social activity costs 50 50 51 1
environmental
protection, etc.
(6)Environmental damage repair
- - - - -
costs
Total 1,192 2,244 892 -1,352
**1Yeeaarr--oonn--yyeeaarr  cchhaanngge = FY2019 - FY2018. A negative figure indicates
194
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
195
2.Environmental Conservation Benefits
FFiigguurreess  hheerree  rreefflleecctt initiatives at our 50
YoY
2017  2018  2019 
Measurement Items Unit change
Fiscal Fiscal Fiscal
(*2)
Thousand
City gas 1,903.6 1,719.3 1,595.8 -123.5
m3
Liquefied
petroleum t 10.3 9.6 8.2 -1.4
gas (LPG)
Heavy fuel
Direct kl 7.0 4.8 4.4 -0.4
oil
energy
consumption
Light oil kl 0.6 0.5 1.1 0.6
Kerosene kl 5.9 6.6 6.8 0.2
Gasoline (
commercial
kl 2,106.3 1,954.0 1,685.2 -268.8
vehicle,
etc.)
Thousand
Electricity 158,558.1 154,611.7 148,426.9 -6,184.8
kWh
Indirect
Steam GJ 22,412.8 24,298.1 24,350.7 52.6
energy
consumption
Hot water GJ 1,897.4 1,861.0 1,773.4 -87.6
Cold water GJ 11,213.1 11,206.8 10,932.3 -274.5
CO2
emissions
from t-CO2 7,540.3 8,185.6 7,390.4 -795.2
Other
business
energy
trips
consumption
Total water Thousand
2,432.2 2,531.7 2,166.9 -364.7
and sewage m3
*2 Year-on-year change = FY2019 - FY2018. A negative figure indicates a decrease in consumption. 
Both cost and consumption decreases show data by SMBC.
195
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
196
Recognition and Accreditation for SMBC Group
sustainable initiatives
Recognition and
Accreditation
A list of external recognition
and awards for SMBC Group's
sustainable initiatives.
196
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
197
Recognition and Accreditation
SMFG and its Group companies have earned recognition for their sustainable activities in the form of various
certifications and awards, detailed below.
SMFG's Inclusion in ESG Indices
SMBC Group's proactive sustainable activities have been well-received by the markets. SMFG is included in the world's
major ESG indices as shown below.
Index Details
FTSE4Good Global 100 Index The FTSE 4 Good Global Index Series was created by FTSE International
Limited, a joint venture set up by the Financial Times newspaper of the
United Kingdom and the London Stock Exchange 
FTSE4Good Global 100 Index
FTSE Blossom Japan Index This index comprises Japanese stocks with relatively high ESG ratings
from among the 500 top ranking Japanese companies in terms of market
capitalization. The Government Pension Investment Fund (GPIF) of Japan
has selected the index as a core ESG benchmark 
FTSE Blossom Japan Index
Detail: Close
This verifies that FTSE Russel has included SMFG Group in the
FTSE Blossom Japan Index, having met the conditions for inclusion
based on an independent survey. The FTSE Blossom Japan Index
is created by the global index provider FTSE Russel. It is designed
to measure the performance of Japanese companies that have
made an outstanding response to environment, social, and
governance (ESG) issues. FTSE Blossom Japan Index is widely
used in the creation and evaluation of sustainable investment funds
and other financial products.
197
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
198
Index Details
MSCI Japan ESG Select Leaders An index created by US company MSCI (Morgan Stanley Capital
Index International), comprising stocks of companies that are highly evaluated
from an ESG perspective. 
MSCI Japan ESG Select Leaders Index
Disclaimer Close
THE INCLUSION OF SUMITOMO MITSUI FINANCIAL GROUP IN
ANY MSCI INDEX, AND THE USE OF MSCI LOGOS,
TRADEMARKS, SERVICE MARKS OR INDEX NAMES HEREIN,
DO NOT CONSTITUTE A SPONSORSHIP, ENDORSEMENT OR
PROMOTION OF SUMITOMO MITSUI FINANCIAL GROUP BY
MSCI OR ANY OF ITS AFFILIATES. THE MSCI INDEXES ARE
THE EXCLUSIVE PROPERTY OF MSCI. MSCI AND THE MSCI
INDEX NAMES AND LOGOS ARE TRADEMARKS OR SERVICE
MARKS OF MSCI OR ITS AFFILIATES.
MSCI Japan Empowering Woman The index is designed by MSCI (Morgan Stanley Capital International) to
Index(WIN) represent the performance of companies that are highly recognized in
terms of supporting women's participation and advancement in the
workforce. GPIF has adopted the index as a benchmark for its ESG
investment strategy.
Disclaimer Close
THE INCLUSION OF SUMITOMO MITSUI FINANCIAL GROUP IN
ANY MSCI INDEX, AND THE USE OF MSCI LOGOS,
TRADEMARKS, SERVICE MARKS OR INDEX NAMES HEREIN,
DO NOT CONSTITUTE A SPONSORSHIP, ENDORSEMENT OR
PROMOTION OF SUMITOMO MITSUI FINANCIAL GROUP BY
MSCI OR ANY OF ITS AFFILIATES. 
THE MSCI INDEXES ARE THE EXCLUSIVE PROPERTY OF
MSCI. MSCI AND THE MSCI INDEX NAMES AND LOGOS ARE
TRADEMARKS OR SERVICE MARKS OF MSCI OR ITS
AFFILIATES.
SOMPO Sustainability Index  An ESG asset management index created by Sompo Japan Nipponkoa
Asset Management 
SOMPO Sustainability Index(Japanese only)
Bloomberg Gender-Equality Index  An index developed in 2017 by Bloomberg that assesses initiatives,
attitude to information disclosure, results, etc., of companies regarding
gender equality
For other details, please see the link below.
Investor Relations
198
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
199
Awards and Certifications (SMBC Group)
Cs and Quality
Certification Received
Recipient company Certification Details
COPC® CSP Standard Release Obtained certification for two call centers in Japan
5.2 (Kobe, Fukuoka) for the international quality
Sumitomo Mitsui Banking
assurance standard "COPC® Standard Release
Corporation
5.2" as the first Japanese bank to acquire the
standards
COPC® CX Standard CSP 6.1 The company obtained the certification of the
version “COPC® CX Standard CSP 6.1 version,” which is
SMBC Trust Bank
an international quality-assurance standard
concerning contact center operation.
COPC® Customer Service The company obtained certification in terms of
Provider (CSP) Standard suitability with the “COPC® CSP Standard,” which
SMBC Nikko Securities
is an international quality-assurance standard
concerning contact center operation.
Obtained certification as 5-Star In the HDI Five-Star Certification Program
Recognized Center under the provided by HDI-Japan, the Japanese affiliate of
HDI Five-Star Certification the Help-Desk Institute, an international
Program provided by HDI- organization in the support-service industry, the
Japan. company was the first in Japan to obtain
certification in two divisions: the inquiry-desk
SMBC Nikko Securities
segment, which evaluates call-center in-call
telephone reception, and the Web-support portal
segment, which evaluates Web support.
Self-suitability Declaration and In accordance with the international standard
Consumer-oriented Declaration “ISO10002/JIS Q 10002 (Quality management ---
(as per ISO10002) Customer satisfaction --- Guidelines for
complaints-handling in an organization)” compiled
by ISO concerning the organizational handling of
customer complaints, an adequate organizational
system was established, responding to the voices
of customers, and the “Self-suitability Declaration
(as per ISO10002)” was formulated.  
SMBC Nikko Securities
At the same time, a “Consumer-oriented
Declaration” (to reflect the corporate thoughts and
handling policy of the company towards realization
of consumer-oriented management that is being
promoted by the Consumer Affairs Agency,
whereby all enterprises should prioritize the
benefits of consumers) was made. 
This was the first case in which a securities
company implemented both declarations.
199
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
200
Recipient company Certification Details
COPC® CX Standard for For three of their domestic client service centers
Customer Service Providers (Tokyo, Osaka, and Fukuoka), the company
(CSPs), Release 6.0a obtained the certification of “COPC® CX Standard
CSP version Release 6.0a,” an international
quality-assurance standard for contact center
operation. This was the first case of such
certification in the domestic nonbank sector
(including sales on credit and credit cards).  
SMBC Consumer Finance For assurance centers in the two domestic offices
(Tokyo and Fukuoka) as well, the company
obtained the certification of “COPC®CX Standard
CSP version Release 6.0a” (international quality-
assurance standard for the contact center and
BPO(※) opera-tions). This was the first case of
COPC certification concerning BPO operation as a
domestic company. 
※Operation for business process outsourcing
Awards and Certification Received
Year Recipient
Name of award/commendation Details of award/commendation
received company
Obtained certification as 3-Star Recognized Quality of call center operator
SMBC Trust Center (top ranking in Japan) under the HDI- response
2020
bank Japan Certification Program in the inquiry desk
and Monitoring category.
Awarded a three-star rating in Japan for two Quality of call center operator
Sumitomo
consecutive years since 2018 in the Quality response
2019 Mitsui Card
Monitoring category of the HDI-Japan
Company
Monitoring-Desk Ratings
Won silver award in Best Customer Service Call center operation reform
Sumitomo
category of Contact Center World Awards measures centered on
2018 Mitsui Card
competition (sponsored by Contact Center strengthening and improving
Company
World.com) customer experience (CX)
Sumitomo Awarded grand prize in Japan Institute of Initiatives to improve hospitality by
Mitsui Information Technology's Service Hospitality using the latest digital technologies
2018
Banking Awards 2018 to provide paperless stores
Corporation
Sumitomo Recognized as a "Tokyo Barrier-free Mindsets Initiatives to promote barrier-free
Mitsui Support Corporation" by the Tokyo Metropolitan mindset among employees
2018
Banking Government
Corporation
Sumitomo Ranked first three years running in J.D. Power Customer satisfaction rating among
Mitsui Japan's Retail Banking Customer Satisfaction asset management customers
2018
Banking Study (Japanese bank sector)
Corporation
Sumitomo Received Universal Manners Award 2017 Initiatives such as hardware that
Mitsui (Sustainability division) incorporates universal design and
2017
Banking promoting employment of disabled
Corporation people by the SMBC Group
200
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
201
Year Recipient
Name of award/commendation Details of award/commendation
received company
Sumitomo Awarded "highly commended" prize in Japan Initiatives to improve hospitality by
Mitsui Institute of Information Technology's Service using the latest digital technologies
2017
Banking Hospitality Awards 2017 to provide paperless stores
Corporation
Received gold awards at the Contact Center Technology Innovation: Initiatives to
World Awards in Technology Innovation and streamline operations and improve
Outbound Campaign categories at the Global customer satisfaction and
Sumitomo
Conference sponsored by employee satisfaction by the use of
Mitsui
2017 ContactCenterWorld.com AI in contact centers 
Banking
Outbound Campaign: Initiatives
Corporation
involving strategy, planning, and
human resources to ensure the
success of outbound operations
Sumitomo Obtained "highly commended" prize in Best Initiatives to improve customer
Mitsui Customer Support of the Year held by the satisfaction, contribute to sales
2017
Banking Japan Institute of Information Technology activities, and streamline
Corporation operations using remote channels
Sumitomo Awarded Technology category prize in the Call Initiatives to streamline contact
Mitsui Center Awards 2017 run by RIC Telecom Co., centers and improve customer
2017
Banking Ltd.'s Computer Telephony Editing Department, satisfaction by the use of
Corporation publisher of "Computer Telephony" magazine technology
Sumitomo Obtained certification as 3-Star Recognized Inquiry desk: Survey of inquiry desk
Mitsui Center (top ranking in Japan) under the HDI- quality and performance 
2017
Banking Japan Certification Program in the inquiry desk Web support portal: Survey of Web
Corporation and Web support portal divisions. support features and performance
Sumitomo J.D. Power Asia Pacific's Call Center Customer satisfaction, including
Mitsui Satisfaction Study 2017 call center response to customers
2017
Banking Ranked first among national banks in Japan
Corporation
Sumitomo Received a gold award at the Contact Center Initiatives to link branches and
Mitsui World Awards, Asia-Pacific Conference, and a contribute to sales activities using
2015
Banking silver award at the Global Conference remote channels
Corporation sponsored by ContactCenterWorld.com
Received an award in the CRM Best Practice  contribute to sales activities using 
Sumitomo
Award sponsored by CRM Association Japan  remote channels
Mitsui
2015 for the second consecutive year since 2014.
Banking
Corporation
Sumitomo Awarded judges' special prizes in the "Call Initiatives to improve customer
Mitsui Center Awards 2015" held by RIC Telecom Co., satisfaction, contribute to sales
2015
Banking Ltd.'s Computer Telephony Editing Department, activities, and streamline
Corporation publisher of Computer Telephony magazine. operations using remote channels
Sumitomo Obtained recommendation prize under the Best Initiatives to improve customer
Mitsui Customer Support of The Year held by the satisfaction, contribute to sales
2015
Banking Japan Institute of Information Technology for activities, and streamline
Corporation the second consecutive year since 2014. operations using remote channels.
201
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
202
Year Recipient
Name of award/commendation Details of award/commendation
received company
Received a silver award at the Contact Center For operating methods at contact
SMBC Nikko World Awards, Asia-Pacific Conference centers and contributions to
2014
Securities sponsored by ContactCenterWorld.com, for the increasing customer satisfaction
fourth successive year since 2011. and management
Certified as a Gold Rank Company designated Quality of telephone service at
SMBC Nikko
2013 by the Japan Telegraph and Telephone Users contact centers
Securities
Association
Received an Award for Excellence, the highest Operating method of contact
honor, in the Best Contact Center of the Year centers, enhanced customer
SMBC Nikko
2013 Awards sponsored by the Japan Institute of satisfaction, and contribution to
Securities
Information Technology, for the fourth management
successive year since 2010.
Received an award in the CRM Best Practice Sales business model using
SMBC Nikko
2013 Award sponsored by CRM Association Japan, contact centers
Securities
for the sixth successive year since 2008.
Received an award in the Nationwide Quality of telephone service at
Telephone Service Contest sponsored by the contact centers
SMBC Nikko
2013 Japan Telegraph and Telephone Users
Securities
Association, for the ninth successive year since
2005.
Received an award in the Nationwide Quality of telephone service at
Corporate Telephone Service Contest contact centers
SMBC Nikko
2013 sponsored by the Japan Telegraph and
Securities
Telephone Users Association, for the fifth
successive year since 2009.
Received a Three-Star Prize, the highest Quality of telephone service at
SMBC Nikko evaluation in Japan, in the HDI-Japan Inquiry- contact centers
2013
Securities Desk Ratings, for the eighth successive year
since 2006.
Sumitomo In the 2012 Japan Investor Satisfaction Study Levels of customer satisfaction for
Mitsui conducted by J.D.POWER SMBC ranked account offerings, customer
2012
Banking highest in customer satisfaction in the full- interaction, etc.
Corporation service bank segment.
Judge's special prize in the 2010 Contact Operating methods at contact
SMBC Nikko Center Awards sponsored by the monthly centers and contributions to
2010
Securities Computer Telephony increasing customer satisfaction
and management
Okinawa Prefecture IT Business Award Contribution to the development of
SMBC Nikko
2010 sponsored by Okinawa Prefecture information and communications
Securities
industries in Okinawa Prefecture
202
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
203
The Environment
Awards and Certification Received
Year Recipient Details of
Name of award/commendation
received company award/commendation
Received the Excellence Award for Environmental SMBC Group Report 2019
Reporting at the 23rd Environmental Communication and Sustainability Report
Awards co-organized by the Ministry of the Environment
and the Global Environmental Forum
Sumitomo
Mitsui
2020
Financial
Group
Environment Minister Award (Silver Medal) was given in Support system for green
the category of financial service of the “ESG Finance bond issuance
Award” hosted by the Environment Ministry.
SMBC Nikko
2020
Securities
Received the Bronze Prize in the financial service Green loan
Category of "ESG Finance Awards" sponsored by the
Sumitomo Ministry of the Environment.
Mitsui
2020
Banking
Corporation
Won Principles for Financial Action for the 21st Century* Environmental magazine
Special Award  JUNIOR SAFE
*Financial action initiatives that aim to create a
Sumitomo sustainable society devised by the Ministry of the
Mitsui Environment and over 250 financial institutions and
2018
Financial other organizations
Group
Received the Kids Design Award in the category of Environmental magazine
designs that develop children's creativity and shape their JUNIOR SAFE
Sumitomo
future at the Tenth Kids Design Award
Mitsui
2016
Financial
Group
Pronounced regional winner Asia/Pacific category of the Contributions, through
Sustainable Bank of the Year category of the corporate activity and
Sumitomo Sustainable Finance Conference & Awards 2013 business, to sustainability
Mitsui sponsored by the Financial Times (FT) in conjunction in the three fields of the
2013
Banking with the IFC environment, society, and
Corporation governance
203
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
204
Year Recipient Details of
Name of award/commendation
received company award/commendation
Nominated for shortlist in the Asia/Pacific segment of the All initiatives to achieve
Sumitomo
Sustainable Bank of the Year category of the sustainability in the three
Mitsui
2012 Sustainable Finance Conference & Awards sponsored fields of the environment,
Banking
by the Financial Times (FT) in conjunction with the society, and governance
Corporation
International Finance Corporation (IFC).
Received the highest-rank rating in the DBJ Environmental
Sumitomo Environmental Ratings, for which the Development Bank management
Mitsui Finance of Japan undertakes environmentally responsible
2011
and Leasing management evaluation and provides financing at
Company preferential interest rates in accordance with the
resultant credit ratings.
Nominated for shortlist in the Cross-Regional segment of All initiatives to achieve
Sumitomo
the Sustainable Bank of the Year category of the sustainability in the fields
Mitsui
2011 Sustainable Finance Awards sponsored by the Financial of environment, society,
Banking
Times (FT) in conjunction with the International Finance governance
Corporation
Corporation (IFC).
Green IT Promotion Council Chairman Award at the ATM Journal electronic
Sumitomo
2011 METI Green IT Awards (Commends storage system 
Mitsui
2011 services/systems with excellent energy-conservation (Reduces paper use by 28
Banking
impact) million A4 sheets per
Corporation
year)
Sumitomo 7th Eco Products Awards Eco-service Environment SMBC Environmental
Mitsui Minister's Prize (eco-products grand prize) Assessment Loan/Private
2010
Banking Placement Bond
Corporation
Sumitomo The IT General Award, one of the IT Awards sponsored "CUTE" next-generation
Mitsui by the IT Institute (Japan Institute of Information branch system
2010
Banking Technology)
Corporation
Sumitomo Nikkei Veritas Superiority Award (Nikkei Superior SMBC Environmental
Mitsui Products and Services Awards) Assessment Loan/Private
2009
Banking Placement Bond
Corporation
Sumitomo Review Board Special Award at the 2009 METI Green IT "CUTE" next-generation
Mitsui Awards (jointly with NEC and Oki) branch system (Reducing
2009
Banking paper use by 3 million A4
Corporation sheets per year)
Sumitomo At the 18th Global Environmental Awards, sponsored by Emission-rights business
Mitsui the Fuji Sankei Group, the Fuji Sankei Communications and all other environment-
2009
Banking Group Prize for excellence related initiatives
Corporation
204
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
205
Security Compliance
Certification Received
Recipient company Certification Details
Sumitomo Mitsui Card Privacy Mark Acquisition of authorization for the Japan Institute
Company for Promotion of Digital Economy and Community
(JIPDEC) Privacy Mark granted to enterprises that
have systems for devising appropriate measures
SMBC Finance Service
to protect personal information
Japan Research Institute
SMBC Consumer Finance
Certification for the The company was registered in the certification
whistleblowing system (WCMS system for the whistleblowing system (i.e. WCMS
certification) certification), which was introduced by the
SMBC Finance Service Consumer Affairs Agency in order to promote
adequate establishment and operation of the
whistleblowing system, an important element of
internal control and corporate governance.
Awards and Certification Received
Year Recipient
Name of award/commendation Details of award/commendation
received company
Award for companies that Recognized for many years of maintaining and
SMBC contribute to the PrivacyMark improving measures to protect personal
2018 Consumer system information as an enterprise granted use of the
Finance PrivacyMark and efforts to promote the
PrivacyMark system
Nominated for shortlist for 2011 Initiatives to strengthen stances with regard to
Sumitomo
Compliance Innovator of the Year money laundering and the severing of relations
Mitsui
2011 in the 7th Annual Compliance with anti-social forces
Banking
Awards sponsored by Thomson
Corporation
Reuters.
205
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
206
Social Contribution Activities
Awards and Certification Received
Recipient company
Year Details of
Name of Name of award/commendation
received award/commendation
award/commendation
Excellent Company Award for Employment Evaluate unique initiatives to
SMBC Nikko of Persons with Disabilities（Director- create an environment where
2019
Securities General of the Industrial Labor Bureau people with disabilities can
Award） work actively in the workplace
SMBC received a letter of appreciation from Achievement in after school
the Tokyo Metropolitan Board of Education activity such as support in
Sumitomo Mitsui
2017 as a "Fiscal Year 2017 Company Tokyo Metropolitan Special
Banking Corporation
contributing to the Tokyo Teaching Support School District
Committee"
Received certificate of commendation from Meritorious service to
Sumitomo Mitsui
2009 the governor of Tokyo for contributions to a enhance the welfare of the
Banking Corporation
Tokyo metropolitan social welfare initiative. Tokyo metropolis
Employees
Awards and Certification Received
Year Recipient
Name of award/commendation Details of award/commendation
received company
Selected as a "Nadeshiko Brand" in the Initiatives to encourage women's
Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry success in the workplace
(METI) and Tokyo Stock Exchange (TSE)
Sumitomo
Nadeshiko Brand Initiative for the purpose of
Mitsui
2020 selecting and publicizing enterprises that
Financial
encourage women's success in the workplace
Group
206
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
207
Year Recipient
Name of award/commendation Details of award/commendation
received company
Recognized as a 2020 Certified Health and Recognized for adopting business
Sumitomo Productivity Management Organization (large management approach to
Mitsui enterprise category) employees' health management and
Financial taking strategic measures to
Group  address it
(Sumitomo
Mitsui
Banking
Corporation)
SMBC
Consumer
Finance
Japan
2020 Research
Institute
Sumitomo
Mitsui DS
Asset
Management
Company
SMBC Nikko 2020 Certified Health and Productivity
Securities Management Organizations (Large Enterprise
Category (White 500)) (Top 500 enterprises of
the recognized enterprises)
SMBC
Finance
Service
Acquired 4.5stars (Top 50 Companies) at "3rd Implementation of Smart Work
Nikkei Smart Work Management Survey" that management
Nihon Keizai Shimbunsha evaluates
companies' initiatives for Smart Work
management
Sumitomo
Mitsui
2019
Financial
Group *"Smart Work Management" refers to
maximizing the potential of workers through
varied and flexible work styles, and developing
strategies to maximize productivity and the
broader performance of the organization using
positive feedback loops, thereby fostering
innovation and new market development.
207
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
208
Year Recipient
Name of award/commendation Details of award/commendation
received company
Acquired the highest "Gold" rank in 'PRIDE Creating a workplace where the
index' where the arbitrary organization "work people of LGBT can work
with Pride" evaluates initiatives related to comfortably
Sumitomo
sexual minority issues.
Mitsui
2019
Financial
Group
Selected as a "Nadeshiko Brand" in the Initiatives to encourage women's
Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry success in the workplace
(METI) and Tokyo Stock Exchange (TSE)
Sumitomo
Nadeshiko Brand Initiative for the purpose of
Mitsui
2019 selecting and publicizing enterprises that
Financial
encourage women's success in the workplace
Group
Sumitomo Recognized as a 2019 Certified Health and Recognized for adopting business
Mitsui Productivity Management Organization (large management approach to
Financial enterprise category) employees' health management and
Group, taking strategic measures to
Sumitomo address it
Mitsui
Banking
Corporation,
2019
SMBC Nikko
Securities,
SMBC
Finance
Service,
Japan
Research
Institute
Acquired 4stars at "2nd Nikkei Smart Work Implementation of Smart Work
Sumitomo Management Survey" that Nihon Keizai management
Mitsui Shimbunsha evaluates companies' initiatives
2018
Financial for Smart Work management
Group
Acquired the highest "Gold" rank in 'PRIDE Creating a workplace where the
index' where the arbitrary organization "work people of LGBT can work
with Pride" evaluates initiatives related to comfortably
Sumitomo
sexual minority issues.
Mitsui
2018
Banking
Corporation
208
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
209
Year Recipient
Name of award/commendation Details of award/commendation
received company
Recognized as 2018 Certified Health and Acquired Recognized as 2018
Productivity Management Organization (large Certified Health and Productivity
Sumitomo enterprise category) Management Organization (large
Mitsui enterprise category) from the
2018
Financial Ministry of Economy, Trade and
Group Industry to companies with
particularly outstanding health
management practices
Acquired 4.5 stars (Top 40 Companies) at "1st Implementation of Smart Work
Nikkei Smart Work Management Survey" that management
Sumitomo
Nihon Keizai Shimbunsha evaluates
Mitsui
2018 companies' initiatives for Smart Work
Financial
management
Group
Acquired the highest "Gold" rank in 'PRIDE Creating a workplace where the
index' where the arbitrary organization "work people of LGBT can work
with Pride" evaluates initiatives related to comfortably
Sumitomo
sexual minority issues.
Mitsui
2017
Banking
Corporation
Received the Catalyst Special Award hosted Strong commitment from top
by Catalyst, a non-profit organization management to promoting
established in the United States to globally participation by women,
Sumitomo
support efforts to promote women's development of measures suited to
Mitsui
2017 participation each operating unit, and initiatives
Banking
focused on improving flexibility of
Corporation
work styles
Selected as a "Nadeshiko Brand," which are Initiatives to promote active
listed companies jointly selected by the participation by women
Ministry of Enterprise, Trade and Industry and
Sumitomo
Mitsui Tokyo Stock Exchange for excellence in
2017
Financial promoting active participation by women
Group
Recognized as 2017 Certified Health and Acquired Recognized as 2017
Productivity Management Organization (large Certified Health and Productivity
Sumitomo enterprise category) Management Organization (large
Mitsui enterprise category) from the
2017
Financial Ministry of Economy, Trade and
Group Industry to companies with
particularly outstanding health
management practices
209
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
210
Year Recipient
Name of award/commendation Details of award/commendation
received company
Received the "Diversity Management Appraised that SMBC is promoting
Selection 100" from the Ministry of Economy, and considering diversity as a part
Sumitomo Trade and Industry to companies with of important corporate management.
Mitsui particularly outstanding diversity management
2015
Banking practices
Corporation
SMFG was designated a "Nadeshiko Brand" Initiatives for promoting women's
by the Ministry of Economy, Trade and roles in the workplace
Sumitomo Industry and the Tokyo Stock Exchange as an
Mitsui excellent listed company encouraging women
2015
Financial to play active roles in the workplace
Group
SMFG was designated a "Nadeshiko Brand" Initiatives for promoting women's
by the Ministry of Economy, Trade and roles in the workplace
Sumitomo Industry and the Tokyo Stock Exchange as an
Mitsui excellent listed company encouraging women
2013
Financial to play active roles in the workplace.
Group
Named one of the best 25 companies to work Internal systems and corporate
for in Japan in the "Great Place to Work" culture
Sumitomo
ranking conducted by the Great Place to
Mitsui
2012 Work® Institute Japan.
Banking
Corporation
210
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
211
Development of the Next Generation
Certification Received
Recipient company Certification Details
Sumitomo Mitsui Banking "Kurumin" certification for the Received "Kurumin" certification awarded by
Corporation next generation prefectural labor bureaus to companies recognized
to be taking active steps to support the
development of the next generation.
Sumitomo Mitsui Finance
and Leasing Company
SMBC Nikko Securities
Sumitomo Mitsui Card
Company
SMBC Finance Service
SMBC Consumer Finance
Japan Research Institute
Sumitomo Mitsui Banking "Platinum Kurumin Certification" In addition to the previous "Kurumin Certification,"
Corporation SMBC and JRI acquired the "Platinum Kurumin
platinum kurumin mark
Certification" for companies certified by the
Minister of Health, Labour and Welfare as taking
Sumitomo Mitsui Card the lead in supporting the nurturing of the next
Company generation at an even higher level, including
numbers of men using children raising leave
systems. (T The color differs by company. Light
Japan Research Institute Green: SMBC; Light Blue: JRI; Yellow : SMCC)
Eruboshi (second rank) Acquired "Eruboshi" for companies certified by the
certification based on the Act on Minister of Health, Labour and Welfare as having
Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Promotion of Women's excellent initiatives in place to promote active
Corporation Participation and Advancement participation by women (*Second rank: SMBC,
in the Workplace SMBC Finance Service; third rank: JRI,SMBC TB)
SMBC Finance Service
Eruboshi (third rank) 
Japan Research Institute
SMBC Trust bank
211
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
212
Awards and Certification Received
Year Recipient Name of
Details of award/commendation
received company award/commendation
12th Kids Design Award Received the12th Kids Design Award for
finance and economic education in the
SMBC Nikko
2018 category of designs that develop children's
Securities
creativity and shape their future, a first for a
securities company
*Commendation titles and the like are those used at the time they were bestowed.
212
SMFG Sustainability Report 2020
https://www.smfg.co.jp/english/sustainability/