
HUMAN 
CAPITAL 
FOR HUMAN 
IMPACT
Goldman Sachs 2020 People Strategy Report
Goldman Sachs 2020 People Strategy Report
27
10
35
30
  Introduction
03
ATTRACTING  SUPPORTING OUR  BROADENING 
TALENT PEOPLE, SUSTAINING  OUR IMPACT
OUR CULTURE
04  Broadening Our Aperture 14  An Inclusive Ethos 28  $800 Million Sustainability Bond:  
A Model of Collaboration
07  2020 Virtual Internship 16  Talent Development
29  Community Engagement
10  Vendor Diversity Program:   17  One Goldman Sachs (OneGS)
Expanding Our Engagement across   32  Commercial Approach to  
18  GS Accelerate
the Globe Inclusive Growth
20  Racial Equity
12  Enhancing Internal Mobility 35  Forward Focus
21  Wellness Offerings
13  Eyes on the Future
24  Performance Management
27  Evolving How We Work
  Recognition
36
  Key Performance Metrics
37
2
Goldman Sachs 2020 People Strategy Report
INTRODUCTION
At the end of the day, every investment  
we make is an investment in our people.
We are a talent-centric organization that relies on the strength of our people in order to drive success. 
Commitment to excellence is a mindset that permeates Goldman Sachs. It informs the kind of people we 
attract, the advice we give and the way we strive to meet our clients’ expectations. It is only with the 
determination and dedication of our people that we can serve our clients, generate long-term value for  
our shareholders and contribute to our broader communities.
As we continue to evolve as an organization and adapt to the changing global landscape, this commitment  
to excellence is the primary catalyst — and it is driven by the talent and innovation of our employees.
How do we continue to build this type of culture? Our focus begins before an individual even becomes a 
Goldman Sachs employee, as we seek to most effectively find talent across the globe. Then, we prioritize how 
we can best develop, retain and reward our people throughout their careers in order to support their ambitions 
and uphold our firm’s culture and key values. And finally, we cultivate opportunities for our employees to apply 
their exceptional dedication to positively impact our clients, communities and other stakeholders.
When I joined Goldman Sachs in January 2020, my first day at the firm happened to coincide with our first-ever 
Investor Day. I was struck by the clarity and depth of the strategic direction presented that day by David, John, 
Stephen and the rest of the management team. I also realized — not for the first time — how critical it would 
be to our continued success to ensure that our people at all levels were working together to achieve these 
ambitious goals. Our people strategy has been developed through intense and ongoing collaboration between our Human Capital 
Management division and our business leaders, and will remain instrumental as we continue to support the firm’s goals and our 
people with clarity and focus. 
David noted that we are a talent-centric organization, and as Head of Human Capital Management, my role is to make our 
firm the most compelling place for the world’s best and most diverse talent to work and thrive. While that task always has its 
complexities, it is hard to imagine a more challenging set of circumstances for our people than those we faced over the past 
year. I am extraordinarily grateful to each and every one of our people for their incredible commitment throughout the pandemic, 
and continually humbled by their resilience. This includes my entire Human Capital Management team, whose resourcefulness 
and perseverance in helping their colleagues across the globe stay safe, remain connected and continue to thrive has been 
remarkable. Despite these challenges, the pandemic has given us the opportunity to reflect on how we can further evolve our 
people strategy, including how we think about culture and connectivity, leadership and talent management. My confidence 
in what the people of Goldman Sachs can achieve has only grown over the past 12 months, and I am privileged to have the 
opportunity to lead our efforts to support them. 
Bentley de Beyer 
Global Head of Human Capital Management
3
Goldman Sachs 2020 People Strategy Report
ATTRACTING TALENT
WHERE  
TALENT  
LEADS
George, Consumer and Wealth 
Management, New York
When we hire at Goldman Sachs, we are bringing in the firm’s future leaders.  
These individuals will ultimately be responsible for carrying forward our commitment  
to excellence, our spirit of partnership and integrity and our steadfast dedication to  
our clients.
To find this type of talent, we must be thorough in our recruitment efforts. Our outreach spans a diverse landscape,  
from university students to seasoned professionals seeking new careers and challenges. Increasingly, this has led us to 
search for talent in new places and new ways, seeking different backgrounds, educations, experiences and skills. The bulk 
of our hiring each year consists of our new analyst and associate classes, and it is therefore critical that we continue to  
be dynamic in the way that we attract talent for those roles.
BROADENING  
OUR APERTURE
The financial industry is constantly evolving, and in order for us to maintain the quality of our workforce, we need to  
be able to attract people with the broadest possible range of perspectives. We champion attracting diverse — and 
diversely talented — candidates, equipping them with the resources necessary to become successful within our culture  
of excellence. We share the goal of democratizing access to opportunities in the financial industry.
We are focused on the advancement of women and all underrepresented professionals. This takes the form of aspirational 
diversity goals, robust talent development programs and diversity-retention initiatives.
Diverse characteristics, including gender, ethnic background, sexual orientation and disabilities, offer an abundance 
of perspectives and capabilities, and help to best serve our clients and stakeholders. The ongoing and necessary 
4
Goldman Sachs 2020 People Strategy Report
Attracting Talent
conversation around racial equity  
over the past year has underscored  
the importance of this focus.
Aspirations Transformed  
into Actions
In 2019, the firm set forth ambitious 
aspirational goals and a comprehensive 
action plan to increase diverse 
representation at all levels and create 
an even stronger culture of inclusion 
for all of our people.
Ann, Corporate and Workplace Solutions, Bengaluru
In 2020, we announced two additional 
areas of focus where we set new goals — enhancing the diverse representation of our vice president (VP) cohort and 
significantly increasing our hiring of Black analysts. We are proud of our early progress. In 2020, we had the most diverse 
incoming campus analyst class in our history.
We will hold ourselves accountable to make further advancements at all levels of the firm — including our partner class, 
which in 2020 reached new levels of diversity and depth of global perspectives.
ETHNIC DIVERSITY GENDER DIVERSITY
Analyst and Associate Hiring Goals   50%
over Time of Global Talent 
 over Time
11%
Black Professionals in the Americas
14% 50%
Hispanic/Latinx Professionals in the Americas of Analysts and Associates  
9%  Hiring over Time
Black Professionals in the UK
50%
of Campus Analyst  
2X HBCUs
 Hiring by 2021
Double Number of Analysts and Associates 
40%
Hired from HBCUs by 2025 at Vice-President Level  
 by 2025
7%
Black Vice Presidents in the Americas and UK by 2025 30%
of UK Senior Talent by 2023  
9%
Hispanic/Latinx Vice Presidents in the Americas by 2025  (Vice President or Above)
2020 PARTNER CLASS 2019 MANAGING DIRECTOR (MD) CLASS
Women in 2020 Partner Class,   Women in 2019 MD Class,  
27% 29%
  +4 points from 2016    +4 points from 2015 
Black in 2020 Partner Class,   Black in 2019 MD Class,  
7% 4%
  +3 points from 2016    up ~3 points from 2015 
5
Goldman Sachs 2020 People Strategy Report
Attracting Talent
PARTNER CLASS FACTS
27% Average tenure 47% 45% 24
Worked in   14 Years Started at GS   Earned advanced  Languages 
more than   as lateral hires degrees spoken
one division
15% 53% 56 17
Worked in more  Started as  Schools  Countries of 
than one region campus hires represented citizenship
DIVERSITY REPRESENTED PARTNERSHIP DIVERSITY   PARTNER CLASS SIZE
IN 2020 CLASS* WITH NEW CLASS**
16 Women (27%) 60
18% 3% 2%
4
Black (7%)
Women Black Hispanic/ 
2020
Latinx
3
Hispanic/Latinx (5%)
17% 1% 69 84 78
10
Asian (17%)
Asian LGBTQ+ 2018 2016 2014
*Global data, based on self-identification information.  **Partnership data includes new class and excludes announced retirements as of November 12.
2020 CAMPUS ANALYST CLASS
Global women, +11 points since 2010, surpassing 
52% 13% Black (UK), surpassing aspirational goal of 9%
  aspirational goal of 50% of analyst hiring over time  
Black (Americas), +4 points since 2010,   Hispanic/Latinx (Americas), +3 points since 2018, 
11% 17%
  in line with aspirational goal   surpassing aspirational goal of 14%
2020 CAMPUS ANALYST RECRUITING
Our Progress with Campus Analyst Recruiting
2020 AMERICAS CAMPUS ANALYST CLASS
ABOUT THE 2020 CAMPUS ANALYST CLASS
4%
2,700+  Other
11%
Black
From 524 schools
Global campus analysts
37%
Studied Located in 44  17% White
Hispanic/Latinx
different offices 
66 subjects
around the world
31%
52%  49%  Asian
vs. 
Speak 86 languages Women in 2019
6
Goldman Sachs 2020 People Strategy Report
Attracting Talent
2020 VIRTUAL INTERNSHIP
“ I think every intern was able to get 
a sense of the firm’s culture and 
understand the belief that Goldman 
Sachs’ people are behind the firm’s 
success. David Solomon mentioned  
on his first call with the interns that
‘the future leaders  
 of Goldman Sachs
are on this call.’”
— 2020 Summer Analyst
The disruptions of the past year from the global pandemic led to much creative adaptation, including the transformation 
of our traditional summer internship into a fully virtual program, which ultimately became the subject of a new Harvard 
Business School case study. We welcomed a class of nearly 3,000 summer analysts and associates, representing 483 
universities and joining us from 2,864 “offices” around the world. Human Capital Management partnered with managers 
from each division to carefully think through project assignments for the duration of the program, ensuring that interns 
had tangible opportunities to make an impact.
Market Madness: HBCU Possibilities Program
In addition to our commitment to double the number of campus analysts that the firm recruits from Historically  
Black Colleges and Universities (HBCUs) by 2025, Goldman Sachs is committing $25 million to HCBUs over the next  
five years and providing HBCU students across the United States with unique access to the firm and our people through 
the Market Madness: HBCU Possibilities Program — a four-month training in finance fundamentals. This enhanced 
partnership between Goldman Sachs and HBCUs is a natural next step in our long-standing commitment to recruit 
talent with the widest range of backgrounds, experiences and perspectives. Students graduating from HBCUs represent 
almost 20 percent of all Black college graduates in the United States, and these institutions have produced incredible 
leaders, including the HBCU alumni who have joined our firm. In the inaugural year of this partnership, 125 first- and 
second-year college students from eight HBCUs are participating in the program, which will culminate with a case  
study competition, where students will compete for prize donations to their academic institutions — thereby helping  
fund opportunities for future generations.
7
Goldman Sachs 2020 People Strategy Report
Attracting Talent
A Host of Initiatives to Democratize Access
In addition to setting clear aspirational goals, we democratize access to the people, opportunities and culture of the 
firm through our various Diversity Recruiting programs, including initiatives to increase representation of the LGBTQ+, 
disabled and veteran communities.
• Launched in 2008, the Goldman Sachs Returnship Program is an eight-week paid internship designed to help 
professionals restart their careers after an extended absence from the workforce.
• Launched in 2012, our Veterans Integration Program provides people leaving the military with an opportunity to 
develop their professional skills, strengthen their understanding of financial services and prepare for careers in 
the industry.
• The firm also hosts flagship Early Engagement Programs that provide LGBTQ+, women, ethnically diverse and social 
mobility candidates with an opportunity to meet our people, explore and learn about roles within the firm, and develop 
skills such as networking and interviewing.
• As part of our Africa Recruiting Initiative, colleagues in engineering travel to African countries, including Nigeria, 
Ghana and Kenya, to identify engineering talent for summer and full-time analyst positions. In 2020, more than 
200 African students were invited to participate in a four-day program of coding quizzes, mock presentations  
and technical evaluations.
8
Goldman Sachs 2020 People Strategy Report
Attracting Talent
• Launched in 2019, the firm’s Neurodiversity Hiring Initiative (in partnership with nonprofit social innovator 
Specialisterne) aims to identify and integrate highly skilled people often left out of hiring compared to their 
neurotypical counterparts. In lieu of a typical interview process, the program includes a three-week candidate 
assessment program based on competency and how prospective employees complete given projects. Afterwards,  
an eight-week paid internship offers candidates a springboard for success at the firm through training, on-the- 
desk experience, coaching and mentoring.
• A key focus in 2020 was the firm’s China Recruiting Initiative. As part of our efforts to unlock the potential of our 
organization to become China’s number-one foreign bank, we are committed to building a high-performing team 
in China. Efforts to develop the talent pipeline include focusing on local candidate engagement trends and driving 
awareness within the firm in order to attract internal talent to career growth opportunities. We’ve localized our online 
marketing strategy, leveraging WeChat, TenCent News and iQIYI to promote listed jobs, events and featured employee 
articles in Chinese.
• In an effort to strengthen our divisional pipelines with diverse talent, in 2020 we launched our second annual  
Career Pivot Series, a five-week program designed for experienced professionals outside the firm in the process 
of a career transition, in which participants strengthen their résumé development, networking and skill alignment. 
Participants have the unique opportunity to virtually connect with recruiters, professionals and subject matter 
experts on the various aspects of career transition. In support of the firm’s aspirational diversity and inclusion goals, 
this program allows us to identify experienced individuals and engage them for potential roles at Goldman Sachs.
9
Goldman Sachs 2020 People Strategy Report
Attracting Talent
VENDOR DIVERSITY PROGRAM:
EXPANDING 
OUR 
ENGAGEMENT  
ACROSS  
THE GLOBE
At Goldman Sachs, we partner with a variety of organizations 
to deliver creative and innovative solutions for our clients 
and global business. Our Vendor Diversity Program launched 
in North America in 2000 before expanding to Europe in 
2005 and Asia Pacific in 2009. Aiming to break down barriers 
to market access for small, women- and minority-owned 
enterprises, this program unlocks commercial opportunities 
with Goldman Sachs and gives us a platform to engage 
with a wide spectrum of vendors around the world. We 
strive to engage those that reflect the diversity of the 
communities where we live and work, and of the clients we 
serve. Often, their range of perspectives helps us discover 
creative, effective solutions. For the first time we are 
publicly reporting our 2020 spend with small and diverse 
businesses. We believe this transparency is important and 
we will hold ourselves and our vendors accountable in our 
efforts to increase spend with small and diverse businesses 
by 50 percent by 2025 from our 2020 reported numbers.
10
Goldman Sachs 2020 People Strategy Report
Attracting Talent
“ The Vendor Diversity Program
  
is important to Goldman Sachs for three reasons. One, 
it helps us provide the best possible solutions to clients 
by bringing talented, experienced professionals into 
our network. Two, it drives growth opportunities for 
these businesses, and we’ve seen time and again that 
our program partners pay it forward in their communities. 
And three, it is a chance for us to break down barriers 
to growth that still exist for minority business owners — 
and that’s critical for a healthy society.”
— D  avid Solomon, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
200 West Street Cafeteria 
The following major real estate projects reflect our commitment to working with diverse vendors across the world:
• In London, we spent over £100 million with local small and medium-sized enterprises, hired local labor, and provided 
more than 200,000 hours of work to apprentices and trainees during the construction and fit-out phases of our new 
Plumtree Court office, which opened in 2019.
• In Bengaluru, more than 64 percent of construction shell-and-core spend and 33 percent of interior work spend 
for our new campus, which opened in 2019, was with diverse vendors. More than 9,000 height-adjustable desks 
were designed, manufactured and installed by a local, medium-sized enterprise, exemplifying our commitment to 
supporting local SMEs.
• In New York, we spent more than $300 million with minority- and women-owned businesses while constructing our 
global headquarters, which at the time was the most successful project in the history of New York State’s Minority-  
and Women-Owned Business Enterprise Program.
We continue to partner with industry associations and work to expand vendor relationships developed through our initiatives.  
We are members of and active participants in the following organizations:
• Disability:IN  • Women’s Business Enterprise National Council (WBENC)
• National LGBT Chamber of Commerce (NGLCC)  • WEConnect International
• National Minority Supplier Development Council (NMSDC)  • Financial Services Roundtable for Supplier Diversity (FSRSD)
11
Goldman Sachs 2020 People Strategy Report
Attracting Talent
ENHANCING
INTERNAL
MOBILITY
Sean, Corporate Treasury, Salt Lake City
“ I was on the fence 
about pursuing external  Once new hires walk through our doors, we want 
opportunities. But the  them to reach their highest potential. Our long-
term vision is to build a best-in-class, globally 
firm’s outreach and the  “ Peers and junior members 
integrated, internal-talent marketplace powered 
growth of the internal  of my team have told me 
by technology and career coaching. We believe 
that, at times, it felt easier to 
mobility program has  that this will inspire employees, help retain top 
look for new opportunities 
reinvigorated my faith   talent and create diversified experiences to build 
externally versus internally. 
future leaders.
in the organization.” I think this internal mobility 
Enhancing our people’s experience of internal  team will add tremendous 
— VP, Engineering
mobility was a key focus in 2020. As a first  value in retaining talent, by 
step on this roadmap to our strategic vision, in  helping employees — myself 
partnership with UPenn Wharton People Analytics, People Science analyzed 10 years  included — feel like we’re 
of historical data and conducted a firmwide survey to better understand employees’  valued and supported while 
experiences with internal mobility. We found that employees tended to look for mobility  making career transitions.”
opportunities 2.5 years into their tenure; and that the most common reasons for 
—  VP, Consumer & Wealth 
transferring were for career progression opportunities and to develop new skillsets. 
Management
However, we found there were several barriers to mobility that needed to be addressed 
to improve the experience. In the second half of 2020, we actively engaged with more 
than 1,000 employees across the firm who expressed interest in making moves within 
the firm. Throughout, our recruiters have partnered closely with our diversity and 
inclusion experts to ensure that we have a strong focus on the retention of diverse 
talent in diverse roles.
12
Goldman Sachs 2020 People Strategy Report
Attracting Talent
EYES  
ON THE 
FUTURE
Bringing Your Authentic Self to Work: 
A Conversation with David Solomon, 
February 2020
As we look forward, we see a number of trends that will continue to evolve how we attract talent.
Globalization
In an increasingly globalized world, attracting the best talent means going beyond traditional channels. Whether it be 
through our on-campus efforts (including HBCUs), or through more innovative channels like online talent marketplaces 
or specialized conferences, our commitment to tapping diverse talent pools is evident around the globe. Organizations 
like ours have more tools than ever before in the effort to source the best and brightest. This expansive approach 
aligns with our firm’s broader strategy of distributing more talent to offices around the world, for broader reach 
and perspective.
Shifting Employee Preferences
Millennial and Gen Z employees are a harbinger of generational shifts in employee expectations and preferences about 
the workplace. We need to respond to these changes with not just competitive compensation and benefits, but also by 
appealing to employees’ sense of purpose, preference for learning and commitment to communities. At Goldman Sachs, 
we’ve made new strides in listening to our employees — and responding to employee needs on an ongoing, real-time 
basis. Initial feedback has offered valuable insights. We continue to evaluate our wellness and associated programs, 
learning and enrichment programs, and other offerings as we seek to attract and develop talent.
Focus on Technology
Tech advances continue to have profound impacts on the workplace, and a technology-oriented skillset is becoming 
increasingly valuable, especially in financial services. Over a quarter of our people are engineers, but increasingly, 
technology expertise and related skills are becoming important in many non-engineering roles across the firm. Going 
forward, we anticipate an increasing amount of tech talent will be oriented not just around programming and coding,  
but also using tech-adjacent skillsets for what Goldman Sachs will always be known for: problem solving, critical 
thinking, innovation and creativity.
13
Goldman Sachs 2020 People Strategy Report
SUPPORTING OUR PEOPLE, SUSTAINING OUR CULTURE
UNLOCKING 
POTENTIAL
ACROSS  
OUR FIRM
Stephanie,  
Legal, Hong Kong 
Hiring a diverse group of talented people is only the first step in unlocking their potential. 
Our focus on employees’ career-long fulfillment is embedded in a unique culture built over 
150 years and founded on one of our core values: partnership. We prioritize teamwork and 
a shared entrepreneurial mindset in the pursuit of professional and personal excellence. 
By cultivating an atmosphere of continual learning and growth, we support our people’s 
well-being both at work and in their own lives.
AN INCLUSIVE ETHOS IS THE  
KEY TO AN INNOVATIVE AND  
DYNAMIC CULTURE
The strength of our culture, the execution of our strategy and our relevance to our clients depend on a diverse workforce 
and an inclusive work environment — attuned to the benefits of collaboration and partnership across our organization. 
We strive to ensure that a position at Goldman Sachs is not just a job, but also an opportunity to build or continue a 
fulfilling career.
Our inclusion efforts are led by our Global Inclusion and Diversity Committee, formed in 2018 to ensure appropriate focus 
on the firm’s diversity initiatives. The committee reviews everyday practices and processes and makes recommendations 
to ensure a strong culture of inclusion for all our people. The committee reports directly to the firm’s CEO — an indication 
of the importance we place on this critical work.
14
Goldman Sachs 2020 People Strategy Report
Supporting Our People, Sustaining Our Culture
To optimize firmwide efforts, we have launched similar committees 
at both divisional and regional levels, tasked with identifying areas 
Inclusion Networks  
of highest focus within their purview. This distributed system 
and Interest Forums
drives progress and accountability toward our tangible goals for 
representation, hiring, retention and pipeline development. Across 
Open to all professionals at Goldman Sachs, 
the firm, we seek to enhance the experiences of employees in 
Inclusion Networks play a central role in 
each region. helping to advance diversity at the firm. 
They serve as forums that offer support, 
Key initiatives include:
understanding, information and connectivity for 
• Manager Essentials: Inclusive Leadership — An innovation  people with shared identities and perspectives. 
Furthermore, networks provide our people with 
in our Manager Essentials curriculum equips new leaders with 
the opportunity to problem-solve, innovate, 
foundational skills and tools to foster inclusion on their teams.
develop and showcase their leadership skills. 
• Inclusion in the Workplace: Understanding “Covering” — Offered  Below are our firmwide Inclusion Networks:
to all new associates, participants build awareness of the concept 
of “covering” (minimizing or hiding aspects of one’s identity in order  • Global Asian Network
to fit in) and explore how they may play a role in fostering inclusion 
• G  lobal and Regional Black,  
and making colleagues feel they can bring their authentic selves to 
Hispanic and Latinx Networks
the workplace.
• G  lobal and Regional  
• Subtle and Significant — Empowers new vice presidents and 
Women’s Networks
executive directors to deepen their understanding of how subtle 
changes in interactions with colleagues and teammates — building  • G  lobal and Regional  
rapport, providing career guidance and giving feedback — can shape   LGBTQ+ Networks
their people’s experience and ability to succeed at the firm.
• G  lobal and Regional  
• Identity Matters: Race and Ethnicity in the Workplace — Offered  Disability Networks
to managing directors and partners in the US and EMEA, the 
• Global Veterans Network
program highlights how race and ethnicity affect people’s lived 
experiences in the workplace. It equips managers with a knowledge  • R  eligion and Culture Network  
of best practices to nurture a culture of belonging, where people  (India and EMEA)
thrive irrespective of their backgrounds.
• Family Support Resources — The firm supports our employees’ 
family lives by offering a range of support for family health and 
well-being — including comprehensive parental leave availability, support for the transition back to work and  
access to parenting best practices. Enhanced benefits include a global minimum of 20 weeks’ paid parenting leave, 
regardless of gender or caregiver status, and stipends for egg retrieval, egg donation, adoption, IVF and surrogacy.  
The firm also provides dedicated facilities for nursing mothers in offices across the globe, as well as a global breast 
milk shipping program.
• Out in the Open: Sexual Orientation and Gender Identity in the Workplace — We offer insights on the experiences of  
LGBTQ+ professionals at Goldman Sachs and equip participants with practical tips and strategies to foster an inclusive 
environment for their LGBTQ+ colleagues.
• Pronouns Initiative — In 2019, the firm launched a global effort focused on increasing awareness of the variety of 
pronouns people use to express their identity. The firm sees pronoun use as an important way of enabling employees 
to bring their authentic selves to work.
15
Goldman Sachs 2020 People Strategy Report
Supporting Our People, Sustaining Our Culture
Investing in our people throughout their 
careers is one of our most vital responsibilities. 
Our talent development efforts combine data-
driven analysis with more traditional methods,  TALENT 
like one-on-one mentoring, that have long 
been core to the Goldman Sachs culture.
DEVELOPMENT
The firm maintains a variety of programs aimed 
at employees’ growth and support throughout 
their careers and as they evolve into leaders:
• Through our Black Analyst and Associate Initiative, we seek to grow and develop Black professionals by investing 
in their career development, enhancing connectivity to managers and providing access to a senior leader within their 
division, who serves as a coach.
• Our Hispanic/Latinx Analyst Initiative supplements Hispanic/Latinx analysts’ day-to-day experience by fostering 
early and ongoing communication with their managers, divisional leadership and peers.
• The firm’s Women’s Career Strategies Initiative is a global five-month program focused on accelerating the career 
growth of high-performing women associates through targeted learning opportunities, goal-setting and enhanced 
global connectivity, with close manager engagement throughout.
• Our Vice President Career Investment Initiative is a five-month leadership program offered to Black and Hispanic/
Latinx VPs in the Americas and Black VPs in EMEA. It enables mid-tenured, high-potential vice presidents to be more 
successful in their current roles and unlock their potential for future opportunities by enhancing their skillsets, 
expanding their relationships and providing career guidance from their managers and divisional sponsors.
• Our Vice President Sponsorship Initiative strengthens participants’ leadership development through a robust 
sponsorship model, offered for women VPs in Asia Pacific, women VPs and VPs with disabilities in India, and women, 
LGBTQ+, Asian and Black VPs in EMEA.
• The Asian Talent Initiative is an annual program that improves the pipeline of Asian senior leaders by developing 
Asian managing director candidates and focusing on talent discussions with senior leadership about their career 
trajectories at the firm.
• Our Vice President Leadership Acceleration Initiative is a cross-divisional leadership development program 
designed to accelerate the careers of select vice presidents and executive directors in the managing director pipeline 
across the firm and prepare them for the next level of leadership. Over a five-month period, participants raise their 
self-awareness and build critical leadership skills through individual feedback, group-learning workshops, roundtable 
discussions with senior leaders, peer-to-peer problem-solving forums and networking opportunities.
• Our Managing Director Leadership Acceleration Initiative (MD LAI) is a similar intensive program aimed at  
building partner readiness by evaluating the potential of high-performing managing directors and providing skills-
based development. Over a period of four to five months, managing directors in the partner pipeline undergo rigorous 
individual assessments and take part in group-learning workshops and senior leader roundtables. The program is  
part of Pine Street’s leadership development strategy to proactively build future senior leaders of the firm. In 2020,  
its 17th year, MD LAI included 25 hours of content and class engagement, three leadership workshops, seven senior 
leader roundtables and 10 hours of developmental assessments.
16
Goldman Sachs 2020 People Strategy Report
Supporting Our People, Sustaining Our Culture
ALTERNATIVE CLIENT
ASSETS COVERAGE
ONE
CLIENT  GOLDMAN
RELATIONSHIP 
MANAGEMENT SACHS CONTENT
DIGITAL
STRATEGY
ONE GOLDMAN SACHS 
(OneGS)
OneGS is the firm’s cross-divisional strategy to provide a more comprehensive and integrated approach 
to serving our global client franchise. Through OneGS, our objective is to leverage the full capabilities and 
relationship network of Goldman Sachs from virtually any touchpoint, to simplify access to the firm for 
our clients and to promote an ethos of holistic long-term client coverage. To achieve this, teams across 
the firm are engaged in helping us drive progress across five key pillars: Client Coverage, Content, Digital 
Strategy, Client Relationship Management and Alternative Assets.
This initiative underpins our growth strategy, and we have made significant progress across all fronts 
in 2020. Our new focus on client-centricity and the goal of delivering one firm to our clients enables us 
to differentiate from competitors. OneGS is becoming increasingly embedded into the firm’s DNA, as  
our people collaborate across divisions more organically to solve client problems.
“ We’re tapping into talent across the firm, driving 
smarter collaboration and accelerating innovation 
to achieve a more seamless experience for our 
clients. If successful, OneGS will no longer be  
an initiative — it will just be how we operate.”
— Sam Morgan, Co-head of One Goldman Sachs and Co-head of EMEA FICC Sales
17
Goldman Sachs 2020 People Strategy Report
Supporting Our People, Sustaining Our Culture
GS ACCELERATE
GS Accelerate is a firmwide platform to foster innovation and collaboration at Goldman Sachs. It provides our people 
with the capital, resources and support to build new products and services, with a focus on the firm’s future growth. 
Funded businesses focus on building strategic advantages for the firm, while offering employees the opportunity 
to work in a fast-paced, entrepreneurial environment. Entrepreneurship and innovation have always been a core part 
of our culture, and we believe in cultivating an environment where our people can work together, think big and shape 
the future with their ideas.
“ GS Accelerate is one of the best things  
I’ve done in my 31 years at the firm.”
— MD, Consumer & Wealth Management
“ GS Accelerate is a great use of firm resources because I don’t think these ideas 
would see the light of day without this program.”
— Associate, Engineering
15 1,743 37 7
Investments   Ideas submitted to   Number of cities that   New products  
to date GS Accelerate, since   have participated in   launched for client  
launch in 2018 GS Accelerate and employee use
One of the funded businesses, ClearFactr is a cloud-based financial modeling platform that demystifies the process of creating 
and analyzing data-heavy spreadsheets. Through its intuitive, natural-language interface, users are able to visually compare 
scenarios based on different assumptions. The product has been a tremendous help and success for various internal-use cases, 
and we are excited about offering the product to clients as part of our broader financial cloud strategy.
18
Goldman Sachs 2020 People Strategy Report
Supporting Our People, Sustaining Our Culture
Learning and Growth Opportunities
Lifelong learning is essential to the growth of our firm and our people. We understand that cultivating highly informed 
talent is both a strategic priority and a competitive advantage that underpins the firm’s ability to analyze, execute 
and thrive.
Formal learning opportunities are designed and delivered by two complementary groups, Goldman Sachs University 
(GSU) and Pine Street. GSU provides impactful educational programming to accelerate the growth of everyone from 
analysts through managing directors. Pine Street, the executive development group, helps partners and select managing 
directors to lead the firm’s next generation of people and businesses, to enhance our culture and sustain growth in 
the future.
Ranging from highly targeted leadership programs to key courses focused on the most critical topics, we support our 
people through milestones, transition points, role changes and challenging situations.
In addition, we understand the importance of elevating the 
technical and functional expertise of our people to drive 
commercial growth. We offer a wide variety of digital courses 
from best-in-class content providers — via access to external 
learning platforms, including LinkedIn and Coursera — and a 
library of 6,000 digital resources available on our GSU site.  
These courses can be used by our people to become subject 
matter experts in a specific field, strengthen development  
areas or learn a new skill for internal mobility purposes.
Separately, in order to expand technical skillsets and accelerate 
the broad-based adoption of data-driven management practices 
throughout the firm, we offer Data School — a cross-divisional 
training program focused on providing skills that allow people to 
use data to more effectively make decisions. Data School offers  
a wide curriculum to various audiences ranging from Goldman 
Sachs managers to interns, as well as to clients. As part of  
our continued focus on providing best-in-class client service, 
including education and training for our clients, we hosted this 
past year’s Client Data School virtually on Zoom. To date,  
Data School has had more than 5,000 firm participants, more  
than 1,075 firm graduates, 500+ classroom hours and  
~80 client participants. James, Human Capital Management, Hong Kong
2020 Highlights Tuition Reimbursement Program
15 36,000+
Our employees often choose to continue their educations while 
working, and the firm encourages this through financial assistance. Our 
learning and  employees received  Tuition Reimbursement Program is designed to facilitate employees’ 
development  leadership and professional  continuation of their formal education toward an undergraduate or 
programs offered   development training  graduate degree. We also offer financial assistance opportunities for 
in 2020 in 2019–2020 family members’ educations.
19
Goldman Sachs 2020 People Strategy Report
Supporting Our People, Sustaining Our Culture
RACIAL EQUITY
At Goldman Sachs, there is no place for racism or discrimination against any group in any form. We are committed to 
ensuring all of our people feel valued and know they belong. As part of our continued commitment to building a stronger 
culture of inclusion, we developed and implemented the following suite of resources and initiatives in 2020.
• Reverse Mentoring — This unique initiative provides the opportunity for non-Black senior partners to be mentored 
on racial equity issues by Black professionals at the firm. The initial rollout paired 70 of our senior-most leaders at 
the firm with Black managing directors and vice presidents, with the goal of enhancing understanding and empathy 
between races on the topic of racial equity. The nine-month program includes monthly mentor/mentee touchpoints, 
complemented by key educational resources on race equity issues.
• “Be an Ally” Guide — Shared with all employees in 2020, this guide highlights best practices on what it means to be 
an active ally for racial equity, from using the right language to learning about systemic racism. This guide points out 
opportunities to act meaningfully as an ally for Black 
colleagues and friends.
• D  ivisional Dialogues on Allyship for Race Equity — 
We also focused on enabling conversations on allyship, 
facilitating a series of dialogues within divisions to 
advance practical ally behaviors. Sessions included 
stories of experiences from Black professionals, 
best practices for managers and actionable ways 
to become an ally. More than 2,700 managers 
participated in “Starting the Dialogue” in 2020.
• D  edicated Web Resource — We maintain and update 
Megan Hogan
Chief Diversity Officer
an internal web reference sharing educational 
resources, ways to foster an inclusive environment, 
personal accounts from Black colleagues and details 
on our commitment to racial equity — both inside  
and outside the firm.
“ As we seek to advance racial equity, both at our firm and in our communities, 
we want to emphasize that this is a key moment to effect lasting improvement. 
The key to positive transformation is the realization that each of us must be 
part of the solution — our response to the circumstances around us truly 
matters. Even with all of the uncertainty created by the COVID-19 pandemic, 
it’s been inspiring to see our people stand in unity and ask how they can 
individually contribute to meaningful change. We are at a pivotal inflection 
point, and this conversation is just the beginning.”
— Megan Hogan, Goldman Sachs Chief Diversity Officer
20
Goldman Sachs 2020 People Strategy Report
Supporting Our People, Sustaining Our Culture
on-site centers  
(healthcare, fitness,  
WELLNESS 
childcare in 11 locations)
OFFERINGS
Wellness Center team  
in New York office
Marked by a global pandemic, 2020 offered daily reminders that maintaining our health, well- people assisted by 
being and resilience is paramount. We recognize our people are dealing with unique personal  Critical Health Solutions 
circumstances due to the profound impact of COVID-19. Our firm maintains comprehensive  in navigating the 
offerings to support the health and wellness of our people and their loved ones. healthcare system 
and addressing their 
As many of our people across the globe are working remotely, it can be a challenge to stay 
medical needs 
focused and maintain healthy boundaries between work and life. To prioritize the well-being of 
our people as they face unprecedented circumstances, we have provided learning-and-wellness 
resources ranging from resilience training to counseling services and meditation classes.
• Medical — In 2020, we introduced telemedicine access to employees and covered dependents enrolled in the firm’s 
US healthcare plan, waiving all costs of urgent-care visits, including COVID-19 consultations. We provided access to 
global patient advocacy teams to help employees and their families gain access to appropriate COVID-19 care.
• COVID-19 Testing/Return-to-Office Protocols — As our employees return to the office environment, our top priority 
is their safety and well-being. For those employees who have returned, our comprehensive protocols include regular 
testing, health surveys, temperature checks at arrival and physical distancing. We will continue to be guided by a 
people-first approach as circumstances evolve.
• Health and Fitness — Goldman Sachs employees enjoy broad health-and-fitness offerings that outpace those provided 
by peers, including access to specialty doctors, nutrition services and ergonomics.
• Mental Health and Resilience — We offer all employees and their dependents access to free and confidential 
counseling through our Employee Assistance Program. Additionally, through our meQuilibrium platform, we offer 
personalized resilience-building programs, including exercises and guided meditations. In 2020, we hosted several 
resilience-training sessions that featured leading speakers on the subject.
21
Goldman Sachs 2020 People Strategy Report
Supporting Our People, Sustaining Our Culture
“ Over the past two decades, I’ve experienced firsthand Goldman Sachs’ 
consistent prioritization of the  
holistic well-being of its people.  
Eleven years ago, during my first maternity leave, the firm undertook 
and fulfilled my request to open a full-time, onsite daycare center in our 
London office. Most recently, I’d highlight last year’s proactive revamp 
of Goldman Sachs’ parental leave policy, in which we not only extended 
the minimum duration of leave offered around the globe to 20 weeks, 
but also crucially expanded the benefit to include both parents.”
— Padideh Trojanow, Partner, Global Markets Division
• Family Leave and Support — We are committed to delivering best-in-class benefits and wellness programs to  
meet the needs of our people who are starting, growing and supporting families. Our offerings include family leave, 
adoption and surrogacy stipends, and maternity mentoring and coaching programs, among others. In 2020 there  
was an 11 percent increase in the average weeks of leave taken by birth mothers and a 126 percent increase in the 
average weeks of leave by non–birth parents. Additionally, 122 employees used firm stipends for adoption, egg 
donation/retrieval and surrogacy. Most recently, the firm announced 10 days of paid COVID-19 family leave, available  
to employees globally. In 2020, more than 2,000 employees took advantage of this policy, for purposes ranging  
from caring for family members with COVID-related illness to meeting demands for in-home schooling.
COVID-19 TESTING/RETURN-TO-OFFICE PROTOCOLS
+
15,000 11,000 110,000
antigen and PCR tests  COVID-19 inquiries into Wellness Exchange
reusable face coverings 
administered for employees
produced for our people 
~ globally by 10,000 Small 
700,000
Businesses graduates  
10,400+ travel health, close  in three countries,  
contact and clinical  generating ~$850,000 in 
cases managed globally N95 and more than 2.5 million surgical masks donated to  revenue for these businesses
more than 80 healthcare facilities across US and EMEA
MENTAL HEALTH AND RESILIENCE
15,000 9,600
employees attended 70 new  employees 
resilience programs rolled  enrolled with 
out in response to COVID-19 meQuilibrium
22
Goldman Sachs 2020 People Strategy Report
Supporting Our People, Sustaining Our Culture
Financial Wellness
We provide our employees with access to a variety of financial wellness resources (e.g., financial education series,  
live and on-demand webinars, articles and interactive digital tools) to help our employees manage their personal 
financial health and decision-making. 
Our US employees also have access to our industry-leading workplace financial planning benefit from Goldman Sachs 
Ayco Personal Financial Management, which features a digital platform that offers access to confidential financial 
coaching and tools to help our employees prepare for their financial future. Benefits include a financial wellness 
assessment, personal action plans and one-on-one coaching sessions. Eligible employees are also able to access  
Marcus solutions through the Ayco Marketplace, including savings, lending and investing products.
Our US MDs also have access to a dedicated finance advisor through Goldman Sachs Personal Financial Management 
(PFM), where PFM advisors work directly with our MDs to develop a personalized and adaptable financial plan.  
Through this service, our MDs also have access to specialized investment management solutions.
23
Goldman Sachs 2020 People Strategy Report
Supporting Our People, Sustaining Our Culture
Employee Listening
Better engaging and responding to our people is a key priority for the firm. Moments That Matter is a new initiative 
launched in 2021 designed to establish two new channels for us to hear from our people on a range of important topics: 
GS People Pulse and in-the-moment surveys. Both measure the employee experience through short, frequent surveys 
that will be distributed throughout the year so that all employees participate at least semi-annually.
Automated in-the-moment surveys will capture the experience around specific moments important to our people 
(such as onboarding and integration).
Combined Results
Data collected via these surveys will allow us to develop research-informed solutions that help run our business better 
and improve the candidate, employee and alumni experience. In another signal to our people around the power and 
importance of transparency, we will share not only the results of these listening efforts, but our plans to act on the 
findings, creating a constant feedback loop with our people.
Catching up in our Salt Lake City office
PERFORMANCE  
MANAGEMENT
Goldman Sachs operates at its best when our people can too. As part of our ongoing efforts to ensure we unlock 
our people’s potential and the collective capability of our firm, we continue to invest in our people’s development, 
including by ensuring that each colleague receives robust, timely and actionable feedback to help them grow and 
make a bigger impact.
24
Goldman Sachs 2020 People Strategy Report
Supporting Our People, Sustaining Our Culture
To that end, in 2020 we recalibrated performance ratings, increased transparency to employees and introduced active 
coaching by managers. These changes were driven by a belief that clarity breeds outperformance. More specifically, 
transparent, coaching-oriented teamwork drives employee engagement, performance and retention — which, in turn, 
drive business success. Our approach to performance management allows us to align our people’s development to the 
firm’s priorities.
We recognize that effective performance management goes beyond the performance review process. We are also 
focused on cultivating more leaders who coach. For us, great managers unlock their team’s potential when they know 
their team’s capabilities, focus their impact (including by setting clear goals), care about them and their contributions, 
and inspire them. This “KFCI” framework is critical to how we think about manager effectiveness. To encourage more 
frequent exchanges between managers and their team members, we launched Three Conversations at GS this year, 
whereby managers establish goals with team members at the start of the year, check in mid-year on progress and then 
close out the year with a conversation on performance against goals. Understanding where you are and knowing what 
you need to do to continue developing is key for a growth-minded organization and critical to helping our people thrive.
Continuing Our Momentum:  
Succession Planning and Pipeline Development
We have always prided ourselves on our deep bench of talent, but we do not take this for granted. We have developed a rigorous, 
multiyear approach focused on building and developing a high-performing, diverse leadership bench. These efforts are led by the 
dedicated Leadership Pipeline Review Committee, comprising some of our most senior leaders, who drive our efforts on strategic 
succession planning for the partner level. The committee meets throughout the year to foster an ongoing dialogue on month-to-month 
progress in our development efforts, with a focus on assessing partner effectiveness, developing diverse talent, and optimizing our talent 
pipelines. Our approach to leadership development and succession planning allows us to focus on preparing our most senior talent for 
both the short and long term. 
We made significant strides in 2020 with the introduction of scenario planning for agile decision-making and the assessment of leader 
readiness, as well as career planning for the next generation of leaders. As part of our broader effort to further differentiate our partners’ 
experience and create opportunities to support their continued growth, we also introduced the Partnership Development Initiative, which 
will provide personalized executive coaching and bespoke career development planning opportunities for each of our 400+ partners on 
a regular cycle. These enhancements are designed to balance the demands of our partners’ roles as senior leaders of the firm with our 
belief that the best leaders are the ones who keep growing.
Compensation
We recognize that every financial institution is different,  Focus on Equal Pay and Living Wage
shaped by its activities, size, history and culture. Our 
compensation practices encourage a firmwide orientation  We are a meritocracy, and gender, ethnicity, age, disability, 
and culture through a framework that establishes a direct  sexual orientation or any other protected characteristic 
is not a factor in the way that we pay our people. We 
relationship between the longer-term evaluation of 
pay women and men in the same way, using the same 
performance and an appropriately matched incentive structure. 
compensation criteria, including the nature of their role and 
We pay for performance — this is an absolute requirement 
their performance. We will continue to review compensation, 
under our compensation program and is inherent in our culture.  spending significant time during the compensation process 
We structure compensation, especially at senior levels, to align  to ensure that our commitment to equal pay is upheld. 
with our shareholders’ long-term interest and advance our 
Additionally, we review regularly to ensure that we provide 
ethos of partnership. Additionally, we use compensation as an  competitive compensation levels that are intended to exceed 
important tool to attract, retain and motivate talent. the legal minimum and living wages where we operate.
25
Goldman Sachs 2020 People Strategy Report
Supporting Our People, Sustaining Our Culture
Zero Tolerance for 
Discrimination and  
Harassment in the  
Workplace
Goldman Sachs is committed to 
maintaining a workplace free from 
discrimination or harassment. As 
reflected in our policies, we do not  Huddle in our London office
tolerate sexual harassment or any 
form of discrimination or harassment 
prohibited by law — including on  Conduct
the basis of gender, race, origin, 
At all times, we strive to maintain the highest standards of ethical 
ethnicity, sexual orientation, religion 
or any other legally protected  conduct, consistent with our business principles and core values.  
status. We prohibit all forms of  The Firmwide Conduct Committee, with senior partner membership, 
abusive conduct. The firm maintains  is responsible for defining and implementing the firm’s conduct risk 
a robust, multichannel internal 
program, particularly the relationship between conduct and culture. 
and external complaint process 
Our Board holds senior management accountable for embodying and 
that encourages all employees to 
communicating a “tone at the top” that emphasizes our values.
raise concerns without reprisal. 
Regardless of the manner of 
Firmwide, we emphasize a shared responsibility to exercise sound 
escalation, all matters are carefully 
judgment, mitigate risk and escalate concerns. This extends to 
reviewed and investigated with 
our day-to-day people practices, where our Code of Conduct and 
the highest discretion, and the firm 
strictly prohibits any retaliation  commitment to fairness are embedded in our hiring processes, 
for reporting potential employee  performance management, compensation philosophy and promotions.
misconduct.
The firm offers a broad range of programs focused on ethical 
standards, and has established select committees focused on conduct. 
Launched in 2019, and relaunched in October 2020, the firm’s “A Culture 
of Respect” is an annual mandatory training program for all employees — globally focused on respect in the workplace, 
the collective responsibility to challenge unacceptable behavior, and the role of leaders and managers in promoting a 
respectful environment.
In addition to mandatory training, conduct education — centered on the behavioral science that drives decision-making 
and judgment — is embedded across all major milestones and transitions in an employee’s career, across all levels, 
including our partners.
• For New Hires — Training on judgment calls and integrity helps them understand the key conduct expectations of  
the firm, enabling them to recognize ethical dilemmas and raise concerns as they arise.
• For Leaders and Existing Employees — As part of our manager orientations and programs, we equip our leaders to 
notice behavioral red flags, understand their inherent responsibilities and bolster a culture of psychological safety to 
encourage employees to speak up. Leaders are also provided with roundtable guides to ensure their teams’ dialogue 
on culture and conduct is effective and impactful.
The firm’s Code of Conduct details our shared responsibility in ensuring the highest legal and ethical standards, 
translating experiences from more than 150 years into an accessible, actionable roadmap that emphasizes how we are all 
stewards of the firm’s culture. Our Code of Conduct explains how we live out our core values of partnership, client service, 
integrity and excellence, and reminds us that everything we do must serve to deepen our stakeholders’ trust.
26
Goldman Sachs 2020 People Strategy Report
Supporting Our People, Sustaining Our Culture
EVOLVING  
HOW WE  
WORK
COVID-19 accelerated trends in remote working, with a number of Fortune 500 firms announcing moves to fully remote 
or flexible workspaces early in the pandemic, some of them permanent. At Goldman Sachs, we transitioned our workforce 
to be 98 percent remote in a matter of days, equipping our people with decentralized tools and technology to perform 
their roles and serve clients.
The pandemic brought with it a number of worthy innovations in the communication space. The ongoing need for simple, 
fast, on-demand communication tools, along with agile teams, will continue to remain top-of-mind.
We’ve found that many tasks can lose immediacy and efficacy in a remote-work environment. Whether delivering in-the-
moment feedback, ad-hoc brainstorming sessions or simply catching up with colleagues, our people operate at their best 
when they are forging close bonds with colleagues and furthering the apprenticeship culture that defines us. We have 
found that the best way to do that is to work together, in person, on a regular basis. This is not inconsistent, however, 
with providing our people with the flexibility they need to manage their personal and professional lives — which is how 
we have always run the firm. The experience of the past year has only made us more confident in our ability to facilitate 
this approach going forward.
The pandemic has also increased our confidence in our ability to distribute our teams across more offices. As a key 
part of our location strategy, we expect approximately 40 percent of our employees will work from one of our strategic 
locations by the end of 2022. The remote-work phenomenon has catalyzed an increased focus on this strategy. 
We will also look to expand into new strategic locations around the globe, as well as consolidate our footprint, where 
appropriate, in keeping with our evolving business mix.
27
Goldman Sachs 2020 People Strategy Report
BROADENING OUR IMPACT
WORKPLACE
THE WORLD 
BEYOND THE
President and COO John Waldron moderates a virtual panel including (clockwise from top left) Heather von Zuben, Kim Posnett, Tracey Benford and Margaret Anadu
At Goldman Sachs, dedication to our clients is a given — client service is one of our  
core values. That said, our people expect the firm to support a broad range of stakeholders 
beyond our client base, and we similarly encourage our people to expand their focus and 
engage with their communities and the larger world. We enable our people to advance 
sustainability as part of their day-to-day work, and encourage them to supplement that 
work through our other programs, partnerships and philanthropic engagement. We are 
fully committed to deploying the immense resources and capabilities available throughout 
our firm to deliver best-in-class service for clients, and effect change aligned with our 
purpose of advancing sustainable economic growth and financial opportunity.
$800 MILLION SUSTAINABILITY BOND:
A MODEL OF  
COLLABORATION
Our latest sustainability bond issuance — an $800 million offering designed to accelerate climate transition and 
advance inclusive growth — is a prime example of extensive cross-divisional collaboration within the firm and external 
collaboration with our clients.
This bond is just one part of a strategic push by Goldman Sachs to deploy capital and help clients on their sustainability 
journeys, across nine core thematic areas.
28
Goldman Sachs 2020 People Strategy Report
Broadening Our Impact
Nine Themes Driving Our Sustainable Finance Commitment
CLIMATE TRANSITION INCLUSIVE GROWTH
Clean Energy Accessible and Innovative Healthcare
• Reduce energy consumption • Increase affordability of healthcare
• Reduce net emission of carbon • Improve healthcare outcomes
Sustainable Transport Financial Inclusion
• Reduce fossil fuel consumption • Increase access to capital and affordable financial services
• Improve sustainable transportation infrastructure • Enhance financial literacy
Sustainable Food and Agriculture Accessible and Affordable Education
• Increase supply chain sustainability • Improve access to affordable education
• Improve environmental quality control • Enhance educational outcomes
Waste and Materials Communities
• Increase resource efficiency • Increase quality and accessibility of affordable housing
• Increase use of sustainable materials • Promote revitalization of underserved neighborhoods
Ecosystem Services
• Improve water and air quality
• Promote greater biodiversity
COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT
At Goldman Sachs, we believe that strong communities are the foundation of a prosperous society. Through our 
Sustainability and Impact Investing initiatives, we find innovative commercial solutions that address social and civic 
challenges in communities across the US, supporting a wide variety of development and revitalization projects. We’ve 
invested in affordable-housing construction, job creation, quality education, healthcare facilities, small businesses  
and more, as part of our ongoing effort to empower communities and promote long-term economic growth. Each of 
these programs provides our people with meaningful opportunities to make a personal impact in the communities  
where they live and work:
Goldman Sachs Gives (GS Gives)
The GS Gives program is committed to fostering innovative ideas, solving 
economic and social issues, and enabling progress in underserved communities 
globally. Through a donor-advised fund, the firm’s current and retired partners 
work together to recommend grants to qualifying nonprofit organizations to 
help them achieve their goals. GS Gives has awarded nearly $1.8 billion in grants 
to date and partnered with more than 8,000 nonprofits in 100 countries.
Acting dynamically in response to real-world issues, GS Gives over the years  
has established a number of special funds and programs to support specific 
areas of need throughout the world.
29
Goldman Sachs 2020 People Strategy Report
Broadening Our Impact
Fund for Racial Equity
In June 2020, we launched the $10 million Goldman Sachs Fund for Racial Equity to support leading organizations 
addressing racial injustice, structural inequity and economic disparity (e.g., United Negro College Fund, Black Economic 
Alliance and Black Girls Code). This builds on over $200 million in grants over the past decade supporting communities 
of color.
It is critical that we not only acknowledge what is happening around us, but that we take meaningful action and 
contribute to the path forward. Most recently, as part of the Goldman Sachs COVID-19 Relief Fund, the firm deployed 
$17 million to organizations supporting relief efforts in communities of color. Through Community TeamWorks, our 
volunteer initiative for employees, we also mobilized nearly 1,000 of our people to support nonprofit organizations 
focused on racial equity, including the Vera Institute of Justice, Posse Foundation, Black Girl Ventures and more.
GS Gives Analyst Impact Fund
Sponsored by the firm’s Partnership Committee, 
whose mission is to steward the firm’s culture and 
cultivate current and future leaders, this annual 
competition provides analysts with the opportunity  “ The Analyst Impact Fund brings the very best of Goldman 
to collaborate with peers across the firm to make  Sachs to our communities. It highlights our culture of 
an impact in their communities. Each year, analysts  excellence, and embodies our firm’s values of teamwork, 
compete to win GS Gives grants to support innovative  innovation and social-mindedness. For our analysts, 
nonprofits of their choice. Analyst teams advancing  the fund presents a unique opportunity to develop core 
to the finals pitch their selected nonprofit to the  leadership skills, while making a tangible impact on 
Partnership Committee and firm leadership. Key  issues about which they are passionate at an early stage 
judgment criteria include impact, scalability and  of their career.”
uniqueness of the proposed project, the team’s  — David Solomon, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
analysis of the project goals and financials, and 
the strength of the organization’s leadership and 
partnerships. Winning teams are awarded with 
grants for their selected nonprofits.
Matching Gift Program
As a part of our continuing efforts to connect our 
employees worldwide with their local communities, 
this program supports employee gifts to nonprofit 
organizations, including schools. The Matching Gift 
Program allows employees to double the impact 
of their charitable giving by having their donation 
matched dollar-for-dollar by the firm. In 2020, 
we introduced a special 3:1 matching opportunity 
for employee donations supporting organizations 
advancing racial equity and working on the front 
lines of COVID-19 relief. These special campaigns 
drove more than $3 million in matched contributions 
in 2020.
Team SIRUM, First Place, 2020 Analyst Impact Fund 
30
Goldman Sachs 2020 People Strategy Report
Broadening Our Impact
Community TeamWorks (CTW)
Our tradition of employee volunteer work reaches back to 1997, when we created Community TeamWorks to partner 
with nonprofit organizations around the world. Through CTW, the people of Goldman Sachs contribute their ideas, time 
and expertise to drive tangible progress as volunteers. Our annual impact includes more than 150,000 hours of service 
provided to more than 900 nonprofit partners from 26,000 volunteers globally.
During the pandemic, our people have found new ways to give back to their communities through virtual volunteer 
projects. In April of 2020, we launched our first-ever virtual volunteering campaign to support groups disproportionately 
impacted by COVID-19. To date, more than 8,000 volunteers from 80 offices have participated in more than 430 virtual 
volunteer projects with 200+ nonprofits globally. In June 2020, we added dozens of racial equity–focused CTW projects, 
and in October we introduced a campaign to support educators, students and their families, focused on helping students 
facing unprecedented challenges this year.
Goldman Sachs COVID-19 Relief Fund
Ambika,  
Consumer 
In 2020, we launched a $30 million commitment funded by GS Gives — including a special matching program — to support 
and Wealth 
communities hardest hit by COVID-19 around the world. The commitment included $5 million to match employee donations  Management,  
to nonprofit organizations. This followed the $1 million donated to the CDC Foundation, the Chinese Red Cross and the  New York
International Medical Corps for COVID-19 relief. The fund is designed to be responsive to prevalent challenges in areas 
hardest hit by the pandemic, and supports organizations working directly on relief-and-response efforts across five key 
priorities: (1) assisting health providers on the front lines; (2) providing assistance to the most vulnerable populations; 
(3) providing economic relief for reduced and lost work; (4) supporting children and families in the wake of school closures; 
and (5) supporting medical research. To date, the fund has deployed $42 million to 305+ nonprofits across 31 countries.
31
Goldman Sachs 2020 People Strategy Report
Broadening Our Impact
COMMERCIAL APPROACH  
TO INCLUSIVE GROWTH
We have a long-standing track record of deploying innovative, commercial solutions to advance inclusive growth — 
supported by the focus, dedication and creativity of our people in driving these efforts. Our sustainable finance–focused 
efforts are fully integrated across the firm, and our people approach these opportunities with the same rigorous thinking 
we would apply to any other part of our business.
Over the past year, we have launched divisional councils throughout the firm that are further deepening our knowledge 
in the sustainable finance space and helping to facilitate the practical success of our $750 billion commitment to this 
effort. These councils consist of senior business leaders who — in addition to delivering their day-to-day expertise to 
clients — are able to provide the added benefit of a sustainability-focused perspective.
Our Sustainable Finance Group initiated 1,136 total engagements in 2020 (753 clients; 383 external stakeholder 
meetings) — a clear sign of the growing importance that climate transition and inclusive growth themes are playing for 
our clients across industries and regions. 52 percent of our meetings occurred with Investment Banking clients, 30 percent 
T:12” with Consumer & Wealth Management/Asset Management 
clients, and 18 percent with Global Markets clients.
In keeping with our commitment, we are channeling the 
power of capital to drive economic prosperity for more 
people. We have long been committed to promoting 
Dear Congress,
inclusion, diversity and equity within our own firm, 
throughout our industry and in the communities where 
we live and work. Last summer, in response to the recent 
According to our research, 42% of small business owners  
senseless acts of racism and violence against Black 
have had to lay off employees or cut their compensation  
people and other minorities, we renewed this dedication. 
over the last year.
We believe the effort needed to truly bridge gaps in 
equality is ongoing — we know there is more to be done, 
That’s millions of Americans out of work – the backbone
and we continue to aim higher. In this spirit, we recently 
of our economy, and the cultural fabric of our  
announced One Million Black Women, a new $10 billion 
communities, unraveling. initiative focused on acknowledging, empowering and 
raising up an entrepreneurial engine in women and 
We must prioritize small business needs  T:21” underserved communities across the US.
through 2021 and beyond.
When we lose small, 10,000 Small Businesses (10KSB)
We launched this small-business development program 
we lose big.
in the US in 2009, in the UK in 2010 and most recently 
in France in 2020. For over a decade, we have provided 
Sincerely,  access to education, capital and business support services 
The 10,000 Small Businesses Voices Community  to help thousands of entrepreneurs, across a broad set 
See our 2021 Small Business Policy Agenda at gs.com/LoseSmallLoseBig
of industries, grow their businesses and create jobs in 
their local communities. Upon reaching the milestone of 
P.S. Not a member of Congress? Tweet a photo of this letter @ one who needs to see it.
serving 10,000 entrepreneurs in 2020, Goldman Sachs 
#LoseSmallLoseBig redoubled our efforts, committing to reach another 
TWITTER, TWEET, RETWEET and the Twitter logo are trademarks of Twitter, Inc. or its affiliates.
10,000 small business owners across the United States.
32
Goldman Sachs 2020 People Strategy Report
Broadening Our Impact
“ This year has laid bare
 the sobering realities that our small businesses and 
communities face. We’ve worked to develop the 10,000 Small Businesses platform for over a 
decade, and now is an obvious time for us to double down on the program — small businesses  
are essential, and by making this commitment we hope to help ensure their future.”
— David Solomon, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
The program partners with community colleges across the United States to deliver an intensive 10-week program to 
help small business owners get to the next level. It also provides access to capital through partnerships with Community 
Development Financial Institutions and other mission-driven lenders.
We have reached more than 10,000 business owners across all 50 states, Puerto Rico, Guam and Washington, D.C., and 
over 1,800 UK business owners to date. In the United States, the program’s graduates together represent over $14 billion 
in revenue and employ more than 200,000 people. A study on the impact of this program’s first decade indicated that 
66 percent of participants increased revenues just six months after completing the program — outpacing comparable 
national data estimates that 53 percent of 
US small businesses grew revenues over this 
same time period. The study also indicated that 
46 percent of participants created net new jobs 
just six months after graduation — comparable 
national data estimates that 30 percent of 
US small businesses added jobs in this same 
time period.
Additionally, 10,000 Small Businesses Voices is 
a new initiative designed to help small business 
owners in the United States advocate for policy 
changes that will help their businesses, their 
employees and their communities. We provide 
these business owners with the tools, resources 
and training needed to make their voices heard  
and drive tangible impact against real issues.
Our programs in the UK and France also offer 
comprehensive packages of business development  10,000 Women Champions
and leadership support for local small business  Kalyani, CEO,  
Ancient Living
owners. Since 2010, we have partnered with 
Hyderabad, India At Goldman Sachs, our people are consistently 
the Said Business School in the UK to provide  seeking ways to be more directly involved with 
over 1,800 business leaders with a “mini- our impact programs. Our 10,000 Women Growth 
MBA” education program that equips them with the skills to take their  Fellowship is a prestigious three-day program 
of coaching, training and networking for select 
business to the next level. Similarly in France, our inaugural cohort of 70 
10,000 Women graduates from all over the world. 
entrepreneurs is participating in a fully funded, nationwide small business 
Select Goldman Sachs associates and vice 
education program delivered in partnership with ESSEC Business School.
presidents — 10,000 Women Champions — were 
matched with these ambitious Growth Fellows, 
10,000 Women (10KW) to develop a two-way mentoring relationship 
while enjoying ongoing opportunities to engage 
Launched in 2008 across the US, India and China, this initiative fosters 
with the firm’s senior leadership and the 
economic growth by providing women entrepreneurs around the world 
10KW program.
with a business and management education, mentoring and networking, 
and access to capital. 10KW was informed by research, which shows that 
33
Goldman Sachs 2020 People Strategy Report
Broadening Our Impact
investing in women is one of the most effective ways to reduce inequality and facilitate inclusive economic growth. 
Over the past decade, we have helped more than 100,000 women reach their full potential by providing a rigorous 
business education program, access to capital and ongoing opportunities for networking.
Realizing that growth-oriented women entrepreneurs needed greater access to external capital, in 2014 we 
partnered with the International Finance Corporation to launch a first-of-its-kind gender-specific loan facility. 
To date, the facility has raised and deployed more than $1.9 billion in investments to women-owned small and 
medium enterprises across 41 countries.
In 2018, we saw a continued opportunity 
to democratize access to education on a 
world scale, and launched Goldman Sachs 
10,000 Women Online, a first-of-its-kind, 
free online program on the Coursera 
platform. To date, we have seen tens of 
thousands of enrollments from women 
in more than 200 countries. The online 
program includes 10 modules covering a 
range of business topics, from identifying 
opportunities for growth to financial 
planning, management techniques, 
marketing and leadership. In 2020,  
we launched Spanish- and Portuguese-
language translations of the course.
#MakeSmallBig  
Holiday Market
Beginning in 2014, the firm has hosted 
an annual Holiday Market at 200 West 
Street to give employees the opportunity 
to meet alumni from the 10KSB program 
and support their ongoing entrepreneurial 
efforts. In response to the COVID-19 
pandemic, in 2020 we relaunched the 
Holiday Market as an online marketplace 
on GS.com, featuring gifting options 
from more than 65 small business alumni 
from our 10KSB and 10KW programs. This 
hub for our employees, clients and other 
visitors showcases the firm’s sustained 
commitment to and support of small 
business owners.
34
Goldman Sachs 2020 People Strategy Report
Broadening Our Impact
Margaret Anadu and George Azih, 
founder and CEO of LeaseQuery, 
at a Launch With GS event in 
Atlanta, GA
FORWARD 
FOCUS
Launch With GS
Two years ago, we developed Launch With GS, a $500 million investment strategy that aims to increase access to capital 
and facilitate connections for women, Black, Latinx, and other diverse entrepreneurs and investors. Since its inception, 
Launch has deployed more than $450 million globally to companies and funds with diverse management teams — 
from a software provider in Atlanta, to a fintech company in Bengaluru, to a pediatric clinic in China. In early 2021, we 
announced an additional $500 million commitment to Launch With GS, for a total of $1 billion toward investing in these 
entrepreneurs and funds.
Launch With GS is grounded in our data-driven belief that diverse leadership teams outperform if they are given access 
to capital and the resources to drive their businesses forward. In addition to deploying capital, we are fostering a global 
ecosystem of founders, investors and clients. In early 2020, Launch announced Goldman Sachs’ first Black and Latinx 
Entrepreneur Cohort, comprising a group of high-growth start-ups from across the US. Beyond access to capital, these 
businesses participate in a customized eight-week virtual experience — including one-on-one and sector-specific 
workshops with our research, banking and investment teams, and interaction with start-up experts across key areas, 
including legal services, capitalization, marketing and branding.
Broadening our firm’s impact beyond our offices will be a key strategy in the future. We will continue to look for 
opportunities to provide our people with direct and indirect ways to impact their communities.
One Million Black Women
In addition to our $750 billion sustainable finance goal, we recently announced the One Million Black Women program,  
a new initiative of more than $10 billion to advance racial equity and economic opportunity by investing in Black women. 
In partnership with Black women–led organizations, financial institutions and other partners, Goldman Sachs will 
commit $10 billion in direct investment capital and $100 million in philanthropic capital over the next decade to address 
both the gender and racial biases that Black women have experienced disproportionately for generations — obstacles 
that have only been exacerbated by the pandemic. The program is named for and guided by the goal of impacting the 
lives of at least one million Black women by 2030.
35
Goldman Sachs 2020 People Strategy Report
RECOGNITION
FEATURED AWARDS AND RANKINGS
Each year, Goldman Sachs receives awards across categories including employer of choice, diversity and inclusion, sustainability, 
and business and innovation. Select awards are shown below.
Bloomberg Gender-Equality Index Human Rights Campaign Foundation’s Corporate  
January 2021 Equality Index
January 2021
Listed
Rating of 100%
Vault Banking 50 Universum World’s Most Attractive Employers
January 2021 October 2020
Ranked #1 in Prestige Ranked #6 out of 50 among Business students
Ranked #19 in the Banking 50 Ranked #24 out of 50 among Engineering/IT students
PEOPLE Magazine Awards Working Mother 100 Best Companies
September 2020 September 2020
Ranked #38 out of 50 in U.S. Companies That Care Listed
National Association for Female Executives (NAFE)  
Top Companies for Executive Women
March 2020
Listed
36
Goldman Sachs 2020 People Strategy Report
KEY PERFORMANCE METRICS
Number of Employees
HEADCOUNT: GEOGRAPHIC BREAKDOWN:
40,500 employees with offices  
in over 35 countries
53% in Americas
 Employees come from over
19% in EMEA
160 countries and speak more  
28% in Asia
than 110 languages
Progress Toward Aspirational Goals
CAMPUS ANALYST HIRING FOR FULL-YEAR 2020: VP REPRESENTATION (AS OF FYB 2021):
Goal Goal
Women 52% 50% Women 32% 40%
Hispanic/Latinx (Americas) 17% 14% Hispanic/Latinx (Americas) 6% 9%
Black (Americas) 11% 11% Black (Americas) 4% 7%
Black (UK) 13% 9% Black (UK) 4% 7%
Other Demographic Data
EEO-1 DATA (US EMPLOYEES)
Not-Hispanic or Latino
Native   American  
Black or   Hawaiian or  Indian or  
Hispanic   African   Other Pacific   Alaskan   Two or  
or Latino White American Islander Asian Native More Races
Overall 
Job Categories Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Totals
Executive/Sr. Officials & Mgrs. 50 16 920 261 24 25 1 – 160 74 – – 10 7 1,548
First/Mid Officials & Mgrs. 98 73 1,476 698 57 48 2 4 603 315 – – 27 10 3,411
Professionals 752 547 3,992 2,399 452 418 13 13 1,857 1,762 1 5 161 149 12,521
Technicians – – – – – – – – – – – – – – –
Sales Workers 66 36 868 365 41 11 3 3 162 74 – – 17 16 1,662
Administrative Support 110 230 253 775 75 274 2 8 35 88 1 – 14 33 1,898
Craft Workers – – – – – – – – – – – – – – –
Operatives – – – – – – – – – – – – – – –
Laborers & Helpers – – – – – – – – – – – – – – –
Service Workers – – – – – – – – – – – – – – –
Total 1,076 902 7,509 4,498 649 776 21 28 2,817 2,313 2 5 229 215 21,040
37
Goldman Sachs 2020 People Strategy Report
Key Performance Metrics
EEO-1 DATA (CONTINUED) American  Native 
Black or  Indian or  Two or   Hawaiian or 
African  Alaskan  Hispanic   More   Other Pacific 
White Asian American Native or Latinx Races Islander Females
Executive/Sr. Officials & Mgrs. 76.3% 15.1% 3.2% 0.0% 4.3% 1.1% 0.1% 24.7%
First/Mid Officials & Mgrs. 63.7% 26.9% 3.1% 0.0% 5.0% 1.1% 0.2% 33.7%
Professionals 51.0% 28.9% 6.9% 0.0% 10.4% 2.5% 0.2% 42.3%
All Others 63.5% 10.1% 11.3% 0.0% 12.4% 2.2% 0.4% 53.7%
Total 57.1% 24.4% 6.8% 0.0% 9.4% 2.1% 0.2% 41.5%
Source: Data anticipated to be filed in Goldman Sachs’ 2020 EEO-1 report. “All Others” is a combination of the following EEO-1 job categories: technicians, sales workers, administrative support, craft workers 
(skilled), operatives (semi-skilled), laborers & helpers, and service workers. Date as of 11/30/2020 (US only).
2020 PMD CLASS DEMOGRAPHICS:
Total class size — 60 partners Diversity data 27% 47% 14 
years
16
Women (27% of class)
worked in more   started at GS   Average tenure
4 than one division as lateral hires
Black (7% of class)
3
Hispanic/Latinx (5% of class) 15% 53%
10
Asian (17% of class)
worked in more   started as  
43 in Americas than one region campus hires
13 in EMEA
3 in Asia Pacific
1 in Bengaluru
2019 MD CLASS DEMOGRAPHICS:
Total class size — 465 MDs Diversity data 66% 19% 15%
134
Women (29% of class)
started at GS as   worked in more   worked in more  
20 analysts or associates than one division than one region
Black (4% of class)
10
Hispanic/Latinx (2% of class)
120
Asian (26% of class)
249 in Americas (53%)
142 in EMEA (31%)
74 in Asia Pacific (16%)
BOARD DEMOGRAPHICS:
Diversity data of nominees 42% 6.3  64
years
5
Women
New nominees in   Median tenure Median age
1 the last 5 years
Black
1
Indian descent 58% 25%
1
Career military
Nominees who are  Nominees who  
diverse by race, gender   are non-US or  
or sexual orientation dual citizens
38
Goldman Sachs 2020 People Strategy Report
Key Performance Metrics
Employee Training/Learning Data
 Number of employees that received   Number of learning and 
leadership and professional development  development programs 
training in 2019–2020: offered in 2020:
+
36,000 15
employees
Community Engagement Statistics
Number of employees volunteered through  Number of graduates of  
Community TeamWorks in 2020: 10,000 Small Businesses:
+ +
8,000 10,000
volunteers from business owners in the US across all 50 states, 
80 Puerto Rico, Guam and Washington, D.C., and
over 1,800
offices participated in
430+ UK business owners
virtual volunteer projects with
+
200
nonprofits globally
39