
THE FUTURE,  
Integrating Sustainability with  
Purpose across Our Business
Goldman Sachs 2020 Sustainability Report
Goldman Sachs 2020 Sustainability Report
39
54
15
Letter to Our Shareholders
03 
Introduction
05    
OUR WORK   OUR   OUR PARTNERSHIPS,  
WITH CLIENTS FIRM ENGAGEMENT AND IMPACT
16  Focusing Our Commercial Capabilities on  41  Managing Our Climate Impact 55  Improving ESG Data
Sustainable Solutions
44  Sustainability of Our Operations and   56  Advancing Net Zero Together
18  Investment Banking Supply Chain
57  Building New Markets
24  Global Markets 47  A Healthy Place to Work
58  Supporting Stronger Sustainability Policy
27  Asset Management 48  A Global Reliance on Clean Energy
59  Thought Leadership on Sustainability
32  Consumer & Wealth Management 49  Cultivating a Sustainable, Diverse  
61  Investing with Impact
Supply Chain
33  Cross-Divisional Initiatives and Capabilities
51  Governance with Purpose
36  Showcase
Metrics
71  80
PEOPLE  
Recognition
74    
STRATEGY
SASB Index
76  REPORT
2
Goldman Sachs 2020 Sustainability Report
Letter to Our Shareholders
David M. Solomon  
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
FELLOW  
SHAREHOLDERS,
Early in 2020, it wasn’t clear whether the momentum behind sustainability 
would last. In December 2019, we announced our 10-year target of $750 billion 
in financing, investing and advisory activity focused on our two priorities of 
climate transition and inclusive growth. The response was overwhelmingly 
positive. But then COVID-19 hit, markets plummeted and concerns grew that 
sustainability would lose steam.
But, instead of slowing down, it actually sped up. A record of $732 billion in sustainable debt was issued in 2020, and for 
our part, Goldman Sachs achieved $156 billion in sustainable-finance activity — more than a fifth of our goal. Now, as 
more and more of our clients work with us to meet their decarbonization goals, we can say definitively that sustainability 
is not an offshoot of our business; it is our business.
That being said, we’ve still got a long way to go. In March 2021, we announced a commitment to align our financing 
activities with a net-zero-by-2050 pathway. We’ve also set a medium-term goal to achieve net-zero emissions in our 
operations and supply chain by 2030. In addition, we’re working to set more near-term, interim-business goals and 
further integrate climate-risk considerations into how we do business.
And, because we cannot possibly confront the challenges of climate change and structural inequity on our own, we’ve 
gone beyond our commercial work to partner with our peers and other organizations to effect real change. For instance, 
we’re working with the Bloomberg-sponsored Climate Finance Leadership Initiative to help attract more private capital 
to sustainable infrastructure projects in emerging markets.
Another example is our latest initiative, launched in partnership with Black women–led organizations: One Million Black 
Women. Over the next 10 years, we will invest $10 billion to address the disparities Black women face, with the goal of 
impacting the lives of at least 1 million Black women by 2030. We’ve created a new advisory council of prominent Black 
leaders to help guide our efforts, and the excitement we’ve seen during our listening tour with Black-led businesses  
and organizations has been incredible.
3
Goldman Sachs 2020 Sustainability Report
Letter to Our Shareholders
But, while sustainable finance is core to our purpose, we can’t deliver on that purpose without our people. With that  
in mind, we are releasing in tandem with this document our inaugural People Strategy Report. We are a talent-centric 
organization, and it is critical that we remain a leader and innovator in finding, developing and supporting talent,  
the same way we do in serving our clients.
As CEO, I believe nothing is more important than our people’s well-being. Their professional growth adds to the success 
of the firm. So we’ve developed a strategy that rests on three pillars spanning the breadth of a career at Goldman Sachs: 
attracting talent; supporting our people and sustaining our culture; and broadening our impact. Our Global Head of 
Human Capital Management, Bentley de Beyer, is responsible for ensuring that this strategy is fully aligned with our 
larger strategic goals.
Within those three pillars, we see many opportunities for further modernization, but running through them all is a focus 
on diversity, equity and inclusion. It’s vital to our business that we allow all our people to bring their authentic selves to 
the office and that our firm reflects the communities in which we live and work.
And, as this year’s report explains, we’ve made good progress on our aspirational diversity and inclusion goals. In our 
2020 campus analyst class in the Americas, we achieved an important first: 55 percent were women. We set additional 
goals for retaining and promoting talent at the vice-president level. And our most recent partner and managing director 
classes were the most diverse in our firm’s history. There’s still a long road ahead, but I will continue to make this effort  
a personal priority.
So we’re well-positioned for 2021, and that’s due in no small part to our people’s exceptional performance in 2020.  
I was truly amazed by their dedication and resilience. And now, as life after the pandemic comes into view, we will bring 
with us all the lessons we’ve learned. We know our people do their best when they can come together to work, innovate 
and thrive. But we must also continue to give them the flexibility they need to manage both their work and their personal 
lives. We’re committed to striking the right balance and continuing to listen to our people, at all levels, so we can support 
them in what is still a rapidly changing environment. After all, attracting, developing and supporting our talent is 
ultimately how we achieve our purpose as a firm: to advance sustainable economic growth and financial opportunity.
The year 2020 had its fair share of twists and turns, but in the end it proved that we’re on the right course. To provide 
strong, long-term returns for our shareholders we must advance sustainable and inclusive long-term growth. And as  
our progress this year showed, our people are more than ready to meet the task.
 
David M. Solomon
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
4
Goldman Sachs 2020 Sustainability Report
INTRODUCTION
A SUSTAINABLE 
FUTURE DEMANDS 
INFORMED STRATEGIC 
DECISIONS TODAY.
At Goldman Sachs, we have a long-standing commitment to sustainability. 
When we laid out our purpose at our 2020 Investor Day, it was a clear 
commitment to this new era of finance we look to shape and to lead. 
Our Purpose is driven by our core values of Partnership, Client Service, 
Integrity and Excellence.
Our Purpose We advance sustainable economic 
growth and financial opportunity.
At Goldman Sachs, we view climate transition and inclusive growth 
as drivers of risk and opportunity for us and our clients. As this era 
has evolved, we have integrated and elevated our sustainability efforts 
across the firm. 2020 marked a pivotal moment in our approach. We 
accelerated our commitment to sustainable finance as an expression of 
our broader purpose, and set about leveraging the breadth of our firm, 
people and broader ecosystem to expand our impact.
5
Goldman Sachs 2020 Sustainability Report
Introduction
SUSTAINABILITY FOR   
THE FUTURE, NOW
At Goldman Sachs, we view sustainability through a broad lens. Our approach is driven through our work with clients, how we  
manage our firm and how we address market gaps, including through partnerships, engagement and impact. Climate Transition and  
Inclusive Growth are the two holistic pillars that underpin our work, including our $750 billion commitment and our broad focus  
on driving toward a more sustainable economy that works for all. This includes a cross-cutting focus on economic empowerment  
and investment in underserved communities to drive more inclusive, sustainable growth.
OUR  
PURPOSE
We advance sustainable 
economic growth and  
financial opportunity
ADVANCING THE   DRIVING 
CLIMATE TRANSITION INCLUSIVE GROWTH
CLEAN  SUSTAINABLE ECOSYSTEM  ACCESSIBLE  ACCESSIBLE  
ENERGY TRANSPORT SERVICES & INNOVATIVE  & AFFORDABLE 
HEALTHCARE EDUCATION
WASTE &  SUSTAINABLE FINANCIAL  COMMUNITIES
MATERIALS FOOD & AGRICULTURE INCLUSION
WE ACHIEVE THIS THROUGH:
WHAT WE DO HOW WE DO IT HOW WE ADDRESS GAPS
Our work   Our partnerships,  
Our firm
with clients engagement and impact
For case studies on how we are delivering across these themes, see page 36.
Read about the initiatives we are driving to address market gaps across these pillars, including  
One Million Black Women, 10,000 Small Businesses and 10,000 Women, on page 61.
6
Goldman Sachs 2020 Sustainability Report
Introduction
As shown in the accompanying graphic, our purpose is supported by two core pillars: climate 
transition and inclusive growth. Within these two pillars are sets of investment themes, nine in 
total, that establish our focus going forward.
OUR NINE SUSTAINABLE GROWTH THEMES
Climate transition and inclusive growth are the pillars of our sustainable growth strategy.  
Within these pillars, we are focused on nine areas where we see the most potential for impact.
CLIMATE TRANSITION INCLUSIVE GROWTH
Helping industries usher in and thrive   Leveraging our capabilities to improve access and 
in a low-carbon economy affordability and advancing economic empowerment
Clean Energy Accessible & Innovative Healthcare
Enable renewable-energy generation, energy efficiency   Enable the use of digital technology and advanced devices  
and grid services. and diagnostics for better outcomes.
Sustainable Transport Financial Inclusion
Shift modes of transit through electric vehicles, connected services,  Advance financial inclusion for all, including underserved 
autonomous driving and public transportation development. populations, by promoting access to capital, financial technology 
and products that increase access, support financial health and 
drive more equitable economic growth.
Sustainable Food & Agriculture Accessible & Affordable Education
Enable green agricultural production, storage, processing   Enable greater access to education, improve learning outcomes 
and distribution to feed the world. and help close opportunity gaps for learners of all ages.
Waste & Materials Communities
Promote sustainable production and consumption,   Enable infrastructure development, affordable housing  
along with responsible waste management. and livelihood advancement.
Ecosystem Services
Contribute to the sustainable management of natural resources, 
monetizing the value of forests, water and biodiversity.
We execute on our purpose through:
1. Our Work with Clients — What we do
We support our clients and their priorities on a daily basis. Increasingly, our clients see climate 
transition and inclusive growth as we do: as drivers of risk and opportunity, and the key 
determinants of their success going forward.
7
Goldman Sachs 2020 Sustainability Report
Introduction
“O  ur approach to sustainability centers on delivering commercial solutions for our clients 
and supporting our communities as they face a growing set of opportunities and challenges 
related to climate transition and inclusive growth. It starts with our work with clients and 
how we manage our firm and extends to how we address market gaps by engaging partners 
and investing with impact, building on two decades of experience driving economic 
empowerment and investing in inclusive growth.”
— Dina Powell McCormick, Global Head of Sustainability and Inclusive Growth
2. Our Firm — How we do it
We are making sustainability central to how we manage our business broadly. We promote 
diversity and inclusion as an imperative not just for our firm but also for our clients and  
their boards. We are deepening the integration of environmental and climate considerations  
into our business decisions and practices, and are working to radically improve the state  
of climate data. We have clear commitments, including targeting net-zero GHG emissions  
across our operations and supply chain by 2030 and aligning our financing activities with  
a net-zero-by-2050 transition pathway — both supported by robust governance.
Our people power our success. As a talent-centric firm, our future depends on what we do 
today to attract the talent that differentiates us in the global marketplace, to sustain our firm’s 
culture, to advance critical diversity and inclusion priorities, and to cultivate opportunities 
for the people of Goldman Sachs to positively impact our clients and our broader communities. 
Please see the accompanying People Strategy Report for details on our commitments and 
progress in these areas.
One Million Black   In early 2021, Goldman Sachs committed $10 billion in 
Women Spurring   direct investment capital and $100 million in philanthropic 
capital over the next decade to address opportunity 
Inclusive Growth
gaps for Black women in the US. Through this signature 
initiative, we will invest with a focus on key moments 
in Black women’s lives across healthcare, housing, 
education, access to capital, job creation and workforce 
advancement, digital connectivity, and financial health. 
One Million Black Women is built to address both 
the gender and racial biases that Black women have 
experienced disproportionately for generations — 
obstacles that have only been exacerbated by the 
pandemic. The program is named for and guided by 
the goal of impacting the lives of at least one million 
Black women by 2030.
8
Goldman Sachs 2020 Sustainability Report
Introduction
3. Our Partnerships, Engagement and Impact — How we address gaps
Addressing systemic challenges requires systemic response. No one firm or set of corporations 
can do it on their own. Our external partnerships and strategic philanthropy complement 
our work with clients, driving needed change through social engagement, informing public 
policy, collaboration with world-class organizations and thought leaders, and game-changing 
initiatives guided by our sustainability-related strategies and commitments.
Operationalizing Our Ambition
We have aligned and adapted the structure of our business to this purpose, under one cohesive 
and integrated OneGS approach. We created a new role to bring together the full range of tools 
and capabilities across both pillars of climate transition and inclusive growth, naming Dina 
Powell McCormick as our first Global Head of Sustainability and Inclusive Growth.
Each of our business segments — Investment Banking, Global Markets, Asset Management and 
Consumer & Wealth Management — has launched a Sustainability Council, led by senior partners. 
These councils focus on identifying key ESG priorities for the business, developing capabilities 
across workstreams and delivering sustainability-focused solutions to clients in a holistic way. 
The councils also help drive our efforts to equip our people with the resources they need to help 
clients address critical global sustainability challenges.
Progress Toward  Goldman Sachs entered 2020 with a new target to deploy $750 billion in sustainable financing, 
$750 Billion by 2030 investing and advisory activity by the beginning of 2030. Over the course of the year, we 
exceeded our expectations by contributing $156 billion in such activity. By 2030, we expect 
climate transition to account for $600 billion of our overall commitment.
2020 2030
$26B 
Inclusive 
$156B Growth $750B
$37B  $93B 
Multi-Theme Climate 
Transition
9
Goldman Sachs 2020 Sustainability Report
Introduction
Our Own $800 Million 
Sustainability Bond
Using the same financial toolkit we recommend to our clients, we launched in February 2021 our 
inaugural sustainability bond issuance. This $800 million commitment is aligned with our sustainable- 
finance framework for future issuances, and funds a range of on-balance-sheet sustainable-finance 
activity that maps to our nine themes — demonstrating our belief that building a low-carbon,  
inclusive economy is a business imperative.
Moving forward, we are ahead of the pace we set for ourselves — reflecting the increased 
importance that our clients are placing on climate transition and inclusive growth. Our 
commercial impact is further advanced through our long-standing sustainability work in the 
broader ecosystem, as we partner with thought leaders, advocates and stakeholders such as 
investors, policymakers and civic leaders on these vital issues and opportunities.
Our unified approach to sustainability is differentiated and robust. We offer a strong commercial 
orientation, aligned with our purpose, leveraging our breadth of knowledge and OneGS delivery 
to ensure each client has access to the entirety of the firm’s ideas, capabilities and expertise.  
And we are focused on helping all of our stakeholders step confidently into the future, now.
10
Goldman Sachs 2020 Sustainability Report
Introduction
OUR SUSTAINABILITY JOURNEY
Goldman Sachs has a long and well-established track record of sustainability leadership, seeking out commercial 
solutions to address ESG-related risks and opportunities. Our recent $750 billion 10-year commitment is simply 
the latest catalyst to our efforts. Since 2001, we have facilitated nearly $10 billion in investments in underserved 
communities and, since 2006, $115 billion in clean energy financings and investments.
20 YEARS OF SUSTAINABLE FINANCE
2021
2020
Launched One Million 
2019 Black Women initiative; 
Met many of our 5-year 
announced net-zero- 
2018 operational impact 
Established our  by-2050 commitment; 
goals early; inaugurated 
2015 Sustainable   $800 million inaugural 
Committed to  Launch With GS Black 
Finance group;  Goldman Sachs 
2014 50 percent global  and Latinx Cohort
First of our peers to  announced $750 billion  sustainability bond
talent represented 
reach carbon neutrality;  by 2030 sustainable-
Expanded green  by women
set new 5-year  finance commitment; set 
bond market — first 
operational impact  2025 operational goals
century green bond, 
goals for 2020
first green energy 
market securitization, 
first Latin America 
2012
renewable project 
green bond 2009 Inaugural clean  
2008 energy financing  
Launched 10,000 
and investment 
2007 Small Businesses 
Launched   target set
initiative; committed 
2005 Launched GS  1 0,000 Women  to achieve carbon 
initiative
SUSTAIN, which  neutrality in our 
2001
One of the first  
incorporates  operations by 2020 
US banks to develop 
Launched our   ESG criteria into  (achieved in 2015)
an Environmental 
Urban Investment  the fundamental 
Policy Framework
Group analysis of  
companies to 
identify long-term 
outperformers
11
Goldman Sachs 2020 Sustainability Report
Introduction
RESPONDING TO THE IMPACTS  
OF THE COVID-19 PANDEMIC
COVID-19 continues to pose unique challenges for businesses, individuals and communities 
around the world, and we continue to support efforts to alleviate its impact.
For Our People
Health and Safety
As the pandemic hit, we transitioned our workforce to be 98 percent remote. We partnered with healthcare experts 
to develop policies and protocols that prioritized the health and safety of our people, including access to health case 
managers. Our comprehensive protocols include regular testing, health surveys, temperature checks at arrival and 
physical distancing. We launched a mandatory on-site COVID-19 screening program at our US, London and Warsaw 
offices, designed to identify potential infections early.
Adding and Extending Benefits
We added to and extended benefits to our people, including mental health support — curating digital learning resources 
and insights on resiliency and wellness, as well as digital meditation and fitness classes. More than 15,000 employees 
have attended 70 of these new resilience programs rolled out in response to COVID-19.
We offered 10 days of COVID-19 family leave to allow time to care for family members or childcare needs, including 
homeschooling. In introducing telemedicine access to employees and covered dependents enrolled in the firm’s 
US healthcare plan, we waived all costs of urgent-care visits, including COVID-19 consultations. We provided access  
to global patient advocacy teams to help employees and their families gain access to appropriate COVID-19 care.
Supporting Vendor Staff
Working with our vendor partners, we extended our 
support to on-site vendor staff to ensure they were 
paid during the pandemic, whether they worked or 
not. For those who came into work, we reimbursed 
transportation costs and provided in-office meals.
“Return to Office” Kits
When we needed assistance putting together 
COVID-19 preparedness kits for our people, we turned 
to two 10,000 Small Businesses graduates, UK-China 
Trading Ltd and Rhoback, and a 10,000 Women 
graduate, Bonorganik, and one of its long-standing 
diverse vendors, woman-owned Scarborough and 
Tweed. Together, this team delivered 60,000 “Return 
to Office” preparedness kits. Each kit consisted of two 
washable cloth masks, a digital thermometer, hand 
sanitizer, sanitizing wipes and an informational card.
12
Goldman Sachs 2020 Sustainability Report
Introduction
For Our Clients
COVID-19 Relief Financing
Throughout the COVID-19 pandemic, our firm underwrote nearly $66 billion in pandemic-related financings for a 
broad array of clients, including corporates, sovereigns and multilaterals, designed to help alleviate the economic  
and social impact of the ongoing global health crisis. These included a $2 billion sustainable development bond for  
the World Bank tied to addressing the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals, and a COVID-19 response  
bond for the New Development Bank, also for $2 billion.
For Small Businesses
Small Business Lending During the Pandemic
Since early 2020 through first quarter 2021, Goldman Sachs deployed over $970 million in capital for small business 
loans solely through Community Development Financial Institutions (CDFIs) and other mission-driven lenders. We  
also provided $25 million in grants to CDFIs and other mission-driven lenders and community-based organizations  
to enable them to deliver technical assistance and services to meet the significant, urgent needs brought about by  
the pandemic. To amplify the reach and impact of our capital, Goldman Sachs executed public-private partnerships, 
including emergency funds in New York City and the City of Chicago, and partnered with organizations that have a 
track record serving entrepreneurs of color, such as the National Urban League and US Hispanic Chamber of Commerce. 
Through those partnerships, Goldman Sachs delivered a series of webinars (translated into several languages) aimed  
at reaching historically underserved businesses. Our loans reached more than 21,000 small businesses, with an  
average loan size of $45,000.
32 45
% of our capital went to  % of our capital was deployed in 
businesses in low-income  minority communities
communities
13
Goldman Sachs 2020 Sustainability Report
Introduction
For Our Communities
Goldman Sachs COVID-19 Relief Fund
In 2020, we launched a $30 million commitment funded by GS Gives to support 
communities hardest hit by COVID-19 around the world. The commitment included 
$5 million to match employee donations to nonprofit organizations. This followed the 
$1 million donated to the CDC Foundation, the Chinese Red Cross and the International 
Medical Corps for COVID-19 relief. The fund supports organizations working directly  
on relief and response efforts across five key priorities: (1) assisting health providers  
on the front lines; (2) providing assistance to the most vulnerable populations;  
(3) providing economic relief for reduced and lost work; (4) supporting children and 
families in the wake of school closures; and (5) supporting medical research. To date, 
the fund has deployed $42 million to 305+ nonprofits across 31 countries.
Community TeamWorks
In April of 2020, our Community TeamWorks internal initiative launched our first-ever virtual volunteering campaign 
to support groups disproportionately impacted by COVID-19. To date, more than 8,000 volunteers from 80 offices have 
participated in more than 430 virtual volunteer projects with 200+ nonprofits globally.
Supporting Community Well-Being
Asphalt Green is a nonprofit that provides high-quality sports, swim and fitness instruction and programs to New York 
City children and adults. During the COVID-19 crisis, through Goldman Sachs’ support, Asphalt Green pivoted its Recess 
Enhancement Program to provide free digital resources for kids and educators to stay active. By the end of 2020, the 
games, which promote physical activity while maintaining social distancing, reached more than 900,000 site visits from 
around the world.
Supporting Frontline Workers and Vulnerable Populations
The Conrad New York Downtown partnered with Hilton and American Express in their initiative to donate up to 1 million 
hotel room stays across the US to frontline medical professionals leading the fight against COVID-19. The rooms were 
made available without charge to doctors, nurses, EMTs, paramedics and other frontline medical staff. In addition, 
Conrad New York Downtown also provided hotel rooms to staff from the Ali Forney Center in order to help the center 
maintain operations. The center manages and develops transitional housing for the ~1,000 LGBTQ+ homeless youths  
who seek shelter at the center every year.
Supply Donations around the World
In response to the COVID-19 pandemic throughout 2020, we facilitated the donation of more than 2.5 million surgical 
masks and 700,000 N95 masks to hospitals worldwide. In New York, we connected Mount Sinai Hospital with our ground 
transportation partner, ETG, and donated cleaning supplies to help the dedicated car service safely transport healthcare 
workers to and from three local hospitals. In Bengaluru, we worked with the local Rotary organization to distribute dry 
rations to approximately 5,000 migrant laborers.
Supporting Healthcare Efforts
“Operation Northwell,” a unique partnership between Goldman Sachs, the Northwell Health system — the largest in  
NY State — and local small businesses, was one of our signature initiatives during the pandemic. The firm committed 
$2 million to the initiative and Goldman Sachs volunteers coordinated with four Northwell hospitals and 74 restaurants 
and other food and beverage vendors to provide grab-and-go food three times daily for 5,000 frontline healthcare 
workers and staff over the course of three months. “Hydration stations” were positioned strategically throughout  
the hospitals, allowing workers with limited time for breaks to stay hydrated.
14
THE FUTURE, NOW
OUR WORK 
WITH CLIENTS
We see our clients’ thinking coalescing 
around a key idea: Our shared future 
demands sustainable solutions.
Goldman Sachs 2020 Sustainability Report
Our Work with Clients
OUR WORK WITH CLIENTS
We have embraced sustainability across every aspect of our firm. This includes 
integrating sustainable finance into our businesses, reflecting the importance our client 
ecosystem is placing on climate transition and inclusive growth.
FOCUSING OUR COMMERCIAL 
CAPABILITIES ON SUSTAINABLE 
SOLUTIONS
Our infrastructure has evolved around sustainability, building out Sustainability Councils in each of our businesses to 
accelerate the growth in sustainable finance. Each council is led by senior partners to guide the development of solutions 
that deliver on our shared objectives, create and capture value, and ensure cross-pollination and coordination of 
innovation across the firm. Our OneGS approach — working across businesses, asset classes and geographies — helps us 
marshal our resources and people in mobilizing our sustainable-finance capabilities to meet the needs of our clients.
EMBEDDING SUSTAINABILITY IN OUR ONE GS OPERATING MODEL
Investment Banking  Asset Management 
Sustainability  Sustainability 
Council Council
SUSTAINABLE 
FINANCE
Global Markets  Consumer & Wealth  
Sustainability  Management 
Council Sustainability Council
16
Goldman Sachs 2020 Sustainability Report
Our Work with Clients
Within each business, the Sustainability Council offers the capacity to formulate, streamline and scale innovative 
capabilities and products developed around sustainable finance. Across businesses, the council model enables the 
efficient relay of new solutions and expertise across the firm — helping fully integrate a unified approach toward 
sustainability while also facilitating the commercial delivery of sustainable-finance products.
This cohesive approach toward advancing sustainable economic growth remains client-centered and opportunity-
focused. We are now developing and deploying a powerful sustainability thesis across our efforts to operate, invest, 
finance and advise globally — uniquely positioning Goldman Sachs to drive sustainable-finance further and faster  
as we move ahead.
OneGS: DELIVERING THE ENTIRETY  
OF GOLDMAN SACHS TO EACH CLIENT
INTEGRATED BUSINESS
STRATEGY + PURPOSE
ISSUER OPERATOR BUSINESS
•  ESG Financing •  Climate Goals   •  ESG Products and Services
•  ESG Ratings and Reporting (Decarbonization, Renewables) •  Strategy M&A
•  ESG Positioning &   •  Diversity Initiatives
Communication Strategy •  Supply Chain Management
•  ESG Activism Strategies
INVESTOR EMPLOYER
•  ESG Treasury and   •  ESG Pension/Direct  
Cash Management Contribution
•  ESG Transaction Banking •  Attract, Retain and  
•  Balance Sheet ESG Investing Engage Talent
17
Goldman Sachs 2020 Sustainability Report
Our Work with Clients
INVESTMENT  
BANKING
Sustainability has risen organically and strategically to become top-of-mind for our 
clients. Increasingly, we advise corporates seeking to integrate ESG or related principles 
into their strategy and help them identify sustainability-related risks and opportunities 
as levers of growth. This includes financing opportunities that fund investment in our 
clients’ transition to a lower-carbon-intensity business model, participating in the scaling 
of sustainable finance in equity capital markets, and facilitating M&A opportunities to 
accelerate climate transition and inclusive growth.
Across industries there is rising interest in better 
and more differentiated ways to sustainably 
deploy risk capital and to understand how ESG 
ALPHABET
factors are influencing stakeholder perception 
of long-term value propositions. Our clients seek 
analytical tools and relevant products to help 
manage risk, improve efficiencies and capture new  In August of 2020, we brought to market Alphabet’s first-ever 
opportunities going forward. The creation of a  sustainability bond issuance and the largest-ever such bond issued by 
a corporate. Proceeds will be targeted toward sustainability projects, 
Sustainability Council within Investment Banking 
including clean energy and transport, circular economy and design, 
helps mobilize this by educating investment 
energy efficiency, and affordable housing. The sustainability portions 
bankers globally, while ensuring new products 
represented $5.75 billion of the $10 billion financing.
and capabilities are developed, systematically 
distributed and scaled for our clients globally. Our 
ESG Advisory business provides clients with an 
assessment of their ESG positioning and potential 
vulnerabilities and opportunities. Goldman Sachs 
is able to provide unique insights and advice by 
combining investor and stakeholder perspectives 
and analysis, with diagnostic tools synthesizing 
data from the firm and third parties.
ESG Financing — Debt
2020 was an important year for the ESG financing 
market, driving both scale and innovation. Total 
issuance of green, social and sustainability bonds 
hit record numbers. Green bond issuances hit the 
$1 trillion mark in 2020. We also saw a dramatic 
rise in social and sustainability bonds from a 
diverse array of issuers, including corporates and 
sovereigns. In part, this can be attributed to the 
COVID-19 pandemic and racial equity issues that 
18
Goldman Sachs 2020 Sustainability Report
Our Work with Clients
SOUTHERN 
COMPANY
Goldman Sachs advised Southern Company, one of the largest domestic US utilities, in February 2021, on their 
Georgia Power financing — the first sustainability bond for a domestic utility in the United States and the first 
regulated domestic utility to issue under a sustainable-financing framework. The net proceeds of approximately 
$743 million raised will be allocated to sustainable projects such as spending with diverse and small business 
suppliers and investments in renewable energy projects.
arose during the year, but it is also a secular trend that had strong momentum before the events of 2020. Investors today 
are focused on this broader set of issues.
Our own sustainability bond issuance, a first for the firm, focuses on advancing investments in each of our nine core 
thematic areas. The $800 million offering in early 2021 reflects extensive cross-business collaboration within the 
firm as well as external collaboration with our clients and stakeholders, and has been very well received by the market, 
including new investors to Goldman Sachs.
19
Goldman Sachs 2020 Sustainability Report
Our Work with Clients
SUZANO
In September 2020, we worked with Suzano, a Brazilian paper and pulp firm, on its issuance of 
a $1.25 billion sustainability-linked bond — the first to conform with Sustainability-Linked Bond 
Principles (SLBPs). As per the structure of the issuance, the coupon will rise by 25 basis points if the 
company is unable to hit a target of reducing by 10.9 percent the carbon intensity of its products  
by December 31, 2025, compared with a baseline of 2015.
Sustainable KPI-Linked Issuances
KPI-linked financing is gaining momentum in capital markets. We are helping the market evolve from a project-based 
use of proceeds to a target-based framework, where the client commits to meet ESG-related targets by a set date.
In 2019, we led the first-ever sustainability-linked corporate bond that included a performance linkage based on 
a metric of sustainability. In 2020, we saw additional clients come to market with similar structures, reinforcing 
the interest in this as a funding mechanism across the credit spectrum. Goldman Sachs remains at the forefront by 
structuring the first- and second-ever EUR sustainability-linked bonds in the 
high-yield market in the first quarter of 2021. The firm continues to share 
$500M thought leadership via participation in initiatives such as the International 
Capital Market Association’s Sustainability-Linked Working Group.
SUSTAINABILITY-
EMPRESAS 
LINKED BOND IS 
FIRST ISSUED IN 
CMPC
LATIN AMERICA 
(EX-BRAZIL)
This $500 million, 10-year sustainability-linked 
bond is the first issued in Latin America (ex-Brazil) 
and second IG sustainability-linked bond in the 
entire region. The bond features aggressive KPIs 
of reductions in greenhouse gas emissions and 
industrial water use by 2025.
20
Goldman Sachs 2020 Sustainability Report
Our Work with Clients
$66B
WE HELPED RAISE  
IN COVID-19 
RELIEF BONDS
COVID Relief Financing
Through COVID-19, our firm underwrote nearly $66 billion in pandemic-related financings for a broad array of clients, 
including corporates, sovereigns and multilaterals, designed to help alleviate the economic and social impact of 
the ongoing global health crisis. These included a $5 billion sustainable development bond for the World Bank tied 
to addressing the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals, a €14 billion social bond for the European Commission 
and a $2 billion COVID-19 response bond for the New Development Bank.
Paris-Alignment Toolkit for Carbon-Intensive Clients
We are committed to delivering on the Paris Agreement’s  can do about it. It includes stakeholder-driven analytics to help 
ambitious goals, including by aligning our financing activities with  companies in carbon-intensive sectors understand and address 
a net-zero-carbon-by-2050 pathway and working with our clients,  risks related to how investors view them in light of the climate 
our industry peers and the public sector to make this commitment  transition. They know perceptions count, as do actions.
a reality. And, while long-term aspirations are important, business 
In 2020, several of our oil & gas and utilities clients used these 
leaders must not lose sight of what we can do in the here and now 
analytics to help contextualize targets and provide support 
to accelerate climate transition.
for setting more aggressive decarbonization targets. We are 
We have piloted a Paris-alignment toolkit with oil & gas and  deepening the toolkit with new analytics and currently are rolling 
utility clients, and will scale it moving forward as companies in  out the offering to other sectors. Future rollouts will focus on 
these sectors seek to address the journey toward a lower-carbon  leveraging the toolkit to drive commercial opportunities, such  
economy. The toolkit illuminates what investors care about on  as target-linked financing and M&A.
climate, how they evaluate corporates and what corporates 
Scaling Sustainable Finance in Equity Capital Markets
We look to deliver holistic services to our clients as they progress through the corporate lifecycle — helping them to build 
ESG into their DNA from early on. In advance of an initial public offering (IPO), and as they evolve, corporates seek our 
insight and advice on establishing the right ESG-related performance metrics for their business and stakeholders, and 
on how to improve their reporting standards through the adoption of SASB or similar frameworks. We also help introduce 
clients to sustainability-focused investors identified through bespoke targeting tools. Our policies and advice continue 
to evolve as we seek to drive change. In 2020, we established a requirement for all IPO clients to have at least one diverse 
board member; in 2021, we are raising that to two, of which one must be female.
We continue to work with clients to find new ways to innovate ESG in an equity capital context, such as helping companies 
leverage their IPO to catalyze their sustainability mission and efforts. An example of a capital markets innovation fueling 
the growth of sustainability-focused companies is Special Purpose Acquisition Companies (SPACs) — publicly listed 
entities that raise capital and then look to merge with a promising private growth company to give them the capital  
they need to thrive.
21
Goldman Sachs 2020 Sustainability Report
Our Work with Clients
We have helped take public many companies focused on addressing sustainability issues, including Array Technologies, 
the largest-ever renewables IPO to date, and then Shoals Technologies Group, which surpassed it in size, and View, the 
first-ever green-certified equity private placement globally.
ARRAY
Array Technologies went public with a $1.2 billion IPO in October 2020 with Goldman Sachs 
as lead left bookrunner — at the time the largest-ever US IPO in the renewables sector. We 
also served as lead left bookrunner on Array’s two follow-on offerings, raising an additional 
$2.3 billion. Array is one of the world’s largest manufacturers of ground-mounting systems used 
in solar energy projects. Array’s principal product is a highly engineered, integrated system of 
steel supports, electric motors, gearboxes and electronic controllers commonly referred to as 
a single-axis “tracker.” Trackers move solar panels throughout the day to maintain an optimal 
orientation to the sun, significantly increasing energy production. 
SHOALS
In early 2021, Goldman Sachs was lead left bookrunner on the $2.2 billion IPO of Shoals  VIEW
Technologies Group, which exceeded Array’s IPO as the largest-ever US-listed IPO in the 
renewables sector. Shoals offers electrical balance of system (EBOS) for solar projects. 
EBOS covers all the components necessary to carry the electric current produced by solar 
panels to an inverter and ultimately to the power grid. The robust, holistic suite of solutions 
brings together proprietary components and novel intellectual property, along with unique  The market leader in smart windows, View uses 
installation methods, into a single offering. artificial intelligence to automatically adjust 
View Smart Windows in response to the sun and 
increase access to natural light, which improves 
people’s health and experience in buildings while 
simultaneously reducing energy consumption to 
$2.2B mitigate the effects of climate change. The platform 
also enables a host of 21st-century applications 
such as a transparent display, environmental 
sensing and 5G connectivity. As part of the PIPE 
(private investment in public company), we worked 
THE LARGEST- with View to obtain a green label through a second-
EVER US-LISTED  party opinion from consultant Sustainalytics, 
IPO IN THE  a Morningstar company. This first-ever green-
certified equity private placement globally 
RENEWABLES 
resonated exceptionally well with investors and 
SECTOR
helped View to further elevate and credentialize 
their ESG story and positioning.
22
Goldman Sachs 2020 Sustainability Report
Our Work with Clients
AUTOTECH
Given the increasing prevalence of electric vehicles, Goldman Sachs has oriented its coverage to focus specifically on 
the auto tech space to more effectively and holistically serve these clients, leading to $25 billion of debt and equity 
financing activity and more than $10 billion of announced M&A in 2020 alone.
FISKER
Designer and developer of one of the world’s 
most sustainable electric vehicles
CHARGEPOINT
Market leader that helped pioneer networked fueling, 
offering one of the industry’s most comprehensive 
portfolios of EV-charging solutions
ROMEO 
POWER
QUANTUMSCAPE
Leading provider of 
Developer of innovative, next-generation, solid-state lithium- battery technology to 
metal batteries for use in electric vehicles the commercial electric-
vehicles market
23
Goldman Sachs 2020 Sustainability Report
Our Work with Clients
GLOBAL 
MARKETS
Global Markets continues to innovate and scale its offering to meet our clients’ 
increasing demand for ESG-related products and solutions; the business is now also 
guided by its newly formed Sustainability Council. Leveraging Marquee, the firm’s 
dedicated cross-asset client portal, clients can now access a one-stop shop for all ESG 
content, products and analytics the firm has to offer. To help assess and manage carbon 
footprints, we are developing sophisticated risk-analytics tools and are also helping 
clients discover and activate decarbonization opportunities.
ESG Products and Solutions
Global Markets continues to create and add to our products and solutions related to sustainable finance, including 
thematic baskets, structured notes, credit portfolio trading and liquidity provision in third-party ESG products.
Custom Baskets
Our Global Markets custom baskets platform allows investors to gain exposure to trade ideas not accessible through 
off-the-shelf market-cap-weighted indices. With increasing client focus on sustainability themes, we have built out our 
sustainable basket platform, allowing clients exposure to various investable ESG thematics in a liquid and risk-controlled 
way. We have traded in excess of $2 billion across dedicated thematic baskets on clean hydrogen, renewable energy 
and the European Green Deal, among others. With the field of sustainable investing ever evolving, the team continues 
to add new offerings to the platform. Current focus will be adding thematic baskets aligned with the UN Sustainable 
Development Goals.
Structured Notes
In 2020, Global Markets issued over $700 million of structured notes linked to a variety of third-party ESG indices, 
including indices exclusive to Goldman Sachs. Following the launch of the firm’s inaugural sustainability bond  
benchmark issuance in February 2021, Global Markets launched its first structured sustainable issuance to retail  
via a third-party distributor.
24
Goldman Sachs 2020 Sustainability Report
Our Work with Clients
ESG Market-Making Activities
We have launched the ESG Index book series, helping our clients navigate the complex field of ESG third-party products. 
As a market maker (Indices, ETFs and Futures), we feel it is important to provide liquidity to our clients in sustainable 
alternatives to their traditional investment vehicles of choice.
Credit Portfolio Trading
Goldman Sachs has incorporated ESG considerations such as exclusion lists and scores into our credit portfolio trading 
capabilities. This allows clients to efficiently allocate inflows to a portfolio of bonds that matches their ESG criteria 
or simply to rebalance an existing portfolio to track a new ESG benchmark that is more in line with their sustainability 
goals. $7 billion of our credit portfolio trading volumes globally in the fourth quarter of 2020 had an ESG consideration. 
One example of this was a client investing $300 million into liquid investment-grade credit, creating a portfolio that was 
optimized both for yield but also an ESG score. Most of our portfolio trading solutions are bespoke to meet client needs, 
so implementations can vary.
Marquee ESG Client Portal
The ESG website was launched in October 2020, on Marquee, our centralized cross-asset platform that allows us  
to externalize the analytics, data and tools we use internally with clients. The site highlights all our ESG capabilities, 
offering a collation of environmental, social and governance resources, featuring ESG commentary, thought  
leadership pieces across asset classes, ESG fund flow analytics, ESG thematic baskets, and ESG datasets sponsored  
by GIR SUSTAIN.
25
Goldman Sachs 2020 Sustainability Report
Our Work with Clients
ESG Content
Ranging from global investment research 
to trade ideas provided by our Sales & 
Trading personnel, this covers a broad 
range of sustainable-investment topics.
ESG Analytics
Our equity research team GS SUSTAIN 
has externalized its ESG ranking via API, 
covering more than 6,500 companies 
globally. Leveraging the scores, clients 
are now able to upload their portfolios 
and compare their ESG scores versus a 
benchmark in a user-friendly interface. 
Recently, we integrated ESG flows data, 
allowing clients directional insight into 
ESG fund flows globally.
ESG Products and Solutions
We continue to develop products and 
solutions for and in partnership with our 
clients to help them achieve their ESG 
objectives. Many of these products are 
now accessible via Marquee, enabling 
clients to observe sustainable — and 
tradable — themes directly.
Carbon Footprinting
With regulatory and social pressures 
increasing the momentum toward a 
net-zero world, Global Markets has  
made Carbon Emissions Analysis the  
next focus of the analytics platform 
build. The upcoming tool will provide 
clients with the ability to see company-  OUR EQUITY RESEARCH 
and portfolio-level footprinting   TEAM GS SUSTAIN HAS 
analysis of equity and fixed-income holdings in  
EXTERNALIZED ITS 
line with globally accepted carbon-accounting 
ESG RANKING VIA API, 
framework for equities and bonds. It will enable  
COVERING MORE THAN 
us to suggest actions on how to mitigate risk  
6,500
within the portfolio, including the potential use  
of voluntary carbon offsets.
COMPANIES GLOBALLY
26
Goldman Sachs 2020 Sustainability Report
Our Work with Clients
ASSET  
MANAGEMENT
In pursuing opportunities for clients in sustainable finance, Asset Management has 
introduced new resources, refined existing tools and expertise, and developed novel 
tools to help scale its approach. We are applying low-carbon tilts across portfolios, 
helping clients target net-zero carbon emissions and investing in underserved 
communities. These efforts build on one of the leading investing and asset management 
franchises in the world, across the breadth of asset classes and with global scale.
We create client investment portfolios with a deep roster of internally managed and open-architecture strategies, 
including ESG and impact investing. In alternatives, various sustainable considerations are integrated into our 
investment strategies, including within our merchant bank — across private equity, real estate, private credit and 
infrastructure in climate transition and inclusive growth themes — and in the Renewable Power Group, which invests 
on behalf of clients and has deployed $2.3 billion toward solar and storage projects in the US to date. Our cash 
management solutions and investment products integrate sustainability considerations into liquidity solutions 
offerings, such as money market funds and SMAs. Proactive stewardship engages companies across 
themes related to sustainability and financial performance.
$137B
“ Our commitment to sustainability is founded on the belief that the impact of our actions today should echo well 
into the future, beyond the lifespan of our investments. ESG has become a foundational element of our strategy, 
including developing innovative products and partnerships, and providing our clients with comprehensive  IN FIRMWIDE 
access to the depth and breadth of our capabilities. Our collective efforts point toward one common goal: 
generating positive and measurable impact for our communities, alongside returns, by investing in companies  ESG AUS  
and projects which advance sustainable solutions and drive inclusive economic growth.”
AT THE END  
— Margaret Anadu, Global Head of Sustainability and Impact for Asset Management 
OF 2020
FIRMWIDE ESG AUS ($ billions)
160
137
73
80
17
11
4 7
0
2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020
27
Goldman Sachs 2020 Sustainability Report
Our Work with Clients
Stewardship and Engagement
The Global Stewardship team serves as a dedicated resource to Asset Management’s investment teams, overseeing 
several key areas, including proxy voting, direct engagement and industry leadership. For the 2020 proxy season, the 
Global Stewardship team conducted 410 engagement meetings with 339 companies.
Promoting Board Diversity
For the 2021 proxy season, Asset Management updated its policy to vote against the entire board at US companies 
without a female on the board, and vote against all members of the nominating committee at US companies without  
a female and at least one other diverse board member. At non-US companies, the firm will continue to vote against  
all members of the nominating committee or top executives at companies without a female on the board.
Encouraging Disclosure of Material Climate Data
In October 2020, Asset Management launched a climate collaboration engagement framework to encourage disclosure 
of material emissions data. Our Stewardship team worked with the Fundamental Equity, Quantitative Investment 
Strategies, and Fixed Income investment teams within the business to identify companies held in our portfolios who do 
not disclose emissions data considered material under the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) framework, 
and we will seek to engage with these companies to promote disclosure of material climate data.
The Positive Impact of “Low-Carbon Tilt”
GSAM’s Quantitative Investment Strategies (QIS) team began managing climate strategies in 2016, working with 
New York State Common Retirement Fund to significantly reduce the emissions profile of its US equity portfolio while 
remaining within defined risk tolerances. 
MORE THAN
55B
$
IN QUANTITATIVE 
EQUITY ASSETS 
WITH OUR CLIMATE 
TILT IN 2020
28
Goldman Sachs 2020 Sustainability Report
Our Work with Clients
Since then, the suite of climate approaches has expanded significantly. In 2020, QIS implemented a climate tilt across  
all their active equity portfolios. The team has conducted significant research to assess the embedded risk of companies 
associated with the potential shift to a low-carbon economy. Motivated by financial materiality, their approach reduces 
current and future emissions based on a proprietary metric that aims to adjust for the costs of economic substitution 
and consider the real-world carbon supply chain. QIS climate approaches are flexible and can be applied to various 
investment approaches, including, but not limited to, smart beta and alpha strategies. 
Our assets integrated with our climate tilt have grown from a single fund of ~$2 billion in assets in 2015 to an array  
of all quantitative equity funds that by the end of 2020 covered more than $55 billion in assets.
We offer deep integration of the climate tilt as a standard 
across all quantitative funds — across all of our portfolios — 
not just the ones thought of as climate-focused.
Impact Investing
The Sustainable Investing Group (SIG) and Urban Investment Group (UIG) are our platform for direct-impact investment 
in private markets. SIG focuses on climate- and environment-related opportunities, while UIG invests in creating 
economic opportunity in underserved areas. These themes bring strong investment track records, a client orientation, 
and a commitment to advancing the firm’s climate transition and inclusive growth objectives.
The Horizon Fund, which will be managed by the SIG within Asset Management, will focus on growth-oriented private 
equity investments across core environment and climate-transition themes, targeting at least one of the following five 
environmental themes: waste and materials, sustainable food and agriculture, ecosystem services and water, clean 
energy, and sustainable transport.
29
Goldman Sachs 2020 Sustainability Report
Our Work with Clients
Investing in Green, Social and Sustainable Bonds
We are working with corporate clients to meet their sustainability goals by designing portfolios invested in green,  
social and sustainable bonds, as well as building traditional portfolios with a higher percentage of women on corporate 
boards or lower carbon emissions than their benchmarks.
These include corporate portfolio solutions. For example, Dropbox made a commitment to carbon neutrality by 2030. 
Its treasury office wanted to understand how to map their corporate and social impact goals back to their investment 
portfolios, and how to invest excess cash with similar risk/return profile but lower carbon intensity. We worked with 
Dropbox to create a customized portfolio made up of green, social and sustainability bonds that allows them to 
proactively tilt into targeted impact themes such as water and clean energy. Dropbox took a sleeve of their liquidity 
portfolio with a slightly longer time horizon to focus on investments with impact. The portfolio we created includes 
issuances whose proceeds will fund clean-water projects, the development and operation of solar energy projects, 
and the expansion of renewable energy facilities.
We also handle other liquidity funds with ESG features. These include USD Liquid Reserves and Sterling Liquid Reserves 
converted to ESG, that make exclusions such as coal while also engaging with bond issuers to ensure at least 10 percent 
of the board is made up of women, as well as five international fixed-income mutual funds ranging from investment-
grade to emerging-market ESG offerings.
30
Goldman Sachs 2020 Sustainability Report
Our Work with Clients
Targeting Net Zero
Asset Management has developed a toolkit to help clients navigate the investment decisions required on 
the path to holding portfolios with net-zero carbon emissions, including nature-based investing solutions. 
These are challenging decisions, involving a host of factors and considerations, that benefit from purpose-
built tools and advisory services encompassed by the solutions we provide.
We developed a sovereign debt investment dataset incorporating a new methodology for assessing physical 
risk and ESG risk integration, in partnership with Moody’s Net Zero advisory. We have selected Sovereign 
Climate Risk Scores powered by Moody’s affiliate, Four Twenty Seven, for our Portfolio Management team’s 
ESG evaluation of sovereign risk. The dataset provides a detailed view of the future exposure of the global 
population, the economy and agriculture to a range of physical climate hazards. These are critical insights 
for investors and credit institutions alike in their pricing of climate risk and in their allocation of  
finance flows toward adaptation and resilience where needed most.
APPLE 
SUSTAINABLE 
FORESTRY 
INVESTMENT 
STRATEGY
Apple developed an innovative investment strategy 
in partnership with Goldman Sachs and Conservation 
International that will help Apple offset unavoidable 
emissions in its carbon footprint by investing in climate-
smart forestry projects. This nature-based solution 
to rising global emissions includes a partnership 
with Conservation International to help maximize the 
climate and biodiversity impact of the strategy. Nature 
provides some of the best tools to remove carbon from 
the atmosphere; the strategy of investing in forestry 
projects will have the dual benefit of permanently 
removing carbon from the atmosphere while at the 
same time generating a financial return to investors 
from the sustainable harvest of trees.
31
Goldman Sachs 2020 Sustainability Report
Our Work with Clients
CONSUMER & WEALTH 
MANAGEMENT
With the guidance of its new Sustainable Solutions Council, our Consumer & Wealth 
Management segment is helping place sustainable investment solutions in the hands 
of individuals and their families. We curate and develop proprietary and external 
ESG-focused investment solutions across both environmental and social themes.  
We prioritize clarity, simplicity and transparency as we craft solutions to meet the 
growing demand of our global clientele for sustainable investment strategies.
Bespoke Solutions for Private Wealth Management
Our Private Wealth Management platform delivers customized client portfolio solutions. Over the past several years, 
we have developed a customized suite of investment tools that incorporate ESG considerations and overlays in client 
portfolios. We can cover 85 percent of a client’s portfolio, across both public and private asset classes, with strategies 
intended to align with a client’s values, integrate ESG factors or invest with a specific thematic or impact goal. This 
includes customizable benchmark-aware ESG options, ESG-linked structured notes, renewable infrastructure funds  
and other offerings related to climate transition and inclusive growth.
Within public equities, our Quantitative Investment Strategy team has developed a tool that allows clients to incorporate 
ESG information, data and analytics with a systematic investment process to achieve tax-aware, index-like exposure. 
The development and growth of this customization tool reflects the increasing interest of clients in engaging with 
sustainable-investing strategies and capabilities. What started as a bespoke, one-flavor environmental and social index 
with the S&P in 2014 evolved into highly flexible, customizable offering.
Marcus: Bringing Best-in-Class Investing to the Consumer
Marcus, our consumer brand, creates simple and transparent financial products for millions of consumers to help them 
achieve financial well-being. Their newest offering, Marcus Invest, is an automated investing platform with managed 
portfolios of affiliated and unaffiliated ETFs, giving a wide array of investors access to best-in-class asset allocation  
and portfolio management from Goldman Sachs.
Launched in February 2021, the Marcus Invest “Impact” portfolio includes ETFs screened for ESG-favorable companies 
and sectors where possible — placing ESG capabilities at the fingertips of the consumer. The Impact option has seen 
meaningful adoption in early user trends, reflecting the latent interest among consumers for ESG investing.
Marcus has been able to support the democratization of sustainable investing and show that this is no longer  
something only a niche group or set of institutional investors care about.
32
Goldman Sachs 2020 Sustainability Report
Our Work with Clients
CROSS-DIVISIONAL 
INITIATIVES AND 
CAPABILITIES
Certain capabilities that we offer our clients, such as diversity-related and 
decarbonization initiatives, cut across our different businesses. Our OneGS approach 
to serving clients facilitates a coordinated approach to meeting unique needs.
Driving Diversity
We strongly believe in the business case for diversity. Evidence shows that having diverse perspectives on boards leads 
to better governance and stronger company performance. As of July 1, 2020, Goldman Sachs committed to only taking 
companies public in the US and Western Europe that have at least one diverse board member. Starting in July 2021, 
we will raise this target to two diverse candidates, at least one of whom needs to be a woman. For our clients, we have 
dedicated resources that work to help actively facilitate access to our extensive network of diverse board candidates, 
representing various dimensions of diversity such as race, gender, ethnicity and sexual orientation.
We have extended this work to Asset Management Private’s portfolio companies to help improve board diversity across 
all companies we invest in. At the beginning of 2020, Asset Management Private set a goal to have one diverse director 
on 100 percent of its controlled portfolio company boards (those where Asset Management Private owns 50 percent or 
greater) by year end. We achieved that goal, moving from less than 50 percent at the beginning of the year to 100 percent 
by year end. Our 2021 board diversity goals include having two diverse board members on any portfolio company that 
goes public, having two diverse board members on new controlled portfolio company boards, and increasing board 
diversity across non-controlled portfolio companies.
33
Goldman Sachs 2020 Sustainability Report
Our Work with Clients
Launch With GS, our $1 billion investment strategy, aims to increase access to capital and facilitate connections for 
women, Black, Latinx, and other diverse entrepreneurs and investors. Since its inception, Launch has deployed more  
than $450 million globally to companies and funds with diverse management teams.
Benefiting Diverse Broker-Dealers
In 2020, our Federal Instruments Fund — designed to direct the bulk of its trading to diverse broker-dealers — raised 
$3.1 billion, more than twice the prior year. This stands as the leader among all diversity and inclusion–related money 
market fund flows during 2020. Despite that significant inflow, the fund maintained 61.8 percent of purchases with 
diverse-, women- or veteran-owned broker-dealers who benefited from the increased trading volumes.
“ An increase in deal activity can sustain itself and result in even more growth. 
Engaging our clients with short-term paper as a direct buyer in the program 
helps us with our relationships firmwide. As we are transacting one product, 
we are having success cross-selling other products to that same client. Our 
overall business is benefiting across all asset classes and products. As we 
have grown and developed over the past 14 years, one of the largest benefits  
of the firm has been the ability not only to provide employment opportunities  
to veterans at Drexel Hamilton, but across Wall Street. In addition, our network 
is also helping veterans within many different corporations to share best 
practices with each other to help even more military veterans.”
From Drexel Hamilton, a veteran-owned broker-dealer
34
Goldman Sachs 2020 Sustainability Report
Our Work with Clients
Decarbonization
In 2020, Investment Banking is leading a new cross-firm initiative to engage with our corporate clients to offer a full 
suite of tools to assist with their decarbonization strategy, inclusive of renewable energy and carbon offset procurement. 
The comprehensive decarbonization offering includes capital raising for carbon-transition projects, sourcing of physical 
renewable energy, various Power Purchase Agreements (PPAs) structures and innovative carbon-offsetting strategies. 
As an example, the firm has provided a risk-reduction solution to manage power price volatility and IFRS accounting 
outcomes for clients’ Virtual Power Purchase Agreements (VPPAs). Similar cross-firm collaborations have also powered 
our work with Loanpal to help finance solar power solutions for homeowners in the US, and with BlocPower to upgrade 
energy systems in urban buildings.
LOANPAL
Over the past year, Goldman Sachs has acted as  
loan purchaser, lender and securitization underwriter/
sponsor across numerous transactions for Loanpal 
and their ecosystem of capital partners. Loanpal has 
created a marketplace that facilitates easy, transparent 
financing of sustainable home solutions. Through 
participation in the platform, we have facilitated the 
GGEEOORRGGEETTOOWWNN   origination of over $1.2 billion of loans by Loanpal, 
directly resulting in access to renewable energy 
UUNNIIVVEERRSSIITTYY  
via solar and battery systems for more than 35,000 
CCAARRBBOONN  OOFFFFSSEETT   homeowners across the US.
SSOOLLUUTTIIOONN
WWee  hheellppeedd  GGeeoorrggeettoowwnn  UUnniivveerrssiittyy  sseeccuurree  aanndd  ssttrruuccttuurree  aa  lloonngg--tteerrmm  rreenneewwaabbllee  ppoowweerr  
ssuuppppllyy  aaggrreeeemmeenntt  ttoo  ppuurrcchhaassee  tthhee  ffuullll  eelleeccttrriiccaall  ppoowweerr  oouuttppuutt  ffrroomm  aa  7766  MMWW  ppoorrttffoolliioo  
ooff  1111  ssoollaarr  ppllaannttss  llooccaatteedd  iinn  tthhee  MMiidd--AAttllaannttiicc  rreeggiioonn..  SSeeppaarraatteellyy,,  GGeeoorrggeettoowwnn  aanndd  oouurr  
RReenneewwaabbllee  PPoowweerr  GGrroouupp  eenntteerreedd  iinnttoo  aa  lloonngg--tteerrmm  ppuurrcchhaassee  aanndd  ssaallee  aaggrreeeemmeenntt  ttoo  
ssuuppppllyy  GGeeoorrggeettoowwnn  wwiitthh  GGrreeeenn--EE  RReenneewwaabbllee  EEnneerrggyy  CCeerrttiiffiiccaatteess,,  wwhhiicchh  wwiillll  hheellpp  tthhee  
uunniivveerrssiittyy  mmeeeett  iittss  ssuussttaaiinnaabbiilliittyy  mmaannddaattee  aanndd  ggooaallss..
7X 
ENERGY
In 2020, Goldman Sachs reached a long-term hedge agreement 
with 7X Energy, a leading utility-scale solar developer, to  BLOCPOWER
purchase a portion of the company’s 250 MWac new-build solar 
project “Taygete I.” In addition, we have procured and facilitated 
BlocPower partners with utilities and governments to identify, 
the sale of Renewable Energy Credits to their end-users, 
finance and upgrade building energy systems in urban areas.  
enabling customers to reduce carbon emissions and meet their 
We made a senior loan to and direct equity investment in BlocPower. 
decarbonization commitments.
Additional capital allows BlocPower to advance its goal of reducing 
GHG emissions and improving living conditions.
35
Goldman Sachs 2020 Sustainability Report
Our Work with Clients
SHOWCASE
OUR 9 SUSTAINABILITY THEMES
CLEAN ENERGY
DUKE ENERGY
Advancing our position in renewables, we have committed to invest in a 
diverse portfolio of approximately 75 megawatts of solar and solar-plus-
storage projects, which will be developed and constructed by Duke Energy 
Renewables’ subsidiary REC Solar. Projects will feature ground-mount and 
rooftop commercial and industrial projects, as well as community solar 
projects across several states, including Arizona, California, Colorado, 
Hawaii, Massachusetts and Texas.
SUSTAINABLE TRANSPORT
NORTHVOLT
Over the past two years, Goldman Sachs led sequential equity investment rounds totaling over $1.6 billion for Northvolt, a Sweden-based 
supplier of sustainable, lithium-ion battery cells and systems. Goldman Sachs also served as advisor, alongside its role as investor, on 
Northvolt’s $600 million Series E private placement, accelerating its plans for expanded manufacturing, R&D and recycling.
ECOSYSTEM SERVICES
APPLE 
SUSTAINABLE Apple developed an innovative investment strategy in partnership 
FORESTRY with Goldman Sachs and Conservation International that will 
INVESTMENT help Apple offset unavoidable emissions in its carbon footprint 
by investing in climate-smart forestry projects. This nature-based 
STRATEGY
solution to rising global emissions includes a partnership with 
Conservation International to help maximize the climate and 
biodiversity impact of the strategy.
36
Goldman Sachs 2020 Sustainability Report
Our Work with Clients
WASTE & MATERIALS
SYNAGRO
Synagro is a leading provider of wastewater 
biosolids management solutions to North 
American customers, managing over 14 million 
tons per year of biosolids. The company provides 
a system of solutions that recycles biosolids to 
create new, sustainable products. Last year, an 
infrastructure fund managed by Goldman Sachs 
acquired Synagro.
SUSTAINABLE FOOD & AGRICULTURE
VITAL 
FARMS
Goldman Sachs led Vital Farms’ $235 million IPO and helped bring to 
the market its $151 million follow-on offering. Vital Farms is a certified 
B Corporation that produces ethically sourced, pasture-raised food 
products. The company has developed a framework to connect their 
network of family farms to a national audience.
FSIUNSATNACINIAALB ILNEC FLOUOSIDO &N AGRICULTURE
BANCO 
PICHINCHA
Goldman Sachs arranged and structured a $150 million social financing 
for Banco Pichincha C.A., the largest bank in Ecuador. Proceeds from 
the financing — structured as a seven-year diversified payment rights 
financing — will be used to expand lending to women-owned and -led 
micro, small and medium enterprises.
37
Goldman Sachs 2020 Sustainability Report
Our Work with Clients
ACCESSIBLE & AFFORDABLE EDUCATION
FUNDING UNIVERSITY
Goldman Sachs committed a $10 million senior secured loan facility to Funding 
University, a privately held, mission-driven student lending company. Funding University 
addresses the opportunity gap in the undergraduate education financing market by 
providing loans with no co-sign requirements primarily to low- and moderate-income 
students attending four-year, not-for-profit universities in the US.
ACCESSIBLE & INNOVATIVE HEALTHCARE
CITYBLOCK 
HEALTH
This Brooklyn-based provider of community-based primary care 
focuses on low-income patients with complex needs — including 
individuals covered by Medicaid or Medicare, and patients who 
qualify for both. Cityblock delivers personalized virtual and 
at-home social services, behavioral health and primary care to its 
members and is designed to avoid unnecessary emergency medical 
interventions and hospitalizations. In its target audience and 
delivery model, Cityblock Health is driving innovative healthcare 
access and quality for those who need it most.
CSOUMSTMAUINNAITBIELSE FOOD & AGRICULTURE
URBAN 
LEAGUE
The National Urban League is a historic civil rights organization 
dedicated to economic empowerment in underserved communities. 
Goldman Sachs is financing the construction of the new Urban 
League Empowerment Center, a large mixed-use development 
in Harlem that will include not only the headquarters of the 
National Urban League but New York State’s first civil rights 
museum and a number of affordable housing units.
38
THE FUTURE, NOW
OUR FIRM
Increasing our impact as a force  
for sustainable finance
Goldman Sachs 2020 Sustainability Report
Our Firm
OUR FIRM
Advancing climate transition and inclusive growth are not only commercial imperatives, 
but also key to how we manage risk for our clients and across our operations and our 
supply chain — and to how we lead our firm forward.
We have set clear targets and remain committed to reporting and providing transparency on our progress. Having 
achieved carbon neutrality in our operations and business travel five years earlier than our goal, we now extended our 
commitment to include our supply chain, targeting net-zero GHG emissions across our operations and supply chain by 
2030 and aligning our financing activities with a net-zero-by-2050 transition pathway. We also foster diversity and 
sustainability in our supply chain, and continue to invest in healthy work environments for our people. Addressing the 
impacts of climate change on our business and our own climate impact remains a core focus — we continue to integrate 
climate risk into credit risk, and have instituted robust governance around managing our climate impact.
We look to responsibly manage our entire ecosystem, with the least impact to the environment and the greatest positive 
impact on people’s lives. We do all of this with clear-eyed urgency, focused on the future, now.
Launching Our Inaugural People Strategy Report 
HUMAN CAPITAL  
FOR HUMAN IMPACT
“ Our people are the heart and soul of Goldman Sachs. They continue to lead and 
create the next chapter for this extraordinary organization. Our inaugural People 
Strategy Report, which is being published as a companion piece to our broader 
Sustainability Report, explores the importance of human capital at Goldman Sachs. 
It details how we strive to attract the world’s best and most diverse talent, how 
we prioritize inclusivity and sustainability in our culture, and how we support and 
develop our people — so they are best positioned to contribute meaningfully to  
our firm’s purpose and partner with people and organizations around the world  
to make a difference in the communities in which we live and work.”
— Bentley de Beyer, Global Head of Human Capital Management 
40
Goldman Sachs 2020 Sustainability Report
Our Firm
MANAGING OUR  
CLIMATE IMPACT
Goldman Sachs was one of the first financial institutions to acknowledge the scale and urgency of climate change  
in 2005. As a leading financial institution, we acknowledge the importance of setting new climate-related goals for  
our business and reporting publicly on our progress. To that end, we recently announced our commitment to align  
our financing activities with a net-zero-by-2050 pathway, in line with the goals of the Paris Agreement.
Collective Action
Addressing the magnitude and complexity of the issues presented by climate change will require broad-scale 
collaboration across industries, sectors and regions. We continue to focus on working with our clients, industry peers, 
government and society to support the long-term goals of the Paris Agreement. In early 2021, Goldman Sachs joined the 
UN Principles for Responsible Banking (UN PRB), a multistakeholder initiative between the United Nations Environment 
Programme Finance Initiative and the banking sector, with the goal of ensuring the banking industry is aligned with  
the UN Sustainable Development Goals and the Paris Agreement. As part of this commitment, we will conduct an impact 
analysis of our firm’s activities, enhance our emissions disclosures and set interim business-related climate targets  
by the end of 2021.
UN Principles for Responsible Banking
UN PRB established six principles to provide the framework for a sustainable banking system, and to embed 
sustainability at the strategic, portfolio and transactional levels, across all business areas.
PRINCIPLE 1: PRINCIPLE 2: PRINCIPLE 3:
ALIGNMENT IMPACT   CLIENTS  
& TARGET SETTING & CUSTOMERS
We will align our business strategy to be  We will continuously increase our positive  We will work responsibly with our clients 
consistent with and contribute to individuals’  impacts while reducing the negative impacts  and our customers to encourage sustainable 
needs and society’s goals, as expressed in  on, and managing the risks to, people and  practices and enable economic activities 
the Sustainable Development Goals, the Paris  environment resulting from our activities,  that create shared prosperity for current 
Climate Agreement and relevant national  products and services. To this end, we will set  and future generations.
and regional frameworks. and publish targets where we can have the 
most significant impacts.
PRINCIPLE 4: PRINCIPLE 5: PRINCIPLE 6:
STAKEHOLDERS GOVERNANCE   TRANSPARENCY  
& CULTURE & ACCOUNTABILITY
We will proactively and responsibly consult,  We will implement our commitment to these  We will periodically review our individual and 
engage and partner with relevant stakeholders  Principles through effective governance and  collective implementation of these Principles 
to achieve society’s goals. a culture of responsible banking. and be transparent about and accountable 
for our positive and negative impacts and our 
contribution to society’s goals.
41
Goldman Sachs 2020 Sustainability Report
Our Firm
More than 200 banks are signatories to these principles, representing over a third of the global banking industry. 
Signatory banks commit to taking three key steps that enable them to continually improve their impact on and 
contribution to society:
• Analyze their current impact on people and planet
• Based on this analysis, set targets where they have the most significant impact, and implement them
• Publicly report on progress
In joining the UN PRB, we acknowledge the massive, coordinated effort required across the financial industry and  
with our clients to advance the goals of the Paris Agreement. We also acknowledge the importance of setting concrete 
climate-related targets and reporting on our progress. We believe the UN PRB will serve as a valuable forum to 
collaborate with a broader community of stakeholders and peers on best practices and insights to ensure that,  
together, we effectively address climate change.
Transparent Disclosure and Reporting
Material sustainability and climate-related information is essential for effective risk management. We continue to 
focus on assessing and reporting our own impact. Goldman Sachs was the first major US financial institution to report 
under the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) in 2019. We also support the Task Force on Climate-related 
Financial Disclosures (TCFD), a market-driven initiative aimed at creating a voluntary, consistent global framework 
for providing information on climate-related financial risks to investors, lenders, insurers and other stakeholders. We 
published our inaugural TCFD report in 2020, which provides an overview of our strategy and approach to climate-related 
risks and opportunities, including how the management and oversight of climate change are integrated across our global 
business. We are taking steps to integrate these frameworks into our business selection and investment processes.
TCFD Reporting
Launched after the Paris Agreement by the Financial Stability 
Board, an international body that monitors and makes 
recommendations about the global financial system, TCFD 
reporting provides decision-useful information that improves 
the understanding and analysis of material climate-related 
risks and opportunities. In the spirit of providing greater 
transparency on our approach, Goldman Sachs published its 
inaugural TCFD report in 2020, which details our approach to 
managing climate-related risks and opportunities across our 
businesses and operations, including the initial steps we have 
taken on transition and physical climate-risk scenario analysis. 
Since our initial 2005 Environmental Policy Framework, we 
have continued to integrate climate change risk mitigation and 
opportunities within our business practices and selection.
42
Goldman Sachs 2020 Sustainability Report
Our Firm
In addition, we are encouraging our clients to disclose more of their sustainability- and climate-related data. We now 
encourage companies to adopt SASB and TCFD frameworks, where feasible, and provide them with resources and tools 
to make progress.
Our inaugural TCFD report was the first step in our application of TCFD recommendations. We remain committed to 
deepening our understanding and knowledge of managing climate risks and advancing market opportunities. This 
includes continued work with our clients, shareholders, peer banks and other key stakeholders to improve metrics 
and methodologies for climate-related risk analysis and disclosures, and to further climate-related opportunities. 
We continue to leverage insights from our work with clients and from piloting developing tools as we look to enhance 
our strategy and approach. Since our inaugural TCFD report in 2020, our Risk Management team has developed initial 
methodologies for both physical and transition risk in order to build a foundation for quantifiable measurement  
and integration of climate risk into relevant processes throughout the firm. Risk Management is coordinating the 
integration strategy that will include business selection processes and ongoing risk monitoring across asset classes  
and business areas.
In preparation for the next TCFD report, the firm has completed a preliminary run of two additional transition risk 
scenarios. We have also developed a physical risk tool for any location globally that can be used to calculate an absolute 
rating for physical risk factors at a chosen tenor. For the report, we will produce a heat map highlighting areas of high 
transition risk exposure across lending, equities and derivatives. Additional details on our approach and methodologies 
used will be provided in our next TCFD report later this year, including a comprehensive overview of transition and 
physical risk scenario analysis and relevant examples for investment and lending portfolios.
Adapting to a Dynamic Environment
As climate data, technology and analytical tools advance and our clients’ needs evolve, we continue to evaluate how 
we can improve our climate risk–related disclosures over time. We are also evaluating how we can further integrate 
climate-related risks into our broader risk management processes. This includes investing in our own data and reporting 
capabilities as well as participating in multilateral stakeholder forums to collaborate with our peers on insights and 
best practices.
We plan to conduct an impact analysis of the firm’s activities, share enhanced disclosures regarding our climate-related 
risk exposures and emissions, and set interim business-related climate targets by the end of 2021. These goals will be 
integrated across our relevant business selection and investment processes. We plan to share additional details on 
our approach, including pilot projects and methodologies to evaluate climate impacts, in our next annual TCFD report 
later in 2021.
43
Goldman Sachs 2020 Sustainability Report
Our Firm
SUSTAINABILITY OF  
OUR OPERATIONS  
AND SUPPLY CHAIN
Our approach to advancing climate and inclusive growth at our firm begins with  
our people and extends to fostering a healthy, safe and inclusive work environment  
that also seeks to minimize our environmental impact. In 2015, Goldman Sachs  
achieved carbon neutrality across our operations and business travel, well ahead  
of our 2020 goal, and has maintained this commitment each year since. To continue 
setting ambitious targets, we are expanding our operational carbon commitment 
to include our supply chain, targeting net-zero carbon emissions by 2030.
Across our global workplace, we achieved our target of 70 percent certified green buildings prior to the end of 2020 
and met our 2020 operational goal of procuring 100 percent of our global electricity from renewable sources. While we 
were able to divert 100 percent of our business waste from landfill in those countries that provided alternative disposal 
methods, we were unable to find an alternative means of waste diversion in APAC and ANZ, accounting for 3 percent  
of our total business waste that was sent to landfill. We will work with the market to develop these alternative means 
of disposal to enable broader market transformation for waste diversion. 
The disrupted global supply chain for compostable materials and an increased focus on health and safety resulted in 
the reintroduction of individually wrapped plastic cutlery into our operations. This disruption reintroduced 4.6 tons of 
single-use plastics in 2020 from a category that had previously been eliminated. Without this increase, the total 2020 
consumption of remaining plastics in our operations was 88 percent less than our 2018 baseline. Additionally, though  
we were able to divert 100 percent of our business waste from landfill in those countries that provided 
alternative disposal methods, we were unable to find an alternative means of waste diversion in 
APAC and ANZ, accounting for 3 percent of our total business waste that was ultimately sent to 
landfill. We will work with the market to develop these alternative means of disposal to enable 
broader market transformation for waste diversion. While COVID-19 set us back on certain 
commitments, it helped expedite others. We saw close to a 70 percent reduction in our 
paper per capita consumption and we were able to more than double our original 
energy reduction target of 10 percent.
Looking forward, our suite of 2025 operational sustainability goals, established 
in December 2019, focuses on strategic partnerships that drive market 
transformation. We have set a range of new targets for 2025 across energy 
use, waste reduction and supply chain management. This includes, but is not 
limited to, certifying 100 percent of new construction as LEED-Gold certified 
or equivalent and lowering energy and water intensity of our facilities by 
20 and 15 percent, respectively. The profound changes wrought by the 
COVID-19 pandemic added new urgency to those goals, as we continue to 
improve the sustainability performance of our facilities across the globe 
and to pursue a sustainable supply chain strategy.
44
Goldman Sachs 2020 Sustainability Report
Our Firm
2020 Achievements
Category 2020 Status 2020 Goal
Renewable Energy 
100% 100%
Meeting our global electricity needs using renewable energy 
Energy Reduction* 
-27% -10%
Reducing absolute energy use across our operationally controlled facilities
Green Buildings 
71% 70%
Achieving LEED Gold or equivalent green-building certifications 
Business Waste † 
97% 100%
Diverting business waste from landfill
Paper per Capita Reduction* 
-69% -20%
Reducing our paper consumption per capita
Water Reduction* 
-23% -5%
Reducing our consumption in operationally controlled facilities 
Certified Management Systems 
100% 100%
Environmental Management Systems across our operationally controlled facilities
Green Operational Investment* 
$2B $2B
Dedicated budget for investing in green buildings and innovative green technologies
Single-Use Plastic Reduction †*  -78% -85%
Reducing our use of single-use plastics
* 2020 goals are from a 2013 baseline, except for our green operational investments, which include capital invested since 2015, and our plastics-reduction goal, which 
Met or  
is from a 2018 baseline.
surpassed 
goal †Provisions:
Business Waste: The firm has diverted 100 percent business waste from landfill where alternative disposal methods exist.  
Currently, no alternatives exist in Hong Kong, China, Australia and New Zealand.
Plastic: Supply chain disruptions and health requirements due to COVID-19 required sourcing for individually wrapped single-use plastic cutlery for a portion of 2020.
2025 Operational Goals**
20%  100%  30%  80% 
Energy Efficiency Business Waste  Paper  Directly Sourced  
Reduce energy intensity (kWh/ Continue to divert  Reduce our paper consumption  Renewable Electricity 
sq. ft.) across our operationally  100% of business  per capita by 30% Source 80% renewable 
controlled facilities by 20% waste from landfill electricity from long-term 
PPAs and on-site projects
15%  100%  100%  100% 
Water Plastic Green Buildings  Certified Management 
Reduce water intensity (gal/ Remove 100% of plastic   Certify 100% of new builds   Maintain 100% and extend  
occupied seat) by 15% bottles and disposables and major renovations to off-site events
**Reductions are calculated using a 2017 baseline.
45
Goldman Sachs 2020 Sustainability Report
Our Firm
NET
In February 2021, we announced our accelerated commitment to achieve net zero for our own operations and supply 
chain by 2030. Across our business operations, we have committed to deepening our performance in key areas such as 
energy management and direct renewable energy sourcing by 2025, and net zero is the natural next step of our climate 
journey. Our road to net zero will include actions that are focused across three key areas: our vendors, our people and  
our communities.
Our vendors represent a notable expansion to the scope of our commitment. To begin dialogues with our vendors around 
their own emissions management programs, we have joined CDP Supply Chain as a lead member this year. Through this 
program, we plan to engage with key vendors to disclose their emissions to us, understand their climate actions and help 
them build their capacity to realize further carbon reductions.
Our people will also be key to reducing our firm’s emissions footprint through everyday decisions on how we work and 
travel. We plan to provide increased transparency around our work-related emissions so our people know how their 
decisions can support our progress.
Our communities are also part of the global journey to net zero. Ambitious actions to reduce the footprint of our vendors 
and our people is just one part of the story; addressing our remaining emissions to get to net zero will require investment 
in carbon removal, a market that is still nascent. By identifying opportunities to partner with our financing groups, we 
will aim to bring new carbon-removal technology solutions to market, enabling achievement of net-zero carbon not only 
for ourselves, but also for others to minimize their impact on climate change.
46
Goldman Sachs 2020 Sustainability Report
Our Firm
A HEALTHY PLACE TO WORK
At Goldman Sachs, we look to cultivate work environments to meet the diverse needs of our greatest asset, our people. 
The built environment — specifically our office spaces — should represent an ambiance of comfort and promote the 
health and the well-being of all.
Certified for Well-Being
In 2020, Goldman Sachs’ 150 Outer Ring Road (150 ORR) office in Bengaluru was the first office in our global portfolio 
to achieve WELL Gold Certification for healthy buildings, and is the largest certified interior fit-out in the world. 
WELL’s evidence-based strategies across 10 specific areas offer a holistic pathway to enhancing the health and well-
being of everyone in the space. The office is designed with maximum exposure to daylight to help improve well-being 
while outdoor views and biophilia-inspired artwork help to lower stress. Our cafeteria is filled with healthy food options 
and nutrition info is posted to encourage better choices. The workplace at 150 ORR is designed with ergonomics and 
community in mind, and fitness options abound, from high-impact workout facilities to Wi-Fi–enabled landscape 
terrains around the 2.5-acre campus, enabling flexible indoor and outdoor work. High-performing ventilation systems 
within the building keep the air fresh and CO2-balanced. Taken together, these diverse options throughout the facility 
are focused on fostering the physical, mental and emotional well-being of our people, encouraging and supporting 
everyone to achieve their healthiest lives.
84
OF OUR OPERATIONALLY 
CONTROLLED FACILITIES, 
REPRESENTING 99 PERCENT  
OF OUR PEOPLE SPACES,  
HAVE ACHIEVED THE WELL 
HEALTH-SAFETY RATING
WELL Health-Safety Rating
The COVID-19 pandemic has highlighted the critical role that buildings play in supporting people’s health, safety and 
well-being. We conducted a detailed review across our global operational practices and firmwide policies to align our 
standards to meet the requirements of the WELL Health-Safety Rating (HSR), an evidence-based third-party designation 
to verify that a building or space has taken the necessary steps to prioritize the health and safety of their staff, visitors 
and other stakeholders. Across the workplace, we have adopted science-backed strategies around cleaning and 
sanitization, emergency preparedness, health service resources, air- and water-quality management, and stakeholder 
engagement and communications to demonstrate a long-term commitment to people-first places.
47
Goldman Sachs 2020 Sustainability Report
Our Firm
A GLOBAL RELIANCE  
ON CLEAN ENERGY
In 2020, we achieved our goal of sourcing renewable energy for 100 percent of our global electricity use. We have  
also achieved several significant milestones toward direct clean energy projects across our corporate real estate.
Clean Energy Campuses
Our Bengaluru campuses at 150 Outer Ring Road and Sun River are now 100 percent covered by clean sources. We signed 
two PPAs that enable us to deploy 100 percent of the energy requirements for the campuses and offices through wind 
and solar. The contracts support power generated by a 10 MW wind energy project in the Belgaum district of Karnataka 
and a 50 MW solar power plant in the Chitradurga district of Karnataka.
We installed a 1 MW solar carport for our Ayco Personal Financial Management headquarters in Upstate New York,  
which now directly powers 60 percent of the building. This signals great progress toward our 2025 goal to source 
80 percent of our renewable energy from long-term, impactful agreements, including Power Purchase Agreements  
and on-site generation.
BENGALURU
100%
POWERED BY 
CLEAN SOURCES
Renewable Energy for All US Employees
As our employees transitioned to working from home in response to COVID-19, our Asset Management and ESG-dedicated  
Corporate and Workplace Solutions teams partnered with Arcadia to offer all Goldman Sachs employees in the US free 
access to renewable energy to offset their carbon footprint at home. Arcadia offers renewable energy to homeowners 
and renters nationwide by purchasing renewable energy certificates (RECs) and managing users’ utility accounts on 
their behalf.
Achievements
As part of our commitment to advancing renewable energy markets, we were the first US corporate to sign onto all three 
of The Climate Group’s RE100, EV100 and EP100 programs. These initiatives are focused on, respectively: 100 percent 
procurement of electricity from renewables; electric transport; and energy productivity.
In early 2020, Goldman Sachs received a score of A from CDP on our climate change disclosure. We were also recognized by 
CDP on their 2020 Supply Chain Engagement Leaderboard (top 7 percent) for our supplier engagement on climate change.
48
Goldman Sachs 2020 Sustainability Report
Our Firm
CULTIVATING A SUSTAINABLE,  
DIVERSE SUPPLY CHAIN
Goldman Sachs has a long history of working with small and diverse businesses. Partnering with these 
vendors drives business value, supports economic growth and promotes sustainability well beyond 
our walls.
This year, we strengthened our approach, setting internal diverse-spend targets and measuring progress 
by both spend category and region; building a new website to increase transparency on doing business 
with the firm; and continuing our collaboration with our 10,000 Small Businesses community, delivering 
virtual trainings on sustainability and doing business with Goldman Sachs. This work doubled the number of 
inbound applications received for consideration in upcoming procurement opportunities from the previous 
two years. We also strengthened our Tier 2 program, leveraging the convening power of the firm to work 
with our prime vendors to increase the value of spend subcontracted to small and diverse businesses.
In 2020, Goldman Sachs bought goods and services worth over $265 million from small and diverse vendors 
globally, representing 5 percent of our addressable spend. 70 percent was with minority-/women-owned 
businesses and 30 percent with small businesses. 28 percent of our overall spend was Tier 2. 
We remain committed to holding ourselves and our vendors accountable in our efforts to increase spend 
with small and diverse businesses from our 2020 baseline by 50 percent by 2025. As we look to the year 
ahead, we will continue to partner across the firm to identify diverse businesses from our 10,000 Women 
and 10,000 Small Businesses alumni and Launch With GS and One Million Black Women initiatives.
+
$265M
WORTH OF GOODS AND SERVICES 
BOUGHT FROM SMALL AND 
“ The Vendor Diversity Program is  DIVERSE VENDORS GLOBALLY
important to Goldman Sachs for three 
reasons: One, it helps us provide the 
best possible solutions to clients 
by bringing talented, experienced 
professionals into our network.  
Two, it drives growth opportunities for 
these businesses, and we’ve seen time 
and again that our program partners 
pay it forward in their communities. 
And three, it is a chance for us to break 
down barriers to growth that still exist 
for minority business owners — and 
that’s critical for a healthy society.”
— D  avid Solomon, Chairman  
and Chief Executive Officer
49
Goldman Sachs 2020 Sustainability Report
Our Firm
2025 SUPPLY CHAIN TARGETS 
100% 50%
Assess 100% of vendors globally for ESG risk increase in 2020 baseline spend with diverse vendors
Sustainable Supply Chain Management
As we manage our operations sustainably, we look to ensure our supply chain also embodies those same commitments.  
In 2020, we benchmarked our vendors against industry-specific ESG business practices and developed a set of ESG minimum 
standards for our key spend categories. We updated our Vendor Code of Conduct to strengthen the expectations we have of 
our vendors to mitigate their impact on climate change and maintain workplaces free of harassment, violence and abuse. 
We also performed enhanced due diligence on risks of modern slavery and human trafficking in our supply chain. We have 
further strengthened and expanded our training in response to the Australian Modern Slavery Act, and in the coming year, 
will continue to develop further governance around our vendor relationships in higher-risk industries and geographies.  
We will also work with our vendor partners to make progress toward our net-zero-by-2030 supply chain commitment.
50
Goldman Sachs 2020 Sustainability Report
Our Firm
GOVERNANCE  
WITH PURPOSE
Appropriate oversight by our management and Board of Directors, as well as strong 
policies and practices, help us to manage a broad spectrum of financial and nonfinancial 
risks across our businesses, with a focus on what’s best for the firm, our people and the 
world at large.
Our Board and its committees are responsible for overseeing the management of the firms’ most significant risks, 
placing meaningful focus on reputational risk and management’s operation of the firm responsibly for the long term. 
The Board’s Public Responsibilities Committee (PRC) has primary oversight of our firmwide approach to sustainability 
including through the review of key ESG policies. Our ESG policies and procedures provide transparency into our 
practices and are generally developed with the consultation of stakeholders, including regulators and investors. 
Importantly, ESG and sustainability oversight is not limited to just the PRC, but also informs discussions with the  
full Board and its other committees on topics ranging from  
climate risk, to human capital management, to the firm’s  
broader sustainable finance initiatives.
Managing Our Business Responsibly
Risk management is critical to the way we run our firm, and deeply 
ingrained in our culture and practice as bankers and financiers. 
For environmental and social risk, we proactively manage and 
report publicly the material impacts of sustainability-related risks 
to our firm — a business that spans a wide array of sectors and 
regions. The events from the past year have brought sustainability 
and climate-related risks to the forefront for all of our clients, 
stakeholders and communities.
In risk management, our people are our first line of defense.  
We continue to focus on providing our people with the tools and 
resources they need to effectively identify and escalate potential 
risks in their day-to-day activities, which include training with 
respect to environmental and social risk. Employees receive 
specialized training for sectors and industries we believe have 
higher potential for such risk.
Our Environmental Policy Framework guides our overall approach to sustainability issues across a broad scope of 
sectors and products, including the management of environmental and social risk. As with our other sustainability-
related policies, our framework was developed with the consultation of stakeholders, including investors, NGOs and 
regulators. Our framework also helps us better advise our clients on environmental and social risk disclosures and risk 
solutions, as appropriate. We continue to focus on supporting our clients across all sectors and regions in achieving their 
environmental and social impact–related goals, which includes efforts to reduce their environmental footprint in line 
with the Paris Agreement.
51
Goldman Sachs 2020 Sustainability Report
Our Firm
AT THE  
HIGHEST  
LEVEL,
DEDICATED TEAMS WITHIN OUR 
LEGAL, COMPLIANCE AND EXECUTIVE 
OFFICE DIVISIONS BROADLY EXAMINE 
LEGAL, REGULATORY, REPUTATIONAL, 
ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND 
GOVERNANCE RISKS, AND REVIEW 
POTENTIAL TRANSACTIONS THROUGH 
A RISK MANAGEMENT LENS.
Our Environmental Policy Framework includes a number of basic tenets:
We manage environmental and social risks with the same care and discipline as we do other business risks.
We evaluate environmental and social impacts in all relevant business selection decisions.
We engage with clients to identify significant ESG issues and help them adopt appropriate safeguards and sustainable 
practices where feasible.
We decline assignments when client engagement is not possible, when potential impacts cannot be mitigated, and 
when unacceptable risks conflict with our environmental and social policy guidelines.
In addition, we proactively monitor developments in the evolving ESG risk landscape — from emerging issues to evolving 
best practices — and periodically reevaluate and update our guidelines to reflect these developments.
Risk management is a shared responsibility firmwide and is integrated across our business globally. We apply our 
Environmental Policy Framework when evaluating transactions for environmental and social impacts. We also conduct 
enhanced diligence when transactions involve companies or projects with the potential for negative ESG impacts or 
vulnerabilities.
At the highest level, dedicated teams within our Legal, Compliance and Executive Office divisions broadly examine legal, 
regulatory, reputational, environmental, social and governance risks, and review potential transactions through a risk 
management lens. At an operational level, in-house specialist teams within our Risk and Controllers divisions guide 
environmental, health and safety (EHS) standards for our investing activities. The teams also perform EHS due diligence 
on proposed investment transactions, helping business teams identify and mitigate potential risk. Our work does not 
end with an ultimate investment in a given company — we continue to closely monitor potential risks in our portfolio. 
This includes reviewing portfolio companies and engaging with their managers on EHS-related issues, as appropriate.
52
Goldman Sachs 2020 Sustainability Report
Our Firm
An important part of our environmental and social risk management process involves engaging our clients on potential 
ESG issues or vulnerabilities and helping them improve, where feasible. In one case, we reviewed a potential acquisition 
of a manufacturing company in an emerging market and identified several recent issues related to health and safety — 
in particular, fire safety. After extended conversations with the client as part of due diligence, the company agreed to 
engage an independent consultant to perform an assessment and to update its fire safety policies and labor practices. 
We ensured these enhancements were formalized in legal covenants as part of our investment.
Risk Management  Policies to Accelerate 
in Practice Climate Transition
In 2020, Goldman Sachs identified and managed EHS risks in a number  Acknowledging the increasing need to take bolder 
of potential transactions and portfolio companies, and in some cases  action on climate change and to help accelerate our 
decided to forgo participation in transactions due to the high level of  clients’ climate transitions, we have implemented 
risk or risks that could not be mitigated. We declined participation in a  various restrictions for high-emission sectors in our 
large midstream oil infrastructure project in a sensitive region due to  environmental and social risk guidelines. We continue 
expected impact on a biodiverse national forest, as well as displacement  to assess how we can enhance environmental and 
of local communities. We also forwent a financing transaction related  social risk management guidelines for sectors with 
to the acquisition of an upstream oil concession due to significant past  significant climate impact, and have continued to 
EHS incidents, as well as potential impacts to critical habitats and the  update our framework with enhanced guidelines to 
alleged lack of free, prior and informed consent with local indigenous  better reflect our standards. This includes no direct 
communities. In another case, we evaluated a potential corporate-level  financing of new coal-fired power plant development 
financing for a power utility with predominantly thermal coal-fired power.  globally without carbon capture-and-storage 
After expanded due diligence on several of the company’s projects,  technology, no direct financing of new thermal coal 
we identified multiple new coal-fired power plants under construction  mine development, and no direct financing of new 
globally, including allegations of projects with negative impacts on  upstream Arctic oil exploration or development.
protected areas and indigenous peoples. We ultimately decided not to 
proceed with the opportunity.
Transactions Reviewed for Environmental and Social Risks1
Sector Breakdown (2020)
Oil & Gas 715
Power Generation 314
1,741
Metals & Mining 256
Chemicals 159
Transportation 81
Other2 56
Water 31
Infrastructure 74
Total Deals Reviewed (2020) Forestry 14
Biofuels 41
1 This chart represents transactions screened for environmental and social risks at an early stage, and should not be interpreted as representative  
of all transactions reviewed and/or transactions that were executed by Goldman Sachs.
2 “Other” includes agriculture, consumer retail, palm oil and transactions for financial sponsors related to loan portfolios across various sectors.
53
THE FUTURE, NOW
OUR PARTNERSHIPS,  
ENGAGEMENT AND 
IMPACT
Across our firm and around the 
world, investing in change
Goldman Sachs 2020 Sustainability Report
Our Partnerships, Engagement and Impact
OUR PARTNERSHIPS, ENGAGEMENT AND IMPACT
Even as we accelerate our sustainable impact via commercial solutions and drive 
progress across our firm, we know that climate and income inequality pose massive 
challenges that cannot be solved within our four walls or just through our work with 
clients. Our approach: Partner with external stakeholders, collaborate on solutions,  
and engage philanthropically to propel and support needed change.
We partner with industry groups and coalitions to drive key initiatives to improve the quality of ESG data, spur progress 
toward net-zero carbon, help build new markets, and advance sustainability policy to foster both climate transition 
and inclusive growth. Our thought leadership on sustainability seeks to inform public policy and to advance market-
based solutions.
At the same time, we use strategic philanthropy to catalyze economic growth while helping to level the field for diverse 
sources of creative, positive change. We continue to invest in racial equity, including our recently launched One Million 
Black Women initiative, as well as in raising up small, women-owned and diverse-led businesses and supporting efforts 
to improve our communities.
IMPROVING 
ESG DATA
Our clients have a pressing need for high-quality ESG data, 
so we have initiated substantial investments in the ESG, 
climate data and analytics ecosystem — both by building 
out our internal capabilities using a truly OneGS approach 
and by partnering with external platforms to improve the 
ways we and our clients evaluate sustainability risk and 
measure impact.
Currently under accelerated development, ESG Beacon is a business we are creating to offer a unified ESG data strategy 
for Goldman Sachs. ESG Beacon grew out of our internal Goldman Sachs Accelerate program, selected as a standout idea 
among the more than 300 business pitches shared by our people worldwide.
To democratize climate data, we have partnered with the Linux Foundation to build the OS-Climate platform. This 
nonprofit, collaborative platform will develop open-data and open-source analytics for climate risk management  
and climate-aligned finance and investing. Our expertise in climate risk, product development and financial reporting 
will result in better tools to help companies, asset managers and investors more consistently and effectively evaluate 
progress against decarbonization goals. Goldman Sachs is the first US bank founding member of this global, cross-
industry coalition. Other members include Allianz, Amazon, Federated Hermes, Microsoft, S&P Global and the  
UN-led Net Zero Asset Owner Alliance.
55
Goldman Sachs 2020 Sustainability Report
Our Partnerships, Engagement and Impact
ADVANCING NET  
ZERO TOGETHER
Across the world, a broad and profound shift has focused governments and businesses on decarbonizing the global 
economy. Our CEO, David Solomon, has committed all of Goldman Sachs to helping meet this challenge. Through our 
work with NGOs, coalitions and research efforts, we are helping to develop tools and approaches to define the exact 
parameters of net-zero investment in order to move both our portfolios and our clients closer to a net-zero economy.
Monitoring the Path to Net Zero
The analytics of decarbonization demand a collaborative approach. We actively co-develop frameworks that help 
investors set targets and monitor and manage the path to net zero.
In July 2020, we launched the Center for Climate-Aligned Finance in partnership with the Rocky Mountain Institute, a 
leading clean-energy nonprofit. Leveraging the infrastructure of the “Mission Possible” platform, the center serves as an 
engine room for the financial sector and corporate clients to identify practical solutions through deep partnerships with 
industry, civil society and policymakers. The goal: Help the global economy achieve net-zero emissions by mid-century.
COP26 Portfolio Alignment Study
Goldman Sachs participated in an industry-led initiative to assess the state 
of climate-alignment tools for the financial sector, providing critical technical 
guidance on the a analytical tools available to measure the alignment of a 
given investment portfolio with net-zero investment ambitions. During 2021, 
we are participating in the second phase of the study.
As a member of the Science Based Targets Initiative’s expert advisory panel, we pilot investor tools to monitor 
portfolio alignment to net zero and provide technical advice on financial sector target-setting recommendations. 
This helps inform standards for future target-setting, as well as monitoring and engagement strategies for portfolio 
companies. In this spirit, we helped shape the groundbreaking Paris Aligned Investment Initiative, which aims to 
inform the industry standard on acting on and monitoring asset-owner ambitions related to net-zero investing. We 
continue to be active in the Private Markets working group of the Institutional Investors Group on Climate Change.
Financing the Transition to Net Zero
The climate transition needs a new multistakeholder financing ecosystem to focus trillions in capital on net-zero 
solutions. But stakes and risks are high, particularly in carbon-intensive industries.
As a member of the World Economic Forum’s Transition Finance Working Group, we have collaborated with clients 
across industries and peer financial institutions to help develop frameworks and pragmatic solutions that can improve 
the flow of capital to green projects in hard-to-abate sectors, such as steel, aviation, shipping, chemicals and trucking. 
For example, our investment bank has conducted exercises to determine the best deal structures for improving finance 
flows to the steel sector. To date, this initiative has engaged more than 30 financial institutions, as well as stakeholders 
from the public sector, to explore innovative financing solutions and accelerate progress toward a net-zero future.
56
Goldman Sachs 2020 Sustainability Report
Our Partnerships, Engagement and Impact
Unlocking Private Climate  
Finance in Emerging Markets 
 Private Sector Considerations for Policymakers
BUILDING  
NEW MARKETS
As sustainable finance scales, new market infrastructure will be required to build confidence and improve liquidity  
and accessibility of participants. Goldman Sachs works with nonprofits and governments in their efforts to improve the 
functioning of voluntary markets and increase the flow of finance to climate transition and emerging-market themes.
Mobilizing Climate Finance to Emerging Markets
Our CEO has served as a founding member of the Climate Finance Leadership Initiative (CFLI), an initiative led by 
Mike Bloomberg in his role as UN Special Envoy for Climate Ambition that includes as founding members Allianz, AXA, 
ENEL, GPIF, HSBC and Macquarie. As a follow-up to the first report delivered to the UN Secretary General in 2019, CFLI 
has issued a second report, Unlocking Private Finance in Emerging Markets, which includes policy recommendations 
increasing investment in the low-carbon transition. The report notes the gap in energy-transition investments required 
in emerging-market countries and includes climate investment guidelines from a private-sector perspective across 
sectors such as clean energy, transport and land use.
Scaling Voluntary Carbon Markets
Goldman Sachs served on a private sector–led task force with the aim to scale global voluntary carbon markets.  
The task force, launched by Mark Carney, UN Special Envoy for Climate Action and finance advisor to UK Prime Minister 
Boris Johnson for COP26, is sponsored by the Institute of International Finance. The group comprises more than 
40 leaders from six continents with backgrounds across the carbon market value chain. We served on the “Standards  
and Integrity” working group to share our expertise and insight. The task force published its blueprint on creating a 
large-scale, transparent carbon credit trading market in January 2021. The blueprint includes 20 comprehensive and 
tangible actions, as well as a roadmap for implementation, to deliver a global carbon market at pace and scale.
57
Goldman Sachs 2020 Sustainability Report
Our Partnerships, Engagement and Impact
SUPPORTING STRONGER 
SUSTAINABILITY POLICY
Throughout 2020, landmark laws and regulations were implemented across the globe on sustainable finance. 
Goldman Sachs continues to provide critical advice to our clients to understand and adapt to these changes, and we 
share our expertise and insights with policymakers as they grapple with decisions necessary to achieve a prosperous 
and sustainable economy. Together with industry groups and regulators, the firm has developed principles and thought 
leadership that will form the backbone of future policy efforts, including carbon pricing, and accelerate the ability  
of capital to address climate transition.
Evolving Climate Finance Market Structures
Goldman Sachs joined the GFMA Climate Finance Working Group to inform a report, Climate Finance Markets and  
the Real Economy, that provides a roadmap on accelerating the evolution of climate finance market structure and 
defines both market-wide and sector-specific changes necessary to motivate investment. This is a call to action for 
coordinated and concerted action by the public, social and private sectors to significantly scale such structures over the 
next three decades. The report also highlights the role that capital markets and other participants can play to support 
transition pathways, and estimates a $100–$150 trillion investment need over the next three decades to transition  
to a low-carbon economy.
Transitioning the US to a Sustainable Low-Carbon Economy
   
As a member of the US Climate Finance Working Group, we contributed to the 
IIF Climate Principles in conjunction with 10 trade associations, including 
the Bank Policy Institute and the American Bankers Association. The principles 
include increasing and strengthening US international engagement on climate, 
putting a price on carbon and ensuring a just transition.
We see carbon price as an effective tool within a suite of climate policies. 
Climate Leadership Council (CLC) is a policy organization representing a 
bipartisan coalition on climate in the US and supporting a revenue-neutral 
carbon fee and dividend plan. Since joining CLC in 2020, Goldman Sachs has 
1 
actively participated in the organization’s efforts to advocate for a carbon   
price and participated in briefings and meetings with policymakers.
Supporting Green Finance  
Research and Talent Development
Goldman Sachs supported the establishment of the Singapore 
Green Finance Center (SGFC) as the only US bank among the 
nine founding partners. The SGFC, supported by the Monetary 
Authority of Singapore (MAS), is Singapore’s first research 
institute dedicated to green finance and talent development 
for the Asia region. Our work with the center is not only 
part of our focus on sustainability but also our commitment 
to developing talent and pursuing innovation that drives 
sustainable growth.
58
Goldman Sachs 2020 Sustainability Report
Our Partnerships, Engagement and Impact
THOUGHT LEADERSHIP  
ON SUSTAINABILITY
The firm produces focused research and insightful content across a broad set of issues — including sustainability — 
in order to bring ideas and people together around societal and economic challenges and help advance ecosystems of 
solutions. Much of our thought leadership related to climate transition and inclusive finance can be found within our 
Carbonomics series and GS SUSTAIN.
Black Womenomics
Black women are foundational to our families and communities, but research highlights the significant disadvantages 
Black women face across all sectors of society. Our newly published research, Black Womenomics, estimates that 
reducing the earnings gap for Black women has the potential to create up to 1.7 million jobs in the United States and 
increase the annual US GDP by up to $450 billion in current US dollars. This research has informed the areas where the 
initial One Million Black Women investments will be made, including access to capital, affordable and quality housing, 
education, healthcare, and workforce development.
59
Goldman Sachs 2020 Sustainability Report
Our Partnerships, Engagement and Impact
Carbonomics
Our flagship Carbonomics series focuses on the economics of net-zero carbon, modeling costs, investment requirements 
and financing of clean technologies reshaping global industries, including renewable energy, circular economy, electric 
mobility, hydrogen and carbon sequestration, as well as deep dives into the infrastructure investments required for 
some of the world’s largest economies, such as China and the EU, to reach net zero. Against a backdrop of intensified 
focus on sustainable investing and increasing shareholder engagement, our inaugural Carbonomics conference took 
place in November 2020, with 30 CEOs and key policymakers discussing their strategies to decarbonize the economy and 
generate sustainable growth. The audience included 6,000+ investors, corporates, regulators and industry experts.
GS SUSTAIN Symposium
GS SUSTAIN recently launched a series of “ESG Sector Roadmaps,” which take a sector-level view of principal ESG risks 
and opportunities over the medium term for industries such as Brand and Apparel, Food and Beverage, and Banks. 
We hosted the second edition of our GS SUSTAIN symposium in 2020. Panelists included investment professionals from 
a diverse set of asset managers employing various ESG strategies. This half-day event for portfolio managers and ESG 
practitioners brought together the buy-side, sell-side and corporates to discuss sustainable strategies and portfolio 
positioning against key long-term risks and opportunities facing global industries. Discussions covered different 
approaches to ESG, including divestment versus engagement, siloed versus full integration, long/short, “improver” or 
rate-of-change and thematic strategies, as well as the challenges that asset managers face across the board, including 
integrating this information into their investment processes.
60
Goldman Sachs 2020 Sustainability Report
Our Partnerships, Engagement and Impact
INVESTING WITH IMPACT
Our philanthropic mission is to unlock potential. We partner with world-class community organizations to deploy capital 
that helps level the playing field and sparks economic growth. We approach this work with the same rigor and innovation 
we commit to our everyday business.
Through our One Million Black Women initiative, we are driving economic empowerment for Black women. Through 
Goldman Sachs 10,000 Small Businesses, we help small business owners create jobs and economic opportunity. With 
10,000 Women, we provide women small business owners with education, networks and access to capital. Goldman 
Sachs Gives supports innovative ideas to help underserved communities globally. And through Community TeamWorks, 
we mobilize our people for hands-on engagement with community partners.
In 2020, we also doubled down on our efforts to meet the critical needs of the moment, including emergency small 
business support, essential pandemic relief and the advancement of racial equity.
+
$2.8B
INVESTED ACROSS 
OUR PHILANTHROPIC 
PROGRAMS TO DATE
One Million Black Women
Our recently announced One Million Black Women initiative 
will commit $10 billion in direct investment capital and 
$100 million in philanthropic capital over the next decade 
to address opportunity gaps for Black women. Launched 
in partnership with Black women–led organizations, One 
Million Black Women will invest in key moments in Black 
women’s lives, from early childhood through retirement, 
with investments across healthcare, education, housing and 
access to capital, with the goal of positively impacting the 
lives of at least one million Black women.
61
Goldman Sachs 2020 Sustainability Report
Our Partnerships, Engagement and Impact
One Million Black Women Advisory Council 
(top row, from left to right): Dr. Dambisa Moyo, Bill Bynum,  
Dr. Valerie Montgomery Rice, Secretary Condoleezza Rice;  
(2nd row, from left to right): Rosalind G. Brewer, Dr. Ruth J. Simmons,  
Thelma Golden, Darren Walker; (3rd row, from left to right): Issa Rae,  
Lisa P. Jackson, Lisa Mensah, Marc H. Morial; (bottom row,  
from left to right): Melissa Bradley, Valerie B. Jarrett
Grounded in the voices and experiences of Black women, this initiative will be led by Black women leaders across 
Goldman Sachs, alongside an Advisory Council of Black leaders including: Melissa L. Bradley, Rosalind G. Brewer, Bill 
Bynum, Melanie Campbell, Thelma Golden, Lisa P. Jackson, Valerie B. Jarrett, Lisa Mensah Dr. Valerie Montgomery Rice, 
Marc H. Morial, Dr. Dambisa Moyo, Issa Rae, Secretary Condoleezza Rice, Dr. Ruth J. Simmons and Darren Walker. Through 
a series of listening sessions — in partnership with Alpha Kappa Alpha Sorority, Inc., Delta Sigma Theta Sorority, Inc., Zeta 
Phi Beta Sorority, Inc., Sigma Gamma Rho Sorority, Inc., National Council of Negro Women, Power Rising, Black Women’s 
Roundtable and the National Coalition on Black Civic Participation, Walker’s Legacy Foundation, Sistahs in Business Expo, 
and The Links, Inc. — Goldman Sachs is committed to listening and learning from Black women to understand what is 
needed to make a difference in their lives. Our experience with 10,000 Small Businesses and 20-year history of investing 
in Black communities has shown us firsthand how access to capital and tools for Black women and their communities can 
help level the playing field. As the name suggests, the reach and impact of this initiative is quantifiable and measurable, 
and we are committed to tracking and sharing the results of our efforts on an ongoing basis.
62
Goldman Sachs 2020 Sustainability Report
Our Partnerships, Engagement and Impact
“ Advancing financial opportunity and driving sustainable growth are core to our 
mission and programs. Just as we do with our clients, we focus our investment  
in communities on measurable results and impact in the long term.”
— A  sahi Pompey, Global Head of Corporate Engagement  
and President of the Goldman Sachs Foundation
Supporting Small Businesses
10,000 Small Businesses US
Goldman Sachs 10,000 Small Businesses (10KSB) is an investment to help 
entrepreneurs create jobs and economic opportunity by providing access to 
education, capital and business support services. In 2020, 10KSB marked a major 
milestone, living up to its name by reaching more than 10,000 business owners 
in all 50 states, Washington, D.C., and US territories. Graduates collectively 
account for more than $14 billion in revenues and employ more than 200,000 
people, consistently reporting revenue growth and job creation that outpace 
national averages.
In December 2020, Goldman Sachs announced an additional 
$250 million commitment to the Goldman Sachs Foundation, 
allowing us to serve another 10,000 business owners. This 
announcement brought Goldman Sachs’ total commitment 
to small businesses to over $1 billion in 2020 alone, having 
previously committed $775 million in capital and grants to 
Community Development Financial Institutions and other 
mission-driven lenders to facilitate access to emergency 
capital and provide technical assistance to the most 
vulnerable and underserved small businesses.
 
+
10,000
BUSINESS OWNERS 
REACHED ACROSS 
ALL 50 STATES, 
WASHINGTON, D.C., 
AND US TERRITORIES 
63
Goldman Sachs 2020 Sustainability Report
Our Partnerships, Engagement and Impact
Mobilizing for Small Business
In 2020, we reached 1,200+ business owners through online delivery of the 10KSB curriculum. This incorporated live 
visits and recorded messages from Goldman Sachs leadership in each classroom. We also engaged policymakers to share 
insights and best practices on small business advocacy, in partnership with 10,000 Small Businesses Voices.
In our pandemic response, we engaged all community college partners in navigating the digital transition to virtual 
learning, while keeping evaluations of program impact consistently strong and providing a top-quality experience for 
participating business owners. We also expanded our recruitment strategy to better serve business owners affected by 
the pandemic and reach earlier-stage and more-diverse small businesses. Our ongoing webinar series in the US reached 
4,000+ alumni, focusing on topics related to navigating the current environment, including CARES Act and PPP funding, 
digital marketing, cybersecurity, negotiations and stress management. More than 100 Goldman Sachs employees 
provided emergency business coaching to 10KSB alumni, connecting our talent with business owners navigating 
challenges in areas like financial modeling, law and human resources.
Telling the Story of Black Business Owners Through 10,000 Small Businesses Data
We analyzed 10 years of longitudinal program data to distill the unique and challenging experience of being a Black 
business owner. Running a Business While Black found that even among our growth-oriented businesses, Black 
entrepreneurs experience the following:
• Rejection rate — The rejection rate for Black business owners applying for bank funding was three times higher  
than the rate for white business owners.
• Education doesn’t equalize — Black women in the 10KSB sample are the most educated, but have the lowest  
median revenues ($0.47 for every $1 of white male peer).
• Double bottom line — Over 50 percent of Black business owners served in a community leadership role and  
around 74 percent were a business mentor to a member of the community.
10,000 Small Businesses UK
As the pandemic broke out, 10KSB UK pivoted quickly  
to digital delivery. The program’s robust alumni offering 
and ongoing support to small businesses in the wake of 
the COVID-19 crisis have included biweekly webinars for 
our alumni community on key topics such as legal and tax 
advice, navigating government support, and rethinking 
marketing and communications plans. We developed 
and delivered a new four-week online booster program, 
Reimagining Business, to more than 450 alumni, to support 
them as they pivoted their business models in the wake 
of COVID-19. We also convened more than 100 graduates 
through virtual and regionally focused roundtables to 
understand the local impact of the pandemic.
Tracking the Impact of COVID-19: Leveraging Data for Change
Throughout 2020, we undertook three major surveys of 10KSB UK alumni to understand the continuing impact of the 
pandemic and the ongoing support small businesses need. We convened intimate policy roundtables for graduates  
with senior government ministers to elevate the voices of small business.
64
Goldman Sachs 2020 Sustainability Report
Our Partnerships, Engagement and Impact
Small Business Britain: What Next?
This flagship virtual alumni summit was designed to support our graduates as they position their businesses for  
success in the near term — both against the backdrop of the pandemic and broader macroeconomic factors, including 
Brexit and climate change.
10,000 Small Businesses France
In October 2020, we launched 10KSB in France, our first new market since 2010 and our third market globally. Delivered in 
partnership with ESSEC Business School, 10KSB France is a fully funded, nationwide small business education program. 
Aimed at ambitious small business leaders, the program offers a comprehensive package of business development 
and leadership support. The program helps build small business leaders’ knowledge and confidence in core areas, and 
enables them to apply this knowledge directly and immediately back into their businesses. Teaching for the inaugural 
cohort of 70 entrepreneurs commenced in March 2021.
10,000 Women
Over the past decade, the 10KW program has helped more than 100,000 women reach their full potential by providing  
a rigorous business education program, access to capital and ongoing opportunities for networking.
In 2020, we expanded our highly successful 10KW Online program, a pioneering, virtual global resource for small 
business owners. This business education program was made accessible to all women entrepreneurs around the world, 
free of charge. Learners are now able to take any course, or combination of courses, to learn what they need to survive, 
adapt and thrive. The course also was translated in to two new languages, Spanish and Portuguese. Throughout 2020, 
10KW Online reached tens of thousands of enrollees, spanning 200 countries.
With 10KW business owners around the world significantly impacted by COVID-19, we supported women entrepreneurs 
with emergency coaching sessions with business experts and a COVID-19 toolkit that included webinars, resources and 
virtual town halls. We also worked in partnership with the International Finance Corporation (IFC) through our industry-
leading Women Entrepreneurs Opportunity Facility (WEOF), carving off almost $1 million in funding to include women 
SMEs in the IFC’s COVID-19 relief efforts.
Committed to elevating the voices of women entrepreneurs in our alumni community globally, we conducted Sustainable 
Growth Series roundtables in South Africa, China and India to explore how women entrepreneurs have been impacted  
by the crisis and how they plan to conduct business going forward.
65
Goldman Sachs 2020 Sustainability Report
Our Partnerships, Engagement and Impact
10,000 Women in China
In 2020, in collaboration with Tsinghua University, 10KW launched a series of virtual webinars for our community of 
more than 1,900 alumni in China, covering market insights and business strategies to remain competitive through the 
pandemic. 10KW also conducted an inaugural roundtable in Yunnan Province to engage rising government leaders  
with women entrepreneurs.
+ 
1B
$
COMMITTED TO 
SMALL BUSINESSES 
IN 2020 ALONE
10,000 Women in India
10KW expanded program delivery in New Delhi in 2020, in collaboration with the Indian Institute of Management 
Bangalore (IIMB). Recognizing the unprecedented challenges facing small business leaders, we provided support to  
our alumni community by offering a series of 22 webinars with faculty from IIMB and the Indian School of Business (ISB) 
on topics to help navigate the new environment. In addition, in collaboration with ISB, 10KW launched the 10,000 Women 
Ambassadors Programme to help alumni reorient their businesses and adapt toward newly inspired futures.
Additional Initiatives
#MakeSmallBig Market
In 2020, we also launched the #MakeSmallBig Market, Goldman Sachs’ first-ever virtual marketplace of global small 
businesses. The marketplace consists of 65+ businesses representing our global community across 10KSB, 10KSB UK  
and 10KW. It acts as a hub for our employees, clients and other visitors and showcases innovative and creative businesses 
from our alumni networks.
Small Business Resource Center
In response to the pandemic, we launched a public-facing Small Business Resource Center as a frequently updated hub 
providing tips, advice, instructions for accessing government support and other resources. Additionally, we provided 
small business leaders with bespoke one-on-one coaching opportunities, matching them with Goldman Sachs colleagues 
who had the relevant skills and expertise to help the businesses address their unique challenges.
66
Goldman Sachs 2020 Sustainability Report
Our Partnerships, Engagement and Impact
$27M
DEPLOYED TO 
ORGANIZATIONS 
ADDRESSING RACIAL 
INJUSTICE AND THE 
PANDEMIC’S IMPACT 
ON COMMUNITIES 
OF COLOR THROUGH 
OUR COVID-19 RELIEF 
FUND AND FUND FOR 
RACIAL EQUITY
Advancing Racial Equity
Goldman Sachs Fund for Racial Equity
Launched in June 2020, Goldman Sachs’ $10 million Fund for Racial Equity provides capital and support to leading 
organizations addressing racial injustice, structural inequity and economic disparity. To date, 16 grantees — 
including United Negro College Fund, Black Economic Alliance and Equal Justice Initiative — have been supported 
through more than $6 million in grants, as well as direct service and capacity-building provided by Goldman 
Sachs people.
The Fund for Racial Equity supports nonprofits across four key impact areas:
• Advancing economic progress
• Legal and criminal justice reform
• Fueling social change
• Fostering educational opportunities
The fund builds on the more than $200 million that Goldman Sachs has granted over the past decade to nonprofits 
serving communities of color, with a focus on organizations with diverse leadership. Most recently, the firm 
deployed $17 million to organizations addressing the pandemic’s impact on communities of color through its 
COVID-19 Relief Fund.
67
Goldman Sachs 2020 Sustainability Report
Our Partnerships, Engagement and Impact
Goldman Sachs Market Madness: HBCU Possibilities Program
The Goldman Sachs Market Madness HBCU Possibilities Program is a $25 million, five-year commitment to Historically 
Black Colleges and Universities. In addition to supporting these institutions, the program provides a semester-long 
crash course for HBCU students, introducing them to key concepts and careers in finance. Students’ experiences are 
enriched through mentorship, networking, a financial stipend and the chance to compete in a case study competition. 
125 students from eight leading HBCUs were selected to participate in the inaugural year of this program and paired with  
50 Goldman Sachs coaches from among the firm’s high-performing Analysts and Associates. UNCF, a Fund for Racial 
Equity partner, has been a key advisor to the program.
Goldman Sachs & Birkbeck Diversity Fund
The Goldman Sachs & Birkbeck Diversity Fund is a new holistic partnership between Goldman Sachs and Birkbeck, 
University of London, that creates opportunities for students from Black, Asian and minority ethnic (BAME) backgrounds, 
focusing specifically on assisting those affected by COVID-19. An initial commitment of £375,000 supports BAME 
students through bursaries and community outreach to remove barriers to access and highlight paths to education.  
So far, 374 students have been identified to receive funding.
25M
$
FIVE-YEAR 
COMMITMENT TO 
HISTORICALLY 
BLACK 
COLLEGES AND 
UNIVERSITIES
68
Goldman Sachs 2020 Sustainability Report
Our Partnerships, Engagement and Impact
Leading in Our Communities
Goldman Sachs Gives
Goldman Sachs Gives (GS Gives) is committed to fostering innovative ideas, solving economic and social issues, and 
enabling progress in underserved communities globally. Through this unique donor-advised fund, Goldman Sachs’ 
current and retired senior employees work together to recommend grants to qualifying nonprofit organizations globally. 
Since 2010, GS Gives has granted more than $1.8 billion to over 8,000 nonprofits in 100 countries around the world. In 
2020, GS Gives deployed nearly $200 million in grants to support pioneering nonprofit organizations and firm initiatives 
such as the COVID-19 Relief Fund, the fifth annual Analyst Impact Fund and, as described earlier in this report, our new 
Fund for Racial Equity.
COVID-19 Relief Fund
Among the largest disaster relief efforts in firm history, the Goldman Sachs COVID-19 Relief Fund was designed to 
address the most pressing challenges brought on by the pandemic in the world’s hardest-hit communities. Grants 
deployed provided assistance for healthcare providers on the front lines, aid for the most vulnerable populations, 
including underserved children and families, economic relief for reduced and lost work, and support for accelerated 
medical research. The fund has deployed a total of $42 million to date, supporting 305 nonprofits working directly  
on COVID-19 relief and response efforts in more than 30 countries around the world.
Analyst Impact Fund
Over this program’s five-year history, nearly 2,700 analysts in 40 Goldman Sachs offices around the world have 
participated in the Analyst Impact Fund (AIF), collaborating with their peers for a chance to win grants from GS Gives 
to support innovative nonprofits of their choice. Since its inception, AIF has generated over $2.1 million in grants to 
69 nonprofit organizations.
The fifth annual AIF attracted hundreds of compelling proposal submissions from our junior employees, all aimed  
at addressing some of the world’s most pressing challenges. The competition event saw its largest live audience in 
program history, with more than 2,000 participants, including many incoming analysts and summer interns. Teams were 
judged by David Solomon, the Partnership Committee and other firm leadership on a variety of criteria, including the 
impact and scalability of the proposed project, their analysis of the project goals and financials, and the strength  
of the organization’s leadership and partnerships.
2020 winner Sirum received a 
top prize of $250,000 and the “fan 
favorite” $25,000 grant. Sirum is a 
groundbreaking start-up nonprofit 
that safely collects unused and 
unopened surplus medications 
and provides them to patients who 
cannot afford the prescriptions 
they need to live healthy lives.
Team SIRUM, First Place winners  
of the 2020 Analyst Impact Fund with 
David Solomon and Asahi Pompey
69
Goldman Sachs 2020 Sustainability Report
Our Partnerships, Engagement and Impact
MIND — Mentally Healthy Universities (GS Gives UK)
Mental health has been a long-standing priority of Goldman Sachs in building wellness and resilience for our people. 
Building on these efforts, in September 2019 we launched the Mentally Healthy Universities program in partnership 
with MIND, England and Wales’ leading mental health charity. A first of its kind, this £1.5 million, two-year partnership 
provides resources and training in nine universities across the UK, supporting staff and students in the management  
of their mental health.
Community TeamWorks
Through Community TeamWorks, the people of Goldman Sachs contribute their ideas, time and expertise to drive 
tangible progress in our communities. Launched in 1997, this signature volunteering initiative enables our people to 
work in partnership with nonprofit organizations around the world to make a meaningful difference.
In 2020, the global pandemic required a significant reimagining of many of Community TeamWorks’ long-standing 
initiatives. At the same time, the need in our communities was greater than ever. With a pivot to virtual volunteering, 
more than 8,000 Goldman Sachs people have been able to volunteer — from their homes — in support of those 
disproportionately affected by the pandemic.
Our efforts focused on seven key areas: (1) health worker support; (2) racial equity advancement; (3) student 
encouragement; (4) small business coaching; (5) elder outreach; (6) support for the economically disadvantaged; 
and (7) pro bono/nonprofit capacity-building. In total, we held 436 virtual volunteer projects with 205 nonprofit 
organizations in 2020.
70
Goldman Sachs 2020 Sustainability Report
METRICS
KEY METRICS AND INDICATORS
Below we provide an overview of selected key metrics. For a complete list of our sustainability-related resources 
and disclosures, please visit our Resource Guide.
Environmental Indicators
Trend  
2019–2020 2020 2019 20181
Organization
  Global Facilities Reported 266 271 277
  Revenues ($M) $44,560 $36,546 $36,616
  Operational Rentable Square Feet (million ft2) 10.5 12.0 11.1
  Employees 40,500 38,300 36,600
Certification
  ◊LEED-Certified Buildings (% of sq. ft.)2 71% 63% 57%
  ◊ISO 14001 Certified Operations (% of sq. ft.) 100% 100% 95%
Energy
  Global Direct Energy Consumption (MWh) 31,524 45,281 41,237
    Natural Gas 91% 93% 91%
    Fuel Oil 9% 7% 9%
  Global Intermediate Energy Consumption (MWh) 413,435 489,908 508,703
    Purchased Electricity 97% 96% 96%
    Purchased Steam & Chilled Water 3% 4% 4%
  Global Direct and Intermediate Energy Consumption (MWh) 444,959 535,189 549,940
    ◊Reduction in Global Energy Consumption from Baseline (%) -27% -12% -10%
  Global Renewable Energy Consumption (MWh) 399,572 460,455 463,192
    ◊Percent Renewable Energy3 100% 98% 95%
71
Goldman Sachs 2020 Sustainability Report
Metrics
Trend  
2019–2020 2020 2019 20181
Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions
  Scope 1 — Direct (metric tons CO equivalent [tCOe]) 9,418 12,673 11,565
2 2
    Natural Gas 62% 68% 66%
    Fuel Oil 7% 6% 8%
    HFC Refrigerants 31% 26% 26%
  Scope 2 (location) — Indirect (tCOe)  141,583 166,249 187,418
2
    Purchased Electricity 98% 98% 98%
    Purchased Steam & Chilled Water 2% 2% 2%
  Scope 2 (market) — Indirect (tCOe)  4,283 9,109 16,284
2
    Purchased Electricity 39% 64% 81%
    Purchased Steam & Chilled Water 61% 36% 19%
  Scope 3: Category 6 — Business Travel (tCOe) 29,295 135,473 139,893
2
    Commercial Air 69% 83% 88%
    Other Travel4 31% 17% 12%
  Total Emissions: Scope 1 & 2 (location) (tCOe)  151,001 178,922 198,983
2
    Office Scope 1 & 2 43% 55% 53%
    Data Center Scope 1 & 2 57% 45% 47%
  Total Emissions: Scope 1, 2 (market) (tCOe) 13,701 21,782 27,849
2
  Total Emissions: Scope 1, 2 (market), and 3 Category 6 (tCOe) 42,996 157,255 167,742
2
  ◊Net Emissions: Scope 1, 2 (market), and 3 Category 6 (tCOe)1 0 0 0
2
    Verified Carbon Offset Emissions Reductions (tCOe)1 42,996 157,255 165,051
2
  Revenues (tCOe/$M)5 3.4 4.9 5.4
2
  Rentable Square Feet (kgCOe/sq. ft.)5 14.4 14.9 17.9
2
  Employee (tCOe/employee)5 3.7 4.7 5.4
2
Water
  Global Water Withdrawal (m3) 810,529 1,093,979 1,037,264
    ◊Reduction in Global Water Withdrawal from Baseline (%) -23% 3% -2%
72
Goldman Sachs 2020 Sustainability Report
Metrics
Trend  
2019–2020 2020 2019 20181
Waste
  Global Business Waste (metric tons) 2,485 5,990 5,920
    Recycled/Composted Material 67% 64% 61%
    ◊Landfilled Material6 3% 1% 2%
    Waste to Energy 30% 35% 37%
  Global e-Waste (metric tons) 301 243 431
    Refurbished and Reused Material7 0% 14% –
    Recycled Material 100% 86% 100%
  Global Construction Waste (metric tons) 1,621 3,395 6,115
    Recycled/Composted Material 61% 90% 93%
    Landfilled Material 39% 10% 4%
    Waste to Energy 0% 0% 3%
Sustainable Procurement
  Paper Consumption (million sheets) 107 200 236
    New Fibers (FSC/SFI) 41% 66% 65%
    Post-Consumer Recycled 32% 19% 21%
    New Fibers 27% 15% 14%
  Paper Consumption/Employee (sheets) 2,646 5,233 6,433
    ◊Reduction in Paper Consumption/Employee from Baseline (%) -69% -40% -26%
  Reduction in Single-Use Plastics (tons) 34 38 –
    ◊Reduction in Single-Use Plastics from Baseline (%) 2 -78% -85% –
  ◊Vendor Code of Conduct8 100% 100% 100%
  Vendor ESG Risk Screening8 100% 100% –
CDP
  Climate Change Survey: Score A A- A
  Climate Change Survey: Leadership Recognition9 A List / SER A List SER A List A List
Notes
Note 1: Energy, water and GHG data for 2018 was adjusted and restated to reflect a material acquisition in 2019; carbon offsets and net emissions reflect verified totals in the year of initial reporting.
Note 2: This symbol ◊ before an indicator denotes an environmental commitment through Goldman Sachs’ 2015 EPF. Reductions are from a 2013 baseline, except plastics, which are from a 2018 baseline.
Note 3: The firm sourced renewable electricity equivalent to 100% of global electricity consumption. 99.1% is in line with RE100 market boundary criteria.
Note 4: This includes charter air, rail/bus, ferry, car and hotels.
Note 5: Metrics are normalized using Scope 1 & Scope 2 (location) emissions.
Note 6: The firm has diverted 100% business waste from landfill where alternative disposal methods exist. Currently no alternatives exist in Hong Kong, China, Australia and New Zealand.
Note 7: The firm began tracking refurbished material as separate from recycled material in 2019.
Note 8: All newly onboarded vendors must attest to the Vendor Code of Conduct. All vendors are screened for inherent ESG risk.
Note 9: In 2019 and 2020, the firm’s CDP response was recognized for leadership as part of CDP’s Supplier Engagement Rating (SER).
73
Goldman Sachs 2020 Sustainability Report
RECOGNITION
FEATURED AWARDS AND RANKINGS
Each year, Goldman Sachs receives awards across categories including sustainability, business and innovation, employer of choice, 
and diversity and inclusion. Select awards are shown below.
Sustainability Awards and Rankings:
CDP Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED)
February 2021  December 2020 October and November 2020
Named to Supplier   Named to Climate Change  Earned LEED Gold Certifications in 4 additional US locations
Engagement Leaderboard  Leader list (A Score)
JUST Capital Reuters Responsible Business Awards
October 2020 October 2020
Ranked #111 out of 922 America’s Most Just Companies Partnership of the Year
Ranked #4 out of 33 Capital Markets Companies
EPA Green Power Partnership
July 2020
National Top 100
100% Green Power Users list
Business & Innovation Awards and Rankings:
Celent Model Bank Awards Celent Model Risk Manager Awards
March 2021 March 2021
Celent Model Bank Award for Corporate Banking in the Cloud Celent Model Risk Manager Award for Data, Analytics, and AI
IFR Awards Forbes Wealth Management Awards
February 2021 December 2020
Top Equity House Named Disruptive Innovator for expanded Personal Financial 
Top US Bond House Offerings
Top North America High-Yield Bond House
Top Europe High-Yield Bond House
Treasury Management International Awards for  
Top North America Equity House
Innovation & Excellence
Top EMEA Equity House
December 2020
Top Americas Structured Equity House
Top Asia Pacific Structured Equity House New Technology Innovation Solution Award
74
Goldman Sachs 2020 Sustainability Report
Recognition
Business & Innovation Awards and Rankings:
Risk.net Risk Awards Euromoney Awards for Excellence
September 2020 July and September 2020
Interest Rate Derivatives House of the Year
World’s Best Investment Bank
Latin America’s Best Bank for Financing
Argentina’s Best Investment Bank
Brazil’s Best Investment Bank 
The US’s Best Investment Bank
China’s Best Investment Bank
Excellence in Leadership in North America
Employer of Choice Awards:
Vault Banking 50 Universum World’s Most Attractive Employers
January 2021 October 2020
Ranked #1 in Prestige Ranked #6 out of 50 among Business students
Ranked #19 in the Banking 50 Ranked #24 out of 50 among Engineering/IT students
PEOPLE Magazine Awards Working Mother 100 Best Companies
September 2020 September 2020
Ranked #38 out of 50 in U.S. Companies That Care Listed
National Association for Female Executives (NAFE)  
Top Companies for Executive Women
March 2020
Listed
Diversity & Inclusion:
Bloomberg Gender-Equality Index Human Rights Campaign Foundation’s Corporate  
January 2021 Equality Index
January 2021
Listed
Rating of 100%
75
Goldman Sachs 2020 Sustainability Report
SASB INDEX
This report is evidence of our ongoing commitment to provide disclosure under the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) standards.  
We have included the below disclosures related to the three sectors that are most closely aligned to our mix of businesses: Asset Management & 
Custody Activities, Investment Banking & Brokerage and Commercial Banks. Disclosures that appeared in more than one of these sector standards are 
included in a separate section at the top. Unless otherwise noted, all data and descriptions apply to our entire firm, not just the businesses relevant to 
that sector. We do not currently disclose all metrics included in the standards for these three sectors, but we will continue to evaluate them in the future. 
All data is as of or for the year ended December 31, 2019 unless otherwise noted.
Topic Accounting Metric Category Code  Response
Disclosures Included in Multiple Sectors’ Standards
Percentage of gender and racial/ethnic 
group representation for (1) executive  U.S. Workforce Demographics
Diversity &  FN-AC-330a.1 
Inclusion management, (2) non-executive  Quantitative FN-IB-330a.1 As part of our commitment to improving diversity at 
management, (3) professionals and   the firm, we have also published diversity goals here. 
(4) all other employees
Description of whistleblower policies and  Discussion  FN-AC-510a.2  Raising Integrity Concerns
FN-IB-510a.2 
procedures and Analysis FN-CB-510a.2 Code of Business Conduct and Ethics
Total amount of monetary losses 
as a result of legal proceedings 
associated with:
• Marketing and communication of 
Business Ethics financial product–related information  FN-AC-270a.2
to new and returning customers; FN-AC-510a.1 During 2020, our total net provisions for all litigation 
• Fraud, insider trading, anti-trust,  Quantitative FN-IB-510a.1 and regulatory proceedings were $3.4B.
anti-competitive behavior, market  FN-IB-510b.3
manipulation, malpractice, or other  FN-CB-510a.1
related financial industry laws or 
regulations; and
• Professional integrity, including duty 
of care
The G-SIB surcharge is updated annually based on 
financial data from the prior year and is generally 
applicable for the following year. The G-SIB surcharge 
is calculated using two methodologies, the higher 
of which is reflected in the firm’s risk-based capital 
requirements. The first calculation (Method 1) is based 
on the Basel Committee’s methodology, which, among 
other factors, relies upon measures of the size, activity 
and complexity of each G-SIB. The second calculation 
(Method 2) uses similar inputs but includes a measure 
Global Systemically Important Bank  Quantitative FN-IB-550a.1  of reliance on short-term wholesale funding. Further 
(G-SIB) score, by category FN-CB-550a.1 information about Method 1 can be found on the Bank 
for International Settlement’s website and further 
Systemic Risk 
information about Method 2 can be found on the 
Management Federal Reserve Board’s website.
We are bound by Method 2 and our applicable G-SIB 
buffer is 2.5%. Please see pages 10–11, 77–79 and 
187–188 of our 2020 Form 10-K for further information. 
Further information about the indicators that factor 
into the calculation can be found in our FR Y-15 filing, 
which can be accessed here.
Description of approach to incorporation  We conduct various scenario analyses including 
of results of mandatory and voluntary  as part of the Comprehensive Capital Analysis and 
Discussion  FN-IB-550a.2 
stress tests into capital adequacy  Review and Dodd-Frank Act Stress Tests, as well 
and Analysis FN-CB-550a.2
planning, long-term corporate strategy  as our resolution and recovery planning. Please see 
and other business activities pages 12–16 and 75–78 of our 2020 Form 10-K.
76
Goldman Sachs 2020 Sustainability Report
SASB Index
Topic Accounting Metric Category Code  Response
Asset Management & Custody Activities 
We believe our clients are best served by having a 
clear understanding of how we work together, the 
capacities in which we act and the fees we charge. 
In addition to contracts for products and services, as 
well as regulatory disclosures, we provide Wealth 
Transparent 
Management clients a comprehensive brochure 
Information &  Description of approach to informing  Discussion  FN-AC-270a.3 outlining the services we provide and the related fee 
Fair Advice for  customers about products and services and Analysis structures, including how their advisor is compensated 
Customers for each type of service and fee.
Please also refer to the Business Standards 
Committee Impact Report, Code of Business Conduct 
and Ethics and Risk Factors detailed on pages 26–51 of 
our 2020 Form 10-K for additional firmwide information.
Amount of assets under management, by  As of December 2020, we had $137B in assets under 
asset class, that employ (1) integration  supervision that explicitly include ESG or impact 
of environmental, social and governance  Quantitative FN-AC-410a.1 objectives in the investment mandate and an additional 
(ESG) issues, (2) sustainability themed  $99B subject to ESG screens.
Incorporation  investing and (3) screening See our website for further information.
of ESG Factors 
in Investment  Description of approach to incorporation 
Management  of environmental, social and governance  Discussion 
FN-AC-410a.2 Statement on ESG and Impact Investing
and Advisory (ESG) factors in investment and/or wealth  and Analysis
management processes and strategies
Description of proxy voting and investee  Discussion 
FN-AC-410a.3 GSAM Stewardship Report
engagement policies and procedures and Analysis
Goldman Sachs Asset Management (GSAM) oversees 
liquidity risk management for the funds and client 
portfolios for which it serves as fund manager/
investment advisor.
GSAM monitors liquidity risk associated with a 
portfolio’s ability to meet potential cash outflows 
related to investor redemptions/withdrawals or 
Description of approach to incorporation 
potential liabilities related to derivative positions and 
of liquidity risk management programs  Discussion 
FN-AC-550a.2 secured funding trades, as well as changes in the 
into portfolio strategy and redemption  and Analysis
liquidity of positions within the portfolio.
risk management
GSAM manages the liquidity of its portfolios in 
line with the investment strategy of each portfolio, 
applicable regulatory requirements, potential 
Systemic Risk  investor redemption requests and broader macro 
Management market conditions, at all times in the context of 
GSAM’s obligations and its role as a fiduciary, where 
applicable.
As of December 2020, we had $30.2B of credit 
Total exposure to securities financing  exposure from securities financing transactions. 
Quantitative FN-AC-550a.3
transactions Please see page 107 of our 2020 Form 10-K for further 
information.
As of December 2020, written credit derivatives had a 
total gross notional amount of $515.9B and purchased 
Net exposure to written credit  credit derivatives had a total gross notional amount of 
Quantitative FN-AC-550a.4
derivatives $558.2B, for total net notional purchased protection of 
$42.3B. Please see page 141 of our 2020 Form 10-K for 
further information.
(1) Total registered and (2) total  Registered Assets Under Supervision $519B
N/A unregistered assets under management  Quantitative FN-AC-000.A
(AUM) Unregistered Assets Under Supervision $1,626B
Total assets under custody and  $2.1T assets under supervision. Please see page 69 of 
N/A Quantitative FN-AC-000.B
supervision our 2020 Form 10-K for further information.
77
Goldman Sachs 2020 Sustainability Report
SASB Index
Topic Accounting Metric Category Code  Response
Investment Banking & Brokerage 
Incorporation 
of ESG Factors  Description of approach to incorporation 
in Investment  of environmental, social and governance  Discussion  Environmental Policy Framework
FN-IB-410a.3
Banking &  (ESG) factors in investment banking and  and Analysis (Updated in 2019)
Brokerage  brokerage activities
Activities
The firm maintains a Code of Business Conduct and 
Description of approach to ensuring  Ethics and requires employees to annually certify they 
Professional  Discussion 
professional integrity, including duty of  FN-IB-510b.4 have reviewed and will comply with the code. See the 
Integrity and Analysis
care Business Standards Committee Impact Report and our 
Business Principles for further information.
MRT is a regulatory term applied in the UK, but not a 
concept we apply to our global workforce. Within our 
UK workforce only, 53% of total remuneration awarded 
Percentage of total remuneration that is  Quantitative FN-IB-550b.1 to MRTs for 2019 performance was variable.
variable for Material Risk Takers (MRTs)
Note that we apply a pay-for-performance philosophy 
across our organization. Please see our Compensation 
Employee  Principles for further information.
Incentives and 
Percentage of variable remuneration of  All equity-based awards granted to employees are 
Risk Taking
Material Risk Takers (MRTs) to which  subject to robust forfeiture and clawback provisions. 
Quantitative FN-IB-550b.2
malus or clawback provisions were  Please see page 44 of our 2021 Proxy Statement for 
applied further information.
Discussion of policies around supervision, 
Discussion 
control and validation of traders’ pricing  FN-IB-550b.3 Please see pages 55–56 of our 2020 Form 10-K.
and Analysis
of Level 3 assets and liabilities
Per Dealogic, our transaction volumes for 2020 were
Announced Mergers and Acquisitions $983B
(1) Number and (2) value of  Completed Mergers and Acquisitions $1,018B
N/A (a) underwriting, (b) advisory and  Quantitative FN-IB-000.A Equity and Equity-Related Offerings $115B
(c) securitization transactions
Debt Offerings $352B
Please see page 62 of our 2020 Form 10-K for further 
information.
The table below presents the concentration of our 
$48.7B of firmwide gross corporate loans by industry:
Consumer & Retail  7%
Diversified Industrials 17%
Financial Institutions 10%
Funds 13%
Healthcare 7%
Natural Resources & Utilities 12%
Real Estate 8%
(1) Number and (2) value of proprietary 
N/A Quantitative FN-IB-000.B
investments and loans by sector Technology, Media & Telecom. 17%
Other (incl. Special Purpose Vehicles) 9%
The table below presents the asset class breakdown 
of our $19.8B of equity securities at fair value (reported 
within our Asset Management segment):
Corporate 83%
Real Estate 17%
For further information about investments and loans, 
please see pages 104 and 144, respectively, of our 2020 
Form 10-K.
78
Goldman Sachs 2020 Sustainability Report
SASB Index
Topic Accounting Metric Category Code  Response
Commercial Banks 
Description of approach to identifying  Discussion 
Data Security FN-CB-230a.2 Client Security Statement 
and addressing data security risks and Analysis
As of December 2020, our Urban Investment Group had 
$1.4B of debt assets outstanding from 92 transactions 
and $1.8B of equity assets outstanding from 157 
transactions. See our Urban Investment Group’s 
Financial  (1) Number and (2) amount of loans  website for further information.
Inclusion &  outstanding qualified to programs  Quantitative FN-CB-240a.1 Please also refer to our programs 10,000 Small 
Capacity  designed to promote small business and  Businesses, which provides entrepreneurs in the US 
Building community development and UK access to education, capital and business 
support services, and 10,000 Women, a global initiative 
providing women entrepreneurs with a business and 
management education, mentoring and networking, 
and access to capital.
Credit Exposure from Corporate Loans and Lending 
Commitments by Industry:
Consumer & Retail 12%
Diversified Industrials 17%
Financial Institutions 7%
Funds 6%
Commercial and industrial credit 
Quantitative FN-CB-410a.1 Healthcare 11%
exposure, by industry
Incorporation of 
Natural Resources & Utilities 16%
ESG Factors in 
Credit Analysis Real Estate 6%
Technology, Media & Telecom. 19%
Other (incl. Special Purpose Vehicles) 6%
Please see page 104 of our 2020 Form 10-K for further 
information.
Description of approach to incorporation 
Discussion  Environmental Policy Framework 
of environmental, social and governance  FN-CB-410a.2
and Analysis (Updated in 2019)
(ESG) factors in credit analysis
The table below presents information by loan type:
Corporate $48.7B
(1) Number and (2) value of loans by  Wealth Management $33.0B
N/A segment: (a) personal, (b) small business  Quantitative FN-CB-000.B Consumer $3.8B
and (c) corporate
Credit Cards $4.3B
Please see page 149 of our 2020 Form 10-K for further 
information.
79
HUMAN 
CAPITAL 
FOR HUMAN 
IMPACT
Goldman Sachs 2020 People Strategy Report
Goldman Sachs 2020 People Strategy Report
106
89
114
109
  Introduction
82
ATTRACTING  SUPPORTING OUR  BROADENING 
TALENT PEOPLE, SUSTAINING  OUR IMPACT
OUR CULTURE
83  Broadening Our Aperture 93  An Inclusive Ethos 107 $800 Million Sustainability Bond:  
A Model of Collaboration
86  2020 Virtual Internship 95  Talent Development
108 Community Engagement
89  Vendor Diversity Program:   96  One Goldman Sachs (OneGS)
Expanding Our Engagement across   111 Commercial Approach to  
97  GS Accelerate
the Globe Inclusive Growth
99  Racial Equity
91  Enhancing Internal Mobility 114 Forward Focus
100 Wellness Offerings
92  Eyes on the Future
103 Performance Management
106 Evolving How We Work
 Recognition
115
 Key Performance Metrics
116
81
Goldman Sachs 2020 People Strategy Report
INTRODUCTION
At the end of the day, every investment  
we make is an investment in our people.
We are a talent-centric organization that relies on the strength of our people in order to drive success. 
Commitment to excellence is a mindset that permeates Goldman Sachs. It informs the kind of people we 
attract, the advice we give and the way we strive to meet our clients’ expectations. It is only with the 
determination and dedication of our people that we can serve our clients, generate long-term value for  
our shareholders and contribute to our broader communities.
As we continue to evolve as an organization and adapt to the changing global landscape, this commitment  
to excellence is the primary catalyst — and it is driven by the talent and innovation of our employees.
How do we continue to build this type of culture? Our focus begins before an individual even becomes a 
Goldman Sachs employee, as we seek to most effectively find talent across the globe. Then, we prioritize how 
we can best develop, retain and reward our people throughout their careers in order to support their ambitions 
and uphold our firm’s culture and key values. And finally, we cultivate opportunities for our employees to apply 
their exceptional dedication to positively impact our clients, communities and other stakeholders.
When I joined Goldman Sachs in January 2020, my first day at the firm happened to coincide with our first-ever 
Investor Day. I was struck by the clarity and depth of the strategic direction presented that day by David, John, 
Stephen and the rest of the management team. I also realized — not for the first time — how critical it would 
be to our continued success to ensure that our people at all levels were working together to achieve these 
ambitious goals. Our people strategy has been developed through intense and ongoing collaboration between our Human Capital 
Management division and our business leaders, and will remain instrumental as we continue to support the firm’s goals and our 
people with clarity and focus. 
David noted that we are a talent-centric organization, and as Head of Human Capital Management, my role is to make our 
firm the most compelling place for the world’s best and most diverse talent to work and thrive. While that task always has its 
complexities, it is hard to imagine a more challenging set of circumstances for our people than those we faced over the past 
year. I am extraordinarily grateful to each and every one of our people for their incredible commitment throughout the pandemic, 
and continually humbled by their resilience. This includes my entire Human Capital Management team, whose resourcefulness 
and perseverance in helping their colleagues across the globe stay safe, remain connected and continue to thrive has been 
remarkable. Despite these challenges, the pandemic has given us the opportunity to reflect on how we can further evolve our 
people strategy, including how we think about culture and connectivity, leadership and talent management. My confidence 
in what the people of Goldman Sachs can achieve has only grown over the past 12 months, and I am privileged to have the 
opportunity to lead our efforts to support them. 
Bentley de Beyer 
Global Head of Human Capital Management
82
Goldman Sachs 2020 People Strategy Report
ATTRACTING TALENT
WHERE  
TALENT  
LEADS
George, Consumer and Wealth 
Management, New York
When we hire at Goldman Sachs, we are bringing in the firm’s future leaders.  
These individuals will ultimately be responsible for carrying forward our commitment  
to excellence, our spirit of partnership and integrity and our steadfast dedication to  
our clients.
To find this type of talent, we must be thorough in our recruitment efforts. Our outreach spans a diverse landscape,  
from university students to seasoned professionals seeking new careers and challenges. Increasingly, this has led us to 
search for talent in new places and new ways, seeking different backgrounds, educations, experiences and skills. The bulk 
of our hiring each year consists of our new analyst and associate classes, and it is therefore critical that we continue to  
be dynamic in the way that we attract talent for those roles.
BROADENING  
OUR APERTURE
The financial industry is constantly evolving, and in order for us to maintain the quality of our workforce, we need to  
be able to attract people with the broadest possible range of perspectives. We champion attracting diverse — and 
diversely talented — candidates, equipping them with the resources necessary to become successful within our culture  
of excellence. We share the goal of democratizing access to opportunities in the financial industry.
We are focused on the advancement of women and all underrepresented professionals. This takes the form of aspirational 
diversity goals, robust talent development programs and diversity-retention initiatives.
Diverse characteristics, including gender, ethnic background, sexual orientation and disabilities, offer an abundance 
of perspectives and capabilities, and help to best serve our clients and stakeholders. The ongoing and necessary 
83
Goldman Sachs 2020 People Strategy Report
Attracting Talent
conversation around racial equity  
over the past year has underscored  
the importance of this focus.
Aspirations Transformed  
into Actions
In 2019, the firm set forth ambitious 
aspirational goals and a comprehensive 
action plan to increase diverse 
representation at all levels and create 
an even stronger culture of inclusion 
for all of our people.
Ann, Corporate and Workplace Solutions, Bengaluru
In 2020, we announced two additional 
areas of focus where we set new goals — enhancing the diverse representation of our vice president (VP) cohort and 
significantly increasing our hiring of Black analysts. We are proud of our early progress. In 2020, we had the most diverse 
incoming campus analyst class in our history.
We will hold ourselves accountable to make further advancements at all levels of the firm — including our partner class, 
which in 2020 reached new levels of diversity and depth of global perspectives.
ETHNIC DIVERSITY GENDER DIVERSITY
Analyst and Associate Hiring Goals   50%
over Time of Global Talent 
 over Time
11%
Black Professionals in the Americas
14% 50%
Hispanic/Latinx Professionals in the Americas of Analysts and Associates  
9%  Hiring over Time
Black Professionals in the UK
50%
of Campus Analyst  
2X HBCUs
 Hiring by 2021
Double Number of Analysts and Associates 
40%
Hired from HBCUs by 2025 at Vice-President Level  
 by 2025
7%
Black Vice Presidents in the Americas and UK by 2025 30%
of UK Senior Talent by 2023  
9%
Hispanic/Latinx Vice Presidents in the Americas by 2025  (Vice President or Above)
2020 PARTNER CLASS 2019 MANAGING DIRECTOR (MD) CLASS
Women in 2020 Partner Class,   Women in 2019 MD Class,  
27% 29%
  +4 points from 2016    +4 points from 2015 
Black in 2020 Partner Class,   Black in 2019 MD Class,  
7% 4%
  +3 points from 2016    up ~3 points from 2015 
84
Goldman Sachs 2020 People Strategy Report
Attracting Talent
PARTNER CLASS FACTS
27% Average tenure 47% 45% 24
Worked in   14 Years Started at GS   Earned advanced  Languages 
more than   as lateral hires degrees spoken
one division
15% 53% 56 17
Worked in more  Started as  Schools  Countries of 
than one region campus hires represented citizenship
DIVERSITY REPRESENTED PARTNERSHIP DIVERSITY   PARTNER CLASS SIZE
IN 2020 CLASS* WITH NEW CLASS**
16 Women (27%) 60
18% 3% 2%
4
Black (7%)
Women Black Hispanic/ 
2020
Latinx
3
Hispanic/Latinx (5%)
17% 1% 69 84 78
10
Asian (17%)
Asian LGBTQ+ 2018 2016 2014
*Global data, based on self-identification information.  **Partnership data includes new class and excludes announced retirements as of November 12.
2020 CAMPUS ANALYST CLASS
Global women, +11 points since 2010, surpassing 
52% 13% Black (UK), surpassing aspirational goal of 9%
  aspirational goal of 50% of analyst hiring over time  
Black (Americas), +4 points since 2010,   Hispanic/Latinx (Americas), +3 points since 2018, 
11% 17%
  in line with aspirational goal   surpassing aspirational goal of 14%
2020 CAMPUS ANALYST RECRUITING
Our Progress with Campus Analyst Recruiting
2020 AMERICAS CAMPUS ANALYST CLASS
ABOUT THE 2020 CAMPUS ANALYST CLASS
4%
2,700+  Other
11%
Black
From 524 schools
Global campus analysts
37%
Studied Located in 44  17% White
Hispanic/Latinx
different offices 
66 subjects
around the world
31%
52%  49%  Asian
vs. 
Speak 86 languages Women in 2019
85
Goldman Sachs 2020 People Strategy Report
Attracting Talent
2020 VIRTUAL INTERNSHIP
“ I think every intern was able to get 
a sense of the firm’s culture and 
understand the belief that Goldman 
Sachs’ people are behind the firm’s 
success. David Solomon mentioned  
on his first call with the interns that
‘the future leaders  
 of Goldman Sachs
are on this call.’”
— 2020 Summer Analyst
The disruptions of the past year from the global pandemic led to much creative adaptation, including the transformation 
of our traditional summer internship into a fully virtual program, which ultimately became the subject of a new Harvard 
Business School case study. We welcomed a class of nearly 3,000 summer analysts and associates, representing 483 
universities and joining us from 2,864 “offices” around the world. Human Capital Management partnered with managers 
from each division to carefully think through project assignments for the duration of the program, ensuring that interns 
had tangible opportunities to make an impact.
Market Madness: HBCU Possibilities Program
In addition to our commitment to double the number of campus analysts that the firm recruits from Historically  
Black Colleges and Universities (HBCUs) by 2025, Goldman Sachs is committing $25 million to HCBUs over the next  
five years and providing HBCU students across the United States with unique access to the firm and our people through 
the Market Madness: HBCU Possibilities Program — a four-month training in finance fundamentals. This enhanced 
partnership between Goldman Sachs and HBCUs is a natural next step in our long-standing commitment to recruit 
talent with the widest range of backgrounds, experiences and perspectives. Students graduating from HBCUs represent 
almost 20 percent of all Black college graduates in the United States, and these institutions have produced incredible 
leaders, including the HBCU alumni who have joined our firm. In the inaugural year of this partnership, 125 first- and 
second-year college students from eight HBCUs are participating in the program, which will culminate with a case  
study competition, where students will compete for prize donations to their academic institutions — thereby helping  
fund opportunities for future generations.
86
Goldman Sachs 2020 People Strategy Report
Attracting Talent
A Host of Initiatives to Democratize Access
In addition to setting clear aspirational goals, we democratize access to the people, opportunities and culture of the 
firm through our various Diversity Recruiting programs, including initiatives to increase representation of the LGBTQ+, 
disabled and veteran communities.
• Launched in 2008, the Goldman Sachs Returnship Program is an eight-week paid internship designed to help 
professionals restart their careers after an extended absence from the workforce.
• Launched in 2012, our Veterans Integration Program provides people leaving the military with an opportunity to 
develop their professional skills, strengthen their understanding of financial services and prepare for careers in 
the industry.
• The firm also hosts flagship Early Engagement Programs that provide LGBTQ+, women, ethnically diverse and social 
mobility candidates with an opportunity to meet our people, explore and learn about roles within the firm, and develop 
skills such as networking and interviewing.
• As part of our Africa Recruiting Initiative, colleagues in engineering travel to African countries, including Nigeria, 
Ghana and Kenya, to identify engineering talent for summer and full-time analyst positions. In 2020, more than 
200 African students were invited to participate in a four-day program of coding quizzes, mock presentations  
and technical evaluations.
87
Goldman Sachs 2020 People Strategy Report
Attracting Talent
• Launched in 2019, the firm’s Neurodiversity Hiring Initiative (in partnership with nonprofit social innovator 
Specialisterne) aims to identify and integrate highly skilled people often left out of hiring compared to their 
neurotypical counterparts. In lieu of a typical interview process, the program includes a three-week candidate 
assessment program based on competency and how prospective employees complete given projects. Afterwards,  
an eight-week paid internship offers candidates a springboard for success at the firm through training, on-the- 
desk experience, coaching and mentoring.
• A key focus in 2020 was the firm’s China Recruiting Initiative. As part of our efforts to unlock the potential of our 
organization to become China’s number-one foreign bank, we are committed to building a high-performing team 
in China. Efforts to develop the talent pipeline include focusing on local candidate engagement trends and driving 
awareness within the firm in order to attract internal talent to career growth opportunities. We’ve localized our online 
marketing strategy, leveraging WeChat, TenCent News and iQIYI to promote listed jobs, events and featured employee 
articles in Chinese.
• In an effort to strengthen our divisional pipelines with diverse talent, in 2020 we launched our second annual  
Career Pivot Series, a five-week program designed for experienced professionals outside the firm in the process 
of a career transition, in which participants strengthen their résumé development, networking and skill alignment. 
Participants have the unique opportunity to virtually connect with recruiters, professionals and subject matter 
experts on the various aspects of career transition. In support of the firm’s aspirational diversity and inclusion goals, 
this program allows us to identify experienced individuals and engage them for potential roles at Goldman Sachs.
88
Goldman Sachs 2020 People Strategy Report
Attracting Talent
VENDOR DIVERSITY PROGRAM:
EXPANDING 
OUR 
ENGAGEMENT  
ACROSS  
THE GLOBE
At Goldman Sachs, we partner with a variety of organizations 
to deliver creative and innovative solutions for our clients 
and global business. Our Vendor Diversity Program launched 
in North America in 2000 before expanding to Europe in 
2005 and Asia Pacific in 2009. Aiming to break down barriers 
to market access for small, women- and minority-owned 
enterprises, this program unlocks commercial opportunities 
with Goldman Sachs and gives us a platform to engage 
with a wide spectrum of vendors around the world. We 
strive to engage those that reflect the diversity of the 
communities where we live and work, and of the clients we 
serve. Often, their range of perspectives helps us discover 
creative, effective solutions. For the first time we are 
publicly reporting our 2020 spend with small and diverse 
businesses. We believe this transparency is important and 
we will hold ourselves and our vendors accountable in our 
efforts to increase spend with small and diverse businesses 
by 50 percent by 2025 from our 2020 reported numbers.
89
Goldman Sachs 2020 People Strategy Report
Attracting Talent
“ The Vendor Diversity Program
  
is important to Goldman Sachs for three reasons. One, 
it helps us provide the best possible solutions to clients 
by bringing talented, experienced professionals into 
our network. Two, it drives growth opportunities for 
these businesses, and we’ve seen time and again that 
our program partners pay it forward in their communities. 
And three, it is a chance for us to break down barriers 
to growth that still exist for minority business owners — 
and that’s critical for a healthy society.”
— D  avid Solomon, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
200 West Street Cafeteria 
The following major real estate projects reflect our commitment to working with diverse vendors across the world:
• In London, we spent over £100 million with local small and medium-sized enterprises, hired local labor, and provided 
more than 200,000 hours of work to apprentices and trainees during the construction and fit-out phases of our new 
Plumtree Court office, which opened in 2019.
• In Bengaluru, more than 64 percent of construction shell-and-core spend and 33 percent of interior work spend 
for our new campus, which opened in 2019, was with diverse vendors. More than 9,000 height-adjustable desks 
were designed, manufactured and installed by a local, medium-sized enterprise, exemplifying our commitment to 
supporting local SMEs.
• In New York, we spent more than $300 million with minority- and women-owned businesses while constructing our 
global headquarters, which at the time was the most successful project in the history of New York State’s Minority-  
and Women-Owned Business Enterprise Program.
We continue to partner with industry associations and work to expand vendor relationships developed through our initiatives.  
We are members of and active participants in the following organizations:
• Disability:IN  • Women’s Business Enterprise National Council (WBENC)
• National LGBT Chamber of Commerce (NGLCC)  • WEConnect International
• National Minority Supplier Development Council (NMSDC)  • Financial Services Roundtable for Supplier Diversity (FSRSD)
90
Goldman Sachs 2020 People Strategy Report
Attracting Talent
ENHANCING
INTERNAL
MOBILITY
Sean, Corporate Treasury, Salt Lake City
“ I was on the fence 
about pursuing external  Once new hires walk through our doors, we want 
opportunities. But the  them to reach their highest potential. Our long-
term vision is to build a best-in-class, globally 
firm’s outreach and the  “ Peers and junior members 
integrated, internal-talent marketplace powered 
growth of the internal  of my team have told me 
by technology and career coaching. We believe 
that, at times, it felt easier to 
mobility program has  that this will inspire employees, help retain top 
look for new opportunities 
reinvigorated my faith   talent and create diversified experiences to build 
externally versus internally. 
future leaders.
in the organization.” I think this internal mobility 
Enhancing our people’s experience of internal  team will add tremendous 
— VP, Engineering
mobility was a key focus in 2020. As a first  value in retaining talent, by 
step on this roadmap to our strategic vision, in  helping employees — myself 
partnership with UPenn Wharton People Analytics, People Science analyzed 10 years  included — feel like we’re 
of historical data and conducted a firmwide survey to better understand employees’  valued and supported while 
experiences with internal mobility. We found that employees tended to look for mobility  making career transitions.”
opportunities 2.5 years into their tenure; and that the most common reasons for 
—  VP, Consumer & Wealth 
transferring were for career progression opportunities and to develop new skillsets. 
Management
However, we found there were several barriers to mobility that needed to be addressed 
to improve the experience. In the second half of 2020, we actively engaged with more 
than 1,000 employees across the firm who expressed interest in making moves within 
the firm. Throughout, our recruiters have partnered closely with our diversity and 
inclusion experts to ensure that we have a strong focus on the retention of diverse 
talent in diverse roles.
91
Goldman Sachs 2020 People Strategy Report
Attracting Talent
EYES  
ON THE 
FUTURE
Bringing Your Authentic Self to Work: 
A Conversation with David Solomon, 
February 2020
As we look forward, we see a number of trends that will continue to evolve how we attract talent.
Globalization
In an increasingly globalized world, attracting the best talent means going beyond traditional channels. Whether it be 
through our on-campus efforts (including HBCUs), or through more innovative channels like online talent marketplaces 
or specialized conferences, our commitment to tapping diverse talent pools is evident around the globe. Organizations 
like ours have more tools than ever before in the effort to source the best and brightest. This expansive approach 
aligns with our firm’s broader strategy of distributing more talent to offices around the world, for broader reach 
and perspective.
Shifting Employee Preferences
Millennial and Gen Z employees are a harbinger of generational shifts in employee expectations and preferences about 
the workplace. We need to respond to these changes with not just competitive compensation and benefits, but also by 
appealing to employees’ sense of purpose, preference for learning and commitment to communities. At Goldman Sachs, 
we’ve made new strides in listening to our employees — and responding to employee needs on an ongoing, real-time 
basis. Initial feedback has offered valuable insights. We continue to evaluate our wellness and associated programs, 
learning and enrichment programs, and other offerings as we seek to attract and develop talent.
Focus on Technology
Tech advances continue to have profound impacts on the workplace, and a technology-oriented skillset is becoming 
increasingly valuable, especially in financial services. Over a quarter of our people are engineers, but increasingly, 
technology expertise and related skills are becoming important in many non-engineering roles across the firm. Going 
forward, we anticipate an increasing amount of tech talent will be oriented not just around programming and coding,  
but also using tech-adjacent skillsets for what Goldman Sachs will always be known for: problem solving, critical 
thinking, innovation and creativity.
92
Goldman Sachs 2020 People Strategy Report
SUPPORTING OUR PEOPLE, SUSTAINING OUR CULTURE
UNLOCKING 
POTENTIAL
ACROSS  
OUR FIRM
Stephanie,  
Legal, Hong Kong 
Hiring a diverse group of talented people is only the first step in unlocking their potential. 
Our focus on employees’ career-long fulfillment is embedded in a unique culture built over 
150 years and founded on one of our core values: partnership. We prioritize teamwork and 
a shared entrepreneurial mindset in the pursuit of professional and personal excellence. 
By cultivating an atmosphere of continual learning and growth, we support our people’s 
well-being both at work and in their own lives.
AN INCLUSIVE ETHOS IS THE  
KEY TO AN INNOVATIVE AND  
DYNAMIC CULTURE
The strength of our culture, the execution of our strategy and our relevance to our clients depend on a diverse workforce 
and an inclusive work environment — attuned to the benefits of collaboration and partnership across our organization. 
We strive to ensure that a position at Goldman Sachs is not just a job, but also an opportunity to build or continue a 
fulfilling career.
Our inclusion efforts are led by our Global Inclusion and Diversity Committee, formed in 2018 to ensure appropriate focus 
on the firm’s diversity initiatives. The committee reviews everyday practices and processes and makes recommendations 
to ensure a strong culture of inclusion for all our people. The committee reports directly to the firm’s CEO — an indication 
of the importance we place on this critical work.
93
Goldman Sachs 2020 People Strategy Report
Supporting Our People, Sustaining Our Culture
To optimize firmwide efforts, we have launched similar committees 
at both divisional and regional levels, tasked with identifying areas 
Inclusion Networks  
of highest focus within their purview. This distributed system 
and Interest Forums
drives progress and accountability toward our tangible goals for 
representation, hiring, retention and pipeline development. Across 
Open to all professionals at Goldman Sachs, 
the firm, we seek to enhance the experiences of employees in 
Inclusion Networks play a central role in 
each region. helping to advance diversity at the firm. 
They serve as forums that offer support, 
Key initiatives include:
understanding, information and connectivity for 
• Manager Essentials: Inclusive Leadership — An innovation  people with shared identities and perspectives. 
Furthermore, networks provide our people with 
in our Manager Essentials curriculum equips new leaders with 
the opportunity to problem-solve, innovate, 
foundational skills and tools to foster inclusion on their teams.
develop and showcase their leadership skills. 
• Inclusion in the Workplace: Understanding “Covering” — Offered  Below are our firmwide Inclusion Networks:
to all new associates, participants build awareness of the concept 
of “covering” (minimizing or hiding aspects of one’s identity in order  • Global Asian Network
to fit in) and explore how they may play a role in fostering inclusion 
• G  lobal and Regional Black,  
and making colleagues feel they can bring their authentic selves to 
Hispanic and Latinx Networks
the workplace.
• G  lobal and Regional  
• Subtle and Significant — Empowers new vice presidents and 
Women’s Networks
executive directors to deepen their understanding of how subtle 
changes in interactions with colleagues and teammates — building  • G  lobal and Regional  
rapport, providing career guidance and giving feedback — can shape   LGBTQ+ Networks
their people’s experience and ability to succeed at the firm.
• G  lobal and Regional  
• Identity Matters: Race and Ethnicity in the Workplace — Offered  Disability Networks
to managing directors and partners in the US and EMEA, the 
• Global Veterans Network
program highlights how race and ethnicity affect people’s lived 
experiences in the workplace. It equips managers with a knowledge  • R  eligion and Culture Network  
of best practices to nurture a culture of belonging, where people  (India and EMEA)
thrive irrespective of their backgrounds.
• Family Support Resources — The firm supports our employees’ 
family lives by offering a range of support for family health and 
well-being — including comprehensive parental leave availability, support for the transition back to work and  
access to parenting best practices. Enhanced benefits include a global minimum of 20 weeks’ paid parenting leave, 
regardless of gender or caregiver status, and stipends for egg retrieval, egg donation, adoption, IVF and surrogacy.  
The firm also provides dedicated facilities for nursing mothers in offices across the globe, as well as a global breast 
milk shipping program.
• Out in the Open: Sexual Orientation and Gender Identity in the Workplace — We offer insights on the experiences of  
LGBTQ+ professionals at Goldman Sachs and equip participants with practical tips and strategies to foster an inclusive 
environment for their LGBTQ+ colleagues.
• Pronouns Initiative — In 2019, the firm launched a global effort focused on increasing awareness of the variety of 
pronouns people use to express their identity. The firm sees pronoun use as an important way of enabling employees 
to bring their authentic selves to work.
94
Goldman Sachs 2020 People Strategy Report
Supporting Our People, Sustaining Our Culture
Investing in our people throughout their 
careers is one of our most vital responsibilities. 
Our talent development efforts combine data-
driven analysis with more traditional methods,  TALENT 
like one-on-one mentoring, that have long 
been core to the Goldman Sachs culture.
DEVELOPMENT
The firm maintains a variety of programs aimed 
at employees’ growth and support throughout 
their careers and as they evolve into leaders:
• Through our Black Analyst and Associate Initiative, we seek to grow and develop Black professionals by investing 
in their career development, enhancing connectivity to managers and providing access to a senior leader within their 
division, who serves as a coach.
• Our Hispanic/Latinx Analyst Initiative supplements Hispanic/Latinx analysts’ day-to-day experience by fostering 
early and ongoing communication with their managers, divisional leadership and peers.
• The firm’s Women’s Career Strategies Initiative is a global five-month program focused on accelerating the career 
growth of high-performing women associates through targeted learning opportunities, goal-setting and enhanced 
global connectivity, with close manager engagement throughout.
• Our Vice President Career Investment Initiative is a five-month leadership program offered to Black and Hispanic/
Latinx VPs in the Americas and Black VPs in EMEA. It enables mid-tenured, high-potential vice presidents to be more 
successful in their current roles and unlock their potential for future opportunities by enhancing their skillsets, 
expanding their relationships and providing career guidance from their managers and divisional sponsors.
• Our Vice President Sponsorship Initiative strengthens participants’ leadership development through a robust 
sponsorship model, offered for women VPs in Asia Pacific, women VPs and VPs with disabilities in India, and women, 
LGBTQ+, Asian and Black VPs in EMEA.
• The Asian Talent Initiative is an annual program that improves the pipeline of Asian senior leaders by developing 
Asian managing director candidates and focusing on talent discussions with senior leadership about their career 
trajectories at the firm.
• Our Vice President Leadership Acceleration Initiative is a cross-divisional leadership development program 
designed to accelerate the careers of select vice presidents and executive directors in the managing director pipeline 
across the firm and prepare them for the next level of leadership. Over a five-month period, participants raise their 
self-awareness and build critical leadership skills through individual feedback, group-learning workshops, roundtable 
discussions with senior leaders, peer-to-peer problem-solving forums and networking opportunities.
• Our Managing Director Leadership Acceleration Initiative (MD LAI) is a similar intensive program aimed at  
building partner readiness by evaluating the potential of high-performing managing directors and providing skills-
based development. Over a period of four to five months, managing directors in the partner pipeline undergo rigorous 
individual assessments and take part in group-learning workshops and senior leader roundtables. The program is  
part of Pine Street’s leadership development strategy to proactively build future senior leaders of the firm. In 2020,  
its 17th year, MD LAI included 25 hours of content and class engagement, three leadership workshops, seven senior 
leader roundtables and 10 hours of developmental assessments.
95
Goldman Sachs 2020 People Strategy Report
Supporting Our People, Sustaining Our Culture
ALTERNATIVE CLIENT
ASSETS COVERAGE
ONE
CLIENT  GOLDMAN
RELATIONSHIP 
MANAGEMENT SACHS CONTENT
DIGITAL
STRATEGY
ONE GOLDMAN SACHS 
(OneGS)
OneGS is the firm’s cross-divisional strategy to provide a more comprehensive and integrated approach 
to serving our global client franchise. Through OneGS, our objective is to leverage the full capabilities and 
relationship network of Goldman Sachs from virtually any touchpoint, to simplify access to the firm for 
our clients and to promote an ethos of holistic long-term client coverage. To achieve this, teams across 
the firm are engaged in helping us drive progress across five key pillars: Client Coverage, Content, Digital 
Strategy, Client Relationship Management and Alternative Assets.
This initiative underpins our growth strategy, and we have made significant progress across all fronts 
in 2020. Our new focus on client-centricity and the goal of delivering one firm to our clients enables us 
to differentiate from competitors. OneGS is becoming increasingly embedded into the firm’s DNA, as  
our people collaborate across divisions more organically to solve client problems.
“ We’re tapping into talent across the firm, driving 
smarter collaboration and accelerating innovation 
to achieve a more seamless experience for our 
clients. If successful, OneGS will no longer be  
an initiative — it will just be how we operate.”
— Sam Morgan, Co-head of One Goldman Sachs and Co-head of EMEA FICC Sales
96
Goldman Sachs 2020 People Strategy Report
Supporting Our People, Sustaining Our Culture
GS ACCELERATE
GS Accelerate is a firmwide platform to foster innovation and collaboration at Goldman Sachs. It provides our people 
with the capital, resources and support to build new products and services, with a focus on the firm’s future growth. 
Funded businesses focus on building strategic advantages for the firm, while offering employees the opportunity 
to work in a fast-paced, entrepreneurial environment. Entrepreneurship and innovation have always been a core part 
of our culture, and we believe in cultivating an environment where our people can work together, think big and shape 
the future with their ideas.
“ GS Accelerate is one of the best things  
I’ve done in my 31 years at the firm.”
— MD, Consumer & Wealth Management
“ GS Accelerate is a great use of firm resources because I don’t think these ideas 
would see the light of day without this program.”
— Associate, Engineering
15 1,743 37 7
Investments   Ideas submitted to   Number of cities that   New products  
to date GS Accelerate, since   have participated in   launched for client  
launch in 2018 GS Accelerate and employee use
One of the funded businesses, ClearFactr is a cloud-based financial modeling platform that demystifies the process of creating 
and analyzing data-heavy spreadsheets. Through its intuitive, natural-language interface, users are able to visually compare 
scenarios based on different assumptions. The product has been a tremendous help and success for various internal-use cases, 
and we are excited about offering the product to clients as part of our broader financial cloud strategy.
97
Goldman Sachs 2020 People Strategy Report
Supporting Our People, Sustaining Our Culture
Learning and Growth Opportunities
Lifelong learning is essential to the growth of our firm and our people. We understand that cultivating highly informed 
talent is both a strategic priority and a competitive advantage that underpins the firm’s ability to analyze, execute 
and thrive.
Formal learning opportunities are designed and delivered by two complementary groups, Goldman Sachs University 
(GSU) and Pine Street. GSU provides impactful educational programming to accelerate the growth of everyone from 
analysts through managing directors. Pine Street, the executive development group, helps partners and select managing 
directors to lead the firm’s next generation of people and businesses, to enhance our culture and sustain growth in 
the future.
Ranging from highly targeted leadership programs to key courses focused on the most critical topics, we support our 
people through milestones, transition points, role changes and challenging situations.
In addition, we understand the importance of elevating the 
technical and functional expertise of our people to drive 
commercial growth. We offer a wide variety of digital courses 
from best-in-class content providers — via access to external 
learning platforms, including LinkedIn and Coursera — and a 
library of 6,000 digital resources available on our GSU site.  
These courses can be used by our people to become subject 
matter experts in a specific field, strengthen development  
areas or learn a new skill for internal mobility purposes.
Separately, in order to expand technical skillsets and accelerate 
the broad-based adoption of data-driven management practices 
throughout the firm, we offer Data School — a cross-divisional 
training program focused on providing skills that allow people to 
use data to more effectively make decisions. Data School offers  
a wide curriculum to various audiences ranging from Goldman 
Sachs managers to interns, as well as to clients. As part of  
our continued focus on providing best-in-class client service, 
including education and training for our clients, we hosted this 
past year’s Client Data School virtually on Zoom. To date,  
Data School has had more than 5,000 firm participants, more  
than 1,075 firm graduates, 500+ classroom hours and  
~80 client participants. James, Human Capital Management, Hong Kong
2020 Highlights Tuition Reimbursement Program
15 36,000+
Our employees often choose to continue their educations while 
working, and the firm encourages this through financial assistance. Our 
learning and  employees received  Tuition Reimbursement Program is designed to facilitate employees’ 
development  leadership and professional  continuation of their formal education toward an undergraduate or 
programs offered   development training  graduate degree. We also offer financial assistance opportunities for 
in 2020 in 2019–2020 family members’ educations.
98
Goldman Sachs 2020 People Strategy Report
Supporting Our People, Sustaining Our Culture
RACIAL EQUITY
At Goldman Sachs, there is no place for racism or discrimination against any group in any form. We are committed to 
ensuring all of our people feel valued and know they belong. As part of our continued commitment to building a stronger 
culture of inclusion, we developed and implemented the following suite of resources and initiatives in 2020.
• Reverse Mentoring — This unique initiative provides the opportunity for non-Black senior partners to be mentored 
on racial equity issues by Black professionals at the firm. The initial rollout paired 70 of our senior-most leaders at 
the firm with Black managing directors and vice presidents, with the goal of enhancing understanding and empathy 
between races on the topic of racial equity. The nine-month program includes monthly mentor/mentee touchpoints, 
complemented by key educational resources on race equity issues.
• “Be an Ally” Guide — Shared with all employees in 2020, this guide highlights best practices on what it means to be 
an active ally for racial equity, from using the right language to learning about systemic racism. This guide points out 
opportunities to act meaningfully as an ally for Black 
colleagues and friends.
• D  ivisional Dialogues on Allyship for Race Equity — 
We also focused on enabling conversations on allyship, 
facilitating a series of dialogues within divisions to 
advance practical ally behaviors. Sessions included 
stories of experiences from Black professionals, 
best practices for managers and actionable ways 
to become an ally. More than 2,700 managers 
participated in “Starting the Dialogue” in 2020.
• D  edicated Web Resource — We maintain and update 
Megan Hogan
Chief Diversity Officer
an internal web reference sharing educational 
resources, ways to foster an inclusive environment, 
personal accounts from Black colleagues and details 
on our commitment to racial equity — both inside  
and outside the firm.
“ As we seek to advance racial equity, both at our firm and in our communities, 
we want to emphasize that this is a key moment to effect lasting improvement. 
The key to positive transformation is the realization that each of us must be 
part of the solution — our response to the circumstances around us truly 
matters. Even with all of the uncertainty created by the COVID-19 pandemic, 
it’s been inspiring to see our people stand in unity and ask how they can 
individually contribute to meaningful change. We are at a pivotal inflection 
point, and this conversation is just the beginning.”
— Megan Hogan, Goldman Sachs Chief Diversity Officer
99
Goldman Sachs 2020 People Strategy Report
Supporting Our People, Sustaining Our Culture
on-site centers  
(healthcare, fitness,  
WELLNESS 
childcare in 11 locations)
OFFERINGS
Wellness Center team  
in New York office
Marked by a global pandemic, 2020 offered daily reminders that maintaining our health, well- people assisted by 
being and resilience is paramount. We recognize our people are dealing with unique personal  Critical Health Solutions 
circumstances due to the profound impact of COVID-19. Our firm maintains comprehensive  in navigating the 
offerings to support the health and wellness of our people and their loved ones. healthcare system 
and addressing their 
As many of our people across the globe are working remotely, it can be a challenge to stay 
medical needs 
focused and maintain healthy boundaries between work and life. To prioritize the well-being of 
our people as they face unprecedented circumstances, we have provided learning-and-wellness 
resources ranging from resilience training to counseling services and meditation classes.
• Medical — In 2020, we introduced telemedicine access to employees and covered dependents enrolled in the firm’s 
US healthcare plan, waiving all costs of urgent-care visits, including COVID-19 consultations. We provided access to 
global patient advocacy teams to help employees and their families gain access to appropriate COVID-19 care.
• COVID-19 Testing/Return-to-Office Protocols — As our employees return to the office environment, our top priority 
is their safety and well-being. For those employees who have returned, our comprehensive protocols include regular 
testing, health surveys, temperature checks at arrival and physical distancing. We will continue to be guided by a 
people-first approach as circumstances evolve.
• Health and Fitness — Goldman Sachs employees enjoy broad health-and-fitness offerings that outpace those provided 
by peers, including access to specialty doctors, nutrition services and ergonomics.
• Mental Health and Resilience — We offer all employees and their dependents access to free and confidential 
counseling through our Employee Assistance Program. Additionally, through our meQuilibrium platform, we offer 
personalized resilience-building programs, including exercises and guided meditations. In 2020, we hosted several 
resilience-training sessions that featured leading speakers on the subject.
100
Goldman Sachs 2020 People Strategy Report
Supporting Our People, Sustaining Our Culture
“ Over the past two decades, I’ve experienced firsthand Goldman Sachs’ 
consistent prioritization of the  
holistic well-being of its people.  
Eleven years ago, during my first maternity leave, the firm undertook 
and fulfilled my request to open a full-time, onsite daycare center in our 
London office. Most recently, I’d highlight last year’s proactive revamp 
of Goldman Sachs’ parental leave policy, in which we not only extended 
the minimum duration of leave offered around the globe to 20 weeks, 
but also crucially expanded the benefit to include both parents.”
— Padideh Trojanow, Partner, Global Markets Division
• Family Leave and Support — We are committed to delivering best-in-class benefits and wellness programs to  
meet the needs of our people who are starting, growing and supporting families. Our offerings include family leave, 
adoption and surrogacy stipends, and maternity mentoring and coaching programs, among others. In 2020 there  
was an 11 percent increase in the average weeks of leave taken by birth mothers and a 126 percent increase in the 
average weeks of leave by non–birth parents. Additionally, 122 employees used firm stipends for adoption, egg 
donation/retrieval and surrogacy. Most recently, the firm announced 10 days of paid COVID-19 family leave, available  
to employees globally. In 2020, more than 2,000 employees took advantage of this policy, for purposes ranging  
from caring for family members with COVID-related illness to meeting demands for in-home schooling.
COVID-19 TESTING/RETURN-TO-OFFICE PROTOCOLS
+
15,000 11,000 110,000
antigen and PCR tests  COVID-19 inquiries into Wellness Exchange
reusable face coverings 
administered for employees
produced for our people 
~ globally by 10,000 Small 
700,000
Businesses graduates  
10,400+ travel health, close  in three countries,  
contact and clinical  generating ~$850,000 in 
cases managed globally N95 and more than 2.5 million surgical masks donated to  revenue for these businesses
more than 80 healthcare facilities across US and EMEA
MENTAL HEALTH AND RESILIENCE
15,000 9,600
employees attended 70 new  employees 
resilience programs rolled  enrolled with 
out in response to COVID-19 meQuilibrium
101
Goldman Sachs 2020 People Strategy Report
Supporting Our People, Sustaining Our Culture
Financial Wellness
We provide our employees with access to a variety of financial wellness resources (e.g., financial education series,  
live and on-demand webinars, articles and interactive digital tools) to help our employees manage their personal 
financial health and decision-making. 
Our US employees also have access to our industry-leading workplace financial planning benefit from Goldman Sachs 
Ayco Personal Financial Management, which features a digital platform that offers access to confidential financial 
coaching and tools to help our employees prepare for their financial future. Benefits include a financial wellness 
assessment, personal action plans and one-on-one coaching sessions. Eligible employees are also able to access  
Marcus solutions through the Ayco Marketplace, including savings, lending and investing products.
Our US MDs also have access to a dedicated finance advisor through Goldman Sachs Personal Financial Management 
(PFM), where PFM advisors work directly with our MDs to develop a personalized and adaptable financial plan.  
Through this service, our MDs also have access to specialized investment management solutions.
102
Goldman Sachs 2020 People Strategy Report
Supporting Our People, Sustaining Our Culture
Employee Listening
Better engaging and responding to our people is a key priority for the firm. Moments That Matter is a new initiative 
launched in 2021 designed to establish two new channels for us to hear from our people on a range of important topics: 
GS People Pulse and in-the-moment surveys. Both measure the employee experience through short, frequent surveys 
that will be distributed throughout the year so that all employees participate at least semi-annually.
Automated in-the-moment surveys will capture the experience around specific moments important to our people 
(such as onboarding and integration).
Combined Results
Data collected via these surveys will allow us to develop research-informed solutions that help run our business better 
and improve the candidate, employee and alumni experience. In another signal to our people around the power and 
importance of transparency, we will share not only the results of these listening efforts, but our plans to act on the 
findings, creating a constant feedback loop with our people.
Catching up in our Salt Lake City office
PERFORMANCE  
MANAGEMENT
Goldman Sachs operates at its best when our people can too. As part of our ongoing efforts to ensure we unlock 
our people’s potential and the collective capability of our firm, we continue to invest in our people’s development, 
including by ensuring that each colleague receives robust, timely and actionable feedback to help them grow and 
make a bigger impact.
103
Goldman Sachs 2020 People Strategy Report
Supporting Our People, Sustaining Our Culture
To that end, in 2020 we recalibrated performance ratings, increased transparency to employees and introduced active 
coaching by managers. These changes were driven by a belief that clarity breeds outperformance. More specifically, 
transparent, coaching-oriented teamwork drives employee engagement, performance and retention — which, in turn, 
drive business success. Our approach to performance management allows us to align our people’s development to the 
firm’s priorities.
We recognize that effective performance management goes beyond the performance review process. We are also 
focused on cultivating more leaders who coach. For us, great managers unlock their team’s potential when they know 
their team’s capabilities, focus their impact (including by setting clear goals), care about them and their contributions, 
and inspire them. This “KFCI” framework is critical to how we think about manager effectiveness. To encourage more 
frequent exchanges between managers and their team members, we launched Three Conversations at GS this year, 
whereby managers establish goals with team members at the start of the year, check in mid-year on progress and then 
close out the year with a conversation on performance against goals. Understanding where you are and knowing what 
you need to do to continue developing is key for a growth-minded organization and critical to helping our people thrive.
Continuing Our Momentum:  
Succession Planning and Pipeline Development
We have always prided ourselves on our deep bench of talent, but we do not take this for granted. We have developed a rigorous, 
multiyear approach focused on building and developing a high-performing, diverse leadership bench. These efforts are led by the 
dedicated Leadership Pipeline Review Committee, comprising some of our most senior leaders, who drive our efforts on strategic 
succession planning for the partner level. The committee meets throughout the year to foster an ongoing dialogue on month-to-month 
progress in our development efforts, with a focus on assessing partner effectiveness, developing diverse talent, and optimizing our talent 
pipelines. Our approach to leadership development and succession planning allows us to focus on preparing our most senior talent for 
both the short and long term. 
We made significant strides in 2020 with the introduction of scenario planning for agile decision-making and the assessment of leader 
readiness, as well as career planning for the next generation of leaders. As part of our broader effort to further differentiate our partners’ 
experience and create opportunities to support their continued growth, we also introduced the Partnership Development Initiative, which 
will provide personalized executive coaching and bespoke career development planning opportunities for each of our 400+ partners on 
a regular cycle. These enhancements are designed to balance the demands of our partners’ roles as senior leaders of the firm with our 
belief that the best leaders are the ones who keep growing.
Compensation
We recognize that every financial institution is different,  Focus on Equal Pay and Living Wage
shaped by its activities, size, history and culture. Our 
compensation practices encourage a firmwide orientation  We are a meritocracy, and gender, ethnicity, age, disability, 
and culture through a framework that establishes a direct  sexual orientation or any other protected characteristic 
is not a factor in the way that we pay our people. We 
relationship between the longer-term evaluation of 
pay women and men in the same way, using the same 
performance and an appropriately matched incentive structure. 
compensation criteria, including the nature of their role and 
We pay for performance — this is an absolute requirement 
their performance. We will continue to review compensation, 
under our compensation program and is inherent in our culture.  spending significant time during the compensation process 
We structure compensation, especially at senior levels, to align  to ensure that our commitment to equal pay is upheld. 
with our shareholders’ long-term interest and advance our 
Additionally, we review regularly to ensure that we provide 
ethos of partnership. Additionally, we use compensation as an  competitive compensation levels that are intended to exceed 
important tool to attract, retain and motivate talent. the legal minimum and living wages where we operate.
104
Goldman Sachs 2020 People Strategy Report
Supporting Our People, Sustaining Our Culture
Zero Tolerance for 
Discrimination and  
Harassment in the  
Workplace
Goldman Sachs is committed to 
maintaining a workplace free from 
discrimination or harassment. As 
reflected in our policies, we do not  Huddle in our London office
tolerate sexual harassment or any 
form of discrimination or harassment 
prohibited by law — including on  Conduct
the basis of gender, race, origin, 
At all times, we strive to maintain the highest standards of ethical 
ethnicity, sexual orientation, religion 
or any other legally protected  conduct, consistent with our business principles and core values.  
status. We prohibit all forms of  The Firmwide Conduct Committee, with senior partner membership, 
abusive conduct. The firm maintains  is responsible for defining and implementing the firm’s conduct risk 
a robust, multichannel internal 
program, particularly the relationship between conduct and culture. 
and external complaint process 
Our Board holds senior management accountable for embodying and 
that encourages all employees to 
communicating a “tone at the top” that emphasizes our values.
raise concerns without reprisal. 
Regardless of the manner of 
Firmwide, we emphasize a shared responsibility to exercise sound 
escalation, all matters are carefully 
judgment, mitigate risk and escalate concerns. This extends to 
reviewed and investigated with 
our day-to-day people practices, where our Code of Conduct and 
the highest discretion, and the firm 
strictly prohibits any retaliation  commitment to fairness are embedded in our hiring processes, 
for reporting potential employee  performance management, compensation philosophy and promotions.
misconduct.
The firm offers a broad range of programs focused on ethical 
standards, and has established select committees focused on conduct. 
Launched in 2019, and relaunched in October 2020, the firm’s “A Culture 
of Respect” is an annual mandatory training program for all employees — globally focused on respect in the workplace, 
the collective responsibility to challenge unacceptable behavior, and the role of leaders and managers in promoting a 
respectful environment.
In addition to mandatory training, conduct education — centered on the behavioral science that drives decision-making 
and judgment — is embedded across all major milestones and transitions in an employee’s career, across all levels, 
including our partners.
• For New Hires — Training on judgment calls and integrity helps them understand the key conduct expectations of  
the firm, enabling them to recognize ethical dilemmas and raise concerns as they arise.
• For Leaders and Existing Employees — As part of our manager orientations and programs, we equip our leaders to 
notice behavioral red flags, understand their inherent responsibilities and bolster a culture of psychological safety to 
encourage employees to speak up. Leaders are also provided with roundtable guides to ensure their teams’ dialogue 
on culture and conduct is effective and impactful.
The firm’s Code of Conduct details our shared responsibility in ensuring the highest legal and ethical standards, 
translating experiences from more than 150 years into an accessible, actionable roadmap that emphasizes how we are all 
stewards of the firm’s culture. Our Code of Conduct explains how we live out our core values of partnership, client service, 
integrity and excellence, and reminds us that everything we do must serve to deepen our stakeholders’ trust.
105
Goldman Sachs 2020 People Strategy Report
Supporting Our People, Sustaining Our Culture
EVOLVING  
HOW WE  
WORK
COVID-19 accelerated trends in remote working, with a number of Fortune 500 firms announcing moves to fully remote 
or flexible workspaces early in the pandemic, some of them permanent. At Goldman Sachs, we transitioned our workforce 
to be 98 percent remote in a matter of days, equipping our people with decentralized tools and technology to perform 
their roles and serve clients.
The pandemic brought with it a number of worthy innovations in the communication space. The ongoing need for simple, 
fast, on-demand communication tools, along with agile teams, will continue to remain top-of-mind.
We’ve found that many tasks can lose immediacy and efficacy in a remote-work environment. Whether delivering in-the-
moment feedback, ad-hoc brainstorming sessions or simply catching up with colleagues, our people operate at their best 
when they are forging close bonds with colleagues and furthering the apprenticeship culture that defines us. We have 
found that the best way to do that is to work together, in person, on a regular basis. This is not inconsistent, however, 
with providing our people with the flexibility they need to manage their personal and professional lives — which is how 
we have always run the firm. The experience of the past year has only made us more confident in our ability to facilitate 
this approach going forward.
The pandemic has also increased our confidence in our ability to distribute our teams across more offices. As a key 
part of our location strategy, we expect approximately 40 percent of our employees will work from one of our strategic 
locations by the end of 2022. The remote-work phenomenon has catalyzed an increased focus on this strategy. 
We will also look to expand into new strategic locations around the globe, as well as consolidate our footprint, where 
appropriate, in keeping with our evolving business mix.
106
Goldman Sachs 2020 People Strategy Report
BROADENING OUR IMPACT
WORKPLACE
THE WORLD 
BEYOND THE
President and COO John Waldron moderates a virtual panel including (clockwise from top left) Heather von Zuben, Kim Posnett, Tracey Benford and Margaret Anadu
At Goldman Sachs, dedication to our clients is a given — client service is one of our  
core values. That said, our people expect the firm to support a broad range of stakeholders 
beyond our client base, and we similarly encourage our people to expand their focus and 
engage with their communities and the larger world. We enable our people to advance 
sustainability as part of their day-to-day work, and encourage them to supplement that 
work through our other programs, partnerships and philanthropic engagement. We are 
fully committed to deploying the immense resources and capabilities available throughout 
our firm to deliver best-in-class service for clients, and effect change aligned with our 
purpose of advancing sustainable economic growth and financial opportunity.
$800 MILLION SUSTAINABILITY BOND:
A MODEL OF  
COLLABORATION
Our latest sustainability bond issuance — an $800 million offering designed to accelerate climate transition and 
advance inclusive growth — is a prime example of extensive cross-divisional collaboration within the firm and external 
collaboration with our clients.
This bond is just one part of a strategic push by Goldman Sachs to deploy capital and help clients on their sustainability 
journeys, across nine core thematic areas.
107
Goldman Sachs 2020 People Strategy Report
Broadening Our Impact
Nine Themes Driving Our Sustainable Finance Commitment
CLIMATE TRANSITION INCLUSIVE GROWTH
Clean Energy Accessible and Innovative Healthcare
• Reduce energy consumption • Increase affordability of healthcare
• Reduce net emission of carbon • Improve healthcare outcomes
Sustainable Transport Financial Inclusion
• Reduce fossil fuel consumption • Increase access to capital and affordable financial services
• Improve sustainable transportation infrastructure • Enhance financial literacy
Sustainable Food and Agriculture Accessible and Affordable Education
• Increase supply chain sustainability • Improve access to affordable education
• Improve environmental quality control • Enhance educational outcomes
Waste and Materials Communities
• Increase resource efficiency • Increase quality and accessibility of affordable housing
• Increase use of sustainable materials • Promote revitalization of underserved neighborhoods
Ecosystem Services
• Improve water and air quality
• Promote greater biodiversity
COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT
At Goldman Sachs, we believe that strong communities are the foundation of a prosperous society. Through our 
Sustainability and Impact Investing initiatives, we find innovative commercial solutions that address social and civic 
challenges in communities across the US, supporting a wide variety of development and revitalization projects. We’ve 
invested in affordable-housing construction, job creation, quality education, healthcare facilities, small businesses  
and more, as part of our ongoing effort to empower communities and promote long-term economic growth. Each of 
these programs provides our people with meaningful opportunities to make a personal impact in the communities  
where they live and work:
Goldman Sachs Gives (GS Gives)
The GS Gives program is committed to fostering innovative ideas, solving 
economic and social issues, and enabling progress in underserved communities 
globally. Through a donor-advised fund, the firm’s current and retired partners 
work together to recommend grants to qualifying nonprofit organizations to 
help them achieve their goals. GS Gives has awarded nearly $1.8 billion in grants 
to date and partnered with more than 8,000 nonprofits in 100 countries.
Acting dynamically in response to real-world issues, GS Gives over the years  
has established a number of special funds and programs to support specific 
areas of need throughout the world.
108
Goldman Sachs 2020 People Strategy Report
Broadening Our Impact
Fund for Racial Equity
In June 2020, we launched the $10 million Goldman Sachs Fund for Racial Equity to support leading organizations 
addressing racial injustice, structural inequity and economic disparity (e.g., United Negro College Fund, Black Economic 
Alliance and Black Girls Code). This builds on over $200 million in grants over the past decade supporting communities 
of color.
It is critical that we not only acknowledge what is happening around us, but that we take meaningful action and 
contribute to the path forward. Most recently, as part of the Goldman Sachs COVID-19 Relief Fund, the firm deployed 
$17 million to organizations supporting relief efforts in communities of color. Through Community TeamWorks, our 
volunteer initiative for employees, we also mobilized nearly 1,000 of our people to support nonprofit organizations 
focused on racial equity, including the Vera Institute of Justice, Posse Foundation, Black Girl Ventures and more.
GS Gives Analyst Impact Fund
Sponsored by the firm’s Partnership Committee, 
whose mission is to steward the firm’s culture and 
cultivate current and future leaders, this annual 
competition provides analysts with the opportunity  “ The Analyst Impact Fund brings the very best of Goldman 
to collaborate with peers across the firm to make  Sachs to our communities. It highlights our culture of 
an impact in their communities. Each year, analysts  excellence, and embodies our firm’s values of teamwork, 
compete to win GS Gives grants to support innovative  innovation and social-mindedness. For our analysts, 
nonprofits of their choice. Analyst teams advancing  the fund presents a unique opportunity to develop core 
to the finals pitch their selected nonprofit to the  leadership skills, while making a tangible impact on 
Partnership Committee and firm leadership. Key  issues about which they are passionate at an early stage 
judgment criteria include impact, scalability and  of their career.”
uniqueness of the proposed project, the team’s  — David Solomon, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
analysis of the project goals and financials, and 
the strength of the organization’s leadership and 
partnerships. Winning teams are awarded with 
grants for their selected nonprofits.
Matching Gift Program
As a part of our continuing efforts to connect our 
employees worldwide with their local communities, 
this program supports employee gifts to nonprofit 
organizations, including schools. The Matching Gift 
Program allows employees to double the impact 
of their charitable giving by having their donation 
matched dollar-for-dollar by the firm. In 2020, 
we introduced a special 3:1 matching opportunity 
for employee donations supporting organizations 
advancing racial equity and working on the front 
lines of COVID-19 relief. These special campaigns 
drove more than $3 million in matched contributions 
in 2020.
Team SIRUM, First Place, 2020 Analyst Impact Fund 
109
Goldman Sachs 2020 People Strategy Report
Broadening Our Impact
Community TeamWorks (CTW)
Our tradition of employee volunteer work reaches back to 1997, when we created Community TeamWorks to partner 
with nonprofit organizations around the world. Through CTW, the people of Goldman Sachs contribute their ideas, time 
and expertise to drive tangible progress as volunteers. Our annual impact includes more than 150,000 hours of service 
provided to more than 900 nonprofit partners from 26,000 volunteers globally.
During the pandemic, our people have found new ways to give back to their communities through virtual volunteer 
projects. In April of 2020, we launched our first-ever virtual volunteering campaign to support groups disproportionately 
impacted by COVID-19. To date, more than 8,000 volunteers from 80 offices have participated in more than 430 virtual 
volunteer projects with 200+ nonprofits globally. In June 2020, we added dozens of racial equity–focused CTW projects, 
and in October we introduced a campaign to support educators, students and their families, focused on helping students 
facing unprecedented challenges this year.
Goldman Sachs COVID-19 Relief Fund
Ambika,  
Consumer 
In 2020, we launched a $30 million commitment funded by GS Gives — including a special matching program — to support 
and Wealth 
communities hardest hit by COVID-19 around the world. The commitment included $5 million to match employee donations  Management,  
to nonprofit organizations. This followed the $1 million donated to the CDC Foundation, the Chinese Red Cross and the  New York
International Medical Corps for COVID-19 relief. The fund is designed to be responsive to prevalent challenges in areas 
hardest hit by the pandemic, and supports organizations working directly on relief-and-response efforts across five key 
priorities: (1) assisting health providers on the front lines; (2) providing assistance to the most vulnerable populations; 
(3) providing economic relief for reduced and lost work; (4) supporting children and families in the wake of school closures; 
and (5) supporting medical research. To date, the fund has deployed $42 million to 305+ nonprofits across 31 countries.
110
Goldman Sachs 2020 People Strategy Report
Broadening Our Impact
COMMERCIAL APPROACH  
TO INCLUSIVE GROWTH
We have a long-standing track record of deploying innovative, commercial solutions to advance inclusive growth — 
supported by the focus, dedication and creativity of our people in driving these efforts. Our sustainable finance–focused 
efforts are fully integrated across the firm, and our people approach these opportunities with the same rigorous thinking 
we would apply to any other part of our business.
Over the past year, we have launched divisional councils throughout the firm that are further deepening our knowledge 
in the sustainable finance space and helping to facilitate the practical success of our $750 billion commitment to this 
effort. These councils consist of senior business leaders who — in addition to delivering their day-to-day expertise to 
clients — are able to provide the added benefit of a sustainability-focused perspective.
Our Sustainable Finance Group initiated 1,136 total engagements in 2020 (753 clients; 383 external stakeholder 
meetings) — a clear sign of the growing importance that climate transition and inclusive growth themes are playing for 
our clients across industries and regions. 52 percent of our meetings occurred with Investment Banking clients, 30 percent 
T:12” with Consumer & Wealth Management/Asset Management 
clients, and 18 percent with Global Markets clients.
In keeping with our commitment, we are channeling the 
power of capital to drive economic prosperity for more 
people. We have long been committed to promoting 
Dear Congress,
inclusion, diversity and equity within our own firm, 
throughout our industry and in the communities where 
we live and work. Last summer, in response to the recent 
According to our research, 42% of small business owners  
senseless acts of racism and violence against Black 
have had to lay off employees or cut their compensation  
people and other minorities, we renewed this dedication. 
over the last year.
We believe the effort needed to truly bridge gaps in 
equality is ongoing — we know there is more to be done, 
That’s millions of Americans out of work – the backbone
and we continue to aim higher. In this spirit, we recently 
of our economy, and the cultural fabric of our  
announced One Million Black Women, a new $10 billion 
communities, unraveling. initiative focused on acknowledging, empowering and 
raising up an entrepreneurial engine in women and 
We must prioritize small business needs  T:21” underserved communities across the US.
through 2021 and beyond.
When we lose small, 10,000 Small Businesses (10KSB)
We launched this small-business development program 
we lose big.
in the US in 2009, in the UK in 2010 and most recently 
in France in 2020. For over a decade, we have provided 
Sincerely,  access to education, capital and business support services 
The 10,000 Small Businesses Voices Community  to help thousands of entrepreneurs, across a broad set 
See our 2021 Small Business Policy Agenda at gs.com/LoseSmallLoseBig
of industries, grow their businesses and create jobs in 
their local communities. Upon reaching the milestone of 
P.S. Not a member of Congress? Tweet a photo of this letter @ one who needs to see it.
serving 10,000 entrepreneurs in 2020, Goldman Sachs 
#LoseSmallLoseBig redoubled our efforts, committing to reach another 
TWITTER, TWEET, RETWEET and the Twitter logo are trademarks of Twitter, Inc. or its affiliates.
10,000 small business owners across the United States.
111
Goldman Sachs 2020 People Strategy Report
Broadening Our Impact
“ This year has laid bare
 the sobering realities that our small businesses and 
communities face. We’ve worked to develop the 10,000 Small Businesses platform for over a 
decade, and now is an obvious time for us to double down on the program — small businesses  
are essential, and by making this commitment we hope to help ensure their future.”
— David Solomon, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
The program partners with community colleges across the United States to deliver an intensive 10-week program to 
help small business owners get to the next level. It also provides access to capital through partnerships with Community 
Development Financial Institutions and other mission-driven lenders.
We have reached more than 10,000 business owners across all 50 states, Puerto Rico, Guam and Washington, D.C., and 
over 1,800 UK business owners to date. In the United States, the program’s graduates together represent over $14 billion 
in revenue and employ more than 200,000 people. A study on the impact of this program’s first decade indicated that 
66 percent of participants increased revenues just six months after completing the program — outpacing comparable 
national data estimates that 53 percent of 
US small businesses grew revenues over this 
same time period. The study also indicated that 
46 percent of participants created net new jobs 
just six months after graduation — comparable 
national data estimates that 30 percent of 
US small businesses added jobs in this same 
time period.
Additionally, 10,000 Small Businesses Voices is 
a new initiative designed to help small business 
owners in the United States advocate for policy 
changes that will help their businesses, their 
employees and their communities. We provide 
these business owners with the tools, resources 
and training needed to make their voices heard  
and drive tangible impact against real issues.
Our programs in the UK and France also offer 
comprehensive packages of business development  10,000 Women Champions
and leadership support for local small business  Kalyani, CEO,  
Ancient Living
owners. Since 2010, we have partnered with 
Hyderabad, India At Goldman Sachs, our people are consistently 
the Said Business School in the UK to provide  seeking ways to be more directly involved with 
over 1,800 business leaders with a “mini- our impact programs. Our 10,000 Women Growth 
MBA” education program that equips them with the skills to take their  Fellowship is a prestigious three-day program 
of coaching, training and networking for select 
business to the next level. Similarly in France, our inaugural cohort of 70 
10,000 Women graduates from all over the world. 
entrepreneurs is participating in a fully funded, nationwide small business 
Select Goldman Sachs associates and vice 
education program delivered in partnership with ESSEC Business School.
presidents — 10,000 Women Champions — were 
matched with these ambitious Growth Fellows, 
10,000 Women (10KW) to develop a two-way mentoring relationship 
while enjoying ongoing opportunities to engage 
Launched in 2008 across the US, India and China, this initiative fosters 
with the firm’s senior leadership and the 
economic growth by providing women entrepreneurs around the world 
10KW program.
with a business and management education, mentoring and networking, 
and access to capital. 10KW was informed by research, which shows that 
112
Goldman Sachs 2020 People Strategy Report
Broadening Our Impact
investing in women is one of the most effective ways to reduce inequality and facilitate inclusive economic growth. 
Over the past decade, we have helped more than 100,000 women reach their full potential by providing a rigorous 
business education program, access to capital and ongoing opportunities for networking.
Realizing that growth-oriented women entrepreneurs needed greater access to external capital, in 2014 we 
partnered with the International Finance Corporation to launch a first-of-its-kind gender-specific loan facility. 
To date, the facility has raised and deployed more than $1.9 billion in investments to women-owned small and 
medium enterprises across 41 countries.
In 2018, we saw a continued opportunity 
to democratize access to education on a 
world scale, and launched Goldman Sachs 
10,000 Women Online, a first-of-its-kind, 
free online program on the Coursera 
platform. To date, we have seen tens of 
thousands of enrollments from women 
in more than 200 countries. The online 
program includes 10 modules covering a 
range of business topics, from identifying 
opportunities for growth to financial 
planning, management techniques, 
marketing and leadership. In 2020,  
we launched Spanish- and Portuguese-
language translations of the course.
#MakeSmallBig  
Holiday Market
Beginning in 2014, the firm has hosted 
an annual Holiday Market at 200 West 
Street to give employees the opportunity 
to meet alumni from the 10KSB program 
and support their ongoing entrepreneurial 
efforts. In response to the COVID-19 
pandemic, in 2020 we relaunched the 
Holiday Market as an online marketplace 
on GS.com, featuring gifting options 
from more than 65 small business alumni 
from our 10KSB and 10KW programs. This 
hub for our employees, clients and other 
visitors showcases the firm’s sustained 
commitment to and support of small 
business owners.
113
Goldman Sachs 2020 People Strategy Report
Broadening Our Impact
Margaret Anadu and George Azih, 
founder and CEO of LeaseQuery, 
at a Launch With GS event in 
Atlanta, GA
FORWARD 
FOCUS
Launch With GS
Two years ago, we developed Launch With GS, a $500 million investment strategy that aims to increase access to capital 
and facilitate connections for women, Black, Latinx, and other diverse entrepreneurs and investors. Since its inception, 
Launch has deployed more than $450 million globally to companies and funds with diverse management teams — 
from a software provider in Atlanta, to a fintech company in Bengaluru, to a pediatric clinic in China. In early 2021, we 
announced an additional $500 million commitment to Launch With GS, for a total of $1 billion toward investing in these 
entrepreneurs and funds.
Launch With GS is grounded in our data-driven belief that diverse leadership teams outperform if they are given access 
to capital and the resources to drive their businesses forward. In addition to deploying capital, we are fostering a global 
ecosystem of founders, investors and clients. In early 2020, Launch announced Goldman Sachs’ first Black and Latinx 
Entrepreneur Cohort, comprising a group of high-growth start-ups from across the US. Beyond access to capital, these 
businesses participate in a customized eight-week virtual experience — including one-on-one and sector-specific 
workshops with our research, banking and investment teams, and interaction with start-up experts across key areas, 
including legal services, capitalization, marketing and branding.
Broadening our firm’s impact beyond our offices will be a key strategy in the future. We will continue to look for 
opportunities to provide our people with direct and indirect ways to impact their communities.
One Million Black Women
In addition to our $750 billion sustainable finance goal, we recently announced the One Million Black Women program,  
a new initiative of more than $10 billion to advance racial equity and economic opportunity by investing in Black women. 
In partnership with Black women–led organizations, financial institutions and other partners, Goldman Sachs will 
commit $10 billion in direct investment capital and $100 million in philanthropic capital over the next decade to address 
both the gender and racial biases that Black women have experienced disproportionately for generations — obstacles 
that have only been exacerbated by the pandemic. The program is named for and guided by the goal of impacting the 
lives of at least one million Black women by 2030.
114
Goldman Sachs 2020 People Strategy Report
RECOGNITION
FEATURED AWARDS AND RANKINGS
Each year, Goldman Sachs receives awards across categories including employer of choice, diversity and inclusion, sustainability, 
and business and innovation. Select awards are shown below.
Bloomberg Gender-Equality Index Human Rights Campaign Foundation’s Corporate  
January 2021 Equality Index
January 2021
Listed
Rating of 100%
Vault Banking 50 Universum World’s Most Attractive Employers
January 2021 October 2020
Ranked #1 in Prestige Ranked #6 out of 50 among Business students
Ranked #19 in the Banking 50 Ranked #24 out of 50 among Engineering/IT students
PEOPLE Magazine Awards Working Mother 100 Best Companies
September 2020 September 2020
Ranked #38 out of 50 in U.S. Companies That Care Listed
National Association for Female Executives (NAFE)  
Top Companies for Executive Women
March 2020
Listed
115
Goldman Sachs 2020 People Strategy Report
KEY PERFORMANCE METRICS
Number of Employees
HEADCOUNT: GEOGRAPHIC BREAKDOWN:
40,500 employees with offices  
in over 35 countries
53% in Americas
 Employees come from over
19% in EMEA
160 countries and speak more  
28% in Asia
than 110 languages
Progress Toward Aspirational Goals
CAMPUS ANALYST HIRING FOR FULL-YEAR 2020: VP REPRESENTATION (AS OF FYB 2021):
Goal Goal
Women 52% 50% Women 32% 40%
Hispanic/Latinx (Americas) 17% 14% Hispanic/Latinx (Americas) 6% 9%
Black (Americas) 11% 11% Black (Americas) 4% 7%
Black (UK) 13% 9% Black (UK) 4% 7%
Other Demographic Data
EEO-1 DATA (US EMPLOYEES)
Not-Hispanic or Latino
Native   American  
Black or   Hawaiian or  Indian or  
Hispanic   African   Other Pacific   Alaskan   Two or  
or Latino White American Islander Asian Native More Races
Overall 
Job Categories Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Totals
Executive/Sr. Officials & Mgrs. 50 16 920 261 24 25 1 – 160 74 – – 10 7 1,548
First/Mid Officials & Mgrs. 98 73 1,476 698 57 48 2 4 603 315 – – 27 10 3,411
Professionals 752 547 3,992 2,399 452 418 13 13 1,857 1,762 1 5 161 149 12,521
Technicians – – – – – – – – – – – – – – –
Sales Workers 66 36 868 365 41 11 3 3 162 74 – – 17 16 1,662
Administrative Support 110 230 253 775 75 274 2 8 35 88 1 – 14 33 1,898
Craft Workers – – – – – – – – – – – – – – –
Operatives – – – – – – – – – – – – – – –
Laborers & Helpers – – – – – – – – – – – – – – –
Service Workers – – – – – – – – – – – – – – –
Total 1,076 902 7,509 4,498 649 776 21 28 2,817 2,313 2 5 229 215 21,040
116
Goldman Sachs 2020 People Strategy Report
Key Performance Metrics
EEO-1 DATA (CONTINUED) American  Native 
Black or  Indian or  Two or   Hawaiian or 
African  Alaskan  Hispanic   More   Other Pacific 
White Asian American Native or Latinx Races Islander Females
Executive/Sr. Officials & Mgrs. 76.3% 15.1% 3.2% 0.0% 4.3% 1.1% 0.1% 24.7%
First/Mid Officials & Mgrs. 63.7% 26.9% 3.1% 0.0% 5.0% 1.1% 0.2% 33.7%
Professionals 51.0% 28.9% 6.9% 0.0% 10.4% 2.5% 0.2% 42.3%
All Others 63.5% 10.1% 11.3% 0.0% 12.4% 2.2% 0.4% 53.7%
Total 57.1% 24.4% 6.8% 0.0% 9.4% 2.1% 0.2% 41.5%
Source: Data anticipated to be filed in Goldman Sachs’ 2020 EEO-1 report. “All Others” is a combination of the following EEO-1 job categories: technicians, sales workers, administrative support, craft workers 
(skilled), operatives (semi-skilled), laborers & helpers, and service workers. Date as of 11/30/2020 (US only).
2020 PMD CLASS DEMOGRAPHICS:
Total class size — 60 partners Diversity data 27% 47% 14 
years
16
Women (27% of class)
worked in more   started at GS   Average tenure
4 than one division as lateral hires
Black (7% of class)
3
Hispanic/Latinx (5% of class) 15% 53%
10
Asian (17% of class)
worked in more   started as  
43 in Americas than one region campus hires
13 in EMEA
3 in Asia Pacific
1 in Bengaluru
2019 MD CLASS DEMOGRAPHICS:
Total class size — 465 MDs Diversity data 66% 19% 15%
134
Women (29% of class)
started at GS as   worked in more   worked in more  
20 analysts or associates than one division than one region
Black (4% of class)
10
Hispanic/Latinx (2% of class)
120
Asian (26% of class)
249 in Americas (53%)
142 in EMEA (31%)
74 in Asia Pacific (16%)
BOARD DEMOGRAPHICS:
Diversity data of nominees 42% 6.3  64
years
5
Women
New nominees in   Median tenure Median age
1 the last 5 years
Black
1
Indian descent 58% 25%
1
Career military
Nominees who are  Nominees who  
diverse by race, gender   are non-US or  
or sexual orientation dual citizens
117
Goldman Sachs 2020 People Strategy Report
Key Performance Metrics
Employee Training/Learning Data
 Number of employees that received   Number of learning and 
leadership and professional development  development programs 
training in 2019–2020: offered in 2020:
+
36,000 15
employees
Community Engagement Statistics
Number of employees volunteered through  Number of graduates of  
Community TeamWorks in 2020: 10,000 Small Businesses:
+ +
8,000 10,000
volunteers from business owners in the US across all 50 states, 
80 Puerto Rico, Guam and Washington, D.C., and
over 1,800
offices participated in
430+ UK business owners
virtual volunteer projects with
+
200
nonprofits globally
118