
Climate  
Statement
August, 2020
FOREWORD
Why we’re issuing a Climate 
Statement
Deutsche Bank has been very active on climate-relat-
ed issues over the last 12 months and is continuing 
to implement changes across all businesses. 
Deutsche Bank was early to recognise  through to how we encourage our employees to iden-
the fight against climate change as a  tify with our drive towards greater sustainability. 
major challenge of our time.  The renowned climate expert Stefan Rahms-
Our own business operations  dorf provides an introduction to the topic. In an 
have been climate neutral since 2012 –  interview our CEO Christian Sewing explains the role 
making us one of the first financial ser- that climate protection plays in our business model. 
vice providers to embark on this path.  In addition, senior managers from the bank describe 
But this was only the beginning. As a  how our commitment to sustainability is changing 
signatory to the Paris Pledge for Action  their day to day jobs. 
in 2016, the bank made an explicit  Our Group Sustainability team has supported 
commitment to contribute to achieving  and coordinated this transformation for many years 
the targets of the Paris Climate Agree- and together with the Sustainability Council chaired 
ment. In July 2019, Deutsche Bank  by Christian Sewing, it is laying the groundwork for 
made a broader, long-term commitment  the bank-wide transformation to pick up pace. Our 
to sustainability, placing it at the heart  aim with this statement is to communicate this irre-
of its business strategy. Even though we  versible shift towards climate protection and sustain-
have focused on this issue for years, we  ability which we are experiencing within our bank and 
have made significant progress over the  observing among our clients and those around us. 
last 12 months. We have set ourselves  We hope you will find it informative and inter-
specific targets for sustainable business  esting. 
and formulated bank-wide criteria for 
what we define as sustainable. As a 
signatory to the German financial sec- Kind regards,
Viktoriya Brand
tor’s commitment on climate action we 
have pledged to structure our lending 
portfolios in line with the targets of the 
Paris Agreement on Climate Change. At 
the same time we have tightened our 
policy governing business activities in  Viktoriya Brand: ”We are expe-
›
the fossil fuels sector.  riencing an irreversible shift 
towards climate protection 
This Climate Statement outlines 
and sustainability within the 
how our bank contributes to sustainable 
bank and in the environment 
and climate-friendly economic activity.  in which we operate.”
It covers the entire spectrum from sus-
tainable finance and managing climate 
risk and our own carbon footprint right 
30
12
2/20
01n 
2n
1, Bo
#0st, 
o n
nu
ThielMoreBild-K
Frank Perito © VG 
Our approach Our Carbon Footprint
Sustainability approach and climate change 8 A win-win-win situation 44
A smaller carbon footprint, more modern workplaces, lower costs – Jörg Salzer 
»Giving up is not an option for me« 10
demonstrates that a green approach makes sense on many counts.
Professor Stefan Rahmstorf is one of the most prominent campaigners 
seeking to educate people about the fight against climate change. Our own carbon footprint  46
We see it as an integral part of our responsibility as a corporate citizen to 
»We’re ideally positioned for sustainability as a bank«  12 minimise the environmental impact of our business operations.
Christian Sewing talks about climate strategy and climate targets.
Our sustainability and climate risk governance 17
Employee Engagement
Sustainable Finance
We’re all members of the project team 50
Nicola Gill is Deutsche Bank’s Global Head of Internal Communications. 
She wants to convince as many employees as possible to go green.
Deutsche Bank: part of the green revolution  20 Water creates life anew 52
Henrik Johnsson, Global Co-Head of Capital Markets, discusses the reasons why the  Rosette D’souza, COO Finance Center India, explains how Deutsche Bank is 
short-term expense of transitioning to a green economy will be worth it in the long run.  building sustainable rural communities with Swades Foundation.
»If we don’t act now, we’ll have passed up an opportunity«  23 What if we told you we could change the way 4.5 million  54
people think about sustainability ... overnight?  
Gerald Podobnik is Chief Financial Officer of our Corporate Bank and a member of the 
German government’s Sustainable Finance Advisory Council.
Hackathon winner Peter Suggitt builds an app to help you track – and 
lower – your carbon footprint. 
Sustainable finance – examples  26
Carbon-intensive sectors 32
Thought Leadership
Climate Risks »We are looking for allies«  58
Jörg Eigendorf, Head of Communication and Sustainability,  
on the important role of networks
»We need to make the climate risk assessment  36 Thought leadership – memberships and initiatives  61
clear and explicit«
Chris Jaques, Head of Enterprise Risk Portfolio Management and Stress Testing,  
on the challenge of creating a framework for climate risk from scratch.
Climate Risks  The Deutsche Bank Collection 62
38
The further development of our climate risk management framework 
is a key pillar of our approach to Sustainability and Climate Change. Imprint 64
6   7
Sustainability approach 
Based on our long-standing commit- electricity was from renewable sources and we 
ments, in July 2019, sustainability has  have committed ourselves to expanding this 
become a central component of our  to 100% by 2025.
and climate change
corporate strategy, "Compete to win”.  →  Thought leadership: Being a leading voice 
in the public debate on climate change and 
To embed sustainability holistically  sustainable growth as well as actively engag-
throughout the bank, we are focusing  ing in regulatory discussion and innovative 
Deutsche Bank’s commitment to sustain-
on four dimensions: initiatives.  
ability is long-standing. Early on, in 2000,   →  Sustainable finance: Making  As a member of the Banking Environment 
sustainability an integral part of  Initiative (BEI), in 2019, we collaborated in 
we committed ourselves to the Ten Princi- our client offerings, as well as  Bank 2030, a project that set out to under-
offering products and services  stand how banks can accelerate the financing 
ples of the UN Global Compact as one of the 
that help our clients to trans- of a low-carbon economy and develop a vision 
form business models towards a  for climate-progressive banks. Deutsche Bank 
early signatories, and we are a member  
low-carbon future.  is also represented in the Sustainable Finance 
of the United Nations Environment Pro- In May 2020, we set ourselves  Advisory Council, inaugurated in 2019 by the 
the target to increase the volume  German Federal Government to support the 
gramme Finance Initiative (UNEP FI). As a  of sustainable financing and our  development of a national sustainable finance 
portfolio of sustainable invest- strategy. Moreover, in 2020, we launched 
signatory to the United Nations’ Principles 
ments under management to  dbSustainability, a dedicated sustainability re-
over 200 billion euros by 2025.  search platform providing thought-provoking, 
for Responsible Banking as well as its  
→  Policy and commitments: Inte- value-added and aligned content spanning 
Principles for Responsible Investment, the  grating environmental and social  thematic, macro, quantitative and individual 
considerations into the bank’s  company analysis (db.research.com). 
bank is committed to responsible banking  risk management framework.  
In doing so, we follow interna- Sustainability covers a broad spectrum of environ-
and investment practices. 
tionally recognised principles  mental and social matters, with climate change be-
and standards. In June 2020, we  ing one of the defining challenges of our time. As a 
articulated our commitment to  leading global financial institution, we recognise the 
align our lending portfolios to the  role we have to play in addressing this challenge and 
targets set by the Paris Agree- helping to shape the global change to a sustainable, 
ment. In addition, in July 2020,  climate-neutral and social economy. 
we expanded our fossil fuel 
policies and formally joined the  By signing the Paris Pledge for Action in 2015, we 
Equator Principles Association. articulated our commitment to contribute to the 
→  Our own environmental foot- goals of the Paris Agreement. We reinforced this 
print: Continuously reducing our  statement by joining the German Financial Sector’s 
own environmental footprint. We  collective commitment to Climate Action in June 
have been operating carbon neu- 2020. We welcome the European Union’s ambition 
trally since 2012. As part of this  of becoming carbon-neutral, and will support efforts 
commitment, we have been re- in advancing the European Commission’s action 
ducing our energy consumption  plan on sustainable finance as well as transitioning 
and greenhouse gas emissions.  the economy, as laid out in the Commission’s EU 
Compared to 2010, we have  Green Deal.  ›
reduced our energy consump-
tion by more than 25% and cut 
our greenhouse gas emissions by 
half. In 2019, about 80% of our 
8   9
»Giving up is not an  
Stefan Rahmstorf is 
option for me«
a climatologist and 
departmental head at 
the Potsdam Institute 
for Climate Impact 
Research and Profes-
Professor Stefan Rahmstorf is one of the most 
sor of Ocean Physics 
at the University of 
prominent campaigners seeking to educate people 
Potsdam. His main 
areas of research 
about the fight against climate change. are climate changes 
in the history of the 
earth and the role of 
the oceans in climatic 
activity.
“The Doomsday Glacier has reached tipping point” 
was the headline of a news story in February of this  experience the painful consequences  confronting those who deny reality with pseudo-ar-
year. It is one of mightiest glaciers in the Antarctic.  of climate change if humanity does not  guments. The subject of his undergraduate thesis 
A research project now aims to establish whether it  take rapid action. Global CO  emissions  was the theory of relativity. He always wanted to be 
2
has already passed this tipping point, meaning that  need to be halved in just the next ten  a naturalist but it turned out not to be astrophysics 
all its ice will melt. Since the glacier holds back the  years (in order to then reduce them  after all: “I wanted to work on something that is not 
entire mass of ice that makes up the West Antarctic  continuously towards zero) if global  only academically interesting but that is useful to 
Ice Sheet, the consequences would be dramatic. If it  warming is to be halted at well below  mankind.”
were to drift into the ocean, writes the Süddeutsche  two degrees. If this warming exceeds  His voice and those of many other scientists 
Zeitung newspaper, “it would even put Hamburg un- two degrees – compared to pre-in- are being heard, slowly but surely. “Very many young 
derwater.” Stefan Rahmstorf retweeted that article,  dustrial levels – the consequences of  people have understood how dire our situation is,” 
sharing it with his 50,000-plus followers. FACTS ABOUT CLIMATE  climate change can no longer be kept  Rahmstorf says. And the impression he gained at the 
This is only one of many almost inconceiv- CHANGE in check. If instead the Paris Agree- last World Economic Forum in Davos was that “atti-
able scenarios for the impact of climate change.  The volume of CO  in the atmosphere is  ment is observed, then sea levels will  tudes have also changed in the financial world.” After 
2
The departmental head at the Potsdam Institute  currently higher than it has ever been in  rise more slowly, coastal towns will be  all, every individual can do something. Rahmstorf 
for Climate Impact Research uses direct language  the last three million years. rescued, famine crises and catastroph- doesn’t own a car and doesn’t use fossil fuels like gas 
to reach as many people as possible. His creed is to  ic droughts, and probably even wars,  heating at home. Instead, he has solar panels on his 
make clear statements instead of using long-wind- Never during the last 120,000 years has  will be averted. People often don’t  roof and consumes just half of the power they gener-
ed jargon: “Believing in soothing fairy tales is not a  the global temperature been higher than it  realise that: “The main objective is not  ate for his own household. “The most important thing 
solution. You need to calmly face up to inconvenient  is today. to protect the environment but, first  is to get involved in climate-related policymaking pro-
facts as well.” and foremost, to prevent an existential  cesses. And of course to choose green investments 
For example: the acts already perpetrated by  At the end of the last ice age, global sea  crisis for mankind,” says Rahmstorf. that apply the strictest criteria, letting your money 
mankind will have consequences for all time. “Our  levels rose by 120 metres after warming of  The professor, who is also  work for a sustainable future.” Ultimately though, says 
CO  emissions are a cumulative phenomenon, which  between 4 and 5 degrees. Today there is  interested in ocean physics, is truly  Rahmstorf, the fight against climate change has to 
2
means that CO  collects in the atmosphere and  still enough ice on earth to raise sea levels  tireless in his campaign to raise aware- be a concerted effort between consumers, politicians 
2
remains there,” says Rahmstorf. The effect of this:  by another 65 metres. ness about this topic. Whether on  and the business community. 
“50,000 years from now the level of emissions we  Twitter, Instagram or Facebook, in his  Achieving this end requires the general 
n
have already generated will still be so high that the  Around 100 per cent of modern-era global  bi “Klimalounge” blog, or as a speaker  public to be educated – that is his staunchly held 
b
u
next natural ice age will fail to occur.” warming has been man-made. The figure  C and regular contributor to the German  belief. Rahmstorf will therefore continue to conduct 
k 
But you don’t have to look that far into the  is probably even slightly higher than that  Nic news magazine Der Spiegel, he shares  lectures, give interviews, tweet and write blog posts. 
future. What we can already say is that anyone not  because natural processes have helped  oto:  information supported by scientific  “Giving up is not an option that I could justify to the 
yet old enough to collect their pension will  › counteract the warming a little. Ph facts and reports and is not above  world or my children.” ›
10   11
We’re ideally positioned  
for sustainability as a bank
Christian Sewing talks about climate 
Christian Sewing: “We play a 
targets as part of Deutsche Bank's 
crucial role: we can and must 
help companies to do business 
sustainability strategy.
more sustainably.”
The coronavirus pandemic has diverted public at- DEUTSCHE BANK’S  
tention away from the fight against climate change. 
CLIMATE GOALS
Has the topic become less important?
No, on the contrary. The coronavirus is making  →  Sustainable Finance target 
us aware of certain things for the first time. We’re  of 200 bn euros by 2025
all suddenly realising what it feels like when the 
→  End of global business 
air is cleaner and how valuable it is when nature 
activities in coal mining by 
is more intact. Moreover, the fear of major disas- and social bonds for our clients  target. And so now we have a yardstick against 
ters has increased as a result of the coronavirus  2025 with a volume of roughly 4.2 billion  which we can measure ourselves, and the trans-
pandemic. This will also be reflected in policy- euros. parency to see how we’re doing in the individual 
→  End of financing new oil 
making. So climate change is an issue that will  businesses quarter by quarter.
and gas projects in the  
grow rather than diminish in importance. For the first time, Deutsche Bank has 
Arctic region or new oil  issued specific targets. Is this primarily  Then why is the bank only reporting once a year 
What does this mean for banks? a signal to the outside world, or is it  instead of every quarter?
sand projects - effective 
Specifically, this means that simply observing  directed inhouse? I want to see for myself first exactly how quickly 
immediately
from the sidelines isn’t an option; we have to  To me, the signal to our staff is  we obtain the figures at the end of the quarter, 
promote the topic ourselves. On the one hand,  →  Introduction of methods for  much more important. This target is  what the data quality is and where we need to 
because political thinking with regard to sus- measuring climate impact  the product of an interplay between  improve the process. The goal must be to have 
tainability is increasingly reflected in how we  the businesses. All their represent- an automatic process in place: from the granting 
by the end of 2022
are regulated as banks. But on the other hand,  atives on the Sustainability Council  of sustainable loans and issuing of sustainable 
mainly because we understand that we as a bank  →  Solely use renewable   were asked to submit growth plans  bonds right through to sales and marketing, 
have a responsibility and the opportunity to take  electricity by 2025 and to demonstrate the contribu- including financial reporting. 
action. We play a crucial role: we can and must  tions they can make. We then val-
help power companies, airlines and carmakers to  idated the plans with market data  How does your target compare to those of your 
do business more sustainably. and our market share. We have a  peers?
good base, as we’ve been trending  We’re very good by comparison. It’s not just 
How? upwards in sustainable finance and  about how high the target is, but also about the 
We’re the gateway to the capital market. We have  investments for two years already.  timescale in which we aim to achieve it. We have 
the necessary investment capital. In the first  We’re therefore very confident  no reason to be shy about either the absolute 
half of 2020, we have placed environmental  › that we can achieve this ambitious  figure or the timescale. ›
12   13
› One single figure doesn’t make a  have specific targets for our own   covering our business with energy firms. There 
strategy. How are you incorporating  business operations. And fourth,  we commit ourselves to not finance new pro-
sustainability into your business  thought leadership – that is, we  jects in the Arctic region or oil sand projects. In 
strategy? look at how we can shape discourse  addition, we pledged ourselves to end our global 
When we talk about sustainability,  with our actions. We’ve made  business activities in coal mining by 2025. Since 
we think in four categories. First, for  progress on every count. The target  2016, we reduced our involvement in financing 
us as a bank it’s about sustainable  of 200 billion euros only applies to  of coal mining companies, comfortably exceeding 
finance, that is, the sustainable  the sustainable finance – just like  our 2016 goal of 20 percent. 
financing solutions and financial  issuing our own first green bond.
investments we provide to our  For you as CEO, what’s the aim of this sustainability 
clients. Second, we also have to say  How was the issuance this May? drive? Is it more about showing that the bank 
what we intend to do – our inhouse  It was a big success – it was multi- is aware of its responsibility in this context, or do 
guidelines and policies. Then we  ple times oversubscribed. This was  you see it as a business model that brings  
another key element of our sustain- revenues and profit?
ability strategy with which we aim to  It’s both. Of course, we consider it our duty that 
cover the entire value chain – from  Deutsche Bank is a responsible corporate citizen. 
loan approval to structuring and  But we also see it as a tremendous opportunity 
design and then on from marketing  for the bank to grow. And we have the best pos-
right through to refinancing.  sible foundation in place: our business divisions 
– primarily our Investment Bank and our Corpo-
What about Deutsche Bank’s inhouse  rate Bank – can generate the kind of assets that 
The challenge is 
policies? Deutsche Bank is facing  our institutional and private clients want to invest 
criticism for still doing business with  in. As a global financier with a loan book of more 
energy firms from the coal, oil and gas  than 440 billion euros, we have an advantage over 
sectors. all other European banks.
to help companies  What annoys me about this criti-
cism is that it’s only ever black or  So there’s no danger of this sustainability drive 
white, along the lines of: it’s an oil  costing shareholders because turnover and profit 
company, so doing business with it  could drop?
shouldn’t be allowed. That’s a bit  I don’t think so. If we say “no”, it does of course 
cut their CO  emis-
like saying no one’s allowed to fill  cost revenues initially. But that’s no different to 
their car up any more because it’s  what we do every day when we’re assessing our 
2 bad for the environment. What we  risks in other areas of the bank. We don’t want to 
need is a transformation that not  enter into any kind of business that means a high 
only makes sense but is also realis- risk for our clients, the environment or society – 
sions as quickly as 
tic. We want to help companies cut  and that’s why we have guidelines and policies 
their CO  emissions as quickly as  which we continue to refine. I do think, though, 
2
possible. That’s the real challenge,  that there’s a more important factor: the transi-
and we sense this whenever we  tion to a low-carbon economy offers great op-
possible« speak to our clients who come to us  portunities to those who embark on it. After all, 
for advice. climate-friendly business is increasingly impor-
tant to clients and investors – and it’s something 
But there must be some lines of busi- our colleagues are noticing in their meetings with 
ness that the bank should already have  clients and investors every day. I expect that in 
stopped pursuing? just a few years sustainability ratings will be just 
Yes, there are. And that’s why we  as important as traditional credit ratings from 
have bank-wide policies – also  agencies like Fitch, Moody’s and S&P. ›
14   15
Our sustainability and 
› Clients and investors will closely monitor whether  is governed by uniform and reliable 
climate risk governance
Deutsche Bank’s own operations are climate-friend- conditions. And we’ll only manage 
ly. How much progress has the bank made it if lawmakers, regulators and also 
on this count? private companies all work together 
We’ve come a very long way, although I have to  closely. Here, too, we as a bank want 
We have been strengthening our governance 
admit that it’s easier for us than for many tradi- to be part of the solution. That’s why 
tional industrial companies when it comes to our  we maintain an ongoing dialogue with  for managing and overseeing sustainability 
carbon footprint. Our operations have, in fact,  politicians, business representatives, 
been climate-neutral since 2012; we’ve reduced  trade associations and non-govern- matters, including those particularly related 
our CO  emissions by 60 per cent since 2011  mental organisations. ›
2 to climate change.  
and almost 80 per cent of our electricity comes 
from renewables. We use certificates to offset 
the rest. But we can do more, which is why we’ve 
set specific targets for our own business opera-
tions. One of these is that by 2025 we intend to  The Group-wide Sustainability Coun- Climate-related risks to the bank’s infrastructure, 
power our operations exclusively using electricity  cil, established in 2018, acts as the  employees, and key processes are monitored by our 
from renewable energy sources. We’re working  main advisory body to the Manage- Non-Financial Risk Committee, another sub-com-
on making changes to our company car fleet  ment Board on current and emerg- mittee of the bank’s Group Risk Committee.
that will benefit the environment, and we aim  ing sustainability topics. Chaired by 
to reduce our business travel by air. And when  Christian Sewing, our Chief Executive  Group Sustainability, our central sustainability 
we look at our branches and offices, there’s still  Officer, the council is composed of  function, is responsible for developing and coor-
plenty we can do to help the environment: for  senior representatives from relevant  dinating the bank’s strategic approach to sustain-
example, how much paper we use. This is where  business and infrastructure functions. ability. Sustainability-related governance struc-
we’re counting on our employees worldwide, on  tures, policies and processes, as well as dedicated 
their ideas and on their involvement. Mandated by our Group Risk Commit- sustainability teams in our business divisions, help 
tee, the Enterprise Risk Committee  us to anticipate client demands and continually 
Will the Management Board be setting the rules  assumes the overall responsibility for  expand our ESG offerings.
here? holistic climate risk management. This 
The Management Board doesn’t want to have to  includes overseeing the development  Our Management Board and our Supervisory Board 
continually issue decrees on what climate-friend- of a climate risk framework, as well as  are regularly updated on sustainability, with a par-
ly operations look like. We prefer to rely on every- the approval of sectoral risk appetite  ticular focus on sustainable finance.  ›
one joining in. One example here is that we got  limits and restrictions to manage cli-
rid of disposable coffee cups and plastic contain- mate risks to the bank. 
ers at all our locations in Germany last year. That 
was a fantastic initiative! Potential reputational risks from client 
transactions, including those linked to 
Over the past decade, the financial industry’s repu- climate-related issues, are governed 
tation has been severely dented. In the fight against  by our Group-wide reputational risk 
climate change, why on earth should  framework. The Group Reputational 
policymakers and society trust banks? Risk Committee is responsible for 
It can’t be achieved without banks. Our balance  ensuring oversight, governance and 
sheets give us a unique lever, which we can  management of these risks. Chaired by 
deploy to support the transition towards a more  our Chief Risk Officer, the committee 
climate-friendly and more social world. We want  receives quarterly updates on environ-
to fulfil this responsibility. But we won’t manage it  mental and social issues, including on 
on our own – not as Deutsche Bank and not as an  climate change. It is a sub-committee 
industry. We need standards so that competition  of the Group Risk Committee.  
16   17
Sustainable  
Finance
n
erstein005pperstei
p2e
Pepa V, el P
el opav
vrP
PaEu© 
18   19
Deutsche Bank: part of 
the green revolution
Henrik Johnsson, Global Co-Head of Capital 
Markets, discusses why the short-term expense 
Henrik Johnsson: “In future, when 
an investor buys debt, he’ll consid-
of transitioning to a green economy will be worth 
er the company’s credit and ESG 
ratings equally”
it in the long run.
The Covid-19 pandemic still has countries around  model.” He cites coal as a clear exam- because people really care about this  by green bonds jumped from 1 billion US dollars in 
the world in its grip. In its aftermath, the global  ple: big energy companies are divesting  issue. Not making a concerted effort  2012 to 35 billion in 2014; and over 80 billion dollars 
economy will come out of lockdown into a financial  their coal assets and many investors  to cater to the green needs of this new  raised by 2016. In 2019, global green bond issuance 
crisis. As the focus turns to rebuilding, what place  won’t invest in it. Looking ahead, the  generation means companies risk be- topped more than 190 billion dollars. Deutsche Bank 
will sustainable finance hold in the economy?  same could happen to oil, power gener- coming obsolete.” not only holds a leading position as an advisor to 
“People talk about the green revolution, and  ation, combustion engines etc.  others in this business, it just successfully placed its 
I definitely think it’s coming,” says Henrik Johnsson,  “A lot of our clients are tran- DOES CLIMATE PROTECTION  own first green bond in the market. Underlining its 
Global Co-Head of Capital Markets. “Has it only been  sitioning to a low-carbon-footprint  EQUAL GREEN BONDS?   sustainability strategy, the bank recently set ambi-
paused by Covid-19, or will the pandemic accelerate  model, and they have to do it quickly, or  Ten years ago, Deutsche Bank helped  tious targets to increase its volume of ESG financing, 
it? I’m not sure – but I am sure that it will not reverse  they could disappear.”  the World Bank issue the first green  plus its portfolio of sustainable investments under 
its trajectory.” The advent of Covid-19 disrupt- bond. “We were a pioneer in sustain- management, to over 200 billion euros in total by the 
Johnsson, who has worked in sustainable fi- ed this transition for many clients, but  able finance, creating what was then  end of 2025.
nance for the past five years, believes this revolution  Johnsson believes it will return to the  a very specialised, niche offering that  This demand for green financial products has 
may be costly, but that the costs of transitioning to a  forefront post pandemic, particularly as  saw a maximum three or four issues  now expanded into new financial instruments called 
green economy are balanced by its long-term goals:  the new generation of investors refocus  per year, with relatively small volumes,”  ESG (Environmental, Social and Governance) bonds, 
increased prosperity, longer life spans by reducing  on green investing. Johnsson says. SDG (Social Development Goal) bonds and Factor 
pollution, better impacts on the environment and  “If you’re 25 and you’re starting  The Swede, who joined  bonds, which are more comprehensively aligned with 
social progress. to save for a pension online, you’ll have  Deutsche Bank as an intern in 2001,  the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals.
“In 2019, we saw companies and issuers of  ten alternatives for bond funds to put  looks back to 2017 when Debt Capital  “A company issuing a traditional green bond 
capital waking up to the fact that their social and  your money into – and young people  Markets (DCM) started focusing on sus- would need to find a specific portfolio of green 
environmental activity isn’t about PR, it’s about their  consistently choose the environmental- tainable finance as investors discovered  assets on the balance sheet and issue debt on those 
entire business models long-term,” he explains. “If the  ly friendly options,” Johnsson says.  it was easy to raise funds that invest  assets,” Johnsson explains. “The proceeds from that 
demand for environmentally responsible investment  “This is what I find most exciting:  in green assets. “Suddenly, we started  debt could only be used for specific projects that 
continues to grow at this pace, a company in, let’s say,  it’s no longer about companies getting a  seeing much more demand for green  must be validated by a third-party provider.” 
the energy sector won’t be able to raise capital if it  good headline for their ESG efforts, it’s  and ESG products,” says Johnsson,  ESG/SDG and Factor bonds, on the other 
doesn’t make significant ESG changes to its business  about changing a company’s behaviour  explaining that the total amount raised  hand, are not limited to specific projects but instead  ›
20   21
»If we don’t act now, 
we’ll have passed up an 
opportunity«
› linked to specific climate change key performance  That is why Deutsche Bank is 
indicators (KPIs). A company can raise as much as it  working to standardise products to 
wants and use it for whatever it wants, as long as in- make it easier to analyse and com- Gerald Podobnik is Chief Financial Officer  
vestors are willing to buy. But if the company misses  pare companies – balancing this need 
of our Corporate Bank and a member of the  
its KPIs, it pays a financial penalty via the coupon on  for cohesion with the impact on the 
its debt increasing.  businesses. Johnsson is hopeful that 
German government’s Sustainable Finance  
Deutsche Bank issued one such bond last  ESG standardisation will become as 
year for Enel, an Italian power generating company  commonplace – and as important – as  Advisory Council.
that also drills for oil. The 2.5 billion US dollar bond  credit ratings are now.
is the first SDG from a corporate of significant scale.  “Sustainability is five or ten 
There is a substantial financial penalty if Enel fails  years behind credit ratings,” he says, 
to achieve the goals attached to the bond, which  explaining how credit agencies came  Mr Podobnik, up until just a few years 
include creating renewable capacity of more than 55  together years ago to build a framework  ago, the whole “sustainable finance” 
per cent in four- and seven-year increments.  for analysing different companies. Now,  concept was seen as more of a market-
This doesn’t mean that green bonds will  businesses need to present informa- ing ploy. Has that changed? 
become obsolete. They are good for investors in that  tion in this way in order to receive a  That definitely came into it in the 
they are measurable, trackable and have an under- credit rating. Standardisation is the way  beginning. The first issuers wanted 
standable, upfront set of criteria. However, there  forward for ESG, Johnsson says: “In  to send a message: look at us, we’re 
aren’t nearly enough green bonds available to satisfy  future, when an investor buys debt, he’ll  committed to operating sustainably. 
investor demand, which is why there has been such a  consider the company’s credit and ESG  But the Paris Climate Agreement, 
big increase in volumes of ESG and Factor bonds. ratings equally. It’s a work in progress,  the supplementary One Planet 
With more flexible instruments like these,  but this is where we’re headed.”  › Summit in 2017 and ultimately the 
banks and issuers can create things like Covid bonds  European Commission’s Sustain-
that fund hospitals or provide essential goods to  able Finance Strategy gave the 
families in need. Fourteen billion US dollars of Covid  idea a tremendous boost. From 
bonds has been issued so far, including one co-man- that moment on, everyone noticed 
aged by Deutsche Bank for USA Capital Corporation,  that it had been given a regulatory 
with proceeds going towards affordable housing,  framework. And that in turn sped 
renewable energy and Covid-19 relief.  up its development.
“My team and I are proud to work on ESG 
deals,” Johnsson says. “It’s also about being part of  That means the marketing phase is 
something good.” behind us?
Yes, because investors are gradually 
IT’S NOT EASY BEING GREEN … changing their behaviour as well. 
The biggest challenge in sustainable finance now is  Firms are coming under increasing 
finding common KPIs that entire industries accept.  pressure to embed sustainability  Gerald Podobnik: “Companies have 
to deliver vastly improved and more 
“Look at the oil industry – all of the oil majors are  criteria in their governance prac-
transparent reporting on how they 
now transitioning their business models, but using  tices. More and more institutional 
plan to become more sustainable” 
different KPIs as the criteria,” Johnsson says. “This  investors use sustainability criteria 
makes it difficult for investors to compare the differ- to manage their portfolios and 
ent efforts. It’s not cohesive.” are enquiring after sustainability  ›
22   23
› ratings. Retail investors are now also warming to  climate rating could be exempted 
the topic. There are studies showing that firms  from fulfilling certain requirements.
with a stronger focus on ESG (Environmental, 
Social and Governance) criteria are also more re- What else needs to be done for 
silient in times of crisis. That’s a strong message. compan ies to operate more sustain-
ably?
Deutsche Bank aims to facilitate 200 billion euros  Companies have to deliver vastly 
of sustainable financing and investments by 2025.  improved and more transparent re- A climate stress 
Why weren’t we faster setting such targets?  porting on how they plan to become 
We had been criticised for not having any spe- more sustainable – and of course 
cific targets. However, we wanted to adopt an  on what they have already achieved 
orderly, structured and clear approach. We also  as well. After all, it’s standards 
wanted to use the European Union’s sustainabil- and scalability that make capital 
test for banks 
ity standard, the EU Taxonomy, as the basis for  markets work. What I mean is: there 
developing understandable criteria. It simply has  must be quantifiable and compara-
to be clear which activities help towards reaching  ble metrics to identify how sustain-
our targets and which ones do not. For topics  ably businesses operate. If we as 
such as renewable energies, sustainable produc- banks have to be evaluated, then 
tion or sustainable farming, the criteria are based  we must also be able to classify the  would be a good 
on internationally recognised standards and so  business of our clients accordingly. 
are quite easy to define.  And this requires standards similar 
For other areas, the EU stipulations are quite  to those for financial reporting.
complex, but they provide a very good framework 
for how the assessment should be conducted.  You’re a member of the German  idea«
There are other areas, especially in the social  government’s Sustainable Finance 
sphere, where we had to stipulate the crite- Advisory Council. Is progress being 
ria ourselves. In the next step, we had to then  made on this count?
assess what we already have in our portfolio  The EU is currently revising its 
that complies with our inhouse taxonomy. Doing  directive on non-financial reporting 
so demonstrated how much we had already  for companies. We’re on the right 
achieved. The consultancy ISS ESG has scruti- track with that. And on the govern-
nised our ESG criteria and ranked us eighth of  ment’s Sustainable Finance Adviso- priority is to look after the economy  nominated in my personal capacity. And I’m re-
281 firms in the category financial institutions/ ry Council, our objective is to make  and think the climate should take  quired to draw a strict distinction between the two 
banks and capital market.  Germany a leading light in this field.  second place. We see things differ- roles. But leaving that aside: when we talk to our 
Its members are representatives  ently, however: we have to make the  corporate clients, their interests are always up-
Yet you’re calling on politicians to create more  from the financial sector and the  transformation into a more sustain- permost in our minds when we consider applying 
incentives for the financial sector to smooth the way  real economy, civil society and ac- able economy, one that is much  sustainable criteria. We are currently seeing two 
for sustainable finance. Why is that necessary? ademia. We are convinced that the  more resilient to the risks of climate  trends shaping entrepreneurial developments: 
The only way to help the financial sector make  current crisis provides an opportu- change, for example. If we fail to act  digitalisation and sustainability. Those who fail to 
a huge shift towards sustainable finance in a  nity to take interventionary action to  during this crisis, then we will have  take a strategic view early enough will suffer long-
short space of time is by offering incentives and  link growth and sustainability. The  passed up an opportunity. term consequences. So we always strive to ensure 
through regulatory requirements. The question is  energies and resources we mobilise  that acute problems are also addressed with a 
also how to get all banks pulling in this direction.  now will have long-lasting effects.  As a banker who always has to  view to long-term success. When the coronavirus 
As a big bank, we are already being watched by  So we also have to help to solve  represent the interests of his corporate  crisis began, we all saw that parts of our econo-
the capital market, analysts and investors. Small- long-term challenges – chiefly the  clients, don’t you find yourself  my lack resilience. This shows how important a 
er or regional banks, however, are not – they  transformation to a climate-neu- wrestling with the conflict between  sustainably oriented economy can be. As a bank, 
would need some easing of capital requirements,  tral economy. That’s the direction  sustainability and economic efficiency?  we can provide a decisive boost by supporting 
for example. A climate stress test for banks  we aim to take. Of course, there’s  On the government’s advisory coun- sustainability from every angle – for example by 
would also be a good idea: those with a good  no shortage of people whose first  cil, I don’t represent the bank; I was  issuing our own green bonds. ›
24   25
Sustainable finance Examples for sustainable 
finance 2019
The OECD estimates that until 2030, more 
than 6 trillion euros of investment will be 
required every year to fight climate change 
globally. Naturally, as a global financial inter-
Corporate Bank and 
This positive trend is continuing in 2020. In the year 
mediary, we have a role to play here, by de-
Investment Bank to 31 May 2020, Deutsche Bank advised clients on 
veloping investment products and financing  22 transactions, placing sustainable bonds with an 
underwriting volume of nearly 3.5 billion euros, rank-
solutions and by providing advice to compa- In 2019, we helped clients across the  ing Deutsche Bank number 10 in the global ranking 
globe to raise 4.5 billion euros through  for sustainable bonds (May 2020; source: Dealogic). 
nies on how they can make the transition to 
issuing ESG bonds, including green  For example, Deutsche Bank acted as joint bookrun-
bonds, social bonds, sustainable bonds  ner on BASF’s inaugural 1 billion euro green bond, 
more sustainable business models. 
and bonds linked to sustainability crite- and as joint lead manager of two 500 million euro 
ria. Of that, 3.7 billion euros was raised  Climate Awareness Bond taps issued by the Europe-
through issuing dedicated green or sus- an Investment Bank. 
tainability-linked bonds, most of which 
had a strong focus on solutions mitigat- Further, in 2019, we acted as coordinator for eight 
Building on our long-standing expertise and  In May 2020, we issued our first own  ing or adapting to climate change. For  sustainability-linked loans including the German 
involvement in financing sustainable economic  green bond with a volume of 500 mil- example, in 2019, we provided support  companies Continental, LANXESS and Zeppelin, 
activities, in May 2020, we announced the target to  lion euros. Based on our Green Bond  to: the British company NEPI Rockcastle and the US 
generate at least 200 billion euros in sustainable  Framework, the proceeds will be used  company Crown, where we led the first leveraged 
financing and ESG investments by our Private Bank  to support the development of renew- →  The Italian utility company Enel  sustainability-linked loan agreement in the US 
as at the end of 2025. The target of 200 billion  able energy, energy efficiency projects,  to introduce a new format known  market. 
euros does not include our asset manager DWS.  and so-called green buildings. The  as a sustainability-linked bond. 
As a listed company, DWS sets its own targets and  framework follows the ICMA Green  It was the first-ever public bond  In the area of infrastructure development financing, 
already has around 70 billion euros of sustain able  Bond Principles and the EU Technical  format to attach contractual  in 2019, we were mandated lead arranger and sole 
assets under management, per year-end 2019. We  Expert Group’s latest guidance on  consequences to the fulfilling of  rates hedge arranger for the largest offshore wind 
have also signed the climate commitment of the  the EU Taxonomy and will continue  certain predefined sustainability  transaction in Asia Pacific at deal closure. The 82 
German financial sector. By doing so, we pledge to  to evolve following the development  key performance indicators. billion new Taiwanese dollars (2.3 billion euro equiv-
gradually align our lending portfolios with the goals  of these principles and standards.  →  Assicurazioni Generali in issuing  alent), 640 megawatt Yunlin offshore wind farm 
of the Paris Agreement. Our Green Bond Framework and the  the first green-subordinated  project financing, developed by a consortium led by 
corresponding Second Party Opinion  benchmark transaction by a  Wpd AG, provided a viable financing template for 
We have developed an internal Sustainable Fi- provided by ISS ESG are disclosed on  financial institution in Europe. large-scale offshore wind projects to facilitate the 
nance Framework to establish a bank-wide con- our Investor Relations website.   › →  Vattenfall in issuing their inaugu- gradual phase-out of nuclear energy and coal-fired 
sistent definition of what constitutes sustainable  ral green bond, and Republic of  power generation in Taiwan. 
finance. It links to the EU taxonomy for environ- Indonesia in issuing their second 
mental criteria but also includes social criteria we  green sukuk bond, a sharia-com- We have been active in financing renewable en-
have set up following international principles, such  pliant investment in renewable  ergy projects since the mid-2000s, when projects 
as the International Capital Market Association  energy and other environmental  reached industrial scale. In 2019, we arranged full 
(ICMA) Social Bond Principles. Our Framework,  assets. or partial finance for such renewable energy projects 
including the Second Party Opinion by Institutional  totalling around 2.5 billion euros and generating 
Shareholder Services ESG (ISS ESG) is publicly  over 2,200 megawatts.  ›
available.
26   27
Key highlights 2019 Private Bank
In € bn Overall volume 2019 Overall volume 2018 Deutsche Bank contribution
In 2019, we began offering an equity  construction loan BHW Express Darlehen was made 
fund to our Private Bank clients that  available throughout the first quarter of 2020 at a 
ESG bonds >22 >8 Supported ESG bond transactions 
Bond issuances with dedicated use of  (fund raising) invests in companies that contribute  reduced rate of interest applicable to such sustain-
proceeds for sustainable causes, be it 
to the objectives set out in the United  able modernisation projects. Based on the success 
green, social, sustainable or linked to 
dedicated sustainability KPIs Nations Sustainable Development  of this product in the market, BHW is currently work-
Goals (SDGs). After the launch of the  ing on KlimaDarlehen – a form of lending designed 
Sustainability-linked loans >50 >10 Participated in over 20 (2018: 9)  equity fund, we generated gross inflows  particularly for sustainable energy construction 
Instruments and/or facilities incentivising  sustainability-linked loans
of approximately 248 million euros  projects. 
borrower’s achievement of ambitious, 
predetermined sustainability KPIs (equivalent to around 22% of gross 
flows into equity thematic funds). Ad- In Wealth Management, we manage assets under 
Financing of renewable energy  2.5 1.2 Arranged full or partial project  ditionally, we started offering a green  ESG mandates of nearly 500 million euros. Currently, 
projects finance bond fund whose target is to invest into  we have 19 ESG funds on our global approved list. 
bonds to support environment-related  Client assets in ESG funds grew by 56% in 2019. ›
Financing infrastructure projects >3.4 n/a1 Arranged or participated in  projects. For our international private 
with strong development credentials  infrastructure finance
and positive contribution to local  and commercial business, we active-
communities ly recommended four thematic ESG 
funds to clients in Belgium. This took 
1 Overall volume not reported in 2018; please refer to Non-Financial Report 2018, p. 33 for individual examples. 
the total number of recommended ESG 
funds to nine. 
BHW, Deutsche Bank’s building 
society, is keen to further expand 
its core business area of real estate 
modernisation and strongly supports 
In line with our broader strategy to grow and expand  our clients in financing sustainable 
our ESG products and solutions to all client groups,  energy modernisation. To this end, the 
we are strengthening divisional and regional struc-
tures to anchor a holistic approach to sustainability. 
We have allocated additional ESG resources both in 
our Investment Bank and Corporate Bank, including 
a newly created sustainable finance team within 
Capital Markets. The team will support our clients 
and our global coverage teams to better understand 
Key highlights 2019
the impact of ESG on market access and business 
development. Additionally, we have established 
In € m 2019 2018
an ESG Competence Team in our Corporate Bank, 
acting as a specialist partner for product develop- State-subsidised mortgages (loan volume)1 490 360
ment and client coverage, to ensure that Corporate  for financing agreements of low-energy houses or for construction and mod-
ernisation projects that meet higher energy standards than those required by 
Bank customers have access to ESG advisory and 
Germany’s Energy Saving Ordinance
sustainability-related commercial banking products 
that support them in their sustainability transition. 
Discretionary ESG mandates in Wealth Management (AuM)
500 500
We have also appointed a regional Head of ESG  (Based on a best-in-class approach, with certain sectoral exclusions and utilising 
MSCI ESG rating criteria)
to develop and coordinate our ESG business strat-
egy across all business divisions in the Asia-Pacific 
1 Total volume of state-subsidised mortages through cooperation with Germany’s nationwide development bank Kreditanstalt für Wiederaufbau in 2019: €1.2 bn.
region. ›
28   29
Asset Management (DWS)
In 2019, our asset manager DWS reported 69.7 bil- class research data from DWS’s  extending a clean energy fund  report published by the UK campaign group Share-
lion euros of ESG assets under management (AuM),  proprietary ESG Engine. “Smart  to invest in climate solutions in  Action, DWS finished among the leading asset man-
the bulk of which (51.6 billion euros) is managed  Integration” enables DWS to  China in the context of the China  agers globally in voting on shareholder resolutions 
across active and passive mandates. The remain- specifically identify and ob- Clean Energy Fund. linked to climate change. ›
der includes sustainable investment funds/impact  jectively analyse the risks and  →  Promotion of retail distribution 
investments (715 million euros); real estate invest- opportunities associated with a  campaigns for DWS Invest Green 
ments in certified green-labelled buildings (16.5 bil- transition to a low-carbon econo- Bond fund and DWS Invest SDG 
lion euros); infrastructure assets in renewable assets  my for each issuer. Global Equities fund to scale up 
(862 million euros). In 2019, DWS total assets under  →  Launch of the first DWS Invest  capital market investment.
management (AuM) were 767.4 billion euros.   QI Global Climate Action Fund,  →  DWS’s first Group Sustainability 
designed to meet the growing  Officer will start work in August 
ACTIVITY IN 2019/2020 INCLUDED investor demand for strategies  2020 and will focus on driving 
→  Introduction of Climate Transition Risk  that aim to reduce carbon emis- DWS sustainability strategy 
Scorings to identify risks and opportunities  sions. forward and putting ESG at the 
associated with the transition to a low carbon  →  Extension of the ESG leaders  core of everything we do.
economy. Access to the scores is provided  low carbon product suite of 
globally to DWS portfolio managers and ana- exchange traded passive funds  DWS has piloted ESG Key Perfor-
lysts for liquid/listed assets. with MSCI. mance Indicators, for example on CO  
2
→  Publication of climate transition risk and  →   Conversion of the DWS Invest  emissions and information on climate 
water risk on a sector level.  Climate Tech into an ESG ver- change indicators of a fund, to give 
→   Introduction of “Smart Integration” into the  sion. investors transparency on the ESG 
investment platform, an advanced approach  →  Continued partnership with a  contributions of the DWS Invest SDG 
to ESG integration that leverages best-in- significant corporate client by  Global Equities fund. Furthermore, 
DWS continues to develop its ESG 
methodology, especially with regard 
to carbon and climate risk sensitivity, 
opportunities from impact investing 
and the SDGs, by integrating them into 
the ESG Engine.
Key highlights 2019
To further strengthen its commitment  
In € bn 2019 2018
to ESG in real estate investments, DWS 
ESG assets under management 69.7 47,1 aims at halving carbon emissions by 
Classification follows the methodology of the Global Sustainable Investment Alliance 2030 against the reference year 2017 
for its entire portfolio of European of-
Thereof
fice properties held by funds managed 
ESG within Active investments 40.7 28,9 by the European real estate business. 
Portfolios based on client-specific exclusions for institutional clients, retail and 
institutional assets managed according to uniformly defined investment stand- This is estimated to result in an annual 
ards or client-specific derivations, particular sustainability themed ESG prod- reduction of 61,000 metric tons of car-
ucts, and third-party initiated mutual funds applying external ESG approach
bon dioxide emissions – the equivalent 
of taking approximately 24,000 diesel 
ESG within Passive investments cars off the road and saving around 23 
10.9 3,3
Exchange traded funds or products, passively managed funds for institutional 
million litres of diesel.
clients
When engaging with corporates, DWS 
ESG within Alternatives
18.1 14,9
Sustainable investment funds/impact investments, Real Estate,   places greater emphasis on a board’s 
infrastructure investments
responsibility for ESG. According to a 
30   31
Carbon-intensive sectors Oil and gas
In addition to our current enhanced 
environmental and social due dili-
Our commitment to sustainable finance  
gence process, we will review by end 
also includes questioning our involvement in  of 2020 our existing exposure to the 
oil and gas sector globally, consider-
certain sectors, including those that are   ing environmental and social perfor-
mance, carbon intensity, and transi-
carbon-intensive. 
tion plans. Based on this review, we 
will subsequently aim to reduce our 
exposure. 
Additionally, we will not finance: 
In this context, the general provisions of our Envi- Coal power  →  Oil or gas projects via hydrau-
ronmental and Social Risk Framework define pro- lic fracturing in countries with 
cedures and responsibilities for risk identification,  extremely high water stress
assessment, and decision-making. The Framework  Since 2016, we have had a policy in  →  New oil or gas projects in the 
also covers deal-independent risk screening, the  place prohibiting the financing of the  Arctic region; Arctic region 
identification of companies with a controversial  development of new coal-fired power  being defined based on a 10°C 
environmental and social (ES) profile and the  plants and the expansion of existing  July isotherm boundary, mean-
definition of sensitive sectors, and specifies the  coal-fired power plants, irrespective  ing the area does not experi-
requirements for ES due diligence including criteria  of their location. In addition to this  ence temperatures above 10°C 
for mandatory referral to Group Sustainability, our  commitment, we will review our coal  →  New projects involving explo-
central sustainability team.  power exposure, and for all clients de- ration, production or transport/
pending more than 50% on coal – be it  processing of oil sands 
The due diligence process regarding project  energy capacity or energy output – we 
finance is based on the IFC Performance Stand- will subject the provision of financial  Financing means the lending and 
ards underlying the due diligence process of the  services to the availability of credible  capital market, where the majority of 
Equator Principles. To confirm our commitment,  diversification plans. Accordingly,  the use of proceeds is explicitly linked 
Deutsche Bank formally joined the Equator Princi- we will review all clients in Europe  to the listed projects.
ples in July 2020. and the US by the end of 2020 and 
gradually phase out existing exposure 
Fossil fuel policy
The following restrictions are in place to reduce our  if there are no diversification plans in 
climate risk exposure and focus the provision of  place. Starting in 2022, we will extend 
financial services to companies in transition. this review and phase-out to Asia and  The outlined changes to our fossil 
selected developing markets. With this  fuel policies announced in July 2020 
staged timing, we acknowledge the ad- underline our aspiration to contribute 
Coal mining 
ditional time required by some regions  to climate protection and to the goal 
to prepare for the transformation.  of the European Union to become 
Since 2016, we have had a policy in place prohib- net-zero-carbon by 2050. These 
iting financing of greenfield thermal coal mining  changes are in addition to our recent-
and associated infrastructure, and we committed to  ly announced commitment to align 
reducing our coal lending exposure and set a three- the carbon intensity of our lending 
year reduction target of 20% in 2016. As of the end  portfolios with the targets of the Paris 
of 2019, we achieved that target, and we are now  Agreement, which we have pledged by 
further committed to phasing out coal exposure by  joining the German financial sector’s 
2025 worldwide (including both lending and capital  collective commitment to climate 
›
markets).  action in June 2020.
32   33
Climate  
Risks
9d k
Paulina OlowskaCar Mobile Collage, 200Courtesy of the artist anMetro Pictures, New Yor
34   35
»We need to make the  
climate risk assessment  
clear and explicit«
Chris Jaques: “You don’t often get 
the opportunity to create a frame-
Chris Jaques, Head of Enterprise Risk  work from the ground up for a new 
type of risk. It’s an exciting chal-
Portfolio Management and Stress Testing,  lenge” 
on the challenge of creating a framework 
for climate risk from scratch.
“Climate risk is a new and complex topic that is  bility issues, it established a dedicat- strategies to make the transition to  be deeply embedded into our existing risk disci-
continuously evolving,” says Chris Jaques, Head of  ed working group to start building a  lower carbon-intensive models.  plines and an integral part of our ‘business-as-usu-
Enterprise Risk Portfolio Management and Stress  climate risk management framework  “The lack of data and agreed  al’ risk assessment processes. “For example, if a 
Testing. “But you don’t often get the opportunity to  for Deutsche Bank.  approaches to modelling presents  highly carbon-intensive, large emitter client needs 
create a framework from the ground up for a new  “Our working group is staffed  challenges for this kind of analysis  to transition to a greener business model, they may 
type of risk. It’s an exciting challenge.”  by volunteers from all across Risk –  and, like our peers, we are still in a  need to invest significantly in their infrastructure. 
Jaques, who joined Deutsche Bank seven  colleagues who had a real personal  build phase,” says Jaques. “Nonethe- This is a sensible strategy for the client but may 
years ago and has been focusing on climate risk  interest in the topic, who wanted to  less, we are moving quickly in devel- lead to an overall increase in the client’s leverage, 
for the past 18 months, is the Deputy Chair of the  help drive change in the bank and the  oping our ability to estimate potential  which might in turn impact our internal view of 
Group Enterprise Risk Committee, a team of senior  industry,” says Jaques. “The group is  transition costs across carbon-inten- their credit rating,” he explains. “So the different 
leaders from across Risk disciplines. The Commit- formulating what the bank needs to do  sive sectors.” risk disciplines need to work collaboratively to 
tee focuses on risk events and emerging trends  in terms of developing its governance,  “We’re looking to gain greater  understand the best model and methodology to 
that impact Deutsche Bank across multiple risk  risk assessment and modelling capa- insight into our own portfolio’s ex- use. Today, one could argue that climate risk is 
types. The Committee is empowered to approve the  bilities, enabling us to manage climate  posure to climate risk in its different  implicit in certain risk analysis, but moving forward, 
bank’s appetite for taking certain types of risks and  risk on our own balance sheet.”  facets, and to build an internal risk  we need to make the climate risk assessment clear 
also reviews stress testing scenarios and results  Among its core tasks, the  appetite for climate risk,” Jaques  and explicit.”  ›
across the Group. ten-strong team analyses the transi- says, explaining that the quantitative 
In 2018, the Committee reviewed the po- tion risks that certain industries and  metrics will help reduce the carbon in-
tential Risk implications of climate change and  sectors will face as a result of formal  tensity of our portfolio over time. “This 
mandated the Risk function to develop scenario  policies and behavioural changes in  has to be in lockstep with the business 
analyses of certain carbon-intensive sectors, such  the global economy. For example, as  and their ambitions to build our client 
as oil and gas, to assess portfolio vulnerability to  more focus is placed on trying to slow  franchise through the fast expanding 
climate transition risks. In 2019, following a sharp  the increase of global temperatures,  array of ESG products.” 
increase in scrutiny from governments, regulators  in line with the Paris Accord, certain  Jaques says that, as new and 
and investors on climate risk and wider sustaina- industries need to devise credible  evolving as climate risk is, it needs to 
36   37
Climate Risks 
2019 TOTAL LOANS:  Transition scenario analysis 
€434 BN
211+1+96+% and stress tests
The further development of our climate risk 
2%
1%
management framework is a key pillar of our   A key component in climate risk management is the 
development of transition scenario analysis, en-
approach to sustainability and climate change.  abling us to assess the potential impacts of policy 
96%
and behavioral changes on our clients. 
In 2019, Deutsche Bank piloted transition scenario 
analysis for the bank’s key carbon-intensive in-
dustries: Oil and Gas, Utilities (electric power and 
Climate risks are distinct from the majority of risks  Deutsche Bank’s exposure Oil and gas natural gas) as well as Steel, Metals and Mining. 
that Deutsche Bank faces in the sense that (i) cer- →  We used the International Energy Agency 
Utilities
tain risks may only materialise over the long-term,  Deutsche Bank’s exposure to these  “Sustainable Development” scenario as a 
(ii) there is limited historical data – particularly in  industries is low as a proportion of its  Steel, metals and mining basis for the analysis. The scenario is con-
relation to transition risk – to base a forward-look- total loan book volume. The relative  sistent with the Paris Agreement’s objective 
Other
ing risk appetite upon and (iii) traditional/existing  shares of each industry have fallen  of holding the increase in global average 
metrics will not be appropriate/sufficient to man- compared to year-end 2016 as the  temperatures to well below 2°C above pre-in-
age climate risk.  bank reduced its risk appetite thresh- dustrial levels and contains energy demand 
olds. As of year-end 2019:  projections across key sources in line with 
We are focused on developing the ability to identify,  Risk identification  that objective.
measure, monitor and control these risks in align- →  Loan exposure to the oil and  →  We applied downward probability of default 
and measurement
ment with the Task Force on Climate-related Finan- gas industry: €8.4 billion or the  (PD) rating migrations to our portfolios.
cial Disclosures (TCFD) recommendations, peer  equivalent of 2% of overall loan  →  We assumed an increase in loss given default 
best practice and relevant regulatory guidance. › volume, plus revocable and irrev- We have developed an internal,  ratios across all clients.
ocable lending commitments of  sectoral-based climate risk taxonomy 
€6.9 billion.  which classifies all of our institutional  The results were translated into estimates of how 
→  Loan exposure to the utilities  credit exposures. The classification  expected loss would develop over the medium to 
(electric power and gas) sector:  is based on (i) the EU taxonomy for  long term for the selected portfolios. While the 
€4.2 billion or 1% of overall loan  environmental criteria, (ii) scope 1 and  bank does see meaningful downward rating migra-
volume, plus revocable and irrev- 2 carbon emissions data at the client  tions for our carbon-intensive portfolios under the 
ocable lending commitments of  level (where available) or sectoral level  “Sustainable Development” scenario (before any 
€7.9 billion.  and (iii) internal expert judgement.  mitigating actions), the overall impact on the bank’s 
→  Loan exposure to the steel,   balance sheet quality would remain contained, 
metals and mining sector:   This initial work has enabled us to es- supported by the bank’s focus on well-rated and 
€4.0 billion or 1% of overall loan  timate our institutional credit portfolio  diversified clients.
volume, plus revocable and irrev- carbon intensity and benchmark this 
ocable lending commitments of  to relevant global comparators, as well  We are developing a more comprehensive approach 
€4.4 billion. Exposure to coal  as to identify at a high level which cli- to scenario analysis, applicable to all sectors, 
mining groups is negligible since  ents and sectors are key contributors  modelling the impacts of demand developments, 
the bank has tightly managed  to our financed carbon emissions.  › transition capex and carbon pricing. We are parti-
and reduced its exposures in  cipating in the second phase of the United Nations 
recent years. These loan expo- Environment Program Finance Initiative’s (UNEP 
sures have fallen by 31% since  FI) pilot project to support this initiative and are 
year-end 2016. also voluntary participants in the European Bank-
ing Authority’s pilot climate sensitivity exercise. ›
38   39
Risk appetite Asset Management 
– DWS
Our principal tool for managing sectoral exposures 
is our industry risk management framework. A key 
input into industry risk assessment, risk appetite  Climate change is a significant risk  Access to the scores is provided glob- coalition, comprises companies from across the 
setting and frequency of review is our short- and  for investors, from the financial losses  ally to DWS portfolio managers and  investment value chain with a total of 5 trillion 
long-term internal industry risk ratings, which  incurred from extreme weather events  analysts in Equities, Fixed Income and  US dollars of assets. It includes governments and 
incorporate an assessment of an industry’s vulner- to asset re-pricing in the transition to  Multi-Asset. This includes visibility  multilateral organisations. ›
ability to climate risks. Industry risk ratings are also  a low-carbon economy. As a signato- on higher-rated companies that offer 
included as an input into our internal rating model  ry of the Principles for Responsible  climate solutions and manage the 
for the PD of counterparties. Investment, DWS is committed to  transition of their product portfolio 
implementing the recommendations  into a carbon-free world. 
From a physical risk perspective, an in-house  of the Task Force on Climate-related 
analytical team measures and monitors country-  Financial Disclosure. In addition to the integration in the 
and selected city-specific risks, including natural  investment management process, 
hazard risks to our assets and operations. These  To identify leaders and laggards in  sustainability risk and climate risk 
risk assessments inform strategic location planning  the field of climate change, DWS has  indicators as well as physical and/or 
and scenario design for testing and exercising crisis  included a Climate Transition Risk  climate transition scenarios are being 
management in order to ensure robust business  Rating in its ESG Engine which is  integrated into DWS’s investment risk 
continuity, corporate security plans and crisis man- based on carbon intensity. This allows  management process. This is expect-
agement plans.  the identification of climate laggards  ed to imply, among other things, the 
and frontrunners within traditional  integration of risk thresholds with 
Physical risks to our clients and assets are consid- asset classes and serves as a starting  respect to various ESG ratings. 
ered in the assessment of, and risk decision-making  point to obtain insights for product 
in regard to, credit and market risk exposures that  groups with alleviated risks stemming  Besides rating-based indicators, 
may be heavily impacted by acute events. from climate transition. scenario analyses and stress tests will 
be used to assess the exposure and 
In 2020, we will establish formal Principles for  DWS uses the latest generation of  the sensitivity of a portfolio towards 
Managing Climate Risk for Deutsche Bank. These  climate risk scores from leading ESG  climate risks. Physical climate stress 
will include a set of guiding principles and qualita- data vendors like MSCI, ISS-oekom  scenarios as well as climate transition 
tive risk appetite statements in relation to climate  and Sustainalytics and derives a  stress scenarios are planned to be 
risk which must be adhered to across the bank.  cross-vendor climate assessment.  integrated in the market risk stress 
This document will be supported in future by the  While all of the data vendors seek  testing program. Equivalently, for illi-
development of climate risk-specific quantitative  to identify leaders in this field, they  quid alternative asset classes, sustain-
risk appetite targets applicable to each of the prin- apply different methods. The Climate  ability risks will be integrated in the 
ciples/qualitative statements. › Transition Risk Rating harmonises  individual risk assessments performed 
the scores by determining an implicit  on an investment level.
relevance and derives a consensus 
climate risk rating, which is relevant  In September 2019, DWS joined the 
for DWS portfolio management and  Coalition for Climate Resilient Invest-
bespoke client solutions. The model  ment (CCRI). The goal of the CCRI 
places emphasis on absolute as well  is to transform infrastructure invest-
as relative leaders plus laggards. This  ments by integrating climate risks into 
way, the DWS Climate Transition Risk  the decision-making process, driving a 
Rating scores become more pro- paradigm shift toward a more climate 
nounced on carbon risk and opportu- resilient global economy. The CCRI 
nities.  initiative, the first private-sector-led 
40   41
Our Carbon 
Footprint
z, 
ol
h
h
c
u
B
ns rie 
a e
m ale
Wolfgang TillFluten, 1997Courtesy of GBerlin/Cologn
42   43
A win-win-win situation
A smaller carbon footprint, more modern 
workplaces, lower costs – Jörg Salzer  
demonstrates that a green approach makes  Jörg Salzer: “We have to become 
much more efficient and reduce 
sense on many counts.  consumption” 
When the project was launched, it was largely the  from year to year. In 2007, Deutsche 
object of ridicule. A lift that generated energy on  Bank set itself the objective of making 
its way down, concrete that stores heat and a toilet  its business operations carbon neu-
whose water consumption is capped at three litres  tral, which it has achieved since 2012. 
per flush – what’s the point? The answer: saving  CO  emissions – in office buildings or 
2
energy and fighting climate change. “It was an eco- from business travel – have been re-
logical and architectural first at the time,” enthused  duced from 750,000 tonnes to around 
Jörg Salzer when talking about the renovation of  360,000 tonnes since 2007. The bank 
Deutsche Bank’s head office twin towers in Frank- now powers up to 80 per cent of its 
furt, which was completed in 2010 and remains  buildings using electricity from renew- entire floors in some cases. Salzer: “At  But Jörg Salzer is still not satisfied with all 
a landmark achievement. As Group Head Corpo- able sources. These are all milestones.  our Frankfurt head office we managed  that. “We are only starting to tap our potential; each 
rate Services, Salzer is responsible for the bank’s  The bank has now set further targets.  to create some 270-degree views where  individual, us as a bank and society as a whole. We 
buildings: “Standards were set at that time and  By 2050, it is aiming for “net zero CO   dark corridors used to be.” At the same  can still do a lot more.” Use less plastic, travel by 
2
they remain our benchmark – for the systems and  emissions”. And renewable energies  time, desks are being equipped with  train more, expand the charging infrastructure for 
equipment installed in the building, the construction  are to be the only source of power from  advanced, energy-saving technology.  electromobility – Salzer has a long list. Even though 
materials, the climate control and generally the way  2025. Investment in modern workspaces  the experience with the coronavirus crisis shows 
we use the office space.”  But the best thing, as far as  reduces the bank’s space usage and  that a lot is conceivable in an emergency situation, 
In Frankfurt, the the twin office towers  Jörg Salzer is concerned, is when no  energy consumption. Salzer calls it a  he also recognises that the realm of possibility does 
are commonly referred to as “debit and credit” in  energy needs to be consumed. “We  “win-win-win situation.” have bounds. “We cannot stop all travel of course. 
allusion to our business as a bank. That name is no  have to become much more efficient  What this looks like in practical  That would mean we would never see our clients in 
longer appropriate following the renovation, because  and reduce consumption,” he says.  terms can be seen around the globe at  person.” But much less travel is possible: in 2019 
since then the company’s head office has been  Progressing towards this objective will  Deutsche Bank – in Australia, Singa- the bank reduced its air travel by a further nine per 
self-sufficient. The twin office towers demonstrated  require fundamental changes in the  pore, China and Holland, projects to  cent. From 2017 to 2019, the CO  emissions caused 
2
to many architects for the first time that convention- buildings portfolio, among other things.  cut energy consumption are under- by employee air travel fell by 22 per cent. We have 
al concrete can also be ecological and store heat –  Wherever the bank is modernising, it  way. At its new London address, “21  to carry on in this vein. “This course of action,” says 
and that smart reuse systems can drastically reduce  attempts to implement flexible space  Moorfields”, Deutsche Bank will reduce  Jörg Salzer, “is non-negotiable.” ›
water consumption. The energy consumption of  utilisation models. By choosing open- its CO  emissions by some 3,800 
2
heating and air conditioning systems dropped by 67  plan office concepts, the office space  tonnes and its electricity consumption 
per cent, while water consumption fell by no less  occupied is reduced and lower energy  by more than 15 gigawatt hours every 
than 74 per cent. consumption is the result. And the  year. Salzer: “Compared to today, our 
The ridicule is now a thing of the past. The  head office towers are a shining exam- energy consumption there will decline 
erstwhile showcase project has since become the  ple. Where individual offices or rooms  by more than 60 per cent.” And this will 
model for many other Deutsche Bank buildings  for two people used to be the norm,  apply over the long term – the rental 
which are seeing their own carbon footprint shrink  open spaces were created that cover  agreement runs for many years.
44   45
Our own carbon footprint
Since 2010, our Deutsche Bank was one of the first banks which 
→  Carbon emissions from travel  committed to becoming carbon-neutral. In 2012, 
We see it as an integral part of our responsibility 
have been reduced by 60%. we achieved carbon-neutrality for our own op-
as a corporate citizen to minimise the environ- →  Carbon emissions from elec- erations and have maintained it since. The bank 
tricity consumption have been  offsets unavoidable carbon emission by purchas-
mental impact of our business operations. We  reduced by over 85%. ing and retiring high-quality emission reduction 
→  Total energy consumption has  certificates. The carbon credits purchased in 2019 
have been paying particular attention to reduc-
been reduced by 27%. reveal investments in a diversified product portfolio 
→  Total electricity consumption  supporting climate change mitigation and econo-
ing our carbon footprint, using energy and other 
has been reduced by 35%. mic development in Africa, Latin America and Asia. 
resources as efficiently as possible, buying re- All offsetting projects comply with well-recognised 
We have reduced our energy con- global standards, including the Gold Standard 
newable electricity and offsetting the remaining  sumption by implementing ener- (62%) and the Verified Carbon Standard. ›
gy-efficiency measures. About 80% 
emissions. We are also striving to use water and 
of our electricity worldwide was from 
renewable sources in 2019 and we are 
paper responsibly, to minimise the supply chain 
committed to expanding renewable 
impact of our business operations and to reduce  electricity use to 100% by 2025.
the amount of waste we generate.
Our path to carbon neutrality 
s 800,000
e
n
n
o
ric t 700,000
et
M
600,000
500,000
400,000
300,000
200,000
100,000
0
2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019
Emissions from energy use and HFCs² tCO2e Emissions from business travel tCO2e Renewables (avoided emissions from renewables) tCO2e Verified emission reductions %
46   47
Employee  
Engagement
ht  n /  
nic erli20
s  B0
Birgit BrennerSie merken, dass etwastimmt, 2009© courtesy Galerie  EIGEN + ART Leipzig/VG Bild-Kunst, Bonn 2
48   49
We’re all members of 
the project team
Nicola Gill is Deutsche Bank’s Global Head of  Nicola Gill: “There’s a sense 
of optimism that’s spreading 
through every area of the bank”
Internal Communications. She wants to convince 
as many employees as possible to go green.
Ms Gill, Deutsche Bank is in the midst of the biggest  How does the bank encourage employ-
transformation in its history. Do staff even have  ees to get involved?
climate change on their radar? Via targeted communication and 
Of course the transformation is keeping all  events. Last year, we staged a staff 
employees busy. Very many of them have been  event with a climate researcher, a 
with the bank for years, some for decades – the  philosopher and experts from with-
company is in their hearts. That’s why it’s also  in the bank. In the discussion ses-
important to them what role the bank plays in  sion that followed, we were abso-
society and that it operates responsibly. As such,  lutely bombarded with suggestions. 
every topic that has social relevance immediately  One of these led to our campaign to  responses, and new ideas continue  been exemplary. This pains a lot of people in 
becomes an internal issue as well. It’s good that  have plastic cups removed from all  to be posted. In addition, there is a  the bank, especially as there was nothing they 
this awareness of climate change has long since  locations in Germany. The manu- variety of projects in which experts  could do about it. But every single one of us can 
grown into active involvement. facturing and life cycle of plastic is  from the bank help fledgling start- really make an impact on the climate. And that is 
responsible for more than ten per  ups to develop their climate-neutral  precisely our objective: to convince people that 
What form does this take? cent of global CO  emissions. We’re  ideas. After all, we can also play our  fighting climate change doesn’t have to mean 
2
There’s a sense of optimism that’s spreading  now reducing plastic consumption  part by providing advice.  going without certain things; it’s something we 
through every area of the bank. Employees are  by half a million cups and 200,000  all benefit from.
keen to play their part and urge the bank to do  lids every year. Do you have a specific target for
the same. They make suggestions for how to  employee involvement? What does the topic mean to you personally?
reduce power, water and plastic consumption.  Are campaigns of this kind truly In the bank, a lot of work is done  I, too, needed a climate researcher to open my 
They ask why the company finances certain pro- sustainable in the sense of resulting  on a project basis and by project  eyes to the topic. I realised that children being 
jects. And they share their own experiences. We  in a lasting commitment? teams. This won’t work with cli- born today will no longer be able to play out-
have an intranet site where users can exchange  There’s a lot more going on. At a  mate-related matters. The best  doors in the sunshine in the fields without a 
ideas on this topic. In one post, an employee  senior managers’ conference, we  case scenario here is that every  care – as we were once able to. The danger is 
reported that working from home due to coro- organised a so-called barcamp on  single employee is a member of the  clear and present, our way of life and that of our 
navirus has taught her that you can also work  climate change and the ideas pre- team and makes their own contri- children is at stake. So doing something about it 
efficiently without printing out documents. Sto- sented there are meant to be adopt- bution. Each individual can turn the  should actually be the most important priority for 
ries like this have an impact. One example of the  ed in the regions and translated into  tap off more quickly to save water,  every single one of us.  ›
scale of employee involvement is our tree-plant- specific actions. And then there’s  not leave lights on for so long and 
ing campaign, which we launched in 2010. We  our #PositiveImpact campaign:  do double-sided printing or not 
set ourselves the goal of planting 150,000 trees  we ask staff to post details of how  print documents at all. And that 
in time for our 150th anniversary – and we’ve  they’re helping the environment  is exactly the reason why so many 
achieved it.  using the hashtag #MyGreenIm- people get involved. As a compa-
pact. This also triggered impressive  ny our behaviour hasn’t always 
50   51
Water creates life anew
Rosette D’souza, COO Finance Center India,  
explains how Deutsche Bank is building sustain-
able rural communities with Swades Foundation 
and thus fighting the consequences of climate 
The project has 
change.
had a positive 
In February of this year, my team and I from the India  are helping fight the drought. They 
Finance Center visited one of Deutsche Bank India’s  are recharging the groundwater and 
community project sites in Raigad, Maharashtra for  therefore building up the water table, 
impact on 7,633 
our annual team-building retreat. Instead of building  which has further resulted in a healthy 
Excel spreadsheets, we built sanitation facilities for  crop, increased the income of farmers, 
a rural school, learning first-hand about the impact  and enhanced the livelihoods of rural 
of our CSR water project, which is administered in  households. 
partnership with Swades Foundation. With regular water supply for 
households«
The mission of India’s not-for-profit Swades  agricultural irrigation and to every 
Foundation is to empower one million lives in  household for drinking, Raigad’s water 
rural India through 360-degree development  problems are a thing of the past. The 
across health, education, water and sanitation and  project is unique because it is de-
economic development and create a development  signed to ensure that after Deutsche 
model that can be replicated at scale. Bank stops working in the village, our 
Since August 2016, Deutsche Bank has been  achievements will help the communi-
sponsoring a major water harvesting initiative with  ties sustain themselves and cope with 
Swades Foundation to help communities in the  the changing climate and drought in 
drought prone districts of Raigad cope with the  the future. 
climatic challenges. Raigad, to the east of Mumbai,  Furthermore, new opportunities 
has a perennial scarcity of water and the region is  are opening up when migrant farm- year when we met 28 Raigad farm- and building sanitation blocks. In November 2019, 
mostly arid through summer. Deutsche Bank’s “wa- ers return home to Raigad from the  ers who explained the impact of the  52 employees from the Pune office spent a day in 
ter for agriculture” project focuses on sustainable  cities. Ketan Wage is one such farmer  bank’s project and shared how their  Raigad and assisted the community in cultivating 
development of the entire district and has resulted  who is currently experimenting with  lives have changed for the better. The  small gardens. 
in the revival of the economy.  exotic vegetables and creating a plan  Deutsche Bank-funded project has  Our visit to Raigad was very enriching, and 
Rainwater harvesting structures have been  for agri-tourism in the community.  had a positive impact on 7,633 house- seeing how Deutsche Bank, via Swades Founda-
constructed and maintained, and scientific meth- Ashwini Shailesh Kendre is another  holds, helping over 38,000 people  tion, is helping to create a sustainable rural com-
ods of farming such as drip/flood irrigation on  who worked closely with Swades and  and given farmers access to 100 water  munity makes me proud of our institution. ›
barren fields and mulching have been incorporated,  is now heading the project for the con- schemes. 
resulting in water supply in the remotest of areas  struction of a small dam in her village.  Deutsche Bank volunteers 
of Raigad. We learned from the community mem- My team visited Raigad after  also regularly engage with Raigad 
bers that these structures and the measures taken  attending a session in Mumbai last  residents through tree-planting drives 
52   53
What if we told you we 
could change the way 
Employee  
function for all customers. This 
would show current clients that 
4.5 million people think 
Engagement 
we’re serious about sustainability 
and potentially attract new clients 
for whom sustainable banking is 
about sustainability … 
important.
It is important for us to 
Over 24 hours, we worked 
to bring this idea to life, creating a 
overnight? engage our employees 
prototype and pitch. Our strategy 
was to sell the idea rather than try  as multipliers for our 
to build a complete product. We 
commitment to sus-
wanted to show how tech can be 
Hackathon winner Peter Suggitt 
used to solve a problem.
tainability. 
builds an app to help you track – and  We pitched the idea under 
our tagline: “What if we told you  
lower – your carbon footprint. we could change the way 4.5m peo-
ple think about sustain ability … 
overnight?” We only got one or two 
hours of sleep but it was worth it to 
be part of the hackathon and create  →  At a panel discussion in Febru-
something that could create a last- ary 2019, a climate researcher 
ing change for Deutsche Bank and  and a philosopher discussed 
its current and future clients.  › the role of banks and in particu-
lar our role in tackling climate 
change with employees in 
Frankfurt. 
→  On our #PositiveImpact hub 
a #MyGreenImpact campaign 
enabled employees worldwide 
to share their best practices, 
In October 2019, a London team of 10 colleagues  your carbon impact and helps you to  advice and tips for reducing our 
won Deutsche Bank’s “Banking on Sustainability”  do something about it, such as one-off  individual and corporate carbon 
24-hour hackathon. Over 1,000 global partici- contributions to carbon offsetting pro- footprints. 
pants worked on apps to help the bank contribute  jects or an ongoing “roll-up” scheme  →  In a global “Banking on Sustain-
towards a sustainable future. Peter Suggitt from the  that rounds your transactions up to  ability” hackathon, more than 
winning team shares his experiences.  the nearest euro and donates the dif- 1,100 employees worked to 
The energy in London was palpable, with  ference to a climate-change project. In  create digital solutions to help 
hundreds of people in the auditorium and hundreds  our mock-up, Amplify is an extension  Deutsche Bank contribute to a 
more joining from around the world. My team had a  to the existing mobile banking app  sustainable future. 
good idea and a good strategy: I had high hopes.  showing your sustainability score right  →  Roughly 70 individual 
Our concept was Amplify, a sustainability indicator  next to your bank balance.   tree-planting campaigns have 
connected to purchases. So each time you make a  Four and a half million people  been conducted. ›
purchase, it gives you a score. Buying local, organic  use the banking app, offering the po-
fruit will boost your sustainability score but buying  tential for immediate impact, especial-
petrol will reduce it. This running tally highlights  ly if Amplify is introduced as a default 
54   55
Thought 
Leadership
2
8
9
1g
Fettingd Vogel, er Fettin
r nn
RaineGirl a© Rai
56   57
»We are looking for allies«
Jörg Eigendorf, Head of Communication 
and Sustainability, on the important role of 
Jörg Eigendorf: “Sustainability is 
networks. one of our strategic priorities and it’s 
also a factor that helps us achieve 
our financial objectives”
Mr Eigendorf, you’re not only Head of the Commu- for sustainability. They are distinct 
nications & Corporate Social Responsibility de- topic areas. After all, we have to 
partment, but also responsible for Sustainability at  know what our stakeholders' con-
Deutsche Bank. What drives you personally? cerns are – including non-govern-
In my opinion, one of the most important ques- mental organizations; we need to 
tions ever is how we humans fight climate  be in constant dialogue with them 
change. And banks play a key role in this fight  on what we are doing and why.
– first and foremost global banks like Deutsche  On many levels. We have strategic 
Bank. One of the ways we help is by the things  As Chief Executive Officer Christian  partnerships within the financial 
we do: sustainable loans, for example. And we  Sewing says, it’s obvious that Deutsche  sector and beyond. As a member  seeing substantial momentum, while in other 
can help by not doing certain things: for instance,  Bank can’t drive the change to a more  of the United Nations Environment  regions politicians are unfortunately still giving 
transactions that pose a heightened risk to our  sustainable economy on its own. How  Programme Finance Initiative, we  partially contrasting signals. 
climate. It’s a huge but highly motivating task.  important are networks in promoting  have been looking into how we can 
this goal? partner with other banks to feature  Aren’t people very sceptical of banks? After all, they 
The Sustainability function is actually only one of  They’re vital, one reason being  climate risks more prominently in  lost a great deal of trust during the financial crisis.
six functions in the Communications department.  that networks provide a forum for  our risk assessment process. And  Yes, there is a general sense of scepticism but 
Ultimately, is sustainability more about sending  knowledge exchange. Anyone who  as one of the founding members  to a certain degree, that’s healthy. Recognising 
positive messages? wants to have a say in establishing  of the Value Balancing Alliance, a  what happened in the past is also the basis 
Numerous companies, Deutsche Bank includ- rules and a framework needs to join  network of international corporates,  for developing the necessary trust and altering 
ed, previously addressed sustainability from a  others at the table. Without this,  we are working on a standardized  people’s perception of us, with more and more 
reputational angle. Things have changed, though.  we wouldn’t be able to adequately  method to measure and monetize  people accepting us as a key ally. At the end of 
Sustainability is now one of our strategic prior- assert our influence and would risk  the environmental and social im- the day, we all have the same goal: a world worth 
ities and it’s also a factor that helps us achieve  having to accept high regulation  pact of our business activities along  living in. 
our financial objectives. And that’s why we have  costs later. So it makes sense to be  the entire value chain.
to steer and control the topic across the entire  a part of these networks – if only  Of course, as one of the financial  But Non-Government Organisations (NGOs) are 
group. That is the main task of the Sustainability  from a business angle. industry’s global voices, we also  often among Deutsche Bank’s heftiest critics, for 
Council and the bank’s Sustainability team. So  join in the political and regulato- instance at the Annual General Meeting.
in my job, I’m dual hatting; I’m responsible for  Where and how do you look for  ry debate. Europe is one of the  That’s what they’re there for, and we listen very 
communications and reputation issues but also  partners? forerunners here; in Asia we’re also  carefully to what they have to say. NGOs have  ›
58   59
Thought leadership 
In line with our ambition to be a leading voice, we 
contribute our expertise to advance sustainability 
issues in political and social discussions and ac-
tively participate in a broad sustainability network. 
› repeatedly drawn our attention to weak points  that very soon sustainable business 
or misguided developments – and rightly so.  practices become a natural part  Our Corporate Bank Chief Financial Officer  to core banking products. Furthermore, we joined nine 
Their criticism also helps us inside our bank. Of  of our business model and a part  and DWS’s Chief Investment Officer for Re- international corporates in establishing the Value Bal-
course, there are times when we are of a differ- of our strategic planning process.  sponsible Investments have been appointed  ancing Alliance, a cross-sectoral initiative that will create 
ent opinion and come under fire that is both ex- We’re ideally positioned, really, with  to the Sustainable Finance Advisory Council  a global impact measurement and valuation standard for 
cessive and unjustified. In these cases, we have  our Corporate Bank and our Invest- inaugurated in 2019 by the German Federal  monetising and disclosing the total value that companies 
to be transparent and explain what we are doing  ment Bank on the one hand and our  Government to support the development  bring to society. ›
and why. No matter what, it’s clear that NGOs  asset management business and  of a national sustainable finance strategy. 
are important observers, following what we do,  the Private Bank on the other. We  Additionally, DWS’s Head of Responsible  →  Member of the UNEP-FI (since 1992)
and we would do well to meet as equals. can cover the entire value chain. We  Investments was elected to the board of the  →  Participation in the UN Global Compact (since 
just need to have it on our agenda  Institutional Investors Group on Climate  2000) 
You also need allies within the bank to promote  and establish the right processes.  Change (IIGCC). The IIGCC is a leading  →  Signatory of the Principles for Responsible Invest-
sustainability. Did you experience any opposition  In short: it won’t be long until we’re  global investor membership body and the  ment (through DWS, since 2008)
after taking up your position, say from the   not only an exemplary corporate  largest one focusing specifically on climate  →  Supporter of the Green Bond Principles as part of a 
business divisions? citizen but a profitable one, too. That  change. IIGCC has over 190 members,  coalition of 12 major financial institutions (2014) 
When I joined Deutsche Bank back in 2016, sus- should be everyone’s goal. › among them many of the largest asset  →  Signatory of the Paris Pledge for Action (2015)
tainability still hadn’t been sufficiently anchored  owners globally.  →  Accredited partner of the UN Green Climate Fund
in our business strategy; it was still perceived as  →  Formal supporter of the recommendations devel-
a niche topic and as one element of social re- The political and regulatory agenda in  oped by the Financial Stability Board’s Task Force 
sponsibility. Of course there has been opposition  many jurisdictions delivers clear super- on Climate-related Financial Disclosure (TCFD) 
on numerous occasions. No one from the busi- visory expectations for banks to man- (2018)
ness is going to shout whoopee if they have to  age sustainability risks with a focus on  →   Co-founder of the UN Principles for Responsible 
lose out on revenues because we’ve decided to  climate-related risks. We are contributing  Banking (2019)
tighten a bank policy. But in the meantime there  to the discussions on developments in sus- →  Founding member of the Value Balancing Alliance 
has been a fundamental change in the mood  tainable finance with trade associations,  (2019)
here at the bank. On the Sustainability Coun- and responding to consultations, including  →  Signatory to the Collective Commitment to Climate 
cil, business divisions cooperate closely with  those from the European Banking As- Action of the German Financial Sector (2020)
infrastructure functions; everyone understands  sociation, the Network for Greening the 
that the topic is one of our strategic priorities.  Financial System, and the Technical Expert  DWS: 
And nowadays it’s even the business divisions  Group.  →  Signatory to the Carbon Disclosure Project
themselves that are driving the trend because it’s  →  Member of the Ceres Investor Network on Climate 
what their clients are asking for.  We take part in a number of innovative  Risk and Sustainability
initiatives at a global, EU and national  →  Signatory to Climate Action 100+
One last question: where do you see Deutsche Bank  level. For example, since 2019 we have  →   Founding member of the Climate Policy Initiative’s 
in ten years in terms of sustainability? participated in the pilot project led by the  Global Innovation Lab for Climate Finance 
If you ask me, a ten-year span is far too long  United Nations Environment Programme  →  Founding member of the Coalition for Climate 
when you consider we’re talking about problems  Finance Initiative and the European Bank- Resilient Investment (CCRI)
like climate change and social challenges that  ing Federation to draw up guidance on the  →  Founding member of the EU Energy Efficiency 
we need to tackle all across the world. I hope  voluntary application of the EU taxonomy  Financial Institutions Group
60   61
The Deutsche Bank Collection
For 40 years, the Deutsche Bank Collection has shaped the 
global culture of the company. In line with its motto “Art- Paulina Olowska
*1976 Gdansk
Works” it offers clients, employees and the general public 
Lives and works in Berlin and Warsaw
Car Mobile Collage, 2009
access to contemporary art – in around 600 of the bank’s 
Silkscreen 
properties worldwide, in international exhibitions, at the  250 x 168 cm
PalaisPopulaire in Berlin and through targeted educational 
programmes. With its focus on international contemporary 
art on paper and photography, the Deutsche Bank Collection 
serves as a think tank for the future: it asks questions, in-
spires people and opens up new perspectives.
 
More information about the art programme of the DB: db.com/art
Wolfgang Tillmans
*1968 Remscheid
Lives and works in London
Fluten, 1997
Photograph
145,5 x 211 cm
Frank Thiel
*1966 Kleinmachnow 
Lives and works in Berlin
Perito Moreno #1, 2012/13,
Photograph
306,7 x 907,4 x 6 cm
Birgit Brenner
*1964 Ulm
Lives and works in Berlin
Sie merken, dass etwas nicht stimmt, 2009
Rainer Fetting
Gouache
*1949 Wilhemshaven
35,5 x 25,5 cm
Lives and works in Berlin
Girl and Vogel, 1982
Tempera
69 x 99 cm
Pavel Pepperstein
*1966 Moscow
Lives and works in Moscow
Europa V, 2005
Watercolor and ink 
62   63
Imprint 
Publisher 
Deutsche Bank AG 
Taunusanlage 12 
60262 Frankfurt am Main
Germany
Telephone: +49 69 9 10 00 
Responsible for content 
Viktoriya Brand
Date of publication 
August 2020
Contact and feedback 
Deutsche Bank AG 
deutsche.bank@db.com 