
ANNUAL 
REPORT
2020

CONTENTS
   5  Activity report
  13  Responsibility
  19  Risk management 
  25  Consolidated accounts 2020
  31  Governance
  43  Portrait
  49  Our offices worldwide
ANNUAL REPORT 2020 3

ACTIVITY 
REPORT
ANNUAL REPORT 2020 5
KEY FIGURES
in CHF millions, unless otherwise stated
As at  As at 
31.12.2020 31.12.2019 Variation in %
Assets under management (in CHF billions) 147.4 140.3 5.1%
Total operating income 1,071 1,067 0.4%
Total operating expenses 718 725 (0.9%)
Operating result 220 202 8.7%
Net profit 181 188 (3.4%)
Total assets 37,809 32,756 15.4%
Shareholders’ equity 2,407 2,355 2.2%
Staff headcount (FTE) 1,812 1,743 4.0%
Operating cost/income ratio 67.1% 67.9% -
Return on equity 7.7% 8.2% -
Shareholders’ equity / total assets ratio 6.4% 7.2% -
Tier 1 equity ratio 27.7% 25.6% -
Liquidity coverage ratio 307.5% 316.4% -
Leverage ratio 6.6% 5.8% -
Moody’s long-term deposit rating Aa2 Aa2 -
6 ANNUAL REPORT 2020
AGILITY IN THE FACE 
OF RAPID CHANGE
Exceptional conditions required adaptability Overall, as in 2020, active risk management will be a vital tool 
in helping investors protect themselves against any disruption 
2020’s two major crises – Covid-19 and the global recession  caused by the current transformation of the global economy.
– meant that investors had to deal with an exceptional financial 
environment. Equity markets in particular saw their most sudden 
and brutal correction of all time, before staging an impressive  Limiting the pandemic’s impact on our 
rebound correlated with progress in developing coronavirus  business
vaccines. 
UBP’s proven qualities of adaptability and resilience came to 
At the same time, to ease the pandemic-related shock to the  the fore in dealing with the challenges created by the pandemic 
global economy, and to try to pull it out of the worst recession  that broke out in early 2020.
since the Great Depression, central bank officials and politicians 
deployed the largest stimulus programme the world has ever  As soon as the authorities first raised the alarm, we activated 
seen. Unprecedented monetary easing averted a liquidity  our business continuity plans (BCP) and set up a dedicated 
crisis and allowed the markets to continue functioning. Fiscal  task force to assess health risks, adjust our systems in line 
policy then took up the reins, with plans intended to protect  with new public health rules, and protect our operations in all 
the public’s health, as well as jobs and struggling industries.  circumstances. 
Overall, fiscal stimulus packages amounted to more than 12% 
of the world’s GDP.  This early preparation work allowed us to deploy our BCP 
across all our locations in mid-March, and to organise an 
The new macroeconomic situation prompted sector rotation  orderly changeover to working from home for most of our 
among investors. This was clearly shown by large investment  staff members. 
flows into the healthcare and technology sectors, and we expect 
the themes of fintech, sustainability and economic recovery,  By adapting this plan as the Covid-19 crisis developed, we were 
particularly in China, to be in the spotlight in 2021.  able to limit the pandemic’s impact on our business with the 
support of all of our people, who remained highly responsive 
In the bond market, the search for yield should encourage  and committed throughout. We maintained the quality of our 
investors to explore less familiar markets, such as emerging- services and remained close to our clients, showing them that 
market and European bank debt, and to exploit opportunities  they had a solid and reliable partner at their side.
in the private debt and forex markets.
We adjusted our day-to-day operations in response to the 
After a decade-long decline in interest rates, the industrial  unfolding crisis and maintained our entrepreneurial, innovative 
transition now taking place, supported by economic growth  approach. We also continued to invest and to expand our range 
in Asia, should underpin demand for industrial commodities,  of products and services, without slowing the pace or losing 
gold and certain other precious metals. sight of our medium- and long-term targets. 
ANNUAL REPORT 2020 7
In geographical terms, we strengthened our capabilities further in  who now regard them as an important component of their 
Europe, acquiring the wealth management business of Jefferies  portfolios. Our PMG team, based in Europe, the Middle East 
in the United Kingdom, setting up a Frankfurt branch of our  and Asia, has more than 20 private-market experts who have 
Luxembourg subsidiary and doubling the size of our Monaco  a high level of expertise in legal and regulatory matters.
office. We also expanded our footprint in Asia-Pacific by opening 
in Melbourne, Australia. Structured product issuance also grew substantially, rewarding 
our efforts to be competitive in terms of both pricing and service 
quality, both before and after issue. Our Actively Managed 
An increasingly comprehensive and distinctive  Certificates (AMC) business saw greater demand in the primary 
offering as well as the secondary markets, resulting in record volumes.
In terms of the UBP offering, our Asset Management division  Our Direct Access Client (DAC) service was again busy, with 
launched no fewer than 15 new strategies last year, with a theme- further growth in demand from clients wanting direct access 
based approach that reflects our investment convictions in areas  to our trading room. We are supporting increasing numbers 
such as fintech, smart data and distressed investments. These  of clients with their plans through a credit offering tailored to 
strategies are already showing very promising return profiles. each region’s specific features and including mortgages and 
Lombard loans.
Buoyed by the success of our Positive Impact Equity strategy 
launched in late 2018, we also continued to develop our Impact  2020 was the year in which we launched our new Bespoke 
Investing franchise, introducing a new Impact fund focusing on  Discretionary Portfolio Management service – a core business 
emerging-market equities. Our unique expertise marks UBP  and area of expertise at UBP – in response to growing demand 
out as a pioneer in this asset class, clearly demonstrating our  for customised solutions. We reviewed all of our clients’ profiles 
desire, as a financial intermediary, to guide investments towards  according to their objectives, constraints, risk appetite and 
industries and companies that have a positive impact on our  interest in responsible investment, in order to be able to offer a 
planet and our society.  discretionary management service that specifically addresses 
each client’s individual needs.
Our European and emerging-market equity teams started to 
work more closely together, with the intention of making greater 
use of our proprietary IMAP scoring system and continuing  Faster shift to digital transformation
to develop new positive-impact solutions. We also expanded 
our range of responsible investments in 2020 with a new  In the last few years, UBP has devoted significant resources to 
sustainability fund focusing on Japanese equities. digital transformation, constantly integrating the latest advances 
in this area. Of course, we had no way of knowing that 2020 
An increasing number of investors recognised private-market  would speed up that transformation and boost the take-up of 
investments as a possible alternative to fixed income. This  digital tools in such a spectacular way. Our digital investments 
continued to work in favour of our unlisted-asset activities,  gave us the technical resources we needed to remain operational 
which saw annual growth of around 25%. In 2020, we decided  despite the challenges posed by working from home and the 
to combine all these activities within a single entity called the  travel ban. 
Private Markets Group (PMG), which mainly covers real estate, 
private equity, private debt and infrastructure financing. These  The unprecedented conditions in 2020 quickly gave rise to 
investments are intended for both private and institutional clients,  new requirements in terms of digitising our processes and 
8 ANNUAL REPORT 2020
communication, both internally and with our clients. To cite just  of interest among our clients. The positive trend was driven 
one aspect of the irreversible changes that took place last year,  partly by the success of our customised “institutional grade” 
we started to host a number of highly successful webinars for  solutions for ultra-high net worth clients, who represent an 
our staff and clients.  increasing proportion of our client base in certain markets such 
as the Middle East and Asia.
A surge in cyberattacks across all industries made it even more 
important to ensure the security of our data and communications.  Alongside these activities, we continued our recruitment 
In the circumstances, our UBP Mobile e-banking service was  policy intended to broaden our skills and attract new talent. 
naturally vital in helping us maintain seamless contact with our  As part of this policy, our London branch grew in 2020 with the 
clients, while guaranteeing that we handled transactions and  acquisition of Jefferies’ Wealth Management business in the 
processed data in a fully secure way. United Kingdom. In terms of clientele, the 13 professionals joining 
UBP have developed great expertise in serving entrepreneurs 
We also made rapid progress with three other major projects  and family offices. This business therefore represents a useful 
in 2020. Our partnership with IBM for the development and  addition to UBP’s range of services for high net worth clients and 
maintenance of our core banking applications continued in  fits perfectly with our determination to bolster our position in the 
accordance with our roadmap, while our IT teams successfully  City and to promote our London office as a strategic booking 
deployed the Aladdin portfolio management tool for our Asset  centre. With these teams, we now have the right structure in 
Management division, along with a portfolio management system  place in the United Kingdom to offer a comprehensive range of 
for our discretionary asset management teams. services and solutions to both domestic and international clients.
UBP Luxembourg was strengthened by the arrival of a number 
Significant growth across all of our priority  of experienced people in 2020, covering the Nordic markets 
markets (Sweden and Denmark) in particular. The subsidiary is now 
a major player in Luxembourg’s financial centre, focusing on 
A year after we overhauled the governance structure of our  three main areas: domestic business, the Nordic market and 
Wealth Management division, it achieved outstanding growth  the Southern European market.
in net new money and a significant increase in trading volumes 
in 2020. That strong momentum was largely down to the close  From the regional point of view, the Developing Markets segment 
ties and high-quality relationships we have with our clients,  (Eastern Europe, Latin America, Israel, Middle East, Africa and 
fostered by our relationship managers. It was also the result  Turkey) saw excellent growth in assets under management and 
of the attractive new products and services launched by   brokerage revenue. It was a key driver of Wealth Management's 
Asset Management's Investment Services teams, who work  growth in 2020, with net new money exceeding expectations. 
hand-in-hand with Wealth Management to develop a distinctive  Growth was particularly strong in the Middle East, Eastern 
offering tailored to each region. Europe and Turkey. In those markets, the tactical and carefully 
managed onboarding of several wealth management teams 
Our private-markets offering was enhanced with the launch of  also boosted assets under management, counterbalancing 
various co-investment deals, in areas including commercial real  the negative impact of travel bans. Another positive factor was 
estate in Germany, motorways in Spain and financing for small  the specific appeal of several of our booking centres (including 
and medium-sized enterprises in Asia-Pacific. Our alternative  Switzerland and Monaco) for these clients, most of whom are 
investment solutions and the theme-based approaches  high net worth individuals. Although they are looking for political 
developed by our Advisory teams also attracted a great deal  and economic stability, these clients place at least as much 
ANNUAL REPORT 2020 9
value on the high quality of our service, our competitiveness  (22 out of 37) beat their benchmark indices, showing the value 
and our leading expertise in wealth planning across a broad  added by an asset management approach that is genuinely 
variety of jurisdictions.  active and based on strong investment convictions. 
In Asia, we maintained our targeted efforts to recruit experienced  UBP pursued its strategy of developing partnerships in Europe. 
relationship managers, and this helped us generate large net  In Milan, we recruited a specialist distributor of investment 
inflows, particularly in the north of the continent. funds in Italy, a market that is being buoyed by the increasing 
popularity of the open architecture approach. We also opened 
Once again, we won a host of awards, highlighting the quality  a new office in Frankfurt in order to accelerate the growth of 
of the products, services and expertise we offer across  our German institutional client base, which we had previously 
several markets. We were named “Best Wealth Management  been developing from our Zurich branch. Finally, our strategic 
Business Servicing the Central or Eastern Europe Region” in  partnership with Bell Asset Management in Australia means that 
the WealthBriefing European Awards. In Asia, for the second  we can now promote our expertise and investment solutions 
year in a row, we won the awards for “Best Private Bank – Pure  in that continent. 
Play” and “Best Private Bank – Singapore” at the Asian Private 
Banker Awards for Distinction, an acknowledgement of the 
credibility that UBP has achieved within the industry and among  Doubling of net new money and confirmed 
our Asian clients. Meanwhile, our Monaco branch was named  operational efficiency
“Best Private Bank in Monaco” in the PWM/FT The Banker 2020 
Global Private Banking Awards, an accolade that acknowledges  The various challenges created by the coronavirus crisis did 
its excellent reputation only six years after it was set up. Finally,  not stop us bolstering our market share and maintaining our 
in the WealthBriefing MENA Awards, our Dubai office carried off  growth. At the end of 2020, assets managed by the Group 
the prize for “Best Wealth Management Team Offering Family  stood at CHF 147.4 billion, up from CHF 140.3 billion at the end 
Governance Advice”.  of 2019, a year-on-year rise of 5.1%. Net new money doubled 
relative to 2019 and equalled CHF 9.0 billion or 6.4% of assets 
under management. New inflows came mainly from private 
Success in the institutional business and  clients in our main markets of Switzerland, the United Kingdom, 
investment funds the Middle East, Europe and Asia, reflecting the commitment 
of our front-office teams but also the appeal of our funds and 
We formed relationships with almost 40 new institutional  mandates, which are generating solid returns.
clients and our assets under management in the Asset 
Management division remained stable at CHF 43.4 billion at  Revenues were stable at CHF 1.071 billion in 2020 (an increase 
the end of December 2020. Those relationships enabled Asset  of 0.4%), even though the interest margin was adversely affected 
Management to offset substantial withdrawals by clients wanting  by lower US interest rates. However, the fall in the interest margin 
to take profits or to reduce risk. was fully offset by growth in brokerage fees (up CHF 58.8 million 
or +8.7%), reflecting a healthy level of trading activity among 
Our new clients were attracted by our innovative approach  our clients, and by good forex and trading results (up CHF 22.9 
to alternative investments and impact investing, along with  million or +27.3%). Operating expenses fell slightly (-0.9%) to 
our ability to offer emerging-debt and custom solutions. They  CHF 718.4 million, despite large-scale digital investments and 
entrusted us with large mandates, while our traditional bond  the recruitment of new teams in certain key growth markets.
funds saw outflows. 
Despite the difficult environment, operating profit rose by 8.7%. 
Although the pandemic caused significant volatility and major  Net profit fell by 3.4% to CHF 181.4 million as opposed to CHF 
sector rotation in equity markets, almost 60% of all our funds  187.8 million in 2019. However, if we adjust the 2019 figure by 
10 ANNUAL REPORT 2020
deducting the exceptional capital gain realised on the sale of 
a building in London that year, net profit increased by 1.9%. 
With a cost/income ratio of 67.1%, our group maintained its 
solid profitability, attesting to its operational efficiency and 
strict cost control. 
Prudent balance sheet management and a 
solid financial position
In 2020, we continued to manage the balance sheet 
conservatively, as demonstrated by our high regulatory liquidity 
ratios and available capital. That prudent balance sheet oversight 
by our Treasury teams is a key characteristic of UBP and is 
reflected in our short-term liquidity coverage ratio, which stood 
at 307.5% at the end of 2020. Our Tier 1 ratio, at 27.7%, also 
remains well above both Basel III and FINMA requirements. High 
volatility created numerous arbitrage opportunities across all 
asset classes, which allowed all of our trading desks to generate 
better results than in 2019 while remaining strictly within defined 
limits and risk levels. 
UBP is still one of the best-capitalised and strongest banks 
among its peers, as shown by our long-term Aa2 rating (with 
stable outlook), which was confirmed by Moody’s in 2020. This 
gives our Group the solid financial base it needs to continue 
its development not only in Switzerland, but also worldwide. 
2020 was a milestone in UBP’s history. Despite the Covid-19 
situation and the exceptional market environment, we were able 
to keep our people safe, while ensuring operational continuity 
and maintaining a high-quality service for our clients. This is 
down to the resilience, agility and forward-thinking nature of 
UBP’s people. Their exemplary efforts allowed us to stand out 
in the market, and we can now look ahead to the future with 
confidence and optimism.
Daniel de Picciotto  Guy de Picciotto 
Chairman of the Board   Chief Executive Officer
of Directors
ANNUAL REPORT 2020 11

RESPONSIBILITY
ANNUAL REPORT 2020 13
RESPONSIBILITY:   execution-only assets and third-party funds. Furthermore, over 
the course of 2020, UBP increased assets invested in its actively 
A CORE VALUE FOR UBP managed ESG-integration, Sustainable and Impact strategies 
to over CHF 7.5 billion. Some of our flagship funds – like those 
invested in European, emerging-market and Japanese equities 
As a family-owned bank, we consider responsible investing  – now follow a sustainability approach.
(RI) and corporate social responsibility (CSR) to be two sides 
of the same commitment to creating a sustainable world. In  Our expertise in responsible investing was once again recognised 
response to the major social and environmental issues we  in 2020, when we obtained the French SRI label for a fund 
face, we see it as our role, as a financial intermediary, to help  focused on sustainable corporate bonds in emerging markets. 
channel capital towards responsible investment solutions that  This stamp of approval follows that applied to a convertible bond 
offer real potential to generate financial returns. fund in 2018 and two equity funds in 2019: one focusing on 
companies that have a positive impact on the environment and 
Until 31 December 2020, our RI and CSR strategy was overseen  society and one invested in companies with a limited carbon 
by UBP’s Sustainability Board, which governed the Responsible  footprint.
Investment Committee (RICO) and the Corporate Social 
Responsibility Committee (CSRCO). These two committees  Additionally, in 2020 UBP excluded from its investment universe 
will now report to the Executive Committee, showing our  all tobacco producers and all companies deriving 10% or more 
determination to put sustainability at the heart of our business  of their revenue from tobacco. Not only are new investments 
model and our investments. in that sector no longer permitted, but existing holdings are 
gradually being wound down, too. 
RESPONSIBLE INVESTING Impact investing
We believe that impact investing is an increasingly important 
UBP believes in the importance of responsible wealth and  element of portfolios, since it aims to find solutions to the world’s 
asset management. The Bank has been a signatory of the  major problems while delivering attractive long-term returns.
United Nations Principles for Responsible Investment (UNPRI) 
since 2012, and the high “Strategy and Governance” score we  UBP strengthened its sustainable product offering in 2020 by 
obtained in the UNPRI 2020 assessment reflects UBP’s efforts  launching a second impact fund, focusing on emerging markets 
to strengthen its ESG (environmental, social and governance)  and companies that are helping solve global problems such as 
approach across the Group. scarce resources, climate change and poverty. It complements 
UBP’s established Positive Impact Equity fund for developed 
In 2020, UBP once again asserted its commitment to  markets. 
responsibility by joining leading industry sustainability initiatives 
such as the United Nations Global Compact. We showed our  UBP’s Impact team uses a proprietary system called IMAP 
determination to address major climate issues by taking the  to measure the impact that its investee companies have on 
PACTA 2020 climate sustainability test and supporting the Task  the environment and on society. This rating methodology is 
Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD).  central to the investment process of both Impact funds and is 
based on four criteria: Intentionality, Materiality, Additionality 
and Potential (IMAP). Intentionality reflects a company’s ethos 
Expertise and commitment to sustainable  and commitment to the sustainability cause, while Materiality 
investments measures the proportion of revenue derived from products 
or services that have a positive impact, net of any potential 
UBP’s overarching responsible investment policy is applicable  harmful revenue streams. Additionality refers to a company’s 
to all our assets under management with the exception of  position with respect to a given sub-goal of the United Nations 
14 ANNUAL REPORT 2020
UBP is a member of:
Sustainable Development Goals, and Potential measures the 
future growth potential of the product or service. 
These four scores are added together to obtain an IMAP score, 
which enables us to make a dispassionate judgement regarding 
the “impact intensity” of a company in our portfolio. Overseeing 
the IMAP process and scores forms a substantial part of the work 
done by the Impact Advisory Board, which meets twice a year 
and is comprised of four external leading sustainability experts 
with UBP board member Anne Rotman de Picciotto as chair.
UBP has published a dedicated Impact Report for the past 
two years, providing a detailed non-financial measurement of 
our European equity impact fund’s performance while also 
highlighting key milestones and developments in our Impact 
platform’s approach. 
In 2020, UBP also became a member of the Global Impact 
Investing Network (GIIN), which is dedicated to increasing the 
scale and effectiveness of impact investments around the world. 
The development of impact investing in the listed equity segment 
is relatively new, and UBP’s membership of GIIN represents a 
major step forward since collaboration with other experts plays 
a crucial role. 
CORPORATE SOCIAL 
RESPONSIBILITY (CSR)
UBP supports:
Our product offering is just one manifestation of our commitment to 
a sustainable world. Of equal importance to us is the management 
of UBP’s social and environmental footprint through our CSR 
policy. In 2020, we made substantial progress in this area.
Our staff members’ interest in sustainability was confirmed by an 
internal CSR survey, in which a majority of employees revealed 
that they care about community engagement, working conditions 
and the environment in equal measure. 
Carbon footprint
In 2020, we embarked on an ambitious programme to renovate 
some of our buildings in Geneva. This 10-year plan will help 
ANNUAL REPORT 2020 15
reduce our carbon footprint by substantially improving the  Taking the view that a target needs to be measured if it is to be 
energy efficiency of our premises, and forms part of our  achieved, UBP has started calculating its carbon footprint, with 
commitment to making our operations more sustainable. In  the intention of reducing and offsetting it. The results of these 
addition to new insulation and liquid crystal glazing, which  calculations will be published in order to inform the various 
alone will reduce energy consumption by 40%, gas-fired  stakeholders about progress made in this area. 
heating will be replaced by clean energy systems such as 
reversible heat pumps and high-temperature thermal solar  In the same vein, UBP contributed to the WWF/PwC Report 
panels. Energy-saving bulbs will replace neon lighting and  “Leading the way to a green and resilient economy”, and joined 
motion detectors will be integrated into the lighting system  Business for Nature, a global coalition bringing together influential 
to limit energy use. These efforts have already started to be  organisations for the purpose of asking governments to adopt 
recognised, as shown by the éco21 certification awarded in  ambitious policies for the preservation of nature. 
2020 by Geneva utility company SIG. 
Outside Switzerland, UBP has signed Monaco’s National  Recruitment and equality 
Energy Transition Pact, which encourages all stakeholders 
established in Monaco to play a hands-on role in the  The pandemic was of particular concern to the Human 
Principality’s energy transition and to reduce their greenhouse  Resources department in 2020. In order to comply with 
gas emissions. standards regarding health and safety at work, all our efforts 
focused on adopting measures to contain the spread of the 
At the beginning of 2020, prior to Covid-19, UBP reviewed  virus within our premises, as well as dealing with illnesses 
its travel policy in order to curb travel-related emissions.  and quarantines, adapting travel policies and ensuring a 
Teleconferences and video calls were formally recommended  smooth transfer to working from home. To that end, UBP set 
for all internal meetings, limiting travel to instances where  up a dedicated Group Pandemic Taskforce in order to ensure 
remote meetings are not feasible. Measures were also  business continuity while protecting the health of staff members. 
taken to encourage people to travel by train, particularly  In April 2020, a “UBP@home” series of internal communications 
within Switzerland and between Paris and Geneva. Where  was launched to help staff cope with working from home. A 
accommodation is necessary, the travel desk has selected a  survey conducted among employees revealed that 80% of 
number of eco-labelled “green hotels” that strive to minimise  respondents approved of the anti-Covid measures that were 
their impact on the environment.  put in place.
To use less paper, we have made several administration,  The well-being of employees remains a key priority for UBP 
finance and procurement operations fully digital. Many internal  and in 2020 we developed a Health & Learning programme 
documents are now available only in digital form. Water use is  that will be implemented at some sites once a return to regular 
being curbed with the installation of water-saving taps within  working conditions can take place.
our office premises.
UBP also pays significant attention to equal treatment, and 
We have also reduced our use of plastic. In 2020, UBP Hong  meritocracy, equal opportunity and non-discrimination are key 
Kong relaunched its Envi-U (Environment and You) green initiative,  principles of ours. We make ongoing efforts to uphold equality 
committing to reducing our overall environmental footprint via the  in the widest sense of the term, including equal treatment of 
“3Rs” principle: Reduce, Reuse and Recycle. The Envi-U initiative  men and women, equal pay and equal career opportunities. 
includes talks, events and competitions to encourage our staff  In line with the new gender equality legislation in Switzerland 
to reduce waste by developing eco-friendly habits. applicable to companies with more than 100 employees, UBP 
16 ANNUAL REPORT 2020
carried out an analysis of its remuneration practices in 2020.  cancer foundation CANSEARCH, which funds research projects 
UBP will submit the results to an external audit, after which they  at the Geneva University Hospitals’ Paediatric Oncology & 
will be communicated to all staff members. The Group's staff  Haematology department. 
handbooks were updated to include new clauses regarding 
our diversity and anti-discrimination policies. These changes  In the educational arena, UBP supported projects to encourage 
will come into effect in 2021. educational attainment in disadvantaged areas in 2020. They 
included the opening of a school library in a remote part of 
As regards career development, we intensified our focus on  China by “Philanthropy By U (PBU)”, the community engagement 
offering employment and learning opportunities to young people  programme of UBP’s Hong Kong branch.
by launching a Graduate Programme that will start in 2021. The 
initiative will allow university leavers to join UBP for an 18-month  In conclusion, UBP reached some major new milestones in the 
stint, rotating between various departments. This is in addition  sustainability field in 2020, both by developing its sustainable 
to the Leadership Development Programme devised in 2020  product offering and reducing its environmental footprint. The 
in partnership with IMD Business School in Lausanne. This  progress we have made in this regard represents a solid base 
executive learning course will bring together managers from  on which to build in the years to come. 
multiple UBP locations and is due to begin in November 2021. 
Community engagement and philanthropy
UBP supports the community by contributing to cultural, 
educational and research projects through donations and 
sponsorships. In 2020, particular efforts were made in 
several areas linked to the pandemic. Significant sums usually 
earmarked for corporate events were reallocated to projects 
intended to alleviate the effects of the health crisis. 
In Switzerland, the de Picciotto family and UBP donated over 
CHF 2.5 million to various organisations that are helping on the 
front line of the fight against Covid-19. UBP is also supporting 
a study by Zurich University Hospital and a clinical trial looking 
at the impact of prophylactic treatments for Covid-19.
In London, the Bank is supporting 1,500 vulnerable or homeless 
people who have lost the income they used to derive from 
selling The Big Issue magazine, and has made a donation to 
The London Community Foundation.
Although the healthcare sector was dominated by the fight 
against coronavirus in 2020, UBP did not forget other health-
related causes. In Geneva, we raised money by auctioning 
off artworks to employees and donated the proceeds to the 
ANNUAL REPORT 2020 17

RISK 
MANAGEMENT
ANNUAL REPORT 2020 19

Risk management at UBP goes beyond the requirements that  The Risks & Compliance division’s main role is to detect, 
arise from being a bank – it is part of our corporate culture and  check and report on all risks that are material or require 
has been since UBP was founded. At all levels of the Bank,  attention from the Bank's business operations, as well 
we regard anticipating, analysing, managing and monitoring  as supporting business lines and adopting the rules and 
risk as fundamental activities, and our governing bodies have  measures needed to ensure that we can operate effectively 
always paid the closest attention to them. The aim is to look  within a secure setting. In terms of organisational structure, 
out for our clients, ensure the development and long-term  we have four levels of governance and main responsibilities 
future of our business in a controlled manner, and maintain  in terms of managing and controlling risk:
both our own reputation and that of the financial centre to 
which we belong. ■  The Board of Directors, through the Board’s Risk Committee, 
determines the general risk management policy and strategy 
UBP's approach to risk management is that it should be  (identifying risks, defining risk appetite, determining control 
independent, rigorous and an integral part of all our processes.  standards, setting limits) and oversees them at global level.
Accordingly, we achieve effective risk management by 
examining risks, assessing them in regulatory terms and  ■  The Executive Committee and Risk Committee ensure that 
providing appropriate supervision and control resources. Other  the risk policy is implemented operationally and makes 
key aspects are communication and training for employees  recommendations in that area.
at all levels, enabling each of them to play an active role in 
ensuring that risk management is consistent across the Group.  ■  Risk Management independently carries out second-level 
This rigorous approach has been adopted by all our staff,  risk checks on a daily basis, working closely with the 
and it is a key factor underpinning our success. Compliance and Credit departments.
■  Our divisions' business segments carry out first-level 
Overall risk checks: Treasury & Trading, Wealth Management, Asset 
Management and COO.
At UBP we consider risk management an essential part of our 
strategy, not only because it is required by law and responds  As a whole, our system aims to manage the various risk 
to political, social, economic and market trends, but also as  categories described below. It covers market, credit, 
a distinctive feature of our service offering. suitability, operating, reputational, as well as regulatory risk.
The risk management mandate determined by the Board of 
Directors through its Risk Committee and by the Executive  Market risk
Committee aims to ensure that all risks associated with the 
Group’s activities are identified, assessed and controlled. It is  Management of the market risks inherent in treasury and 
embodied by in-house directives and procedures designed to  trading activities involves setting limits in terms of positions, 
ensure maximum safety for both clients and shareholders. Our  sensitivity, value at risk (VaR), maximum losses, primary 
approach is very demanding in terms of employee skills and the  market exposure, issuers and countries. That approach 
quality of our procedures and IT infrastructure, and we actively  is supplemented by stress scenario simulations and risk-
promote an internal cross-functional risk management culture. adjusted performance measurement (RAPM) including VaR 
ANNUAL REPORT 2020 21
backtesting. Specific and daily reports are produced to allow  adapted to each category of product and counterparty and 
detailed management of these risks. to the settlement period. Operational limits are set according 
to counterparty credit risk exposure using a dynamic model 
based on CDS spreads and ratings. Generally the Group 
Credit risk grants credit facilities only to those counterparties that have 
an S&P long-term credit rating of A (or the Moody’s or Fitch 
Credit risk concerns the risk of loss, should a counterparty  equivalent) or higher and whose registered office is in an 
fail to honour its contractual obligations to repay a loan or  OECD country.
fulfil any other predetermined financial obligation.
We monitor and manage counterparty and country risk for 
To deal with those possibilities, the Group has a clearly  market and Treasury activities on an ongoing basis and 
defined system for managing counterparty, regulatory, and  centrally, using a real-time system.
country risk.
Operating risk
Credit risks concerning Wealth Management 
clients
Operating risk is an inherent part of our business and may 
result from errors, failures to comply with internal procedures, 
Credit risks include current account loans and advances 
exogenous events and human actions.
and risks arising from guarantees and transactions on 
derivatives, on forex, on securities, and on any other financial 
To manage and monitor operating risk, we have set up 
instruments. In general, loans granted to private banking 
a comprehensive system based on different methods to 
clients are secured by pledged collateral (Lombard loans). 
identify, assess, monitor, control and mitigate that risk, 
This type of loan comprises over 90% of the client loan book.
including self-assessment, mapping, key indicators, scenario 
analysis and other risk management and assessment tools. 
The pledged portfolios are appraised individually and 
We place a particular focus on the introduction and operation 
monitored on an ongoing basis by the Credit Risk Control 
of new products, activities, processes and systems, and on 
unit. A loan rate is assigned to each position, based on 
services outsourced to third parties. Data protection and 
factors such as the type of instrument, its credit rating where 
strengthening information technology systems to preserve 
applicable, country risk, default risk, and its liquidity, together 
them against fraud and other cyber-attacks is also a high 
with the diversification of the investments. The assets are 
priority at UBP.  Measures are in place to preserve data 
also valued daily at the spot price. Daily supervision and 
relating to clients, counterparties, the Bank and its staff 
management of loan rates is based on predefined safety 
in a secure environment, ensuring our systems continue 
thresholds (additional margin calls and realisation of pledged 
to function in the event of external breaches, in order to 
assets).
maintain sound management, process development and 
the Group’s expansion.
Credit risks concerning professional counterparties 
and country risk Operating risk is monitored continuously, using risk mapping 
and indicators, and is covered by specific procedures – e.g. 
Exposure to professional counterparty risk is assumed only  emergency and business continuity plans, supplier and 
with counterparties who have very high credit ratings. Risk  contractor management, and IT and fraud risk management – 
is limited by the use of an adequate, flexible system of limits  to ensure that our activities may proceed uninterrupted.
22 ANNUAL REPORT 2020
We use continuous professional development as a way of  tools to strengthen controls, in order to  optimise the way we 
instilling a deep-seated awareness of operating risk, but  process information from the regulatory point of view and 
also of regulatory requirements, conduct and ethical rules,  carry out oversight activities. In addition to strengthening 
and sector best practices within the Group. Specific training  controls and ensuring compliance by adopting new in-house 
programmes are also provided for new staff joining through  directives and procedures, we have introduced training 
acquisitions. programmes to make sure staff properly understand new 
regulations. The purpose of such courses is also to define 
who is to run controls, and where and how to apply them, 
in order to ensure each staff member acts beyond reproach 
Reputational risk
and the Bank's organisation runs smoothly and efficiently.
Our reputation is one of our most precious assets. Damage 
to the Bank’s reputation, for example as a result of negative 
publicity, could adversely affect our business development 
and our position in the financial markets. The potential effects 
could include loss of revenue, litigation, sanctions or increased 
supervision by the regulatory authorities, and a loss of client 
trust and loyalty.
We therefore do our utmost to protect our reputation 
with constant vigilance and by applying the overall risk 
management approach described above, which enables 
us to ensure a standard of activity that is beyond reproach. 
This comes with precise rules governing reporting, conflict 
of interest management, code of conduct, and ethics. These 
are supplemented by training sessions to strengthen the 
business culture and ensure that the Bank's fundamental 
values are respected and preserved.
Regulatory risk
Banks around the world are subject to a large number 
of new rules, including rules governing cross-border and 
advisory activities and relating to capital markets activities 
(proper execution and market abuse). In response to 
those rules we have strengthened our general control and 
compliance framework to ensure that our activities meet all 
new requirements. A regulatory oversight service ensuring 
new rules are correctly implemented is in place and is 
complemented by clear security instructions to business 
lines. As part of our digital transformation efforts, we use IT 
ANNUAL REPORT 2020 23

CONSOLIDATED 
ACCOUNTS 2020
ANNUAL REPORT 2020 25
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE 
SHEET AS AT 31 DECEMBER
Consolidated balance sheet as at 31 December
(in CHF thousands) 
2020 2019 Variation in %
Assets
Cash and cash equivalents  7,043,041   7,099,857  (0.8%)
Due from banks  2,538,863   2,057,494  23.4%
Due from securities fi nancing transactions  95,587   454,151  (79.0%)
Due from clients  9,587,854   9,418,196  1.8%
Mortgages  1,957,788   1,686,248  16.1%
Trading portfolio assets  1,590,107   688,044  131.1%
Positive replacement values of derivative fi nancial instruments  625,442   382,284  63.6%
Other fi nancial instruments at fair value  1,454,014   957,917  51.8%
Financial investments  11,795,932   9,091,438  29.7%
Accrued income and prepaid expenses  157,875   147,737  6.9%
Non-consolidated participations  2,755   3,173  (13.2%)
Tangible fi xed assets  317,643   306,436  3.7%
Intangible assets  223,433   286,361  (22.0%)
Other assets  418,395   176,264  137.4%
Total assets  37,808,729   32,755,600  15.4%
Total subordinated claims  -   -  -
26 ANNUAL REPORT 2020
Consolidated balance sheet as at 31 December
(in CHF thousands) 
2020 2019 Variation in %
Liabilities
Due to banks  592,670   722,431  (18.0%)
Liabilities from securities fi nancing transactions  6,403,239   2,963,872  116.0%
Due in respect of client deposits  24,894,302   24,326,892  2.3%
Liabilities from trading portfolios  241   521  (53.7%)
Negative replacement values of derivative fi nancial instruments  1,317,827   571,338  130.7%
Liabilities from other fi nancial instruments at fair value  1,792,661   1,378,138  30.1%
Accrued expenses and deferred income  295,309   333,619  (11.5%)
Other liabilities  78,251   60,652  29.0%
Provisions  27,306   42,913  (36.4%)
Total liabilities  35,401,806   30,400,376  16.5%
Reserves for general banking risks  215,375   215,375  0.0%
Share capital  300,000   300,000  0.0%
Capital reserves  867,336   867,336  0.0%
Reserves and retained earnings  842,847   785,067  7.4%
Minority interests in equity  (77)  (323) (76.2%)
Group profi t  181,442   187,769  (3.4%)
of which minority interests in Group profi t  248   82  202.4%
Total equity  2,406,923   2,355,224  2.2%
Total liabilities and equity  37,808,729   32,755,600  15.4%
Total subordinated liabilities  -   -  -
Off-balance sheet transactions as at 31 December
Contingent liabilities  403,902   422,196  (4.3%)
Irrevocable commitments  72,126   146,925  (50.9%)
Liabilities to pay up shares and to make additional payments  833,278   322,929  158.0%
Credit commitments (deferred payments)  1,903   872  118.2%
ANNUAL REPORT 2020 27
CONSOLIDATED 
STATEMENT OF INCOME
Consolidated statement of income
(in CHF thousands)
2020 2019 Variation in %
Consolidated statement of ordinary income and 
expenses on banking operations
Result from interest operations
Interest and discount income  318,805   592,215  (46.2%)
Interest and dividends from fi nancial investments  66,118   93,602  (29.4%)
Interest expense  (161,307)  (383,390) (57.9%)
Gross result from interest operations  223,616   302,427  (26.1%)
Changes in value adjustments and provisions for default risks 
and losses from interest operations  13   (4,270) 100.3%
Net result from interest operations  223,629   298,157  (25.0%)
Fees and commissions
Commission income on securities trading and investment 
transactions  746,875   689,466  8.3%
Credit-related fees and commissions  2,748   2,833  (3.0%)
Other fees and commissions income  3,479   4,182  (16.8%)
Commission expense  (16,381)  (18,591) (11.9%)
Fees and commissions  736,721   677,890  8.7%
Result from trading activities and the fair value option  106,660    83,806  27.3%
Other result from ordinary activities
Result from the disposal of fi nancial investments  1,867   (524) 456.3%
Income from participations  706   5,726  (87.7%)
of which, from participations reported using the equity 
method  (415)  (322) 28.9%
of which, from other non-consolidated participations  1,121   6,048  (81.5%)
Result from real estate  576   663  (13.1%)
Other ordinary income  1,030   1,643  (37.3%)
Other result from ordinary activities  4,179   7,508  (44.3%)
Total income  1,071,189   1,067,361  0.4%
28 ANNUAL REPORT 2020
(in CHF thousands)
2020 2019 Variation in %
Operating expenses
Personnel expenses  (529,811)  (524,175) 1.1%
General and administrative expenses  (188,618)  (201,069) (6.2%)
Total operating expenses  (718,429)  (725,244) (0.9%)
Value adjustments on participations and depreciation of tangible 
and intangible fi xed assets  (129,601)  (123,742) 4.7%
Changes to provisions and other value adjustments, and losses*  (3,148)  (16,010) (80.3%)
Operating result  220,011   202,365  8.7%
Extraordinary income  1   34,361  (100.0%)
Taxes  (38,570)  (48,957) (21.2%)
Group proﬁ t  181,442   187,769  (3.4%)
of which minority interests in Group profi t  248  82 202.4%
* The US Program provision was stated separately in 2019. The 2019 comparative fi gure has been reclassifi ed to conform 
with the 2020 fi nancial statement presentation.
ANNUAL REPORT 2020 29

GOVERNANCE
ANNUAL REPORT 2020 31

ORGANISATIONAL  
STRUCTURE
Internal Audit Board of Directors
Committee of   Board’s Risk 
Audit Committee Remuneration Committee
the Board of Directors Committee
Legal
Company 
Executive Committee
Secretary's Office
Communications
WM 
WM   WM   Asset  Treasury &  Risks & 
Developing  COO
Asia Europe Management Trading Compliance
Markets
UBP’s organisation reflects our drive to offer the best combination of skills for institutional and private clients alike. We have an 
integrated model that brings together all of our investment expertise within our Asset Management division, while all capital 
market activities are run by the Treasury & Trading division. These two divisions complement each other, with no silo mentality, 
which makes our model unique in the market. We are constantly seeking to develop custom solutions for our private clients, and 
this structure allows us to give them access to know-how that is traditionally available only to institutional investors.
ANNUAL REPORT 2020 33
ROLES AND 
RESPONSIBILITIES
BOARD OF DIRECTORS COMMITTEE OF THE 
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
The Board of Directors defines our long-term vision, strategy  The Committee of the Board acts as an interface between the 
and general policy. In particular, it determines our structure  Board of Directors and the Executive Committee. It determines 
and governance rules. It has top-level oversight over the  the framework for delivering our strategy, approves our 
management of Group business operations and takes all  communication strategy, directly oversees the management 
strategically important decisions regarding the management  of day-to-day operations, checks that decisions by the Board of 
of business operations and appointments in key positions. Directors are properly implemented and monitors the Executive 
Committee's activities.
The Board of Directors meets at least four times per year.
The Committee of the Board meets once a month.
The Chairman of the Executive Committee sits in on the Board 
of Directors’ meetings as a permanent guest, and presents an  The Chairman and the members of the Executive Committee 
activity report on a quarterly basis. sit in on the Committee of the Board of Directors’ meetings 
as permanent guests, and present an activity report on a 
monthly basis.
Chairman Members Chairman
Daniel de Picciotto Pierre-Alain Blum(1)(2) Marcel Rohner(1)
Nicolas Brunschwig(1)
Vice-Chairman Members
Anne Rotman de Picciotto
Marcel Rohner(1) Anne Rotman de Picciotto
Eftychia (La) Fischer(1)
Daniel de Picciotto
General Counsel Richard Katz(1)
Eftychia (La) Fischer(1)
Olivier Vodoz(1) John Manser(1)
John Manser(1)
Company Secretary Olivier Vodoz(1)
Claudio Rollini (1) Independent members
(2) Until 19 March 2020
Changes in 2021
Eftychia (La) Fischer and Richard Katz left the Board of Directors at the end of the Shareholders’ General Meeting of 25 March 
2021. We would like to offer them our sincere thanks for the major contribution they have made to UBP since their arrival, in 
2015 and 2009 respectively.
34 ANNUAL REPORT 2020
BOARD’S RISK COMMITTEE
The BRC analyses, supervises and assesses the Bank- Chairman Members
wide implementation and oversight of an effective global  
Marcel Rohner(1) Anne Rotman de Picciotto
risk-management and -steering process. It meets monthly.
Daniel de Picciotto
The CEO and the Heads of the COO, Treasury & Trading, and 
Eftychia (La) Fischer(1)
Risks & Compliance divisions attend meetings as permanent 
guests. John Manser(1)
Olivier Vodoz(1)
Committee of the Board of Directors / Board’s Risk Committee 
From left to right: John Manser, Eftychia (La) Fischer, Olivier Vodoz, Anne Rotman de Picciotto, Marcel 
Rohner, Daniel de Picciotto.
ANNUAL REPORT 2020 35
AUDIT COMMITTEE REMUNERATION 
COMMITTEE 
The Audit Committee supervises work done by Internal Audit,  The Remuneration Committee annually determines and 
ensures that Internal Audit has the resources and skills it needs  assesses our remuneration policy, as approved by the Board 
to fulfil its duties, and acts as an interface between the Board  of Directors, and considers the recruitment and appointment of 
of Directors and the external auditor. Executive Committee members and senior managerial staff. It 
also oversees the implementation of our agreed policy regarding 
The Audit Committee meets at least five times per year. the promotion, development, retention and succession of senior 
managerial staff, whose performance it reviews regularly.
At every Committee meeting, the reports and matters listed on 
the agenda are presented and discussed in the presence of  The Remuneration Committee meets at least twice per year.
the Executive Committee members concerned.
The remuneration of the members of UBP's managing bodies 
(Board of Directors and Executive Committee) is based on 
their qualifications, experience, and responsibilities, taking into 
Chairman account the labour market and competition. It is in line with the 
Bank’s strategy and risk management policy. The members 
Olivier Vodoz(1) of the Board of Directors are paid fees the amount of which is 
set annually. As for the members of the Executive Committee, 
their remuneration has a fixed and a variable component. The 
Members variable portion depends upon the results of the Bank and of 
the division concerned, as well as on the person’s individual 
Anne Rotman de Picciotto performance, and the potential of both the division and the 
person is also taken into account. Part of this variable pay is 
Marcel Rohner(1) deferred (spread over three years).
Chairman
John Manser(1)
Members
Anne Rotman de Picciotto
Nicolas Brunschwig(1)
(1) Independent members
36 ANNUAL REPORT 2020
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE
The Executive Committee's role is to implement our strategy and  Members Nicolas Faller 
objectives, as defined by the Board of Directors, and is in charge  Co-CEO Asset Management
of running and managing day-to-day business operations. It also  Ian Cramb 
co-ordinates our administrative organisation, checks that statutory  COO Michaël Lok 
and regulatory rules and the risk management policy are properly  Co-CEO Asset Management
applied, and seeks to ensure that secure, profitable business  Nadège Lesueur-Pène 
relationships are established and developed, with and for clients. WM Developing Markets Philip Adler 
Treasury & Trading
The Executive Committee meets once a week. Michael Blake 
WM Asia Raoul Jacot-Descombes  
Risks & Compliance
Chairman Company Secretary
Guy de Picciotto  Claudio Rollini
CEO
Executive Committee 
From left to right: Michael Blake, Ian Cramb, Nadège Lesueur-Pène, Michaël Lok, Guy de Picciotto, Nicolas Faller,  
Raoul Jacot-Descombes, Claudio Rollini (Company Secretary), Philip Adler.
ANNUAL REPORT 2020 37
PROFILES AND  
BACKGROUNDS
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
Daniel de Picciotto the Department of Defence, prior to which he was a member 
of Geneva’s cantonal parliament. Olivier Vodoz has a degree 
Daniel de Picciotto has been Chairman of UBP’s Board since  in law from the University of Geneva and is a licensed legal 
2016. He has been a member of the Board since 2010, before  practitioner in Geneva. Earlier in his career, he spent 20 years 
which he spent ten years on the Executive Committee. He joined  as a lawyer and partner at Geneva law firm Haissly & Vodoz. 
the Bank in 1985 as Head of the Private Banking division’s  He has also worked as Ethics Commissioner at the Geneva 
Research Department, before becoming Head of Private Banking  police department, as well as being a member of the Assembly 
in 1990 and then Head of Asset Management in 1996. of the International Committee of the Red Cross from 1998 to 
2013 and its Vice-Chairman from 2006 to 2013.
As at 31 December 2020, Daniel de Picciotto was also a member 
of CBI Holding SA’s board of directors. As at 31 December 2020, he was a member of the boards of 
the following companies, among others: Parkgest Holding, SIX 
Exchange Regulation, Swiss Risk and Care SA, Opsion – Open 
Marcel Rohner Pension collective fund.
Marcel Rohner has been a member of UBP’s Board since 2010 
and its Vice-Chairman since 2016 and has chaired the Committee  Pierre-Alain Blum (until 19 March 2020)
of the Board since 2015. He has a wealth of experience in the 
fields of banking, finance and risk management. He worked for  Pierre-Alain Blum was a member of UBP’s Board from 1990. His 
almost 20 years at UBS AG, holding roles including Chairman  background is in the high-end watch industry, where his roles 
and CEO of Global Wealth Management & Business Banking in  have included managing luxury watchmaker Ebel for 25 years. 
2005, Member of the Executive Committee from 2002 to 2009  He left that company in 1994 to set up IKF Holdings SA. At the 
and CEO of UBS Group from 2007 to 2009. Marcel Rohner has  start of his career, Pierre-Alain Blum served his apprenticeship 
a PhD in economics from the University of Zurich. with a New York watch and jewellery distribution company.
As at 31 December 2020, he was also a member of the  As at 19 March 2020, he was a member of the boards of 
boards of the following companies: Löwenfeld AG, Löwenfeld  the following companies, among others: IKF Holding SA, IKF 
Beteiligungen AG, Warteck Invest AG, Armada Investment AG,  Management SA, Sored SA, Swiss Madeness Solutions Group 
Helvetische Bank AG, Acoro Asset Management AG. He was  SA, Team Partner SA, Parkview AG, Madeness Solutions Lab 
also a member of the Advisory Board of the University of Zurich's  SA, Swiss Luxe Technology SA, Golay Fils & Stahl SA.
Department of Economics and of the Board of Directors of the 
Swiss Bankers’ Association. In 2018 he became Chairman of 
the Association of Swiss Asset and Wealth Management Banks. Nicolas Brunschwig
Nicolas Brunschwig has been a member of UBP’s Board since 
Olivier Vodoz 1998. He is a partner of the Brunschwig Holding group, which 
owns retailer Bongénie Grieder. Having joined that company in 
Olivier Vodoz was first elected to UBP’s Board in 1998, a position  1981, he is now in charge of central services and partnerships. 
he currently occupies as General Counsel as well as being the  Between 1989 and 2001, he was a member of the Geneva 
Chairman of the Audit Committee. Between 1989 and 1997  cantonal parliament, where his roles included chairing the 
he was in government in Geneva canton, holding the positions  Finance and Tax Committees. He was also chairman of the 
of President of the Department of Finance and President of  Fédération des Entreprises Romandes (employers' association 
38 ANNUAL REPORT 2020
for companies in French-speaking Switzerland) for seven years.  the United States. She holds both Chartered Financial Analyst 
Nicolas Brunschwig graduated with a diploma in Economics  (CFA) and Financial Risk Management (FRM) qualifications.
from the University of Geneva.
As at 31 December 2020, she was also a member of the boards 
As at 31 December 2020, he was a member of the boards of  of the following companies: Alberca Foundation, Banque 
the following companies, among others: Brunschwig (Holding)  Cantonale Vaudoise, Sherpa Asset Management, Vaudoise 
SA, Brunschwig & Cie SA, Loyco SA, Scrasa SA, Soreval SA,  Assurances Holding, and Mutuelle Vaudoise.
Parkgest Holding Genève SA, Rolex SA, Rolex Holding SA, 
and Viu Ventures AG. At that date he also sat on the Wilsdorf 
Foundation board. Richard Katz
Richard Katz has been a member of UBP’s Board of Directors 
Anne Rotman de Picciotto since 2009. He has been involved in investment management 
and investment banking for over forty years and worked for 
Anne Rotman de Picciotto has been a member of UBP’s Board  N M Rothschild & Sons Limited (London) from 1969 until 
since 2006. She is also a member of the Bank’s Audit Committee  1993. He has advised governments, central banks and similar 
and Remuneration Committee. After spending several years  institutions. Richard Katz was a Supervisory Director of the 
in Goldman Sachs’ Asset Management division, she joined  Quantum Endowment Fund and one of its subsidiaries between 
UBP’s London branch management team in 2002, where  1986 and 2014.
she was responsible for business development with a focus 
on high net worth individuals and institutional relationships.  
Anne Rotman de Picciotto holds a BA in Business Administration  John Manser
from HEC in Lausanne, as well as an MBA from the INSEAD 
business school. John Manser has been a member of UBP’s Board since 2008. 
He gained a solid grounding in finance in his early career working 
As at 31 December 2020, she was Chairwoman of the Board  for the Cantonal Bank of St. Gallen, UBS in Geneva and Citibank 
of CBI Holding SA, and sat on several other boards, including  in Geneva, London, New York and São Paulo. In the 1980s he 
that of Dagnar Ltd. became the head of the finance department at Ciba-Geigy AG 
in Basel. That company’s merger with Sandoz in 1996 gave rise 
to Novartis, where he was Group Treasurer until 2007. John 
Eftychia (La) Fischer Manser holds MBAs from the Alexander Hamilton Institute and 
the University of Columbia (New York). He also holds the Swiss 
Eftychia Fischer has been a member of UBP’s Board and  Federal Banking diploma.
Committee of the Board since 2015. She joined the Bank 
in 2010 as Head of the Treasury & Trading division and was  As at 31 December 2020, he was also a member of the 
also joint-Head of the Asset Management division until 2015.  investment committee of the University of Basel.
Before joining UBP, she held various high-level roles at EFG 
International, Julius Baer, JP Morgan and UBS, and ran her own 
asset management company in Zurich. Eftychia Fischer holds a 
BSc from Imperial College, London and has completed the AMP 
(Advanced Management Program) run by Wharton University in 
ANNUAL REPORT 2020 39
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE
Guy de Picciotto head of emerging markets within wealth management at BNP 
Paribas (Switzerland). She has also held high-level investment 
Guy de Picciotto has been UBP’s CEO and Chairman of  management roles at HSBC in Paris and Paribas in Moscow.  
the Group’s Executive Committee since 1998. He began  Nadège Lesueur-Pène holds a DEA in Russian philology 
his career as a management consultant in Switzerland  from Langues’O and a double Master’s in international 
and Belgium, before focusing on the banking sector with  management from ESCP–EAP (Paris), and studied political 
roles at UBS, Morgan Stanley, Bear Stearns and Sanyo  science at IEP (Paris).
Securities in Tokyo and New York. He joined the Bank in 
1988, where he occupied various executive roles before 
being appointed Chairman of the Executive Committee. He  Michael Blake
holds a degree in economics and business management and 
has completed advanced Executive Management courses  Michael Blake is Head of Wealth Management Asia, a post he 
at IMD in Lausanne and INSEAD in Fontainebleau. holds alongside his role as CEO Asia. He became a member 
of the Executive Committee in 2019. Prior to joining the Bank 
As at 31 December 2020, Guy de Picciotto was also a director  in 2016, he was Chief Executive of Coutts International, and 
of CBI Holding SA, among others. before that Head of Asia Pacific Management Office at UBS.  
He has lived and worked in Asia, Switzerland and London 
over the past fifteen years and is active in various international 
Ian Cramb affairs forums. Michael Blake read Philosophy, Politics and 
Economics at Oxford University.
Ian Cramb has been UBP’s Chief Operating Officer and 
a member of its Executive Committee since 2009. Before 
joining UBP, he was EMEA Consumer Chief Operating Officer  Nicolas Faller
at Citigroup, where he had previously held other high-level 
roles including those of Risk Manager, Head of HR, Chief of  Nicolas Faller has been Co-CEO of UBP’s Asset Management 
Staff and COO. He holds a modern languages degree from  division and a member of its Executive Committee since 
Durham University. 2015. He joined UBP in 2010 as Head of Sales Europe and 
was appointed Head of Global Sales in 2011, then Head of 
Institutional Clients in 2013. Before joining UBP, he was Global 
Nadège Lesueur-Pène Head of Distribution at BNP Paribas Investment Partners, 
after holding several high-level roles at Fortis Investments. 
Nadège Lesueur-Pène is Head of Wealth Management  Nicolas Faller is a graduate of the University of Mulhouse 
Developing Markets. She has been a member of the Executive  and France’s Ecole Supérieure de Gestion.
Committee since 2019. Before joining UBP in 2015 she was 
40 ANNUAL REPORT 2020
Michaël Lok the role of Director in KPMG’s Forensic division, in charge 
of Western Switzerland. Raoul Jacot-Descombes holds a 
Michaël Lok has been Co-CEO of UBP’s Asset Management  Master’s degree in law from the University of Neuchâtel in 
division since 2015 and a member of its Executive Committee  Switzerland, and is a licensed legal practitioner.
since 2016. Before joining UBP, he worked at Indosuez Wealth 
Management (Crédit Agricole group) as Global Head of Asset 
Management, after holding roles as Head of Investment and  Claudio Rollini
Head of Risk & Quantitative Portfolio Management. Before 
that, he was a portfolio and fund manager at Banque Martin  Claudio Rollini has been UBP’s Company Secretary since 
Maurel and HSBC France. Michaël Lok holds two Master’s  2013. He joined the Bank after holding various high-level roles 
degrees, one in Finance (DESS) and one in Banking and  at companies including British American Tobacco in Lausanne 
Finance (DEA), from the University of Aix-en-Provence. and London, and at the Geneva-based Fédération des 
Entreprises Romandes (employers’ association for companies 
in French-speaking Switzerland). He has more than 25 
Philip Adler years of professional experience in corporate governance 
and communication, devising strategies for negotiation, 
Philip Adler has been UBP’s Head of Treasury & Trading since  institutional relations and regulatory affairs. Claudio Rollini 
2016 and a member of its Executive Committee since 2017.  initially trained as a lawyer, and holds a Master’s degree in 
Before joining UBP, he had been a member of the Executive  Law from the University of Geneva.
Committee and Head of Capital Markets at Crédit Agricole 
Indosuez (Switzerland) SA since 2008. He previously worked 
at UBS SA, Commerzbank AG and the Crédit Agricole group. 
Philip Adler has more than 30 years of experience in banking.
Raoul Jacot-Descombes
Raoul Jacot-Descombes has been UBP’s Group Head 
of Risks & Compliance and a member of its Executive 
Committee since he joined the Bank on 1 January 2015. 
He started his career as a lawyer, before moving to the 
Swiss Anti-Money-Laundering Authority and then becoming 
General Counsel & Executive Managing Director at ACM, 
which was then acquired by Swissquote Bank. He also held 
ANNUAL REPORT 2020 41

PORTRAIT
ANNUAL REPORT 2020 43
HISTORY
Union Bancaire Privée is one of the biggest family-owned 
private banks in the world. But what makes UBP really 
unique is its corporate culture, which combines modernity 
and tradition. All the Bank's staff draw their inspiration and 
drive from the founding family’s blend of strong moral values 
25 and pragmatism, which has always been and will remain the 
key to UBP’s success.
offices worldwide
A family affair
Having originated in Portugal in the Age of Discovery, the de 
1,812 Picciotto family has been honing its skills over ten generations 
in both diplomacy and trade. This long line of successful 
merchants and high-profile consuls continues to this day with 
staff the family bank, UBP, which represents both an extension 
and culmination of this history.
27.7%  The birth of a bank
Edgar de Picciotto arrived in Switzerland in 1954 after having 
Tier 1 equity ratio finished his studies, and founded his own bank in 1969: 
Compagnie de Banque et d’Investissements (CBI), which 
would go on to become Union Bancaire Privée (UBP) in 
1990. With just CHF 8 million in start-up capital, the Bank 
1969  grew considerably in just five decades and today it manages 
around CHF 147.4 billion in assets for private and institutional 
clients, and employs 1,812 people in twenty countries.
Year created
A lasting company
Today, just as it always has, UBP belongs to the de Picciotto 
family, which controls the Bank through CBI Holding SA.  
Edgar de Picciotto, who founded the Bank, was the Chairman 
of the Board until he passed away in March 2016, after which 
his eldest son, Daniel, who had been on the Board since 2010, 
44 ANNUAL REPORT 2020
took over the position. Edgar’s daughter, Anne Rotman de 
Picciotto, has held a seat on the Board since 2006. Continuity 
is also embodied by another one of Edgar’s sons, Guy de 
Picciotto, who has served as Chief Executive Officer since 
1998, overseeing the Bank’s operational management. With 
the second generation of the family having managed the 
business for several years, UBP can lay claim to a successful 
legacy and has ensured its longevity. 
Growth through acquisitions
From the outset, UBP has strived to consolidate its position on 
its preferred markets while strengthening its financial expertise 
through targeted acquisitions and partnerships. While the 
Bank has been able to grow organically since its creation, 
especially thanks to its reputation and its ability to manage 
performance for its clients, it also owes its growth to the 
acquisitions of several major players in wealth management, 
both in Switzerland and abroad. One example of this was the 
purchase of the American Express Bank in 1990 – at that 
point the biggest banking takeover ever seen in Switzerland 
– which would quadruple its size. Over the last twenty-five 
years, UBP has carried out close to 20 acquisitions, including 
some major ones, such as that of the Discount Bank and 
Trust Company in 2002, the Swiss subsidiary of ABN AMRO 
in 2011, the international private banking business of Lloyds 
Banking Group in 2013 and most recently the international 
wealth management business of Royal Bank of Scotland 
(RBS), which operated under the name of Coutts, in 2015. 
In 2018 UBP announced two acquisitions in Europe: that of 
London-based independent wealth manager ACPI Investments 
Limited, which was finalised on 31 December 2018, and in 
Luxembourg, that of Banque Carnegie Luxembourg S.A., 
which was fully integrated on 25 January 2019. In 2020, UBP 
continued to expand its footprint in Europe by acquiring the 
wealth management business of Jefferies International Limited 
in the United Kingdom.
ANNUAL REPORT 2020 45
CORPORATE 
CULTURE
UBP’s slogan, “The Drive You Demand” pervades every 
aspect of the firm’s values. It sums up our corporate culture, 
which is one based on dynamism, energy, instinct, dedication 
and teamwork. The term “drive” expresses the willingness 
of the Bank and its people to boldly look towards the future 
with strength, leadership and audacity.
the drive you demand
As one of the major players in asset management and finance, 
UBP is recognised today as a solid partner, known both for its 
expertise and for what it offers. It owes this privileged position, 
in part, to its talent for anticipation. This advantage, which is 
based on our ability to think outside the box, forms an integral 
part of the way we at UBP work: it means understanding 
movements and trends; forming our own opinion; building 
convictions without blindly following consensus thinking, 
and then acting appropriately.
We are bold, but have never abandoned a cautious approach 
to business management, ensuring the Bank’s health and 
solidity – an attitude that has enabled us to develop a 
long-term strategy while fostering continual growth. UBP’s 
dynamism and strength are what make the difference today.
46 ANNUAL REPORT 2020
 
VALUES
Dedication, conviction, agility, responsibility. UBP’s four key values express our determination to achieve our aims and 
to live up to our clients’ expectations and safeguard their interests. Every day, all of our people embody these values, 
and they inspire and guide every single one of us, regardless of our specialisation.
Dedication Agility
Finding the best solution to every situation demands  Thanks to its size and structure, UBP is very flexible and 
constant dedication and an exclusively client-oriented  ensures fast decision-making, enabling it to carry out 
approach. With this in mind, our staff work tirelessly,  large-scale operations and seize investment opportunities 
conscientiously, open-mindedly and willingly to satisfy  when they appear on the markets. This unique skill from 
every last detail of our clients’ needs. The level of service  which our clients benefit as much as the Bank, is one of 
and performance we demand of our staff is the same as  the key factors in our success.
that which clients demand of their bank.
Conviction Responsibility
Our long-term vision enables us to make choices based  At every level and in everything we do, we ensure that 
on strong convictions – an advantage that serves to grow  integrity, ethics and fairness take precedence. At UBP, 
both our own and our clients’ businesses. One only has to  responsibility is an integral value, both for the individual 
look at the Bank’s rapid growth, which today has earned  and for the company; it is a prerequisite for ensuring 
it the respect and recognition of its peers, and its ability  irreproachable business conduct.
to offer its clients investment solutions that are always 
innovative and performance-oriented.
ANNUAL REPORT 2020 47

OUR OFFICES 
WORLDWIDE
ANNUAL REPORT 2020 49
■  New York
■  Bermuda
■  Nassau
■  Our offices
■  Our booking centres
HEAD OFFICE BRANCHES
Union Bancaire Privée, UBP SA Zurich Basel
Rue du Rhône 96-98  Bahnhofstrasse 1  Aeschengraben 9 
P.O. Box 1320  8027 Zurich  P.O. Box 4452 
1211 Geneva 1  T +41 58 819 62 00  4002 Basel 
T +41 58 819 21 11  F +41 58 819 62 53 T +41 58 819 57 00 
F +41 58 819 22 00 F +41 58 819 57 01
www.ubp.com  Lugano
e-mail: ubp@ubp.com
Viale S. Franscini 5 
6900 Lugano 
T +41 58 819 60 00 
F +41 58 819 61 90
50 ANNUAL REPORT 2020
■  Istanbul
■  Tokyo
■  Tel Aviv ■  Shanghai
■  Dubai ■  Taiwan
■  Hong Kong
■  Singapore
Brussels
London ■    ■    ■  Frankfurt
■  Luxembourg
Jersey ■   
■  Paris ■  Basel
■  Zurich
■  Lugano
Geneva ■   
■  Milan
■  Monaco
■  Madrid
■  Melbourne
Bahamas Jersey Singapore
Lyford Cay House, 5th floor  40 Esplanade  Level 38, One Raffles Quay 
Western Road  P.O. Box 526  North Tower 
P.O. Box N-7529  St. Helier  Singapore 048583 
Lyford Cay, N.P. - Nassau  Jersey JE4 5UH  T +65 6730 8088 
T +1 242 362 43 33  T +44 1534 514 670  F +65 6730 8068
F +1 242 362 43 39 F +44 1534 514 671 
 
Hong Kong Monaco United Kingdom
Level 26, AIA Central  La Belle Epoque  Seymour Mews House 
1 Connaught Road Central  17 Avenue d’Ostende  26-37 Seymour Mews 
Hong Kong  98000 Monaco  London W1H 6BN 
T +852 3701 96 88  T +377 92 16 58 58  T +44 20 7663 1501 
F +852 3701 96 68  F +377 92 16 58 69 F +44 20 7369 0460
ANNUAL REPORT 2020 51
SUBSIDIARIES AND  
REPRESENTATIVE OFFICES
Switzerland France Jersey
Fiduciaire Fidulex SA  UBP Asset Management (France)  Union Bancaire Asset Management 
c/o Union Bancaire Privée, UBP SA  Union Bancaire Gestion  (Jersey) Ltd. 
Rue du Rhône 96-98  Institutionnelle (France) SAS  40 Esplanade 
P.O. Box 1320  Subsidiary of UBP Holdings (France)  P.O. Box 526 
1211 Geneva 1  SAS  St. Helier 
T +41 58 819 21 11  116, avenue des Champs-Elysées  Jersey JE4 5UH 
F +41 58 819 22 49 75008 Paris  T +44 1534 514 672 
T +33 1 75 77 80 80  F +44 1534 514 674 
Coteges Conseils &   F +33 1 44 50 16 19
Techniques de Gestion SA 
c/o Union Bancaire Privée, UBP SA  UBP Holdings (France) SAS  Luxembourg
Rue du Rhône 96-98  Subsidiary of UBP Asset Management 
P.O. Box 1320  (Europe) SA  Union Bancaire Privée (Europe) S.A. 
1211 Geneva 1  116, avenue des Champs-Elysées  287-289, route d’Arlon 
T +41 58 819 21 11  75008 Paris  P.O. Box 79 
F +41 58 819 22 00 T +33 1 75 77 80 80  1150 Luxembourg 
F +33 1 44 50 16 19 T +352 228 007-1 
UBP Investment Advisors SA  F +352 223 767
Place Camoletti 6, 2nd floor 
1207 Geneva  Germany UBP Asset Management 
T +41 22 317 49 60 (Europe) S.A. 
UBP Asset Management (Europe) S.A.  287-289, route d’Arlon 
UBP Investment Advisors SA  Frankfurt Branch  P.O. Box 79 
Zurich Branch  Taunustor 1  1150 Luxembourg 
Bahnhofstrasse 1  Büro Nr. 18.21  T +352 228 007-1 
8001 Zurich  D-60311 Frankfurt am Main  F +352 228 007 221
T +41 22 317 49 40 T +49 69 505060 4140 
F +49 69 505060 4150
Spain
Belgium
Italy UBP Gestión Institucional S.A.U. 
UBP Asset Management Benelux   (Sociedad Unipersonal) 
Branch of UBP Asset Management  Union Bancaire Privée (Europe) SA  Subsidiary of UBP Asset Management 
(Europe) S.A.  Milan Branch  (Europe) S.A. 
Avenue de Tervueren 273  Via Brera 5  Calle Ortega y Gasset n°22-24 
1150 Brussels  20121 Milan  5° planta 
T +32 2 761 92 40 T +39 02 87 33 85 00  28006 Madrid 
F +39 02 87 33 85 99 T +34 91 047 20 12
52 ANNUAL REPORT 2020
Turkey Australia Japan
Representative Office  UBP Asset Management   UBP Investments Co., Ltd. 
Akmerkez Residence Apart Otel  Asia Limited  Hibiya Sankei Building, 11th floor 
Ahmet Adnan Saygun cad.  Australia Branch  1-9-1 Yurakucho 
Ulus yolu No: 3 Da: 1A2  Level 20, 101 Collins Street,  Chiyoda-ku 
Etiler/Be ikta   Melbourne, Victoria 3000  Tokyo 100-0006 
Istanbul 34340  T +61 3 8637 6021  T +81 3 5220 2111 
T +90 212 296 20 40  F +61 451 879 559 F +81 3 5220 2574
F +90 212 296 35 70
China Taiwan
Israel
UBP Investment Management  UBP Asset Management  
UBP Investment Services Ltd.  (Zhejiang) Ltd.  Taiwan Ltd. 
28 Ha’Arbaah Street  Room 1207, 12/F  Unit E, 10/F 
Tel Aviv 6473925  Bank of East Asia Finance Tower  N°1 Songzhi Road, Xinyi District 
T +972 3 691 5626  66 Hua Yuan Shi Qiao Road  Taipei City 110 
F +972 3 691 4652 Pudong  R.O.C.  
Shanghai  T +886 2 2723 6258 
Representative Office   T +86 21 2062 9980  F +886 2 2723 6189
28 Ha’Arbaah Street  F +86 21 2062 9803
Tel Aviv 6473925 
T +972 3 691 5626  UBP Investment Management  Bermuda
F +972 3 691 4652 (Shanghai) Ltd. 
Room 1205, 12/F  Union Bancaire Privée 
Bank of East Asia Finance Tower  Asset Management (Bermuda) Ltd. 
United Arab Emirates 66 Hua Yuan Shi Qiao Road  Cumberland House, 4th floor 
Pudong  1 Victoria Street 
Union Bancaire Privée  Shanghai  P.O. Box HM 2572 
(Middle East) Ltd.  T +86 21 2062 9980  Hamilton HM 11 
Dubai International Financial Center  F +86 21 2062 9803 T +1 441 295 8339 
Gate Precinct Building 5  F +1 441 295 8682
Office 507, Level 5 
P.O. Box 33778  Hong Kong
Dubai  United States
T +9714 818 48 00  UBP Asset Management Asia Ltd. 
F +9714 362 94 90 Level 26, AIA Central  Union Bancaire Privée 
1 Connaught Road Central  Asset Management LLC 
Hong Kong  540 Madison Avenue, 29th floor 
T +852 3713 1111  New York, NY 10022 
F +852 3713 1100 T +1 212 317 67 00 
F +1 212 317 11 21
ANNUAL REPORT 2020 53

Copyright
© 2021 Union Bancaire Privée, UBP SA
Photos: @Getty Images / @iStock 
Printed in Switzerland – March 2021
www.ubp.com
