
2021 Diversity and Inclusion Report
Table of 
Contents
3   Letter From Our 
Chairman and CEO
4  About Morgan Stanley
7   An Introduction From  
Our Global Head of  
Diversity and Inclusion
OVERVIEW OF 
CURRENT EFFORTS 
9   Accountability: 
Driving Diversity and 
Inclusion Firmwide
REPRESENTATION:
13   Representation: Building   ACCOUNTABILITY:
a Diverse Workforce Building a Diverse  
Driving Diversity and 
20 A  dvancement:   Workforce
Inclusion Firmwide
Developing and Supporting 
Diverse Talent
Page 9 Page 13
26 C ulture: Inclusion and 
Belonging at Morgan Stanley
31  O  utreach: Fostering Diversity 
and Inclusion Externally ADVANCEMENT: CULTURE:
FOCUS ON THE FUTURE Developing and  Inclusion and Belonging  
37  Letter From Our Chief Human   Supporting Diverse Talent at Morgan Stanley
  Resources Officer
APPENDICES
Page 20 Page 26
39 U.S. EEO-1 Data
OUTREACH: FOCUS ON THE FUTURE:
Fostering Diversity  Letter From Our Chief 
and Inclusion  Human Resources Officer
Externally
Page 31 Page 37
From Our
C  hairman and CEO
In June of 2020, we announced our newest core value, Commit to Diversity and Inclusion, 
and launched the Institute for Inclusion to support investments in underserved communities 
and accelerate our own internal diversity efforts. With these actions, we committed to more 
proactively embedding diversity and inclusion into all that we do. The past 18 months since 
then have been an extraordinary time of reflection, growth and action. 2021 has been another 
unprecedented year of challenges, fueled by the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic and the racial 
inequality that continues to exist in our society. The need for action and investment in our 
communities has never been greater.
This second Diversity and Inclusion Annual Report represents our continued commitment 
to progress, transparency and accountability. I am proud that leaders across Morgan 
Stanley are deeply engaged in our shared effort to drive change and would like to highlight 
a few examples of where we have made strides, and what our plans are for the future.
•  B uilding a diverse workforce remains central to our strategy, and we are continuing to 
take steps to ensure that our employees reflect the demographics of the communities 
in which we live and work. We recently introduced representation objectives to drive 
greater accountability for that effort. All our divisions have identified opportunities to 
improve diversity representation for women globally and ethnically diverse talent in the 
U.S, and I look forward to our progress.
•   Over the course of the year, we hosted discussions with leaders, scholars and experts, 
including Mahzarin Banaji, Linda Hill and Kenji Yoshino, on issues affecting our employees. 
We addressed timely and critical topics such as ongoing racial inequality, the importance 
of a diverse leadership team, and the importance of having fair and meritocratic talent 
processes. These conversations provided important forums for learning, confronting 
difficult issues, and cultivating belonging.
•  S ince the launch of the Institute for Inclusion in 2020, we began to build programs to 
drive stronger economic outcomes for underserved groups. Knowing that access to 
education is vital to addressing economic inequalities, we launched the HBCU Scholars 
Program to provide students at Historically Black Colleges and Universities with both 
financial assistance and career guidance to set them on a lifelong path to success. We 
I am proud that 
also launched a similar program in the U.K. — the Morgan Stanley Future Generation 
our leaders  Scholarship — to support the recruitment and advancement of ethnically diverse and 
socially disadvantaged individuals. These efforts will be expanded in future years as we 
across the Firm 
invest more deeply to support stronger educational and career outcomes for students 
are deeply  from low-to-moderate income backgrounds.
engaged in  Through our hard work and steadfast commitment, we have made progress toward change 
in the past year. I am proud of how much we have accomplished, yet I know there is still 
our efforts to 
much more to do. Statements and plans are important, but action is the only way forward. 
drive change. I am committed to ensuring all Morgan Stanley employees feel a sense of belonging at our 
Firm and take our broader responsibility to the communities in which we operate seriously. 
I look forward to continuing this journey with you all.
JAMES P. GORMAN
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
3 MORGAN STANLEY
MORGAN STANLEY 2021 DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION REPORT
About  
Morgan Stanley
Morgan Stanley is a global financial services firm with  
more than 68,000 employees in 39 countries.1 
Through our core businesses, Institutional Securities, Wealth Management and 
Investment Management, we help individuals, families, institutions and governments 
raise, manage and distribute the capital they need to achieve their goals. It has been, and 
continues to be, our goal to serve clients by leveraging the talents of our employees 
around the world.
68,000 39
employees countries
Core Values Do the Right Thing
Our core values guide 
everything we do: Put Clients First
Lead with Exceptional Ideas
Commit to Diversity and Inclusion
Give Back
1. Data as of 12/31/2020
4 MORGAN STANLEY
MORGAN STANLEY 2021 DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION REPORT
Leadership, including our Board of Directors, sets the 
tone for the Firm, and our executive teams drive a 
culture that is central to how we serve clients, how we 
support and develop colleagues, and how we engage 
with the communities around us.
Our Three Business Segments
INSTITUTIONAL  WEALTH   INVESTMENT 
SECURITIES MANAGEMENT MANAGEMENT
provides a variety of products and  provides a comprehensive array  provides a broad range of investment 
services to corporations, governments,  of financial services and solutions  strategies and products that span 
financial institutions and ultra-high  to individual investors and small  geographies, asset classes, and public 
net worth clients. Investment banking  to medium-sized businesses and  and private markets to a diverse group 
services consist of capital raising and  institutions covering: financial advisor- of clients across institutional and 
financial advisory services, including  led brokerage and investment advisory  intermediary channels. Strategies and 
services relating to the underwriting  services; self-directed brokerage  products, which are offered through a 
of debt, equity and other securities,  services; financial and wealth planning  variety of investment vehicles, include 
as well as advice on mergers and  services; workplace services including  equity, fixed income, alternatives and 
acquisitions, restructurings and project  stock plan administration; annuity and  solutions, and liquidity and overlay 
finance. Our Equity and Fixed Income  insurance products; securities-based  services. Institutional clients include 
businesses include sales, financing,  lending, residential real estate loans  defined benefit/defined contribution 
prime brokerage, market-making, Asia  and other lending products; banking;  plans, foundations, endowments, 
wealth management services and certain  and retirement plan services. government entities, sovereign wealth 
business-related investments. Lending  funds, insurance companies, third-
activities include originating corporate  party fund sponsors and corporations. 
loans and commercial real estate loans,  Individual clients are generally served 
providing secured lending facilities, and  through intermediaries, including 
extending securities-based and other  affiliated and non-affiliated distributors.
financing to customers. Other activities 
include research.
5 MORGAN STANLEY
MORGAN STANLEY 2021 DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION REPORT
Morgan Stanley is a true global citizen, with offices and employees around 
the world. Our employees collaborate across our network of offices 
to deliver exceptional ideas and solutions to the world’s most complex 
challenges. Supporting diverse communities, embracing local cultures and 
celebrating the rich heritage that our colleagues bring to their work every 
day helps us create a place where everyone feels a sense of belonging.
Our Global Footprint1
AMERICAS EMEA  ASIA-PACIFIC 
Europe, Middle East, Africa AND JAPAN
48K 8K 12K
Employees Employees Employees
Key Workforce Highlights 
(Firmwide YE 2020)
39% 30% 26% 24%
of our employees  of our U.S. employees  of our officers globally  of our U.S. officers are  
globally are women are ethnically diverse3 are women2 ethnically diverse2,3
Gender by Region 
(% Female YE 2020)
39% 36% 42%
Americas EMEA Asia
1. All data year-end 2020
2. Officers includes Managing Directors, Executive Directors and Vice Presidents
3.  U.S. ethnically diverse includes American Indian or Native Alaskan, Asian, Black or African American, Hispanic or Latino, Native Hawaiian 
or Pacific Islander, and Two or More Races
6 MORGAN STANLEY
MORGAN STANLEY 2021 DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION REPORT
Introduction From Our 
Chief Diversity Officer
As a global 
We are pleased to share our second-annual report  
leader in 
on diversity and inclusion efforts at Morgan Stanley. 
This year’s report continues to reflect our  
financial 
commitment to transparency and accountability, and 
outlines the ways in which we have adjusted our focus 
services,
areas to continue improving representation and driving  
a culture of belonging. 
we have a responsibility  
Many communities continue to experience social and  to the communities  
financial challenges, and the inequities of the world   where we live and work.
remain clear. As a global leader in financial services,  
we have a responsibility to the communities where we live and work. Our core 
values continue to be the ethos that guide the Firm, and we continue to leverage our 
capabilities to drive greater outcomes for underserved communities. Together, with leaders from across the Firm and 
with the Morgan Stanley Institute for Inclusion, we have expanded our efforts Firmwide, inclusive of our commercial, 
philanthropic and talent initiatives.
We are investing in solutions that drive financial inclusion more broadly. Targeted investments, such as our HBCU Scholars 
program and Future Generation scholarship, directly address the wealth gap by supporting educational and career 
opportunities for young adults from low- to moderate-income backgrounds.
The Morgan Stanley Next Level Fund, launched in partnership with our Multicultural Client Strategy Group and 
Morgan Stanley Investment Management, supports underrepresented founders and entrepreneurs bridging investment 
gaps for diverse communities. Our Wealth Management Racial Equity Investing Toolkit offers clients advice on how they 
can align their investment strategies to help create a more inclusive society.
At Morgan Stanley, we also work hard to advocate for and support our employees. Internally, our newly redesigned 
professional development programs for women and ethnically diverse employees are investments in our own talent. The 
Womens Leadership Program and Multicultural Leadership Program are both designed to support career growth through 
skill building, networking and manager support. Additionally, as our colleagues around the world felt the heavy weight of 
the COVID-19 pandemic and racial trauma from societal events, we expanded our wellness offerings, listening sessions and 
other initiatives that give our employees an opportunity to be heard and supported. We are committed to our employees, 
and we have learned to hold difficult, necessary conversations and face issues head-on. By championing honest, open 
dialogue, we are driving greater inclusion.
Since the inception of the Institute for Inclusion and the establishment of our newest core value, we have celebrated some 
early wins, but we are also focused on creating sustained impact for our employees, clients and stakeholders. This  
report reflects the work we have done and the work that lies ahead. We are proud of our progress and remain committed 
to making Morgan Stanley a global leader in diversity and inclusion. 
SUSAN K. REID
Global Head of Diversity and Inclusion
MORGAN STANLEY 2021 DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION REPORT
Our Strategy
Morgan Stanley’s diversity and inclusion strategy is designed to drive 
meaningful and sustainable change Firmwide, and help us achieve a 
truly diverse and inclusive workforce. It informs the way we engage with 
and support our employees, as well as how we serve our clients, our 
investors, and the diverse communities in which we operate.
Our strategy is built on five key pillars, outlined below:
ACCOUNTABILITY ADVANCEMENT
We drive ownership and accountability of diversity and inclusion  Investing in the development and advancement of our 
progress across all levels of the organization. Our senior  employees is a key part of our strategy. From onboarding 
leadership teams are responsible for embedding the strategy,  through promotions to senior levels, we support diverse 
and for taking actions that will improve diversity representation  employees along their career journeys through individualized 
and drive a culture of inclusion and belonging. support and programmatic offerings. 
REPRESENTATION CULTURE 
We believe a diverse workforce brings diversity of thought  Our belief in fostering a culture of inclusion and belonging for 
and deepens our ability to serve our clients, investors and  all employees is at the core of who we are. We celebrate the 
shareholders. We are committed to improving representation  different cultures, perspectives and backgrounds reflected in 
through targeted recruitment, development and retention of  our workforce.
our employees at all levels and in all divisions across the Firm.
OUTREACH
We support inclusion beyond the Firm’s four walls. 
Wherever we operate, we engage with and support 
underrepresented communities through our business
 practices and philanthropic offerings. 
8 MORGAN STANLEY
Accountability: 
Driving Diversity and 
Inclusion Firmwide
Ownership and responsibility for diversity  
and inclusion at Morgan Stanley starts at the  
top. Our leadership drives inclusion and  
belonging by championing and embedding  
our strategy, as well as personal accountability,  
within their organizations.
9 MORGAN STANLEY
Governance 
We rely on deeply embedded governance and accountability measures to guide 
our strategy and advance our efforts.
Leadership Accountability and Engagement: Senior  Diversity Reviews: Firmwide divisional and regional 
leadership, including our Chairman and CEO, with oversight  diversity reviews are facilitated by Firm leaders, our Human 
from our Board of Directors, is actively involved in diversity  Resources leadership team and our Global Diversity and 
and inclusion efforts both Firmwide and in each division.  Inclusion team. Through these reviews, we evaluate and 
They shape strategies to improve representation, support the  track each division’s efforts, commitments and actions. 
retention and advancement of underrepresented employees,  Additionally, Firm leaders regularly meet with our  
and foster inclusion and belonging. Board of Directors to discuss our efforts, progress and 
ongoing challenges.
Global Diversity and Inclusion Team: Our Global Diversity 
and Inclusion team and our Human Resources Business  Performance and Rewards: Our performance and rewards 
Partners provide advisory and programmatic support  practices reinforce the Firm’s culture and values. Year-end 
to leaders across the Firm. The teams build and deploy  evaluations assess each employee’s performance, conduct 
solutions to advance our diversity and inclusion strategy,  and contributions to our culture and reflect feedback from 
maintain a continuous dialogue with key stakeholders and  managers, direct reports and peers. This feedback is a 
monitor our endeavors to ensure effectiveness. critical input to both pay and promotion.
Diversity Councils: Diversity Councils representing all  Data and Analytics: We regularly review representation, 
levels of the organization help advance our objectives and  hiring, promotion, attrition, compensation and other 
champion a culture of inclusion and belonging globally. Every  key data, and leverage that data to identify gaps, shape 
business and region has an active council that helps leaders  our strategy and goals, and evaluate progress against 
design strategies and solutions to address their needs and  those goals.
the needs of their employees.
Policies: Our policies set the tone for our culture, guiding 
employee conduct and actions. These policies include our 
Code of Conduct, Non-Discrimination and Anti- Harassment 
policies and Global Speaking Up and Reporting Concerns 
policies. We also empower employees to express their 
concerns through our confidential Integrity Hotline.
10 10MMOORRGGAANN S STATANNLELEYY
MORGAN STANLEY 2021 DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION REPORT
Establishing  
Representation Objectives
We believe it is critical to take action to build an 
employee base reflective of the communities in which 
we live and work. This is vital to achieving our strategy 
to be a global leader in financial services, and therefore 
we have set representation objectives for all divisions.
We are committed to improving representation among groups that have been 
historically underrepresented in our workforce. Establishing objectives not only helps 
us drive progress towards our goals, but also aligns with our newest core value, 
Commit to Diversity and Inclusion, and strengthens our dedication to transparency 
and accountability.
We understand that workforce diversity contributes to diversity of thought and Firm 
success. This initial action, focused on women officers globally and Black and Hispanic 
officers in the U.S., is a key part of our commitment to diversity and inclusion.
OUR OBJECTIVES ARE TO INCREASE: 
Total women   Black and Hispanic  
officers1 by officers1 in the U.S. by
25% 50%
1.  Officers includes Managing Directors, Executive Directors and Vice Presidents
11 MORGAN STANLEY
MORGAN STANLEY INSTITUTE FOR INCLUSION
Launched in 2020, the Morgan Stanley Institute for Inclusion  investments in underserved communities and accountability  
(IFI) brings our employees, communities and clients together   to internal D&I commitments is exemplified through many  
in a shared commitment to creating a more equitable society.  of The Institute’s initiatives. The Institute’s 11-person  
Advisory Board plays a key role in shaping efforts and has  
Built on the three pillars below, the IFI is a catalyst for   been integral to launching several signature initiatives  
our commercial, philanthropic and talent-focused efforts.  outlined in this report, including:
Our investment in high-impact opportunities, philanthropic 
INVESTING IN UNDERSERVED  ADVANCING EQUITY  PROMOTING WORKPLACE 
COMMUNITIES THROUGH GIVING DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION
We are committed to advancing  We leverage our philanthropic efforts  We strive to lead the way in attracting, 
economic outcomes in underserved  to help address and eliminate systemic  developing, and retaining individuals 
communities through our products,  inequities for underrepresented groups  with diverse backgrounds and 
services, spending, business practices  and to help those communities thrive. perspectives, and to drive a culture of 
and thought leadership. inclusion for all colleagues.
MORGAN STANLEY  
AFFORDABLE HOUSING  SCHOLARSHIP PROGRAMS TALENT ACCELERATOR 
Morgan Stanley’s Community  Morgan Stanley’s HBCU Scholars   We are committed to supporting the 
Development Finance (CDF) program  Program and Future Generation  growth and career success of diverse 
generates investment opportunities  Scholarship provides support to students  talent. The IFI Talent Accelerator provides 
that create lasting positive changes  in the U.S. and U.K. from low-to  a platform for the Firm to deliver 
in communities across the U.S. CDF’s  moderate-income communities.  cutting-edge professional development 
affordable housing strategy provides safe  The HBCU Scholars Program offers needs- programming to women and ethnically 
and affordable housing and impactful  based, four-year scholarships to students  diverse colleagues. We recently launched 
supportive services to low- to moderate- at Howard University, Morehouse   two new programs under the umbrella of 
income households across the country.  College and Spelman College, covering  the Talent Accelerator.
Achieved through low-income housing  the full cost of attendance annually.  The Multicultural Leadership Program 
tax equity, this program supports  Additionally, the firm offers a career- is designed to support career growth 
construction and rehabilitation of  readiness program to complement the  for Black, Hispanic and Asian leaders 
affordable housing, preservation  students' on-campus curriculum.  at the Vice President and Executive 
of affordable housing investments  The Future Generation Scholarship  Director levels. 
and prevention of at-risk property  provides U.K. students from ethnic- The Women’s Leadership Program is 
abandonment. minority and/or socially mobile  designed to support career growth for 
backgrounds with financial assistance   women leaders at the Vice President and 
for university fees and associated  Executive Director levels. 
living costs. Students are also offered 
Both programs support career 
internships at the bank. 
advancement through targeted skill 
development, guidance on career 
management, and opportunities to 
meet with senior leaders and network 
with peers.
1122 MMOORRGGAANN S STTAANNLLEEYY
Representation: 
Building a 
Diverse Workforce
A diverse workforce is critical to Morgan Stanley’s 
continued success, and our ability to serve our clients. 
In 2020, more than 40% of new hires globally 
were women, and more than 39% of our new hires 
were ethnically diverse. With the help of our hiring 
teams globally, we welcomed over 1,100 college and 
university students and graduates, and over 8,400 
professionals to the Firm.
In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, Morgan Stanley 
also guaranteed job security for all our employees in 
2020 to support personal and professional wellness 
during a difficult time.
13 MORGAN STANLEY
MORGAN STANLEY 2021 DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION REPORT
Campus Recruiting
Attracting underrepresented talent from colleges 
and universities around the world is an important 
part of our diversity recruiting strategy.
The Firm’s summer internships and full-time analyst programs include targeted 
efforts such as our Early Insights programs, which introduce women, ethnically 
diverse and LGBT+ high school seniors or college freshman, as well as veterans, to 
financial services. Additionally, our Richard B. Fisher Scholarship Program offers 
financial support to help diverse students offset the cost of their education.
Our 2020 full-time campus hires hailed from more than 300 colleges and 
universities in over 30 countries, and include undergraduate and graduate majors 
ranging from finance and accounting, science, technology and math to liberal arts.
In 2020, we reported our most diverse campus recruiting class in the Firm’s 
history. Fifty percent of campus full-time hires globally were women, and 21%  
of campus full-time hires in the U.S. were Black and Hispanic. 
In June of 2021, The Morgan Stanley Institute for Inclusion and The Steve 
Fund convened a virtual forum for employers across all industries to explore 
the intersection of mental health and diversity, equity and inclusion. Industry 
experts and Firm leaders discussed challenges facing young people of color with 
college and university leadership. Business leaders, mental health experts and 
higher education professionals discussed strategies and tactics for supporting, 
retaining and developing diverse graduates as they transition into the workforce. 
We identified the preparation gaps and risk factors that create obstacles, and 
discussed how leaders can support diverse talent, by leading with greater 
emotional and cultural awareness, centering allyship, confronting imposter 
syndrome and addressing racial trauma.
MORGAN STANLEY FUTURE  
GENERATION SCHOLARSHIP
In February of 2021, we were proud to launch the 
Morgan Stanley Future Generation Scholarship, a 
flagship program in the U.K. to support up to 25 
students annually from ethnic-minority and/or socially 
mobile backgrounds with an internship at the bank 
“The Morgan Stanley Future Generation  and significant financial assistance to meet their 
Scholarship program is a bold commitment and an  university fees and associated living costs. The initiative, 
acceleration of our efforts to diversify attraction  championed by Morgan Stanley’s Institute for Inclusion, 
and recruitment processes.” forms a key part of the Firm’s holistic diversity and 
inclusion strategy aimed at meaningfully supporting  
CLARE WOODMAN
and advancing the career aspirations of ethnic minority 
Head of EMEA
and/or socially disadvantaged student talent.
14 MORGAN STANLEY
MORGAN STANLEY 2021 DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION REPORT
MORGAN STANLEY 
EXPERIENCED 
PROFESSIONALS 
PROGRAM
Experienced Hiring
Launched in the US in the fall of 
2020, Morgan Stanley’s Experienced 
Morgan Stanley’s Experienced Recruiting team 
Professionals Program is designed to 
proactively sources diverse candidates, and ensures  make racial equity a reality. High-
achieving, diverse professionals, from 
we maintain dialogue with diverse talent for future 
a broad range of industries with two 
opportunities.  or more years of post-graduate work, 
are invited to participate. The goal is 
The team leverages a broad network of industry and third-party relationships, as 
to expand the talent pool of diverse 
well as online resources, to attract and hire from diverse and underrepresented 
professionals in finance and help 
groups. In addition, we have invested in programs that connect us with diverse 
pave the way for their success.
experienced professionals from within financial services, as well as other sectors.
Those selected for the program are 
Through partnerships with organizations such as iRelaunch, the National  provided with a two-year runway to 
Association for Black Accountants and the Association for Latino Professionals of  learn about our sector, develop the 
America, and programs like our Return to Work and veteran recruiting initiatives,  skills they need to thrive in financial 
we have continued to see strong diverse representation among experienced  services and receive the mentorship 
hires: In 2020, 39% of our experienced hires were women and 37% were  and access to build relationships 
ethnically diverse.1 across the bank.
The announcement of the program 
drew over 800 applicants, and 20 
Asia Pacific and Japan were chosen for the first cohort. 
Currently, there are over 60 Black 
and Hispanic professionals in the 
Morgan Stanley opened its doors in Japan in 1970, and we   program, which is rapidly expanding 
established our presence in Hong Kong in 1987. Since then   globally with the newest cohort 
launching in London in the fall of 2021. 
we have seen our presence grow significantly across the  
region. As we’ve grown, so too has the diversity of our  
colleagues, adding to the rich tapestry of our culture.  
A long-term focus on gender inclusion across the Asia region has helped ensure that our 
diversity and inclusion efforts align to the needs of our employees across the region —  
a core part of our overall strategy.
CREATING PATHWAYS FOR SUCCESS
Now in its sixth year in India, our critically acclaimed 
Return to Work program continues to grow in the region, 
providing opportunities for experienced professionals 
who have taken a career break to reenter the workforce. 
•   Since launching in 2015 with 10 participants, we have 
grown to nearly 60 participants in our most recent 
“The need for talent is paramount, and 
cohort, and are expecting a class size of over 100 in the 
coming year.  Morgan Stanley is investing in our future through 
its focus on building a more diverse workforce."
•   In addition to being our largest cohort to date, 2021 
also saw a record conversion rate with more than 90%  GOKUL LAROIA
receiving offers to join the Firm full time. CEO, Asia Pacific
1.  U.S. ethnically diverse includes American Indian or Native Alaskan, Asian, Black or African American, Hispanic or Latino, Native Hawaiian or Pacific 
Islander, and Two or More Races
15 MORGAN STANLEY
MORGAN STANLEY 2021 DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION REPORT
By the Numbers:  
Workforce Diversity
SGELONBIOALR S LEENAIODRE LRESAHDIEPRSHIP
WOMEN ETHNICALLY DIVERSE1
2020 2020
Board 33% Board 20%
Operating  22% Operating  17%
Committee Committee 
Management  21% Management  31%
Committee Committee
1.  Ethnicity for our Board of Directors, Operating Committee and Management Committee  
is represented globally
16 MORGAN STANLEY
MORGAN STANLEY 2021 DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION REPORT
By the Numbers:  
Workforce Diversity
GLOBAL WOMEN1
FIRMWIDE AMERICAS
2020 2020
Overall 39% Overall 39%
Officers 26% Officers 26%
EMEA
Europe, Middle East and Africa Asia-Pacific and Japan
2020 2020
Overall 36% Overall 42%
Officers 27% Officers 30%
1.  Officers includes Managing Directors, Executive Directors and Vice Presidents
17 MORGAN STANLEY
MORGAN STANLEY 2021 DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION REPORT
By the Numbers:  
Workforce Diversity
U.S. ETHNICALLY DIVERSE1
U.S. BLACK U.S. HISPANIC
2020 2020
Overall 6% Overall 8%
Officers 3% Officers 5%
U.S. ASIAN U.S. OVERALL ETHNICALLY DIVERSE2
2020 2020
Overall 14% Overall 30%
Officers 15% Officers 24%
1.  Officers includes Managing Directors, Executive Directors and Vice Presidents
2.  U.S. ethnically diverse includes American Indian or Native Alaskan, Asian, Black or African American, 
Hispanic or Latino, Native Hawaiian or Pacific Islander, and Two or More Races
18 MORGAN STANLEY
MORGAN STANLEY 2021 DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION REPORT
By the Numbers:  
Workforce Diversity
CAMPUS RECRUITING
GLOBAL WOMEN U.S. BLACK
2020 2020
Full-Time 50% Full-Time 10%
Summer 49% Summer 10%
U.S. HISPANIC U.S. ASIAN
2020 2020
11% Full-Time 28%
Full-Time
Summer 15% Summer 30%
U.S. OVERALL ETHNICALLY DIVERSE1
2020
Full-Time 53%
Summer 59%
1.  U.S. ethnically diverse includes American Indian or Native 
Alaskan, Asian, Black or African American, Hispanic or Latino, 
Native Hawaiian or Pacific Islander, and Two or More Races
19 MORGAN STANLEY
Advancement:  
Developing and Supporting 
Diverse Talent
Helping our employees thrive, achieve their full 
potential and bring value to our clients begins with 
our managers and leaders. In alignment with our 
focus on accountability, we help our people managers 
acquire the skills to lead and develop diverse 
talent. This includes ongoing inclusive leadership 
training to help ensure we are actively mitigating the 
impact of potential bias, and offerings that support 
underrepresented and diverse employees.
20 MORGAN STANLEY
A Comprehensive Review of 
Our Talent Processes
“Fostering a culture of inclusion to 
In 2020, we committed to review each of our core 
attract, develop and retain diverse
talent processes to ensure that we had maximized 
talent is a core commitment of 
opportunities for all employees, particularly women 
the Board. Ensuring our talent
and persons of color, and adopted best practices at each  processes are fair and free of bias 
critical junction in the employee experience.  is critical to achieving success in
that mission.”
In January of 2021, in collaboration with a team of independent experts, we conducted  RAYFORD WILKINS, JR.
a comprehensive review of our core talent processes, including talent acquisition,  Morgan Stanley Board Director
employee assessment, development and advancement. This intensive review included 
dozens of interviews with internal subject matter experts, senior leaders and process 
participants, as well as focused “hackathons” designed to identify opportunities to 
enhance fairness.
At the conclusion of the review, the experts’ findings and recommendations were 
shared with management and other key stakeholders, including the Morgan Stanley 
Board of Directors and the independent Advisory Board of the Morgan Stanley 
Institute for Inclusion. Implementation of the recommendations derived from the 
review will be a multiyear process, and will include changes to these core processes. 
Other policy and program changes are already underway. 
Key recommended actions include:
FOCUS ON THE MANAGER TALENT DEVELOPMENT
Provide additional support and training to people managers  Continue to offer targeted development programs for 
to ensure that they are following a clear, consistent and fair  underrepresented groups. Ensure diverse talent has support, 
process. Up-skill managers to increase awareness of unconscious  access and opportunities to advance at the Firm. Leverage 
bias; improve manager engagement and accountability in the  mentorship and sponsorship initiatives to help diverse talent 
performance evaluation process. Provide employees new to  build strong relationships across the Firm.
people management with the support needed to maximize their 
effectiveness.
EMPLOYEE ASSESSMENT
TALENT ACQUISITION Ensure that critical components of the employee assessment 
cycle are well-defined and understood by people managers, 
Cast a wider net across academic institutions and industries 
and applied consistently. Educate managers and provide them 
to attract a more diverse applicant pool. Implement diverse 
with skills-based training to deliver meaningful, bias-free 
candidate and interviewer slate requirements, as well as 
feedback. Incorporate D&I accountability markers into employee 
structured interviewing programs. Review job descriptions to 
performance evaluations.
eliminate unnecessary barriers to entry, and take advantage 
of available tools to level the playing field and eliminate 
unconscious bias.
21 MORGAN STANLEY
MORGAN STANLEY 2021 DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION REPORT
Investing in Ethnically Diverse Employees 
Continuing to support and advance ethnically diverse employees is a focus 
for our Firm. To bring this ambition to life, we launched a new effort — The 
Institute for Inclusion Talent Accelerator — to deepen our investment in our 
own talent. The Talent Accelerator is specifically designed to support the 
growth of diverse talent. 
The Multicultural Leadership Program, a core offering of the IFI Talent Accelerator, supports career advancement 
for Black, Hispanic and Asian Vice Presidents and Executive Directors at the Firm through targeted skill development, 
guidance on career management, one-on-one coaching and opportunities to meet with senior leaders and network with 
peers. This offering builds on the investments into diverse talent from our Leader Engagement and Development (LEAD) 
program that began in 2011.
In addition, our Multicultural Professional Development Series for Black and Hispanic campus hires provides 
professional development opportunities for, and fosters interactions with senior, mid-level and peer leaders for incoming 
junior talent.
Investing in Women
To achieve greater gender equity, we offer a range of targeted programs to help 
women at our Firm thrive. In addition to supporting advancement for ethnically 
diverse colleagues, the Institute for Inclusion’s new Talent Accelerator also 
focused its efforts on creating new programs to support the advancement of 
women at Morgan Stanley.
The all-new Women’s Leadership Program for Executive Directors and Vice Presidents in North America represents a 
significant investment in the development and advancement of women at the Firm. The program is designed to further 
career growth for women officers at the Firm through targeted skill development, guidance on career management,  
one-on-one coaching and opportunities to meet with senior leaders and network with peers. This new offering builds  
on the success of our Women’s Development Series that has reached more than 430 women since its launch in 2011.
In Europe and Asia, we continue to offer our Platinum Program, a highly customized, six-month development program 
for women at the Executive Director level. During the program, employees complete a leadership assessment, receive 
professional coaching and participate in leadership development workshops to help them advance their careers.
22 MORGAN STANLEY
MORGAN STANLEY 2021 DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION REPORT
Europe, Middle East and Africa
Morgan Stanley was an early signatory of the U.K. Women in Finance Charter 
and the U.K. Race at Work Charter. Participation in these efforts has driven 
progress across the organization.
U.K. WOMEN IN FINANCE CHARTER
We committed to increasing U.K. representation of women in senior roles to at least 30% 
by January 2023. As of September 2020, we have exceeded our minimum goal at 32.8%. 
Additionally:
•  Representation of women on the Morgan Stanley International Board rose to 38% in 2020
•  R epresentation of women on our EMEA Operating Committee increased to 39% in 2020
U.K. RACE AT WORK CHARTER
The U.K. Government's Race at Work Charter aims to ensure that ethnic-minority 
employees are represented at all levels in an organization. Morgan Stanley signed on 
to this commitment in 2018.
Since joining, we have made progress against the Charter commitments, including:
•  E stablishing the Race to Action Group 
•  L aunching mandatory "Let's Talk About Race" workshops designed to educate, equip 
and support leaders to confidently speak about and address race in the workplace. 
More than 2,000 employees across the region have participated.
In addition, we continue to focus on expanding the Firm’s signature initiatives globally 
with the launch of the Morgan Stanley Multicultural Innovation Lab and the Morgan 
Stanley Experienced Professionals Program in London.
“As a signatory to the U.K. Race at Work Charter, we 
demonstrate our ongoing and evolving commitment 
to ensuring equitable career opportunity for all 
ethnically diverse talent, and drive a range of strategic 
initiatives across the organization with a focus on race 
and inclusion.”
TOSIN AKINLUYI
Managing Director, Head of EMEA Macro Research
23 MORGAN STANLEY
Compensation Philosophy and 
Commitment to Equitable Pay Practices
Morgan Stanley’s compensation programs are designed 
to attract and retain top talent and deliver pay for 
sustained performance in support of the Firm’s 
culture, core values and shareholder interests, and 
mitigating risk.
The Firm has a “pay for performance” compensation 
philosophy and rewards employees for the 
achievement of both financial and nonfinancial goals.
Attracting, retaining and advancing  PAY PRACTICES COMMITMENT TO ONGOING 
diverse talent is a priority for Morgan  REVIEWS AND ASSESSMENT
Compensation decisions are made in 
Stanley, and our policies and practices, 
consideration of a variety of performance  Employee compensation decisions are 
including those on pay, reflect and 
factors and in the context of industry  regularly reviewed and adjustments are 
promote that commitment.
compensation levels and structures.  made when warranted. Select regional 
Our compensation programs are  Compensation managers make decisions  policies prohibit the solicitation or use 
competitive within our industry and  informed by employee performance  of previous compensation history, which 
help ensure equitable rewards for all  dashboards and tools, and receive   helps minimize the risk of perpetuating 
employees through: training to assist them when making  pay inequities when an employee is hired. 
•  R obust practices to support fair and  compensation decisions. We conduct market analyses to ensure 
consistent compensation, and help  pay in each location, job level and function 
ensure reward decisions are based   Performance factors influencing  is competitive.
on merit compensation decisions include:
These practices help to ensure equity in 
•  O  ngoing review of compensation  •  E mployee’s absolute and relative 
pay across the Firm.
decisions, including at the points of hire,  performance in an individual and/or 
promotion and mobility supervisory capacity
•  R egular assessment of our rewards  •  C  onduct and adherence to the  
structure to help ensure equity for   Firm’s core values and other policies 
all employees and procedures, including any  
related discipline
•  P erformance feedback elicited  
through the Firm’s performance 
evaluation processes 
•  Market and competitive factors
MORGAN STANLEY 2021 DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION REPORT
Gender Pay Gap Reporting
In line with U.K. legislative requirements, in 2017 we 
issued our first Morgan Stanley U.K. Group Gender Pay 
Gap report. Since the publication of that report we have 
made progress in reducing the Gender Pay Gap. 
In 2017 we reported a median figure of 35.2%. In 2018, we reduced that number by 
0.9% to 34.3%. In 2019 and 2020, the gap was reduced further to 31.5% and 30.4% 
respectively. These improvements demonstrate that our efforts to decrease the 
Gender Pay Gap are having an impact, however we still have considerable work to  
do to further decrease the gap, and to achieve gender balance in our workforce  
across all levels. 
MORGAN STANLEY U.K. GROUP GENDER PAY GAP
2020 
Median Figure 2017  2018  2019 
Median Figure Median Figure Median Figure
30.4% 35.2% 34.3% 31.5%
A reduction of 0.9% A reduction of 2.8%
A reduction of 1.1%
THE GENDER PAY GAP EXPLAINED 
The Gender Pay Gap is a measure of the average pay difference between women and men across an 
organization regardless of role or level. This is different from Gender Pay Equity, which measures whether 
women and men are paid equally for the same or similar roles, or for work of equal value.
25 MORGAN STANLEY
Culture: Inclusion 
and Belonging at 
Morgan Stanley
Our culture is a competitive advantage and a source of 
resilience in times of crisis. We recognize that we must 
continue to evolve our culture so that it represents the 
beliefs and values of our increasingly diverse workforce 
and stakeholders.
To achieve this goal, all of our leaders and employees 
are expected to uphold our culture through their actions 
and behaviors. Our commitment to this standard is 
reflected in the expectations set forth in our newest 
core value: Commit to Diversity and Inclusion.
26 MORGAN STANLEY
MORGAN STANLEY 2021 DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION REPORT
Employee Networks
Our Employee Networks are a critical part of our 
inclusion strategy. They drive employee engagement 
and create a framework for cross-business connectivity 
and idea sharing.
Our networks empower employees to connect, share their distinct experiences, 
learn and develop professionally, support each other and give back to their 
Our Diversity and Inclusion 
communities through philanthropic and volunteer efforts. Equally important, 
Employee Networks
feedback from network members helps the Firm better understand the needs of 
our diverse employees and shape our diversity strategy and programs.
GLOBAL
Our Women’s Business Alliance recently launched a new program, The Emerging 
Women Leaders Network. This initiative connects and empowers early- to mid- disAbility Employee Network 
career women to support each other’s professional and personal development.  Family Network 
Pride and Ally LGBT+ Employee Network 
The network aims to bring together employees to create a cross-cultural and  
Women’s Business Alliance
cross-divisional community in which information and insights can be shared, and 
organic networks can be formed.
AMERICAS
Asian Employee Network 
OUR EMPLOYEE NETWORKS
Black Employee Network 
Latinx Employee Network 
15 36
Veterans Employee Network
Firmwide networks  local chapters ASIA PACIFIC AND JAPAN
around the world
Multicultural Alliance 
EMEA
African and Caribbean Business Alliance 
EMEA Military Network 
Glasgow Cultural Awareness Network 
Net East Asia 
Net South Asia 
Net-Éire
27 MORGAN STANLEY
MORGAN STANLEY 2021 DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION REPORT
Focusing on the LGBT+ Community
SUPPORTING OUR  
PARTNERS DURING  
In 2021, Morgan Stanley received a perfect score on 
CRITICAL TIMES
the Human Rights Campaign’s Corporate Equality Index 
During COVID-19, The New York 
for the 15th consecutive year, continuing the distinction 
LGBT Community Center saw a  
of being a Best Place to Work for LGBT+ Equality.  40% increase in demand for its 
services, including mental health 
counseling and substance abuse 
This recognition underscores the Firm's long-standing commitment to the LGBT+ 
treatment. Morgan Stanley 
community around the world. Morgan Stanley consistently offers steadfast support 
responded by expanding its longtime 
in many ways, from being a leader in the fight for marriage equality in the U.S. to 
support of The Center to become  
joining the EU Diversity Charter to support diverse and inclusive workplaces. 
a Premier Partner.
Our Pride and Ally employee network focuses on delivering groundbreaking  Since 1983, The Center has 
programming globally to our employees, clients and prospects. With an emphasis  been championing the LGBT+ 
on inclusion, belonging and allyship, this year’s offerings featured experts and  community in New York City 
thought leaders such as Transgender Legal Defense Fund Executive Director Andy  and the surrounding region as a 
Marra, NYC LGBT Community Center Director Glennda Testone and Senator Sarah  one-of-a-kind organization that 
McBride, the first openly transgender state senator in the U.S. In our signature  empowers community members 
conversation during Pride Month, Senator McBride discussed her personal story,  to lead healthy, successful lives. 
and how her life experiences have influenced her work to advocate for the LGBT+  Morgan Stanley’s support helps  
community and create change through public policy. The Center fulfill its mission  
to empower LGBT+ people and 
ultimately build a  
stronger community. 
MORGAN STANLEY 2021 DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION REPORT
ADDRESSING THE IMPACT OF RACIAL TRAUMA 
Our employee networks continue to be one of the most effective conduits for understanding the day-to-day lived experiences 
of our employees. As the unfortunate rise in violence towards Asians unfolded across the globe, it became clear that we 
needed to offer resources for our employees to come together, discuss their experiences with racial discrimination and receive 
the support of the Firm.
Together with our long-time partner The Steve Fund, our Institute for Inclusion and the Asian Employee Network, the firm 
curated a series of offerings to help Asian colleagues navigate this crisis. 
Offerings included a conversation with Dr. Hendry Ton, M.D., M.S., Associate Vice Chancellor for Health Equity, Diversity and 
Inclusion, UC Davis. The discussion focused on the emotional impact of racial trauma on the community and provided tangible 
tools to help colleagues cope, and to be better equipped to provide support to family and friends.
Additionally, our Chairman and CEO James P. Gorman and Chief Human Resources Officer Mandell Crawley hosted a 
conversation with Kenji Yoshino, distinguished law professor at NYU and Advisory Board member of our Institute for Inclusion, 
on the increase in anti-Asian violence.
Ensuring the personal safety of colleagues was also critical. Sessions on personal safety were led by our Head of Corporate 
Services Ekene Ezulike, and our Corporate Security teams. During the sessions, we discussed how the Firm addresses safety  
in our locations globally, and provided tips for employee personal safety when commuting. 
“The Firm’s efforts to increase 
awareness and education 
were swift and comprehensive. 
Employees felt seen, prioritized 
and supported, something 
that was vital during such a 
difficult time.”
JULIE CHUNG  
Executive Director, Institutional 
Equities, and Co-Chair of the Asian 
Employee Network
29 MORGAN STANLEY
A Holistic Approach to Our Employees’ 
Health and Well-being
Providing best-in-class and comprehensive benefits to 
support the physical, mental and financial well-being of 
our global workforce and their families is foundational.
The Firm’s portfolio of benefits and  •  Carryover for unused flexible spending 
resources supports employees at all life  account funds, and a doubling of the 
stages and during challenging times. Our  amount of before-tax dollars parents 
benefits consider our diverse workforce,  could set aside for childcare expenses Supporting Our 
including the unique needs of women,  •  An enhanced paid parental leave policy,  Transgender Colleagues
people of color, LGBT+ colleagues,  waiving service requirements and giving 
veterans and people with disabilities.  nonprimary caregivers greater flexibility  GENDER AFFIRMATION 
We help employees and their families of  when taking leave, as well as extended 
BENEFITS AND RESOURCES
all backgrounds achieve wellness goals,  leave for NICU stays and stillbirths
manage chronic illnesses, grow their  Starting in 2022, Morgan Stanley 
families and build sound financial futures. EXPANDING OUR FAMILY  is enhancing its medical plan 
SUPPORT PROGRAMS offerings in the U.S. to further assist 
SOLICITING FEEDBACK FROM  employees and their dependents 
At Morgan Stanley, family matters. At the 
who identify as transgender, non-
OUR GLOBAL WORKFORCE
start of the pandemic, the Firm committed 
binary or intersex. Our medical 
In May, Morgan Stanley conducted a  to assisting employees caring for their 
plan will cover additional services 
global benefits survey to ensure our  children and adult loved ones.
that are crucial to transitioning, 
benefits continue to meet the needs of  On internal surveys, employees identified  such as hormone therapy, facial 
our employees. Over three quarters of  childcare as a key stressor and hurdle to  feminization or masculinization, and 
employees reported satisfaction with  working productively — at the office or  voice therapy.
the Firm’s benefits, and analysis showed  at home. This issue disproportionately 
that female employees and employees  affected women and employees of color.  In addition, we have also invested in 
of color reported that our mental health  We expanded our backup child and adult  resources to help employees access 
benefits and family support programs  care program in the U.S. by adding 10  other Firm benefits, such as mental 
were high-value differentiators. extra family support days for a total of 40  health support, legal assistance 
plans and hospital indemnity 
days in 2021. We also enhanced our family 
KEEPING EMPLOYEES  support programs to include discounted  insurance to help as they transition.
HEALTHY AND SAFE tutoring, at-home learning options and 
free resilience coaching for parents, and 
The health of our employees has always 
expanded the use of family support days 
been paramount, and in the face of the 
to include tutoring. Similar enhancements 
extraordinary challenges COVID-19 
were introduced in the U.K. and Ireland.
presented in 2020, we redoubled our 
efforts, launching a series of offerings  In 2022, the Firm will also be expanding 
to support our colleagues. These  its family-building support for employees. 
offerings included: With the introduction of a new lifetime 
maximum of $75,000 for fertility 
•  Expanded mental health options, 
services through the Firm’s medical plan, 
ensuring employees and their 
employees in the U.S. will receive financial 
dependents had expedited access to 
support towards fertility services, 
quality mental health care at no cost
adoption or surrogacy. This is an increase 
from the previous allocation of $30,000 
for fertility services and $10,000 for 
adoption and surrogacy per child.
30 MORGAN STANLEY
Outreach:  
Fostering Diversity and 
Inclusion Externally
Our efforts to promote inclusion extend beyond  
the Firm’s four walls. Wherever we operate, we  
engage with and support diverse communities through 
our business practices, philanthropic offerings 
and diverse supplier program. We understand the 
importance of diversity and inclusion to our clients  
and investor communities.
31 MORGAN STANLEY
MORGAN STANLEY 2021 DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION REPORT
Investing in Diverse Entrepreneurs to 
Address the Funding Gap THE MORGAN STANLEY  
NEXT LEVEL FUND
Combining the expertise and reach 
When we established the Morgan Stanley Multicultural  of Morgan Stanley Investment 
Management (MSIM) and the 
Client Strategy Group (MCSG), its goal was to develop 
Multicultural Client Strategy Group, 
the Firm’s strategy to address the significant market  we launched The Morgan Stanley 
inefficiency that limits access to capital for women  Next Level Fund, L.P. (“Next Level” 
or the “Fund”). The Fund, part of 
and multicultural technology entrepreneurs and small 
MSIM’s Private Credit & Equity 
business owners. Six years later, the work of the MCSG  platform, invests in primarily early-
stage technology and technology-
continues to grow, fostering collaboration across all 
enabled companies with women 
parts of the Firm, and driving greater outcomes for  or diverse members as part of the 
diverse communities.  founding team from target sectors 
including technology, consumer/
retail, financial technology, health 
The MCSG’s innovative approach to bridging investment gaps focuses on changing 
care and media & entertainment. 
investor attitudes and behaviors, investing directly in early-stage technology companies 
Investors in the strategy include 
founded by women and/or people of color, and bridging the gap between investors 
key inaugural corporate partners: 
and underrepresented entrepreneurs.
Hearst, Microsoft and Walmart. 
This new strategy builds upon the 
MORGAN STANLEY MULTICULTURAL INNOVATION LAB
expertise of the Morgan Stanley 
Founded in 2017, the Morgan Stanley Multicultural Innovation Lab is our in-house  Multicultural Innovation Lab, our 
accelerator for early-stage tech and tech-enabled startups led by multicultural and  in-house startup accelerator, and 
women entrepreneurs. Each year, the Lab hosts two cohorts of startup companies for  HearstLab, which provides cash 
a unique, five-month experience to drive positive economic outcomes and bridge the  investment and services to early-
market inefficiencies facing underrepresented entrepreneurs. stage, women-led startups. 
Now in its sixth cohort, the program has invested in 51 companies. Previous participants  These initiatives work to support 
have used the platform to secure additional funding rounds, refine their strategy and  underrepresented founders and to 
expand their business — and some have been acquired. In 2021, the Lab doubled its size  close the trillion-dollar funding gap, 
to two cohorts, and the Firm increased its investment commitment in each company  one firm at a time.
from $200,000 to $250,000.
The lab is also expanding globally, with an EMEA location opening in London in 
January of 2022. 
“Investing in diverse-led companies in their infancy is vital to ensuring success. Innovative 
technology and developments could be slipping through the cracks due to funding 
restrictions, and with this effort we hope to be able to support diverse talent through  
the startup phase to grow their businesses.”
CARLA HARRIS
Vice Chairman, Morgan Stanley
32 MORGAN STANLEY
MORGAN STANLEY 2021 DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION REPORT
Our Community Engagement and Support
This year marks the 60th Anniversary of the Morgan Stanley Foundation. 
Embodying the Firm's core values of giving back and committing  Additionally, the Alliance introduced a reemergence program 
to diversity and inclusion, the Morgan Stanley Foundation  to provide support and resources for those directly addressing 
focuses on supporting underserved communities through  children’s mental health issues in the 2021 – 2022 school year. 
partnerships, community engagement and volunteering.   This multifaceted program aims to help teens reengage with 
Since February 2020, the Foundation has prioritized access to  school and their daily activities. Key components of the program 
physical and mental health care, healthy and nutritious food   include teen and educator surveys, parent and educator tip 
and safe places to play. sheets and guides, comprehensive digital resources and a 
convening for educators and school administrators. 
In February 2020, the Foundation partnered with mental health 
nonprofit experts to create the Morgan Stanley Alliance for  Supporting diverse communities and young people of color 
Children’s Mental Health. The Alliance works to fund critical  through scholarships, professional development, internships 
research on children’s mental health, as well as growing  and early career opportunities has also been a priority for  
programs in schools, hospitals and doctors’ offices globally,  the Foundation for over 30 years. Key initiatives include the 
and establishing capacity building grants for organizations like  Richard B. Fisher Scholars Program, which awards college 
The Steve Fund, the nation’s leading organization focused on  scholarships and summer internships to promising underserved 
supporting the mental health and well-being of young people of  students, and partnerships with the Hispanic Federation, 
color. This collaboration has already reached over three million  Sponsors for Educational Opportunity, and Prep for Prep,  
students, families and teachers, many of whom are from diverse  which help advance young students of color.
and underserved groups. 
ADDITIONAL EFFORTS 
In April 2021, the Alliance launched the Innovation Awards to 
When the COVID-19 pandemic hit, Morgan Stanley provided 
identify and fund mental health care solutions for children and 
emergency aid and support to the most affected communities 
young adults across the U.S. This program specifically addresses 
around the world. Nearly $30 million was donated to organizations 
the lack of both private and public investment in children’s 
supporting workers and vulnerable populations to address issues 
mental health, and effective ways to connect innovative ideas 
such as food insecurity, health care and mental well-being. 
with financial support. Over 850 applications from across the 
country were submitted with five winning nonprofits selected. 
Adapting to last year’s remote environment, our virtual Move 
The organizations are led by diverse leaders and address a 
for Meals campaign enabled employees around the world to 
diverse set of communities, geographies and needs through 
support our global feeding partners by completing activity and 
their transformative and culturally responsive models.
movement goals. Fifteen thousand employees participated from 
533 cities, and the firm matched these efforts by donating  
$5 million — the equivalent of 50 million meals. 
“COVID-19 and all its repercussions  
have taken a huge toll on children’s 
mental health, particularly in 
underserved communities. With 
exponential increases in depression 
and anxiety among children around the 
world, it is clear we need coordinated 
efforts to support children’s mental 
health resources and research.”
JOAN STEINBERG
Global Head of Philanthropy and  
President of the Morgan Stanley Foundation
MORGAN STANLEY 2021 DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION REPORT
Supplier Diversity
SUPPLIER DIVERSITY  
Our Supplier Diversity Program seeks out  GUIDING PRACTICES 
suppliers owned by ethnically diverse individuals, 
•  M  onitor the engagement of 
women, veterans, people with disabilities and  diverse suppliers through 
members of the LGBT+ community to supply  quarterly and annual reviews and 
we continually analyze our goals 
hundreds of our offices worldwide.
against overall annual spend and 
at the commodity level to identify 
A diverse vendor base helps support the building and growth of the  opportunities to improve.
economies in the communities in which we operate. We continue to 
•  M  aintain and expand our Supplier 
broaden our supplier pool to include diverse business owners.
Diversity Program, evolve our 
We are proud to partner with the following organizations on our supplier  engagement guidelines, and 
diversity efforts: conduct training sessions for our 
Firmwide Sourcing Professionals.
•   National Minority Supplier Development Council
•  M  aintain an internal supplier 
•   New York and New Jersey Minority Supplier Development Council 
diversity database, allowing 
•   Women’s Business Enterprise Council Metro NY
suppliers to register company 
•   Women’s Business Enterprise National Council information, describe their 
•   National Gay and Lesbian Chamber of Commerce services and upload their diversity 
certifications.
•   U.S. Pan-Asian American Chamber of Commerce
•   WEConnect International  •  I nclude supplier diversity language 
in key documentation, including 
•   Minority Supplier Development U.K.
our Global Procedures for Supplier 
Selection and Engagement and 
Supplier Code of Conduct.
•  T hrough our annual Supplier 
Diversity Champion award, 
recognize outstanding sourcing 
managers who achieve the most 
diverse representation in the 
request for proposal (RFP) process.
MORGAN STANLEY 2021 DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION REPORT
Financial Inclusion and Capital Building
INCLUSIVE AND SUSTAINABLE FINANCE
At Morgan Stanley, we advance our sustainability priorities by driving innovation and transformational 
progress across global capital markets. Our goal is to be the financial services partner of choice for 
creating sustainable, long-term value across Institutional Securities, Investment Management and 
Wealth Management. We have a proven track record of developing innovative financial solutions and 
advisory services that deliver both competitive financial returns and positive impact.
The Morgan Stanley Institute for Sustainable Investing identified topics core to the Firm’s 
sustainability strategy, such as inclusive growth, climate change and plastic waste. Morgan Stanley 
defines inclusive growth as economic gains that are broad-based, sustainable and provide opportunity 
to economic system participants. Diversity and inclusion is key for inclusive growth, and financial 
institutions have an important role to play. Highlights of Morgan Stanley’s approach to inclusive and 
sustainable finance throughout 2020-2021 are outlined below.
MORGAN STANLEY’S $1Bn SOCIAL BOND
38,484 98,657 $123,369,178
Affordable Units Beneficiaries Annual Cost Savings
In 2020, Morgan Stanley issued its first $1Bn social bond to support affordable housing 
across the United States. The bond has supported over 400 housing projects so far, 
benefiting nearly 100,000 people across the U.S. who are struggling to meet housing 
costs in the pandemic-affected economy. See our 2021 Social Bond Impact Report here.
INSTITUTIONAL SECURITIES GROUP
Teams across our Institutional Securities Group work with our Community Development Finance 
(CDF) team to fund affordable housing and community services. In partnership with Morgan Stanley 
Public Finance, CDF introduced a new source of capital to communities by tapping public markets for 
Community Development Financial Institutions (CDFIs) and nonprofit affordable housing developers. 
In 2020, Morgan Stanley Public Finance worked with BRIDGE Housing, a nonprofit affordable 
housing developer, to underwrite the first taxable social bond of its kind to support development 
and acquisition of multifamily affordable housing, transit-oriented development, green buildings and 
energy efficiency projects in high-cost, high-density areas on the West Coast. 
In 2021, our Global Capital Markets business served as Diversity and Inclusion Coordinator for 11 
investment-grade bond transactions, including Verizon’s $25Bn Senior Notes offering and Amazon’s 
$18.5Bn Senior Note offering. These efforts led to significant deal allocations to minority-owned, 
veteran-owned and woman-owned underwriters.
35 MORGAN STANLEY
MORGAN STANLEY 2021 DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION REPORT
WEALTH MANAGEMENT INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT 
Our Investing with Impact platform leverages its technology,  In 2020-2021, we launched several investment strategies to 
scale, research and resources to pursue product innovation and  further our D&I efforts, including:
diverse-managed investment options. Resources such as our 
•    The Calvert Diversity Research Strategies, comprised of global 
Gender Equality and Racial Equity Investing toolkits, as well 
listed companies demonstrating progress and leadership in 
as our 120-plus investment products incorporating gender and 
cultivating a diverse and inclusive workforce culture.
racial equity criteria, provide our Financial Advisors with a range 
•    An enhanced MSILF Government Securities Portfolio, with a 
of client resources. Of the $65Bn in client assets on the platform, 
commitment to executing purchase transactions with diverse 
$12Bn are allocated to women and minority-owned investment 
broker-dealers. 
products1. In October 2020, we launched the Diversity & 
MSIM’s Sustainable Investing Policy recognizes DEI as a core 
Inclusion Investment Office to continuously and systematically 
component of our focus on ESG factors, and “Diverse & Inclusive 
support these efforts.
Business” is one of MSIM’s four priority themes for research, 
Our patented and proprietary reporting application, 
company engagement and investment stewardship. We leverage 
Morgan Stanley Impact Quotient® (Morgan Stanley IQ), helps 
DEI-oriented conversations with companies to improve long-term 
our Financial Advisors and clients prioritize diversity, equity 
talent retention and management. 
and inclusion (DEI) within their investment decisions. In 2020, 
In 2020, 32% of MSIM’s engagements included a DEI focus. 
we enhanced the range of DEI metrics available through 
Calvert focused on engaging its top 100 holdings on diversity 
Morgan Stanley IQ analytics to include factors such as the gender 
reporting over the two prior years, which led to enhanced 
pay gap, parental leave and sexual harassment prevention.
disclosures from a number of companies. 
In 2021, we launched Impact Diversity Portfolios to advance 
Over the coming years, MSIM will enhance DEI integration by 
DEI by investing in companies with strong DEI policies, products 
leveraging DEI metrics in investment across asset classes to 
and services, as well as diverse portfolio management and firm 
mitigate risk and enable alpha generation.
leadership teams. The portfolios target the three I’s of Impact: 
Intentionality, Influence and Inclusion (see graphic below). 
Based on assets raised every 
Wealth  INFLUENCE year, a minimum total donation 
Management's   Asset managers that utilize  of $150,000 will be made to 
3 i's of Impact active dialogue, proxy voting  qualifying nonprofit organizations 
and/or resolutions to modify 
advancing DEI.2
corporate behavior of portfolio 
companies, and seek to influence 
INTENTIONALITY the industry through affiliations,  Finally, with the proprietary asset 
global frameworks and capacity-  manager scoring tool DEI Signal, we 
Intentional investment process 
that seeks to generate market- building efforts. have further enabled diverse fund 
rate returns alongside positive  APPROACHES:  manager selection for our Financial 
social and environmental  Shareholder Engagement,  Advisors and clients.
impact in one or more of the  Capacity Building
following ways:
•    Select companies whose 
INCLUSION
products & services create 
sustainability solutions Utilize asset managers with a  1.  Data as of June 31, 2021 
focus on diversity, equity and 
•    Consider environmental, social  2.  A minimum/maximum of 
inclusion (DEI). 
and governance (ESG) criteria $150,000/$500,000 will be donated 
•    Reduce exposure to companies  APPROACHES:  to qualifying nonprofit organizations 
that detract from the intended  Diverse Representation Across  advancing DEI. Annual donation amounts 
positive impact Investment Professionals  are based on assets raised, funded by 
& Ownership Morgan Stanley Wealth Management.
36 MORGAN STANLEY
Focus on the Future
Creating meaningful and sustainable  
change in diversity, inclusion and  
belonging requires focus and 
investment. We understand that  
we must continue to invest more  From Our 
deeply and leverage the collective  
Chief Human 
strength of our greatest asset, our  
Resources Officer 
people, to help accelerate change.  
Creating opportunities for all 
When I joined Morgan Stanley 
Morgan Stanley colleagues to thrive  more than 30 years ago, even to 
a 17-year old high school intern, 
while serving our clients and our 
the strong culture of this Firm was 
communities is good for everyone  clearly something special. Three 
and paramount to our success as a  things became clear to me right away: people first, everyone is 
included and leadership matters. Although our Firm has grown 
global financial institution.
dramatically over the course of my time here, those same three 
things are still at the heart of everything we do.
As we look to the future, we are focused on continuing 
I transitioned into my role as Chief Human Resources Officer 
to deliver thought leadership and programming that 
during a time when the Firm continues to evolve, providing both 
help drive greater outcomes not just for our Firm, but 
challenges and, more importantly, opportunities to improve 
also for the communities where we live and work. 
and invest more deeply in our people. Following the addition of 
In 2022, we will launch our new Supplier Diversity  E*TRADE to our family, we also recently welcomed more than 
Small Business Academy. Similar to the successful  1,800 colleagues from Eaton Vance. Together, these strategic 
Morgan Stanley Strategy Challenge Program, this  acquisitions help us continue to deliver high quality financial 
program will leverage the breadth and tenure of the  services around the world.
Firm’s experienced business professionals to help 
Accountability continues to be a core pillar of our diversity and 
diverse-led organizations grow their efforts. 
inclusion strategy. Working with our leaders across the Firm to 
Through our research in partnership with a leading  establish representation objectives will help define success for 
global consulting firm to establish the Morgan Stanley  Morgan Stanley. Taking the unprecedented step of laying out 
Institute of Inclusion, access to higher education  what success looks like for us across our community, in a much 
emerged as a key barrier to greater outcomes for  more explicit way than we historically have, is a big step for  
diverse communities. We are committing $30 million  the organization.
to our Equity in Education and Career Consortium 
We understand that we have more work to do, and as Firm, we’ve 
and we will identify leading organizations that have 
never been better positioned to create change internally and to 
robust programs to help support high school and 
contribute to change externally. We are harnessing the collective 
college students access higher education and achieve 
leadership of our colleagues globally to help us on this mission. 
stronger career and financial outcomes. We believe this 
We will continue to live up to our core values, and together, we 
investment will help to address racial inequities and 
will drive improvements.
drive stronger financial outcomes in the long run for 
these students and their families.
MANDELL CRAWLEY
Chief Human Resources Officer
37 MORGAN STANLEY
Appendices
38 MORGAN STANLEY
MORGAN STANLEY 2021 DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION REPORT
EEO-1 Data
Each year, the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity 
Commission requires all companies that meet 
specific criteria to complete an EEO-1 survey.
The annual survey requires that a company’s U.S. employment data be categorized 
by race/ethnicity and gender in EEOC-defined job categories. For a representative 
view of diversity at the Firm by standard industry categories, see pages 16 – 19.
Morgan Stanley recognizes the value of public disclosure of standardized data 
across companies and industries and, as a result, we have committed to releasing 
our U.S. EEO-1 data annually.
EQUAL OPPORTUNITY REPORT 
2019 EEO-1 Certified Employer Information Report for Morgan Stanley
NATIVE  AMERICAN 
BLACK OR   HAWAIIAN   INDIAN OR  TWO  
HISPANIC   AFRICAN  OR PACIFIC  ALASKAN   OR MORE  
LEVELS OR LATINO WHITE AMERICAN ISLANDER ASIAN NATIVE RACES TOTALS
Executive/Senior Officials and Managers
Male 25 659 18 0 91 0 9 802
Female 7 183 16 0 46 0 3 255
First/Mid Officials and Managers
Male 299 3,847 229 6 1,527 23 57 5,988
Female 238 2,109 290 4 835 10 59 3,545
Professionals
Male 571 3,453 432 11 1,119 20 109 5,715
Female 872 5,675 769 29 1,166 30 155 8,696
Sales Workers
Male 633 10,217 234 16 473 19 129 11,721
Female 194 2,283 84 5 296 6 49 2,917
Administrative Support
Male 59 301 77 1 45 1 13 497
Female 195 645 213 5 121 2 28 1,209
TOTALS 3,093 29,372 2,362 77 2,362 111 611 41,345
EQUAL OPPORTUNITY REPORT 
2020 EEO-1 Certified Employer Information Report for Morgan Stanley
NATIVE  AMERICAN 
BLACK OR   HAWAIIAN   INDIAN OR  TWO  
HISPANIC   AFRICAN  OR PACIFIC  ALASKAN   OR MORE  
LEVELS OR LATINO WHITE AMERICAN ISLANDER ASIAN NATIVE RACES TOTALS
Executive/Senior Officials and Managers
Male 24 657 16 0 93 0 6 796
Female 8 185 18 0 46 0 3 260
First/Mid Officials and Managers
Male 300 3,880 244 6 1,518 22 66 6,036
Female 266 2,160 294 3 874 13 58 3,668
Professionals
Male 673 3,865 503 8 1,118 21 138 6,326
Female 952 5,954 858 30 1,247 31 181 9,253
Sales Workers
Male 639 9,937 244 14 457 19 135 11,445
Female 196 2,246 77 5 309 5 49 2,887
Administrative Support
Male 23 118 34 1 20 1 3 200
Female 153 497 169 5 77 1 22 924
TOTALS 3,234 29,499 2,457 72 5,759 113 661 41,795
40 MORGAN STANLEY
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS 
Certain statements herein, including expectations related to representation objectives and the achievement thereof, may be “forward-looking statements” 
within the meaning of the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are based on management’s current 
expectations and are subject to uncertainty and changes in circumstances. These statements are not guarantees of future results or occurrences. Actual 
results and financial conditions may differ materially from those included in these statements due to a variety of factors, including, among others, global socio-
demographic and economic trends, legislative and regulatory changes, our ability to retain and attract qualified employees in an a competitive environment for 
talent, and other unforeseen events or conditions, and the precautionary statements included in this report and those contained in Morgan Stanley’s periodic 
filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (Exchange Act). Any forward-looking statements made 
by or on behalf of Morgan Stanley speak only as to the date they are made, and Morgan Stanley does not undertake to update forward-looking statements 
to reflect the impact of circumstances or events that arise after the date the forward-looking statements were made. You should, however, consult further 
disclosures Morgan Stanley may make in future filings of its annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K and 
any amendments thereto or in future press releases or other public statements. In addition, while the foregoing discussion describes potential future events that 
may be significant, the significance of those potential events should not be read as equating to materiality as the concept is used in Morgan Stanley’s periodic 
filings with the SEC under the Exchange Act.
The information and opinions in this report were prepared by Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC, Morgan Stanley Smith Barney LLC and their affiliates (collectively 
hereafter, “Morgan Stanley”). Members SIPC.
This report does not provide individually tailored investment advice. It has been prepared for informational purposes only without regard to the individual 
financial circumstances and objectives of persons who receive it. Unless otherwise stated, the material was not prepared by the Morgan Stanley Research 
Department and is not a Research Report as defined under FINRA regulations. Any securities mentioned are provided for informational purposes only 
and should not be deemed as a recommendation to buy or sell. Securities discussed in this report may not be appropriate for all investors. It should not 
be assumed that the securities transactions or holdings discussed were or will be profitable. Morgan Stanley recommends that investors independently 
evaluate particular investments and strategies, and encourages investors to seek the advice of a Financial Advisor. The appropriateness of a particular 
investment or strategy will depend on an investor’s individual circumstances and objectives. 
Information contained in the material is based on data from multiple sources and Morgan Stanley makes no representation as to the accuracy or 
completeness of data from sources outside of Morgan Stanley. References to third parties contained herein should not be considered a solicitation on 
behalf of or an endorsement of those entities by Morgan Stanley. Morgan Stanley is not responsible for the information contained on any third party 
web site or your use of or inability to use such site, nor do we guarantee its accuracy or completeness. The terms, conditions, and privacy policy of any 
third party web site may be different from those applicable to your use of any Morgan Stanley web site. The opinions expressed by a third party are 
solely their own and do not necessarily reflect those of Morgan Stanley. The information and data provided by any third party web site or publication 
is as of the date when it was written or published and is subject to change without notice. 
Historical data shown represents past performance and does not guarantee comparable future results. Furthermore, this report may contain forward-
looking statements and there can be no guarantee that they will come to pass. Indexes are unmanaged and not available for direct investment. 
Morgan Stanley makes every effort to use reliable, comprehensive information, but we make no guarantee that it is accurate or complete. We have 
no obligation to tell you when opinions or information in this report change. The trademarks and service marks contained herein are the property of 
their respective owners. 
Investing in the market entails the risk of principal loss as well as market volatility. The value of all types of investments may increase or decrease 
over varying time periods. Insurance products are offered in conjunction with Morgan Stanley Smith Barney LLC’s licensed insurance agency affiliates. 
Morgan Stanley offers a wide array of brokerage and advisory services to its clients, each of which may create a different type of relationship with 
different obligations to you. Please consult with your Financial Advisor to understand these differences. 
The returns on a portfolio consisting primarily of Environmental, Social and Governance (“ESG”) aware investments may be lower or higher than a 
portfolio that is more diversified or where decisions are based solely on investment considerations. Because ESG criteria exclude some investments, 
investors may not be able to take advantage of the same opportunities or market trends as investors that do not use such criteria. 
The Morgan Stanley Impact Quotient is designed to help provide an assessment of a portfolio (or subset thereof) utilizing various environmental, social, 
and governance (ESG) factors. The metrics included in this assessment are based on key topic areas for sustainable and impact investing. Assessment of 
a portfolio's alignment with ESG factors, established by Morgan Stanley, is evaluated based on available data and expertise from MSCI ESG Research, 
ISS-ESG, Equileap and Fossil Free Indexes. 
Losses are possible with an investment in CDFIs. A investor can lose money in their investment if a partner CDFI has net charge-off rates in excess of 
their loss reserves. In other words, if a partner CDFI makes a lot of bad loans, or the bulk of their investments fail to perform, then they will be faced 
with financial losses which they may be forced to pass on to investors. 
Bonds are subject to interest rate risk. When interest rates rise, bond prices fall; generally, the longer a bond's maturity, the more sensitive it is to this 
risk. Bonds may also be subject to call risk, which is the risk that the issuer will redeem the debt at its option, fully or partially, before the scheduled 
maturity date. The market value of debt instruments may fluctuate, and proceeds from sales prior to maturity may be more or less than the amount 
originally invested or the maturity value due to changes in market conditions or changes in the credit quality of the issuer. 
Credit ratings for the CDFI bond offerings with Morgan Stanley are cited from Standard & Poor’s, one of the widely followed credit agencies in the 
fixed income markets. Credit quality is a measure of a bond issuer’s creditworthiness or ability to repay interest and principal to bondholders in a timely 
manner. The credit ratings shown are based on each issuer’s security rating as provided by Standard &Poor’s, as applicable. Credit ratings are issued by 
the rating agencies and the credit quality of the CDFI bonds do not represent its stability or safety. Credit ratings shown range from AAA, being the 
highest, to D, being the lowest based on S&P’s. Ratings of BBB or higher by S&P are considered to be the highest rating is applied. Securities that are 
not rated by the agencies are listed as “NR”. 
Most CDFIs are not FDIC-insured. 
Please note that there is currently no legal, regulatory or similar definition of what constitutes a “social” bond or as to what precise attributes are required 
for a particular issuance to be defined as “social.” Without limiting any of the statements contained herein, Morgan Stanley makes no representation 
or warranty as to whether a bond constitutes a social bond, unless otherwise specified by Morgan Stanley, or whether a bond conforms to investor 
expectations or objectives for investing in social bonds. For information on characteristics of a specific social bond, use of proceeds, a description of 
applicable projects and/or any other relevant information about the bond, please reference the offering documents for the bond. 
Morgan Stanley Smith Barney LLC ("Morgan Stanley"), its affiliates and Morgan Stanley Financial Advisors and Private Wealth Advisors do not provide 
tax or legal advice. Clients should consult their tax advisor for matters involving taxation and tax planning and their attorney for matters involving trust 
and estate planning, charitable giving, philanthropic planning and other legal matters. 
Morgan Stanley Smith Barney LLC is a registered Broker/Dealer, Member SIPC, and not a bank. Where appropriate, Morgan Stanley Smith Barney LLC 
has entered into arrangements with banks and other third parties to assist in offering certain banking related products and services. 
Investment, insurance and annuity products offered through Morgan Stanley Smith Barney LLC are: NOT FDIC INSURED | MAY LOSE VALUE | 
 NOT BANK GUARANTEED | NOT A BANK DEPOSIT | NOT INSURED BY ANY FEDERAL GOVERNMENT AGENCY
© 2021 Morgan Stanley.  CRC 3917627 11/21  CS 240335 11/21