
SUSTAINABILITY 
REPORT 2020
START →
SUSI Partners | Sustainability Report 2020 2
Dear stakeholders,  CONTENT
Welcome to our Sustainability Report 2020. As a private fund manager specialised in clean energy 
infrastructure investments, a sector which inherently requires a long-term outlook and aims to 
accelerate the transition towards a clean, stable and accessible energy system, sustainability has always 
been at the core of our activities. Nonetheless, an explicit focus over recent years has been to further  INTRODUCTION
formalise our approach to sustainability into clearly defined processes, while improving our ability to 
report in a comprehensive and transparent manner. 
Investing to reduce CO2 emissions has been at the core of our company’s purpose for more than a 
GOVERNANCE
decade. Today, achieving the ambitious targets of the Paris Climate Agreement is more important than 
ever and our continued commitment to this global effort will not waver. At the same time, as part of 
our fiduciary responsibility, we continue to place the greatest importance on sustainable value creation 
for our clients and their beneficiaries.
PLANET
Looking back at 2020, which was an exceptional year in more ways than one, we hope that this report 
will provide you with valuable insights and information on how we integrate sustainability principles 
into all aspects of our business activities. And while we are proud of what we have achieved, we realise 
that there is more to be done and commit to following our long-term approach to sustainability. As we 
PEOPLE
continue to expand client assets under management, invest in sustainable energy infrastructure around 
the globe, and evolve as a team and organisation, our impact on the planet, people and prosperity will 
also grow. We gladly embrace this responsibility.
Best regards, PROSPERITY
OUTLOOK
Marius Dorfmeister Marco van Daele
Co-CEO Co-CEO
Global Head of Clients Chief Investment Officer
SUSI Partners | Sustainability Report 2020 3
INTRODUCTION SUSI Partners was founded with the mission to fight climate change 
by furthering the transition of the energy sector. Our longstanding 
commitment to this cause is based on the understanding that limiting 
the rise in global temperatures to a minimum requires a significant 
reduction in CO2 emissions towards net-zero over the next years. 
2009 €1.5bn 100+ 20+
year of investor transactions countries
foundation commitments completed covered
CLEAN ENERGY GENERATION
Renewable energies are key to limiting global warming. 
They have reached market maturity and are among the 
We invest in 
cheapest sources of electricity.
sustainable energy 
infrastructure  ENERGY EFFICIENCY MEASURES
supporting the  Investments in energy efficiency allow for significant 
emissions and cost reductions, while providing 
transition to a clean 
attractive and stable investment returns.
energy system.
CLEAN ENERGY UTILISATION
Energy storage, decentralised power supply and the 
decarbonisation of fossil fuel-reliant sectors, such as 
transport and heating, create new infrastructure needs.
SUSI Partners | Sustainability Report 2020 4
EMBRACING SUSTAINABILITY AS A GUIDING PRINCIPLE
Applying the principle of sustainability 
means working towards the long-term 
PLANET
prosperity of all of our stakeholders on 
every level – from the individual to the 
entire planet.
SOCIETY
Planet: Our climate change mitigation efforts aim to direct 
investment away from finite energy sources towards the 
generation and utilisation of renewable ones while protecting 
COMMUNITY
the environment at large
Society: Sustainable energy infrastructure is the foundation 
of a prosperous economy. We invest on a global scale adding 
value and wealth along the way ORGANISATION
Community: Ensuring the long-term prosperity of the 
communities we operate in, particularly the communities in 
whose vicinity we operate our assets
Organisation: Ensuring the long-term prosperity of our 
INDIVIDUAL
company as well as the institutions investing in our funds
Individual: Ensuring the long-term prosperity of the worker 
paying into his/her pension fund; our employees; and the 
people working to build, manage, and maintain our assets
SUSI Partners | Sustainability Report 2020 5
OUR SUSTAINABILITY JOURNEY
Sustainability Report
Certified as climate-neutral 
company as member of 
Leaders for Climate Action
Regular sustainability trainings 
Proprietary sustainable 
implemented for investment team
investing framework
Sustainability Policy 
approved by SUSI Partners’ 
Board of Directors
CO2 savings quantification 
methodology with South Pole
Member of Swiss 
Sustainable Finance
Member of Global Impact 
Signatory of UN Principles for 
Investing Network
Responsible Investment
SUSI Partners | Sustainability Report 2020 6
REFLECTING THE NEEDS OF OUR STAKEHOLDERS
This report covers a number of topics that are material to all 
our stakeholders, which include investors in our funds and their 
beneficiaries, our employees, shareholders, business partners, 
regulatory bodies and the communities in which we operate.
COMMUNITIES EMPLOYEES
In addition to stakeholder engagement, we have been guided 
by recommendations from the World Economic Forum and the 
International Business Council. These have been prepared in 
collaboration with the four preeminent audit firms and combine 
key metrics as defined by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), the 
Sustainable Accounting Standards Board (SASB) and other international 
reporting standards. 
INVESTORS &
REGULATORS Reflecting the current size and nature of our business, our 2020 report 
BENEFICIARIES
includes information which we believe provides our stakeholders with 
important insights into our activities and progress towards sustainability 
goals. We plan to further expand the range of metrics in future reports. 
KEY MEMBERSHIPS & AFFILIATIONS
BUSINESS
SHAREHOLDERS
PARTNERS
SUSI Partners | Sustainability Report 2020 7
GOVERNANCE At SUSI Partners, we are guided by a clear purpose. By directing 
institutional capital towards sustainable energy infrastructure 
investments, we seek to generate attractive risk-adjusted returns for 
our clients and their beneficiaries while contributing meaningfully to 
achieving global carbon neutrality. 
Effective governance is a key requirement to  and clean energy; industry, innovation and 
achieving positive impact for all our stakeholders.  infrastructure; and of course climate action. 
Therefore, we conducted a thorough analysis  Furthermore, we can make a positive impact 
of our impact towards the United Nations  on a number of adjacent areas by 2030, on 
Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). As a  both corporate and investment level. We have 
key finding of this assessment, we were able  identified priorities and will continue to measure 
to confirm that our purpose and strategy are  outcomes in line with the SDG ambitions, as 
strongly aligned with the SDGs on affordable  shown in this report.   
SUSI Partners | Sustainability Report 2020 8
STRATEGY OVERSIGHT
Strong governance is a prerequisite  → Sustainability Policy → Sustainability Group
for sustainable value creation for 
100% of our client capital is covered by our  We set up a Sustainability Group – 
all of our stakeholders. Overseeing 
Sustainability Policy, which outlines our  comprising our Co-CEOs and dedicated 
and steering the company’s strategy  sustainability strategy. The Sustainability  professionals – which is leading firm-wide 
Policy details SUSI Partners’ definition of  efforts to embed environmental, social 
in line with our purpose is the 
sustainable investing and outlines how  and corporate governance (ESG) standards 
responsibility of our dedicated  the integration of sustainability factors  and practices. The group continually 
enables us to fulfil our fiduciary duty to  reviews and enhances our sustainability 
Sustainability Group, which includes 
our clients, while also achieving a positive  framework, which covers both business 
the Co-CEOs and is endorsed by our  impact towards our mission and our  operations and investment activities.
stakeholders.
Board of Directors.
→ Executive Management → Board of Directors
see Sustainability Policy →
Our Executive Management oversees the  Our Sustainability Policy is endorsed and 
day-to-day management of SUSI Partners  approved by SUSI Partners’ non-executive 
in line with the strategic objectives agreed  Board of Directors. The Board is comprised 
with the Board of Directors. The body  of both shareholder representatives and 
represents all key functions of the firm:  independent members, and operates in 
Clients, Investments & Asset Management,  full compliance with FINMA regulations 
People Office as well as other support  and appropriate governance guidelines, 
functions. Effective January 2020, Marius  incl. the setup of dedicated committees. 
Dorfmeister and Marco van Daele took 
over as Co-CEOs. 
SUSI Partners | Sustainability Report 2020 9
RESPONSIBILITY & ACCOUNTABILITY
Empowering our employees to make decisions independently and keeping 
DEALING WITH COVID-19
a close eye on potential risks go hand in hand at SUSI Partners. We have the 
procedures and controls in place which set the necessary expectations and 
As an asset manager and fiduciary
boundaries. We foster entrepreneurial spirit, while ensuring adherence to 
legal and regulatory requirements as well as ethical standards. If and when 
The COVID-19 pandemic added an extra level of complexity to our 
mistakes happen, we deal with them in an open and transparent manner, 
business activities in 2020. Therefore, a key priority has been to 
learning and evolving in the process. We encourage our employees to speak 
support our stakeholders throughout this crisis, guaranteeing health 
up when encountering issues, with escalation mechanisms guiding the way. 
and safety, and maintaining business continuity across our firm and 
investments. 
CODE OF CONDUCT
We were able to implement work-from-home and other preventive 
measures on short notice without major business disruptions. Not 
→  Fully aligned with our values: sustainability, innovation, performance 
only did we manage to increase assets under management by more 
and partnership
than 40%, we also upheld a high frequency of interactions with our 
→  Creates an umbrella for all corporate policies covering legal, regula-
existing investors, updating them regularly on mitigation strategies to 
tory and behavioural compliance
ensure the prudent management and stability of their investments. 
see Code of Conduct  → Our investment and asset management teams worked closely with 
our portfolio companies to provide support and guidance in navigating 
the evolving pandemic, making sure adequate business continuity 
plans were in place and potential challenges were addressed early on. 
RISK MANAGEMENT
By taking a proactive approach to managing our assets, we were able 
to prove the resilience of our portfolio, even during an exceptional 
Our Executive Management and dedicated functions closely monitor 
crisis like a global pandemic. As we are starting to anticipate an 
risks related to our business operations as well as investment and asset 
end of this crisis, we are happy to report that none of our investee 
management activities. We have created a holistic framework that 
companies has suffered significant losses and short-term effects have 
allows us to anticipate potential issues, while reacting quickly to new 
been recovered. 
developments, even those of an unprecedented nature. 
SUSI Partners | Sustainability Report 2020 10
COMPLIANCE WITH EU SUSTAINABLE FINANCE 
DISCLOSURE REGULATION (SFDR) AND EU TAXONOMY
SUSI Partners’ funds have been classified as Article 9, the 
ARTICLE 9 REQUIREMENTS
highest standard in terms of sustainability, under the European 
Union’s SFDR, a new standard which seeks to effect more 
SUSTAINABLE INVESTMENT 
transparency on sustainability claims in financial markets. 
OBJECTIVE
At SUSI Partners, we are convinced that the  As a result, our funds meet all the 
incorporation of sustainability principles into  requirements set forth in SFDR Article 9, 
our investment activities leads to a more  which is the highest sustainability standard  DO NO SIGNIFICANT HARM
balanced risk-return profile for our investors,  under the new regulation. SFDR requires 
ultimately securing their beneficiaries’  financial market participants offering financial 
prosperity in the long term.  products in the EU to make disclosures in line 
with the EU Taxonomy for products promoting  GOOD GOVERNANCE
Our investment process ensures that CO2 
environmental characteristics (Art. 8) or that 
emissions are reduced, that no other social  PRACTICES
have a clear environmental objective  (Art. 9). 
or environmental objectives are harmed, 
and that all companies in which investments  By supporting investors in making more 
are made follow good governance practices.  informed choices, we believe that SFDR 
INTEGRATION OF
It entails a rigorous screening and due  represents an important step on the journey 
SUSTAINABILITY RISKS
diligence process designed to reject proposed  towards a more stable, sustainable and 
investments that do not meet the required  transparent financial system. It will be further 
criteria. Furthermore, active ownership  supported by the ongoing implementation of 
and regular reporting are maintained to  a comprehensive EU Taxonomy for sustainable  IMPACT OF SUSTAINABILITY 
continuously improve and report on the  finance activities. 
RISKS ON RETURNS
acquired assets’ environmental, social, and 
financial performance. 
SUSI Partners | Sustainability Report 2020 11
INCORPORATING SUSTAINABILITY PRINCIPLES INTO OUR 
INVESTMENT PROCESS
We view ESG analysis as a fundamental part of investment risk management and value creation. 
Accordingly, we have created a framework that is designed to review sustainable investing matters, assess 
potential risk factors and to provide transparency to our clients.
OUR APPROACH INTEGRATION INTO INVESTMENT PROCESS
SCREENING
Investment approvals 
Involved and active  All pipeline projects undergo an initial evaluation based on sustainability and 
subject to disciplined 
asset management  exclusion factors developed by SUSI Partners. Only projects that meet financial, 
sustainability 
technical and sustainability requirements are retained.
approach
assessment
DUE DILIGENCE
We carry out a comprehensive sustainability risk assessment of all projects based 
on our sustainable investment framework. We identify project-relevant KPIs and 
implement an adequate risk management strategy.
Impact analysis  Regular reporting on 
towards UN SDGs CO2 assessments
ACQUISITION
Sustainability-related preconditions are added to the financial agreements in the 
acquisition phase. We choose project-relevant KPIs and optimise the project and 
its positive impact.
Active industry  Culture of continuous  MONITORING
collaborations improvement We closely monitor sustainability factors throughout the asset lifecycle, share best 
practices and lessons learned, and carry out periodic appraisals of sustainability 
monitoring practices and policy adherence checks. 
SUSI Partners | Sustainability Report 2020 12
PLANET As a fund manager dedicated to investing in sustainable energy 
infrastructure, we direct private capital towards assets that help 
decarbonise energy production, increase energy efficiency and enable 
the use of clean energy.
On behalf of our clients, investments by SUSI  Our investment focus on emissions reductions 
funds support the deployment and operation  is matched by our corporate commitment to 
of technologies that provide alternatives to  achieving CO2 neutrality at an operational level. 
conventional energy sources. No fund managed  We track and quantify our corporate footprint, 
by us invests in coal-powered energy generation.  set targets for reduction where appropriate 
and offset unavoidable emissions by supporting 
We measure the emissions avoided at asset and 
initiatives that support social and environmental 
fund level and work with South Pole Group to 
progress. The move of our Zurich office – home to 
quantify the CO2 savings in line with the World 
the majority of our people – to a certified green 
Resources Institute’s Greenhouse Gas Protocol 
building in the course of 2021 underscores our 
and the recommendations by the Partnership for 
efforts to minimise CO2 emissions at firm level.  
Carbon Accounting Financials.
SUSI Partners | Sustainability Report 2020 13
CARBON-NEUTRAL OPERATIONS AND INVESTMENTS 
WITH SIGNIFICANT IMPACT THROUGH CO2 SAVINGS
As of year-end 2020, we had  ENERGY PRODUCTION CORPORATE FOOTPRINT
deployed EUR 987 million on 
2.9m
behalf of our investors across 
100+ transactions in the area of  409 tonnes of 
clean energy production, energy  CO2 emmitted, 
efficiency measures, and energy  4,600 GWh   tonnes of CO2 saved by  mostly from 
storage and integrated solutions.  of clean energy  investments as of Dec 2020 business travel 
Each of these investments results  generated and office use
in CO2 savings over the lifetime of 
its underlying technology. 
18.5m
We are committed to carbon 
≈ 590,000 
neutrality at the operational 
households 
Energy 
10% level. Our contribution to a 
supplied with 
storage estimated CO2 savings in tonnes  project providing low-income 
electricity for 
over technology lifetime households and small enterprises 
a year
across Africa with high-tech solar 
systems compensates for oper-
ational emissions we are unable 
PORTFOLIO   ENERGY EFFICIENCY to avoid.
OVERVIEW
3,600 GWh  
≈
of energy saved 
49%
through energy  14,000 railcars 
Renewable 
Energy  efficiency  worth of coal 
energy
efficiency
measures burned
41%
*with exception of the corporate footprint, which relates to 2020 only, all numbers are cumulative as of year-end 2020 and externally certified by South Pole
SUSI Partners | Sustainability Report 2020 14
RESPONSIBLY MANAGING RESOURCES
SUSI Partners’ portfolio consists of green 
GERMANY
assets such as wind and solar farms, 
energy efficiency infrastructure as well  For our German wind assets, we mandated an 
exercise to coordinate land mowing activities 
as applications around clean energy 
of all neighbouring landowners so that major 
utilisation. While all our investments 
bird activity could be concentrated to a 
provide measurable CO2 reductions, our  single week – this ensures optimal habitat 
contribution to a better environment  protection. For all relevant plants we have 
ongoing bird and bat protection/monitoring in 
goes far beyond. Before acquisition, 
place. We further participate in pilot projects 
each investment undergoes a detailed 
aiming to increase protection while at the 
environmental impact assessment 
same time reducing shutdown times of our 
in order to mitigate and offset any  assets.
negative environmental impacts to the 
extent possible. The focus is on reducing  NORWAY
environmental impacts, including on  After the construction period, SUSI Partners 
biodiversity, which can be mitigated by  ensures that the construction site and all 
affected areas are fully restored. This can 
a wide array of different measures. With 
include elements such as reforesting, i.e. the 
our dedicated asset management team, 
planting of trees that were cut down to allow 
SUSI Partners actively aims to find an 
the building of the foundations and to make 
optimal balance between environmental  the site accessible to vehicles supplying con-
protection and economics. struction materials. 
SUSI Partners | Sustainability Report 2020 15
PEOPLE We are committed to providing equal opportunities and creating 
a rewarding, respectful and inclusive workplace for our people – 
independent of their gender, ethnicity, age, marital status, sexual 
orientation and religious or cultural background.
This is why diversity and inclusion principles are  Our annual people survey – which had a 85% 
embedded in all relevant people processes –  participation rate in 2020 – helps us identify issues 
from recruitment to performance management  and opportunities to improve across the business. 
and development. What we look for in our  It has also consistently shown that our employees 
employees are strong credentials and an equally  place great importance on working for a company 
strong commitment to our corporate values  that has a long-term view and contributes to 
sustainability, innovation, performance and  building a better future.  
partnership. If they are particularly passionate 
about fighting climate change, that’s a clear plus. 
In return, they are offered a rewarding work 
environment and a common purpose. We want 
to hear their ideas and concerns and continue to 
evolve as a team. 
SUSI Partners | Sustainability Report 2020 16
A DIVERSE AND TALENTED WORKFORCE
We are proud of our employees, who bring unique skills and 
SKILLS FOR THE FUTURE
backgrounds to the table. As a team, we benefit from diverse views 
Financing, developing and managing clean 
and experiences. And we want to make sure we accommodate 
energy infrastructure assets requires specific 
different needs by offering flexible work arrangements. In 2020, we 
capabilities, which we find in the market and 
launched a number of HR policies to make sure we hire, develop  develop internally. To attract junior talent, for 
instance, we offer six-month internships in our 
and retain the best talent. 
investment and asset management teams, with 
four interns joining the programme in 2020 and 
one hired permanently upon completion. 
Furthermore, to encourage our employees to 
59 11 12
develop and grow as professionals, we support 
and financially contribute to further education 
and specific training programmes, such as CFA 
employees nationalities languages
qualifications and MBAs, to name but a few. 
While this has been agreed on a case-by-case 
basis in the past, we decided to set a formal 
budget, effective 2021. 
Through our jubilee program, we grant 
employees who have been with the company 
29% 7% 88%
for four years (and every second year of service 
thereafter) an extra two weeks of paid vacation 
time plus the option to get an additional four 
female staff part-time retention
weeks of unpaid vacation to pursue a personal 
or professional goal.
*all numbers as of year-end 2020
SUSI Partners | Sustainability Report 2020 17
ENSURING HEALTH & WELLBEING
While our employees tend to  → Our assets
work from the relative safety and 
We actively manage the setting and  Our key takeaways are that good HSE 
comfort of our offices or their 
monitoring of health and safety (HSE)  practices need to be controlled along the 
homes, developing and operating  standards across our investments and we are  supply chain and subcontractors have to be 
continuously striving to further improve our  fully aligned with all HSE requirements. We 
our portfolio assets may come at a 
HSE activities aiming for zero incidents in our  are working towards further instilling overall 
more tangible physical risk. This is  plants across our portfolio.  best practice, arms-length contracts with clear 
scopes, oversight and alignment mechanisms. 
why adhering to the strictest health  To achieve this, we employ dedicated HSE 
The audit of sustainability-related topics 
managers on site, who together with our asset 
and safety requirements is crucial.  through detailed and standardised reporting, 
management team monitor the construction 
site inspections and regular meetings with 
and operation of all our assets. Our active 
stakeholders are further measures we use to 
asset management approach allows us to 
ensure the safety of everyone working on our 
monitor HSE on a monthly and if required 
assets.
on an ad-hoc basis. We also differentiate 
between construction and operational 
projects, given the different risk levels.
→ Our firm
By collaborating closely with our investees, 
we are able to share lessons learned across  Ensuring the health and wellbeing of our 
our portfolios, allowing us to encourage  people is a key priority at SUSI Partners. In 
appropriate knowledge transfer. addition to offering preventive flu shots, we 
generally encourage a healthy lifestyle. We 
Despite a high level of HSE standards enforced 
provide our employees with free gym access, 
at our sites, we sadly have to report a fatal 
fresh fruit in the office and our team events 
accident during the construction of one of our 
often feature outdoor activities. 
assets. This tragic incident has led us to review 
HSE practices at all our construction sites.
SUSI Partners | Sustainability Report 2020 18
PROSPERITY We are proud to contribute to prosperity in multiple ways – from 
job creation and infrastructure investments to generating returns for 
the ultimate beneficiaries of our clients, e.g. insurance and pension 
holders.  
As an employer, we offer fair compensation to our  only have a positive environmental impact, but 
people, contributing to the economic prosperity  address social and economic aspects as well. In 
of the locations we operate out of. We conduct  2020, we made a contribution to a programme 
regular reviews of all salaries across departments  supporting nine Sustainable Development Goals 
and make sure they are aligned with local market  by enabling the distribution of high-tech solar 
standards. systems that provide low-income households, 
schools and small enterprises in Tanzania with an 
As a fiduciary, we are entrusted with managing 
alternative to fossil fuels.
the assets of our clients and their beneficiaries – 
offering attractive risk-adjusted returns through 
our funds.
Our 2020 contribution enabled the 
As an investor, we help build vital infrastructure,  installation of 299 solar home 
providing people with access to safe, stable and 
systems, benefitting 1,794 people. 
affordable energy solutions. Developing and 
operating these assets has a positive impact on 
job creation in our markets. 
As an asset manager, we are committed to 
ethical practices to ensure contractors and other 
counterparties are paid in line with market 
standards. We furthermore seek to contribute to 
the livelihoods of the local communities in which 
we operate our assets, as shown here.
Finally, recognising our corporate responsibility 
on a global scale, we offset our corporate CO2 
footprint by supporting initiatives, which do not
SUSI Partners | Sustainability Report 2020 19
SERVING THE COMMUNITIES WE OPERATE IN
DENMARK
Our Danish wind farms all have local 
sponsorships or community engagement 
programs in place. Distribution of the funds is 
based on different approaches, one example 
being the appointment of a local community 
group that is responsible for deployment of the 
respective funds. All funds are designated to be 
used for projects serving the common interests 
of the entire community rather than business or 
NETHERLANDS GERMANY/FINLAND/IRELAND
political purposes. To illustrate, one community 
In 2020, we hosted guided tours for two of our  has decided to support a local grocery store to  For our wind farms in Germany, Finland 
solar plants in the Netherlands. In total, 45  ensure its continued operation. Another project  and Ireland, we not only enable visitors to 
people from the local communities participated  has decided to support local cultural and social  experience the generation of clean energy from 
and were able to raise their concerns and ask  activities in the nearby village. up close, we also organise educational sessions 
questions. The participants appreciated the  for school classes, combining the tour of the 
chance to get to know the people managing the  wind farm with teachings about renewable 
assets and to be part of the project as valued  energy and sustainability in general. We see 
stakeholders. The feedback received was very  education as a crucial means to foster a better 
positive and fostered our relationship with  understanding of climate change, its adverse 
these communities. The events confirmed the  effects and possible mitigation strategies. We are 
importance of active stakeholder engagement,  convinced that educating younger generations, 
showing that having a close relationship with all  in particular, will increase acceptance and 
stakeholders provides valuable insights for all  therefore enable the buildout of renewable 
parties involved. energy generation capacities in the future. 
SUSI Partners | Sustainability Report 2020 20
OUTLOOK The process of applying principles of sustainability to all of our 
activities is ongoing and we strive to continuously improve our 
business practices in this respect. For 2021, we have decided on a 
number of action points to focus on.
→ Climate-Related Financial Disclosures
Implement asset-based recommendations from the Taskforce for Climate-Related Financial 
Disclosures (TFCD), to identify and mitigate climate-related risks across our portfolios
→ Active management of investee companies
Take an active management approach to optimise impact at investee company level
→ Client reporting
Work towards further optimisations of our client reporting capabilities
→ Remuneration policy
Increasing integration of sustainability factors into our remuneration policy
→ Further reduction of corporate carbon footprint
Implement internal carbon-reducing policies and move of Zurich office to certified green building
2211
CONTACT
Contact us for more information 
about our Sustainability Report or 
about investment opportunities in 
sustainable energy infrastructure. 
sustainability@susi-partners.com
DISCLAIMER
www.susi-partners.com This material has been prepared solely for purposes of illustration and discussion. Under no circumstances should the information contained herein 
be used or considered as an offer to sell, or solicitation of an offer to buy any security. The information contained herein is proprietary and may 
not be reproduced or circulated in whole or in part. All information, including performance information, has been prepared in good faith; however, 
SUSI Partners makes no representation or warranty, express or implied, as to the accuracy or completeness of the information, and nothing herein 
shall be relied upon as a promise or representation as to past or future performance. This material may include information that is based, in part or 
in full, on hypothetical assumptions, models and/or other analyses of SUSI Partners or any of its affiliates (which may not necessarily be described 
herein), and no representation or warranty is made as to the reasonableness of any such assumptions, models or analyses. The information set forth 
herein was gathered from various sources which SUSI Partners believes, but does not guarantee, to be reliable. Unless stated otherwise, any opin-
ions expressed herein are current as of the date hereof and are subject to change at any time. All sources which have not been otherwise credited 
have derived from SUSI Partners. The projections, forecasts and estimates of SUSI Partners contained herein are for illustrative purposes only and 
are based on SUSI Partners’s current views and assumptions, which are subject to change at any time. Such projections, forecasts and estimates 
involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results, performance or events to differ materially from those anticipated 
in the summary information. SUSI Partners expressly disclaims any obligation or undertaking to update or revise any projections, forecasts or esti-
mates contained in this material to reflect any change in events, conditions, assumptions or circumstances on which any such statements are based, 
unless so required by applicable law. Private market investments are speculative and involve a substantial degree of risk. Private market investments 
are highly illiquid and are not required to provide periodic pricing or valuation information to investors with respect to individual investments. There 
is no secondary market for the investors’ interest, and none is expected to develop. In addition, there may be certain restrictions on transferring 
interests. Past results are not indicative of future performance, and performance may be volatile. All SUSI Partners investments mentioned herein 
were made on behalf of the firm’s clients, not on behalf of SUSI Partners Group or any of its affiliates. Material notes to readers based in the United 
States of America: this is a publication of SUSI Partners AG and is for informational purposes only. It is not an offer to sell or solicitation of an offer 
to buy any security. Products or funds mentioned in this publication are not available to US-based investors. For use with institutional investors only. 
SUSI Partners AG  Not for use with retail investors. All images are for illustrative purposes only.
Bahnhofplatz | CH-6300 Zug © Copyright 2020 SUSI Partners AG. All rights reserved 