
Sustainability Report 
JUNE 2020
FOR PROFESSIONAL AND INSTITUTIONAL INVESTOR USE ONLY.
“
Through our operations, 
culture, and research‑led 
investment approach, 
Wellington strives to ensure 
that we are advancing practices 
that stand the test of time.
WELLINGTON MANAGEMENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | JUNE 2020
MESSAGE FROM LEADERSHIP  4
WELLINGTON BY THE NUMBERS   5
FOUR DECADES OF FORWARD THINKING  6
APPROACH TO SUSTAINABLE INVESTING: PARTNER, INVEST, ENGAGE  7
Key partnerships  7
Collaboration with Woodwell Climate Research Center   9
Sustainable investment approaches  10
ENGAGEMENT   13
Policy  13
Stewardship oversight and responsibility  13
Implementation  14
PROXY VOTING  15
Approach  15
Guidelines  15
ENGAGEMENT AND VOTING ACTIVITY  16
Company examples  16
2019 company engagements  24
ESG engagement activity by sector and market capitalization  27
Proxy voting activity  27
WELLSUSTAIN: OUR CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY INITIATIVES  28
Environment  28
Community  30
Culture  30
CLOSING THOUGHTS AND CONTACT INFORMATION  34
IMPORTANT DISCLOSURES  35
3
WELLINGTON MANAGEMENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | JUNE 2020
Message from leadership
One of the key legacies of the founding partners of Wellington is the notion of sustainability and 
stewardship — the idea that we are all just “passing through” and it is incumbent on the current 
generation to leave the place in better shape for future generations. While this notion focuses on 
our firm, we believe the concept applies broadly. In this, our first Sustainability Report, we share our 
approach to sustainable investment as well as our firm’s own sustainable practices. The word sustain 
derives from the French "soutenir," meaning to “hold up” or “endure.” Through our operations, culture, 
and research-led investment approach, Wellington strives to ensure that we are advancing practices 
that stand the test of time. 
As the world struggles to overcome the devastating coronavirus pandemic and address long-standing 
racial inequities, a commitment to sustainability has never been more important. We have long aimed 
to support the core concepts of sustainable investing and stewardship within our investment practices 
and to embrace our responsibility to our clients, the environment, the community, and our people 
through our internal initiatives. 
As we look ahead to recovering from this health crisis and taking meaningful action to tackle racial 
injustice, we have a number of goals. First, we aim to hold ourselves accountable for greater diversity 
and inclusion and environmental awareness in our own operations. Second, we remain focused 
on establishing transparency, engaging with issuers to encourage best practices, and cultivating 
partnerships to expand our knowledge and efficacy on issues that have the potential to affect 
companies, economies, and society. Finally, we will continue to complement our traditional financial 
analyses with efforts to enhance stewardship, engagement, and sustainability, as it is clear to us that 
these things are, increasingly, potential drivers of value and returns. 
We are committed to continuous improvement in sustainable investing and our internal sustainable 
practices. We appreciate the opportunity to share our commitment and evolution with you. 
Brendan Swords, CFA,  Wendy Cromwell, CFA, 
Chief Executive Officer  Vice Chair and Director, Sustainable Investment
4
WELLINGTON MANAGEMENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | JUNE 2020
Wellington by the numbers 
BUSINESS
US$1.1 trillion of client assets under management 
More than 2,200 clients
Clients in over 60 countries 
PEOPLE AND PORTFOLIOS
826 investment professionals with 18 years of experience, on average
177 active partners 
34 professionals dedicated to sustainable investment
15-member Investment Stewardship Committee (ISC) with representation across 
functions and regions
2019 ENGAGEMENT
Proxies voted for more than 5,000 companies in 65 markets annually
Over 16,000 meetings with CEOs, board members, or company executives in 20191
Collaboration with more than 15 industry initiatives
1Represents meetings, rather than companies engaged with.
All figures as of 31 December, 2019. For the Wellington Management group of companies.
5
WELLINGTON MANAGEMENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | JUNE 2020
Four decades of 
forward thinking
1970s – present
1995
Long-term investing is part of Wellington’s heritage. 
Began Future 
For the past four decades, our professionals have  Launched a Shari’ah-
Themes research 
collaborated every five to seven years on a firmwide,  compliant global equity 
interdisciplinary research initiative called Future  strategy, collaborating with 
Themes, exploring provocative investment ideas  Harvard University and the 
to address emerging global trends and challenges.  Islamic Development Bank 2006
This tradition, which continues today, informs our 
Became subadvisor for 
sustainable investing research. 
Domini equity approach2
2007 
Launched Climate Strategy1
 
2011
2012 Formalized ESG 
Research Team
Signed the UN Principles for 
Responsible Investment (PRI)
2015
Launched Global Impact
2016  Launched Emerging 
Market Development3
Joined the Global Impact 
Investment Network (GIIN)
2017
Launched Global 
Impact Bond 
Launched Low Carbon 
Emerging Markets 
Systematic Equity 
Signed Statement of Support 
for TCFD4
2018
Wendy Cromwell elected to PRI 
board 2019
Began Woodwell Climate 
Research Center collaboration Launched Global Stewards 
Launched Broader 
Perspectives 
1 Formerly Global Environmental Opportunities. Began managing Vanguard 
2 Wellington Management and Domini are independent  Global ESG Select Stock
and unaffiliated entities, each of which offer their own 
Chris Goolgasian named 
investment products and services.
3 Formerly Emerging Market Themes. to CFTC5 Climate-Related 
4 Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures Market Risk Subcommittee
5 Commodity Futures Trading Commission.
6
WELLINGTON MANAGEMENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | JUNE 2020
Approach to sustainable investing: 
Partner, invest, engage
We believe achieving our clients' investment goals  Disclosures (TCFD) recommendations. The TCFD 
means further integrating our sustainable research  framework aligns with our belief that climate change is 
and engagement practices across our investment  a strategic business issue that can impact long-term 
platform. Our holistic approach triangulates insights  financial performance. 
on potential investments from equity, credit, and 
research perspectives. 
• Partner with industry leaders, the scientific 
community, and academia
• Invest across a range of sustainable approaches with 
the intention to outperform our benchmarks and 
We have been members of GIIN since 2016, and a 
deliver competitive returns for our clients 
member of our Sustainable Investment Team is on the 
• Engage with companies to understand their strategy,  GIIN’s Listed Equities Working Group. This nonprofit 
financial and nonfinancial performance and risk,  organization is an industry leader whose work supports 
capital structures, social and environmental impact,  impact investors, helps grow and improve their impact 
and corporate governance  practices, and expands the impact universe through 
collaboration and strategic partnerships.
With these efforts, we intend to advance sustainable 
investing and expand the sustainability ecosystem. 
KEY PARTNERSHIPS ALL AFFILIATIONS* 
We cultivate thought partnerships with 
Responsible investment
sustainability-focused organizations within and outside 
• UN PRI
our industry, in pursuit of better investment outcomes. 
• PRI Statement on ESG in credit ratings
We work with experts, from climate scientists to 
academicians, on a range of topics with the intention of  Stewardship codes
deepening sustainability insights.  • UK Stewardship Code
• Japan Stewardship Code
CLOSE AFFILIATIONS  • Hong Kong Principles of Responsible Ownership
• Investor Stewardship Group’s Framework for US 
Stewardship and Governance
   
Corporate governance
We have been signatories to the United Nations-
• International Corporate Governance 
supported Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI) 
Network (ICGN)
since 2012. This network of international investors 
• Asian Corporate Governance 
works to put the six Principles into practice. In 
Association (ACGA)
December 2018, Director of Sustainable Investment 
Wendy Cromwell was elected to be one of two asset  Impact & ESG data
manager representatives on the 10-person board.  • GIIN
She also serves as chair of the PRI’s Finance, Audit,  • Global Real Estate Sustainability 
and Risk Committee and as a member of the HR and  Benchmark (GRESB)
Remuneration Committee. 
Climate change
• TCFD
• Transition Pathway Initiative (TPI)
• CDP (formerly the Carbon Disclosure Project)
We aim to assess, monitor, and manage the potential 
• Ceres Investor Network on Climate Risk 
effects of climate change on our investment processes 
and Sustainability
and portfolios, as well as on our business operations. 
In December 2017, we signed the Statement of 
*Joined CA1000+ and Investor Forum in Q1 2020.
Support for the Task Force on Climate-related Financial 
7
WELLINGTON MANAGEMENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | JUNE 2020
Wellington supports the UN Sustainable Development  well our themes aligned. For each company and issuer 
Goals (SDGs), a blueprint for raising global economic  in our impact portfolios, we tag the goal or goals it 
growth, lowering inequality, and protecting the  aligns with, as well as any of the 169 underlying targets 
environment for future generations. In our impact  outlined by the UN. Our inclusion criteria and standards 
investing approaches, we have 11 impact themes based  result in strategies that naturally support many of 
on years of research and extensive consultation with  the SDGs. All companies in our impact portfolios aim 
internal and external advisors. When the UN SDGs were  to offer solutions to these major challenges and help 
published in late 2015, we were pleased to see how  improve social and environmental conditions. 
UN SDGS AND WELLINGTON’S IMPACT INVESTING ALIGNMENT
Wellington Management supports the UN SDG's. Wellington determines the UN SDGs that it believes each company or issuer is 
aligned with. Other investment firms may take a different view. | Sources: Wellington Management, www.un.org
ACADEMIA 
Our work with academia is done in support of SDG 17, 
Partnerships for the Goals. We have collaborated with 
leading institutions to share knowledge, expertise, 
and resources to advance sustainable development. 
Our researchers have been invited to speak or teach 
workshops on topics such as impact investing and 
physical climate risk at a number of US academic 
institutions including The Fletcher School, Tufts’ 
graduate school of international affairs; Northeastern 
University; and Harvard Business School. 
8
WELLINGTON MANAGEMENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | JUNE 2020
RESULTS
Insights from our maps enable our investors 
to compare relative valuations and have more 
constructive dialogue with executive teams. We 
COLLABORATION WITH WOODWELL 
encourage investors to focus on location as a key input 
CLIMATE RESEARCH CENTER 
into their process. Sectors with significant dependence 
Climate change is a key area of focus for us. We 
on fixed locations, such as real estate, mortgages, 
began engaging with some portfolio companies to 
municipal bonds, insurance, utilities, infrastructure, 
encourage adoption of the TCFD reporting framework 
and agriculture may be the most negatively 
in 2017, and since September 2018, we have been 
affected. Sectors with more movable assets may 
collaborating with Woodwell Climate Research Center 
be better off. For entities with long-term investment 
(WCRC), the world’s leading independent climate 
horizons, climate change presents a significant 
research institute. Working with the climate scientists 
strategic challenge. We work closely with WCRC and 
at WCRC, we study the physical effects of climate 
organizations like these in distinct, expanded strategic 
change on capital markets and asset prices, integrating 
relationships aimed at incorporating greater degrees of 
those findings into our investment practices through 
climate science into their investment processes. 
geospatial mapping. 
The scope of our initiative includes the study of seven  P-ROCC FRAMEWORK
climate variables: heat, drought, wildfires, floods, 
Another important output of our climate work is our 
hurricanes, water availability, and air quality. Each 
Physical Risks of Climate Change (P-ROCC) framework. 
of the variables — and combinations thereof — pose 
In conducting our research, we noted a lack of detailed 
different degrees of risk to various regions and asset 
company disclosures on the physical effects of 
types. For example, in many places, more days of 
climate change. In 2019, working alongside California 
extreme heat, longer droughts, or repeated flooding 
Public Employees' Retirement System (CalPERS), we 
could lead to mass migration. As people abandon 
published P-ROCC, a guide with which we intend to 
intolerable places for more livable ones, asset values 
help company management teams integrate climate 
will likely fall in the former and rise in the latter. 
science-based scenarios into their strategic planning 
The goals of our work with WCRC are to: and disclosures. The connection between our climate 
• Bridge the gap between climate science and  research and company engagement is direct, helping 
capital markets us raise awareness with management regarding the 
• Understand which companies and regions factor in  science and their organizations' vulnerabilities. We 
climate change believe our proactive work may provide the impetus 
• Improve our ability to quantify liabilities and  for them to invest in their own resilience efforts, 
appropriately price securities as we'll have the evidence they may need to justify 
• Better assess material business costs and  those investments. 
consequences
• Raise awareness of physical climate risks to promote  WHY IT MATTERS
resilience and adaptation
We believe capital market participants must manage 
a variety of risks, including those related to climate 
MAPPING THE EFFECTS change. For society, transparency about climate 
Integrated spatial finance is what we call the visual  issues and the repricing of assets can help improve 
plotting of capital-market variables over climate  planning for local and federal governments on issues 
variables on a series of global maps. This work  like infrastructure and migration. We hope our work will 
facilitates our ability to integrate fundamental  inspire others to rethink asset class and geographic 
investment insights into climate science. It also enables  exposures to better account for physical climate risks. 
us to better analyze and question those insights, and  We also hope to drive discussions that incentivize 
to draw practical, action-oriented conclusions. A high- longer-term performance measurement to better align 
level summary of our process follows:  climate time horizons with investor time horizons. In 
• Determine most relevant metric for each  our view, these shifts in thinking should be required 
climate variable of fiduciaries. They may also help provide better 
• Create map(s) to highlight change(s) in climate metric  transparency, lead to more gradual asset repricing, and 
by geographic area  advance and inform public discourse.
• Overlay map(s) with portfolio holdings and relevant 
holdings characteristics
• Analyze securities with similar characteristics and 
pricing but different climate outcomes
9
WELLINGTON MANAGEMENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | JUNE 2020
SUSTAINABLE INVESTMENT   
APPROACHES  
We believe investments that foster a sustainable future  The advantages of sustainable investing and impact 
may be poised to benefit from it. Our sustainable  companies are based Wellington Management's 
approaches include impact investing; thematic  analysis. There is no guarantee that these investments 
investing; and environmental, social, and governance  can or will be profitable, and your capital is at risk. 
(ESG) integration and engagement.  Please refer to the Risks section at the end of 
this report for more information on relevant 
investment risks.
Impact: Investing  Sustainable themes:  ESG forefront: ESG  ESG integration:  
in solutions Niche strategies drives investment  Incorporated into 
philosophy the investment 
Global Impact Advancement of Women*
decision-making 
Global Impact Bond  Climate Strategy  Broader Perspectives*
process
Climate Adaptation* European Stewards*
Fixed income suite
Emerging Market  Global Stewards
Development  Global equity product suite
US Stewards*
Low-carbon systematic  Global industry 
US Sustainable Companies* 
equity platform research suite
*Future strategies as of 30 June 2020. Refers to approaches that are not currently managed in live accounts for external investors. 
Approaches are either operated in hypothetical model portfolios, or internally seeded incubation funds. A GIPS®-compliant performance 
presentation is not available where an approach is not managed in an actual account. Availability of approaches may vary by location. Further 
information is available upon request.
The extent to which sustainable themes and ESG factors may be considered during the investment decision-making process is set out in 
the investment policy for each approach. Consideration of these factors may not necessarily result in the exclusion of an issuer or security 
from the investment universe and may not be a formal objective of all approaches. This is not an exhaustive list of all approaches offered by 
Wellington, which may include approaches that are not considered sustainable, impact, or ESG.
10
IMPACT INVESTING 
In our impact strategies, we aim to achieve positive, 
measurable social and environmental outcomes 
alongside competitive financial returns. We do this 
by investing in companies whose core products and 
services represent solutions to major global problems 
not addressed by other, nonmarket means. From 
providing affordable housing to generating renewable 
energy to ensuring internet access, companies 
we invest in have improved the lives of millions of 
underserved people around the world. Global Impact 
invests in the equities of public companies that we 
believe help solve the world’s biggest social and 
environmental problems. Global Impact Bond seeks 
to invest in fixed income issuers whose proceeds help 
address these same challenges.
THEMATIC INVESTING 
Secular trends often represent underappreciated 
investment themes. We offer several thematic 
investing approaches that support sustainability. 
Climate change will almost certainly lead to asset 
repricing, for example, creating some unexpected 
investment opportunities and risks. Our Climate 
Strategy approach seeks to invest in companies 
focused on climate risk mitigation or adaptation, 
andour low-carbon systematic equity platform 
includes quantitative strategies aimed at investing 
in companies contributing to a lower-carbon future. 
Developing countries with policies geared toward long-
term economic prosperity may be good investments 
over time. Emerging Market Development invests in 
companies that we believe contribute to or benefit from 
a range of secular development trends.
OUR IMPACT THEMES
Three categories. 11 themes. A world of opportunities. 
LIFE ESSENTIALS
AFFORDABLE  CLEAN WATER   HEALTH SUSTAINABLE 
HOUSING & SANITATION AGRICULTURE 
& NUTRITION
HUMAN EMPOWERMENT
DIGITAL DIVIDE EDUCATION &  FINANCIAL  SAFETY & 
JOB TRAINING INCLUSION SECURITY
ENVIRONMENT
ALTERNATIVE  RESOURCE  RESOURCE 
ENERGY EFFICIENCY STEWARDSHIP
WELLINGTON MANAGEMENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | JUNE 2020
ESG INTEGRATION AND ENGAGEMENT  Our goal is for each portfolio manager and investment 
We believe understanding securities holistically —  team to be able articulate in a genuine, credible way 
including their ESG characteristics — helps inform  how they integrate ESG considerations into their 
investment decision making. We view ESG analysis and  investment philosophy and process. This integration 
integration as return enhancing and risk mitigating.  should be intrinsic to the process rather than externally 
To help our portfolio managers and investment  imposed and can manifest through an investment 
teams better assess risks and opportunities in client  thesis or the portfolio weighting for a particular 
portfolios, we integrate the analysis of ESG factors  security, as well as within proxy voting and company 
into our investment and risk-management processes.  engagement efforts.
We do this by producing ESG research and ratings, 
Two investment approaches for which ESG integration 
conducting ESG portfolio reviews, and engaging with 
is central to the investment philosophy and process are 
company executives and board members on ESG 
Broader Perspectives, which invests in a combination 
issues for the benefit of our clients. ESG analysts 
of what we see as ESG leaders and businesses showing 
specialize by sector and collaborate with our sector-
improvements in ESG, and Global Stewards, which 
focused equity and credit analysts to consider material 
invests in global companies that we believe can sustain 
ESG risks and opportunities, as well as the relative 
high return on capital and that display exemplary 
performance of potential investments against a 
corporate stewardship.
relevant peer set. 
“
We believe understanding 
securities holistically — including 
their ESG characteristics 
— helps inform investment 
decision making.
12
WELLINGTON MANAGEMENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | JUNE 2020
Engagement 
Understanding and engaging on fundamental and ESG  WELLINGTON’S ENGAGEMENT EDGE
issues that are material to each industry and company 
Our size and company access 
broaden our investment perspective. We advocate on 
• More than 16,000 company meetings globally 
our clients' behalf and promote leadership on ESG best 
in 20191
practices. Sustainable investing does not end with an 
• “Constructivists” influencing positive outcomes 
investment decision. Through engagement, we believe 
for clients
we can better assess ESG risks and opportunities and 
influence corporate behavior in ways that promote best 
Active management
practices and unlock long-term value.
Companies care about our opinion because we 
are, potentially, marginal buyers and sellers of 
POLICY
their securities
Core approach: Empowered investment teams and 
rigorous proprietary research Multi-disciplinary industry analysts across 
equity, credit, and ESG research
Our belief in active management and our deep sector 
expertise across equity, credit, and ESG research  • Global 
are the cornerstones of our investment platform. We  • Triangulation of the value of a security
believe that through informed, active ownership, we  • Deep understanding of the investment mosaic 
can influence corporate behavior by encouraging what  through expertise in each dimension
we consider to be best practices. As active managers, 
we are owners by choice. It is our fiduciary duty to  1Represents meetings rather than companies engaged with.
conduct deep research and ensure ongoing dialogue 
with the companies in which we invest. Our career 
analysts bring extensive knowledge of their industries 
STEWARDSHIP OVERSIGHT 
to the conversation. As thought leaders, they develop 
long-term relationships with the companies they cover.  AND RESPONSIBILITY
We believe this fundamental research model positions  We strengthen our investment process by embedding 
us well for long-term, constructive communication  stewardship across our investment platform. Portfolio 
because of the feedback we can provide.  managers, industry analysts, and ESG analysts all 
take part in, and have a shared responsibility for, 
Cooperation and communication with companies  our ongoing dialogue with and research on investee 
and stakeholders companies, as well as suppliers, customers, and 
A substantial portion of our company research is  competitors. 
informed by direct, persistent contact with company 
Our more than 50 global industry analysts (GIAs) 
management and boards of directors. This is done 
and 35 credit analysts communicate with companies 
virtually, in our offices, and through on-site company 
within their coverage and provide feedback through 
visits. Our investors hosted more than 16,000 company 
engagement. In our community-of-boutiques model, 
meetings around the world in 2019. Maintaining this 
our 45 investment teams also dedicate time and 
ongoing dialogue is central to how we implement 
effort to stewardship activities with the companies 
our stewardship responsibilities and informs the 
and issuers they own on behalf of clients. Our ESG 
investment choices we make on behalf of our clients. 
Research Team also leads communication focused 
Please see our Engagement Policy for details.
on ESG issues, in conjunction with our internal equity 
Prioritization of stewardship activities is a bottom-up  and bondholders. Our 15-member ISC is comprised of 
process requiring numerous inputs, including firm  colleagues across multiple functions. This committee 
ownership and materiality of industry- and company- oversees and monitors stewardship activities, 
specific risks. Working with management and boards of  including direct engagement, letter writing, and proxy 
directors, we seek to monitor investee companies, gain  voting. The ISC approves enhancements to existing 
differentiated insights, develop productive ongoing  stewardship policies and procedures and assesses 
dialogue, and impact company behavior. In addition  alignment of our approach with emerging stewardship 
to the objectives established for specific company  regulation. Senior-level and experienced professionals 
discussions, our ESG Research Team and Investment  from portfolio management, investment research, 
Stewardship Committee (ISC) set stewardship  relationship management, and legal and compliance 
objectives that are relevant across companies and  globally sit on the ISC. 
sectors for the coming year.
13
WELLINGTON MANAGEMENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | JUNE 2020
IMPLEMENTATION Climate change and the P-ROCC framework
Engaging with company management and board  Our P-ROCC framework seeks to improve how 
members is essential to our fundamental research  companies disclose their physical vulnerabilities, which 
process. Whereas company filings and reported ESG  can help asset owners and investment managers better 
data reflect the past, engagements help us understand  evaluate companies’ ability to adapt to or mitigate 
and assess a company’s direction. We include equity,  such risks before investing. We consider this to be a 
credit, and ESG research teams, as well as investors  consultation document that can help companies think 
who own or are interested in owning the security. We  through their physical climate risk exposure, including 
believe that including multiple perspectives in these  recommendations on how to analyze the impacts of 
meetings enriches our dialogue with companies and  key climate variables on the physical attributes of 
can lead to differentiated insights.  the company’s business. Wellington investors and 
CalPERS' sustainable investment team have been 
Board engagement sharing the document with companies, who we have 
In addition to communicating with company executives,  found to be receptive to enhanced guidance.
we believe direct engagement with corporate boards 
can enhance discussions about long-term material  Adherence to industry best practices
ESG issues, complement our ongoing conversations  Our approach to ESG considerations is global, applied 
with management teams, and help us assess a board’s  broadly across asset classes when appropriate. Our 
effectiveness — which is challenging to do using  process is consistent with the aims of many best 
company disclosures alone. We seek to understand  practice codes, including the PRI, the UK Stewardship 
how a board collaborates with management and  Code, the Hong Kong Principles of Responsible 
delineates responsibilities. We look for indications that  Ownership, the Japan Stewardship Code, and the 
directors foster healthy debate, develop constructive  Investor Stewardship Group’s Framework for US 
relationships with management, and challenge them  Stewardship and Governance.
where appropriate. Where we see opportunities for 
Wellington has been a signatory to the PRI since 
improvement, we provide feedback and explain how the 
2012. The Principles were devised by the investment 
suggestions can benefit our clients, their ultimate stock 
community in recognition that ESG issues can 
or bondholders. We expect to have more conversations 
affect investment portfolio performance and should 
with late-stage private companies to help them bolster 
be considered by investors in order to fulfill their 
ESG practices, potentially avoiding costly missteps 
fiduciary (or equivalent) duty. These Principles provide 
during the initial public offering (IPO) process.
a voluntary framework by which all investors can 
We aim to take a multidisciplinary approach, including  incorporate ESG issues into their decision-making and 
perspectives from equity and fixed income investment  ownership practices to better align their objectives with 
professionals for a richer dialogue. In 2019, board  those of society at large.
engagements comprised about a third of our ESG-
focused discussions, and we expect that ratio to 
increase in 2020. With more directors becoming 
accustomed to these interactions, we expect this work 
to remain central to our investment stewardship and 
ESG research process. 
14
WELLINGTON MANAGEMENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | JUNE 2020
Proxy voting Pursuant to our Global Proxy Policy and Procedures, 
potential conflicts may be resolved by votes in 
We intend to vote proxies in the best interests of our  accordance with our published Global Proxy Voting 
clients that have affirmatively delegated proxy-voting  Guidelines (the Guidelines). Alternatively, where the 
authority — unless it is in the best interest of one or  published voting guideline is case specific, where no 
more clients to refrain from a given vote. We aim to  published guideline exists, or where the proposed 
identify and resolve all material, proxy-related conflicts  voting position is contrary to a published guideline, we 
of interest in ways that are in our clients' best interest.  appoint three disinterested ombudsmen from the ISC. 
Their role is to review the recommendations of the ESG 
APPROACH Research Team, oversee any discussion or debate with 
respect to the proposed votes, and ensure that votes 
Our investment-led approach to voting is an influential 
were executed solely in the best interest of our clients. 
component of our engagement and escalation 
In 2019, we identified 11 public companies where a 
strategy. The ESG Research Team, in collaboration with 
material conflict arose regarding a company that is a 
our GIAs, examines proxy proposals on their merits 
significant client, lender, or vendor of the firm, and we 
and recommends voting for proposals that they believe 
applied the ombudsman process in each case. Upon 
would have a positive effect on shareholder rights or 
review of the recommendations and discussion among 
the current or future market value of the company’s 
portfolio managers, the vote decision was adjusted in 
securities. The team provides recommendations to 
one instance.
each portfolio manager, who makes the final conclusion 
for their client portfolios, absent a material conflict of 
Use of proxy advisors
interest. Consistent with our community-of-boutiques 
Wellington uses the services of a third-party voting 
model, portfolio managers occasionally arrive at 
agent to manage the administrative aspects of proxy 
different voting conclusions for their clients, resulting 
voting. The voting agent processes proxies for client 
in a split decision for the same security. Our pre-vote 
accounts, casts votes based on the Guidelines, and 
deliberation and process align with our role as active 
maintains records of proxies voted. The ISC establishes 
owners and fiduciaries for our clients.
a custom voting policy to help us achieve our clients’ 
Governance and oversight investment objectives, defining locally contextualized 
practices that we believe promote long-term 
Our Investment Research Group monitors regulatory 
shareholder value. Mapping company practices to the 
requirements with respect to proxy voting and works 
Guidelines policy enables us to identify cases where 
with the firm’s Legal and Compliance Group and 
we need to conduct more in-depth analysis, seek more 
the ISC to develop practices that implement those 
clarification, and share our feedback directly, rather 
requirements. Day-to-day administration of the proxy 
than rely on the vote alone. 
voting process is the responsibility of Investment 
Research. The ISC is responsible for oversight of 
GUIDELINES
the implementation of the global proxy policy and 
procedures, review and approval of the guidelines, and  We base our Global Proxy Voting Guidelines on our 
providing advice and guidance on specific proxy votes  fiduciary obligation to act in the best interest of our 
for individual issuers.  clients as shareholders. We examine and vote each 
proposal so that the long-term effect of the vote may 
Managing conflicts of interest  ultimately increase shareholder value for our clients. 
We have adopted and implemented policies and 
Our experience in voting proposals is that similar 
procedures reasonably designed to manage conflicts 
proposals often have different consequences for 
that may arise in our stewardship activities. The ISC 
different companies. And while we crafted the 
reviews and sets standards annually for identifying 
Guidelines to apply globally, variations in local practice 
material conflicts with respect to proxy voting and 
and law make universal application impractical. We 
corporate engagement — including whether a company 
evaluate each proposal on its merits, considering its 
is a significant client, lender, or vendor of the firm — 
effects on the specific company in question and in 
and publishes those to investors for consideration. 
relation to its industry. Wellington reserves the right 
The ISC encourages all personnel to contact the ESG 
in all cases to vote contrary to the Guidelines where 
Research Team about apparent conflicts of interest, 
we believe doing so represents the best interest of 
even if the conflict does not meet the published 
our clients. 
materiality criteria. 
15
WELLINGTON MANAGEMENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | JUNE 2020
Engagement and voting activity the company changed its basis for awarding annual 
bonuses from individual to division performance 
The following examples were chosen to demonstrate  without advance communication. This change deprived 
multiple forms of stewardship, broad involvement from  some employees of their bonuses, despite having 
investors across asset classes and regions, and a range  achieved individual performance targets. The board 
of engagement outcomes. Examples were selected  acknowledged that it will take time to rebuild trust with 
from the firm’s list of most significant outcomes as a  employees but did not believe that it has negatively 
result of engagement and voting activity during 2019.  influenced staff turnover or morale. We believe that 
The examples were chosen based on their ability to  this was a missed opportunity for executives to 
best demonstrate our engagement and voting policies  generate goodwill with employees by foregoing their 
in action in accordance with our European disclosure  own bonuses in solidarity. The ESG analyst, GIA, and 
requirements. (See About this report at the end of this  portfolio managers wrote a letter to the board and 
document.) We define “significant” outcomes as those  had several subsequent conversations to encourage a 
where our voting authority or engagement activity  change in perspective from management and the board 
influenced the outcome of a vote or the behavior of a  and to advocate for independent board leadership. 
company in the interests of its shareholders, and those 
Outcome: Company changed practice, one or more 
that are not procedural in nature.
portfolio managers changed position size
The cancellation of employee bonuses caused some 
COMPANY EXAMPLES
equity portfolio managers to question the short-term 
ARAMARK nature of the company’s behavior. With this as a 
contributing factor, the GIA downgraded the company 
Primary topic: Labor practices and talent management 
and several investors reduced or eliminated positions. 
The company received negative press when some  Months later, the board opted to replace the CEO. 
employees failed to receive their 2018 annual  Along with additional management and board turnover, 
bonuses. In our assessment of social risks, we pay  this improved accountability and provided fresh 
attention to how companies treat a key stakeholder:  perspectives. The GIA, along with several portfolio 
their workforce. We look for a focus on key employee  managers, have regained conviction and repurchased 
concerns, such as safe working conditions and  the stock. 
competitive compensation. We believe companies 
Status and reflection: Completed
that invest in and cultivate human capital are well 
positioned to realize a competitive advantage and  We appreciate the company’s receptivity to our 
deliver better business outcomes. feedback and are encouraged by the actions taken, 
including the appointment of the new CEO. We will 
Method: Engagement with management and board
monitor this transition to ensure that the workforce is 
The ESG analyst, GIA, and portfolio managers  valued as one of the company’s best assets.
requested a call with the chair of the compensation 
committee and human resources to discuss changes  BRISTOL MYERS SQUIBB
to the employee bonus plan and corporate culture. 
Primary topic: Mergers and acquisitions
We see direct communication as an effective way 
to enhance discussions about long-term, material  The company announced plans to buy a competitor in 
issues over which the board has oversight. Board- a cash-and-stock transaction, resulting in the largest 
level conversations complement our discussions and  pharmaceutical industry merger ever. We approach 
provide a lens to assess a board’s effectiveness and  votes to approve mergers and acquisitions on a case-
competence, which is challenging to do using company  by-case basis, considering the specific circumstances 
disclosures alone. Additionally, letters to boards remain  of each proposal to determine an outcome that we 
a potent tool to reiterate and reinforce our feedback. believe is in our clients’ best interest. In conducting 
their assessment, equity, credit, and ESG analysts 
Detail: We sought to understand management’s 
collaborate to analyze fundamental and governance 
process and how 2018 bonus decisions fit into their 
implications to advise portfolio managers in their 
overall talent management strategy. We learned that 
vote decisions. 
The issuers discussed above were selected to highlight Wellington Management’s engagement efforts and are not indicative of any 
investment recommendation that was or would have been profitable for any investor. These issuers were not held in all client accounts.
16
WELLINGTON MANAGEMENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | JUNE 2020
Method: Engagement with management and board, 
CONOCOPHILLIPS
letter writing, voting
Primary topic: Climate change
The ESG analyst, GIA, and equity portfolio managers 
have had a long-standing dialogue with management  Reporting on climate readiness will help stakeholders 
and the board. After conducting due diligence and  understand companies’ willingness and ability to adapt 
meeting with several board directors, we reiterated  to or mitigate climate-related risks. However, so far, 
our lack of support for the deal. Upon review by ISC  most disclosures make scant mention of the physical 
members and holders, we sent a private letter to  risks posed to their business by a changing climate. We 
the board to formalize our feedback. After careful  focus our stewardship activities in this area. We do this 
consideration, we also decided to issue a press release  by leveraging findings from our collaborative initiative 
to share our view with other shareholders prior to  with WCRC to establish disclosure guidance to help 
the vote. companies improve their physical risk disclosures.
Detail: While we agree that companies should be  Method: Engagement with management and board
active in business development that diversifies and 
We have ongoing communication with this company 
differentiates their scientific platforms and broadens 
about its management of climate risks and 
revenue bases, we did not believe that this transaction 
opportunities. Based on the depth of understanding 
was an attractive path to accomplishing such a 
demonstrated in prior discussions with management 
goal. With all of our stewardship tools, we sought to 
and board members, the ESG analyst identified this 
discourage the board and management from pursuing 
company as the best candidate in her coverage to 
the merger because of our concerns about the 
share our differentiated expertise on physical climate 
strategic rationale.
risks. The ESG analyst and our director of climate 
The conclusion not to support the merger was  research sought to provide additional guidance, answer 
based upon three convictions. First, we believed the  questions, and encourage continued leadership in 
transaction posed undue risks to shareholders and  integrating physical risks and resilience into their 
offered shares to the target company’s shareholders at  enterprise risk management strategy.
a price well below implied asset value. Second, we felt 
Detail: We shared and discussed our P-ROCC 
execution success could be more difficult to achieve 
framework as a means to further enhance the 
than depicted by management. Finally, we thought 
company’s climate disclosure. We were pleased that 
alternate paths to creating value for shareholders could 
the company is approaching physical climate risk 
be more attractive.
the same way it has long approached transition risk: 
Outcome: No outcome, increased understanding/ considering scenarios and establishing signposts to get 
information, voting ahead of risks that are becoming more probable. While 
it is too early to assess adoption of the framework in 
Although we expressly voted against it, the 
disclosures, we have found companies to be receptive 
merger passed with approximately 75% support 
to enhanced guidance about physical risks.
from shareholders.
Outcome: Company committed to change
Status and reflection: Ongoing
The company is taking a risk-based approach, tackling 
We have maintained our constructive dialogue with 
regions where it sees more acute climate risk potential. 
the board and continue to monitor the progress 
The company is also prioritizing areas of future 
of the integration. This was the first time we have 
spending and growth over assets in harvest mode. It 
issued a press release noting our disagreement with 
intends to disclose its physical risk assessment and 
a proposed transaction. We evaluate all potential 
management in financial filings. 
tools and expertise at our disposal; in this instance, 
we decided to take a more public stance because of  Status and reflection: Ongoing
our sizable ownership, strong conviction, and lack of 
The discussion reinforced the ESG analyst’s positive 
results from prior interactions. This experience did 
view of the company’s climate risk strategy. We 
not change our overall investment model or company 
plan to follow up when the company has made more 
engagement approach.
progress internally toward incorporating our guidance 
to strengthen resilience and improve the market’s 
understanding of its climate strategy. 
The issuers discussed above were selected to highlight Wellington Management’s engagement efforts and are not indicative of any 
investment recommendation that was or would have been profitable for any investor. These issuers were not held in all client accounts.
17
WELLINGTON MANAGEMENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | JUNE 2020
CONSORT MEDICAL DOMINION ENERGY
Primary topic: Executive remuneration Primary topic: Independent board leadership
We may support remuneration plans where we have  We asked the board of this company to consider 
seen improvement, recognizing a willingness to work  improving independence and oversight by separating 
with shareholders and implement recommendations  the roles of CEO and chair. We typically support 
that enhance the plan. We expect remuneration  shareholder proposals asking companies to separate 
committees to respond to shareholder requests and  their CEO and chair roles because we believe that an 
voting outcomes and disclose how they consider these  independent chair is better able to oversee executives 
external perspectives. and set an agenda, and separating the roles eliminates 
the inevitable conflict of interest when a CEO is 
Method: Engagement with board, voting
responsible for self-oversight. 
An equity portfolio manager with a significant holding 
Method: Engagement with management, voting
and the ESG analyst discussed the proposed changes 
to the remuneration policy with the chair of the  We met with members of management before the 
remuneration committee as part of the company’s  annual general meeting to better understand the 
consultation prior to publishing the forward-looking  board’s unique committee structure and division of 
policy for the annual general meeting.  responsibilities among directors and executives. 
Detail: During the five years of the CEO’s tenure, total  Detail: The ESG analyst worried that a combined CEO/
pay more than doubled and ultimately surpassed  chair prevented a balance of influence from the other 
that of the company’s peer group. The board sought  directors. Several directors were long tenured, which 
to lower earnings-per-share (EPS) growth targets  raised questions about whether their objectivity could 
that determine the payout of the long-term incentive  be compromised by their long-standing relationship 
plan for executives. We expressed our concern that  with the CEO/chair. The ESG analyst was also 
the board was not sufficiently holding management  concerned about the board’s committee structure, 
accountable and that the targets did not reflect  which combined all key committee functions into a 
developments of the underlying business, including the  single committee. 
performance of a business acquired a few years earlier.
Outcome: No outcome, one or more portfolio 
Outcome: Company changed practice, voting
managers changed position size, voting
Following shareholder consultation, the board raised 
We supported a shareholder proposal to separate 
EPS targets for its long-term incentive plan. While 
the role of CEO/chair, which received 40% support 
we still believe the targets should have been more 
from shareholders. A fixed income portfolio manager 
rigorous, we were encouraged to see improvement 
considered the ESG analyst’s negative view, noting that 
from what was initially proposed. We voted in support 
the security he held did not trade with a discount to 
of the advisory remuneration policy proposal, which 
account for this risk, and decided to reduce his holding.
passed with 85% support from shareholders.
Status and reflection: Ongoing
Status and reflection: Completed
While the proposal received considerable support from 
This instance, discussed at length during one of our 
shareholders, the company has not committed to any 
Morning Meetings, reinforced broad agreement among 
changes in leadership structure. A new shareholder 
investors that incentive remuneration provides insight 
proposal to separate CEO and chair will be on the 
into the behavior of management and expectations set 
2020 ballot.
by the board. 
The issuers discussed above were selected to highlight Wellington Management’s engagement efforts and are not indicative of any 
investment recommendation that was or would have been profitable for any investor. These issuers were not held in all client accounts.
18
WELLINGTON MANAGEMENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | JUNE 2020
FIRSTRAND LIMITED JOHNSON & JOHNSON
Primary topic: Climate change  Primary topic: Executive compensation
We believe that climate change poses a material risk  We evaluated a shareholder proposal for an annual 
across sectors and geographies, so understanding how  report on the use of the company’s clawback policy, 
companies assess and manage climate risk is key to  including whether or not it chose to recoup incentive 
making informed investment selections for our clients.  compensation from senior executives during the 
We generally support shareholder proposals asking  prior fiscal year. We believe clawback policies are only 
for improved disclosure on climate risk management,  effective when enforced and used as a tool by the board. 
and we expect to support those that request alignment 
Method: Engagement with management, voting
of business strategies with the Paris Agreement or 
similar language. The ESG analyst and equity portfolio managers 
reached out to the company ahead of the vote 
Method: Engagement with management, voting
to reiterate our support for transparency and 
After consulting with the GIA, the ESG analyst spoke  gather details about management’s opposition to 
with investor relations representatives of the company  the proposal. 
about two climate-focused shareholder proposals on 
Detail: We expressed our view that this was not an 
the ballot at their upcoming annual general meeting. 
onerous ask, as the report should not have been costly 
Detail: The first proposal, to establish a comprehensive  or time-consuming to prepare. We believe shareholders 
fossil-fuel lending policy, was supported by  could benefit from increased disclosure on the board’s 
management as a complement to its existing  approach to keeping management accountable, given 
policies. The second proposal, to publish a report  controversies that could pose significant financial or 
on the company’s exposure to climate-related risks,  reputational harm to the company. 
received solid support. We sought to express our 
Outcome: Company committed to change
support for enhanced disclosure on climate change 
risks and opportunities, in line with the TCFD and our  We supported the shareholder proposal, which 
P-ROCC framework. received approximately 47% support from 
shareholders. We have since communicated with the 
We encouraged the company to be transparent about 
board, including the lead director and chair of the 
its work in progress and suggested sector-specific case 
compensation committee, and management on this 
studies showing how analytics and risk management can 
and other issues. 
integrate climate. Management established an internal 
working group and joined industry groups to improve  Status and reflection: Ongoing
scenario analysis. Given that physical climate risks like 
The board gathered substantial shareholder feedback 
drought and water scarcity afflict some of the company’s 
throughout the process — even though the proposal 
key markets, we reiterated the importance of assessing 
did not technically receive majority support —
these risks. We shared our P-ROCC framework, which 
and committed to provide disclosure if the board 
the internal working group is considering. 
determines to recoup executive compensation. 
Outcome: Company committed to change, increased 
understanding/information, voting
We supported both proposals, in line with our 
voting guidelines. The first proposal passed with 
unanimous support, and the second proposal received 
approximately 33% support from shareholders.
Status and reflection: Ongoing
We are impressed with the company’s commitment 
to improving transparency. Supporting a shareholder 
proposal is a signal of its progress. We like that 
functional representatives have included climate 
as a regular part of risk management and strategic 
planning. We will monitor progress and provide 
feedback on the company’s evolving disclosure.
The issuers discussed above were selected to highlight Wellington Management’s engagement efforts and are not indicative of any 
investment recommendation that was or would have been profitable for any investor. These issuers were not held in all client accounts.
19
WELLINGTON MANAGEMENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | JUNE 2020
MITSUBISHI UFJ FINANCIAL GROUP (MUFG) NEXPOINT RESIDENTIAL TRUST
Primary topic: Capital allocation Primary topic: Board composition 
The company disappointed the market early in 2019 by  Engaging with board members is an important part of 
discontinuing its share buyback program, which had  our investment process because it helps us understand 
been in place for several years. Capital allocation is an  how the board collaborates with management and 
important theme in Japan, as poor capital stewardship  delineates responsibilities. We look for indications 
has resulted in a lack of shareholder value creation over  that directors foster healthy debate in the boardroom, 
time at some Japanese companies. develop constructive relationships with management, 
and challenge them when appropriate. Because 
Method: Engagement with management and board
board responsibilities include overseeing execution, 
The GIA discusses the company’s share repurchases  evaluating and compensating top management, and 
and related capital allocation decisions at each meeting  coordinating CEO succession, an independent chair is 
he attends. The GIA and ESG analyst also collaborated  our preferred structure. 
to analyze how the company’s compensation plan 
Method: Engagement with management and board
incentivizes prudent capital allocation moves and 
provided feedback about the pay structure.  The ESG analyst and GIA followed up on a prior 
conversation with one of the independent directors. 
Detail: The GIA and equity portfolio managers 
raised capital allocation concerns with the board  Detail: The prior discussion suggested that the 
chair, who has been receptive to our feedback. The  directors had not been sufficiently briefed in advance 
chairman noted that he had previously brought our  on a major event or recent personnel changes in a 
feedback to the board, which had followed our advice,  timely manner by the CEO/chair. The analysts sought 
bringing about the recent recommencement of a  to encourage numerous governance improvements 
share buyback.  related to the size of the board, diversity on the board, 
and separation of CEO/chair role.
Outcome: Company changed practice
Outcome: Company committed to change
Status and reflection: Ongoing
The board took positive first steps based on our input. 
The company reiterated its goal of increasing its payout 
It committed to increase the size of the governance 
ratio and maintaining flexibility to conduct buybacks. 
committee, include governance as an agenda item 
We are pleased to see this outcome and the board’s 
at every board meeting, and ensure that the CEO is 
receptivity to shareholders on a range of issues. We 
available to investors. The board committed to increase 
provide feedback regarding additional actions the 
the board size from five to seven members, but salary 
company could take around balance sheet optimization 
cost is a concern. The board is currently all men, so it 
and capital allocation.
will look to select a woman for at least one of those two 
new director roles.
Status and reflection: Ongoing
Other changes that we will encourage as the company 
grows include internalizing management and 
separating the roles of chair and CEO. The objection to 
separating these roles was also based on salary cost 
and current simplicity of the business. We suggested 
that this division of responsibilities would become 
more important as the company grows and would 
demonstrate a commitment to adopting governance 
best practices.
 
The issuers discussed above were selected to highlight Wellington Management’s engagement efforts and are not indicative of any 
investment recommendation that was or would have been profitable for any investor. These issuers were not held in all client accounts.
20
WELLINGTON MANAGEMENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | JUNE 2020
REGENERON PHARMACEUTICALS PING AN INSURANCE COMPANY OF CHINA
Primary topic: Executive compensation and  Primary topic: ESG disclosure and capital allocation 
board composition
We believe disclosures illustrate a company’s 
The company had been scrutinized for the quantum of  processes to help manage material ESG risks and 
its executive and director compensation. We believe in  opportunities. In our view, the best disclosures explain 
a pay-for-performance philosophy, and we encourage  how initiatives contribute to long-term strategic and 
plan structures that align management compensation  business outcomes.
with shareholder experience, incentivizing long-term 
Method: Engagement with management
performance. We consider the quantum of pay on 
a case-by-case basis, comparing the company’s  The ESG analyst and GIA led a call with the company to 
figures to peers of similar size, industry, and market.  provide feedback on its ESG-related disclosure.
We also support board declassification and annual 
Detail: Our discussion and feedback focused on 
director elections.
three main areas: talent management, technology 
Method: Engagement with management and board and cybersecurity, and ESG integration. Regarding 
talent, we suggested that the company provide 
We provided feedback on these issues, including with 
more information about training programs, 
the chair of the compensation committee, pursuant to 
employee satisfaction, and board oversight of talent 
prior meetings. While we think this company is doing 
management. Regarding technology, the company 
the right things with regard to culture, compliance, and 
has consistently allocated profits from its financial 
long-term sustainability, we have engaged on other 
business to invest in technology that leads to better 
governance practices as well, including its entrenched, 
sales, fewer claims, and lower costs. We asked 
classified board; legacy dual-class-share structure; and 
whether the company could share more information 
succession planning. 
about reporting structure and cybersecurity 
Detail: While some boards pay primarily in cash, here,  spending. Finally, we encouraged management to 
director pay was primarily option based, meaning  demonstrate the importance of ESG integration into its 
realized pay did not match headline numbers. While  investment process. 
the board acknowledged that this created reputational 
Outcome: Company changed practice 
noise, directors were more motivated by the company’s 
strategy and value proposition. Regarding executive  In early 2020, the company updated its sustainability 
compensation, we learned more about how the board  report. We found it addressed many of our points 
uses discretion to overlay the quality and impact of  and feedback. The company discussed its talent 
the drug pipeline when determining awards. Board  and development strategy, including its customized 
refreshment is ongoing. Recent additions have added  career development and education and employee 
significant value in our view, and the board plans to  stock ownership schemes. Consistent with prior 
bring on two additional directors with data science and  disclosure, the report explained how the company 
global regulatory experience.  combines finance and technology to develop inclusive 
finance and telehealth solutions. It has consistently 
Outcome: Company changed practice, increased 
allocated profits from its financial business to invest 
understanding/information
in technology that leads to better sales, fewer claims, 
The company announced a reduction in director pay  and lower costs. Later in the year, the company 
of more than 50% and the transition of some options  demonstrated leadership in responsible investing 
to restricted stock units in the equity-based portion  practices by becoming the first Chinese asset owner 
of pay. While we generally favor a clearly defined pay  signatory to the UN PRI.
structure as opposed to substantial discretion, this 
Status and reflection: Ongoing 
case underscored the value of taking a case-by-case 
approach to evaluating compensation plans. We are encouraged by the company’s ambition to be a 
leader on ESG through its disclosure and progressive 
Status and reflection: Ongoing 
practices. We remain positive about the company's 
We are pleased that the board seems genuinely open  long-term outlook and differentiated approach to 
to declassifying, recognizing that its desire to maintain  technology. We will continue to engage to better 
a classified board to facilitate long-term thinking no  understand the company’s approach to cybersecurity.
longer outweighs shareholder opposition and scrutiny.
The issuers discussed above were selected to highlight Wellington Management’s engagement efforts and are not indicative of any 
investment recommendation that was or would have been profitable for any investor. These issuers were not held in all client accounts.
21
WELLINGTON MANAGEMENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | JUNE 2020
the overall pay structure and the board’s willingness 
STANDARD CHARTERED
to hold management accountable. The question of 
Primary topic: Executive remuneration and country  domicile and headquarters is a complex one, with far-
of domicile reaching implications on the company’s approach to 
regulation, talent, board composition, and shareholder 
Standards for remuneration structure vary by market, 
dialogue, among others. This issue is not unique to 
so we expect companies to evolve their practices 
this company. We intend to spend more time exploring 
to meet best practices in their home market to 
innovative solutions to help organizations arrive at 
the extent possible. In the UK, aligning executives’ 
outcomes in the best interests of shareholders, who 
pension contribution rate with that of employees 
are often our clients.
has been a trend over the last several years, as it is 
a recommendation of the updated UK Corporate 
THE 3M COMPANY
Governance Code.  
Primary topic: Product liability
Method: Engagement with board, voting
Along with several of its peers, the company is facing 
The ESG analyst, GIA, and other portfolio managers 
legal claims regarding the possible environmental and 
met with the chair of the remuneration committee at 
health effects of various perfluorinated compounds 
its London headquarters to discuss the remuneration 
(PFAS). Ongoing litigation around product recalls 
policy, which had attracted scrutiny, among other ESG 
or safety-related issues can be an overhang for a 
issues. In the following months, an equity portfolio 
company’s securities, as investors worry about the 
manager hosted a call with the CEO to discuss how the 
magnitude of potential fines and reputational damage. 
company’s country of domicile aligns with the regions 
in which it does business. Method: Engagement with management and board 
Detail: We expressed our view that the remuneration  Joined by a group of equity and credit investment 
committee should make the necessary adjustments to  professionals, our ESG analyst led a meeting with the 
the pension contribution rate for incumbent executives,  CEO/chair. We sought to better understand board 
as it had already done for new executives. We were  oversight of strategic choices, including the company’s 
reassured that the change would not pose any talent  approach to outstanding environmental litigation. 
retention risk. We also discussed the challenges with 
Detail: The company has phased out the chemical, 
selecting the company’s peer group to measure relative 
improved testing and detection technology, and 
total shareholder return in the long-term plan, given 
embraced the US Environmental Protection Agency’s 
the bank’s focus on its business in Asia. The company 
remediation plan more quickly than some peers. 
is domiciled and regulated in the UK but generates the 
Given that litigation is ongoing, uncertainty remains 
majority of its revenue from business in Asia; just 5% 
about the range of potential outcomes. The board’s 
comes from the UK. This distinguishes the company 
audit committee is tasked with oversight of these 
from other banks in the UK, and, in our view, makes 
proceedings. The CEO appreciates that prolonged 
local regulations less applicable, when compared with 
litigation could affect the company’s reputation and 
UK peers. We encouraged the company to explore a 
ability to attract talent. For this reason, the company is 
change of domicile to reflect its geographic footprint.
keen to balance the timeline to resolution with the total 
Outcome: Company changed practice, voting cost of settlement.
In the ensuing months, the board announced  Outcome: One or more portfolio managers changed 
a reduction in the pension contribution for  position sizes, increased understanding/information
incumbent executives to 10% of total salary, in 
Our GIA and credit analyst came away from this 
line with all employees. We supported the 2020 
meeting with an incrementally negative view of the 
remuneration proposal, which received 97% support 
PFAS situation, and some portfolio managers reduced 
from shareholders.
or eliminated positions. We expect the company to be 
Status and reflection: Ongoing transparent about the potential risks of this situation 
and to prepare the balance sheet for a potential 
We are pleased that the company embraced 
negative legal outcome.
shareholder feedback regarding pension benefits 
for executives. We will monitor for improvements to  Status and reflection: Ongoing
The issuers discussed above were selected to highlight Wellington Management’s engagement efforts and are not indicative of any 
investment recommendation that was or would have been profitable for any investor. These issuers were not held in all client accounts.
22
WELLINGTON MANAGEMENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | JUNE 2020
The audit committee’s expanded role to include  structure and unclear succession planning warranted 
this litigation oversight raises questions, given the  support for the first proposal. The second proposal 
significant responsibilities already under its purview.  requested a report on governance changes (including 
We would prefer to see oversight assigned to a  oversight and risk management) since 2012 in 
dedicated subcommittee, something we have seen  response to the opioid epidemic. We did not find the 
done in similar situations at other companies.  request for a written report onerous and believe that 
shareholders would benefit from comprehensive 
WALGREENS BOOTS ALLIANCE disclosure on this issue. We were disappointed that the 
company was unable to reach a compromise with the 
Primary topic: Board composition and social 
proponent ahead of the vote. The company resisted 
risk disclosure
the proposal in part because of outstanding litigation 
The US opioid epidemic has put the potential for social  on the issue but acknowledged that the proposal would 
externalities — the negative effects that companies can  garner significant shareholder support. 
have on society through their products, cultures, or 
Outcome: Voting 
policies — into sharp focus. In our conversations with 
We supported the proposal to appoint an independent 
companies facing these risks, we encourage disclosure 
board director, in line with our voting guidelines, and 
of risk management strategies that acknowledge their 
the proposal received approximately 38% support 
societal impacts. When a company faces litigation or 
from shareholders. We also supported the proposal to 
negative press, we inquire about lessons learned and 
report on opioid-related governance changes, which 
request evidence of substantive changes that aim to 
ultimately passed with approximately 60% support 
prevent recurrence and mitigate downside risk. We 
from shareholders.
may also support proposals requesting enhanced 
disclosure on actions taken. Status and reflection: Ongoing
Method: Engagement with management, voting The company was responsive to the second 
proposal, publishing a board report on the oversight 
We raised governance concerns with company 
of risk related to opioids during 2019. The report 
representatives, informing them of our voting decisions 
demonstrated the board’s commitment and the 
on two upcoming shareholder proposals on the ballot 
company’s efforts to address the opioid epidemic. The 
at their upcoming annual general meeting. 
shareholder proposal for independent board leadership 
Detail: The first proposal asked the company to 
was also on the 2020 ballot, which we supported.
appoint an independent board director as chairman 
during the next leadership transition. The ESG analyst 
concluded that questions around current leadership 
The issuers discussed above were selected to highlight Wellington Management’s engagement efforts and are not indicative of any 
investment recommendation that was or would have been profitable for any investor. These issuers were not held in all client accounts.
23
WELLINGTON MANAGEMENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | JUNE 2020
2019 COMPANY ENGAGEMENTS
During 2019, we held over 16,000 meetings with  With the aim of ongoing communications, we often 
companies, thousands of which included our equity,  meet with companies multiple times throughout 
credit, and ESG analysts, as well as portfolio managers.  the year. 
We are enhancing our technology to enable us to more 
In 2020, we continue to expand our engagement 
easily report engagements and outcomes across our 
tracking tool, and we look forward to providing greater 
investment platform. For the purposes of this report, 
levels of detail in future sustainability reports, including 
we detail all company communications led by our 
outcomes and progress toward outcomes. 
ESG Research Team. In 2019, those engagements 
encompassed 407 companies across 29 countries. 
Company E S G Company E S G Company E S G
A Aramark X X Cardinal Health Inc X X
3M Co X X X ASGN Inc X X Carlsberg AS X X
8X8 Inc X X Assurant Inc X X Caterpillar Inc X X
Abbott Laboratories X AstraZeneca PLC X X Celanese Corp X X X
AbbVie Inc X AT&T INC X X Centennial Resource X X X
Acadia Realty Trust X Atlas Copco AB X X Cerner Corp X X
Accenture PLC X X Auto Data Processing X X Cerved Group SpA X X
adidas AG X X Avangrid Inc X CF Industries Hldgs X X
Advanced Micro Dvcs X Avolon Hldgs Funding X X Chart Industries Inc X
AES Corp X AXA Equitable Hldgs X Chevron Corp X X X
Affimed NV X B Childrens-s Place In X
AGCO Corp X Ball Corp X Chipotle Mexican Gri X X
Aimmune Therapeutics X Bank of Cyprus Hldgs X X Chubb Ltd X X
Air France-KLM X Barloworld Ltd X Cie de Saint-Gobain X X X
AirBoss of America C X BASF SE X X X Ciena Corp X X
Airbus SE X X Baxter International X X Cimarex Energy Co X
Alamo Group Inc X BHP Group Ltd X X Cinemark Holdings In X
Alexander & Baldwin X X BHP Group PLC X Citigroup Inc X X X
Alexandria X BlackRock Inc X X X CNOOC Ltd X X X
Alkermes PLC X X Bluebird Bio Inc X Coats Group PLC X X
Allergan PLC X Boeing Co X X Coca-Cola Co X X
Alphabet Inc X Boston Beer Co Inc X Colgate-Palmolive Co X X
Amazon.com Inc X X X Boston Properties X X Comcast Corp X X
American Elec Power X BP PLC X X X Compass Group PLC X X X
American Express Co X Bristol-Myers Squibb X X Concho Resources Inc X
American Intl Group X British-Amer Tobacco X X ConocoPhillips X X X
American Outdoor X X Brixmor Ppty Group X Consort Medical X
American Tower Corp X Broadcom Inc X CRH PLC X X X
AMN Healthcare Svcs X X BWX Technologies Inc X X X D
Amneal Pharm X C Daifuku Co Ltd X
Analog Devices Inc X X Cadence BanCorp X Danone SA X X X
Anglo American PLC X Cairn Homes PLC X Deere & Co X X X
Anthem Inc X X Callon Petroleum Co X Deutsche Bank AG X X
Apache Corp X Canadian Natural Res X Deutsche Lufthansa X X X
24
WELLINGTON MANAGEMENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | JUNE 2020
Company E S G Company E S G Company E S G
Deutsche Post AG X Global Payments Inc X Kraft Heinz Co/The X X
Diageo PLC X GoDaddy Inc X X Kroger Company X X
Diamondback Energy I X X X Goldman Sachs Gp Inc X X L
Dominion Energy Inc X Goodman Group X X L&T Finance Holdings X X
Douglas Emmett Inc X Greenbrier Cos Inc. X Lattice Semicondctr X X
DTE Energy Co X X GrubHub Inc X La-Z-Boy Inc X X X
Duke Energy Corp X X X H LEG Immobilien AG X X
E Haemonetics Corp X X Lockheed Martin Corp X X
Ecolab Inc X X Halliburton Co X X Longfor Grp Hldgs X
Ecopetrol SA X X Hartford Finl Svcs X X X Lowe's Companies X X
EDF SA X Hennes & Mauritz AB X X Lyft Inc X
Edison Intl X X Hershey Co / The X X X M
Edwards Lifesciences X X Hexcel Corp X X X Marathon Oil Corp X
Electrocomponents X Hibernia REIT plc X X X MBIA Inc X
Electronic Arts X Hill-Rom Hldgs Inc X X McDonald's Corp X X
Eli Lilly & Co X Hologic Inc X McKesson Corporation X X
EnCana Corp X X X Home Depot Inc/The X X Medtronic PLC X X
Endava PLC X Honda Motor Co Ltd X X X Merck & Co X X
Engie SA X Honeywell Intl Inc X X MetLife Inc X X
Eni SpA X X HP Inc X X X Metro Bank PLC X
Enzo Biochem X HubSpot Inc X MGM China Hldgs Ltd X
EOG Resources Inc X Humana Inc X X Mgm Resorts Intl X X
EQT Corp X X I Middleby Corp X
Equifax Inc X X Iberdrola SA X X Millicom Intl Cell X
Equinix Inc X X Iberiabank Corp X Molina Healthcare In X
Equity Commonwealth X IBM Corp X Moncler SpA X X
Escorts Ltd X X X Impala Platinum Hldg X Mondelez Intl Inc X X
EssilorLuxottica SA X Incyte Corp X X Monro Inc X X
Etsy Inc X Industria de Diseno X X Moog Inc X
Eversource Energy X X ING Groep NV X X Mueller Industries X
Exelon Corporation X X Inpex Corp X X MUFG X X
Exxon Mobil Corp X X X Insteel Inds Inc X X X Mylan NV X X
F Israel Electric Corp X X N
Fastenal Co X Itron Inc X X Nampak Ltd X X X
First Republic Bank X X ITT Inc X National Instruments X X
Firstrand Ltd X X J Natus Medical Inc X X
FivePrime Therapeuti X James River Group Ho X Nestle SA X X X
Flex Ltd X JetBlue Airways Corp X New York Times Co X X
FMC Corp X JGC Corp X X Nexity SA X X
Freeport-McMoRan Inc X X X Johnson & Johnson X X Nexon Co Ltd X
Frontera Energy Corp X X Johnson Controls Int X X NexPoint Residential X
G JPMorgan Chase & Co X NextEra Energy Inc X X
Game and Leis Prop X K Nintendo Corp X X
GEM Co Ltd X Kennedy-Wilson Hldgs X Nippon Yusen KK X
Genpact Ltd X Kering SA X X X Noble Energy Inc X X
Gentherm Inc X X Koninklijke Philips X X Nomura Holding Inc X X
25
WELLINGTON MANAGEMENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | JUNE 2020
Company E S G Company E S G Company E S G
Norfolk Southern X Repsol SA X X X Tokyo Electric Power X X X
Northern Trust Corp X Republic Svcs Inc X X Total SA X X
Northrop Grumman Crp X X Resolute Mining Ltd X Tower Semiconductor X X X
Norwegian Cruise Lin X Rexford Indus Realty X X X TriNet Group Inc X X
Novartis AG X X Royal Dutch Shell PL X X X U
NRG Energy Inc X X RWE AG X X Uber Technologies In X X
NuVasive Inc X X S UBS Group AG X X
nVent Electric PLC X Safran SA X X Unilever PLC X X
O Samsung Electronics X X United Parcel Servic X X
Occidental Petroleum X X Sanderson Farms Inc X X X UnitedHealth Group X X
OGE Energy Corp X X Schlumberger Ltd X X X Unum Group X
Oklahoma Gas & Elect X X Schneider Electric X X X UroGen Pharma Ltd X
Old Mutual Ltd X Schweitzer-Mauduit X V
P SCREEN Holdings Co L X X Vale X X
PACCAR Inc X Seattle Genetics Inc X Valero Energy Corp X X
PayPal Holdings Inc X X Sempra Energy X X Varian Medical Systm X
PDC Energy, Inc X Service Corp Intl X X VeriSign Inc X
Penumbra Inc X X ServiceNow Inc X Vertex Pharm X X
Pernod Ricard SA X Seven & I Holdings C X X Vinci SA X X
Petrobras X X Signature Bank NY X X Virtus Invt Prtnrs X
Pfizer Inc X X Silgan Holdings Inc X Visa Inc X X
PG&E Corp X X Simon Ppty Grp Inc X Votorantim Cimentos X X
Ping An Insurance Gr X X X SMC Corp X Vulcan Materials X X X
Pioneer Nat Resource X Smith & Nephew PLC X X W
Portola Pharmaceutic X X Smurfit Kappa Gr PLC X Walgreens Boots Alli X X
PPG Industries Inc X X X Societe Generale SA X X X Walmart Inc X X X
Primo Water Corp X Sony X Wells Fargo & Co X X
Primoris Services Co X Southern Co X X X Western Digital Corp X X
Principal Finl Grp X X Spire Inc X WEX Inc X
Prothena Corp PLC X SS&C Technologies X Wienerberger AG X
Prudential PLC X X Standard Chartered X X X Wizz Air Hldgs Plc X X X
PTC Inc X Sun Communities Inc X X Wolters Kluwer X
Public Storage X Suncor Energy Inc X WPP PLC X
Q Swiss Re AG X X X WPX Energy Inc X
Qantas Airways Ltd X Sysco Corp X X X
R T Xenia Hotels & Resor X
Raytheon Co X Takeda Pharmaceut X X Y
Reckitt Benckiser Gr X X Targa Resources Corp X Yamaha Motor X
Redwood Trust Inc X X Telefonica SA X X Yamaha Motor Co Ltd X
Regeneron Pharm Inc X X Temenos AG X Z
Reinsurance Grp Amer X X X Teva Pharma Industr X Zimmer Biomet Hldgs X X
E = environmental, S = social, and G = governance discussions. The companies shown comprise a complete list of all engagement meetings 
in which Wellington Management’s ESG Research Team participated in 2019. These companies are not representative of all of the securities 
purchased, sold, or recommended for clients. It should not be assumed that an investment in the companies listed has or will be profitable. 
Actual holdings will vary for each client and there is no guarantee that a particular client’s account will hold any or all of the companies 
shown. This material is not intended to constitute investment advice or an offer to sell, or the solicitation of an offer to purchase shares or 
other securities.
26
WELLINGTON MANAGEMENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | JUNE 2020
ESG ENGAGEMENT ACTIVITY BY SECTOR 
AND MARKET CAPITALIZATION
Communication services Under US$1 billion 
Consumer discretionary $1b – $10b
Consumer staples $10b – $50b
Energy
$50b +
Financials
Health care
Industrials
Information technology
Materials
Real estate
Utilities
 
Figures may not sum to 100 due to rounding. | Source for both charts: Wellington Management
PROXY VOTING ACTIVITY
In 2019, we voted proxies for more than 5,000  2019 Significant votes
companies in 65 markets, executing our voting 
intentions on our clients’ behalf for over 27,000 
Voted against 
resolutions we deem significant. 
management on 
one or more 
The following charts summarize our vote decisions 
resolutions (28%)
specific to significant resolutions. We define  2,597
meetings
“significant” resolutions as those where our voting 
authority could potentially influence the outcome and  Voted in favor of 
management on all 
those that are not procedural in nature. Aggregate 
resolutions (72%)
voting authority may not be equal to firmwide 
 
ownership in cases where our clients have elected to 
retain voting discretion for their shares. As with our 
engagements, we have been enhancing technology  In 2019, we voted on 457 shareholder proposals we 
that will enable us to report rationale for all significant  deemed significant across 207 meetings.
resolutions without regard to voting authority. In 2019, 
Shareholder proposals
we reported rationales for management proposals 
for which we voted against management and all 
shareholder proposals at companies of which we were 
material owners at the time of the vote.
The figures shown here are the summary of the past 
year's significant proxy voting activity. Please see our 
2019 Significant Global Proxy Voting Disclosure for 
0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100%
full details. 
With management Against management Mixed
Since the 2019 voting season, we have evolved our approach to 
shareholder proposals to consider the spirit of the proposal where 
appropriate, as a signal of our support for a material issue. 
27
WELLINGTON MANAGEMENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | JUNE 2020
WellSustain: Our corporate  power sources. We also implement enhancements 
like lighting controls, occupancy sensors, and motion-
sustainability initiatives activated building systems to help reduce energy 
consumption. From 2016 to 2019, we covered 100% 
Wellington’s internal corporate sustainability initiatives  of our electricity consumption for our data centers 
aim to incorporate socially and environmentally  with renewable energy credits. We continue to explore 
sustainable behavior into our business practices.  a variety of renewable energy options for our global 
Our approach centers on three pillars: Environment,  electricity consumption. 
Community, and Culture. We have highlighted some of 
our efforts and accomplishments below. Recycling and composting
We participate in donation and recycling programs 
ENVIRONMENT that reduce the environmental impact of the firm’s 
We are committed to addressing the environmental  technology. We donate technology equipment in good 
impact of our operations and raising awareness of  operating condition and recycle unusable devices. 
sustainable practices among our employees. Our aim  And as we upgrade our business technology, we 
across our global offices is to measure, report, and  purchase environmentally friendly alternatives that 
reduce our operational impact. This goal aligns with  use less energy and have a smaller carbon footprint. 
our culture and our commitment to our clients, who  In conjunction with our landlords, we offer employees 
expect us to be good environmental stewards. We  the opportunity to recycle personal electronic waste 
believe environmental stewardship is also in the best  several times throughout the year.
long-term interests of the firm, and our employees 
We also work with our landlords to implement recycling 
are increasingly motivated to make their working 
programs for consumable products and business 
environments “greener.” 
supplies. We have ongoing recycling programs for 
The firm’s environmental impacts stem mainly from: paper, bottles, cans, and plastics in all of our buildings. 
We have programs to recycle toner cartridges and 
• electricity required to power our offices
home-use batteries at the firm’s expense. As part of 
• travel needed to operate as a global investment firm
our Corporate Sustainability Initiative in the EMEA 
• waste generated through our work
region, our London office has adopted a “single-
A number of environmentally conscious practices  stream” waste policy to help ensure that all general 
complement day-to-day business and support  waste is recycled.
employees and communities, including: 
Most of our offices have introduced composting 
• energy conservation and waste stations. This, coupled with reusable or 
• green-building standards compostable pantry/kitchen supplies, helps to drive 
• technology toward our goal of zero waste. 
• business travel and carbon offset
• recycling and composing Paper conservation
• paper conservation
Electronic delivery of reports and deployment of 
• infrastructure reliability
duplex printers and copiers reduce the firm’s paper 
Energy consumption  consumption, despite business growth. As we 
promote the use of technology and mobile devices 
Clean power sources such as solar, hydroelectric, 
for information flow, we are exploring and planning to 
geothermal, wind, and biomass provide a significant 
implement measures to reduce paper consumption.
portion of the power supplied to our Boston-area 
We use an on-demand print management system 
offices, which represent more than 75% of our total 
that reduces paper and toner waste through a limited 
global office footprint. We actively monitor our energy 
number of high-capacity, multifunction devices. 
usage and explore opportunities to use more renewable 
“We are committed to addressing the environmental impact of our operations and 
raising awareness of sustainable practices among our employees.”
28
WELLINGTON MANAGEMENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | JUNE 2020
In addition, we have been reducing or eliminating  Infrastructure reliability
hard-copy materials for internal and client/prospect  We acknowledge the potential for business disruption 
meetings whenever possible. More than 80% of our  caused by extreme weather events. Our offices in 
conference rooms globally have audiovisual equipment. Boston, London, San Francisco, Singapore, and 
Tokyo are particularly susceptible to various climate- 
Green-building standards
and weather-related risks, including power-supply 
We lease approximately one million square feet of office  disruptions and flooding.
space in buildings around the world. Environmental 
To mitigate the risk of disruptions at our main Boston 
rating is one of the criteria the firm uses to select new 
facility, Wellington partnered with our landlord, 
space. We consider the following measures when 
Boston Properties, to study the likelihood of flooding 
designing and building interior space:
and develop a flood management program for the 
• Open-plan designs, which use less space and energy  property. As a result of the study, we purchased 
per occupant an AquaFence®, an interlocking panel “fence” that 
creates a portable four-foot (1.2-meter) buffer around 
• Nontoxic paint and adhesives
the building’s perimeter. AquaFence® is designed 
• Carpet tiles and other materials that contain 
to protect vulnerable electrical infrastructure and 
recycled content
contingency fuel supplies in the building’s underground 
• The use and reuse of portable furniture elements (we  parking structure.
donate lightly used furniture to local nonprofits)
In Tokyo, a city susceptible to earthquakes, we 
• Energy-efficient heating, ventilation, and air  relocated our office to the lower levels of a new 
conditioning (HVAC) and lighting systems, including  property featuring earthquake-resistant structural 
motion sensors design. This building is adjacent to a park, so staff can 
• Water-saving plumbing fixtures and  evacuate quickly to a safe, open space.
gray-water collection
In Boston, we protect our trading floors with 
Wellington seeks to lease space from established  uninterruptible power supply (UPS) devices, static 
landlords with demonstrable commitments to  transfer switches, and generators. Generators 
minimizing greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions through  also back up other investment functions. Our 
sustainable construction and building operations  business-continuity alternate site, located more 
practices. We look for spaces with Leadership in  than 30 miles (48 kilometers) inland in Marlborough, 
Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) certification  Massachusetts, is supported by UPS and generator 
or similar designations around the world, as well  backup as well. All of our offices have UPS power to 
as dedicated support for renewable energy. As a  support critical equipment, and most have generators 
tenant, we routinely build out our spaces with the  to ensure continuous operations in the event of 
goal of achieving a LEED Gold rating. In the US and  prolonged power outages.
the UK, where we have power purchase agreements, 
we include renewable energy credits as part of our  Business travel and carbon offset
commitment to offset our fossil-fuel consumption.  An assessment of our carbon footprint confirmed 
that we generate most of our GHG emissions through 
The following Wellington offices have environmental 
travel. We strive to approach business travel efficiently, 
certifications from government-sponsored 
arranging as few trips as possible and coordinating 
rating systems:
them geographically. We also publish emissions data 
• Boston: US/LEED 
on our travel itineraries, so employees can understand 
−  280 Congress Street: Building - Platinum
the environmental impact of each trip. In addition, 
−  100 Federal Street: Building - Silver 
we encourage the use of virtual meetings and train 
• Hong Kong: HK/BEAM - Platinum
transportation. Our offices are centrally located in 
• London: UK/BREEAM - Very good
cities to allow for easy public transportation. 
• Sydney: Australia/NABERS - 4.5 stars
For the last several years, we have partnered with a 
Technology
charity organization that invests in environmentally 
We replace aging technology infrastructure with  friendly projects to offset a portion of our carbon 
newer, energy-efficient alternatives. In 2019, we  emissions footprint. Through this partnership, we were 
continued shifting to the cloud, allowing demand  able to offset 100% of carbon emissions equivalent 
to scale dynamically, while reducing overall energy  from our corporate airline travel in 2019. 
requirements and increasing performance.
Since 2016, we have been publishing an interactive 
online travel dashboard to senior managers and 
29
WELLINGTON MANAGEMENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | JUNE 2020
business managers globally. This weekly refresh  day. Our Annual Appeal provides employees with 
of travel data provides transparency about who is  a convenient, meaningful way to provide financial 
planning to attend conferences and external meetings.  support to global and regional nonprofit and 
This information encourages teams to limit the number  nongovernmental organizations of their choosing. 
of meeting attendees and, therefore, travel.
In 2019, approximately 65% of our employees 
participated in the Annual Appeal and raised 
COMMUNITY
nearly US$1.8 million. The firm’s Matching Gift 
Program matches employee donations to registered 
Wellington Foundations 
nonprofit organizations. 
The Wellington Management Foundation was founded 
in the US in 1992 as the Wellington Management 
CULTURE
Company Charitable Fund. Since its inception, the 
Foundation has reflected our firm’s culture and values,  We believe that Wellington’s sound, enduring 
relying on employees who volunteer their time and  ownership structure and business model distinguish 
talent via on the Foundation’s advisory board, nonprofit  us in our industry today. We adhere to the mantra, 
relationship teams, and our grant recommendation  “client, firm, self,” and the result is a firmwide mandate 
committee. Through the combined generosity of the  to maintain a singular focus on our clients every day. 
firm and these individuals, the Foundation is able to  This commitment is reflected in our governance, talent 
direct 100% of donations to organizations that meet its  development, diversity and inclusion efforts, and 
mission to promote and support education.  several initiatives aimed at continual improvement. 
The Wellington Management UK Foundation was 
Partnership model
established in 2016 to continue in this tradition, making 
Among our founding partners’ legacies is a dedication 
grants to organizations in the UK and Europe. In 2019, 
to sustainability and stewardship, that it is incumbent 
the US Foundation and UK Foundation collectively 
on current generations to leave the world in better 
provided more than US$6 million in grants and 
shape for future generations. Stewardship requires a 
donations across more than 100 organizations globally. 
long-term fiduciary approach to running the business 
Each of these organizations fulfills a vital role in its 
and considering all stakeholders. 
community, improving education and educational 
opportunities for youth from marginalized populations. Our commitment to the perpetuation of the 
partnership is resolute. Every one of the current 177 
Community involvement and volunteerism partners is a full-time participant in the activities of 
As the Foundation has expanded its reach and  the firm, sharing in both the risks and rewards of the 
employee participation, dedicated relationship teams  enterprise. We believe this creates a level of prudence 
work with grantees and other charities to offer “support  and due diligence that differentiates us. The breadth 
beyond dollars.” As the primary point of contact for the  of ownership and structure of the partnership ensure 
organizations, these teams help coordinate volunteer  successful generational transition. Each business 
opportunities and programming. Each relationship  group and portfolio management team undergoes 
reflects the organizations’ specific needs and goals.  continuous succession planning. The private 
Examples of volunteer activities include: partnership also frees the firm from answering to the 
needs of outside interests and from pressure for short-
• Participating in college-essay “boot camps,” resume 
term results.
writing workshops, and mock interviews
• Judging debating tournaments, business plan pitches,  We view the partnership model through the ESG lens as 
and civic presentations well. In 2018, we separated the roles of CEO and chair, 
further supporting independence, respectful debate, 
• Serving as mentors, tutors, and career advisors for 
and oversight at the senior level of the firm.
underprivileged children and young adults
• Organizing talks and career events for veterans
Firm governance and operational risk
• Cooking and serving food for the homeless Our infrastructure for formal and informal oversight 
• Hosting on-site career days and forging connections  is well developed. Every employee reports to a 
to campus recruiters manager and each function is overseen by a line 
• Partnering with local ecological parks  business manager who has chief responsibility for 
functional oversight. The Executive Committee 
Our Employee Volunteer Program encourages 
oversees the business and approves all firmwide policy 
each employee to spend two business days a year 
matters. Several committees provide functional risk-
volunteering at nonprofit organizations. Last year, 
management oversight and report to the Executive 
over 60% of employees used at least one volunteering 
Committee. These include the Error Resolution 
30
WELLINGTON MANAGEMENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | JUNE 2020
Council, Operating Committee, Ethics Committee,  Having a globally diverse and inclusive firm helps us 
Trading Policy Group, ISC, and Risk Management  attract, develop, and retain talent. It also strengthens 
Committee. Investment review groups oversee  our ability to adapt to changing local and global 
portfolio managers.  markets. It creates opportunities for collaboration and 
creative solutions, and it helps connect us with current 
We integrate compliance and controls within the 
and prospective clients. 
business functions. Functional responsibility for each 
business unit lies with the firm’s business managers.  We have created a five-year global diversity and 
This effort provides a centralized resource for the  inclusion strategy and action plan. Our approach is 
firm to ensure that we develop and maintain strong  driven by firm leaders, implemented by managers, 
controls in our operations. The Legal and Compliance  supported by employees, and guided by our director 
and Operational Risk Management groups work  of global diversity and inclusion. We have set specific 
closely with the line business managers to analyze  goals linked to talent, culture, and community, 
issues and develop best practice approaches.This  customized for each functional area and local office to 
coordination is critical to our process and essential to  ensure global consistency with local relevance.
integrating controls. 
To track our progress, we conduct an annual 
Procedures to monitor and ensure compliance  review of quantitative diversity dashboard metrics, 
with specific regulatory requirements, such as  periodic reviews of qualitative talent engagement 
Code of Ethics oversight, are the responsibility of  survey feedback, and an assessment of individual 
the Legal and Compliance Group. We publish our  contributions as part of the performance appraisal 
policies and procedures to all staff on our intranet.  process. We continuously review and update our talent 
In addition, we have an Internal Audit function that  strategies, processes, policies, and programs. 
tests our operational control environment to provide 
assurance over the design and effectiveness of key  Talent initiatives: 
operational controls to the Executive Committee, the  • Diversity internships
Risk Management Committee, affiliate boards/risk 
• Early-in-Career programs
committees, and senior management.
• Exploration with Historically Black Colleges and 
Understanding that cyber threats are pervasive, we  Universities (HBCUs)
have dedicated information security and cyber defense 
• Use of specialized search firms to identify 
functions that work across the business lines and IT to 
underrepresented mid-career talent
protect the firm. These teams consider risk scenarios 
in their planning and work with industry partners to  • Diversity lens in talent-management processes
incorporate external and systemic threats into our  • Global talent succession planning 
planning process.
Culture initiatives: 
Talent development • Skills-building sessions on unconscious bias and 
As a talent-based business, we strongly believe in  cross-cultural, generational, and other differences
talent development. We facilitate coaching, on-the-
• Ongoing surveys and focus groups to solicit employee 
job teaching, participation in internal meetings and 
feedback on D&I
industry seminars, as well as external formal technical 
• Upstanders, a group of sponsors and mentors
and professional training. Senior professionals at the 
firm work to ensure that more junior professionals  • 13 business networks (employee resource groups)
receive growth opportunities, feedback, and guidance. 
• D&I working group and advocates.
We aim to ensure that every individual is able to 
leverage their strengths and seize opportunities to  Community initiatives: 
learn and grow. We post newly open positions internally  We invest in our communities through philanthropic 
on our intranet, and we encourage employees to apply  efforts, procurement practices, and external 
for any position for which they believe they qualify. collaborations, including: 
Diversity and inclusion (D&I) • 100 Women in Finance — A global association of more 
than 10,000 professional women making a difference 
We see a diverse workforce and inclusive culture as 
in both industry and community through educational 
vital to our success. As a global asset management 
programming, professional leverage initiatives, 
firm, we define diversity and inclusivity broadly, 
and philanthropy
focusing on dimensions with the greatest opportunity 
for improvement, which we can then leverage to deliver 
better investment results and solutions for our clients. 
31
WELLINGTON MANAGEMENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | JUNE 2020
• Girls Who Invest — A nonprofit dedicated to increasing  Key areas of focus from the survey were growth and 
the number of women in portfolio management  development. Respondents requested enhanced 
and executive leadership in the asset management  formal learning opportunities and greater emphasis 
industry on coaching and developmental feedback to help 
employees expand their responsibilities and impact. 
• INROADS — A nonprofit that helps develop and 
Another theme that we continue to work on is 
place talented underserved youth in business 
transparency. Employees said they want better 
and industry and prepare them for corporate and 
understanding of internal decision-making processes 
community leadership
and activities surrounding the firm's strategic 
• The CFA Institute’s Driving Change Diversity and 
initiatives. To address this request, we have created 
Inclusion in Investment Management — CFA Institute’s 
information-sharing programs, including more internal 
effort to change the investment management 
"town halls," video blogs, and emails from firm leaders 
industry’s failing grades on D&I 
detailing our strategies.
• The Diversity Project (UK) — A group of investment 
Our CEO, Brendan Swords, summed up key takeaways: 
industry leaders committed to accelerating progress 
“You have confirmed that the character and the values 
toward inclusivity
of Wellington remain the bedrock of the firm. We know 
Core D&I initiatives: Business networks who we are, what we stand for, what our culture aspires 
to be, and that it needs to keep evolving. We have a high 
Our 13 business networks with regional chapters 
level of mutual respect and trust, a strong commitment 
around the globe are:
to the fiduciary mission and the client-centric focus, an 
incredible sense of teamwork and collaboration, and 
Access Asia unparalleled professionalism and integrity. We have 
a “do the right thing” mindset and we care about one 
Asians in Motion
another and about the greater good. All these things 
Conexiones are truly enduring. They are very powerful, and we 
should not take them for granted in an industry where 
disAbilities Awareness Network
reputation and culture are often so fragile and fleeting.”
Four Seas
Client engagement
Inclusion and Cultural Awareness Network
To understand how we can better serve our clients, 
Pride+ we periodically participate in surveys conducted by 
research firms such as Greenwich Associates and 
Shades
Chatham Partners. These surveys provide detailed 
Tokyo Diversity Working Group analysis based on feedback from the investment 
community and data on topics like client satisfaction. 
Wellington Parents Group
We also continuously seek feedback directly from 
Wellington Veterans our clients and incorporate it wherever appropriate. 
We believe the ultimate measure of satisfaction is the 
Wellington Young Professionals
tenure of many of our clients’ relationships. 
Women's Business Alliance
The latest client survey that we participated in 
was a “Client Experience Assessment” that we 
commissioned with Greenwich Associates in 
November 2018. This survey involved 261 submissions 
Employee engagement
from clients worldwide, and Greenwich provided 
In 2019, we completed our second firmwide 
us with Net Promoter Scores (NPS) for each client 
engagement survey. Given the exceptional response 
segment, indicating degrees of client satisfaction. 
rate — 95% (versus a 75% industry average) — 
Across industries, NPS scores greater than 0 are 
the data and feedback were rich and instructive. 
typically considered good; scores above 50 are 
The firm conducting the survey concluded, in 
considered excellent. When asked “how likely would 
part: “Engagement levels continue to be strong at 
you recommend Wellington to a peer?” our insurance 
Wellington. Employees take pride in Wellington’s 
clients, for example, registered an NPS of 76 which was 
reputation, and putting clients first is a clear cultural 
deemed “outstanding” by Greenwich.
value. Engagement is strong across the different levels 
of officership and title, men and women, and across the 
three regions."
32
WELLINGTON MANAGEMENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | JUNE 2020
OUR PATH FORWARD ON DIVERSITY: 
SOLIDARITY, INSIGHT, AND ACTION
The Wellington community is grounded in the universal  Developing our Black and diverse talent. We will 
and inviolate principle that all people are created equal,  invest in more skills-based training for early career 
and that discrimination in any form is unacceptable.  Black and diverse professionals, starting with the 
This truth guides our firm’s mission to be diverse,  launch of our Groundbreakers program this July. We 
inclusive, equitable, and humanistic. And while we  will expand our mentorship/ally program for Black and 
have built a strong foundation of firm and community  diverse professionals and implement new forms of 
initiatives, we are too far from our goals and more  apprenticeship through committee and project work.
is required. 
Making a bigger difference in our communities. 
We stand together with our African and Black  The Wellington Management Foundation supports 
heritage colleagues, clients, and communities, and  programs and organizations that improve educational 
with all our diverse employees. We will be expanding  opportunities for youth from traditionally underserved 
and accelerating our efforts and increasing our  and economically challenged communities. We 
investments where they can have the most impact. The  believe the Foundation is making a difference in our 
firm’s leaders are working closely with the Diversity  communities, but there is more we can do. 
and Inclusion Committee and representatives from 
• We will identify opportunities to become more actively 
our Shades business network to identify actions to 
and visibly involved with community organizations and 
supplement and deepen our outreach in several areas. 
community leaders in Boston and other communities 
Leadership and accountability. Our leaders will  we operate in. 
take a much more hands-on approach to improving 
• We will commit more funding for community efforts, 
diversity and inclusion at the firm. This will include 
and we will collaborate with Shades to determine 
a focus on hiring, developing, and promoting Black 
how best to put the money to work for the Black 
and other underrepresented talent into investment, 
community. We will start now with donations to the 
management, and leadership roles. We will also work 
NAACP and UNCF, and we will work with Shades 
with the Diversity and Inclusion Committee to develop 
leadership to add other organizations over time. 
an accountability framework that will include strategic 
While we are deeply disturbed by recent events, we 
goal setting, diversity-focused talent reviews, direct 
are also optimistic that the Wellington community 
employee feedback on manager effectiveness and 
has the values and determination to make tangible 
inclusion, tracking of key metrics, and an annual 
progress. As Nelson Mandela said, “I am fundamentally 
progress update for the firm. The firm’s leaders are 
an optimist…Part of being optimistic is keeping one’s 
also committed to increasing direct engagement with 
head pointed towards the sun, one’s feet moving 
our Black and other underrepresented colleagues, and 
forward.” Together, we will draw on the wisdom of our 
with the leadership of our business networks.
employees, our peers in the industry, our clients, and 
Becoming better educated. We will expand  the community organizations with whom we work to 
diversity and inclusion training for our managers and  make Wellington a more effective ally and force for 
leaders. We will launch programs that foster open  positive change. 
conversations and better education about the realities 
our Black colleagues face and ways we can contribute 
to an inclusive environment for all. 
33
WELLINGTON MANAGEMENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | JUNE 2020
Closing thoughts and contact information
Wellington is committed to sustainable investing and improving our internal sustainability 
practices. As a large asset manager and a fiduciary to our clients, we aim to promote sustainable 
investing as a critical market segment — one that we believe increasingly drives investment 
value and returns. As part of the global community, ensuring that our staff and offices worldwide 
enhance and advocate for sustainable practices bolsters our strength, durability, and competitive 
advantage. Thank you for the opportunity to share our ongoing efforts in these areas. 
For additional information, please contact your relationship manager or visit us online:
WELLINGTON.COM
WELLINGTONFUNDS.COM
LINKEDIN
 
Sustainable investing is qualitative and subjective by nature, and there is no guarantee that the criteria utilized, 
or judgment exercised, by Wellington will reflect the beliefs or values of any one particular investor. Sustainable 
investing norms differ by region. There is no assurance that any sustainable investing strategy and techniques 
employed will be successful. Please refer to the risk information and important disclosures at the end of 
this report.
34
WELLINGTON MANAGEMENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | JUNE 2020
Important disclosures
INVESTMENT RISKS ABOUT THIS REPORT
All investments involve risks. Given the long time  The Shareholder Rights Directive II (SRD II) is 
frames for most impact projects and many companies’  a European Union (EU) directive, which aims to 
reliance on disruptive technologies, investments may  strengthen the position of shareholders and ensure 
be subject to volatility and are therefore more suited  that decisions are made for the long-term stability of a 
to longer investment horizons. The following are some  company. At a high level, the purpose of the directive 
general risks associated with various approaches  is to promote long-term shareholder engagement 
discussed in this report. This is not an all-inclusive list.  through increased transparency and encourage 
Each specific investment approach and product will  long-term investment decision making by both asset 
have its own specific risks and risks will vary. owners and asset managers. This report is designed 
to be an overview of our progress toward sustainability 
Capital risk — The value of your investment may 
goals and investment practices and should not be 
become worth more or less than at the time of the 
taken as advice or a recommendation. Certain data 
original investment.
provided is that of a third party. While data is believed 
Concentration risk — Concentration of investments  to be reliable, no assurance is being provided as to 
in a relatively small number of securities, sectors or  its accuracy or completeness. Data provided is as 
industries, or geographical regions may significantly  of 31 December 2019 | Company examples are for 
affect performance. illustrative purposes only, are not representative of all 
investments made on behalf of our clients, and should 
Equity and fixed income securities market risks — 
not be interpreted as a recommendation or advice. 
financial markets are subject to many factors, including 
Company information is sourced from multiple sources 
economic conditions, government regulations, market 
including the following: annual and quarterly reports; 
sentiment, local and international political events, 
industry research pieces; company websites; press 
and environmental and technological issues. In 
releases; case studies; and company engagements.
addition, the market value of fixed income securities 
will fluctuate in response to changes in interest rates,  Individual portfolio management teams may hold 
currency values, and the creditworthiness of the issuer. different views and may make different investment 
decisions for different clients. Views may change over 
Foreign and emerging markets risk — Investments 
time. Each client account is individually managed; the 
in foreign markets may present risks not typically 
extent to which ESG research and sustainable investing 
associated with domestic markets. These risks may 
are considered in the investment process will vary 
include changes in currency exchange rates; less-
depending on the investment policy established for the 
liquid markets and less available information; less 
approach or fund. Investors should always obtain and 
government supervision of exchanges, brokers, and 
read an up-to-date investment services description 
issuers; increased social, economic, and political 
or prospectus before deciding whether to appoint an 
uncertainty; and greater price volatility. These risks 
investment manager or to invest in a fund.
may be greater in emerging markets, which may also 
entail different risks from developed markets. United Nations Sustainable Development Goals 
(SDGs): United Nations SDGs and targets are sourced 
Smaller capitalization stock risks — The share 
from UN.org. Wellington determines, based on its 
prices of small- and mid-cap companies may exhibit 
own research of each company, the United Nations 
greater volatility than the share prices of larger 
SDGs and targets that, in our view, each portfolio 
capitalization companies. In addition, shares of small- 
company is most aligned with. Other investment firms 
and mid-cap companies are often less liquid than larger 
may take different views. Wellington Management 
capitalization companies.
supports the United Nations Sustainable Development 
Manager risk — Investment performance depends  Goals. This information should not be construed as 
on the portfolio management team and the team’s  a recommendation or endorsement by the United 
investment strategies. If the investment strategies do  Nations for any investment example shown or 
not perform as expected, if opportunities to implement  Wellington Management. Examples are also not 
those strategies do not arise, or if the team does not  indicative of their future performance. Additional 
implement its investment strategies successfully,  information is available upon request.
an investment portfolio may underperform or suffer 
significant losses.
35
Important Information
Wellington Management Company llp (WMC) is an independently owned investment adviser registered with the US Securities and Exchange 
Commission (SEC). WMC is also registered with the US Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) as a commodity trading advisor (CTA) and 
serves as a CTA to certain clients including commodity pools operated by registered commodity pool operators. WMC provides commodity trading 
advice to all other clients in reliance on exemptions from CTA registration. WMC, along with its affiliates (collectively, Wellington Management), provides 
investment management and investment advisory services to institutions around the world. Located in Boston, Massachusetts, Wellington Management 
also has offices in Chicago, Illinois; Radnor, Pennsylvania; San Francisco, California; Frankfurt; Hong Kong; London; Luxembourg; Shanghai; Singapore; 
Sydney; Tokyo; Toronto; and Zurich. 
This material is prepared for, and authorized for internal use by, designated institutional and professional investors and their consultants or for such 
other use as may be authorized by Wellington Management. This material and/or its contents are current at the time of writing and may not be repro-
duced or distributed in whole or in part, for any purpose, without the express written consent of Wellington Management. This material is not intended 
to constitute investment advice or an offer to sell, or the solicitation of an offer to purchase shares or other securities. Investors should always obtain 
and read an up-to-date investment services description or prospectus before deciding whether to appoint an investment manager or to invest in a fund. 
Any views expressed herein are those of the author(s), are based on available information, and are subject to change without notice. Individual portfolio 
management teams may hold different views and may make different investment decisions for different clients.   
In Canada, this material is provided by Wellington Management Canada ULC, a British Columbia unlimited liability company registered in the prov-
inces of Alberta, British Columbia, Manitoba, New Brunswick, Newfoundland and Labrador, Nova Scotia, Ontario, Prince Edward Island, Quebec, and 
Saskatchewan in the categories of Portfolio Manager and Exempt Market Dealer.
In Europe (ex. Austria, Germany and Switzerland), this material is provided by Wellington Management International Limited (WMIL), a firm authorized 
and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority in the UK. This material is directed only at persons (Relevant Persons) who are classified as eligible 
counterparties or professional clients under the rules of the FCA. This material must not be acted on or relied on by persons who are not Relevant 
Persons. Any investment or investment service to which this material relates is available only to Relevant Persons and will be engaged in only with 
Relevant Persons. 
In Austria and Germany, this material is provided by Wellington Management Europe GmbH which is authorized and regulated by the German Federal 
Financial Supervisory Authority (Bundesanstalt für Finanzdienstleistungsaufsicht – BaFin). This material is directed only at persons (Relevant Persons) 
who are classified as eligible counterparties or professional clients under the German Securities Trading Act. This material does not constitute invest-
ment advice, a solicitation to invest in financial instruments or information recommending or suggesting an investment strategy within the meaning of 
Section 85 of the German Securities Trading Act (Wertpapierhandelsgesetz).
In Hong Kong, this material is provided to you by Wellington Management Hong Kong Limited (WM Hong Kong), a corporation licensed by the 
Securities and Futures Commission to conduct Type 1 (dealing in securities), Type 2 (dealing in futures contracts), Type 4 (advising on securities), and 
Type 9 (asset management) regulated activities, on the basis that you are a Professional Investor as defined in the Securities and Futures Ordinance. 
By accepting this material you acknowledge and agree that this material is provided for your use only and that you will not distribute or otherwise 
make this material available to any person. Wellington Investment Management (Shanghai) Limited is a wholly-owned entity and subsidiary of WM 
Hong Kong.
In Singapore, this material is provided for your use only by Wellington Management Singapore Pte Ltd (WM Singapore) (Registration Number 
201415544E). WM Singapore is regulated by the Monetary Authority of Singapore under a Capital Markets Services Licence to conduct fund manage-
ment activities and is an exempt financial adviser. By accepting this material you represent that you are a non-retail investor and that you will not copy, 
distribute or otherwise make this material available to any person. 
In Australia, Wellington Management Australia Pty Ltd (WM Australia) (ABN 19 167 091 090) has authorized the issue of this material for use solely by 
wholesale clients (as defined in the Corporations Act 2001). By accepting this material, you acknowledge and agree that this material is provided for 
your use only and that you will not distribute or otherwise make this material available to any person. Wellington Management Company llp is exempt 
from the requirement to hold an Australian financial services licence (AFSL) under the Corporations Act 2001 in respect of financial services provided 
to wholesale clients in Australia, subject to certain conditions. Financial services provided by Wellington Management Company llp are regulated by the 
SEC under the laws and regulatory requirements of the United States, which are different from the laws applying in Australia.
In Japan, Wellington Management Japan Pte Ltd (WM Japan) (Registration Number 199504987R) has been registered as a Financial Instruments 
Firm with registered number: Director General of Kanto Local Finance Bureau (Kin-Sho) Number 428. WM Japan is a member of the Japan Investment 
Advisers Association (JIAA), the Investment Trusts Association, Japan (ITA) and the Type II Financial Instruments Firms Association (T2FIFA).
WMIL, WM Hong Kong, WM Japan, and WM Singapore are also registered as investment advisers with the SEC; however, they will comply with the 
substantive provisions of the US Investment Advisers Act only with respect to their US clients.
©2020 Wellington Management Company llp. All rights reserved. 0664_11_A4_WMC