
There is no recovery without sustainability 
Sustainability Report 2020
Message from our CEO
There is no recovery without sustainability companies to help them continually improve their ESG performance. 
That is essential to what Robeco is as a company.
At the start of 2020, the global economy was in a late phase of 
expansion. No one could have predicted that by mid-March, the  We therefore start this report by talking about who we are. Then 
economy would be plunged into the deepest global recession since  we show you how our strategy is implemented in our investment 
the 1930s. Over the course of this difficult year, Robeco was able to  and distribution activities, in our own governance, and in our 
continue serving its clients, thanks in large part to the resilience and  business operations. The report also serves as our official disclosure 
flexibility of our employees.  document for our commitment to the UN Global Compact, and gives 
insight into our contributions to the UN Sustainable Development 
Looking ahead, the recovery offers the world a unique chance to  Goals for 2030.
fully embrace sustainability. Because this is not just an economic 
crisis. It is a major global health crisis, brought on by a climate  Starting this year we asked KPMG to provide limited assurance 
and biodiversity crisis. These are all interdependent, and as  on this report. We are pleased with their observations and 
governments focus on reviving their economies and business  recommendations.
adapts to new realities, we now have the opportunity to address the 
environmental, social and governance issues that are fundamental  Gilbert Van Hassel
to a sustainable recovery.  CEO and chairman of the Executive Committee of Robeco
This will require us to tackle three clear priorities. First, restore our 
planet’s health. At the moment, global temperatures have risen 
by more than 1°C above pre-industrial levels, and more than one 
million animal and plant species face extinction. Secondly, wealth 
and well-being must be shared more widely. We must address 
rising inequality. And thirdly: without good governance at both 
governments and companies, no recovery will be sustainable. 
I believe we have reached a tipping point, where the cost of inaction 
far outweighs the investment needed to have a positive impact. 
Such an investment will require all hands on deck. As investors, our 
role is to ensure our assets are put to work towards a sustainable 
recovery. This means not only allocating capital to companies 
who contribute positively to the future, but also engaging with 
2    |   Sustainability Report 2020
Contents
4 23 39 44 54
A  bout us How our strategy works  Our governance How we apply  Appendices
Who we are  5 for our clients Our ownership and legal status  40 sustainability in our own  Climate-related financial 
How we create value  6 Serving our clients  24 Business ethics  41 operations disclosure  55
Our offices  8 Developing sustainability  How we manage risk   42 Our people  45 How climate-related risks  
Our key figures  9 solutions for clients  25 How we meet our tax  How we give back to the  affect our business and  
What we believe in  10 Climate change  28 obligations  43 communities where we have how we prepare  56
How we work  11 Contributing to the SDGs  29 a presence  49 Measurement method 
Our strategy  12 Active ownership  31 How we integrate sustainability  environmental footprint own 
Our brand and products  14 How we support SI initiatives  35 in procurement and limit our  operations  61
How we constantly innovate  15 How we share our knowledge  environmental footprint  51 About this report  66
Materiality analysis  17 on sustainable investing   36 Measurement methods  68
How the financial markets  Investment performance  Materiality assessment  69 
developed in 2020  19 overview  37 List of material topics and 
How our industry developed  definitions  71 
in 2020  21 Glossary  72 
Our financial results  22 Our leadership  75
GRI Table  77
Association memberships  
and participation in  
external initiatives  78
Global Compact Communication  
on Progress (COP)  79
Contact  80
Important information  80
3    |   Sustainability Report 2020
ABOUT US
In this section, we give a short overview of our 
history, how we create value, and our strategic 
starting points. We also include an overview of 
our locations around the world, our key figures 
and developments in our industry, and several 
examples of how we continuously innovate. 
4    |   Sustainability Report 2020
ABOUT US
WHO WE ARE
Robeco is a pure-play international asset manager using a  Robeco is wholly owned by ORIX Corporation Europe N.V. (‘ORIX 
combination of fundamental, sustainable, and quantitative  Europe’), a subsidiary of ORIX Corporation, a Japanese business 
research. We offer our clients an extensive selection of active  conglomerate that started operating in 1964. The other main 
investment strategies. These cover a broad range of asset classes  operating subsidiaries are Boston Partners, Transtrend, Harbor 
built around our key strengths of sustainable investing (SI),  Capital Advisors and Canara Robeco. There is much crossover 
quantitative investing, credits, emerging markets and trends and  between these companies: each one draws from the expertise 
thematic investments. We serve three types of clients around the  of the others, cooperating and combining strengths within ORIX 
world: Europe.
1.  Institutional investors such as pension plan sponsors and 
pension-related insurance companies, and official institutions 
such as sovereign wealth funds and central banks.
2. Wholesale clients such as global financial institutions and large 
private wealth managers.
3. Dutch private investors (our ‘retail’ business).
As the ‘Investment Engineers’, we have applied our ‘pioneering but 
cautious’ approach ever since our foundation in 1929. Robeco was 
one of the first asset managers to invest in emerging markets, to 
see the opportunities in and need for SI, and to adopt quantitative 
investing, all using advanced research techniques. 
Research lies at the heart of everything we do: we believe that 
every investment strategy should be research-driven, drawing fully 
on investment managers, researchers, analysts and specialists to 
find the best ideas. Integrating ESG factors is our standard practice. 
Our operating style as a pure-play asset manager, using an active 
investment approach to seek outperformance, is still our forte today. 
5    |   Sustainability Report 2020
ABOUT US
HOW WE CREATE VALUE
Our main activities and output aim to enable our clients to achieve  The value creation model
their financial and sustainability goals. We do this by vesting  On the left side of the model (on the next page), we have listed 
intellectual capital in our employees, reward them fairly, and  the different sources of capital as defined by the International 
providing career opportunities and job satisfaction. Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC). Other components on the left 
side are our relationships with stakeholders, and with supporting 
Our value creation model shows our core business activities plus  resources such as facilities and IT infrastructure. 
output, supported by our business operations, and executed within 
the framework of our governance. It also shows the way in which  We create added value on all of these different sources of capital 
our company value chain is linked to the outside world on five  through our activities, the outcome of which is listed on the right 
aspects in terms of input and results, explaining how we interact  side. Here, we also show our indirect impact on society through 
with our direct stakeholders, and with society as whole.  the companies in which we invest. We aim to be an active owner of 
these companies. In order to contribute to how companies manage 
Our value creation model is cyclical in more than one sense. It not  their ESG risks and opportunities, we have policies for stewardship 
only represents the cyclical nature of financial investments, leading  and active ownership in place. More information on our impact 
to financial returns that can be re-invested, but also shows that  through investments and active ownership can be found on page 31.
investment in knowledge, cooperation and personal development 
leads to better-informed investment decisions, better relations 
with our clients and business partners, and smarter, more highly 
motivated employees. The model also reflects our conviction that 
sustainability issues cannot be separated from other business 
considerations. Instead, they form an integral part of our way of 
carrying out business processes. 
6    |   Sustainability Report 2020
ABOUT US
Value creation model
Mission Investment beliefs
To enable our clients to achieve their financial and  As an active asset manager with a long-term investment 
sustainability goals by providing superior investment  view, we create added value for our clients in the 
returns and solutions.  following ways:
> Our investment strategies are research-driven and 
Vision   executed in a disciplined, risk-controlled way 
Safeguarding economic, environmental and social assets  > Our key research pillars are fundamental research, 
is a prerequisite for a healthy economy and the generation    quantitative research and sustainability research 
of attractive returns in the future. The focus in the investment  > We can create socio-economic benefits in addition 
industry is therefore shifting from solely creating wealth to    to competitive financial returns
creating wealth and well-being. We are the world’s leading 
sustainable asset manager and will continue to improve  ESG integration 
and innovate. ESG integration leads to better-informed investment decisions 
and enhanced risk-adjusted returns throughout an economic 
Strategy 2017-2021 cycle 
Monetizing our intellectual property by creating  > Sustainability is a driver of structural change in countries,    
profitable scale, while dealing with market headwinds    companies and markets 
and controlling our costs. > Companies with sustainable business practices are more    
  successful 
> Active ownership contributes to both investment results and  
Financial   – Clients’ assets   society  Financial   – Contribution to clients’ 
– Institutional     objectives 
– Wholesale – Financing economic 
– Retail   activities
Strategy  Asset class  Portfolio  Investment  – Shareholder beneﬁt
determination allocation construction strategies
HiSrneoutlcaemitlaliaeol ncant nsauhdnai dlp s – – –––     KMCBRwinneluoiategoserrinuwlkknltflieelaogsetster dosacn genrpcse daea rbbtnulees irnsess Input CAldiejunstt’isn ggoals oipAnApvccoetcrisevttsumistn ieteiotnsiets        Mevulittia-nArsesteltA  I  n  Ov r eEesuqsntuuttompirtinytue us t nl  o t  FS itxende ImntcsoemvnIe        FmIcmnouvaamnenrdkspdsteama t&nsteeiensst s& in fi cnoaunnctiarilOe su, tcomes HiSrneoutlcaemitlaliaeol ncant nsauhdnai dlp s ––––––      ECIIcLnniomactflmerepuenlplleeesoarnecy ncd tetueieoee av  osoelen npplo gerinporavampgeteeeesrmtnteytee nt
– Shareholders – Community development
Reporting Portfolio  Active ownership
and dialogue management
Natural and  – Facilities  Natural and  – Ecological footprint
manufactured  – IT infrastructure manufactured – Indirect impact through 
resources – Supplies resources – investments
7    |   Sustainability Report 2020
ABOUT US
OUR OFFICES
17 
Europe Middle East
OFFICES  Rotterdam Rotterdam Luxembourg Madrid Dubai
around  Robeco Headquarters Robeco Luxembourg Robeco Spain Robeco Middle East
the world Asset management  Asset management  Client relations Client relations
& Client relations & Client relations
Milan
Luxembourg London Frankfurt Robeco Italy
Frankfurt Robeco UK Robeco Germany Client relations
London Investment research  Client relations Asia Pacific
Zürich & Client relations Zürich
Paris Robeco Switzerland Hong Kong
North America Paris Milan Robeco France Asset management  Robeco Asia Pacific
Client relations & Client relations Asset management 
& Client relations
Miami
US Offshore & Latam Tokyo
Client relations Robeco Japan 
Madrid
Client relations
New York
Robeco US Shanghai
Investment research Robeco China 
& Client relations Asset management 
& Client relations
Boston
Boston Partners Boston Singapore
Asset management  New York Robeco Singapore 
& Client relations Tokyo Investment research
Shanghai & Client relations
Miami Dubai Hong Kong
Mumbai Sydney
Robeco Australia 
Client relations
Singapore
Melbourne
Robeco Australia 
Client relations
Mumbai
Sydney Canara Robeco
Melbourne Asset management 
& Client relations
Asset management & Client relations
Client relations
Affiliated Robeco investment adviser
Investment research & Client relations
8    |   Sustainability Report 2020
ABOUT US
OUR KEY FIGURES
176.1 160.3 259.3 7,802 222 882
EUR  BILLION EUR  BILLION EUR  BILLION
assets under management managed in ESG-integrated assets assets under engagement shareholder meetings companies engaged FTEs
(AuM) -  Sustainability Inside   138.5 voted
-  Sustainability Focused  9.1
-  Impact Investing  12.7
Our long commitment and innovation in sustainability 
World’s first
Sustainable
Private 
Launch  Equity FoF  Voting & ESG  Robeco signs  Launch of  Introduction 
Robeco  and Clean Tech  Engagement Among the integration Highest scores  Dutch SDG  Sustainable  Paris aligned 
Founding  Sustainable  Private service first to sign  in all  in all UN PRI  investing  Global Impact  fixed income 
of Robeco Equity fund Equity FoF initiated the UN PRI capabilities categories agenda Equities fund climate funds
1929 1995 1999   2001 2004 2005 2006 2007 2010 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021
Founding of Cooperation One of the  Among the RobecoSAM Smart ESG Impact  Highest scores  ESG ratings  RobecoSAM used 
RobecoSAM with Dow  world's first first to sign  member of scores  Investing  in all UN PRI  sold to S&P as ingredient 
Jones sustainable the UN PRI Robeco  introduced platform  categories  brand in Robeco 
water funds launched communications
9    |   Sustainability Report 2020
ABOUT US
WHAT WE BELIEVE IN
Our mission stems from our long-term vision of the investment 
industry and of society as whole and reflects our long-term business 
objectives. 
MISSION VISION 
To enable our clients to achieve their financial and  Safeguarding economic, environmental and social 
sustainability goals by providing superior investment  assets is a prerequisite for a healthy economy and the 
returns and solutions.  generation of attractive returns in the future.  
The investment industry’s focus is therefore further 
We will accomplish our mission with employees who  shifting from solely creating wealth to creating wealth 
respect and embrace diversity, and who are truly  and well-being. We are one of the world’s leading 
engaged and empowered to reach their full potential,  sustainable asset managers and are continuously 
working together to obtain the best possible results for  improving and innovating. 
our clients and our company. 
Our investment beliefs drive us to accomplish our joint 
mission.
As an active asset manager with a long-term investment view, we  We believe that ESG integration leads to better-informed investment 
create added value for our clients in the following ways:  decisions and enhanced risk-adjusted returns throughout an 
economic cycle, and that:
–   Our research-driven investment strategies are executed in a 
disciplined, risk-controlled way. –   Sustainability is a driver of structural change in countries, 
–   Our key research pillars are fundamental research, quantitative  companies and markets.
research, and sustainability research. –   Companies with sustainable business practices are more 
–   We can create socioeconomic benefits in addition to competitive  successful.
financial returns. –   Active ownership contributes to both investment results and 
society.
10    |   Sustainability Report 2020
ABOUT US
HOW WE WORK
Our core values serve as a touchstone for our daily work. They 
enhance a clear and shared identity and drive the behavior required 
for successfully executing our strategy:
Our values
Client-centered We always act in the best interest of our clients
Innovative We are inquisitive and goal-driven
Sustainable We act responsibly for society and Robeco
Connecting We help others to be succesful
11    |   Sustainability Report 2020
ABOUT US
OUR STRATEGY
Our strategy for the period 2017-2021 is aimed at monetizing our  that have brought our two companies ever closer. In January, we 
intellectual property in combination with a continued focus on  announced the completion of the sale of RobecoSAM’s ESG ratings 
providing our clients with the best possible investment performance  and benchmarking business to S&P Global, including the SAM 
and services. During this strategic period, we are striving to  Corporate Sustainability Assessment (CSA). We continue to have 
accelerate growth in the UK, US, Italy, Australia, Japan and in the  access to the CSA data for use in investment strategies, and continue 
Asia-Pacific region. These countries offer the best opportunities for  to provide advice on the CSA methodology. The transaction allows 
growth in the years to come.  us to focus on the interpretation and application of ESG data, as well 
as sustainable investing research for our core asset management 
Global financial institutions are also an important growth segment.  activities. 
In other countries, regions and market segments where we have 
a sales presence, our aim is to maintain current growth levels.  In November, we announced that we would integrate the name 
In China, we continue to strengthen our presence so that we are  “RobecoSAM” into our global brand strategy (see page 14 for further 
prepared when the market opens up further. Total net inflows of  details). And, while there was no change to the business activities 
client assets in 2017 – 2020 amounted to EUR 42.1 billion. in Switzerland, these are now carried out under a new legal name: 
Robeco Schweiz AG. Also in November, all RobecoSAM-named funds 
In terms of products and solutions, we focus on further increasing  were transferred to the Robeco Capital Growth Fund platform, so 
the scale of those investment capabilities that are currently among  that both Robeco and RobecoSAM-named funds run on one strong, 
the world’s best in terms of performance, investment process and  unified platform. The RobecoSAM name is used for our thematic, 
consultant ratings. These include quant equities (including factor  equity and fixed income Impact Investing strategies.
investing), credits, emerging markets equities, Asia-Pacific equities 
and trends & thematic investing. Also, in response to an increase in  We also decided to exclude companies that derive 25% or more 
client interest, our fundamental global equities, global macro fixed  of their revenues from thermal coal (power generation or mining) 
income, fundamental multi-asset and quant allocation capabilities  or oil sands, or 10% from Arctic drilling, from our mutual funds. 
will continue to be strengthened. In addition, we intend to build,  The process of excluding fossil fuel companies engaged in these 
buy or seek strategic partnerships for capabilities that institutional  activities was completed by the end of Q4 2020. The move is aimed 
investors are looking for in their search for yield. Due to strong  to contribute to our efforts to lower the carbon footprint of our 
inflows, we announced in July 2020 that our High Yield bonds funds  investments. 
had reached maximum capacity, and would therefore close.
A number of strategic organizational changes were made or 
SI is also a key strength, and sustainability is integrated across our  completed in 2020. The outsourcing of Robeco’s operations and 
investment capabilities. We have historically carried this out in close  administration activities to JP Morgan, announced in 2018, was 
collaboration with RobecoSAM, and together we have a leading  completed in July. The outsourcing of operations activities did not 
position in this area. In 2020, a number of changes took place  lead to changes in investment policies and teams. Client portfolios 
12    |   Sustainability Report 2020
ABOUT US
continue to be managed according to their investment policies by the  SI strategy
responsible portfolio managers and portfolio management teams.  In addition, sustainability will be further integrated throughout 
Furthermore, we decided to merge Robeco Luxembourg S.A. into  our entire company, not only in our products and services but 
Robeco Institutional Asset Management B.V., which took effect per 1  also in our operations and our people. To set the next step, our SI 
January 2021. As of that date, the responsibilities for managing and  focused investment professionals were united in a single SI Center 
overseeing Robeco’s Luxembourg domiciled funds were transferred  of Expertise in May. This Center will help to improve alignment 
to the Netherlands. There will be no change to the services provided  and expand our expertise and thought leadership in SI. It will also 
to Robeco’s investors.  improve information flows to our investment professionals and 
communication with clients. The Center consists of four pillars: 
Finally, in June, following a review of the strategic positioning of  SI Thought Leadership, SI Client Portfolio Managers (CPMs), SI 
our private equity business, we announced that Stafford Capital  Research, and Active Ownership:
Partners had acquired Robeco’s private equity business. 
–   A new team will maintain and advance our SI thought leadership 
Outlook 2021 - 2025 position, with specific attention to climate change and the SDGs. 
In February 2021, we announced our new strategy for the coming  We will also strengthen our connections with academia and even 
5-year period which aims to build on the success of our current  more robustly embed our SI work in academic research.
trajectory and further focus on our key strengths: SI, Quant,  –   SI CPMs will aim to increase alignment in communication 
Credits, Trends and Thematic and Emerging Markets. We will also  towards clients regarding our SI activities, and build SI 
establish an ambitious climate strategy, including a decarbonization  knowledge in the existing CPM teams and across the broader 
trajectory and forward-looking indicators. Carbon objectives will  organization.
be set for all our funds, aiming for an average of 7% reductions per  –   SI Research will continue to focus on generating high-quality 
annum, to help meet our net-zero 2050 ambition. Also, new areas  sustainability research related to companies and sectors. 
of growth potential have been identified to support the acceleration  –   Active Ownership is responsible for our global voting and 
achieved in our key distribution markets. We will aim to grow our  engagement activities. See page 31 for more details.
penetration of the insurance market, and broaden our coverage of 
wholesale markets in targeted areas. 
13    |   Sustainability Report 2020
ABOUT US
OUR BRAND AND PRODUCTS
Our brand  Development Goals (SDGs), gender equality, lifestyle, and ‘smart’  upheaval and a whole new way of working meant for investing. 
Robeco is one of the leading asset management brands across  materials. While there were clear losers in the travel and hospitality industries, 
Europe and is widely considered by the investment industry to be the  there were also winners in businesses such as home entertainment 
world leader in SI. Our branding and business proposition remains  Our products and cashless payments. The longer-term after-effects of Covid-19 
based on key strengths: The Robeco product range consists of 151 investment funds,  took center stage in what is consistently our most downloaded piece 
including some that retain the RobecoSAM name. They are classified  of content, the Expected Returns 2021-2025 five-year outlook, titled 
–   Sustainable investing (SI) according to 56 strategy types and are sub-divided further into three  ‘Brave real world’. 
–  Q  uant investing levels of sustainability integration; see page 26 for all details.
–   Trends and thematic investing
–  C redits investing Marketing our products in these unprecedented times
–   Emerging markets investing.  The year in which the Covid-19 pandemic brought the world to 
a standstill presented both challenges and opportunities. When 
One of Robeco’s major brand strengths is the routine integration  the severity of the virus and the containment measures that were 
of ESG factors into the decision-making investment process for the  needed became apparent in March, the first job was to reassure 
entire range of fundamental equity, fixed income, quantitative and  clients that our fund management capabilities were unaffected. 
specialist sustainability funds. We believe that our commitment to  Although working remotely became the norm for most staff when 
ESG integration, combined with extensive use of active ownership, is  communal office work was no longer possible, we were able to 
unique in the European asset management industry. continue as before. Moreover, the pandemic required us to be 
more innovative when it came to communicating with clients. For 
Robeco achieved the much-coveted top-five status in the annual  example, we produced and weekly portfolio manager’s updates for 
Broadridge asset manager brand rankings in March 2020, in a  the highest profile funds, outlining what the asset management 
performance described as “shaking up the rankings of the elite  teams were doing to position themselves. This service continued for 
cross-border brands”. Robeco has steadily risen over the years into  several months until clients let us know they were happy to return to 
fifth place, and remains number one in Europe for sustainability.  the normal monthly delivery of updates. 
Rebranding RobecoSAM Perhaps the greatest innovation was the regular webinars and 
Zurich-based RobecoSAM was renamed as Robeco Switzerland  digital broadcasting events we hosted across a range of asset 
in November 2020. RobecoSAM remains an ingredient brand  classes. These ranged from how the pandemic was actually 
for selected SI research and intelligence that is used throughout  accelerating certain consumer trends such as streaming and food 
Robeco, including proprietary research such as the scoring contained  delivery.
within the biannual Country ESG Ranking. The name has also 
been retained for labeling the range of impact investing products  We also produced regular market insights and podcasts to try to 
offered from Switzerland, led by funds focused on the Sustainable  cut through the noise and focus on what lockdowns, economic 
14    |   Sustainability Report 2020
ABOUT US
HOW WE CONSTANTLY INNOVATE
For Robeco, innovation is a key driver for service reliability, customer  In 2021, we will continue several projects aimed at delivering new 
experience, retention and inflow of assets, cost effectiveness,  features for client reporting, advanced portfolio optimization and 
and investment performance. To remain successful in a highly  customer service. Sustainability is a key element in our IT strategy. 
competitive market, we need to innovate and transform through  For instance, laptops and mobile phones at the end of their life cycle 
technology. To this end we have built a culture which fosters and  are sold to be refurbished and remarketed, or donated to worthy 
encourages such innovation and effective application of new  causes.
technology.
Investing in information security1 
Investing in technology to boost innovation Information and data are vital to us. Therefore, protecting our 
We invested significantly in new technology in 2020. Some  customers’, employees’ and our own data is a top priority. Our 
examples are: business processes rely on data that has an appropriate level of:
–   Continued development and roll-out of a secure and interactive  –   Availability: ensuring that information is available when 
online reporting platform for institutional clients: the MyRobeco  required.
client portal. –   Integrity: safeguarding the accuracy and completeness of 
–   Introduction of Robotics Process Automation technology (RPA)  information.
to automate labor-intensive, repetitive manual tasks throughout  –   Confidentiality, ensuring that information is accessible only to 
the organization. those authorized to see it.
–   Continued shift to a real-time application integration 
architecture within IT. The move to internet-accessible micro- Governance
services or Application Programming Interfaces (APIs) is a key  We apply a comprehensive set of policies, standards and best 
component of our IT strategy. practices referred to as an information security framework. Our 
–   Roll-out of a new, cloud managed IT workplace (Microsoft  information security policy is based on the ISO27001 standard. 
Managed Desktop) to all employees. Compliance with this policy is monitored. Security practices such as 
–   Adopting vendor-managed commodity services which enables  vulnerability management, patch management, system hardening, 
Robeco to focus IT resources and talent on bespoke solutions for  and security monitoring are subject to a control cycle and reported 
our core asset management business processes. on frequently. A formal governance and reporting structure is 
–   New, data-intensive investment portfolio rebalancing algorithms  in place with our key (IT) service providers. Information and 
aimed at driving investment performance. cybersecurity constitutes part of the Chief Operating Officer’s (COO) 
responsibilities. Next to this, our Chief Information Security Officer 
heads the information security function and reports directly to the 
COO and functionally to our Executive Committee.
1. We consider cyber security an integral part of information security.
15    |   Sustainability Report 2020
ABOUT US
Highlights in 2020 periodically. Specific threats currently high on our radar include  –   Robeco Sustainable Asian Stars Equities, a high-conviction 
–   Covid-19 changed the landscape for threats related to  the proliferation and professionalization of ransomware, threats  sustainable equity strategy with a better ESG profile and a 20% 
cybersecurity , but did not impact Robeco’s level of security.  delivered through malicious emails, and ongoing social engineering  lower environmental footprint than its reference benchmark 
Threats related to the use of insecure mobile devices and  attacks against both our employees and our customers. Our key  (MSCI All Country Asia ex Japan).
unsanctioned cloud-based file-sharing services increased. The  challenge for the future is to keep pace with these rapidly evolving  –   RobecoSAM Circular Economy Equities, which invests in listed 
impact of these threats for Robeco, however, was very limited,  cyber threats. Therefore we need to:  companies that address the opportunities created by the shift 
because the architecture of our mobile workplace affords the  in traditional production and consumption patterns toward a 
same required level of protection to those working in the office  –   Maintain our sound security foundation and level of cyber  circular economy.
or remotely. resilience. –   RobecoSAM Global Green Bonds; Robeco already includes 
–   Although Covid-19 was often used as a theme in attacks such  –   Make optimal use of the security monitoring and analytics  green bonds in most of its existing fixed income strategies, but 
as in phishing emails, overall volumes of phishing did not grow  tooling. to meet demand among investors for a standalone capability, 
significantly. –   Keep control over our continuously changing IT ecosystem and  RobecoSAM Global Green Bonds was introduced.
–   In response to the increased focus on our cybersecurity position  supply chain, including technology, providers and business  –   RobecoSAM Global Climate Fixed Income capability. In December 
from many external stakeholders including regulators and  partners, and actively participate in (external) cybersecurity  2020, Robeco launched two new climate fixed income funds: 
clients, an information security assurance officer was added to  communities to share intelligence on threats and good practices. Robeco Climate Global Bonds and Robeco Climate Global Credit, 
our information security team.    for which the investment strategy is fully aligned with the Paris 
–   To keep pace with the ever-increasing cyber threats, we have  Innovating our products Agreement. 
continued to improve the use of advanced security tooling,  To ensure that we continuously innovate to keep fulfilling our clients’ 
especially for data protection, data loss (DLP), secure cloud  financial and sustainability goals, we work closely with them to  Examples of enhancing the global appeal of our investment 
access (CASB), and security monitoring (SIEM). This went hand in  develop products that meet their needs and ideally can be marketed  strategies:
hand with further improving employee awareness and behavior. to a wider audience. A few examples of such joint efforts are:
–   Besides preventive security measures, Robeco invested in  –   Seven RobecoSAM thematic investment strategies were brought 
resilience by strengthening detection and quick response  –   Building new investment strategies that create added value. over to the Robeco Capital Growth Funds SICAV. As a result, the 
capabilities, including penetration tests and ‘red team’ exercises. –   Enhancing the global appeal of our investment strategies by  thematic investment strategies are now bundled in this umbrella 
exploring new fund structures, domiciles or other means of  fund structure.
Outlook utilizing our intellectual property, while catering to specific client  –  The launch of the Robeco SDG Credit Income Fund (AUD Hedged) 
We have a cybersecurity radar which includes our threat outlook and  preferences. in Australia. This is a local feeder fund into the Luxembourg 
corresponding solutions to manage these threats. The threat scores  –   Co-developing new customized products to match our clients’  master fund.
(estimated probability and impact), their risks and the impact of the  investment objectives on risk and return, sustainability, and 
solutions is included. Robeco continually adapts to developments  investment universe dimensions. The outlook for 2021 and beyond is to intensify the development 
in current threats, and our cybersecurity analyst reports are used  of our innovative SDG and climate funds and engagement 
as input for the cybersecurity radar and to identify changes in the  Examples of innovative products that we have launched are: strategies, all of which aim to increase our sustainable assets under 
threat landscape. The cybersecurity radar is reviewed and updated  management in both relative and absolute terms. 
16    |   Sustainability Report 2020
ABOUT US
MATERIALITY ANALYSIS
In 2020, we conducted an update of our survey among stakeholders  MMaatetreiarliiatyl imtya tmrixa otvreixra ollverall
in order to establish what they expect from us in terms of 
1.  Active ownership
sustainability themes and reporting. We identified four groups of 
2.  Climate change portfolio strategy
stakeholders with different interests and needs: clients, employees,  3.  ESG integration in investment 
oversight bodies and representatives from the SI landscape. This last  decisions
4.  Exclusions from the investment 
group included academia, NGOs, and investor collaboration groups.  y 6
et 3 universe
The survey resulted in a list of material topics, divided into three  oci 1 7 5.  Fair advice to customers
sustainability dimensions:  n s 5 2 6.  Investment performance (financial)
o 7.  Long term value creation
ct  8.  Sustainability targeted product design
1.  Iinnvveessttmmeenntt ss:o oluutri oconrse. business of investing and distributing  o’s impa 1112 13 4 8 9 91101.. .   CRByuebmseinuresnesescr uearttihitoyicn as pnodl idcayt fao pr reixveaccuytives 
2. Governance of our organization, including risk management.  c
e and employees
3. Business operations, including our impact on the well-being of  ob 10 12.  Responsibilities and accountability of 
R
employees.  of  17 15 the board
e  13.  Risk management and compliance
nc 19 16 14.  Tax policy
These have been plotted according to how significant they are for  ca 14 15.  Diversity, inclusion and 
fi
our stakeholders, resulting in a materiality matrix.  ni 18 non-discrimination
Sig 16.  Employment conditions
17.  Environmental footprint of Robeco’s 
General results  own operations
In the overall assessment for all groups of stakeholders, financial  18.  Procurement practices
19.  Social commitment
investment performance was again deemed an important material 
Influence on stakeholder decision making
topic. Our stakeholders expect us to generate a healthy financial 
return, as they think this is where we make the greatest impact on  Investments & Distribution              Governance              Business operations
society. Compared to our 2017 materiality assessment, the topics 
of ESG integration, active ownership and long-term value creation 
gained momentum. The newly added topic of climate change 
portfolio strategy directly scores in the top right corner.
A cluster of material topics in the center of the matrix refers to  Regarding our business operations, the most material topic 
governance: business ethics, risk management and compliance;  according to our stakeholders is diversity, inclusion and non-
the remuneration policy for executives and employees; and the  discrimination.
responsibilities and the accountability of the executive board. 
17    |   Sustainability Report 2020
ABOUT US
Results for stakeholder groups The group comprising oversight bodies showed a strong focus on 
Each stakeholder group has its own characteristics and relationship  giving fair advice to customers, business ethics and responsibilities, 
with us, which results in different topics being deemed most material  and accountability of the executive board, alongside investment 
per group.  performance and long-term value creation. Business ethics and 
responsibilities and the accountability of the executive board are 
Clients judge investment-related topics as being far more material  covered in the ‘Governance’ section of this report.
than the other two categories. The top five material topics identified 
by our clients are investment performance, ESG integration in  For the matrices per stakeholder group and methodology, please 
investment decisions, active ownership, long-term value creation  refer to the appendix ‘Materiality assessment’. The full list of material 
and climate change portfolio strategy. These are discussed in the  topics, with definitions, is also given in the appendices to this report.
‘Investments’ section of this report.
 
Although investment-related topics also receive high scores from our 
employees, they are tied with business ethics. Other material topics 
for employees are diversity, inclusion and non-discrimination, and 
the environmental footprint of our own operations. The final section 
of this report deals with those two topics.
The SI landscape group prioritized ESG integration in investment 
decisions, having a climate change portfolio strategy, long-term 
value creation and active ownership over investment performance 
(financial). This does not come as a surprise, as these organizations 
are focused on the impact investors can have through integrating 
ESG aspects into their core business processes of investment 
management and responsible stewardship. The second section of 
this report highlights our strategy execution and key developments. 
18    |   Sustainability Report 2020
ABOUT US
HOW THE FINANCIAL MARKETS DEVELOPED IN 2020
The end of 2019 saw the global economy in a late phase of  lockdowns has been significant, with central banks lowering interest 
economic expansion. The pick-up in leading indicators early on in  rates to the effective lower bound, and governments stimulating 
January 2020, spurred by the long awaited Phase 1 trade agreement  their economies to such an extent that global sovereign debt-to-GDP 
between the US and China on 15 January, seemed promising.  levels for advanced G20 economies are now the highest they have 
Unfortunately, later that month an exogenous shock emerged as  been in 150 years. 
the Covid-19 virus started to spread across the globe. At the end of 
the first quarter of 2020, the economy plunged into the deepest  In addition to Covid-19, 2020 witnessed a number of other major 
global recession since the 1930s, peaking around April as a result of  events. Donald Trump lost the US presidential election in November, 
a widespread economic and social lockdown.  and with the run-off Senate elections in Georgia, the Democrats 
now enjoy a majority in the House of Representatives and effective 
This was the result of governments attempting to contain the  control of the Senate. On Christmas Eve, British Prime Minister 
spread of the virus, after the World Health Organization declared a  Boris Johnson managed to announce a post-Brexit trade deal. The 
pandemic on 11 March. Real GDP declined by 6.8% in China in the  new trade relations between the EU and the UK will resemble the 
first quarter, while US GDP fell by 31.4% at an annualized rate in the  Canadian model, with tariff-free flows of goods between the EU and 
second quarter. As the Covid-19 infection curves started to flatten  the UK. However, services are subject to import and export duties.
in response to severe lockdowns, subsequent gradual re-openings 
led to economic activity picking up in May and June, with an early,  Outlook for the equity markets
lopsided recovery extending into the third quarter of 2020.  In 2020, financial markets were clearly rewarding countries that 
addressed the pandemic quickly and effectively. Although the MSCI 
However, as the virus re-emerged as a second Covid-19 wave  World Index only gained 6.3% (unhedged in euros), countries that 
in August, the policy pendulum began to swing back and forth  managed Covid-19 well such as South Korea (+32.5%) and China 
between re-openings and lockdowns, leading to economic  (+29.5%) enjoyed strong outperformances. As they wait for the 
momentum stalling in the fourth quarter. The International  arrival of vaccines and the ensuing herd immunity, the quality of 
Monetary Fund estimates that global GDP contracted by 3.5% in  government responses to Covid-19 will remain a pricing determinant 
2020, despite the global rebound in activity observed since April,  in cross-country financial market outcomes. 
with China already fully recovering lost output by the fourth quarter 
of 2020. The economic recovery from the Covid-19 pandemic  2020 was a truly historic year for many equity indices, with a 
remained uneven and incomplete at the end of the year. massive, tech-led relief rally after the global recession peaked in 
March. After falling 34%, the S&P 500 rallied 47% since the bottom 
In the absence of herd immunity, governments continue to face  of 23 March. Abundant global liquidity from central banks and swift 
a ‘trilemma’ between solving the health crisis, maintaining  fiscal stimulus from governments led to strong multiple expansion, 
economic momentum and safeguarding personal freedoms. The  even as the recession lingered. 
policy stimulus to mitigate the damage to the real economy from 
19    |   Sustainability Report 2020
ABOUT US
Looking ahead, the enhanced coordination between monetary  Outlook for the bond markets rating agencies are projecting as those companies do not have 
and fiscal policy, with central banks acting as credible fiscal  Central bank and fiscal stimulus and the outlook for the economic  access to the same government and monetary stimulus that high 
financiers, will be supportive for equity markets. Excess liquidity  recovery due to the vaccine roll-out are now such that we expect  grade companies have. 
and increasingly targeted fiscal stimulus will likely sustain equity  official interest rates to remain low for several years to come with 
valuations. Nonetheless, the easy gains have been realized. The  many government bond yields rangebound. The US may at some  As coronavirus fears recede in 2021 and 2022, catching up with the 
onus now is on earnings growth to accelerate in order to boost  point be the first to raise rates, but we do not expect this in 2021.  goals of the Paris Agreement means an acceleration of re-allocation 
equity returns. The good news is that inflation is not expected to rise either, as  of financial resources to green purposes and we expect that green 
overcapacity in the economy remains significant and digitalization  and social bond financing will be an opportunity of great interest. 
We think earnings growth around the 20% mark in 2021 is a  will not be reversed this year.
realistic assumption given the early expansion phase of the  Market impact Covid-19
business cycle. High private savings, increasing optimism among  Still, the reopening of the global economy will lead to a temporary  We consider the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic as a significant event 
CEOs, positive wealth effects from a resilient housing market,  cyclical uplift in inflation due to base effects, pent-up demand, and  which may impact the investment funds under management. The 
and the continuing low interest rate environment will boost  temporary supply bottlenecks. We largely expect most government  impact of the pandemic on people, companies and the economy 
consumption and investments as herd immunity against Covid-19  bond yields to be range bound, especially in Europe and Japan, but  at large remain uncertain. Pending herd immunity as a result of 
becomes within reach. Upside risk to our equity outlook is that the  we do note that the cyclical inflation outlook can put some upward  a substantial vaccination rate, the global economy will, however, 
global economic recovery is more swift and highly synchronized  pressure on longer dated bond yields. We also expect government  still be impacted by opening and closing of (business) operations. 
compared to consensus expectations. In the current environment  bond yields to have more upside potential in US and UK as both  Furthermore, a slowdown in the trajectory towards herd immunity 
of abundant excess liquidity and ongoing fiscal stimulus this could  economies are more inflation sensitive than Europe and Japan.  as a result of risks relating to vaccine logistics, vaccine side 
catapult market sentiment from rational exuberance into irrational  effects, reduced effectiveness, or public resistance to (mandatory) 
euphoria, stretching valuation levels even further. Downside risks to  There are, however, still several opportunities for bond investors.  vaccination, may have a negative impact on markets.
our equity outlook are an unanticipated slowdown in the trajectory  Duration risk can still generate some performance in emerging 
towards herd immunity or an economically unwarranted steep rise  markets, for instance. In many emerging countries, central bank 
in (real) long term interest rates due to a hiccup in central bank  policy rates are positive and central banks still have ample room to 
forward guidance. lower them. Furthermore, with its new policy framework, the US 
Federal Reserve will keep interest rates very low and set the tone for 
a weak US dollar, which will support emerging markets assets to a 
certain degree.
2021 sees us taking a conservative approach in corporate bonds as 
we think risk premia in that asset class are insufficient compensation 
for the risk as credit spreads are approaching multi-year lows at 
the time of writing. We think high yield bonds are particularly 
vulnerable as they might suffer much higher default rates than 
20    |   Sustainability Report 2020
ABOUT US
HOW OUR INDUSTRY DEVELOPED IN 2020
In 2020, we saw these ten developments as essential and having a 
long-term impact on our industry. Demand for passive products keeps growing due to 
SHIFT FROM
regulations, low fees and disappointing active returns.
ACTIVE TO
PASSIVE
Industry consolidation is gaining speed as managers try to 
scale up, extend their presence in high-growth areas like  SMART
CONSOLIDATION
alternatives and ETFs via m&a or team lifts. Also m&a in  BETA Low-cost actively managed “Smart Beta” products based 
fintec companies for eg data, service, distribution activities. on factors (low volatility, value, momentum, quality, 
size) packaged either in funds, mandates or indices are 
becoming a core part of the portfolio. 
Numerous regulations are being implemented 
in Europe The most disruptive one being MiFID 
II. It fundamentally changes the way products 
SEARCH FOR
are distributed. Regulators become more   REGULATIONS Low interest rates and market volatility 
YIELD
stringent on AML/KYC triggering asset managers  have investors searching for yield within 
to professionalize Client Life Cycle Management  “alternative” yielding assets in the 
with better tooling and client data.   private market such as infrastructure, 
10 Industry trends 
real estate and private equity.
The Information Technology landscape is  in asset management
changing rigorously. Keeping up with the newest 
technology will be key for asset managers to stay 
relevant. The Covid-19 pandemic gave a boast  INFORMATION  The Covid-19 pandemic reinforced the trend of 
SUSTAINABLE
to further digitalization of asset managers. Key  TECHNOLOGY Sustainable Investing and ESG integration becoming 
INVESTING
trends will be artificial intelligence and, machine  2.0 mainstream. Increasing regulation and client 
learning to discover alternative data sets for  demand drive need for better ESG data & reporting. 
portfolio management, blockchain  and robotics. More advanced managers launch products 
meeting both financial and sustainable goals. Also 
impact strategies contributing to eg UN “Social 
Development Goals” or addressing 2015 Paris 
Due to a power shift in favor of  Agreement Climate goals on global warming. 
distributors & intermediaries a new  NEW PRICING STRATEGIC
dynamic around management fees has  REALITY PARTNERSHIPS
emerged. This dynamic differs per type 
of product. Eg for pure passive ETF’s  EMERGING
a race to the bottom has started, for  ASIA
good performing active strategies or  China is becoming the second-largest region for asset  Institutional investors are looking for solution providers in the 
alternatives there is less price pressure,  managers in the near future. It will attract more flows  form of strategic partnerships. Investors turn to specialized 
underperforming active strategies  than the US over the next decade. Emerging Markets  asset managers capable of providing specialized bespoke 
experience significant price pressure. will become increasingly important for the industry. solutions in various areas such as ESG.
21    |   Sustainability Report 2020
ABOUT US
OUR FINANCIAL RESULTS 
Our gross margin over the reporting year was EUR 460.8 million, 
Financial results
EUR 7.9 million (2%) higher than in 2019. The main drivers for this 
were higher performance and service fees combined with a shift    2020 2019 2018
to managing assets that were able to generate higher fees. This  Assets under management - AuM (EUR x billion)       
was partly offset by the effects of fee compression, the costs of our  Assets under management1 176.1 171.7 132.5
middle office outsourcing during 2020, and the discontinuation of  Assets under advice2 0 1.8 31.0
our fiduciary management services.  Total AuM 176.1 173.5 163.5
       
During 2020, the financial markets were mostly bullish, and the  Financial results (EUR x million)      
related market impact on our assets under management was  Gross margin  460.8 452.9 457.5
positive. This made up for the significant market downturn in         
February and March 2020 due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Total client  Operating expenses -324.8 -327.6 -323.0
assets (assets managed, sub-advised or distributed) amounted to         
around EUR 176.1 billion at 31 December 2020 (EUR 171.7 billion at  Operating result 136.0 125.2 134.4
31 December 2019). Non-operating result3 -7.7 0.2 -6.5
Result from group and associated companies 0 -3.9 1.6
Operating costs decreased by EUR 2.8 million (1%) in 2020 to EUR  Taxes -33.6 -29.5 -32.4
324.8 million, due to lower travel and marketing costs (Covid-19  Net result for the year 94.7 92.0 97.2
related) and lower severance costs. This was partly offset by higher 
1. Assets under management includes assets managed, sub-advised or distributed by Robeco Institutional Asset Management, Robeco Switzerland and other subsidiaries of Robeco 
project-related costs relating to remediation and strategic programs.  Holding.  
2. Assets under advice includes fiduciary management
3. The non-operating results exclude the proceeds of the sale of our ESG ratings and benchmarking business to S&P Global
The ‘non-operating’ result relates to seeding portfolios, interest and 
foreign exchange charges.
Our management considers Robeco’s financial position to be sound. 
All relevant capital (regulatory) requirements of the Robeco legal 
entities are being met. 
22    |   Sustainability Report 2020
HOW OUR STRATEGY 
WORKS FOR OUR 
CLIENTS
In this section, we show how we make our strategy work for 
our clients, and provide examples of how we translate this 
strategy into concrete actions.  
23    |   Sustainability Report 2020
HOW OUR STRATEGY WORKS FOR OUR CLIENTS
SERVING OUR CLIENTS
We distinguish between three segments: institutional clients,  How we serve our retail clients In 2020, the AFM has determined that Robeco must undertake a 
wholesale clients, and Dutch retail clients. Robeco Retail is our direct distribution channel for Dutch retail  number of remedial measures to improve the processes in relation 
clients. We believe in making investing possible for everyone,  to the Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing (Prevention) Act 
How we serve our institutional and wholesale clients as we are convinced that everyone should be able to invest in a  (‘Wwft’) and the Sanctions Act (‘Sw’) in Robeco Retail, Robeco’s 
To ensure our clients’ interests are always our starting point, we join  responsible manner without the hassle of difficult terminology, high  on-line execution-only platform for Dutch retail customers. The 
syndicated research initiatives to obtain feedback on our products  fees, and complex products. That’s why the investment threshold is  improvements have commenced in 2020 and are scheduled to be 
and services and to gain insight into areas for improvement. In  as low as EUR 50. In 2013, we were the first asset manager in the  completed by the end of 2021. 
addition to research initiatives, we facilitate personal interaction  Netherlands to introduce this ‘investing for everyone’ proposition. 
between our institutional and wholesale clients on one hand,  We score 8 on customer satisfaction.  Subsequent to the above, and as a separate matter, the AFM has 
and senior management, account managers portfolio managers  indicated that it has concerns about the way in which Robeco has 
and client service teams on the other. An example of this is the  Robeco ONE Duurzaam continued to be the most popular choice  set up its business operations. Robeco has engaged with the AFM to 
utilization of virtual teams, where we work closely together with  for new Robeco ONE customers. Overall in 2020 32% of our retail  substantiate Robeco’s views in this respect.
the Sales teams to share their knowledge on specific matters  clients (versus 29% in 2019) invested in a sustainable fund. 
(region driven, such as new business, new regulations, supporting  To ensure full compliance while ensuring our business model 
sales office in servicing existing clients) in order to have a good  remains future proof, we decided in early 2021 to stop accepting 
understanding of the market circumstances in the specific region. new direct retail clients until further notice in order to focus on 
our existing clients. Currently, there is no indication of any actual 
Launching the MyRobeco client portal allows us to curate all  incidents in which a Robeco account was used for the purposes 
relevant information about our clients’ portfolio(s) in one place.  of money laundering or terrorist financing, nor of any failures to 
One enhancement to the platform is the improved visualization  enforce sanctions. 
of impact data for equity and fixed income. This also extends to 
sovereign-level information, such as translating the biannual   
Country Sustainability Ranking into portfolio-level ESG reporting.
To further optimize the interactions with our clients, 
communications between clients, sales, client services and other 
stakeholders are tracked and stored in a centralized CRM system, 
resulting in a more efficient process and a faster response. We 
started the development of a centralized onboarding platform to 
have better insight and oversight. As part of this development, a 
dedicated global Know Your Customer center was set up to prepare 
for the increase of rules and regulations that will be seen in 2021.
24    |   Sustainability Report 2020
HOW OUR STRATEGY WORKS FOR OUR CLIENTS
DEVELOPING SUSTAINABILITY SOLUTIONS FOR CLIENTS
2020 brought with it many challenges, both socially and  In the table below, we elaborate on this.
economically. The market for sustainable investments continued 
to grow, however. Sustainable and exchange-traded funds (ETFs)  Investments Status 
outperformed in 2020 and specifically during the downturn. This 
Quality of SI approach: PRI A+ score for all modules  In 2020 Robeco again achieved A+ scores for all PRI modules. Robeco 
was mainly driven by a size and sector effect – sustainable funds have 
  was also named in the PRI leaders group based on our climate-related 
less exposure to ‘old’ capital intensive industries such as energy and 
approach and reporting standards. 
more exposure to technology, healthcare and the more innovative 
industries that profited from the Covid-19 lockdowns. Climate action: Decrease the carbon intensity of our funds aligned with the  We put a lot of effort in further developing our approach towards climate 
Paris Agreement change. Please see page 28 for more information on this. 
The key period of outperformance at the height of the lockdowns 
ESG integration: implement ESG quality control for all asset classes/teams  A full quality control framework for ESG integration was put in place and 
was relatively short. However, the good news is that research from 
executed, and specific targets were set for 2021.
Morningstar into about 5,000 funds domiciled in Europe in June 
2020 shows that there is no performance trade-off associated with 
sustainable funds. In fact, a majority of them have outperformed  Sustainability research  
their traditional peers over multiple time horizons of up to 10 years.  Execute plan to strengthen sustainability profiles (these are short reports  A new format was introduced for the sustainability profiles produced by the 
Fund flows have also remained healthy compared to more traditional  containing SI Ratings (ratings ranging from 1 (very weak) to 10 (very strong)  SI research team. The format is a result of collaboration of the SI research 
peers.  on the extent ESG factors can have a material impact on a firms’ business  board that structures the collaboration on sustainability research between 
fundamentals) and SI Information on SDG score, smart ESG, footprint,  all investment teams. The SI research team has increased coverage of the SI 
With data confirming our longstanding belief in the performance  market views (highlighting differences with MSCI, Sustainalytics, etc.) company profiles to over 300 names in 2020.
of SI, Robeco further broadened its sustainable fund range and 
Strengthen the SDG framework. This framework uses a clear, comprehensive  In 2020, we continued the further development and governance of our 
deepened its research, expertise and approach to ESG integration in 
and replicable methodology, following a three-step process, to ascertain  SDG Impact Framework. We incorporated extant research and expanded its 
2020. This is in line with our targets to be achieved at the end of our 
companies’ impacts on the SDGs (see page 29 for all details)  scope in order to continuously improve our SDG assessment. 
strategic plan in 2021.
Develop a framework of measurable KPIs for all impact strategies   We have developed impact indicators for our Smart Energy, Sustainable 
  Water, Smart Materials, Gender Equality and Healthy Living strategies. In 
  2021, we plan to further develop metrics for SDG Equity, Circular Economy 
and Smart Mobility.
25    |   Sustainability Report 2020
HOW OUR STRATEGY WORKS FOR OUR CLIENTS
Three categories of strategies their investment cases, leading to the following insights from varying  information as determining factors for company selection. The 
We offer our clients a broad range of (sustainable) investment  strategies: strategies also aim to achieve a superior environmental performance 
strategies and we continue to develop and innovate. We categorize  relative to the benchmark, targeting a 20% lower footprint for 
our strategies into three different types, depending on the  –   The emerging markets team completed a performance  greenhouse gas emissions, water and energy consumption, as well 
sustainability objectives they have: attribution analysis. They found that ESG integration brought 155  as for waste production. 
basis points outperformance for Emerging Sustainable Stars. In 
–   Sustainability Inside: These incorporate full ESG integration,  addition, the exclusion policy of the fund led to an additional 79  Within our core quant capabilities, two new sustainable mandates 
the use of proprietary research, exclusions, and voting and  basis points of outperformance, predominately due to excluding  were launched in 2020. We also see interest from our existing clients 
engagement. The focus lies on making better-informed  producers of coal, oil and gas. The tobacco exclusion also  in complementing their financial objectives with sustainability ones. 
investment decisions through ESG analysis. contributed positively. A case in point is a client who decided to change the investment 
–   Sustainability Focused: These strategies have more specific  –   For our fundamental global equity strategy, the same  strategy applied to its discretionary mandate. It moved from using 
sustainability targets for ESG profiles, such as environmental  contribution analysis (which has now been done for four years)  the Emerging Markets Enhanced Indexing strategy to one similar to 
footprints that are better than their benchmarks. again also pointed to a positive impact of ESG integration on  that applied in the Emerging Markets Sustainable Enhanced Indexing 
–   Impact Investing: These strategies aim to make a discernible  outperformance of around 20% on average. fund launched in 2019. The new mandate contained a particular 
impact by investing in measurable sustainable themes such as  –   The Chinese equity team has worked with the SI research team  focus on reducing its carbon footprint.
energy or mobility, and/or the UN’s SDGs. to improve ESG integration. The impact of ESG on the investment 
cases in the research universe of our China team is substantial.  Impact Investing
Sustainability Inside In 2020, a country premium was added in 93% of cases, and the  Our thematic and SDG strategies invest in companies that on balance 
The assets in our Sustainability Inside range grew to EUR 138.5  ESG analysis has an impact on one of the value drivers (growth,  contribute positively to sustainable development. Through this 
billion in 2020. As Robeco has structurally been integrating material  margins, cost of capital) in 76% of cases. product range, capital is directed to companies that do more good 
ESG issues into investment strategies since 2010, this has become  than harm on a number of pre-defined metrics as laid out in our SDG 
business as usual for all of our investment teams. However, we  Sustainability Focused framework. All impact strategies are labeled as RobecoSAM.
strive to raise the bar each year. The quantitative investment team  We continue to see strong demand for strategies with an enhanced 
(involving both equity and factor credits) has taken further steps to  focus on sustainability. These assets have grown from EUR 8.2 billion  Impact investing assets under management further increased in 
integrate ESG issues, and specifically climate, by making sure the  at the end of 2019 to EUR 9.1 billion at the end of 2020.  2020 (from EUR 8.3 billion) to EUR 12.7 billion. Interest in this arena 
portfolios’ carbon intensity (on scope 1 and 2 carbon emissions) is  surged following the announcement by the EU Commission that it 
always below that of the benchmark. This means carbon intensities  For instance, the Robeco Sustainable European Stars Equities  would actively promote sustainable businesses via the European 
were reduced over 2020. ESG integration and active ownership  attracted various new clients, including one of the largest asset  Green Deal, and in anticipation of a change of government in the 
are the main pillars of our sustainability approach in all of our  management platforms in Germany. The strategy achieved total  US. There was particularly high demand for thematic products 
investment strategies. See the chapter on active ownership for more  assets under management of over EUR 1.4 billion. Another strategy  addressing climate change through innovative solutions in the clean 
details. that, next to the other strategies in Sustainability Focused, attracted  energy, infrastructure and transportation sectors. RobecoSAM Smart 
new assets is Robeco Sustainable Global Stars, a large part of which  Energy in particular attracted a number of large clients, lifting the 
The investment teams track the impact of ESG integration efforts on  came from Asian clients. Both strategies use corporate sustainability  strategies’ assets under management above EUR 1.5 billion. 
26    |   Sustainability Report 2020
HOW OUR STRATEGY WORKS FOR OUR CLIENTS
The SDG Credits strategies also attracted a lot of interest from our  In December 2020, we launched a series of climate strategies in  fixed income, quantitative and bespoke sustainability strategies. We 
clients. Assets rose to EUR 1.1 billion. Since its inception in June 2018,  fixed income, again investing in both government and corporate  also have a strict exclusion policy and a structured Active Ownership 
it has seen a cumulative outperformance of 503 basis points. Using  bonds. These strategies use an EU Paris Aligned Benchmark and are  approach. This means the majority of strategies will fall under the 
our internal attribution methodology to identify the drivers of this  thus in line with an ambition to limit global warming to 2 degrees  Article 8 banner.
outperformance, we see that 18% of this cumulative figure was a  Celsius by 2100.
result of the SDG screening, with most of the contribution coming  A project team of more than 30 people has been working on 
from avoiding names with a negative SDG score. Implementing the Sustainable Finance Disclosure  making sure Robeco adheres to the regulations. Investment teams 
Regulation worked with our legal officers, Compliance department and external 
At the start of 2020, we launched the RobecoSAM Circular Economy  Coming into force over the course of 2021, the EU’s Sustainable  advisors and regulators to make sure all funds can meet the relevant 
Equities strategy. This targets companies that actively contribute  Finance Action Plan represents one of the most impactful pieces  criteria and disclosures.
to the reduction of waste; those that develop materials that can  of regulation to affect the investment management industry since 
be reused or recycled; companies managing efficient logistics  MiFID II significantly improved up reporting and transparency in 
and waste management systems, and those which promote eco- 2018. A core tenet of the plan is the Sustainable Finance Disclosure 
friendly nutrition and lifestyles. The fund complements the current  Regulation (SFDR), which will classify investment funds according 
RobecoSAM impact investing product range, now consisting of 13  to their sustainability credentials for the first time. A key part of 
strategies covering different social and environmental sustainability  this regulation, in turn, is a classification system which sets out the 
trends. disclosures that must be made for any investment product. The 
three types of fund categorization as described by the EU under its 
On the fixed income side, the RobecoSAM Global Green Bonds  articles are:
fund was launched in April 2020. It meets market demand for a 
standalone green bond vehicle that provides clear reporting on  –   Article 6 funds: Those that do not promote their ESG 
the nature of its environmental impact. It is actively managed with  characteristics.
a diversified exposure. The fund invests in green bonds issued by  –   Article 8 Funds: “Where a financial product promotes, among 
governments, government-related agencies, and corporates (mainly  other characteristics, environmental or social characteristics, 
in investment grade). To determine whether bonds truly are green,  or a combination of those characteristics, provided that the 
we apply a proprietary five-step green bond screening process  companies in which the investments are made follow good 
regarding: 1) alignment with industry standards, 2) the allocation  governance practices.”
of proceeds, 3) impact reporting, 4) the issuer’s environmental  –   Article 9 Funds: “Where a financial product has sustainable 
strategy, 5) the issuer’s conduct. investment as its objective and an index has been designated as 
a reference benchmark.”
We already integrate ESG factors into the investment process for all 
the funds where it is possible to do so across its fundamental equity, 
27    |   Sustainability Report 2020
HOW OUR STRATEGY WORKS FOR OUR CLIENTS
CLIMATE CHANGE
We recognize that climate change must be mitigated to avoid  we will set decarbonization targets for all funds over which we 
unacceptable long-term impact on society and the global economy.  have discretion, and will work with clients to support them in 
We also see that the low-carbon transition will create both  their objectives. We will announce our strategy and concrete 
investment opportunities and transition risks across all sectors of the  interim targets before the COP26 Climate Summit in Glasgow in 
economy.  November 2021.
We acknowledge our industry’s responsibility for addressing climate  Protecting biodiversity
change risks and opportunities through our investment decisions  Biodiversity loss will have a large impact on the ability of companies 
as well as through our influence on investee companies and other  to produce food at the current scale of production, due for example 
institutions. Therefore we support the objectives of the Paris  to soil depletion, decrease in crop diversity, and ecosystem collapse. 
Agreement and the recommendations of the Task Force on Climate- Robeco collaborates with different stakeholders related to this 
related Financial Disclosures (TCFD). Our climate-related governance,  issue, such as universities, NGOs and the DNB Working Group on 
strategy, risk management and metrics all aim to align with these  Biodiversity, to gain input on how to approach this topic from an 
guidelines. For all details, please have a look at the appendix starting  investor perspective. In addition, Robeco is one of the 26 financial 
on page 55. institutions from around the globe that have signed the Finance 
for Biodiversity Pledge. In the Pledge the signatories call upon 
Highlights in 2020 world leaders to reverse nature loss this decade and commit to 
–   In 2020, we renewed our climate policy and created two  collaborating, engaging, and assessing their own biodiversity 
dedicated roles within the company, a climate strategist and a  impact, setting targets and reporting on biodiversity matters by 2024 
climate data scientist, to accelerate our work in this area.  at the latest.
–   In September, we expanded the scope of our fossil fuel exclusion 
policy. Companies that derive 25% or more of their revenues 
from thermal coal (power generation or mining) or oil sands, 
or 10% from Arctic drilling, are excluded from our funds as per 
Q4 2020. For sustainable strategies, we have added exclusions 
for companies that derive 10% or more of their revenues from 
oil sands, or 5% from Arctic drilling. For sustainable strategies, 
we already exclude companies that derive 10% or more of their 
revenues from thermal coal (power generation or mining).
–   Also in December, we announced our ambition to achieve 
net zero emissions by 2050 across all our assets under 
management. We have done this jointly with others in the 
Net Zero Asset Managers Initiative. To achieve our ambition, 
28    |   Sustainability Report 2020
HOW OUR STRATEGY WORKS FOR OUR CLIENTS
CONTRIBUTING TO THE SDGS
In 2015, all United Nations member states adopted the Sustainable  companies were hit hard by such sustainability risks. We’ve also seen  Scores are then compiled to assess a company’s overall impact. 
Development Goals (SDGs). The 17 SDGs and their 169 underlying  many companies that provide solutions to sustainability challenges  These range from +3 (highly positive) to -3 (highly negative). Once 
targets aim to promote economic development, advance social  becoming clear winners. Hence, the SDGs are a lens through which  the overall score is known, we can include the best companies in our 
inclusion and equality, and ensure environmental sustainability. In  we can assess and mitigate risks, and also identify companies that  investment process.
short, the SDGs are, according to the UN, “a blueprint to achieve a  offer opportunities for generating returns. In this sense, the SDGs 
better and more sustainable future for all.”  clearly link to our mission of helping our clients realize their financial  In 2020, we continued the further development and governance 
and sustainability goals.  of our SDG Impact Framework. We incorporated extant research 
Investors play a key role in accelerating progress, and we are fully  and expanded its scope in order to continuously improve our SDG 
committed to helping achieve the SDGs. The past year has been a  Our SDG Impact Framework  assessment. By continuing to strengthen our framework, we ensure 
vivid reminder that more action is urgently needed. We witnessed  The main way in which we contribute towards the SDGs is through  our approach to investing in the SDGs is rigorous and a frontrunner 
the global emergence of Covid-19 and saw its devastating social and  our investment decisions. To understand and manage these impacts,  in the market. 
economic outcomes. At the same time, impending sustainability  we created a proprietary SDG Impact Framework. This uses a clear, 
risks such as climate change, inequality, and the loss of biodiversity  comprehensive, and replicable methodology, following a three-step 
have become even more pronounced. In the financial markets, some  process, to ascertain companies’ impacts on the goals: 
STEP 1 STEP 2 STEP 3
Product Procedure Controversies
What does the company produce?  How does the company produce?  Has the company erred? 
Analysts look at what the company does to  Here, analysts examine how these goods  Checks are made to see whether the company 
determine whether this contributes positively  and services are produced, and whether  has been involved in any controversies, such 
or negatively to the relevant SDGs, using  these companies advance SDGs in their  as pollution incidents or the mis-selling of 
specific key performance indicators and  operations, or whether there are any flipsides  services.
thresholds.  to apparently good intentions, such as poor 
governance.
29    |   Sustainability Report 2020
HOW OUR STRATEGY WORKS FOR OUR CLIENTS
SDGs in investment strategies SDGs in reporting 
Using our SDG Impact Framework, we analyzed around 1,000  Reporting is essential to SDG investing. Although few companies 
companies. Each one was given an SDG score. Using these scores, we  provide data on their positive and negative impact on the goals, we 
created different SDG investment strategies that cross asset classes: are conducting research that quantifies how some of our thematic 
funds impact the SDGs. 
–  Euro SDG Credits
–  Global SDG Credits SDGs in active ownership 
–  SDG Credit Income The SDGs are included in the Active Ownership team’s full 
–  SDG High Yield Bonds engagement cycle, creating an opportunity to emphasize the 
–  Global SDG Equities impact that engagement can have on society. In 2020, we further 
streamlined our engagement activities with our SDG Impact 
Whereas the SDG Credits strategies invest in bonds issued by  Framework. Robeco’s active ownership work is discussed more fully 
corporates receiving a minimum or neutral score (0) following our  in the next section. 
SDG assessment, SDG Equities invests in companies that are clear 
leaders, scoring at least ’positive medium’ (+2).  Outlook for 2021
The UN marked the 2020-2030 period as a ‘Decade of Action’ for the 
Our SDG strategies are not the only ones driving progress. Our  SDGs. We are committed to further action, as we continue to further 
thematic strategies also help to advance an array of SDGs: integrate the goals into our investment processes. In 2021, we expect 
our clients to increasingly demand investment solutions that drive 
–   Global Gender Equality Impact Equities, which is particularly  progress towards the SDGs. At the same time, we expect regulators 
geared towards SDG 5 – Gender equality to continue to draft and implement legislation that governs the 
–   Circular Economy Equities, especially contributing to SDG 12 –  sustainable development space. Against this background, we intend 
Responsible consumption and production to actively grow our existing SDG strategies while also pioneering 
–   Smart Energy, investing in solutions for SDG 7 – Affordable and  new, innovative, solutions to this end. We are also exploring new 
Clean Energy ways of monitoring and reporting on impacts. 
–   Smart Materials, offering opportunities for advancing SDG 9 – 
Industrialization, Innovation, and Infrastructure
–   Smart Mobility, contributing to SDG 11 – Sustainable cities and 
communities 
–   Healthy Living, which especially promotes SDG 3 – Good health 
and well-being
–   Sustainable Water, seizing opportunities for SDG 6 – Clean water 
and sanitation
30    |   Sustainability Report 2020
HOW OUR STRATEGY WORKS FOR OUR CLIENTS
ACTIVE OWNERSHIP
We use active ownership to improve companies’ behavior because  behavior regarding these topics. Further collaboration with other  after the shareholder meeting takes place, which is in line with best 
we are convinced that adopting ESG principles enhances the  investors and stakeholders that can influence companies is crucial.  practice on voting disclosure. We refrain from voting only in specific 
financial performance of investee companies while benefiting  We will therefore continue to improve and innovate our active  cases of share blocking – the contentious practice where the shares 
society. In addition, as a responsible investor, we act in accordance  ownership practices. How Robeco votes and engages is described in  owned by proxy votes are barred from trading in the period of the 
with stewardship codes. detail in publicly available policies and reports.  annual meeting. In such cases, the Active Ownership team assesses 
the priority of the meeting and the voting impact of the positions. 
A central aspect of our mission is to fulfill our fiduciary duty to clients  Voting 
and beneficiaries. Our stewardship approach is closely aligned with  In 2020, our assets under voting continued to grow to EUR  Our investment teams make high-profile voting decisions in close 
our investment beliefs, which is to use research-based, quality- 114.9 billion and the team’s analysts voted at 7,802 shareholder  collaboration with our engagement specialists. They also include 
driven processes to produce the best possible long-term results for  meetings. Our voting activity is published on our website shortly  information captured at shareholder meetings, in engagement 
our clients. Therefore, our stewardship activities are aimed at long-
term value creation in our portfolio companies. As a sustainable 
investor, we are actively involved in helping our clients formulate  Voting figures
and execute their stewardship responsibilities, complying with all 
  2020 2019 2018
codes, principles and regulations. 
Assets under voting EUR 114.9 billion EUR 91.5 billion EUR 69.9 billion
Number of votes at shareholders’ meetings 7,802 5,926 5,291
Our in-house team executes the key components of active 
ownership – voting and engagement – on behalf of Robeco. The 
team exercises voting rights worldwide on stocks in our investment  Voting distribution by region
funds and maintains an active dialogue on many ESG issues with 
investee companies. Our Head of Active Ownership reports to our  2020 2019 2018
CIO Fixed Income and Sustainability. Team performance is assessed 
on key performance indicators in relation to the quality of active 
ownership, measured internally and externally via the annual PRI 
assessment. 
 
The SI landscape is always evolving, and certain trends will continue 
to influence the active ownership agenda in the coming years. For 
example, Covid-19 has shed light on the importance of good human 
capital management and social issues. At the same time, existing 
North America  21% North America  30% North America  30%
trends such as worsening climate change, loss of biodiversity, and 
Europe  18% Europe  23% Europe  23%
the need to improve diversity and inclusion remain high on the  Pacific  10% Pacific  11% Pacific  11%
agenda. At Robeco, we play an active role in influencing corporate  Emerging markets  51% Emerging markets  36% Emerging markets  36%
31    |   Sustainability Report 2020
HOW OUR STRATEGY WORKS FOR OUR CLIENTS
activities, and in the investment process. We assess on a case-by- two programs: value engagement and enhanced engagement.  managers, analysts and clients. We prioritize investee companies 
case basis if the filing or co-filing of shareholder resolutions as part  In addition to our engagement for equity and credit portfolios, in  that have most exposure to the selected engagement theme. For 
of voting and engagement activities is desirable and likely to have  2020 we took the first steps towards engaging for our government  value engagement themes, the Active Ownership team typically 
an impact. In 2020, the Active Ownership team updated its voting  bond portfolio in a collaborative approach with other investors.  performs a baseline study, establishes SMART (specific, measurable, 
policy to ensure that the provisions remain up to date, relevant  For example, in our efforts to protect biodiversity, we met with the  attainable, relevant, time-bound) objectives, and starts a dialogue 
and aligned with best practice. Key changes include more strictly  vice-president of Brazil to discuss deforestation, as forests have a  to encourage companies to address the identified issues. The team 
assessing diversity and remuneration at the board level, and taking  crucial role to play in tackling climate change. Together with other  informs these companies of the corporate behavior that investors 
a sterner view of companies in high carbon-emitting sectors that  investors, we also approached the Indonesian government to express  expect, thereby encouraging them to adopt better practices. We 
have so far failed to recognize climate change as a business risk or  our concern over the proposed deregulation of environmental  believe that companies with sustainable business practices can gain 
opportunity.  protections in the country’s Omnibus Bill on Job Creation. a competitive advantage and are likely to improve their risk/return 
profile, meaning that it is both in their interest – and ours – for them 
Engagement for equity and credits portfolios  Value engagement: engaging on financially material ESG topics  to change their ways. 
We apply a focused approach for engagement activities, including  Our value engagement activities focus on a limited number of 
a relevant selection of investee companies for a constructive  sustainability themes that have the greatest potential to create 
dialogue on ESG factors such as board quality, human rights and  value for investee companies. New engagement themes are selected 
environmental risk management. For many years, we have run  in close collaboration with engagement specialists, portfolio 
Distribution of engagement cases by region Number of engagement activities per region
  2020
2020 2019 2018
North America 94
Europe 71
Pacific 40
Emerging markets 41
North America  38% North America  41% North America  38%
Europe  29% Europe  31% Europe  33%
Pacific  16% Pacific  15% Pacific  14%
Emerging markets  17% Emerging markets  13% Emerging markets  15%
32    |   Sustainability Report 2020
HOW OUR STRATEGY WORKS FOR OUR CLIENTS
The Active Ownership team started five new financially material  investee companies to monitor their progress. If a company does not  policy that previously only applied to our Sustainability Focused and 
engagement themes in 2020: improve, the Sustainability and Impact Strategy Committee (SISC)  Impact Investing strategies. The exclusions apply to all of our mutual 
can decide to exclude it from our investment universe. The process  funds, excluding client-specific funds and mandates, but including 
1.  Lifecycle management of mining: Focusing on tailing dam risks  for enhanced engagement is a formal part of our exclusion policy.  sub-advised funds.
and water management practices.
2. Biodiversity: Asking companies that produce soy, cocoa or palm  We consider exclusion to be the last resort, only to be used after  Achievements in 2020
oil, and companies that produce food, to conduct a biodiversity  enhanced engagement to encourage a company to improve has  Here is a selection of achievements which resulted from our Active 
impact assessment of their operations and/or their supply chains,  failed. We re-evaluate the practices of excluded companies at least  Ownership team’s activities:
and develop plans to achieve zero net deforestation by 2023. once a year, and we reinstate them if and only if they have show 
3. Net zero carbon: Encouraging high carbon-emitting companies to  significant improvement. Our exclusion policies are published on our  –   The companies under engagement in our ‘Climate Action’ 
set carbon reduction targets and to achieve alignment with goals  website. theme have shown progress in their climate governance. Most 
of the Paris Agreement. of them (8 out of 13) have shown clear board responsibility for 
4. Corporate governance in emerging markets: Focusing on  Exclusions  climate change risks and opportunities and have been able to 
improving governance in companies in Brazil, South Korea and  We have an exclusion policy for companies involved in the production  demonstrate a sound climate change management system. 
China, as well as policy engagement in collaboration with local  of or trade in controversial weapons such as cluster munitions  Areas in which the lagging companies could improve the most 
investor initiatives. and anti-personnel mines, along with tobacco companies. For  are linking their executive compensation to climate change 
5. Remuneration: Following new momentum in the EU and US,  Sustainability Focused and Impact Investing strategies, additional  goals, or allocating climate change oversight responsibility to the 
this aims to improve remuneration practices, align pay with  exclusions are made to meet the stricter ESG criteria of these funds.  board. 
stakeholders’ interests, and include ESG and other non-financial  –   Most of the companies in our ‘Net Zero Carbon Emissions’ theme 
targets. In 2020, we extended our exclusions on fossil fuels. We now exclude  (9 out of 13) have made positive progress in the alignment of 
investments in thermal coal – subject to certain revenue thresholds  their business strategies with the goals of the Paris Agreement. 
Enhanced engagement: addressing breaches of global norms  – as it is by far the highest carbon-emitting source of energy in the  According to research by the Transition Pathway Initiative, three 
Our enhanced engagement program focuses on companies that  global fuel mix. Next to that, we exclude companies involved in oil  companies are aligned with emissions reductions pledged by 
severely and structurally breach global norms regarding human  sands, as this is among the most carbon-intensive means of crude oil  governments as part of the Paris Agreement via Nationally 
rights, labor, the environment and corruption. Such companies  production. Finally, we exclude companies engaged in Arctic drilling,  Determined Contributions. 
are selected based on systematic analysis. The principal codes of  as this poses higher risks of spills compared to conventional oil and  –   In reducing the single use of plastics, we found that most 
conduct underpinning the enhanced engagement process are the  gas exploration. It also has potentially irreversible impacts on the  companies were able to show good progress on three 
United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) and the OECD Guidelines  sensitive Arctic ecosystem. engagement objectives – innovation, responsible lobbying, 
for Multinational Enterprises. We use five objectives that focus on  and industry collaboration and partnerships – but were lacking 
eliminating the breach, adopting a policy, creating a stakeholder  Revenue thresholds apply to these exclusions. Companies that derive  progress regarding recycling and plastic harmonization. An 
dialogue, introducing risk management systems and then ensuring  25% or more of their revenue from thermal coal or oil sands, or 10%  example of strong innovation is a company that is helping 
transparency over the process. The engagement typically runs over a  or more from Arctic drilling, are barred from Sustainability Inside  its customers to recycle. Another company has developed an 
three-year period, during which time we have regular meetings with  investment portfolios. This step expands the thermal coal exclusion  innovative technology that enables black plastic to be recognized 
33    |   Sustainability Report 2020
HOW OUR STRATEGY WORKS FOR OUR CLIENTS
by recycling machines for sorting. 
–   In the three years of our engagement, German carmaker BMW 
demonstrated both low annual safety recalls and defects and 
incorporated cross-functional targets and the integration of 
product quality metrics into staff incentives. The company has 
committed to compliance with the 2020 EU fleet emissions 
standards, but can make further progress through net zero 
emissions commitments.
–   In November, Alphabet announced an update of its Audit 
Committee Charter, which now includes the review of major risk 
exposures around sustainability and civil and human rights. This 
update followed a shareholder proposal co-lead filed by Robeco 
that got significant support from shareholders, and is in line with 
our request to formalize board oversight on human rights.
More information can be found here >.
34    |   Sustainability Report 2020
HOW OUR STRATEGY WORKS FOR OUR CLIENTS
HOW WE SUPPORT SI INITIATIVES
We participate in a wide range of strategic initiatives that aim to  –   Again in 2020, a collaboration under ClimateAction 100+ has 
make companies, financial markets and ultimately society more  proven fruitful and led to engagement successes led by Robeco, 
sustainable. Our contribution enables us to help shape the global  including with Royal Dutch Shell and Enel. 
investment agenda and inform policymakers. In some instances, 
government agencies or other public institutions play a defining role  External recognition and awards 
in our engagement topics. This is also why we take part in public  –   We were again awarded the highest possible sustainability 
consultations and provide feedback to regulators and other public  scores (A+) by the PRI.
institutions if a certain policy is likely to benefit sustainable investors  –   We were included in the 2020 PRI Leaders Group.
and broader society. –   We were ranked number one in an assessment of NGO 
ShareAction, in which 75 of the most influential asset managers 
Highlights of collaborative initiatives in 2020  were examined on responsible investment governance, climate 
–   As a response to the Covid-19 outbreak, we actively participated  change, biodiversity, and human rights. 
in investor initiatives by the Interfaith Center on Corporate  –   ICGN awarded Robeco with the ICGN Global Stewardship 
Responsibility (ICCR, Platform for Living Wage Financials (PLWF),  Disclosure Award.
and supported the Investor Statement that called upon the  –   We were named ESG Manager of the Year at the Investment 
pharmaceutical sector to improve its ethics regarding opioids.  Excellence Awards.
–   Together with 630 investors representing USD 37 trillion in  –   We were named ESG/SRI Manager of the Year and the Pension 
assets under management, we called on the governments of the  and Investment Provider Awards 2020.
G20 nations to increase efforts to achieve the goals of the Paris  –   Carola van Lamoen, our Head of SI, was appointed General 
Agreement.  Member of the Board at corporate governance organization 
–   Robeco joined the Investment Leaders Group (ILG), a voluntary  Eumedion. 
member initiative striving to create an investment chain that 
prioritises economic, social and environmental sustainability, 
convened by the Cambridge Institute for Sustainable Leadership 
(CISL). 
–   The Investor Mining and Tailings Safety Initiative, an initiative set 
up by the Church of England Pensions Board with support from 
The Council on Ethics Sweden, was awarded the Stewardship 
Project of the Year by the Principles for Responsible Investment. 
Robeco is part of the Steering Committee of this important 
project. 
35    |   Sustainability Report 2020
HOW OUR STRATEGY WORKS FOR OUR CLIENTS
HOW WE SHARE OUR KNOWLEDGE ON SUSTAINABLE INVESTING
Sustainable investing is constantly developing, but often is not  During the Covid-19 crisis and subsequent market volatility, we  –   To further the cause of SI within academia, we became a 
part of standard education and training. It’s therefore extremely  had many contact moments with our clients. We dedicated  member of the Investment Leaders Group of the Cambridge 
important to share knowledge, both internally and with our  a separate section to Covid-19 and sustainable investing on  Institute for Sustainability Leadership (CISL). This is on top of our 
clients and other stakeholders, in order to further sustainable  our website. In addition, we published the SIX. magazine  existing support for the Erasmus Platform for Sustainable Value 
investing. This occurred on many levels in 2020. (Sustainable Investing eXpertise), in which we elaborated on  Creation. By cooperating with both initiatives, we aim to further 
future SI trends and devoted a whole section to impact investing  support academic research and development in the area of 
–   We published many articles on SI and active ownership.  and impact measurement.  sustainable investing and the SDGs.
–   As part of our ongoing efforts to keep clients and prospects 
up to speed about developments in SI, we organized two SI 
Digital Explore events which were joined by participants from 
Robeco Internal   35 countries. The content of these sessions is always a mix of 
–  Training Supervisory Board and Executive Committee  external or academic speakers, our experts and the clients 
– Quarterly knowledge sharing sessions for all teams  
themselves. 
– Introduction program 
–   Internally, we continued to host knowledge-sharing sessions 
– SI Academy
on a wide range of subjects, including a session completely 
dedicated to our work on climate change. Other topics discussed 
were digital innovation in health care, the implications of the EU 
Sustainable Finance Framework, green bonds, linking economic 
Academia and NGO  Clients   activities to the SDGs, and how we integrate ESG data. 
– Sustainable Value Creation Program  – Knowledge sharing sessions  
–   We launched an SI Academy on our learning platform. This 
– Knowledge exchanges – One-on-one training sessions 
Knowledge contains both internal and external courses on sustainability 
– Cambridge Institute Sustainable Leaders  – Annual Stewardship Webinar
program Sharing  – Deliver Stewardship content to   and sustainable investing, encouraging Robeco employees to 
>40 externally organized events  improve their knowledge on this topic
– Informing clients and broader public  –   We extended our range of Robeco Essentials online learning 
of our SI  efforts through webinars 
modules to cover the Sustainable Development Goals, which will 
and thought pieces
be fully launched in early 2021. 
– Reports and infographics
Wider public    –   We started the SI Opener series, in which our sustainability 
– Web program SI essentials  experts discussed a range of sustainability subjects in a series of 
– Regular SI publications for all levels (basic, intermediate, professional)  monthly columns. Intended to raise eyebrows as well as open 
– Podcasts    
eyes, as its title suggests, these included the contentious issues 
of digital human rights, why mining is actually essential for a 
greener economy, and why the loss of biodiversity is a greater 
threat than climate change. 
36    |   Sustainability Report 2020
HOW OUR STRATEGY WORKS FOR OUR CLIENTS
INVESTMENT PERFORMANCE OVERVIEW
Of all portfolios managed or sub-advised by  Investment performance overview
Robeco, 53%1 (2019: 62%) outperformed 
compared to the relevant benchmark over a three-
  Fund Performance Outperformance/underperfermance 
year period; 42% (2019: 56%) over a one-year  Equities Robeco Asia-Pacific Equities (EUR) 0.9% - 8.9%
period. For detailed information, please refer to  Robeco BP Global Premium Equities (EUR)         - 3.5% - 9.8%
Robeco BP US Large Cap (USD) 1.6% - 1.2%
the annual reports of the respective investment 
Robeco BP US Premium Equities (USD) 5.2% + 2.3%
funds.
Robeco BP US Select Opportunities (USD) 6.2% + 1.2%
Robeco Chinese Equities (EUR) 51.3% + 31.3%
In 2020, equity markets in most developed  Robeco Emerging Markets Equities (EUR) 7.9%  - 0.7%
Robeco Emerging Stars Equities (EUR) 1.8%  - 6.7%
and emerging economies posted positive 
Robeco Fin Tech Equities (EUR) 17.8% + 11.2%
returns, with 34% of Robeco’s equity portfolios 
Robeco Global Consumer Trends Equities (EUR) 38.5% + 31.8%
outperforming their benchmark. The percentage  Robeco New World Financial Equities (EUR) 4.1% + 15.8%
of outperforming equity portfolios over the past  Robeco QI Emerging Conservative Equities (EUR) - 11.3% - 19.8% (Sharpe ratio -0.5 vs 0.4) 
three years was 42% (52% in 2019). Robeco QI Emerging Markets Active Equities (EUR) 5.4% - 3.1%
Robeco QI European Conservative Equities (EUR) - 5.8% - 2.5% (Sharpe ratio -0.3 vs -0.1)
Robeco QI Global Multi-Factor Equities (EUR) - 2.4% - 9.0%
Fixed income had a positive year in both absolute  Robeco QI Inst. Emerging Markets Enhanced Fund (EUR) 6.9% - 1.6%
and relative terms: 79% outperformed the  Robeco QI Inst. Global Dev. Conservative Equities (EUR) - 8.0% - 14.3% (Sharpe ratio -0.4 vs 0.3)
benchmark over a three-year period (2019: 88%).  Robeco Sustainable European Stars Equities (EUR) - 5.8% - 2.5%
Robeco Sustainable Global Stars Equities Fund (EUR) 18.1% + 11.8%
Over a one-year period, this figure was 59%.
RobecoSAM Smart Energy Equities 48.5% + 42.2%
RobecoSAM Smart Materials Equities 21.2% + 14.8%
In the table below, the returns and relative  RobecoSAM Sustainable Water Equities 13.9% + 7.6%
performance of the most relevant funds are shown    Rolinco (EUR) 21.9% + 15.2%
as examples of the figures mentioned above. The 
outperformance (+) or underperformance (–) 
compared to the relevant index is indicated, and 
the Sharpe2 ratio is shown for conservative equity 
funds investing in low volatility stocks with lower 
expected downside risk.
1.  All returns are gross of fees.
2. The Sharpe ratio is a measure of the risk-adjusted return. The Sharpe ratio of the portfolio and the benchmark is shown for conservative equity funds investing in low volatility stocks with lower expected downside risk. It is calculated by taking the 
annualized return minus the annualized return of the risk-free rate divided by the annualized volatility of the portfolio or index.
37    |   Sustainability Report 2020
Investment performance overview
  Fund Performance Outperformance/underperfermance 
Fixed income Robeco All Strategy Euro Bonds (EUR) 7.8% + 3.8%
Robeco Euro Credit Bonds (EUR) 4.2% + 1.4%
Robeco Euro Government Bonds (EUR) 6.2% + 1.2%
Robeco European High Yield Bonds (EUR) 2.5% + 0.1%
Robeco Financial Institutions Bonds (EUR) 3.2% + 0.7%
Robeco Global Credits (EUR) 9.9% + 3.2%
Robeco Global Total Return Bond Fund (EUR) 7.7% + 3.5%
Robeco High Yield Bonds (EUR) 3.8% - 0.8%
Robeco QI Global Dynamic Duration (EUR) 1.5% - 3.4%
Robeco QI Global Multi-Factor Credits (EUR) 6.8%  + 0.1%
RobecoSAM SDG Credit Income (EUR) 6.5% no official index
RobecoSAM Euro SDG Credits (EUR) 3.8% + 1.1%
  RobecoSAM Global SDG Credits (EUR) 9.3% + 2.6%
Multi-asset Robeco ONE Neutral (EUR) 5.6% no official index
38    |   Sustainability Report 2020
OUR 
GOVERNANCE
In this section, we elaborate on our ownership 
and legal status, how we apply business ethics, 
and how we comply with regulations regarding 
tax and risk management. 
39    |   Sustainability Report 2020
OUR GOVERNANCE
OUR OWNERSHIP AND LEGAL STATUS
Robeco is established in the Netherlands and is wholly owned  Statutory managing directors are appointed by the General Meeting  Sustainability and Impact Strategy Committee
by ORIX Corporation Europe, a subsidiary of ORIX Corporation, a  of Shareholders and approved by ORIX Corporation Europe.  The purpose of our Sustainability and Impact Strategy Committee 
Japanese business conglomerate that started operating in 1964.  The Supervisory Board must be consulted in connection with an  (SISC) is to oversee, coordinate and drive sustainability matters 
intended appointment, which is subject to prior approval by the  from a company-wide perspective. It is also responsible for a proper 
Governance structure Dutch Authority for the Financial Markets (the Autoriteit Financiële  implementation of sustainability matters, and aims to make sure 
Robeco has an Executive Committee (ExCo) and a Supervisory  Markten or AFM). Appointing ExCo members also requires prior  we remain a thought leader in SI and have the potential to become 
Board (SB). Our ExCo develops and executes our corporate strategy,  approval from the AFM because such a person is considered to be  market leader by bringing together key actors in an efficient and 
and manages the business on a day-to-day basis. Our SB monitors  a ‘daily policymaker’ of Robeco. Their intended appointment must  effective way in order to to: 
the execution of the company policy and advises the ExCo. The  also be submitted to the Works Council for advice. To date, the 
SB includes a representative from ORIX Corporation. In the  Works Council’s advice in this respect has been positive in favor of  –   Drive the vision on our key strengths in sustainability and 
Netherlands, all Robeco board and committee members have sworn  the proposed new member. sustainable investing
the Dutch oath for the financial sector. –   Set the SI strategy and targets
Supervisory Board –   Establish and enhance a Sustainable Investing policy framework 
ExCo Our Supervisory Board consists of: with the aim to be leading in the industr
Our ExCo members represent the different domains in Robeco: –   Create a platform to innovate on SI
–   Maarten Slendebroek (Chairman, since 13 August 2020) –   Mobilize our sales and marketing power
–   Gilbert Van Hassel * (Chairman and CEO) –   Sonja Barendregt-Roojers (Vice Chair, since 1 April 2018) –   Set priorities and trigger action at the appropriate level
–   Karin van Baardwijk * (Deputy CEO and Chief Operations Officer) –   Stan Koyanagi (since 13 August 2020) –   Provide guidance and sets direction to ensure Robeco ‘walks the 
–   Lia Belilos-Wessels (Chief Human Resources Officer) –   Mark Talbot (since 18 September 2019) walk’ in its own organization
–   Peter Ferket * (until 22 May 2020) –   Radboud Vlaar (since 18 September 2018)
–   Mark den Hollander * (Chief Financial and Risk Officer) –   Jeroen Kremers (until 30 March 2020) The SISC meets at least biweekly and works side by side with our 
–   Mark van der Kroft (Chief Investment Officer Fundamental and  Sustainability Committee.
Quant Equity) The Audit and Risk Committee and the Nomination and 
–   Martin Nijkamp (Head of Strategic Product and Business  Remuneration Committee (both are committees within the  Sustainability Committee
Development) Supervisory Board) prepare decisions to be taken by the Supervisory  Our Sustainability Committee consists of an ExCo member and 
–   Christoph von Reiche (Head of Global Distribution and  Board, take decisions, and carry out delegated responsibilities. In  representatives from all disciplines who contribute to the execution 
Marketing) the appointment process for new Supervisory Board members, an  of our sustainability strategy. It decides on sustainability-related 
–   Victor Verberk (Chief Investment Officer Fixed Income and  individual is nominated and consequently appointed by the general  policies and supports the implementation and further integration 
Sustainability) meeting after approval by the AFM. In addition, appointments  of sustainability in the organization. A sustainability ambassador 
* also a statutory managing director of Supervisory Board members require the approval of ORIX  network enables the involvement of the broader organization. 
Corporation Europe as well (as indirect shareholder). With respect 
to the evaluation of the Supervisory Board’s functioning, an external 
party regularly carries out self-assessments and assessments.
40    |   Sustainability Report 2020
OUR GOVERNANCE
BUSINESS ETHICS
We have a code of conduct in place, ensuring that our employees  Our employees’ personal investment transaction policy has been 
act with integrity and apply the standards expected of them. Every  redrafted to include several explicit restrictions. The amended policy 
employee is required to affirm yearly that they have read and  will go live, accompanied by an additional awareness program, in 
understood the code of conduct, and that they act according to its  2021. Lastly, we have reinforced oversight over Robeco’s distribution 
requirements.  chain, to ensure that distributors of our funds do not materially 
impair our ethical conduct.
Policies and processes are implemented for business ethics-related 
topics such as the prevention of money laundering, the prevention  Compliance record regarding business ethics
of financing of terrorism, and general conflicts of interest. We 
  2020 2019 2018
aim to ensure that all clients are treated in a fair and transparent 
way. In addition, we have policies in place which aim to ensure  Instances of suspicions of bribery (gifts received) None reported None reported None reported
that personal data is handled with care, in accordance with the  Reported (indications of) breaches of compliance None reported None reported None reported
applicable laws and regulations. Reported invitations for entertainment given and received worth over EUR 100 121 148    158   
Our Compliance team is responsible for managing and maintaining 
the Compliance policy framework. This framework is reviewed 
at least every three years and, where necessary, updated. The 
Compliance team also monitors the correct implementation of the 
policies and processes and provides training on recent changes and 
developments in their societal, regulatory and supervisory focus. 
The implementation of these policies and processes is delegated 
to line management who are responsible for translating them into 
workable and effective operating instructions. 
Our current Customer Due Diligence framework has been 
extensively reviewed in line with continuing developments related 
to ‘know your customer’ and anti-money laundering/counter 
terrorism financing efforts. As a result of this, policies, procedures 
and controls in this area have been modernized, supported by 
supplemental training to employees and management. Further, the 
gifts, entertainment, inducements and anti-bribery policy has been 
extended , to be better able to demonstrate compliance with the 
rules. 
41    |   Sustainability Report 2020
OUR GOVERNANCE
HOW WE MANAGE RISK 
We distinguish four categories of risk, that we regard as most  could potentially have an impact on the underlying assets of  We have several risk management committees in place to ensure 
relevant in terms of their potential impact on our ability to execute  our portfolios. We performed a climate risk self-assessment  comprehensive and consistent risk oversight:
our strategy, perform our business activities, and maintain our good  based on scenario analysis as a first step towards a quantitative 
financial condition: assessment of the potential impact of such climate transition  –   Audit and Risk Committee: supervises the financial reporting 
scenarios. To mitigate the risk this analysis has identified, we  process, the control environment, the system of internal controls, 
1.  Strategic risks: external developments such as macroeconomic  have a climate change strategy in place (see page 28 for further  risk management and internal audit. 
issues, increasing fee pressure, or competition may negatively  details).  –   Enterprise Risk Management Committee: This is the highest body 
affect our profitability. Continuous monitoring of these  within Robeco to focus on risk. It consists of the members of the 
developments and maintaining a diversified base of clients,  Our risk management governance is built on the ’three lines of  ExCo and representatives of relevant departments. 
assets, and products mitigates the potential impact. defense’ model:  –   Risk Management Committee: Responsible for determining 
2. Operational risks: we manage a large range of services and  risk policy, and for monitoring risk levels in client portfolios. It is 
products for different client types in various regions of the world.  1.  The primary responsibility rests with line management in their  chaired by a member of our ExCo and consists of representatives 
This means that we are exposed to operational risks, such as  day-to-day decision-making processes. of relevant departments. 
processing failures, cyber risk events, or the risk that laws or  2. The second-line functions are fulfilled by the Compliance  Our Risk Control Framework is based on the principles of 
regulations are not abided. Our extensive control framework  and Risk Management team, which develops and maintains  the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations’ Enterprise Risk 
identifies the significant risks throughout our whole value chain,  policies to enable line management to effectively handle their  Management.
including risk-mitigating controls. In addition, our incident  responsibilities. The second line of defense monitors the business   
procedure continuously improves the quality and robustness of  activities in the company’s risk management practices, and  In 2021, we plan to finalize the ambitions as defined for 2020-2021:
operational processes, and informs clients of errors and their  reports regularly to various internal committees and to external 
consequences accurately.  stakeholders. –   Further development of our enterprise control framework and 
3. Financial risks: we are exposed to counterparty credit risk  3. The Internal Audit function acts as the third line of defense, and  related processes.
on our cash balances and receivables. To mitigate this, our  provides independent assurance on internal control by means of  –   Further evolution of the risk appetite process: we aim to improve 
policies prescribe careful selection and monitoring of financial  various audits and reviews. this by using more quantitative elements, developing key risk 
counterparties. Risks are managed by offering a broad and  indicators and improving reporting. Eventually, we aim to make 
diversified range of products and services in various regions,  Both the second-line and third-line activities operate independently,  the explicit presence of risk appetite an integral part of the 
currencies and asset classes. Capital is held to cover this kind  with no link to commercial functions. The second-line functions have  decision-making process at strategic, tactical and operational 
of business risk. To mitigate liquidity risk, cash positions are  a direct reporting line to the Chief Finance and Risk Officer, while the  levels.
closely monitored. We apply various indicators to assess financial  Internal Audit function has a direct line to the CEO. In addition, both  –   Further strengthening of the sustainability risk management 
performance, which entails the use of models for individual risk  the second and third lines report to the chairman of the Audit and  framework. 
types. Risk Committee of the Supervisory Board.
4. Sustainability risks: the financial position of investments in the 
portfolios we manage may deteriorate due to ESG-related risks. 
Failing to mitigate against the consequences of climate change 
42    |   Sustainability Report 2020
OUR GOVERNANCE
HOW WE MEET OUR TAX OBLIGATIONS
We strive to act at all times in accordance with our Tax Policy and  The Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development 
mission statement, and to fully comply with all applicable laws and  (OECD), European Union and local governments have issued 
regulations, filing and reporting obligations. Adhering carefully to  guidelines and legislation which create more tax reporting 
the Policy, we manage tax risks actively to safeguard our reputation.  obligations and transparency rules. These aim to counter tax 
The underlying policy intent of the respective laws is always taken  evasion, aggressive tax planning and tax fraud. Robeco’s tax team 
into account. We report income in the jurisdiction where the value  has implemented processes to make sure that it is compliant with 
is created. We do not tolerate tax evasion and do not engage in  these regulations. 
any aggressive tax planning; we apply the principle that business is 
leading and the tax liability follows. 
Robeco’s ExCo carries the ultimate responsibility for compliance with 
the Tax Policy and mission statement, but has delegated execution 
to Group Fiscal Affairs. In the Netherlands, we have a strong and 
transparent relationship with the tax authorities and have entered 
into a Tax Covenant under which we are transparent about our tax 
position and tax risks (if any) towards them. If deemed appropriate, 
agreement about any issue requiring clarification is sought from the 
local or national tax authorities upfront. 
Our principle is that investment proceeds should be taxed at the 
investor level, to the extent that investors are subject to taxation. 
We strive to prevent unnecessary tax liabilities in our products. Most 
of our investment funds benefit from tax regimes to prevent any 
additional tax burden. We make very limited use of tax incentives 
offered by any jurisdiction. 
43    |   Sustainability Report 2020
HOW WE APPLY 
SUSTAINABILITY 
IN OUR OWN 
OPERATIONS
In this section, you can read more about how we 
keep our people engaged, motivated and skilled, 
how we continuously set further steps in our 
own sustainability, and how we give back to the 
communities where we have a presence.
44    |   Sustainability Report 2020
HOW WE APPLY SUSTAINABILITY IN OUR OWN OPERATIONS
OUR PEOPLE
Our success depends almost entirely on the performance of our  Performance Management Cycle relevant education. ‘Broadbanding’ is used for the senior/middle 
people: their knowledge, skills, experience, commitment and  Our Performance Management Cycle, supported by our Learning  management category, where jobs of different levels are placed in 
engagement are our most valuable assets. That is why we empower  and Development program, offers all our people the opportunity  the same ‘band’. 
them to reach their full potential in an inspiring, engaging and  to continuously develop their qualities and skills further. The year-
respectful work environment, in which teamwork is fundamental to  end appraisal meeting is, in our view, not only a moment to assess  As part of our reward vision, a well thought out, balanced and 
outperform. performance, but also an opportunity to enhance motivation,  sustainable remuneration policy is vital in order to attract, retain 
commitment and growth potential by truly recognizing an  and motivate well-qualified people. This policy enables us to 
Covid-19’s impact on our people individual’s strengths and development areas.  differentiate our people according to performance and to reward 
Of course, our people were impacted by the Covid-19 pandemic and  excellence; it also stimulates them to exhibit desired behavior and 
the related measures. We made health and safety our first priority  Renumeration  discourage undesirable conduct. 
from the start: In the Netherlands, as of March most employees  We reward our people in a way that encourages them to act in the 
worked remotely from home, while a small team worked in our  best interests of our clients and avoid taking unnecessary risks. Our  Collective bargaining agreements are only applicable to 
headoffice in Rotterdam, and another small team from our crisis  remuneration policy does not discriminate on the basis of gender.  employees in France, Spain and Italy. The policy, amendments to 
center near Amsterdam Schiphol Airport. The challenge was to  Differences in terms of salary range are based on professional  it and actual compliance of remuneration practice are audited 
adapt to working from home as the norm rather than the exception.  experience and education. The women-to-men remuneration  internally each year. Remuneration levels for all employees are 
To do so, we introduced more flexible working conditions for  ratio calculation only reflects Robeco in the Netherlands, due to  benchmarked annually against the standards of market data 
employees who had to manage their families next to working  insufficient comparable data from offices abroad. Averages have  provider AON McLagan. Any changes made by the regulators to 
commitments.  been calculated for the applicable salary ranges in each category.  applicable legislation or guidelines that lead to the amendment 
These do not take into account such factors as work experience and  of a remuneration policy, approach or practice are reviewed by 
In addition, we organized speak-up sessions to gather feedback on 
what we learned from the new ways of working that came in with  Remuneration figures
the Covid-19 restrictions. The outcome of these sessions, which were 
Fixed remuneration  Variable remuneration 
joined by 178 employees in total, are the starting point for a new 
FTE Head count in EUR million in EUR million Total in EUR million
way of working that:
Current and former statutory directors 4 4 2.2 3.8 6.0
–  maintains the positive aspects of working from home and 
employee autonomy, while at the same time ensures an optimal
Women-to-men remuneration ratio
connection between our people in terms of cooperation and 
communication.
Fixed remuneration ratio Total remuneration ratio
–  is based on what drives our people, and how they want to
Senior management level incl ExCo 0.89 0.94
contribute to our future and our strategy.
Middle management level 0.98 0.95
–  reduces our carbon footprint by reducing business travel and
Non-management level 0.98 0.96
commuting.
45    |   Sustainability Report 2020
HOW WE APPLY SUSTAINABILITY IN OUR OWN OPERATIONS
independent external parties. –  Thirteen participants joined our Managing at Robeco 
training program, aimed at strengthening our managers’ 
Each individual employee’s fixed salary is determined on the basis  core capabilities. This program strives to the participants’ 
of their role and experience according to the salary ranges, and  individual goals and preferences while also encouraging them
with reference to the benchmarks of the investment management  to look ahead and determine what they need to do to grow 
industry in the relevant region. The fixed salary is deemed to be  professionally. 
adequate remuneration for the employee to properly execute their  –  Our Connect and Learn program provides continuous learning 
responsibilities, regardless of whether or not variable remuneration  opportunities from leading experts in the academic field. Topics 
is provided. tackled in 2020 were tailored to the circumstances and included
dealing with adversity in times of Covid-19, the value of taking 
The total available variable remuneration pool is determined as a  time off, and the origin of the Black Lives Matter movement. 
certain percentage of operational profit. Each employee’s variable  –  To support our staff in delivering better service to clients while
remuneration is determined according to their behavior, individual  working under Covid-19 restrictions, we developed several 
and team performance, and assessed on the basis of pre-agreed  educational programs. 
business objectives. 
Vitality and work-life balance
Learning and development We offer our people the means to enhance their vitality and 
Here are some of the highlights of our learning programs in 2020: sustainable employability, and we believe that the ability to work 
from home and keep flexible hours help to build a better work/
–  Our new employee learning platform more effectively targets  life balance. In addition, we want to offer staff the best possible 
our audience and delivers the right content, at the right moment working conditions when they do work in the office. We provide 
and the right level. The new platform gives us the opportunity to  comfortable modern office spaces, with adjustable sit/stand desks 
create blended formats for courses and development solutions  and ergonomic office chairs, next to a wide range of healthy choices 
that will broaden the proposition we have for our people.  in our company restaurants. Open consultations for employees 
–  A total of 125 e-learning courses were completed by 31 October with the company doctor allow them to discuss work-related health 
2020. We decided to change our supplier and began using  issues privately, and a confidential counselor is available to tackle 
LinkedIn Learning, as we felt it has more content and a wider  personal issues. Internal coaches are at hand to discuss personal 
variety of languages for all our employees globally. It also  development outside of the performance cycle. We offer subsidized 
enables us to create blended courses on different topics such  gym memberships to our employees to encourage them to exercise. 
as diversity and inclusion, working remotely, and successfully  Finally, we offer all employees health checks, a health, safety and 
conducting end-of-year meetings. welfare service, a health benefit program, and a workshop to quit 
–  All managers were trained to be able to have an effective and fair smoking.
end-of-year appraisal meeting with their teams.
46    |   Sustainability Report 2020
HOW WE APPLY SUSTAINABILITY IN OUR OWN OPERATIONS
Diversity and inclusion Number of employees, new hires and turnover
A diverse workforce leads to much richer debates and helps us make 
better decisions, come up with better ideas, and ultimately, achieve  2020 2019 2018
better results for our clients. We aim to reach: Number of employees (FTE) 882 947 955
Number of new employee hires (persons) 57 89 79
–  A gender diversity level of at least 30%. Male 38 45 45
–  At least 10% of our staff to be aged below 30, and at least 20% Female 19 44 34
to be over 50. Turnover 15% 13% 10%
–  A cultural diversity level of at least 30% .
–  A mix of different educational backgrounds. Employee engagement
Our annual online survey measures overall engagement and 
To enhance diversity, our HR team collaborates with the Diversity@ satisfaction among our people. In 2020, the response rate was 
FIRST team. This team, itself made up of a diverse group of  81.3%. This year’s questionnaire consisted of a mix of general 
employees, advises our ExCo on the execution of a plan to  questions as well as some specific domain and Covid-19 related 
further increase diversity and inclusion throughout the company.  questions. Managers were also free to add questions relating to 
Diversity@FIRST also promotes bottom-up initiatives like a  their team(s). Each year, all teams discuss the results, and draw up 
knowledge sharing session on the Black Lives Matter movement and  an action plan to address areas for improvement. In addition, all 
its impact. managers discuss their conclusions and their action plan with their 
respective representative on our ExCo, which serves to embed the 
In addition, discrimination of any type will not be tolerated. The  survey in our annual Performance Management Cycle. 
principle of equal opportunity applies to all employees and is 
an explicit component of application procedures. All vacancies 
Employee engagement survey
are widely advertised and no groups are excluded. All qualified 
applicants will receive consideration for employment without regard  2020* 2019 2018
to race, color, religion, sex, national origin, sexual orientation,  General engagement 7.6 7.4 7.5
gender identity, disability or any other characteristic. Temporary  Number of respondents 658 846 826
or part-time employees are proportionally entitled to the same  % of total surveys sent out 81.3* 87.4 85.3
benefit packages provided to full-time employees with a permanent  * = Robeco Switzerland not included; 2018 and 2019 figures show joint results for both
contract. A procedure for reporting cases of discrimination is in  Robeco and RobecoSAM
place. We have not received new reports of discrimination in 2020; 
one case is pending.
47    |   Sustainability Report 2020
HOW WE APPLY SUSTAINABILITY IN OUR OWN OPERATIONS
Gender distribution in general, by type of contract and by working time Gender distribution per employment category
2020 2019 2018
66%
35% 67% Senior management 14% 14% 9%
86% 86% 91%
181 882 48
part-time employees temporary
contracts (FTE) contracts Middle management 21% 18% 17%
79% 82% 83%
65% 33%
34%
Non-management 43% 42% 40%
57% 58% 60%
Male Female Male Female
Gender distribution per reporting year Age distribution
100 100
27% 25% 23%
80 34% 35% 34% 80
60 60
66% 65% 66%
65% 67% 69%
40 40
20 20
8% 8% 8%
0 0
2020 2019 2018 2020 2019 2018
Male Female Under 30 years  30-50 years Over 50 years
48    |   Sustainability Report 2020
HOW WE APPLY SUSTAINABILITY IN OUR OWN OPERATIONS
HOW WE GIVE BACK TO THE COMMUNITIES WHERE WE HAVE A PRESENCE
Robeco Foundation: Next steps, and the Covid-19  of Delfshaven (part of Rotterdam) in various ways during Covid-19, 
pandemic the Foundation enabled this network to purchase Chromebooks and 
Launched in 2018, the Robeco Foundation (the Foundation) aims to  tablets for children. 
create equal opportunities for disadvantaged children by investing 
in talent development through education in the communities  New partnership: JINC
where we have a presence. Thus, it contributes to UN Sustainable  In July, we started a partnership with JINC, a Dutch NGO that helps 
Development Goals 1 (eliminate poverty), 4 (provide quality  young people (between 8 and 16) to a good start in the labour 
education) and 10 (reduce inequality). In 2020, the Foundation set  market. The partnership focuses on the Rotterdam area, where 
next steps in realizing its mission, and helped children who were at  JINC reaches about 15,000 children, mostly from socioeconomically 
risk of falling behind as a result of Covid-19.  disadvantaged neighborhoods. Our partnership gives us the 
opportunity to join and actively participate in several of JINC’s 
Partnership with Room to Read programs through which children get acquainted with various 
At the end of 2019, the Foundation expanded internationally by  professions, find out what kind of work suits their talents, and learn 
signing a partnership with Room to Read, a non-profit focused  how to apply for a job.
on girls’ education and children’s literacy in Asia and Africa. Our 
donation enables Room to Read to implement its three-year  Sam& voor alle kinderen
program at a primary school in South Africa, close to the region  In December, 292 colleagues chose to donate their Christmas gift to 
where our clients are based. Room to Read has been operating its  Sam& voor alle kinderen (‘Together for all children’), a partnership 
literacy program in several parts of the country at over 620 schools,  that offers parents and intermediaries easy access to organizations 
and has benefited 517,000 children to date. At the end of 2020,  that help families who are less well-off than others. The Foundation 
about 300 of our employees joined our Global Vitality Challenge to  matched the raised amount; our donation was used to support 
amass EUR 45,530 to further support Room to Read. children in the Rotterdam area who are at risk of falling behind at 
school as a result of the pandemic.
Rotterdam Digital Skills Program
The Foundation continued the Rotterdam Digital Skills Program,  Social commitment
which supports Rotterdam’s primary and secondary schools with  Earning the trust of the communities in which we operate is 
activities aimed at improving the digital skills of children from less  essential to maintaining our social license to operate. That is why 
advantaged backgrounds. In May, following the outbreak of Covid- we support projects that benefit these communities by providing 
19, the Foundation financially supported BOOR, an organization  donations and enabling employees to perform voluntary work. 
that manages public education for about 30,000 students in the  Our Social Commitment Committee assesses projects submitted 
Rotterdam area. This enabled BOOR to provide digital education  by employees based on our Policy on Social Commitment and 
from a distance. With the donation for Delfshaven Helpt!, a network  Donations. In 2020, the amount spent was EUR 37,243. This lower 
of volunteers, residents and companies that supports the residents  number is due to the Covid-19 pandemic and a smaller number of 
49    |   Sustainability Report 2020
HOW WE APPLY SUSTAINABILITY IN OUR OWN OPERATIONS
donations.
Some of the highlights of 2020:
–   In February, Robeco sponsored the annual spinning marathon 
for the Erasmus MC-Sophia Children’s Hospital in Rotterdam with 
EUR 10,000, and a group of employees additionally donated to 
this charity.
–   In June, our Roparun 2020 team collected EUR 15,500 for 
Stichting Roparun Palliatieve Zorg. Because of the Covid-19 
pandemic, the Roparun itself was cancelled, but our team 
collected alternative funds such as a Valentine flower sale, a 
lottery ticket sale and chair massages.
50    |   Sustainability Report 2020
HOW WE APPLY SUSTAINABILITY IN OUR OWN OPERATIONS
HOW WE INTEGRATE SUSTAINABILITY IN PROCUREMENT
AND LIMIT OUR ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT
In recent years, Robeco already achieved significant carbon 
Seven principles of sustainable procurement reduction by moving to a sustainable head office (“FIRST”) in 
Rotterdam, which has a BREAAM certificate. Maintenance to our 
Every proposal or quote must match the seven principles of sustainable 
procurement. head office is done as sustainably as possible, and we recycle when 
possible. For example, our sustainable tea (to which we switched in 
  Human rights 2020) for clients and employees is offered in tea boxes made from 
1.   We expect suppliers to support and respect the UN’s Universal Declaration of  residual wood.
Human Rights and to ensure that they are not complicit in any form of abuse 
(i.e. all parts of their supply chain must be managed in an ethical way). 
In 2020, we performed an energy audit based on the European 
Energy Directive (EED), in which the 2019 carbon data were further 
  Labor
2.   Suppliers are encouraged to promote diversity and inclusion by not  analyzed. In the context of this audit, our global carbon footprint 
discriminating on the grounds of race, religion, gender, sexual orientation,  was examined, whereby three main energy flows were further 
age, physical ability, health condition, political opinion, nationality, social  mapped out:
or ethnic origin and union membership or marital status while hiring and 
employing. 
1.  Our offices.
3.   All forms of forced, compulsory and child labor must be eliminated.
4.  Suppliers should act responsibly in the field of health and safety of employees. 2. Energy required for performance of business activities.
3. Mobility of employees
  Environment
5.  W  e expect its suppliers to support and promote environmental protection, and to 
2019 is the baseline and therefore the reference for the coming 
comply with local environmental laws and regulations.
years. The EED report includes targets for energy savings in the years 
6.   Suppliers are expected to promote greater environmental responsibility 
2021 to 2024 and thus for further reducing Robeco’s global carbon 
and to support us in the use of goods and services that help mitigate our 
environmental impact, for example by better managing and utilizing resources  footprint. 
such as energy, paper, water and waste.  
The target for 2024/2025 is to save 15% on our carbon footprint 
  Anti-corruption
compared to 2019. As a result of Covid-19, we realized a reduction 
7.   We expect our suppliers to behave ethically and to respect local laws. It 
in carbon footprint because most of our people worked from home. 
strictly prohibits bribery and corruption in any form. Any potential conflicts 
of interest by suppliers must be declared, and engaging in any activity which  Therefore no explicit comparison with 2019 is included. In addition, 
might reasonably be interpreted as an attempt to affect the impartiality of  we reduced our carbon footprint through less mobility (considerably 
employees must be avoided. less flight kilometers, less fuel lease cars). This reduction is not 
permanent as we expect that employee mobility will increase again; 
further research will be carried out in 2021 into the target to be 
achieved for the years 2024/2025. 
51    |   Sustainability Report 2020
HOW WE APPLY SUSTAINABILITY IN OUR OWN OPERATIONS
The data quality for most data points has been improved for this  Resource consumption
report and, as a result of insight advances over the past year, 
better bases and/or estimates have therefore been used. We        Metric    Data  Data        
wish to contribute to the Paris climate goals and to comply with  unit GRI2 coverage8 quality7 20201 2019 2018
the European Energy Directive forming part of the European  Energy3   kWh 302 99,7% *** 3,045,565 2,802,802 2,819,436
environmental legislation. To this end, an energy management  City heating   GJ 302 82,7% *** 3,349  n/a   n/a 
research study was carried out in 2020. The results of this research  Drinking water   m3 303 98,5% ** 4,081  3,936   4,092 
have resulted in the following adjustments to our environmental  Rain water for toilets   m3   99,0% *** 1,117  1,228   1,228 
footprint: Paper consumption   kg 301 99,5% * 4,550  8,269   10,528 
Waste4   kg 306 98,5% *** 50,561  n/a   n/a 
–   The description of the organizational boundaries of the footprint  Business travel air5 <460 km km   97,6% *** 222,732  n/a   n/a 
has been improved. The footprint has been established for the    >460 , <3700km - Economy Class km   97,6% *** 369,230  n/a   n/a 
entire Robeco organization, including its international offices.    >460 , <3700km - First/Business Class km   97,6% *** 24,486  n/a   n/a 
The different energy sources elaborated have been placed within     >3700km - Economy Class km   97,6% *** 503,930  n/a   n/a 
the three scopes in accordance with ISO 14064: 2018.   >3700km - First/Business Class km   97,6% *** 1,582,362  n/a   n/a 
–   Scope 3 includes all energy sources from business travel, working    Total km   97,6% *** 2,702,741  16,175,679   15,810,173 
from home, processing of waste, outsourced emissions from our  Travel by public transport6   km   77,3% * 14,898  n/a   n/a 
data centers and paper consumption. Travel by private car   km   73,6% *** 112,221  n/a   n/a 
–   The emissions from data centers are not included in the report.  Travel by lease car   km   95,8% *** 2,629,610  4,672,931   4,039,439 
Although Robeco engages with its providers of data center    Consumed Petrol ltr   95,8% *** 75,310  n/a   n/a 
services and SAAS services, these vendors are not able to provide    Consumed Diesel ltr   95,8% *** 30,112  n/a   n/a 
details of the data center carbon footprint for Robeco. We will    Consumed Electricity Green kWh   95,8% *** 153,559  n/a   n/a 
continue to engage with these vendors to obtain reliable data    Consumed Electricity Grey kWh   95,8% *** 24,566 n/a n/a
for the next sustainability report.
–   This report establishes and describes data coverage and quality  Legend: kWh = kilo watt hour; km = kilometer; M3 = cubic meter; kg = kilogram; ltr = liter
of source data for the first time. Data quality and data coverage  1. Reporting period 2020 (1 january 2020 - 31 december 2020)
2. Reference to GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards (see also www.globalreporting.org) and ISO14064
are substantiated in the appendix.  3. Gross energy consumption of all locations and work from home.
–   The energy source ‘Travel by lease car’ for 2020 is differentiated  4. Waste includes paper, cardboard, residual waste and swill.
5. Business travel air split by distance and by class. First and Business are combined since First Class is incidental.
according to type of fuel and class, and is based on primary 
6. Public transport mainly by train
data. The carbon emissions are calculated on the basis of the  7. Specifies the reliability of the aggregated data which correspondents with the evidence based consumption 
related to the total reported consumption: >80% - ***, >60% - **, <60% - *
quantities of fuel actually used and kWh instead of average 
8. Reference to availability of data based on M2 or FTE’s
carbon emissions/km. The different types of fuel are linked to  In appendices is explained what the base is for the consumption numbers.
the correct scope according to ISO 14064.
52    |   Sustainability Report 2020
HOW WE APPLY SUSTAINABILITY IN OUR OWN OPERATIONS
–   The energy source ‘Business travel’ is differentiated according  Greenhouse gas emissions in relation to value chain
to type (air travel, public transport and business travel using 
a private car) and calculated using separate emission factors    Emission type Metric unit 20201 2019 2018 20201 2019 2018
instead of average carbon emissions/km multiplied by total  Travel by lease car scope 1 + 2 ton CO2e 320,0 772 715 18% 15% 14%
kilometers traveled on business. Energy location based scope 2 ton CO2e 372,4 1.603 1.613 21% 30% 31%
–   The energy source ‘Business travel by air’ is differentiated  Business travel scope 3 ton CO2e 882,8 2.924 2.890 50% 55% 55%
according to length of flight (short, medium and long) and type  Work from home scope 3 ton CO2e 156,4 n/a n/a 9% 0% 0%
(economy or first class/business class) and calculated using  Drink water scope 3 ton CO2e 1,2 n/a n/a 0% 0% 0%
separate emission factors instead of average carbon emissions/ Paper consumption scope 3 ton CO2e 5,5 n/a n/a 0% 0% 0%
km multiplied by total air kilometers traveled on business.  Waste scope 3 ton CO2e 36,3 n/a n/a 2% 0% 0%
–   The energy consumption of all locations worldwide is  Total      1.774,6   5.299   5.218  100% 100% 100%
investigated and, where possible, energy use is based on direct 
Legend: ton CO2e = 1000 kg CO2 equivalents
measurement or invoices and included in this footprint. Data 
1. Reporting period 2020 (1 january 2020 - 31 december 2020)
coverage of the footprint has been improved. In appendices is explained which conversion factors have been used to calculate the emissions and in which way they are different compared to prior years.
–   In this footprint, national conversion factors and global warming 
potential (GWP) have been published to calculate emissions. In 
the absence of such national data, the Dutch conversion factors 
have been used for the calculation of the GHG emissions as 
published on the website www.co2emissiefactoren.nl together 
with the UK Government GHG Conversion Factors 2020 for 
Company Reporting.
53    |   Sustainability Report 2020
APPENDICES
54    |   Sustainability Report 2020
APPENDICES
Climate-related financial disclosure
Robeco supports the recommendations of  investment teams, sustainability research, 
the Task Force on Climate-related Financial  active ownership, risk management and data 
Disclosures (TCFD). In accord with these  engineering. 
recommendations, this appendix describes 
our climate-related governance, strategy, risk  The CCC reports its progress bi-monthly to the 
management and metrics, both for our own  SISC and submits topics for decision making when 
business and for our clients.  opportune. The ExCo is kept up to date by the SISC 
once a month on relevant sustainability matters.
Governance of climate risks
The ExCo carries overall responsibility for defining  Our climate strategy
Robeco’s sustainability approach. This includes  We assess the actual and potential impacts of 
company-wide values, policies, initiatives and  climate-related risks and opportunities on our 
actions, also in the area of climate change. The  businesses, strategy, and financial planning, and 
ExCo is supported herein by the Sustainability and  how these may be material in the short, medium 
Impact Strategy Committee (SISC), which acts as  and long term, on a continuous basis (see next 
an advisory body overseeing all matters related  page). 
to SI (see page 40 of this report). The SISC consist 
of members of the ExCo together with senior 
directors and senior experts from investment 
teams and from the Sustainable Investing Center 
of Expertise.
The Climate Change Committee (CCC) is the 
company’s central group of competence to drive 
progress on climate change-related topics. The 
CCC is responsible for developing and realizing 
a comprehensive climate strategy by which 
Robeco aims to demonstrate leadership in 
managing climate risks, capitalizing on climate 
opportunities, and aligning its investment 
portfolios with the goals of the Paris Agreement. 
The CCC is chaired by a dedicated climate 
strategist and consists of senior experts from 
55    |   Sustainability Report 2020
APPENDICES
How climate-related risks affect our business and how we prepare
Assessment Impact 
Regulatory developments and market standards We monitor developments of regulators, standards-setting bodies, NGOs, etc. which are developing relevant 
Evolving climate-related standards may affect the way asset managers integrate ESG considerations into  standards and methods. 
their investment decisions.  Developing capabilities to identify and assess climate risks (e.g. scenario and stress test approaches) will be 
increasingly important to meet this soft compliance pressure, which will likely turn into hard regulation.
–  We expect related standards to strengthen in the next one to five years. To cope with these regulatory requirements Robeco has put in place a program to ensure compliance with 
regulation.
Climate and ESG-related factor integration is becoming mainstream Robeco’s ESG-integration approach goes beyond simple exclusion and screening methodologies, focusing 
The development of climate standards and disclosure requirements will help advance the integration of ESG  on outcomes (financial and non-financial) and active ownership. To remain leading, we will invest further 
factors in investments in general, turning ESG integration into a mainstream activity for asset managers.  in climate research, active ownership specialists and technology. A critical factor for the coming years is to 
Maintaining a unique selling proposition as an ESG-focused asset manager will therefore become more  demonstrate the impact of ESG integration and active ownership in investment decisions and outcomes,  
difficult over time.   and ensure all of our strategies are prepared for climate impacts. 
–  We expect related developments over the next five years.
Investment risks and opportunities Robeco is developing new approaches to climate risk assessment to safeguard our investment strategies, 
Transition risks posed by climate change are highly likely to affect the value of our investments. Climate  capitalize on climate opportunities, and expand our product offering. This coincides with the increased 
policy actions, technological innovation and market demand may shift (suddenly), leading to stranded  demand from our clients for climate-resilient investment solutions. 
assets in investment portfolios, or the gradual depreciation of fossil fuel-related or dependent sectors. These 
developments will be considered in our risk management and investment processes. –   We partner with our clients to help them achieve their financial and sustainability objectives, and 
increasingly those related to climate change. 
–  Risks are likely to accelerate during the next 10 years. –   Our fundamental and quantitative research already addresses aspects of transition and physical risk. 
The quality of climate-related data continues to improve, as more companies report and data providers 
The physical risks of climate change are likely to affect the value of our investments. Assets (often uninsured)  improve their offerings. We continually improve the insights we gain from such data. 
and supply chains will be affected by climate change-related severe weather events and rising sea levels.  –   The risk management department of Robeco has developed climate stress testing to assess climate risks 
Property losses, infrastructure disruption, workforce issues and loss of food production are only a few  across specific portfolios and to our business model, and will also benefit from these new data sources. 
examples. These developments will be considered in our risk management and investment processes. 
Lastly we measured the carbon footprint of all of our portfolios and are assessing how to bring the group-
–  Risks may occur anywhere between today and the next 30 years. wide footprint in line with a 1.5 Celsius degree pathway.
56    |   Sustainability Report 2020
APPENDICES
Robeco acknowledges that climate change, if  To guide our efforts in these areas, we are  data, climate-related research on countries and  Data and research
unmitigated, will have an unacceptable long- enhancing our capacities in climate scenario  companies, and reporting on carbon footprints  We have developed an operational carbon 
term impact on society and the global economy.  modelling, carbon accounting, forward-looking  and climate impacts. accounting data infrastructure: a tool available 
We also see that the low-carbon transition  to our investment teams that calculates carbon 
will trigger both investment opportunities and    intensities and footprints across a variety of 
transition risks across all sectors of the economy.  metrics. The calculations are based on emissions 
We acknowledge the responsibility of the asset  Robeco’s climate strategy data of scope 1 and 2, and selected scope 3 
management industry to address climate change  data. These calculations allow us to assess and 
risks and opportunities through its investment  quantify carbon emissions embedded in our 
Top down
decisions, as well as through its influence on  investments across all our equity and corporate 
investee companies and other institutions.  debt portfolios.
In view of this, Robeco adopted a climate strategy  Fundamental country and company research 
Analyze and
Climate stress-tests Carbon accounting
that spells out four key areas of action:  identify is carried out by the SI research team and used 
by investments teams across the company. We 
Assess climate-related transition risks Developing an operational carbon
1.   Decarbonizing assets under management  assess the climate strategy and adaptive capacity 
affecting investments accounting data infrastructure
and aligning investments with an emissions  of a company systematically using the dedicated 
reduction pathway that will lead to a global  climate strategy questions in the Corporate 
net zero economy by 2050.  Sustainability Assessment. These questions are 
2.  Integrating financially material climate-related  aligned with the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP).
issues into our investment processes, and 
developing new opportunities to offer climate- We have access to forward-looking data in sectors 
Manage and 
Integration of ESG Decarbonization Active ownership Integration in
related products and investment solutions. integrate where climate change poses material risks and 
risks in Enterprise of investment  on climate change investment
3.  Integrating climate change risks into our risk  Risk Management portfolios process opportunities (utilities, oil and gas etc.). Our 
management processes by analyzing and  Framework with a analysts take this data and convert it into scores, 
focus on climate
monitoring these risks as they relate to our  footprint reports, impact reports and insights 
clients’ investment portfolios. that are then integrated across our range of asset 
4.  Engaging for change with the companies we  management products and services.
Analyze and
Country and company ESG research
invest in in terms of aligning their business  identify
strategies with goals of the Paris Agreement,  We are in the process of acquiring granular 
as well as engaging with clients, the public,  physical risk data for complementing the research 
Report on footprint and impact Report
and relevant institutions.  and tooling we use in our investment and risk 
management processes.
57    |   Sustainability Report 2020
APPENDICES
Integration in investment processes clean energy), SDG 12 (responsible consumption  risk profiles available to the organization. The  Decarbonization 
We believe that systematically considering  and production) and SDG 13 (climate action). profiles will allow financial risk management  Robeco is determined to make our contribution to 
climate change issues is essential to the success  and portfolios managers to analyze and discuss  the goal of the Paris Agreement to keep the rise 
of our investing strategies. Our materiality  Integration in risk management climate risk sensitivities within portfolios.  in global temperature well below 2°C above pre-
research determines for which sectors and  Robeco has in place a comprehensive Enterprise  This contributes to the building of climate risk  industrial levels and to pursue efforts to limit the 
industries climate change is material, and on  Risk Management Framework for all relevant  awareness throughout the organization.  temperature increase even further to 1.5°C. Based 
which time horizon. When material within the  financial and non-financial risks. Since 2018,  on this, we have the ambition to achieve net zero 
relevant investment horizon is found, the climate  the Financial Risk Management team has  We also updated our internal climate risk  by 2050 for all assets under management. We 
change strategy of a company is analyzed and  assessed climate-related transition risks affecting  scenarios with two scenarios:  will work with our clients to set decarbonization 
compared to its peers. Based on this analysis, our  investments by adapting a stress-test approach  targets aligned with this ambition.
sustainability and financial analysts work together  based on four different scenarios developed by the  1.   Orderly stranded assets scenario: A longer-
to assess the impact on the company’s business  Dutch Central Bank. Each scenario is translated  term scenario with the estimated effect on  In line with our commitment to the Net Zero 
model, products and services. By including the  into an impact (shock) on key macroeconomic  assets if financial markets move in line with  Asset Managers Initiative and the Dutch Climate 
analysis on climate change in the investment  variables and then disaggregated into 56  the Paris Agreement. Accord, we are currently working on a company-
process, our fundamental analysts have a better  industries based on each industry’s relative  2.  Disorderly stranded assets scenario: One  wide decarbonization strategy with clear targets 
view of the risks and opportunities companies  vulnerability to energy transition risks.  in which an abrupt (short-term) transition  for 2025 and 2030, to be publicly announced 
are exposed to. This view is then incorporated  to green technology is simulated. As result,  by November 2021 at the latest, prior to the UN 
into our investment analysis and strategies. For  As not all companies within a sector will be  industries that are more dependent on brown  Climate Summit (COP26). 
example, our quant department decided that  impacted in the same way, our follow-up work  technologies are hit severely.
the portfolio carbon emission intensity of all our  focuses on developing a company-specific climate  Existing decarbonization measures include the 
quant strategies should never exceed that of the  risk indicator. This assesses the current situation  Shocks are determined on equity prices, credits  carbon reduction targets of our SI Focused funds, 
benchmark. of a company (i.e. its scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions)  spreads and interest rates. The shocks are  and the fossil fuel exclusion policy we expanded in 
combined with its adaptive capacity to move to  calculated as a range: depending on the climate  2020 to cover all of our investments (see section 
Besides analyzing and integrating climate-related  a carbon-neutral economy (e.g. green/brown  risk score, a company can be hit more or less in  on Targets).
risks, we also seek opportunities to contribute  share). This gives the indicator a forward-looking  terms of the estimated impact on its industry. The 
positively with our investment strategies to  character. Companies obtain a climate risk score  scenarios are not an exact science and serve the  In late 2020, different investor frameworks 
mitigate climate change. In December 2020, we  that ranges from 1 to 10. These scores enables us  purpose of stimulating further discussion with  for setting decarbonization targets became 
launched two fixed income funds which apply  to make climate risk profiles on portfolio, strategy  portfolio managers. available3. We are assessing these frameworks 
the EU Regulation on Paris-aligned Benchmarks.  and capability level, both on an absolute basis  and taking action so as to have the appropriate 
Our SDG funds, launched in 2017 and 2018, also  as well as relative to a benchmark. Currently in  The next step in the development of our climate  data and tooling in place, allowing us to develop 
contribute by addressing SDG 7 (affordable and  prototype, we will be working to make the climate  risk management approach is to include physical  targets and assess the expected consequences on 
risk scenarios. our investment strategies. 
3.  These include the IIGCC Net Zero Investment Framework, the UN Net-Zero Asset Owner Alliance Target-Setting Protocol, and the 
Financial Sector Science-Based Targets Guidance.
58    |   Sustainability Report 2020
APPENDICES
Our rationale for decarbonizing the portfolios are  We play an active role in several climate change  In line with the Partnership for Carbon Accounting  have a focus on investing in companies that 
two-fold: collaboration platforms, most notably the Climate  Financials (PCAF) and the EU requirements  contribute to sustainable development, impact 
Action 100+ initiative. for climate benchmarks, we also measure the  reporting is also available. 
1.   Risk-adjusted return perspective: in the mid- carbon footprint of our investments by attributing 
term, we see transition and physical climate  Metrics and targets carbon emissions to their share of enterprise  In line with our commitment to the Dutch Climate 
change issues as a risk to investment returns.  value, broadly defined as the combined value of  Accord, we are publicly disclosing the carbon 
We believe that carbon-intensive sectors and  Carbon footprint equity and net debt. This metric is aligned with  footprints of relevant investment as of financial 
companies will be more affected by these risks. We use multiple metrics to measure the carbon  ownership of carbon emissions and therefore  year 2020.
2.  Systemic perspective: in the long term, climate  footprints of our investments. In line with the Task  often used to decarbonize portfolios with the 
change needs to be solved in order to keep  force for Climate-related Financial Disclosures  systemic perspective in mind.
our societies and economies afloat. Although  (TCFD) recommendations, we measure the carbon 
decarbonizing portfolios does not directly  intensity of our investments using the Weighted  Robeco offers its clients full reporting on 
decarbonize the companies in which we invest,  Average Carbon Intensity (WACI) approach. This  greenhouse gas emissions for all portfolios 
nor the economy, we believe that active asset  makes emissions comparable across companies  managed, both on intensity and on ownership 
allocation decisions does have real world  by dividing carbon emissions by revenues in a  metrics. For our Sustainability Focused fund 
impact, particularly when combined with  given year for each company that we invest in.  range, the greenhouse gas footprint is also part 
active ownership and policy engagement.  The WACI approach is often used with the purpose  of the public reporting in the monthly Portfolio 
of assessing carbon risks.  Manager’s Update. For the thematic funds which 
Active ownership
We have a long track record of engaging with 
companies on their ESG practices, and using our 
voting rights to support shareholder proposals 
that help address climate change risks. We 
encourage the implementation of proactive and  Carbon figures in funds 
ambitious environmental strategies, the pursuit 
of operational excellence, the creation of asset    Equities Fixed income Multi Asset Total
portfolio resilience, the innovation of business  Portfolio AUM (USD) 64,705,869,031 39,267,587,063 4,381,821,998 108,355,278,092
models, and responsible participation in the          of which reported here 63,438,351,395 28,214,948,909 3,998,207,303 95,651,507,607
public policy debate. In our climate engagement  Share of total AUM (%) 30,6% 18,6% 2,1% 51,3%
program, we focus on industries most prone to  Total emissions (tons of CO2eq) 6,146,106 2,925,394 258,907 9,330,407
climate change risks, such as energy, utilities,  Carbon footprint (tons of CO2eq / USD mln) 98 128 67 104
car manufacturers and real estate. Collaboration  Carbon intensity (tons of CO2eq / USD mln) 130 192 97 145
is important to achieve our engagement goals.  Data coverage / quality 98,6% 81,3% 96,3% 93,4%
59    |   Sustainability Report 2020
APPENDICES
Targets Our resilience We are convinced that we are in a good position 
For strategies that are branded sustainable (the  Based on the considerations above, we find  to deal with these trends thanks to: 
SI Focused range), the target carbon footprint is  that the resilience of Robeco’s value creation 
20% lower than the benchmark.  model is not fundamentally affected by climate  1.   Our long history as a sustainability pioneer. 
change. Our role as an asset manager, the value  We have proven our leadership on ESG issues 
In September 2020, we expanded the scope  we provide to our clients, and our core revenue  generally, and we also lead in climate research 
of our fossil fuel exclusion policy. Companies  mechanism are not expected to change in the  through our in-house ESG research and active 
that derive 25% or more of their revenues from  face of climate-related transition risks. We believe  ownership teams.
thermal coal (power generation or mining) or oil  that the low-carbon transition will trigger not  2.  Our track record in research and innovation. 
sands, or 10% from Arctic drilling will be excluded  only risks but also wide investment opportunities,  Close collaboration between ESG research and 
from our funds. For sustainable strategies, we  and we believe that the uncertain and dispersed  investment teams allows us to offer valuable 
added exclusions for companies that derive  nature of the effects of climate change makes a  climate solutions for our clients. 
10% or more of their revenues from oil sands,  case for active management.
or 5% from Arctic drilling. The new exclusions 
were completed by Q4 2020. For sustainable  However, increasing climate-related investment 
strategies, we already had in place an exclusion  risks will force asset managers more and more to 
for companies that derive 10% or more of their  include ESG considerations into their investment 
revenues from thermal coal (power generation or  strategies. In that sense, ESG integration is likely 
mining). to become more mainstream. Differentiating 
ourselves as a sustainable asset manager may 
In the course of 2021, Robeco will announce  therefore become more challenging over time. 
company-wide decarbonization targets, as per  More transparency around ESG standards, such as 
our commitment to the Dutch Climate Accord,  the EU Taxonomy, may also expand opportunities 
the Net Zero Asset Managers Initiative, and  for passively managed funds, which could 
therewith the goals of the Paris Agreement.  increase downward pressure on fees for actively 
Our decarbonization strategy will comprise a  managed ESG funds. 
combination of approaches, including carbon 
reduction targets for portfolios where possible, 
investment in climate solutions, and engagement 
with companies and policymakers.
60    |   Sustainability Report 2020
APPENDICES
Measurement method environmental footprint own operations
Conversion factors CO emissions 2020 In the 2020 period, full carbon footprint 
2
reporting in accordance with ISO 14064-1 and 
Travel by lease car Source Factor Unit the Greenhouse Gas Protocol was performed for 
Lease cars - Petrol www.co2emissiefactoren.nl / Brandstoffen voertuigen / Benzine (E95)(NL) / WTW 2,74 kg CO  per liter the first time. For the purpose of substantiation, 
2e 
Lease cars - Diesel www.co2emissiefactoren.nl / Brandstoffen voertuigen / Diesel(NL) / WTW 3,32 kg CO   per liter this appendix provides information on the 
2e
Lease cars - Electricity Green www.co2emissiefactoren.nl / Brandstoffen voertuigen / Groene stroom 0 kg CO   per kWh energy flows, uncertainties and trends, and the 
2e
Lease cars - Electricity Grey www.co2emissiefactoren.nl / Elektriciteit / Grijze stroom 0,556 kg CO   per kWh mandatory components prescribed by ISO 14064.
2e
Energy location based      
Energy location based www.co2emissiefactoren.nl / Elektriciteit / Grijze stroom 0,556 kg CO  per kWh Boundary
2e
Wind Energy www.co2emissiefactoren.nl / Elektriciteit / Groene stroom 0 kg CO  per kWh The boundary reporting organization corresponds 
2e
Heating CO2 emissiefactor FIRST Rotterdam submitted by Eneco 18,74 kg CO  per GJ to the organization referred to on page 8 ‘our 
2e
Business travel        offices’. Not included in the carbon emissions 
<460km - Average passenger DEFRA conversion factors 2020 - Business travel - air for Radiative Forcing - Domestic 0,2443 kg CO  per km calculation for 2020 are the offices of Boston 
2e
>460km, <3700km  - Economy clas DEFRA conversion factors 2020 - Business travel - air for Radiative Forcing - Short haul 0,15298 kg CO  per km Partners and Canara Robeco, and the Robeco 
2e
>460km, <3700km  - First/Business class DEFRA conversion factors 2020 - Business travel - air for Radiative Forcing - Short haul 0,22947 kg CO  per km office in Luxembourg. 
2e
>3700km  - Economy class DEFRA conversion factors 2020 - Business travel - air for Radiative Forcing - Long haul 0,14615 kg CO  per km
2e
>3700km  - First/Business class DEFRA conversion factors 2020 - Business travel - air for Radiative Forcing - Long haul 0,42385 kg CO  per km Boston Partners and Canara Robeco are affiliated 
2e
Travel by public transport www.co2emissiefactoren.nl / Personenvervoer / Trein 0,006 kg CO  per km Robeco investment advisers and outside the 
2e
Travel by private car www.co2emissiefactoren.nl / Personenvervoer / Auto / Brandstof onbekend  0,195 kg CO  per km boundary scope.
2e
Work from home      
Energy work from home www.co2emissiefactoren.nl / Elektriciteit / Grijze stroom 0,556 kg CO  per kWh The office in Luxembourg was kept out of the 
2e
Drink water       evaluation, as it was dissolved in late December 
Water www.milieubarometer.nl 0,298 kg CO  per m3 2020 and is not significant in terms of its carbon 
2e
Paper consumption       footprint. 
Office paper www.milieubarometer.nl 1,21 kg CO  per kg
2e
Waste       Verification statement
Glas CE Delft 2007 Milieukentallen van verpakkingen 0,443 kg CO  per kg The carbon footprint report has not yet been 
2e
Wood CE Delft 2007 Milieukentallen van verpakkingen 0 kg CO  per kg verified, but whilst reviewing the sustainability 
2e
Swill CE Delft Afvalverwerking en CO2 (pag. 40 par. 5.3.5) 0,051 kg CO  per kg report, KPMG also looked at the carbon footprint 
2e
Paper & paperboard CE Delft 2007 Milieukentallen van verpakkingen 0,676 kg CO  per kg report within the scope of their limited assurance 
2e
Residual waste Van Dorp 1,203 kg CO  per kg procedures. Robeco added to its statement that 
2e
the inventory was performed in accordance with 
the requirements and recommendations of ISO 
61    |   Sustainability Report 2020
APPENDICES
Conversion factors for CO  emissions 2018 and 2019 from these parties, on the basis of local standard 
2e
data. The local standard data came from public 
Travel by lease car Source Factor Unit source data in the different countries. In 2020, 
Lease cars - Petrol DEFRA conversion factors 2020 - passenger car upper medium class petrol 0,20161 kg CO  per kilometer office electricity consumption amounted to a 
2e
Lease cars - Diesel DEFRA conversion factors 2020 - passenger car upper medium class diesel 0,16098 kg CO  per kilometer total of 3,064,258 kWh, with the head office in 
2e
Energy CO2 Emissiefactoren - Grid average the Netherlands 0,572 ton CO  per MWh Rotterdam responsible for 80% of the electricity 
2e
  DEFRA conversion factors 2020 - International flight, counting for Radiative Forcing1 0,18181 kg CO  per passenger kilometer consumption. Insight on an invoicing basis is 
2e
1.  Radiative forcing (RF) is a measure of the additional environmental impact of aviation. These include emissions of nitrous oxides and water vapor when emitted at high altitudes. given into the total electricity consumption of 
the head office, for which certified green power 
from the Netherlands was purchased. The 
14064-1 and the GHG Protocol. The above carbon  of a total of 153 cars averaged over 2020.  Scope 2 Indirect emissions emissions from this green power were used in the 
inventory contains no material inaccuracies that  The energy flows in Robeco’s Scope 2 emissions  calculation. Of the remaining 20% of electricity 
would prejudice the 5% materiality requirement. Analytical comparison with the preceding  consist of office energy consumption including  consumed in the international offices, 257,893 
years shows that the reported emissions had  electricity consumption and collective heat supply  kWh is also substantiated by means of invoices 
Reporting period been grossly overestimated in the preceding  from district heating, together with the electricity  and overviews (9% of the foreign electricity 
Robeco’s carbon footprint reporting is  years, since the vehicle fleet emissions in  consumption of the vehicle fleet referred to above  consumption). In total, 80% of the electricity 
synchronous with the calendar year and the  those years were calculated using a mean  under Scope 1.  consumption at the location is fully substantiated 
financial year. The financial year runs from 1  emission factor/kilometer. Operating electric  with primary data, and the remaining 20% of 
January through 31 December. The reporting  cars and differentiating according to effective  Electricity consumption by the vehicle fleet was  electricity consumption was calculated by means 
period is the full calendar year 2020. fuel consumption per type of fuel significantly  mapped out together with the leasing companies  of secondary data from public data sources. From 
reduces the carbon emissions in the calculation  and the building manager in Rotterdam. In the  mid-March 2020, most employees worked from 
Scope 1 Direct emissions for the vehicle fleet. The number of vehicles used  parking garage at the head office in Rotterdam,  home as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic. The 
The energy flows in Robeco’s Scope 1 emissions  was clearly also significantly lower in 2020. As  Robeco has access to an extensive charging  consumption of electricity then also shifted from 
relate to the fuel consumption of the fleet of  a result of the Covid-19 pandemic, employees  network. In 2020, a total of 178,125 kWh of  the office to the home, and carbon emissions 
vehicles. Fuel consumption in the Netherlands  traveled much less in their lease cars. The effect  electricity were used for the vehicle fleet in the  therefore shifted from Scope 2 to Scope 3 
was mapped out together with the leasing  this had also resulted in lower carbon emissions  Netherlands at the Robeco location and at third- accordingly. As a result, Robeco decided to map 
companies, giving insight according to type and  compared to preceding periods. A comparison  party charging points. Charging consumption  out emissions from home consumption in Scope 
amount of fuel. At the international offices, the  with preceding years is therefore hardly viable. In  by the vehicle fleet using charging points at the  3 as well (see description of Scope 3 – home 
consumption data for the eight vehicles still being  2020, the total energy consumption of the vehicle  Robeco location concerned certified green power. consumption). 
used for the organization were not yet available  fleet in Scope 1 produced 18% of Robeco’s total 
for this period. In 2020, the vehicle fleet in the  carbon emissions. Office energy consumption was mapped out  Energy consumption as a result of district heating 
Netherlands consumed a total of 105,422 liters of  with the aid of invoices and reports from building  supplying collective heating was included in this 
fuel. The vehicle fleet in the Netherlands consisted  managers or, when data could not be obtained  report for the first time. Data on consumption in 
62    |   Sustainability Report 2020
APPENDICES
the Netherlands at the head office in Rotterdam  Total energy consumption by the offices produced  public transport (train), by private car and by air.  from mid-March 2020 until the end of the year. 
and on office heat consumption by the Swiss  21% of Robeco’s total carbon emissions in 2020.  Business flights are broken down according to  This energy flow clearly shows the effects of the 
office were supplied by the building manager.  distance. Where such a breakdown is not possible,  Covid-19 pandemic: in 2020, Robeco employees 
Insight into the energy consumption of the  Scope 3 Other indirect emissions the total kilometers are allocated to the range  clocked up 2.7 million flight kilometers in all. 
remaining international locations has not yet  For the calendar year 2020, the energy flows in  >3700 km. The emissions from air travel were  For comparison: total flight kilometers in 2019 
been provided. In relation to the surface area of  Scope 3 were mapped out extensively for the first  calculated on the basis of range (<460, >460,  and 2018 were 16.2 and 15.8 million kilometers 
the locations, full insight has thereby been given  time. In preceding years, only the energy flow for  <3700, >3700). A breakdown according to type of  respectively. Total air traffic in 2020 was 83% 
into 81% of the total energy consumption for the  business travel was included in the calculations. A  flight was only possible for flights booked through  lower than in the preceding years. Together with 
heat supply of the locations. For the location in  comparison of Scope 3 emissions with preceding  the central travel organization. Local providers  the improvements in data quality, this reduction 
New York, standard data were used to determine  periods is therefore only possible per energy flow. of air travel were not yet able to make such a  in flight kilometers explains the significant decline 
energy consumption (a total of 2% of the total  The principal energy flows pertaining to Robeco’s  breakdown for this period. For these flights, a  in carbon emissions for air traffic (business travel 
rented surface area). The remaining 17% of  Scope 3 emissions consist of the energy flows from  pro rata distribution was made of the number  in Scope 3).
energy consumption for heating could not yet be  business travel, energy consumption associated  of central travel organization business class/first 
determined. The coverage from district heating is  with working from home, carbon emissions from  class flights. Electricity consumption associated with working 
thus determined to a total of 83%.  using drinking water, from paper consumption  from home
and the processing of waste flows. In addition,  In preceding periods, the carbon emissions  The amount of power consumed as a result 
Compared to preceding years, the energy  energy consumption by Robeco’s data centers  were determined on the basis of a single mean  of working from home due to the Covid-19 
consumption at the locations was diversified  is significant. Energy consumption by the data  normalization factor. Because take-off and  pandemic was significant in 2020 and cannot 
according to the type of energy flow (electricity  centers and cloud facilities has been recognized  landing are responsible for most of the emissions  be ignored. It is almost impossible to determine 
consumption and district heating) and the type of  and is the subject of study. However, no results  in air travel, diversification according to distance  the exact electricity consumption associated with 
electricity (gray or green power/own generation).  can yet be published for this period. Furthermore,  provided better insight plus lower carbon  working from home, because this depends on 
The emissions from electricity consumption  the carbon emissions resulting from commuting  emissions. Combined flights with stopovers were  the employees’ personal situation. This energy 
were calculated with the aid of specific emission  between home and work belong in Scope 3. separated into individual journeys. For Robeco,  flow has therefore been estimated on the basis of 
factors. For the first time, the consumption of  77.5% of flight kilometers concern long-distance  the following premises: additional consumption 
electricity generated at the location by means of  Business travel flights covering a distance greater than 3,700  estimated on the basis of 80% of FTE x 500 kWh 
solar panels and purchased certified green power  Compared to preceding years, the energy  km per single journey. These analyses show that  (laptop + monitor) from April to December for 
was included in the calculation in this report.  consumption and carbon emissions resulting from  reported emissions had been overestimated in  the international offices. For the Netherlands, 
These analyses show that the reported emissions  business travel were diversified according to type  preceding years. the following assumptions were made for Q2: 
for electricity consumption had been grossly  of transport (own car/public transport/air travel).  average FTE -/- 50 FTE at the office x 500 kWh, 
overestimated in preceding years, essentially  In the case of air travel, specific emission factors  As a result of the Covid-19 pandemic, people took  Q3: average FTE -/- 250 FTE at the office x 500 
explaining the significant reduction in the carbon  were used to calculate the emissions according to  significantly fewer flights in calendar year 2020.  kWh, Q4: average FTE -/- 50 FTE at the office 
emissions in Scope 2.  distance and type of flight – economy/business  In Asia, a decline was already visible from January  x 500 kWh. Additional consumption due to 
class/first class. Business travel includes travel by  2020, and employees hardly traveled by air  heating, cooling and lighting is excluded from 
63    |   Sustainability Report 2020
APPENDICES
this calculation. Total electricity consumption as a  paper consumption by the head office in the  Commuting between home and work amount to 0 tons of CO2.
result of working from home therefore amounted  Netherlands was provided by the supplier on  In this period, Robeco also started making an 
to a total of 281,255 kWh in the 2020 period  the basis of source data. For the other locations,  inventory of commuting activity. The energy  Quantification methods
and was calculated as gray power. This power  paper consumption was calculated on the basis  source data for commuter travel for all types  Quantification of energy consumption to carbon 
consumption produced emissions of 156.4 tons of  of mean paper consumption per employee,  of public transport are not yet complete and  emission values is in each case done by using 
carbon. whereby paper consumption per employee in the  cannot be reliably reported. Measures to  registered volume units of the fuels used. The 
Netherlands was used as a basis. In this period, a  gain more insight into implementing this are  conversion from volume to emission values 
Drinking water total of 4,550 kg of paper was used. Total carbon  ongoing. Employees in the Netherlands with a  is unequivocal and provides the most reliable 
The carbon emissions from the production  emissions from paper consumption amounted  lease car have all received an NS business card  comparison.
and distribution of drinking water consumed  to 5.5 tons of carbon. Global attention is being  to encourage travel by public transport. First 
by Robeco were calculated for the first time.  given to the earth’s deforestation. Reducing paper  analyses have shown that, despite the effects of  In situations where volume units of fuel were 
The building manager supplied separate data  consumption helps combat deforestation. Robeco  the Covid-19 pandemic, Robeco employees at all  unavailable, use was made of the most reliable 
detailing drinking water consumption and toilet  therefore also includes its paper consumption in  locations traveled more than 1,212,000 km by  information available. Gas and electricity use 
water consumption for the head office in the  the carbon emissions inventory.   train and car in 2020.  was measured using calibrated meters and/or 
Netherlands. For the other locations, the amount  identified on the basis of the energy company’s 
of drinking water was calculated on the basis of  Waste flows Total energy consumption for energy flows within  invoices. In light of the legislation in force, this is 
mean drinking water consumption per employee,  The carbon emissions from processing waste flows  Scope 3 produced 61% of Robeco’s total carbon  the most reliable source of information available.
whereby water consumption per employee in  produced by Robeco were calculated. The building  emissions in 2020.
the Netherlands (drinking water + toilet water  manager provided detailed information plus  Statement regarding changes in the 
consumption) was used as a basis. In total, 4,081  source data on the waste flows produced by the  Statement on omitted carbon sources or sinks quantification methods
m3 of water was used in this period. Total carbon  head office in the Netherlands. Information on  All identified carbon sources and sinks are  This report is the third edition within the scope 
emissions for water consumption were 1.2 tons  the waste flows was also provided for Switzerland,  accounted for in the report. Binding of carbon  of the ISO 14064 standard and the first report 
of carbon. In addition to energy consumption  but without source data. For the other locations,  does not take place, so there is no mention of  that contains reporting on all the elements 
and carbon emissions, water consumption is a  the waste flows were calculated on the basis of  sinks. of ISO 14064. As a result of improvements in 
subject that is increasingly gaining importance  mean weight of the company waste flow per  data quality, changes have been made to the 
worldwide. For this reason, water consumption  employee, whereby the weight of the company  Carbon emissions from biomass combustion quantification methods compared to previous 
has been included in Scope 3 in the emissions  waste and paper and cardboard waste flows per  Biomass combustion did not take place at Robeco. editions of this report. The changes are identified 
inventory.   employee in the Netherlands served as a basis.  per energy flow in the above descriptions of 
Based on these sources, Robeco’s total waste flow  Carbon compensation energy flows per scope. The information on 
Paper consumption in 2020 was determined at 50.6 tons of waste.  Robeco will compensate the CO2 emissions in  uncertainties and data coverage is also contained 
The carbon emissions were calculated for  Total carbon emissions from processing waste  2020 as a result of its activities by purchasing  in the description of energy flows and can be seen 
the production and distribution of paper  flows are calculated at 36.3 tons of carbon. Carbon Neutral certificates from AFS Energy B.V.  in the Resource Consumption table on page 52 of 
consumed by Robeco. Detailed information on  so that the CO2 emissions after compensation  this report.
64    |   Sustainability Report 2020
APPENDICES
Green house values in relation to value chain –  Verification table ISO 14064-1 
ISO 14064-1 verification table
This carbon emissions inventory has been drawn  ISO 14064-1   Specifically      
up in accordance with the requirements of the  General § 9.3 Description Page
internationally accepted standard ISO 14064-1,    A  Reporting Organization  5 - 8, 61
2018, § 9. The reference table below shows the    B  Person Responsible  2
relationship between ISO 14064-1 (general),    C  Reporting Period  62
specifically § 9.3 (GHG report content) and the  5.1  D  Organizational Boundaries  61 - 64
inventory.    E  Documentation of reporting boundaries, including  criteria  determined  by  the  organization  to  define significant emissions  61 - 64
5.2.2  F  Direct GHG Emissions  53, 61 - 64
Base year Appendix D  G  Combustion of Biomass  64
This report forms the base year of subsequent  5.2.2  H  GHG Removals  64
posts. 5.2.3  I  Exclusion of sources or sinks  64
5.2.4  J  Indirect GHG Emissions  53, 61 - 64
6.4.1  K  Base Year  65
6.4.1  L  Explanation of changes in Base Year  65
6.2  M  Methodologies  Pge 64
6.2  N  Changes of Methodologies  64
6.2  O  Emission or Removal Factors Used  61
8.3  P  Uncertainties  61 - 64
8.3  Q  Description of results of uncertainty assessment  61 - 64
  S  Statement in accordance with ISO 14064  61
  T  GWP  values  used  in  the  calculation,  as  well  as  their  source.    n/a
65    |   Sustainability Report 2020
APPENDICES
About this report
Robeco has prepared this report in accordance  opdrachten’ (ViO, Code of Ethics for Professional  actual future results are uncertain. We do not  plausibility of information and vary in nature 
with the Reporting Standards of the Global  Accountants, a regulation with respect to  provide any assurance on the assumptions and  and timing from, and are less in extent, than for 
Reporting Initiative, option Core. The report is  independence) and other relevant independence  achievability of prospective information in the  a reasonable assurance engagement. The level 
published annually, and the 2020 report covers  regulations in the Netherlands. Furthermore, we  Report.  of assurance obtained in review engagements 
the activities under the brand Robeco under the  have complied with the ‘Verordening gedrags- en  with a limited level of assurance is therefore 
responsibility of our ExCo from 1 January 2020  beroepsregels accountants’ (VGBA, Dutch Code of  Responsibilities of the Executive Committee and  substantially less than the assurance obtained in 
until 31 December 2020. Ethics). We believe that the assurance evidence  the Supervisory Board for the Report  audit engagements. 
we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to  The Executive Committee of Robeco is responsible 
Assurance report of the independent  provide a basis for our conclusion.  for the preparation of the Report in accordance  Misstatements can arise from fraud or errors and 
auditor with the GRI Standards and the applied  are considered material if, individually or in the 
Reporting criteria  supplemental reporting criteria as described  aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to 
Our conclusion  The Report needs to be read and understood  in the section ‘Reporting criteria’ of our report,  influence the decisions of users taken on the basis 
We have reviewed the Sustainability Report of  together with the reporting criteria. Robeco is  including the identification of stakeholders and  of the Report. The materiality affects the nature, 
Robeco Holding B.V. (hereafter: Robeco) based  solely responsible for selecting and applying these  the definition of material matters. The Executive  timing and extent of our review procedures 
in Rotterdam for the year ended 31 December  reporting criteria, taking into account applicable  Committee is also responsible for such internal  and the evaluation of the effect of identified 
2020 (hereafter: the Report). A review is aimed  law and regulations related to reporting. The  control as it determines is necessary to enable  misstatements on our conclusion. 
at obtaining a limited level of assurance. Based  reporting criteria used for the preparation of the  the preparation of the Report that is free from 
on our procedures performed, nothing has come  Report are the Sustainability Reporting Standards  material misstatement, whether due to fraud or  We apply the ‘Nadere voorschriften 
to our attention that causes us to believe that the  of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and the  error.  kwaliteitssystemen’ (NVKS, Regulations on quality 
Report is not prepared, in all material respects,  applied internal reporting criteria as disclosed on  management systems) and accordingly maintain 
in accordance with the reporting criteria as  page 55 of the Report. The Supervisory Board is, amongst other things,  a comprehensive system of quality control 
described in the ‘Reporting criteria’ section of our  responsible for overseeing Robeco’s reporting  including documented policies and procedures 
report.  Limitations to the scope of our review  process.  regarding compliance with ethical requirements, 
The Report includes comparative figures on  professional standards and applicable legal and 
Basis for our opinion  the sustainability performance of Robeco over  Our responsibilities for the review of the Report  regulatory requirements. 
We have performed our review on the Non- previous years. This information is not in scope  Our objective is to plan and perform the review 
Financial Information in accordance with Dutch  for our review, as this is the first year that Robeco  in a manner that allows us to obtain sufficient  We have exercised professional judgement 
law, including Dutch Standard 3810N: ‘Assurance- receives assurance over its Sustainability Report. and appropriate assurance evidence for our  and have maintained professional scepticism 
opdrachten inzake maatschappelijke verslagen’  conclusion.  throughout the review, in accordance with the 
(Assurance engagements relating to sustainability  The Report includes prospective information such  Dutch Standard 3810N, ethical requirements and 
reports). We are independent of Robeco in  as ambitions, strategy, plans, expectations and  Procedures performed to obtain a limited level  independence requirements. 
accordance with the ‘Verordening inzake de  estimates, and risk assessments. Inherently the  of assurance are aimed to determining the 
onafhankelijkheid van accountants bij assurance-
66    |   Sustainability Report 2020
APPENDICES
Our review engagement included, among others,  providing the information for-, carrying 
the following procedures: out internal control procedures on-, and 
consolidating the data for the Report.
–   Performing an analysis of the external  –   Obtaining assurance information that 
environment and obtaining an understanding  the information presented in the Report 
of relevant societal themes and issues, and the  reconciles with underlying records of the 
characteristics of Robeco. company.
–   Evaluating the appropriateness of the  –   Reviewing, on a limited test basis, relevant 
reporting criteria used, their consistent  internal and external documentation
application and related disclosures in the  –   Performing an analytical review of the data 
Report. This includes the evaluation of the  and trends in the information submitted for 
results of the stakeholders’ dialogue and  consolidation at corporate level.
the reasonableness of estimates made by  –   Evaluating the presentation, structure and 
management. content of the Report
–   Obtaining an understanding of the reporting  –   To consider whether the Report as a whole, 
processes, including obtaining a general  including the disclosures, reflects the purpose 
understanding of internal control relevant to  of the reporting criteria used. 
our review.
–   Identifying areas of the Report with a  We have communicated with the management 
higher risk of misleading or unbalanced  of Robeco regarding, among other matters, the 
information or material misstatements,  planned scope and timing of the review and 
whether due to fraud or error. Designing  significant findings that we identify during our 
and performing furtherassurance  review. 
procedures aimed at determining the 
plausibility of information responsive  Amstelveen, 22 April 2021
to this risk analysis. These procedures  KPMG Accountants N.V.
included among others: 
–   Interviewing management and relevant  Danielle Landesz Campen, RA 
staff at corporate level responsible for  Partner, Sustainability assurance
the sustainability / ESG / responsible 
investment / active ownership strategy, 
policy and results
–   Interviewing relevant staff responsible for 
67    |   Sustainability Report 2020
APPENDICES
Measurement methods
Defintion of HR terms
FTE Full time equivalent. In the Netherlands, an FTE at Robeco is 40 hours per week
Women-to-men remuneration ratio  Female/male salary ratio. A figure greater than 1 means female employees have a higher salary.  
Figure is based on the annual compensation. 
Part time Employee that is employed for less than 40 hours per week 
Temporary contract Employees with a contract type with a fixed term, with the possibility of obtaining a indefinite contract.
68    |   Sustainability Report 2020
APPENDICES
Materiality assessment
The list of material topics for the materiality  We used an online questionnaire to obtain 
analysis performed by Robeco in 2020 among  feedback from our stakeholders. To ensure a 
stakeholders has been developed in a four-stage  good response rate, we contacted the invitees 
process: personally. The questionnaire contained a 
description of Robeco, the scope of the assessment 
1.  R eview of GRI and SASB disclosures, selecting  and a brief description of the topics. We asked 
those with relevance for Robeco.  respondents to rank the material topics in order 
2. C onsultation of internal experts on additional  of importance for Robeco as well as for their own 
topics to be included. interests as stakeholders. Furthermore, we asked 
3. C ategorization of disclosures into topics of  for any additional topics to be included, to ensure 
comparable ‘order of magnitude’, so they can  completeness of the topics covered. From this, most 
be ranked by stakeholders.  notably the topics of biodiversity and human rights 
4. A s a fourth step, some disclosures have been  were raised by external stakeholders as additional 
grouped together into one material topic  material topics for which we included examples of 
to make the list more comprehensive for  our work in the Investments chapter of the report.
stakeholders.
69    |   Sustainability Report 2020
APPENDICES
Materiality matrix clients Materiality matrix SI landscape
1.  Active ownership 1.  Active ownership
2.  Climate change portfolio strategy 2.  Climate change portfolio strategy
3.  ESG integration in investment  3.  ESG integration in investment 
decisions 3 decisions
4.  Exclusions from the investment  4.  Exclusions from the investment 
ociety 6 5.  Fuaniirv aerdsveice to customers ociety 6 7 2 5.  Fuaniirv aerdsveice to customers
o’s impact on s 1112 5 8 13 27 1 3 67891101.....    .   CRILSBnouyuevnbsmsetgeinasur ttiesnmneesearscemr buenair tlttviihi ttpoayyiclen  uastr aepnfor odcgrl rmeidectayaaet tnfdaiooc  ppren rre (oixvfideanuccacuyntt cidvieaesls)i gn o’s impact on s 1281415 1 67891101.....    .   CRILSBnouyuevnbsmsetgeinasur ttiesnmneesearscemr buenair tlttviihi ttpoayyiclen  uastr aepnfor odcgrl rmeidectayaaet tnfdaiooc  ppren rre (oixvfideanuccacuyntt cidvieaesls)i gn
obec 4 9 12.  Ranedsp eomnspilboiylietieess and accountability of  obec 10 9 13 12.  Ranedsp eomnspilboiylietieess and accountability of 
nce of R 1106 17 1134..   RTthaisexk  b pmooaalircndyagement and compliance nce of R 17 19 1156 1134..   RTthaisexk  b pmooaalircndyagement and compliance
fica 15 15.  Diversity, inclusion and  fica 14 15.  Diversity, inclusion and 
ni 18 non-discrimination ni non-discrimination
Sig 19 16.  Employment conditions Sig 16.  Employment conditions
14 17.  Environmental footprint of Robeco’s  18 17.  Environmental footprint of Robeco’s 
own operations own operations
18.  Procurement practices 18.  Procurement practices
19.  Social commitment 19.  Social commitment
Influence on stakeholder decision making Influence on stakeholder decision making
Investments & Distribution              Governance              Business operations Investments & Distribution              Governance              Business operations
Materiality matrix employees Materiality matrix oversight
1.  Active ownership 1.  Active ownership
2.  Climate change portfolio strategy 2.  Climate change portfolio strategy
7 3.  ESG integration in investment  3.  ESG integration in investment 
1 3 decisions decisions
5 4.  Exclusions from the investment  7 4.  Exclusions from the investment 
ety 6 2 9 universe ety 6 universe
oci 5.  Fair advice to customers oci 5.  Fair advice to customers
o’s impact on s 13 10 11 84 67891101.....    .   CRILSBnouyuevnbsmsetgeinasur ttiesnmneesearscemr buenair tlttviihi ttpoayyiclen  uastr aepnfor odcgrl rmeidectayaaet tnfdaiooc  ppren rre (oixvfideanuccacuyntt cidvieaesls)i gn o’s impact on s 4 2 83 1131112 9 5 67891101.....    .   CRILSBnouyuevnbsmsetgeinasur ttiesnmneesearscemr buenair tlttviihi ttpoayyiclen  uastr aepnfor odcgrl rmeidectayaaet tnfdaiooc  ppren rre (oixvfideanuccacuyntt cidvieaesls)i gn
obec 12 19 15 12.  Ranedsp eomnspilboiylietieess and accountability of  obec 12.  Ranedsp eomnspilboiylietieess and accountability of 
of R 16 17 the board of R 10 the board
nce  14 1134..   RTaisxk  pmoalicnyagement and compliance nce  15 1134..   RTaisxk  pmoalicnyagement and compliance
fica 18 15.  Diversity, inclusion and  fica 14 15.  Diversity, inclusion and 
ni non-discrimination ni non-discrimination
Sig 1167..   EEmnvpirloonymmeenntt aclo fnodoittpiorninst of Robeco’s  Sig 1916 1167..   EEmnvpirloonymmeenntt aclo fnodoittpiorninst of Robeco’s 
own operations 1718 own operations
18.  Procurement practices 18.  Procurement practices
19.  Social commitment 19.  Social commitment
Influence on stakeholder decision making Influence on stakeholder decision making
Investments & Distribution              Governance              Business operations Investments & Distribution              Governance              Business operations
70    |   Sustainability Report 2020
APPENDICES
List of material topics and definitions
Investments & distribution Investment performance (financial)  Remuneration policy for executives and  Business operations
The financial performance of the investments  employees 
Active ownership  managed by Robeco.  Remuneration policy for executives and  Diversity, inclusion and non-discrimination 
Active ownership consists of actively engaging  employees, including incentive plans and  Policy and results related to promoting diverse 
with portfolio companies (the companies Robeco  Long term value creation  performance criteria.  workforce, an inclusive culture, and no tolerance 
invests in) on their ESG policies and results,  The focus on creating stable value on the long- of any form of discrimination. 
exercising voting rights on shareholder meetings.  term, as opposed to a focus on short-term profits.  Responsibilities and accountability of the board 
A transparent and well-defined set of rules  Employment conditions 
Climate change portfolio strategy Sustainability targeted product design  and principles concerning the responsibilities,  Employment policies and employment conditions 
Addressing climate change risks and opportunities  The development and offering of investment  accountability and nomination process of the  offered by Robeco, to attract and retain skilled 
through investment decisions and contact with  products designed specifically to target  board.  and motivated employees. 
investee companies and other institutions. investments into assets with an associated 
positive environmental or social performance,  Risk management and compliance  Environmental footprint of Robeco’s own 
ESG integration in investment decisions  including those that contribute to the Sustainable  Sound risk assessment and managing of risks  operations 
The integration of environmental, social and  Development Goals. in investments, compliance with legislation and  The environmental footprint caused directly by 
governance (ESG) factors into the analyses  conditions in client mandates, and avoidance of  Robeco’s operations (excluding the impact of 
performed by investors to support their decisions  Governance conflicts of interest.  investments). 
whether or not to invest. 
Business ethics  Tax policy  Procurement practice 
Exclusions from the investment universe  Policy and results regarding bribery, corruption  Policy and principles regarding tax contributions.  Purchasing policy and assessment of suppliers’ 
The exclusion of companies from investments,  and political contributions as well as inquiries,  performance on social and environmental aspects 
because of structural breaches of international  fines and settlements associated with financial  in the tender process. 
norms regarding environmental, social or  fraud. 
governance performance of the company or the  Social commitment 
products produced by the company.  Cybersecurity and data privacy  Community programs organized by or in which 
Preventative methods used to protect information  Robeco is involved, with the aim of making a 
Fair advice to customers  from being stolen, compromised or attacked,  positive contribution to society.
Provide adequate, clear, and transparent  including the implementation of a data privacy 
information about products and services,  policy.
including risks and suitability; and conflicts of 
interest. 
71    |   Sustainability Report 2020
APPENDICES
Glossary
Assets under management (AuM) Corporate governance Dow Jones Sustainability Indices (DJSI) will be proposed.
The financial assets managed by Robeco’s  The system by which corporations are directed  The first global indices to track the financial 
investment teams. and controlled. The corporate governance  performance of the leading sustainability- Enhanced indexing
structure specifies the distribution of rights and  driven companies worldwide. They provide  An innovative quantitative investment solution, 
Benchmark responsibilities among different participants  asset managers and other stakeholders with  based on a complex algorithm that takes into 
The reference point for a fund’s investment  such as the board, managers, shareholders and  reliable and objective benchmarks for managing  account multiple indices.
performance. other stakeholders, and defines the rules and  sustainability portfolios.
procedures for making decisions. Equity
Blockchain Environmental footprint Any stocks or other securities representing an 
A continuously growing chain of records of  Corporate responsibility The impact of a person, company or community  ownership interest. These may be in a private 
encrypted and timestamped transactions. An umbrella term referring to a company’s  on the environment, often expressed as the  company (not publicly traded), in which case they 
obligation to consider the social and  amount of land required to sustain their use of  are called ‘private equity’.
BREEAM environmental impact of its activities and to  natural resources, or the total amount of CO2 
The Building Research Establishment  go beyond this obligation in the treatment of  produced in the consumption of resources. ESG factors
Environmental Assessment Method. An  economic, environmental and social activities to  Environmental, social and governance factors that 
assessment method using scientifically-based  sustain its operations, financial performance and,  Employee engagement are used as a set of standards for a company’s 
sustainability metrics and indices that covers a  ultimately, its reputation. The commitment of an employee to the  operations in order to screen investments. 
range of environmental issues. Its categories    organization and its goals on a number of  Environmental factors look at how a company 
evaluate energy and water use, health and well- Credits professional and personal levels. performs as a steward of the natural environment. 
being, pollution, transport, materials, waste,  A contractual agreement by which a corporation  Social factors examine how a company manages 
ecology and management processes. Buildings  arranges funding, usually in the form of a  Engagement relationships with its employees, suppliers, 
are rated and certified on a scale of ‘Pass’,  financial loan, and must repay the institution  Robeco’s dialogue with companies about ESG  customers and the communities where it 
‘Good’, ‘Very Good’, ‘Excellent’ or ‘Outstanding’.  from which it received the loan as per the terms  issues for the purpose of improving those issues.  operates. Governance factors deal with a 
The assessment is carried out by independent,  of the agreement. Also referred to as corporate  An engagement process with a company typically  company’s leadership, executive pay, internal 
licensed assessors. bonds. takes three years to complete and uses pre-set  controls, audits and shareholder rights.
measurable engagement objectives.
Code of conduct Distribution Exchange-traded funds (ETF)
Principles, values, standards and rules of behavior  The movement of goods and services from the  Enhanced engagement Marketable securities that track the course of 
that guide the decisions, procedures and systems  source through a distribution channel, right up  An active dialogue with companies that are in  securities or an index, and are traded like ordinary 
of an organization in a way that contributes to the  to the final customer, consumer or user, and the  breach of the UN Global Compact principles. If a  stocks on a stock exchange.
welfare of its key stakeholders and respects the  movement of payments in the opposite direction,  company does not show sufficient progress during 
rights of everyone affected by its operations. right up to the original producer or supplier. the three-year engagement process, its exclusion  Factor investing
from the investment universe A strategy of selecting securities based on 
72    |   Sustainability Report 2020
APPENDICES
attributes that are associated with higher returns,  its spending. of the investment universe are not eligible for  downstream from the usage of sold products or 
such as low volatility, value or momentum. investment. investments. These scopes were developed by the 
Innovation Greenhouse Gas Protocol.
Fiduciary management The process of translating an idea or invention  License to operate
An approach to asset management that involves  into goods or services that create value or for  A formal license to operate grants permission to  Shareholder
an asset owner appointing a third party to  which customers are willing to pay. undertake trade or carry out a business activity,  An owner of the stock of a company.
manage all of their assets on an integrated basis  subject to the regulation or supervision of the 
through a combination of advisory and delegated  Institutional investor licensing authority. An social license to operate  Stakeholder
investment services, with a view to achieving the  A non-bank entity or organization that trades  entails public acceptance of the company’s  A party that affects, or is affected by, an 
asset owner’s overall investment objectives. securities in large enough quantities of shares  presence and business activities. organization. 
that it qualifies for preferential treatment and 
Fundamental investing lower commission. Private equity Stewardship
A method of evaluating securities in an attempt  Stocks or any other securities representing an  The responsibility on the part of investors to be 
to measure their intrinsic value, by examining  Intellectual property ownership interest in a private company. an active owner of the companies in which they 
related economic, financial and other qualitative  Knowledge, creative ideas or expressions of the  invest and to fulfill their fiduciary duty to clients 
and quantitative factors. human mind that have commercial value and  Quant/quantitative investing and beneficiaries.
are protectable under copyright, patent, service  An investment approach that selects securities 
Global financial institution mark, trademark, or trade secret laws. Intellectual  using advanced quantitative analysis. Sustainability
A company engaged in the business of dealing  property includes brand names, discoveries,  The ability to sustain an activity indefinitely. This 
with worldwide monetary transactions, such  formulas, inventions, knowledge, registered  Retail investor can be expressed in environmental, social or 
as deposits, loans, investments and currency  designs, and software. It is one of the most readily  An individual investor who buys and sells  economic terms. Sustainable (or sustainability) 
exchange. Financial institutions encompass  tradable properties in the digital marketplace. securities on their personal account, rather than  investing An investment discipline that considers 
a broad range of business operations in the  on another company or organization’s behalf. how ESG criteria can help generate long-term 
financial services sector, including banks, trust  Investment grade competitive financial returns and a positive 
companies, insurance companies, and brokerage  Investment grade refers to the quality of a  Scope 1/2/3 emissions societal impact.
firms or investment dealers. company’s credit. In order to be considered an  Greenhouse gas emissions in relation to the value 
investment grade issue, the company must be  chain of a company:  Robeco’s fund range with a sustainability profile 
Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) rated ‘BBB-’ or higher by Standard and Poor’s or  Scope 1 − direct emissions caused by the company  and an environmental footprint that is at least 
An independent organization that develops  Moody’s. while making the product  20% lower than the benchmark. These funds are 
standards for sustainability reporting. Scope 2 − direct emissions the generation of the  also subject to additional negative screening.
Investment universe electricity or heat needed to make the product; 
Government bonds The totality of investment possibilities. Securities  Scope 3 − indirect emissions, either upstream  Sustainable Development Goals
Debt securities issued by a government to finance  that fall outside  from the supply of goods and services, or  A set of 17 goals developed by the United Nations 
73    |   Sustainability Report 2020
APPENDICES
to end poverty, protect the planet and ensure  Wholesale investors
prosperity for all as part of a new sustainable  Investors that distribute Robeco’s investment 
development agenda, to be achieved by 2030. solutions in business or consumer segments. 
Robeco’s wholesale investors include:
Value creation
Engaging in activities that increase the value of  – private banks
goods, services or a business. – retail banks
– family offices
Value engagement – wealth managers
Robeco’s thematic approach to active dialogue.  – fund platforms
New themes are selected each year. Value  – (independent) financial advisers
engagement themes typically apply for three  – insurance companies.
years and cover between 8 and 15 companies 
each.
Voting
As a shareholder, one of the key rights is to vote 
in proportion to the shares of the companies 
in which you invest. Shareholder voting rights 
give investors the power to elect directors at 
annual or extraordinary meetings and make their 
views known to the company management and 
directors on significant issues that may affect the 
value of their shares.
74    |   Sustainability Report 2020
APPENDICES
Our leadership
ExCo Karin van Baardwijk (F/1977) Mark den Hollander (M/1969) Martin Nijkamp (M/1959)
–   Member since 2015 and Chief Operating  –   Chief Financial and Risk Officer and member  –   Head of Strategic Product and Business 
Gilbert Van Hassel (M/1957) Officer since 2016; Deputy CEO since 2020.  since 2019. Development and member since 2017.
–   CEO and Chairman since 2016. Responsible for Information Technology and  –    Over 25 years of experience in the asset  –   Over 30 years’ experience in the asset 
–    Over 30 years’ experience in the financial  Operations. After joining Robeco in 2006, she  management industry: he held several  management industry: member of NN 
services industry, mainly in asset and wealth  headed Operational Risk Management from  positions (most recently Chief Financial and  Investment Partners’ Management Team 
management, with broad experience in  2009, followed by Global Information Services  Risk Officer) at NN Investment Partners (2009- responsible for business strategy, integrated 
Europe, Asia and the US. Until 2014, he was  from 2014. 2018) and ABN AMRO Asset Management  client solutions and product management and 
Global CEO ING Investment Management and  –   She started her career in 2004 at Atos  (1993-2009) where he held various positions  development (2008-2017). Before that, he 
member of the board for Insurance and Asset  Consulting. in portfolio management, equity derivatives  was Managing Director Institutional Business 
Management at ING. Before joining ING in  –    Graduated from Utrecht University (the  and multi-asset solutions, and was Chief  Development, covering the EMEA-region. Prior 
2007, he worked for JP Morgan, where he held  Netherlands), Master’s degree in Business  Investment Officer of Structured Investment  to joining NNIP, he worked at ING Bank as 
various executive positions in Europe, Asia and  Economics, Master’s degree in Corporate Law. Solutions. senior economist and fixed income portfolio 
the US. –    Member of the Supervisory Board at EUR  –   Master’s degree in Econometrics from Erasmus  manager.
–    Bachelor’s degree in Applied Economics  Holding (Erasmus University Rotterdam). University Rotterdam. –    Master’s degree in Economics from the 
from the University of Antwerp St Ignatius  University of Groningen (the Netherlands).
(Belgium), MBA with a major in International  Lia Belilos-Wessels (F/1962) Mark van der Kroft (M/1964)
Finance from the Catholic University of Louvain  –   Chief Human Resources Officer and member  –   Chief Investment Officer Fundamental and  Christoph von Reiche (M/1969)
(Belgium), Master of Science in Finance from    since 2019. Quant Equity, Co-Head of Quant Equity and  –   Head of Global Distribution and Marketing and 
Purdue University (US). –    Before joining Robeco she was Chief People  Head of Trends and Thematic Investing and  member since 2017.
–   Member of the board of the Dutch Fund and  Officer at Arcadis and Chief Human Resources  member since 1 September 2020. –    25 years’ experience in the financial services 
Asset Management Association, member  Officer at KPN. She started her career at Shell,  –   Rejoined Robeco in June 2018 from NN  industry: before joining Robeco he was Head 
of the board of directors of Harbor Capital  where she held several human resources  Investment Partners, which he joined in March  of European Institutional Business at JP 
Advisors. positions including Human Resources Director  2017. Started at Robeco in 2000, appointed  Morgan Asset Management, and worked in 
for Shell in Asia, and Vice President Human  Chief Investment Officer Equities in 2004,  various positions at Goldman Sachs, including 
Resources at Royal Dutch Shell.  joined the Sales & Account Management team  Country Head of Germany for Goldman Sachs 
–   Master’s degree in Sociology and Social  for large Dutch Institutional clients in 2010.  Asset Management. He started his career as 
History from Erasmus University Rotterdam,  Prior to joining Robeco, Mark worked for ABN  analyst at Goldman Sachs Investment Banking.
Master’s degree in European Studies from the  AMRO. –    Master’s degree in Foreign Service, Bachelor’s 
University of Reading (UK). –   Master’s in Monetary Economics from Erasmus  degree in Business Administration from 
–    Member of the Supervisory Board of  University Rotterdam. Georgetown University (US).
Vanderlande and chair of the Pre-selection 
committee Dutch Civil Service (Algemene 
Bestuursdienst). 
75    |   Sustainability Report 2020
APPENDICES
Victor Verberk (M/1974) Robeco Supervisory Board Mark Talbot (M/1968) Stan Koyanagi (M/1960)
–    Deputy Head of Investments and an Executive  –     Member since 2019 and Chairman of the  –    Member since August 2020.
Committee member since 2017. Maarten Slendebroek (M/1961) Nomination & Remuneration Committee. –    Member of the Board of Directors, Managing 
–    Over 20 years’ experience in the financial  –   Chair since August 2020. –   Over 25 years’ experience in the asset  Executive Officer and Global General Counsel 
services industry: he started his career at  –   Started his career in 1987 at Enskilda  management industry: currently Managing  of ORIX Corporation, which he joined in 
AXA Investment Managers in 1997. Until  Securities, followed by BlackRock and Jupiter  Director Asia Pacific at Fidelity International.  2013. In addition, as a representative of ORIX 
2007, he was a partner at Holland Capital  Fund Management where he was CEO from  Before joining Fidelity, he worked for Barclays  Corporation, Stan serves on the Management 
Management. Before that, he was Head of  2014 until 2019. Global Investors and State Street Global  Board of ORIX Corporation Europe and the 
Fixed Income at MN Services. He has managed  –   Chairman of Mintus and senior advisor of  Advisors.  Board of Directors of ORIX Corporation USA, 
global government bond and credit portfolios  YourArq, both fintech startups in London. and he also chairs the Board of Directors of 
and has been responsible for building fixed  Radboud Vlaar (M/1977) Boston Partners Global Investors..
income teams, organizing research and  Sonja Barendregt-Roojers (F/1957) –    Member since 2018.
drafting investment processes. –   Member since 2018, vice-chair since March  –   Currently founding partner at Finch Capital; 
–    Master’s degree in Financial Economics  2020, and Chairman of the Audit and  before that he was a partner at McKinsey 
from Erasmus University Rotterdam and  Remuneration Committee.  & Co., where he led the Benelux Asset 
postgraduate VBA training at Vrije Universiteit  –   Began her career in 1975 at PwC and its  Management Practice, co-led the Global 
Amsterdam (both in the Netherlands). predecessors, where she was appointed senior  Digital Financial Service efforts, and was a 
partner in 1998, focusing on financial services. member of the European Banking Leadership 
–   Supervisory Board member and Chairman  Group. He started his career at TPG.
of the Audit Committee at De Volksbank,  –   Supervisory Board member at companies 
member of the Supervisory Board of ASR  representing the fund’s interest, including 
Nederland, and Examiner of Financial Auditing  Supply Finance, Trussle, Goodlord, DIG, 
at the Erasmus School of Accounting and  Safened, Fourthline, Brickblock, and at 
Assurance. LinkBundle.
76    |   Sustainability Report 2020
APPENDICES
GRI Table
Indicator Description Reference Indicator Description Reference
102-1 Name of the organization First page, About this report 102-48 Restatements of information About this report
102-2 Activities, brands, products and services Who we are, Our brands and products 102-49 Changes in reporting About this report
102-3 Location of headquarters Our offices 102-50 Reporting period About this report
102-4 Location of operations Our offices 102-51 Date of the most recent report Contact
102-5 Ownership and legal form Who we are, Our ownership and legal status 102-52 Reporting cycle About this report
102-6 Markets served Who we are, Our offices 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report Contact
102-7 Scale of the organization Our financial results 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with GRI standards About this report
102-8 Information on employees and other workers Our people 102-55 GRI content index GRI table
102-9 Supply chain Value creation model 102-56 External assurance About this report
102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain Our strategy 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed Our financial results (and RIAM Annual Report)
102-11 Precautionary principle or approach Who we are 201-2  Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due  Climate-related financial disclosure 
to climate change (partial disclosure)
102-12  External initiatives  Association memberships and participation in 
external initiatives 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption Business ethics
102-13  Membership of associations  Association memberships and participation in  205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken Business ethics
external initiatives
305-1  Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions  Tables for resource consumption and greenhouse 
102-14 Statement from senior decision maker Message from our CEO gas emissions
102-16 Values, principles, standards and norms of behavior What we believe in, How we work 305-2  Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions  Tables for resource consumption and greenhouse 
gas emissions
102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics Business ethics
305-3  Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions  Tables for resource consumption and greenhouse 
102-18 Governance structure Our ownership and legal status gas emissions
404-2  Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition  Learning and development 
102-35 Remuneration policies Remuneration
assistance programs
102-40 List of stakeholder groups Materiality analysis, Appendices 404-3  Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and  Our people 
career development reviews
102-41 Collective bargaining agreements Remuneration
405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees Our people
102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders Materiality assessment
405-2  Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men  Remuneration 
102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement Materiality assessment (per function level)
102-44 Key topics and concerns raised Materiality analysis, Appendices 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken Diversity and inclusion
102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements Our financial results 412-3  Significant investment agreements and contracts that  How we integrate sustainability in procurement and 
  include human rights clauses or that underwent human  limit our environmental footprint 
102-46 Defining report content and topic boundaries About this report rights screening.
414-1  New suppliers that were screened using social criteria  How we integrate sustainability in procurement and 
102-47 List of material topics List of material topics and definitions limit our environmental footprint
 
77    |   Sustainability Report 2020
APPENDICES
Association memberships and participation in external initiatives
–  30% Club  –   Farm Animal Investment Risk & Return (FAIRR)  –   Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI) 
–  Access to Medicine Index  –   Finance for Biodiversity Pledge –   Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) 
–  Advance Gender Equality in Business –   Global Impact Investing Network (GIIN)  –   Sustainable Finance Geneva (SFG) 
–   Asian Corporate Governance Association  –   Global Real Estate Sustainability Benchmark  –   Swiss Sustainable Finance (SSF) 
(ACGA)  (GRESB)  –   Task Force on Climate-related Financial 
–   Brazilian Corporate Governance Association  –   Global Steering Group on Impact Investing  Disclosures (TCFD) 
(AMEC)  (GSG)  –   Transition Pathway Initiative (TPI) 
–  Business Benchmark on Farm Animal Welfare  –  G reenBuzz Zurich –   United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) 
–   Cambridge Institute for Sustainable Leadership –   Impact Management Project  –   World Benchmarking Alliance (WBA) 
–   Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP)  –   Institutional Investors Group on Climate  –   ZSL-SPOTT Palm Oil benchmark
–   City to Sea Partnership  Change (IIGCC) 
–   Climate Action 100+  –   Interfaith Center on Corporate Responsibility 
–   DNB Sustainable Finance Initiative  (ICCR) 
–   Dutch Association of Investors for Sustainable  –   International Corporate Governance Network 
Development (VBDO)  (ICGN) 
–   Dutch Climate Agreement  –   Investor Alliance for Human Rights (IAHR) 
–   Dutch Fund and Asset Management  –   Investor Mining and Tailings Safety Initiative
Association (DUFAS)  –  K limastiftung Schweiz
–   EDGE Certified Foundation  –   Net-Zero Asset Managers Initiative
–   Erasmus Platform for Sustainable Value  –   Partnership Biodiversity Accounting Financials 
Creation  (BPAF)
–   Eumedion Dutch corporate governance  –   Plastic Solutions Investor Alliance 
platform  –   Platform Living Wage Financials (PLWF) 
–   European Fund Asset Management Association  –   Portfolio Carbon Accounting Financials (PCAF) 
(EFAMA)  –   Powering Past Coal Alliance (PPCA)
78    |   Sustainability Report 2020
APPENDICES
Global Compact Communication on Progress (COP)
Principle and Reference P rinciple 3  P rinciple 6 Businesses should encourage the development and 
Businesses should uphold the freedom of  Businesses should uphold the elimination of  diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies 
Statement of continuing support  association and the effective recognition of the  discrimination in respect of employment and  Contributing to the SDGs, Developing 
Message from our CEO right to collective bargaining  occupation  sustainability solutions for clients, Active 
Active ownership, Remuneration Contributing to the SDGs, Developing  ownership 
P rinciple 1 sustainability solutions for clients, Active 
Businesses should support and respect the  P rinciple 4 ownership, Diversity and inclusion Principle 10
protection of internationally proclaimed human  Businesses should uphold the elimination of all  Businesses should work against corruption in all its 
rights  forms of forced and compulsory labor   Principle 7 forms, including extortion and bribery 
Contributing to the SDGs, Developing  Contributing to the SDGs, Developing  Businesses should support a precautionary  Active ownership, Business ethics
sustainability solutions for clients, Active  sustainability solutions for clients, Active  approach to environmental challenges 
ownership, How we integrate sustainability  ownership, How we integrate sustainability  Contributing to the SDGs, Developing 
in procurement and limit our environmental  in procurement and limit our environmental  sustainability solutions for clients, Active 
footprint, Association memberships and  footprint ownership, How we integrate sustainability 
participation in external initiatives in procurement and limit our environmental 
Principle 5 footprint
Principle 2 Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of 
Businesses should make sure that they are not  child labor  Principle 8
complicit in human rights abuses  Contributing to the SDGs, Developing  Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote 
Contributing to the SDGs, Developing  sustainability solutions for clients, Active  greater environmental responsibility 
sustainability solutions for clients, Active  ownership, How we integrate sustainability  Contributing to the SDGs, Developing 
ownership, How we integrate sustainability  in procurement and limit our environmental  sustainability solutions for clients, Active 
in procurement and limit our environmental  footprint ownership, Association memberships and 
footprint participation in external initiatives
Principle 9
79    |   Sustainability Report 2020
APPENDICES
Contact Important information
Robeco This report has been carefully prepared and  Robeco has a license as manager of UCITS and 
Weena 850 presented by Robeco Holding B.V. including its  AIFs from the Dutch Authority for the Financial 
3014 DA ROTTERDAM subsidiaries (Robeco). Robeco Institutional Asset  Markets (AFM) in Amsterdam, the Netherlands.
THE NETHERLANDS Management B.V. is one of the subsidiaries of 
robeco.com Robeco Holding B.V. Both are incorporated in 
the Netherlands. It is solely intended to provide 
If you have any questions or comments  the reader with information on corporate 
regarding this report, please contact  responsibility within Robeco. It does not constitute 
Robeco Corporate Communications via   an offer to sell or solicitation of an offer to buy any 
cc@robeco.com investment product or program offered by Robeco 
and is not intended to be used as the basis for an 
Publication date: 28 April 2021 investment decision.
© 2021 Robeco Corporate Communications
The content of this report is based upon sources 
of information believed to be reliable, but no 
warranty or declaration, either explicit or implicit, 
is given as to their accuracy or completeness. This 
report is for professional investors only and is not 
intended for distribution to or use by any person 
or entity in any jurisdiction or country where such 
distribution or use would be contrary to local laws 
or regulations.
All rights relating to the information in this report 
are and will remain the property of Robeco. No 
part of this report may be reproduced, saved in an 
automated data file or published in any form or by 
any means, either electronically, mechanically, by 
photocopy, recording or in any other way, without 
Robeco’s prior written permission.
80    |   Sustainability Report 2020