
Corporate Sustainability Report
March 2019
Imagine.  Invest.  Impact.
02 08 22 30 38
Introduction It starts with us  Investing with  Unlocking   Our pledges
Sustainability report 01
purpose solutions
Introduction
“Finance is vital within a modern society 
– it provides funds to borrowers like 
businesses, start-ups and governments, 
and enables savers to provide for their 
future. As well as acting in the best 
interests of our customers and helping 
grow the value of their assets, we need 
to do this in a way that takes account of 
our wider responsibilities to society and 
the environment, helping to channel 
Keith Skeoch and Martin Gilbert investment to solve issues such as  Sandy MacDonald, Head of Corporate Sustainability
inequality and climate change. This is 
a vital way of delivering our ongoing 
Following a year of significant transformation, now is a good time  Our sustainability strategy has been developed to incorporate each aspect 
commitment to the UN Global Compact 
to reassess our company sustainability strategy and reporting.  where we have influence and impact – as an employer, in partnership, and 
and delivery of the UN Sustainable  To develop our revised framework we considered our company  through investments. While we have a clear overarching framework, there 
Development Goals.” purpose; to invest for a better future, as well as our values and   are challenges. Bringing together two companies of this scale is complicated. 
key trends. Add to that the transfer of our UK insurance and pensions business to Phoenix 
group, and it means we have to start again to build new baseline data for areas 
As the shape and focus of our business has changed, expectations 
such as our environmental data and targets. But change brings opportunity 
of our stakeholders and the ways in which we impact society and 
as well as challenge. There are a number of areas where we know we want to 
the environment have also changed. As an asset management 
improve, such as representation of different demographics in our workforce, 
company, expectations have never been higher. Clients want us to 
and areas where we know we can continue to have a positive contribution, 
help them to navigate a complex and volatile landscape to meet 
such as through community programmes, building the availability of high 
their investment needs. Society rightly expects us to consider a 
quality financial advice and developing the positive ESG impact of our 
wider range of responsibilities and not only deliver the investment 
investment solutions. So we’ve taken this opportunity to set more ambitious 
returns or risk management our clients are looking for, but also 
plans for maximising our positive impact and integrating action to support the 
consider wider impacts on communities and the environment. 
UN Sustainable Development Goals.
Active investment management in particular offers tremendous 
opportunities to add value to many different stakeholders. How 
we allocate capital, the influence we exert, the questions we ask, all 
make a difference to help create the kind of future world we want 
to live in.
We use various mechanisms to help us identify what’s expected. 
This can include sustainability indices, such as DJSI and FTSE4Good, 
and frameworks such as the UN Sustainable Development Goals. 
The global goals offer one of the clearest shared visions we have for 
what a better future looks like. We have bigger potential than most 
to help contribute positively to this vision. One of the challenges 
we face when reporting our impact is that because we invest our 
clients’ money across industry sectors and asset classes we are 
indirectly having an impact across every one of the goals. We are 
reliant on the assets we invest in being able to measure and report 
their impact, and that is often not yet the case. Active engagement 
can help us to understand material concerns and discuss 
opportunities to improve performance for mutual benefit. As well 
as our impact across all the goals, we have a particular focus on SDG 
8, Decent Work and Economic Growth, and you will see how we’re 
You can read our 12 pledges 
developing and measuring our impact towards this goal elsewhere 
on page 38
in this report.
02 Sustainability Report Sustainability report 03
Our company strategy Our sustainability strategy
 
Imagine
Our purpose - To invest for a better future
.
We do it to make a difference. To our clients, the lives of our customers, 
our people and our shareholders.
Invest
Our vision - To build a world-class investment company
A modern, dynamic global business which has the talent, scale and   .
high-performing investment solutions to compete against the leading 
asset management companies across the world.
Our company values Impact
.
Create connections Adapt and excel Deliver what matters
We bring together our diverse  We don’t stand still. We  We relentlessly focus on 
talents, perspectives and  improve, challenge, learn and  delivering outcomes that 
insights and use our collective  innovate to earn our place in  truly matter to our clients and 
intelligence to deliver value.  the future. We are ambitious,  customers. We build trusted  Every day we demand more from ourselves and from others, so we can 
We remain true to our shared  our sights are set on excellence  relationships. We do the right 
create innovative solutions that support people now, while building a 
purpose, working as one  and our minds are open  thing and are empowered to 
team and with all our external  to ideas.  make a difference.  better tomorrow.
partners to build better futures.
It starts with us 
Our vision for a better future starts with asking more of ourselves. Every day we look 
for ways to go further for our clients and customers, to be a better and more inclusive 
employer, to strengthen our governance and to reduce our environmental impacts. 
Our strategic objectives Investing with purpose   
Client and customer centricity We integrate ESG research and analysis into our investment process as standard. Across 
Our primary focus is delivering for our clients and customers – this means working to  industries and borders, we use our insight to connect our clients to opportunities that 
grow their assets while laying the foundations for a better future.
understand and meet their needs while building lasting partnerships.
Unlocking solutions 
Enhancing our operations
The best innovations start with an idea and end with impact. They are informed by the 
Helping our people be more productive, simplifying our ways of working and  bigger picture and shaped by the small details to support the best that is possible from 
managing our costs effectively enables us to invest for growth. people. Through products and services that enable financial wellbeing to innovative 
social and environmental programmes, we provide solutions that can be measured 
beyond money alone. Together, we’re helping to build a better future for all of  
Innovating for the future
our stakeholders. 
Investing in leading edge capabilities helps us attract clients and customers, enhance 
relationships and develop smarter ways of working.
Valuing our savings ecosystem
Optimising the breadth and depth of our investment management, platform and 
KPMG have provided 
advice ecosystem, along with our geographical reach enables us to meet the savings 
Read KPMG's 
limited assurance on 
needs of clients and customers around the world.
full assurance 
KPIs marked in this 
KPI statement
report with this symbol
04 Sustainability Report Sustainability report 05
UN Sustainable Development Goals
Modern slavery Social mobility
SDG Target
SDG Target 8.5 By 2030, achieve full and productive 
8.7 Take immediate and effective measures  employment and decent work for all women 
to eradicate forced labour, end modern  and men, including for young people and 
slavery and human trafficking and secure the  persons with disabilities, and equal pay for 
prohibition and elimination of the worst forms  work of equal value
of child labour, including recruitment and use 
of child soldiers, and by 2025 end child labour  Our Target
in all its forms We will develop a 2030 social mobility action 
plan and targets in 2019
As a global investment company we have a significant opportunity to help contribute 
positively to the global goals. We invest our clients’ money across industry sectors, 
Page 12 Page 16
asset classes and geographies so are indirectly having an impact across every one of 
the goals. We have a particular focus on SDG 8, Decent Work and Economic Growth, 
through our focus on fair work and inclusive employment. SDG 17, Partnerships for the  Employment  Power Up Scotland Kickstart Money
Goals, underpins everything we do as we believe working with others enables greater 
opportunities fund
impact. You will see the key goals that we focus on highlighted throughout the report.
SDG Target SDG Target SDG Target
8.5 By 2030, achieve full and productive  8.3 Promote development-oriented policies  8.10 Strengthen the capacity of domestic 
employment and decent work for all women  that support productive activities, decent job  financial institutions to encourage and 
and men, including for young people and  creation, entrepreneurship, creativity and  expand access to banking, insurance and 
persons with disabilities, and equal pay for  innovation, and encourage the formalization  financial services for all
work of equal value and growth of micro-, small- and medium-
sized enterprises, including through access 
to financial services
Page 34 Page 34 Page 36
Get Hired Gender balance  Renewable electricity
SDG Targets
SDG Target SDG Target 7.2 By 2030, increase substantially the share 
4.4 By 2030, substantially increase the  5.5 Ensure women’s full and effective  of renewable energy in the global energy mix
number of youth and adults who have  participation and equal opportunities for 
relevant skills, including technical and  leadership at all levels of decision-making in  7.3 By 2030, double the global rate of 
vocational skills, for employment, decent jobs  political, economic and public life improvement in energy efficiency
and entrepreneurship
Our Targets Our Targets
We will procure 100% renewable electricity 
33% of our Board and 33% of our executive 
at the offices we operate across the globe 
population will be female by 2020
by 2020
We will continue to publish annual action  All the real estate ASI manages in the UK will 
plans for gender balance be powered by 100% renewable electricity 
by 2020, and we will increase the amount of 
renewable electricity procured globally
Page 36 Page 15 Page 18
Single-use plastics Climate change Biodiversity
SDG Target
12.5 By 2030, substantially reduce waste  SDG Target SDG Target
generation through prevention, reduction,  13.1 Strengthen resilience and adaptive  15.a Mobilize and significantly increase 
recycling and reuse capacity to climate-related hazards and  financial resources from all sources to 
natural disasters in all countries conserve and sustainably use biodiversity 
Our Target and ecosystems
Our Target
We will remove all single-use plastics from 
We will develop new 2030 Greenhouse Gas 
our offices by 2020
reduction targets and climate change strategy 
in 2019
Page 19 Page 21 Page 20
06 Sustainability Report Sustainability report 07
It starts with us
Our vision for a better future starts with asking more of 
ourselves. Every day we look for ways to go further for our 
clients and customers, to be a better and more inclusive 
employer, to strengthen our governance and to reduce our 
environmental impacts. 
08 Sustainability Report Sustainability report 09
A responsible approach Focusing on security
“We don’t just adhere to  Financial crime prevention 
the minimum standards  We are committed to minimising financial crime, protecting corporate 
expected of a corporate  and customer information and assets, and promoting a zero tolerance 
citizen – we go beyond.  approach to financial crime, bribery and corruption. We have policies 
A recent example I’m  and frameworks in place to help ensure that we only receive or pay 
particularly proud of is  money to or from clients, third parties, partners and suppliers that 
our global commitment to  we’ve identified as suitable to do business with. We run mandatory 
renewable electricity for  annual training for our employees which requires passing a test that 
our operations by 2020.”  confirms their understanding of both our policies and the part our 
people play. We also maintain a register for any gifts and 
entertainment we receive and provide. We have processes for 
reporting and reviewing breaches of our policies. In 2018 we  
had no breaches.
Mike Tumilty, Chief Operating Officer
Tax While we remain a strictly apolitical company,  Code of conduct and speaking up Cyber security
We recognise the importance of the contribution  we regularly meet with a cross-party range  Our global code of conduct describes the  Cyber security has rapidly become a major 
we make to public finances through our payment  of politicians, government ministers and civil  principles and standards that we hold ourselves  issue facing all large companies, and we are no  Cyber awareness week
of taxes. It’s important to us that our approach  servants to express our views, as well as working  to and ask all our employees to consider in every  exception. It is critical for both our business and 
reflects the interests of our stakeholders in a  closely with our trade bodies. Key topic areas:  decision and action they take. All our employees  customers that we manage this risk appropriately. 
balanced way. We have a tax policy, underpinned  receive training on the content and meaning of  In 2018 we held a Cyber Awareness Week,  Passwords
•  Corporate governance and stewardship  •  Cyber security is managed as a part of our 
by our tax principles, which take account of our  the code and are required, at least annually, to  focusing on sending safe emails, using the  We must ensure that we use strong 
- we attended select committee hearings  enterprise risk framework and our approach 
clients, shareholders, employees, tax authorities  confirm that they have read and agree to abide  cloud safely, password best practice, and  passwords. Using simple passwords can 
where we provided evidence for inquiries  to information security.
and the wider community. These principles guide  by its principles.  data privacy. make it easy for malicious individuals to 
including those related to the collapse of 
our processes, behaviours and decisions. •  We have multi layered controls in place to  access valuable information.
Carillion, and on executive pay. Our supplier code of conduct sets out the  Sending safe emails
help prevent attacks, and then to detect and 
We provide products to a diverse range of  standards we expect from our suppliers and  Email is a part of how we all do business,  We reminded our colleagues: 
•  Pensions dashboard - we have engaged  respond appropriately to incidents  
clients, from a variety of global locations – so  that we expect them to demand from their own  and being able to drop someone a quick 
extensively to promote the pensions  and events.  •  Never share your passwords
our savings and investment products are set  supply chains. email can make our daily lives a lot easier. 
dashboard initiative. When launched, it will 
up to follow each location’s tax legislation.  •  We use specialist external service providers  However, it is important that sensitive  •  Never mix business and  
We also follow local and international rules  allow savers to access information from  If our employees have any concerns we  to ascertain the effectiveness of our security  company information remains inside the  personal passwords
most pension schemes in one place online.  encourage them to report this to their manager. 
around reporting to tax authorities about our  control environment, security strategy and  organisation to protect our clients and to be  •  Never store your passwords on 
If they feel uncomfortable raising their concern 
customers’ investments. We engage openly with  •  Diversity and inclusion – we share ideas and  programme and governance processes. compliant with our regulators. your computer
using their normal reporting line, or wish to do 
tax authorities, government and representative  progress as we see diversity and inclusion  •  If you think someone knows it – 
so anonymously, an independently managed  •  Our cyber security policy and standards are  We reminded our colleagues: Do not send 
bodies ensuring we play our part in helping  as a collective responsibility for all firms and  change it!
confidential speak up hotline is available. All  aligned with industry good practice. company information to your personal 
to develop a sustainable framework for tax  sectors across the UK economy.
concerns raised are taken seriously and anyone  email addresses and ensure you have a  Data privacy
policy and legislation. We also submit Country  •  A dedicated department ‘Security, 
•  Brexit - we have engaged at the UK and  raising a concern in good faith will not be at  secure means of data transfer. Data breaches can come in the form of 
by Country Reporting to HMRC who share this  Resilience and Privacy’ supports our 
EU level to pursue a number of priorities,  risk of losing their job or suffering any form of  accidental or malicious attacks. We monitor 
information with relevant overseas   including mutual EU-UK regulatory  reprisal as a result, even if the concern is proved  business with all aspects of security.  Safe cloud use  behaviour over email and cloud services, 
tax authorities.  
recognition, continued ability to delegate  to be unfounded. This hotline is also advertised  •  We have ISO22301 certification for   Many of us use cloud services on a daily  and encourage self-reporting.
Engaging on public policy matters portfolio management services from the EU  to our suppliers who can use it in the same way.  Business Continuity. basis without even realising. It’s a common 
We want to represent the best interests of all  to third countries, and access to   15 incidents were reported and investigations  way to store information online, but it  We asked our colleagues to consider:
•  Dedicated teams are in place to effectively 
our stakeholders so take an active interest in a  specialised staff. carried out in 2018. comes with risks. •  Is it vital that you have access to the 
deal with emerging cyber threats and 
range of public policy issues which impact them.  criminal campaigns. Our response plans are  We reminded our colleagues: Follow  level of data you have?
tested regularly. company policy when using cloud services  •  When sharing data, do all recipients 
At a glance that process sensitive information.  need to see this data?
•  Cyber security awareness campaigns help 
•  When sending to a third party, do you 
our people understand the threats and how 
have permission to share this?
to improve their own, and our  
95 of our people have read and  Our total tax  £538m*
customers’ security.
% agreed to abide by our   contribution 
Code of Conduct principles for 2018 was
*continuing business only
10 Sustainability Report Sustainability report 11
Supporting people Our employees
“We want to develop 
a culture where we 
are inspired by our 
differences and united 
behind a common 
purpose. During 
this time of change, 
we have been really 
listening to our people 
so we can understand 
what they need and 
what actions we can 
take to make this a truly 
great place to work”
Rose Thomson, Chief People Officer
Human rights policy Our customers and clients Culture and values In 2018 we ran an engagement survey so our  managers are leading through change and our 
Our investment research people could tell us how it currently feels to work  focus on inclusion, specifically that they feel able 
Our policy sets out our approach to  We continue to focus on putting customers  With the structural changes across our business 
for us and how they would like this to feel in the  to be themselves at work. We feel this is a real 
Investors are increasingly open to financial risks  identifying and upholding the human  and clients first. We develop relationships with  in 2017 and 2018, we know this has been a  future. 69% of our people responded. The overall  area of strength we can build on. In 2019, we will 
associated with human rights abuses. This can  rights of our people, customers  them based on trust and our ability to effectively  challenging time for our people. We have  engagement score was 56%. This represents the  progress actions to address the key themes from 
include operational disruption, reputational  and clients, community and those  meet their needs. We focus on understanding  worked hard to bring everyone together to  average score that employees gave for questions  the survey and enhance Standard Life Aberdeen 
damage and legal action. While consensus on  impacted by our suppliers, partners  what they want and put that at the centre of our  work towards a common vision by: measuring advocacy, pride, motivation and  as a place to work. We will also continue to 
internationally recognised human rights was  and the companies we invest in.  decision making. •  Relocating colleagues together in the same  job satisfaction.  measure and understand engagement, mood 
reached over 70 years ago, holding companies  As an investor we consider ESG  In 2018 we ran a survey among our clients,  offices around the globe, helping them to  and culture over the year ahead. 
legally responsible for their role in violations has  factors, including human rights,  The period of change in the business has been 
to measure their perceptions of what we do  create connections and  
faced particular challenges and often left victims  when evaluating companies. We  difficult for colleagues and this was reflected in 
and how well we do it. Our strengths included  strengthen relationships.
with no recourse to compensation. However,  assess the management of human  our results - specifically our people are looking  Engagement score
brand loyalty and confidence in our investment 
emerging legislation focuses on preventing abuses  rights impacts and engage when  expertise, however, the likelihood that our clients  •  Listening – to understand how they are  for further clarity on our strategic direction and  56
from occurring in the first place.  appropriate to highlight issues and  feeling and what action they would like  for action to be taken to minimise any barriers 
would recommend us to others decreased. 
promote good practice. us to take, and to ask for their input to co- to allow them to effectively carry out their role.  %
Regulations stipulating mandatory disclosures and  Given the challenges of our investment  create our new vision and values. Our colleagues felt positive about how their 
Modern slavery 
due diligence procedures are on the rise in the UK,  performance, we have used a variety of methods, 
EU and Australia. For example, France’s Corporate  statement including white papers, market analyses, and 
Duty of Vigilance Law took effect this year and  webinars to help our clients understand more 
We want to do all we can to help tackle 
requires large companies to establish vigilance plans  about performance and what we are doing to 
human trafficking, forced labour, 
as part of their annual report, which must address  address the issues.
bonded labour and child slavery. 
risks of environmental damage and human rights 
We focus on our operations, supply  In 2018, we also developed a new customer 
issues. Companies are not only required to disclose 
chain and investment processes. We  sentiment index - an innovative and scientific  In 2018 there was a significant 
their plan, but also to implement it. Other European  have published our 2018 statement,  measurement of how customers feel about  programme of work to articulate our  Create connections Adapt and excel Deliver what matters
countries are considering similar initiatives.
reinforcing our commitment to  doing business with us - which will be rolled  values. Around 1,800 of our employees, 
We bring together our diverse  We don’t stand still. We  We relentlessly focus on 
this important issue. It details our  out in 2019. It brings together multiple data  across all our locations, took the  talents, perspectives and  improve, challenge, learn and  delivering outcomes that 
Investors should take action to assess companies’  awareness raising activities both for  points and weightings producing a single index  opportunity to co-create and shape this  insights and use our collective  innovate to earn our place in  truly matter to our clients and 
human rights approach and their preparedness  intelligence to deliver value.  the future. We are ambitious,  customers. We build trusted 
our employees and externally, and has  providing a consistent reference point to help  work. We wanted our people to play a  We remain true to our shared  our sights are set on excellence  relationships. We do the right 
for new requirements. A robust approach to  an example of an engagement with an  us determine how customers are feeling and  key role in defining what we stand for.  pteuarmpo asned, w woitrhk ianlgl o aus ro enxet ernal  aton did oeuasr .m  inds are open  tmhainkge  aan ddif aferere enmcep.owered to 
ensuring respect for human rights will not only help  investee company on modern   allowing us to bring the voice of our customer  partners to build better futures.
companies to avoid potential legal penalties, but 
slavery issues. into Board meetings.
also offer competitive advantages by smoothing 
operations in complex environments and 
protecting brand value.  Read our Modern 
Slavery Statement
12 Sustainability Report Sustainability report 13
Inclusion and diversity
We are building an inclusive workplace where everyone can 
be themselves, is valued for what they bring and can reach 
their potential. Having a diversity of thought, perspective and 
creativity also creates value for our business and customers.
We have been taking action in a number of key areas and have 
been particularly focusing on transparency – being clear on where 
we are and where we want to be. This contributed to our industry 
recognition in 2018, with rankings for the first time in the Equileap 
Top 200 global companies gender index and the Bloomberg Gender-
Equality Index. 
In 2018 we: Gender balance Gender pay gap
•  Published our new inclusion strategy  and established inclusion  This is the first year we have reported a Standard  Read more about the 
An equal participation of men and women in 
action plans across our business channels and regions – incorporating  Life Aberdeen gender pay gap. Last year we  actions we are taking to 
our workplaces will improve both company 
regular review of progress. shared separate data sets for Standard Life  improve our gender balance 
profitability and the global economy. We are 
and Aberdeen Asset Management employing  and reduce our gender  
•  Established inclusion and diversity as an opening item at every board- committed to improving gender balance at all 
entities, as these were calculated before the  pay gap
level Nomination and Governance Committee meeting. levels in our business, from early careers up to 
merger. As at April 2018, our mean gender pay 
and including the Board, and to play our part 
•  Held four listening sessions hosted by our CEOs to hear directly from  gap was 40% and our mean gender bonus gap 
in influencing change across our industry.  
our people on inclusion and diversity, the outputs of which have  was 69% (last year mean gender pay gap for 
shaped our 2019 plan. As part of our UK Treasury Women in Finance  Standard Life was 42% and Aberdeen Asset 
Charter commitments, we reached our  Management was 34%, with both heritage 
•  Continued to support our range of executive-sponsored employee 
representation target for women in senior  companies reporting 70% bonus gaps). Our 
networks that champion diversity and inclusion. These are run by and 
roles (CEO-1 and CEO-2) in 2018, with a  pay gap is primarily the result of our workforce 
for our people, and include networks that support gender equality, 
7% increase to 34% since December 2017.  structure, with a greater number of men in 
mental health awareness, the Armed Forces community, LGBT+ 
However, the majority of this was at the CEO-2  senior roles – the roles that attract higher salary 
employees, carers, young employees, and that raise awareness of 
level. We know more work is needed at our  and bonus – and a greater number of women in 
issues affecting black, Asian and minority ethnic communities.
Executive Committee and Board levels. junior, lower paid roles.
•  Delivered our first gender action plan and published our 
We believe our actions to address our gender 
commitments for the next 12-18 months.
Gender targets pay and progression imbalance are the right 
•  Became a founding signatory of the UK Government’s Race at Work  We have published the following targets for  ones and that they are making a difference.  
Charter and published our first ethnicity action plan. women in different levels in our organisation: However, as the increase we see at senior level 
was driven by improvements at CEO-2 levels, it is 
not yet impacting our pay and bonus gaps.  This 
Target by   Actual  Actual   is because the pace of change is slow, reporting 
June 2020 31 Dec 2018 31 Dec 2018
is generated at different points in the year (eg 
Level % %³ Number gender pay gap figures are April 2018, whereas 
Board 33 KPI 25 3 of 12 we have seen increases in representation 
levels throughout the year to December 2018), 
Executive1 33 KPI 34 80 of 235
and because the most significant progress in 
Entire   50² KPI 45 2,801 of 6,192
global   reducing pay and bonus gaps will be seen when 
workforce
there is increased representation of women at 
Entire   50² KPI 45 2,119 of 4,727 most senior (CEO-1), highest paid levels.
UK  
workforce
1 People employed in roles across the two leadership levels below 
CEO, excluding admin employees. Our CFO and CIO, who sit on our 
Board, are included in both our Board and Executive populations.
2 Target has a tolerance of 3%.
3 Data is prepared in accordance with our reporting methodology and 
the KPIs are within KPMG’s limited assurance scope. 
14 Sustainability Report Sustainability report 15
Inclusion and diversity
Ethnicity LGBT+ there to help if someone is having difficulty 
Social mobility Early stage careers
coping with a work or personal issue, to just 
Making sure people from all backgrounds  Through our partnership with The Prince’s Trust,  We were one of the founding members of  We want our colleagues to be themselves  asking a colleague how they are. Our Singapore 
get fair and equal opportunities to  we have held Get Hired! days in Edinburgh and  the Race at Work Charter which commits  at work. In 2018, our people attended Pride  office organised a variety of activities such as 
progress is a vital issue. We collaborate  London to introduce young people looking for  organisations to tackling barriers that ethnic  events across the globe and we sponsored the  meditation and yoga, and colleagues in our 
with partners across different sectors to  work to businesses looking for talented recruits.  minority people face in recruitment and  Edinburgh event. Edinburgh office held a Tea and Talk session.
provide targeted interventions at different  The speed-dating style recruitment includes  progression. As part of our commitments  LGBT Great, the organisation focused on 
life stages– helping to tackle the root  interviews and networking with local businesses,  we launched our ethnic diversity action  improving equality and inclusion in the 
Agile working 
causes of inequality and lack of social  supported by colleagues. Through our  plan detailing actions underway to improve  investment industry, launched the #hereiam 
mobility. We’ve had a particular focus on  Edinburgh Guarantee Scheme and Investment  attraction, retention and development  campaign to encourage and support LGBT+  Agile working empowers and supports people 
young people in school and in the early  20/20 involvement we provide opportunities  of ethnic minority talent.  These actions  individuals to become more visible. One of our  to work where, when and how they choose 
stages of their careers. In recognition of  for young people to join the workforce  are based on feedback from a variety of  SLA role models Donald Amstad was featured in  to deliver in the best way for both them and 
our approach, we were named as one of the  through 6-12 month internships so they can  conversations with colleagues about their  this campaign. the company. It’s multi-dimensional, and can 
Top 50 employers in the UK Social Mobility  gain valuable skills to help them progress to a  experiences at work, supported by   be about flexibility in hours, location or about 
Employer Index 2018. positive destination – employment, training or  external benchmarking. Mental wellbeing doing work differently. In 2018 we focused on 
further education. We’ve been taking part in the  In 2018 we provided employment  broadening the conversation from flexible 
Edinburgh Guarantee scheme for 6 years – 172  opportunities to ethnic minority young people  Anyone can suffer from negative mental  and part time working, to how agility is critical 
School children
young people have taken part, 96% have gone  through the Taylor Bennett Foundation, The  health – it’s important we recognise this, have  in creating a modern global workplace for 
We partner with the charity Career Ready,  on to positive destinations. Prince's Trust, Social Mobility Foundation and  conversations, and provide support. In 2018  our multi-generational workforce, clients and 
which focuses on connecting young people to  Career Ready. we launched our newest employee network,  customers. Much of our business is already 
the world of work and helping them progress  Mind Matters, to continue promoting the  working in this way. To support this further we 
Broader influence Across the globe we celebrated a number of 
into employment or further education. To date  understanding of mental health, and to break the  have agile working guidelines, we encourage 
events with our people including Songkran 
our people have mentored 113 young people  We have been UK Living Wage accredited  stigma surrounding it. our people to have team conversations to raise 
(Thai New Year) in April, Eid al-Fitr to mark the 
and, crucially, the students have also benefited   since 2014 and this extends to our interns  awareness of each other’s preferences and 
end of Ramadan (the Islamic holy month of  We also ran our Developing a Mentally Healthy 
from paid 4-week work experience placements.  and apprentices – ensuring these routes are  styles, and we share case studies of colleague 
fasting) in June, and Diwali (the Indian Festival  Workplace workshops for managers and 
accessible for those without household wealth  experiences of working in an agile way.
of Lights) in November. employees across the UK to promote awareness 
behind them. We are also a Living Wage Friendly 
of mental health and encourage an open culture 
Funder, supporting our charity partners to pay a 
where people feel able to discuss their mental  Armed forces community
living wage.
We won the Outstanding  Read our ethnic diversity   health in the workplace. In 2018 we received the Gold level, Ministry of De-
Leadership Award at the Living  We signed up to the Social Mobility Pledge,  action plan On World Mental Health Day we asked colleagues  fence Employer Recognition Scheme award – the 
Wage Expo 2018, hosted by  which commits businesses to a series of actions 
to think about the ways we can all make small,  highest honour for companies that demonstrate 
Living Wage Scotland by  to help break down barriers to work, and hosted 
but significant changes to improve mental health  and advocate support for the armed forces com-
Justine Greening MP on her visit to Scotland to 
going above and beyond our  for ourselves and for others - from speaking to  munity, and align their values with the Armed 
promote social mobility. We are also working 
Living Wage accreditation and  one of our Mental Health First Aiders who are  Forces Covenant.
with them to help develop and share best 
championing the Living Wage
practice to achieve a wider, lasting impact. 
16 Sustainability Report Sustainability report 17
Our environmental impact
The environmental impact of our operations is relatively small 
compared to other sectors, but it’s important that we do what we 
21 can to reduce it. Our direct footprint is mostly comprised of 
%
Energy use business flights and the energy we use in our buildings. To reduce 
our impacts in these areas we track our consumption, pursue 
68
% ongoing improvements in building management, and encourage 
Business travel
our people to reconsider the need for air travel through 
CO2e 
technology solutions. We also encourage our people, and those 
emissions we work with, to minimise their environmental impact through 
our Global Code of Conduct and Supplier Code of Conduct.
Our greatest impact is through how we invest our customer and 
clients’ money.
We commit to eliminating avoidable single-use plastic by 2020, 
ahead of the UK target of 2042. 
As we would expect from the companies  Focus on business travel Focus on single-use plastics “Single-use plastics are typically 
we invest in, we believe in having a robust  As we’ve reduced our emissions from energy  used only once before they 
We have had waste reduction targets for a long 
greenhouse gas emissions baseline  through energy efficiency measures and have 
and ambitious targets for reducing our  become a more global organisation, we’ve seen  An operational example time and, with the increase in interest over  are thrown away or recycled.  An investment example
environmental impacts. However due to  business travel become an increasing proportion  marine plastic waste in the news and media, our  We asked people at two of our 
people asked us to go even further. Therefore, 
structural changes within the business it has  of our carbon footprint. Business flights  We own and operate a small number  largest offices if they wanted  In 2018, Aberdeen Standard Investments 
in 2018, we committed to: minimising our use 
not been possible to state a baseline for our  accounted for 68% of our emissions this year, and  of offices, and an increasing number of  disposable cups removed for just  (ASI) were signatories to two investor 
of plastics, reducing the environmental impact 
emissions until this year. We will be developing  >£13m in terms of costs.  leased office spaces. We consider our  letters regarding plastic pellet pollution, 
of waste plastics and beating the UK target of  World Oceans Day… or forever.  A 
ambitious targets to reduce this in 2019.  environmental impact for both. For  the second largest direct source of 
eliminating avoidable single-use plastic waste  massive 91% said forever.”  
Focus on energy use We are significantly cutting our travel and  example, we lease the third and fourth  before 2020. We will not only strive to do this  ocean micro-plastics. The first letter, 
expenses budget in 2019. This will have positive  floors of Aurora in Bristol, the only  Ann Meoni, Corporate Sustainability and  organised through the PRI, requests 
at our UK locations but also in all our offices 
Energy use within our offices accounts for 21%  financial and environmental impacts. We’ve  building outside London to achieve the  Environment Manager  companies to commit to zero pellet loss 
worldwide where practicable. 
of our carbon footprint. Our strategy is to reduce  asked all our functions to explore alternatives to  BREEAM ‘Outstanding’ environmental  in their operations and supply chain and 
Our message is simple: we want to reduce, reuse 
this impact through energy efficiency and  travel for meetings – for example by using video  award under the new rating scheme. It  to publish progress in annual reports.  
and recycle – focusing heavily on reducing and  We’ve achieved a lot in 2018, and are now using 
purchasing all our electricity from renewables.  conferences, to plan ahead, consider the flight  also holds a LEED Gold   The second letter is organised through 
only looking at reusing and recycling where no  over 1 million fewer disposable cups a year 
class and to make more efficient use of travel.  sustainability standard.  the Investor Forum and requests that 
This year, in support of the first ever Green  alternative is available. To support this and raise  but this is just the start. Our policy lays out a 
We hope this supports a strong reduction in  standards bodies include plastic pellet 
GB Week, we pledged to procure 100% of our  awareness across our business we published our  number of targets to be achieved and we will be 
emissions from business travel in 2019.  The site benefits from features such as  management in their existing standards.
electricity in our global offices from renewable  single-use plastics policy. A big focus for us is  updating on our progress in 2019.
rooftop solar panels, intelligent LED 
sources by 2020. disposable cups which aren’t commonly recycled  We also engaged with companies 
lighting and water saving technology, all 
and some of our sites were using thousands a  producing plastics and carried out 
of which help to reduce running costs.
week. We had already been encouraging our  research on how increased interest 
people to start bringing their own cups, or using  in plastics might impact on company 
The building is also designed to 
our reusable mugs and glasses. And, on 8th June  performance and what these companies 
maximise natural light through floor 
– World Oceans Day - with our people’s support,  are doing to manage this risk  
to ceiling glazing, ensure fresh air 
we began removing disposable cups completely.  and opportunity.
circulation and offer inspiring shared 
We then rolled this out to all our global offices as 
space including a rooftop garden. It has 
well as removing plastic water bottles from our 
bicycle storage facilities, lockers and 
meeting rooms. 
showers on site.
At a glance
70
Our total greenhouse  32,218  KPI of our electricity 
gas emissions for 2018 is tCO2e* % currently comes 
from renewables
*continuing business only
18 Sustainability Report Sustainability report 19
Our environmental impact
Focus on biodiversity Focus on climate change This is why we don’t just look at how carbon  TCFD
intensive businesses are, but through  Established in 2016 by the G20, the Taskforce 
Insects such as bees, flies, moths, butterflies  An investment example Climate change is one of the biggest risks facing  engagement we assess what their strategies are  on Climate-related Financial Disclosures 
and beetles are incredibly important in their  the world, from chronic climatic changes like  to manage the transition to a low carbon world  (TCFD), seeks to develop a framework for 
role as pollinators – helping to create beautiful  rising sea levels, to acute changes like increased  and whether they are meeting their aspiration  consistent company disclosures on the financial 
landscapes and produce many of the crops we  ASI manages the Roaring Meg Shopping  for plants and animals that need more open  extreme weather. There are also regulatory  in this regard. implications of climate change risks. 
rely on. This year to support pollinating species Park in Stevenage, UK. This is a retail park  habitats. And we’ve restored some ancient  changes that, under the Paris Agreement, each 
we installed two bee hives at one of our offices,  which also includes 1.5 acres of woodland  hedgerows, thus creating natural corridors  country must determine in order to mitigate  In real estate investment, our ESG policies  The final recommendations were published 
built planters for wildflowers at another office,  - part of Monk’s Wood, a much larger area  and boundaries that support plant life  global warming with the aim of only increasing  both aim to reduce the emissions from the  in June 2017 and are focused on 4 pillars: 
and held educational sessions for our people.   of ancient woodland. Any building forms  and make the environment more visually  global temperatures by 1.5 ºC to 2 ºC. These  development and management of properties  Governance, Strategy, Risk Management and 
a part of the community in which it exists.  attractive for visitors.  have both positive and negative implications for  and also take into account the risks that climate  Metrics & Targets. 
That is why, in collaboration with Workman,  financial markets and thus the performance of  change poses to both existing and proposed 
This year we have launched two Climate 
our managing agent, we have been focusing  We’ve combined our environmental  the companies we invest in. sites. Integration of these considerations into 
Change Working Groups. One group is for our 
on enhancements which benefit both the  initiatives with a variety of social projects  our fund management doesn’t mean that 
Operationally we have been focusing on  investment approach with representatives from 
environment and community.  to integrate Roaring Meg into the local  investors have to accept higher fees or lower 
community. These include allowing small  reducing our greenhouse gas emissions for  returns. Embedding best practice into every  a wide range of business areas and asset classes 
A key initiative has been the installation of  groups to visit the beehives for educational  many years; however our biggest impact  aspect of real estate management makes  to provide direction and validate our climate 
two beehives. We’ve also planted a variety  experiences and bottling the bees’ honey  is through how we allocate money in our  our properties more valuable, efficient and  change strategy and action plans. 
of wildflowers, trees and bushes. These  so that our tenants can use it to raise charity  investment funds. The shift required for the  attractive. It’s a win-win. The second group focuses on our operations 
include knapweed, which is an important  donations from their customers. We’re also  world to stay within  1.5 ºC to 2 ºC has huge  such as our greenhouse gas emissions, 
source of pollen for bees, common teasel,  looking to build stronger links with local  ramifications, especially on communities and  ASI is a member of the Institutional Investors  reduction activities and TCFD implementation. 
which provides food for birds, woundwort  schools and develop the woodland area as  economies who are highly dependent on   Group on Climate Change, a signatory of the 
This group has already assessed the operational 
and yellow rattle, which boosts plant  an educational resource.  fossil fuels.  Global Investor Statement on Climate Change, 
financial risks and opportunities climate change 
diversity by restricting the growth of grass.  an active member of Climate Action 100+ and 
“We have a role to play in  poses to our business and is integrating this into 
Meanwhile, hazel trees support caterpillars,  Our ESG initiatives at Roaring Meg have  supports the Transition Pathway Initiative which 
our risk processes. 
dormice and ground-nesting birds, while  a clear, positive impact on the local  financing a just energy transition  assesses companies’ readiness for a low- 
holly bushes allow birds to nest and offer a  environment and community. But they  and supporting companies to shift  carbon economy.
good source of dry leaves for hibernating  also enhance our investment in the retail 
away from fossil fuels.” 
mammals to shelter in. We’ve also created  park. They make the shopping park more 
log piles in the neighbouring woodland  attractive for visitors through the greater  Eva Cairns, ESG Investment Analyst -
to provide appropriate habitats for wood  diversity of plant and animal life in the area,  Climate Specialist. 
wasps, woodlice and beetles. We’ve used the  and they create a positive perception of 
traditional forest-management technique  Roaring Meg that can only help to  
of coppicing to create suitable conditions  encourage visitors. 
20 Sustainability Report Sustainability report 21
Investing with 
purpose
We integrate ESG research and analysis into our investment 
process as standard. Across industries and borders, we use our 
insight to connect our clients to opportunities that grow their 
assets while laying the foundations for a better future.
22 Sustainability Report Sustainability report 23
Our approach Active stewards and owners
The money we invest belongs to our clients, so it is important  We expect the companies in which we invest to be good 
that we consider the long-term environmental, social and  corporate citizens and aim to positively influence their 
governance (ESG) issues that may affect its value when we are  behaviour. We maintain constructive relationships with 
making decisions about how and where to invest.  investee companies to understand their risks, opportunities 
and any actions they are taking. In some situations, active 
“By integrating ESG issues more 
engagement also means spelling out why we believe they are 
comprehensively into our assessment of 
acting inappropriately. This includes casting our votes in line 
the sustainability of business models in  with our investment views. In rare instances, we may speak 
our investment processes,  we are able to  with the media, harden our voting position or engage with 
parliamentary and regulatory bodies.
deliver more robust outcomes for our 
clients as well as contribute to broader 
positive change.” 
Rod Paris, Chief Investment Officer Euan Stirling, Global Head of ESG Investment
At Aberdeen Standard Investments (ASI),  Euan spoke at Persimmon’s AGM endangered by the reputational damage 
when deciding to invest in a company’s shares,  on 25 April 2018 associated with grossly excessive pay.
a property or any other asset, we want to  “My reason for attending the AGM was  I understand that the executive team at 
understand everything material there is to know,  Women, ESG and investing survey to explain the votes that we cast against  Persimmon have been very successful 
especially the risks and opportunities. Our in  the approval of 2017’s remuneration  and are highly regarded in the industry 
depth research enables us to do this and to  In conjunction with YouGov 9,000 people were surveyed and we found that the majority of  report which outlined part of the sums  for their technical and managerial 
identify innovative businesses and projects to  investors, particularly women, care about where their money is invested. accruing to the group’s executives under  expertise. But being a company director, 
allocate capital to. We want to be responsible  •  24% of women compared to 20% of men like the idea that their investment choices  the Long Term Incentive Plan which was  and in particular a Chief Executive, 
stewards of the asset – for example, encouraging  could make a positive difference in the world. Only 9% of women are not interested in  established in 2012. requires more. It requires a broader 
good behaviours in companies that we invest  where or how their money is invested.  context. It requires a personal motivation 
Regardless of any moral or societal 
in. We believe this not only enhances the value 
that goes beyond simply amassing a 
•  When asked about where their money is currently invested, 36% of women (compared  duties, company directors have a legal 
of the investment, it also contributes to a fairer, 
to 30% of men) assumed that their financial product provider is not investing their  responsibility to act in the best long-term  fortune. It requires an understanding 
more sustainable world. 
money in companies which are not appropriate but they simply do not know if this is  interests of the company that   of where the company sits within the 
Our research shows this is something that  actually the case. employs them. society within which it operates. Little of 
individuals increasingly expect. that is evident currently at Persimmon.”
Their remuneration results suggested 
that the executive directors at Persimmon 
had lost sight of that because the long- Read the full transcript here
term success of the company is being 
Our ESG investment 
philosophy
Fulfilling our fiduciary  We aim for better  We are active stewards  Putting the ‘long-term’ 
responsibilities risk-adjusted returns and owners in long-term investing
Our primary goal is to generate  We focus on understanding the  We actively undertake informed  We see ESG factors as being 
the best long-term outcomes for  ESG risks and opportunities of  and constructive engagement to  financially material and impacting 
our clients our investments alongside other  improve our investee companies  corporate performance
financial metrics to make better  and generate better performance  At a glance
investment decisions for investors
4,875
We publish details of our global voting  We voted at   
activity, providing transparency over why 
shareholder meetings in 2018
and how we are using our shareholder votes. 
24 Sustainability Report Sustainability report 25
Company engagement case study  ESG research
Our in depth research helps us make informed investment choices 
and is something we share publicly to help educate investors, 
Polypipe Group policymakers and other stakeholders.
Polypipe Group is a FTSE 250 
company in the construction and 
building materials sector. It is one 
of the UK and Europe’s largest and 
most innovative manufacturers of 
plastic piping and energy efficient 
ventilation systems. We are the 
company’s largest shareholder, 
owning 14% of the shares. 
While we are generally positive about the  “Aberdeen Standard Investments  ASI research institute “The most successful societies  Not only have the vast majority of 
governance structures at the company, regular  has been unusual in actually  blend strong economies that  developing countries converged 
We released our first major study from our newly 
engagement with the board and management 
initiating the dialogue on a  formed Research Institute “Social Capitalism:  have robust growth with healthy  on US and broader developed 
team is still a vital part of our stewardship of 
our clients’ investment in the company. In  number of occasions, not with  Taking a wider view of national progress”. The  environments, inclusive social  country living standards over the 
research presents a new way of comparing 
this capacity, we have always sought to be a  a view to finding fault but to  policies, representative political  past decade but in many cases 
countries’ economic and ESG performance. 
supportive shareholder, but challenging  ensuring that there is good mutual  institutions and fair legal  this has been accompanied by 
Utilising economic data and ESG scores for 
where necessary.
understanding about the whole  135 countries, we identified 46 countries  frameworks.  strong progress on sustainable 
We met the Chair in April 2018 and discussed a breadth of issues on which we  that are exceeding both their development- development objectives as well. 
range of governance issues including culture, adjusted growth and ESG benchmarks. The vast  Our results are evidence of the 
need to understand their position. This shows the supposed trade-off 
remuneration, board diversity, succession majority of these ‘Social Capitalist’ countries  benefits of more open economies 
planning, board evaluation and audit issues. It is refreshing to discuss these  are developing economies, and are prominent  and societies, a message that risks  between strong economies and 
We pushed the Chair to improve diversity on candidates to display sustainable economic  strong societies to be a false one.”
issues with a shareholder who  being lost amidst the wave of 
the board, especially with respect to gender development leadership over the next 20 years. 
diversity. We were pleased to see that the takes the time and trouble to  This makes them exciting areas for investment.  political populism that is sweeping  Jeremy Lawson, Head of the ASI  
function of the company secretariat was brought  engage in a dialogue about them  through the developed world  Research Institute
As a long-term, responsible investor, we felt the 
in-house during the year under review and that 
and it is also very helpful that their  and some prominent developing 
mainstream macroeconomic growth analysis 
the Board appointed a new female independent 
guidance tends to be pragmatic  serving the investment community was too  economies. 
director in June.
rather than dogmatic”. narrow in scope, focused too much on short-term 
After the AGM, our representative was given a  growth indicators and tended to fixate on large 
tour of one of the company’s plants in Doncaster  Ron Marsh, Board Chair for Polypipe Group Plc economies like the United States, Eurozone and 
by the CEO and the managing director of the  China. The study redresses such limitations by 
facility. This provided an opportunity to learn  developing a new indicator of national progress 
first-hand about its operations and to get a  that integrates ESG performance, aligned with 
better picture of the culture of the company.  the UN SDGs, with measures of longer-term 
This is in recognition that a company’s success is  economic performance and removes the 
based on the contribution of all employees, not  development bias that plagues most other 
just that of the CEO and other executive   approaches to ranking and comparing countries. 
board members.
26 Sustainability Report Sustainability report 27
Asset class case study – Real Estate
Managing £41bn in real estate assets, ASI are one of the largest real estate managers globally committed to 
sustainable investing and innovative solutions for clients.  
We own and manage around 1600 properties worldwide. By driving environmental and sustainable 
strategies throughout our real estate investment process, we have reduced energy consumption, 
greenhouse gas emissions and water use - generating savings of over £1m:
In 2018, as part of Green GB week, we made   We have been recognised by GRESB for  “We have been on a journey 
two commitments:  reaching significant environmental targets 
to ensure that we develop and 
in our real estate. Five funds were awarded 
1.  All the real estate ASI manages in the  manage properties that are built 
‘five star’ status, placing us in the top 20% of 
UK will be powered by 100% renewable  to last. The strong track record we 
our peers and three funds achieved ‘sector 
electricity by 2020, and we pledge to 
leader’ status, meaning we have the highest  now have with GRESB endorses this 
increase the amount of renewable 
ESG performance of our peer group. GRESB  commitment to sustainable, social 
electricity we procure for real estate 
has become the global ESG benchmark for 
investment globally. and environmental principles, 
real estate and infrastructure investments 
which are firmly embedded in 
2.  We have developed a strategy to make  covering over $3.6 trillion of assets worldwide. 
our real estate operations and 
the Airport Industrial Property Unit Trust  It measures a fund’s green performance and 
(AIPUT) real estate fund carbon neutral  sustainability, awarding stars for best practice. investment across the business. 
by 2025.
Not only does this deliver better 
financial outcomes and investment 
performance for our clients and 
tenants, but we have achieved 
The Airport Industrial  target to achieve carbon neutrality in this  improved environmental and social 
What’s next?
Property Unit Trust (AIPUT)  fund by 2025. Initiatives to achieve this  outcomes. Our aim is to create 
To obtain more data on the impact of ESG integration into our real estate 
include enhanced warehouse design, solar 
a positive society from the built 
We manage a portfolio of properties  approach, we have developed a database to examine the relationship 
PV installations, revolutionising vehicle use 
which provide warehouse and logistics  environment, providing the places  between an asset’s investment performance and its core ESG factors.  Initial 
and improving operational efficiency. Not 
accommodation at five of the UK’s  where people want to live, work,  findings indicate no detrimental effects from integrating ESG factors into 
only will this make the airports cleaner, safer 
international airports, namely Heathrow,  real estate investment management. And, in many instances, a positive 
and greener for local communities but it  shop and enjoy life.” 
Gatwick, Stansted, East Midlands and  contribution can be clearly demonstrated. This is the start, and the data set 
will also futureproof investor returns for the 
Glasgow. We have established a strategic  David Paine and Pertti Vanhanen -   is being expanded. However, if you can achieve at least market returns and 
long-term.
Global Co-Heads of Real Estate generate a positive environmental or social benefit, then why wouldn’t you?
28 Sustainability Report Sustainability report 29
Unlocking 
solutions
The best innovations start with an idea and end with impact. 
They are informed by the bigger picture and shaped by the 
small details to support the best that is possible from people. 
Through products and services that enable financial wellbeing 
to innovative social and environmental programmes, we provide 
solutions that can be measured beyond money alone. Together, 
we’re helping to build a better future for all of our stakeholders. 
30 Sustainability Report Sustainability report 31
Advice and support Ethical funds
Our aim is to respond to the  We develop products 
unmet and emerging needs  for the growing number 
of our customers. We involve  of people for whom 
them and collaborate with  ESG considerations or 
others to help develop the  responsible investing 
best solutions. are integral to their 
investment decisions.
Lesley Duncan, Deputy Head of UK Equities
Changes to the savings landscape have  lower cost to individuals. Tools that were  The ethical funds available within  “Since the financial crisis, there has 
continued to move risk and responsibility  only available to the few, we want to now  the market tend to work by avoiding  been a swell of interest in ethical 
away from companies and government  be available to the many.  The insight we  companies that profit from specific 
investing from people who want 
and on to individuals. However, many lack  are gaining from customers as we pilot and  activities such as the arms trade or tobacco 
both financial knowledge and confidence  develop this capability is also informing  sales. Our Standard Life Investments  to know that companies have high 
to navigate the often complicated options.  the development of our adviser platforms  ethical funds do have exclusions, but we  standards of business practice. The 
This is driving the need for simpler access  to enable advisers to better support   also target companies that seek to do good  advisory community has to show 
and engagement with products and  their clients.  in the communities in which they operate. 
it considered every angle and is 
services that help people invest and save 
We send an in-depth annual survey to our 
effectively, and increasing the demand for  We are also looking at the ways we are  well-informed on all the products 
investors who rank which criteria they find 
financial advice and guidance. However,  guiding people through their options, to  available. The regulator has made 
most important. This helps us to determine 
there is currently not sufficient capability in  make it simpler to understand and make 
how to invest the portfolio. These are a  it clear that simply box ticking 
the market to meet this demand. the right decision for them.
mix of positive (such as environmental  isn’t enough. 
and business practices) and negative 
Our business, 1825, is designed to provide  Combined, this helps us fulfil an important 
criteria (such as avoiding tobacco and  More recently, there has been 
financial advice, over the phone and face  social purpose - addressing the advice and 
defence companies). There has been an  a move towards funds that use 
to face. To support more people we are  savings gap, and providing people with 
increase in the number of positive criteria 
developing our digital advice capability  greater comfort over the financial decisions  positive screening methods and 
entering the top ten, which demonstrates 
with the aim of broadening access at a  they are taking. seek out stocks contributing  
how the responsible market has evolved. 
The survey also demonstrated a growing  to society”.
interest and concern on climate change.  
Lesley Duncan, Deputy Head of UK Equities
We have tightened the policy to reflect 
this, which ensures that all oil and gas  (fund manager of the SLI UK Ethical Fund which 
has recently celebrated its 20th anniversary and 
production and exploration companies are 
has outperformed the wider sector over 1, 3, 5, 7, 
excluded from the funds. 
10 and 20 years.)
There are always ethical grey areas to 
consider and through our Ethical Funds 
Advisory Group, we get external input 
from our customers to make the ethical 
decisions we face in running these funds. 
32 Sustainability Report Sustainability report 33
Impact Investing
Impact investing video
Most investors seek positive long term returns, 
but through our impact investing products 
we seek to give our clients more than just a 
positive financial return by investing only in 
companies that have the intention to make 
a positive environmental and social impact 
Our collaboration with The Big Issue Invest goes beyond launching our impact fund. 
through their products and services. Delivering 
We want to have a broader positive impact. Working with the organisation, and other 
the best of both worlds; profit driven investing 
partners, we focus on initiatives which support financial inclusion and the growth of social 
and measurable benefits for our society 
enterprises and businesses which help address societal and environmental issues.
and environment. We use the UN’s 17 SDGs, 
which prioritise the world’s most critical risks,  The Big Exchange
as a framework for deploying the capital we 
We are a joint lead partner and founder of the The Big Exchange, an initiative 
manage to support change. We believe that 
launched by The Big Issue Invest to build a more inclusive financial system. The 
extensive expertise and resources combined 
first step is to build a platform - The Big Funds – to help bring low cost, impact 
with an active approach to impact investing 
funds directly to individual customers. Launching during 2019, it will have a 
can deliver sustainable long term returns that  simple, mobile-first interface and include impact-focussed educational content 
broaden the definition of wealth    as well as a unique social passport which tracks how much good individuals are 
doing, for themselves and others, in support of the UN SDGs.
Employment  
Opportunities Fund
Power Up Scotland
We unveiled the UK Equity Impact  Employment  We are a lead partner, in conjunction with Edinburgh University and the Scottish 
Opportunities Fund this year in association with  Government, of Big Issue Invest’s Power Up Scotland programme, which aims to  “Our clients rightly expect 
The Big Issue Invest. The fund aims to support  be a £1 million lending scheme offering investment and support to early stage  us to keep innovating and 
SDG 8 - promoting inclusive and sustainable  social ventures across Scotland.  developing solutions which 
economic growth, full and productive 
The programme has been designed for social enterprises, charities, or private  help them achieve their 
employment and decent work for all. 
enterprises - with social value creation being the main criteria. Each applicant has  aspirations. And increasingly 
Creating good employment opportunities is  the opportunity to access loan funding of up to £50,000 to help them build on 
those aspirations are also 
one of the most significant benefits business  the good work they currently do within their communities. Successful applicants 
about how these products 
brings to society. The aim of the fund is to  also receive mentoring and business development support for a two year period. 
generate a financial return over the long term  Our people have provided over 1000 hours of mentoring support so far. can help them contribute to a 
by investing in companies which promote and  more sustainable society and 
The period poverty-tackling Hey Girls were one of 13 organisations that 
implement good employment opportunities 
successfully completed the programme. Their approach is based on a ‘buy one  world, as well as investing in 
and practices and that have the potential to 
give one’ model, meaning for every pack purchased another is donated to a  well governed entities.”
grow and sustain strong long-term  
person in need. Hey Girls products are now being stocked in major supermarkets 
financial returns.  and they are also a key provider in the Scottish Government’s initiative to  Campbell Fleming,  
We have an active engagement policy, allowing  provide free sanitary products to all pupils and students. Global Head of Distribution
us to engage with the companies, questioning 
Another example is Invisible Cities, who train people affected by homelessness 
their ability to deliver financial returns as well as 
to become walking tour guides of their own city, building their confidence and 
ensuring that the identified employment impact 
service skills to deliver a unique alternative tour to both tourists and locals.
remains a significant part of their objectives – 
an essential element of the fund’s strategy to 
Watch the full video here
achieve impact through pushing for change. 
34 Sustainability Report Sustainability report 35
Our social impact
“We have an amazing 
capacity through sharing 
our knowledge, skills and 
funding to have a big 
positive impact on society. 
Our programmes are 
designed to make a targeted 
and measurable long-term 
difference.”
Stephanie Leggett, Head of Sustainability Strategy and Reporting
Get Hired  In 2018, 1068 young people attended one  Emerging market charity partners   Year of Young People in Scotland We also provided funding to two Scottish 
of the Get Hired events. 462 of those young  based charities, The Youth & Philanthropy 
Get Hired is a programme run by The Prince’s  As a global investment company, we want to  The Year of Young People (YOYP) 2018 was a 
people made a positive change through skills  Initiative (YPI Scotland) and The Conservation 
Trust that we support nationally. Drawing  support positive social progress in regions  platform for all Scotland’s young people that 
development, securing further placements on  Volunteers (TCV).  YPI empowers young 
on our experience and insight, we helped  around the world. One way we achieve this is by  gave them a strong voice on issues which affect 
programmes or volunteer opportunities and  people to make a difference in their local 
set up the programme in 2014 offering paid  developing partnerships with charities tackling  their lives, showcased their ideas and talents 
379 were placed in to jobs. 40 of our employees  communities – each school taking part has a 
placements for young people to work for  the educational needs of disadvantaged young  and ultimately aimed to challenge status quo 
volunteered at the events in London   team which is responsible for directing a grant 
small business enterprises. The aim is to give  people in emerging market countries. and create a more positive perception  
and Edinburgh. to a charity addressing a social issue that they 
promising, but disadvantaged, young people  Each year, our employees vote to invest in a  in society.   are passionate about. We have committed 
their first experience of working life, and to  Kickstart Money different emerging market charity project,  With our strong focus on removing barriers  to supporting its efforts within 19 Edinburgh 
show business owners the value and experience  Research by the Money Advice Service and the  typically over a three year period. We partner  that young people face to employment and  schools over three years.  TCV offers a wide 
that young people can bring. Initially launched  UK Financial Capability Strategy shows that a  with charities that deliver real change on the  helping them achieving their aspirations, we  range of environmental activities for young 
in London,  it has now been rolled   significant proportion of the UK population  ground through long-term investments and  wanted to lend our support to this important  people to help protect and enhance local 
out nationally.  have never received financial education and  involvement of the local community, to deliver  initiative and amplify the voice and influence  greenspaces and biodiversity whilst learning 
The Get Hired events bring local businesses  lack the skills and knowledge to effectively  lasting impact. As part of the partnerships, a  of young people in society. In collaboration  new skills, getting fitter, engaging with the 
together with young people to support them  manage their money. To help increase the  group of our employees are encouraged to get  with Young Scot and Youth Scotland, we  environment and meeting other like-minded 
into employment in a ‘speed dating’ style  financial capability of a generation, we joined  involved in supporting each of the projects,  supported the special YOYP participation  people. Our funding helped to deliver three of 
setting. The events bridge the gap between  with a number of other savings and investment  building our insight and generating additional  certificate by covering the printing, delivering  their programmes.
businesses looking for a low-cost, time efficient  firms to back an initiative called KickStart  money and resources to support the projects. and administration, while the two youth  We also launched a report – Young People and 
recruitment process and young people who  Money. This collaborative project aims to  Current partners include Karen Hilltribes Trust  organisations managed the applications.  Money – in collaboration with Young Scot and 
are ready to move into work, but struggling to  deliver financial education to over 18,000  in Thailand, AbleChildAfrica, Hope for Children,  Around 11,500 certificates were delivered to  The Prince’s Trust, which hears directly from 
access the right opportunities.  primary school children across the UK, helping  and buildOn. young people who had volunteered or helped  young people about their spending, saving and 
to create a national savings culture.   to deliver any of the hundreds of events,  borrowing habits, and their hopes and fears for 
Each session involves an initial facilitated  projects and activities linked to YOYP.
The Money Advice Service launched a report  their financial futures.
workshop where the young people practice 
in 2018 on the effectiveness of Kickstart. They 
interview techniques and are provided with 
found the programme is making a long-
helpful feedback to prepare them for meeting 
term positive difference - three months after 
with employers for real-life interviews in the 
attending the programme, 70% of pupils were 
afternoon. Businesses then deliver 60-second 
working towards a saving goal.
pitches to promote their opportunities to the 
young people to attract the candidates. 
At a glance
£3.2  
15,118
Total charitable  Total volunteering 
m
giving in 2018 hours in 2018 hours
36 Sustainability Report Sustainability report 37
Our pledges Recognition
It starts with us
01 02 03
We will procure 100%  We will remove all single- We will develop new 2030 
renewable electricity at the  use plastics from our offices  Greenhouse Gas reduction 
offices we operate across  by 2020 targets and climate change 
the globe by 2020 strategy in 2019
04 05 06
We will develop a 2030  33% of our Board and 33%  We will continue to publish 
social mobility action plan  of our executive population  annual action plans for 
and targets in 2019 will be female by 2020 gender balance and 
ethnicity
Investing with purpose
07 08 09
We will publish policies  We will continue to focus on  All the real estate Aberdeen 
setting out our approach to  transparency - publishing  Standard Investments 
integrating ESG issues into  quarterly updates on our  manages in the UK will be 
each asset class over 2019 ESG engagements with  powered by 100% 
investee companies and  renewable electricity by 
details of all our  2020, and we will increase 
shareholder votes the amount of renewable 
electricity procured globally
Unlocking solutions
Better Society Awards DJSI FTSE4Good
10 11 12
At the 2018 Better Society Awards, we  For the 8th year in a row we have been  We’ve been ranked in the top 1% of 
received the Financial Services  recognised as a member of the Dow  our peers as part of the  
Through technological  We will carry out impact  Our strategy will make our  Company of the Year Award. The  Jones Sustainability Index. Our listing  FTSE4Good index. 
solutions we will open up  analysis on our community  Airport Industrial Property  judges noted that we were a strong  places us within the top 5% of leading 
advice and guidance to  investment programmes to  unit trust (AIPUT) real estate  all-rounder demonstrating  sustainable companies in our sector.
more people, increasing  further understand the  fund carbon neutral   responsible investment practices, 
availability in the market  areas that we can focus on  by 2025 innovation, employment programmes, 
and making financial  for greatest positive impact charity partnerships and involvement 
wellbeing more inclusive  right around the business in 
fundraising and volunteering.
38 Sustainability Report Sustainability report 39
Non-financial data
People Environment
Measure Unit 2018 2017* Definition Measure Unit 2018 2017* Definition
Number of employees number 6,192 9,931 Total global number of employees Scope 1 tonnes  2,667 3,518 Scope 1 GHG emissions from natural gas, fluorinated gases (f-Gas), fleet and diesel
CO2e
Employee training cost £m 6.9 7.1 External spend on employee training
tonnes 
Employee training hours hours 22.3 26.4 Average number of hours employees participated in training Scope 2 - Location based 7,069 14,717 Scope 2 GHG emissions from purchased electricity
CO2e
Percentage of employees in the company pension scheme, data covers FTE in the UK 
Employees in pension scheme % 95 97 which accounts for 78% of our workforce  Scope 2 - Market based tonnes  4,376 8,694 Scope 2 GHG emissions from purchased electricity
CO2e
Percentage of employees on our payroll who are contributing to one of our employee 
Employee share ownership % 57 55 share options Scope 3 - Location based tonnes  22,482 17,543 Scope 3 indirect GHG emissions from business air travel, electricity transmission and 
CO2e distribution losses, and electricity consumption by a third party data centre 
Number of employees that left the company within the past year as a percentage of the 
Employee turnover % 12 12 total number of employees tonnes  Scope 3 indirect GHG emissions from business air travel, electricity transmission and 
Scope 3 - Market based 22,106 17,118
Number of employees that left the company voluntarily within the past year as a  CO2e distribution losses, and electricity consumption by a third party data centre 
Voluntary turnover % 7 8
percentage of the total number of employees tonnes 
Total GHG emissions 32,218 35,778 Total GHG emissions
Number of employees that left the company involuntarily within the past year as a  co2e
Involuntary turnover % 6 4
percentage of the total number of employees tonnes 
Total GHG emissions per FTE (location based) 5.2 2.89 Total GHG emissions per FTE for the continuing business. 
Contractor FTE versus employee FTE % 14 13 Number of contractors as a percentage of total number of employees CO2e/FTE
Total contribution including cash, time, in-kind giving, pro bono contribution of service  Total GHG emission (Scope 1 and 2 only) per £m of total income  tonnes  Gross global combined Scope 1 and 2 emissions for the reporting year in metric tons 
Community spending £m 3.2 3.2 and management costs from continuing operations CO2e/£m 4.60 8.42* CO2e per unit currency total revenue
Paid volunteer time hours 15,118 16,037 Total number of hours employees have logged as paid volunteer time Total energy consumption MWh 35,017 57,115 Total energy consumption 
Employees represented by a staff association, representative or union % 79 84 The number of employees that belong to staff associations, have staff representatives Electricity used MWh 23,440 42,103 Total electricity consumption
or unions as a percentage of the total number of employees
Natural gas used MWh 10,109 15,012 Total natural gas consumption
Employee average age years 41 40 Average age of employees Electricity used under a green/ renewable tariff MWh 15,856 31,541 Total renewable electricity
Women in workforce % 45 47 Women employed at the company as a percentage of the total number of employees
Women in executive population % 34 27 Women employed at the company one and two reporting levels below the CEO as a 
percentage of the total number of employees. Administration assistants are excluded. Responsible business
Women on board % 25 25 Percentage of women on the Board of Directors
Percentage of the total number of UK employees who do not identify as White British/
Minorities in our workforce % 11 8 Measure Unit 2018 2017* Definition
English/Scottish/Welsh/Northern Irish
Disabled people in our workforce % 5 4 Percentage of the total number of UK employees who identify as disabled DJSI (Robecosam) Score % 96 96 Percentile ranking
Employee parents returning to work % 92 98 Percentage of the total number of UK employees who have returned to work following  FTSE4Good score % 100 97 Percentile ranking
maternity, paternity or shared parental leave
Number of suppliers signed up to our Supplier code of conduct through our 
Men taking shared parental leave % 16 n/a Percentage of the total number of men taking birth leave that choose to take shared  Number of suppliers signed up to the supplier code of conduct number 844 410 procurement system
parental leave (UK only)
Bribery and corruption breaches number 0 0 Number of bribery and corruption breaches
Full time to part time FTE % 90 88 Percentage of employees who are full time 
Whistleblowing calls  number 15 9 Whistleblowing notifications which resulted in investigation
Part time female/male % 90 91 Percentage of part time workforce that is female Compliance with code of conduct % 95 n/a Percentage of employees who have agreed to comply with code of conduct
Number of accidents at the company resulting in harm to employees (This number 
Assets under management in funds which fulfil specific ethical, values based, 
Workforce accidents - employees number 39 34 includes accidents resulting in harm to transferred employees for the 8 months prior to  AUM in SRI / client driven / sustainably driven funds  £bn 15 11.4
the sale on 31 August 2018). thematic, impact or SRI type requirements
Fatalities number 0 0 Number of contractor and employee fatalities
* Restated figure due to the sale of our insurance business
40 Sustainability Report Sustainability report 41
All figures have been calculated as at 31 December 2018 (unless otherwise indicated). This document has been published 
by Standard Life Aberdeen plc for information only. It is based on our understanding as at March 2019 and does not provide 
financial or legal advice.
Standard Life Aberdeen plc is registered in Scotland (SC286832)at 1 George Street, Edinburgh EH2 2LL.
www.standardlifeaberdeen.com
MUL966  0319                                 © 2019 Standard Life Aberdeen, images reproduced under licence. All rights reserved.