
Together
we invest 
for a better 
future
Corporate Sustainability Report 2019
How we invest today,
shapes the 
world we 
live in 
Keith Skeoch, 
Chief Executive Officer
tomorrow.
At Standard Life Aberdeen we distil our  We do this not only because it’s the  We are privileged in the level of impact 
sense of purpose into a single phrase:  right thing to do but because it helps us  we can have. For an issue such as 
Together we invest for a better future.  to identify opportunities and manage  climate change, we can manage our 
We know that alongside our critical  risks. Investment strategies that reflect  impact across our own operations, where 
responsibility to meet financial outcomes  society’s concerns about issues like  we have committed to become carbon 
for our clients and customers, we  climate change, fair work and inequality  neutral in the year ahead, through how 
also have a responsibility to consider  can direct capital in a way that seeks  we invest money and exercise our voting 
non-financial outcomes such as the  both a social and a financial return. rights, and through how we work with 
environmental and social impact.  How  our industry and civil society.    
Including the word ‘together’ in our 
we invest today, the role we play in the 
purpose is important. We do not operate  We are once again pleased to have 
broader financial system, and the way we 
in isolation, and many of the challenges  been recognised for our performance 
exercise our responsibilities as stewards 
we face as a society can only be solved  as a sustainable business, through 
of investments, has a direct impact on 
through collaboration. The clearest,  our inclusion in key sustainability 
the kind of world we all live in tomorrow.
shared vision we have for a better future  indexes, as the Better Society Awards 
Contents This is not a new concept for us. We have  is the one set out by the UN Sustainable  Asset Manager of the Year 2019, 
been integrating environmental, social  Development Goals (SDG). As a  and as the Westminster All-Party 
Introduction and governance (ESG) considerations  signatory to the UN Global Compact, we  Parliamentary Group for Corporate 
Page 4 in to our investment process since the  are committed to continue playing our  Responsibility’s National Responsible 
1990s. We actively engage with the  part in achieving these goals. This report  Business Champion.
Governance
people we’re investing capital with,  highlights our activity in support of this 
Page 14 Thank you to our people and our 
be it equity, real estate, infrastructure  across our own operations, through our 
partners across sectors for the hard work 
Environment or private markets, and also with  role as an asset manager, and through 
that led to this recognition. 
Page 20 governments and regulators, to improve  our interactions with others.
outcomes and the sustainability of 
Social returns for our clients and customers. 
Page 28
Appendix
Page 44
2 Standard Life Aberdeen Corporate Sustainability Report 2019 Standard Life Aberdeen Corporate Sustainability Report 2019 3
Introduction
Our business
Our purpose  Our business  Our strategic drivers
Together we invest for a better future. We meet the evolving needs of  The foundations from which we deliver 
investors and savers. for all our stakeholders.
Our strategy is to build a vibrant and value-creating
purpose-led organisation, with the current and future 
We do this by building lasting relationships and 
needs of our stakeholders at the heart of all we do.
developing innovative products and services. We offer: 
•  For our clients and customers, this means building  •  Active asset management to institutional, 
High impact intelligence
solutions to create wealth and help meet their needs wholesale and strategic insurance clients
Harness our intellectual capital, 
•  For our employees, it means creating an  •  Wealth management, financial planning and  emotional intelligence and data to 
environment where everyone can thrive advice services, either directly to customers or  generate best in class impact.
through financial advisers
•  For society, it means promoting positive change 
through how we operate and invest We also have significant holdings in associate and 
joint venture businesses: Phoenix in the UK, HDFC Life 
•  For our shareholders, it means turning 
and HDFC Asset Management in India and  
opportunities into sustainable long-term returns
Heng An Standard Life in China.
Enduring relationships 
Deepen our understanding of 
Our operations  customers and clients to ensure we 
exceed their expectations and build 
We are headquartered in Scotland and listed in London, with around 6,000 employees in over 50 locations worldwide. 
relationships that last.
We have operations in global financial capitals and important regional centres, which bring us closer to our clients 
and customers around the world, and provide invaluable knowledge and insight to share with our people.
Connections without borders 
Bring the best of our business to all our 
markets by constantly connecting our 
people, capabilities and assets to deliver 
a seamless proposition.
Future fit 
Build a strong organisation positioned 
for growth and ready to anticipate and 
meet the challenges for tomorrow.
Employees by location
1 UK 3 Americas
78% 6%
2 Europe,  4 Asia Pacific
Middle East 10%
and Africa
6%
Countries with office locations
4 Standard Life Aberdeen Corporate Sustainability Report 2019 Standard Life Aberdeen Corporate Sustainability Report 2019 5
Introduction
What is material?
To understand and prioritise the ESG issues that are most important to our stakeholders and our business, we undertook a 
materiality review in 2019. 
How we did it What we found
Step 1: Identify issues “As you would expect during a time 
when trust in business is still low, the 
We created a list of 12 issues, covering both how we operate and how we invest,  Ethical conduct
importance of having a well-run and 
from a moderate to high level of importance. These were based on a number   h Climate Change
principled company came out as key for a  g
of inputs: Hi
significant proportion of our stakeholders. 
•  Big global trends (particularly the SDGs) including climate change, poverty  This was also echoed in how we hold  es
and inequality other businesses that we invest in to  riti Human Capital Development
o
•  Industry trends such as regulation and transparency account. As a responsible investor,  ri
p
stakeholders thought we played a vital role  r  Governance
•  What sustainability indices or analysts deem to be material for our sector  in encouraging better behaviours and more  de Poverty & Inequality
•  Upcoming legislation for example on climate change and transparency transparency. hol Diversity & Inclusion
e
•  Customer and client feedback  There has been a significant period of  ak Financial Inclusion
structural change in our organisation  St Cyber-crime & data security
•  Employee input in areas such as wellbeing, inclusion and engagement over the last couple of years. As a people  e Wellbeing
at
•  NGO interest in issues such as inclusion and fair work business, issues around wellbeing,  er Waste & Consumption
engagement and retention of employees  d
o Biodiversity
•  Our company objectives repeatedly came up in conversations. The  M
Human Rights
discussions on diversity and inclusion  Environment
also shifted beyond specific protected 
Step 2: Understand stakeholder and business priorities characteristics to the role we play in helping  Social
We identified our key stakeholders of employees, clients and customers, suppliers,  everyone feel included not only in the  Governance
government, investors and society. We surveyed these stakeholders either  workplace but also financially.
directly (for example a survey to all our employees) or via stakeholder relationship 
2019 represented a big shift in awareness 
managers to understand what is most important to them. We reviewed internally  Moderate High
and understanding of the impacts of 
our company priorities in the same way. This enabled us to produce a matrix 
climate change - with protests, new 
of importance.
regulation and extreme weather events 
Company priorities
across the globe. Stakeholders wanted us 
to continue focusing on not only reducing 
Step 3: Identify key areas of focus
our own emissions but also on how we 
We allocated the issues between the three elements of environment, society and  invest and allocate capital to enable the 
governance. transition to a low-carbon economy. You 
will find throughout this report how we 
We tested the matrix with a number of internal and external groups to  
are taking action in these areas – from 
confirm accuracy.
the governance section which shows the 
The output helps us to shape our strategy and approach, as well as tailor our  foundation of how we run our business, to 
reporting so we are highlighting the areas of interest to our stakeholders.  the ways we aim to have a positive impact 
in our environment and social sections.”
The performance targets and indicators that link to the material areas of focus 
are included in this report. Some were already in progress from earlier materiality  Stephanie Leggett, 
reviews and others are being developed based on this review. We don’t have targets  Head of Sustainability Strategy 
or external performance indicators for every material issue. Some are addressed in  and Reporting
other ways, for example, ethical conduct through our code of conduct.
6 Standard Life Aberdeen Corporate Sustainability Report 2019 Standard Life Aberdeen Corporate Sustainability Report 2019 7
Introduction
Our three pillars
1 2 3
Invest today.   It starts with us Investing with purpose Unlocking solutions 
Change tomorrow. 
“Managing the ESG performance of our own  “ESG considerations underpin all our investment  “The major long-term challenges we face today 
To guide our sustainability approach,
operations to a high standard is vital. It sets the tone  activities. ESG investment is about active  cannot be solved by government policy alone - 
we focus on our three areas of impact: 
for our culture and for every other aspect of how our  engagement, with the goal of improving the  private capital has an important role to play in 
our operations, how we invest, and  business impacts on society and the planet. performance of assets we manage around the  resolving these challenges. Alongside this, our 
creating shared solutions to social  globe. Our ultimate goal is to make a difference –  clients and customers have an increasing interest 
It helps us to meet the expectations of our different 
for our clients and customers, society and the  in investments that not only provide a compelling 
and environmental issues. stakeholders, and it enhances our credibility 
wider world.  financial return but also evidence a positive 
when asking more of companies and other assets 
environmental or societal benefit. We continue to 
we invest in. There are some significant challenges facing us all 
develop innovative solutions with this  
today – climate change, the gap between the haves 
We pay particular attention to areas that are most  dual objective.
and have nots, and over consumption of the world’s 
relevant to our business, where we are especially 
resources. Instead of just looking at financials,  Collaboration with policymakers, charitable 
able to have a positive impact. In the past year we’ve 
investors need to think about these issues and how  organisations and our clients is critical to ensuring 
shown leadership as an employer in areas such as 
they affect underlying investments. Companies with  we develop solutions that are targeted at the areas 
our commitment to Living Hours and our new parent 
innovative ideas to solve these challenges will be  of greatest need and aligned to our customer and 
leave policy, and we’ve made significant progress in 
best placed to make money and help society and  clients’ interests. The SDGs provide an excellent 
actively managing the environmental impact of our 
the environment.  framework for this and we believe that supporting 
operations. We’ll continue to ask more of ourselves in 
the SDGs creates tangible opportunities for 
the year ahead.” After 20 years of working in this sector, I would like 
companies to contribute positively to society and 
to think that environmental and social issues have 
the environment, while simultaneously enhancing 
now just become a natural part of understanding 
the long-term financial value of the business. On a 
how we allocate capital in a way that will benefit the 
more local level, partnering with charities such as 
ultimate beneficiaries who are investing in pension 
The Big Issue Group has led to solutions that are 
funds, right through to making sure that we have a 
focused on addressing inequalities that our clients 
planet to live on in 30 years’ time.”
and customers, in our home market, have a close 
association with.
Our social and environmental impact solutions 
are designed to make a real difference in our local 
and global communities. Our partnerships across 
sectors are about creating connections between 
people - helping them to feel included and part of 
society - and with the environment.
Together, we’re helping to build a better future for all 
of our stakeholders.”
Sandy MacDonald,  
Global Head of Corporate Sustainability
Amanda Young,  
Global Head of Responsible Investment Robert McKillop,  
Global Head of Product and Client Solutions
8 Standard Life Aberdeen Corporate Sustainability Report 2019 Standard Life Aberdeen Corporate Sustainability Report 2019 9
Introduction
Bringing it all together - environment
Focus areas Key SDGs SDG target MMaatteerriiaall  iissssuuee 2018 pledge 2019 Status Target year
Achieved.
13.1 Strengthen resilience and 
Climate change -  We will develop new 2030 Greenhouse 
emissions  13 adaptive capacity to climate-related  Climate change Gas reduction targets and climate  New pledges - We will reduce our scope 1  2019
hazards and natural disasters in all  and 2 emissions by 50% by 2030
reduction change strategy
countries
We will reduce our energy use by 30% by 2030
7.2 By 2030, increase substantially the 
Climate change -  share of renewable energy in the global  We will procure 100% renewable 
Ongoing. 
renewable  13 7 energy mix 7.3 By 2030, double the  Climate change electricity at the offices we operate  2020
We procure 99% renewable electricity
electricity global rate of improvement in energy  across the globe 
efficiency
It starts with us 
13.1 Strengthen resilience and 
Climate change - 
adaptive capacity to climate-related  New pledge - We will be carbon neutral 
carbon  13 hazards and natural disasters in all  Climate change N/A across our operations in 2020 2020
offsetting
countries
12 12.5 By 2030, substantially reduce 
Spliansgtliec-suse  wreadsutcet igoenn, ereractyioclnin tgh raonudg hre purseevention,  Wcoansstue manpdti on Wfroem w oillu rre omffiocvees all single-use plastics  OSeneg opiangge. s 26 and 27 2020
All the landlord procured electricity 
7.2 By 2030, increase substantially the  in the real estate Aberdeen Standard 
Climate change -  share of renewable energy in the global  Investments manages in the UK will  Achieved.
renewable  7 energy mix Climate change be 100% renewable electricity by 2020,  We procure 100% renewable  2020
electricity 7.3 By 2030, double the global rate of  and we will increase the amount of  electricity in the UK
improvement in energy efficiency renewable electricity procured globally
Investing with 
purpose
13.1 Strengthen resilience and  New pledge - We will be net zero in the 
Climate change -  adaptive capacity to climate-related 
13 Climate change N/A real estate we manage by 2050.  2050
carbon neutral hazards and natural disasters in all 
See page 24
countries
13.1 Strengthen resilience and 
Our strategy will make our Airport 
Unlocking  Real estate fund -  adaptive capacity to climate-related  Ongoing.
13 Climate change Industrial Property Unit Trust (AIPUT)  2025
solutions carbon neutral hazards and natural disasters in all  See page 25
real estate fund carbon neutral
countries
10 Standard Life Aberdeen Corporate Sustainability Report 2019 Standard Life Aberdeen Corporate Sustainability Report 2019 11
Introduction
Bringing it all together - social
Focus areas Key SDGs SDG target Material issue 2018 pledge 2019 Status Target year
5 5.5 Ensure women’s full and effective 
participation and equal opportunities  Diversity & inclusion Achieved.
Inclusion -  33% of our Board and 33% of our 
for leadership at all levels of decision- Human capital  45% in our Board and 36% in our  2020
gender executive population will be female
making in political, economic and  development executive population
public life
10.2 By 2030, empower and promote 
10 the social, economic and political  We will continue to publish annual  Achieved.
It starts with us  Inclusion inclusion of all, irrespective of age, sex,  Diversity & inclusion action plans for gender balance and  See page 30 for our updated  N/A
disability, race, ethnicity, origin, religion  ethnicity inclusion framework
or economic or other status
8.5 By 2030, achieve full and 
8 17 productive employment and decent 
Achieved.
Inclusion -   work for all women and men, including  Diversity & inclusion We will develop a social mobility 
social mobility for young people and persons with  Poverty & inequality action plan and targets See page 30 for our updated   2019
disabilities, and equal pay for work of  inclusion framework
equal value
1 2 3 4
Achieved.
5 6 7 8 We will publish policies setting out our  Our individual asset class ESG 
ESG investment  N/A N/A approach to integrating ESG issues  approaches are available at  2019
integration  9 10 11 12 into each asset class aberdeenstandard.com/ 
13 14 15 16 responsible-investing
17
Investing with 
purpose
1 2 3 4
We will continue to focus on  Ongoing.
5 6 7 8
transparency - publishing quarterly  Our quarterly updates on our ESG 
ESG investment 
9 10 11 12 N/A N/A updates on our ESG engagements with  engagements and voting are available  N/A
transparency
investee companies and details of all  at aberdeenstandard.com/ 
13 14 15 16 our shareholder votes responsible-investing
17
8 8.10 Strengthen the capacity of  Through technological solutions we 
domestic financial institutions to  will open up advice and guidance to 
Ongoing.
Financial inclusion  encourage and expand access to  Financial inclusion more people, increasing availability  N/A
banking, insurance and financial  in the market and making financial  See page 38
services for all wellbeing more inclusive
Unlocking 
solutions
Poverty & inequality  We will carry out impact analysis 
17
on our community investment 
Wellbeing Achieved.
Charitable impact N/A programmes to further understand the  2019
Climate change  See page 42
areas that we can focus on for greatest 
Biodiversity positive impact
12 Standard Life Aberdeen Corporate Sustainability Report 2019 Standard Life Aberdeen Corporate Sustainability Report 2019 13
Together
Asset managers are at the centre of the financial system. It’s vital that we have 
integrity and transparency in how we operate, building trust in both our business 
and sector. 
we raise standards  We interact with numerous stakeholders. Their expectations, about our role and 
contribution to the common good, are rising. Our Board ensures that its decision-
making takes into account these views. During 2019, we had a particular focus on 
bringing the voice of our colleagues to the Board.  
Good governance is the foundation of being a good corporate citizen. That’s why 
and transparency, 
we do not have any targets or pledges, just a commitment to continue holding 
ourselves to a high standard.
building 
In this section:
•  Melanie Gee, non-executive director, took on a new role as 
employee representative on the Board.
enduring trust •  We raised awareness of good security practices during our  100%
Security Awareness Week.
•  We launched our ‘Students of Clients’ programme to help our 
colleagues develop a deeper understanding of who our clients 
and customers are
Employees completing 
code of conduct 
training and attestation
(2018: 95%)
Total tax contribution
£526m
for the year to 
31 December 2019
(2018: £538m)
98%
Employees completing 
information security training
14 Standard Life Aberdeen Corporate Sustainability Report 2019 Standard Life Aberdeen Corporate Sustainability Report 2019 15
Governance
Transparency and trust
Corporate governance Ethical conduct
Strong corporate governance is underpinned by clear structure, a  Ethical conduct is one of the issues our stakeholders told us 
diversity of views, independence and understanding stakeholder  For the first all employee survey, I was keen  was most important to them in our recent materiality review. 
priorities. As an investor, this is what we expect of investee  to understand what is most important to our  We agree this is key to running a successful business and 
Complying with law 
companies and it is our focus operationally. colleagues when it comes to our impact on  building trust with all our stakeholders.
and regulation in the 
society and the environment. We had over 
Throughout 2019 we reviewed our governance framework to  Our global code of conduct describes the principles and 
jurisdictions in which 
ensure we are effectively implementing the revised UK Corporate  1000 responses to this survey. For our own  standards that we hold ourselves to and ask all our employees 
we operate is very 
Governance Code. This gave us the opportunity to revisit our  operations, climate change is very clearly the  to consider in every decision and action they take. All our 
important to us but it is 
processes on stakeholder engagement, succession planning,  top theme they think we should prioritise. This  employees receive training on the content and meaning of the 
diversity and inclusion, and aspects of remuneration.  code and are required, at least annually, to confirm that they  only part of the story. We 
is followed by employee well-being and ethical 
have read and agree to abide by its principles. strive to embed ethical 
A focus on…Board diversity conduct. For our investment influence, again 
conduct and thinking 
The Board’s policy is to appoint and retain non-executive Directors  climate change is top and this is followed by  If our employees have any concerns we encourage them 
who bring relevant expertise and a wide perspective to our  to report this to their manager. An independently managed  at the heart of our 
ethical conduct, and poverty and inequality. 
company and its decision making framework.  confidential speak up hotline and web reporting is available  culture. We continually 
This is very much in line with a number of our 
if employees would like to raise a concern anonymously. All  ask ourselves what our 
The 2019 Hampton-Alexander Review saw us move up to 10th  priorities and with what other stakeholders are 
place, compared to 92nd in 2018. Our improved ranking reflects  telling us they care about. As a Board, this is  concerns raised are taken seriously and any victimisation,  stakeholders would 
harassment, discrimination or bullying of anyone raising a 
our increase in the representation of women on our Board (now  expect of us in the way 
helping us to galvanise action plans prioritising  genuine concern will not be tolerated and will be considered 
45%) and in the two senior leadership levels below this (CEO-1  we do business, and 
the areas of most importance to our key  a disciplinary matter. We also advertise this hotline to our 
and CEO-2). This is the biggest improvement year on year of any  challenge ourselves to 
stakeholders. suppliers who are able to use this in the same way.
company in the FTSE 100.
live up to that. 
In addition to bringing diverse views, the Board also believes at   
Melanie Gee, 
least half of its members should be made up of independent non- Rushad Abadan,  
5
Non-Executive Director Group General Counsel
executive Directors.
incidents were reported 
A focus on….stakeholder engagement and investigations carried 
The long-term success of a business is dependent on the  out in 2019. (2018: 15)
way it works with a large number of important stakeholders: 
shareholders, clients and customers, employees, supply chain, 
communities, strategic partners and policymakers. The 2018 
UK Corporate Governance Code rightly places emphasis on 
businesses building trust by forging strong relationships with their  100%
key stakeholders. We have processes in place to ensure that the  As an investor, we expect investee 
Board engages with these key stakeholder groups and that this  company Boards to be responding to  Employees completing 
engagement can support decision making.  This year, we have had 
the needs of all their stakeholders. Our  code of conduct 
a particular focus on bringing the voice of our colleagues to the 
experience tells us that maintaining  training and attestation
Board and Melanie Gee, non-executive director, has taken on a 
strong connections with, and amplifying  (2018: 95%)
new role as the employee representative on the Board.
the voices of different stakeholder
It’s vital for the success of a people business like ours and we have 
groups at Board level, has a direct 
developed a structured programme incorporating both formal and 
benefit in maintaining strong ethical 
informal channels to enable this to work effectively. Colleagues are 
encouraged to share their views openly and honestly at our ‘Meet  conduct and a positive company culture 
the Board’ sessions, engagement dinners hosted by Melanie, and  - key characteristics of a
regular Board Employee Engagement Group meetings. In 2019,  sustainable business.
these face to face sessions across the globe involved more than   
350 colleagues. We also held all-employee surveys to dive into  Euan Stirling, 
specific topics. Global Head of Stewardship 
and ESG Investment
The views that are collected are taken to the Board for discussion 
and action plans developed to address issues that are identified. 
This programme of dialogue, reporting and action is fed back to 
employees through regular ongoing communications from Melanie.
Read more on our corporate 
governance in our annual 
report and accounts
16 Standard Life Aberdeen Corporate Sustainability Report 2019 Standard Life Aberdeen Corporate Sustainability Report 2019 17
Governance
Risk and responsibility
Information security awareness  Responsible tax  Financial crime, bribery and corruption
Raising awareness of good 
Information security has rapidly become a major issue facing all  A large part of running a responsible business is committing to  We are committed to minimising financial crime, protecting 
security practices amongst our 
large companies, and we are no exception. It is critical for both our  high ethical, legal and professional standards – and being open,  corporate and customer information and assets, and 
business and customers that we manage this risk appropriately. people remained a key focus in  honest and transparent about what we’re doing to meet those  promoting a zero tolerance approach to financial crime, 
2019. We delivered numerous  standards. These guiding principles have been used in formulating  bribery and corruption. We have policies and frameworks 
•  Information security is managed as a part of our enterprise 
initiatives including an online  our tax strategy which sets out our approach to governance over  in place to help ensure that we only receive or pay money 
risk framework.
‘Information Security Hub’, a  tax matters, our attitude to tax risk, our attitude to tax planning and  to or from clients and customers, third parties, partners and 
•  We have multi layered controls in place to help prevent  how we work with HMRC and other relevant tax authorities. suppliers that we’ve identified as suitable to do business with. 
global ‘Security Awareness 
attacks, and then to detect and respond appropriately to 
Week’, cyber security classroom  We provide products to a diverse range of clients and customers,  We run mandatory annual training for our employees which 
incidents and events.
training around the globe, and  from a variety of global locations – so our savings and investment  requires passing a test that confirms their understanding 
•  We use specialist external service providers to ascertain the  products are set up to follow each location’s tax legislation. of both our policies and the part our people play. We also 
several simulated phishing 
effectiveness of our security control environment, security  maintain a register for any gifts and entertainment we receive 
attacks launched against all our  We also follow local and international rules around reporting to 
strategy and programme and governance processes. and provide. We have processes for reporting and reviewing 
employees and contractors.  tax authorities about our customers’ investments. We aim to build 
breaches of our policies. In 2019 we had no breaches. 
•  Our cyber security policy and standards are aligned with  Because security is everyone’s  professional and constructive relationships with tax authorities, 
industry good practice. government and representative bodies ensuring we play our part 
responsibility.
in helping to develop a sustainable framework for tax policy and 
•  A dedicated department ‘Security, Resilience and Privacy’ 
legislation. We also submit Country by Country Reporting to HMRC 
supports our business with all aspects of security. And we have 
David Scott,  
who share this information with relevant overseas tax authorities.
an information security online hub for all our people – with 
Chief Information Security 
common Q&As and short videos.
Officer
•  We have ISO22301 certification for Business Continuity.
•  Dedicated teams are in place to effectively deal with emerging  £526m
cyber threats and criminal campaigns. Our response plans are 
total tax contribution1
tested regularly. To make the right decisions, we need to 
understand the risks and opportunities 
•  We provide mandatory training for all our employees on 
information security – 98% of our people have completed this  across our business, including supply 
Building relationships with our clients and customers
training so far. We also focus on high risk areas of the business  chains, information security, data, 
with classroom training and seminars on topics such as the  We serve a diverse range of people and institutions with complex  financial conduct and responsible 
techniques hackers use to research and socially engineer  requirements. In 2019 we launched our ‘Students of Clients’ 
tax management. We want to ensure 
employees in order to get access to a company’s network. programme to help our colleagues develop a deeper understanding 
our approach is aligned with the 
of who our clients and customers are; how we engage with and 
•  Cyber security awareness campaigns help our people  diverse interests of all stakeholders 
support them; how we gain insight to create solutions that meet 
understand the threats and how to improve their own, and our  globally, and what they need from us 
their savings and investment objectives; and how we adapt our 
customers’ security.
approach across the globe. now and for the future.  
We continue to use the Customer Sentiment Index to bring the 
Stephanie Bruce,  
voice of ASI’s retail customers into our business conversations and  Chief  Financial Officer
during 2019 we saw very positive scores (96/100) for satisfaction 
Security awareness week Phishing simulation with the way calls were answered. We also identified a number of 
We have led an awareness week for a number of years and  To supplement our phishing training efforts we conduct  customers who would prefer to engage digitally than over phone. 
in 2019 we took a different approach. Instead of focusing on  quarterly exercises that simulate phishing attacks. Fake  Based on this feedback we are enhancing the current website and 
specific security threats or areas, our aim was to encourage  phishing emails are sent to everyone in the organisation. This  offering customers a fully digital solution.
employees to engage with the security function. We shared  ensures everyone stays vigilant and knows how to recognise 
stories of real security incidents and how our security team  and report suspicious emails. The results of these exercises 
helped our wider business to respond (e.g. Phishing and  are analysed and reported to management and the Board. 
extortion emails). It was also very important for us to help 
everyone understand their security responsibilities and what 
our Security function can do to support achievement of 
business objectives.
1  This includes all the taxes the Group pays to and collects on 
behalf of governments in the territories in which we operate
18 Standard Life Aberdeen Corporate Sustainability Report 2019 Standard Life Aberdeen Corporate Sustainability Report 2019 19
Together
In order to meet the goals of the Paris Agreement and limit global warming to 1.5 °C urgent action is required. We have 
a key role as an investor but we also believe that it starts with our own actions. We want to ensure we are reducing our 
emissions, protecting our people and clients from the risk climate change poses, and looking for the opportunities a 
low carbon economy presents.
we are 
Waste and consumption are major issues affecting our planet. While this is not a material issue for our sector, we still 
want to be part of driving positive change. We are focused on removing single-use plastics from our operations and, 
for investee companies where it is a key challenge, encouraging them to reduce their waste.
tackling the 
In this section:
Total greenhouse gas emissions
•  We have set new operational greenhouse gas and energy reduction 
targets and have pledged to go carbon neutral. 
•  We have been holding Boards and sectors to account for their climate  CO
climate crisis
change impacts. KPI
2
•  We have reviewed our progress in eliminating single-use plastics in 
our offices. 19,669 tonnes CO2e
(2018: 32,218 tonnes CO2e)
Our 2018 pledges:
•  We will develop new 2030 greenhouse gas reduction targets and climate  99%
change strategy - ACHIEVED Renewable electricity 
procured in our offices
•  We will procure 100% renewable electricity at the offices we operate across 
(2018: 98%)
the globe by 2020 – ONGOING 
•  We will remove all single-use plastics from our offices by 2020 - ONGOING 
•  All the landlord procured electricity in the real estate Aberdeen Standard 
Investments manages in the UK will be 100% renewable electricity by 2020, 
and we will increase the amount of renewable electricity procured   34%
globally  – ACHIEVED
•  Our strategy will make our Airport Industrial Property Unit Trust (AIPUT) 
real estate fund carbon neutral by 2025 – ONGOING
ESG engagements with investee
companies on environmental issues
New pledges:
•  We will reduce our scope 1 and scope 2 emissions by 50% by 2030  
•  We will reduce our energy use by 30% by 2030 
100%
•  We will be carbon neutral across our operations in 2020
Renewable electricity powering our 
•  All the real estate Aberdeen Standard Investments manages globally 
real estate investments in the UK 
will be net zero by 2050  
20 Standard Life Aberdeen Corporate Sustainability Report 2019 Standard Life Aberdeen Corporate Sustainability Report 2019 21
Environment
Climate change
Key to reducing our environmental impact is engaging our people 
We are supportive of the Taskforce on Climate-related  Case study – Edinburgh  with our strategy. This year we’ve focused on our biggest impact – 
39% reduction in 
Financial Disclosures (TCFD) recommendations and have  business travel, specifically flights. This is notoriously difficult for 
published our first report. The following provides a summary  One of our key UK offices is a composite site with a  large global businesses to reduce so we’ve been taking a multi- greenhouse gas 
of our approach across our operations and investments.  Georgian front and a 1960s annex attached. We’ve  faceted approach to this issue. 
been rolling out energy efficiency lighting throughout  emissions since 2018
It starts with us  the site and this year we also replaced the chiller  We have been sharing with colleagues how they can reduce 
pumps on our Heat Ventilation and Air Conditioning  their impact from travel, for example, making more use of the 
We manage our environmental footprint by focusing on our  Systems. This one project should reduce energy use  technology we provide (such as video conferencing, which we 
biggest impacts first, using a carbon footprint approach. We set  at the site by 43,200 kWh. We are also replacing the  invested over £1.5m in improving in 2019), increasing their use of 
2018 as our new baseline year and, during 2019, we developed  lifts for regenerative-drive lifts reducing the energy  rail for domestic travel, and, if they are flying, to pick a non-stop 
targets for our energy use alongside a strategy to attain these.  used by them by up to 75%.  route. Colleagues have also shared their experience of lower 
carbon travel. On World Environment Day, our CEO wrote to those 
•  We will reduce our scope 1 and 2 emissions  
Our workplace team constantly assesses the 
colleagues who are our top 100 flyers, asking them directly for  Our carbon footprint
by 50% by 2030. 
requirements of the occupants in the site. For 
their help to reduce our carbon footprint.
example, reviewing the data of timing of occupancy 
2018 2030 target 2019 actual
they determined they could reduce the hours the  In 2019, we saw a reduction in our emissions from travel of 42%,  Gas  
9,736 CO2e 4,868 CO2e 6,591 CO2e building management system was working. compared to 2018.  6% 2% Car
1% T&D
•  We will reduce our energy use by 30% by 2030. All of these projects together have seen the electricity  Carbon offsetting District heating 1% 
use on the site drop by 20% in comparison to 2018, 
and further reductions are expected.  Alongside this activity, we also decided to offset our entire  Gas  Refrigerants 1%
2018 2030 target 2019 actual Car 2%  6%
operational carbon footprint in 2020.
35,017 MWh 24,512 MWh 23,529 MWh
T&D 1%
We’ve chosen to compensate for half our footprint in a way that  Flights 65%
Case study – Philadelphia 
relates directly to our core purpose – by purchasing carbon credits  District 
We have already met our long-term target to reduce our energy  We recently re-located our colleagues to a new office  from a wind project in India. As well as helping to reduce local air  heating 1%
use in just one year. We knew that some of this would be achieved 
in Philadelphia. Energy efficiency was a key priority  pollution, the project is an investment in low-carbon infrastructure 
through better utilisation and consolidation of buildings from our  1% Refrigerants
when obtaining the new lease. The building is LEED  in a country where energy demand is growing fast. It also has 
company merger, but this has additionally been helped by energy 
and Energy Star Certified, and is close to the city’s  a long-term impact and supports the growth of the renewables 
efficiency projects in a number of our larger sites. We’ve also made 
main public transportation links.  industry.
efficiency a key consideration in any new locations we’ve occupied. 
Electricity 
We will be reviewing our target during 2020. The office is smaller than our previous site, but the  We then asked our employees to decide how we offset our 
24%
space works harder by being more agile. There are  remaining footprint by voting for one of two social impact projects.  Flights 68%
We have almost achieved our pledge to procure 100% renewable 
still traditional meeting rooms but the new site also  They selected The Gola Rainforest Project in Sierra Leone. This 
electricity at the offices we operate across the globe by 2020 – we  2019 
offers 20 collaboration spaces and touch down desks  activity will help to protect around 3,000 hectares of pristine 
are currently at 99%. Total 19,669 tC02e
are spread throughout the office. There are also  rainforest in 2020. The Gola rainforest is home to over 330 species 
significantly more video conferencing facilities, aiding  of bird, the pygmy hippo and the critically endangered western 
collaboration across the region and world. chimpanzee. The project also trains local farmers in sustainable 
cocoa farming, and invests in schools, hospitals and education.
After one month in the new location, our energy use 
was already down by 20%.
I want us to show leadership in tackling 
climate change, so I’m delighted that 
our emissions from energy dropped by  Electricity  
21%
32% this year. It highlights what can be 
accomplished in just one year.  2018 
Total 32,218 tC02e
Mike Tumilty,  
Chief Operating Officer
22 Standard Life Aberdeen Corporate Sustainability Report 2019 Standard Life Aberdeen Corporate Sustainability Report 2019 23
Environment
Climate change
To understand the steps a company is taking, we engage with  Climate change data
them and encourage best practice.  Focus Objective
The availability of reliable and robust climate-related data is critical 
Engagement is vital to communicate our expectations and evaluate  to making effective investment decisions.  It starts  Our operations Reduce our most material 
We are committed to help tackle climate  the risks a company is facing. If we find they are not taking action  with us emissions - energy use 
We currently provide a carbon footprint for a number of our 
change – for our clients and customers,  accordingly, we use our voting rights to influence change. If we fail  and travel. Offset the 
portfolios in equities, fixed income and real estate. This helps 
shareholders and the generations to  to see progress, we will reduce our positions or sell our holdings in  residual footprint.
identify carbon-intensive companies and drive corporate 
come. This goal will inform how we  companies completely.  engagement, however, as a backwards looking measure, it has  Disclosure Report our progress in our 
TCFD report
invest our clients’ money, manage our  its limitations. As of 2020 our ESG score card is used to create 
Energy efficiency and capital allocation
assets, conduct research, and engage  a consistent framework for analysing and communicating our  Investing  Research and  Understand the material 
To achieve the Paris target depends on whether the world is able to 
with companies to influence change for  ESG company views that is applicable across our listed company  with  data issues through research and 
quickly deploy large amounts of private capital to construct renewable 
investments. One quadrant of this scorecard is climate change  purpose data analysis e.g. carbon 
a better future. energy infrastructure, provide low-carbon transport and improve 
and we will collect both backward (carbon footprint) and forward  footprinting and scenario 
energy efficiency. At an asset level we consider an asset’s strategy 
looking data (such as targets and projects) to assess a company.  analysis
Rod Paris,  and emission trajectories and compare this to what is required under 
Chief Investment Officer This all feeds into an ESG score for each listed company. Investment  Integrate potential impacts 
the Paris Agreement.
integration of climate-related risks 
As an active manager we need to understand the climate related 
In real estate, we manage the energy performance of all of our  and opportunities into 
risks through the quantification of impacts on our assets under 
assets where we have operational control. In the UK, all landlord- investment decisions
management. We use scenario analysis to do this, looking at a 
procured electricity is now 100% renewable. As signatories to the 
range of climate scenarios, including the 2°C scenario, and the  Investee  Targeted engagement 
Better Buildings Partnership Climate Change Commitment we have 
impact of higher carbon prices. This informs the way we allocate  engagement  and voting to understand 
committed to achieving net-zero emissions from our global portfolio 
Investing with purpose capital on behalf of our clients and customers. and voting exposure and drive change
by 2050 and will publish our pathway to achieving this during 2020. 
Real assets Reduce emissions of our 
Climate change is a core pillar of our ESG integration process  With approximately 1,600 real estate assets under our management 
assets and allocate capital 
across all asset classes. We believe that understanding and  globally, we have a significant role to play. Acting now to establish the  Unlocking solutions
to low-carbon infrastructure
managing the risks and opportunities related to climate change  necessary pathways will future-proof our portfolios and protect and 
leads to better investment decisions, better outcomes for our  enhance investment performance for our clients and customers. Across our asset classes, we are creating solutions that enable our  Collaboration  Collaborate with industry 
clients and customers to invest in the low-carbon economy: and influence peers and organisations to 
clients and customers, and a more sustainable world. It is vital that 
we are supporting the low-carbon transition in alignment with the  Joining with industry peers collectively drive change
goals of the Paris Agreement. We work in collaboration with industry bodies and peers to  Credit Unlocking  Client solutions Develop innovative solutions 
encourage improvements in data, disclosure and reporting.  We manage a low-carbon fixed income portfolio that identifies  solutions responding to client needs 
What is the Paris Agreement? A global agreement to limit 
Aligning our expectations helps to increase pressure on investee  companies well positioned for the energy transition based on a  and promoting transition to 
average temperature increases to a maximum of 2ºC above 
companies and drives more effective change. backward and forward-looking view. We also include low-carbon  low-carbon economy
pre-industrial levels, and ideally 1.5ºC.
considerations in our ethical credit strategy and our SRI products.
We are founding signatories of Climate Action 100+, a leading 
Research and integration campaign group with 320 supporters. As part of this we are among 
Equities
A key first step is researching and understanding the issues.  a group of investors that are pushing certain companies operating 
Our Impact investing solution aims to support the delivery of 
Our climate-related research provides insights on regulatory and  in the construction materials sector to accelerate efforts to reduce 
measurable, positive environmental and social impact while 
industry trends across regions. It also helps us understand the  their emissions. Cement production, which uses large amounts 
generating strong financial returns. This portfolio, which is aligned 
physical and transition risks and opportunities, helping us to take  of heat and energy, is responsible for 7% of man-made carbon 
to the UN SDGs includes companies that provide solutions for 
informed decisions about how and where to invest. dioxide emissions and is the second largest source of CO2e on 
clean energy, energy efficiency and access to energy. In addition, 
the planet. The group want construction material companies to 
our ethical strategy screens out companies that have significant 
Stewardship and engagement commit to carbon-neutrality by 2050, and to improve corporate 
carbon-intensive operations, such as coal mining.
transparency, disclosure and oversight on climate change, stating 
For equities and fixed income, we take a systematic approach 
that firms that don’t move quickly to change their practices risk 
when evaluating companies and driving change, focusing on high 
Real estate - AIPUT
losing access to capital.
risk and high carbon emitting companies.
In 2018 we pledged to achieve carbon neutrality in our Airport 
To effectively respond to the climate crisis, we expect these  Industrial Property Unit Trust (AIPUT) by 2025. AIPUT is a portfolio 
companies to demonstrate: composed of warehouses and logistics accommodation in five 
of the UK’s main airports.  In 2019 we significantly tightened the 
1. transparency on climate-related risks and opportunities
standard specification used for new build and refurbishment projects 
2. a clear climate strategy 
in the Trust to support this goal. This includes minimum energy  Read about our overall governance, strategy, 
3. robust, Paris Agreement aligned targets  performance requirements and targets for emissions reduction  risk and opportunity management, and 
4. action to achieve the targets which exceed planning requirements. Progress has also been made  metrics approach within our TCFD report 
5. support of public policies that are aligned with the Paris  with landlord-led solar photovoltaic installations and engaging with 
Agreement goals tenants to better understand their energy usage and needs.
24 Standard Life Aberdeen Corporate Sustainability Report 2019 Standard Life Aberdeen Corporate Sustainability Report 2019 25
Environment
Waste and consumption
Single-use plastics, or disposable plastics, are typically used only once before they are thrown away or recycled. Poorly 
managed waste plastics pose a threat to the global environment.
It starts with us
Our Environmental Champions Investing with purpose Unlocking solutions
All the offices we manage in the UK are zero waste to landfill, but 
Our environmental champions network has had a busy 
we wanted to go further and look at how we reduce the wastes in  Encouraging companies to be better corporate citizens Reducing the impact of our events
2019, leading a number of environmental projects across 
the first place. In 2018 we pledged to remove all the single-use  our global offices and building a culture of environmental  New legislation and consumer demand is changing the  Most events stands are used once before being thrown away. 
plastics we purchase in our global offices, where feasible, by 2020.  awareness. Their activities include sustainable fashion  market dynamic of single-use plastics. Engagement with  Our Events team has been working with Ecobooth to develop a 
Throughout 2019 we took a methodical approach, working our way  swap shops, paper towel waste reduction awareness and  investee companies enables us to understand those  range of reusable exhibition stands that are made purely from 
through our most used items: launching a crisp packet recycling scheme.  companies that have clear strategies to deal with these risks.  repurposed plastic reclaimed from the oceans. This is a visible way 
•  we removed vending machines from our offices that used  Our ESG investment team noted concerns around the  in which we can demonstrate our actions. The first UK stand was 
disposable cups, and the disposable cups themselves  company FLXACQ (Novolex) due to their exposure to  set up at the Pensions and Lifetime Savings Association Annual 
Conference. This consisted of 1.33 tonnes of post-consumer 
•  we removed plastic water bottles from our meeting rooms single-use plastic retail bags. These concerns were 
plastic waste – the equivalent of 55,415 500ml plastic bottles or 
amplified by an acquisition which increased FLXACQ’s 
•  our on-site restaurants removed plastic cutlery and expanded  exposure to single-use plastics including food containers,  3,166,666 single-use plastic drinking straws.
polystyrene containers cutlery, drinkware and plates; and the announcements 
Following these activities, we carried out an audit to understand  from a number of large retailers that they were pulling out 
and identify our next steps. While we’ve achieved a lot, there is  of single-use plastic bags in stores. This ESG risk was 
definitely more to do. escalated to our fund managers.
We are going to carry on reducing single-use plastics and are 
always looking at ways to do this. We research the issues to 
ensure we are moving to appropriate solutions. And we’ve been 
asking our people for their help too, as often the single-use plastics 
are being brought into the office.
As we were going through this process, it 
brought to light the scale of the issue – single-
use plastics are everywhere and when we 
take away one another often appears in its 
place. We know we’re not going to solve the 
problem completely, or get it right 100% of the 
time, but by focusing on the biggest sources of 
waste we can make a real difference.
Ann Meoni, 
Environment manager
26 Standard Life Aberdeen Corporate Sustainability Report 2019 Standard Life Aberdeen Corporate Sustainability Report 2019 27
Together
Inequality in society is a major global issue.  The concentration of wealth is impacting on stability and prosperity 
for all. We need to direct capital and resources towards organisations and products that are helping to tackle this. 
This is particularly important at a time when people are having to take ever greater responsibility for their own 
finances. 
we are building 
We also have a key role in supporting diversity and inclusion and have the ability to influence this in various ways. 
For our own colleagues we want to ensure everyone feels included and able to reach their full potential. As an 
investor, we can champion change in companies and sectors.
a more inclusive 
In this section:
Gender split at Board level
•  Our people continue to experience change – we are listening to what 
they need and launching leading work-life balance policies, helping  5 
women 
them feel included and supported. 
(45%)
business and 
•  We have launched new investment voting policies on issues such as 
6 
board gender diversity. men 
(55%)
•  We have been collaborating with others to tackle big societal issues, 
(2018: 25% women)
including relaunching our charitable giving approach.
fairer society
Gender split at CEO-1 and CEO-2 level
Our 2018 pledges: 53 
•  33% of our board and our executive population will be  women (36%)
female by 2020 - ACHIEVED
93 
•  We will develop a new social mobility action plan and 
targets - ACHIEVED  men (64%)
•  We will continue to publish annual action plans for gender  (2018: 34% women)
balance and ethnicity – ACHIEVED
•  Through technological solutions we will open up advice and  Total charitable contribution
guidance to more people, increasing availability in the market 
£3.4m
and making financial wellbeing more inclusive - ONGOING
•  We will carry out impact analysis on our community 
investment programmes to further understand the areas that  (2018: £3.2m)
we can focus on for greatest positive impact - ACHIEVED
40%
ESG engagements with investee
companies on social issues
28 Standard Life Aberdeen Corporate Sustainability Report 2019 Standard Life Aberdeen Corporate Sustainability Report 2019 29
Social
Diversity and inclusion
It starts with us Some of our activity has been focused on specific characteristics,  Ethnicity
Diverse talent into and through our company 
including increasing gender balance and ethnic minority 
In 2018 we became one of the initial signatories to the UK 
As we look to 2020 and beyond, we’re replacing separate inclusion  In our main UK office locations, we partner with charities, local  representation as, through analysing workforce demographics, we 
Government’s Race at Work Charter and in 2019 we were 
action plans and commitments with one overarching framework built  government and other businesses to support social inclusion and  know our representation is not where it needs to be.
showcased in the Charter’s year one report highlighting the 
on simplicity and consistency that will enable us to learn more from  break down barriers to work. For example, we collaborate with 
Gender progress we have made in developing our leaders’ capability 
each other and coordinate our efforts: schools to deliver breakfast clubs and life skills education; and 
and accountability. 
with charities, the education sector and government to promote life  Balanced representation of men and women in the workplace not 
Part of our purpose
skills and create effective, supported transition pathways in to the  only supports business success but also tackles broader social  A key focus throughout 2019 has been encouraging colleagues 
•  Continue integrating diversity and inclusion into our approach as 
world of work. inequality. We’re committed to improving gender balance at all  to talk about race and multiculturalism through a series of lunches 
an investor and employer, and through our partnerships in the 
levels in our business from early careers up to and including the  and events co-hosted by Unity, our ethnicity and multicultural 
community, so diversity and inclusion is embedded across all  For recruitment, at the application and interview stage we use an 
Board. As part of our HM Treasury Women in Finance Charter  network. Over 300 colleagues have joined these events to listen 
aspects of our business.   augmented writing tool to ensure our job adverts are free from 
pledge we have made the following commitments: to colleagues talk about their experiences and share stories in a 
gendered language. To counteract any potential bias at interview 
Inclusive ways of working safe environment.
stage, we have created a diverse pool of 50 colleagues who 
•  Creating a flexible environment to grow our global business  Women as %[i] 2020 target  Change since 
volunteer their time to support the interview process. For our  KPI Social inclusion
and help our people work in ways they can be at their best and  (WiFC) target set (2017)
school leaver programmes we use qualification-blind recruitment, 
balance their commitments.  and in our graduate programmes we have removed minimum  Board 45%  33% +20% We’ve made strong progress in improving the social diversity of 
(5 of 11) our early careers recruitment, but we have more to do on data and 
•  Expanding our well established employee communities,  degree level requirements. 
progression. The feedback we’ve received from external partners 
increasing collaboration to support inter-sectional needs, and  CEO-1  36%  33% +9%
To promote our early careers opportunities, we attended 16  such as the Social Mobility Pledge and from our own employee 
ensuring effective senior leader sponsorship.  careers fairs and events across the UK during 2019. We also  &CEO-2 [ii] (53 of 146) networks, alongside change in the external landscape, has also 
Diverse talent into and through our company took part in events focussed on demystifying our industry.  helped us identify some specific areas of focus.
UK 46%  50%  -1%
•  Growing diversity at all levels through re-committing to Women  These included five aimed at students from minority ethnic or 
(2,209 of 4,846) (+/-3%)[iii] In support of the revised diversity and inclusion framework, our 
in Finance Charter targets and measuring broader diversity and  low socioeconomic backgrounds, AuthentiCity- a careers event 
funded community and school-based programmes will specifically 
inclusion outcomes.  for LGBT+ students looking for City opportunities, and Bright  Global 46%  50%  -1%
target groups who face multiple barriers, or “double disadvantage”, 
Network’s Women in Leadership event in Manchester where 43%  (2,861 of 6,213) (+/-3%)
•  Evaluating how we attract and bring diverse talent into and  and for whom statistics demonstrate poorer social mobility and 
of attendees identified as BAME and 41% were first generation 
through our company, making sure there are no barriers for  opportunity. As well as continuing to focus on making our school 
university students.
all our people to progress, and measuring impact. To address  [i]  D ata shown as at 7 January 2020.  leaver and graduate programmes more inclusive to those from 
under-representation, keep our focus on gender balance, ethnic  In the UK we have been partnering with Sponsors for Educational  [ii] Targets are set for our senior leadership population CEO-1 and CEO-2 (leaders one  different backgrounds, we will continue to track data to ensure 
diversity and social inclusion.  Opportunity (SEO) to help attract graduates from minority ethnic  and two levels below CEO, minus administration roles). Targets are not applied at  development and progression is equalised and translating in to the 
Feeling included and valued everyday and low socioeconomic backgrounds. Of the 71 candidates we  these levels individually but for transparency, the breakdown of women at CEO-1  right outcomes. 
accessed through SEO in 2019, 39 have applied to SLA.
•  Continuing to develop the capability of all leaders and managers  and CEO-2 is as follows:
to build inclusive teams and environments as part of our people  In the Americas, we have begun a partnership with Gateway to    · CEO-1: 18% (3 of 17), +3% since December 2018 
management expectations.  Leadership Foundation who aim to create greater awareness of    · CEO-2: 39% (50 of 129), +3% since December 2018
career opportunities in the financial services industry for aspiring  [iii] Tolerance of +/- 3% applied to UK and global targets
•  Further developing forums for leaders and colleagues to talk 
minority students and provide them with workforce readiness 
openly and hear each other’s experiences, understand the 
training and internships.
challenges and take action in response. Progress has been good, particularly at Board and CEO-1 level, but 
Data from our intakes to early careers programmes in 2019 shows  we are not complacent. A key driver of our gender pay and bonus 
Within this framework, in 2019 our executive leaders published 
strong gender balance and increased ethnic minority representation. gaps is the lower number of women in senior roles and the higher 
their diversity and inclusion commitments and, to support delivery, 
number of women in junior roles, and we believe progress against 
approximately 600 leaders and managers participated in workshop 
our senior leadership targets will result in a reduction of these gaps.
events across the year, exploring their personal role in creating and 
sustaining an inclusive culture.
Our UK programmes Gender Ethnicity State or private
32% 15%
School leaver programme 60% 40% 68% ethnic minority 85% private
male female white private
11% prefer not
34%
to say
Internship programme 52% 48% ethnic minority
male female 55% white
26% prefer not 22%
Graduate programme 52% 48% to say ethnic minority
male female
52% white
30 Standard Life Aberdeen Corporate Sustainability Report 2019 Standard Life Aberdeen Corporate Sustainability Report 2019 31
Social
Inclusion and wellbeing
Smarter working Getting the basics right How do others think we are doing? The importance of wellbeing
The foundation of a healthy business culture is healthy and happy 
To understand what practical changes we could make to support  Our business has undergone a number of big structural changes  We are ranked in Bloomberg’s Gender Equality Index for the 
employees. Mental health is as important as physical health, and the 
work and life flexibility, we surveyed colleagues and found all  over the last few years. This brought together colleagues with  second year in a row. This is a global benchmark on gender 
two are strongly connected. In our 2019 ESG survey our colleagues 
generations (Baby Boomers, Generation X and Millennials1)  a variety of different terms and conditions. We want to be a  equality, created to drive transparency and provide investors with 
told us this was one of the main issues they want us to focus on.
prioritised increased technology, remote working opportunities and  single, cohesive business so have finalised the complex process  standardised, comparative information on how companies are 
flexible hours and patterns. This analysis influenced the design  of creating a unified set of terms and conditions for our UK  advancing women in the workplace. This year over 1,800 colleagues in 26 locations took part in the 
of our Smarter Working policy and guidance to help our people  colleagues. Our starting point was fairness and consistency: terms  Global Challenge – a 100-day challenge to encourage new habits 
For the third year in a row, we’ve been listed in the Social Mobility 
balance their personal and professional ambitions. By equipping  and conditions that could be applied for everyone, regardless  to improve health. By the end of the 100 days our employees had 
Foundation’s index of the leading employers for social mobility.
our global workforce to collaborate across teams and locations,  of which initial company they came from, their level of seniority  walked over two billion steps and 72% felt less stressed.
The index highlights the employers doing the most to change the 
we have the flexibility and innovation needed to meet the diverse  or how long they have worked at our business. We talked to 
way they find, recruit and progress employees from different social  Mental health issues can affect anyone at any time. We’ve been 
needs of our clients and customer base.  colleagues and our Employee Forum (our employee representation 
class backgrounds. encouraging our people to support one another – from simply 
body) on all aspects of the changes. We know this means that 
asking “Are you ok?” and really listening, to building time into 
colleagues may gain some new benefits and lose others but we 
their week to sit down and have a chat or a walk with colleagues. 
believe overall this is a set of fair and leading terms:
Volunteering to help others is another way to connect with their 
•  40 days holiday
communities and support their own mental wellbeing: something 
•  16% pension (plus matching up to 2%) that we championed on our global volunteering day. We have 
I work 4.5 days a week, one of those from  •  Private healthcare also been reminding our colleagues about the support we make 
home and I have flexibility with my  •  Income protection available, from the Employee Assistance programme to the 
non-working day. This allows me to attend my  •  Inclusive policies – supporting colleagues through their life  mental health pathway through our private medical cover. All this 
elderly parents’ hospital appointments. They  events as well as their career  activity has been carried out in conjunction with our Mind Matters 
are both in their 80s and have complex medical  employee network and our Employee Forum.
conditions which means they can’t always take 
in all the information given to them. I also come 
in a bit later one day a week which enables  Recognition for our wellness 
Our new Parent Leave policy
me to drop my kids off at school which is 
approach in Asia Pacific
important for them. Initially, when I requested  For all UK colleagues welcoming 
to work in this way, I was worried I would be  a new child into the family, we’ve 
overlooked and not given challenging pieces of  introduced 52 weeks leave, with 40  Given the unique mix of cultures, races, 
work because I work four days or because I’m  weeks at full pay, regardless of gender  languages and ethnicities across the 
not always visible in the office. However, this  or length of service. This can be taken  10 different markets that we operate in Asia 
has not been the case at all. It means so much  in up to three separate periods over  Pacific, it is vital that we create and foster an 
and ensures that I can focus on work when  two years. This provides true equality  inclusive and embracing culture that makes 
I’m in work and give my absolute best. of opportunity for our people and for  people feel safe, accepted and valued at 
families of every type. For partners,  work. We’ve been focusing on all aspects of 
Lorna Tannock, Senior Proposition Manager the change is especially significant –  employees’ lives – work, home, community, 
enabling them to spend an extended  personal well-being and health. We began 
period of time with their new child too.  our programme in 2018 and are now seeing 
Working parents will have more control  lower turnover compared to industry norms 
over when they return to work and  and less absenteeism compared to the 
how to better balance their family’s  national average. To add icing to the cake, we 
needs with their career aspirations.  have received recognition from the industry 
with a win at the HR Excellence Award in the 
Rose Thomson,   Corporate Wellness category! 
Chief HR Officer
Tay Kheng Guet, Head of HR, Asia Pacific
1   Based on 313 colleague responses. We recognise there are 
more than three generations in the workplace however data 
samples from Traditionalists and Generation Z were too small to 
meaningfully analyse.
32 Standard Life Aberdeen Corporate Sustainability Report 2019 Standard Life Aberdeen Corporate Sustainability Report 2019 33
Social
Human rights and employment practices
Investing with purpose
Holding boards to account  Encouraging companies to be better   Our overall approach
corporate citizens
In 2019 the proportion of shareholder-proposed resolutions  Our human rights policy sets out our approach to 
focusing on employment practices – such as diversity and the  Every year we meet with and discuss ESG issues with  identifying and upholding the human rights of our people, 
gender pay gap - has increased significantly. hundreds of companies. Our aim is to understand the  customers and clients, communities and those impacted 
steps they are taking to address material ESG risks and  by our suppliers, partners and the companies we invest 
A significant change was the implementation of voting policies 
to encourage action and best practice. in. Our investment approach is where we can have our 
related to gender diversity in the UK, Western Europe and North 
biggest impact, therefore we consider ESG factors, 
America. While we are seeing a broad trend of improvement in  In Q1 2019 we met with Boohoo to discuss labour issues, 
including human rights, when evaluating companies. We 
gender balance on boards, we took voting action where gender  human rights and their supply chain.
focus on those companies at highest risk, assessing the 
diversity did not meet our expectations and where companies 
Boohoo is a UK-based online fashion retailer, which  management of human rights impacts and engage when 
couldn’t demonstrate commitment to improve. In the UK, the 
operates and distributes products globally. Over the  appropriate to highlight issues and promote good practice. 
Hampton-Alexander review has set a target for FTSE 350 
past few years, Boohoo has been on the receiving 
company boards of one-third (33%) representation of women by  We want to do all we can to help tackle human trafficking, 
end of a number of negative news stories including 
the end of 2020. In order to reflect our support for this target, our  forced labour, bonded labour and child slavery. We focus 
allegations of poor working conditions and apparent non-
policy for 2019 was to vote against the nomination committee  on our operations, supply chain and investment processes. 
compliance with minimum wage standards within their 
chair (NCC), where appropriate, of any FTSE 350 company with  We have published our 2019 modern slavery statement, 
UK supply chain. In the UK, the industry is also facing 
less than 25% representation of women on the board. For smaller  reinforcing our commitment to this important issue. It 
wider scrutiny from the Environmental Audit Committee 
companies, we took voting action against companies that had no  details our new training programme, and provides an 
(EAC). Its “Sustainability of the Fashion Industry” inquiry 
female representation on the board. This reflected the fact that  example of an engagement with an investee company on 
investigates the social and environmental impact of 
such boards tend to be smaller, with less director turnover than  modern slavery issues.
disposable ‘fast fashion’ and the wider clothing industry.
large companies. In Europe, we adopted the same approach as we 
We are a founding member of The Investor Forum, 
had for the UK. In the US, meanwhile, we voted against the NCC  We wanted to understand how Boohoo was managing 
through which we participate in collaborative projects 
where there was less than 20% female representation on a board.  these concerns. Its management team invited us to 
to tackle modern slavery in high risk sectors. We also 
In 2019, we voted in relation to board diversity at 44 UK, seven  its head office in Manchester and its newly automated 
support initiatives in collaboration with industry peers 
European and 74 US companies. warehouse in Burnley.
and non-governmental organisations to advocate for 
Human rights proposals also increased and this year included  We found that Boohoo has improved the level of  better enforcement of anti-modern slavery legislation. An 
resolutions attributed to advances in new technologies such as  disclosure. However, comparisons with peers show there  example of this is the “Find it, Fix it, Prevent it” investor 
facial recognition software, and online risks, such as content  is still more it could provide. This includes greater detail  initiative launched by CCLA and industry organisations 
governance, hate speech and child exploitation. Resolutions were  into its auditing practices and outcomes. We would also  and academics, designed to encourage UK businesses to 
tabled at some of the largest names in tech, such as Amazon and  like further clarity on how it mitigates the risks of human  find and help victims of slavery within their operations and 
Alphabet. In Amazon’s case, we voted in favour of a resolution  rights abuses in its supply chain. supply chain. The first sector which will be focused on in 
relating to reducing hate speech.  this project is the hospitality industry.
The EAC inquiry has called out Boohoo, alongside other 
In addition to the thematic areas, we voted on a range of  clothing retailers, for a lack of sustainability actions and 
specific issues including the management of nuclear facilities by  labour initiatives. However, the company is starting to 
Japanese utility companies, the prevention of animal cruelty and  improve its environmental impact in a number of areas, 
the sale of tobacco. for example, its textile recycling service. We expect to see 
more on this in the near term.
The new warehouse has improved efficiency and quality 
Joining with other investors of work for employees and that has been well-received in 
staff engagement surveys.
We are part of a group of investors controlling more than $10tn 
in assets that has written to the world’s largest mining companies  As an ‘escalation candidate’ we will continue to monitor 
demanding they reveal the safety records of their waste dumps. This  and engage with Boohoo to ensure progress continues to 
comes after social and environmental catastrophes including the  be made.
Brumadinho dam collapse in Brazil which killed hundreds of people. 
The dams are generally used for permanent storage of mining 
byproducts, which can be toxic. FTSE 100 mining companies Anglo 
American, Antofagasta, BHP Group, Glencore and Rio Tinto all 
received letters asking them to publicly disclose their dams’ size, 
construction methods and safety records.
34 Standard Life Aberdeen Corporate Sustainability Report 2019 Standard Life Aberdeen Corporate Sustainability Report 2019 35
Social
Investing for charities
We are truly client-centric in what we  Aberdeen Standard Capital (our discretionary investment  The Tipping Point: We commissioned research from the Cass Centre for Charity Effectiveness to better 
offer charities, as our approach is  manager) has a dedicated charities team providing tailored  understand the barriers facing trustees as they approach investing for the first time. From this, we created 
not ‘one size fits all’. We listen to the  investment strategies for a wide range of charities.  a toolkit in 2019 enabling us to provide practical support to charities in this early part of their investment 
journey. We found ESG and ethical aspects to be very important considerations for trustees. 
particular concerns of each charity, 
We’ve found that client interest in responsible investing and ESG 
in terms of the conduct or sectors  themes is growing rapidly. A particular trend over the last 12 
which are contrary to their charitable  months, for both current and new charity clients, is a move to a 
purposes or values.  We can then  ‘Climate Aware’ investment strategy, which screens out a number  ESG issues are important to the charity (%) Ethical considerations should be high on a 
translate that into ethical screens  of sectors such as oil and gas.  charity’s list of priorities when investing (%)
applied at an individual stock level 
which gives trustees confidence their 
chosen screens can be applied with 
integrity and transparency. We were 
4 4 1
delighted that our approach was 
recently recognised with the Best ESG  For many members of our charities team, their involvement in the  13 21 22
charity sector extends beyond the day job as they have experience  25
Wealth Manager award in the 2019 
as charity trustees or finance committee members. This helps us to 
Investment Week Sustainable & ESG 
really understand the sector and issues trustees face. 
Investment Awards.
We work closely with trustees and share our insight and expertise. 
This often involves a board workshop to support trustees as they 
Julie Hutchison, 
Charities Specialist, Aberdeen Standard Capital review and select their ethical criteria and finalise their investment 
policy. Since 2016, we have shared our expertise with over 
62 48
2,000 people at almost 100 charity workshops, seminars and 
Strongly agree
conferences across the UK. 
Agree
Agreed:  83% Neither Agreed:  73%
Disagreed: 4% Disagreed: 5%
Disagree
I wanted to thank the team for all the 
Strongly disagree
help and support that you have given us 
to create a College Investment Policy 
that was fit for purpose. I never expected 
the College’s complex requirements in 
constructing an ethical investment profile to 
be straightforward… You were readily able to 
accommodate the strong approach that we 
took to avoiding investments in the fossil fuel 
sector and explained in a clear fashion the 
impact of such decisions upon the portfolios’ 
expected performance.
Head of Finance, 
a Royal Medical College
36 Standard Life Aberdeen Corporate Sustainability Report 2019 Standard Life Aberdeen Corporate Sustainability Report 2019 37
Social
Financial inclusion
Unlocking solutions 
The UK savings market is evolving rapidly. Individuals have to take  most assets. Most platforms have traditionally operated a model 
more control of their own life savings and their financial wellness,  designed to reward savers where fees fall as the customer’s pot 
As a leading provider of advice and 
as the responsibility shifts away from companies and governments.  increases. Unfortunately, this means as people start to use their 
savings solutions in the UK, we 
Demographic, economic and societal trends are adding significant  savings to fund their retirement, that percentage goes back up 
want to play our part in closing the 
complexity to peoples’ management of their life savings. Whether  as money is withdrawn creating an increasing drag as their pot 
that’s increasing life expectancy, the shifting nature of state  declines. The changes we have introduced mean that advisers  savings gap. All the actions we’re 
benefits or a low interest rate environment, the factors individuals  using Wrap will be able to offer a better experience for their  taking – working with others to 
need to consider when they invest for their future are vast.  customers by delivering a sustainable fee structure that addresses  support effective financial education 
However, many people can lack both knowledge and confidence  the cost challenge facing those approaching and entering  in primary schools; developing 
when navigating these complicated financial options. Alongside  retirement. At the same time we reduced and simplified pricing 
products and solutions that make 
this, the concept of retirement is evolving. For example, there will  on our Wrap platform to help advisers manage better customer 
saving easier; or helping people 
likely be an increase in individuals “unretiring” – in some cases  conversations and make a real difference to their customers.
access trusted, financial advice – 
that is tied to necessity, people haven’t saved enough to sustain 
Combined, our platforms and advice businesses help us fulfil an 
the lifestyle they imagined in retirement. This is driving the need  are intended to help more people 
important social purpose - addressing the advice and savings gap, 
for simpler products and services that help people invest and save  achieve security and confidence for 
providing people with greater comfort over the financial decisions 
effectively, and help address the advice gap that currently exists.  their future financial wellbeing.
they are taking, and at a fair price.
We are focused on developing solutions which help to protect 
individuals, directly or through an adviser, and ensure they are  Noel Butwell, 
investing to meet their own life savings goals – whether that is a  CEO Standard Life
particular lifestyle in retirement, buying their first home, or saving 
for their grandchildren’s future. 
We welcome the new UK strategy on financial wellbeing. We 
Our financial planning business, 1825, is designed to provide  believe collaboration across business, government and third 
financial advice, over the phone and face to face. We have  sector are vital in achieving its aims. That’s why we are a 
expanded our coverage over the last year and are now operating  lead supporter of Kickstart Money - a collaboration between 
across the UK. savings and investment firms, brought together by The 
Investing and Saving Alliance (TISA), to promote financial 
To support more people we are developing our digital advice 
education as a compulsory element of the UK National 
capability with the aim of broadening access to more people and 
Primary School Curriculum.
at a lower cost to individuals. We continue to pilot and develop this 
capability and will be rolling this out further in 2020. KickStart Money was formed in response to ground-breaking 
research from the Money Advice Service, which found 
In 2019 we launched Individually Managed Accounts (IMA) – a 
that adult spending habits and attitudes towards money 
market leading innovation which will make it possible for many 
are formed as young as seven.  It is funding the provision 
clients to access the personal portfolio services that were once 
of financial education, delivered by the charity MyBnk, to 
the preserve of the few. Our technology will ensure clients get a 
20,000 primary school children over three years. During 
better, more personal service – for example they will now be able 
year two of the programme, there was an independent 
to exclude assets or make substitutions – and there is no minimum 
assessment of over 3,000 pupils who were taking part. The 
investment level.
assessment found that two out of three pupils were actively 
In 2019 we also launched the Drawdown price lock – the first  working towards a savings goal after the lessons – nearly 
of its kind in the UK. Advisers using our Wrap platform can now  double the national average.  77% were now also able to 
“lock” their customers’ price at the lowest level when they have the  delay spending gratification.
38 Standard Life Aberdeen Corporate Sustainability Report 2019 Standard Life Aberdeen Corporate Sustainability Report 2019 39
Social
SDG8 and SDG17 case studies 
Collaborating with Big Issue Invest –  Championing social change 
the social investment arm of the 
We proactively work with organisations and policymakers to help 
Big Issue Group  shape the policies which impact on us and our stakeholders. 
Working with Big Issue Invest (BII), and other partners, we focus on initiatives  We are a joint lead partner and founder of the Big  Helping social enterprises flourish Living Hours  
which support financial inclusion as well as the growth of social enterprises and  Exchange, launched by BII. It connects individuals to  Launched by BII in 2018, Power Up Scotland develops early 
We are one of the first four companies in the UK accrediting as a 
businesses which help address societal and environmental issues. Together,  investments that aim to create good financial returns as  stage social businesses through investment, business support 
Living Hours employer.
with our collective funding, experience and insight, we can create an even  well as have a positive effect on people and the planet.  and cross-sector partnerships. We support and fund the 
greater positive impact. programme in conjunction with Edinburgh University and the  In the UK, one in six workers – over five million people - are in low 
Launching in 2020, the new platform will bring low 
Scottish Government. pay and insecure work, two million of whom are parents. They can 
Impact investing cost, impact investment funds directly to customers 
often face cancelled shifts, have inconsistent hours each week or 
Saving in a way that does good for people and the planet is one of the most  via a simple, mobile first interface.  Individuals will  Power Up has made £900,000 available to lend over two years, 
be on short-term contracts, making it difficult to plan ahead or meet 
effective ways we can all invest in a better future. be able to track their investments and impact via a  enabling organisations to build on the good work they currently 
costs. In response, the Living Wage Foundation has launched 
unique social passport. do within their communities. Successful applicants also receive 
In 2018 we launched the UK Equity Impact – Employment opportunities fund  Living Hours, a major new programme to tackle the widespread 
mentoring and business development support.
with BII – an innovative solution for investors pursuing both societal and  The Big Exchange aims to start a movement that will  insecurity over hours and provide workers with real control over 
financial benefits. The objective of the fund is to support decent job creation  transform the lives of millions of people by building a  Our people have provided 2,600 hours of mentoring support  their lives.
in the UK through investing in companies which promote and implement good  fairer financial system that works for everyone. to date. 
The scheme asks organisations to pay the real Living Wage and 
employment opportunities and practices. We believe investment in skills and 
In 2019, year two of the project was launched and a number of  also commit to provide workers with at least four weeks’ notice 
attracting talent is the basis for competitiveness, productivity and growth. 
social enterprises were successful in applying to be part of the  of shifts, a contract that accurately reflects hours worked, and a 
In 2019 we launched our first annual UK impact report:  scheme, including: contract with a guaranteed minimum of 16 hours a week, unless 
We are proud to found and partner  the worker requests otherwise. Organisations that agree to these 
80% of the Fund’s companies pay above the national  Scran Academy
on this amazing platform. We  measures are accredited as Living Hours employers alongside 
average wage for their sectors This catering social enterprise is aiming to improve the lives of 
believe this will be transformative –  their Living Wage accreditation.
disadvantaged young people, aged 14-19, across North Edinburgh. 
the Fund holds twice the reference benchmark’s level  
both for the individual saver and for  They create referral opportunities from routes such as school  We want to use our leadership role to raise awareness and drive 
of exposure to companies that create employment 
broader society. We want to make it  exclusion teams, social work departments or local community  change on this key social issue in the UK and continue to drive 
opportunities in areas with high employment deprivation
easy to do good with money. partners. Scran Academy offer the young people a range of skills  progress in fair and inclusive work that enables people to plan for a 
70% of the Fund’s companies exhibited positive job  programmes, supported by youth workers, trained mentors and  better future. We believe that businesses that can provide certainty 
creation over the last year, with a median growth rate of  chefs, that help the young people empower themselves to run a  and control to their workers are more sustainable and will reap the 
Campbell Fleming, 
5.1% versus 3.1% growth for companies in FTSE 350 real-life social business, and ultimately access the confidence,  benefits of their workers being able to perform at their best.
Global Head of Distribution
qualifications and skills they need to thrive in adult life.
Recognition for our approach 
We won the 2019 National Responsible Business Champion 
Award as selected by the UK All-Party Parliamentary Corporate 
Responsibility Group (APCRG), chaired by Jonathan Djanogly MP 
The Big Issue provides the means and opportunity  Caledonia Cremations and Baroness Greengross. When awarding us, the Parliamentarians 
for homeless and vulnerably housed people to earn  As Scotland’s only not-for-profit funeral directors, they aim to tackle  highlighted responsible practices across our company, specifically 
a living through working. The Fund extends this core  funeral poverty through providing simple and dignified affordable  our focus on inclusive employment and fair working practices, as 
belief by creating job opportunities and ensuring good  cremations. They also offer bereavement counselling and advice.  well as our successful partnerships with charities.
employment practices, both of which are vital poverty  Any profits made are reinvested into helping people in Scotland’s 
prevention tools. It also enables BII to expand its work  poorest communities who struggle to cope with bereavement.
by directly investing in more social enterprises that 
seek to dismantle poverty. We feel a huge sense of 
pride in what this partnership has already achieved – 
and there’s more to come.
Nigel Kershaw, Chair, 
The Big Issue Group
40 Standard Life Aberdeen Corporate Sustainability Report 2019 Standard Life Aberdeen Corporate Sustainability Report 2019 41
Social
Our charitable giving
Career Ready – UK What happened in 2019
Since 2013 we’ve partnered with Career Ready, a charity  In 2019, we provided £3.4m in charitable giving, benefitting 
A review of our impact
that connects employers and schools to help young people  over 39,000 people. Our colleagues volunteered almost 
During 2019 we have reviewed the social and  who may need extra help to get ready for employment and  18,000 hours in their local communities and overseas. 
environmental impact of our charitable giving,  kickstart rewarding careers. The students are mentored 
Here’s a snapshot of some of our activity, addressing poverty 
following corporate changes. As well as the data  through their final years of school and provided with 
and wellbeing, across the globe:
we have from measurement and benchmarking  internships, helping them at the point in their life when they 
of past community investment programmes  are making big choices about their future.  UK
and philanthropy, we’ve conducted a series of 
We’ve provided 126 employee mentors and  We launched our two-year partnership with Dementia UK.  
stakeholder interviews and analysed the external 
128 internships paid at the UK Living Wage to students  Our people have fundraised £160,000 so far. 
landscape. This has identified a number of 
across the UK. Through funding and in-kind support 
consistent themes and some exciting opportunities.  We began supporting breakfast clubs in Edinburgh. Poverty 
we’ve enabled third sector organisations to provide paid 
For example, some of our key charity partnerships,  internships to benefit social mobility and diversity in the  can limit access to nutritious food, which in turn affects 
such as Career Ready and the Prince’s Trust in  charity sector.  children’s health and wellbeing and their ability to learn and 
the UK, Karen Hilltribes Trust in Thailand, and  develop. We’ve worked with City of Edinburgh Council to 
AbleChildAfrica highlighted the significant value  As well as mentoring, our people have volunteered to  identify schools which would benefit most. We have agreed 
they get from our strategic support and in-kind  deliver masterclasses and host workplace visits across over  a three year partnership with two which will provide funding 
35 schools and colleges in London and sat on various Local  for them to improve and expand their current Breakfast 
expertise. We can learn from this insight and 
Advisory Boards in both Scotland and England. Club offering. We’re also supporting the Council’s Discover! 
further increase the positive impact we have. There 
is also a clear demand from our people and the  We’ve also supported the development of Career Ready  programme, which aims to reduce food stress during school 
wider public for us to do more to respond to climate  through funding roles at the charity, and providing office  holidays, and provide fun learning activities for children.  
and ecological breakdown. You can expect to see  space and resources.
Emerging markets
our new social and environmental impact strategy 
being launched in 2020.  AbleChildAfrica - Tanzania We started our three-year partnership with Hope for Children 
In 2017 we began a three-year partnership with  supporting their Achieving WASH for Rights to Education 
Tamsin Balfour,  AbleChildAfrica, a charity that works with local partners to  (AWARE) project. This aims to increase retention in schools 
Chair SLA Charitable Foundation protect, educate and empower children with disabilities so  and decrease absenteeism, especially in girls, through 
that they are included in the education system and able to  improved access to WASH (water and sanitation hygiene) 
fulfil their future potential. and behaviours. AWARE targets Jangaon, a remote rural 
region in Telangana and one of India’s most educationally 
Our funding supports their local partner Child Support  and socially deprived districts. Year one has resulted in 16 
Tanzania (CST) – enabling both the construction of a  schools having functional toilet facilities onsite, with a further 
disability-inclusive school in Mbeya, Tanzania, and the  26 planned during years two and three of the project. A further 
upskilling of CST’s senior management team to support  aim is to train teaching staff and parents on the importance 
their transition from a smaller educational centre to a  of good hygiene and hand washing techniques to establish 
larger purpose–built school. healthy habits.  In the first six months of the project, 240 
So far, CST has supported over 280 children with  parents or caregivers attended a session. For the children 
disabilities to gain access to an inclusive education, trained  supported, staying in education and having improved health 
301 local teachers in inclusive teaching practices and  outcomes means they can look to the future with confidence.
educated over 300 community members, including parents 
and government officials, on child and disability rights. Americas
Through our support, CST is now recognised as a  We have been a supporter of the charity MANNA since 
leader in the field of inclusive education, and is helping  2013, and have pledged a further four-year partnership 
to develop the government’s new National Strategy for  this year. MANNA brings together dietitians, chefs, drivers, 
Inclusive Education.  and thousands of volunteers to cook and deliver nutritious, 
medically appropriate meals and provide nutrition counselling 
to people battling life-threatening illnesses. This commitment 
allows us to continue supporting the famous ‘Aberdeen 
Standard Apple Pie’ during MANNA’s largest annual fundraiser 
- the Pie in the Sky campaign. During the 2019 campaign over 
10,500 pies were sold which raised over $300k.
42 Standard Life Aberdeen Corporate Sustainability Report 2019 Standard Life Aberdeen Corporate Sustainability Report 2019 43
Appendix
Data and 
accreditations
44 Standard Life Aberdeen Corporate Sustainability Report 2019 Standard Life Aberdeen Corporate Sustainability Report 2019 45
Appendix
Social Environment
Measure Unit  2019 2018 Definition Measure Unit  2019 2018 Definition
Number of employees number 6,213 6,192 Total global number of employees1 Scope 1 GHG emissions from natural gas, fluorinated gases (f-Gas),  
Scope 1 tCO2e 1,784 2,667
fleet and diesel
Personnel by region  UK number 4,846 - Total number of employees1
Scope 2 - Location based tCO2e 4,807 7,069 Scope 2 GHG emissions from purchased electricity
EMEA (non UK) number 366 - Total number of employees1
Scope 2 - Market based tCO2e 2,147 4,376 Scope 2 GHG emissions from purchased electricity
Asia Pacific number 620 - Total number of employees1
Americas number 381 - Total number of employees1 Scope 3 - Location based tCO2e 12,951 22,482 Scope 3 indirect GHG emissions from business air travel, electricity transmission 
and distribution losses, and electricity consumption by a third party data centre 
Employee training cost £m 5.5 6.9 External spend on employee training
Employee training hours hours 23.4 22.3 Average number of hours employees participated in training Scope 3 - Market based tCO2e 12,870 22,107 Scope 3 indirect GHG emissions from business air travel, electricity transmission 
and distribution losses, and electricity consumption by a third party data centre 
Percentage of employees in the company pension scheme, data covers 
Employees in pension scheme % 93 95 FTE in the UK which accounts for 78% of our workforce  Business flights pkm 40,841,988 62,234,386 Passenger km travelled on business flights through our travel providers
Employee share ownership % 59 57 Percentage of employees on our payroll who are contributing to one of our  Business rail pkm 3,323,620.8 - Passenger km travelled on business rail journeys through our travel providers
employee share options
Number of employees that left the company within the past year as a  Road pkm 2,104,480 2,965,326 Passenger km travelled by car for business and claimed through expenses
Employee turnover % 16 12
percentage of the total number of employees
Total business Travel pkm 46,270,089 - Passenger km travelled on business rail journeys through our travel providers
Number of employees that left the company voluntarily within the past year as 
Voluntary turnover % 10 7
a percentage of the total number of employees
Total GHG emissions per FTE 
Involuntary turnover % 6 6 Number of employees that left the company involuntarily within the past year  (location based) tCO2e/FTE 3.1 5.2 Total GHG emissions per FTE for the continuing business 
as a percentage of the total number of employees
Total GHG emission (Scope 1 and  Gross global combined Scope 1 and 2 emissions for the reporting year in metric 
tCO2e/£m 1.65 4.60
Contractor FTE versus employee FTE % 13 14 Number of contractors as a percentage of total number of employees 2 only) per £m of total income tons CO2e per unit currency total revenue
Total energy consumption MWh 23,529 35,017 Total energy consumption 
Total contribution including cash, time, in-kind giving, pro bono contribution of 
Community spending £m 3.4 3.2
service and management costs Electricity used MWh 16,655 23,440 Total electricity consumption
Paid volunteer time hours 17,921  15,118 Total number of hours employees have logged as paid volunteer time Natural gas used MWh 6,393 10,109 Total natural gas consumption
Employees represented by a staff  The number of employees that belong to staff associations, have staff  District Heating MWh 454 1,468 Total MWh consumed via district heating
% 83 79
association, representative or union representatives or unions as a percentage of the total number of employees
Stationary diesel  MWh 27 92 Total MWh consumed via stationary diesel
Employee average age years 40 41 Average age of employees
Electricity used under a green/ 
MWh 11,321 15,856 Total renewable electricity
Women employed at the company as a percentage of the total number  renewable tariff
Women in workforce % 46 45
of employees
Procured electricity under a 
% 99 98 Percentage of procured electricity under a green tariff
Women employed at the company one and two reporting levels below the  green tariff
Women in executive population % 36 34 CEO as a percentage of the total number of employees. Administration 
Weighted average carbon intensity
assistants are excluded
Equities AsiaPac tCO2e /US$ 377 weighted average carbon intensity as of January 2020 tCO2e /US$
Women on board % 45 25 Percentage of women on the Board of Directors
Global Emerging Markets tCO2e /US$ 325 weighted average carbon intensity as of January 2020 tCO2e /US$
UK employees that do not identify as white British, white Irish, or white - other 
Minorities in our workforce % 10 11
European/any other white background Global Equities tCO2e /US$ 175 weighted average carbon intensity as of January 2020 tCO2e /US$
UK employees who identify as disabled. Due to changes in our approach to  Europe tCO2e /US$ 153 weighted average carbon intensity as of January 2020 tCO2e /US$
Disabled people in our workforce % - 5
measurement and definition, we cannot provide for 2019
US tCO2e /US$ 152 weighted average carbon intensity as of January 2020 tCO2e /US$
Full time to part time FTE % 92 90 Percentage of employees who are full time 
UK tCO2e /US$ 104 weighted average carbon intensity as of January 2020 tCO2e /US$
Part time female/male % 88 90 Percentage of part time workforce that is female Japan tCO2e /US$ 60 weighted average carbon intensity as of January 2020 tCO2e /US$
Number of accidents at the company resulting in harm to employees (This  Small Cap tCO2e /US$ 37 weighted average carbon intensity as of January 2020 tCO2e /US$
Workforce accidents - employees number 26 39 number includes accidents resulting in harm to transferred employees for the 
8 months prior to the sale on 31 August 2018) Fixed income                                  EM Credit tCO2e /US$ 869 weighted average carbon intensity as of January 2020 tCO2e /US$
Fatalities number 0 0 Number of contractor and employee fatalities US HY tCO2e /US$ 361 weighted average carbon intensity as of January 2020 tCO2e /US$
Global IG tCO2e /US$ 270 weighted average carbon intensity as of January 2020 tCO2e /US$
US IG tCO2e /US$ 232 weighted average carbon intensity as of January 2020 tCO2e /US$
Euro IG tCO2e /US$ 193 weighted average carbon intensity as of January 2020 tCO2e /US$
Euro HY tCO2e /US$ 181 weighted average carbon intensity as of January 2020 tCO2e /US$
Sterling IG tCO2e /US$ 161 weighted average carbon intensity as of January 2020 tCO2e /US$
Note: All data is as at 31 December unless otherwise stated.
  1 As of 7 January 2020 due to HR system migration
46 Standard Life Aberdeen Corporate Sustainability Report 2019 Standard Life Aberdeen Corporate Sustainability Report 2019 47
Appendix
Governance Ratings and recognitions
Measure Unit  2019 2018 Definition Measure Unit  2019 2018 Definition
Percentile ranking for our sector on our management of material 
Bribery and corruption breaches number 0 0 Number of bribery and corruption breaches DJSI (Robecosam) Score % 97 96
ESG issues
Percentile ranking for our sector on our management of material 
Whistleblowing calls  number 5 15 Whistleblowing notifications which resulted in investigation FTSE4Good score % 97 100
ESG issues
Compliance with code of conduct % 100 95 Pagerreceedn ttaog ceo omf pelmy pwliothy eceosd ew hoof  choanvdeu ccotmpleted training and  CDP Score C C Score based on our environmental performance
Assets under management in funds, based on our own  MSCI ESG Ratings aim to measure a company's resilience to 
MSCI ESG rating A A
classification that constitute Sustainable Investment funds and  long-term, financially relevant ESG risks
AUM in sustainable investment funds  £bn 17 15
interpretation of universal guidance on the various categorisations 
of approaches as of June 2019 GRESB Real Esate, Debt and  Number of  GRESB Real Estate assessment measures fund ESG 
33 26 performance, awarding green stars for reaching an absolute level 
Infrastructure green stars
of performance
Principles for Responsible Investment  PRI strategy rating for Aberdeen Standard Investments. Rating for 
Score  - A+
(PRI) Assessment Report 2019 will not be available until April 2020
Ranks all FTSE 350 companies on the gender representation of 
Hampton-Alexander Review Rank / 100 10 92
their Boards and Executive teams
Included  Recognises our progress and transparency on gender equality at 
Bloomberg Gender-Equality Index Yes Yes
(Yes/No) all levels of the business
Ranks the UK’s employers doing the most to change the way they 
Social Mobility Employer Index Rank 21 29 find, recruit and progress employees from different social class 
backgrounds
Bureau Veritas have provided limited 
KPI
assurance on KPIs marked in this report with 
this symbol.
Read Bureau Veritas’ full  
assurance statement
48 Standard Life Aberdeen Corporate Sustainability Report 2019 Standard Life Aberdeen Corporate Sustainability Report 2019 49
Standard Life Aberdeen plc is registered in Scotland (SC286832) at, 1 George Street, Edinburgh EH2 2LL. 
MUL1269   0320   www.standardlifeaberdeen.com    © 2019 Standard Life Aberdeen, images reproduced under licence. All rights reserved.