
S
t
a
n
d
a We are
r
d
 
L
i
f
e
 
A
b
e
r
d
e futurists
e
n
 
p
l
c
 
 
 
 
 
A
n
n
u
a
l
 
r
e
p
o
r
t
 
a
n
d
 
a
c
c
o
u
n
t
s
 
2
0
2
0
Annual report and accounts 2020
 
Contents     
1. Strategic report       KPI  Investment performance   
(three years) 
Our business .......................................................   1 
Message from the Chairman ..............................    3  66% 
Chief Executive Officer’s review .........................   6 
2019: 60% 
Our strategy and business model ......................   9 
Our clients  ...........................................................    14 
Our people ...........................................................    20   KPI  Adjusted profit    
Our society ...........................................................   24  before tax 
Chief Financial Officer’s overview ......................    30  £487m 
Risk management ...............................................   38 
2019: £584m 
Governance   
2. Board of Directors ...........................................    44 
3. Corporate governance statement ..................   48   KPI  IFRS profit    
before tax 
3.1 Audit Committee report ............................   59 
3.2 Risk and Capital Committee report ..........    66  £838m 
3.3 Nomination and Governance  
2019: £243m 
Committee report ......................................   70 
3.4 Directors’ remuneration report .................   73 
4. Directors’ report ...............................................   96   KP I Full year dividend    
5. Statement of Directors’ responsibilities ..........    103  per share  
Financial information    14.6p 
6. Independent audit report .................................    106 
2019: 21.6p 
7. Group financial statements .............................   115 
8. Company financial statements .......................   211 
9. Supplementary information.............................    222    Net flows (Excl LBG   
tranche withdrawals) 
Other information   
£3.1bn outflow 
10. Glossary.........................................................    236 
11. Shareholder information ...............................    238 
2019: £17.4bn outflow 
12. Forward‑looking statements .........................   239 
13. Contact us .....................................................   IBC       
 
 
 
 
 
This symbol indicates further information is     Certain measures such as fee based revenue and adjusted profit before 
 
available within this annual report or on the   tax are not defined under International Financial Reporting Standard 
Group corporate website.  (IFRS) and are therefore termed alternative performance measures 
(APMs).  
Download this report from:  
www.standardlifeaberdeen.com/annualreport  APMs should be read together with the Group’s IFRS consolidated income 
statement, IFRS consolidated statement of financial position and IFRS 
The Annual report and accounts 2020 and the 
consolidated statement of cash flows, which are presented in the Group 
Strategic report and financial highlights 2020 are 
financial statements section of this report. Further details on APMs are 
published on the Group’s website at 
included in Supplementary information. 
www.standardlifeaberdeen.com/annualreport 
All figures are shown on a continuing operations basis unless otherwise 
Access to the website is available outside the  
stated. 
UK, where comparable information may be different. 
 KPI  See page 31 for details on all of our financial key performance indicators 
(KPIs) and page 21 for details on our employee engagement KPI. See 
Supplementary information for details about the investment 
performance calculation. 
 
 
 
We are
futurists
* f juːtʃərɪst:  
Systematically explores possibilities about 
the future and how they can emerge from 
the present
enabling our clients 
to be
better investors
Standard Life Aberdeen 2020 1
Our business 
Our client focused business  
We operate across three vectors that reflect how our clients interact with us. Through these 
vectors, and using time, technology and talent, Standard Life Aberdeen has the full 
ecosystem of capabilities to enable our clients to be better investors. 
We provide services across three growth vectors 
   
Investments  Adviser  Personal 
     
     
Our global asset management  Our market-leading UK  Our Personal business 
capability thrives on curiosity  financial adviser business  combines our financial 
and collaboration. It is  provides services through the  planning business 1825, our 
powered by technology so that  Wrap and Elevate platforms to  digital direct-to-consumer 
the investment decisions we  wealth managers and  services and discretionary 
make today enable the  advisers.  fund management services 
outcomes our clients expect  from Aberdeen Standard 
tomorrow.  Capital. Our range of services 
includes ISAs and investment 
accounts. 
Our clients want solutions that  Our platforms enable our  We deliver advice and 
meet complex requirements  clients to deliver their core  outcomes for a growing 
over multiple durations,  services, access high-quality  population of charities, 
including those for retirement  financial planning technology,  advisers and individuals who 
planning, healthcare and  simplify the services and  are seeking guidance at the 
education.  enable the scale of their  moments of time that matter to 
businesses.  them. 
As our core business, our goal    Our goal is to excel on    Our goal is to provide good 
is to leverage our global  experience, as well as the  advice and high-quality and 
presence and our meticulous  efficiency of our services to  accessible services direct to 
research to consistently  wealth managers and  consumers to help them plan 
deliver superior outcomes for  advisers.  for, and meet, their financial 
our clients.  futures. 
£457bn  1    £67bn  1    £13bn  1 
AUM AUMA AUMA
Fee based revenue  Fee based revenue  Fee based revenue 
£1,146m  £137m  £80m 
     
  
 
1  Total AUMA at 31 December 2020 was £534.6bn including Parmenion of £8.1bn less Eliminations of £10.7bn. See page 33 for more information.
2 Standard Life Aberdeen 2020
S
Message from the Chairman  T
R
A
T
Delivering for our stakeholders through  EG
IC
 R
E
unprecedented times  PO
R
T
 
2020 was a year like no other. The COVID-19 pandemic touched every corner of society, 
affecting lives to an extent not experienced for generations, changing the ways we live and 
work. Resilience and adaptability were essential to our continuing to deliver for our clients 
and customers and I am proud of the way the leadership of the company, with the support of 
all our colleagues, stepped up to meet the challenges. 
time spent in the office more collaborative and constructive.  
Everyone, of course, is still concerned about the wellbeing of their 
loved ones and many are juggling caring responsibilities. On top 
of this, turbulent markets and a faltering economy have led to 
mental stress and uncertainty around finances and futures. Some 
of our colleagues are caring for vulnerable family members and 
friends, others have been negotiating home schooling, or feelings 
of isolation. The vaccine roll-out brings hope, but until the 
programme is complete and we can find our way back to a new 
version of normal life, my deepest thanks to all our colleagues 
who continue to deliver in these difficult circumstances.  
Positioning for growth  
The economic backdrop caused by the pandemic meant we did 
not build revenue in 2020 but we made encouraging progress in 
related areas. Notably, we reduced net outflows, improved both 
consultant ratings and investment performance and met major 
milestones in delivering the technology framework needed to 
underpin future growth. Additionally, following Stephen Bird’s 
appointment, we repositioned the company around three growth 
vectors. We added emphasis to our personal business and 
adviser platforms, increased our commitment to technology-
driven investment solutions and repositioned our real estate 
business through the planned sale of our direct real estate 
business in the Nordics. In December, we announced the 
 
acquisition of one of Europe’s leading logistics real estate fund 
Sir Douglas Flint, Chairman  managers, Tritax. On top of this, we announced the intention to 
sell Parmenion, one of our three adviser platform businesses, in 
  order to bring clarity to our adviser platform strategy. 
It was also a year of further transition in our businesses as we  With market conditions in India favourable, we continued, as 
welcomed Stephen Bird as our new Chief Executive Officer and,  previously indicated, to sell down our stake in HDFC Life realising 
building on the transformation progress delivered following our  a further £0.6bn in proceeds and generating a profit of £0.5bn 
merger and the sale of our UK and European insurance business,  from the share sales. This disposal also resulted in a one-off 
we tasked him with positioning the company for growth. This has  accounting gain of £1,051m due to a change in classification of 
generated a fresh excitement within the company,  our investment in HDFC Life. We continue to have valuable 
notwithstanding the difficult external environment.   stakes in Phoenix, HDFC Life and HDFC Asset Management. 
Together these stakes are worth £3.7bn as at 5 March 2021. 
Responding to the pandemic 
Reflecting the impact on reported and future revenues from 
Before I talk more broadly about progress in our business, I must  projections of global equity markets and a change in mix with a 
reflect on the context in which we continue to operate. When I  higher proportion of lower margin assets, an impairment of 
wrote about the outlook in my statement in last year’s annual  £915m in the asset management goodwill was reported during 
report, the pandemic was only in its early stages and the extent of  the year. 
the human and economic loss, and the restrictions on our ways of 
working and living that we have seen over the last year, were  Our capital resources and liquidity position remain strong. At the 
then unimaginable.   end of December capital resources stood at £3.4bn, an excess 
over regulatory requirements of £2.3bn. During 2020 we returned 
From the outset, we prioritised both the safety and wellbeing of  £0.5bn to shareholders through dividends and a further £0.4bn by 
our colleagues, and equipped them with the tools and resources  way of share buyback.  
to work remotely to meet the needs of our clients and customers. 
Virtually all our colleagues are still working from home, and we  The Board remains committed to delivering a dividend that is 
are evolving safe, new, working practices for people who need to  sustainable over the medium term. Having reflected on current 
collaborate with their colleagues face-to-face. We have taken the  operating profitability and industry trends, together with residual 
opportunity to redesign and re-purpose our main offices. When  economic and market uncertainties as the global economy deals   
restrictions ease, we will be back working in a new way, making
 
  Standard Life Aberdeen 2020 3
Message from the Chairman continued 
with the aftermath of the pandemic, the Board has concluded it  I have known Stephen for many years and have admired his 
should take this opportunity to rebase the dividend to a level from  leadership experience and skills. He tackles complexity fearlessly, 
which it is confident the dividend can be grown in due course.  has an ability to create valuable partnerships and is expert at 
This decision also reflects the Board’s assessment of  guiding businesses through periods of major change. He also has 
opportunities to deploy the Group’s current capital strength in  a great track record in leading businesses to harness digital 
growth opportunities as it builds the strategy around the three  technology. Now his task is to prepare our business to do this – to 
growth vectors set out in our Strategic report.  improve both productivity and client and customer experience. 
The latter is particularly relevant as the trend towards individual 
The Board is therefore recommending a final dividend in respect 
savers taking more responsibility for managing their money 
of 2020 of 7.3p, bringing the total dividend for the year to 14.6p, a 
continues to develop at pace. Stephen’s global experience, 
32% reduction from the total dividend paid in respect of 2019 
building businesses in both Asia and the US, will also be 
(21.6p). It is the Board’s current intention to maintain the total 
invaluable as we reposition our business for growth in these 
dividend at this level (with the interim and final at the same 
markets. Furthermore, his experience of managing through many 
amount per share), until it is covered at least 1.5 times by 
downturns, including the global financial crisis, means he is well 
adjusted capital generation, at which point the Board will seek to 
placed to lead the business at this critical juncture. 
grow the dividend in line with its assessment of the underlying 
medium term growth in profitability.  Stephen has already made a significant impact. He has made a 
careful evaluation of our business based on dialogue with all of 
New leadership 
our stakeholders and, as a result, reformulated his leadership 
In terms of Board changes, as previously intimated, we welcomed  team and realigned our strategy for long-term growth. He shares 
Brian McBride to the Board in May. Brian’s experience in digital  more detail in the following pages. 
business, and in particular using technology effectively in markets 
facing disruptive new entrants, is proving extremely valuable as  I want to take this opportunity to thank Keith Skeoch and 
we build our adviser and personal growth vectors.   recognise his accomplished leadership as our Chief Executive 
and, for a period, Co-Chief Executive over five years. Given the 
The second and major change last year was of course the  scale and range of his contributions, transitioning away from his 
appointment of Stephen Bird as our new CEO. Early in 2020,  leadership was always going to be a challenge. Keith was central 
Keith Skeoch and I initiated conversations on succession  in the creation of Standard Life Investments and led the business 
planning. Keith was instrumental in leading the business as the  to being a global asset manager in its own right. Foreseeing the 
pandemic took hold and as we moved from the initial stage of  industry trends which would force complex strategic choices, 
managing the impacts to looking at the longer term, we both felt  Keith, alongside Martin Gilbert, guided the business through the 
the timing was right.  merger between Standard Life and Aberdeen Asset Management 
The Board was extremely fortunate to identify and recruit an  – as well as the deal with Phoenix Group – reconfiguring the 
outstanding successor in Stephen Bird who had enjoyed, until he  business at a time of significant change within our industry. He 
retired, a long and distinguished career at Citigroup, latterly  was a decisive and empathetic leader during the COVID-19 crisis 
serving as CEO of its Global Consumer Banking business – I was  and has supported the transition to the new leadership selflessly. 
delighted to welcome him as our new CEO. Stephen officially  For all this we owe him a huge debt of gratitude. Martin Gilbert, 
took over the role in September, after joining the Board in July.  whose retirement was announced at this time last year, left the 
Board at last year’s AGM and finally retired in September. We 
wish them both well in their future endeavours. 
 
 
Section 172 statement 
The Board recognises that the   The Board has discussed    business, including both    Engagement Group, led by 
long-term success of our  these obligations throughout  financial and non-financial  non-Executive Director 
business is dependent on the  the year, including how  risks, are fundamental to how  Melanie Gee, continued to 
way it works with a large  stakeholder engagement is  we manage the business.  engage with employees 
number of important  incorporated into our long- Further information on how  through online channels – 
stakeholders. The Directors  term decision-making with  risks are appropriately  both directly and as part of 
have had regard to the  further details provided on  assessed, monitored,  regular meetings with 
interests of all our  pages 50 to 51.  controlled and governed is  employee representative 
stakeholders (including, for  provided in the Risk  groups. 
The Board’s decision-making 
example, our clients, our  management section.   
considers both risk and 
people, our communities and 
reward in pursuit of delivering  During 2020, some of the  You can read more about 
our shareholders) while 
long-term value for all of our  Board’s stakeholder  how we connect with our 
complying with their   
stakeholders, and protecting  engagement plans had to be  stakeholders in the pages 
obligations to promote the  their interests. Awareness and  altered to comply with COVID- that follow. 
success of the Company in   
understanding of the current  19 restrictions. For example, 
line with section 172 of the 
and the potential risks to the   the Board Employee  
Companies Act.  
 
4   Standard Life Aberdeen 2020  
S
  T
R
A
T
E
G
IC
 R
E
P
O
R
T
 
 
We play an important role in identifying  Looking ahead 
“ 
Global change brings opportunity for active asset management. 
opportunities for clients in challenging 
Our businesses operate on the world stage, and we see the world 
global markets, providing the capital to  in 2021 providing both great challenges and great opportunities. 
The roll-out of effective vaccine programmes raises hopes for a 
help rebuild and reshape the post-
return to a more ‘normal’ life. However, manufacture, distribution 
pandemic recovery, and ensuring that  and vaccination of the entire global population is no simple task; it 
capital is prioritised to businesses with  will be a multi-year, sustained effort.  
sustainable futures as part of global  In this context some industries will be winners, while others will 
shrink or need to rapidly adapt. Investment opportunities in 
commitments to ‘build back better’. 
infrastructure, technology, life sciences and the transition to a net 
zero future will attract great support. As active managers, we play 
an important role in identifying opportunities for clients in these 
    challenging global markets, providing the capital to help rebuild 
and reshape the post-pandemic recovery, and ensuring that 
  
Our role in society  capital is prioritised to businesses with sustainable futures as part 
of global commitments to ‘build back better’. 
The global pandemic reminds us that the major challenges facing 
society can only be solved through global co-ordination and  Importantly, many of last year’s uncertainties are now resolved. 
cooperation. Companies are, rightly, under mounting pressure to  We have a new president in the White House, the UK has agreed 
conduct business in a way that is not only economically sound,  a Trade and Cooperation Agreement with the EU avoiding a ‘no 
but also socially and environmentally responsible. This means  deal’ Brexit, a variety of vaccines to counter the threatening 
ensuring that a company is governed in the interests of all  impact of the coronavirus pandemic are being rolled out and 
stakeholders, including employees, customers, society as a  economic forecasts are predicting a bounce-back in consumption 
whole and the planet.  and activity once a normalisation of daily life is achieved. On the 
other side of the world, Asia led by China is already well 
Many of the social issues and inequalities evident today are not 
underway with relatively stronger economic growth. The US 
new. However, they have been starkly highlighted and are 
economy is also now projected to bounce back strongly given the 
deepening as a result of the pandemic. The negative impact is 
fiscal stimulus support recently approved. 
greater in some groups than others, with younger workers, 
minority ethnic communities, women and those already  I remain hugely optimistic for the future success of this business. 
disadvantaged, suffering disproportionately.  With our leadership succession secured, a refreshed strategic 
focus, and investment in our growth vectors, innovation and 
We are very conscious of the wider contribution we can make to 
talent, we have everything we need to meet the challenges and 
the communities we serve. This ranges from directing funds to 
opportunities ahead and deliver for our stakeholders today, and in 
communities most in need, to investing in the skills of the next 
the future.  
generation that will be critical for long-term economic recovery. 
 
Environmental, social and governance (ESG) considerations 
 
have always been and remain an integral part of our decision-
making process. Now, more than ever, the impact of COVID-19 
underlines the need for this. Tackling climate change must remain 
a priority. We will pursue this in the businesses in which we invest 
and in our own operations. Companies like ours have a critical 
role to play in accelerating the transition to a sustainable, net zero 
economy. We are committed to achieving net zero and we will be 
 
setting out our plans later this year. 
Sir Douglas Flint 
As we look ahead to the important UN Climate Conference  Chairman 
(COP26) meeting in Glasgow this year, we are taking further     
steps to ensure our ESG strategy is fully and transparently 
integrated into how our business operates and that our approach 
demonstrates leadership within our industry. Stephen shares 
more about this on page 7. 
 
  Standard Life Aberdeen 2020 5
Chief Executive Officer’s review 
Building the future, starting now 
Strong businesses that grow sustainably obsess over consistently providing exceptional 
client value. We are in the process of strengthening that client obsession and optimistic 
sense of urgency to put Standard Life Aberdeen in its best possible competitive position as 
we prepare to enter our third century of serving clients in 2025. This is the reason I joined the 
company, and why I test every decision we make against that goal. It is a privilege to have 
this leadership responsibility and I am confident that we as a team are already moving 
quickly in the right direction.  
sale of the Standard Life long-term insurance business to our 
largest client Phoenix – and we have been too slow to determine 
our future growth strategy and therefore invest in some key areas. 
The strategy I am setting out today will address these challenges 
so we can return to sustainable growth. 
Client led growth 
Our strategy is to deliver client led growth. Client led growth is 
always the highest quality growth. This is because it is rooted in 
understanding client outcomes, driven by needs, wants and 
aspirations – which in turn allows the delivery of intuitive, 
satisfying client experiences.  
We are futurists. This means we harness the compounding power 
of time, we leverage technology to connect with our clients and to 
invest intelligently and we channel the relentless curiosity of our 
team so that we keep learning and improving every day. The 
talent of our team when harnessed to enable client goals is the 
core of our business. I know that we must continue to invest in 
making this a great place to work, attracting and nurturing talent. 
We operate across three ‘vectors’ that reflect how our clients 
interact with us: Investments – a truly global asset management 
business serving institutional and wholesale clients; Adviser – a 
UK financial adviser technology platform that helps financial 
advisers and the firms they work for deliver advice over the length 
and breadth of the UK; and Personal – a high-potential UK 
 
wealth and savings business. Through these three vectors, and 
Stephen Bird, Chief Executive Officer  using time, technology and talent, Standard Life Aberdeen has 
the full ecosystem of capabilities to enable our clients to be better 
  investors. 
Our one true north is enabling our clients to be better investors.  In our Investments vector, we use our research, judgement and 
That is the value we bring, we harness the power of time,  experience to deliver outcomes that meet client expectations as 
technology and talent to enable our clients to achieve their goals.  they continually evolve. This is not about any individual asset 
Different clients with different goals and different solutions, all  class though each one is a critical part of the solution, rather, it is 
powered by meticulous research, a global perspective, sound  all about fully understanding client objectives and delivering 
judgement and a relentless drive to both understand and shape  optimal solutions in a dynamic ecosystem which is asset-agnostic 
the future.  and highly efficient. In doing so, as we do for Phoenix and other 
key clients, we provide compelling value, and we create long-
When I joined the company in summer last year, my priority was 
term, sophisticated growth partnerships. 
to get under the skin of the firm so I could begin to understand it 
inside out. I met with and listened carefully to our clients,  In our Adviser vector, we understand the importance of time to 
colleagues and shareholders so that I could understand the  advisers, their businesses and their clients. Our core strategy is to 
journey we were on and the expectations each group had of us.  be the easiest platform to do business with and to use well 
My goal was to form a realistic picture of our strengths and  designed technology to deliver great experience for advisers and 
weaknesses, combined with opportunities and threats.  their clients. 
What I quickly came to understand was that we have a great  In our Personal vector, we are driven by delivering positive 
company, with talented people, a proud heritage and real  outcomes for clients at the moments of time that matter most to 
financial strength. We also have deep relationships with our  them. Our technology will support ease of access and transacting 
clients, based on providing a great service and a broad range of  in ways that our clients value. We have an organic growth plan 
diversified products and solutions.  and we are executing against it with vigour. We also recognise 
that scale is important and there may be inorganic or partnership 
On the other side, revenues were declining and our costs were 
opportunities that will allow us to achieve greater relevance and 
too high, resulting in a squeeze on our profitability. The company 
scale more quickly. 
is still processing two large transactions – the merger and the 
 
6 Standard Life Aberdeen 2020  
S
  T
R
A
T
E
G
IC
 R
E
P
O
R
T
 
 
On pages 16 to 19 we share more detail about the opportunities  Client led growth is always the highest 
“ 
in each. 
quality growth. This is because it’s 
In realigning around these three growth vectors, we are also 
rooted in understanding client 
taking out complexity and inefficiencies. Our integration 
programme has progressed well in 2020 and we are committed to  outcomes, driven by needs, wants and 
getting it done in 2021. 
aspirations – which in turn allows the 
In 2020, revenues have declined by 13%, while costs have 
delivery of intuitive, satisfying client 
reduced by 10%, resulting in an adjusted operating profit of 
£219m (2019: £301m), with an adjusted profit before tax of  experiences. 
£487m (2019: £584m). Our cost/income ratio remains too high. In 
order to address this, we must have a laser focus on increasing 
revenue through sustainable growth, whilst eliminating     
duplication, sub scale activities and unnecessary costs. To do 
this, we will optimise our operating system to power the business, 
A culture of curiosity and ownership 
make smarter use of technology, get more from our strategic 
As a team we have already implemented a series of decisions to 
partnerships with suppliers and simplify the business, giving 
drive long-term success. We have a growth strategy and structure 
colleagues at all levels more responsibility for decision making. 
that supports this goal. Of course all change starts with personal 
Doing this will give us the headroom to invest where we have the 
change and I am asking our people to think and act differently 
greatest potential for growth. The IFRS profit before tax is £838m 
too. As futurists, we need to be incredibly curious about the 
(2019: £243m), reflecting principally increased profit on disposal 
changing world around us. Huge change is taking place in the 
of interests in associates, offset by impairments. 
world right now, technological, environmental and social changes 
A single brand to build on  are disrupting companies and industries – behaviour and society 
We have different groups of clients but our business model is still  is changing quickly, all of these changes impact our clients and 
greatly interconnected. To make the most of this ecosystem, our  their investment needs. We are actively and constantly evaluating 
clients need to have a consistent experience when they interact  these trends and understanding what they mean for our clients 
with us. When I joined the company we had at least five client  and our business model – our capabilities must and will keep 
facing brands plus a different corporate identity. Clients,  pace with these changes. 
colleagues and partners told me our branding is confusing and 
We also need to encourage an ethos of acting and thinking as an 
needs to be fixed. 
owner, right across our business. We will treat shareholder capital 
In response to this feedback, we will be rebranding to use one  as if it is our own. Every time we make a decision, we will ask 
consistent brand name for our publicly listed company and for all  ourselves what we would do if we had a personal stake in the 
our client facing businesses. Our brand will make a promise that  outcome, because we do.  
we will fulfil and having a single brand will allow us to get a better 
Responsible investment is in our DNA. This is the very essence 
return on the investments we make in marketing and sales.  
of being better investors. Our leading ESG framework and 
In February, we announced that we had reshaped and refocused  investment process must have a real-world impact and drive 
our relationship with Phoenix such that we both could be strong  positive change. This means not only improving long-term 
independent partners for the next 10 years, focused on growing  returns, but also building a world that is more sustainable, just, 
our own respective businesses and growing our partnership in  inclusive and diverse. Our credentials are already excellent. Now 
asset management. To this end, we have agreed to sell the  the impact of the pandemic makes achieving our ESG goals all 
Standard Life brand to Phoenix Group which simplifies and  the more urgent. 
clarifies the original sale of our Standard Life long-term insurance 
In 2021 we are building on our long-term commitment to 
business. 
responsible investing through a number of actions, nowhere more 
Our new identity is one of the key projects for the year ahead and  important than in our efforts to combat climate change. Our 
I am excited about this bold step. Not only does it mean a more  activities include bespoke climate change scenario research to 
consistent experience for our clients, it also ensures we get better  take a view on the impact of climate change on future asset 
value from every pound we spend on our brand. It also means all  pricing and the creation of a proprietary ESG ‘House Score’ 
of our colleagues will work under the same banner, reinforcing  across public markets. We are working with clients on solutions 
our team performance culture.   that will allow them to achieve their future goals in this space, 
including support for institutional clients in the transition to net 
zero, and the launch of sustainability and climate thematic funds. 
Our influence as an active owner of assets, and commitment to 
enhancing transparency in ESG activity, will also continue to 
inform our approach. You can read more on page 17. 
 
  Standard Life Aberdeen 2020 7
Chief Executive Officer’s review continued 
Looking ahead  We will make effective use of our capital. Our capital resources at 
2020 was an unprecedented year for everyone, and I echo the  £3.4bn are strong and we have continued to strengthen through 
Chairman in my deep gratitude for how our colleagues  actions that we have taken over the last six months. As well as 
responded, and for Keith’s leadership. Standard Life Aberdeen  the proposed sale of our Nordics real estate business and 
acted responsibly in the interests of all of our stakeholders and, in  Parmenion, the closing of our business in Indonesia adds to the 
an incredibly challenging year, investment performance was  examples of tightening our focus on our core growth 
strong and our overall business performance held up. Stephanie  opportunities. We have also invested in the business, and the 
Bruce talks more about our performance for the year in her Chief  proposed acquisition of Tritax is an example of our willingness to 
Financial Officer’s review.  search for and execute upon opportunities that enhance our 
growth prospects. Our goal is to pursue efficient and sustainable 
I want to look ahead now and, in the context of our new strategy,  client led growth and to deliver improved shareholder returns. 
tell you about the key elements of our plan for Standard Life 
Aberdeen.  My belief in the strengths and potential of our company is one of 
the key reasons I chose to take the role at Standard Life 
Firstly, our integrated ecosystem of Investments, Adviser and  Aberdeen. I have been in the job now a little over six months and 
Personal businesses allows us to operate at scale leveraging  we have already taken decisive action, and there is a lot more to 
shared research, data sources and analytics, investment  do so that this business can deliver on its full potential. I am really 
management, technology development, infrastructure, brand and  looking forward to meeting more colleagues, clients and 
partnerships.   shareholders face to face to talk more about the work we are 
The combination of our investment and technology capabilities  doing, and I am incredibly excited about the opportunities we 
puts us in a strong position to anticipate and deliver against  have before us. 
clients’ evolving needs. This is an important area for ongoing   
investment as simple technology and ease of access becomes 
expected by clients whenever they engage with us. Our Personal 
vector will be a key focus for this ongoing investment as we seek 
to create solutions that are intuitive and deliver, particularly at the 
moments that matter.  
 
Our future-focused talent – I have worked in this industry for a   
long time, all over the world, and I know we have some of the  Stephen Bird 
best people at Standard Life Aberdeen. We can see this in the  Chief Executive Officer 
strength of our investment performance and in the quality of our 
 
client propositions. We will continue to augment and empower     
this talent through a culture of collaboration, innovation and a 
focus on delivery, powered by a passion for clients.  
Importantly, we now have a clear path to revenue growth. The 
business has been reshaped and each vector’s contribution to 
revenue growth has been clearly defined. In support of our overall 
goal of client led growth we will invest our time and resources into 
seven strategic priorities: UK adviser and consumer market; 
growth in Asia; technology; solutions; client ecosystems; investing 
responsibly; and private markets. 
We continue to work hard on our cost base. Finishing integration 
and completing our operational and technological separation from 
Phoenix Group will enable us to deliver improved efficiency. This 
is fundamental to delivering the right returns for our investors 
through time. 
 
8 Standard Life Aberdeen 2020  
S
  T
R
A
T
E
Our strategy for growth   G
IC
 R
E
P
O
R
T
 
We are futurists 
We harness the     We leverage     The curiosity of our 
power of   technology   talent  
time  to connect  creates opportunity 
enabling our clients to be  
better in vestors  
   
Investments  Adviser  Personal 
     
We are focused on growth  Our platforms are designed to  Asset management is converging 
markets and on clients who are  deliver a great service experience  with wealth management and this 
actively investing. We are  and we are investing to make it  trend, together with the 
even easier.  empowerment that technology 
prioritising growth in Asia. 
brings, is our opportunity.  
We are building our capabilities in  We are growing in the UK by  We are growing in the UK, and 
growing asset classes reflecting  earning the right to be the primary  through further acquisition and 
changing investment aspirations.  platform for our clients. We will  investment in technology, we will 
relentlessly improve our platform  maximise synergies across our 
This business is powered by data 
through time, consistently  business model. 
and technology and we will invest 
delivering great service.  
in our technology to enable our 
clients to be better investors now 
and in the future. 
Our strategy is to deliver superior  Our strategy is to power our  Our strategy is to connect these 
investment performance  growth through excellent  businesses in a model that is 
consistently through time,  technology, lead the market and  central to meeting the needs of 
deepening our client  be a natural consolidator as the  the UK savings and wealth 
relationships.  market changes.  market.  
 
Technology 
   
s
r
e Brand 
l
b
 
a
n Research 
E
 
Partnerships 
 
Investing responsibly to build a better world 
 
 
 
  Standard Life Aberdeen 2020 9
 
Our strategic priorities 
 
Delivering client led growth    UK adviser and consumer 
Our strategy has been designed to capture  market 
the upside and protect against the downside  The population is ageing and advancements 
risk of significant market opportunities. By  in life sciences are improving health and 
focusing our global resources on the  longevity. Responsibility for providing for a 
following strategic priorities, Standard Life  longer retirement is increasingly being passed 
Aberdeen is building a long-term,  to the individual. On top of this, the pandemic 
has reinforced the need for personal financial 
sustainable business, whilst delivering for 
resilience to provide a buffer against 
our clients today. 
unexpected events. Fundamentally, 
individuals need to save more and start 
earlier.  
Our UK Adviser platforms and Personal 
vectors are already focused on helping 
financial advisers and individuals invest and 
we are focused on making their experience 
even easier, providing a full range of products 
and solutions aligned to their desired 
outcomes. 
     
Growth in Asia    Technology 
The economic centre of gravity continues to  We will complete our integration and yield the 
move East and building on our strong legacy  full operational and cost benefits of a 
there is a major strategic focus. Demand for  simplified technology infrastructure. We are 
global capabilities in Asia will continue to grow  committed to continuous improvement 
quickly as the expanding middle class saves  knowing that agile technology development, 
and invests more in the coming years and the  advanced data analytics, machine learning 
savings institutions into which they entrust  and cloud computing are essential capabilities 
their funds expand their investment horizons  for an efficient, client driven investor.  
beyond their own markets. Likewise, this 
We will enhance our capabilities, to allow us 
higher rate of growth and economic 
to better match our solutions to client needs 
development will continue to attract significant 
and support our investment teams’ focus on 
investment from the rest of the world. 
continuously improving performance and a 
We are reconfiguring our business for faster  sustainable and efficient pattern of growth. 
growth in Asia, bringing global capabilities 
and local expertise. 
   
10 Standard Life Aberdeen 2020
S
  T
R
A
T
E
G
IC
 R
E
P
O
R
T
 
Solutions    Client ecosystems  
Our institutional and wholesale clients are  Data analytics and connected systems allow 
facing an increasing array of complex  us to deliver the right solution, to the right 
challenges and are focused on being able to  client, at the right time. In well-designed 
achieve specific outcomes that meet their  ecosystems it is no longer necessary to own 
unique circumstances and objectives. These  all parts of the value chain. 
challenges range from understanding 
Our technology ecosystem consists of strong, 
technology and business model disruption, 
trusted partners and operates as a seamless 
through to the impact of long-term low interest 
extension of our own capabilities and is a key 
rates and managing the transition to a net 
source of competitive advantage. It allows us 
zero future.  
to efficiently access new and growing client 
We will build on our existing capabilities to  segments and provide efficient delivery 
bring comprehensive needs analysis and an  mechanisms for our clients.  
integrated risk management approach on a 
We will harness this ecosystem to leverage 
whole of portfolio, asset-agnostic basis, 
shared research, data sources and analytics, 
focused on designing and delivering 
technology development and infrastructure. 
customised solutions. 
     
Investing responsibly     Private markets  
In a rapidly changing world on a path to net  In a world of low expected returns from liquid 
zero, we believe targeting sustainability  asset classes, fewer public companies and 
improves our clients’ long-term returns. As  where traditional approaches to portfolio 
futurists, we are relentlessly curious and seek  diversification are less efficient, private market 
to identify those technologies, companies and  and real estate opportunities are playing an 
sectors that will thrive in the economy,  increasingly important part in making our 
environment and society of tomorrow. In a  clients better investors.  
constantly changing world, investing in 
We are focused on the growth themes which 
sustainable solutions and engaging with 
will be better accessed via private markets 
companies seeking to transform drives 
and real estate investments and we are 
positive change. 
strengthening and leveraging our business in 
We will develop our products and solutions to  this strategically important area. 
target sustainability in improving long-term 
returns and empowering clients to make 
better informed investment decisions to help 
them navigate this era of rapid change.  
 
 
  Standard Life Aberdeen 2020 11
Our business model helps us to deliver strategic 
success and stakeholder value 
Our business model is designed to enable our clients to be better investors, deliver for our 
shareholders and provide an environment where our talent can thrive – and make a positive, 
lasting contribution to the future world. 
 
Our areas of  How we do it 
strength 
A global asset manager  Growth vectors    World-class operations 
with diverse capabilities:  We focus on three vectors of  We are building an operating 
research-led and  growth to deliver strategic  model for agility, speed and 
ambitions, profitably, simply  efficiency. Technology-driven, it 
innovative, with strength 
and efficiently, both organically  will deliver a world-class 
in private and public 
and inorganically. We earn  experience with a focus on low 
markets 
revenue primarily from fees  costs, high quality and value. 
charged based on AUMA. 
     
ESG in our DNA 
e cto rs
v
Strong client  h 
relationships, based on  wt
o
trust and experience  Gr
Worl
d - cl
a
s
Investment platform  s 
o
with enhanced  p
e
technology and  ra
t
simplified processes  io
n
s
Leading technology   C
o
for advisers in the UK  ntr
ol
Specialist planning   nt
and advice services   ale
T
for UK clients 
Strong balance sheet  
to support growth 
opportunities 
Control    Talent 
Our strong control environment  Our talent model constantly 
 
helps us to manage risk  strives for excellence, has the 
effectively, ensure business  right people for the right roles, 
security and maintain  and offers clear pathways for 
operational resilience.  growth and development. It also 
has diversity and inclusion at 
its core. 
   
   
12 Standard Life Aberdeen 2020
S
  T
R
A
T
   EG
IC
 R
E
P
O
R
T
 
Our strategic priorities are described on pages 10-11. Our execution priorities for 2021 are 
described below. 
     
What we deliver    Our execution priorities 
for 2021 
 
 
For our clients 
Operating leverage 
• Broad range of solutions designed to meet clients’ current and 
future needs    Investing in our growth priorities, while 
reducing our commitment to non-core areas. 
• Long-term investment performance 
• ESG considerations embedded in our investment processes 
 
Three-year investment performance 66%   
More on p14-19  Finish transformation  
 
    Completing transformation in 2021, enabling 
us to realise further cost savings and free up 
For our people 
resources for our growth agenda. 
• Performance-driven culture where we listen to, and act on, our 
people’s views 
• Technology to develop talent and improve collaboration   
 
• A refreshed framework to guide our diversity and inclusion 
Brand clarity  
priorities 
  Creating a single brand with clear values, 
Overall employee engagement score 72%  optimising marketing investment. 
More on p20-23 
 
   
 
For society and our communities 
• Fair and inclusive employment, removing barriers to realising  Stewardship of capital 
potential 
  Maintaining our strong capital position to 
• A response to the interlinked crises of climate change and  enable resilience in uncertain times, while 
biodiversity loss  investing selectively to accelerate growth. 
• ESG focus running through our operations and our investments 
DJSI World index top 2% for our sector   
 
More on p24-29 
  Business simplification 
    Simplifying and further localising decision 
making, removing unnecessary layers and 
For our shareholders 
costs, empowering our people and creating 
• Sustainable shareholder value 
efficiencies. 
• Financial resilience in uncertain and challenging market 
  
conditions 
• Continued investment in our business to further diversify our 
sources of revenue 
Group capital surplus of £2.3bn 
More on p30-37 
 
  
 
Standard Life Aberdeen 2020 13
Building solutions  
today that
clients
need tomorrow
 
In our rapidly changing world, clients rely on us to provide a 
service that keeps pace with their needs while delivering 
strong investment performance. Global investors, UK-based 
advisers, wealth managers and individuals all need seamless, 
intuitive solutions. 
We are building the future now, by enhancing the 
technologies we use, as well as simplifying data sources and 
processes. This makes our institutional-grade investment 
expertise easy to access. It also enables assessment of 
investee companies against ESG risks and opportunities to 
be more straightforward. We are providing our clients with the 
solutions they need, now and for the future. 
 
 
 
   
14 Standard Life Aberdeen 2020
Performing 
for clients
Net outflows improved to 
Investment 
(Excluding LBG tranche withdrawals)
performance
(£3.1bn)
66%
AUM ahead of benchmark over 3 years
Innovation Award Best Thought 
Leadership Paper
for Aberdeen Standard Capital at the 
PAM Awards 2020
Investment Week Sustainable & ESG 
Investment Awards 
Best platform 
provider over £25bn
Wrap
Pension Transfer  
Best platform 
Gold Standard
provider under 
£25bn for 1825, as endorsed by Personal  
Finance Society
Elevate
Schroders UK Platform  
Awards 2020
Standard Life Aberdeen 2020 15
O  ur vectors of growth 
Investments  
 
Our Investments vector is a core growth engine for the group. Our 
client led approach is to use our broad investment expertise to  We are entrusted to manage assets on behalf of 
enable our clients to be better investors.  a broad client base of governments, pension 
funds, insurers, companies, charities, 
We do this through our global network of investment 
professionals with products and solutions spanning a broad range  foundations and individuals across 80 countries 
of markets, asset classes and investment strategies. In 2020, we 
continued to provide a breadth of capabilities across key markets 
of growth and client needs whilst also reconfiguring and 
simplifying our business.   Top 31 position with  >40% 
China A, Euro Corp,  of funds with  
Our client led strategy is underpinned by three enablers:  Equities Small & Mid 
>£100m   
Innovative products and solutions, a relevant product and  Cap and Global  AUM
Corporate Bond 
solution range is vital for our clients and we continue to evolve our 
range with innovative solutions that are co-created with our 
clients. In 2020 we enhanced our strategies further with global 
risk mitigation, passive hedge fund indices, and a key range of 
saus sctalieinnatsb’l en eEeSdGs  cfuhnadnsg.e W aen da rwei lflo ccounsteindu eo nto s irmemploifyvien gs uobu-rs craanleg e  Ca sh£/L5i5q ub in d  ity    
wCfuhonedllrase.b   doereapti vuen dpearrsttnaendrsinhgip asll oawres  imusp toor ttaanilto fro or ucrl iepnrot dleudc tgsr oanwdth ,  ntitativ1ebn   £11E8qbunities
solutions to meet client needs. We have strengthened our  Qua £  5
relationship with our key partner Phoenix with over £170bn of   es £457bn    
ticnhonelloiarv baaostresae ttoetsgd be wethiitnehgr  s tmoe vasenurapagpl ecodlrite  btnhytes o irau onr ndsg kpoilllaientdfgo  trnemeaesm ds.s uW.c Ihne   a2cs0o 2nC0thin, inuwaee   to  atnivretlAb0n2£ AUM at 31 Dec 2020  
dCAtRoeuoe pcsnsirtssoreaitovraluiindracc-e,mt hi Fob,aAn ekd PsBianpEatgoaSn.k  k Weai n Insne Bdot ecr luatorentznicaoitli thnnaiosnunn.eod a l tolSo ignk miy pH atuooknnnedg  Bei mKruppoilidnrnoi gnov,geu H mrS UinoeBcvnei2tess4t ytt moi ni ne o nuthtr  e UK,  £5(in2clb RnePari vla tees mt  aa trkee)ts M£u4l4tib-ansset          Fixed £i1 n1c 7o bmne  
infrastructure, enhancing the way we invest on behalf of clients to       
meet their desired outcomes. In the last year, we have integrated 
our operational investment systems, improved our research   
capabilities with our ESG House Score, and have launched our 
proprietary data capability to support our deep understanding of  AUM of largest client, 
>2,000 
our clients.  Phoenix 
  Institutional Clients  
£171.5bn
 
 
1  Source: Broadridge, AUM as at 31 Dec 2020. 
Enhancing our client led innovation  
Looking to 2021 we will develop our capabilities to support our   
strategic priorities for our Investments vector: 
Growth in Asia    Private markets     Responsible investing 
Reconfiguring our footprint in Asia for  Further enhancing our direct alpha  Targeting sustainability to improve our 
faster growth.   capabilities and diversifying further into  clients’ long term returns.  
Asia and North America, taking 
We will bring our global capabilities to the  Empowering clients to make better 
advantage of attractive market conditions 
world’s fastest growing markets through  informed investment decisions to help 
such as strong growth and resilient 
deep local expertise.   them navigate this era of rapid change.  
fundamentals. 
         
Solutions    Exchange Traded Funds (ETFs)    Technology and data 
Building on our existing ‘liability aware’  Expanding our existing ETF capabilities  Continuing to invest in agile technology, 
heritage, broad investment and  beyond the US, combining our active and  advanced data analytics and next 
technology capability set, and the  passive expertise through a range of  generation computing as critical 
strength of our client ecosystem to  European UCITS ETFs with a specific  capabilities to enhance our wide range of 
deliver bespoke and ‘whole of portfolio  focus on thematic strategies.   outcomes and efficiencies as a global, 
solutions’ to solve clients’ increasingly  client led investment manager.  
complex investment problems. 
16 Standard Life Aberdeen 2020  
S
  T
R
A
T
  E
G
IC
 R
E
P
O
R
T
 
Responsible investing  
We combine our deep knowledge of local 
We are continuing to build on our long-term commitment to 
markets with the power of coordinated global  responsible investing through a number of actions including: 
oversight to drive better investment outcomes 
• Our bespoke climate change scenario research which allows 
and deliver long term sustainable benefits for all 
us to take a view on the impact of climate change on future 
stakeholders. 
asset pricing and embed this into our thinking 
  • The creation of a proprietary ESG House Score, across public 
markets, combining external data with our internal insights and 
Robust investment performance with 66% of AUM  forward looking research  
ahead of benchmark over 3 years  • Increasing transparency for our clients, empowering them to 
purposefully place responsible investing at the core of their 
investment decisions 
1 year  3 years  5 years  Sustainable options to empower our clients 
71%    66%    68%  We are working with clients on solutions that allow them to 
achieve their future goals whilst ‘dialling up’ the impact of their 
(2019: 74%)  (2019: 60%)  (2019: 67%)  investments. For example, we can provide our clients with higher 
exposure to companies or assets that are solving the climate and 
 
environmental crisis. In line with this, we are working with Phoenix 
 
and other institutional clients on the transition to net zero.  
Expanding on our existing sustainable fund range, we have a 
 
strong pipeline of options catering for a range of different client 
sustainability requirements due for launch throughout 2021.  
Responsible investing assets – Strong foundations  
To support transparency in 2021, we will disclose portfolio-level 
1.  Strong in sustainable Fixed income which is a  ESG information to many of our major institutional clients and 
across a range of our public market funds. This will cover climate, 
differentiator in the market 
ESG risk, and stewardship data. We will continue to evolve the 
2.  Expanding our existing franchise across public and  ability to provide data on outcomes to clients, in line with rapid 
private market asset classes to establish a platform for  regulatory change and their fast-evolving needs.  
flows 
Progressing our investment thinking in 2021 
3.  Launching 15 sustainability funds in 2021 including  This year, we will increase active targeting of sustainable 
four climate funds that build on our research strengths  outcomes across our asset classes and strengthen our active 
ownership, reviewing and publishing a framework for managing 
4.  Working with our strategic partner Phoenix Group on  exclusions, watch lists, and engagement escalations. We will be 
transitioning their investments to net zero by 2050  expanding carbon foot printing, climate scenario analysis and 
engagement tracking tools including to non-public markets asset 
5.  Empowering our global institutional client base through 
classes where data has traditionally presented more of a 
portfolio level ESG reporting and net zero solutions 
challenge. We will further integrate emerging external and 
augmented, bespoke ESG data points into the investment 
process. 
 
Continuing to use our influence  
  As a committed active owner, we continue to constructively use 
our influence to engage with companies and use our voting rights. 
For our investments, we publish quarterly engagement reports 
and we make our voting data available on our website. 
Additionally, at a corporate level, we publish an annual 
stewardship report, a Taskforce on Climate-Related Financial 
Disclosures (TCFD) report and a Corporate ESG Disclosure 
document.  
We believe that integrating sustainability will deliver better long-
term outcomes for our clients – and create real world impact, 
building a world that is more sustainable, just, inclusive, and 
diverse. You can read about our work during 2020 to promote a 
positive future for society on pages 24 to 27.
 
  Standard Life Aberdeen 2020 17
Our vectors of growth 
Adviser 
We will become the easiest business for wealth managers and 
Our ambition is to create an effortless  advisers. This will give wealth managers and advisers more time 
experience for advisers. We will maintain our  to spend with their clients, maximising their service and revenue 
position as a leading provider by  streams. 
continuously improving and offering  We do this by providing platform solutions based on different 
solutions that empower advisers to work  client and adviser needs: 
efficiently, and at scale. 
• Wrap enables advisers to deliver high-quality financial planning 
to large numbers of clients with complex investment 
AUMA  requirements 
£67bn 
No.1 Adviser Platform   • Elevate is a lower-cost proposition which, through a range of 
in the UK  investment options, offers advisers the core features they need 
to deliver their services at scale 
In 2020, we launched our Platform Experience Programme to 
£67.0bn
£62.6bn £15.3bn further improve adviser experience. The programme has driven 
£54.2bn £14.5bn significant change for the business with its three core aims: 
£12.5bn
£51.7bn
£48.1bn 1. Modernising platform components, as we separate operational 
£41.7bn
activity from Phoenix  
2. Aligning our operating system to adviser needs and 
Wrap expectations  
Elevate
3. Consistent innovation and incremental improvements 
2018 2019 2020
  The programme ensures we keep advisers ahead of their game, 
  so they can deliver high-quality financial advice at scale, and 
across a broad spectrum of clients. 
More than    
The strategy is underpinned by our revised and extended 
50%  80,000  strategic relationship with technology provider FNZ. This 
partnership allows us to combine best-in-class platform services 
with a commercial model that ensures sustainable growth. 
of UK advice businesses  straight-through  
In 2021, we will continue to enhance our solutions so they 
use our platforms  transactions per day 
become even more flexible, more efficient for clients and more 
processed through FNZ 
insight-led. Advisers’ needs will be the starting point for all 
 
improvements and design.  
 
Advisers will be at the heart of what we do, with their actions and 
viewpoints forming the core of our design. To underline this 
adviser-centricity, we have made four commitments to them that 
are embedded across our business: 
1. Always efficient 
2. Aim to be right first time 
3. Listen and understand 
4. Provide leading functionality 
   
 
Enhancing client service with FNZ strategic partnership 
Advisers need a range of technology and services. They also need a provider who creates the solutions they need today, and that 
they will need in the future. To be this provider, we have partnered with FNZ.  
The combination of FNZ’s leading platform technology and our in-house expertise provides agility, scalability and stability. We have 
entered into a new, 10-year relationship with FNZ, instead of a one-year rolling agreement. The new agreement offers our clients 
access to a wider range of technology and services through our framework.  
We are working with FNZ to consider additional services that could become available through the new partnership. This includes 
the FNZ app store and enhanced insights. We can also make these services available through direct-to-consumer channels, 
providing opportunities for growth in our Personal business. 
The enhanced partnership has resulted in immediate cost savings. We will also see future cost reductions as AUMA grows within 
our Adviser and Personal businesses, and as we hit milestones in our new tiered pricing model with FNZ. 
18 Standard Life Aberdeen 2020
S
Our vectors of growth  T
R
A
T
Personal  E
G
IC
 R
E
P
O
R
T
 
 
From the moment our clients first consider their financial futures, 
our tailored products and solutions will be available to them in a  The UK savings gap affects more than 20 
seamless, technology-powered experience. From the start of their  million people. We are opening up ways to 
financial journey, all the way through to legacy planning, it will be  save and invest across the whole spectrum, 
easy, intuitive and integrated. 
to drive better outcomes in the long term. 
To provide this whole financial life cycle service, we offer:  
• Services directly through digital channels and through 1825, 
our financial planning business 
• Discretionary investment management to high-net-worth  AUMA1 
£13.3bn 
individuals through Aberdeen Standard Capital   
 
We have grown our advice business substantially since 2015, 
through various acquisitions. This has given us a complete UK-
wide footprint, and improved our ability to deliver advice at scale. 
£13.3bn
£12.8bn
In 2020 we embedded our digital retirement advice service. This  £5.7bn £5.5bn
automation significantly increases our capacity and effectiveness,  £9.7bn
and frees us up to focus on the human touchpoints that make a  £4.0bn
real difference to our clients.   £7.8bn
£7.1bn
Within our discretionary fund management business, we have  £5.7bn
seen substantial AUM growth. In our Charities business, for  Aberdeen Standard Capital
example, AUM is up over 60% in the last two years.   1825
 
Our Personal business seamlessly connects our capabilities to  2018 2019 2020  
help clients be in a better position to achieve their goals. Where  1   Includes assets that are reflected in both Aberdeen Standard  
relevant, we can also leverage the power of our adviser platforms  Capital and Advice businesses. This impact (31 Dec 2020: 
£0.9bn) is removed within Eliminations. 
and investment product range to help them achieve the best 
outcomes. 
To reach clients who are at the very beginning of their financial  £7.8bn  Top 10 
journey, we’re launching new direct-to-consumer solutions. Our 
new mobile app, Choices, helps clients to manage their money 
Highest ever Aberdeen  Ranking for 1825 in 
more effectively. Its open banking technology gives them a clear 
Standard Capital AUM  FTAdviser’s Top 100 UK 
overview of all their finances in one place, and makes it easy for 
Advisers list 
them to access and see the relevance of our own products as 
they plan for the future.   
 
Leveraging technology to enable better investment is something   
we think of as: 
• Saving with ambition – highlighting seamless, straightforward 
paths to building wealth 
• Spending with intelligence – taking the onerous work out of 
preparing for big spending decisions 
Choices will integrate with our newly launched, direct-to-customer 
ISA, and more products and features will be added to it over time.  
 
Building our Personal vector brand 
In February 2021, we confirmed that we would sell the Standard Life brand to Phoenix Group, having licensed it to Phoenix since 
2018. In the UK, Standard Life has strong recognition as a life insurance and workplace pensions brand, which is closely aligned 
with Phoenix’s strategy and customer base. 
The sale allows us to invest in a single client facing brand. As an interconnected business, this is vital across all our vectors. It is 
particularly important in our Personal vector where, to date, we have a number of direct-to-customer propositions which have very 
different brand identities. Our new brand identity will be a core enabler in bringing these businesses together into a proposition that 
connects more deeply with clients and provides consistency as their needs evolve. 
This does not mean we will be taking a ‘one-size-fits-all’ approach. Instead we will be developing one core recognisable business 
that provides options for all clients who want to deal with us direct, from those who want a simple app-enabled savings proposition, 
to retirement advice, and those clients who need more specialist or bespoke support. 
 
  Standard Life Aberdeen 2020 19
Creating opportunities
for our
talented people
to thrive
 
An organisation of futurists has to be able to unlock the full 
potential of its people. It needs to attract, nurture and retain 
the very best, and its thinking needs to be diverse, energetic 
and future focused.  
We are actively creating opportunities for our people to thrive, 
giving them the environment, tools and support they need to 
feed their curiosity, achieve their ambitions and take 
ownership of their ideas. 
To engage our people effectively, we are actively listening to 
what they need, want and aspire to. Through actions such as 
our employee engagement survey, we are able to better 
understand how well we are supporting and developing our 
teams and our culture. 
 
20 Standard Life Aberdeen 2020
 
 
 
 
 
KPI Overall employee engagement score 
72%
  A 16-point increase since  
our previous engagement 
survey in 2018 
 
             
I feel motivated to go    I enjoy working at    I believe Standard Life    Defining a clear  
beyond my official job  Standard Life Aberdeen  Aberdeen is an inclusive  strategic vision 
responsibilities  organisation 
74%    74%    75%    Colleagues told us that 
improving on this should be 
A 12-point increase since    A 17-point increase since    An eight-point increase since    our number one priority, and 
2018, four points higher than  2018, two points higher than  2018, no direct sector  this was a key focus during 
the financial services sector  the sector norm  benchmark  the second half of 2020  
norm  
Standard Life Aberdeen 2020 21
Our people 
Investing in our people to support a better future  
Building a culture of curiosity and ownership   Identifying, attracting and retaining talent 
To deliver better futures, we need to nurture talent, giving our  A diverse and inclusive workplace 
colleagues every opportunity to grow, be heard and perform. We  To attract the best talent, and to grow leadership for the future, 
need to enable collaboration, encourage innovation, and help our  diversity is vital. At the end of 2019, our Board Employee 
people feel engaged and empowered to be at their best.  Engagement Group, led by non-executive Director, Melanie Gee, 
ran an employee survey on diversity and inclusion.  
Listening to colleagues 
Our 2020 employee engagement survey asked for views about  Over 1,000 employees took part. Survey feedback stressed the 
our business as an employer, ways of working, strategy and  importance of diversity of thinking across our teams and 
direction, senior leadership and management. Our overall  leadership, and the role it plays in building an inclusive culture. 
engagement score was 72%. While we saw very positive findings  We combined these findings with feedback from networks and 
in several areas, the results also highlighted particular areas for  regional groups, as well as insights from external research and 
us to improve. These included defining a clear strategic vision, as  benchmarking. Based on all of this, we refreshed the framework 
well as making it easier to get things done and get decisions  that guides our diversity and inclusion priorities. 
made. The work on our strategy, led by our executive leadership 
With the pandemic and the Black Lives Matter movement shining 
team, is helping us address the points raised. 
a light on societal disparities, we are maintaining our focus on 
Tools for self-development  creating inclusive environments in which all types of diversity can 
Following successful pilot programmes, we launched our new  thrive. Our leaders, our Global Inclusion Committee, our 
global Career Development proposition. It gives our colleagues  colleague-led networks and regional groups work collaboratively 
the tools and resources they need to take control of their self- to turn discussion into action, and to influence others to do the 
development. The initial focus was on colleagues at early and  same. 
mid-career stages, and the pilot was hugely successful. All 260 
Young talent 
colleagues who signed up reported that it had a positive impact 
In 2020 we upheld our commitment to taking on 22 new trainees 
on them personally and to the business.  
in the UK, as part of our traineeship programme for school 
Mentoring   leavers, as well as 37 new university graduates across our global 
Our global mentoring programme offers all colleagues an  programmes. Full-scale assessments, selections, onboarding and 
opportunity to find a mentor inside the business, or to share their  induction processes were carried out online. 
skills and experience by becoming one. We use algorithms based  We have also been using technology to enhance the recruitment 
on development interests and preferences to match mentees with  process itself. This includes building metrics into our HR system 
appropriate mentors. At the end of 2020 we had established  to monitor diversity and inclusion at all points. 
about 100 internal mentoring relationships, and we expect this 
number to grow significantly in 2021. 
Developing our leaders  Top 50 Rankings for 
Top 
We know that effective leadership is critical if we are to unlock the  undergraduate and  
full and true potential of our talent. In 2020, we adapted our  50 apprenticeships programmes  
People Management Academy to be delivered online. This is the  The Rate My Placement awards are 
learning framework that helps our people managers to develop  based on the feedback and 
and enhance the behaviours and skills we expect from them. We    experiences of our people who 
measure its effectiveness through the employee engagement  participate in our programmes.  
survey. In 2020, these were some of the results: 
For 2020 our undergraduate 
• 83% said they felt their manager is a role model for our  programme was rated 2nd in 
behaviours, and creates a collaborative and inclusive  Investment Management and 48th 
environment where colleagues can be themselves and perform  overall. We also had our first ever 
to their potential  placing for apprenticeships – we were 
• 79% said their manager motivates and engages, and that  rated 31st overall. 
colleagues know what is expected of them, how they are 
performing and how their role supports the business 
   
• 73% said their manager leads authentically, adapting their style 
to changing circumstances, and that they actively seek  Family-friendly 
feedback to improve and lead change well  We are leading the industry in designing an employee proposition 
that is fully inclusive and helps our people to manage their 
personal and professional responsibilities flexibly. In January 
2020 our new Parent Leave policy came into effect. All UK-based 
colleagues welcoming a new child into their family are now 
entitled to 52 weeks’ leave, including 40 weeks of fully-paid leave, 
regardless of their gender. It includes parents who adopt or who 
have a child by surrogate. In the first year of the new policy 171 
colleagues took parent leave, 55% of whom were men. 
22 Standard Life Aberdeen 2020
S
  T
R
A
T
E
G
IC
 R
E
P
O
R
T
 
A fully supported and successful shift to  Achieving targets 
remote working 
We have had gender targets in place since 2016, and achieved 
these in 2020. For the percentage of women in roles at Board and 
Throughout 2020, there was minimal disruption from the 
senior leadership levels, both targets were 33%. We reached 
pandemic to our clients. We achieved this by empowering our 
45% at Board level and 37% among senior leadership. 
colleagues and giving them the flexibility and support to deliver. In 
a fast-moving situation, we swiftly:  The Board will continue to track progress in diversity and 
• Made rapid improvements to technology to boost connection  inclusion over the coming years, and our targets will help us to 
maintain progress. From 1 January 2021, we have new targets 
and collaboration, particularly for new colleagues 
which build on our progress and reflect our ongoing commitment 
• Created remote induction programmes 
to improving ethnic diversity. These will run to the end of 2025, 
• Offered advice and support for safe and healthy remote  with regular review by our Board and Executive Leadership 
working  Team. The targets are structured differently for these reasons: 
• Shifted our entire learning and development offering online,  • To align them with our external engagement approach and 
leveraging technology to provide interactive, virtual learning 
voting standards 
• Provided an allowance so colleagues could buy home working  • To be sure we maintain our policy of always appointing the best 
equipment 
person for a role 
We knew our people were having to balance competing demands  • Recognising that gender is not limited to male and female 
on their time, especially caring and working. We therefore 
identities 
empowered managers to help their teams adapt their ways of 
• The ethnic diversity targets we have put in place follow the 
working where needed. 
recommendations of the Sir John Parker Review (2017) for all 
Colleagues’ physical, emotional and financial wellbeing was  FTSE 100 companies. We met the recommendation to have at 
paramount, so we communicated extensively about support  least one qualifying Board member in 2019, and have set a 
available inside and outside the organisation. This included  target to have an additional qualifying Board member by 2025.
highlighting counselling resources for anyone who needed them. 
We also made it mandatory for colleagues to use their entire 
2020 holiday allocation.  
To measure the mood around our business during the pandemic, 
we conducted several ‘pulse’ surveys. These asked colleagues 
about work, worries, the support they were receiving and how 
they were adapting. We also asked about thoughts on a future 
return to the office. 
  Current position at 31 Dec 2020  Target by 31 Dec 2020  Target by 31 Dec 2025 
Gender diversity1       
PLC Board  45% (5 out of 11)  33%  40% male; 40% female;  
20% any gender 
Senior leadership2  37% (56 out of 152)  33%  40% male; 40% female;  
20% any gender 
Subsidiary directors3  50% (10 out of 20)  N/A  N/A 
UK workforce  45% (2,156 of 4,817)  50% (+/-3% tolerance)  N/A 
Global workforce  45% (2,777 out of 6,132)  50% (+/-3% tolerance)   50% (+/-3% tolerance) 
Ethnic diversity4       
PLC Board (UK ethnicity 9% (1 out of 11)    18% (or +1 director) 
categories) 
1  Relates to percentage of women in roles within the different groups. 
2  Relates to leaders one and two levels below CEO, minus administration roles. 
3  Relates to Directors of the Company’s direct subsidiaries as listed in Note 48 (a) of the Group financial statements and not classified above as Board Directors or senior 
leadership. 
4  Relates to percentage of Board members who identify as ethnic minority.  
Data measuring progress against gender targets for 31 December 2020 has been independently assured by Bureau Veritas. Bureau Veritas assurance can be found at 
www.standardlifeaberdeen.com/annualreport 
 
More information about our work on gender equality, including our gender pay gap disclosure, can be found in our Gender Report 
  www.standardlifeaberdeen.com/annualreport 
 
Standard Life Aberdeen 2020 23
Promoting a positive
future for
society
Our commitment to ESG gives us a framework to make 
decisions that create positive outcomes for our people, our 
investors and the communities in which we operate. This 
approach runs through all our activities, from our business 
operations to our investments. 
Across the world, societies are also turning their attention to 
economic recovery, in the wake of the pandemic. We are 
looking at the role we can play in rebuilding in ways that are 
both green and fair. This ranges from making sure employment 
is fair, inclusive and free of barriers, to actively responding to 
the interlinked crises of climate change and biodiversity loss.  
 
 
   
24 Standard Life Aberdeen 2020
 
A responsible 
Top
business
2
%
 
of companies in our 
sector in the DJSI 
We became 
World Index
carbon neutral
+
A
Accredited as a UK
Living Hours
employer
ratings in six  
A new standard for employers who 
investment categories
want to do more than provide a Living Wage
UN Principles for Responsible  
Investment (PRI) report
500
One of the first companies to sign the 
colleagues in pilot to monitor home working 
C-19 Business Pledge
emissions with eco-tech business Pawprint 
for businesses committed to tackling
the effects of the pandemic  
Standard Life Aberdeen 2020 25
Our society 
Building a sustainable future  
Asking more of ourselves  In the UK, we were one of the first companies to sign up to the  
C-19 Business Pledge, which sees businesses demonstrate their 
Every day we look for ways to go further for our clients, to be a  commitment to tackling the effects of the pandemic. The Pledge 
better and more inclusive employer, and to reduce our  addresses immediate challenges, as well as longer-term recovery. 
environmental impacts.  
We also engaged with our investee companies on the steps we 
Our positive influence comes primarily through our investment  expected them to take during the pandemic. These included 
approach. Client demand for responsible investing continues to  adapting strategy, considering long-term impact, and supporting 
grow at a rapid pace, and sustainability considerations are  their wider communities. We also made it clear how we would 
integral to all portfolio decisions. By combining this with the  support them. 
positive impact we can have through our operations, we can 
Through our Aberdeen Standard Investments brand we are a 
make a difference for our clients, society and the wider world. 
sponsor of Good Money Week, an annual UK campaign to help 
Being a responsible steward of capital  people use sustainable, responsible and ethical investment 
We are a signatory to the Principles for Responsible Investment  options. The theme for 2020, Clean Slate, Green Slate, made the 
(PRI), a globally recognised blueprint for responsible investing. In  case that there has never been a more important time to think 
the most recent PRI report, we achieved A+ ratings in six out of  about the social and environmental impact of wealth protection. 
the eight investment categories we submitted for. Overall, we  We provided online seminars, podcasts and articles covering the 
improved on our rating from the previous year – achieving the  impact of the crisis on climate policy, what it means for investors 
highest-possible ratings for strategy and governance and also for  and what we are doing to support a fair recovery. 
our approach to equities, fixed income and property investing. 
Supporting our communities through the pandemic 
As an active owner, responsible investing is about more than  From the start of the pandemic, we have recognised the 
simply selecting appropriate investment opportunities. Engaging  significant effect on our communities and that not everyone in our 
with companies to ensure they retain the standards we expect of  communities was equally impacted. We therefore released 
them is just as important. Where companies fail to achieve these  £500,000 from our charitable budget, and focused our donations 
standards, we may consider selling our holding.  on three key areas: 
For example, following allegations in 2020 of underpayment of  • Emergency and crisis supplies to deal with the immediate 
statutory minimum wages and poor working conditions in the  impact 
supply chain of the UK-based retailer Boohoo, we divested from 
• Supporting the most disadvantaged, for example, by funding 
them in all our actively managed funds. We have engaged with 
food banks and shelters 
Boohoo to improve its ESG standards since 2017, but found their 
response to these allegations inadequate. We decided to divest  • Supporting elderly and other vulnerable groups who live alone 
after considering a number of elements, including Boohoo’s  or are isolated 
culture, control mechanisms and business model, the Fund’s  With help from our offices and teams around the world, we 
investment process and its investors’ best interests. We are now  identified projects with both new and existing partners. These 
considering how we engage with other businesses facing similar  included foodbanks in London, Edinburgh and Aberdeen, and 
labour-related risks.  local charities supporting vulnerable groups or individuals in 
Boston, New York, Philadelphia and Hong Kong. 
Read our stewardship report at  Our business put in place a programme for matching donations 
  www.standardlifeaberdeen.com/annualreport  that our people chose to make to causes on an individual basis. 
  This is in addition to our existing matching schemes for employee 
fundraising and payroll giving. We also worked with charities that 
Supporting a sustainable economic recovery 
needed specific support to adapt the ways they worked. This 
As the UK Government plans its economic recovery from the  included: 
pandemic, we are supporting calls to ensure that the recovery is 
• Support for a financial education initiative to develop free online 
sustainable for people and planet. In 2020 we became a 
resources for children and their families 
signatory to an open letter, from business leaders to the Prime 
Minister, outlining the importance of aligning these efforts with the  • Helping food banks and supper clubs to be able to cook and 
UK’s legislated target by 2050 of net zero emissions. We  deliver hot meals 
supported another open letter that asks for the recovery strategy  • Funding helplines for dementia carers 
to reflect the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). As a 
signatory to the UN Global Compact, our business is committed 
to continue playing its part in achieving these goals. 
 
26 Standard Life Aberdeen 2020
S
  T
R
A
T
E
G
IC
 R
E
P
O
R
T
 
Our environment 
The pandemic has highlighted the impact of human activity on our    Thought leadership 
environment, particularly climate change and biodiversity loss.   Insight and thought leadership plays an important role 
in helping to influence how the ESG agenda evolves. In 
We believe that aligning our operations and investments to a net 
2020 we were recognised at Investment Week’s 
zero future is essential for long-term performance, and are fully 
Sustainable & ESG Investment Awards, winning the 
supportive of the recommendations of TCFD. These encourage 
prize for Best Thought Leadership Paper. Strategic 
companies to disclose material climate-related risks and 
Asset Allocation: ESG’s New Frontier focuses on 
opportunities and outline how these are governed and managed. 
climate change. It sets out how an ESG-enhanced 
We publish a report showing how we align our climate change 
process for strategic asset allocation can increase 
disclosures to the TCFD framework, while encouraging the 
capital available for socially and environmentally 
companies we invest in to do the same. 
important projects, without compromising returns. 
Our approach to managing our operational emissions is to reduce 
as much as we can, and we have long-term targets in place to   
achieve this. We then offset what remains. A dramatic change in 
the nature of our carbon footprint took place in 2020 as a result of  A fair and inclusive future 
the pandemic. Emissions from our offices and business travel 
We support initiatives that allow people to overcome barriers and 
reduced, and emissions from home working became our biggest 
reach their potential. We drive positive change to support fair and 
emission source. You can read more on our carbon footprint, and 
inclusive work, promote equality of opportunity, and connect with 
our environmental metrics and targets, on page 28. 
those isolated from society. 
Every year, we offset our greenhouse gas emissions by 
Our commitment to the Living Wage 
purchasing carbon credits through our partnership with 
Even before the pandemic, over five million workers in the UK 
ClimateCare. We support accredited projects that help people to 
had low-paid, insecure work. There is a growing body of evidence 
engage with and protect nature, and to support habitat and 
that the inequalities this causes negatively impact overall 
wildlife restoration. This in turn promotes wellbeing, builds 
economic growth. 
community and helps wildlife and ecosystems thrive for 
generations to come.  We have been a UK Living Wage employer for some time. In 
2020, we became one of the first employers accredited as a 
Our business has pledged support to the Gola Rainforest in 
Living Hours employer. The Living Hours programme sets a new 
Sierra Leone, a global biodiversity hotspot, as well as a 
standard for employers who want to do more than provide a 
renewable wind and solar power project in India. This helped us 
Living Wage. Accredited employers agree to offer decent notice 
to achieve our aim of becoming carbon neutral in 2020.  
periods for shifts, as well as the right to a guaranteed minimum 
Climate change in our investment decisions  number of work hours each week. This commitment covers our 
Climate-related risks and opportunities are wide reaching and  employees, interns and suppliers on our premises. 
evolving quickly. We have a responsibility to understand the 
We also supported the ‘toolkit for responsible investors’ initiative 
impact of climate change on asset values to make better 
from the Living Wage Foundation and ShareAction. This helps 
investment decisions. As asset managers, the most material 
investors in UK markets understand why and how to encourage 
climate change risk for us is the potential for climate change to 
portfolio companies to adopt the real Living Wage. 
negatively affect the performance of investments we make on our 
clients’ behalf. We also need to make sure that clients are able to  Investing in young people 
invest in ways that reflect their values and expectations. You can  Today’s environment is challenging for many workers, but 
read more on page 16 about our commitment to this in 2021.  particularly for young people starting out in their careers. We 
believe that investing in young people is critical for long-term 
The transition to a net zero world means we have to be able to 
economic recovery. Alongside our internship and graduate 
assess which companies and assets will perform well in a net 
recruitment programmes, we are continuing to recruit from 
zero environment. This includes identifying where we need to 
schools and colleges through our traineeship programme. We 
influence to drive best practice. In 2020 we kept up engagement 
offer salaries above the real Living Wage, with structured training 
with peers and policymakers, and collaboration with industry 
and the opportunity to gain qualifications. We also continue to 
associations and initiatives.  
collaborate with partners such as Career Ready to support young 
For example, as members of the Institutional Investors Group on  people to build skills, confidence and connections. 
Climate Change. we contribute to their Paris Aligned Investment 
Through our colleague-led network Unity, we partnered with and 
Initiative and the Net Zero Investment framework. We are using 
funded charities that help young people from disadvantaged and 
this as a foundation for developing net zero solutions for our 
ethnic minority backgrounds. In the USA, we supported Oliver 
clients. The insights help our industry invest in ways that aim to 
Scholars and EmbraceRace. In the UK, we supported the Amos 
keep the global average temperature rises to well below 2°C and 
Bursary, Stephen Lawrence Charitable Trust and Youth 
ideally 1.5°C. We are also a founding signatory of Climate Action 
Community Support Agency. Through the Standard Life 
100+, a campaign group that works to improve standards, 
Aberdeen Charitable Foundation, we also supported The Sutton 
influence regulation and develop capital allocation strategies. In 
Trust’s Pathways to Banking and Finance programme. 
2020, we led the group’s engagements with energy companies 
such as E.On and Fortum.  
 
 
  Standard Life Aberdeen 2020 27
Non-financial information  
A responsible business 
Our environmental metrics and targets 
UK Offshore UK Offshore 10,044
2020 1,118 94 2,110 1,067 14,433
Total CO e  emissions
2
(tonnes) U1,K677 O10ff7shore U3,K024 O1,f7f8s3hore 13,078 19,669
2019
14,433
UK Offshore UK Offshore 22,482 32,217
2018 2,628 38 4,181 2,888
(Total CO  e  are locations based emissions)
2
Scope 1: Refrigerant gases, natural gas, oil and company-owned vehicles Scope 2: Electricity and district heating
Scope 3: Working from home, business travel and transmission and distribution
UK 14,238 Offshore 3,484 17,722
2020
Total energy use
UK 15,763 Offshore 7,766 23,529
(MWh)
2019
17,722
UK 26,658 Offshore 8,451 35,109
2018
 
D ata has been independently assured by Bureau Veritas. Bureau Veritas assurance can be found at www.standardlifeaberdeen.com/annualreport
Our operational carbon footprint  This is important, because our policy has always been to tackle 
We have been measuring our operational carbon footprint since  the largest emission sources first so that we can make the 
2006, and our data is independently assured. More recently, in  greatest impact. 
2018, we set targets for 2030, and our 2018 figures act as the  We have calculated our working from home emissions based on 
baseline against which we report our progress in reducing  accepted, robust and audited models. We have also partnered 
emissions.  with eco-tech business, Pawprint, to monitor emissions from 
In 2020 we had reduced our total greenhouse gas emissions by  home working. A representative sample of 500 colleagues from 
55%. Our emissions per full-time equivalent (FTE) employee had  around the world will be using the Pawprint for Business app to 
fallen by 53% from 1.57 to 0.73 tonnes of COe per FTE (Scopes  help them measure, understand and reduce their carbon footprint. 
2
1 and 2). We had also reduced our energy use globally by 50%  The data from this will supplement the models we use and help to 
from 35,109 MWh to 17,722 MWh, and in the UK by 47%, from  improve their accuracy. It will also help us to offset home-working 
26,658 MWh to 14,238 MWh.  emissions. 
Emissions from travel  Our next TCFD Report is available in Q2 2021. Read the current 
The nature of our carbon footprint has changed drastically    version at www.standardlifeaberdeen.com/annualreport 
because of the pandemic. Travel, which made up 65% of our 
Global code of conduct 
footprint in 2019, represented only 14% of emissions in 2020. 
Globally, our business went from making 4,000 air and rail  Our global code of conduct describes the standards of behaviour 
journeys a month in February 2020, to fewer than 40 in May.  we expect in our business. It is reviewed and updated annually, 
and all our employees are expected to read, agree and adhere to 
By building on the technology we have become accustomed to, 
its principles.  
we can reduce the need for business travel in the future. 
The code focuses on doing the right thing and putting our clients 
Emissions from premises  at the heart of our business. If employees have any concerns 
We have continued to roll out efficiency measures in our largest  about issues covered, such as bribery and corruption, 
offices, and we are demanding efficiencies in any new spaces we  environmental or human rights issues, we encourage them to 
lease.  speak to their manager first. If they feel they cannot raise their 
concern this way, or they want to raise it anonymously, there is an 
However, in 2020, we went from having under 1% of our 
independent and confidential hotline for them to use. 
colleagues working from home, to over 95%. This meant energy 
use in our offices reduced, but home working became our single  In 2020, 93% of employees completed the online training module 
largest source of emissions, accounting for 55% of our carbon  to confirm they had understood and would comply with the code. 
footprint. While our offices are mostly efficient, people’s homes,  Where employees fail to complete mandatory training, we have 
generally, are less so.  taken steps to ensure that managers and HR are made aware. 
This has led to an improved completion rate for the updated 
Making home working more energy efficient 
module, launched in December 2020, with 99% completing this 
We believe that home working is likely to be a lasting feature of 
by the end of January 2021. 
working life from now on. We have therefore started to develop a 
strategy to tackle home-working emissions.  
 
28 Standard Life Aberdeen 2020
S
   T
R
A
T
  E
G
IC
 R
E
P
O
R
TT
 
Working with third parties   Human rights policy 
We strive to build effective and supportive relationships with our  Our policy summarises our approach to identifying and upholding 
third parties. Our global third party code of conduct sets out the  the human rights of our people, clients, communities and 
minimum standards and principles we require third parties to  everyone impacted by our suppliers, partners and the companies 
follow, and that we expect them to demand from their own supply  we invest in. As an investor, we use our internally developed 
chains.   Human Rights Index to help identify high-risk geographies – and 
we have published position statements on integrating human 
On a regular and risk-proportionate basis, we carry out due 
rights into our investment approach. We assess the management 
diligence of our third parties, covering key social issues such as 
of human rights impacts and, whenever appropriate, engage to 
modern slavery, equality and environmental issues. We review 
highlight issues and promote good practice. We publish the 
the outcomes, and if any issues emerge, we escalate them 
outcomes of our ESG engagements with investee companies in a 
through our supplier relationship managers or the service owners 
quarterly summary, which is available on our website.  
responsible for the goods or services being provided. 
Financial crime prevention 
We understand the importance of treating our third parties fairly. 
This includes a commitment to paying them on time, and to react  We have a legal and regulatory duty to prevent, detect and deter 
in the right way to environmental and social events, such as the  financial crime including bribery and corruption to protect our 
pandemic. As part of our response, we have worked to ensure  business and our clients’ information and assets. We aim to work 
that our ESG responsibilities and commitments to, and via, our  with the highest levels of integrity, so our approach to managing 
third parties continue to be met.  financial crime risks, within our business and among suppliers 
and partners, involves: 
Modern slavery statement 
• Systems and controls – to assist in managing the risk 
In 2020 we continued to help tackle human trafficking, forced 
labour, bonded labour and child slavery. In total, 99% of UK and  • Staff training and awareness – ensuring that everyone 
Europe colleagues completed training on modern slavery issues.  understands the risks presented and how to manage them 
We found no instances of modern slavery in our supply chain.  • Client Due Diligence – to ensure we understand our clients 
However, we have robust processes in place which would allow  • Ongoing monitoring – of both our systems and key processes 
any future issues to be escalated and remedied.  
to ensure these are working as expected 
We further integrated considerations for tackling modern slavery  • Routine risk assessments – to ensure we understand the risk in 
into our investment process. This included implementing a global  each area and can improve processes where required 
programme targeting companies in high-risk sectors and  • Robust policies and procedures – to ensure a consistent 
geographies. We have also used our expertise to support cross-
approach in managing the risks 
industry, anti-modern slavery collaborations. Our 2020 statement 
and outcomes reinforce our commitment to this important issue,  In 2020 we had no breaches. An independent assessment of our 
and it can be found on our website.  anti-money laundering framework was completed in 2020. We 
are now following the recommendations that came out of the 
review, and will have an even stronger control framework as a 
result. 
 
Non-financial information statement 
Standard Life Aberdeen aims to comply with the Non-Financial Reporting requirements contained in sections 414CA and 414CB of 
the Companies Act 2006. This information is intended to help stakeholders better understand how we address key non-financial 
matters. This aligns with the work we already do in support of the Taskforce on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures, UN Global 
Compact and UN Sustainable Development Goals. Further details of the activities we undertake in supporting these frameworks are 
available on our website. Details of our principal risks and how we manage those risks are included in the Risk management section. 
Reporting requirement  Relevant policies and publications  Where to find more information 
Environment Our environment and our  Our society (page 27) 
  environmental metrics and targets  Non-financial information (page 28) 
Employees  Global code of conduct1  Non-financial information (page 28) 
  Employee policies  Our people (pages 22 to 23) 
  Anti-bribery and corruption  Non-financial information (pages 28 to 29) 
Human rights  Human rights policy1  Non-financial information (page 29) 
  Modern slavery statement1  Non-financial information (page 29) 
Social matters  Social policies  Our society (pages 24 to 27) 
  Third party code of conduct1  Non-financial information (page 29) 
Other matters  Business model  Our strategy and business model (pages 9 to 13) 
  Non-financial KPIs  Our people (page 21) 
    Non-financial information (page 28) 
1  Group policy published on our website at www.standardlifeaberdeen.com/annualreport 
 
  Standard Life Aberdeen 2020 29
Chief Financial Officer’s overview 
Delivering for our shareholders 
 
yielding activities such as Wholesale and Private markets (within 
Investments) and Personal, and to drive benefits from growth in 
our Adviser business which has a high operating leverage. By 
focusing on the individual growth strategies within each vector, 
our aim is to arrest revenue decline in the near term, inflecting to 
a high single digit three year revenue CAGR over the period to 
2023. We expect stabilisation of revenue yield in the near term, 
subsequently increasing as we meet client preferences for higher 
yielding assets.  
Operating leverage 
In 2020, our cost/income ratio remained higher than our peers 
and we will continue to take action to reduce costs and improve 
the balance between fixed and variable costs. We are on track to 
deliver the targeted £400m of synergies and we continued to 
create further efficiencies in 2020 which will benefit in 2021. In 
particular our focus is to complete transformation, improving the 
operational leverage of our business through reductions in 
operational and technology costs and non-permanent staff, 
resulting in near term cost reductions. Specific actions also 
include reorganisations in the US and APAC to address those 
areas of lower contribution, and the proposed disposals of 
Parmenion and the Nordics real estate activity. As we move into 
revenue growth, we expect growth-related increases in certain 
costs but we will maintain the operating leverage created by the 
  rebalanced cost base. Overall we are targeting to exit 2023 at a 
cost/income ratio of around 70%. As the transformation and 
Stephanie Bruce, Chief Financial Officer 
separation processes complete towards the end of 2021, we 
expect to see a reduction in the associated restructuring charges 
 
from current levels to less than £50m in 2022. 
Managing our capital for the benefit of shareholders 
Since the merger in 2017, we have returned a total of £3.9bn to  Capital strength  
shareholders as we focused on integration and transformation.  In 2020, we continued to strengthen our balance sheet in terms of 
During this same period, reflecting the pressures on the industry  both capital and liquidity. Our intention is to further strengthen our 
and lower performance in key investment strategies, the business  capital position by monetising the remaining stake in HDFC Life 
has not been growing. In 2020, while we made progress on  over the next two years. In addition, an improvement in 
investment performance and addressing our cost base, the  profitability resulting from the successful execution of our strategic 
impact of the pandemic on valuations in the mid part of the year,  plan will drive an increase in adjusted capital generation and 
together with a change in mix of flows with a higher proportion of  strengthen our capital position. However, our surplus regulatory 
lower yielding assets constrained fee revenues which were lower  capital dictates the level of capital available for deployment and is 
by 13%. Fee revenue yields overall were 26.9bps (2019:  expected to reduce with the implementation of the Investment 
27.9bps). Adjusted operating profit at £219m was down 27% on  Firm Prudential Regime (IFPR) in early 2022, as other assets are 
the prior year. Conversely, our capital position has been  expected to be excluded from regulatory capital. In addition, we 
strengthening through the sale of further tranches of our Indian  will seek to maintain a buffer reflecting our risk appetite for 
investments, even after committing to a share buyback  volatility and working capital. 
programme of £400m which has now been completed. Our 
In assessing our priorities for the deployment of our resources, 
capital surplus over regulatory requirements grew to £2.3bn at 31 
we consider robustly the return profile to ensure delivery of value 
December 2020, adding both to our resilience and strategic 
for shareholders in terms of earnings growth and a sustainable 
options. 
dividend policy. In 2020, our review of our investments against 
Financial aims of our strategy  this criteria led to the planned sales of the Nordics real estate 
The aim of our new strategy is to drive client led growth through  activity and Parmenion and the proposed acquisition of Tritax. 
focus on our priorities as Stephen has outlined. Through a  Our strategy is to deploy our capital both organically and 
combination of organic revenue growth, focus on efficiency and  inorganically: organically, in areas such as seeding funds, co-
the prudent deployment of our capital, our aim is to return the  investing in private market opportunities, and the Platforms 
company to revenue and earnings growth, such that the earnings  Experience Programme in our Adviser vector; and inorganically 
profile generates value for shareholders, including a sustainable  through acquisition opportunities to augment our capabilities in 
level of dividends. We have previously been clear that over the  growth areas such as ETFs and private markets, and to 
period of transformation, we would distribute some of our excess  accelerate the scale of the Adviser and Personal vectors to 
capital through the annual dividend as it was not covered by our  improve our market presence. We will apply rigorous hurdle and 
underlying earnings. This is obviously not sustainable in the long- return rates to any investment and will only invest in an 
term and our strategy aims to address this position.   opportunity if it will deliver revenue and earnings growth and help 
us achieve relevance and scale.    
A key objective of the strategy is to return to revenue growth and 
increase the diversification of our business, particularly into higher 
30 Standard Life Aberdeen 2020
S
  T
R
  AT
E
  G
IC
   R
E
  PO
R
  T
 
KPI
 
Creating momentum for the future 
While the results for 2020 reflect the impact of declining revenue 
due principally to prior year outflows and market conditions, we  F  inancial indicators1  2020  2019 
have also seen evidence of positive momentum in our 
Fee based revenue  £1,425m  £1,634m 
performance which will support the execution of the strategy.  
Investment performance2  66%  60% 
• Investment performance drives success with our clients and  Cost/income ratio3  85%  82% 
has improved to 66% on the three year benchmark 
IFRS profit before tax  £838m  £243m 
• We have seen an 82% improved position in net outflows of 
Adjusted profit before tax  £487m  £584m 
£3.1bn (excluding LBG tranche withdrawals), as redemptions 
are significantly lower than the prior year  Adjusted capital generation  £262m  £333m 
• Our cost base reduced by £127m (10%), although the cost  Adjusted diluted earnings per share  18.1p  19.3p 
income ratio remains too high at 85% due to the reduction in  Full year dividend per share  14.6p  21.6p 
revenue of £209m and the high proportion of fixed costs in our  Diluted earnings per share  37.9p  8.8p 
cost base 
The following commentary and analysis provides more detail.  
Analysis of profit      
2020  2019  Other business indicators1  2020  2019 
  £m  £m 
Gross inflows  £74.3bn  £86.2bn 
Fee based revenue  1,425  1,634 
Net flows     
Adjusted operating expenses  (1,206)   (1,333)  Excluding LBG4  (£3.1bn) (£17.4bn) 
Adjusted operating profit  219  301 
Total  (£29.0bn) (£58.4bn) 
Capital management  21  37 
AUMA  £534.6bn £544.6bn 
Asset management associates and 
joint ventures  44  57 
Dividend policy 
Asset management, platforms 
As referenced in the Chairman’s statement, the Board has 
and wealth  284  395 
concluded it should take this opportunity to rebase the dividend to 
Insurance associates and joint 
a level from which it is confident the dividend can be grown in due 
ventures  203  189 
course and is therefore recommending a final dividend for 2020 of 
Adjusted profit before tax  487  584  7.3p, bringing the total dividend for the year to 14.6p. It is the 
Adjusting items   368  (333)  Board’s current intention to maintain the total dividend at this level 
Share of associates’ and joint  (with the interim and final at the same amount per share), until it is 
ventures’ tax expense  (17)  (8)  covered at least 1.5 times by adjusted capital generation, at which 
point the Board will seek to grow the dividend in line with its 
IFRS profit before tax  838  243 
assessment of the underlying medium term growth in profitability. 
Tax credit/(expense)  15  (28) 
The recommended dividend of 7.3p (2019: 14.3p) is subject to 
IFRS profit for the year  853  215 
shareholder approval and will be paid on 25 May 2021 to 
All figures are shown on a continuing operations basis unless otherwise stated.  shareholders on the register at close of business on 16 April 
2021. The dividend payment is expected to be £154m. External 
The IFRS profit before tax of £838m increased by 245% 
dividends are funded from the cumulative dividend income that 
compared with 2019, reflecting lower impairments of goodwill and 
Standard Life Aberdeen plc receives from its subsidiaries and 
intangibles of £1.1bn (2019: £1.6bn) and increased profit on 
associates (see page 36 for details of cash and distributable 
disposal of interests in associates of £1.9bn (2019: £1.5bn) which 
reserves). The need to hold appropriate regulatory capital is the 
included the benefit of a £1.1bn one-off accounting gain.  
primary restriction on the Group’s ability to pay dividends. Further 
Adjusted profit before tax of £487m decreased by 17% compared  information on the principal risks and uncertainties that may affect 
with 2019 largely due to lower revenue. The 13% reduction in  the business and therefore dividends is provided in the Risk 
revenue mainly reflects 2019 outflows, client preferences  management section.
changing asset mix and expected LBG tranche withdrawals. 
  
   
1  We assess our performance using a variety of performance measures including APMs such as fee based revenue, cost/income ratio, adjusted profit before tax and 
adjusted capital generation. Further details are included in Supplementary information. All metrics within ‘Financial indicators’ are KPIs except for diluted earnings per 
share. 
2  Percentage of AUM above benchmark over three years. Calculations for investment performance are made gross of fees except where the stated comparator is net of 
fees. Further details about the calculation of investment performance are included in Supplementary information. 
3  Excludes the share of associates’ and joint ventures’ profit before tax. 
4  Net outflows excluding LBG do not include the tranche withdrawals relating to the settlement of arbitration with LBG. Refer to Glossary LBG tranche withdrawals. 
 
Standard Life Aberdeen 2020 31
Chief Financial Officer’s overview continued 
 
All fee based revenue, AUMA and flows relate to the Asset  Insurance 
management, platforms and wealth segment and are discussed 
  2020  2019 
below. 
Fee based revenue  £224m  £317m 
Fee revenue yield  10.9bps  12.2bps 
1
Investments  
AUM  £205.2bn  £235.8bn 
Institutional and Wholesale  Gross inflows  £17.6bn  £26.9bn 
  2020  2019  Redemptions excluding LBG3   (£24.5bn)  (£30.3bn) 
Fee based revenue  £922m  £1,027m  LBG tranche withdrawals3  (£25.9bn)  (£41.0bn) 
Fee revenue yield2  38.8bps  42.8bps  Net flows excluding LBG3  (£6.9bn)  (£3.4bn) 
AUM  £251.7bn  £236.7bn  Within Investments, Insurance comprises the assets we manage 
Gross inflows  £49.8bn  £50.9bn  for Phoenix of £171.5bn, as well as those we manage for others, 
Redemptions  (£49.5bn)  (£68.9bn)  including Lloyds Banking Group. We have a deep understanding 
of the unique investment needs of insurance companies and a 
Net flows  £0.3bn  (£18.0bn) 
comprehensive range of investment solutions to meet their 
In 2020, the assets we manage for Institutional and Wholesale  complex objectives.  
clients increased despite the market volatility as a result of 
As Phoenix’s core strategic asset management partner, we 
COVID-19. We have maintained our focus on serving our clients 
received a further £2bn of assets from bulk purchase annuity 
globally, switching to digital channels to maintain relationships, 
agreements during the year.  
providing continuing client service, launching products, generating 
sales and winning mandates. Our focus on delivering for clients is  Overall, Insurance AUM decreased due to the LBG tranche 
particularly evident through continued robust investment  withdrawals and net outflows. Gross inflows are dependent on 
performance.  underlying policyholder activity and the £9.3bn reduction is a 
reflection of the strong new business in 2019 and lower LBG 
Our pipeline remains strong with mandates awarded but not yet 
AUM. Redemptions (excluding LBG tranche withdrawals) 
funded across Institutional and Wholesale of £4.6bn as at 31 
decreased by £5.8bn and largely reflect maturing insurance 
December 2020. This includes mandates across a broad range of 
business in long-term run-off. The remaining c£3bn of the 
capabilities including Fixed income, Equities and Multi-asset.  
previously announced tranche withdrawals for LBG are expected 
Fee based revenue reduced by 10% reflecting the impact of 2019  to be made by the end of 2021. 
outflows and changes in client preferences towards lower risk 
Lower revenue from Insurance in 2020 is largely due to the 
asset classes such as Cash/Liquidity in 2020. The revenue yield 
expected LBG tranche withdrawals which accounts for £77m of 
decreased to 38.8bps reflecting the lower proportion of higher 
the decrease.  
margin Equity and Multi-asset AUM. In addition, at FY 2019 we 
reported that we had won a £5.5bn lower margin US advisory 
mandate in Alternatives which has had a full year impact on the 
1
Adviser  
2020 fee revenue yield. Despite the volatility in financial markets, 
the average daily MSCI World Index was 7% higher in 2020 
  2020  2019 
compared with 2019, which benefited revenue in the year. 
Fee based revenue  £137m  £150m 
AUM increased in 2020 by 6% to £251.7bn due to significantly  Fee revenue yield – gross4  26.7bps  29.6bps 
lower redemptions and positive market movements, including 
Fee revenue yield – net of cost of sales4  22.3bps  25.3bps 
robust investment performance in 2020.  
AUMA   £67.0bn  £62.6bn 
In 2020, gross inflows remained stable at £49.8bn driven by 
Gross inflows   £6.3bn  £7.0bn 
demand for our Cash/Liquidity funds where gross inflows were 
Redemptions   (£4.4bn)  (£4.7bn) 
95%, or £7.4bn higher than 2019. 2019 benefited from a one-off 
£3.5bn inflow from Virgin Money and the £5.5bn advisory  Net flows   £1.9bn  £2.3bn 
mandate mentioned above. There was also continued strong 
In April 2020, we introduced a simplified pricing structure on the 
momentum in our ETF fund range with inflows of £1.9bn  
Wrap platform to make it more competitive and attractive to 
(2019: £0.6bn). Gross inflows in 2020 also included £1.8bn 
advisers. With effect from April 2020, a Drawdown Price Lock 
(2019: £1.8bn) from new fund launches.  
feature, the first of its kind in the UK, was made available for 
Net inflows improved to £0.3bn driven by a marked improvement  Wrap clients. This innovative feature allows Wrap SIPP clients to 
in redemptions. Redemptions in 2020 were the lowest seen since  lock in their platform charges so that the charges will not increase 
the merger and represented 21% of opening assets (2019: 29%).  as they draw down on their savings. Our pricing actions on the 
Equities and Multi-asset redemptions were 26% and 61% lower  Wrap platform in 2020 and on Elevate in 2019, combined with an 
than 2019 respectively.  enhanced digital offering have had a positive impact on the 
number of overall Platform users.  
The lower fee based revenue reflects the impact of the Wrap and 
Elevate pricing changes, as well as the impact of COVID-19 on 
average UK market levels and activity. AUMA increased due to 
positive market movements of £2.5bn and continued net inflows 
of £1.9bn. 
32 Standard Life Aberdeen 2020  
  S
T
R
  A
T
  EG
  IC R
E
  P
O
  R
T
 
 
1,5
Personal   Investment performance 
  2020  2019  Total AUM ahead of benchmark 
Fee based revenue   £80m  £70m 
Fee revenue yield2  58.5bps  59.2bps 
AUMA  £13.3bn  £12.8bn  11 yyeeaarr  33 yyeeaarrss  55 yyeeaarrss 
Gross inflows  £1.1bn  £1.1bn  7711%%    6666%%    6688%% 
Redemptions  (£1.1bn)  (£1.0bn) 
((22001199::  7744%%))  ((22001199::  6600%%))  ((22001199::  6677%%)) 
Net flows  –  £0.1bn 
Personal largely comprises our 1825 financial planning and           
advice business and our Aberdeen Standard Capital discretionary 
Three-year investment performance saw further improvement 
investment management business. 
during 2020, with 66% of assets under management covered by 
The integration of Grant Thornton’s wealth advisory business and  this metric ahead of benchmark. This reflects continued 
BDO Northern Ireland’s wealth management business, which  improvement in three-year performance within Equities and 
were acquired in 2019, was a key focus during 2020. This added  ongoing strong performance in Alternatives, Cash/Liquidity and 
presence in 14 new UK locations and 34 financial advisers. We  the majority of Fixed income franchises.  
also achieved organic growth in terms of new clients for both 
Most Equity classes delivered an improvement over one, three 
1825 and Aberdeen Standard Capital despite the challenging 
and five years. There is ongoing strength in European, Small Cap 
market conditions.  
and China A shares and in 2020 there was significant progress 
Fee based revenue increased due to these acquisitions. This was  made in the performance of Global Emerging Markets and 
partly offset by the impact of lower average UK markets during  Japanese Equities. This is partly offset by weaker performance in 
2020.  Real estate and Quantitatives, reflecting challenging market 
conditions. Although Multi-asset performance declined overall, 
AUM in Aberdeen Standard Capital reached a record level of 
our Absolute Return suite continued to deliver strong investment 
£7.8bn at 31 December 2020 (2019: £7.1bn). The AUAdv for 
performance. 
1825 decreased to £5.5bn (2019: £5.7bn) due to the fall in UK 
equity markets.  We have also seen an increase in the number of our strategies 
receiving positive ratings from investment consultants, bringing 
 
the total to 52 strategies (2019: 46 strategies). 
 
  Calculations for investment performance are made gross of fees 
  except where the stated comparator is net of fees. Further details 
about the calculation of investment performance, AUMA and fee 
revenue yield are included in the Supplementary information 
section of this report. 
       
Analysis of Asset management, platforms   Fee based revenue  AUMA  Net flows3 
and wealth segment  2020  2019  2020  2019  2020  2019 
£m  £m  £bn  £bn  £bn  £bn 
Investments             
Institutional and Wholesale  922  1,027  251.7  236.7  0.3  (18.0) 
Insurance  224  317  205.2  235.8  (6.9)  (3.4) 
Adviser  137  150  67.0  62.6  1.9  2.3 
Personal5  80  70  13.3  12.8  –  0.1 
Parmenion  25  21  8.1  6.9  1.0  1.1 
SL Asia  7  12         
Performance fees  30  37         
Eliminations5      (10.7)  (10.2)  0.6  0.5 
  1,425  1,634  534.6  544.6  (3.1)  (17.4) 
LBG tranche withdrawals          (25.9)  (41.0) 
Total  1,425  1,634  534.6  544.6  (29.0)  (58.4) 
 
1  Revenue, AUMA, and flows are now presented on a vector basis. 2019 comparatives restated on this basis. See further details in Supplementary information. 
2  Institutional and Wholesale fee revenue yield excludes revenue of £9m (2019: £6m) and Personal fee revenue yield excludes revenue of £7m (2019: £7m), for which there are 
no attributable assets. 
3  Net flows excluding Lloyds Banking Group (LBG) do not include the tranche withdrawals of £25.9bn (2019: £41.0bn) relating to the settlement of arbitration with LBG. 
4  Adviser fee revenue yield calculated on both a gross and net of cost of sales basis. See further details in Supplementary information. 
5  Eliminations remove the double count reflected in Investments, Adviser and Personal. The Personal vector includes assets that are reflected in both Aberdeen Standard 
Capital and Advice businesses. This double count is also removed within Eliminations.
 
  Standard Life Aberdeen 2020  33  
Chief Financial Officer’s overview continued 
 
 
Analysis of profit  Capital management 
Capital management generated a profit of £21m (2019: £37m) 
The IFRS profit before tax of £838m (2019: £243m) mainly 
from: 
reflects the profit on disposal of interests in associates partially 
offset by impairments of goodwill and intangibles. Adjusted profit  • Investment gains of £18m (2019: £26m) including seed capital 
before tax of £487m (2019: £584m) decreased by 17% largely  and co-investment fund holdings  
due to the lower revenue.  • Reduced net finance costs of £17m (2019: £18m)  
• Reduced net interest credit relating to the staff pension 
Fee based revenue   schemes of £20m (2019: £29m) reflecting a lower discount rate  
Fee based revenue reduced by 13% to £1,425m (2019: 
£1,634m). The fall in revenue primarily reflects the full year impact  Asset management associates and joint ventures 
of outflows during 2019 and LBG tranche withdrawals during 
We reduced our shareholding in HDFC Asset Management in 
2019 and 2020, partly offset by a positive impact from higher 
December 2019 and in 2020. This was the main factor in the 23% 
average market levels following the recovery of equity markets in 
reduction in adjusted profit to £44m (2019: £57m). Profitability 
the second half of 2020. 
was also impacted by adverse movements in exchange rates and 
market conditions.  
Adjusted operating expenses 
Our percentage ownership of HDFC Asset Management at  
Adjusted operating expenses decreased by 10% to £1,206m 
31 December 2020 was 21.24% (2019: 26.91%) and the value of 
driven by the benefits of ongoing transformation activity, lower 
our holding at 5 March 2021 was £1.4bn. 
total staff costs, discretionary spend savings (including COVID-19 
related savings) and lower change related spend.  
Insurance associates and joint ventures 
Total staff and other related costs within adjusted operating 
  2020  2019 
expenses reduced by £73m to £643m (2019: £716m) mainly due 
Value  Stake   Profit  Stake   Profit 
to the planned reduction from transformation and lower spend on    £bn1  %2  £m  %2  £m 
agency contractors, variable compensation and recruitment. 
Phoenix  1.0  14.42  163  19.97  136 
Total non-staff costs reduced by £54m to £563m (2019: £617m)  HDFC Life3  1.3  8.89  19  14.73  36 
including a c£20m benefit from lower discretionary spend 
HASL    50.00  21  50.00  17 
including travel and events during this period of COVID-19 
restrictions, and also lower consultancy and change costs.  Total  2.3    203    189 
At 31 December 2020, actions have been taken which are  1  Listed value as at 5 March 2021. 
expected to deliver £351m of annualised synergies, benefiting  2  Ownership as at 31 December. 
2020 operating expenses by £287m (2019: £234m) with further  3  From 3 December 2020, HDFC Life is no longer classified as an associate of the 
benefits expected in 2021. Cost synergies have been realised  Group. 
from a reduction in staff costs, rationalisation of premises, and  Adjusted profit before tax in our insurance associates and joint 
efficiencies in supplier spend, including procurement and other  ventures increased to £203m. Our share of Phoenix adjusted 
actions to avoid cost increases the benefits of which are not  profit before tax included a benefit from actuarial assumption 
included in the £287m above. We remain on track to meet the  changes of £52m (2019: £30m). Our holding in the enlarged 
overall synergy target of £400m in 2021.   Phoenix Group reduced to 14.42% following the completion of its 
acquisition of ReAssure Group plc. 
Costs incurred to date to deliver these synergies are £515m, of 
which £79m were incurred in 2020 (2019: £214m). Our estimate  Our share of HASL profits increased to £21m mainly due to 
for total costs remains at £555m. These costs are included in  favourable investment returns. 
restructuring expenses within adjusting items, together with the 
The lower share of HDFC Life profits primarily reflects the 
costs of other restructuring programmes, such as platform 
reduction in our shareholding following the combined sales of 
transformation and separation from Phoenix. Total restructuring 
5.83% in 2020. Following the share sale on 3 December 2020, 
costs in 2021 are expected to remain broadly in line with the 
our remaining shareholding in HDFC Life is no longer classified 
current level. 
as an associate of the Group. See Note 16 of the Group financial 
statements for further details. 
   
 
3344   SSttaannddaarrdd L Lifiefe A Abbeerdredeene n2 0220020 
S
  T
R
  AT
E
  G
IC
   R
E
  PO
R
  T
 
Adjusting items  The change in fair value of significant listed investments of £65m 
represents the impact of movements in the listed share price on 
2020  2019 
  £m  £m  our 8.89% holding in HDFC Life from 3 December 2020 to 31 
December 2020. 
Profit on disposal of interests in 
associates  1,858  1,542  Investment return variances and economic assumption changes 
Restructuring and corporate  gain of £46m relates to our share of Phoenix adjusting items.  
transaction expenses  (355)  (407) 
Other adjusting items of £86m primarily relates to Insurance 
Amortisation and impairment of  associate and joint ventures, largely reflecting our share of 
intangible assets acquired in  Phoenix gains relating to the acquisition of ReAssure. 
business combinations and through 
the purchase of customer contracts  (1,287)  (1,844) 
IFRS loss from discontinued operations  
(Loss on)/reversal of impairment of 
The IFRS loss from discontinued operations of £15m (2019: profit 
associates and joint ventures  (45)  243 
£56m) reflects a change in the value of contingent consideration 
Change in fair value of significant  relating to the sale of the UK and European insurance business to 
listed investments  65  –  Phoenix. The 2020 loss includes the impact of the resolution of 
Investment return variances and  certain legacy issues with Phoenix. 
economic assumption changes  46  (25) 
Other  86  158  Taxation 
Total adjusting items  368  (333)  Our approach to tax plays a significant role in supporting our 
  purpose. Our tax strategy is guided by a commitment to ethical, 
legal and professional standards and being open and transparent 
See pages 117 and 141 for further details on adjusted profit and  about what we are doing to meet those standards. 
  reconciliation of adjusted profit to IFRS profit. Further details on 
adjusting items are included in the Supplementary information  The total IFRS tax credit attributable to the profit for the year was 
section.  £15m (2019: £28m expense), resulting in an effective tax rate of 
negative 2% on the total IFRS profit (2019: positive 12%). The 
The profit on disposal of interests in associates of £1,858m  effective tax rate is lower than the UK corporation tax rate of 19% 
includes a one-off accounting gain of £1,051m following the  due mainly to the sale of shares in HDFC Asset Management 
reclassification of HDFC Life from an investment in associates  being subject to tax in India at a lower rate than the UK 
accounted for using the equity method to equity securities  corporation tax rate and the sales of shares in HDFC Life not 
measured at fair value (see Note 16). There was also a £540m  giving rise to tax in India due to reliefs available under India’s tax 
profit from the sale of 5.83% of the shares in HDFC Life and  legislation and international tax treaties. In addition, the gain 
£263m from the sale of 5.64% of the shares in HDFC Asset  relating to the HDFC Life reclassification did not give rise to a tax 
Management.  charge. These factors are partially offset by impairment losses on 
goodwill which are not deductible for tax purposes. 
Restructuring and corporate transaction expenses were £355m 
primarily reflecting ongoing transformation costs for integration,  The tax expense attributable to adjusted profit before tax totalled 
separation from Phoenix and implementing our simplified  £76m (2019: £115m), which includes £38m (2019: £46m) 
operating model. 2019 included £49m relating to the repurchase  representing equity holders’ share of tax which is attributable to 
of subordinated debt. Total Phoenix separation costs accounted  our share of the profits of associates and joint ventures. The 
for to date amount to £282m and include £112m in 2020. Our  effective tax rate on adjusted profit is 15.6% (2019: 19.7%). This 
estimate of the total of these one-off separation costs we expect  is lower than the 19% UK rate primarily due to the reversal of 
to incur remains £310m.   planned reductions in the rate of UK corporation tax. This has a 
beneficial effect in increasing the value of our deferred tax assets. 
The amortisation and impairment of intangible assets acquired in 
There was also a lower rate of tax on profits from associates and 
business combinations and through the purchase of customer 
joint ventures. 
contracts were £1,287m. This includes impairment of goodwill of 
£915m (2019: £1,569m) relating to an impairment of asset 
management goodwill and resulted from the impact on reported  Total tax contribution  
revenue and future revenue projections of global equity market  Total tax contribution is a measure of all the taxes Standard Life 
falls and a change in mix with a higher proportion of lower margin  Aberdeen pays to and collects on behalf of governments in the 
assets. Both the fall in equity markets and the change in asset  territories in which we operate. Our total tax contribution was 
mix were global market impacts primarily resulting from COVID- £484m (2019: £526m). Of the total, £203m (2019: £211m) was 
19. The asset management goodwill is now fully impaired. The  borne by Standard Life Aberdeen whilst £281m (2019: £315m) 
impairment of customer relationship and investment management  represents tax collected by us on behalf of the tax authorities. 
contract intangibles of £134m resulted from the impact of  Taxes borne mainly consist of corporation tax, employer’s 
markets, net outflows and a fall in revenue yield on future  national insurance contributions and irrecoverable VAT. The 
earnings expectations. See Note 15 of the Group financial  taxes collected figure is mainly comprised of pay-as-you-earn 
statements for further details.  deductions from employee payroll payments, employee’s national 
insurance contributions, VAT collected and income tax collected 
The impairment of associates and joint ventures of £45m relates 
on behalf of HMRC on platform pensions business. 
to our joint venture with Virgin Money.   
You can read our tax report on our website 
  www.standardlifeaberdeen.com/annualreport 
 
  Standard Life Aberdeen 2020 35
Chief Financial Officer’s overview continued 
 
 
Note 46 of the Group financial statements includes a 
Capital and liquidity    reconciliation between IFRS equity and surplus regulatory capital 
and also details of our capital management policies. 
Our strong capital position and balance sheet supports ongoing 
investment in the business and delivering shareholder returns.   
   
Cash and liquid resources 
Adjusted capital generation 
Cash and liquid resources remained robust at £2.5bn at  
Adjusted capital generation of £262m reduced as a result of the  31 December 2020 (2019: £2.7bn). These resources are high 
lower revenue in 2020 and lower dividends received. Further  quality and mainly invested in cash, money market instruments 
information on adjusted capital generation is provided in  and short-term debt securities. Cash and liquid resources is an 
Supplementary information.  APM, see Supplementary information for further details. 
 
2020  2019 
  £m  £m  IFRS net cash inflows 
Adjusted profit after tax  411  469  Net cash inflows from operating activities were £56m which 
includes outflows from restructuring costs, net of tax, of £232m. 
Less net interest credit relating to 
the staff pension schemes  (20)  (29)  Cash inflows from investing activities of £1,014m includes net 
Less associates’ and joint ventures’  proceeds of £616m from the sale of shares in HDFC Life and 
adjusted profit after tax  (209)  (200)  £265m from the sale of shares in HDFC Asset Management.  
Add associates’ and joint ventures’  Cash outflows from financing activities of £1,064m primarily relate 
dividends received  80  93  to the purchase of shares as part of the buyback programme of 
Adjusted capital generation  262  333  £361m and £479m for dividends paid in the year.  
The cash inflows and outflows described above resulted in 
Net movement in surplus regulatory capital  closing cash and cash equivalents of £1,358m (2019: £1,347m) 
The key measure of available resources is surplus regulatory  as at 31 December 2020. 
capital less an appropriate buffer, rather than cash. 
IFRS net assets 
In addition to the adjusted capital generation, £0.9bn of additional 
capital was generated in 2020 through the sale of shares in  IFRS net assets were stable at £6.8bn (2019: £6.7bn) with profits 
HDFC Life and HDFC Asset Management. The £2.3bn indicative  offset by dividends and the share buyback. 
capital surplus below includes a deduction to allow for the final 
Intangible assets reduced to £0.5bn (2019: £1.7bn) as a result of 
dividend which will be paid in May 2021. 
impairments and amortisation. See Note 15. 
Analysis of movements in  2020  2019  The principal defined benefit staff pension scheme, which is 
surplus regulatory capital  £bn  £bn  closed to future accrual, continues to have a significant surplus of 
Opening 1 January  1.7  0.6  £1.5bn (2019: £1.1bn), with the increase resulting from asset 
Sources of capital      returns and non-economic assumption changes offset by 
changes in economic assumptions. See Note 34. 
Adjusted capital generation  0.3  0.3 
HDFC Life and HDFC Asset      Financial investments increased to £3.1bn (2019: £2.1bn) as a 
result of HDFC Life being reclassified from an associate to an 
Management sale proceeds  0.9  1.7 
investment. Financial investments also include holdings of £277m 
Uses of capital     
(2019: £275m) in newly established investment vehicles which 
Restructuring and corporate  the Group has seeded and co-investments of £86m (2019: 
transaction expenses (net of tax)  (0.2)  (0.3)  £84m). Additional detail is provided in Note 38. 
Dividends  (0.3)  (0.5) 
Share buyback programme  (0.4)  (0.4)  Earnings per share 
Other  0.3  0.3  Adjusted diluted earnings per share reduced by 6% to 18.1p 
Closing 31 December  2.3  1.7  (2019: 19.3p). This reflects the 12% reduction in adjusted profit 
after tax, partly offset by the benefit of 6% from the ongoing  
Other in 2020 includes a £0.5bn increase relating to HDFC Life  share buybacks. Diluted earnings per share increased to 37.9p 
following our shareholding falling below 10%.  (2019: 8.8p).  
The Group’s capital resources include c£0.8bn (2019: c£0.3bn) 
from holdings in insurance entities that it is expected will no  Return of capital and distributable reserves 
longer be eligible following the implementation of the IFPR from   On 7 February 2020, we announced a share buyback of up to 
1 January 2022. The IFPR is also expected to introduce  £400m. We completed this buyback in February 2021, with 158m 
constraints on the proportion of the minimum capital requirement  shares repurchased at an average price of £2.53 per share. 
that can be met by each tier of capital. As a result, it is estimated 
At 31 December 2020 Standard Life Aberdeen plc had £2.1bn 
that c£0.3bn of existing Tier 2 capital, whilst continuing to be 
(2019: £2.3bn) of distributable reserves.    
reported within the Group’s capital resources, would not be 
available to meet the current minimum capital requirement from  
1 January 2022.  
 
36 Standard Life Aberdeen 2020  
S
  T
R
  AT
E
  G
IC
   R
E
  PO
R
  T
 
 
The scenarios we modelled assumed net outflows of 13% of 
Viability statement  AUMA per annum with global equity markets falling on average 
around 45% from year-end levels and notable falls in commercial 
The assessment set out below is based on information  property and corporate bond values. Whilst capital was eroded 
known today.  and liquidity fell under all the scenarios we explored, the largest 
falls occurred in the scenario where the flow and market stress 
Longer-term prospects 
was accompanied by a stress to basis point fees charged to 
The Directors have determined that three years is an appropriate 
clients. 
period over which to assess the Group’s prospects. In addition to 
aligning with our business planning horizon, this reflects the  The Group had sufficient liquid resources to withstand all of the 
timescale over which changes to major regulations and the  stresses and the extent of management actions required in those 
external landscape affecting our business typically take place.  scenarios with regulatory capital shortfalls was moderate given 
the strength and quality of the Group’s financial position. The 
The Group’s prospects are primarily assessed through the 
Group also has a diverse range of management actions available 
strategic and business planning process which considers our 
to respond to stressed conditions. This includes management 
business model and how this is designed to deliver efficient, 
actions wholly within the Group’s control and of sufficient scale to 
sustainable growth. The assessment also reflects the Group’s 
ensure that none of the scenarios explored threatened the 
strategic priorities as set out on pages 10 to 11. 
Group’s viability.  
In forming this assessment, the Directors have also taken into 
Reverse stress testing involves exploring the quantitative and/or 
account: 
qualitative impacts of extreme but plausible risk scenarios which 
• The Group’s strong regulatory capital position as set out on  could threaten the viability of our business model. In 2020, we 
page 36  explored two scenarios which were: 
• The substantial holdings of Group cash and liquid resources as  • A cyber-attack manifested by a malware deployed on our 
set out on page 36  systems 
• The Group’s holdings in listed associates and other listed  • An event such as a pandemic, building incident or travel 
equity investments as set out on page 34  disaster occurs which impacts on the ability of a significant 
• The Group’s principal risks as set out on pages 38 to 40  number of critical staff to execute their responsibilities for a 
period of at least six weeks 
A reassessment of reverse stress tests performed in prior years 
Assessment of prospects 
was also undertaken to confirm there has been no material 
The Directors consider the Group’s focus on delivering on its  increase in risks to viability.  
strategic priorities will provide the environment to drive efficient, 
sustainable growth while maintaining the Group’s strong capital  Whilst the impact of all the scenarios explored meets the 
position and the dividend policy described on page 31.  definition of reverse stress tests, the scenarios were considered 
to have a very low likelihood of occurrence. This, and the range of 
  mitigants in place to respond to the scenarios, supports the 
assessment of viability and no qualification is considered 
Viability  necessary. 
We consider that three years is an appropriate period for 
Impact of COVID-19  
assessing viability as this is in line with the horizon used for our 
Further to the above, the Directors have explicitly considered the 
business planning and stress testing and scenario analysis 
impact of COVID-19 on the Group’s viability recognising the 
processes. In considering the viability statement, the Board 
measures taken in response to the COVID-19 pandemic as set 
performed a robust assessment of the Group’s principal risks and 
out on page 3. This highlighted that the Group did not require 
took account of these processes, the results of reverse stress 
government support and has demonstrated its ability to operate 
testing activity and the impact of COVID-19 as follows: 
successfully with the vast majority of employees working from 
The business planning process includes the projection of  home. 
profitability, regulatory capital and liquidity over a three year 
period, based on a number of assumptions. This includes 
assumptions regarding the economic outlook which have been  Assessment of viability 
reshaped during 2020 as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic.  
The Directors confirm that they have a reasonable expectation 
Stress testing and scenario analysis applies severe, and in  that Standard Life Aberdeen will be able to continue in operation 
some cases extreme, stresses to the business plan to understand  and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the next three years. 
the financial resilience of the business. 
 
 
Our analysis performed in 2020 included the consideration of the 
impact of scenarios based on a severe economic scenario with 
adverse flows and overlaid with stresses which reflect our 
principal risks. This included a stress involving a significant spike 
in operational errors which was considered relevant in the context 
of heightened operational risk given the revised working practices 
adopted across the Group due to COVID-19. 
 
  Standard Life Aberdeen 2020 37
Risk management 
Identifying and managing risk to help us deliver 
better outcomes 
 
Our approach to risk management   We are actively working to retain talent and to promote colleague 
A strong risk and compliance culture is fundamental to managing  wellbeing and engagement and you can read more about this in 
our business, and effective, risk-based decision-making is  the people section of this report. We have planned resources 
essential for delivering the right outcomes for our clients and other  carefully, with clear executive ownership and accountability for 
stakeholders. Our Board has ultimate responsibility for risk  programmes. This has been achieved as we continued with 
management, and it oversees the effectiveness of our Enterprise  business as usual activities. 
Risk Management (ERM) framework.   The UK’s withdrawal from the EU caused political and 
commercial uncertainty in 2020 though we had prepared 
Three lines of defence 
extensively for the UK’s exit. This has been partly addressed by 
We operate 'three lines of defence' in the management of risk 
the Trade and Cooperation Agreement although questions still 
with clearly defined roles and responsibilities: 
remain about the longer-term UK/EU relationship for financial 
• First line: Day-to-day risk management, including identification  services. We also continue to closely monitor developments and 
and mitigation of risks and maintaining appropriate controls  actively engage with industry groups, including the Investment 
• Second line: Oversight from our Risk and Compliance  Association. 
function, which reports to the Chief Risk Officer  We maintain heightened vigilance over risks to our operations 
• Third line: Our Internal Audit function, reporting to the Chief  from financial crime and cyber intrusion. Our dedicated, expert 
Internal Auditor, independently verifies our systems of control  internal teams monitor and manage these risks as they evolve, 
with the support of external specialists. 
ERM framework 
This underpins risk management throughout our business. We  Our conduct risk framework is something we strengthen 
continually evolve our framework to meet the changing needs of  continuously and client interests are at the heart of this work. In 
the group and to make sure it keeps pace with industry best  2020, we improved our processes in relation to vulnerable 
practice and the risk profile of the business. In 2020,  customers. 
improvements to the framework included:  
ESG risks 
• Strengthening our risk appetite framework by introducing new  We have a responsibility to shareholders, clients and all 
risk tolerances to support governance and risk management  stakeholders to assess, report on, manage and mitigate our ESG 
• Extending and refining our risk taxonomy so we can describe  risks. For ‘Environment’, risks are primarily related to climate 
risk more accurately  change and these are an important aspect of integrating ESG 
considerations in our portfolio management activities. In addition, 
• Extending the Senior Manager and Certification Regime across 
we continue to review climate-related risks and manage our own 
all of our UK regulated subsidiaries including the roll-out of 
business impact on climate change. Our TCFD report provides 
training on conduct rules and other support for our senior 
further discussion. For ‘Social’, our risks primarily relate to our 
managers and certified employees 
people engagement, wellbeing, development and diversity and 
Business risk environment  inclusion. For ‘Governance’, our risks primarily relate to corporate 
governance, conduct, ethics and cyber-crime. These ESG risks 
The major impact of COVID-19 on our operating environment will 
are discussed further under Principal risks and throughout the 
extend well into 2021. We have shown resilience in the way we 
Annual report and accounts.  
have dealt with the effects of the pandemic and we continue to 
manage its market, operational and financial impacts as we  We have a materiality review every 2-3 years to ensure we are 
deliver our business plan.  focusing on the right ESG risks and issues. Our latest review is 
included in our 2019 Corporate sustainability report. 
The vast majority of our colleagues are working from home, using 
the enhanced IT infrastructure that was implemented in response 
Emerging risks 
to the pandemic. We have also put strict processes and 
We are vigilant to emerging risks that could impact our strategy 
safeguards in place to protect critical workers who need to be in 
and operations with a particular focus on our three vectors of 
our offices. 
growth. The nature of these risks could be geopolitical, economic, 
The commercial environment remained challenging during 2020,  societal, technological, legal, regulatory or environmental. We 
exacerbated by the impact of the pandemic. While investment  distil internal and external research to model how risks could 
performance continued to strengthen and the pace of net outflows  emerge and potentially evolve, and to inform how we address 
was materially reduced compared to previous years, revenue  them as a company. Emerging risks to our business include the 
margins across the industry remained under pressure and net  availability of talent in our future workplace, new cyber threats, 
revenue declined.  disruptive technologies, unprecedented market shifts, climate 
change, emerging variants of COVID-19 and indirect impacts 
We have strengthened our capital and liquidity positions, while 
resulting from the pandemic.  
also returning capital to our shareholders through our buyback 
programme.  Principal risks and uncertainties 
The risks we face as a business have as much to do with our 
In the near term, there is still operational stretch as work 
actions and approaches internally, as they do with the external 
continues on the transformation of the business. Phoenix 
environment. These risks fall into 12 areas that form the basis of 
separation activity is complex and has to be managed and 
our ERM framework. This framework gives us the structure to 
coordinated with other transformation work, so that the impact on 
assess, monitor, control and govern the risks in our business. 
business as usual is kept to a minimum. 
Principal and emerging risks are subject to active oversight and 
robust assessment by the Board, and the principal risks are 
described in the following table.
38 Standard Life Aberdeen 2020
S
  T
R
A
T
E
G
IC
 R
E
P
O
R
T
 
Risk to our business and how this evolved in 2020    How we manage this risk 
1  Strategic risk     
These are risks that could prevent us from achieving our strategic aims and the    The ELT has been reorganised to align with our 
successful delivery of our business plans. They could include failing to meet  growth vectors. They are working to establish areas 
client expectations, poor strategic decision-making, poor implementation or  of accountability, milestones, ways of working and 
failure to adapt. They could have short and long-term financial impact.  specific actions that will deliver against the strategic 
plan. 
Our new CEO and the executive leadership team (ELT) have developed a three 
year strategic plan, focusing on our vectors of growth. Our ability to deliver for  We actively scan and assess emerging risks so that 
clients will depend on the progress we make against this plan.  we can take timely and proportionate action. 
2  Financial risk     
This is the risk of having insufficient resources, suffering losses from adverse    We hold capital against our risks and review them on 
markets or the failure or default of counterparties. It could be influenced by  an ongoing basis. We stress-test our resilience to 
inflows and outflows, global market trends, as well as margins on investment  market, operational and business risk. As 
mandates, platforms and wealth management services. For example, we have  contingency, we maintain external liquidity as part of 
seen revenues impacted by reducing margins on flows.  our liquidity management framework. We manage 
our cost base and identify opportunities for further 
Our capital and liquidity position remains strong despite the economic effects of 
cost reduction. 
the pandemic. As a result of the impact of COVID-19 and achieving 
transformation milestones we have reduced non-staff costs.  
3  Conduct risk     
Our business relies on our ability to deliver fair client outcomes. There is a risk    Our ERM framework supports the management of 
that we fail to achieve this in our strategies, decisions and actions which could  conduct risk with clear expectations around conduct 
lead to customer and client harm, reputational damage and loss of income.  goals and responsibilities. In 2020 we refreshed our 
Global Code of Conduct, for all employees.  
In response to COVID-19 we prioritised running our business with minimal client 
impact while maintaining an effective control environment for remote working.  Drawing on the UK Senior Manager and Certification 
Regime, we rolled out training to our teams to 
understand how to apply our conduct rules in their 
roles. 
4  Regulatory and legal risk     
High volumes of regulatory change can present implementation and    We monitor the regulatory landscape globally so that 
interpretation challenges. This can lead to a risk of failing to comply with, or  we can engage in potential areas of change early. 
allow for changes in, law and legislation, contractual requirements or  We also invest in compliance and monitoring activity 
regulations, globally. This in turn could lead to sanctions, reputational damage  across the business. Our relationships with key 
and loss of income.  regulators are based on trust and transparency while 
our Legal team supports senior managers across our 
With the impact of COVID-19 we engaged closely with our regulators throughout 
business. 
2020 and were able to provide assurance around our ability to serve our 
customers and clients without interruption. The risk of regulatory uncertainty 
arising from Brexit was another important issue to manage. 
Operational risks (5-12)     
5  Process execution and trade errors     
This is the risk that processes, systems or external events could produce    We monitor underlying causes of error to identify 
operational errors. During 2020 there was a rise in events requiring investigation  areas for action, promoting a culture of accountability 
and remediation. This has not led to material adverse impact on clients.   and continuously improving how we address issues. 
We also continue to update and improve the ERM 
We dealt with potentially important systems outages using established incident 
framework. In addition, we have set up a taskforce to 
management processes. Senior risk committees have been reviewing the 
fast track issues that have the potential to impact 
impact of COVID-19 on these processes. 
clients. 
6  People     
Engaging with our people, and supporting their wellbeing, is critical to our    From the early stages of the pandemic, we 
strategy and the overall success of the business. However, there is a risk of  successfully established new ways of operating with 
resources and employment practices failing to align with strategic objectives.   most colleagues moving to home working. We 
provided tools to support remote working and 
During the pandemic, new risks emerged including the potential impacts on 
collaboration and moved our learning and 
people’s physical and emotional wellbeing. We monitored and took steps to 
development offer online. We also offered support for 
mitigate them. 
wellbeing, such as counselling, and asked colleagues 
to use their entire 2020 holiday allocation. 
 
 
  Standard Life Aberdeen 2020 39
 
Risk management continued
 
Risk to our business and how this evolved in 2020    How we manage this risk 
7  Technology     
There is a risk that our technology may fail to adapt to business needs. There is   We have an ongoing programme to invest in, and 
also a risk of unauthorised users accessing our systems, and of our systems  enhance, our IT infrastructure controls. We 
being subject to cyber attacks.  benchmark our IT systems environment to identify 
areas for improvement. IT resilience is monitored at 
This risk is relevant to a wide range of potential threats to the business including 
senior executive committees.  
weather events, internal failure, external intrusion and supplier failure. 
We maintain a state of heightened vigilance for cyber 
Our current IT estate is complex and will remain so until separation from 
intrusion, with dedicated teams actively monitoring 
Phoenix is complete. Our dependence on third party suppliers also needs to be 
and managing cyber security risks. We carry out 
managed in a dedicated way. 2020 only saw minor disruptions to service and 
regular testing on penetration and crisis management 
improvement plans are now in place. 
– including a reverse stress test of a cyber-attack in 
2020. 
8  Business resilience and continuity     
A wide range of internal and external incidents can impact business resilience    We continue to enhance our operational resilience 
and continuity. Environmental issues, terrorism, economic instabilities, cyber  framework and strengthen our response to disruption. 
attacks and operational incidents could all threaten our business.   Business continuity and contingency planning 
processes are regularly reviewed and tested, and 
The risk of disruption from inside the organisation remains broadly stable. 
have enabled us to minimise disruption for people 
However, tools for exploiting IT vulnerabilities are becoming more widely 
working from home. We also implemented protective 
available externally. 
controls to allow critical workers to be in our offices. 
COVID-19 has been a real test of our business resilience. We have had to adapt 
ways of working to protect client interests while working effectively from home. 
9  Fraud and financial crime     
As a business that handles clients’ money we are exposed to the risk of    Sound processes are in place to identify client activity 
fraudulent and dishonest activity.  linked with financial crime, globally. These include 
controls for anti-money laundering, anti-bribery, fraud 
As we engage with a wide number of external parties, we have to be vigilant to 
and other areas of financial crime. We continue to 
the risk that these parties are connected with criminal behaviour, or subject to 
invest in controls and processes to improve our 
sanctions by national or global authorities. We have maintained very low levels 
monitoring of these risks.  
of fraud in 2020 and we adapted successfully to the operational challenges of 
COVID-19. We have commissioned an independent review to identify any areas  Along with other asset managers, a small number of 
for improvement.  our products were cloned by fraudsters. We worked 
with the financial authorities and industry peers to 
assist those who had been targeted by these scams. 
10  Change management     
This is the risk of failing to manage strategic and operational change initiatives    We manage major change projects centrally, with 
effectively. In 2020 we closely monitored and managed the impact of the  clear governance processes and consolidation of our 
pandemic on transformation timelines, particularly around technology  change workload. Second and third lines have clear 
infrastructure.   roles in overseeing progress, and we deliver projects 
in ways that help us to protect client outcomes. 
We continued to implement significant change projects relating to embedding 
ESG principles and the discontinuation of LIBOR. We also maintained a focus 
on managing the impact of our transformation activity and the associated costs. 
11  Third party management     
We outsource activities to suppliers with specialist capabilities which means we    Our aim is to maintain strong relationships with 
are exposed to the risk of third parties failing to deliver in line with contractual  suppliers. During 2020, we rolled out a new 
obligations. It’s our responsibility to make sure these firms deliver, so we  programme to rationalise our supplier base and 
continue to streamline delivery and reduce complexity.   strengthen our oversight of our suppliers.  
In 2020 we also monitored the potential impacts of COVID-19 and Brexit in our  Our Third Party Code of Conduct requires third 
supply chain, to minimise the risk of disruption to the business.  parties to acknowledge their best practice 
responsibilities. 
12  Financial management process     
Sound and reliable financial reporting informs our company’s performance,    Our financial reporting activities align to external 
future planning and disclosures to external stakeholders. Failures in these  reporting standards and industry best practice. Our 
processes would expose our business and shareholders to the risk of making  Audit Committee reviews, and where necessary 
poorly informed decisions. In 2020, the workforce successfully moved to home  challenges, our reporting. Our Chief Risk Officer also 
working with minimal disruption to financial management processes.  provides an independent review of our business plan 
to support decision-making. 
40 Standard Life Aberdeen 2020  
S
  T
R
A
T
E
G
IC
 R
E
P
O
R
T
 
The cover to page 41 constitute the Strategic report which was approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by: 
 
  
 
Stephen Bird  
Chief Executive Officer 
Standard Life Aberdeen plc (SC286832) 
9 March 2021 
 
 
  Standard Life Aberdeen 2020 41
Governance
42 Standard Life Aberdeen 2020
G
Contents O
V
2.  Board of Directors .........................................................................................................................................................44 ER
N
3.  Corporate governance statement .................................................................................................................................48 A
N
C
  3.1  Audit Committee report .......................................................................................................................................59 E
  3.2  Risk and Capital Committee report .....................................................................................................................66
  3.3  Nomination and Governance Committee report .................................................................................................70
  3.4  Directors’ remuneration report ............................................................................................................................73
4.  Directors’ report ............................................................................................................................................................96
5.  Statement of Directors’ responsibilities ......................................................................................................................103
Standard Life Aberdeen 2020 43
2. Board of Directors 
Our business is overseen by our Board of Directors. Biographical details (and shareholdings) 
of the Directors as at 8 March 2021 are listed below. 
       
 
 
Sir Douglas Flint CBE –       Stephen Bird     Stephanie Bruce –  
Chairman Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer
Appointed to the Board  Age      Appointed to the Board  Age      Appointed to the Board  Age 
November 2018  65  July 2020  54  June 2019  52 
Nationality  Shares  Nationality  Shares  Nationality  Shares 
British   89,369  British   500,000*  British  133,741* 
Board committees:  NC          
     
Sir Douglas’ wide-ranging international      Stephen brings an established track      Stephanie was appointed Chief Financial 
and financial experience is an important  record of delivering exceptional value to  Officer on joining the Board in June 2019. 
asset to the business as it delivers  clients, creating high-quality revenue and  She is a highly experienced financial 
against its strategy. His strong track  earnings growth in complex and  services practitioner with significant 
record of board leadership as a chairman  competitive financial markets, as well as  sector knowledge, both technical and 
helps to facilitate open and constructive  deep experience of business  commercial. She brings experience of 
boardroom discussion.  transformation during periods of  working with boards and management 
technological disruption and competitive  teams of financial institutions in respect of 
Previously, Sir Douglas served as 
change.   financial and commercial management, 
chairman of HSBC Holdings plc from 
2010 to 2017. For 15 years prior to this  Stephen joined the Board in July 2020 as  reporting, risk and control frameworks 
he was HSBC’s group finance director,  Chief Executive-Designate, and was  and regulatory requirements. 
joining from KPMG where he was a  formally appointed Chief Executive  Before joining Standard Life Aberdeen, 
partner. Between 2005 and 2011 he also  Officer in September 2020. Previously,  Stephanie was a partner at PwC, a 
served as a non-executive director of BP  Stephen served as chief executive officer  member of the Assurance Executive and 
plc.  of global consumer banking at Citigroup  led the financial services assurance 
from 2015, retiring from the role in  practice. Her responsibilities included 
In other current roles, Sir Douglas is 
November 2019. His responsibilities  client services, product development, 
chairman of IP Group plc and serves as 
encompassed all consumer and  operations and quality assurance across 
HM Treasury's Special Envoy for 
commercial banking businesses in 19  the UK business.   
Financial and Professional Services to 
countries, including retail banking and 
China's Belt and Road Initiative. He is  wealth management, credit cards,  During her career, she has specialised in 
also a member of the Monetary Authority  mortgages, and operations and  the financial services sector, working with 
of Singapore's international advisory  technology supporting these businesses.  organisations across asset management, 
panel, and of the board of the  Prior to this, Stephen was chief executive  insurance and banking, with national and 
International Chamber of Commerce UK.  for all of Citigroup’s Asia Pacific business  international operations. 
Additionally, he is chairman of the Just  lines across 17 markets in the region,  Stephanie is an associate of the 
Finance Foundation, non-executive  including India and China.  Association of Corporate Treasurers. She 
director of the Centre for Policy Studies,  Stephen joined Citigroup in 1998, and  holds a Bachelor of Laws (LLB) from the 
member of the global advisory council of  during his 21 years with the company he  University of Edinburgh. 
Motive Partners and board member of the  held a number of leadership roles in 
She is also a member of the Institute of 
Institute of International Finance. He also  banking, operations and technology 
Chartered Accountants of Scotland and 
chairs the Corporate Board of Cancer  across its Asian and Latin American 
served as the chair of its audit committee. 
Research UK and is a trustee of the  businesses. Before this, he held 
Royal Marsden Cancer Charity.  management positions in the UK at GE   
Capital – where he was director of UK 
He holds a BAcc (Hons) from the 
operations from 1996 to 1998 – and at 
University of Glasgow, a PMD from 
British Steel. He holds an MBA in 
Harvard Business School and is a 
Economics and Finance from University 
Member of the Institute of Chartered 
College Cardiff, where he is also an 
Accountants of Scotland. 
Honorary Fellow. 
 
44 Standard Life Aberdeen 2020
 
Key to Board committees  R  Remuneration Committee  * Shares include qualifying awards as described on page 83 
RC Risk and Capital Committee  of the Directors’ remuneration report 2020. 
A  Audit Committee 
NC Nomination and Governance Committee 
  Committee Chair 
 
        G
O
V
E
R
N
A
N
C
E
Jonathan Asquith –       John Devine –       Melanie Gee –  
Non-executive Director and Senior  Non-executive Director Non-executive Director
Independent Director
Appointed to the Board  Age      Appointed to the Board  Age      Appointed to the Board  Age 
September 2019  64  July 2016  62    November 2015  59   
Nationality  Shares  Nationality  Shares  Nationality  Shares 
British  70,000  British   28,399  British   67,500 
Board committees:  R  NC       Board committees:  A NC RC   Board committees:  A NC       
     
Jonathan has considerable experience      John’s previous roles in asset      Melanie brings to the Board significant 
as a non-executive director within the  management, his experience in the US  executive experience in creating 
investment management and wealth  and Asia and his background in finance,  successful businesses and leading teams 
industry. This brings important insight to  operations and technology, are all areas  of bankers in various roles. This 
his roles as Senior Independent Director  of importance to our strategy. John’s  experience was derived from her career 
and Chair of our Remuneration  experience is important to the Board’s  in financial services, where she has 
Committee.  discussions of financial reporting and risk  specialised in advisory and corporate 
management, and in his role as Chair of  finance work. She has also had a 
Jonathan is a non-executive director of 
our Audit Committee.  particular focus on the evolution of 
CiCap Limited and its regulated subsidiary 
cultures and working practices, and is 
Coller Capital Limited. He is also a non- John was appointed a Director of 
able to draw on these insights as our 
executive director of Northill Capital  Standard Life plc in July 2016. From April 
designated non-executive Director for 
Services Limited and a number of its  2015 until August 2016, he was non-
employee engagement. 
subsidiaries – Vantage Infrastructure  executive Chairman of Standard Life 
Holdings, Securis Investment Partners  Investments (Holdings) Limited.  Melanie was appointed as a Director of 
and Capital Four Holding A/S. At the end  Standard Life plc in November 2015. She 
He is non-executive chairman of Credit 
of 2020 he stepped down as deputy  is also a non-executive director and chair 
Suisse International, Credit Suisse 
chairman of 3i Group plc after nearly ten  of the healthcare company Syncona 
Securities (Europe) Limited and a non-
years as a board member. Previously, he  Limited, a FTSE 250 company. She was 
executive director of Citco Custody 
has been chairman of Citigroup Global  appointed a managing director of Lazard 
Limited and Citco Custody (UK) Limited. 
Markets Limited, Citibank International  and Co. Limited in 2008 and became a 
Limited, Dexion Capital PLC and AXA  From 2008 to 2010, John was chief  senior adviser in 2012. 
Investment Managers. He has also been  operating officer of Threadneedle Asset 
Previously Melanie held various roles with 
a director of Tilney, Ashmore Group plc  Management Limited. Prior to this, he 
UBS, having been appointed a managing 
and AXA UK PLC.  held a number of senior executive 
director in 1999 and served as a senior 
positions at Merrill Lynch in London, New 
In his executive career Jonathan worked  relationship director from 2006 to 2008. 
York, Tokyo and Hong Kong. 
at Morgan Grenfell for 18 years, rising to  She was a non-executive director of The 
become group finance director of Morgan  He holds a BA (Hons) from Preston  Weir Group PLC between 2011 and 2017 
Grenfell Group, before going on to take  Polytechnic and is a Fellow of the  and the Drax Group plc between 2013 
the roles of chief financial officer and  Chartered Institute of Public Finance and  and 2016. She was also chair of 
chief operating officer at Deutsche  Accounting.  Ridgeway Partners Holdings Ltd from 
Morgan Grenfell. From 2002 to 2008 he  2019, and of its wholly-owned subsidiary 
was a director of Schroders plc, during  Ridgeway Partners Limited from 2016, 
which time he was chief financial officer  until 2020. She holds an MA in 
and later executive vice chairman.  Mathematics from the University of 
Oxford. 
He holds an MA from the University of 
Cambridge. 
 
  Standard Life Aberdeen 2020 45
2. Board of Directors continued 
 
       
Brian McBride     Martin Pike –       Cathleen Raffaeli –  
Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Non-executive Director
Appointed to the Board  Age      Appointed to the Board  Age      Appointed to the Board  Age 
May 2020  65  September 2013  59  August 2018  64 
Nationality  Shares  Nationality  Shares  Nationality  Shares 
British  Nil  British   69,476  American   9,315 
Board committees:  R        Board committees:  RC NC A   Board committees:  R RC    
     
Brian brings a wealth of digital experience     Martin provides broad commercial insight     Cathi has strong experience in the 
and global leadership experience in both  into strategy and risk to the Board, and to  financial technology sector and 
executive and non-executive directorship  his role as Chair of our Risk and Capital  background in the platforms sector, as 
roles. His direct experience of developing  Committee. He has particular knowledge  well as international board experience. 
digital strategies and solutions in  of enterprise-wide risk management. His  She brings these insights to her role as 
consumer-facing businesses, in rapidly  actuarial and strategic consultancy  non-executive chairman of the boards of 
evolving markets, is of great benefit to the  background brings a strong  Elevate Portfolio Services Limited and 
Board's discussions.  understanding of what drives success in  Standard Life Savings Limited. This role 
the markets in which we operate.  provides a direct link between the Board 
Brian is currently chair of Trainline PLC, 
and the platform businesses that help us 
non-executive director of Kinnevik AB,  Martin was appointed as a Director of 
connect with clients and their advisers. 
and the lead non-executive director on  Standard Life plc in September 2013. He 
the board of the UK Ministry of Defence.  is also chairman and non-executive  Cathi is managing partner of Hamilton 
He is also a senior adviser to Scottish  director of Faraday Underwriting Limited  White Group, LLC which offers advisory 
Equity Partners.  – where he sits on the audit and risk  services, including business 
committee, and chairs the nomination  development, to companies in financial 
In his executive career, Brian has worked 
and remuneration committee. In 2021 he  services growth markets. In addition, she 
for IBM, Crosfield Electronics and Dell 
was appointed chairman and non- is managing partner of Soho Venture 
before serving as chief executive officer 
executive director of AIG Life Limited, as  Partners Inc, which offers third-party 
of T-Mobile UK and then managing 
well as becoming a member of its audit  business advisory services. 
director of Amazon.co.uk. As a non-
committee and chair of its remuneration 
executive director, Brian has served on  Previously, Cathi was lead director of 
committee.  
the boards of AO.com, the BBC, Celtic  E*Trade Financial Corporation, non-
Football Club PLC, Computacenter PLC  He joined R Watson and Sons, consulting  executive director of Kapitall Holdings, 
and S3 PLC, and as chair of ASOS PLC.  actuaries, in 1983, and progressed his  LLC and president and chief executive 
career with the firm to partner level. His  officer of ProAct Technologies 
He holds an MA (Hons) in Economic 
senior roles included head of European  Corporation. She was also a non-
History and Politics from the University of 
insurance and financial services practice,  executive director of Federal Home Loan 
Glasgow. 
Watson Wyatt from 2006 to 2009, vice  Bank of New York – where she was a 
president and global practice director of  member of the executive committee, and 
insurance and financial services, Watson  vice chair of both the technology 
Wyatt during 2009, and managing  committee and the compensation and 
director of risk consulting & software for  human resources committee. 
EMEA, Towers Watson from 2010 to 
She holds an MBA from New York 
2013. 
University and a BS from the University 
Martin holds an MA in Mathematics from  of Baltimore. 
the University of Oxford. He is a Fellow of 
the Institute and Faculty of Actuaries and 
a Fellow of the Institute of Directors. 
 
46 Standard Life Aberdeen 2020
 
Key to Board committees  R  Remuneration Committee  * Shares include qualifying awards as described on page 83 
RC Risk and Capital Committee  of the Directors’ remuneration report 2020. 
A  Audit Committee 
NC Nomination and Governance Committee 
  Committee Chair 
 
        Board diversity  G
O
Gender  VE
R
N
A
N
C
E
    Male: 6 
Cecilia Reyes –       Jutta af Rosenborg –           Female: 5 
 
Non-executive Director Non-executive Director
Executive and  
Non-executive mix 
Appointed to the Board  Age      Appointed to the Board  Age     
October 2019  62  August 2017  62 
Nationality  Shares  Nationality  Shares 
Swiss and Philippine  Nil  Danish   8,750 
Board committees:  R RC     Board committees:  R  A     
   
Cecilia brings great insight from operating     Jutta has extensive knowledge of     
in leadership positions in international  international management and strategy, 
financial markets. Her knowledge and  from sector operational roles in a   
Non-executive: 9
many years of direct experience of risk  number of listed companies. Her 
  Executive: 2  
management and insurance investment  previous experience, which includes 
management are of great benefit to the  group finance and auditing, risk    Nationality 
work of the Board.  management and mergers and 
 
acquisitions, allows her to offer valuable 
Before joining the Board, Cecilia was with 
perspectives to strategic discussions.   
Zurich Insurance Group Ltd (Zurich) for 
17 years where she was most recently its  Jutta was appointed a non-executive   
group chief risk officer, leading the global  director of Aberdeen Asset Management 
 
function comprising group risk  PLC in January 2013. She is a non-
management and responsible for its  executive director of JPMorgan   
enterprise risk management framework.  European Investment Trust plc and chair 
      British: 8 
of its audit committee. In addition, she is 
Prior to that, she was its group chief      American: 1
investment officer, responsible for the  a non-executive director of NKT A/S and        Danish: 1
Nilfisk Holding A/S, and chairs the audit      Swiss and Philippine: 1
execution of the investment management     
and remuneration committees of both 
value chain – including analysis,  organisations. She is also a member of    Tenure as at March 2021 
development and global implementation 
the supervisory board of BBGI SICAV 
of the investment strategy for the group's   
S.A, where she chairs the audit 
investments. In both positions, she was a 
committee.   
member of Zurich’s executive committee. 
Previously, she was the executive vice   
Cecilia started her career at Credit 
president, chief financial officer, of ALK 
Suisse, following which she held senior   
Abelló A/S and was chairman of Det 
positions at ING Barings, latterly as head 
Danske Klasselotteri A/S.   
of risk analysis, asset management. She 
is also the founder of Pioneer  A qualified accountant, she holds a    0-3 years: 7
3-5 years: 1
Management Services GmbH which  Master’s degree in Business Economics 
  5+ years: 3  
seeks to develop a non-profit social  and Auditing from Copenhagen 
enterprise.  Business School.    Ethnicity 
She holds a BSc from Ateneo de Manila   
University, an MBA from the University of 
Hawaii and a PhD (Finance) from the 
London Business School, University of 
London. 
    White: 8
    Prefer not to say: 2
   Asian: 1  
 
  Standard Life Aberdeen 2020 47
3. Corporate governance statement
The Corporate governance statement and the Directors’  engagement needed to be adjusted to reflect the impact of 
remuneration report, together with the cross references to the  COVID-19, but was done so successfully. 
relevant other sections of the Annual report and accounts, explain 
Engaging with investors 
the main aspects of the Company’s corporate governance 
The Investor Relations and Secretariat teams support the direct 
framework and seek to give a greater understanding as to how the 
investor engagement activities of the Chairman, CEO, CFO and, 
Company has applied the principles and reported against the 
as relevant, Committee chairs. During 2020, and within COVID-19 
provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code 2018 (‘the 
restrictions, there was a programme of domestic and international 
Code’).  
meetings with investors and analysts. The wide range of relevant 
Statement of application of and compliance with the  issues discussed included CEO succession, progress on 
Code   transformation, business strategy, financial performance, 
For the year ended 31 December 2020, the Board has carefully  operational activities and corporate governance, including diversity 
considered the principles and provisions of the Code (available at  and inclusion. The Chairman, CEO and CFO bring relevant 
www.frc.org.uk) and has concluded that its activities during the  feedback from this engagement to the attention of the Board. 
year and the disclosures made within the Annual report and  Following his appointment as CEO, Stephen Bird undertook a 
accounts comply with the requirements of the Code. The  specific programme of engagement to meet with, and introduce 
Corporate governance statement also explains the relevant  himself to, major institutional investors. Prior to recommending the 
compliance with the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency  revised remuneration policy to shareholders at the 2020 Annual 
Sourcebook. The table on page 102 sets out where to find each of  General Meeting, the Remuneration Committee Chairman also 
the disclosures required in the Directors’ report in respect of Listing  consulted extensively with major institutional investors regarding 
Rule 9.8.4 R.  the design of the Company’s executive remuneration plans.  
The Board pays particular attention to the interests of the 
1.Board leadership and company purpose
Company’s 1.1 million individual shareholders who hold more than 
Company purpose and Business model
one third of the Company’s issued shares. Given the nature of this 
The Board supports the Company’s purpose set out on pages 1
large retail shareholder base, it is impractical to communicate with 
and 2 of the Strategic report, and oversees implementation of the
all shareholders using the same direct engagement model 
Group’s business model, which it has approved and which is set
followed for institutional investors. Shareholders are encouraged to 
out on page 12. Pages 2 to 41 show how the business model
receive their communications electronically and around 410,000 
supported the protection and generation of value in 2020, as well
shareholders receive all communications this way. The Company 
as underpinning our strategy for growth. The Board’s consideration
actively promotes self service via the share portal and over 
of current and future risks to the success of the Group is set out on
450,000 shareholders have signed up to this service. Share portal 
pages 38 to 40, complemented by the report of the Risk and
participants can maintain their personal details and dividend 
Capital Committee on pages 66 to 69.
instructions online, and view and download personal documents 
Oversight of culture  such as statements and tax documents. Shareholders have the 
The Board and the Nomination and Governance Committee play  option to hold their shares in the Standard Life Aberdeen Share 
an important role in overseeing how the Group assesses and  Account where shares are held electronically in a secure 
monitors the culture evident within the business and how the  environment and around 90% of individual shareholders hold their 
desired behaviours are embedded across the Group and  shares in this way. 
contribute to its success. ‘Building a culture of curiosity and 
To give all shareholders easy access to the Company’s 
ownership’ and the activities to support it are covered on pages 22 
announcements, all information reported via the London Stock 
and 23. The ELT reviewed the Group’s internal culture document – 
Exchange’s regulatory news service is published on the 
the Blueprint – which was updated to reflect the input of Stephen 
Company’s website. The CEO and CFO continue to host formal 
Bird as incoming CEO – to make sure that it remained aligned with 
presentations to support the release of both the full year and half 
the Company’s evolving purpose and strategy, and also some of 
year financial results with the related transcript and webcast 
the lessons learned from different ways of working during the 
available on the Company’s Investor Relations website 
pandemic, such as increased collaboration spaces being available 
www.standardlifeaberdeen.com/annualreport 
when we are able to return to working in the office. The 
Nomination and Governance Committee has asked that measures  The 2020 Annual General Meeting was held in Edinburgh on 12 
are developed during 2021 to monitor and assess culture  May 2020. As a consequence of COVID-19 restrictions, no more 
consistently across the Group. In addition, page 26 includes a  than two people were permitted to assemble publicly and so 
summary of the charitable actions taken to support local  shareholders were not able to attend in person. The meeting took 
communities during the pandemic.  place with the CEO and the Company Secretary present as 
members. Shareholders were invited to submit questions in 
Stakeholder engagement  advance of the meeting and the Chairman recorded a video 
Recognising their obligations under the Companies (Miscellaneous  presentation which addressed the main themes of the questions 
Reporting) Regulations 2018, the Annual report and accounts  raised. The CEO also recorded a presentation providing a 
explains how the Directors have complied with their duty to have  business update, including an overview of the COVID-19 response 
regard to the matters set out in section 172 (1) (a)-(f) of the  planning. Both videos were posted on the Company’s website on 
Companies Act. These matters include responsibilities with regard  the day of the AGM. The results were made available on the 
to the interests of employees, suppliers, customers, the community  website the same day. 49% of the shares in issue were voted and 
and the environment, all within the context of promoting the  all resolutions were supported although resolution 16 did not reach 
success of the Company. The table on pages 50 to 51 sets out the  the necessary threshold to pass as a special resolution. Investor 
Board’s focus on its key relationships and shows how the relevant  feedback made it clear that the lack of support was in relation to 
stakeholder engagement is reported up to the Board or Board  the interpretation that the proposed changes to the Company’s 
Committees. During 2020, the means to deliver effective  Articles of Association would allow the Company to hold virtual-
only meetings. To emphasise, neither the current nor proposed 
48 Standard Life Aberdeen 2020
3. Corporate governance statement  
 
The Corporate governance statement and the Directors’  engagement needed to be adjusted to reflect the impact of  Articles would allow the Company to hold a virtual-only AGM. The  • The Sustainability team, to consider how operational ESG and 
remuneration report, together with the cross references to the  COVID-19, but was done so successfully.  proposed change was to allow electronic participation in a physical  climate change initiatives and charitable initiatives are being 
relevant other sections of the Annual report and accounts, explain  meeting.  taken forward, and how charitable initiatives were focused on 
tfhraem meawino raks apnedc tsse oefk t htoe  gCivoem ap agnreya’ste cro urpnodreartseta gnodvinegrn aasn ctoe  how the  EThneg Iangviensgto wr Ritehl aintiovness atonrds S ecretariat teams support the direct  Following on from failure to reach the level of support needed to  local needs in the light of the COVID-19 pandemic  GOVE
investor engagement activities of the Chairman, CEO, CFO and,  pass the vote on the proposal to amend the Articles (resolution  At these meetings, there was also general discussion of  R
Company has applied the principles and reported against the  N
as relevant, Committee chairs. During 2020, and within COVID-19  16), the Board issued, as required by the Code, an updating  engagement themes and initiatives which the various  A
provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code 2018 (‘the  N
Code’).   restrictions, there was a programme of domestic and international  regulatory announcement on 12 November 2020. The  representatives had been made aware of.  CE
meetings with investors and analysts. The wide range of relevant  announcement summarised the engagement the Company had   
During 2020, Melanie also met the chairs of all of the employee 
Statement of application of and compliance with the  issues discussed included CEO succession, progress on  had with institutional investors on the specific matter and re-
networks on a 1:1 basis. At these meetings, the network chairs 
Code   transformation, business strategy, financial performance,  emphasised that it was not the Board’s intention to move to hold a 
responded to her ask of ‘one request’ which the networks wanted 
For the year ended 31 December 2020, the Board has carefully  operational activities and corporate governance, including diversity  virtual-only AGM. Shareholders will be invited to vote on proposed  the Board to be aware of from their perspective. The results of 
considered the principles and provisions of the Code (available at  and inclusion. The Chairman, CEO and CFO bring relevant  revisions to the Articles at the 2021 AGM.   these meetings were reported to the Board and the Board was 
www.frc.org.uk) and has concluded that its activities during the  feedback from this engagement to the attention of the Board.  At present, we do not expect the COVID-19 restrictions to have  supportive of the resulting actions which included the NEDs giving 
year and the disclosures made within the Annual report and  Following his appointment as CEO, Stephen Bird undertook a  eased sufficiently to allow shareholders to be able to attend this  further masterclasses on their careers and each network being 
accounts comply with the requirements of the Code. The  specific programme of engagement to meet with, and introduce  year’s AGM in person. Instead shareholders will be able to view  able to present directly to the Board. 
Corporate governance statement also explains the relevant  himself to, major institutional investors. Prior to recommending the  the AGM live by webcast. Questions can be submitted in advance 
compliance with the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency  revised remuneration policy to shareholders at the 2020 Annual  or during the meeting and Directors will respond to as many  As a result of COVID-19, the planned programme of NED 
Sourcebook. The table on page 102 sets out where to find each of  General Meeting, the Remuneration Committee Chairman also  questions as possible during the meeting.    engagement dinners had to be changed and although only one 
the disclosures required in the Directors’ report in respect of Listing  consulted extensively with major institutional investors regarding  physical dinner was held, in February, a ‘virtual get together’ was 
Rule 9.8.4 R.  the design of the Company’s executive remuneration plans.   The AGM guide 2021 will be published online at  held in December, also attended by the Chairman, which looked 
www.standardlifeaberdeen.com in advance of this year’s  back at the 2020 BEE programme and identified some objectives 
The Board pays particular attention to the interests of the 
1.Board leadership and company purpose meeting. The voting results, including the number of votes  for 2021. At the NED engagement dinner in February 2020, the 
Company’s 1.1 million individual shareholders who hold more than 
Company purpose and Business model withheld, will be published on the website at  NED attendees heard from employees who support engagement 
one third of the Company’s issued shares. Given the nature of this 
The Board supports the Company’s purpose set out on pages 1 www.standardlifeaberdeen.com after the meeting.  activities in their teams. They shared with the NEDs some of their 
large retail shareholder base, it is impractical to communicate with 
and 2 of the Strategic report, and oversees implementation of the ideas on communication and innovation.  
all shareholders using the same direct engagement model  Engaging with employees 
Group’s business model, which it has approved and which is set
followed for institutional investors. Shareholders are encouraged to  Melanie Gee has continued as the designated NED to support  In further BEE activities, there were three virtual Meet the NEDs 
out on page 12. Pages 2 to 41 show how the business model
receive their communications electronically and around 410,000  workforce engagement. The Board Employee Engagement (BEE)  sessions covering UK and EMEA, APAC and the Americas. These 
supported the protection and generation of value in 2020, as well
shareholders receive all communications this way. The Company  annual plan is designed to access views from all employees  informal sessions were hosted by Melanie, accompanied by the 
as underpinning our strategy for growth. The Board’s consideration
actively promotes self service via the share portal and over  across the business, including those located outside the U.K.  Chairman and the NEDs, and employees took the opportunity to 
of current and future risks to the success of the Group is set out on
450,000 shareholders have signed up to this service. Share portal  During 2020, some of the direct engagement plans were disrupted  submit a wide variety of questions to the NEDs in advance of the 
pages 38 to 40, complemented by the report of the Risk and
participants can maintain their personal details and dividend  by the need to comply with COVID-19 restrictions but the Board  meeting, and also raise questions during the meeting. While some 
Capital Committee on pages 66 to 69.
instructions online, and view and download personal documents  has continued to engage with employees directly and through  of the questions were appropriate for the ELT rather than the 
Oversight of culture  such as statements and tax documents. Shareholders have the  regular meetings with relevant employee representatives via  NEDs, the NEDs committed to having the questions addressed 
The Board and the Nomination and Governance Committee play  option to hold their shares in the Standard Life Aberdeen Share  interactive video conference calls. The various BEE initiatives are  and reported back to the attendees. Feedback from the Meet the 
an important role in overseeing how the Group assesses and  Account where shares are held electronically in a secure  covered below.  NEDs sessions has been positive while recognising the constraints 
monitors the culture evident within the business and how the  environment and around 90% of individual shareholders hold their  of the virtual process, and they complemented the physical or 
As the Viewpoints survey was undertaken in 2020, no additional 
desired behaviours are embedded across the Group and  shares in this way.  virtual ‘Town Hall’ sessions held by the CEO and the ELT 
all-employee BEE related surveys were issued. Follow-up to the 
throughout the year, all across the Group’s operations. 
contribute to its success. ‘Building a culture of curiosity and 
To give all shareholders easy access to the Company’s  2019 survey on diversity and inclusion is included on page 22, and 
ownership’ and the activities to support it are covered on pages 22  announcements, all information reported via the London Stock  the outputs from the ESG survey continue to inform ESG  The main general feedback themes which were escalated to the 
and 23. The ELT reviewed the Group’s internal culture document –  Exchange’s regulatory news service is published on the  initiatives.  Board during 2020 included the need for continuing focus on 
the Blueprint – which was updated to reflect the input of Stephen  Company’s website. The CEO and CFO continue to host formal  comprehensive and quality communications to help employees 
Bird as incoming CEO – to make sure that it remained aligned with  presentations to support the release of both the full year and half  The BEE group continued to operate and met four times in 2020.  understand the impact of COVID-19 on our offices; how they 
the Company’s evolving purpose and strategy, and also some of  year financial results with the related transcript and webcast  Employees attending these meetings included:  would be supported to carry out their roles and how employee 
the lessons learned from different ways of working during the  available on the Company’s Investor Relations website  • The UK employee representative forum   interests were being considered in the ELT’s initiatives.  
pandemic, such as increased collaboration spaces being available 
www.standardlifeaberdeen.com/annualreport  • Representatives of all the employee networks (Unity, YPDN,  At each Board meeting, Melanie gives a formal report on BEE 
when we are able to return to working in the office. The 
Nomination and Governance Committee has asked that measures  The 2020 Annual General Meeting was held in Edinburgh on 12  Lighthouse, Balance, Armed Forces, Mind Matters)  activities, including the issues that have been raised through the 
are developed during 2021 to monitor and assess culture  May 2020. As a consequence of COVID-19 restrictions, no more  • Regional HR representatives to discuss local initiatives on  discussions, and the Board considers how the ELT, in particular 
consistently across the Group. In addition, page 26 includes a  than two people were permitted to assemble publicly and so  employee engagement. During 2020, the BEE group heard  the Chief HR Officer, the Chief Brand, Marketing and Corporate 
summary of the charitable actions taken to support local  shareholders were not able to attend in person. The meeting took  about how local activities were targeted to take account of  Affairs Officer and the COO, are taking forward the points raised. 
communities during the pandemic.  place with the CEO and the Company Secretary present as  country-specific circumstances. The regions also shared local  The BEE programme will continue in 2021, adjusted to take 
members. Shareholders were invited to submit questions in  lockdown experiences with a view to helping each other. 
account of COVID-19. 
Stakeholder engagement  advance of the meeting and the Chairman recorded a video  • The Diversity and Inclusion Team to discuss how they are taking 
Recognising their obligations under the Companies (Miscellaneous  presentation which addressed the main themes of the questions   
forward employee engagement matters, including those arising 
Reporting) Regulations 2018, the Annual report and accounts  raised. The CEO also recorded a presentation providing a 
from the Viewpoints survey   
explains how the Directors have complied with their duty to have  business update, including an overview of the COVID-19 response 
regard to the matters set out in section 172 (1) (a)-(f) of the  planning. Both videos were posted on the Company’s website on     
Companies Act. These matters include responsibilities with regard  the day of the AGM. The results were made available on the 
to the interests of employees, suppliers, customers, the community  website the same day. 49% of the shares in issue were voted and 
and the environment, all within the context of promoting the  all resolutions were supported although resolution 16 did not reach 
success of the Company. The table on pages 50 to 51 sets out the  the necessary threshold to pass as a special resolution. Investor 
Board’s focus on its key relationships and shows how the relevant  feedback made it clear that the lack of support was in relation to 
stakeholder engagement is reported up to the Board or Board  the interpretation that the proposed changes to the Company’s 
Committees. During 2020, the means to deliver effective  Articles of Association would allow the Company to hold virtual-
only meetings. To emphasise, neither the current nor proposed 
  Standard Life Aberdeen 2020 49
3. Corporate governance statement continued 
 
Summary of Stakeholder engagement activities 
Under s.172, the Directors consider their responsibilities to stakeholders in their discussions and decision-making. 
 
Key stakeholders  Direct Board engagement  Indirect Board engagement  Outcomes 
  • The CEO meets regularly with key  • The heads of the Growth Vectors  • Engagement supported the 
Read more  clients (virtually when pandemic  report at Board meetings on key  development of the key 
on pages  restrictions are in place) and reports  client engagement, support  client management process, 
14 to 19. 
    to the Board on such meetings  programmes and client strategies  and our client solutions and 
• The CEO has weekly calls with his  • Market share data and competitor  ESG approaches 
opposite number at Phoenix Group,  activity are routinely reported to the  • The creation of the Growth 
our largest client and reports thereon  Board  Vectors was designed to 
to the Board  • Analysis of successes and failures  position the business 
• The CEO takes part in key client  on client proposals is reported to  around client needs with 
nts  pitches to hear directly from clients  the Board  performance accountability 
Clie ownh ethne pira rnedqeumireicm reensttsri c(taiognasin a vriert uina lly  • Rsuersvuelyts/c oufs ctolimenet rp seerncetimpteionnts in dex  • mInveeasstumreedn to pnr othcaets bsaessi sa re 
place)  are reported  driven by understanding 
• The Chairman meets with key clients  client needs and designing 
at international conferences and  appropriate solutions taking 
industry membership boards where  into account client risk 
he represents the Group  appetite and sophistication 
• The Board members feed into Board 
discussions feedback received 
directly from clients  
  • Meet the NEDs town hall sessions  • CHRO reports to each Nomination  • Engagement feedback 
Read more  and NED engagement dinners for a  and Governance Committee  recognised in Board 
on pages  diverse mix of staff at all levels  meeting on key hires and employee  discussions on new ways 
20 to 23. 
    (when permitted) allow direct  issues  of working 
feedback in informal settings  • CHRO produces a regular report  • Engagement feedback is a 
• Employee engagement NED in  for the Board drawing out key  key input to succession 
ple  place and active with the employee  factors influencing staff turnover,  planning for key roles and 
o diversity networks as well as with all  morale and engagement  design of reward 
e
r p employees through their  • Viewpoints and Pulse surveys 
Ou representatives. Reports from the  collect aggregate, regional, 
BEE NED are a standing report at  functional and business group trend 
each Board meeting.  data which is reported to the Board  
• Chairman and NEDs all mentor one 
or two CEO-1 or -2 level emerging 
talent 
• CEO and CFO ‘Town Hall’ sessions  
   
50 Standard Life Aberdeen 2020  
3. Corporate governance statement continued   
   
Summary of Stakeholder engagement activities  Key stakeholders  Direct Board engagement  Indirect Board engagement  Outcomes 
Under s.172, the Directors consider their responsibilities to stakeholders in their discussions and decision-making.  Business partners/  • CEO leads on relationships with  • COO attends each Board meeting  • Transformation discussions 
  supply chain  key business partners and  and reports on first line key supplier  have included a focus on 
  G
Key stakeholders  Direct Board engagement  Indirect Board engagement  Outcomes  reports back to the Board  relationships and their role in  the quality, service  O
Read more  V
  • The CEO meets regularly with key  • The heads of the Growth Vectors  • Engagement supported the  on pages  • Risk and Capital Committee  transition and transformation activities  provision, availability and  ER
Read more  clients (virtually when pandemic  report at Board meetings on key  development of the key    24 to 29.  routinely reviews dependency on  • Supplier surveys undertaken  costs of relevant suppliers  NA
on pages  restrictions are in place) and reports  client engagement, support  client management process,    critical suppliers and how they  • Tendering process include smaller  • The overriding guidelines  NC
    14 to 19.  to the Board on such meetings  programmes and client strategies  and our client solutions and    are managed  level firms  for business partnerships  E 
• The CEO has weekly calls with his  • Market share data and competitor  ESG approaches  • Audit Committee leads on  • Access and audit rights in place to  have been established as 
opposite number at Phoenix Group,  activity are routinely reported to the  • The creation of the Growth  assessment of external audit  key suppliers  working for both parties 
our largest client and reports thereon  Board  Vectors was designed to  performance and service  • Modern slavery compliance process  and creating world-class 
to the Board  • Analysis of successes and failures  position the business  provision  in place  operations 
• The CEO takes part in key client  on client proposals is reported to  around client needs with  • The Board received detailed  • Procurement/payment principles in  • The Board sought 
nts  pitches to hear directly from clients  the Board  performance accountability  papers supporting the  place  assurance on the ability of 
Clie wonh ethne pira rnedqeumireicm reensttsri c(taiognasin a vriert uina lly  • Rsuersvuelyts/c oufs ctolimenet rp seerncetimpteionnts in dex  • mInveeasstumreedn to pnr othcaets bsaessi sa re  oteucthsnooulrocginyg s oefr vai cneusm, tbheer  of  • Cdiescrtuasins ekde ya ts uApupdliite Crso rmegmuitlaterley,  Risk  koepye rsautep pdluierrins gto t hceo ntinue to 
place)  are reported  driven by understanding  renegotiation of the Group’s  and Capital Committee and Board  pandemic 
• The Chairman meets with key clients  client needs and designing  contracts with FNZ in relation to 
at international conferences and  appropriate solutions taking  ety  the Platforms business and the   
industry membership boards where  into account client risk  ci revisions made to the Group’s 
o
he represents the Group  appetite and sophistication  S relationship with Phoenix 
• The Board members feed into Board 
Communities  • Chairman/NEDs/EDs present at  • Stewardship/sustainability teams  • Considered as input to the 
discussions feedback received 
  relevant events and conferences  report regularly to the Board  Group’s culture and 
directly from clients  
Read more  • Chairman/EDs represent the  • Feedback on annual Stewardship  strategic drivers 
on pages 
  • Meet the NEDs town hall sessions  • CHRO reports to each Nomination  • Engagement feedback  24 to 29.  Group on public policy and  and TCFD reports  • Engagement drives the 
 
Read more  and NED engagement dinners for a  and Governance Committee  recognised in Board    community organisations  • Review of charitable giving strategy  expression of our purpose 
on pages  diverse mix of staff at all levels  meeting on key hires and employee  discussions on new ways  • Additional provision made for  • ESG commercialisation presentations 
20 to 23. 
    (when permitted) allow direct  issues  of working  local charitable giving in COVID- to the Board 
feedback in informal settings  • CHRO produces a regular report  • Engagement feedback is a  19 circumstances 
• Employee engagement NED in  for the Board drawing out key  key input to succession 
ple  place and active with the employee  factors influencing staff turnover,  planning for key roles and  Rpoelgicuylamtoarkse/r s/  • RCehgauirmlara enn agnadg eCmomenmt iwtteithe  CCEhaOir,s   • Cath eievfe Rryis Bko Oarffdic mere (eCtiRngO ) updates  • Rreecloegvnainste B roeagrudla dtoercyis ions 
o diversity networks as well as with all  morale and engagement  design of reward 
Our pe erBemEpEprel oNsyeEenDetas at itvrheer osa.u  sRgthae npthdoeirntisrg   frreopmo rtth aet   • Vcfuoinellcwetcipoto naiangltg sar neadgn adbt uePs,u irlneseegs iossun gravrlo,e uyps  trend  governRo2m4ne  aetpodna  t2gms9e o.s r e  ••  ‘fFDroCemAa  rrp eBrgeousaelradnto/tCsr sEto O th’ lee tBteorasr ids sued  • Rpgareorptuiocprispts a toionn t hther oreusguhlt sin odfu asctrtyiv e  impact and environment 
each Board meeting.  data which is reported to the Board     • Relevant engagement with 
 
• Chairman and NEDs all mentor one  regulators in overseas territories 
or two CEO-1 or -2 level emerging 
Strategic partners  • CEO has taken on detailed  • Specific updates in CEO report  • The development of our 
talent 
  handling of the Phoenix  • As appropriate, reports to Board/  business through our 
• CEO and CFO ‘Town Hall’ sessions   Read more  relationship with regular  Committees from representative  relationships with Strategic 
    o30n  tpoa 3g7e.s   meetings with his opposite  Directors  partners is a critical 
 
  number  • One ELT member serves on the  element of the Board’s 
• ED representation on HDFC  Phoenix Board  strategy 
boards during 2020 
• ED direct meetings with core 
supplier relationships 
s 
erShareholders  • Results, AGM presentations and  • Regular updates from the EDs/  • Engagement supported 
d
ol  Q&A  Investor Relations Director/  various decisions including 
eh Read more  • Chairman, CEO and CFO  Chairman/ Chairman of  the proposed remuneration 
har o30n  tpoa 3g7e.s   meetings with investors  Remuneration Committee  policy approved at the 
S    • Remuneration Committee Chair  summarising the output from their  2020 AGM 
meetings with institutional  programmes of engagement 
investors  • Analyst/Investor reports distributed to 
• Chairman/CEO/CFO direct  the Board 
shareholder correspondence   • As relevant, feedback from corporate 
brokers 
• Publication of Shareholder News 
• Dedicated mailbox and shareholder 
call centre team 
   
    Standard Life Aberdeen 2020 51
3. Corporate governance statement continued 
 
Speaking up  The Directors continued to review and authorise Board members’ 
The workforce has the means to raise concerns in confidence and  actual and potential conflicts of interest on a regular and ad hoc 
anonymously. The Audit Committee’s oversight of the  basis in line with the authority granted to them in the Company’s 
whistleblowing policy is covered in the Audit Committee report on  Articles. As part of the process to approve the appointment of a 
page 64.  new Director, the Board considers and, where appropriate, 
authorises their potential or actual conflicts. The Board also 
Outside appointments and conflicts of interest 
considers whether any new outside appointment of any current 
The Board’s policy encourages executive Directors to take up one  Director creates a potential or actual conflict before, where 
external non-executive director role, as the Directors consider this  appropriate, authorising it. All appointments are approved in 
can bring an additional perspective to the Director’s contribution.  accordance with the Group’s Outside Appointments and Conflicts 
Given their short tenure, Stephen Bird and Stephanie Bruce do  of Interest policies.  
not currently have any NED roles. Keith Skeoch did not have any 
In February 2021, the Board reviewed all previously authorised 
FTSE 100 non-executive roles but continued as a non-executive 
potential and actual conflicts of interest of the Directors and their 
director of the Financial Reporting Council and was appointed 
connected persons, and concluded that the authorisations should 
Chairman of the Investment Association on 1 May 2020. Martin 
remain in place until February 2022. Under the terms of the 
Gilbert was a non-executive director at Glencore plc. He was also 
approval, conflicted Directors can be excluded from receiving 
appointed chair of Revolut on 1 January 2020, this additional 
information, taking part in discussions and making decisions that 
appointment having been approved by the Board and recognising 
relate to the potential or actual conflict. The Board and relevant 
that his full-time role had been reduced by 20%. Proposed 
Committees follow this process when appropriate.  
additional appointments of the NEDs are firstly discussed with the 
Chairman and then reported to the Nomination and Governance   
Committee prior to be being considered for approval. The register 
 
of the Board’s collective outside appointments is reviewed 
annually by the Board. Directors’ outside appointments are   
included in their biographies on pages 44 to 47. 
   
52 Standard Life Aberdeen 2020
3. Corporate governance statement continued   
   
Speaking up  The Directors continued to review and authorise Board members’  2. Division of responsibilities 
The workforce has the means to raise concerns in confidence and  actual and potential conflicts of interest on a regular and ad hoc  The Group operates the following governance framework. 
anonymously. The Audit Committee’s oversight of the  basis in line with the authority granted to them in the Company’s 
whistleblowing policy is covered in the Audit Committee report on  Articles. As part of the process to approve the appointment of a  Governance framework   GO
page 64.  new Director, the Board considers and, where appropriate,  Board   VE
authorises their potential or actual conflicts. The Board also  The Board’s role is to organise and direct the affairs of the Company and the Group in accordance with the Company’s constitution, all  RN
Outside appointments and conflicts of interest  considers whether any new outside appointment of any current  relevant laws, regulations, corporate governance and stewardship standards. The Board’s role and responsibilities, collectively and for  AN
The Board’s policy encourages executive Directors to take up one  Director creates a potential or actual conflict before, where  individual Directors, are set out in the Board Charter. The Board Charter also identifies matters that are specifically reserved for decision by  CE
the Board. During 2020, the Board’s key activities included approving, overseeing and challenging:    
external non-executive director role, as the Directors consider this  appropriate, authorising it. All appointments are approved in 
can bring an additional perspective to the Director’s contribution.  accordance with the Group’s Outside Appointments and Conflicts  • The updated strategy and the 2021 to 2023 business plan to  • Succession planning, in particular the CEO succession process 
Given their short tenure, Stephen Bird and Stephanie Bruce do  of Interest policies.   implement the strategy  • Significant corporate and other transactions including sales of shares in 
not currently have any NED roles. Keith Skeoch did not have any  • Capital and management structures including the £400m share buy  our Indian associate businesses, completing the sale of our Hong Kong 
FTSE 100 non-executive roles but continued as a non-executive  In February 2021, the Board reviewed all previously authorised  back programme   insurance subsidiary, the agreement to acquire Tritax partners, the 
director of the Financial Reporting Council and was appointed  potential and actual conflicts of interest of the Directors and their  • Oversight of culture, our standards and ethical behaviours  agreement to sell our Nordics direct real estate business and 
Chairman of the Investment Association on 1 May 2020. Martin  connected persons, and concluded that the authorisations should  • Dividend policy including the recommendation to pay the 2019 final  announcing the sale of Parmenion 
Gilbert was a non-executive director at Glencore plc. He was also  remain in place until February 2022. Under the terms of the  dividend and approval of the 2020 interim dividend  • The quarterly performance of the investment business 
appointed chair of Revolut on 1 January 2020, this additional  approval, conflicted Directors can be excluded from receiving  • Financial reporting, including the impact of the amortisation and  • The ESG approach, both as an issuer and as an asset manager 
appointment having been approved by the Board and recognising  information, taking part in discussions and making decisions that  impairment of intangibles acquired through acquisition  • Significant external communications 
that his full-time role had been reduced by 20%. Proposed  relate to the potential or actual conflict. The Board and relevant  • Risk management, including the Enterprise Risk Management  • The work of the Board Committees 
additional appointments of the NEDs are firstly discussed with the  Committees follow this process when appropriate.   (ERM) framework, risk strategy, risk appetite limits and internal  • Appointments to the Board and to Board Committees 
Chairman and then reported to the Nomination and Governance    controls and in particular how this was adapted for COVID-19   • Matters escalated from subsidiary boards to the Board for approval 
Committee prior to be being considered for approval. The register  • Remuneration policy, recommending a revised policy to 
  shareholders at the May 2020 AGM 
of the Board’s collective outside appointments is reviewed 
annually by the Board. Directors’ outside appointments are    The Board regularly reviews reports from the Chief Executive Officer and from the Chief Financial Officer on progress against approved strategies 
included in their biographies on pages 44 to 47.  and the business plan, as well as updates on stock market and global economic conditions. There are also regular presentations from the key 
business functional leaders. 
   
         
Chairman  Chief Executive Officer (CEO)  Senior Independent Director (SID) 
• Leads the Board and ensures that its  The CEO operates within authorities delegated by the  The SID is available to talk with our 
principles and processes are maintained  Board to:  shareholders about any concerns that 
• Promotes high standards of corporate  • Develop strategic plans and structures for presentation  they may not have been able to resolve 
through the channels of the Chairman, 
governance  to the Board 
the CEO or Chief Financial Officer, or 
• Together with the Company Secretary,  • Make and implement operational decisions  where a shareholder considered these 
sets agendas for meetings of the Board  • Lead the other executive Director and the ELT in the  channels as inappropriate. 
• Ensures Board members receive  day-to-day running of the Group 
The SID leads the annual review of the 
accurate, timely and quality information    • Report to the Board with relevant and timely    performance of the Chairman. 
on the Group and its activities  information 
• Encourages open debate and    • Develop appropriate capital, corporate, management     
Non-executive Directors (NED) 
constructive discussion and decision- and succession structures to support the Group’s 
making   objectives  The role of our NEDs is to participate 
• Leads the performance assessments and  • Together with the Chairman, represent the Group to  fully in the Board’s decision-making 
identification of training needs for the  external stakeholders, including shareholders,  work including advising, supporting and 
Board and individual Directors  customers, suppliers, regulatory and governmental  challenging management as 
• Speaks on behalf of the Board and  authorities, and the local and wider communities  appropriate. 
represents the Board to shareholders and   
   
other stakeholders 
             
Nomination and Governance  Audit Committee (AC)  Remuneration Committee (RC)  Risk and Capital Committee 
Committee (N&G)  •  Financial Reporting  •  Development and  (RCC) 
•  Board and Committee  •  Internal audit  Implementation of  •  Risk management framework 
composition  •  External audit  remuneration policy  •  Compliance reporting 
•  Succession planning  •  Whistleblowing  •  Incentive design and setting of  •  Risk appetites and tolerances 
•  Board appointments  •  Financial crime  targets  •  Transactional risk 
•  Governance framework  •  Regulatory financial reporting  •  Employee benefit structures  assessments 
      •  Capital adequacy 
             
Executive leadership team (ELT) 
The ELT supports the CEO by providing clear leadership, line of sight and accountability throughout the business. The ELT is responsible to 
the CEO for the development and delivery of strategy and for leading the organisation through challenges and opportunities. 
             
Growth vectors  Talent  World-class operations  Control 
Support the CEO to deliver  Support the CEO and Chief  Support the CEO and Chief  Support the CEO in the first line 
Growth across the business:  Human Resources Officer  Operating Officer (COO) by  management of risk, working 
•  Investments   (CHRO) in developing leading  overseeing global functions and  closely with the Chief Risk 
•  Adviser  talent management and  the delivery of functional  Officer (CRO). 
succession planning.  priorities. 
•  Personal 
     
  Standard Life Aberdeen 2020 53
3. Corporate governance statement continued 
 
The framework is formally documented in the Board Charter  • Believes that it should be able to demonstrate with conviction 
which also sets out the Board’s relationship with the boards of the  that any new appointee can make a meaningful contribution to 
key subsidiaries in the Group. In particular, it specifies the matters  its deliberations 
which these subsidiaries refer to the Board or to a Committee of  • Is committed to maintaining its diverse composition 
the Board for approval or consultation. 
• Supports the CEO’s commitment to achieve and maintain a 
diverse workforce and an inclusive workplace, both throughout 
You can read the Board Charter on our website 
  www.standardlifeaberdeen.com  the Group, and within the ELT 
• Has a zero tolerance approach to unfair treatment or 
Board balance and director independence   discrimination of any kind, both throughout the Group and in 
The Directors believe that at least half of the Board should be  relation to clients and individuals associated with the Group 
made up of independent non-executive Directors. As at 9 March 
Diversity activities and progress to meet our targets are covered in 
2021, the Board comprises the Chairman, eight independent non-
the Investing in talent section of the Strategic report on page 22. 
executive Directors and two executive Directors. The Board is 
The ELT’s diversity policy in covered in the Directors’ report on 
made up of six men (55%) and five women (45%) (2019: men 
page 100. 
55%, women 45%). 
Board changes during the period 
The Chairman was independent on his appointment in December 
Board changes during the year are covered in the Directors’ 
2018. The Board carries out a formal review of the independence 
report on page 98. 
of non-executive Directors annually. The review considers 
relevant issues including the number and nature of their other  Board appointment process, terms of service and role 
appointments, any other positions they hold within the Group, any  Board appointments are overseen by the Nomination and 
potential conflicts of interest they have identified and their length  Governance Committee and you can read more about this on 
of service. Their individual circumstances are also assessed  page 71. 
against independence criteria, including those in the Code. None 
Each non-executive Director is appointed for a three-year fixed 
of the NEDs has served on the Board for more than nine years 
term and shareholders vote on whether to elect/re-elect them at 
since the date of their first appointment. Following this review, the 
every AGM. Once a three-year term has ended, a non-executive 
Board has concluded that all the current non-executive Directors 
Director can continue for further terms if the Board is satisfied with 
are independent and consequently, the Board continues to 
the non-executive Director’s performance, independence and 
comprise a majority of independent non-executive Directors.  
ongoing time commitment. There is no specified limit to the 
Jonathan Asquith served as Senior Independent Director  number of terms that a non-executive Director can serve. Taking 
throughout 2020. In this role, he is available to provide a sounding  account of their appointment dates to the predecessor boards 
board to the Chairman and serve as an intermediary for the other  where relevant, the current average length of service of the non-
Directors and the shareholders. He also led the process to review  executive Directors is three years. For those NEDs who have 
the Chairman’s performance.  already served two three-year terms, the Nomination and 
Governance Committee considers any factors which might reflect 
The roles of the Chairman and the CEO are separate and are 
on their independence or time commitment prior to making any 
summarised on page 53. Each has clearly defined responsibilities, 
recommendation to the Board. During 2020, the Committee 
which are described in the Board Charter. 
reviewed and supported the recommendation that Jutta af 
The Directors have access to the governance advice of the  Rosenborg’s appointment should be continued for a third term – 
Company Secretary whose appointment and removal is a matter  taking account of her service on the board of AAM PLC prior to 
reserved to the Board.   August 2017.  
The letter of appointment confirms that the amount of time each 
You can read more about our Directors in their biographies in 
non-executive Director is expected to commit to each year, once 
  Section 2. 
they have met all of the approval and induction requirements, is a 
  minimum of 35 days. The service agreements/letters of 
appointment for Directors are available to shareholders to view on 
3. Board composition, succession, diversity and 
request from the Company Secretary at the Company’s registered 
evaluation 
address (which can be found in the Shareholder information 
The Board’s policy is to appoint and retain non-executive  section) and will be accessible for the 2021 AGM. Non-executive 
Directors who bring relevant expertise as well as a wide  Directors are required to confirm that they can allocate sufficient 
perspective to the Group and its decision-making framework. The  time to carry out their duties and responsibilities effectively. Their 
Board continues to support its Board Diversity statement which  letters of appointment confirm that their primary roles include 
states that the Board:  challenging and holding to account the executive directors as well 
• Believes in equal opportunities and supports the principle that  as appointing and removing executive directors. 
the best person should always be appointed to the role with due  External search consultants may be used to support Board 
regard given to the benefits of diversity, including gender,  appointments. MWM Consulting was engaged to support the 
ethnicity, age, and educational and professional background  appointment of Stephen Bird. The Group has additionally used 
when undertaking a search for candidates, both executive and  the services of MWM Consulting to support other senior 
non-executive  management searches. 
• Recognises that diversity can bring insights and behaviours that 
   
make a valuable contribution to its effectiveness 
• Believes that it should have a blend of skills, experience, 
independence, knowledge, ethnicity and gender amongst its 
individual members that is appropriate to its needs 
54 Standard Life Aberdeen 2020  
3. Corporate governance statement continued   
   
The framework is formally documented in the Board Charter  • Believes that it should be able to demonstrate with conviction  Director election and re-election  • Finding more time for the Board to discuss matters beyond 
which also sets out the Board’s relationship with the boards of the  that any new appointee can make a meaningful contribution to  At the 2021 AGM, all of the current Directors will retire. Stephen  fulfilling its statutory reporting and governance requirements 
key subsidiaries in the Group. In particular, it specifies the matters  its deliberations  Bird, having been appointed since the previous AGM, will retire  • Continuing to strengthen regular Board reporting, with a 
which these subsidiaries refer to the Board or to a Committee of  • Is committed to maintaining its diverse composition  and stand for election. All the other Directors will stand for re- particular focus on client and customer perception, key supplier  GO
the Board for approval or consultation.  • Supports the CEO’s commitment to achieve and maintain a  election.   relationships and the appropriate number of informative KPIs  VER
N
You can read the Board Charter on our website  diverse workforce and an inclusive workplace, both throughout  As well as in Section 2, the AGM guide 2021 includes more  Progress to implement the recommendations is monitored by the  AN
  www.standardlifeaberdeen.com  the Group, and within the ELT  background information about the Directors, including the reasons  Company Secretary and the CEO’s office and reported to the  CE
• Has a zero tolerance approach to unfair treatment or  why the Chairman, following their annual reviews, believes that  Nomination and Governance Committee.    
their individual skills and contribution supports their election or re-
Board balance and director independence   discrimination of any kind, both throughout the Group and in 
election.  Chairman 
The Directors believe that at least half of the Board should be  relation to clients and individuals associated with the Group  The review of Sir Douglas’s performance as Chairman was led by 
made up of independent non-executive Directors. As at 9 March  Diversity activities and progress to meet our targets are covered in  You can read more about the Directors’ outside appointments in  the SID, Jonathan Asquith. It was based on feedback given in the 
2021, the Board comprises the Chairman, eight independent non- the Investing in talent section of the Strategic report on page 22.    their biographies in Section 2.  Company Secretary’s individual interviews with each Director as 
executive Directors and two executive Directors. The Board is  The ELT’s diversity policy in covered in the Directors’ report on  well as focused discussions between the SID and the other 
made up of six men (55%) and five women (45%) (2019: men  page 100.  Advice  Directors.  
55%, women 45%). 
Board changes during the period  Directors may sometimes need external professional advice to  Through these meetings, Jonathan Asquith sought feedback on: 
The Chairman was independent on his appointment in December  Board changes during the year are covered in the Directors’  carry out their responsibilities. The Board’s policy is to allow them  the Chairman’s overall leadership role; his relationships with the 
2018. The Board carries out a formal review of the independence  report on page 98.  to seek this where appropriate and at the Group’s expense.  EDs and the NEDs; Boardroom behaviours; and any 
of non-executive Directors annually. The review considers  Directors also have access to the advice and services of the  development areas to take forward in 2021.  
relevant issues including the number and nature of their other  Board appointment process, terms of service and role  Company Secretary, whose appointment and removal is a matter 
appointments, any other positions they hold within the Group, any  Board appointments are overseen by the Nomination and  for the Board.   The Company Secretary summarised the feedback into a draft 
potential conflicts of interest they have identified and their length  Governance Committee and you can read more about this on  report which was reviewed and agreed by the SID and distributed 
of service. Their individual circumstances are also assessed  page 71.  Board effectiveness  to all Board members, except Sir Douglas. The Directors, led by 
against independence criteria, including those in the Code. None  Review process   Jonathan Asquith and without Sir Douglas being present, met to 
Each non-executive Director is appointed for a three-year fixed 
of the NEDs has served on the Board for more than nine years  The Board commissions externally facilitated reviews regularly. As  consider the report. They concluded that in his second year as 
term and shareholders vote on whether to elect/re-elect them at 
since the date of their first appointment. Following this review, the  the 2018 and 2019 reviews were facilitated externally, the  Chairman, Sir Douglas had performed his role very effectively and 
every AGM. Once a three-year term has ended, a non-executive 
Board has concluded that all the current non-executive Directors  Nomination and Governance Committee agreed that the 2020  shown strong leadership of the Board. He continued to bring his 
Director can continue for further terms if the Board is satisfied with 
are independent and consequently, the Board continues to  review should be conducted internally.  inclusive yet suitably challenging style to the Boardroom, 
the non-executive Director’s performance, independence and 
comprise a majority of independent non-executive Directors.   ongoing time commitment. There is no specified limit to the  To carry out the review, the Company Secretary met with each  encouraging, and allowing time for, all Board members to 
participate fully, and he continued to build strong relationships with 
Jonathan Asquith served as Senior Independent Director  number of terms that a non-executive Director can serve. Taking  Director individually and gathered their views on the Board’s  the EDs while supporting the NEDs in challenging and holding the 
throughout 2020. In this role, he is available to provide a sounding  account of their appointment dates to the predecessor boards  performance over the period and their recommendations on how  ELT to account. All the Directors were looking forward to 
board to the Chairman and serve as an intermediary for the other  where relevant, the current average length of service of the non- its effectiveness could be strengthened. Progress on  continuing to work with him, individually and collectively, to deliver 
Directors and the shareholders. He also led the process to review  executive Directors is three years. For those NEDs who have  implementing the agreed actions from the 2019 review was also  continued progress in 2021. Jonathan Asquith met with Sir 
the Chairman’s performance.  already served two three-year terms, the Nomination and  discussed. Following this, the Company Secretary prepared a  Douglas to pass feedback from the review directly to him. 
Governance Committee considers any factors which might reflect  draft report for initial review and discussion with the Chairman. 
The roles of the Chairman and the CEO are separate and are  on their independence or time commitment prior to making any  The Board then reviewed and discussed the report.  Directors 
summarised on page 53. Each has clearly defined responsibilities,  recommendation to the Board. During 2020, the Committee  The Chairman met each Director individually to discuss their 
Outcome 
which are described in the Board Charter.  reviewed and supported the recommendation that Jutta af  performance during 2020. These discussions considered 
The Board recognised the relevant internal and external factors 
The Directors have access to the governance advice of the  Rosenborg’s appointment should be continued for a third term –  which it had needed to take account of during the year. These  individual training, development and engagement opportunities 
Company Secretary whose appointment and removal is a matter  taking account of her service on the board of AAM PLC prior to  included living with and planning to move beyond COVID-19,  and any agreed development actions are taken forward by the 
reserved to the Board.   August 2017.   regulatory uncertainty arising from matters such as the possible  individual Director together with the Company Secretary and the 
Chairman. 
The letter of appointment confirms that the amount of time each  outcome of Brexit negotiations, regulatory change including 
You can read more about our Directors in their biographies in  non-executive Director is expected to commit to each year, once  transitioning away from LIBOR, increasing external expectations  Director induction and development 
  Section 2. 
they have met all of the approval and induction requirements, is a  on the quality of external reporting, with a particular focus on  The Chairman, supported by the Company Secretary, is 
  minimum of 35 days. The service agreements/letters of  enhancing ESG, culture and diversity reporting, and the  responsible for arranging a comprehensive preparation and 
appointment for Directors are available to shareholders to view on  challenges of managing virtual Board meetings, recognising that  induction programme for all new Directors. The programme takes 
3. Board composition, succession, diversity and  request from the Company Secretary at the Company’s registered  the Directors had not been able to gather in person since March  their background knowledge and experience into account. If 
evaluation  address (which can be found in the Shareholder information  2020. Internally, the main factor was the CEO succession and the  relevant, Directors are required to complete the FCA’s approval 
The Board’s policy is to appoint and retain non-executive  section) and will be accessible for the 2021 AGM. Non-executive  work Stephen Bird has been leading since his appointment.   process before they are appointed and Directors self-certify 
Directors who bring relevant expertise as well as a wide  Directors are required to confirm that they can allocate sufficient  Taking all of this into account, the Board believes that it performed  annually that they remain competent to carry out this aspect of 
perspective to the Group and its decision-making framework. The  time to carry out their duties and responsibilities effectively. Their  effectively during 2020. Arising from the review the Board looks to  their role. These processes continue to adapt to meet evolving 
Board continues to support its Board Diversity statement which  letters of appointment confirm that their primary roles include  see continued developments in these areas:  best practice in respect of SMCR. 
states that the Board:  challenging and holding to account the executive directors as well 
• Believes in equal opportunities and supports the principle that  as appointing and removing executive directors.  • Increased informal Board interaction between meetings to  The formal preparation and induction programme includes: 
the best person should always be appointed to the role with due  External search consultants may be used to support Board  compensate, partly, for not being able to come together  • Meetings with the executive Directors and the members of the 
regard given to the benefits of diversity, including gender,  appointments. MWM Consulting was engaged to support the  physically at this time  ELT 
ethnicity, age, and educational and professional background  appointment of Stephen Bird. The Group has additionally used  • An increased programme of virtual Board training  • Focused technical meetings with internal experts on specific 
when undertaking a search for candidates, both executive and  the services of MWM Consulting to support other senior  sessions/deep dives to make sure the Board remains up to date  areas including investments, regulatory reporting, ESG, conduct 
non-executive  management searches.  on wider industry and market matters, using external  risk, risk and capital management, and financial reporting 
• Recognises that diversity can bring insights and behaviours that  commentators and experts as relevant  • Visits to business areas (when permitted by Government 
   
make a valuable contribution to its effectiveness  • Creating more agenda time to discuss and measure ESG,  restrictions) to meet our people and gain a better insight into the 
• Believes that it should have a blend of skills, experience,  Culture and Diversity and Inclusion, making sure they have a  operation of the business and its culture 
clear link to corporate strategy and its execution 
independence, knowledge, ethnicity and gender amongst its  • Meetings with the external auditors and contact with the FCA 
individual members that is appropriate to its needs  supervisory teams 
    Standard Life Aberdeen 2020  55  
3. Corporate governance statement continued 
 
• Meetings with the Company Secretary on the Group’s corporate  In line with the requirements of the Code, the Board has reviewed 
governance framework and the role of the Board and its  the effectiveness of the system of internal control. The system 
Committees, and with the Chief Risk Officer on the risk  was in place throughout the year and up to the date of approval of 
management framework as well as meetings on their individual  the Annual report and accounts 2020. 
responsibilities as holders of a Senior Management Function 
A review of SLA’s risk management and internal control systems 
role 
was carried out drawing on inputs across the three lines of 
Background information is also provided including:  defence. This did not include associates and joint ventures as 
they do not fall within these systems. The first line conducted Risk 
• Key Board materials and information, stakeholder and 
Control Self-Assessments (RCSAs) throughout 2020; Risk & 
shareholder communications and financial reports 
Compliance undertook a review of the effectiveness of the 
• The Group’s organisational structure, strategy, business  Enterprise Risk Management Framework (ERMF) (including 
activities and operational plans  RCSAs) and how internal controls were operating within the first 
• The Group’s key performance indicators, financial and  line; and, Internal Audit produced a Control Environment 
operational measures and industry terminology  Assessment using SLA’s risk taxonomy. Collectively these 
provided a view of the firm’s control environment from each of the 
The induction programme provides the background knowledge 
three lines of defence. The impacts of COVID-19 on SLA’s 
new Directors need to perform to a high level as soon as possible 
operations (with most staff having worked from home since the 
after joining the Board and its Committees and to support them as 
start of the pandemic) were reflected in the review. 
they build their knowledge and strengthen their performance 
further. This process was particularly relevant in 2020 to support  Following this review, the Board concluded that the system of 
Stephen Bird’s induction as CEO.  internal control was effective, and that there had been no 
significant failings or weaknesses during the period. 
When Directors are appointed to the Board, they make a 
commitment to broaden their understanding of the Group’s  Additionally, with regard to regular financial reporting and 
business. The Secretariat, Finance, Risk and Reward teams  preparing consolidated accounts, the Finance function sets formal 
monitor relevant external governance and risk management,  requirements for financial reporting, defines the process and 
financial and regulatory developments and keep the ongoing  detailed controls for the IFRS consolidation, reviews and 
Board training and information programme up to date. Specific  challenges submissions and receives formal sign-off on financial 
Board and Committee awareness and deep-dive sessions took  reporting from business unit finance heads. In addition, the 
place on:  Finance function runs the Technical Review Committee and the 
Financial Reporting Executive Review Group which review 
• Platform transformation 
external technical developments and detailed reporting disclosure 
• Finance transformation  and accounting policy issues. 
• Technology strategy 
The Board’s going concern statement is on page 102 and the 
• LIBOR transition  Board’s viability statement is on page 37. 
• The activity of the ESG investment team and the broader 
5. Remuneration 
Enabling ESG programme 
The Directors’ remuneration report (DRR) on pages 73 to 95 sets 
• Governance and oversight of investment risk  out the work of the Remuneration Committee and its activities 
• Cyber and operational resilience  during the year, the levels of Directors’ remuneration and the 
• External audit reform  shareholder approved remuneration policy. The Company’s 
approach to investing in and rewarding its workforce is set out on 
4. Audit, risk and internal control  page 87 of the DRR and in the Reward section of the Directors’ 
The Directors retain the responsibility to state that they consider  report on page 100. The Board believes that its remuneration 
the Annual report and accounts, taken as a whole, is fair,  policies and practices are designed to support strategy and long-
balanced and understandable and presents an assessment of the  term sustainable success. You can read about the policies and 
Company’s position and prospects. They also recognise their  practices in the DRR. 
responsibility to establish procedures to manage risk and oversee 
Other information 
the internal control framework. You can read their responsibilities 
You can find details of the following, as required by Disclosure 
statement on page 103. The reports from the Audit Committee 
and Transparency Rule 7.2.6, in the Directors’ report and in the 
and the Risk and Capital Committee Chairmen show how they 
Directors’ remuneration report: 
have supported the Board in meeting these responsibilities. 
The Board’s view of its principal and emerging risks and how they  Share capital 
are being managed is contained in the risk management section  • Significant direct or indirect holdings of the Company’s 
of the Strategic report on pages 38 to 40.  securities 
• Confirmation that there are no securities carrying special rights 
Annual review of internal control  
with regard to control of the Company 
The Directors have overall responsibility for the governance 
• Confirmation that there are no restrictions on voting rights in 
structures and systems of the group, which includes the ERM 
normal circumstances 
framework and system of internal control, and for the ongoing 
review of their effectiveness. The framework is designed to  • How the Articles can be amended 
manage, rather than eliminate, risk and can only provide  • The powers of the Directors, including when they can issue or 
reasonable, not absolute, assurance against material  buy back shares 
misstatement or loss. The framework covers all of the risks as set 
Directors 
out in the risk management section of the Strategic report. 
• How the Company appoints and replaces Directors 
• Directors’ interests in shares
56 Standard Life Aberdeen 2020  
3. Corporate governance statement continued   
   
• Meetings with the Company Secretary on the Group’s corporate  In line with the requirements of the Code, the Board has reviewed  Board meetings and meeting attendance 
governance framework and the role of the Board and its  the effectiveness of the system of internal control. The system  The Board and its Committees meet regularly, operating to an agreed timetable. Meetings are usually held in Edinburgh or London and, 
Committees, and with the Chief Risk Officer on the risk  was in place throughout the year and up to the date of approval of  sometimes, at the offices of one of our overseas locations. During the year, the Board held specific sessions to consider the Group’s 
management framework as well as meetings on their individual  the Annual report and accounts 2020.  strategy and business planning. The Chair and the non-executive Directors also met during the year, formally at each Board meeting,  GO
responsibilities as holders of a Senior Management Function  and informally, without the executive Directors present and where matters including executive performance and succession and Board  VE
A review of SLA’s risk management and internal control systems  R
role  effectiveness were discussed. The Board had planned to hold eight formal meetings and a focused strategy meeting in 2020. As the  N
was carried out drawing on inputs across the three lines of  A
Background information is also provided including:  defence. This did not include associates and joint ventures as  COVID-19 pandemic grew, the Board held additional update calls. When there were recommendations to be decided on, these were  NC
they do not fall within these systems. The first line conducted Risk  structured as formal Board meetings. There were also additional calls which were not constituted as formal Board meetings, but when  E 
• Key Board materials and information, stakeholder and  the Board was able to hear from and question SMEs from the risk, operations, client and HR teams to understand how the organisation 
Control Self-Assessments (RCSAs) throughout 2020; Risk & 
shareholder communications and financial reports  was responding to the pandemic. The Board was keen to find the balance between overseeing how the ELT was operating at this time 
Compliance undertook a review of the effectiveness of the 
• The Group’s organisational structure, strategy, business  Enterprise Risk Management Framework (ERMF) (including  and allowing the ELT time to focus on delivering priorities e.g. the means for the workforce to be able to work from home.  
activities and operational plans  RCSAs) and how internal controls were operating within the first  Directors are required to attend all meetings of the Board and the Committees they serve on, and to devote enough time to the 
• The Group’s key performance indicators, financial and  line; and, Internal Audit produced a Control Environment  Company to perform their duties. Board and Committee papers are distributed before meetings other than, by exception, urgent papers 
operational measures and industry terminology  Assessment using SLA’s risk taxonomy. Collectively these  which may need to be tabled at the meeting. If Directors are not able to attend a meeting because of conflicts in their schedules, they 
provided a view of the firm’s control environment from each of the  receive all the relevant papers and have the opportunity to submit their comments in advance to the Chairman or to the Company 
The induction programme provides the background knowledge 
three lines of defence. The impacts of COVID-19 on SLA’s  Secretary. If necessary, they can follow up with the Chairman of the meeting. Recognising that some Directors may have existing 
new Directors need to perform to a high level as soon as possible 
operations (with most staff having worked from home since the  commitments they cannot change at very short notice, the Board has established the Standing Committee as a formal procedure for 
after joining the Board and its Committees and to support them as 
start of the pandemic) were reflected in the review.  holding unscheduled meetings. The Standing Committee meets when, exceptionally, decisions on matters specifically reserved for the 
they build their knowledge and strengthen their performance 
Board need to be taken urgently. All Directors are invited to attend Standing Committee meetings. The Standing Committee met once 
further. This process was particularly relevant in 2020 to support  Following this review, the Board concluded that the system of 
during 2020. 
Stephen Bird’s induction as CEO.  internal control was effective, and that there had been no 
significant failings or weaknesses during the period.  The Chairman is not a member of the Audit, Risk and Capital, or Remuneration Committees. He may attend meetings of all 
When Directors are appointed to the Board, they make a 
Committees, by invitation, in order to keep abreast of their discussions. The table below reflects the composition of the Board and Board 
commitment to broaden their understanding of the Group’s  Additionally, with regard to regular financial reporting and 
Committees during 2020 and records the number of meetings and members’ attendance.  
business. The Secretariat, Finance, Risk and Reward teams  preparing consolidated accounts, the Finance function sets formal 
monitor relevant external governance and risk management,  requirements for financial reporting, defines the process and  Nomination and 
financial and regulatory developments and keep the ongoing  detailed controls for the IFRS consolidation, reviews and  Group Audit  Governance  Remuneration  Risk and Capital 
Board training and information programme up to date. Specific  challenges submissions and receives formal sign-off on financial    Board  Committee  Committee  Committee  Committee 
Board and Committee awareness and deep-dive sessions took  reporting from business unit finance heads. In addition, the  Chairman           
place on:  Finance function runs the Technical Review Committee and the  Sir Douglas Flint   12/12  –  5/5  –  – 
• Platform transformation  Financial Reporting Executive Review Group which review             
external technical developments and detailed reporting disclosure 
Executive Directors           
• Finance transformation  and accounting policy issues. 
Stephanie Bruce  12/12  –  –  –  – 
• Technology strategy 
The Board’s going concern statement is on page 102 and the  Stephen Bird4  5/5  –  –  –  – 
• LIBOR transition  Board’s viability statement is on page 37.             
• The activity of the ESG investment team and the broader 
5. Remuneration  Non-executive Directors           
Enabling ESG programme 
The Directors’ remuneration report (DRR) on pages 73 to 95 sets  Jonathan Asquith  12/12  –  5/5  10/10  – 
• Governance and oversight of investment risk  out the work of the Remuneration Committee and its activities  Brian McBride1  9/9  –  –  5/5  – 
• Cyber and operational resilience  during the year, the levels of Directors’ remuneration and the  John Devine2  12/12  6/6  5/5  5/5  9/9 
• External audit reform  shareholder approved remuneration policy. The Company’s  Melanie Gee3  12/12  6/6  5/5  –  4/4 
approach to investing in and rewarding its workforce is set out on 
Martin Pike  12/12  6/6  5/5  –  9/9 
4. Audit, risk and internal control  page 87 of the DRR and in the Reward section of the Directors’ 
The Directors retain the responsibility to state that they consider  report on page 100. The Board believes that its remuneration  Cathleen Raffaeli  12/12  –  –  9/10  9/9 
the Annual report and accounts, taken as a whole, is fair,  policies and practices are designed to support strategy and long- Cecilia Reyes  12/12  –  –  10/10  9/9 
balanced and understandable and presents an assessment of the  term sustainable success. You can read about the policies and  Jutta af Rosenborg  12/12  6/6  –  9/10  – 
Company’s position and prospects. They also recognise their  practices in the DRR.             
responsibility to establish procedures to manage risk and oversee 
Other information  Former members           
the internal control framework. You can read their responsibilities 
You can find details of the following, as required by Disclosure  Keith Skeoch (stood down on 31 August 2020)  8/8  –  –  –  – 
statement on page 103. The reports from the Audit Committee 
and Transparency Rule 7.2.6, in the Directors’ report and in the  Martin Gilbert (stood down on 14 May 2020)  4/4  –  –  –  – 
and the Risk and Capital Committee Chairmen show how they 
have supported the Board in meeting these responsibilities.  Directors’ remuneration report:  1  Brian McBride was appointed to the Board and Remuneration Committee on 1 May 2020. 
The Board’s view of its principal and emerging risks and how they  Share capital  2  John Devine stood down from the Remuneration Committee after the 2020 AGM. 
are being managed is contained in the risk management section  • Significant direct or indirect holdings of the Company’s  3  Melanie Gee stood down from the Risk and Capital Committee after the 2020 AGM. 
of the Strategic report on pages 38 to 40.  securities  4  Stephen Bird was appointed to the Board on 1 July 2020. 
• Confirmation that there are no securities carrying special rights   
Annual review of internal control  
with regard to control of the Company 
The Directors have overall responsibility for the governance 
• Confirmation that there are no restrictions on voting rights in 
structures and systems of the group, which includes the ERM 
normal circumstances 
framework and system of internal control, and for the ongoing 
review of their effectiveness. The framework is designed to  • How the Articles can be amended 
manage, rather than eliminate, risk and can only provide  • The powers of the Directors, including when they can issue or 
reasonable, not absolute, assurance against material  buy back shares 
misstatement or loss. The framework covers all of the risks as set 
Directors 
out in the risk management section of the Strategic report. 
• How the Company appoints and replaces Directors 
• Directors’ interests in shares
    Standard Life Aberdeen 2020 57
3. Corporate governance statement continued 
 
Board Committees   All Board Committees are authorised to engage the services of 
external advisers at the Company’s expense, whenever they 
Standard Life Aberdeen plc Board
consider this necessary.  
Committee reports 
Audit  Remuneration Nomination Risk and This statement includes reports from the chairmen of the Audit 
Committee Committee and  Capital Committee, the Risk and Capital Committee and the Nomination 
Governance Committee and Governance Committee. The report on the responsibilities 
Committee and activities of the Remuneration Committee can be found in the 
Directors’ remuneration report in Section 3.4.  
 
  The Committee Chairmen are happy to engage with you on their 
The Board has established Committees that oversee, consider    reports. Please contact them via 
and make recommendations to the Board on important issues of  questions@standardlifeaberdeenshares.com 
policy and governance. At each Board meeting, the Committee 
 
chairmen provide reports of the key issues considered at recent 
Committee meetings, and minutes of Committee meetings are   
circulated to the appropriate Board members. This includes 
 
reporting from the Chairman of the Audit Committee on any 
whistleblowing incidents which have been escalated to him. The 
 
Committees operate within specific terms of reference approved 
by the Board and kept under review by each Committee. 
 
These terms of reference are published within the Board Charter 
on our website at   
 
www.standardlifeaberdeen.com/annualreport 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
   
58 Standard Life Aberdeen 2020  
3. Corporate governance statement continued   
   
 
Board Committees   All Board Committees are authorised to engage the services of  3.1.1 Governance 
external advisers at the Company’s expense, whenever they  Membership 
consider this necessary.   All members of the Audit Committee are independent non-
G
Committee reports  executive Directors. For their names, the number of meetings and  OV
committee member attendance during 2020, please see the table  E
This statement includes reports from the chairmen of the Audit  R
Committee, the Risk and Capital Committee and the Nomination  on page 57.  NA
N
and Governance Committee. The report on the responsibilities  The Board believes Committee members have the necessary  CE
 
and activities of the Remuneration Committee can be found in the  range of financial, risk, control and commercial expertise required 
Directors’ remuneration report in Section 3.4.   to provide effective challenge to management, and have 
  competence in accounting and auditing as well as recent and 
  The Committee Chairmen are happy to engage with you on their  relevant financial experience. John Devine is a member of the 
The Board has established Committees that oversee, consider    reports. Please contact them via  Chartered Institute of Public Finance and Accounting. Jutta af 
and make recommendations to the Board on important issues of  questions@standardlifeaberdeenshares.com  Rosenborg is also a qualified accountant. Martin Pike is a fellow of 
policy and governance. At each Board meeting, the Committee      the Institute and Faculty of Actuaries. The Committee members 
chairmen provide reports of the key issues considered at recent  are also members of audit committees related to their other NED 
Committee meetings, and minutes of Committee meetings are    John Devine  roles. 
circulated to the appropriate Board members. This includes 
 
reporting from the Chairman of the Audit Committee on any  Invitations to attend Committee meetings are extended on a 
whistleblowing incidents which have been escalated to him. The  3.1 Audit Committee report   regular basis to the Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer, the 
Committees operate within specific terms of reference approved    The Audit Committee assists the Board in discharging its  Chief Financial Officer, the Group Financial Controller, the Chief 
by the Board and kept under review by each Committee.  responsibilities for financial reporting, internal control and the  Internal Auditor and the Group Chief Risk Officer. 
 
relationship with the External auditors.  The Audit Committee meets privately for part of its meetings and 
These terms of reference are published within the Board Charter  also has regular private meetings separately with the External 
on our website at    I am pleased to present my report as Audit Committee Chairman.  
  auditors and the Chief Internal Auditor. These meetings address 
www.standardlifeaberdeen.com/annualreport  A major role of the Committee in 2020 was to consider the impact  the level of co-operation and information exchange and provide 
    of COVID-19 on financial reporting, particularly on the Half year  an opportunity for participants to raise any concerns directly with 
results 2020, and internal controls.  the Committee. 
   
During the year the Committee also:  
Key responsibilities 
    • Considered the carrying value of intangible assets, in particular  The Audit Committee’s responsibilities are to oversee and report 
  asset management goodwill and customer relationship  to the Board on: 
intangibles 
    • The appropriateness of the Group’s accounting and accounting 
• Considered reports from the Chief Internal Auditor  policies, including the going concern presumption and viability 
   
• Reviewed CRD IV reporting  statement 
• Received reports on compliance with the FCA Client Assets  • The findings of its reviews of the financial information in the 
Sourcebook (CASS) rules in the Company’s CASS  Group’s annual and half year financial reports 
permissioned regulated legal entities   • The clarity of the disclosures relating to accounting judgements 
The Committee also continued to focus on the quality of financial  and estimates 
reporting.  • Its view of the ‘fair, balanced and understandable’ reporting 
obligation 
The report is structured in four parts: 
• The findings of its review of key Group prudential returns and 
1. Governance  
disclosures 
2. Report on the year 
• Internal controls over financial reporting and procedures to 
3. Internal audit  prevent money laundering, financial crime, bribery and 
4. External audit  corruption 
  • Outcomes of investigations resulting from whistleblowing 
  • The appointment or dismissal of the Chief Internal Auditor, the 
  approved Internal audit work programme, key audit findings and 
the quality of Internal audit work 
• The skills of the External audit team and their compliance with 
   auditor independence requirements, the approved audit plan, 
John Devine  the quality of the firm’s execution of the audit, and the agreed 
Chairman, Audit Committee  audit and non-audit fees  
    Standard Life Aberdeen 2020  59  
3. Corporate governance statement continued 
 
In carrying out its duties, the Committee is authorised by the  3.1.2 Report on the year 
Board to obtain any information it needs from any Director or  Audit agenda 
employee of the Group. It is also authorised to seek, at the 
As well as regular reporting, agenda items were aligned to the 
expense of the Group, appropriate external professional advice 
annual financial cycle as set out below: 
whenever it considers this necessary. The Committee did not 
need to take any independent advice during the year. 
• Annual report and accounts 2019 
In accordance with the Senior Managers and Certification Regime  Jan-Mar • Strategic report and financial highlights 2019 
the Audit Committee Chairman is responsible for the oversight of   
• Financial reporting judgements 
the independence, autonomy and effectiveness of our policies 
and procedures on whistleblowing including the procedures for  • Liaison with the Remuneration Committee on 
the protection of employees who raise concerns related to  targets and measures 
detrimental treatment. Throughout the year the Audit Committee  • External auditors’ review of Full year results 
Chairman met regularly with the Chief Internal Auditor and the  • Financial crime and Whistleblowing 
Head of Financial Crime to discuss their work, findings and 
current developments. 
• Internal audit findings 
Committee effectiveness  Apr-Jun • CASS reporting update 
The Committee reviews its remit and effectiveness each year. The   
• Pillar 3 regulatory reporting 
2020 review was conducted internally by the Company Secretary 
interviewing each of the Committee members. As well as general  • Initial financial reporting matters for Half year 
observations, the key performance areas considered were:  2020 
• Financial crime and Whistleblowing 
• The coverage of the Committee’s duties in the meeting 
agendas 
• How effectively agenda items were presented and discussed  • Half year results 2020 
• The quality and level of detail in the papers  Jul-Sep • External auditors’ review of Half year results  
 
• How well the Committee met its objectives in terms of making  • External auditors’ audit strategy, including fees 
decisions and reporting to the Board  • Internal audit findings 
The Committee members did not raise any material issues or  • Financial crime and Whistleblowing 
concerns regarding the above areas or the overall effectiveness of  • MiFID II reporting updates 
the Committee during 2020. They were very supportive of the 
Chair’s effective role in leading the Committee through the volume 
• Initial financial reporting matters for Full year 
of technical papers. The Committee members always aim to find 
Oct-Dec 2020 
the right balance in their discussion time to make sure that, while 
they cover technical financial and regulatory reporting to the      • Non-audit services policy 
appropriate level, they are also able to spend enough time  • The Internal audit plan and charter 
considering all of the other matters under their remit. The  • Internal audit findings 
Committee also recognised the ongoing external changes in 
• Effectiveness of the External auditors and 
relation to audit reform and the provision of audit services and will 
related non-audit services 
consider any changes/best practice that may arise from this. 
• Financial crime and Whistleblowing 
• Risk management and internal control system 
annual review 
The indicative proportion of time spent on the business of the 
Committee is illustrated below: 
Financial reporting
 
External audit
Internal audit
Regulatory reporting
Other controls (including CASS, fraud and anti-financial crime reporting)   
   
60 Standard Life Aberdeen 2020  
3. Corporate governance statement continued   
   
In carrying out its duties, the Committee is authorised by the  3.1.2 Report on the year  Detail of work  In addition, the Committee considered the form of the viability 
Board to obtain any information it needs from any Director or  Audit agenda  The focus of work in respect of 2020 is described below.  statement and in particular whether the three-year period 
employee of the Group. It is also authorised to seek, at the  remained appropriate, and concluded that it did. This reflects both 
As well as regular reporting, agenda items were aligned to the 
expense of the Group, appropriate external professional advice  annual financial cycle as set out below:  Financial reporting   our internal planning cycle and the timescale over which changes  GO
whenever it considers this necessary. The Committee did not  Our accounts are prepared in accordance with International  to major regulations and the external landscape affecting our  VE
Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). The Committee believes  R
need to take any independent advice during the year.  • Annual report and accounts 2019  that some Alternative Performance Measures (APMs), which are  business typically take place. In formulating the statement, the  NA
Committee considered the result of stress testing and reverse  N
In accordance with the Senior Managers and Certification Regime  • Strategic report and financial highlights 2019  also called non-GAAP measures, can add insight to the IFRS  stress testing presented to the Risk and Capital Committee. The  CE
the Audit Committee Chairman is responsible for the oversight of    • Financial reporting judgements  reporting and help to give shareholders a fuller understanding of  Committee recommended the viability statement to the Board.   
the independence, autonomy and effectiveness of our policies  the performance of the business. The Committee considered the 
and procedures on whistleblowing including the procedures for  • Liaison with the Remuneration Committee on  presentation of APMs and related guidance as discussed further  During 2020, the Committee reviewed the Annual report and 
the protection of employees who raise concerns related to  targets and measures  in the ‘Fair, balanced and understandable’ section below.  accounts 2019 and the Half year results 2020. For both periods it 
detrimental treatment. Throughout the year the Audit Committee  • External auditors’ review of Full year results  received written and/or oral reports from the Chief Financial 
The Committee reviewed the Group accounting policies and 
Chairman met regularly with the Chief Internal Auditor and the  • Financial crime and Whistleblowing  Officer, the Company Secretary, the Chief Internal Auditor and the 
confirmed they were appropriate to be used for the 2020 Group 
Head of Financial Crime to discuss their work, findings and  External auditors. The Committee used these reports to aid its 
financial statements. This year there were no new accounting 
current developments.  understanding of the composition of the financial statements, to 
• Internal audit findings  standards which had a significant impact on the Group accounting 
confirm that the specific reporting standards and compliance 
Committee effectiveness  • CASS reporting update  policies.  requirements had been met and to support the accounting 
The Committee reviews its remit and effectiveness each year. The    • Pillar 3 regulatory reporting  The Committee reviewed the basis of accounting and in particular  judgements and estimates. Following its reviews, the Committee 
2020 review was conducted internally by the Company Secretary 
interviewing each of the Committee members. As well as general  • Initial financial reporting matters for Half year  the appropriateness of adopting the going concern basis of  was able to recommend the approval of each of the reports to the 
preparation of the financial statements. In doing so, it considered  Board, being satisfied that the full and half year financial 
observations, the key performance areas considered were:  2020 
the Group’s cash flows resulting from its business activities and  statements complied with laws and regulations and had been 
• The coverage of the Committee’s duties in the meeting  • Financial crime and Whistleblowing  factors likely to affect its future development, performance and  appropriately compiled. 
agendas  position together with related risks, as set out in more detail in the 
The Committee discussed the impact of COVID-19 on the Annual 
• How effectively agenda items were presented and discussed  • Half year results 2020  Strategic report. The Committee recommended the going concern  report and accounts 2020 and Half year results 2020 production 
• The quality and level of detail in the papers  • External auditors’ review of Half year results   statement to the Board.  process, and supported the steps put in place by management to 
• How well the Committee met its objectives in terms of making    • External auditors’ audit strategy, including fees  ensure that controls were maintained and that the timetables 
remained appropriate for a remote working environment.
decisions and reporting to the Board  • Internal audit findings 
The Committee members did not raise any material issues or  • Financial crime and Whistleblowing   
concerns regarding the above areas or the overall effectiveness of  • MiFID II reporting updates   
the Committee during 2020. They were very supportive of the 
 
Chair’s effective role in leading the Committee through the volume 
• Initial financial reporting matters for Full year 
of technical papers. The Committee members always aim to find  2020   
the right balance in their discussion time to make sure that, while 
they cover technical financial and regulatory reporting to the      • Non-audit services policy  Accounting estimates and judgements 
appropriate level, they are also able to spend enough time  • The Internal audit plan and charter  The Audit Committee considered all estimates and judgements that Directors understood could be material to the 2020 financial 
considering all of the other matters under their remit. The  • Internal audit findings  statements. The Committee also focused on disclosure of these key accounting estimates and judgements. 
Committee also recognised the ongoing external changes in 
• Effectiveness of the External auditors and  Significant accounting estimates, judgements and  How the Audit Committee addressed  
relation to audit reform and the provision of audit services and will 
related non-audit services  assumptions for the year ended 31 December 2020   these significant accounting estimates and assumptions  
consider any changes/best practice that may arise from this. 
• Financial crime and Whistleblowing  Intangible assets including goodwill   
• Risk management and internal control system  For all intangible assets including goodwill, an  The half year 2020 impairment review of asset management goodwill 
assessment is made at each reporting date as to  resulted in the recognition of an impairment of £915m. The Committee spent 
annual review 
whether there is an indication that the intangible has  time at two meetings reviewing and challenging assumptions relating to the 
become impaired.   fair value, less costs of disposal, of the asset management cash-generating 
The indicative proportion of time spent on the business of the  unit. The Committee considered a number of different valuation approaches, 
At half year 2020 we determined that an impairment 
Committee is illustrated below:  and discussed that the key assumptions relating to the earnings multiple 
of goodwill was required. Significant judgement was 
valuation approach were projected forecasts of maintainable earnings, price 
required to determine the recoverable amount of the 
to earnings multiples, and premiums for control and discounts for lack of 
asset management cash-generating unit which 
liquidity. The Committee considered these assumptions were within the 
determined the goodwill impairment. 
range of reasonable outcomes. See Note 15 for further details.  
Impairment triggers are used to assess whether there 
The Committee also considered analysis provided by management on 
are indicators of impairment for other intangibles. The 
impairment triggers relating to the customer relationship and investment 
intangibles with material judgements are the customer 
management contract intangibles. The Committee agreed with management 
relationship and investment management contract 
that there were no indicators of impairment for these intangibles, other than 
intangibles. At half year 2020 we determined that an 
in relation to the segregated and similar customer relationship intangible 
impairment of the segregated and similar customer 
where an impairment of £134m was recognised. The Committee challenged 
relationship intangible was required. The 
the assumptions underlying the value in use for this intangible and 
determination of the recoverable amount for this 
concluded that they were reasonable and that related sensitivities were 
segregated and similar intangible required 
appropriately disclosed. See Note 15. 
assumptions relating to future fee revenue and 
expenses. 
   
 
   
    Standard Life Aberdeen 2020 61
3. Corporate governance statement continued 
 
Significant accounting estimates, judgements and  How the Audit Committee addressed  
assumptions for the year ended 31 December 2020   these significant accounting estimates and assumptions  
UK defined benefit pension plan   
In compiling a set of financial statements, it is  The Committee considered the proposed assumptions taking into account 
necessary to make some judgements and estimates  market data and information from pension scheme advisors. In relation to 
about outcomes that are dependent on future events.  inflation the Committee considered the long-term gap between the Retail 
This is particularly relevant to the defined benefit  Price Index (RPI) and the Consumer Price Index (CPI), as pensions in 
pension plan surplus which is inherently dependent on  payment are generally linked to CPI, taking into account recent government 
how long people live and future economic outcomes.   announcements relating to the future of RPI. 
For the UK defined benefit pension plan, the  The Committee also considered reporting from the External auditors and 
Committee reviewed the assumptions for mortality,  related benchmarking of the pension scheme assumptions. 
discount rate and inflation. 
Note 34 of the Group financial statements provides further details on the 
  actuarial assumptions used, and sets out the impact of mortality, discount 
rate and inflation sensitivities. Note 34 also provides details on the 
accounting policy applied and accounting policy judgements relating to the 
Group’s assessment that it has an unconditional right to a refund of a 
surplus, and the treatment of tax relating to this surplus.  
Investments in associates   
During 2020 the Group’s associate Phoenix issued  The Committee considered whether Phoenix should continue to be 
new shares relating to the acquisition of ReAssure  classified as an associate, and concluded that this classification remained 
Group plc, which resulted in the Group’s holding in  appropriate, notwithstanding that the holding was significantly less than 
Phoenix of 19.97% becoming 14.4% of the enlarged  20%. The classification as an associate was based on significant influence 
group. Determining whether Phoenix should continue  from the contractual relationships with Phoenix, including the licencing to 
to be classified as an associate was a critical  Phoenix of the Standard Life brand, and the Group’s Board representation 
accounting policy judgement during 2020.  on the Phoenix board. The Committee noted that if the holding was 
considered an investment rather an associate we would no longer report our 
 
share of Phoenix’s profits but would instead account for Phoenix as an 
As detailed in the 2019 Audit Committee report, HDFC  investment at fair value.  
Life was considered to be an associate whilst our 
The Committee noted that following the sale of HDFC Life shares on  
shareholding gave us the right to appoint a director to 
3 December 2020 we no longer had the right to appoint a director to the 
the HDFC Life Board. 
HDFC Life Board and therefore accounting as an investment was 
  appropriate, giving rise to a significant increase in the carrying value (to fair 
value) and a significant gain in the 2020 income statement.  
In relation to the Phoenix associate, judgements were 
also required relating to the recoverable amount and  In relation to Phoenix, the Committee noted that at year end 2020 the market 
carrying value of the investment.   value was above the carrying value and therefore that there were no 
indicators of impairment.  
See Note 16 for further information. 
The Committee also discussed the implications of the announcement on 23 
February 2021 relating to the simplification and extension of the strategic 
partnership with Phoenix. The Committee agreed that following the changes 
to the commercial agreements, in particular in relation to the licensing of the 
‘Standard Life’ brand, Phoenix should no longer be accounted for as an 
associate with effect from 23 February 2021, and should instead be 
accounted for as an investment at fair value. Note 47 relating to events after 
the reporting date provides further details. 
Principal risks are disclosed in the Strategic report and recommended to the Board by the Risk and Capital Committee. The Committee 
was satisfied that the estimates and quantified risk disclosures in the financial statements were consistent with the Strategic report. The 
Committee concluded that appropriate judgements had been applied in determining the estimates and that sufficient disclosure had 
been made to allow readers to understand the uncertainties surrounding outcomes.  
 
   
62 Standard Life Aberdeen 2020  
3. Corporate governance statement continued   
   
Significant accounting estimates, judgements and  How the Audit Committee addressed   Fair, balanced and understandable  • We, as an Audit Committee, reviewed the messaging in the 
assumptions for the year ended 31 December 2020   these significant accounting estimates and assumptions   The Committee supported the financial reporting team’s continued  Annual report and accounts, taking into account material 
UK defined benefit pension plan    aim to draft the Annual report and accounts to be ‘fair, balanced  received and Board discussions during the year 
G
In compiling a set of financial statements, it is  The Committee considered the proposed assumptions taking into account  and understandable’. A focus in 2020 was ensuring that the  • Three drafts of the Annual report and accounts 2020 were  O
V
necessary to make some judgements and estimates  market data and information from pension scheme advisors. In relation to  Strategic report appropriately explained risks relating to and  reviewed by the Audit Committee at three meetings. The  ER
about outcomes that are dependent on future events.  inflation the Committee considered the long-term gap between the Retail  impact of the COVID-19 virus.  Committee complemented its knowledge with that of executive  NA
N
This is particularly relevant to the defined benefit  Price Index (RPI) and the Consumer Price Index (CPI), as pensions in  Standard Life Aberdeen’s principles  management and the Internal and External auditors. An  CE
pension plan surplus which is inherently dependent on  payment are generally linked to CPI, taking into account recent government  To create clarity around what Standard Life Aberdeen means  interactive process allowed each draft to embrace contributions.    
how long people live and future economic outcomes.   announcements relating to the future of RPI.  when it talks of being fair, balanced and understandable, a set of  • Our Annual report and accounts goes through an extensive 
For the UK defined benefit pension plan, the  The Committee also considered reporting from the External auditors and  principles was developed, which can also act as an organisational  internal verification process of all content to verify accuracy 
Committee reviewed the assumptions for mortality,  related benchmarking of the pension scheme assumptions.  definition for each aspect:  The Committee also reviewed the use and presentation of APMs 
discount rate and inflation.  Note 34 of the Group financial statements provides further details on the  Fair  • The narrative contained in the  which complement the statutory IFRS results. This review 
  actuarial assumptions used, and sets out the impact of mortality, discount  ‘We are being open and  Annual report and accounts is  considered guidelines issued by the European Securities and 
rate and inflation sensitivities. Note 34 also provides details on the  honest in the way we  honest and accurate   Markets Authority in 2016 and the thematic reviews by the 
accounting policy applied and accounting policy judgements relating to the  present our discussions  • The key messages in the narrative  Financial Reporting Council (FRC). A Supplementary information 
Group’s assessment that it has an unconditional right to a refund of a  and analysis, and are  in the Strategic report and  section is included in the Annual report and accounts to explain 
surplus, and the treatment of tax relating to this surplus.   providing what we  Governance sections of the Annual  why we use these metrics and to provide reconciliations of these 
believe to be an  report and accounts reflect the  metrics to IFRS measures where relevant. This section also 
Investments in associates    accurate assessment of  financial reporting contained in the  provides increased transparency over the calculation of reported 
During 2020 the Group’s associate Phoenix issued  The Committee considered whether Phoenix should continue to be  business and economic  financial statements  financial ratios.  
realities’ 
new shares relating to the acquisition of ReAssure  classified as an associate, and concluded that this classification remained 
• The Key Performance Indicators  Adjusted profit before tax is a key profit APM. The Committee 
Group plc, which resulted in the Group’s holding in  appropriate, notwithstanding that the holding was significantly less than 
(KPIs) for the period are consistent  considered whether the allocation of items to adjusted profit was 
Phoenix of 19.97% becoming 14.4% of the enlarged  20%. The classification as an associate was based on significant influence 
with the key messages outlined in  in line with the defined accounting policies, consistent with 
group. Determining whether Phoenix should continue  from the contractual relationships with Phoenix, including the licencing to 
the Strategic report  previous practice and appropriately disclosed. Where there were 
to be classified as an associate was a critical  Phoenix of the Standard Life brand, and the Group’s Board representation 
Balanced  • The Annual report and accounts  judgemental areas, such as in relation to certain restructuring 
accounting policy judgement during 2020.  on the Phoenix board. The Committee noted that if the holding was 
‘We are fully disclosing  presents both successes and  costs, the Committee specifically reviewed the proposed 
considered an investment rather an associate we would no longer report our 
  our successes, the  challenges experienced during the  treatments and ensured that the Annual report and accounts 
share of Phoenix’s profits but would instead account for Phoenix as an 
challenges we have  year and, as appropriate, reflects  provided appropriate disclosures. 
As detailed in the 2019 Audit Committee report, HDFC  investment at fair value.  
faced in the period, and  those expected in the future 
Life was considered to be an associate whilst our  We agreed to recommend to the Board that the Annual report and 
shareholding gave us the right to appoint a director to  The Committee noted that following the sale of HDFC Life shares on   the challenges and  • The level of prominence we give to  accounts 2020, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and can be 
3 December 2020 we no longer had the right to appoint a director to the  opportunities we 
the HDFC Life Board.  successes in the year versus  understood by someone with a reasonably informed knowledge of 
HDFC Life Board and therefore accounting as an investment was  anticipate in the future – 
challenges faced is appropriate  financial statements and our industry.  
  appropriate, giving rise to a significant increase in the carrying value (to fair  all with equal 
value) and a significant gain in the 2020 income statement.   importance and at a  • The narrative and analysis  Prudential reporting 
In relation to the Phoenix associate, judgements were  level of detail that is  contained in the Annual report and 
In H1 2020 the Group published its Standard Life Aberdeen plc 
also required relating to the recoverable amount and  In relation to Phoenix, the Committee noted that at year end 2020 the market  appropriate for our  accounts effectively balances the 
Pillar 3 report under CRD IV. The Committee reviewed the Pillar 3 
carrying value of the investment.   value was above the carrying value and therefore that there were no  stakeholders’  information needs and interests of 
report and reviewed and discussed papers which set out the 
indicators of impairment.   each of our key stakeholder groups 
control and verification processes followed in the compilation of 
See Note 16 for further information.  Understandable  • There is a clear and easy to  the report. 
‘The language we use  understand framework to the 
The Committee also discussed the implications of the announcement on 23  and the way we  Annual report and accounts   The Committee also considered disclosures relating to CRD IV 
February 2021 relating to the simplification and extension of the strategic  structure our report is  • The layout is clear and consistent  results included in the Strategic report section of the Annual report 
partnership with Phoenix. The Committee agreed that following the changes  helping us present our  and accounts and half year reporting, together with related 
and the language used is simple 
to the commercial agreements, in particular in relation to the licensing of the  business and its  assurance over these disclosures. 
and easy to understand (industry 
‘Standard Life’ brand, Phoenix should no longer be accounted for as an  performance clearly – in 
associate with effect from 23 February 2021, and should instead be  a way that someone  specific terms are defined where  Internal controls 
appropriate) 
accounted for as an investment at fair value. Note 47 relating to events after  with a reasonably  As noted earlier, the Directors have overall responsibility for the 
the reporting date provides further details.  informed knowledge of  • There is a consistent tone across  Group’s internal controls and for ensuring their ongoing 
financial statements  and good linkage between all  effectiveness. This does not extend to associates and joint 
and our industry would  sections in a manner that reflects a  ventures. Together with the Risk and Capital Committee, the 
Principal risks are disclosed in the Strategic report and recommended to the Board by the Risk and Capital Committee. The Committee  understand’  complete story and clear  Committee provides comfort to the Board of their ongoing 
was satisfied that the estimates and quantified risk disclosures in the financial statements were consistent with the Strategic report. The  signposting to where additional  effectiveness. 
Committee concluded that appropriate judgements had been applied in determining the estimates and that sufficient disclosure had  information can be found 
been made to allow readers to understand the uncertainties surrounding outcomes.   Internal audit regularly reviews the effectiveness of internal 
Activities  controls and reports to the Committee and the Risk and Capital 
  • An Internal Review Group (IRG) is in place which reviews the  Committee.  
Annual report and accounts specifically from a fair, balanced 
The Finance function sets formal requirements for financial 
   
and understandable perspective and provides feedback to our 
reporting which apply to the Group as a whole, defines the 
financial reporting team on whether it conforms to our 
processes and detailed controls for the consolidation process and 
standards. The members of the IRG are independent of the 
reviews and challenges reporting submissions. Further, the 
financial reporting team and include colleagues from Investor 
Finance function runs a Technical Review Committee and is 
Relations, Communications and Strategy. 
responsible for monitoring external technical developments. 
• Fair, balanced and understandable guidance was provided to 
The control environment around financial reporting will continue to 
all key stakeholders involved in the Annual report and accounts 
be monitored closely. 
production process  
    Standard Life Aberdeen 2020  63  
3. Corporate governance statement continued 
 
Financial crime and whistleblowing  3.1.4 External auditors  
Our people are trained via mandatory training modules to detect  The appointment 
the signs of possible fraudulent or improper activity and how to  The Committee has responsibility for making recommendations to 
report concerns either directly or via our independent  the Board on the reappointment of the External auditors, 
whistleblowing hotline. The Committee receives regular updates  determining their independence from the Group and its 
from the Head of Financial Crime who reports on compliance with  management and agreeing the scope and fee for the audit. 
the Group’s Anti-Financial Crime and Anti-Bribery policy, and any  Following its review of KPMG’s performance, the Committee 
other activities associated with financial crime, including fraud risk.  concluded that there should be a resolution to shareholders to 
During 2020, the Committee reviewed the output of an internal  recommend the reappointment of KPMG at the 2021 AGM.  
audit on the anti-financial crime framework and it has continued to 
The Committee complies with the UK Corporate Governance 
oversee the progress to implement the report’s recommendations. 
Code, the FRC Guidance on Audit Committees with regard to the 
The Committee Chairman is the designated whistleblower’s  external audit tendering timetable, the provisions of the EU 
champion and the Committee receives regular updates on the  Regulation on Audit Reform, and the Competition and Markets 
operation of the whistleblowing procedures (Speak Up) from the  Authority Statutory Audit Services Order with regard to mandatory 
Conduct and Conflicts Oversight Manager. The anonymised  auditor rotation and tendering. The Committee will continue to 
reports include a summary of the incidents raised as  follow the annual appointment process but does not currently 
whistleblowing, and information on developments of the  anticipate re-tendering the audit before 2026. The audit was last 
arrangements in place, to ensure concerns can be raised in  subject to a tender for the financial year ended 31 December 
confidence about possible malpractice, wrongdoing and other  2017.  
matters.  
The Senior Statutory Auditor is Jonathan Mills, who, having been 
The Committee oversees the findings of investigations and  appointed since 1 January 2017, is completing his fourth audit as 
required follow-up action. If there is any allegation against the Risk  the lead audit partner. Recognising the rotational requirements for 
or Internal audit functions, the Committee directs the investigation.  the lead audit partner for financial year 2022, the Committee has 
The Committee is satisfied that the Group’s procedures are  been meeting with potential candidates to succeed him, and 
currently operating effectively. The Committee Chairman reports  agreeing a plan with KPMG on how to evolve the audit team to 
to the Board on the updates the Committee receives.  ensure a smooth handover. 
3.1.3 Internal audit  Auditor independence 
The role and mandate of the Internal audit function is set out in its  The Board has an established policy (the Policy) setting out which 
Charter, which is reviewed and approved by the Committee  non-audit services can be purchased from the firm appointed as 
annually. An exercise was undertaken during the year to  External auditors. The Committee monitors the implementation of 
benchmark Internal audit resources, with increased consideration  the Policy on behalf of the Board. The aim of the Policy, which is 
of how audit assurance activity across the Group is aligned and  reviewed annually, is to support and safeguard the objectivity and 
coordinated, avoiding gaps and overlaps. Whilst Internal audit  independence of the External auditors and to comply with the 
maintains a relationship with the External auditors, in accordance  revised FRC Ethical standards for auditors (Ethical Standards). It 
with relevant independence standards, the External auditors do  does this by prohibiting the auditors from carrying out certain 
not place reliance on the work of Internal audit.  types of non-audit services, and by setting out which non-audit 
services are permitted. It also ensures that where fees for 
The Internal Audit plan is reviewed and approved by the 
approved non-audit services are significant, they are subject to 
Committee annually, but is flexed during the year to respond to 
the Committee’s prior approval. KPMG has implemented its own 
internal and external developments. The function’s coverage 
policy preventing the provision by KPMG of most non-audit 
aligns to the Group’s activities and footprint, taking account of 
services to FTSE 350 companies which are audit clients. There is 
local Internal Audit requirements. As a result of COVID-19, the 
a 70% fee cap on non-audit services to audit clients in place. 
audit plan year was adjusted to support a full programme of 
COVID-19 related audit work, ahead of a transition to a revised  The services prohibited by the Policy are as set out in the FRC 
plan. Key areas of focus over the year were operational resilience,  Revised Ethical Standard 2019. 
conduct and the Group’s Transformation programme.  
The Policy permits non-audit services to be purchased, following 
The Committee formally assess the effectiveness of the function  approval, when they are closely aligned to the External audit 
via a scorecard, which is aligned to the Group’s objectives, along  service and when the External audit firm’s skills and experience 
with assessing its independence and quality assurance practices.  make it the most suitable supplier.  
Independent external reviews are also undertaken at regular 
These include: 
intervals. These have been positive and allow the function to 
continue to measure itself against best practice. Regular reporting  • Audit related services, such as regulatory reporting 
is provided to the Committee to illustrate plan progress, and the 
• Investment circular reporting accountant engagements 
status of implementation of recommendations. The Committee’s 
• Attesting to services not required by statute or regulation (e.g. 
review of 2020 was positive and supports the continuous 
controls reports) 
evolution and enhancement of the function. 
• Other reports required by a regulator or assurance services 
The Internal Audit function completed its functional transformation 
relating to regulatory returns  
programme in March 2020, subsequently launching an updated 
strategy focusing on quality, delivery, people, and stakeholders,  • Sustainability reports audits/reviews 
underpinned by a number of pillars including digital.  • Fund merger assurance engagements, where the engagement 
is with the manager and the external auditor is also the auditor 
The Chief Internal Auditor reports to the Committee Chairman. 
of the fund 
During the year, regular dialogue takes place, at least monthly, 
between the Committee Chairman and the Chief Internal Auditor. 
64 Standard Life Aberdeen 2020  
3. Corporate governance statement continued   
   
Financial crime and whistleblowing  3.1.4 External auditors   KPMG has reviewed its own independence in line with these  The Committee looks to the audit team’s objectivity, professional 
Our people are trained via mandatory training modules to detect  The appointment  criteria and its own ethical guideline standards. KPMG has  scepticism, continuing professional education and its relationship 
the signs of possible fraudulent or improper activity and how to  The Committee has responsibility for making recommendations to  confirmed to the Committee that following its review it is satisfied  with management, all in the context of regulatory requirements 
report concerns either directly or via our independent  the Board on the reappointment of the External auditors,  that it has acted in accordance with relevant regulatory and  and professional standards. Specifically:  GO
whistleblowing hotline. The Committee receives regular updates  determining their independence from the Group and its  professional requirements and that its objectivity is not impaired.  • The Committee discussed the scope of the audit prior to its  VER
from the Head of Financial Crime who reports on compliance with  management and agreeing the scope and fee for the audit.  Having considered compliance with our Policy and the fees paid  commencement   NA
tohteh eGr raocutipv’isti eAsn ati-sFsioncainacteiadl  wCirtihm fein aanndci aAln ctri-imBreib, einryc lupdoilnicgy ,f raanudd  arinsyk .  Fcoonlloclwuidnegd i ttsh aret vthieewre o sf hKoPuMldG b’es  ap ererfsoormluationnce to, t hshea Creohmomldiettrese t o  tinod KePpeMnGd,e tnhte.  Committee is satisfied that KPMG has remained  • TQhuea lCityo mRemviitetewe  treeavmie wofe tdh eth Fe RaCnn iuna rle fsinpdeicntg osf  oKf PthMeG A’su daiut dits.  NCE 
During 2020, the Committee reviewed the output of an internal  recommend the reappointment of KPMG at the 2021 AGM.  
We requested a formal report from KPMG of the applicability of 
audit on the anti-financial crime framework and it has continued to  Audit and non-audit fees 
The Committee complies with the UK Corporate Governance  the findings to Standard Life Aberdeen both in respect of 
oversee the progress to implement the report’s recommendations.  The Group audit fee payable to KPMG in respect of 2020 was 
Code, the FRC Guidance on Audit Committees with regard to the  generally identified failings and failings specific to individual 
£5.2m (2019: KPMG £4.8m). In addition £2.3m (2019: £2.1m) 
The Committee Chairman is the designated whistleblower’s  external audit tendering timetable, the provisions of the EU  audits. We were satisfied insofar as the issues might be 
was incurred on audit related assurance services. Fees for audit 
champion and the Committee receives regular updates on the  Regulation on Audit Reform, and the Competition and Markets  applicable to Standard Life Aberdeen’s audit, that KPMG had 
related assurance services are primarily in respect of client money 
operation of the whistleblowing procedures (Speak Up) from the  Authority Statutory Audit Services Order with regard to mandatory  proper and adequate procedures in place for our audit.  
reporting and the half year review. The Committee is satisfied that 
Conduct and Conflicts Oversight Manager. The anonymised  auditor rotation and tendering. The Committee will continue to  the audit fee is commensurate with permitting KPMG to provide a  • The Committee approved a formal engagement with the auditor 
reports include a summary of the incidents raised as  follow the annual appointment process but does not currently  quality audit and monitors regularly the level of audit and non- and agreed its audit fee 
whistleblowing, and information on developments of the  anticipate re-tendering the audit before 2026. The audit was last 
audit fees. Non-audit work can only be undertaken if the fees  • The Committee Chairman had at least monthly meetings with 
arrangements in place, to ensure concerns can be raised in  subject to a tender for the financial year ended 31 December 
have been approved in advance in accordance with the Policy for  the lead audit partner to discuss Group developments 
confidence about possible malpractice, wrongdoing and other  2017.  
non-audit fees. Unless fees are small (which we have defined as 
matters.   • The Committee receives updates on KPMG’s work and its 
The Senior Statutory Auditor is Jonathan Mills, who, having been  less than £75,000), the approval of the whole Committee is 
findings and compliance with auditor independence 
The Committee oversees the findings of investigations and  appointed since 1 January 2017, is completing his fourth audit as  required. 
requirements 
required follow-up action. If there is any allegation against the Risk  the lead audit partner. Recognising the rotational requirements for 
or Internal audit functions, the Committee directs the investigation.  the lead audit partner for financial year 2022, the Committee has  Non-audit fees amounted to £0.8m (2019: £1.2m) all of which  • The Committee reviewed and discussed the audit findings 
The Committee is satisfied that the Group’s procedures are  been meeting with potential candidates to succeed him, and  related to other assurance services. Other assurance services in  including audit differences prior to the approval of the financial 
currently operating effectively. The Committee Chairman reports  agreeing a plan with KPMG on how to evolve the audit team to  2020 primarily related to control assurance reports, which are  statements. See the discussion on materiality in the next 
to the Board on the updates the Committee receives.  ensure a smooth handover.  closely associated with audit work. The External auditors were  paragraph for more detail. 
considered the most suitable supplier for these services taking 
The Committee discussed with KPMG how remote working would 
3.1.3 Internal audit  Auditor independence  into account the alignment of these services to the work 
impact their audit and were satisfied that there would be no impact 
The role and mandate of the Internal audit function is set out in its  The Board has an established policy (the Policy) setting out which  undertaken by External audit and the firm’s skill sets. The 
on audit quality. 
Charter, which is reviewed and approved by the Committee  non-audit services can be purchased from the firm appointed as  Committee also monitors audit and non-audit services provided to 
annually. An exercise was undertaken during the year to  External auditors. The Committee monitors the implementation of  non-consolidated funds and were satisfied fees for those services  We have discussed the accuracy of financial reporting with KPMG 
benchmark Internal audit resources, with increased consideration  the Policy on behalf of the Board. The aim of the Policy, which is  did not impact auditor independence.  both as regards accounting errors that will be brought to the 
of how audit assurance activity across the Group is aligned and  reviewed annually, is to support and safeguard the objectivity and  Further details of the fees paid to the External auditors for audit  Committee’s attention and as regards amounts that would need to 
coordinated, avoiding gaps and overlaps. Whilst Internal audit  independence of the External auditors and to comply with the  and non-audit work carried out during the year are set out in Note  be adjusted so that the financial statements give a true and fair 
maintains a relationship with the External auditors, in accordance  revised FRC Ethical standards for auditors (Ethical Standards). It  8 of the Group financial statements.   view. Differences can arise for many reasons ranging from 
with relevant independence standards, the External auditors do  does this by prohibiting the auditors from carrying out certain  deliberate errors (fraud etc.) to good estimates that were made at 
not place reliance on the work of Internal audit.  types of non-audit services, and by setting out which non-audit  The ratio of non-audit fees to audit and audit related assurance  a point in time that, with the benefit of more time, could have been 
services are permitted. It also ensures that where fees for  fees is 11% (2019: 17%). The total of audit related assurance fees  more accurately measured. KPMG have set overall audit 
The Internal Audit plan is reviewed and approved by the 
approved non-audit services are significant, they are subject to  (£2.3m) and non-audit fees (£0.8m) is £3.1m, and the ratio of  materiality at £25m (2019: £31m). This equates to approximately 
Committee annually, but is flexed during the year to respond to 
the Committee’s prior approval. KPMG has implemented its own  these audit related assurance fees and non-audit fees to audit  2.7% of normalised profit before tax (as set out in the KPMG 
internal and external developments. The function’s coverage 
policy preventing the provision by KPMG of most non-audit  fees is 59% (2019: 69%). As noted above the audit related  independent auditors’ report) and 5% of adjusted profit before tax. 
aligns to the Group’s activities and footprint, taking account of 
services to FTSE 350 companies which are audit clients. There is  assurance fees are primarily fees in relation to required regulatory  This is within the range in which audit opinions are conventionally 
local Internal Audit requirements. As a result of COVID-19, the 
a 70% fee cap on non-audit services to audit clients in place.  reporting, where it is normal practice for the work to be performed  thought to be reliable. To manage the risk that aggregate 
audit plan year was adjusted to support a full programme of 
by the External auditor.  uncorrected differences become material, we supported that audit 
COVID-19 related audit work, ahead of a transition to a revised  The services prohibited by the Policy are as set out in the FRC 
testing would be performed to a lower materiality threshold for 
plan. Key areas of focus over the year were operational resilience,  Revised Ethical Standard 2019.  The Committee is satisfied that the non-audit fees do not impair 
individual reporting units. Further, KPMG agreed to draw the 
conduct and the Group’s Transformation programme.   KPMG’s independence. 
The Policy permits non-audit services to be purchased, following  Committee’s attention to all identified uncorrected misstatements 
The Committee formally assess the effectiveness of the function  approval, when they are closely aligned to the External audit  Audit quality and materiality  greater than £1.25m (2019: £1.6m). The aggregated net 
via a scorecard, which is aligned to the Group’s objectives, along  service and when the External audit firm’s skills and experience  The Committee places great importance on the quality of the  difference between the reported pre-tax profit and the auditor’s 
with assessing its independence and quality assurance practices.  make it the most suitable supplier.   External audit and carries out a formal annual review of its  judgement of pre-tax profit was less than £3m which was 
Independent external reviews are also undertaken at regular  effectiveness. This was particularly relevant in 2020 as both the  significantly less than audit materiality. The gross differences were 
These include: 
intervals. These have been positive and allow the function to  Finance team and the External audit team had to overcome the  attributable to various individual components of the consolidated 
continue to measure itself against best practice. Regular reporting  • Audit related services, such as regulatory reporting  challenges of remote working.  income statement and balance sheet. No audit difference was 
is provided to the Committee to illustrate plan progress, and the  • Investment circular reporting accountant engagements    material to any line item in either the income statement or the 
status of implementation of recommendations. The Committee’s  balance sheet. Accordingly, the Committee did not require any 
• Attesting to services not required by statute or regulation (e.g. 
review of 2020 was positive and supports the continuous  adjustment to be made to the financial statements as a result of 
controls reports) 
evolution and enhancement of the function.  the audit differences reported by the External auditors. 
• Other reports required by a regulator or assurance services 
The Internal Audit function completed its functional transformation  KPMG has confirmed to us that the audit complies with their 
relating to regulatory returns  
programme in March 2020, subsequently launching an updated  independent review procedures.  
strategy focusing on quality, delivery, people, and stakeholders,  • Sustainability reports audits/reviews 
    
underpinned by a number of pillars including digital.  • Fund merger assurance engagements, where the engagement 
is with the manager and the external auditor is also the auditor 
The Chief Internal Auditor reports to the Committee Chairman. 
of the fund 
During the year, regular dialogue takes place, at least monthly, 
between the Committee Chairman and the Chief Internal Auditor. 
    Standard Life Aberdeen 2020 65
3. Corporate governance statement continued 
 
 
Furthermore the Committee has closely monitored developments 
from our regulators across the world as they have responded to 
the challenges brought about by the COVID-19 pandemic and 
progressed the regulatory agenda including in the areas of 
operational resilience, liquidity and third party risk management. 
Further details on this and other activities carried out by the 
Committee during the year can be found in the report that follows. 
 
  
Martin Pike  
Chairman, Risk and Capital Committee 
 
Membership 
Martin Pike  All members of the Risk and Capital Committee are independent 
non-executive Directors. For their names, the number of meetings 
and committee member attendance during 2020, please see the 
3.2 Risk and Capital Committee report  
table on page 57. 
I am pleased to present my report as Chairman of the Risk and 
Capital Committee.   The Committee meetings are attended by the Chief Risk Officer. 
Others invited to attend on a regular basis include the Chief 
The Risk and Capital Committee supports the Board in providing 
Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, the Chief Investment 
effective oversight and challenge of risk management and the use 
Officer, Chief Operating Officer, Group General Counsel and the 
of capital across the Group so as to ensure that we meet the 
Chief Internal Auditor, as well as the External auditors.  
expectations of our shareholders, regulators and clients.  
Regular private meetings of the Committee’s members have been 
The overall risk environment for the Group remains at an elevated 
held during the year providing an opportunity to raise any issues 
level as a result of the combination of the difficult market 
or concerns with the Chairman of the Committee. The 
environment and our ongoing business transformation activity. 
Committee’s members have also held regular private meetings 
A key area of focus for the Committee during 2020 was our  with the Chief Risk Officer and the Chief Internal Auditor and have 
response to managing the impacts of the global COVID-19  been given additional access to management and subject matter 
pandemic on our clients, people and business. We successfully  experts outside of the Committee meetings in order to support 
established new ways of working to support our customers and  them in gaining an in-depth understanding of specific topics. 
the delivery of our business plan and we managed the impacts of 
Key responsibilities 
the difficult economic environment. In light of the ongoing 
The Company’s purpose results in exposure to a range of risks 
uncertainty in the political landscape over the year, the Committee 
and uncertainties. Understanding and actively managing the 
monitored developments in relation to the negotiations for the 
sources and scale of these risks and uncertainties are key to 
UK’s future relationship with the EU and reviewed Standard Life 
fulfilling this purpose. 
Aberdeen’s preparations for a disorderly Brexit scenario which 
ensured that we would continue to be able to provide our clients  The role of the Committee is to provide oversight and advice to 
with continuity of service, whatever the final outcome.  the Board, and where appropriate, the board of each relevant 
Group company on: 
Throughout 2020 the Committee continued to review and 
challenge key activities undertaken by the business and advise  • The Group’s current risk strategy, material risk exposures and 
the Board on these, including:   their impact on the levels and allocations of capital 
• Evolution of the Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) framework  • The structure and implementation of the Group’s ERM 
framework and its suitability to react to forward-looking issues 
• Key components of the Group’s ICAAP and the Group’s capital 
and the changing nature of risks 
and liquidity 
• Changes to the risk appetite framework and quantitative risk 
• Management of the risks arising from the firm’s third party 
limits 
relationships 
• Risk aspects of major investments, major product 
• Key risks arising from the transformation activity across the 
developments and other corporate transactions 
Group 
• Regulatory compliance across the Group 
• Work to develop our approach to managing cyber resilience in 
line with the US National Institute of Standards and Technology  Further detail on the work performed in each of these areas is set 
(NIST) framework   out in the report below. 
• Our Conduct Risk Framework and the implementation of the 
In carrying out its duties, the Committee is authorised by the 
Senior Managers and Certification Regime across the UK 
Board to obtain any information it needs from any Director or 
business 
employee of the Group. It is also authorised to seek, at the 
• The Group’s exposure to climate change and management of  expense of the Group, appropriate external professional advice 
related risks and opportunities  whenever it considers this necessary. The Committee did not 
need to take any independent advice during the year. 
   
66 Standard Life Aberdeen 2020  
3. Corporate governance statement continued   
   
 
Furthermore the Committee has closely monitored developments  The Committee’s work in 2020 
• Aberdeen Standard Investments’ approach to fund 
from our regulators across the world as they have responded to  Overview 
governance  
the challenges brought about by the COVID-19 pandemic and 
The Committee operates a dynamic agenda and uses each 
progressed the regulatory agenda including in the areas of  meeting to consider a range of recurring items as well as other  • Monitoring of risks related to overall transformation  GO
operational resilience, liquidity and third party risk management.  items that are more ad hoc and/or more forward-looking in nature.  and integration activities  VE
Further details on this and other activities carried out by the  An indicative breakdown as to how the Committee spent its time  • Aberdeen Standard Investments’ Investment Platform  RNA
Integration Plan  N
Committee during the year can be found in the report that follows.  is shown below:  C
• Review of Standard Life Aberdeen’s principal risks  E
 
  and risk disclosures for the Annual report and 
accounts 
• Proposed changes to the risk appetite framework 
Apr-Jun • Aberdeen Standard Investments’ approach to 
  
Assessment of Value 
Martin Pike    
Chairman, Risk and Capital Committee  • Managing and monitoring conflicts of interest 
 
• Aberdeen Standard Investments’ product and 
Membership 
solutions pipeline and governance 
  All members of the Risk and Capital Committee are independent 
non-executive Directors. For their names, the number of meetings  • Planning and preparations for the post lockdown 
and committee member attendance during 2020, please see the  return to office 
3.2 Risk and Capital Committee report  
table on page 57.  • Fund liquidity 2020 regulatory change  
ERM framework including risk policies and appetites
I am pleased to present my report as Chairman of the Risk and 
  • LIBOR transition 
Capital Committee.   The Committee meetings are attended by the Chief Risk Officer.  Operational risks
Others invited to attend on a regular basis include the Chief  • Review of the remit of the Risk & Compliance function 
The Risk and Capital Committee supports the Board in providing  Conduct and compliance risks
Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, the Chief Investment  • The liquidity risk framework  
effective oversight and challenge of risk management and the use  Capital adequacy
Officer, Chief Operating Officer, Group General Counsel and the 
of capital across the Group so as to ensure that we meet the  Chief Internal Auditor, as well as the External auditors.   Other controls (including transaction risk assessments) • The Senior Managers and Certification Regime  
expectations of our shareholders, regulators and clients.  
 
Regular private meetings of the Committee’s members have been 
The overall risk environment for the Group remains at an elevated  • The management of IT obsolescence 
held during the year providing an opportunity to raise any issues  The key recurring items considered by the Committee are: 
level as a result of the combination of the difficult market  or concerns with the Chairman of the Committee. The  Jul-Sep • Aberdeen Standard Investments’ portfolio advisory 
environment and our ongoing business transformation activity.  Committee’s members have also held regular private meetings  • fTrohme ‘ Vthiee wCsh oienf  RRiisskk ’ Oreffpicoertr  wofh tihche  pkeroyv riidsekss  aa nhdo luisnticce artsasinetsiessm ent    proposition 
A key area of focus for the Committee during 2020 was our  with the Chief Risk Officer and the Chief Internal Auditor and have  • Climate risk in funds 
faced by the Group’s businesses and the actions being taken to 
response to managing the impacts of the global COVID-19  been given additional access to management and subject matter  manage these  • Procurement transformation programme 
pandemic on our clients, people and business. We successfully  experts outside of the Committee meetings in order to support 
established new ways of working to support our customers and  them in gaining an in-depth understanding of specific topics.  • Ongoing activity to enhance and develop Standard Life  • Cyber resilience  
the delivery of our business plan and we managed the impacts of  Aberdeen’s ERM framework, for example the Risk Appetite and  • Review of the roll-out of the Tripartite process to 
the difficult economic environment. In light of the ongoing  Key responsibilities  Policy frameworks  Aberdeen Standard Investments’ full fund range  
The Company’s purpose results in exposure to a range of risks 
uncertainty in the political landscape over the year, the Committee  • Performance of the Group’s ICAAP processes in accordance 
and uncertainties. Understanding and actively managing the 
monitored developments in relation to the negotiations for the  with the Capital Requirements Directive including the firm’s  • Aberdeen Standard Investments’ disposal of holdings 
sources and scale of these risks and uncertainties are key to 
UK’s future relationship with the EU and reviewed Standard Life  stress and scenario testing programme. The ICAAP supports  in boohoo as a result of further concerns being raised 
fulfilling this purpose.  Oct-Dec
Aberdeen’s preparations for a disorderly Brexit scenario which  the Committee in understanding changes to the risk profile of  on the supply chain 
ensured that we would continue to be able to provide our clients  The role of the Committee is to provide oversight and advice to  the Group and the capital position over the course of the year.   
• Heng An Standard Life (HASL) product risks 
with continuity of service, whatever the final outcome.  the Board, and where appropriate, the board of each relevant  • Minutes from those non-executive risk committees that operate 
• The risk assessment and due diligence in respect to 
Throughout 2020 the Committee continued to review and  Group company on:  in Standard Life Aberdeen plc’s directly-held subsidiaries  the proposed acquisition of Tritax Partners 
challenge key activities undertaken by the business and advise  • The Group’s current risk strategy, material risk exposures and  Through these recurring activities the Committee was able to  • Assessment of political and reputational risks 
the Board on these, including:   their impact on the levels and allocations of capital  challenge management’s assessment of risks and to oversee the 
• Annual update on operational resilience 
• Evolution of the Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) framework  • The structure and implementation of the Group’s ERM  key actions being taken to manage these risks.  
• Operational disruption risk from a major cloud service 
framework and its suitability to react to forward-looking issues 
• Key components of the Group’s ICAAP and the Group’s capital  In addition to reviewing these recurring items the Committee  provider or a major outsource arrangement 
and the changing nature of risks 
and liquidity  provided oversight of a broad range of topics in 2020. This 
• Review of Standard Life Aberdeen wind-down plan 
• Management of the risks arising from the firm’s third party  • Changes to the risk appetite framework and quantitative risk  included consideration of:  and triggers 
limits 
relationships  • FNZ global framework agreement 
• Risk aspects of major investments, major product  • Advice provided to the Remuneration Committee 
• Key risks arising from the transformation activity across the  • The 2021 combined second and third line assurance 
developments and other corporate transactions  regarding the delivery of performance in 2019 relative 
Group  Jan-Mar plan 
• Regulatory compliance across the Group  to risk appetites 
• Work to develop our approach to managing cyber resilience in    • Update on the Investment Firm Prudential Regulatory 
• Findings included in the 2019 Internal controls report 
line with the US National Institute of Standards and Technology  Further detail on the work performed in each of these areas is set  Regime  
issued for Aberdeen Standard Investments 
(NIST) framework   out in the report below. 
• Cyber risk and cyber security related matters 
• Our Conduct Risk Framework and the implementation of the 
Senior Managers and Certification Regime across the UK  In carrying out its duties, the Committee is authorised by the  • Standard Life Aberdeen’s preparations for a disorderly  After each meeting, the Committee Chairman reports to the 
Board to obtain any information it needs from any Director or 
business  Brexit  Board, summarising the key points from the Committee’s 
employee of the Group. It is also authorised to seek, at the 
• The FCA Focus on Non-financial Misconduct and  discussions and any specific recommendations. 
• The Group’s exposure to climate change and management of  expense of the Group, appropriate external professional advice 
reviewing Standard Life Aberdeen’s approach and 
related risks and opportunities  whenever it considers this necessary. The Committee did not     
activity in relation to the FCA's 5 Conduct Questions 
need to take any independent advice during the year. 
   
    Standard Life Aberdeen 2020 67
3. Corporate governance statement continued 
 
Risk exposures and risk strategy  Based on the results of the stress testing and scenario analysis, 
Standard Life Aberdeen’s risk appetite framework provides a  the Committee concluded there was no requirement for the 
common framework to enable the communication, understanding  business to reduce its risk exposures and that the business was 
and control of the types and levels of risk that the Board is willing  resilient to extreme events as a result of the robust controls, 
to accept in its pursuit of the strategy of the Group, including the  monitoring and triggers in place to identify events quickly and the 
business plan objectives and the capital and liquidity it requires.   range of management actions available to help mitigate their 
effects. 
The Committee has received regular reporting through the Views 
on Risk report on each of the Group’s 12 principal risks including  Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) framework 
risk dashboards, commentary and management information.  During the year the business continued to evolve the ERM 
framework used to identify, assess, control and monitor the 
The Committee reviewed and proposed updates to the risk 
Group’s risks.  
appetite framework to ensure that the risk appetites and risk limits 
reflected changes to the risk profile in view of the external  The Committee has obtained assurance regarding the operation 
environment and ongoing transformation of the business. In  of the ERM framework through its review of regular content within 
particular additional metrics for Operational Risk and Third Party  the Views on Risk report. In particular we have used our review of 
Management were created to strengthen our management of  the various risk and capital dashboards, including the 
impacts caused by the COVID-19 pandemic.  consolidated dashboard on key conduct risk indicators and board 
risk appetite metrics to understand the Group’s risk profile and the 
Through reviewing this reporting the Committee supports the 
effectiveness of the framework in supporting the management of 
Board by monitoring risks relative to applicable risk appetites and 
these risks. 
the resilience of the capital position under current and stressed 
conditions. Key items that the Committee discussed during the  The Committee receives reporting from the Risk and Compliance 
year in this context included:  function on the results of the quarterly risk management survey of 
regional and functional executives which is used to support 
• Risks that have emerged as a result of the global COVID-19 
identification of key risks facing the business. The completion of 
pandemic 
this survey along with subsequent discussion of the results by the 
• Risks associated with the delivery of the business plan  Executive Leadership Team helps to drive greater risk awareness 
• Climate risk in funds  and accountability. Furthermore, through reviewing the results of 
• Enhancements to components of the Group’s risk appetite  the survey, the Committee has been able to ensure there is 
appropriate focus on the key risks facing the business.  
framework 
• The Standard Life Aberdeen ICAAP report  Exceptions-based reporting is provided to the Committee through 
• Steps taken to strengthen the conduct risk framework  the Views on Risk report setting out any matters of significance in 
respect of the results of policy compliance reporting and actions 
• The management of cyber risk across the Group 
being taken in response to risk events. These two items also 
• The approach to management of the Group’s liquidity risk  support the Committee in performing its oversight of the ERM 
framework  framework. 
Stress testing and scenario analysis performed in 2020 also  The Committee also receives regular reporting from the Chief 
supported the Committee in understanding, monitoring and  Internal Auditor which provides an independent assessment of the 
managing the risk and capital profile of the business under  internal control environment relating to the operation of the 
stressed conditions. This provided a forward-looking assessment  framework.  
of resilience to potentially significant adverse events affecting key 
Regulatory developments and compliance 
risk exposures and comprised: 
The Committee reviews and assesses regulatory compliance 
• Individual stresses – looking at stresses to a range of financial  plans detailing the planned schedule of monitoring activities to be 
variables in isolation  performed by the Risk and Compliance function to ensure there is 
• Combined stress scenarios – looking at simultaneous stresses  appropriate coverage. Regular updates on key findings from 
impacting on economic conditions, flows and idiosyncratic  regulatory compliance activity and progress against the plan were 
factors specific to the Group  reported to the Committee through the Views on Risk report. 
• Reverse stress testing – considering extreme but plausible  As a Committee we have closely monitored global regulatory 
events, including as a result of operational, conduct or  developments to understand and anticipate potential implications 
reputational risks, that have the potential to cause the business  for the Group and the wider financial services sector. In particular 
to become unviable  the Committee paid close attention to developments in connection 
to Brexit, COVID-19, Operational Resilience, Environmental 
The Committee reviewed the results of the stress testing and 
Social & Governance Risks, LIBOR transition and the Investment 
scenario analysis that was performed. This included reviewing the 
Firm Prudential Regulatory Regime. 
results of three scenarios which were explored as part of the 
reverse stress testing exercise: a market shock with adverse     
impacts on our strategic investments; a significant breakdown in a 
key strategic relationship and the outage of a key payment 
mechanism. 
68 Standard Life Aberdeen 2020  
3. Corporate governance statement continued   
   
Risk exposures and risk strategy  Based on the results of the stress testing and scenario analysis,  Governance arrangements  Committee effectiveness 
Standard Life Aberdeen’s risk appetite framework provides a  the Committee concluded there was no requirement for the  The Committee has continued to rely on the work of those non- The Committee reviews its remit and effectiveness annually. The 
common framework to enable the communication, understanding  business to reduce its risk exposures and that the business was  executive risk committees operating in subsidiary companies to  2020 review was conducted internally by the Company Secretary 
and control of the types and levels of risk that the Board is willing  resilient to extreme events as a result of the robust controls,  provide oversight and challenge of risks within those subsidiaries.  meeting with each of the Committee members. As well as general  GO
to accept in its pursuit of the strategy of the Group, including the  monitoring and triggers in place to identify events quickly and the  This has included the risk committees in place for Aberdeen  observations, the key performance areas considered were:  VE
R
business plan objectives and the capital and liquidity it requires.   range of management actions available to help mitigate their  Standard Investments Life and Pensions Limited, Standard Life  N
• The coverage of the Committee’s duties in the meeting  A
The Committee has received regular reporting through the Views  effects.  Savings Limited and Elevate Portfolio Services Limited.  agendas  NCE
on Risk report on each of the Group’s 12 principal risks including  Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) framework  The Committee receives updates and minutes from these  • How effectively agenda items were presented and discussed   
risk dashboards, commentary and management information.  During the year the business continued to evolve the ERM  committees in order to maintain awareness and oversight of risks 
• The support the Committee received from the second line of the 
framework used to identify, assess, control and monitor the  across the Group. The Committee also reviews the terms of 
The Committee reviewed and proposed updates to the risk  three lines of defence model 
Group’s risks.   reference for these committees in order to ensure their remit is 
appetite framework to ensure that the risk appetites and risk limits  suitably aligned. In addition to the Committee reviewing reporting  • The quality and level of detail in the papers 
reflected changes to the risk profile in view of the external  The Committee has obtained assurance regarding the operation 
from the subsidiary risk committees, arrangements also exist for  • How well the Committee met its objectives in terms of making 
environment and ongoing transformation of the business. In  of the ERM framework through its review of regular content within 
the Committee’s Chairman to attend those subsidiary risk  decisions and reporting to the Board 
particular additional metrics for Operational Risk and Third Party  the Views on Risk report. In particular we have used our review of 
committees on request.  
Management were created to strengthen our management of  the various risk and capital dashboards, including the  The Committee members did not raise any material issues or 
impacts caused by the COVID-19 pandemic.  consolidated dashboard on key conduct risk indicators and board  During the year the Committee provided advice to the  concerns regarding the above areas or the overall effectiveness of 
risk appetite metrics to understand the Group’s risk profile and the  Remuneration Committee regarding the delivery of performance  the Committee during 2020. The Committee was encouraged by 
Through reviewing this reporting the Committee supports the 
effectiveness of the framework in supporting the management of  in the context of incentive packages. In particular, the Committee  the move of the investment risk team to come under the CRO’s 
Board by monitoring risks relative to applicable risk appetites and 
these risks.  considered whether performance had been delivered in a manner  remit and were keen to learn more about the work of the 
the resilience of the capital position under current and stressed 
that was consistent with the Group’s strategy, risk appetite and  investment risk team. Acknowledging the amount of time the 
conditions. Key items that the Committee discussed during the  The Committee receives reporting from the Risk and Compliance 
tolerances, and capital position. The provision of this advice helps  Committee spends on regulatory risk, the Committee would 
year in this context included:  function on the results of the quarterly risk management survey of 
ensure the Group’s overall remuneration practices are aligned to  welcome the opportunity to spend more time on the inter-
regional and functional executives which is used to support 
• Risks that have emerged as a result of the global COVID-19  the business strategy, objectives, culture and long-term interests  connectedness of the holistic business risks the Company runs 
identification of key risks facing the business. The completion of 
pandemic  of the Group and that individual remuneration is consistent with,  and manages, as the agendas allow. The Committee would also 
this survey along with subsequent discussion of the results by the 
• Risks associated with the delivery of the business plan  Executive Leadership Team helps to drive greater risk awareness  and promotes, effective risk management.   encourage the Risk Team to make more use of two-way 
secondment opportunities with business colleagues, so that both 
• Climate risk in funds  and accountability. Furthermore, through reviewing the results of 
the risk team and the business learn from each other, and this 
• Enhancements to components of the Group’s risk appetite  the survey, the Committee has been able to ensure there is  business-partnering approach could further strengthen the quality 
appropriate focus on the key risks facing the business.  
framework  of the information presented to the Committee. The Committee 
• The Standard Life Aberdeen ICAAP report  Exceptions-based reporting is provided to the Committee through  members were supportive of the Chairman’s role in managing the 
• Steps taken to strengthen the conduct risk framework  the Views on Risk report setting out any matters of significance in  challenging number of matters which fall in the Committee’s remit.  
respect of the results of policy compliance reporting and actions 
• The management of cyber risk across the Group   
being taken in response to risk events. These two items also 
• The approach to management of the Group’s liquidity risk  support the Committee in performing its oversight of the ERM   
framework  framework. 
 
Stress testing and scenario analysis performed in 2020 also  The Committee also receives regular reporting from the Chief 
   
supported the Committee in understanding, monitoring and  Internal Auditor which provides an independent assessment of the 
managing the risk and capital profile of the business under  internal control environment relating to the operation of the 
stressed conditions. This provided a forward-looking assessment  framework.  
of resilience to potentially significant adverse events affecting key 
Regulatory developments and compliance 
risk exposures and comprised: 
The Committee reviews and assesses regulatory compliance 
• Individual stresses – looking at stresses to a range of financial  plans detailing the planned schedule of monitoring activities to be 
variables in isolation  performed by the Risk and Compliance function to ensure there is 
• Combined stress scenarios – looking at simultaneous stresses  appropriate coverage. Regular updates on key findings from 
impacting on economic conditions, flows and idiosyncratic  regulatory compliance activity and progress against the plan were 
factors specific to the Group  reported to the Committee through the Views on Risk report. 
• Reverse stress testing – considering extreme but plausible  As a Committee we have closely monitored global regulatory 
events, including as a result of operational, conduct or  developments to understand and anticipate potential implications 
reputational risks, that have the potential to cause the business  for the Group and the wider financial services sector. In particular 
to become unviable  the Committee paid close attention to developments in connection 
to Brexit, COVID-19, Operational Resilience, Environmental 
The Committee reviewed the results of the stress testing and 
Social & Governance Risks, LIBOR transition and the Investment 
scenario analysis that was performed. This included reviewing the 
Firm Prudential Regulatory Regime. 
results of three scenarios which were explored as part of the 
reverse stress testing exercise: a market shock with adverse     
impacts on our strategic investments; a significant breakdown in a 
key strategic relationship and the outage of a key payment 
mechanism. 
    Standard Life Aberdeen 2020 69
3. Corporate governance statement continued 
 
 
Board developments and diversity 
We have welcomed new Directors and said farewell to long-
serving Directors over the year. As I have covered already in my 
Chairman’s statement, I am particularly pleased to have 
welcomed Stephen Bird and Brian McBride to the Board and to 
thank Keith Skeoch and Martin Gilbert for their many years of 
service.  
The Board continues to emphasise the importance of strong 
governance and I look forward to updating you on this in future 
reports. 
 
 
Sir Douglas Flin t
  
3.3 Nomination and Governance Committee report   Sir Douglas Flint 
The Committee’s key governance priorities this year were to  Chairman and Chairman of the Nomination and Governance 
support the Board to deliver the CEO succession and to maintain  Committee 
our board governance processes during this time of uncertainty 
Membership 
brought about by COVID-19. 
The members of the Committee are the Chairman and a number 
Governance Framework  of the independent non-executive Directors. For their names, the 
number of meetings and committee member attendance during 
We have continued to review our governance framework against 
2020, please see the table on page 57. 
the Code principles and provisions. The Committee did not make 
any fundamental changes to our governance framework in 2020  Keith Skeoch and Stephen Bird, in their CEO role, were invited to 
but we did approve an updated Board Matters Reserved schedule  Committee meetings to discuss relevant topics, such as the role 
where we have further clarified the relationship between the SLA  and membership of the ELT, talent development and 
plc and subsidiary boards.   management succession. 
Employee engagement  The Committee’s role is to support the composition and 
Melanie Gee has continued in her role as the non-executive  effectiveness of the Board, and oversee the Group’s activities to 
Director (NED) taking forward employee engagement and you  strengthen its talent pipeline. It also oversees the ongoing 
can read about those activities during the year on page 49.  development and implementation of the Group’s governance 
Although we had to make some changes to our engagement  framework.  
plans during 2020 as a result of COVID-19, Melanie’s direct 
In this report and other parts of the corporate governance 
communication with our employees continues to be both effective 
statement you can read about the Committee’s role in relation to 
and well received. 
its key responsibilities. 
Board evaluation 
Key responsibilities: 
Having commissioned externally facilitated reviews in 2018 and  • Identifying and recommending Directors to be appointed to the 
2019, we carried out our Board review internally in 2020 and you 
Board and the Board Committees 
can read about the process and its outcomes on page 55. 
• Reviewing and assisting in the development and 
Culture 
implementation of the Company’s culture, diversity and 
Continuing to build on the transformation work across the  inclusion activities 
business, the Committee has received updates on the work to 
• Reviewing Board diversity, skills and experience 
oversee the Group’s culture and considered the ELT’s initiatives 
• Supporting the process and output of the Board’s effectiveness 
to embed it throughout the organisation.  
review 
CEO succession 
• Overseeing succession planning, leadership and talent 
As I covered in my Chairman’s report, Keith Skeoch retired as the 
management development and diversity levels throughout the 
Group’s CEO on 1 September and was succeeded by Stephen 
Group 
Bird. You can read later in this statement about the Committee’s 
• Considering how the Group should comply with developing 
oversight of the succession process. 
corporate governance requirements, guidance and best 
practice and relevant directors’ duties  
The Committee reports regularly to the Board so that all Directors 
can be involved in discussing these topics as appropriate. 
   
70 Standard Life Aberdeen 2020  
3. Corporate governance statement continued   
   
 
Board developments and diversity  The Committee’s work in 2020  Board appointments 
We have welcomed new Directors and said farewell to long- An indicative breakdown as to how the Committee spent its time  When seeking to make Board appointments, the Committee 
serving Directors over the year. As I have covered already in my  is shown below:  identifies the skills, experience and capabilities needed for 
G
Chairman’s statement, I am particularly pleased to have  particular Board roles. This recognises the need to secure a  O
V
welcomed Stephen Bird and Brian McBride to the Board and to  • Reviewed compliance with the UK Corporate  pipeline of potential successors to be able to chair the Board  ER
tshearnvikc eK.e  ith Skeoch and Martin Gilbert for their many years of  Jan-Mar   • GCoonvseirdnearnecde t hCeo ddeiv eforsr itthye a 2n0d 1in9c AluRsAio n 2020  Cthoem lemngitttehe osf,  taimnde  aslesrov ethde o nne tehde  tBoo palardn  bayh ethaed c tuor traeknet  iancdceopuenntd oefn t  NANC
E
The Board continues to emphasise the importance of strong  priorities  NEDs. In addition, it also recognises the skills which the Board will   
need as it moves forward to oversee the implementation of its 
governance and I look forward to updating you on this in future  • Reviewed the Board Charter and Committees’ 
approved strategy and takes account of the Group’s commitments 
reports.  terms of reference 
to achieve and maintain its published Board diversity target. 
  • Recommended the appointment of Brian McBride 
An external search consultant is then requested to prepare a list 
• Agreed the NED mentoring programme for the GLG 
of suitable candidates. From that, the Committee agrees a 
shortlist. Following interviews with potential candidates, the 
  • Reviewed the recommendations to shareholders to  Committee then makes recommendations to the Board on any 
re/elect Directors at the AGM  proposed appointment, subject always to the satisfactory 
  Apr-Jun
  • Reviewed the continued appointment of Jutta af  completion of all background checks and regulatory notifications 
or approvals. The other Board members are also offered the 
   Rosenborg at the end of her second three-year 
3.3 Nomination and Governance Committee report   Sir Douglas Flint  term  opportunity to meet the recommended candidates. Part of this 
The Committee’s key governance priorities this year were to  Chairman and Chairman of the Nomination and Governance  • Received the half year update on the Culture,  includes considering the external commitments of candidates to 
support the Board to deliver the CEO succession and to maintain  Committee  Diversity and Inclusion action plans  assess their ability to meet the necessary time commitment and 
whether there are any conflict of interests to address.  
our board governance processes during this time of uncertainty 
Membership  • Recommended the CEO succession process 
brought about by COVID-19.  The Committee also oversees the process to recommend 
The members of the Committee are the Chairman and a number  • Reviewed ELT succession planning  
continued appointments, but members of the Committee do not 
Governance Framework  of the independent non-executive Directors. For their names, the 
• Reviewed progress on the recommendations from  take part in discussions when their own performance – or 
number of meetings and committee member attendance during 
We have continued to review our governance framework against 
the 2019 Board effectiveness review  continued appointment – is being considered. Jutta af 
2020, please see the table on page 57. 
the Code principles and provisions. The Committee did not make 
• Reviewed the revised approach to 2021 ESG  Rosenborg’s continued appointment was reviewed during the 
any fundamental changes to our governance framework in 2020  Keith Skeoch and Stephen Bird, in their CEO role, were invited to  external reporting, including the Stewardship Code  year. This was her third term of appointment, taking account of 
but we did approve an updated Board Matters Reserved schedule  Committee meetings to discuss relevant topics, such as the role  her service on the Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Board and 
where we have further clarified the relationship between the SLA  and membership of the ELT, talent development and  the Committee agreed that she continued to meet all 
plc and subsidiary boards.   management succession.  • Received the full-year update on the Culture,  independence and time commitment expectations. 
Diversity and Inclusion action plans 
Employee engagement  The Committee’s role is to support the composition and  Oct-Dec   • Approved the process for the 2020 Board  Succession planning and talent management activities 
Melanie Gee has continued in her role as the non-executive  effectiveness of the Board, and oversee the Group’s activities to 
Effectiveness Review  The Committee regularly reviews the results of succession 
Director (NED) taking forward employee engagement and you  strengthen its talent pipeline. It also oversees the ongoing 
planning activities, including key person and retention risk, and 
can read about those activities during the year on page 49.  development and implementation of the Group’s governance  • Reviewed ELT and senior leadership succession 
talent development programmes across the Group. 
Although we had to make some changes to our engagement  framework.   planning 
plans during 2020 as a result of COVID-19, Melanie’s direct  • Agreed the revised schedule of Matters reserved for  In particular, the Committee discussed the future leadership and 
In this report and other parts of the corporate governance 
communication with our employees continues to be both effective  the Board  talent needs of the Group and how the current programmes would 
statement you can read about the Committee’s role in relation to 
and well received.  its key responsibilities.  • Reviewed progress on Talent and Change  be revised to take account of the skills and expertise required by 
the Board and the ELT. The programmes recognise the changing 
Board evaluation  Key responsibilities:  development activities  shape of the Group, and also identify both the talent available 
Having commissioned externally facilitated reviews in 2018 and  • Identifying and recommending Directors to be appointed to the  within the Group and the need for external recruitment. The Talent 
2019, we carried out our Board review internally in 2020 and you  and Change agenda is led by the CHRO, with input from the CEO 
Board and the Board Committees  An indicative breakdown as to how the Committee spent its time 
can read about the process and its outcomes on page 55.  and supported by the Global Head of Talent and Change. The 
• Reviewing and assisting in the development and  is shown below: 
programmes cover effective performance management, early 
Culture 
implementation of the Company’s culture, diversity and 
careers, talent acquisition organisation design, core capabilities 
Continuing to build on the transformation work across the  inclusion activities 
and behaviours. 
business, the Committee has received updates on the work to 
• Reviewing Board diversity, skills and experience 
oversee the Group’s culture and considered the ELT’s initiatives  During 2020, the Committee established a NED mentoring 
• Supporting the process and output of the Board’s effectiveness 
to embed it throughout the organisation.   programme which allows each NED to get to know two or three 
review 
members of the next generation of talent – the Global Leadership 
CEO succession 
• Overseeing succession planning, leadership and talent  Group – through individual meetings which take place over the 
As I covered in my Chairman’s report, Keith Skeoch retired as the 
management development and diversity levels throughout the  course of the year and evolve based on the needs of each 
Group’s CEO on 1 September and was succeeded by Stephen 
Group  individual being mentored. 
Bird. You can read later in this statement about the Committee’s 
• Considering how the Group should comply with developing 
oversight of the succession process.  Also during 2020, the non-executive Directors held specific private 
corporate governance requirements, guidance and best 
discussions on Board and executive succession, the results of 
practice and relevant directors’ duties  
which fed into the overall plan. 
The Committee reports regularly to the Board so that all Directors 
   
can be involved in discussing these topics as appropriate. 
Succession planning and talent development
 
   
Board and committee appointments and composition
Culture, diversity and inclusion
Corporate governance
 
    Standard Life Aberdeen 2020 71
3. Corporate governance statement continued 
 
Chief Executive Officer succession  Board evaluation 
As a result of the ongoing transformation strategy, the Committee  The Committee has a key role in supporting the Board evaluation 
recognised the need to plan for change and that the next stage of  process. You can read about the 2020 review on page 55. During 
the Company’s evolution put a focus on accelerating delivery from  the year, the Committee reviewed the progress to implement the 
global growth capabilities. Together with Keith Skeoch, the  recommendations of the 2019 review. 
Committee spent time considering the executive leadership and 
Diversity and inclusion 
succession planning needed to continue the delivery of this next 
The Board’s diversity statement is on page 54. The Committee 
phase of the Group’s strategy. In light of this, and the fact that 
has a key role in supporting this through its oversight of diversity 
working practices would need to be reshaped in the aftermath of 
and inclusion activities. The Global Head of Diversity and 
the pandemic, the Board and Keith agreed that the time was right 
Inclusion attends the Committee at least twice a year to report on 
to hand over to his successor to enable that successor to plan 
progress on delivering against our action plans and initiatives.  
and execute the necessary changes from the outset. With that 
agreement, the Committee oversaw the process to recruit a new  Culture 
CEO to succeed him. As a first step, the Committee agreed that 
During the year the Committee also received updates on the 
the skills required of a new CEO included: 
initiatives on corporate culture. These included recognising the 
• A leader who put the well-being of clients at the heart of what  ongoing work to link the Company’s Blueprint into daily activity. 
we do and appreciated the criticality of organisational culture in  Colleagues across the Group were building the elements of the 
developing the business  Blueprint into their individual objectives; it was forming the 
structure for CEO regular reporting; and its messages were being 
• An influential strategic visionary leader who would be viewed as 
reinforced through all communications.  
highly credible, particularly with the City and regulators 
• A strong financial services and global markets background  Committee effectiveness 
The Committee reviews its remit and effectiveness each year. The 
• A proven track record in business transformation, in particular to 
2020 review was conducted internally by the Company Secretary 
embed digital delivery 
interviewing each of the Committee members. As well as general 
• A proven global track record of business success, including 
observations, the key performance areas considered were: 
expansion across Asia and North America 
• The coverage of the Committee’s duties in the meeting 
• Someone ideally experienced in developing strong relationships 
agendas 
with institutional and wholesale clients 
• How effectively agenda items were presented and discussed; 
• Someone who understood the need to deliver strong returns for 
shareholders  • The quality and level of detail in the papers 
• How well the Committee met its objectives in terms of making 
To allow all the non-executive Directors to be involved directly in 
decisions and reporting to the Board 
the selection process the Committee established an 
Appointments Committee, chaired by the Chairman and  The Committee members did not raise any material issues or 
comprising all of the non-executive Directors. The Appointments  concerns regarding the above areas or the overall effectiveness of 
Committee began by considering both internal and external  the Committee during 2020. Looking at the Committee’s work to 
successors – from the global long-list drawn up by MWM – who  oversee talent and succession, the Committee was supportive of 
fitted the above profile. Stephen Bird was identified as the leading  the framework developments which had been put in place. 
candidate with the relevant skill set and who had delivered high  However, moving forward in 2021 to deliver their duties, they 
performance and results during his career to date.   would be keen to see more evidence of the programmes starting 
to deliver the next generation of talent, a group which the 
Taking account of the need to comply with COVID-19 restrictions, 
Committee would be keen to help to develop. Also, recognising 
the selection process then had the following stages: 
the pragmatic challenges of measuring and delivering relevant 
• Stephen was invited to meet individually with the members of  information, the Committee was keen to spend more time 
the Appointments Committee, who challenged him on how he  discussing the impact of diversity and culture related matters 
would deliver against the agreed role profile  across the Group.  
• This was followed by further meetings of the Appointments 
Committee to discuss and review the views of its members 
• The process to secure regulatory approval for Stephen’s 
candidacy from the PRA and the FCA was begun 
• The Remuneration Committee considered the reward package 
appropriate for the role 
The Appointments Committee met three times during the process, 
reviewed the output from each of the above stages, and, taking 
account of the recommendation from the Remuneration 
Committee, agreed to recommend to the Board that Stephen 
should be appointed to succeed Keith Skeoch as CEO. Stephen’s 
across-the-board eligibility was unanimously endorsed by the 
Board and was reinforced by his enthusiasm for the role and the 
ambition he demonstrated to harness the talent within the Group 
to deliver for all stakeholders. Stephen’s appointment as Director 
and CEO designate was announced on 1 July 2020, subject to 
regulatory approval, which was obtained.  
72 Standard Life Aberdeen 2020  
3. Corporate governance statement continued    
 
 
Chief Executive Officer succession  Board evaluation  Dear Shareholder 
As a result of the ongoing transformation strategy, the Committee  The Committee has a key role in supporting the Board evaluation  On behalf of the Board I am pleased to present the Directors’ 
recognised the need to plan for change and that the next stage of  process. You can read about the 2020 review on page 55. During  Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 December 2020. This 
G
the Company’s evolution put a focus on accelerating delivery from  the year, the Committee reviewed the progress to implement the  report sets out what the Directors of Standard Life Aberdeen were  O
V
global growth capabilities. Together with Keith Skeoch, the  recommendations of the 2019 review.  paid in 2020 and how we will pay them in 2021, together with an  E
R
Committee spent time considering the executive leadership and  explanation of how the Remuneration Committee reached its  N
succession planning needed to continue the delivery of this next  Diversity and inclusion  recommendations.   ANC
phase of the Group’s strategy. In light of this, and the fact that  The Board’s diversity statement is on page 54. The Committee  E
working practices would need to be reshaped in the aftermath of  has a key role in supporting this through its oversight of diversity  Executive Summary   
and inclusion activities. The Global Head of Diversity and  2020 has been a year of change for Standard Life Aberdeen 
the pandemic, the Board and Keith agreed that the time was right 
Inclusion attends the Committee at least twice a year to report on  which has taken place against the background of the extraordinary 
to hand over to his successor to enable that successor to plan 
progress on delivering against our action plans and initiatives.   societal and economic impact of COVID-19 and considerable 
and execute the necessary changes from the outset. With that 
market volatility.  
agreement, the Committee oversaw the process to recruit a new  Culture 
CEO to succeed him. As a first step, the Committee agreed that  During the year the Committee also received updates on the  Our new Directors’ Remuneration Policy was submitted at the 
the skills required of a new CEO included:  initiatives on corporate culture. These included recognising the  2020 AGM and approved by shareholders with 92% of the vote. I 
• A leader who put the well-being of clients at the heart of what  ongoing work to link the Company’s Blueprint into daily activity.    would like to thank shareholders for the strong level of support 
we do and appreciated the criticality of organisational culture in  Colleagues across the Group were building the elements of the  Jonathan Asquith given to the policy and their continued dialogue on remuneration 
developing the business  Blueprint into their individual objectives; it was forming the    matters. The policy was designed to drive delivery of our strategy 
structure for CEO regular reporting; and its messages were being  through a simple and transparent structure for executive 
• An influential strategic visionary leader who would be viewed as 
reinforced through all communications.   remuneration with a focus on sustainable long-term performance. 
highly credible, particularly with the City and regulators  3.4 Directors’ remuneration report 
• A strong financial services and global markets background  Committee effectiveness  Remuneration Committee Chairman’s statement  During 2020, with integration following the merger between 
Standard Life and Aberdeen Asset Management well progressed, 
• A proven track record in business transformation, in particular to  The Committee reviews its remit and effectiveness each year. The  This report sets out what the Directors of Standard Life Aberdeen 
we launched the next phase of evolution of the Group aimed at 
2020 review was conducted internally by the Company Secretary  were paid in 2020 and how we will pay them in 2021, together with 
embed digital delivery 
developing and expanding its revenue base. To lead this next 
interviewing each of the Committee members. As well as general  an explanation of how the Remuneration Committee reached its 
• A proven global track record of business success, including  phase Stephen Bird was appointed to the role of Chief Executive 
observations, the key performance areas considered were:  recommendations. Where tables and charts in this report have 
expansion across Asia and North America  Officer (CEO) Designate on 1 July 2020 and was appointed to 
been audited by KPMG LLP we have marked them as ‘audited’ for 
• Someone ideally experienced in developing strong relationships  • The coverage of the Committee’s duties in the meeting  clarity.  CEO effective 1 September 2020, replacing Keith Skeoch. The 
with institutional and wholesale clients  agendas  remuneration aspects of this transition were handled in conformity 
• How effectively agenda items were presented and discussed;  The report is structured in the following sections:  with the new Directors’ Remuneration Policy. 
• Someone who understood the need to deliver strong returns for 
shareholders  • The quality and level of detail in the papers  • The annual statement from the Chairman of the Remuneration  This was also the year in which Martin Gilbert, previously joint 
• How well the Committee met its objectives in terms of making  Committee  Chief Executive Officer of the Group, stepped down from the 
To allow all the non-executive Directors to be involved directly in 
decisions and reporting to the Board  • An overview of the 2020 remuneration outcomes and how we  Board and subsequently retired in line with the arrangements 
the selection process the Committee established an 
proposed to implement the remuneration policy in 2021  announced in 2019. 
Appointments Committee, chaired by the Chairman and  The Committee members did not raise any material issues or 
comprising all of the non-executive Directors. The Appointments  concerns regarding the above areas or the overall effectiveness of  • The annual remuneration report, which sets out in detail how the  2020 also brought changes on the non-executive Director front. 
Committee began by considering both internal and external  the Committee during 2020. Looking at the Committee’s work to  remuneration policy was implemented in 2020  Brian McBride joined the Board as a non-executive Director 
successors – from the global long-list drawn up by MWM – who  oversee talent and succession, the Committee was supportive of  • A summary of our Directors’ Remuneration Policy on pages 92  and we were happy to welcome him as a member of the 
fitted the above profile. Stephen Bird was identified as the leading  the framework developments which had been put in place.  to 95. The policy was approved at the 2020 AGM. No changes  Remuneration Committee from 1 May 2020.  
candidate with the relevant skill set and who had delivered high  However, moving forward in 2021 to deliver their duties, they  are proposed and so there will be no resolution for a vote on the  In this year of challenge and change, the business has 
performance and results during his career to date.   would be keen to see more evidence of the programmes starting  Directors' Remuneration Policy at the 2021 AGM.  experienced a decline in revenues and adjusted profits, while we 
to deliver the next generation of talent, a group which the 
Taking account of the need to comply with COVID-19 restrictions,  have continued to drive forward our strategic agenda. Combined 
Committee would be keen to help to develop. Also, recognising  Approval 
the selection process then had the following stages:  with the executive Director changes, this performance has shaped 
the pragmatic challenges of measuring and delivering relevant  The Directors’ remuneration report was approved by the Board 
the remuneration agenda for the year. Year-end processes have 
• Stephen was invited to meet individually with the members of  information, the Committee was keen to spend more time  and signed on its behalf by 
incorporated a careful consideration of remuneration outcomes in 
the Appointments Committee, who challenged him on how he  discussing the impact of diversity and culture related matters 
the context of broader stakeholder interests and the complex 
would deliver against the agreed role profile  across the Group.  
political, regulatory and social background engendered by the 
• This was followed by further meetings of the Appointments  pandemic. Our pay decisions have focused on encouraging and 
Committee to discuss and review the views of its members    rewarding contributions to the success and sustainability of our 
Jonathan Asquith  
• The process to secure regulatory approval for Stephen’s  Chairman, Remuneration Committee  business in a uniquely challenging environment. Aside from the 
candidacy from the PRA and the FCA was begun  measurement of performance in relation to their personal 
9 March 2021  objectives, the annual bonuses of all those serving as executive 
• The Remuneration Committee considered the reward package 
Directors for any part of the year have been assessed against the 
appropriate for the role  Report contents 
performance criteria and targets set for the business scorecard at 
  Page  
The Appointments Committee met three times during the process,  the start of the year. 
reviewed the output from each of the above stages, and, taking  At a glance – 2020 remuneration policy implementation   77 
Changes to the executive team and Board succession 
account of the recommendation from the Remuneration  2021 Remuneration policy implementation  78 
during 2020 
Committee, agreed to recommend to the Board that Stephen 
2020 annual remuneration report  79 
On 30 June 2020 it was announced that Stephen Bird would be 
should be appointed to succeed Keith Skeoch as CEO. Stephen’s 
Shareholdings and outstanding share awards  82  appointed as a Director of the Group and as Chief Executive 
across-the-board eligibility was unanimously endorsed by the 
Board and was reinforced by his enthusiasm for the role and the  Executive Directors’ remuneration in context  85  Officer Designate (subject to regulatory approval) with effect from 
1 July 2020. As detailed in that announcement Stephen Bird’s 
ambition he demonstrated to harness the talent within the Group  Remuneration for non-executive Directors and the  88 
remuneration package comprises: 
to deliver for all stakeholders. Stephen’s appointment as Director  Chairman 
and CEO designate was announced on 1 July 2020, subject to  The Remuneration Committee  90  • Base salary of £875,000 
regulatory approval, which was obtained.  
Summary of our remuneration policy  92 
    Standard Life Aberdeen 2020 73
3. Corporate governance statement continued  
 
• Cash in lieu of pension of 18% of base salary and other benefits  line with the policy in place at the time of announcement of his 
in line with the Directors’ Remuneration Policy  departure. 
• Annual bonus opportunity of up to 250% of salary subject to  Our performance in 2020 and alignment with 
performance and applicable deferrals (pro-rated in 2020 to 
remuneration 
reflect his joining the Company part way through the 
Against a difficult market background in 2020, the business has 
performance year) 
experienced a decline in revenues which, alongside a reduced 
• Long-Term Incentive Share Plan (LTIP) award of shares to the  cost base (which still remains high in relation to income), resulted 
value of 350% of salary. Stephen’s first LTIP award for the  in a fall in adjusted profit before tax. Notwithstanding this, 
period 2020 to 2022 was granted on 14 August 2020 as  considerable momentum was gained from realigning the business 
reported on page 84. It was reduced pro-rata to reflect his  around our three growth vectors, and reduced net outflows, 
joining part way through the performance period. The award  climbing consultant ratings and improved investment performance 
will vest (subject to meeting applicable performance  in the year all set the stage for future growth, while major 
conditions) at the end of the period and is required to be held  milestones in our transformation were also met.  
for an additional 2 years.  
  How our remuneration policy was applied in 2020 
The structure and quantum of the CEO’s remuneration package is  Annual bonus  
consistent with our Directors’ Remuneration Policy and falls below  The 2020 executive Director bonus plan was designed in line with 
the maximum permitted under those rules. In calibrating his  our Remuneration Policy to reward management for the efficient 
package the Committee considered what it would take to attract  and timely execution of a stretching 12 month plan agreed with the 
the unique skillset and talent required to guide our business  Board, with a majority focus (75%) on financial performance 
through its next phase of development and benchmarked the  targets. Non-financial performance objectives (20%) made up 
outcome against the remuneration arrangements for similar roles  most of the balance, concentrating on the achievement of desired 
in asset management peer group companies.  outcomes in our relationships with our customers and our people. 
The remaining 5% was reserved to reward the achievement of 
The package adopted differed from that of his predecessor in two 
specific personal targets set for each of the executive Directors.  
key respects. First, the basic salary was returned to a level 
appropriate for a single CEO; at the time of his departure Keith  By the time that Stephen Bird joined us, the market disruptions 
Skeoch’s salary was still based on the reduced level introduced  caused by the pandemic had impacted income and changed the 
when he moved from being sole CEO of Standard Life to Co-CEO  outlook for new business for the year, reducing substantially the 
of Standard Life Aberdeen following the merger in 2017. Second,  chances of meeting a number of the financial and other targets set 
while the total maximum variable pay opportunity (comprising  out in the annual bonus scorecard for the previous management 
annual bonus and LTIP) of 600% of salary remained unchanged,  team. He nonetheless elected, as a matter of principle, to be 
the Committee shifted the balance between the components from  judged by the same scorecard as his new colleagues rather than 
300%:300% to 250%:350% to increase its focus on long-term  insisting on a bespoke arrangement; as a result he received a 
performance.   bonus in line with the other Executive Directors despite delivering 
on all of the personal objectives agreed with the Board at the time 
Keith Skeoch’s 12 month notice period commenced on 1 July 
of his recruitment.   
2020. He stepped down from the Board on 1 September 2020 
when regulatory approval for Stephen Bird's appointment was  The Remuneration Committee approved the following outcomes 
received. Keith will serve as non-executive Chairman of Aberdeen  based on performance against targets:  
Standard Investments Research Institute until the end of his notice 
Final 
period and during this time will continue to receive his base salary 
Final  outcome   2020  
of £615,000 per annum as well as his benefits and allowances in  outcome   (% of pro- total bonus 
line with the terms of his Executive Service Agreement. His bonus  Executive Director  (% of max)1  rated salary)  (£000s) 
for the 2020 performance year has been pro-rated to 1 September  Stephen Bird2  48%  120%  527 
2020. He is not eligible for any further bonus or LTIP awards. His 
unvested deferred bonus and LTIP awards will continue to vest in  Keith Skeoch2  48%  144%  590 
line with the relevant plan rules on the original vesting dates and  Stephanie Bruce  47%  70%  379 
subject to the applicable performance measures. He will be 
subject to a post-employment shareholding requirement for two  Martin Gilbert3  47%  96%  344 
years post cessation of employment of 500% of salary.  1  The same measures and scoring for both the financial (75%) and non-financial 
(20%) metrics were applied to all executive Directors irrespective of the time period 
Martin Gilbert stepped down from the Board on 12 May 2020 and 
they worked during the year. 
retired from the Company on 30 September 2020. The terms of 
2  Annual salary has been pro-rated to reflect the period of time spent on the Board. 
his retirement were agreed at the time of announcement of his 
departure in October 2019. Reflecting his reduction to a four day  3  Annual salary has been pro-rated to the date of departure. 
week from 1 January 2020 he received a base salary of £480,000 
The key achievements are set out on pages 79 and 80 and 
per annum and benefits and allowances, which included a pension 
summarised below, together with the range of factors considered 
of 20% of salary, until his departure. His bonus for the 2020 
by the Remuneration Committee in approving these outcomes. 
performance year has been pro-rated for time served to 30 
September 2020. He was not eligible to receive a 2020 long-term  Financial performance (75%) 
incentive award. He is not eligible for any further bonus or LTIP  • There has been strong investment performance for our clients 
awards. His unvested deferred bonus will continue to vest in line  and customers, as well as effective execution in realisation of 
with the relevant plan rules on the original vesting dates and  value from strategic shareholdings 
subject to the applicable performance measures. He will be 
• The balance of financial metrics in the scorecard has, however, 
subject to a post-employment shareholding requirement for one 
resulted in performance behind target  
year post cessation of employment of 300% of salary. This is in 
74 Standard Life Aberdeen 2020  
3. Corporate governance statement continued  
  
 
 
• Cash in lieu of pension of 18% of base salary and other benefits  line with the policy in place at the time of announcement of his  • In particular, revenue weakness has driven poor results against  would not be appropriate to exercise its discretion to amend the 
in line with the Directors’ Remuneration Policy  departure.  cost/income ratio targets and shortfalls in annual profit progress  outcomes of the scorecard or override in any other way the annual 
• Annual bonus opportunity of up to 250% of salary subject to  Our performance in 2020 and alignment with  in some areas of strategic importance   bonus process.  G
performance and applicable deferrals (pro-rated in 2020 to  remuneration  This has resulted in an overall assessment of 34.21% out of a  2020 LTIP Award  OV
reflect his joining the Company part way through the  maximum of 75% on financial measures.  E
Against a difficult market background in 2020, the business has  The first awards under the LTIP plan to Keith Skeoch and  R
performance year)  experienced a decline in revenues which, alongside a reduced  Non-financial performance (25%)  Stephanie Bruce were made following the approval of the  NAN
• Long-Term Incentive Share Plan (LTIP) award of shares to the  cost base (which still remains high in relation to income), resulted  The non-financial measures included objectives around  remuneration policy at the 2020 AGM in May 2020. An LTIP  CE
value of 350% of salary. Stephen’s first LTIP award for the  in a fall in adjusted profit before tax. Notwithstanding this,  relationships with our People (10%) and our Customers (10%),  award was made to Stephen Bird after he joined the Company in   
period 2020 to 2022 was granted on 14 August 2020 as  considerable momentum was gained from realigning the business  both of which are important to the sustainability of our business.   August 2020. Details of all awards are set out on page 84. Prior to 
reported on page 84. It was reduced pro-rata to reflect his  around our three growth vectors, and reduced net outflows,  making the awards in May 2020, the Committee reviewed the 
joining part way through the performance period. The award  climbing consultant ratings and improved investment performance  • We made good progress in People objectives under our  award levels in the context of share price performance. The 
will vest (subject to meeting applicable performance  in the year all set the stage for future growth, while major  employee engagement target but fell short of our diversity  Committee determined that there was no requirement to adjust the 
conditions) at the end of the period and is required to be held  milestones in our transformation were also met.   targets  award size of the 2020 LTIP from the level disclosed in our 2019 
for an additional 2 years.   • Customer performance was assessed at threshold, reflecting  annual report. The Committee retains discretion to review award 
  How our remuneration policy was applied in 2020  positive movements in year on year client surveys within what  levels at the end of the period; this is to ensure that outcomes 
The structure and quantum of the CEO’s remuneration package is  Annual bonus   are now the Advisor and Personal Vectors, but targets were not  appropriately reflect performance and the experience of 
consistent with our Directors’ Remuneration Policy and falls below  The 2020 executive Director bonus plan was designed in line with  achieved for the Investments Vector   stakeholders, and to allow consideration as to whether 
the maximum permitted under those rules. In calibrating his  our Remuneration Policy to reward management for the efficient  unjustifiable windfall gains may have accrued to participants.  
package the Committee considered what it would take to attract  and timely execution of a stretching 12 month plan agreed with the  This has resulted in an overall assessment of 8.75% out of a 
the unique skillset and talent required to guide our business  Board, with a majority focus (75%) on financial performance  maximum of 20% on non-financial measures.  Coinciding with the publication of these accounts, the Group 
issued today an RNS announcement dealing with future changes 
through its next phase of development and benchmarked the  targets. Non-financial performance objectives (20%) made up  Details on the Committee’s assessment of individual performance 
to the reporting of Adjusted Profit and Adjusted Profit per Share. 
outcome against the remuneration arrangements for similar roles  most of the balance, concentrating on the achievement of desired  against personal objectives, which make up the final 5% of the 
The Committee reviewed the impact of these changes on 
in asset management peer group companies.  outcomes in our relationships with our customers and our people.  bonus opportunity, are provided on page 80. 
remuneration measures and targets set for in-flight incentive 
The remaining 5% was reserved to reward the achievement of 
The package adopted differed from that of his predecessor in two  specific personal targets set for each of the executive Directors.   Remuneration Committee assessment  arrangements and determined that it was appropriate to change 
key respects. First, the basic salary was returned to a level  In addition to considering the achievement against the targets  both the per Share measure and the associated performance 
appropriate for a single CEO; at the time of his departure Keith  By the time that Stephen Bird joined us, the market disruptions  under our annual bonus scorecard, the Committee reviewed the  targets of those schemes which currently use Adjusted Diluted 
Skeoch’s salary was still based on the reduced level introduced  caused by the pandemic had impacted income and changed the  individual components which contributed to the delivery of this  Earnings per Share as a performance indicator. The revised 
when he moved from being sole CEO of Standard Life to Co-CEO  outlook for new business for the year, reducing substantially the  performance. The Committee also considered the alignment of  measure selected as that most adjacent to the original test was 
of Standard Life Aberdeen following the merger in 2017. Second,  chances of meeting a number of the financial and other targets set  scorecard outcomes with the experience of a range of  Adjusted Diluted Capital Generation per Share (see definition on 
while the total maximum variable pay opportunity (comprising  out in the annual bonus scorecard for the previous management  stakeholders. This review was undertaken by the Committee to  page 222 and detail on page 78). In accordance with the rules of 
annual bonus and LTIP) of 600% of salary remained unchanged,  team. He nonetheless elected, as a matter of principle, to be  assess whether the awards generated by the scorecard were fair  the various schemes, the underlying principle applied in setting the 
the Committee shifted the balance between the components from  judged by the same scorecard as his new colleagues rather than  in the broader performance and risk context. The Committee  revised measures and targets was that they should be neither 
300%:300% to 250%:350% to increase its focus on long-term  insisting on a bespoke arrangement; as a result he received a  considered:   more nor less difficult to achieve than the original targets. Details 
performance.   bonus in line with the other Executive Directors despite delivering  • The outcome from the perspective of overall company  of the restated targets can be found on page 84. 
on all of the personal objectives agreed with the Board at the time 
Keith Skeoch’s 12 month notice period commenced on 1 July  performance including one-off items. The Committee  Stephanie Bruce – One-Off Deferred Award 
of his recruitment.   
2020. He stepped down from the Board on 1 September 2020  considered that the categories, targets and measurements  The Remuneration Committee assessed the performance 
when regulatory approval for Stephen Bird's appointment was  The Remuneration Committee approved the following outcomes  embedded in the scorecard appropriately captured performance  condition around the vesting of the first tranche of the one-off 
received. Keith will serve as non-executive Chairman of Aberdeen  based on performance against targets:   against the Board’s plan without the need for discretionary  deferred award made to Stephanie Bruce on her appointment as 
Standard Investments Research Institute until the end of his notice  adjustment.  Chief Financial Officer (CFO) in 2019 and approved the vesting 
Final 
period and during this time will continue to receive his base salary  Final  outcome   2020   • The impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. This was reflected in  level at 100% of maximum. Further detail is included on page 82. 
of £615,000 per annum as well as his benefits and allowances in  outcome   (% of pro- total bonus  reduced revenues for 2020, which directly impacted award  As part of the due diligence process around this determination, the 
line with the terms of his Executive Service Agreement. His bonus  Executive Director  (% of max)1  rated salary)  (£000s)  outcomes via the scorecard. Note that aside from adapting  Remuneration Committee received an independent report from 
for the 2020 performance year has been pro-rated to 1 September  Stephen Bird2  48%  120%  527  some personal objectives, no remuneration measures or targets  the Chief Internal Auditor prior to making their assessment, in line 
2020. He is not eligible for any further bonus or LTIP awards. His  were adjusted as a result of the pandemic; nor was any  with previous undertakings to shareholders. 
unvested deferred bonus and LTIP awards will continue to vest in  Keith Skeoch2  48%  144%  590  application made for government support to mitigate the effects 
line with the relevant plan rules on the original vesting dates and  Stephanie Bruce  47%  70%  379  of COVID-19, while in the background the company increased  Keith Skeoch - Vesting of the 2018 Executive LTIP  
subject to the applicable performance measures. He will be  its charitable giving and community engagement to support  Keith Skeoch participated in the 2018 Executive LTIP, the 
subject to a post-employment shareholding requirement for two  Martin Gilbert3  47%  96%  344  others affected by the pandemic.  outcome of which was dependent on the achievement of 
years post cessation of employment of 500% of salary.  1  The same measures and scoring for both the financial (75%) and non-financial  • Input from the Risk and Capital Committee and the Audit  stretching performance conditions by reference to adjusted profit 
Martin Gilbert stepped down from the Board on 12 May 2020 and  (20%) metrics were applied to all executive Directors irrespective of the time period  Committee. There were no items raised by these committees  and net flows targets. On assessment of performance against 
they worked during the year.  these conditions, it was determined that the award did not meet 
retired from the Company on 30 September 2020. The terms of  which warranted Remuneration Committee intervention in 
his retirement were agreed at the time of announcement of his  2  Annual salary has been pro-rated to reflect the period of time spent on the Board.  executive Director outcomes for 2020.  the required thresholds against either of these measures and the 
departure in October 2019. Reflecting his reduction to a four day  3  Annual salary has been pro-rated to the date of departure.  • The mixed shareholder experience during 2020; our 1 year total  award lapsed in full. Further details of the 2018 Executive LTIP 
can be found on page 82. 
week from 1 January 2020 he received a base salary of £480,000  shareholder return is ahead of all but one of our UK peers, but 
The key achievements are set out on pages 79 and 80 and 
per annum and benefits and allowances, which included a pension  remains behind the majority of our overseas peers (using the  Policy implementation in 2021  
summarised below, together with the range of factors considered 
of 20% of salary, until his departure. His bonus for the 2020  same peer group that applied to the Executive Director 2020  This year the Committee has decided not to increase the salaries 
by the Remuneration Committee in approving these outcomes. 
performance year has been pro-rated for time served to 30  Long Term Incentive Plan). There was a steadily improving  for the executive Directors or the fees for the non-executive 
September 2020. He was not eligible to receive a 2020 long-term  Financial performance (75%)  share price performance after March 2020.   Directors or the Chairman. This follows a Company-wide decision 
incentive award. He is not eligible for any further bonus or LTIP  • There has been strong investment performance for our clients  • The context of incentive funding across the workforce which has  not to carry out a salary review at the beginning of 2021.  
awsuwitbhaj ertdhcset . t roHe itlseh evua nanvpte ppsliltcaeandb  rdlueel epfeser rorfeondr tm hbeoa nnoucreisg  imwniaelll a cvsoeunsrtteiinnsug. e Hd teao t wevsiel ls abtn eidn   line  avanldu ec ufrsotomm setrras,t eagsi cw sehlla aresh eoflfdeicntgivse  execution in realisation of  rpeedrfuocremda fnrocme  dthrieve pnr ipoor lyiceya fro ar nvda rbiaebelne  apwaya rded in line with our  Itna rlgineets w foithr  tthhee  apnrenvuiaolu bso pnruasc taicned,  twhee  wLTillI Pco tnot iennuseu troe  stheat ts tthreet ching 
subject to a post-employment shareholding requirement for one  • The balance of financial metrics in the scorecard has, however,  The Remuneration Committee took these and other  maximum opportunity will only be earned for exceptional 
year post cessation of employment of 300% of salary. This is in  resulted in performance behind target   considerations into account in its review and concluded that it  performance.  
    Standard Life Aberdeen 2020 75
3. Corporate governance statement continued  
 
The scorecard for the 2021 annual bonus is detailed on page 78   
and the targets, which are commercially sensitive, will be 
 
disclosed at the end of this performance year in the Annual report 
and accounts 2021. The scorecard retains the structure of   
focusing 75% of opportunity on the achievement of financial 
 
targets and 25% on the delivery of non-financial and personal 
objectives around people, customers, innovation and similar   
areas. 
 
The threshold and maximum performance targets for the 
 
proposed grants under the 2021 Executive LTIP plan are detailed 
on page 78. In light of the change announced in future reporting of   
Adjusted Diluted Profit per Share we have changed the earnings 
 
based metric for the 2021 grants from that used in 2020. 
 
To help you navigate the report effectively, I would like to draw 
your attention to the sections on pages 77 and 78 which   
summarise both the outcomes for 2020 and also how the 
 
remuneration policy will be implemented in 2021. Further detailed 
information is then set out in the rear section of the report for your   
reference as required.  
 
On behalf of the Board, I invite you to read our remuneration 
 
report and welcome your feedback. 
 
 
  
 
 
   
76 Standard Life Aberdeen 2020
3. Corporate governance statement continued  
 
   
At a glance – 2020 remuneration policy implementation 
The scorecard for the 2021 annual bonus is detailed on page 78    2020 Outcome of the financial and non-financial performance metrics  
and the targets, which are commercially sensitive, will be  The following charts show performance against the target range for each of the financial and non-financial metrics which govern the 
 
disclosed at the end of this performance year in the Annual report  annual bonus. Further detail on the assessment of the performance conditions can be found on pages 79 and 80.  
and accounts 2021. The scorecard retains the structure of    GO
focusing 75% of opportunity on the achievement of financial  Perfomance vs Target (%) - Financial measures Performance vs Target (%) - Non-financial measures VE
targets and 25% on the delivery of non-financial and personal    Positioning for growth (45%) 0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100% 0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100% RN
A
oabrejeacst.i ves around people, customers, innovation and similar    Investment performance (15%) 85% Danivde prseitoyp olef  leenagdaegrsehmipe nt (10%) 63% NCE
  Fee based revenue (15%) 42% Customer sentiment (10%) 25%
The threshold and maximum performance targets for the 
  Cost income ratio (15%) 0% Performance against target    
proposed grants under the 2021 Executive LTIP plan are detailed 
 
on page 78. In light of the change announced in future reporting of    Delivering for our shareholders (30%)
Adjusted Diluted Profit per Share we have changed the earnings  Value creation from  100%
  strategic shareholdings (10%)
based metric for the 2021 grants from that used in 2020.  Personal performance measures  
Annual profit progress key business 0%
  areas (wealth and platforms) (10%)
To help you navigate the report effectively, I would like to draw  The outcome of individual personal performance measures 
your attention to the sections on pages 77 and 78 which    Delivery of transformation synergies (10%) 51% (5% weighting) is set out on page 80. 
summarise both the outcomes for 2020 and also how the    Performance against target  
remuneration policy will be implemented in 2021. Further detailed 
information is then set out in the rear section of the report for your    2020 annual bonus scorecard outcome 
reference as required.  
The following table sets out the final outcome for the 2020 annual bonus, including the personal performance assessment (noting that 
 
On behalf of the Board, I invite you to read our remuneration  the same measures and scoring for both the financial and non-financial metrics have been applied to executive Directors irrespective of 
report and welcome your feedback.    the periods during which they worked during the year). A detailed breakdown of performance can be found on pages 79 and 80. 
 
    Bonus Scorecard Outcome  Total Bonus Outcome 
     Financial  Non-financial  Personal  Period  Total 
metrics  metrics performance  Board approved  Annual  worked in  Maximum  award   Total 
  (maximum  (maximum  (maximum  outcome   salary  2020   opportunity   (% of  award 
  75%)  20%)  5%)  (% of maximum)  (£000s)  (days basis)  (% of salary)  salary)1  (£000s) 
Stephen Bird2  5.00%  47.96%  875  50%  250%  120%  527 
   
Keith Skeoch3  5.00%  47.96%  615  67%  300%  144%  590 
34.21%  8.75% 
Stephanie Bruce  4.00%  46.96%  538  100%  150%  70%  379 
Martin Gilbert4  4.00%  46.96%  480   75%  204%  96%  344 
1  The % is applied to the pro-rated salary for Stephen Bird, Keith Skeoch and Martin Gilbert.  
2  Stephen Bird’s total opportunity for 2020 was 250% of salary. His award has been pro-rated to reflect his joining date of 1 July 2020.  
3  Keith Skeoch stepped down from the Board on 1 September 2020. His award has been pro-rated to reflect the period of time he served on the Board.  
4  Martin Gilbert’s total opportunity for 2020 was 204% of salary. His award has been pro-rated to reflect his leaving date of 30 September 2020.  
Long-term incentive award outcome in 2020 
Keith Skeoch was granted an LTIP award in 2018 under the Executive LTIP, with a performance period ending 31 December 2020. 
Performance did not meet the minimum threshold required to vest and the award lapsed in full. More detail is set out on page 82. 
Total remuneration outcomes in 2020  
The chart below shows the remuneration outcomes for each executive Director in 2020 based on performance compared to the 
maximum opportunity. 
£5,000
£4,515
£4,000
£2,800
£3,000
£2,000
£1,611
£1,445
£547.0 £1,044 £615.0 £1,075 £404.0 £1,016 £1,166
£1,000 £547.0 ££226633..55 £615.0 ££229955..00 £404.0 ££118899..55 ££336677..00 £££117777226..00
£517 £517 £485 £485 £637 £637 £432 £432
0
Max Actual 2020 Max Actual 2020 Max Actual 2020 Max Actual 2020
Stephen Bird Keith Skeoch Stephanie Bruce Martin Gilbert
All figures in £000s
Salary, pension and benefits Annual Bonus - Cash Annual Bonus - Deferred LTIP  
1  The figures for Stephen Bird, Keith Skeoch and Martin Gilbert have been pro-rated to reflect time served as set out in the footnotes to the 2020 bonus outcome chart above. 
2  The maximum opportunity for Keith Skeoch includes his 2018 Executive LTIP which was awarded with a maximum value at grant of £2,800,000. The Committee assessed 
that performance had not met the minimum threshold required to vest. Details can be found on page 82.
   
  Standard Life Aberdeen 2020  77  
3. Corporate governance statement continued  
2021 remuneration policy implementation  
This section sets out how we propose to implement our  ventures/significant listed investments less returns relating to 
remuneration policy in 2021 including the performance measures  pension schemes in surplus; it is closely aligned to the 
that will be used to determine outcomes under the annual bonus  measurement of management’s performance in generating 
and the LTIP. A summary of our Directors' Remuneration Policy  sustainable increases in shareholder value from its growth vectors 
can be found on pages 92 - 95. The policy for the Chairman’s fees  and strategic relationships, while excluding mark-to-market 
and those of the non-executive Directors is set out on page 89.  changes in the fair value of significant listed investments, which 
Salary   are beyond management’s direct control. The nominal 
performance targets for this measure are higher than for its 
No changes proposed. 
predecessor, reflecting the elevated growth in returns expected 
Pension   from the key operating elements of the Group’s business.  
No change proposed. A pension of 18% of base salary applies, in 
The Remuneration Committee proposes to grant awards in the 
line with the maximum available to the wider UK workforce. 
form of nil-cost options under the LTIP plan. Targets for the award 
2021 annual bonus   will be measured for the three-year period ended 31 December 
At the beginning of each year the Remuneration Committee sets  2023 and are set as follows: 
the performance measures for the annual bonus based on 
Threshold  Stretch  
strategic priorities. For 2021, 75% of the measures are based on 
performance   performance  
financial performance, with the remainder based on non-financial 
Performance measure  Weighting (25% vesting)  (100% vesting)1 
performance. The Remuneration Committee retains an 
appropriate level of flexibility to apply discretion to ensure that  CAGR in Adjusted 
remuneration outcomes reflect a holistic view of overall  Diluted Capital  50%  8%  20% 
performance. The discretionary assessment will incorporate, inter  Generation per Share 
alia, consideration of compliance, conduct and culture.   Equal to, or in 
Equal to the 
excess of, the 
The following table sets out the performance scorecard to be used  Relative TSR2  50% median 
upper quartile 
based on the Company’s strategic priorities:  company 
company 
Example performance metrics to  1  Straight-line vesting occurs between threshold and maximum. 
Focus area  Weighting be used to assess 2021 bonus 
2  Relative TSR will be calculated using a 90-day average share price, both at the 
Financial  75%  Investment Performance,  beginning and at the end of the performance period. The 90-day averaging will 
Adjusted profit before tax, Net  commence 45 days prior to the beginning and also 45 days prior to the end of the 
performance period. The calculation will be performed on a local currency basis. 
flows, Transformation 
The proposed peer group1 to be used for the relative TSR 
Non-financial  20%  Performance against People, 
measure consists of the below global asset management peers: 
Customer and ESG objectives 
Individual objectives 5%  Key individual deliverables  Jupiter Fund  Janus Henderson 
Affiliated Managers  Management  Group 
Due to commercial sensitivity, actual targets and ranges will be  Alliance Bernstein  Man Group  St James’s Place 
disclosed at the end of the performance period.  Ameriprise Financial  Schroders  M&G 
The 2021 LTIP award  Amundi  DWS Group  Quilter 
Under the Remuneration Policy, LTIP awards are subject to at  Ashmore Group  Franklin Resources  T Rowe Price Group 
least two performance metrics which are linked to the  SEI Investments  Invesco   
achievement of the Company’s long-term strategic priorities and 
1 This peer group will be subject to re-evaluation throughout the performance period 
the creation of long-term shareholder value, with at least one 
to adjust for the effects of corporate events such as mergers and acquisitions, with 
being absolute in nature and one being a relative metric. Due to  substitutes introduced where necessary to maintain the approximate size and 
changes to the accounting for Adjusted Earnings per Share and  comparability of the group. 
their effect on the 2020 LTIP target measure of Compound Annual  2 Eaton Vance, which is in a sale process, has been removed from the peer group for 
Growth Rate (CAGR) in Adjusted Diluted Earnings per Share, the  2021 awards. No other changes are proposed to the peer group from 2020. 
Committee has decided to move to a new measure for the  Following the same logic that led the Committee to select the new 
absolute element of the LTIP metrics for 2021. The new metric of  performance measure of CAGR in Adjusted Diluted Capital 
CAGR in Adjusted Diluted Capital Generation per Share (page  Generation per Share for 50% of the 2021 LTIP, the Committee 
222) captures a broad measure of the rate of increase in the  also decided to use its discretion to redefine the equivalent 
company’s ability to generate capital to sustain investment and  condition in the in-flight 2020 LTIP. This change, of which further 
dividend flows. Adjusted Capital Generation comprises Adjusted  details are available (page 84), was implemented on the basis that 
Profit after Tax (excluding the Group’s share of profit after tax of  the new targets set (subject to rounding) would be no less difficult 
associates and joint ventures) plus dividends from associates/joint   to achieve than those set at the time that plan was agreed.
Total opportunity under the remuneration policy in 2021 (unchanged from 2020) 
£0 £500 £1,000 £1,500 £2,000 £2,500 £3,000 £3,500 £4,000 £4,500 £5,000 £5,500 £6,000 £6,500
ExOCefchfiuicetefivre Ma2x0im21um peSnasliaorny  £a1n,0d33 op(1pA2on5rn%tuu naoilft  bys oainnla ucrsays)h op(p1Ao2nr5tn%uun aoitlf y bs doaenlafuersyrr)ed L(3T5IP0 %op opfo sratulanriyty) £T6o,t2a8l3:
FOinCfahfinicecefiral  Ma2x0im21um Spale£an6rsy3i 5oann d (A7o5np%nipnu oo acrfla  tsbusaonhlniatuyrys)(A7o5np%dnpeu oofaerfl r tsbureaondlniatuyrys ) L(2T0IP0 %op opfo sratulanriyty) £T2o,t5a1l8:
All figures in £000s
Salary and pension Bonus cash Bonus deferred LTIP  
78 Standard Life Aberdeen 2020  
3. Corporate governance statement continued  
  
 
2021 remuneration policy implementation  
This section sets out how we propose to implement our  ventures/significant listed investments less returns relating to  Directors’ Remuneration in 2020 
remuneration policy in 2021 including the performance measures  pension schemes in surplus; it is closely aligned to the  This section reports remuneration awarded and paid at the end of 2020 in further detail, including payments to past Directors. 
that will be used to determine outcomes under the annual bonus  measurement of management’s performance in generating 
and the LTIP. A summary of our Directors' Remuneration Policy  sustainable increases in shareholder value from its growth vectors  Single total figure of remuneration – executive Directors (audited)   GO
can be found on pages 92 - 95. The policy for the Chairman’s fees  and strategic relationships, while excluding mark-to-market  The following table sets out the single total figure of remuneration for each of the individuals who served as an executive Director at any  VE
and those of the non-executive Directors is set out on page 89.  changes in the fair value of significant listed investments, which  time during the financial year ending 31 December 2020:  RN
A
Salary   are beyond management’s direct control. The nominal  Long-term  NC
No changes proposed.  performance targets for this measure are higher than for its  incentives with  E
predecessor, reflecting the elevated growth in returns expected  Basic  Taxable  Bonus  performance  Pension  Total   
Pension   from the key operating elements of the Group’s business.   salary for  benefits  paid in  Bonus  period ending  allowance  Other  Fixed pay  Variable remuneration 
Executive   year  in year   cash2  deferred   during the year   paid in year   payments  sub-total  sub-total   for the year  
No change proposed. A pension of 18% of base salary applies, in 
The Remuneration Committee proposes to grant awards in the  Directors    £000s  £000s1   £000s  £000s3  £000s4,5  £000s  £000s  £000s  £000s  £000s 
line with the maximum available to the wider UK workforce. 
form of nil-cost options under the LTIP plan. Targets for the award  Stephen  2020  438  –  263.5  263.5  –  79  –  517  527  1,044 
2021 annual bonus   will be measured for the three-year period ended 31 December  Bird6  2019  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  – 
At the beginning of each year the Remuneration Committee sets  2023 and are set as follows: 
Keith  2020  406  1  295.0  295.0  0  78  –  485  590  1,075 
the performance measures for the annual bonus based on 
Threshold  Stretch   Skeoch7  2019  600  1  187.5  562.4  0  120  1  722  750  1,472 
strategic priorities. For 2021, 75% of the measures are based on 
performance   performance  
financial performance, with the remainder based on non-financial  Stephanie  2020  535  1  189.5  189.5  –  101  –  637  379  1,016 
Performance measure  Weighting (25% vesting)  (100% vesting)1 
performance. The Remuneration Committee retains an  Bruce  2019  308  –  61.5   184.5  –  62  –  370  246  616 
appropriate level of flexibility to apply discretion to ensure that  CAGR in Adjusted 
Martin  2020  360  –  172.0  172.0  –  72  –  432  344  776 
rpeemrfournmeraanticoen.  oTuhtec odmiscerse rtieofnleacrty a a hsoselisstsicm veienwt w oilfl  oinvceorrapllo rate, inter  DGielunteerda tCioanp iptaelr  Share  50%  8%  20%  Gilbert8  2019  600  1  124.6   373.7  –  120  –  721  498  1,219 
alia, consideration of compliance, conduct and culture.   Equal to, or in  1  This includes the taxable value of all benefits paid in respect of the relevant year. Included for 2020 are medical premiums at a cost to the group of £606 for all executive 
Equal to the 
excess of, the  Directors. 
The following table sets out the performance scorecard to be used  Relative TSR2  50% median  upper quartile  2  This figure shows the annual cash bonus paid in respect of the year. In 2020 50% of the annual bonus award will be delivered in cash in line with current policy. In 2019 25% of 
based on the Company’s strategic priorities:  company  the total bonus award was paid in cash under the 2019 Directors’ Remuneration Policy. 
company 
3  This figure shows the annual deferred bonus awarded in respect of the year. In 2020 50% of the annual bonus award will be deferred into shares in line with current policy. In 
Example performance metrics to  1  Straight-line vesting occurs between threshold and maximum.  2019 75% of the total bonus award was deferred into shares under the 2019 Directors’ Remuneration Policy. 
Focus area  Weighting be used to assess 2021 bonus  2  Relative TSR will be calculated using a 90-day average share price, both at the  4  For 2019, awards granted under the 2017 Executive LTIP lapsed in full as threshold performance was not achieved.  
Financial  75%  Investment Performance,  beginning and at the end of the performance period. The 90-day averaging will  5  For 2020, awards granted under the 2018 Executive LTIP lapsed in full as threshold performance was not achieved.  
Adjusted profit before tax, Net  commence 45 days prior to the beginning and also 45 days prior to the end of the  6  Stephen Bird was appointed on1 July 2020 – all figures reflect amounts paid/awarded since the date of appointment.  
flows, Transformation  performance period. The calculation will be performed on a local currency basis.  7  Keith Skeoch stepped down from the Board on 1 September 2020 and remained eligible for an award under the annual bonus plan until that date. The values shown represent 
The proposed peer group1 to be used for the relative TSR  the emoluments paid for the period spent on the Board to 1 September 2020. 
Non-financial  20%  Performance against People,  8  Martin Gilbert stepped down from the Board on 12 May 2020 and retired from the company on 30 September 2020. He remained eligible for an award under the annual bonus 
Customer and ESG objectives  measure consists of the below global asset management peers:  plan to the date of retirement. The values shown represent the emoluments paid to 30 September 2020.  
Individual objectives 5%  Key individual deliverables  Jupiter Fund  Janus Henderson  Base salary (audited) 
Affiliated Managers  Management  Group  Keith Skeoch and Stephanie Bruce received a 2.5% salary increase effective 1 April 2020 in line with the wider workforce. Stephen Bird 
Due to commercial sensitivity, actual targets and ranges will be  Alliance Bernstein  Man Group  St James’s Place  joined on 1 July 2020 on a salary of £875,000. From 1 January 2020, Martin's working commitment to the Company reduced to 4 days a 
disclosed at the end of the performance period.  Ameriprise Financial  Schroders  M&G  week and, accordingly, his salary reduced by 20% to £480,000 per annum. This was in line with the terms of his retirement.  
The 2021 LTIP award  Amundi  DWS Group  Quilter  Pension (audited)  
Under the Remuneration Policy, LTIP awards are subject to at  Ashmore Group  Franklin Resources  T Rowe Price Group  Under the Directors’ Remuneration Policy approved at the 2020 AGM, with effect from 1 June 2020 the executive Directors received a 
least two performance metrics which are linked to the  SEI Investments  Invesco    cash allowance in lieu of pension contributions of 18% of base salary. The only exception to this was Martin Gilbert, who continued to 
achievement of the Company’s long-term strategic priorities and  receive 20% as agreed under the terms of his retirement.  
1 This peer group will be subject to re-evaluation throughout the performance period 
the creation of long-term shareholder value, with at least one 
to adjust for the effects of corporate events such as mergers and acquisitions, with  Annual Bonus Plan  
being absolute in nature and one being a relative metric. Due to  substitutes introduced where necessary to maintain the approximate size and 
changes to the accounting for Adjusted Earnings per Share and  comparability of the group.  The following section contains details on the targets and the Remuneration Committee’s assessment of outcomes for the period 1 
their effect on the 2020 LTIP target measure of Compound Annual  2 Eaton Vance, which is in a sale process, has been removed from the peer group for  January 2020 to 31 December 2020 against each of the elements of the executive Director bonus scorecard.  
Growth Rate (CAGR) in Adjusted Diluted Earnings per Share, the  2021 awards. No other changes are proposed to the peer group from 2020.  Financial performance metrics – 75% of total scorecard outcome  
Committee has decided to move to a new measure for the  Following the same logic that led the Committee to select the new 
Weighting   Threshold   Target   Stretch   Result 
absolute element of the LTIP metrics for 2021. The new metric of  performance measure of CAGR in Adjusted Diluted Capital  (% of max  (25% of  (50% of  (100% of  (% of max 
CAGR in Adjusted Diluted Capital Generation per Share (page  Generation per Share for 50% of the 2021 LTIP, the Committee    opportunity)  maximum)  maximum)  maximum)  Actual  opportunity) 
222) captures a broad measure of the rate of increase in the  also decided to use its discretion to redefine the equivalent 
Positioning for growth (45%)             
company’s ability to generate capital to sustain investment and  condition in the in-flight 2020 LTIP. This change, of which further 
Investment performance – % AUM > benchmark  15%  >50%  60%  >70%  67%  12.75% 
dividend flows. Adjusted Capital Generation comprises Adjusted  details are available (page 84), was implemented on the basis that 
average of 3 year and 5 year for all asset classes 
Profit after Tax (excluding the Group’s share of profit after tax of  the new targets set (subject to rounding) would be no less difficult 
associates and joint ventures) plus dividends from associates/joint   to achieve than those set at the time that plan was agreed. Fee based revenue (£m)  15%  1,373  1,449  1,601  1,425  6.32% 
Cost/income ratio excluding JVs/Associates %  15%  84.2%  81.1%  78.7%  84.6%  0.00% 
Total opportunity under the remuneration policy in 2021 (unchanged from 2020) 
Delivering for our shareholders (30%)             
Value creation measured as IFRS gain on sale  10%  380  570  760  803  10.00% 
(PBT) from strategic shareholdings (£m)1 
Annual profit progress on key areas – Wealth and  10%  15  23  30  7  0.00% 
Platforms (£m)2 
Delivery of transformation synergies (£m)  10%  315  350  385  351  5.14% 
1  £760m target is IFRS gain on sale before tax. 
2  Platforms includes Wrap and Elevate. Wealth includes Aberdeen Standard Capital, Parmenion, Focus, threesixty, Advice (including Digital and SLCM). Profit progress defined 
  as the increase in year on year adjusted profit before tax between 2019 and 2020. 
    Standard Life Aberdeen 2020  79  
3. Corporate governance statement continued  
 
Non-financial performance metrics – 20% of total scorecard outcome  
Weighting  Threshold   Target   Stretch   Result  
(% of max  (25% of  (50% of  (100% of  (% of max 
  opportunity)  maximum)  maximum)  maximum)  Actual opportunity) 
Investing in our people (10%)             
Diversity of leadership and the wider workforce 
(measured at 31 December 2020): 
% female representation in CEO -1 and CEO-2   2.5%  33%  37%  >=39%  37%  1.25% 
% female representation in Global workforce   2.5%  46%  47%  >=49%  45%  0.00% 
People engagement: outcome of the Viewpoints  5%  61%  64%  67%  72%  5.00% 
full company survey        
Investing in our customers (10%)  Highlights from assessment   
Customer Advocacy: improvement from  –  Little demonstrable progress overall in customer satisfaction  2.50% 
baseline  indices in Investments and failure to achieve top 10 ASI NMG 
Brand Net Promotor score 
–  Within the businesses now positioned under the Advisor and 
Personal vectors, client surveys evidenced positive year-on-year 
movement. In addition to core surveys, additional steps were taken 
to enhance these through the pandemic with timely questions 
reflecting real-time circumstances. 
Personal performance metrics – 5% of total scorecard outcome  
Result  
  Highlights from assessment  (% of max) 
Stephen  –  Facilitation of a smooth transition from his predecessor.  5% 
Bird  –  Strong performance in addressing organisational re-design (including reconfiguration of the firm around 
growth vectors), brand re-positioning and cost transformation and the pursuit of top line growth. This was 
achieved against a backdrop of pandemic restrictions, industry and market disruptions. 
–  Focussed on generating clarity of vision and ambition around the strategic direction of travel, as well as 
openness on challenges faced in delivery, both internally and externally. 
–  Close attention to the people agenda, developing the senior executive group and building strong support 
from them, as well as amongst the wider workforce, for the momentum being created. This was alongside 
establishment of a strong working relationship with the Board.  
–  Progress with Investments towards redesigning how we build around the customer and enhance 
opportunities through strategic relationships. 
Keith  –  Facilitation of a smooth transition to his successor.   5% 
Skeoch  –  Took a leading role in developing an inclusive and diverse senior executive group. The success of this was 
evidenced through the resilient response to the pandemic restrictions. 
–  Successful transformation to remote working which facilitated good progress on completion of the Group’s 
integrated operating model. 
–  Enhancement of the value derived from the Group’s strategic and non-strategic associated company 
stakes through positive engagement with Phoenix and HDFC to facilitate further market transactions and 
realisation of value. 
–  Enhanced public profile as a trusted industry spokesperson as Chairman of the Investment Association 
and interim chair of the FRC. 
Stephanie  –  Support for the new CEO and development of the three year strategic plan and a stretch plan for 2021  4% 
Bruce  which demonstrates a significant inflection to growth in revenues and earnings.   
–  Effective management of the finance transformation program to support strategic changes in Company 
structure and focus on cost and efficiency targets. 
–  Development of the return on capital framework to support evaluation of growth pathways.  
–  Lead role in working with Phoenix, evaluating costs and benefits of deal configurations which laid the 
groundwork for the agreement to sell the Standard Life Brand and acquire the Wrap SIPP and Onshore 
Bond portfolios concluded in February 2021. 
Martin  –  Strong role in succession planning and transition of client relationships and industry body and  4% 
Gilbert  governmental relationships as well as day to day operational management. 
  –  Brand ambassador for SLA/ASI representing the organisation publicly until his date of departure. 
Before approving the level of performance in 2020, the Remuneration Committee sought the views of the Audit Committee on material 
accounting, reporting and disclosure matters that it considered during the year and the Risk and Capital Committee on the management 
of risk within the business. When reflecting on whether the formulaic outcome could be considered fair in the context of the overall 
results, the Remuneration Committee took into account the feedback received as well as factors including the impact of the COVID-19 
pandemic, shareholder experience and pay for the wider workforce. A final determination was made that no adjustment should be made 
to the bonus outcomes set out above as a result of this review.  
80 Standard Life Aberdeen 2020  
3. Corporate governance statement continued  
  
 
 
Non-financial performance metrics – 20% of total scorecard outcome   Payments to past Directors and payments for loss of office (audited) 
Weighting  Threshold   Target   Stretch   Result   Payments made to former executive Directors that have not been previously reported elsewhere are reported if they are in excess of 
(% of max  (25% of  (50% of  (100% of  (% of max  £20,000.  
  opportunity)  maximum)  maximum)  maximum)  Actual opportunity)  G
O
Keith Skeoch stepped down from the Board with effect from 1 September 2020 but remains employed in the role of non-executive  V
Investing in our people (10%)              E
Chairman of Aberdeen Standard Investments Research Institute until the end of his notice period on 30 June 2021, at which point he will  R
N
Diversity of leadership and the wider workforce  leave the Company. Details of his pro-rata remuneration until stepping down from the Board are included in the table on page 79. He  A
N
(measured at 31 December 2020):  continues to be eligible for his salary, benefits and pension from 1 September 2020 until his termination date of 30 June 2021 (totalling  CE
% female representation in CEO -1 and CEO-2   2.5%  33%  37%  >=39%  37%  1.25%  £605k). Entitlement to an annual bonus ceased on 31 August 2020.    
% female representation in Global workforce   2.5%  46%  47%  >=49%  45%  0.00%  As Keith is retiring from the Company, he will be treated as a good leaver for the purpose of outstanding incentive awards. In line with 
People engagement: outcome of the Viewpoints  5%  61%  64%  67%  72%  5.00%  the respective plan rules, the following treatment will apply: 
full company survey         • Legacy awards under the Standard Life Executive LTIP: The 2018 LTIP award has not met the required performance thresholds and 
Investing in our customers (10%)  Highlights from assessment    the award lapsed in full as set out on page 82. There are no other unvested awards under this plan.  
Customer Advocacy: improvement from  –  Little demonstrable progress overall in customer satisfaction  2.50%  • Deferred awards under the EIP: Keith holds outstanding deferred awards under the 2018 EIP (138,107 shares) and the 2019 EIP 
baseline  indices in Investments and failure to achieve top 10 ASI NMG  (273,160 shares). The total shares do not include shares to be awarded in lieu of dividend equivalents. These awards will vest at the 
Brand Net Promotor score  original vesting dates subject to performance against the Underpin conditions (further details of which can be found in previous 
–  Within the businesses now positioned under the Advisor and  Directors’ remuneration reports). Vested awards will be subject to a holding period until the fifth anniversary of grant and will accrue 
Personal vectors, client surveys evidenced positive year-on-year  dividend equivalents. 
movement. In addition to core surveys, additional steps were taken 
• Award under the 2020 LTIP: the 2020 LTIP award will be pro-rated for time in service to 30 June 2021, and therefore a maximum of 
to enhance these through the pandemic with timely questions 
429,045 shares will be capable of vesting subject to performance at the end of the performance period. The maximum number of 
reflecting real-time circumstances. 
shares does not include shares to be awarded in lieu of dividend equivalents. Vested awards will be subject to a two-year holding 
Personal performance metrics – 5% of total scorecard outcome   period at the end of the performance period and will accrue dividend equivalents. 
Result   • Deferred awards to be granted in respect of the 2020 annual bonus (as detailed on page 79) will vest in equal tranches on the first, 
  Highlights from assessment  (% of max)  second and third anniversary of grant. 
Stephen  –  Facilitation of a smooth transition from his predecessor.  5%  Martin Gilbert retired from the Company on 30 September 2020, having stepped down from the Board on 12 May 2020. Other than 
Bird  –  Strong performance in addressing organisational re-design (including reconfiguration of the firm around 
the payments made to Martin until the point he left the Company (as detailed on page 79), no other payments were made. 
growth vectors), brand re-positioning and cost transformation and the pursuit of top line growth. This was 
achieved against a backdrop of pandemic restrictions, industry and market disruptions.  As Martin retired from the Company, he was treated as a good leaver for the purpose of outstanding incentive awards. In line with the 
–  Focussed on generating clarity of vision and ambition around the strategic direction of travel, as well as  respective plan rules, the following treatment will apply: 
openness on challenges faced in delivery, both internally and externally. 
• Legacy awards under the Aberdeen Asset Management Deferred Share Plan (436,083 shares). Unvested awards will vest in full at 
–  Close attention to the people agenda, developing the senior executive group and building strong support 
the normal vesting date. The dividend equivalent value for these shares will be settled in cash at vesting in accordance with the 
from them, as well as amongst the wider workforce, for the momentum being created. This was alongside 
relevant plan rules. 
establishment of a strong working relationship with the Board.  
–  Progress with Investments towards redesigning how we build around the customer and enhance  • Deferred awards under the EIP: Martin holds outstanding deferred awards under the 2018 EIP (138,107 shares) and the 2019 EIP 
opportunities through strategic relationships.  (181,483 shares). The total shares do not include shares to be awarded in lieu of dividend equivalents. These awards will vest at the 
normal time, subject to performance against the Underpin conditions. Vested awards will be subject to a holding period until the fifth 
Keith  –  Facilitation of a smooth transition to his successor.   5% 
anniversary of grant and will accrue dividend equivalents. 
Skeoch  –  Took a leading role in developing an inclusive and diverse senior executive group. The success of this was 
evidenced through the resilient response to the pandemic restrictions.  • Deferred awards to be granted in respect of the 2020 annual bonus (as detailed on page 79) will vest in equal tranches on the 
–  Successful transformation to remote working which facilitated good progress on completion of the Group’s  first, second and third anniversary of grant. 
integrated operating model. 
Executive Directors’ external appointments  
–  Enhancement of the value derived from the Group’s strategic and non-strategic associated company 
Subject to the Board’s approval, executive Directors are able to accept a limited number of external appointments to the boards of other 
stakes through positive engagement with Phoenix and HDFC to facilitate further market transactions and 
organisations and can retain any fees paid for these services. Significant executive Director appointments held during the year are: 
realisation of value. 
–  Enhanced public profile as a trusted industry spokesperson as Chairman of the Investment Association  Executive Director  Role and organisation  2020 Fees 
and interim chair of the FRC. 
Stephen Bird  Not applicable  – 
Stephanie  –  Support for the new CEO and development of the three year strategic plan and a stretch plan for 2021  4%  Keith Skeoch  Non-executive Director Financial Reporting Council1  £nil  
Bruce  which demonstrates a significant inflection to growth in revenues and earnings.   
–  Effective management of the finance transformation program to support strategic changes in Company    Director and Chair of the Investment Association2  £nil 
structure and focus on cost and efficiency targets.    Member of Takeover Panel3  £nil 
–  Development of the return on capital framework to support evaluation of growth pathways.  
Stephanie Bruce  Board and council member of ICAS4  £nil  
–  Lead role in working with Phoenix, evaluating costs and benefits of deal configurations which laid the 
groundwork for the agreement to sell the Standard Life Brand and acquire the Wrap SIPP and Onshore  Martin Gilbert5  Non-executive Director, Glencore plc   US$108,197 
Bond portfolios concluded in February 2021.  Non-executive Director, Old Oak Holdings Limited6  £17,486 
Martin  –  Strong role in succession planning and transition of client relationships and industry body and  4%  Chairman, Revolut7   £49,590 
Gilbert  governmental relationships as well as day to day operational management. 
1  Stepped down from position on 31 July 2020. 
  –  Brand ambassador for SLA/ASI representing the organisation publicly until his date of departure.  2  Served as Deputy Chair up until 30 April 2020 then appointed to Chair from 1 May 2020. 
3  Commenced position on 1 May 2020. 
Before approving the level of performance in 2020, the Remuneration Committee sought the views of the Audit Committee on material  4  Stepped down from position on 24 April 2020. 
accounting, reporting and disclosure matters that it considered during the year and the Risk and Capital Committee on the management  5  All values have been pro-rated up to 12 May 2020 (the date that Martin stepped down from the Board). 
of risk within the business. When reflecting on whether the formulaic outcome could be considered fair in the context of the overall  6  Appointed 9 March 2020.  
results, the Remuneration Committee took into account the feedback received as well as factors including the impact of the COVID-19  7  Appointed 1 January 2020. 
pandemic, shareholder experience and pay for the wider workforce. A final determination was made that no adjustment should be made   234      
to the bonus outcomes set out above as a result of this review.  
    Standard Life Aberdeen 2020 81
3. Corporate governance statement continued  
 
Shareholdings and outstanding share awards 
This section reports our executive Directors’ interests in shares. 
Vesting of the 2018 Executive LTIP  
Keith Skeoch participated in the 2018 Executive LTIP, the outcome of which was dependent on the achievement of stretching 
performance conditions by reference to adjusted profit and net flows targets over the three-year period ending 31 December 2020. On 
assessment of performance against these conditions, it was determined that the award did not meet the required thresholds against 
either of these measures and the award lapsed in full. 
The table below sets out the adjusted performance targets for Executive LTIP awards granted in 2018: 
Performance 
Performance condition  measurement period  Threshold   Maximum   Actual  % Vesting 
Cumulative Group adjusted profit before tax1   1 January 2018 to   £2,160m  £2,920m  £1,872m  0% 
Cumulative Group net flows  31 December 2020   £36.5bn  £67.9bn  £(55.7)bn  0% 
1  These are the performance targets after the adjustments in 2018 following the transaction with Phoenix (details of which were provided to shareholders at the time of the 
adjustment). Further adjustments were made to this target in 2019 as a result of the Lloyds Banking Group withdrawal and in 2019 and 2020 for associate and joint venture 
share reduction changes. These adjustments resulted in a reduction in the threshold and maximum targets of £135m and £185m respectively.  
Vesting of the first tranche of the CFO Deferred Award 
The first anniversary of the award was 3 June 2020 and vesting of the first tranche was determined based on performance up to that 
date. The award had a maximum value at grant of £750,000. 
As set out in the announcement made on 30 April 2019 relating to this award, efficiency targets of £350m had previously been disclosed 
by the Company, of which £230m was still to be realised as of 31 December 2018. The award was structured such that two-thirds would 
vest to the extent that £175m (baseline target) of the remaining £230m was achieved by 3 June 2022 with the final third vesting if the full 
£230m was met or exceeded by that date.  
The Award is considered for vesting in three tranches on the first, second and third anniversary of the grant of the Award. The vesting 
level for the first anniversary and second anniversary tranches is based on an assessment made by the Remuneration Committee of the 
progress made towards the achievement of the efficiency targets, including whether or not the baseline target will be met. The vesting 
level of the third anniversary tranche will be adjusted by the Remuneration Committee to ensure that the overall vesting of the award is 
commensurate with the final achievement against the efficiency targets.  
The Remuneration Committee reviewed progress made towards the £175m (baseline target) and £230m (maximum target) in June 
2020, prior to approving the vesting level of the first tranche of the award. At 31 December 2019, actions had been taken which 
benefited operating expenses by £234m (2018: £120m) (as published in our 2019 ARA). Progress towards the baseline target therefore 
represented £114m at 31 December 2019, with further benefits expected in 2020. When the Remuneration Committee undertook its 
assessment of whether the first tranche of the award should vest in June 2020, this level of efficiency achievement was reported and 
agreed by the Remuneration Committee to be ‘on track’ for the purposes of assessing vesting of the first tranche of the award. At the 
same time, the Remuneration Committee noted the likelihood that the baseline target would be surpassed and the target of £230m (for 
full vesting) would be achieved by 3 June 2022. Performance was assessed by the Committee with input from the Chief Internal Auditor. 
The Remuneration Committee approved the vesting level of the first tranche of the one-off award at 100% and this vested on 22 June 
2020. The first tranche of the award remains subject to malus and clawback provisions in line with the Remuneration Policy. 
Directors’ interests in shares (audited) 
Our shareholding requirements for executive Directors are detailed on page 93. The Directors’ Remuneration Policy requires executive 
Directors to accumulate and maintain a material long-term investment in Standard Life Aberdeen plc shares. The Remuneration 
Committee reviews progress against the requirements annually. Personal investment strategies (such as hedging arrangements) are 
not permitted for the purposes of reducing the economic exposure arising from the shareholding requirement.  
The following table shows the total number of Standard Life Aberdeen plc shares held by the executive Directors and their connected 
persons: 
Shares acquired during the  Total number of shares  Shares acquired between 
Total number of shares  period 1 January 2020 to  owned at 31 December  31 December 2020 and 8 
 
owned at 1 January 2020   31 December 2020   2020   March 2021 
Stephen Bird1  –   500,000  500,000  – 
Keith Skeoch2  2,435,226  122,143  2,557,369  Not applicable 
Stephanie Bruce  –   133,741  133,741  – 
Martin Gilbert3   431,161  –  431,161  Not applicable 
1  Reflects position from start date of 1 July 2020 until 31 December 2020. 
2  Reflects position until stepping down from the Board on 1 September 2020.  
3  Reflects position until stepping down from the Board on 12 May 2020.  
The following table shows the number of qualifying awards included in assessing achievement towards the shareholding requirement, 
as at 31 December 2020. Qualifying awards include 50% of the value of awards held by the executive Directors that have vested but not 
been exercised (as a proxy for the economic exposure after payment of tax due on the exercise of the awards).  
82 Standard Life Aberdeen 2020  
3. Corporate governance statement continued  
  
 
 
Shareholdings and outstanding share awards  Executive Directors who have not yet satisfied the shareholding requirement are expected to accumulate shares until they have fully met 
This section reports our executive Directors’ interests in shares.  their shareholding requirement. They are required to hold 100% of vested shares (post-tax) granted under the Company’s share plans 
(including any dividend equivalents) until they have met their shareholding requirement. All other shares acquired and held by the 
Vesting of the 2018 Executive LTIP   executive Director or owned indirectly by a partner or family trust also count towards the shareholding requirement.  GO
Keith Skeoch participated in the 2018 Executive LTIP, the outcome of which was dependent on the achievement of stretching  V
E
performance conditions by reference to adjusted profit and net flows targets over the three-year period ending 31 December 2020. On  Stephen Bird and Stephanie Bruce, who were appointed during 2020 and 2019 respectively, have not yet met the shareholding  RN
assessment of performance against these conditions, it was determined that the award did not meet the required thresholds against  requirement. Keith Skeoch and Martin Gilbert complied with the requirements until they stepped down from the Board and are now  AN
either of these measures and the award lapsed in full.  subject to the post cessation shareholding requirements as detailed below.   CE
 
The table below sets out the adjusted performance targets for Executive LTIP awards granted in 2018:    Qualifying awards             
Total of the 
Performance  value of shares 
Performance condition  measurement period  Threshold   Maximum   Actual  % Vesting  Number   Number of shares  held (from table 
Cumulative Group adjusted profit before tax1   1 January 2018 to   £2,160m  £2,920m  £1,872m  0%  avaoifl asbhlaer aess  luonndge-rte ormpt iionnc eunntdiveer   hTooltdailn qgu (aslhifayrinegs   aobfo tvhee  avnadlu 5e0 o%f  
Cumulative Group net flows  31 December 2020   £36.5bn  £67.9bn  £(55.7)bn  0%  unrestricted  plans which are no  held from table  qualifying 
vested  longer subject to  above and 50%  Shareholding  awards at 31  Shareholding 
1  These are the performance targets after the adjustments in 2018 following the transaction with Phoenix (details of which were provided to shareholders at the time of the  deferred  performance  of qualifying  Value1 of  requirement  Basic  December 2020)  requirement 
adjustment). Further adjustments were made to this target in 2019 as a result of the Lloyds Banking Group withdrawal and in 2019 and 2020 for associate and joint venture    awards   conditions   awards)   holding  (as % salary)   Salary  as a % of salary  met?  
share reduction changes. These adjustments resulted in a reduction in the threshold and maximum targets of £135m and £185m respectively.   Stephen Bird2  –  –  500,000   £1,406,500  350%  £875,000  161%  No 
Vesting of the first tranche of the CFO Deferred Award  Keith Skeoch3  –  –  2,557,369  £7,193,879  500%  £615,000  1,170%  Yes 
The first anniversary of the award was 3 June 2020 and vesting of the first tranche was determined based on performance up to that 
Stephanie 
date. The award had a maximum value at grant of £750,000.  –  –  133,741  £376,213  300%  £538,125  70%  No 
Bruce 
As set out in the announcement made on 30 April 2019 relating to this award, efficiency targets of £350m had previously been disclosed  Martin Gilbert4  1,529,596  –  1,195,959  £3,364,233  300%  £480,000  701%  Yes 
by the Company, of which £230m was still to be realised as of 31 December 2018. The award was structured such that two-thirds would 
vest to the extent that £175m (baseline target) of the remaining £230m was achieved by 3 June 2022 with the final third vesting if the full  1  The closing market price at 31 December 2020 used to determine the value of each holding was 281.30 pence. 
£230m was met or exceeded by that date.   2  Reflects position from start date of 1 July 2020 until 31 December 2020. 
The Award is considered for vesting in three tranches on the first, second and third anniversary of the grant of the Award. The vesting  3  Reflects position until stepping down from the Board on 1 September 2020.  
level for the first anniversary and second anniversary tranches is based on an assessment made by the Remuneration Committee of the  4  Reflects position until stepping down from the Board on 12 May 2020.  
progress made towards the achievement of the efficiency targets, including whether or not the baseline target will be met. The vesting 
During 2021 the Committee will be reviewing the processes in place in order to ensure maximum enforceability of the post-employment 
level of the third anniversary tranche will be adjusted by the Remuneration Committee to ensure that the overall vesting of the award is 
shareholding requirement. 
commensurate with the final achievement against the efficiency targets.  
As set out on page 93, under the Directors’ Remuneration Policy an executive Director is required to hold shares up to the value of their 
The Remuneration Committee reviewed progress made towards the £175m (baseline target) and £230m (maximum target) in June 
shareholding requirement for 24 months post departure from the Board. Accordingly, Keith Skeoch is required to hold 500% of his final 
2020, prior to approving the vesting level of the first tranche of the award. At 31 December 2019, actions had been taken which 
basic salary in shares until 31 August 2022. 
benefited operating expenses by £234m (2018: £120m) (as published in our 2019 ARA). Progress towards the baseline target therefore 
represented £114m at 31 December 2019, with further benefits expected in 2020. When the Remuneration Committee undertook its  In line with the previous shareholding policy, which was in place at the time of the announcement relating to Martin Gilbert’s departure, 
assessment of whether the first tranche of the award should vest in June 2020, this level of efficiency achievement was reported and  Martin Gilbert is required to hold 300% of his final basic salary in shares until 30 September 2021.  
agreed by the Remuneration Committee to be ‘on track’ for the purposes of assessing vesting of the first tranche of the award. At the 
This table shows the total number of share options, with and without performance conditions, held at 31 December 2020:  
same time, the Remuneration Committee noted the likelihood that the baseline target would be surpassed and the target of £230m (for 
full vesting) would be achieved by 3 June 2022. Performance was assessed by the Committee with input from the Chief Internal Auditor.  Unvested options  Vested but  Aggregate gains 
Unvested options   without  unexercised  Total options at  made 
The Remuneration Committee approved the vesting level of the first tranche of the one-off award at 100% and this vested on 22 June  with performance  performance  options at 31  31 December  Exercised during  on awards exercised  
2020. The first tranche of the award remains subject to malus and clawback provisions in line with the Remuneration Policy.    measures1  measures2  December 20203  2020  the year4  during the year5 
Directors’ interests in shares (audited)  Stephen Bird   945,765  –  –  945,765  –  – 
Our shareholding requirements for executive Directors are detailed on page 93. The Directors’ Remuneration Policy requires executive  Keith Skeoch  2,032,456  102,833  –  2,135,289  329,705  £730,496 
Directors to accumulate and maintain a material long-term investment in Standard Life Aberdeen plc shares. The Remuneration  Stephanie Bruce  778,775  7,944  –  786,719  103,859  £275,538 
Committee reviews progress against the requirements annually. Personal investment strategies (such as hedging arrangements) are 
Martin Gilbert  319,590  436,083  1,529,596  2,285,269  –   – 
not permitted for the purposes of reducing the economic exposure arising from the shareholding requirement.  
1  Includes: LTIP awards made in 2018 (awards subject to performance targets over the three-year period ending 31 December 2020), 2019 deferred bonus awards and the 
The following table shows the total number of Standard Life Aberdeen plc shares held by the executive Directors and their connected 
2020 LTIP awards granted in 2020 disclosed below (awards subject to performance targets over the three-year period ending 31 December 2022), excluding, in each case, 
persons:  shares to be awarded in lieu of dividend equivalents. 
2 This comprises deferred bonus awards (including unvested awards under the Aberdeen Variable Pay plans). It does not include shares to be awarded in lieu of dividend 
Shares acquired during the  Total number of shares  Shares acquired between 
equivalents. Also included are options granted under the Standard Life Sharesave Plan.  
Total number of shares  period 1 January 2020 to  owned at 31 December  31 December 2020 and 8 
  owned at 1 January 2020   31 December 2020   2020   March 2021  3 This comprises awards made under the Aberdeen Variable Pay plans which are now exercisable.  
Stephen Bird1  –   500,000  500,000  –  4 For Keith Skeoch this comprises of awards made under the LTIP in 2015 and deferred bonus awards, for Stephanie Bruce this comprises the first tranche of the one-off award 
granted in 2019. Includes dividend equivalent shares awarded in accordance with the plan rules. 
Keith Skeoch2  2,435,226  122,143  2,557,369  Not applicable  5 The aggregate gains have been calculated using the share price at the date of exercise of each underlying award. The range for the year of Standard Life Aberdeen plc shares 
Stephanie Bruce  –   133,741  133,741  –  was 170.30 pence to 336.90 pence. 
Martin Gilbert3   431,161  –  431,161  Not applicable   
1  Reflects position from start date of 1 July 2020 until 31 December 2020.   
2  Reflects position until stepping down from the Board on 1 September 2020.    
3  Reflects position until stepping down from the Board on 12 May 2020.  
   
The following table shows the number of qualifying awards included in assessing achievement towards the shareholding requirement, 
as at 31 December 2020. Qualifying awards include 50% of the value of awards held by the executive Directors that have vested but not 
been exercised (as a proxy for the economic exposure after payment of tax due on the exercise of the awards).  
    Standard Life Aberdeen 2020 83
3. Corporate governance statement continued  
 
Awards granted in 2020 (audited) 
The table below shows the key details of the LTIP and EIP deferred awards granted in 2020: 
Number of % payable  
Type of   Basis of  % of  Face value   shares  for threshold 
Participant  award  award  salary  at grant  awarded  performance Details on performance conditions 
Stephen Bird  Nil-cost option  LTIP1  350%  £2,553,946  945,765  Awards are subject to performance 
against targets measured over three 
Keith Skeoch  Nil-cost option  LTIP2  300%  £1,845,000  859,658  25% years as set out on page 84 of the 
Annual report and accounts 2019 and 
Stephanie Bruce Nil-cost option  LTIP2  200%  £1,076,250  501,467 
subject to the restatement below  
Keith Skeoch  Nil-cost option  £562,410   273,160  EIP deferred awards are subject to 
Deferred  Not  Not  performance Underpins measured over 
Stephanie Bruce Nil-cost option   £184,466   89,594 
Bonus3  applicable  applicable  three years as set out on page 87 of 
Martin Gilbert  Nil-cost option   £373,656   181,483  the Annual report and accounts 2019 
1  The share price used for the LTIP award was 270.04p. The award was reduced pro-rata to reflect the fact Stephen Bird joined part way through the performance period. 
2  The share price used for the LTIP awards was 214.62p.  
3  The share price used for the deferred bonus awards was 205.89p. 
2020 LTIP Target Restatement 
Coinciding with the publication of these accounts, the Group issued an RNS announcement dealing with future changes to the reporting 
of Adjusted Profit and Adjusted Diluted Profit per Share. The Committee reviewed the impact of these changes on remuneration 
measures and targets set for in-flight incentive arrangements and determined that it was appropriate to change both the per Share 
measure and the associated performance targets of those schemes which currently use CAGR in Adjusted Diluted Earnings per Share 
as a performance indicator. The revised measure selected as that most adjacent to the original test was CAGR in Adjusted Diluted 
Capital Generation per Share (see definition on page 222 and detail on page 78). In accordance with the rules of the various schemes, 
the underlying principle applied in setting the revised measures and targets was that (subject to rounding) they should be neither more 
nor less difficult to achieve than the original targets. The Remuneration Committee considered the projections that underpinned the 
targets set for CAGR in Adjusted Diluted Earnings per Share (as then defined) when the performance conditions for the 2020 LTIP 
awards were agreed, and how the new measure would have been expected to perform based upon the same assumptions. Based on 
this analysis it set the threshold and maximum levels for CAGR in Adjusted Diluted Capital Generation per Share of 11% and 23% 
respectively (previous measure 5% and 15%). As with the previous measure, performance below threshold will result in a nil vesting, 
rising to 25% of opportunity at threshold and 100% of opportunity at or above maximum; straight line vesting will continue to be applied 
between threshold and maximum. 
Details of the 2020 awards made to Directors can be found on page 84 of the Annual report and accounts 2019. The table below shows 
the original performance targets for the 2020 LTIP award and the amended performance targets. The higher target range in this section 
compared to that set for the 2021 LTIP reflects, inter alia, the substantial completion of the company’s share buyback plan in 2020. 
Performance Measures1  Original Target: Adjusted diluted EPS  Amended Target: CAGR in Adjusted Diluted 
Compound Annual Growth Rate (CAGR)  Capital Generation per Share 
Threshold target (25% vesting)   5%  11% 
Maximum (100% vesting)  15%  23% 
1  No change has been made to the original Relative TSR target which is set out on page 84 of the Annual report and accounts 2019. 
Share dilution limits 
All share plans operated by the Company which permit awards to be satisfied by issuing new shares contain dilution limits that comply 
with the guidelines produced by The Investment Association (IA). On 31 December 2020, the Company’s standing against these dilution 
limits was: 1.07% where the guideline is no more than 5% in any 10 years under all discretionary share plans in which the executive 
Directors participate and 1.55% where the guideline is no more than 10% in any 10 years under all share plans.  
As is normal practice, there are employee trusts that operate in conjunction with the Executive LTIP, Standard Life Investments LTIP, 
the Restricted Stock Plan, the deferred elements of the Standard Life annual bonus plan and the Aberdeen Asset Management deferred 
plans. On 31 December 2020 the trusts held 67,735,805 shares acquired to satisfy these awards. Of these shares, 9,309,281 are 
committed to satisfying vested but unexercised awards. The percentage of share capital held by the employee trusts is 3.09% of the 
issued share capital of the Company – within the 5% best practice limit endorsed by the IA.  
Promoting all-employee share ownership 
The Company promotes employee share ownership with a range of initiatives, including: 
• The Standard Life (Employee) Share Plan which allows eligible employees to buy Standard Life Aberdeen plc shares directly from 
earnings. A similar tax-approved plan is used in Ireland. At 31 December 2020, 1,949 individuals in the UK and Ireland were actively 
making monthly contributions averaging £69. At 31 December 2020, 2,424 individuals were Standard Life Aberdeen plc shareholders 
through participation in the Plan.  
• The Sharesave Plan which was offered in 2020 to eligible employees in the UK. This plan allows UK tax resident employees to save 
towards the exercise of options over Standard Life Aberdeen plc shares with the option price set at the beginning of the savings period 
at a discount of up to 20% of the market price. At 31 December 2020, 2,298 individuals were saving towards one or more of the 
Sharesave offers.   
84 Standard Life Aberdeen 2020  
3. Corporate governance statement continued  
  
 
 
Awards granted in 2020 (audited)  Executive Directors’ Remuneration in Context  
The table below shows the key details of the LTIP and EIP deferred awards granted in 2020: 
Pay compared to performance  Total shareholder return of Standard Life Aberdeen plc compared to  
Number of % payable   The graph shows the difference in the  the FTSE 100 index  G
O
Type of   Basis of  % of  Face value   shares  for threshold  total shareholder return at 31  300 V
Participant  award  award  salary  at grant  awarded  performance Details on performance conditions  December 2020 if, on 1 January 2010,  ERN
Stephen Bird  Nil-cost option  LTIP1  350%  £2,553,946  945,765  Awards are subject to performance  £100 had been invested in Standard  AN
against targets measured over three  Life Aberdeen plc and in the FTSE 100  250 CE
Keith Skeoch  Nil-cost option  LTIP2  300%  £1,845,000  859,658  25% years as set out on page 84 of the  respectively. It is assumed dividends   
Stephanie Bruce Nil-cost option  LTIP2  200%  £1,076,250  501,467  Annual report and accounts 2019 and  are reinvested in both. The FTSE 100  200
Keith Skeoch  Nil-cost option  £562,410   273,160  sEuIPb jedcetf etorr ethde a rwesatradtse mareen st ubbejleocwt  t o  hAabse rbdeeeenn  cphlco sise na  amse Smtabnedr aorfd t hLisif e  Value (£)
Deferred  Not  Not  performance Underpins measured over  FTSE grouping.  150
Stephanie Bruce Nil-cost option   £184,466   89,594 
Bonus3  applicable  applicable  three years as set out on page 87 of   
Martin Gilbert  Nil-cost option   £373,656   181,483  the Annual report and accounts 2019 
100
1  The share price used for the LTIP award was 270.04p. The award was reduced pro-rata to reflect the fact Stephen Bird joined part way through the performance period. 
2  The share price used for the LTIP awards was 214.62p.   50
3  The share price used for the deferred bonus awards was 205.89p.  Dec-10 Dec-11 Dec-12 Dec-13 Dec-14 Dec-15 Dec-16 Dec-17 Dec-18 Dec-19 Dec-20
Standard Life Aberdeen plc                               FTSE 100
2020 LTIP Target Restatement 
Source: Datastream  
Coinciding with the publication of these accounts, the Group issued an RNS announcement dealing with future changes to the reporting 
of Adjusted Profit and Adjusted Diluted Profit per Share. The Committee reviewed the impact of these changes on remuneration  The following table shows the single figure of total remuneration for the Director in the role of Chief Executive Officer for the same 10 
measures and targets set for in-flight incentive arrangements and determined that it was appropriate to change both the per Share  financial years as shown in the graph above. Also shown are the annual incentive awards and LTIP awards which vested based on 
measure and the associated performance targets of those schemes which currently use CAGR in Adjusted Diluted Earnings per Share  performance in those years. 
as a performance indicator. The revised measure selected as that most adjacent to the original test was CAGR in Adjusted Diluted 
Year  Chief Executive Officer single  Bonus outcome/ Annual incentive  Long-term incentive plan vesting 
Capital Generation per Share (see definition on page 222 and detail on page 78). In accordance with the rules of the various schemes, 
ended 31  figure of total remuneration  rates against maximum  rates against maximum 
the underlying principle applied in setting the revised measures and targets was that (subject to rounding) they should be neither more 
December  Chief Executive Officer   (£000s)  opportunity (%)  opportunity (%) 
nor less difficult to achieve than the original targets. The Remuneration Committee considered the projections that underpinned the 
Stephen Bird  1,044  48  – 
targets set for CAGR in Adjusted Diluted Earnings per Share (as then defined) when the performance conditions for the 2020 LTIP  2020 
awards were agreed, and how the new measure would have been expected to perform based upon the same assumptions. Based on  Keith Skeoch  1,075  48  – 
this analysis it set the threshold and maximum levels for CAGR in Adjusted Diluted Capital Generation per Share of 11% and 23%  2019  Keith Skeoch  1,472  21  – 
respectively (previous measure 5% and 15%). As with the previous measure, performance below threshold will result in a nil vesting, 
Keith Skeoch  1,089  10  – 
rising to 25% of opportunity at threshold and 100% of opportunity at or above maximum; straight line vesting will continue to be applied  20181 
between threshold and maximum.  Martin Gilbert  1,089  10  – 
Keith Skeoch  3,028  82  70 
Details of the 2020 awards made to Directors can be found on page 84 of the Annual report and accounts 2019. The table below shows  20171 
the original performance targets for the 2020 LTIP award and the amended performance targets. The higher target range in this section  Martin Gilbert  1,317  56  – 
compared to that set for the 2021 LTIP reflects, inter alia, the substantial completion of the company’s share buyback plan in 2020.  2016  Keith Skeoch  2,746  81  31.02 
Performance Measures1  Original Target: Adjusted diluted EPS  Amended Target: CAGR in Adjusted Diluted  2015  Keith Skeoch  1,411  87  40.77 
Compound Annual Growth Rate (CAGR)  Capital Generation per Share 
2015  David Nish  2,143  90  40.77 
Threshold target (25% vesting)   5%  11% 
2014  David Nish  6,083  95  100 
Maximum (100% vesting)  15%  23% 
2013  David Nish  4,206  75  64 
1  No change has been made to the original Relative TSR target which is set out on page 84 of the Annual report and accounts 2019.  2012  David Nish  5,564  88  100 
Share dilution limits  2011  David Nish  2,601  77  63.5 
All share plans operated by the Company which permit awards to be satisfied by issuing new shares contain dilution limits that comply 
1  Co-CEO. 
with the guidelines produced by The Investment Association (IA). On 31 December 2020, the Company’s standing against these dilution   
limits was: 1.07% where the guideline is no more than 5% in any 10 years under all discretionary share plans in which the executive  Relative importance of spend on pay 
Directors participate and 1.55% where the guideline is no more than 10% in any 10 years under all share plans.   The following table compares what the Company spent on employee remuneration to what is paid in the form of dividends to the 
As is normal practice, there are employee trusts that operate in conjunction with the Executive LTIP, Standard Life Investments LTIP,  Company’s shareholders. Also shown is the Company’s adjusted profit before tax which is provided for context as it is one of our key 
the Restricted Stock Plan, the deferred elements of the Standard Life annual bonus plan and the Aberdeen Asset Management deferred  performance measures: 
plans. On 31 December 2020 the trusts held 67,735,805 shares acquired to satisfy these awards. Of these shares, 9,309,281 are 
  2020  % change  2019 
committed to satisfying vested but unexercised awards. The percentage of share capital held by the employee trusts is 3.09% of the 
issued share capital of the Company – within the 5% best practice limit endorsed by the IA.   Remuneration payable to all Group employees (£m)1  625  -3.25%  646 
Dividends paid in respect of financial year (£m)  313  -36.5%  493 
Promoting all-employee share ownership 
The Company promotes employee share ownership with a range of initiatives, including:  Share buybacks and return of capital (£m)2  359  -30.29%  515 
• The Standard Life (Employee) Share Plan which allows eligible employees to buy Standard Life Aberdeen plc shares directly from  Adjusted profit before tax (£m)   487  -16.61%  584 
earnings. A similar tax-approved plan is used in Ireland. At 31 December 2020, 1,949 individuals in the UK and Ireland were actively  1  In addition staff costs and other employee-related costs of £91m (2019: £131m) are included in restructuring and corporate transaction expenses. See Note 7 of the Group 
making monthly contributions averaging £69. At 31 December 2020, 2,424 individuals were Standard Life Aberdeen plc shareholders  financial statements for further information. 
through participation in the Plan.   2  Excludes unsettled purchases of shares, expenses and the irrevocable contractual obligation with a third party to purchase the Company’s own shares. See Note 26 of the 
Group financial statements for further information on the buybacks. 
• The Sharesave Plan which was offered in 2020 to eligible employees in the UK. This plan allows UK tax resident employees to save 
towards the exercise of options over Standard Life Aberdeen plc shares with the option price set at the beginning of the savings period     
at a discount of up to 20% of the market price. At 31 December 2020, 2,298 individuals were saving towards one or more of the 
Sharesave offers.   
    Standard Life Aberdeen 2020 85
3. Corporate governance statement continued  
 
Annual percentage change in remuneration of Directors compared to UK based employees  
The table below shows the percentage year-on-year change in salary, benefits and annual bonus earned between the year ended 31 
December 2019 and the year ended 31 December 2020 for the executive Directors, along with any percentage change in fees for the 
non-executive Directors, compared to the average UK-based Group employee. The Remuneration Committee considers this the most 
appropriate comparison given the location of the executive Directors and that the Group does not operate a harmonised salary and 
benefits structure across its global operations.  
% Base  Annual bonus 
Percentage change in remuneration between 2019 and 2020  salary/fee1  outcome1  % Benefits1 
Executive  Stephen Bird  –  –  – 
Directors2,3  Keith Skeoch  -32%   -21%  0% 
  
Stephanie Bruce  74%  54%  100% 
Martin Gilbert  -40%  -31%  -100% 
Non- Sir Douglas Flint6  0%  –  2,600% 
executive  Jonathan Asquith  202%  –  – 
Directors4,5 
John Devine  -2%  –  -100% 
Melanie Gee  -3%  –  -100% 
Brian McBride  –  –  – 
Martin Pike  -3%  –  -100% 
Cathleen Raffaeli  0%  –  -100% 
Jutta af Rosenborg  0%  –  –  
Cecilia Reyes  292%  –  – 
  UK-based employees   2.5%   -52.5%  17% 
1 The data in the table has been calculated in accordance with reporting requirements and reflects the percentage change in base salary, bonus outcome and benefits on an 
earned basis for executive Directors and non-executive Directors. This is compared to the average UK-based Group employee. 
2 Stephen Bird was appointed 1 July 2020; Keith Skeoch stepped down from the Board on 1 September 2020; Stephanie Bruce was appointed to the Board on 1 June 2019; 
Martin Gilbert stepped down from the Board on 12 May 2020 and retired from the company on 30 September 2020. Details of any changes in base salary for executive 
Directors calculated on a full time year-on-year basis can be found on page 79. 
3 The change in benefits figures for employees (including executive Directors) are based on the change in medical premium paid by the Group on their behalf. Benefits do not 
include pension contributions for these purposes. 
4 Remuneration for non-executive Directors and the Chairman is disclosed on page 88. 
5 Jonathan Asquith was appointed to the Board on 1 September 2019, Cecilia Reynes was appointed to the Board on 1 October 2019. Details of any changes to the fees paid to 
non-executive Directors and the Chairman on a full time year-on-year basis can be found on page 93 of the of the Annual report and accounts 2019. 
6 Sir Douglas Flint is eligible for life assurance of 4x his annual fee. For 2019 this figure relates to the period 19 December-31 December 2019 which was the relevant period that 
cover was in place. He received a full year of this benefit in 2020. 
Pay ratio 
The table below sets out the ratio of CEO pay (based on Stephen Bird‘s pay from the date of his appointment on 1 July 2020 plus Keith 
Skeoch’s pro-rata pay up to 30 June 2020) to the median, 25th and 75th percentile total remuneration of full-time equivalent UK 
employees in accordance with legislation published by the Government in 2018. We have identified the relevant employees for 
comparison using our gender pay gap data set (snapshot data from 5 April 2020) and updated the figures for remuneration received in 
respect of the 2020 performance year ending 31 December 2020 (methodology B). This was chosen by the Remuneration Committee 
as it utilised a data set which had already been processed and thoroughly reviewed, and this enabled timely reporting for disclosure 
purposes. Some employing entities are excluded from the gender pay gap calculation in line with the regulations due to the number of 
individuals employed by these entities being less than 250. The Committee considered this would not have a material impact on the 
outcome of the pay ratio calculation given the limited number of individuals this excludes, relative to the total population being captured, 
and the range of the remuneration for those excluded individuals, which was spread across quartiles. 
The remuneration paid to each of the individuals identified under methodology B was reviewed against other individuals within the 
quartile both above and below. The individuals in the 25th and 75th percentile were considered representative of the quartiles and the 
trends seen across the Company on remuneration in respect of both the salary and bonus. The individual in the 50th percentile was 
replaced by the next identified in that quartile as bonus was considered to be higher than representative for the quartile. Benefits figures 
were based on the medical premium paid by the Company on behalf of employees. All individuals identified were full time employees so 
no adjustment to annualise total compensation was required. 
   
86 Standard Life Aberdeen 2020  
3. Corporate governance statement continued  
  
 
 
Annual percentage change in remuneration of Directors compared to UK based employees   The ratio has increased from 2019, which reflects the outcome of the Committee’s assessment of performance in each of the relevant 
The table below shows the percentage year-on-year change in salary, benefits and annual bonus earned between the year ended 31  years as well as greater differentiation for performance and reward which was applied across the organisation in 2020. The Committee 
December 2019 and the year ended 31 December 2020 for the executive Directors, along with any percentage change in fees for the  is comfortable that the pay ratio reflects the pay and progression policies across the Company. Further detail on workforce pay is set out 
non-executive Directors, compared to the average UK-based Group employee. The Remuneration Committee considers this the most  below.  GO
V
appropriate comparison given the location of the executive Directors and that the Group does not operate a harmonised salary and  E
  Year  Method  25th percentile  50th percentile  75th percentile  R
benefits structure across its global operations.   N
A
Stephen Bird/Keith Skeoch  2020  Option B  49  30  18  N
C
% Base  Annual bonus  E
Percentage change in remuneration between 2019 and 2020  salary/fee1  outcome1  % Benefits1  Keith Skeoch  2019   Option B  34  23  13   
Keith Skeoch  2018  Option B  30  19  12 
Executive  Stephen Bird  –  –  – 
Directors2,3  Keith Skeoch  -32%   -21%  0%   
   Stephanie Bruce  74%  54%  100%    Base salary  Total pay  
 (£000s)  (£000s) 
Martin Gilbert  -40%  -31%  -100% 
CEO remuneration1  741  1,847 
Non- Sir Douglas Flint6  0%  –  2,600%  25th percentile employee  32  38 
eDxireeccutotivrse4 ,5  Jonathan Asquith  202%  –  –  50th percentile employee  51  61 
John Devine  -2%  –  -100%  75th percentile employee  85  102 
Melanie Gee  -3%  –  -100% 
1  Values shown include Stephen Bird‘s pay from the date of his appointment on 1 July 2020 plus Keith Skeoch’s pro-rata pay up to 30 June 2020. 
Brian McBride  –  –  – 
How pay was set across the wider workforce in 2020 
Martin Pike  -3%  –  -100%  Our principles for setting pay across the wider workforce are consistent with those for our executive Directors, in that the proportion of 
Cathleen Raffaeli  0%  –  -100%  the remuneration package which is linked to performance increases for more senior roles within the Company as responsibility and 
accountability increases.  
Jutta af Rosenborg  0%  –  –  
Base salaries are targeted at an appropriate level in the relevant markets in which the Group competes for talent. The Remuneration 
Cecilia Reyes  292%  –  – 
Committee considers the base salary percentage increases for the Group's broader UK and international employee populations when 
  UK-based employees   2.5%   -52.5%  17%  determining any annual salary increases for the executive Directors. A Company-wide decision was made not to carry out a salary 
1 The data in the table has been calculated in accordance with reporting requirements and reflects the percentage change in base salary, bonus outcome and benefits on an  review at the end of 2020 and the same approach was applied to executive Directors. 
earned basis for executive Directors and non-executive Directors. This is compared to the average UK-based Group employee.  In 2020, all employees were eligible to be considered for performance related variable remuneration but not all employees received a 
2 Stephen Bird was appointed 1 July 2020; Keith Skeoch stepped down from the Board on 1 September 2020; Stephanie Bruce was appointed to the Board on 1 June 2019;  bonus. Entitlement to be considered for performance related variable remuneration is designed to reward delivery of results over 
Martin Gilbert stepped down from the Board on 12 May 2020 and retired from the company on 30 September 2020. Details of any changes in base salary for executive  appropriate time horizons and includes deferred variable compensation at a suitable level for the employee’s role. Variable remuneration 
Directors calculated on a full time year-on-year basis can be found on page 79. 
for employees, including executive Directors, is determined as a total pool.  
3 The change in benefits figures for employees (including executive Directors) are based on the change in medical premium paid by the Group on their behalf. Benefits do not 
include pension contributions for these purposes.  As part of transformation of our performance culture, in 2020 variable remuneration has been directed to those who have made an 
4 Remuneration for non-executive Directors and the Chairman is disclosed on page 88.  outstanding contribution in the key areas of driving improved fund performance and client service, managing through the global 
pandemic and delivering on our transformation objectives. This has created the required momentum in these areas in 2020 to position 
5 Jonathan Asquith was appointed to the Board on 1 September 2019, Cecilia Reynes was appointed to the Board on 1 October 2019. Details of any changes to the fees paid to 
non-executive Directors and the Chairman on a full time year-on-year basis can be found on page 93 of the of the Annual report and accounts 2019.  our business to deliver against our plan in 2021.  
6 Sir Douglas Flint is eligible for life assurance of 4x his annual fee. For 2019 this figure relates to the period 19 December-31 December 2019 which was the relevant period that  The Group engaged with its employees in 2020 through the annual Viewpoints full company survey. The survey included an opportunity 
cover was in place. He received a full year of this benefit in 2020.  for employees to provide feedback to the Board on pay and benefit matters. The CEO has engaged directly with employees in relation to 
Pay ratio  the 2020 remuneration cycle. The areas discussed in these communications include: economic factors, employee expectations, 
congruence of pay across the workforce and market data. 
The table below sets out the ratio of CEO pay (based on Stephen Bird‘s pay from the date of his appointment on 1 July 2020 plus Keith 
Skeoch’s pro-rata pay up to 30 June 2020) to the median, 25th and 75th percentile total remuneration of full-time equivalent UK  The Group operates a Compensation Committee comprising the Chief HR Officer (Chair), Chief Financial Officer and Chief Risk Officer, 
employees in accordance with legislation published by the Government in 2018. We have identified the relevant employees for  the role of which is to consider the implementation of the remuneration policy across the Group. The terms of reference of the 
comparison using our gender pay gap data set (snapshot data from 5 April 2020) and updated the figures for remuneration received in  Compensation Committee are set by the Remuneration Committee and the Chair of the Compensation Committee formally reports to 
respect of the 2020 performance year ending 31 December 2020 (methodology B). This was chosen by the Remuneration Committee  the Remuneration Committee on all matters which fall within the Compensation Committee’s remit. 
as it utilised a data set which had already been processed and thoroughly reviewed, and this enabled timely reporting for disclosure     
purposes. Some employing entities are excluded from the gender pay gap calculation in line with the regulations due to the number of 
individuals employed by these entities being less than 250. The Committee considered this would not have a material impact on the 
outcome of the pay ratio calculation given the limited number of individuals this excludes, relative to the total population being captured, 
and the range of the remuneration for those excluded individuals, which was spread across quartiles. 
The remuneration paid to each of the individuals identified under methodology B was reviewed against other individuals within the 
quartile both above and below. The individuals in the 25th and 75th percentile were considered representative of the quartiles and the 
trends seen across the Company on remuneration in respect of both the salary and bonus. The individual in the 50th percentile was 
replaced by the next identified in that quartile as bonus was considered to be higher than representative for the quartile. Benefits figures 
were based on the medical premium paid by the Company on behalf of employees. All individuals identified were full time employees so 
no adjustment to annualise total compensation was required. 
   
    Standard Life Aberdeen 2020 87
3. Corporate governance statement continued  
 
Remuneration for non-executive Directors and the Chairman  
Single total figure of remuneration – non-executive Directors (audited)  
The following table sets out the single total figure of remuneration for each of the non-executive Directors who served as a Director at 
any time during the financial year ending 31 December 2020. Non-executive Directors do not participate in bonus or long-term incentive 
plans and do not receive pension funding: 
Taxable benefits in   Total remuneration  
Fees for year ended   year ended  for the year ended 
31 December    31 December  31 December  
Non-executive Directors    £000s   £000s1  £000s 
Sir Douglas Flint2  2020  475  27   502 
  2019  475  1  476 
Jonathan Asquith  2020  139  –  139 
  2019  46  –  46 
John Devine  2020  128  –  128 
  2019  131  3  134 
Melanie Gee  2020  113  –  113 
  2019  117  4  121 
Brian McBride3,4  2020  76  –  76 
  2019  –   –   –  
Martin Pike  2020  124  –  124 
  2019  128  3  131 
Cathleen Raffaeli5  2020  149  –  149 
  2019  149  3  152 
Jutta af Rosenborg  2020  94  –   94 
  2019  94  –  94 
Cecilia Reyes  2020  94  –   94 
  2019  24  –  24 
1  We have reviewed the approach to disclosure of taxable benefits for non-executive Directors in 2020. This has resulted in removal of certain expenses, in line with reporting 
requirements. 
2  Sir Douglas Flint is eligible for life assurance of 4x his annual fee. For 2020 this figure relates to the full year. 
3  Appointed to the Board with effect from 1 May 2020. 
4  Total fees include subsidiary Board fees of £30,000 per annum as a member of the Standard Life Savings Limited and Elevate Portfolio Services Limited Boards. 
5  Total fees include subsidiary Board fees of £55,000 per annum as Chair of the Standard Life Savings Limited and Elevate Portfolio Services Limited Boards. 
The non-executive Directors, including the Chairman, have letters of appointment that set out their duties and responsibilities. The key 
terms are set out in the remuneration policy, and can be found on page 104 of the Annual report and accounts 2019. 
The service agreements/letters of appointment for Directors are available to shareholders to view on request from the Company 
Secretary at the Company’s registered address (details of which can be found on page 238) and at the 2020 AGM. Details of the date of 
appointment to the Board and date of election by shareholders are set out below: 
Chairman/ non-executive Director  Initial appointment to the Board  Initial election by shareholders 
Chairman     
Sir Douglas Flint  1 November 2018  AGM 2019 
Senior Independent Director     
Jonathan Asquith   1 September 2019  AGM 2020 
Non-executive Directors     
John Devine  4 July 2016  AGM 2017 
Melanie Gee  1 November 2015  AGM 2016 
Brian McBride  1 May 2020  AGM 2020 
Martin Pike  27 September 2013  AGM 2014 
Cathleen Raffaeli  1 August 2018  AGM 2019 
Jutta af Rosenborg  14 August 2017  AGM 2018 
Cecilia Reyes   1 October 2019  AGM 2020 
  
 
88 Standard Life Aberdeen 2020  
3. Corporate governance statement continued  
  
 
 
Remuneration for non-executive Directors and the Chairman   Implementation of policy for non-executive Directors in 2021 
Single total figure of remuneration – non-executive Directors (audited)   The following table sets out Standard Life Aberdeen plc non-executive Director fees to be paid in 2021. No increases were made to the 
The following table sets out the single total figure of remuneration for each of the non-executive Directors who served as a Director at  level of fees from 2020. 
G
any time during the financial year ending 31 December 2020. Non-executive Directors do not participate in bonus or long-term incentive  Role  2021 fees1  2020 fees  OV
plans and do not receive pension funding:  E
Chairman’s fees2  £475,000  £475,000  RN
A
Taxable benefits in   Total remuneration   Non-executive Director fee3  £73,500  £73,500  NC
Fees for year ended   year ended  for the year ended  E
31 December    31 December  31 December   Additional fees:     
 
Non-executive Directors    £000s   £000s1  £000s  Senior Independent Director  £25,000  £25,000 
Sir Douglas Flint2  2020  475  27   502  Chairman of the Audit Committee  £30,000  £30,000 
  2019  475  1  476  Chairman of the Risk and Capital Committee  £30,000  £30,000 
Jonathan Asquith  2020  139  –  139  Chairman of the Remuneration Committee  £30,000  £30,000 
  2019  46  –  46  Committee membership (Audit, Risk and Capital, Remuneration and Nomination 
John Devine  2020  128  –  128  Committees)  £10,000  £10,000 
  2019  131  3  134  Employee engagement4  £15,000  £15,000 
Melanie Gee  2020  113  –  113  1  The core fee of £73,500 paid to each non-executive Director (including the Chairman) is expected to total £662k for 2021 (2020: £662k). This is within the maximum 
£1,000,000 permitted under Article 87 of Standard Life Aberdeen plc’s articles of association. Total fees including additional duties are expected to amount to £1,407k for 2021 
  2019  117  4  121 
(2020: £1,408k). 
Brian McBride3,4  2020  76  –  76  2  The Chairman’s fees are inclusive of the non-executive Directors’ core fees and no additional fees are paid to the Chairman where he chairs, or is a member of, other 
  2019  –   –   –   committees/boards. The Chairman is eligible to receive life insurance benefits with effect from December 2019. 
3  For non-executive Directors, individual fees are constructed by taking the core fee and adding extra fees for being the Senior Independent Director, chairman or member of 
Martin Pike  2020  124  –  124 
committees and/or subsidiary boards where a greater responsibility and time commitment is required. 
  2019  128  3  131  4  This fee was introduced in 2019. Details on the role responsibilities are set out on page 79 of the Annual report and accounts 2018.  
Cathleen Raffaeli5  2020  149  –  149  Non-executive Directors’ interests in shares (audited)  
  2019  149  3  152  The following table shows the total number of Standard Life Aberdeen plc shares held by each of the non-executive Directors and their 
Jutta af Rosenborg  2020  94  –   94  connected persons: 
  2019  94  –  94  Total number of shares owned   Shares acquired during the Total number of shares owned 
Cecilia Reyes  2020  94  –   94    at 1 Januaaprpyo 2in0t2m0 eonrt  difa ltaet oerf   period3 11  JDaencueamryb e2r0 2200 2to0     at 31 Doefc ceemsbseart i2o0n2 i0f  eoar rdliaetre2   
  2019  24  –  24 
Sir Douglas Flint  89,024  345  89,369 
1  We have reviewed the approach to disclosure of taxable benefits for non-executive Directors in 2020. This has resulted in removal of certain expenses, in line with reporting 
Jonathan Asquith   20,000  50,000  70,000 
requirements. 
2  Sir Douglas Flint is eligible for life assurance of 4x his annual fee. For 2020 this figure relates to the full year.  John Devine  28,399  –  28,399 
3  Appointed to the Board with effect from 1 May 2020.  Melanie Gee  67,500  –  67,500 
4  Total fees include subsidiary Board fees of £30,000 per annum as a member of the Standard Life Savings Limited and Elevate Portfolio Services Limited Boards.  Brian McBride1  –  –  – 
5  Total fees include subsidiary Board fees of £55,000 per annum as Chair of the Standard Life Savings Limited and Elevate Portfolio Services Limited Boards.  Martin Pike  69,476  –  69,476 
Cathleen Raffaeli  9,315  –  9,315 
The non-executive Directors, including the Chairman, have letters of appointment that set out their duties and responsibilities. The key 
terms are set out in the remuneration policy, and can be found on page 104 of the Annual report and accounts 2019.  Jutta af Rosenborg  8,750  –  8,750 
The service agreements/letters of appointment for Directors are available to shareholders to view on request from the Company  Cecilia Reyes  –  –  – 
Secretary at the Company’s registered address (details of which can be found on page 238) and at the 2020 AGM. Details of the date of  1  Appointed 1 May 2020. 
appointment to the Board and date of election by shareholders are set out below:  2  There were no changes to the number of shares held by Directors between 31 December 2020 and 8 March 2021. 
Chairman/ non-executive Director  Initial appointment to the Board  Initial election by shareholders 
Sir Douglas Flint, as Chairman, is subject to a shareholding guideline of 100% of the value of his annual fee in Standard Life Aberdeen 
Chairman      plc shares to be reached within four years of appointment.  
Sir Douglas Flint  1 November 2018  AGM 2019 
   
Senior Independent Director     
Jonathan Asquith   1 September 2019  AGM 2020 
Non-executive Directors     
John Devine  4 July 2016  AGM 2017 
Melanie Gee  1 November 2015  AGM 2016 
Brian McBride  1 May 2020  AGM 2020 
Martin Pike  27 September 2013  AGM 2014 
Cathleen Raffaeli  1 August 2018  AGM 2019 
Jutta af Rosenborg  14 August 2017  AGM 2018 
Cecilia Reyes   1 October 2019  AGM 2020 
  
 
    Standard Life Aberdeen 2020 89
3. Corporate governance statement continued  
 
The Remuneration Committee 
Membership 
During 2020 the Remuneration Committee was made up of independent non-executive Directors. For their names, the number of 
meetings and committee member attendance during 2020, please see the table on page 57. 
The role of the Remuneration Committee 
To consider and make recommendations to the Board in respect of the total remuneration policy across the Company, including: 
• Rewards for the executive Directors, senior employees and the Chairman  
• The design and targets for any employee share plan  
• The design and targets for annual cash bonus plans throughout the Company 
• Changes to employee benefit structures (including pensions) throughout the Company 
The Remuneration Committee’s work in 2020 
• Development of 2020 Directors’ Remuneration Policy 
Jan-Mar • Review stakeholder commentary on draft Remuneration Policy 
 
• 2019 Directors’ remuneration report 
• 2019 bonus payments and 2017 LTIP outcomes 
• 2020 annual bonus scorecard targets and 2020 LTIP targets 
• Review remuneration outcomes for executive Directors and the Material Risk Taker population 
• Review of COVID-19 impact on remuneration  
Apr-Jun • Update on the external environment and feedback from AGM 
 
• Remuneration decisions for the Executive Leadership Team and other senior employees within Remuneration 
Committee’s remit  
• Review of Stephen Bird appointment and Keith Skeoch departure 
• Consider anticipated impact of regulatory changes on remuneration  
Jul-Sep • Mid-year review of performance against target for annual bonus and LTIP awards 
 
• Review of Group Remuneration Policy 
Oct-Dec • Material Risk Takers and related 2020 disclosures 
 
• Update on the regulatory position of Standard Life Aberdeen and the Remuneration Committee’s Terms of Reference 
• Review gender pay gap data 
• Review 2021 remuneration proposals 
External advisers 
During the year, the Remuneration Committee took advice from Deloitte LLP (a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group) who 
were appointed by the Remuneration Committee in 2017. The Remuneration Committee is satisfied that the advice given is objective 
and independent.  
A representative from Deloitte LLP attends, by invitation, all Remuneration Committee meetings to provide information and updates on 
external developments affecting remuneration as well as specific matters raised by the Remuneration Committee. Outside of the 
meetings, the Remuneration Committee’s Chairman seeks advice on remuneration matters on an ongoing basis. As well as advising the 
Remuneration Committee, Deloitte LLP also provided tax, accounting support, risk management and consultancy services to the 
Company during the year. Deloitte Total Rewards and Benefits is an investment adviser to the trustees of the Standard Life Staff 
Pension Scheme.  
Fees paid to Deloitte LLP during 2020 for professional advice to the Remuneration Committee were £171,165.  
Where appropriate, the Remuneration Committee receives input from the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, 
Chief HR Officer, Global Head of Reward, Chief Risk Officer, and the Head of Stewardship and ESG Investments. This input never 
relates to their own remuneration. The Remuneration Committee also receives input from the Risk and Capital Committee and Audit 
Committee. 
   
90 Standard Life Aberdeen 2020  
3. Corporate governance statement continued  
  
 
 
The Remuneration Committee  Remuneration Committee effectiveness  
Membership  The Committee reviews its remit and effectiveness each year. The 2020 review was conducted internally by the Company Secretary, 
During 2020 the Remuneration Committee was made up of independent non-executive Directors. For their names, the number of  who interviewed each of the Committee members. As well as general observations, the four key performance areas considered were: 
G
meetings and committee member attendance during 2020, please see the table on page 57.  • The coverage of the Committee’s duties in the meeting agendas  OV
E
The role of the Remuneration Committee  • How effectively agenda items were presented and discussed  RN
A
To consider and make recommendations to the Board in respect of the total remuneration policy across the Company, including:  • The quality and level of detail in the papers  NC
E
• Rewards for the executive Directors, senior employees and the Chairman   • How well the Committee met its objectives in terms of making decisions and reporting to the Board 
 
• The design and targets for any employee share plan   The Committee members did not raise any material issues or concerns regarding the above areas or the overall effectiveness of the 
• The design and targets for annual cash bonus plans throughout the Company  Committee during 2020. They were very supportive of the Chair’s effective role in leading the Committee through its sometimes 
• Changes to employee benefit structures (including pensions) throughout the Company  challenging discussions. The main area where the Committee wanted to see continued improvement in 2021 was in relation to the 
clarity of the presentation of some of the more technical and regulatory-related remuneration matters. In addition to overseeing the 
The Remuneration Committee’s work in 2020  annual remuneration cycle, Committee members would like to spend more time in their meetings considering the structure and elements 
of the future remuneration principles and strategy across the Group, and how they might support the executive team in their 
• Development of 2020 Directors’ Remuneration Policy 
implementation.  
• Review stakeholder commentary on draft Remuneration Policy 
  Shareholder voting 
• 2019 Directors’ remuneration report 
We remain committed to ongoing shareholder dialogue and take an active interest in voting outcomes.  
• 2019 bonus payments and 2017 LTIP outcomes 
The remuneration policy was subject to a vote at the 2020 AGM on 12 May 2020 and the following table sets out the outcome.  
• 2020 annual bonus scorecard targets and 2020 LTIP targets 
Policy 2020 AGM  For  Against  Withheld 
• Review remuneration outcomes for executive Directors and the Material Risk Taker population 
% of total votes  91.66%  8.34%   
• Review of COVID-19 impact on remuneration   No. of votes cast  1,003,905,073  91,323,405  10,346,991 
• Update on the external environment and feedback from AGM 
  The Directors’ remuneration report was subject to a vote at the 2020 AGM on 12 May 2020 and the following table sets out the outcome. 
• Remuneration decisions for the Executive Leadership Team and other senior employees within Remuneration 
Committee’s remit   2019 Directors’ remuneration report   For  Against  Withheld 
• Review of Stephen Bird appointment and Keith Skeoch departure  % of total votes  98.05%  1.95%   
No. of votes cast  1,067,884,391  21,284,114  16,406,965 
 
• Consider anticipated impact of regulatory changes on remuneration      
• Mid-year review of performance against target for annual bonus and LTIP awards 
 
• Review of Group Remuneration Policy 
• Material Risk Takers and related 2020 disclosures 
 
• Update on the regulatory position of Standard Life Aberdeen and the Remuneration Committee’s Terms of Reference 
• Review gender pay gap data 
• Review 2021 remuneration proposals 
External advisers 
During the year, the Remuneration Committee took advice from Deloitte LLP (a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group) who 
were appointed by the Remuneration Committee in 2017. The Remuneration Committee is satisfied that the advice given is objective 
and independent.  
A representative from Deloitte LLP attends, by invitation, all Remuneration Committee meetings to provide information and updates on 
external developments affecting remuneration as well as specific matters raised by the Remuneration Committee. Outside of the 
meetings, the Remuneration Committee’s Chairman seeks advice on remuneration matters on an ongoing basis. As well as advising the 
Remuneration Committee, Deloitte LLP also provided tax, accounting support, risk management and consultancy services to the 
Company during the year. Deloitte Total Rewards and Benefits is an investment adviser to the trustees of the Standard Life Staff 
Pension Scheme.  
Fees paid to Deloitte LLP during 2020 for professional advice to the Remuneration Committee were £171,165.  
Where appropriate, the Remuneration Committee receives input from the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, 
Chief HR Officer, Global Head of Reward, Chief Risk Officer, and the Head of Stewardship and ESG Investments. This input never 
relates to their own remuneration. The Remuneration Committee also receives input from the Risk and Capital Committee and Audit 
Committee. 
   
    Standard Life Aberdeen 2020 91
3. Corporate governance statement continued  
 
Summary of the Directors’ Remuneration Policy 
This section sets out the remuneration policy which was approved by shareholders at the 2020 AGM and how it will be implemented in 
2021. Given the changes to the Board during the year, summaries of the relevant extracts from the remuneration policy for new 
appointments and for service contracts and loss of office have also been provided. 
Remuneration policy summary – executive Directors 
Purpose and link to strategy  Operation  Implementation in 2021 
Base salary      
To provide a core reward  Normally reviewed annually, taking into account a range of  No changes are proposed to base 
for undertaking the role,  factors including: (i) the individual's skills, performance  salaries this year. 
commensurate with the  and experience; (ii) increases for the broader employee 
Stephen Bird: £875,000 
individual’s role,  population; (iii) external market data and other relevant 
responsibilities and  external factors; (iv) the size and responsibility of the role;  Stephanie Bruce: £538,125 
experience.  and (v) the complexity of the business and geographical 
scope. 
Pension     
To provide a competitive,  Maximum employer contribution aligned to those available  Stephen Bird: 18% of salary 
flexible retirement benefit  to the wider workforce in the relevant jurisdiction.  
Stephanie Bruce: 18% of salary 
in a way that does not 
The current maximum employer contribution available to 
create an unacceptable 
the UK wider workforce is 18% of salary.  
level of financial risk or 
cost to the Company. 
Benefits     
To provide market  Benefits include (i) private healthcare; (ii) death in service  Benefits to be provided as per policy.  
competitive and cost  protection; (iii) income protection (iv) reimbursement of 
effective benefits.  membership fees of professional bodies; and (v) eligibility 
for the all employee share plan. Executive Directors are 
 
also eligible to participate in the Company’s flexible 
benefits programme and are provided with a health 
screening assessment. 
Annual Bonus     
To reward the delivery of  The maximum award opportunity is up to 300% of salary.   Stephen Bird: 250% of salary 
the Company’s business 
Annual performance is assessed against a range of key  Stephanie Bruce: 150% of salary 
plan in a range of financial 
financial (at least 75% weighting), non-financial and 
and non-financial areas  Details on the performance metrics 
personal performance measures (no more than 10% 
and to align executives’  for to 2021 annual bonus are set out 
weighting).  
interests to those of  on page 78. Due to commercial 
shareholders and our  At least 50% of any award will be deferred into shares  sensitivity, actual targets and ranges 
clients.  vesting in equal tranches over a three-year period. A  will be disclosed at the end of the 
retention period may be applied. Deferred awards accrue  performance period. 
dividend equivalents. 
Awards subject to clawback for a period of five years from 
the date of the award. Any unvested awards will be 
subject to malus during the deferral period. 
   
92 Standard Life Aberdeen 2020  
3. Corporate governance statement continued  
  
 
 
Summary of the Directors’ Remuneration Policy  Purpose and link to strategy  Operation  Implementation in 2021 
This section sets out the remuneration policy which was approved by shareholders at the 2020 AGM and how it will be implemented in  Long-Term Incentive Plan     
2021. Given the changes to the Board during the year, summaries of the relevant extracts from the remuneration policy for new 
To align with our  The maximum award opportunity is up to 500% of salary. Combined  Stephen Bird: 350% of  G
appointments and for service contracts and loss of office have also been provided.  O
shareholders and promote  incentive opportunity capped at 700% of salary.   salary  V
E
Remuneration policy summary – executive Directors  sustainability by rewarding  R
Awards are subject to a three-year performance period, with a  Stephanie Bruce: 200%  N
the delivery of long-term  A
Purpose and link to strategy  Operation  Implementation in 2021  subsequent two-year holding period.   of salary  N
growth in shareholder value.   C
E
Base salary      
Performance targets are set annually for each three-year cycle by the  Details on performance 
 
To provide a core reward  Normally reviewed annually, taking into account a range of  No changes are proposed to base  Remuneration Committee. Awards are subject to at least two  metrics for 2021 LTIP 
for undertaking the role,  factors including: (i) the individual's skills, performance  salaries this year.  performance metrics which are linked to the achievement of the  awards are set out on 
commensurate with the  and experience; (ii) increases for the broader employee  Stephen Bird: £875,000  Company’s long-term strategic priorities and the creation of long-term  page 78. 
individual’s role,  population; (iii) external market data and other relevant  shareholder value, with at least one being absolute in nature and one 
responsibilities and  external factors; (iv) the size and responsibility of the role;  Stephanie Bruce: £538,125  being a relative metric.  
experience.  and (v) the complexity of the business and geographical 
scope.  Awards accrue dividend equivalents over the performance and 
holding period. 
Pension     
Awards will be subject to clawback for a period of five years from the 
To provide a competitive,  Maximum employer contribution aligned to those available  Stephen Bird: 18% of salary 
date of the award. Any unvested awards will be subject to malus 
flexible retirement benefit  to the wider workforce in the relevant jurisdiction.  
Stephanie Bruce: 18% of salary  during the deferral period. 
in a way that does not 
The current maximum employer contribution available to 
create an unacceptable  Share ownership     
the UK wider workforce is 18% of salary.  
level of financial risk or  To ensure appropriate long- Executive Directors are required to build up a substantial interest in  Stephen Bird: 350% of 
cost to the Company.  term alignment with the  Company shares. For new joiners the shareholding requirement  salary 
Benefits      interest of our shareholders.  aligns with the higher of maximum LTIP opportunity or 200%. The  Stephanie Bruce: 300% 
shareholding requirement for Stephanie Bruce remained at 300% of 
To provide market  Benefits include (i) private healthcare; (ii) death in service  Benefits to be provided as per policy.   of salary 
salary in line with the policy in place at the time of her recruitment. 
competitive and cost  protection; (iii) income protection (iv) reimbursement of 
effective benefits.  membership fees of professional bodies; and (v) eligibility  The post cessation of employment share ownership policy for 
for the all employee share plan. Executive Directors are  executive Directors requires shares up to the value of the 
 
also eligible to participate in the Company’s flexible  shareholding requirement to be held for a period of two years 
benefits programme and are provided with a health  following departure from the Board. 
screening assessment. 
Other Features     
Annual Bonus      Malus and clawback 
To reward the delivery of  The maximum award opportunity is up to 300% of salary.   Stephen Bird: 250% of salary  Malus and clawback provisions apply to annual bonus and LTIP awards. 
the Company’s business 
Annual performance is assessed against a range of key  Stephanie Bruce: 150% of salary  Under the malus and clawback provisions, the Remuneration Committee has the ability to reduce awards that have not yet 
plan in a range of financial 
financial (at least 75% weighting), non-financial and  vested (malus) and can require repayment of an award (clawback) for a period of up to five years from the date of award.  
and non-financial areas  Details on the performance metrics 
personal performance measures (no more than 10% 
and to align executives’  for to 2021 annual bonus are set out  The circumstances in which malus or clawback would apply, include but are not limited to:  
weighting).  
interests to those of  on page 78. Due to commercial 
–  A material misstatement of the Company‘s audited financial statements  
shareholders and our  At least 50% of any award will be deferred into shares  sensitivity, actual targets and ranges 
–  Any failure of risk management, fraud or other material financial irregularity  
clients.  vesting in equal tranches over a three-year period. A  will be disclosed at the end of the 
–  Material corporate failure 
retention period may be applied. Deferred awards accrue  performance period. 
dividend equivalents.  –  An error in the information or assumptions on which the relevant award was paid/granted or vests, as a result of erroneous or 
misleading data or otherwise 
Awards subject to clawback for a period of five years from 
–  Serious misconduct by a participant or otherwise 
the date of the award. Any unvested awards will be 
subject to malus during the deferral period. 
The Remuneration Committee believes that the Remuneration Policy takes into account the factors under Provision 40 of the Corporate 
   
Governance Code (details of which can be found in the 2019 Directors’ Remuneration Report). 
Scenario charts  
The following chart illustrates how much the current executive Directors could receive under a range of different scenarios along with a 
comparison to our current policy:  
 
Chief Executive Officer
Maximum with share price growth 13% 14% 14% 39% 20% Total: £7,814
Maximum 16% 17.5% 17.5%  49% Total: £6,283
Target 28% 15% 15% 42% Total: £3,658
Minimum 100% Total: £1,033
Chief Financial Officer
Maximum with share price growth 21% 13% 13% 35% 18% Total: £3,057
Maximum 25% 16% 16% 43% Total: £2,518
Target 40% 13%13%34% Total: £1,577
Minimum 100% Total: £636
All figures in £000s
Salary, benefits and pension Bonus deferred Assumed share price growth
Bonus cash LTIP 
 
    Standard Life Aberdeen 2020 93
3. Corporate governance statement continued  
 
Outcomes for the 2021 scenario chart are based on the following: 
• Minimum – fixed pay, comprising salary and pension effective 1 April 2021 (18% of salary), and benefits (the value of taxable benefits 
are as shown in the Single Total Figure of Remuneration table for 2020 on page 79) 
• Target – fixed pay, 50% of the maximum bonus award, 50% of LTIP vesting 
• Maximum – fixed pay, 100% of maximum bonus award, 100% of LTIP vesting  
• Maximum + share price growth assumes share price growth of 50% for the LTIP element 
Remuneration policy extract – Remuneration policy for new executive Director appointments 
Area   Policy 
Principles  In determining remuneration arrangements for new executive appointments to the Board (including internal 
promotions), the Remuneration Committee applies the following principles: 
–  The Committee takes into consideration all relevant factors, including the calibre of the individual, local 
market practice and existing arrangements for other executive Directors, adhering to the underlying principle 
that any arrangements should reflect the best interests of the company and its shareholders 
–  Remuneration arrangements for new appointments will typically align with the remuneration policy 
In the case of internal promotions, the Committee will honour existing commitments entered into before 
promotion 
Components  The remuneration package offered to new appointments will not exceed the maximum level of variable 
and approach  remuneration of 700% of salary. This limit excludes buyout awards which are in line with the policy as set out 
below. 
In considering which elements to include, and in determining the approach for all relevant elements, the 
Committee will take into account a number of different factors, including (but not limited to) typical market 
practice and existing arrangements for other executive Directors and internal relativities. 
Buyouts  To facilitate recruitment, the Committee may make an award to buy out remuneration terms forfeited on leaving 
a previous employer. Awards will be made in accordance with regulatory guidance. 
The buyout award will reflect the foregone award in amount and terms (including any deferral or retention 
period) as closely as possible.  
 
Remuneration policy extract – Service Contracts and loss of office for executive Directors  
Area   Policy 
Notice period  –  Six months by the executive Director 
–  Up to 12 months by the employer to the executive Director 
Executive Directors may be required to work during the notice period or take a period of ‘garden leave’ or may 
be provided with pay in lieu of notice if not required to work the full notice period. 
Termination  Any payment in lieu of notice will be made up of up to 12 months’ salary, pension contributions and the value 
payments  of other contractual benefits. The payment may be made in phased instalments. 
Non-compete  Apply during the contract and for up to 12 months after leaving, at the Company’s choice. 
clauses 
94 Standard Life Aberdeen 2020  
3. Corporate governance statement continued  
  
 
 
Outcomes for the 2021 scenario chart are based on the following:  Area   Policy 
• Minimum – fixed pay, comprising salary and pension effective 1 April 2021 (18% of salary), and benefits (the value of taxable benefits  Treatment of  For the purpose of awards under the annual bonus, long-term incentive plan and Executive Incentive Plan, 
are as shown in the Single Total Figure of Remuneration table for 2020 on page 79)  incentive  approved leavers are defined as those whose office or employment comes to an end because of death, ill- G
• Target – fixed pay, 50% of the maximum bonus award, 50% of LTIP vesting  awards   health, injury or disability, redundancy, or retirement with the agreement of the employing company; the sale of  OV
the individual’s employing company or business out of the Group or any other reasons at the discretion of the  ER
• Maximum – fixed pay, 100% of maximum bonus award, 100% of LTIP vesting   N
Committee.   A
• Maximum + share price growth assumes share price growth of 50% for the LTIP element  NC
Annual bonus plan  E
Remuneration policy extract – Remuneration policy for new executive Director appointments  Leavers during the award year   
Area   Policy  For approved leavers, rights to awards under the annual bonus will typically be pro-rated for the period of 
Principles  In determining remuneration arrangements for new executive appointments to the Board (including internal  employment to the date of termination, and will be paid at the normal time in the normal manner, unless in very 
promotions), the Remuneration Committee applies the following principles:  limited circumstances (such as death), the Committee determines that payments should be accelerated. For 
other leavers, rights to awards under the annual bonus will be forfeit.  
–  The Committee takes into consideration all relevant factors, including the calibre of the individual, local 
market practice and existing arrangements for other executive Directors, adhering to the underlying principle  Leavers during the deferral period  
that any arrangements should reflect the best interests of the company and its shareholders  For approved leavers, outstanding deferred awards under the annual bonus will typically vest and be released 
–  Remuneration arrangements for new appointments will typically align with the remuneration policy  at the scheduled vesting date. The Committee retains the discretion to apply time pro-rating (over the deferral 
period) for approved leavers and to accelerate the vesting and/or release of awards if it considers it 
In the case of internal promotions, the Committee will honour existing commitments entered into before 
appropriate. For other leavers, rights to deferred awards will be forfeited. 
promotion 
Components  The remuneration package offered to new appointments will not exceed the maximum level of variable  Awards under the Long-Term Incentive Plan 
and approach  remuneration of 700% of salary. This limit excludes buyout awards which are in line with the policy as set out  Leavers during the performance period  
below.  For approved leavers, outstanding awards under the LTIP will typically be pro-rated for time in service to 
termination as a proportion of the performance period and will be released at the scheduled vesting date 
In considering which elements to include, and in determining the approach for all relevant elements, the 
subject to performance. Subsequent holding periods will also apply. The Committee retains the discretion to 
Committee will take into account a number of different factors, including (but not limited to) typical market 
dis-apply time pro-rating for approved leavers. For other leavers, rights to outstanding awards will be forfeited. 
practice and existing arrangements for other executive Directors and internal relativities. 
Leavers during the holding period  
Buyouts  To facilitate recruitment, the Committee may make an award to buy out remuneration terms forfeited on leaving 
Vested awards subject only to a holding period will be retained and released at the scheduled date. 
a previous employer. Awards will be made in accordance with regulatory guidance. 
Legacy awards under the Executive Incentive Plan  
The buyout award will reflect the foregone award in amount and terms (including any deferral or retention 
Leavers during the deferral period 
period) as closely as possible.  
Outstanding deferred awards under the EIP will typically be paid at the normal time, subject to performance 
  against the Underpin performance conditions. The Committee retains the discretion to apply time pro-rating 
Remuneration policy extract – Service Contracts and loss of office for executive Directors   (over the deferral period) for approved leavers and to accelerate the vesting and/or release of awards if it 
considers it appropriate. For other leavers, rights to deferred awards will be forfeited. 
Area   Policy 
Notice period  –  Six months by the executive Director  Legacy awards under the Aberdeen Deferred Share Plans 
–  Up to 12 months by the employer to the executive Director  A good leaver is defined as someone whose employment comes to an end because of death, ill-health, injury, 
disability, redundancy or retirement, sale of the employing company or business or any other reason at the 
Executive Directors may be required to work during the notice period or take a period of ‘garden leave’ or may 
discretion of the Committee. Unvested awards granted to good leavers will typically vest in full at the normal 
be provided with pay in lieu of notice if not required to work the full notice period. 
vesting date, unless the Committee decides that they should vest on termination. For other leavers, rights to 
deferred awards will be forfeited. 
Termination  Any payment in lieu of notice will be made up of up to 12 months’ salary, pension contributions and the value 
payments  of other contractual benefits. The payment may be made in phased instalments.  Other  The Committee reserves the right to make any other payments (including appropriate legal fees) in connection 
payments  with an executive Directors’ cessation of office or employment where the payments are made in good faith in 
Non-compete  Apply during the contract and for up to 12 months after leaving, at the Company’s choice. 
discharge of an existing legal obligation (or by way of damages for breach of such an obligation) or by way of 
clauses 
settlement of any claim arising in connection with the cessation of that executive Directors’ office or 
employment. 
Change of  Outstanding awards will be treated in line with the terms of the respective plans. 
control 
 
    Standard Life Aberdeen 2020 95
4. Directors’ report  
 
The Directors present their annual report on the affairs of the  Company’s issued ordinary share capital during the year, in Note 
Standard Life Aberdeen group of companies (the Group), together  26 to the Group financial statements, which is incorporated into 
with the audited International Financial Reporting Standards  this report by reference. You can also find an analysis of 
(IFRS) consolidated financial statements for the Group, financial  registered shareholdings by size, as at 31 December 2020, in the 
information for the Group and financial statements for Standard  Shareholder information section on page 238 
Life Aberdeen plc (the Company) for the year ended 31 December 
On 7 February 2020, the Company announced the 
2020.  
commencement of a share buyback programme of the Company’s 
For clarity, some of the matters that would otherwise have been  ordinary shares up to a maximum aggregate consideration of 
included in the Directors’ report have been included in the  £400m. This programme completed on 10 February 2021. The 
Strategic report on pages 1 to 41, as the Board considers they fit  purpose of this programme was to return value to shareholders 
better within that report. Specifically, these are:  and reduce the share capital of the Company. All shares 
purchased have been cancelled. In total 158,003,158 shares were 
• Future business developments 
cancelled through this programme, of which 144,610,296 were 
• Risk management   purchased and cancelled between 10 February 2020 and 31 
• Total global greenhouse gas emissions  December 2020. 
• Information on how the Directors have had regard for the  As at 31 December 2020, there were 2,194,115,616 ordinary 
Company’s stakeholders (also covered in the Corporate  shares in issue held by 97,591 registered members. The Standard 
governance statement on pages 50 and 51)  Life Aberdeen Share Account (the Company-sponsored nominee) 
held 665,021,873 of those shares on behalf of 994,615 
Reporting for the year ended 31 December 2020 
participants. No person has any special rights of control over the 
During 2020, the Group operated primarily in the UK, rest of 
Company’s share capital and all issued shares are fully paid.  
Europe, Asia and the Americas. You can find out about the 
relevant activities of the Company’s principal subsidiary  Between 1 January 2020 and the date this report was signed, the 
undertakings and their overseas branches in the Strategic report  Company received no notifications in respect of major 
on pages 1 to 41.   shareholdings and major proportions of voting rights in 
accordance with the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency 
In his overview section of the Strategic report, Stephen Bird our 
Rules of the FCA.  
Chief Executive Officer outlines the main trends and factors likely 
to affect the future development, performance and position of the  In accordance with the terms of the Standard Life Employee Trust 
Group. Reviews of the operating and financial performance of the  Deed, the trustees waived all entitlements to current or future 
Group for the year ended 31 December 2020 are also given in the  dividend payments for shares they hold. 
Strategic report.  
Similarly, in accordance with the terms of The Aberdeen Asset 
The Chairman’s statement, the Directors’ responsibility statement  Management Employee Benefit Trust 2003 and The Standard Life 
and the Corporate governance statement form part of this  Aberdeen Employee Benefit Trust 2019, the trustees waived all 
Directors’ report. The Corporate governance statement on pages  entitlements to current or future dividend payments for shares they 
48 to 95 is submitted by the Board.  hold other than dividends payable on any shares held by the 
trustee as nominee for any other person. 
The results of the Group are presented in the Group financial 
The trustees of the Standard Life Aberdeen (Employee) Share 
statements on pages 115 to 210. A detailed description of the 
Plan voted the appropriate shares in accordance with any 
basis of preparation of the IFRS results (including adjusted profit) 
instructions received from participants in the plan.  
is set out in the Group financial statements section. The Group 
uses derivative financial instruments in the normal course of its  Restrictions on the transfer of shares and securities 
business and information covering these instruments and related 
Except as listed below, there are no specific restrictions on the 
financial risk management matters can be found in Note 20 and 
size of a holding or on the transfer of shares. Both are governed 
Note 38 to the Group financial statements. These notes are 
by the general provisions of the Company’s articles of association 
incorporated into this report by reference. 
(the Articles) and current legislation and regulation.  
This report was prepared by the executive leadership team 
You can obtain a copy of the Articles from Companies House or 
together with the Board and forms part of the management report 
by writing to the Company Secretary at our registered address 
for the purposes of the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency 
(details of which can be found in the Contact us section). The 
Rules (DTR 4.1.8R) of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) . 
Articles may only be amended by a special resolution passed by 
Dividends  the shareholders. 
The Board recommends paying a final dividend for 2020 of 7.30p 
You can read the Articles on our website 
per ordinary share. This will be paid on 25 May 2021 to 
  www.standardlifeaberdeen.com/annualreport 
shareholders whose names are on the register of members at the 
close of business on 16 April 2021.     
The total payment is estimated at £154m for the final dividend and 
together with the interim dividend of 7.30p per share totalling 
£159m paid on 29 September 2020, the total dividend for 2020 will 
be 14.60p per share (2019: 21.60p) totalling £313m (2019: 
£493m).  
Share capital 
The Company’s issued share capital as at 31 December 2020 
comprised a single class of ordinary share. You can find full details 
of the Company’s share capital, including movements in the 
96 Standard Life Aberdeen 2020  
  
4. Directors’ report  
 
The Directors present their annual report on the affairs of the  Company’s issued ordinary share capital during the year, in Note  The Board may decline to register the transfer of:  preferred or pari passu rights for losses that arise from paying 
Standard Life Aberdeen group of companies (the Group), together  26 to the Group financial statements, which is incorporated into  interim or fixed dividends on other shares. 
• A share that is not fully paid 
with the audited International Financial Reporting Standards  this report by reference. You can also find an analysis of 
(inIFfoRrmS)a ctioonns foolrid tahtee dG rfionuapn cainadl s ftinaatenmcieanl tsst afoter mtheen Gtsr foourp S, tfainnadnacrida l  rSehgaisretehroeldd esrh ianrfeohrmoladtiniogns s beyc tsioizne ,o ans p aatg 3e1 2 D38ec ember 2020, in the  • sAt acmerptieficda oter dd uslhya creer,t iufinelde sasn tdh ea cincostmrupmaennietd o bf ytr athnes freerl eisv adnutl y  Tothhee rB moaorndi ems apya wyaitbhlheo ilnd  rpeasypmecetn ot fo tfh ael lC oor mpaprat noyf’ sa nsyh adrievisd efrnodms  ao r  GOVE
share certificate or other evidence of the right to transfer, is in  person with a 0.25 per cent interest (as defined in the Articles) if  R
Life Aberdeen plc (the Company) for the year ended 31 December  N
2020.   On 7 February 2020, the Company announced the  respect of only one class of share and is in favour of a sole  that person has been served with a restriction notice (as defined in  AN
commencement of a share buyback programme of the Company’s  transferee or no more than four joint transferees  the Articles) after failure to provide the Company with information  CE
For clarity, some of the matters that would otherwise have been  ordinary shares up to a maximum aggregate consideration of  about interests in those shares, which is required under the 
• An uncertificated share, in the circumstances set out in the 
included in the Directors’ report have been included in the  £400m. This programme completed on 10 February 2021. The  Companies Act 2006. 
uncertificated securities rules (as defined in the Articles) and, in 
Strategic report on pages 1 to 41, as the Board considers they fit  purpose of this programme was to return value to shareholders 
the case of a transfer to joint holders, where the number of joint  Subject to the Companies Act 2006, rights attached to any class of 
better within that report. Specifically, these are:  and reduce the share capital of the Company. All shares 
holders to whom the share is to be transferred does not exceed  shares may be varied with the written consent of the holders of not 
purchased have been cancelled. In total 158,003,158 shares were 
• Future business developments  four   less than three-quarters in nominal value of the issued shares of 
cancelled through this programme, of which 144,610,296 were 
• Risk management   purchased and cancelled between 10 February 2020 and 31  • A certificated share by a person with a 0.25 per cent interest (as  that class (excluding any shares held as treasury shares). These 
defined in the Articles) in the Company, if that person has been  rights can also be varied with the approval of a special resolution 
• Total global greenhouse gas emissions  December 2020. 
served with a restriction notice under the Articles, after failing to  passed at a separate general meeting of the holders of those 
• Information on how the Directors have had regard for the  As at 31 December 2020, there were 2,194,115,616 ordinary  provide the Company with information about interests in those  shares. At every separate general meeting (except an adjourned 
Company’s stakeholders (also covered in the Corporate  shares in issue held by 97,591 registered members. The Standard  shares as set out in the Companies Act 2006 (unless the  meeting) the quorum shall be two persons holding, or representing 
governance statement on pages 50 and 51)  Life Aberdeen Share Account (the Company-sponsored nominee)  transfer is shown to the Board to be pursuant to an arm’s length  by proxy, not less than one-third in nominal value of the issued 
held 665,021,873 of those shares on behalf of 994,615  sale under the Articles)  shares of the class (calculated excluding any shares held as 
Reporting for the year ended 31 December 2020 
participants. No person has any special rights of control over the  treasury shares). 
During 2020, the Group operated primarily in the UK, rest of  These restrictions are in line with the standards set out in the 
Company’s share capital and all issued shares are fully paid.  
Europe, Asia and the Americas. You can find out about the  FCA’s Listing Rules and are considered to be standard for a listed  A shareholder’s rights will not change if additional shares ranking 
relevant activities of the Company’s principal subsidiary  Between 1 January 2020 and the date this report was signed, the  company.   pari passu with their shares are created or issued – unless this is 
undertakings and their overseas branches in the Strategic report  Company received no notifications in respect of major  expressly provided in the rights attaching to their shares.  
The Directors are not aware of any other agreements between 
on pages 1 to 41.   shareholdings and major proportions of voting rights in 
holders of the Company’s shares that may result in restrictions on  Power to purchase the Company’s own shares 
accordance with the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency 
In his overview section of the Strategic report, Stephen Bird our  Rules of the FCA.   the transfer of securities or on voting rights.  At the 2020 Annual General Meeting (AGM), shareholders granted 
Chief Executive Officer outlines the main trends and factors likely  the Directors limited powers to: 
Rights attached to shares  
to affect the future development, performance and position of the  In accordance with the terms of the Standard Life Employee Trust 
Group. Reviews of the operating and financial performance of the  Deed, the trustees waived all entitlements to current or future  Subject to applicable statutes, any resolution passed by the  • Allot ordinary shares in the Company up to a maximum 
Group for the year ended 31 December 2020 are also given in the  dividend payments for shares they hold.  Company under the Companies Act 2006 and other shareholders’  aggregate amount of £108,085,497 
Strategic report.   rights, shares may be issued with such rights and restrictions as  • Disapply, up to a maximum total nominal amount of 
Similarly, in accordance with the terms of The Aberdeen Asset 
the Company may decide by ordinary resolution, or (if there is no  £16,212,824 of its issued ordinary share capital, shareholders’ 
The Chairman’s statement, the Directors’ responsibility statement  Management Employee Benefit Trust 2003 and The Standard Life  such resolution or if it does not make specific provision) as the  pre-emption rights in respect of new ordinary shares issued for 
and the Corporate governance statement form part of this  Aberdeen Employee Benefit Trust 2019, the trustees waived all  Board may decide. Subject to the Articles, the Companies Act  cash 
Directors’ report. The Corporate governance statement on pages  entitlements to current or future dividend payments for shares they  2006 and other shareholders’ rights, unissued shares are at the 
48 to 95 is submitted by the Board.  hold other than dividends payable on any shares held by the  disposal of the Board.   • Make market purchases of the Company’s ordinary shares up to 
trustee as nominee for any other person.  a maximum of 232,139,068 of its issued ordinary shares 
The results of the Group are presented in the Group financial  Every member and duly appointed proxy present at a general 
statements on pages 115 to 210. A detailed description of the  The trustees of the Standard Life Aberdeen (Employee) Share  meeting or class meeting has one vote on a show of hands,  During 2020, under the authorities granted at the 2019 and 2020 
basis of preparation of the IFRS results (including adjusted profit)  Plan voted the appropriate shares in accordance with any  provided that where a proxy is appointed by more than one  AGMs, the Company purchased 144,610,296 of its ordinary 
is set out in the Group financial statements section. The Group  instructions received from participants in the plan.   shareholder entitled to vote on a resolution and is instructed by  shares of 13 61/63 pence each, paying an aggregate amount of 
uses derivative financial instruments in the normal course of its  Restrictions on the transfer of shares and securities  one shareholder to vote ‘for’ the resolution and by another  £359,028,587. As at 31 December 2020, the percentage of share 
business and information covering these instruments and related  Except as listed below, there are no specific restrictions on the  shareholder to vote ‘against’ the resolution, then the proxy will be  capital represented by these purchased shares was approximately 
financial risk management matters can be found in Note 20 and  size of a holding or on the transfer of shares. Both are governed  allowed two votes on a show of hands – one vote ‘for’ and one  6.6%.  
Note 38 to the Group financial statements. These notes are  by the general provisions of the Company’s articles of association  vote ‘against’. On a poll, every member present in person or by  Significant agreements 
incorporated into this report by reference.  (the Articles) and current legislation and regulation.   proxy has one vote for every share they hold. For joint  Certain significant agreements to which the Company, or one of its 
This report was prepared by the executive leadership team  shareholders, the vote of the senior joint shareholder who tenders  subsidiaries, is party entitle the counterparties to exercise 
You can obtain a copy of the Articles from Companies House or 
together with the Board and forms part of the management report  a vote, in person or by proxy, will be accepted and will exclude the  termination or other rights in the event of a change of control of the 
by writing to the Company Secretary at our registered address 
for the purposes of the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency  votes of the other joint shareholders. For this purpose, seniority is  Company. These agreements are noted in the paragraphs below. 
(details of which can be found in the Contact us section). The 
Rules (DTR 4.1.8R) of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) .  determined by the order that the names appear on the register of 
Articles may only be amended by a special resolution passed by  members for joint shareholders.   Credit Facility – under a £400m revolving credit facility between 
Dividends  the shareholders.  the Company and the banks and financial institutions named 
The Board recommends paying a final dividend for 2020 of 7.30p  A member will not be entitled to vote at any general meeting or  therein as lenders (Lender) dated 22 May 2015 and refinanced on 
per ordinary share. This will be paid on 25 May 2021 to  You can read the Articles on our website  class meeting in respect of any share they hold if any call or other  12 February 2021 (the Facility), in the event that (i) any persons or 
shareholders whose names are on the register of members at the    www.standardlifeaberdeen.com/annualreport  sum then payable by them for that share remains unpaid or if they  group of persons acting in concert, gain control of the Company, 
close of business on 16 April 2021.      have been served with a restriction notice (as defined in the  then any Lender may elect within a prescribed time frame to 
Articles) after failing to provide the Company with information  cancel its outstanding commitment under the Facility and declare 
The total payment is estimated at £154m for the final dividend and  about interests in those shares required to be provided under the  its participation in all outstanding loans, together with accrued 
together with the interim dividend of 7.30p per share totalling  Companies Act 2006.  interest and all amounts accrued immediately due and payable, 
£159m paid on 29 September 2020, the total dividend for 2020 will  The Company may, by ordinary resolution, declare dividends up to  whereupon the commitment of that Lender under the Facility will 
be 14.60p per share (2019: 21.60p) totalling £313m (2019:  the amount recommended by the Board. Subject to the  be cancelled and all such outstanding amounts will become 
£493m).   Companies Act 2006, the Board may also pay an interim dividend,  immediately due and payable. 
Share capital  and any fixed rate dividend, whenever the financial position of the     
The Company’s issued share capital as at 31 December 2020  Company, in the opinion of the Board, justifies its payment. If the 
comprised a single class of ordinary share. You can find full details  Board acts in good faith, it is not liable to holders of shares with 
of the Company’s share capital, including movements in the 
    Standard Life Aberdeen 2020 97
4. Directors’ report continued 
 
China – under a joint venture agreement dated 12 October 2009  No Director has any interest in the Company’s listed debt 
(as amended) between the Company and Tianjin TEDA  securities or in any shares, debentures or loan stock of the 
International Holding (Group) Co. Limited (TEDA), pursuant to  Company’s subsidiaries. No Director has any material interest in 
which the Company holds its interest in Heng An Standard Life  any contract with the Company or a subsidiary undertaking which 
Insurance Company Limited (Heng An Standard Life), upon a  was significant in relation to the Company’s business, except for 
change of control of the Company, TEDA has the right to  the following: 
terminate the venture and to purchase, or nominate a third party to 
• The benefit of a continuing third party indemnity provided by the 
purchase, the Company’s shares in Heng An Standard Life for a 
Company (in accordance with company law and the Articles) 
price determined in accordance with the agreement. 
• Service contracts between each executive Director and 
A number of other agreements contain provisions that entitle the  subsidiary undertakings (Standard Life Employee Services 
counterparties to exercise termination or other rights in the event  Limited and Aberdeen Asset Management PLC) 
of a change of control of the Company. However, these 
agreements are not considered to be significant in terms of their  Ordinarily, copies of the following documents can be viewed at the 
likely impact on the business of the Group as a whole.  Company’s registered office (details of which can be found in the 
Contact us section) during normal business hours (9am to 5pm 
The Directors are not aware of any agreements with any  Monday to Friday) and are available for inspection at the 
employee that would provide compensation for loss of office or  Company’s AGM: 
employment resulting from a takeover. The Company also has no 
agreement with any Director to provide compensation for loss of  • The Directors’ service contracts or letters of appointment 
office or employment resulting from a takeover.  • The Directors’ deeds of indemnity, entered into in connection 
with the indemnification of Directors provisions in the Articles 
Appointment and retirement of Directors 
• The rules of the Standard Life plc Executive Long-Term 
The appointment and retirement of Directors is governed by the 
Incentive Plan 
Articles, the Companies Act 2006, the UK Corporate Governance 
Code and related legislation.  • The rules of the Standard Life Aberdeen plc Deferred Share 
Plan 
Brian McBride was appointed as a non-executive Director on 1 
• The Company’s Articles 
May 2020 and Martin Gilbert resigned from the Board following the 
conclusion of the AGM on 12 May 2020. Stephen Bird joined the  Given the ongoing COVID-19 situation, this is not practicable at 
Board on 1 July 2020 as Director and CEO Designate and  the moment. Copies can be obtained by request from the 
succeeded Keith Skeoch as CEO following Keith’s resignation  Company Secretary. 
from the Board on 1 September 2020.  
Directors’ liability insurance 
Having been appointed since the 2020 AGM, Stephen Bird will 
During 2020, the Company maintained directors’ and officers’ 
retire and stand for election at the 2021 AGM.  
liability insurance on behalf of its directors and officers to provide 
All remaining Directors as at the date of the 2021 AGM will retire  cover should any legal action be brought against them. The 
and stand for re-election.   Company also maintained pension trustee liability indemnity 
policies (which includes third party indemnity) for the boards of 
The powers of the Directors can also be found in the Articles. 
trustees of the UK and Irish staff pension schemes where required 
Directors and their interests  to do so.  
The Directors who served during the year were:   Our people 
Sir Douglas Flint (Chairman)    John Devine  Our people have always been central to delivering our strategy, 
and we remain focused on helping them thrive.  
Keith Skeoch4    Melanie Gee 
Martin Gilbert2    Martin Pike  You can read more on our people strategy in the Strategic report 
Stephen Bird3    Cathleen Raffaeli    section of this report. 
Stephanie Bruce    Cecilia Reyes 
Colleague engagement 
Jonathan Asquith    Jutta af Rosenborg  This year, our Viewpoints employee attitude survey recorded a 
Brian McBride1      meaningful increase in the overall engagement score from 56% in 
2018 to 72%.While this improvement is welcome in what was a 
1  Appointed 1 May 2020. 
very difficult year for all our employees, given the impact of the 
2  Resigned 12 May 2020.  pandemic on working practices, we strive to do better. Colleagues 
3  Appointed 1 July 2020.  fed back some clear areas of focus such as greater clarity on our 
4  Resigned 1 September 2020.  strategic direction, more leadership visibility, and minimising 
barriers to delivery. These areas of focus are understandable 
Biographies of the current Directors can be found on pages 44 to 
given the change of Chief Executive Officer and are all priority 
  47  areas for attention by the Executive leadership team. We are 
pleased that, in this difficult year, colleagues were complimentary 
Details of the Directors’ interests in the Company’s ordinary  about the skills of managers as measured against four key criteria 
shares, the Standard Life (Employee) Share Plan, the Standard  and evidencing the importance of management skills, colleague 
Life Sharesave Plan and the share-based discretionary plans are  engagement was highest among those who scored their manager 
set out in the Directors’ remuneration report together with details of  well against all four criteria.  
the executive Directors’ service contracts and non-executive 
   
Directors’ appointment letters. 
98 Standard Life Aberdeen 2020  
4. Directors’ report continued    
 
China – under a joint venture agreement dated 12 October 2009  No Director has any interest in the Company’s listed debt  Employees fed back that they value spending time with leaders  in. It is available for all employees and underpins our philosophy of 
(as amended) between the Company and Tianjin TEDA  securities or in any shares, debentures or loan stock of the  and each other to understand and discuss Company priorities and  individual-driven development.  
International Holding (Group) Co. Limited (TEDA), pursuant to  Company’s subsidiaries. No Director has any material interest in  progress, but in a year when the majority of colleagues worked 
wInhsiucrha nthcee  CCoommppaannyy  hLoimldiste idts  (iHnteenregs At nin S Htaenndga Ardn  LSiftea)n, duaprodn L aife   awnays  csoignntriaficcat nwti tihn  trheela Ctioonm tpoa thney  oCro am spuabnsyid’si abruys uinnedsesrt, aekxincge pwt hfoicr h  fbreoemn  heovmene  mduoere t oc rtihtiec apl.a Tndoe smupicp, ocrot nthniesc, twineg  inwcitrhe aesaecdh  tohteh er has  Oskuilrls P aenodp lcea Mpaabnilaitgye omf epneto Aplcea mdeamnayg ise rcse. nIntr a2l0 t2o0 d, eovveelro 5p0in0g  litnhee   GOVE
managers attended courses and the global pandemic meant that  R
change of control of the Company, TEDA has the right to  the following:  frequency and interactivity of communications with leaders and  N
we had to quickly adapt our learning delivery, through the  A
terminate the venture and to purchase, or nominate a third party to  across teams, via digital collaboration platforms, question and  N
• The benefit of a continuing third party indemnity provided by the  introduction of virtual classrooms which have proved successful  C
purchase, the Company’s shares in Heng An Standard Life for a  answer applications, and the social media functionality of the  E
Company (in accordance with company law and the Articles)  and popular.  
price determined in accordance with the agreement.  intranet. With home schooling affecting many, we also recorded 
• Service contracts between each executive Director and  leader updates and events to allow playback at times that worked  All employees can benefit from the courses in the Learning 
A number of other agreements contain provisions that entitle the  subsidiary undertakings (Standard Life Employee Services  for colleagues. From senior leaders, including our non-executive  Academy and in 2020 over 1,200 people attended courses   
counterparties to exercise termination or other rights in the event  Limited and Aberdeen Asset Management PLC)  Directors, hosting interactive town halls for colleagues globally  involving technology skills, industry-specific training, and personal 
of a change of control of the Company. However, these 
agreements are not considered to be significant in terms of their  Ordinarily, copies of the following documents can be viewed at the  through to local line managers keeping their colleagues updated  effectiveness solutions.  
likely impact on the business of the Group as a whole.  Company’s registered office (details of which can be found in the  and involved on a day-to-day basis, our Viewpoints’ feedback and  This year we have also launched two new career development 
Contact us section) during normal business hours (9am to 5pm  communications channel metrics evidenced that this approach  programmes, Ambition and Accelerate. Ambition is primarily 
The Directors are not aware of any agreements with any  Monday to Friday) and are available for inspection at the  supported colleagues during a very difficult year. Regular Board  aimed at colleagues in the early stages of their career (first three 
employee that would provide compensation for loss of office or  Company’s AGM:  Employee Engagement (BEE) activities continued throughout the  to five years) and focuses on core skills that are fundamental to 
employment resulting from a takeover. The Company also has no  year. You can read more about this in the Corporate governance 
agreement with any Director to provide compensation for loss of  • The Directors’ service contracts or letters of appointment  statement on page 49.  future career success, including confidence, future fit and personal 
brand. Accelerate is aimed at colleagues at mid-career stage, 
office or employment resulting from a takeover.  • The Directors’ deeds of indemnity, entered into in connection 
Talent   likely to be in management or more senior specialist roles, and 
with the indemnification of Directors provisions in the Articles 
Appointment and retirement of Directors  Attracting, nurturing and retaining high quality people is critical to  aims to enhance existing skills, including decision making, 
The appointment and retirement of Directors is governed by the  • The rules of the Standard Life plc Executive Long-Term  meeting our strategic objectives and future prosperity. We are fully  confidence and maximising personal brand. In total, 260 
Articles, the Companies Act 2006, the UK Corporate Governance  Incentive Plan  committed to attracting and developing the required pools of talent  colleagues signed up for the courses. 
Code and related legislation.  • The rules of the Standard Life Aberdeen plc Deferred Share  at all levels of the organisation to meet both current and  Mentoring supports personal development and professional 
Plan  anticipated needs. We aim to create an environment where people 
Brian McBride was appointed as a non-executive Director on 1  growth across generations, functions and regions and, in 2020, we 
May 2020 and Martin Gilbert resigned from the Board following the  • The Company’s Articles  can achieve their full potential at every stage of their career.   launched a global mentoring programme following a successful 
conclusion of the AGM on 12 May 2020. Stephen Bird joined the  Given the ongoing COVID-19 situation, this is not practicable at  The Viewpoints survey highlighted the strong link between  pilot. Everyone in the company can request to have an internal 
Board on 1 July 2020 as Director and CEO Designate and  the moment. Copies can be obtained by request from the  leadership effectiveness and colleague engagement and, taking  mentor or become a mentor to others with support offered in 
succeeded Keith Skeoch as CEO following Keith’s resignation  Company Secretary.  this into account, we have recently developed a new Leadership  building the mentoring relationship. We are also using mentoring 
from the Board on 1 September 2020.   Framework, which clearly articulates what good leadership looks  relationships to explore and understand different cultural 
Directors’ liability insurance  like at different levels in the organisation. This framework provides  experiences, through a Reverse Mentoring programme that forms 
Having been appointed since the 2020 AGM, Stephen Bird will  During 2020, the Company maintained directors’ and officers’  a backbone for the core people processes – Succession,  part of the overall mentoring approach. All members of the 
retire and stand for election at the 2021 AGM.   liability insurance on behalf of its directors and officers to provide  Recruitment, Development and Performance.  Executive leadership team and selected other senior leaders are 
All remaining Directors as at the date of the 2021 AGM will retire  cover should any legal action be brought against them. The  mentored by someone from our Unity network. 
As indicated in the Strategic report, we continued the focus on 
and stand for re-election.   Company also maintained pension trustee liability indemnity  Early Careers talent by taking on 22 new trainees in the UK and  Structured succession planning helps to ensure that we have a 
policies (which includes third party indemnity) for the boards of 
The powers of the Directors can also be found in the Articles.  37 new graduates across our global programmes, in spite of the  strong pipeline of talent, with both technical expertise and 
trustees of the UK and Irish staff pension schemes where required 
challenges of doing this in the midst of a global pandemic. We  leadership capabilities assessed to support the growth agenda 
Directors and their interests  to do so.   took the opportunity to innovate our approach to recruitment and  and enable smooth succession into the most critical roles. We 
The Directors who served during the year were:   Our people  onboarding, notably through the Early Careers Chat Bot which  actively monitor diversity within succession pipelines and take 
Sir Douglas Flint (Chairman)    John Devine  Oanudr  pweeo rpelem haainv feo caulwsaeyds o bne heenl pcienngt rtahle tmo  dtherliivvee.r i ng our strategy,  wprhoivleid seudp cpaonrtdinidga tthees  nwaitvhig 2a4ti/o7n a ocfc tehses  atop palnicsawtieorns  ptoro kceeys sq.u estions  ante acell slesvaeryls a inct ioounrs w too reknfosrucree.  tThhaet  wBeo ahradv, eth broaulagnhc eitds  Nreopmreinseantiotant ion 
Keith Skeoch4    Melanie Gee  Success of the new approach to trainee marketing materials,  and Governance Committee and the Executive leadership team 
Martin Gilbert2    Martin Pike  You can read more on our people strategy in the Strategic report  including a remotely-created Trainee video, profiling current  work together to ensure the talent and succession agenda is 
Stephen Bird3    Cathleen Raffaeli    section of this report.  trainees, and increased use of social media platforms and key  effective in delivering the talent needed for future success. 
inclusion partners, led to a 400% increase in applications for the 
In 2020, we enhanced our succession processes by supporting 
Stephanie Bruce    Cecilia Reyes  Colleague engagement  Trainee programme.   named successors through an independent external assessment 
Jonathan Asquith    Jutta af Rosenborg  This year, our Viewpoints employee attitude survey recorded a  In 2020 we were recognised for our early careers provision, as  to provide additional insight into the strengths and gaps in 
Brian McBride1      meaningful increase in the overall engagement score from 56% in  covered in the Strategic report – through a Top 50 Ranking for  pipelines, and to provide the individuals involved with tailored 
1  Appointed 1 May 2020.  2018 to 72%.While this improvement is welcome in what was a  both the Undergraduate and Apprenticeships programmes at the  development plans. All external candidates for executive roles are 
very difficult year for all our employees, given the impact of the  ‘Rate My Placement’ awards. The Rate My Placement awards are  assessed in the same way, ensuring we have a consistent means 
2  Resigned 12 May 2020.  pandemic on working practices, we strive to do better. Colleagues  based on feedback from individuals who participated in the  of identifying the best candidates for senior roles.  
3  Appointed 1 July 2020.  fed back some clear areas of focus such as greater clarity on our 
programme. We believe this success is underpinned by our focus 
4  Resigned 1 September 2020.  strategic direction, more leadership visibility, and minimising  on supporting managers to ensure they deliver a positive  Colleague wellbeing 
barriers to delivery. These areas of focus are understandable  2020 was a year when we needed to support colleagues flexibly 
experience for all participants on programmes. This includes inter-
Biographies of the current Directors can be found on pages 44 to  given the change of Chief Executive Officer and are all priority  and empathetically in dealing with the global pandemic. There is 
generational awareness training, a new hub with helpful resources 
  47  areas for attention by the Executive leadership team. We are  no single way of doing this so managers were empowered to work 
and key dates, monthly development updates and line manager 
pleased that, in this difficult year, colleagues were complimentary  with their teams to come up with flexible solutions which balanced 
skills training. 
Details of the Directors’ interests in the Company’s ordinary  about the skills of managers as measured against four key criteria  issues arising from personal circumstances, with the needs of our 
shares, the Standard Life (Employee) Share Plan, the Standard  and evidencing the importance of management skills, colleague  Developing our people   clients. We have been proud of the way colleagues supported 
Life Sharesave Plan and the share-based discretionary plans are  engagement was highest among those who scored their manager  Our new learning and development system – My Development –  each other during this time. We maintained a strong focus on 
set out in the Directors’ remuneration report together with details of  well against all four criteria.   has been established now for a year. The system uses artificial  wellbeing during this period of personal disruption and partnered 
the executive Directors’ service contracts and non-executive  intelligence to recommend resources and development  with external experts to provide a broad range of professional 
   
Directors’ appointment letters.  opportunities to our people based on the topics they are interested  advice and support to colleagues and their families. 
    Standard Life Aberdeen 2020 99
4. Directors’ report continued 
 
In order to ensure the guidance and support made available was  Through the Reverse Mentoring programme, senior leaders are 
meeting the needs of our colleagues, we ran a series of very short  building a deeper understanding of lived experiences of minority 
surveys to understand whether colleagues were feeling well  ethnic colleagues, which will flow through the decisions they make. 
supported by the Company. Responses were consistently positive  The Black Lives Matter movement heightened focus and 
and this view was reinforced in our Insights survey, where we  discussion on racial diversity throughout the company this year, 
asked how people were feeling about work and their personal lives  and the approach remains to focus on actions which will have a 
in the light of the pandemic. We also gathered views on a future  sustainable and systemic impact and will improve outcomes for 
return to the office in order to help with our ongoing planning.  black and ethnic minority colleagues. 
Inclusion and diversity  We all have a role to play in creating an inclusive environment and 
To complement the Board’s formal diversity statement, the  we empower people to take individual and collective action. The 
Executive leadership team put in place an internal Global Diversity  employee network groups and regional inclusion forums support 
and Inclusion policy in 2019. It affirms that diversity and inclusion  members and allies of the diverse groups they represent, raising 
remain as fundamental pillars supporting all our decisions. We  awareness of issues that affect them. This was used to good 
have always considered diversity in the broadest sense – in  effect in understanding the impact of COVID-19 on working lives. 
backgrounds, experience, strengths and thinking – with the aim  With around 2,000 members, the networks continue to expand 
that everyone can be themselves as they perform and progress,  globally. They focus on gender, LGBT+, ethnicity, mental health, 
regardless of their background. By valuing diverse talent and  young people and the armed forces.  
enabling people to reach their potential in an inclusive culture, we 
We have specific policies to ensure that colleagues with 
provide global clients with the diversity of thought and creativity 
disabilities face no discrimination or obstacles in relation to job 
required to bring long-term value. 
applications, training, promotion and career development. 
The 2020 Diversity and Inclusion report includes a refreshed  Reasonable adjustments are also made to train and enable 
diversity and inclusion framework, which drives outcomes in four  employees who become disabled to allow them to continue and 
priority areas of both diversity and inclusion. The framework  progress in their career.  
reflects the expectations of clients, regulators, colleagues 
Reward  
(including feedback from Board engagement work) and best 
At the end of 2019 in the UK we introduced a new, unified, set of 
practice. Progress against this is reviewed by the Nomination and 
terms and conditions of employment. These were designed to be 
Governance Committee biannually.  
fair and consistent amongst those who had become part of the 
Achieving gender balance at all levels remains a priority. We  Group from different heritages, and to help us continue to attract 
achieved the published Board and senior level (CE-1 and CE-2)  and retain talented people. Implementing these terms and 
gender targets this year and have set new gender targets running  conditions represented an important step towards unifying 
to the end of 2025. In our fourth gender equality update, we  colleagues as a single team, with consistent and competitive 
reported a 5% reduction in mean gender pay gap in 2020 and the  benefits, including pension, life assurance, group income 
actions we are taking to continue to improve this. The Board  protection and private healthcare.  
comprises 45% female members, while at Executive level (CE-1 
As a consequence of the pandemic, we adjusted benefits offered 
and CE-2) representation levels are 37% (as at 31 December 
to take account of lack of availability due to restrictions imposed as 
2020) with women in the most senior CE-1 population having 
well as allowing for one-off changes to certain benefits. We also 
increased by 10% since 2019 to 28%. Improving gender balance 
worked with suppliers to offer solutions to some of the key issues 
at all levels continues to be a focus, as our gender pay gap 
colleagues were facing, including remote GP appointments and 
primarily reflects the more significant number of men in senior and 
access to counselling for colleagues and families.  
more highly-remunerated roles, as well as by the larger number of 
women in more junior roles.   As we contemplate a return to work in more normal conditions, we 
continue to look for ways to innovate employee benefits and look 
We remain confident that the actions we are taking will 
for new offerings that fit with changes to the way people live and 
meaningfully improve representation of women at all levels and so 
work and our business purpose. As an example, from early 2021, 
improve gender balance. For example, our UK parent leave policy 
colleagues will be able to lease an electric car as part of their 
introduced in January 2020, is seen as market-leading and was 
flexible benefits package, which would offer them potential savings 
designed as a tangible step to ensuring that becoming a parent 
on tax, running costs and fuel, as well as being a greener, more 
does not limit anyone’s career progression.  
sustainable choice. In 2020, we introduced a new service which 
As evidence of our commitment to ethnic diversity, we published  offers access to mental and physical wellbeing support – such as 
an ethnicity target for the first time this year, following the  counselling, nutritionists and a pin prick health check – and 
recommendations of the Sir John Parker review. We already meet  supplements our existing wellbeing resources which include 
the Parker recommendation to have at least one qualifying Board  financial wellbeing. This comprises regular educational seminars 
member and have set our target to have one additional qualifying  on a range of personal finance topics as well as the opportunity for 
Board member by 2025. The Board Charter mandates  a free consultation with an in-house adviser.  
appointments to be based on merit, with due consideration given 
We believe that when employees own shares in the company, it 
to the Board’s gender and ethnicity balance. 
increases their understanding of the interests of our shareholders. 
As one of the inaugural signatories to the Race at Work Charter,  We invited UK and Ireland-based employees to participate in the 
and CEO signatory to an open letter on black and ethnic minority  Standard Life Aberdeen Sharesave plan in 2020 and 1,243 (26%) 
actions, we are committed to tackling barriers that people who  employees accepted the invitation. They have the opportunity to 
identify as ethnic minority face. We continue to deliver against the  acquire Standard Life Aberdeen plc shares for £1.888 (UK) and 
ethnicity action plan published in 2018, developed with the  €2.113 (Ireland) with their accumulated savings when their 
ethnicity and multicultural network, Unity, and the executive  savings contracts end in three or five years’ time. At 31 December 
sponsor for ethnicity.   2020, 2,298 employees in UK and Ireland were saving towards 
the purchase of Standard Life Aberdeen plc shares through the 
100 Standard Life Aberdeen 2020  
4. Directors’ report continued    
 
In order to ensure the guidance and support made available was  Through the Reverse Mentoring programme, senior leaders are  current Sharesave plans, and 2,424 individuals were shareholders  exercisable put options in each of years ended 31 March 2024, 
meeting the needs of our colleagues, we ran a series of very short  building a deeper understanding of lived experiences of minority  through participation in the Standard Life Aberdeen (Employee)  2025 and 2026. The Group will also have the right to purchase 
surveys to understand whether colleagues were feeling well  ethnic colleagues, which will flow through the decisions they make.  Share Plan. Participation allows employees to buy ordinary shares  any outstanding equity interests at the end of the five-year period 
supported by the Company. Responses were consistently positive  The Black Lives Matter movement heightened focus and  in the Company directly from their earnings up to a market value of  through exercising a call option. The amount payable under the  GO
and this view was reinforced in our Insights survey, where we  discussion on racial diversity throughout the company this year,  £150 per month (UK) or €175 (Ireland) per month. We match the  contingent deferred earn-out is dependent on the growth in future  VE
R
asked how people were feeling about work and their personal lives  and the approach remains to focus on actions which will have a  shares purchased by employees, matching up to £50 per month in  profitability of the business and is a maximum of £140m.  N
A
in the light of the pandemic. We also gathered views on a future  sustainable and systemic impact and will improve outcomes for  the UK and €70 per month in Ireland.  Completion is subject to certain conditions including relevant  N
C
return to the office in order to help with our ongoing planning.  black and ethnic minority colleagues.  regulatory approvals. The assets under management of Tritax  E
Sustainability  
Management LLP at 31 December 2020 were approximately 
Inclusion and diversity  We all have a role to play in creating an inclusive environment and  The commercial aims of our business are linked to its  £5.5bn. 
To complement the Board’s formal diversity statement, the  we empower people to take individual and collective action. The  environmental, social and governance responsibilities. You can   
Executive leadership team put in place an internal Global Diversity  employee network groups and regional inclusion forums support  find out more about how the business is run sustainably  (b)  Simplification and extension of the strategic 
and Inclusion policy in 2019. It affirms that diversity and inclusion  members and allies of the diverse groups they represent, raising  throughout the Strategic report. The non-financial information  partnership between the Group and Phoenix 
remain as fundamental pillars supporting all our decisions. We  awareness of issues that affect them. This was used to good  statement on page 29 summarises where you can find key  On 23 February 2021, the Group announced the purchase of 
have always considered diversity in the broadest sense – in  effect in understanding the impact of COVID-19 on working lives.  information on the approach. For details of greenhouse gas  certain products in the Phoenix Group’s savings business offered 
backgrounds, experience, strengths and thinking – with the aim  With around 2,000 members, the networks continue to expand  emissions, please see page 28.   through the Standard Life Aberdeen Wrap platform, comprising a 
that everyone can be themselves as they perform and progress,  globally. They focus on gender, LGBT+, ethnicity, mental health,  self-invested pension plan (SIPP) and an onshore bond product; 
regardless of their background. By valuing diverse talent and  young people and the armed forces.   Political donations  together with the Phoenix Group’s trustee investment plan (TIP) 
enabling people to reach their potential in an inclusive culture, we  The Company has a long-standing policy of not making political  business for UK pension scheme clients. The assets relating to 
We have specific policies to ensure that colleagues with 
provide global clients with the diversity of thought and creativity  donations. The Company has limited authorisation from  these Phoenix Group-administered businesses at 31 December 
disabilities face no discrimination or obstacles in relation to job 
required to bring long-term value.  shareholders to make political donations and incur political  2020 are £38bn and are currently included in Group AUMA. The 
applications, training, promotion and career development. 
expenditure (Resolution 9, 2020 AGM). This is requested as a  transaction will be effected through a Part VII transfer which is 
The 2020 Diversity and Inclusion report includes a refreshed  Reasonable adjustments are also made to train and enable 
precaution against any inadvertent breach of political donations  targeted to complete in late 2022. The upfront consideration paid 
diversity and inclusion framework, which drives outcomes in four  employees who become disabled to allow them to continue and 
legislation. While Standard Life Aberdeen has regular interaction  by the Group in February 2021 was £62.5m, which will be offset in 
priority areas of both diversity and inclusion. The framework  progress in their career.  
with government and elected politicians in the UK and other  part by expected payments from Phoenix to the Group relating to 
reflects the expectations of clients, regulators, colleagues 
Reward   jurisdictions in which we operate, we are strictly apolitical.  profits of the business prior to completion of the legal transfer. The 
(including feedback from Board engagement work) and best 
At the end of 2019 in the UK we introduced a new, unified, set of  transaction will result in the Group earning adjusted profit in 
practice. Progress against this is reviewed by the Nomination and  Auditors 
terms and conditions of employment. These were designed to be  relation to the acquired businesses post completion.   
Governance Committee biannually.   The Audit Committee is responsible for considering the Group’s 
fair and consistent amongst those who had become part of the 
External audit arrangements. Resolutions proposing the re- The Group have also agreed to sell the ‘Standard Life’ brand to 
Achieving gender balance at all levels remains a priority. We  Group from different heritages, and to help us continue to attract 
appointment of KPMG LLP as auditors of the Company and giving  Phoenix by mid-2021, replacing the existing agreement to licence 
achieved the published Board and senior level (CE-1 and CE-2)  and retain talented people. Implementing these terms and 
authority to the Audit Committee to determine their remuneration  the brand for no fee to Phoenix, and to transfer related employees 
gender targets this year and have set new gender targets running  conditions represented an important step towards unifying 
will be submitted at the 2021 AGM.  to Phoenix. In addition the Group will pay £32m to Phoenix later in 
to the end of 2025. In our fourth gender equality update, we  colleagues as a single team, with consistent and competitive 
2021 in return for Phoenix bearing the costs of workplace 
reported a 5% reduction in mean gender pay gap in 2020 and the  benefits, including pension, life assurance, group income  Disclosure of information to the auditors 
pensions marketing staff, who are currently employed by the 
actions we are taking to continue to improve this. The Board  protection and private healthcare.  
The Directors who held office at the date of the approval of this  Group but provide services to Phoenix. The sale of the brand and 
comprises 45% female members, while at Executive level (CE-1 
As a consequence of the pandemic, we adjusted benefits offered  Directors’ report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there  transfer of related marketing staff is not expected to materially 
and CE-2) representation levels are 37% (as at 31 December 
to take account of lack of availability due to restrictions imposed as  is no relevant audit information of which the Company’s auditor is  impact on our results.   
2020) with women in the most senior CE-1 population having 
well as allowing for one-off changes to certain benefits. We also  unaware; and each Director has taken all the steps that he or she 
increased by 10% since 2019 to 28%. Improving gender balance  worked with suppliers to offer solutions to some of the key issues  ought to have taken as a Director to make himself or herself aware  The strategic asset management partnership (under which the 
at all levels continues to be a focus, as our gender pay gap  colleagues were facing, including remote GP appointments and  of any relevant audit information and to establish that the  Group manages £171.5bn of Phoenix assets at 31 December 
primarily reflects the more significant number of men in senior and  access to counselling for colleagues and families.   Company’s auditor is aware of that information.  2020) will be extended and will now operate for at least 10 years 
more highly-remunerated roles, as well as by the larger number of  up to February 2031. 
women in more junior roles.   As we contemplate a return to work in more normal conditions, we  Annual General Meeting 
The Group have also resolved legacy issues with Phoenix relating 
continue to look for ways to innovate employee benefits and look  The 2021 AGM is scheduled to take place on 18 May 2021. At 
We remain confident that the actions we are taking will  to the operation of certain aspects of the agreements that were 
for new offerings that fit with changes to the way people live and  present, we do not expect the COVID-19 restrictions to have 
meaningfully improve representation of women at all levels and so  entered into at the time of the sale of Standard Life Assurance 
work and our business purpose. As an example, from early 2021,  eased sufficiently to allow shareholders to be able to attend this 
improve gender balance. For example, our UK parent leave policy  Limited to Phoenix and which impacted the value of certain 
colleagues will be able to lease an electric car as part of their  year’s AGM in person. Instead shareholders will be able to view 
introduced in January 2020, is seen as market-leading and was  indemnities and other payments under the transaction terms. The 
flexible benefits package, which would offer them potential savings  the AGM live by webcast. Questions can be submitted in advance 
designed as a tangible step to ensuring that becoming a parent  impact of the resolution of these legacy matters is included in the 
on tax, running costs and fuel, as well as being a greener, more  or during the meeting and Directors will respond to as many 
does not limit anyone’s career progression.   2020 results and resulted in the Group receiving a cash inflow of 
sustainable choice. In 2020, we introduced a new service which  questions as possible during the meeting. Please visit 
£34m in February 2021. 
As evidence of our commitment to ethnic diversity, we published  offers access to mental and physical wellbeing support – such as  www.standardlifeaberdeen.com for more information. 
an ethnicity target for the first time this year, following the  counselling, nutritionists and a pin prick health check – and  The Group’s shareholding in Phoenix remains at 14.4%. Following 
Details of the meeting content can be found in our AGM guide 
recommendations of the Sir John Parker review. We already meet  supplements our existing wellbeing resources which include  the changes to the commercial agreements set out above, in 
2021. The AGM guide and other materials will be published online 
the Parker recommendation to have at least one qualifying Board  financial wellbeing. This comprises regular educational seminars  particular in relation to the licencing of the ‘Standard Life’ brand, 
at www.standardlifeaberdeen.com in advance of this year’s 
member and have set our target to have one additional qualifying  on a range of personal finance topics as well as the opportunity for  our judgement is that Phoenix should no longer be accounted for 
AGM.  
Board member by 2025. The Board Charter mandates  a free consultation with an in-house adviser.   as an associate with effect from 23 February 2021, and should 
appointments to be based on merit, with due consideration given  Post balance sheet events  instead be accounted for as an investment at fair value. The 
We believe that when employees own shares in the company, it 
to the Board’s gender and ethnicity balance.  primary impact of this reclassification is that the Group will 
increases their understanding of the interests of our shareholders.  (a)  Acquisition of Tritax Management LLP 
recognise changes in fair value of the investment in the 
As one of the inaugural signatories to the Race at Work Charter,  We invited UK and Ireland-based employees to participate in the  On 9 December 2020, the Group announced the proposed 
consolidated income statement rather than the Group’s share of 
and CEO signatory to an open letter on black and ethnic minority  Standard Life Aberdeen Sharesave plan in 2020 and 1,243 (26%)  acquisition of 60% of the equity of Tritax Management LLP, a 
Phoenix profits under the equity method. 
actions, we are committed to tackling barriers that people who  employees accepted the invitation. They have the opportunity to  specialist logistics real estate fund manager. The initial cash 
identify as ethnic minority face. We continue to deliver against the  acquire Standard Life Aberdeen plc shares for £1.888 (UK) and  consideration payable at completion for the acquisition is £64m.   
ethnicity action plan published in 2018, developed with the  €2.113 (Ireland) with their accumulated savings when their  Subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions, an additional 
 
ethnicity and multicultural network, Unity, and the executive  savings contracts end in three or five years’ time. At 31 December  contingent deferred earn-out is expected to be payable to acquire 
sponsor for ethnicity.   2020, 2,298 employees in UK and Ireland were saving towards  the remaining 40% of equity in Tritax Management LLP via three   
the purchase of Standard Life Aberdeen plc shares through the 
    Standard Life Aberdeen 2020 101
4. Directors’ report continued 
 
Other information 
Under Listing Rule 9.8.4.CR, a listed company must include all information required by LR 9.8.4R in a single identifiable location or 
cross-reference table. For the purposes of LR 9.8.4CR, the information required to be disclosed can be found in the following locations. 
All the relevant information cross-referenced below is hereby incorporated by reference into this Directors’ report. 
  Location 
Directors’  None/ 
Topic  Directors’ report  remuneration report  Not applicable 
Interest capitalised      x 
Publication of unaudited financial information in a class 1 circular or in a 
prospectus, other than in accordance with Annexes 1 and 2 of the FCA’s 
Prospectus Rules       x 
Details of long-term incentive schemes    x   
Waiver of emoluments by a director      x 
Waiver of future emoluments by a director      x 
Non pre-emptive issues of equity for cash      x 
Non pre-emptive issues of equity for cash in relation to major subsidiary 
undertakings      x 
Parent participation in a placing by a listed subsidiary      x 
Contracts of significance      x 
Provision of services by a controlling shareholder      x 
Shareholder waivers of dividends  x     
Shareholder waivers of future dividends  x     
Agreements with controlling shareholders      x 
Going concern 
The Group’s business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position, are set out in 
the Strategic report. This includes details on our liquidity and capital management and our viability statement in the Chief Financial 
Officer’s overview section and our principal risks in the Risk management section. The Group financial statements include additional 
information relating to going concern in the basis of preparation section. 
The Group continues to meet group and individual entity capital requirements and day-to-day liquidity needs. The Company has a 
revolving credit facility of £400m as part of our contingency funding plans and this is due to mature in 2024. The Group has considerable 
financial resources together with a diversified business model, with a spread of business and geographical reach. As a consequence, 
the Directors believe that the Group is well placed to manage its business risks successfully. 
After making enquiries and having assessed the principal risks, the Directors are satisfied that the Group and Company have and will 
maintain sufficient resources to enable them to continue operating for at least 12 months from the date of approval of the financial 
statements and therefore consider it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the financial statements. 
There are no material uncertainties relating to this going concern conclusion. In addition, the Directors have assessed the Group’s 
viability over a period of three years. 
The Directors’ report was approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by 
 
 
 
 
Kenneth A Gilmour 
Company Secretary  
9 March 2021 
102 Standard Life Aberdeen 2020  
4. Directors’ report continued 
5. Statement of Directors’ responsibilities in respect 
 
of the Annual report and the financial statements
 
Other information  The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual report and  Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also 
Under Listing Rule 9.8.4.CR, a listed company must include all information required by LR 9.8.4R in a single identifiable location or  accounts and the Group and Company financial statements in  responsible for preparing a Strategic report, Directors’ report, 
cross-reference table. For the purposes of LR 9.8.4CR, the information required to be disclosed can be found in the following locations.  accordance with applicable law and regulations.   Directors’ remuneration report and Corporate governance 
All the relevant information cross-referenced below is hereby incorporated by reference into this Directors’ report.  Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and  statement that complies with that law and those regulations.   GOV
E
  Location  Company financial statements for each financial year. Under that  The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of  RN
law they are required to prepare the Group financial statements in  the corporate and financial information included on the Company’s  A
Directors’  None/  accordance with international accounting standards in conformity  website. Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and  NC
Topic  Directors’ report  remuneration report  Not applicable  with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and applicable  dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in  E 
Interest capitalised      x  law and have elected to prepare the Company financial  other jurisdictions. 
Publication of unaudited financial information in a class 1 circular or in a  statements in accordance with UK accounting standards and 
Responsibility statement of the Directors in respect 
prospectus, other than in accordance with Annexes 1 and 2 of the FCA’s  applicable law, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure 
Prospectus Rules       x  Framework. In addition the Group financial statements are  of the annual financial report  
Details of long-term incentive schemes    x    required under the UK Disclosure Guidance and Transparency  We confirm that to the best of our knowledge:  
Rules to be prepared in accordance with International Financial 
Waiver of emoluments by a director      x  • The financial statements, prepared in accordance with the 
Reporting Standards adopted pursuant to Regulation (EC) No 
applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view 
Waiver of future emoluments by a director      x  1606/2002 as it applies in the European Union (‘IFRSs as adopted 
of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the 
Non pre-emptive issues of equity for cash      x  by the EU’).  Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation 
Non pre-emptive issues of equity for cash in relation to major subsidiary  Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial  taken as a whole  
undertakings      x  statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair  • The Strategic report and Directors’ report include a fair review of 
Parent participation in a placing by a listed subsidiary      x  view of the state of affairs of the Group and Company and of the  the development and performance of the business and the 
Contracts of significance      x  Group’s profit or loss for that period. In preparing each of the  position of the Company and the undertakings included in the 
Group and Company financial statements, the Directors are  consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of 
Provision of services by a controlling shareholder      x 
required to:   the principal risks and uncertainties that they face  
Shareholder waivers of dividends  x     
• Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them  We consider the Annual report and accounts, taken as a whole, is 
Shareholder waivers of future dividends  x     
consistently  fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information 
Agreements with controlling shareholders      x  • Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable, relevant,  necessary for shareholders to assess the Group’s position and 
reliable and prudent  performance, business model and strategy.  
Going concern 
The Group’s business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position, are set out in  • For the Group financial statements, state whether they have   
been prepared in accordance with international accounting 
the Strategic report. This includes details on our liquidity and capital management and our viability statement in the Chief Financial    
standards in conformity with the requirements of the Companies 
Officer’s overview section and our principal risks in the Risk management section. The Group financial statements include additional 
information relating to going concern in the basis of preparation section.  Act 2006 and International Financial Reporting Standards  By order of the Board 
adopted pursuant to Regulation (EC) No 1606/2002 as it applies 
The Group continues to meet group and individual entity capital requirements and day-to-day liquidity needs. The Company has a  in the European Union (‘IFRSs as adopted by the EU’)   
revolving credit facility of £400m as part of our contingency funding plans and this is due to mature in 2024. The Group has considerable 
• For the Company financial statements, state whether applicable 
financial resources together with a diversified business model, with a spread of business and geographical reach. As a consequence, 
UK accounting standards have been followed, subject to any 
the Directors believe that the Group is well placed to manage its business risks successfully. 
material departures disclosed and explained in the Company 
After making enquiries and having assessed the principal risks, the Directors are satisfied that the Group and Company have and will  financial statements 
maintain sufficient resources to enable them to continue operating for at least 12 months from the date of approval of the financial  • For the Group and Company’s ability to continue as a going 
    
statements and therefore consider it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the financial statements.  concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going  Sir Douglas Flint  Stephanie Bruce 
There are no material uncertainties relating to this going concern conclusion. In addition, the Directors have assessed the Group’s  concern  Chairman  Chief Financial Officer 
viability over a period of three years. 
• Use the going concern basis of accounting unless they either 
9 March 2021  9 March 2021 
The Directors’ report was approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by  intend to liquidate the Group or the Company or to cease 
operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so   
 
  The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting 
records that are sufficient to show and explain the Company’s 
transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time 
the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure 
  that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006. 
 
They are responsible for such internal control as they determine is 
Kenneth A Gilmour 
necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that 
Company Secretary  
are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, 
9 March 2021  and have general responsibility for taking such steps as are 
reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group 
and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.  
 
    Standard Life Aberdeen 2020 103
Financial 
Contents
Information 6.  Independent auditors’ report ......................................................................................................................................106
7.  Group financial statements .........................................................................................................................................115
8.  Company financial statements ...................................................................................................................................211
9.  Supplementary information ........................................................................................................................................222
Contents
Group primary statements .............................................115 Note 25.  U  nit linked liabilities and assets 
Presentation of consolidated financial statements ........123 backing unit linked liabilities ..........................162
Note 1.  Group structure  .............................................127 Note 26.  Issued share capital and share premium ......164
Note 2.  Segmental analysis .......................................129 Note 27.  Shares held by trusts .....................................164
Note 3.   Investment return ...........................................133 Note 28.  Retained earnings .........................................165
Note 4.  Revenue from contracts with customers .......133 Note 29.  Movements in other reserves ........................165
Note 5.  Other income .................................................134 Note 30.  Non‑controlling interests ................................167
Note 6.  Other administrative expenses ......................135 Note 31.  I nsurance contracts, investment contracts 
Note 7.  Staff costs and other  and reinsurance contracts .............................168
employee‑related costs ................................135 Note 32.  Financial liabilities ..........................................169
Note 8.  Auditors’ remuneration ..................................135 Note 33.  Subordinated liabilities ...................................169
Note 9.  R  estructuring and corporate  Note 34.  P  ension and other post‑retirement 
transaction expenses.....................................136 benefit provisions ...........................................170
Note 10.  Taxation .........................................................136 Note 35.  Deferred income ............................................176
Note 11.  Discontinued operations ................................139 Note 36.  Other financial liabilities .................................176
Note 12.  Earnings per share ........................................140 Note 37.  Provisions and other liabilities .......................176
Note 13.  Adjusted profit and adjusting items ...............141 Note 38.  Financial instruments risk management........177
Note 14.  Dividends on ordinary shares ........................142 Note 39.  Structured entities ..........................................183
Note 15.  Intangible assets ............................................143 Note 40.  Fair value of assets and liabilities ..................184
Note 16.  Investments in associates  Note 41.  Statement of cash flows ................................188
and joint ventures ..........................................147 Note 42.  Contingent liabilities and contingent assets ..190
Note 17.  Property, plant and equipment ......................153 Note 43.  Commitments ................................................190
Note 18.  Leases ...........................................................154 Note 44.  E  mployee share‑based payments and 
deferred fund awards.....................................191
Note 19.  Financial assets .............................................156
Note 45.  Related party transactions .............................194
Note 20.  Derivative financial instruments .....................157
Note 46.  Capital management .....................................195
Note 21.  Receivables and other financial assets .........159
Note 47.  Events after the reporting date ......................197
Note 22.  Other assets ..................................................159
Note 48.  Related undertakings.....................................198
Note 23.  Assets and liabilities held for sale .................160
Note 24.  Cash and cash equivalents ...........................161
How to navigate our Group financial statements
The Group’s significant accounting policies are included at the  The Group’s critical accounting estimates and assumptions are 
beginning of the relevant notes to the Group financial statements with  summarised in the Presentation of consolidated financial statements 
this background colour. Critical judgements in applying accounting  section which follows the primary financial statements. Further detail on 
policies are summarised in the Presentation of consolidated financial  these critical accounting estimates and assumptions is provided in the 
statements section which follows the primary financial statements.  relevant note with this background colour.
Accounting policies that are relevant to the financial statements as a 
whole are also set out in that section.
104 Standard Life Aberdeen 2020
Contents
6.  Independent auditors’ report ......................................................................................................................................106
7.  Group financial statements .........................................................................................................................................115
8.  Company financial statements ...................................................................................................................................211
9.  Supplementary information ........................................................................................................................................222
Contents
Group primary statements .............................................115 Note 25.  U  nit linked liabilities and assets  FIN
Presentation of consolidated financial statements ........123 backing unit linked liabilities ..........................162 AN
C
Note 1.  Group structure  .............................................127 Note 26.  Issued share capital and share premium ......164 IA
L
Note 2.  Segmental analysis .......................................129 Note 27.  Shares held by trusts .....................................164  IN
F
Note 3.   Investment return ...........................................133 Note 28.  Retained earnings .........................................165 OR
M
Note 4.  Revenue from contracts with customers .......133 Note 29.  Movements in other reserves ........................165 A
T
Note 5.  Other income .................................................134 Note 30.  Non‑controlling interests ................................167 ION
Note 6.  Other administrative expenses ......................135 Note 31.  I nsurance contracts, investment contracts 
Note 7.  Staff costs and other  and reinsurance contracts .............................168
employee‑related costs ................................135 Note 32.  Financial liabilities ..........................................169
Note 8.  Auditors’ remuneration ..................................135 Note 33.  Subordinated liabilities ...................................169
Note 9.  R  estructuring and corporate  Note 34.  P  ension and other post‑retirement 
transaction expenses.....................................136 benefit provisions ...........................................170
Note 10.  Taxation .........................................................136 Note 35.  Deferred income ............................................176
Note 11.  Discontinued operations ................................139 Note 36.  Other financial liabilities .................................176
Note 12.  Earnings per share ........................................140 Note 37.  Provisions and other liabilities .......................176
Note 13.  Adjusted profit and adjusting items ...............141 Note 38.  Financial instruments risk management........177
Note 14.  Dividends on ordinary shares ........................142 Note 39.  Structured entities ..........................................183
Note 15.  Intangible assets ............................................143 Note 40.  Fair value of assets and liabilities ..................184
Note 16.  Investments in associates  Note 41.  Statement of cash flows ................................188
and joint ventures ..........................................147 Note 42.  Contingent liabilities and contingent assets ..190
Note 17.  Property, plant and equipment ......................153 Note 43.  Commitments ................................................190
Note 18.  Leases ...........................................................154 Note 44.  E  mployee share‑based payments and 
deferred fund awards.....................................191
Note 19.  Financial assets .............................................156
Note 45.  Related party transactions .............................194
Note 20.  Derivative financial instruments .....................157
Note 46.  Capital management .....................................195
Note 21.  Receivables and other financial assets .........159
Note 47.  Events after the reporting date ......................197
Note 22.  Other assets ..................................................159
Note 48.  Related undertakings.....................................198
Note 23.  Assets and liabilities held for sale .................160
Note 24.  Cash and cash equivalents ...........................161
How to navigate our Group financial statements
The Group’s significant accounting policies are included at the  The Group’s critical accounting estimates and assumptions are 
beginning of the relevant notes to the Group financial statements with  summarised in the Presentation of consolidated financial statements 
this background colour. Critical judgements in applying accounting  section which follows the primary financial statements. Further detail on 
policies are summarised in the Presentation of consolidated financial  these critical accounting estimates and assumptions is provided in the 
statements section which follows the primary financial statements.  relevant note with this background colour.
Accounting policies that are relevant to the financial statements as a 
whole are also set out in that section.
Standard Life Aberdeen 2020 105
6. Independent auditors’ report to the members of 
Standard Life Aberdeen plc  
1. Our opinion is unmodified   
We have audited the financial statements of Standard Life 
Overview     
Aberdeen plc (the Company) for the year ended 31 December 
2020 which comprise the Consolidated income statement,  Materiality:   
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income, Consolidated  Group financial  £25m (2019: £31m)  
statement of financial position, Consolidated statement of  statements as a  2.7% (2019: 4.4%) of normalised profit  
changes in equity, Consolidated statement of cash flows,  whole  before tax 
Company statement of financial position, Company statement of  Coverage  90% (2019: 97%) of profits and losses that 
changes in equity, Reconciliation of consolidated adjusted profit  made up Group profit before tax 
before tax to IFRS profit for the year, and the related notes, 
including the accounting policies in the Basis of preparation.  Key audit  vs 
 
matters  2019 
In our opinion: 
 The financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of  Recurring risks Recoverability of goodwill and of  ◄
(Group and  certain of the parent’s investment in   
the Group’s and of the parent Company’s affairs as at 31 
Parent  subsidiaries  
December 2020 and of the Group’s profit for the year then 
ended  Company)      
 The Group financial statements have been properly prepared in  Recurring risk  Carrying value of investment in  ◄
accordance with international accounting standards in  (Group)  Phoenix and the related share of   
conformity with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006  profit 
 
and International Financial Reporting Standards adopted 
pursuant to Regulation (EC) No 1606/2002 as it applies in the  New risk   Impairment of Intangible Assets  ◄
European Union  (Group)   
 The parent Company financial statements have been properly     
prepared in accordance with UK accounting standards,  Recurring risk  Valuation of UK defined benefit 
◄►
including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework   (Group)  pension scheme obligation   
 The financial statements have been prepared in accordance     
with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as   
regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS 
Regulation to the extent applicable 
Basis for opinion 
We conducted our audit in accordance with International 
Standards on Auditing (UK) (ISAs (UK)) and applicable law. Our 
responsibilities are described below. We believe that the audit 
evidence we have obtained is a sufficient and appropriate basis 
for our opinion. Our audit opinion is consistent with our report to 
the Audit Committee. 
We were first appointed as auditor by the shareholders on 16 May 
2017. The period of total uninterrupted engagement is for the four 
financial years ended 31 December 2020. We have fulfilled our 
ethical responsibilities under, and we remain independent of the 
Group in accordance with, UK ethical requirements including the 
FRC Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities. 
No non-audit services prohibited by that standard were provided. 
 
106 Standard Life Aberdeen 2020
2. Key audit matters: our assessment of risks of material misstatement
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements 
and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement (whether or not due to fraud) identified by us, including those 
which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy; the allocation of resources in the audit; and directing the efforts of the 
engagement team. We summarise below the key audit matters, in decreasing order of audit significance, in arriving at our audit opinion 
above, together with our key audit procedures to address those matters and our findings from those procedures in order that the 
Company's members, as a body, may better understand the process by which we arrived at our audit opinion. These matters were 
addressed, and our findings are based on procedures undertaken, in the context of, and solely for the purpose of, our audit of the 
financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and consequently are incidental to that opinion, and we do not 
provide a separate opinion on these matters. 
The risk  Our response 
F
Recoverability of goodwill and of  Subjective estimate:  We performed the tests below rather than  INA
certain of the parent’s investments in  seeking to rely on any of the Group's controls  NC
subsidiaries:  The goodwill recognised at the Group  because the nature of the balance is such that  IAL
and the carrying amount of certain of the  we would expect to obtain audit evidence   IN
(imGpoaoidrmwielln: t£ l8o5smse (s2 r0e1c9o:g £n1is0e0d0:m £)9; 1g5omod will psuabresnidt iaCroiemsp aarney s’sig innivfiecsatnmt eanntds  aint  risk of  primarily through the detailed procedures  FORM
(2019: £1,569m))  irrecoverability due to reductions in  described.  AT
IO
(Parent Company: certain investments in  assets under management or a change  Our procedures included:   N
in the mix of the assets under 
subsidiaries: included within the total  Our valuation expertise: We engaged our own 
management which would impact 
investments in subsidiaries balance of  valuation specialists to assist us in assessing 
revenues. The estimated recoverable 
£4,013m (2019: £6,027m); Impairment of  the appropriateness of the Group’s primary 
amount of these balances is subjective 
investment in subsidiaries: £1,873m  valuation methodology and its application in the 
due to the inherent uncertainty involved 
(2019: £795m))  valuation of the goodwill and certain of the 
in forecasting and discounting projected 
parent Company’s investment in subsidiaries, 
Refer to page 59 (Audit Committee  adjusted profits and determining the 
and the appropriateness of the input 
Report), page 143 (goodwill accounting  applicable price to earnings multiples 
assumptions to the analyses. 
policy and financial disclosures), page 214 (including appropriate premiums for 
(investment in subsidiaries accounting  control and discounts for lack of liquidity)  Our sector expertise: We also used our sector 
policy) and page 215 (investment in  and expected costs of disposals which  experience to evaluate the appropriateness of 
subsidiaries financial disclosures).  are the key assumptions of the fair value  assumptions applied in key inputs such as 
less costs of disposal (FVLCOD).  deriving maintainable earnings, assessing the 
comparability of companies used by 
The effect of these matters is that, as  management for the purpose of deriving an 
part of our risk assessment, we  appropriate price to earnings multiple along with 
determined that the recoverable amount  adjustments made to that market data in 
of the goodwill and certain of the  deriving an asset management specific multiple.  
parent’s investment in subsidiaries has a 
Sensitivity analysis: We performed our own 
high degree of estimation uncertainty, 
sensitivity analysis which included assessing the 
with a potential range of reasonable 
effect of reasonably possible changes in 
outcomes greater than our materiality for 
projected adjusted profits and reasonable 
the financial statements as a whole, and 
alternative assumptions in respect of applicable 
possibly many times that amount.  
price to earnings multiples and applied 
premiums and discounts to evaluate the impact 
The financial statements (Note 15)  on the carrying value of the goodwill and 
disclose the range estimated by the  investment in subsidiaries. 
Group.  
Assessing transparency: We assessed 
whether the Group’s disclosures (in respect of 
goodwill) and the parent Company’s disclosures 
(in respect of investment in subsidiaries) reflect 
the risks inherent in the impairment assessment 
performed.  
Our findings: 
We found the carrying value of goodwill and the 
related impairment charge to be cautious (2019: 
balanced) and the parent Company’s carrying 
value of certain of the investments in 
subsidiaries and the related impairment charge 
to be cautious (2019: balanced) with 
proportionate (2019: proportionate) disclosures 
of the related assumptions and sensitivities. 
Standard Life Aberdeen 2020 107
6.Independent auditors’ report to the members of Standard Life Aberdeen plc continued
The risk  Our response 
Carrying value of investment in  Our procedures in respect of the accounting 
Phoenix and the related share of  The value of the investment in Phoenix  treatment and application included:  
profit  Group Holdings plc (Phoenix) is 
Assessing principles: We assessed the nature 
impacted by a number of judgemental 
(Carrying value of investment in  of the relationship with Phoenix following the 
factors and accounting estimates.  
Phoenix: £1,008m (2019: £961m);  ReAssure transaction and subsequent SLA plc 
Share of Phoenix profit: £110m (2019:  Accounting treatment and application  shareholding dilution and evaluated this against 
£(5)m))  the indicators of significant influence in the 
On 22 July 2020 Phoenix acquired 
accounting standards. 
Refer to page 59 (Audit Committee  ReAssure Group plc “ReAssure”; as part 
Report), and page 147 (accounting  of this transaction the Group’s  Assessing principles: Our component auditor 
policy and financial disclosures).  shareholding was diluted. This resulted  critically assessed the acquisition accounting 
in a risk that Phoenix should  approach adopted by Phoenix against the 
subsequently be accounted for as an  principles of IFRS 3 Business Combinations, 
equity investment rather than an  including the identification and valuation of 
associate. It additionally resulted in a risk  intangible assets in the business combination 
associated with the acquisition  against the principles of accounting standards. 
accounting, in particular the valuation of 
Our procedures in respect of the share of 
the opening balance sheet (including 
Phoenix profit, and its corresponding impact 
intangible assets), and the determination 
on the carrying value of Phoenix:  
of the bargain gain on purchase 
(recognised as part of the share of  Control design and operation: Our 
Phoenix profit).  component auditor tested the design and 
operating effectiveness of key controls including 
Subjective estimate 
over Phoenix management’s process for 
As a result of any declines in Phoenix’s  modelling insurance contract liabilities and for 
share price there is a risk of impairment  setting and updating actuarial assumptions. 
of the carrying value of the investment. 
Our actuarial experience: Our component 
auditor used actuarial specialists to review and 
In addition, and consistent with previous 
challenge the rationale for key assumptions 
years, the calculation of Phoenix’s profit, 
adopted, including in respect of acquired 
(with a resulting impact on the carrying 
businesses. 
value of the investment), is dependent 
on a number of Phoenix management’s  Our procedures in respect of any impairment 
estimates, in particular the actuarial  to the carrying value include:  
assumptions underpinning the 
Tests of detail: We performed an assessment 
movements in insurance contract 
of the carrying value of the investment in 
liabilities. In this regard, the assumptions 
Phoenix by comparing to its market value at 31 
that have the most significant impact 
December 2020. 
over the profit of the enlarged Phoenix 
group are the base and trend longevity  The work performed by the component auditor 
and persistency assumptions.  was under the direction, oversight and review of 
the Group team, as described in section 3. 
The effect of these matters is that, as 
Our findings: 
part of our risk assessment, we 
determined that the carrying value of the  In determining that Phoenix should continue to 
investment in Phoenix has a high degree  be treated as an associate there is room for 
of estimation uncertainty, with a potential  judgement and we found that, within that, the 
range of reasonable outcomes greater  Group's judgement was balanced. 
than our materiality for the financial  We found the Group’s carrying value of the 
statements as a whole.   investment in Phoenix and the related share of 
profit to be balanced (2019: balanced) with 
proportionate (2019: proportionate) disclosure of 
the related assumptions. 
108 Standard Life Aberdeen 2020  
The risk  Our response 
Impairment of Intangible Assets  Subjective estimate:  We performed the tests below rather than 
seeking to rely on any of the Group's controls 
(Customer relationships and  The Group’s customer related intangible 
because the nature of the balance is such that 
investment management contracts:  assets include customer relationships and 
we would expect to obtain audit evidence 
£314m (2019: £534m); Impairment of  investment management contracts. There 
primarily through the detailed procedures 
customer relationships and investment  is a risk of impairment to the carrying value 
described. 
management contracts intangibles:  of these intangible assets. 
£134m (2019: £0m))   Our procedures included: 
Management need to make subjective 
Refer to page 59 (Audit Committee  judgements when assessing whether there  Our valuation expertise: We evaluated 
Report), page 143 (accounting policy)  are any indicators of impairment to these  whether for all of the Group’s customer 
and financial disclosures).  intangible assets.  relationships and management contract  FIN
intangible assets there were indicators of  A
Where there is an indicator of impairment,  N
impairment that would trigger an impairment  C
the estimated recoverable amount of these  IA
intangible assets is subjective due to the  review. This included a critical assessment of  L IN
the business performance, such as outflows of  F
inherent uncertainty involved in forecasting  O
assets under management and / or reduction of  R
and discounting future cash flows.   M
revenue relating to each intangible asset.  A
T
The effect of these matters is that, as part  IO
Where indicators were identified, we used our  N
of our risk assessment, we determined 
own valuation specialists to assist us in 
that the value in use of these intangible 
assessing the appropriateness of the Group's 
assets has a high degree of estimation 
valuation model. This included comparing the 
uncertainty, with a potential range of 
Group discount rate assumptions with our own 
reasonable outcomes greater than our 
estimate of a range of reasonable discount 
materiality for the financial statements as a 
rates, based on comparable company 
whole and possibly many times that 
information. 
amount. 
Our sector experience: Where there was an 
The financial statements (Note 15) 
indicator of impairment, we used our sector 
disclose the sensitivity estimated by the 
experience to evaluate the appropriateness of 
Group. 
assumptions applied in key inputs such as 
revenue from contracts with customers, 
operating costs and discount rates.  
Sensitivity analysis: Where there was an 
indicator of impairment we performed our own 
sensitivity analysis which included assessing the 
effect of reasonably possible changes in 
forecast cash flows and discount rates to 
evaluate the impact on the carrying value of the 
intangible assets. 
Assessing transparency: We considered 
whether the Group’s disclosures in relation to 
the assumptions used in the value in use of 
customer relationships and investment 
management contracts intangible assets 
appropriately represent the sensitivities of the 
asset’s value in use to the use of alternative 
assumptions. 
Our findings: 
We found the carrying value of intangible assets 
and the related impairment charge to be 
balanced (2019: balanced) with proportionate 
(2019: proportionate) disclosures of the related 
assumptions and sensitivities. 
Standard Life Aberdeen 2020 109
6.Independent auditors’ report to the members of Standard Life Aberdeen plc continued
The risk  Our response 
Valuation of the UK defined benefit  Subjective valuation:  We performed the tests below rather than 
pension scheme present value of  The present value of the Group’s funded  seeking to rely on any of the Group's controls 
funded obligation  obligation for the UK defined benefit (DB)  because the nature of the balance is such that 
(£3,015m, 2019: £2,852m)  pension scheme is an area that involves  we would expect to obtain audit evidence 
significant judgement over the uncertain  primarily through the detailed procedures 
Refer to page 59 (Audit Committee  future settlement value. The Group is  described. 
Report), page 170 (accounting  required to use judgment in the selection  Our procedures included:  
policy) and page 171 (financial  of key assumptions covering both 
disclosures).  operating assumptions and economic  Test of detail and our sector experience: Our 
assumptions.  component auditor considered, with the support 
of internal actuarial specialists, the 
The key operating assumptions are base 
appropriateness of the base mortality 
mortality and mortality improvement. The 
assumption by reference to scheme and 
key economic assumptions are the 
industry data on historical mortality experience 
discount rate and inflation. The risk is that 
and the outcome of the latest triennial report. 
inappropriate assumptions are used in 
determining the present value of the  Our component auditor considered, with the 
funded obligation.  support of internal actuarial specialists, the 
appropriateness of the mortality improvement 
The effect of these matters is that, as part 
assumptions by reference to industry based 
of our risk assessment, we determine that 
expectations of future mortality improvements. 
the valuation of the pension scheme 
The component auditor considered the 
obligation has a high degree of estimation 
appropriateness of the discount rate and 
uncertainty, with a potential range of 
inflation assumptions by reference to industry 
reasonable outcomes greater than our 
practice. 
materiality for the financial statements as a 
whole and possibly many times that  Benchmarking assumptions and our sector 
amount.   experience: Our component auditor utilised the 
results of KPMG benchmarking of base 
The financial statements (Note 34) 
mortality, mortality improvement, discount rate 
disclose the sensitivity estimated by the 
and inflation assumptions and our actuarial 
Group.  
specialists’ knowledge of industry practice to 
inform our challenge of the Group’s assumptions 
in these areas. 
Assessing transparency: In conjunction with 
internal actuarial specialists, we considered 
whether the Group’s disclosures in relation to 
the assumptions used in the calculation of 
present value of the funded obligation 
appropriately represent the sensitivities of the 
obligation to the use of alternative assumptions. 
The work performed by the component auditor 
was under the direction, oversight and review of 
the Group team, as described in section 3. 
Our findings: 
We found the estimated valuation of the UK 
defined benefit pension scheme obligation to be 
balanced (2019: balanced) with proportionate 
(2019: proportionate) disclosures of the related 
assumptions and sensitivities. 
We have summarised below the changes to our key audit matters from the 31 December 2019 year end audit. 
In our 31 December 2019 year end audit, we identified a significant risk around the share of profit from Phoenix. In considering 
the current market conditions and the ReAssure acquisition made by Phoenix in the period, we consider that these result in a 
range of additional factors for us to consider which will impact the carrying value of the investment. As such, we consider our key 
audit matter to be broader than the share of profit, and have updated this to include both the carrying value of the investment and 
the share of profit. 
We did not consider the impairment of intangible assets to be a key audit matter in the 31 December 2019 year end audit, as 
there were no impairment triggers identified. Given impairment triggers (and resulting impairments) were identified in the year to 
31 December 2020, we consider this to be a key audit matter for the year. 
We continue to perform procedures over the provision for separation costs. However, ongoing progress in relation to the 
separation process has provided a greater level of certainty over the separation costs and so the level of estimation uncertainty 
associated with this provision has reduced in the year to 31 December 2020, we have not assessed this as one of the most 
significant risks in our current year audit and, therefore, it is not separately identified in our report this year. 
110 Standard Life Aberdeen 2020  
 
3. Our applicaation of mateeriality and aan overview oof the 
sccope of our aaudit  Group materiality
Maateriality for thhe Group finanncial statemennts as a wholee was  £25m (2019: £31m)
seet at £25m (20019: £31m), deetermined as 55% of our estimmate  £W2h5omle financial 
of Group profit bbefore tax madde at the planning stage,  statements materiality
(2019: £31m)
noormalised for oour expectatioon of the level oof adjusting iteems 
inccluding impairrment, restructturing costs annd the profits aarising  £18.75m
Range of materiality at 10
onn disposal of aassociate or paast associate sshareholdingss. This  components £1.25m-£18.2m
eqquates to 2.7%% (2019: 4.4%%) of reported GGroup profit  (2019: £3.1m-£26m)
noormalised on aa consistent baasis and to 2.99% (2019: 12..7%) of  £1.25m
Misstatements reported to
Grroup IFRS proofit before tax ffrom continuinng operations of  the audit committee 
(2019: £1.6m)
£8853m (2019: ££243m).   F
Group fee income INA
Maateriality of £88.8m (2019: £119m), as commmunicated by the  N
C
Grroup audit team, has been aapplied to the audit of the paarent  IA
L
Coompany. This is lower than the materialityy we would   IN
F
othherwise have determined by reference too total assets, and  O
R
represents 0.1%% of the Comppany's total assets (2019: 1..08%  73% M
A
of normalised prrofit before taxx). We changeed the benchmaark to  (2019: 98%) T
IO
tottal assets as wwe consider it too be the most aappropriate  Total profits and losses  N
beenchmark for thhe Company inn its capacity ass the Group hoolding  that made up group profit 
before tax
coompany. 
In line with our aaudit methodoology, our proccedures on 
inddividual accouunt balances aand disclosurees were perforrmed 
to a lower threshhold, performaance materialiity, so as to reeduce 
to an acceptablee level the riskk that individuaally immateriaal  90%
(2019: 97%)
miisstatements iin individual acccount balancces add up to aa 
maaterial amount across the financial statemments as a whhole.  
Peerformance materiality for thhe Group and parent Compaany  Group total assets
waas set at 75% (2019: 75%) oof materiality ffor the financiaal 
staatements as aa whole, whichh equates to £18.75m (20199: 
£223.25m) for thee Group and ££6.6m (2019: ££14.3m) for thhe 
paarent Company. 
77%
WWe applied this percentage inn our determinnation of 
(2019: 98%)
peerformance maateriality becaause we did noot identify any 
facctors indicating an elevated level of risk.  
WWe agreed to reeport to the Auudit Committeee any correcteed or 
unncorrected identified misstattements exceeeding £1.25m 
(2019: £1.6m), iin addition to oother identifiedd misstatemennts  Full scope for group audit purposes 2020
thaat warranted rreporting on qualitative grouunds.   Residual components
Duuring the year the Group changed its consolidation process 
with a consequeential increasee in the numbeer of reporting    
Forr those items eexcluded fromm Group fee income, the 
coomponents ideentified. Of thee Group’s 295 (2019: 28) repporting 
commponent teamms performed pprocedures onn items relating to 
coomponents, wee subjected 155 (2019: 8) to full scope auddits for 
theeir componentss. The Group team performed procedures on 
Grroup purposess and none (2019: 2) to speecified risk-focuused 
thee remaining exxcluded items.   
auudit procedurees. In the year to 31 Decembber 2019, the latter 
Forr these residuaal componenttss, we performmed analysis att an 
weere not individually financially significant eenough to requuire a 
agggregated Grouup level to re-eexamine our aassessment thhat 
fulll scope audit for Group purrposes, but didd present speccific 
theere were no siggnificant risks of material misstatement wwithin 
inddividual risks tthat needed too be addresseed. 
theese. 
Ass a result of the previous and ongoing struuctural changees in 
Thee Group teaminstructed commponent audiitors as to the 
thee Group, we cconsidered it aappropriate to change thosee 
significant areas to be coveredd, including thee relevant riskks 
beenchmarks wee use to determmine the scope of our work.. The 
dettailed above and the informaation to be repported back. TThe 
coomparatives prresented oppoosite represennt the coveragee 
Grooup team approved the commponent materialities, whichh 
obbtained on the  new benchmarks under thee previous 
rannged from £1.225m to £18.2mm (2019: £3.1mm to £26m), hhaving 
coonsolidation prrocess 
reggard to the mixx of size and riisk profile of thhe Group acrooss 
Thhe componentts within the sccope of our woork accountedd for  thee components.  
thee percentagess illustrated oppposite. The reemaining 27%% 
Thee work on 5 off the 15 compoonents (2019:: 8 of the 10 
(2019: 2%) of tootal Group fee income, 10%% (2019: 3%) oof the 
commponents) was performed bby componentt auditors and the 
tottal profits and losses that mmade up Groupp profit before tax 
resst, including thee audit of the parent Compaany, was 
annd 23% (2019: 2%) of net GGroup assets iss represented by 
perrformed by thee Group team..  
2880 (2019: 18) rreporting components, nonee of which 
inddividually reprresented moree than 5% of aany of total Grooup   
feee income, Grooup profit befoore tax or of neet Group asseets.  
  Standard Life Aberdeen 2020 111
6. Independent auditors’ report to the members of Standard Life Aberdeen plc continued  
 
The Group team had planned to visit component locations in   The related statement under the Listing Rules set out on page 
the United States, Luxembourg and the UK. However, all but  102 is materially consistent with the financial statements and 
one of these visits were prevented by movement restrictions  our audit knowledge 
relating to the COVID-19 pandemic. Instead video conferences  However, as we cannot predict all future events or conditions 
were held to discuss the audit risk and strategy and the  and as subsequent events may result in outcomes that are 
component audit findings reported to the Group team. The  inconsistent with judgements that were reasonable at the time 
Group team visited 1 (2019: 6) component location in the UK  they were made, the above conclusions are not a guarantee 
(2019: UK and Singapore), to assess the audit risk and  that the Group or the Company will continue in operation.  
strategy and the findings reported to the Group team were 
discussed in more detail. Video and telephone conference  5. Fraud and breaches of laws and regulations – ability 
meetings were also held with this component auditor. Any  to detect 
further work required by the Group team was then performed  Identifying and responding to risks of material 
by the component auditor.  misstatement due to fraud 
To identify risks of material misstatement due to fraud (fraud 
4. Going concern 
risks) we assessed events or conditions that could indicate an 
The Directors have prepared the financial statements on the 
incentive or pressure to commit fraud or provide an opportunity 
going concern basis as they do not intend to liquidate the 
to commit fraud. Our risk assessment procedures included: 
Group or the Company or to cease their operations, and as 
 Enquiring of directors, the Group Audit Committee, Group 
they have concluded that the Group’s and the Company’s 
Internal Audit and the Group’s Legal team and inspection of 
financial position means that this is realistic. They have also 
policy documentation as to the Group’s high-level policies and 
concluded that there are no material uncertainties that could 
procedures to prevent and detect fraud, including the internal 
have cast significant doubt over their ability to continue as a 
audit function, and the Group’s channel for ‘whistleblowing’, as 
going concern for at least a year from the date of approval of 
the financial statements (the going concern period).  well as whether they have knowledge of any actual, suspected 
or alleged fraud 
We used our knowledge of the Group, its industry and operating 
 Reading Board minutes and attending Group Audit Committee 
model, and the general economic environment to identify the 
and Risk and Compliance Committee meetings 
inherent risks to its business model and analysed how those risks 
might affect the Group’s financial resources or ability to continue   Considering the findings of Group Internal Audit’s reviews in the 
operations over the going concern period. The risk that we  period 
considered most likely to adversely affect the Group’s available   Considering remuneration incentive schemes and performance 
financial resources over this period was market volatility, including  targets for management and directors 
any associated with COVID-19.  
We communicated identified fraud risks throughout the audit 
We considered whether these risks could plausibly affect the  team and remained alert to any indications of fraud throughout 
liquidity in the going concern period by assessing the degree of  the audit. This included communication from the Group to full 
downside assumptions that, individually and collectively, could  scope component audit teams of relevant fraud risks identified 
result in a liquidity issue, taking into account the Group’s current  at the Group level and request to full scope component audit 
and projected cash and facilities (a reverse stress test).   teams to report to the Group audit team any instances of fraud 
that could give rise to a material misstatement at Group. 
We critically assessed the assumptions in the base case and 
downside scenarios in particular in relation to market volatility  As required by auditing standards, and taking into account 
assumptions by comparing to published growth and economic  possible pressures to meet profit targets and our overall 
forecasts and overlaying our knowledge of the entity's plans,  knowledge of the control environment, we perform procedures 
based on approved budgets, and of the sector in which it  to address the risk of management override of controls, in 
operates.  particular the risk that Group and component management 
may be in a position to make inappropriate accounting entries 
We considered whether the going concern disclosure in note (a) 
and the risk of bias in accounting estimates and judgements 
(v) to the financial statements gives a full and accurate description 
such as impairment and pension assumptions. We requested 
of the Directors’ assessment of going concern. 
component audit teams to report to the Group audit team any 
Our conclusions based on this work:  instances of fraud that could give rise to a material 
misstatement at Group. 
 We consider that the directors’ use of the going concern basis 
of accounting in the preparation of the financial statements is  On this audit we do not believe there is a fraud risk related to 
appropriate  revenue recognition, given the relative simplicity of the most 
significant revenue streams and the separation of duties 
 We have not identified, and concur with the directors’ 
between management and third party service providers. 
assessment that there is not, a material uncertainty related to 
events or conditions that, individually or collectively, may cast  We did not identify any additional fraud risks other than those 
significant doubt on the Group’s or Company's ability to  professional standards require us to consider.  
continue as a going concern for the going concern period 
We performed procedures including: 
 We have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation 
to the directors’ statement in Note (a) (v) to the financial   Identifying journal entries and other adjustments to test for all 
statements on the use of the going concern basis of accounting  full scope components based on risk criteria and comparing the 
with no material uncertainties that may cast significant doubt  identified entries to supporting documentation. These included 
over the Group and Company’s use of that basis for the going  those posted by senior finance management and those posted 
concern period, and we found the going concern disclosure in  to unusual accounts, as well as those which comprised 
Note (a) (v) to be acceptable  unexpected posting combinations. 
 Assessing significant accounting estimates for bias. 
112 Standard Life Aberdeen 2020  
 
Identifying and responding to risks of material  Context of the ability of the audit to detect fraud or 
misstatement due to non-compliance with laws and  breaches of law or regulation 
regulations  Owing to the inherent limitations of an audit, there is an 
We identified areas of laws and regulations that could  unavoidable risk that we may not have detected some material 
reasonably be expected to have a material effect on the  misstatements in the financial statements, even though we 
financial statements from our general commercial and sector  have properly planned and performed our audit in accordance 
experience, through discussion with the directors and other  with auditing standards. For example, the further removed 
management (as required by auditing standards), and from  non-compliance with laws and regulations is from the events 
inspection of the Group’s regulatory and legal correspondence  and transactions reflected in the financial statements, the less 
and discussed with the directors and other management the  likely the inherently limited procedures required by auditing 
policies and procedures regarding compliance with laws and  standards would identify it.  
regulations.  F
In addition, as with any audit, there remained a higher risk of  IN
As the Group is regulated, our assessment of risks involved  non-detection of fraud, as these may involve collusion, forgery,  AN
C
gaining an understanding of the control environment including  intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of  IA
L
the entity’s procedures for complying with regulatory  internal controls. Our audit procedures are designed to detect   IN
requirements, how they analyse identified breaches and  material misstatement. We are not responsible for preventing  FO
assessing whether there were any implications of identified  non-compliance or fraud and cannot be expected to detect  RM
breaches on our audit.   non-compliance with all laws and regulations.  AT
IO
N
We communicated identified laws and regulations throughout  6. We have nothing to report on the other information 
our team and remained alert to any indications of non- in the Annual report and Accounts 
compliance throughout the audit. This included communication 
The directors are responsible for the other information 
from the Group to component audit teams of relevant laws and 
presented in the Annual report together with the financial 
regulations identified at the Group level, and a request for 
statements. Our opinion on the financial statements does not 
component auditors to report to the Group team any instances 
cover the other information and, accordingly, we do not 
of non-compliance with laws and regulations that could give 
express an audit opinion or, except as explicitly stated below, 
rise to a material misstatement at Group. 
any form of assurance conclusion thereon. 
The potential effect of these laws and regulations on the 
Our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing 
financial statements varies considerably. 
so, consider whether, based on our financial statements audit 
Firstly, the Group is subject to laws and regulations that  work, the information therein is materially misstated or 
directly affect the financial statements including financial  inconsistent with the financial statements or our audit 
reporting legislation (including related companies legislation),  knowledge. Based solely on that work we have not identified 
distributable profits legislation, taxation legislation and  material misstatements in the other information. 
pension’s regulations and we assessed the extent of 
Strategic report and Directors’ report  
compliance with these laws and regulations as part of our 
Based solely on our work on the other information:  
procedures on the related financial statement items.  
 We have not identified material misstatements in the Strategic 
Secondly, the Group is subject to many other laws and 
report and the Directors’ report  
regulations where the consequences of non-compliance could 
have a material effect on amounts or disclosures in the   In our opinion the information given in those reports for the 
financial statements, for instance through the imposition of  financial year is consistent with the financial statements  
fines or litigation. We identified the following areas as those   In our opinion those reports have been prepared in accordance 
most likely to have such an effect: specific areas of regulatory  with the Companies Act 2006 
capital and liquidity, conduct including Client Assets, money 
Directors’ remuneration report 
laundering, market abuse regulations and certain aspects of 
In our opinion the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report 
company legislation recognising the financial and regulated 
to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with 
nature of the Group’s activities and its legal form.  
the Companies Act 2006. 
Auditing standards limit the required audit procedures to 
Disclosures of emerging and principal risks and 
identify non-compliance with these laws and regulations to 
enquiry of the directors and other management and inspection  longer-term viability  
of regulatory and legal correspondence, if any. Therefore if a  We are required to perform procedures to identify whether 
breach of operational regulations is not disclosed to us or  there is a material inconsistency between the directors’ 
evident from relevant correspondence, an audit will not detect  disclosures in respect of emerging and principal risks and the 
that breach.  viability statement, and the financial statements and our audit 
knowledge.  
We have assessed the disclosure of provisions in Note 37 and 
contingent liabilities in Note 42 in light of our understanding  Based on those procedures, we have nothing material to add 
gained through the procedures above, and consider that these  or draw attention to in relation to:  
are appropriate.   The Directors’ confirmation within the Viability Statement and 
We discussed with the audit committee matters related to  Risk Management report that they have carried out a robust 
actual or suspected breaches of laws or regulations, for which  assessment of the emerging and principal risks facing the 
disclosure is not necessary, and considered any implications  Group, including those that would threaten its business model, 
for our audit.  future performance, solvency and liquidity 
Standard Life Aberdeen 2020 113
6. Independent auditors’ report to the members of Standard Life Aberdeen plc continued  
 
 The Principal Risks disclosures describing these risks and how   Certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law 
emerging risks are identified, and explaining how they are being  are not made  
managed and mitigated   We have not received all the information and explanations we 
 The Directors’ explanation in the Viability Statement of how they  require for our audit 
have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period 
We have nothing to report in these respects.  
they have done so and why they considered that period to be 
appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a  8. Respective responsibilities 
reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue  Directors’ responsibilities  
in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the 
As explained more fully in their statement set out on page 103, the 
period of their assessment, including any related disclosures 
directors are responsible for: the preparation of the financial 
drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or 
statements including being satisfied that they give a true and fair 
assumptions 
view; such internal control as they determine is necessary to 
We are also required to review the Viability Statement, set out on  enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from 
page 37 under the Listing Rules. Based on the above  material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error; assessing 
procedures, we have concluded that the above disclosures are  the Group and parent Company’s ability to continue as a going 
materially consistent with the financial statements and our  concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going 
audit knowledge.  concern; and using the going concern basis of accounting unless 
they either intend to liquidate the Group or the parent Company or 
Our work is limited to assessing these matters in the context of 
to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.  
only the knowledge acquired during our financial statements 
audit. As we cannot predict all future events or conditions and  Auditor’s responsibilities 
as subsequent events may result in outcomes that are  Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about 
inconsistent with judgements that were reasonable at the time  whether the financial statements as a whole are free from 
they were made, the absence of anything to report on these  material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to 
statements is not a guarantee as to the Group’s and  issue our opinion in an auditor’s report. Reasonable assurance 
Company’s longer-term viability.  is a high level of assurance, but does not guarantee that an 
audit conducted in accordance with ISAs (UK) will always 
Corporate governance disclosures  
detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements 
We are required to perform procedures to identify whether 
can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, 
there is a material inconsistency between the directors’ 
individually or in aggregate, they could reasonably be 
corporate governance disclosures and the financial statements 
expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken 
and our audit knowledge. 
on the basis of the financial statements. 
Based on those procedures, we have concluded that each of 
A fuller description of our responsibilities is provided on the 
the following is materially consistent with the financial 
FRC’s website at www.frc.org.uk/auditorsresponsibilities 
statements and our audit knowledge:  
9. The purpose of our audit work and to whom we owe 
 The directors’ statement that they consider that the Annual 
our responsibilities  
report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, 
balanced and understandable, and provides the information  This report is made solely to the Company's members, as a 
necessary for shareholders to assess the Group’s position and  body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the 
performance, business model and strategy  Companies Act 2006 and the terms of our engagement by the 
Company. Our audit work has been undertaken so that we 
 The section of the Annual report describing the work of the 
might state to the Company's members those matters we are 
Audit Committee, including the significant issues that the Audit 
required to state to them in an auditor's report, and the further 
Committee considered in relation to the financial statements, 
matters we are required to state to them in accordance with 
and how these issues were addressed 
the terms agreed with the Company, and for no other purpose. 
 The section of the Annual report that describes the review of the  To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or 
effectiveness of the Group’s risk management and internal  assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and 
control systems  the Company's members, as a body, for our audit work, for this 
We are required to review the part of Corporate Governance  report, or for the opinions we have formed.  
Statement relating to the Group’s compliance with the   
provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified by 
the Listing Rules for our review. 
We have nothing to report in this respect.  
7. We have nothing to report on the other matters on 
  
which we are required to report by exception  
 
Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report to  Jonathan Mills (Senior Statutory Auditor) 
you if, in our opinion:  for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor  
Chartered Accountants 
 Adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent 
Saltire Court 
Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been 
20 Castle Terrace  
received from branches not visited by us  
Edinburgh 
 The parent Company financial statements and the part of the  EH1 2EG 
Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are not in  9 March 2021 
agreement with the accounting records and returns  
114 Standard Life Aberdeen 2020
7. Group financial statements 
 
Consolidated income statement 
For the year ended 31 December 2020 
    2020  2019 
  Notes  £m  £m 
Income       
Investment return  3  163  464 
Revenue from contracts with customers  4  1,527  1,743 
Insurance contract premium income  31  31  66 
Profit on disposal of interests in associates  1  1,858  1,542 
Other income  5  30  178 
Total income from continuing operations    3,609  3,993 
F
 Expenses           IN
A
N
Insurance contract claims and change in liabilities   31  17  156  C
IA
Change in non-participating investment contract liabilities  25  56  265  L
 IN
Administrative expenses        F
O
Restructuring and corporate transaction expenses  9  297  374  RM
A
Impairment of goodwill – asset management  15  915  1,569  T
IO
Other administrative expenses  6  1,608  1,651  N
Total administrative expenses    2,820  3,594 
Change in liability for third party interest in consolidated funds    (3)  21   
Finance costs    30  36 
Total expenses from continuing operations    2,920  4,072 
 Share of profit from associates and joint ventures  16   194   79  
(Loss on)/reversal of impairment of interests in associates and joint ventures  16  (45)  243 
 Profit before tax from continuing operations     838   243  
Tax (credit)/expense attributable to continuing operations  10  (15)  28 
Profit for the year from continuing operations    853  215 
(Loss)/profit for the year from discontinued operations  11  (15)  56 
Profit for the year    838  271 
 Attributable to:          
Equity shareholders of Standard Life Aberdeen plc       
From continuing operations    848  210 
From discontinued operations    (15)  56 
Equity shareholders of Standard Life Aberdeen plc    833  266 
Non-controlling interests       
From continuing operations – preference shares  30  5  5 
    838  271 
Earnings per share from continuing operations       
Basic (pence per share)  12  38.5  8.9 
Diluted (pence per share)  12  37.9  8.8 
Earnings per share       
Basic (pence per share)  12  37.8  11.2 
Diluted (pence per share)  12  37.2  11.1 
 
The Notes on pages 123 to 210 are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 
 
   
  Standard Life Aberdeen 2020 115
7. Group financial statements continued 
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 
For the year ended 31 December 2020 
    2020  2019 
  Notes  £m  £m 
Profit for the year    838  271 
Less: loss/(profit) from discontinued operations  11  15  (56) 
Profit from continuing operations    853  215 
Items that will not be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss:        
Remeasurement gains/(losses) on defined benefit pension plans  34  280  (23) 
Share of other comprehensive income of associates and joint ventures  16  (13)  (17) 
Equity holder tax effect of items that will not be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss  10  2  – 
Total items that will not be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss    269  (40) 
       
Items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss:        
Fair value losses on cash flow hedges  20  (3)  (10) 
Exchange differences on translating foreign operations    (8)  (46) 
Share of other comprehensive income of associates and joint ventures  16  13  7 
Items transferred to the consolidated income statement       
Fair value losses on cash flow hedges  20  13  22 
Realised foreign exchange losses  1  6  – 
Equity holder tax effect of items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss   10  (2)  (2) 
Total items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss    19  (29) 
Other comprehensive income for the year from continuing operations    288  (69) 
Total comprehensive income for the year from continuing operations    1,141  146 
       
(Loss)/profit from discontinued operations  11  (15)  56 
Other comprehensive income from discontinued operations  11  –  – 
Total comprehensive income for the year from discontinued operations    (15)  56 
Total comprehensive income for the year    1,126  202 
       
Attributable to:       
Equity shareholders of Standard Life Aberdeen plc       
From continuing operations    1,136  141 
From discontinued operations    (15)  56 
Non-controlling interests       
From continuing operations – preference shares    5  5 
    1,126  202 
 
The Notes on pages 123 to 210 are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 
 
   
116 Standard Life Aberdeen 2020
7. Group financial statements continued   
 
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income  Reconciliation of consolidated adjusted profit before tax to IFRS profit for the year 
For the year ended 31 December 2020  For the year ended 31 December 2020 
    2020  2019      2020  2019 
  Notes  £m  £m  Continuing  Discontinued  Continuing  Discontinued 
Profit for the year    838  271      operations  operations  Total  operations  operations  Total 
  Notes  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m 
Less: loss/(profit) from discontinued operations  11  15  (56) 
Adjusted profit before tax               
Profit from continuing operations    853  215 
Asset management, platforms and wealth    284  –  284  395  –  395 
Items that will not be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss:        
Insurance associates and joint ventures    203  –  203  189  –  189 
Remeasurement gains/(losses) on defined benefit pension plans  34  280  (23) 
Adjusted profit before tax   2  487  –  487  584  –  584 
Share of other comprehensive income of associates and joint ventures  16  (13)  (17) 
Adjusted for the following items               
Equity holder tax effect of items that will not be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss  10  2  – 
Total items that will not be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss    269  (40)  RAmesotrrtuiscatutiroinng a anndd i mcoprapiormraeten tt roafn instaacntigoinb lee xapsesnestes s   9  (355)  –  (355)  (407)  –  (407)  FINA
        N
acquired in business combinations and through the  C
Items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss:         purchase of customer contracts  2  (1,287)  –  (1,287)  (1,844)  –  (1,844)  IAL
Fair value losses on cash flow hedges  20  (3)  (10)  Profit on disposal of interests in associates  1  1,858  –  1,858  1,542  –  1,542   INF
Exchange differences on translating foreign operations    (8)  (46)  (Loss on)/reversal of impairment of interests in  OR
M
Share of other comprehensive income of associates and joint ventures  16  13  7  associates and joint ventures  16  (45)  –  (45)  243  –  243  A
T
Items transferred to the consolidated income statement        Change in fair value of significant listed investments  13  65  –  65  –  –  –  IO
N
Fair value losses on cash flow hedges  20  13  22  Investment return variances and economic   
Realised foreign exchange losses  1  6  –  assumption changes  13  46  –  46  (25)  –  (25) 
Equity holder tax effect of items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss   10  (2)  (2)  Other1  13  86  (15)  71  158  56  214 
Total items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss    19  (29)  Total adjusting items  2  368  (15)  353  (333)  56  (277) 
Other comprehensive income for the year from continuing operations    288  (69)  Share of associates’ and joint ventures’ tax   
credit/(expense)  2  (17)  –  (17)  (8)  –  (8) 
Total comprehensive income for the year from continuing operations    1,141  146 
Profit/(loss) before tax expense    838  (15)  823  243  56  299 
       
(Loss)/profit from discontinued operations  11  (15)  56  Tax credit/(expense) attributable to               
Other comprehensive income from discontinued operations  11  –  –  Adjusted profit  2  (38)  –  (38)  (69)  –  (69) 
Total comprehensive income for the year from discontinued operations    (15)  56  Adjusting items  2  53  –  53  41  –  41 
Total tax credit/(expense)     15  –  15  (28)  –  (28) 
Total comprehensive income for the year    1,126  202 
Profit/(loss) for the year    853  (15)  838  215  56  271 
       
Attributable to:        1  The Other adjusting item in 2020 relating to continuing operations includes £66m relating to our share of Phoenix gains relating to the acquisition of ReAssure and the 
completion of the Part VII transfer of the Legal and General mature savings business. The Other adjusting item in 2019 relating to continuing operations includes £140m 
Equity shareholders of Standard Life Aberdeen plc       
received in relation to the settlement of arbitration with Lloyds Banking Group/ Scottish Widows (LBG), refer Note 5. 
From continuing operations    1,136  141 
From discontinued operations    (15)  56  The Group’s key alternative performance measure is adjusted profit before tax. Refer Note 13 for further details. 
Non-controlling interests       
From continuing operations – preference shares    5  5    The Notes on pages 123 to 210 are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 
    1,126  202 
 
 
   
The Notes on pages 123 to 210 are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 
 
   
  Standard Life Aberdeen 2020 117
7. Group financial statements continued 
Consolidated statement of financial position 
As at 31 December 2020 
    2020  2019 
  Notes  £m  £m 
Assets       
Intangible assets  15  501  1,707 
Pension and other post-retirement benefit assets  34  1,474  1,163 
Investments in associates and joint ventures accounted for using the equity method  16  1,371  1,509 
Property, plant and equipment   17  236  266 
Deferred tax assets  10  131  74 
Financial investments  19  3,110  2,115 
Receivables and other financial assets  19  621  560 
Current tax recoverable  10  9  9 
Other assets  22  46  55 
Assets held for sale  23  19  767 
Cash and cash equivalents  19  1,519  1,615 
    9,037  9,840 
Assets backing unit linked liabilities (excluding held for sale)  25     
Financial investments    1,395  1,528 
Receivables and other unit linked assets    8  10 
Cash and cash equivalents    38  44 
    1,441  1,582 
Total assets    10,478  11,422 
 
The Notes on pages 123 to 210 are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 
 
   
118 Standard Life Aberdeen 2020
7. Group financial statements continued   
 
Consolidated statement of financial position      2020  2019 
As at 31 December 2020    Notes  £m  £m 
    2020  2019  Liabilities       
  Notes  £m  £m  Third party interest in consolidated funds  32  77  119 
Assets        Subordinated liabilities  32  638  655 
Intangible assets  15  501  1,707  Pension and other post-retirement benefit provisions  34  55  55 
Pension and other post-retirement benefit assets  34  1,474  1,163  Deferred income   35  73  67 
Investments in associates and joint ventures accounted for using the equity method  16  1,371  1,509  Deferred tax liabilities  10  66  87 
Property, plant and equipment   17  236  266  Current tax liabilities  10  15  19 
Deferred tax assets  10  131  74  Derivative financial liabilities  20  13  3 
Financial investments  19  3,110  2,115  Other financial liabilities  32  1,177  1,315 
Receivables and other financial assets  19  621  560  Provisions   37  93  102 
F
Current tax recoverable  10  9  9  Other liabilities  37  6  5  IN
A
Other assets  22  46  55  Liabilities of operations held for sale  23  11  747  N
C
Assets held for sale  23  19  767      2,224  3,174  IAL
Cash and cash equivalents  19  1,519  1,615  Unit linked liabilities (excluding held for sale)  25       IN
F
    9,037  9,840  Investment contract liabilities    1,042  1,152  OR
M
Assets backing unit linked liabilities (excluding held for sale)  25      Third party interest in consolidated funds    388  416  A
T
Financial investments    1,395  1,528  Other unit linked liabilities    11  14  IO
N
Receivables and other unit linked assets    8  10      1,441  1,582 
 
Cash and cash equivalents    38  44  Total liabilities    3,665  4,756 
    1,441  1,582  Equity       
Total assets    10,478  11,422  Share capital  26  306  327 
  Shares held by trusts  27  (170)  (134) 
Share premium reserve  26  640  640 
The Notes on pages 123 to 210 are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.  Retained earnings  28  4,970  2,886 
 
Other reserves  29  1,064  2,845 
    Equity attributable to equity shareholders of Standard Life Aberdeen plc    6,810  6,564 
Non-controlling interests       
Ordinary shares  30  3  3 
Preference shares   30  –  99 
Total equity     6,813  6,666 
Total equity and liabilities    10,478  11,422 
  
The Notes on pages 123 to 210 are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 
 
The consolidated financial statements on pages 115 to 210 were approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by the following 
Directors: 
  
    
Sir Douglas Flint   Stephanie Bruce 
Chairman  Chief Financial Officer 
9 March 2021  9 March 2021 
  Standard Life Aberdeen 2020 119
7. Group financial statements continued 
Consolidated statement of changes in equity 
For the year ended 31 December 2020 
  Non-controlling 
              interests   
Total equity 
attributable  
to equity 
Shares  Share  shareholders of 
  Share held by premium  Retained  Other  Standard Life  Ordinary  Preference  Total 
  capital  trusts  reserve  earnings  reserves  Aberdeen plc  shares  shares  equity 
  Notes  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m 
1 January 2020    327  (134)  640  2,886  2,845  6,564  3  99  6,666 
Profit for the year from continuing 
operations    –  –  –  848  –  848  –  5  853 
Loss for the year from discontinued 
operations    –  –  –  (15)  –  (15)  –  –  (15) 
Other comprehensive income for the 
year from continuing operations    –  –  –  282  6  288  –  –  288 
Other comprehensive income for the 
year from discontinued operations    –  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  – 
Total comprehensive income for 
the year  28,29  –  –  –  1,115  6  1,121  –  5  1,126 
Issue of share capital  26  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  – 
Dividends paid on ordinary shares  14  –  –  –  (479)  –  (479)  –  –  (479) 
Dividends paid on preference shares  30,33  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  (3)  (3) 
Reclassification of preference shares 
to liability  30,33  –  –  –  (1)  –  (1)  –  (101)  (102) 
Share buyback  26  (21)  –  –  (402)  21  (402)  –  –  (402) 
Reserves credit for employee share-
based payments  29  –  –  –  –  64  64  –  –  64 
Transfer to retained earnings for 
vested employee share-based 
payments  28,29  –  –  –  38  (38)  –  –  –  – 
Transfer between reserves on 
impairment of subsidiaries  28,29  –  –  –  1,834  (1,834)  –  –  –  – 
Shares acquired by employee trusts    –  (54)  –  –  –  (54)  –  –  (54) 
Shares distributed by employee and 
other trusts and related dividend 
equivalents  28  –  18  –  (21)  –  (3)  –  –  (3) 
31 December 2020    306  (170)  640  4,970  1,064  6,810  3  –  6,813 
   
120 Standard Life Aberdeen 2020
7. Group financial statements continued   
 
Consolidated statement of changes in equity  Non-controlling 
 
              interests   
For the year ended 31 December 2020 
Total equity 
  Non-controlling  attributable  
              interests    to equity 
Total equity  Shares  Share  shareholders of 
attributable     Share held by premium Retained  Other  Standard Life Ordinary Preference  Total 
to equity    capital  trusts  reserve earnings reserves  Aberdeen plc  shares  shares  equity 
Shares  Share  shareholders of    Notes  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m 
    cSahpaitrael  hetrldu sbtsy  prreemseiurvme   Reaertnaiinngeds   resOertvheesr   SAtbaenrddaeredn L piflce   Orsdhinaarerys   Prefserheanrcese   eTqouittayl   31 December 2018    353  (115)  640  2,778  3,782  7,438  2  99  7,539 
  Notes  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  Effect of change in accounting policy 
1 January 2020    327  (134)  640  2,886  2,845  6,564  3  99  6,666  to IFRS 91    –  –  –  (5)  (7)  (12)  –  –  (12) 
Profit for the year from continuing  Effect of change in accounting policy 
operations    –  –  –  848  –  848  –  5  853  to IFRS 161    –  –  –  (12)  –  (12)  –  –  (12)  F
Loss for the year from discontinued  1 January 2019    353  (115)  640  2,761  3,775  7,414  2  99  7,515  INA
N
operations    –  –  –  (15)  –  (15)  –  –  (15)  Profit for the year from continuing  C
Other comprehensive income for the  operations    –  –  –  210  –  210  –  5  215  IAL
year from continuing operations    –  –  –  282  6  288  –  –  288  Profit for the year from discontinued   INF
O
Other comprehensive income for the  operations    –  –  –  56  –  56  –  –  56  R
M
year from discontinued operations    –  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  Other comprehensive income for the  A
T
Total comprehensive income for  year from continuing operations    –  –  –  (33)  (36)  (69)  –  –  (69)  IO
N
the year  28,29  –  –  –  1,115  6  1,121  –  5  1,126  Other comprehensive income for the 
 
Issue of share capital  26  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  year from discontinued operations    –  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  – 
Dividends paid on ordinary shares  14  –  –  –  (479)  –  (479)  –  –  (479)  Total comprehensive income for 
Dividends paid on preference shares  30,33  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  (3)  (3)  the year  28,29  –  –  –  233  (36)  197  –  5  202 
Reclassification of preference shares  Issue of share capital  26  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  – 
to liability  30,33  –  –  –  (1)  –  (1)  –  (101)  (102)  Dividends paid on ordinary shares  14  –  –  –  (518)  –  (518)  –  –  (518) 
Share buyback  26  (21)  –  –  (402)  21  (402)  –  –  (402)  Dividends paid on preference shares    –  –  –  –  –  –  –  (5)  (5) 
Reserves credit for employee share- Share buyback  26  (26)  –  –  (390)  (100)  (516)  –  –  (516) 
based payments  29  –  –  –  –  64  64  –  –  64  Other movements in non-controlling 
Transfer to retained earnings for  interests in the year    –  –  –  –  –  –  1  –  1 
vested employee share-based  Reserves credit for employee share-
payments  28,29  –  –  –  38  (38)  –  –  –  –  based payments  29  –  –  –  –  43  43  –  –  43 
Transfer between reserves on  Transfer to retained earnings for 
impairment of subsidiaries  28,29  –  –  –  1,834  (1,834)  –  –  –  –  vested employee share-based 
Shares acquired by employee trusts    –  (54)  –  –  –  (54)  –  –  (54)  payments  28,29  –  –  –  57  (57)  –  –  –  – 
Shares distributed by employee and  Transfer between reserves on 
other trusts and related dividend  impairment of subsidiaries  28,29  –  –  –  780  (780)  –  –  –  – 
equivalents  28  –  18  –  (21)  –  (3)  –  –  (3)  Shares acquired by employee trusts    –  (50)  –  –  –  (50)  –  –  (50) 
31 December 2020    306  (170)  640  4,970  1,064  6,810  3  –  6,813  Shares distributed by employee and 
    other trusts and related dividend 
equivalents  28  –  31  –  (38)  –  (7)  –  –  (7) 
Transfer from the Standard Life 
Unclaimed Asset Trust    –  –  –  1  –  1  –  –  1 
31 December 2019    327  (134)  640  2,886  2,845  6,564  3  99  6,666 
1  The Group has initially applied IFRS 9 and IFRS 16 at 1 January 2019. Under the transition methods chosen, comparative information is not restated and the cumulative effect 
of initially applying these standards is recognised in retained earnings at the date of initial application.  
 
The Notes on pages 123 to 210 are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 
 
   
  Standard Life Aberdeen 2020 121
7. Group financial statements continued 
Consolidated statement of cash flows 
For the year ended 31 December 2020 
    2020  2019 
  Notes  £m  £m 
Cash flows from operating activities       
Profit before tax from continuing operations    838  243 
(Loss)/profit before tax from discontinued operations  11  (15)  56 
    823  299 
Change in operating assets  41  817  158 
Change in operating liabilities  41  (991)  (291) 
Adjustment for non-cash movements in investment income    6  4 
Other non-cash and non-operating items  41  (646)  (28) 
Dividends received from associates and joint ventures  16  80  93 
Taxation paid1    (33)  (34) 
Net cash flows from operating activities    56  201 
       
Cash flows from investing activities       
Purchase of property, plant and equipment  17  (13)  (28) 
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment    –  2 
Acquisition of subsidiaries and unincorporated businesses net of cash acquired    –  (40) 
Disposal of subsidiaries net of cash disposed of  41  (8)  – 
Acquisition of investments in associates and joint ventures  16  (5)  (51) 
Proceeds in relation to contingent consideration  40  3  63 
Payments in relation to contingent consideration  40  (48)  (18) 
Disposal of investments in associates and joint ventures  1  914  1,720 
Taxation paid on disposal of investments in associates and joint ventures1    (33)  (22) 
Purchase of financial investments    (521)  (590) 
Proceeds from sale or redemption of financial investments    737  800 
Purchase of intangible assets     (12)  (15) 
Net cash flows from investing activities    1,014  1,821 
Cash flows from financing activities       
Repayment of subordinated liabilities and preference shares    (100)  (455) 
Payment of lease liabilities    (35)  (32) 
Shares acquired by trusts    (54)  (50) 
Interest paid    (30)  (39) 
Share buyback  26  (361)  (516) 
Preference dividends paid    (5)  (5) 
Ordinary dividends paid  14  (479)  (518) 
Net cash flows from financing activities    (1,064)  (1,615) 
Net (decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents     6  407 
Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year    1,347  957 
Effects of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents    5  (17) 
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year  24  1,358  1,347 
Supplemental disclosures on cash flows from operating activities       
Interest paid    2  5 
Interest received    30  34 
Dividends received    122  143 
Rental income received on investment property    3  3 
 
1  Total taxation paid was £66m in 2020 (2019: £56m). 
 
The Notes on pages 123 to 210 are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 
 
122 Standard Life Aberdeen 2020
7. Group financial statements continued   
 
Consolidated statement of cash flows  Presentation of consolidated financial statements  
For the year ended 31 December 2020 
The Group’s significant accounting policies are included at the beginning of the relevant notes to the consolidated financial 
    2020  2019 
statements. This section sets out the basis of preparation, a summary of the Group’s critical accounting estimates and judgements in 
  Notes  £m  £m 
applying accounting policies, and other significant accounting policies which have been applied to the financial statements as a 
Cash flows from operating activities        whole. 
Profit before tax from continuing operations    838  243 
(Loss)/profit before tax from discontinued operations  11  (15)  56 
(a)  Basis of preparation 
    823  299 
These consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with international accounting standards in conformity with 
Change in operating assets  41  817  158  the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and in accordance with international financial reporting standards adopted pursuant to 
Change in operating liabilities  41  (991)  (291)  Regulation (EC) No 1606/2002 as it applies in the European Union. The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a 
Adjustment for non-cash movements in investment income    6  4  going concern basis and under the historical cost convention, as modified by the revaluation of owner occupied property, derivative 
Other non-cash and non-operating items  41  (646)  (28)  instruments and other financial assets and financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss (FVTPL).   F
IN
Dividends received from associates and joint ventures  16  80  93  The principal accounting policies set out in these consolidated financial statements have been consistently applied to all financial  AN
Taxation paid1    (33)  (34)  reporting periods presented except as described below.  CIA
L
Net cash flows from operating activities    56  201  (a)(i) New standards, interpretations and amendments to existing standards that have been adopted by the Group    IN
F
        The Group has adopted the following new International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs), interpretations and amendments to  OR
M
Cash flows from investing activities        existing standards, which are effective by EU endorsement for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2020.  A
T
Purchase of property, plant and equipment  17  (13)  (28)  IO
Amendments to existing standards  N
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment    –  2  • Amendments to IFRS 3 Definition of a business   
Acquisition of subsidiaries and unincorporated businesses net of cash acquired    –  (40)  • Amendments to IFRS 9, IAS 39 and IFRS 7 Interest rate benchmark reform 
Disposal of subsidiaries net of cash disposed of  41  (8)  – 
• Amendments to IAS 1 and IAS 8 Definition of material 
Acquisition of investments in associates and joint ventures  16  (5)  (51) 
Proceeds in relation to contingent consideration  40  3  63  The Group’s accounting policies have been updated to reflect these amendments. Management considers the implementation of the 
above amendments to existing standards has had no significant impact on the Group’s financial statements. 
Payments in relation to contingent consideration  40  (48)  (18) 
Disposal of investments in associates and joint ventures  1  914  1,720  (a)(ii) Standards, interpretations and amendments to existing standards that are not yet effective and have not been early 
Taxation paid on disposal of investments in associates and joint ventures1    (33)  (22)  adopted by the Group 
Purchase of financial investments    (521)  (590)  Certain new standards, interpretations and amendments to existing standards have been published that are mandatory for the Group’s 
Proceeds from sale or redemption of financial investments    737  800  annual accounting periods beginning after 1 January 2020. The Group has not early adopted the standards, amendments and 
interpretations described below: 
Purchase of intangible assets     (12)  (15) 
Net cash flows from investing activities    1,014  1,821  IFRS 17 Insurance Contracts (effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2023) 
IFRS 17 was issued in May 2017 and will replace IFRS 4 Insurance Contracts. IFRS 4 is an interim standard which permits the 
Cash flows from financing activities       
continued application of accounting policies, for insurance contracts and contracts with discretionary participation features, which were 
Repayment of subordinated liabilities and preference shares    (100)  (455) 
being used at transition to IFRS except where a change satisfies criteria set out in IFRS 4. IFRS 17 introduces new required 
Payment of lease liabilities    (35)  (32) 
measurement and presentation accounting policies for such contracts which reflect the view that these contracts combine features of a 
Shares acquired by trusts    (54)  (50)  financial instrument and a service contract. 
Interest paid    (30)  (39) 
IFRS 17’s measurement model, which applies to groups of contracts, combines a risk-adjusted present value of future cash flows and 
Share buyback  26  (361)  (516) 
an amount representing unearned profit. On transition retrospective application is required unless impracticable, in which case either a 
Preference dividends paid    (5)  (5)  modified retrospective approach or a fair value approach is required. IFRS 17 introduces a new approach to presentation in the income 
Ordinary dividends paid  14  (479)  (518)  statement and statement of comprehensive income. 
Net cash flows from financing activities    (1,064)  (1,615) 
The Group has no direct exposure to insurance contracts and contracts with discretionary participating features which will be impacted 
Net (decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents     6  407  by the adoption of IFRS 17. However, the results of the Group’s insurance associate, Phoenix and the Group’s joint venture HASL, are 
Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year    1,347  957  expected to be significantly impacted by IFRS 17. The standard has not yet been endorsed by the EU nor by the UK Endorsement 
Effects of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents    5  (17)  Board. 
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year  24  1,358  1,347  Other  
Supplemental disclosures on cash flows from operating activities        There are no other new standards, interpretations and amendments to existing standards that have been published that are expected to 
Interest paid    2  5  have a significant impact on the consolidated financial statements of the Group. 
Interest received    30  34  (a)(iii) Critical accounting estimates and judgements in applying accounting policies 
Dividends received    122  143  The preparation of financial statements requires management to exercise judgements in applying accounting policies and make 
Rental income received on investment property    3  3  estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the 
  reported amounts of revenue and expenses arising during the year. Judgements and sources of estimation uncertainty are continually 
1  Total taxation paid was £66m in 2020 (2019: £56m).  evaluated and based on historical experience and other factors, including expectations of future events that are believed to be 
  reasonable under the circumstances.  
 
The Notes on pages 123 to 210 are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  Standard Life Aberdeen 2020 123
7. Group financial statements continued 
The areas where judgements have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the consolidated financial statements are as 
follows: 
Financial statement area  Critical judgements in applying accounting policies  Related note 
Defined benefit pension plans  Assessment of whether the Group has an unconditional right to a refund of  Note 34 
the surplus 
Treatment of tax relating to the surplus  
Investments in associates   Determining whether the investments in Phoenix and HDFC Life should  Note 16 
continue to be classified as associates 
Identification, valuation and determination of useful lives for equity 
accounting purposes, of the Group’s share of its associate’s intangible 
assets at the date of acquisition of an investment in the associate 
Intangible assets  Identification and valuation of intangible assets arising from business  Note 15 
combinations and the determination of useful lives 
Provisions  Determining whether a provision is required for separation costs  Note 37 
 
Determining the group of cash-generating units to which goodwill acquired in a business combination should be allocated is no longer 
considered a critical judgement in applying accounting policies following the impairment of goodwill in 2020. Additionally, our judgement 
relating to the classification of Phoenix and HDFC Life as associates has considered the reductions in these shareholdings during the 
year ended 31 December 2020. There are no other changes to critical judgements in applying accounting policies from the prior year.  
The areas where assumptions and other sources of estimation uncertainty at the end of the reporting period have a significant risk of 
resulting in a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are as follows:  
Financial statement area  Critical accounting estimates and assumptions  Related note 
Defined benefit pension plans  Determination of principal UK pension plan assumptions for mortality,  Note 34 
discount rate and inflation 
Intangible assets  Determination of the recoverable amount in relation to impairment  Note 15 
assessment of the segregated and similar customer relationship intangible 
asset 
Investments in associates  Determination of the recoverable amount in relation to the impairment  Note 16 
assessment of investments in associates 
The following changes have been made to the Group’s critical estimates and assumptions: 
• As a result of market and revenue movements, the determination of the recoverable amount in relation to the impairment assessment 
of the segregated and similar customer relationship intangible asset is now considered a critical estimate 
• The Group’s asset management goodwill was fully impaired at 30 June 2020. While there was significant judgement relating to the 
recoverable amount at 30 June (refer Note 15), this is no longer a source of estimation uncertainty at the end of the reporting period. 
• The determination of the fair value of contingent consideration assets and liabilities relating to the sale of the UK and European 
insurance business to Phoenix is no longer considered to be a critical area of estimation uncertainty following the settlement of certain 
indemnities 
All other critical accounting estimates and assumptions are the same as the prior year.  
Further detail on critical accounting estimates and assumptions is provided in the relevant note. 
(a)(iv) Foreign currency translation 
The consolidated financial statements are presented in million pounds Sterling. 
The statements of financial position of Group entities, including associates and joint ventures accounted for using the equity method, 
that have a different functional currency than the Group’s presentation currency are translated into the presentation currency at the 
year end exchange rate and their income statements and cash flows are translated at average exchange rates for the year. All 
resulting exchange differences arising are recognised in other comprehensive income and the foreign currency translation reserve in 
equity. On disposal of a Group entity the cumulative amount of any such exchange differences recognised in other comprehensive 
income is reclassified to profit or loss. 
Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency at the exchange rate prevailing at the date of the transaction. 
Gains and losses arising from such transactions and from the translation at year end exchange rates of monetary assets and 
liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognised in the relevant line in the consolidated income statement. 
Translation differences on non-monetary items, such as equity securities held at fair value through profit or loss, are reported as part 
of the fair value gain or loss within investment return in the consolidated income statement. Translation differences on financial assets 
and liabilities held at amortised cost are included in the relevant line in the consolidated income statement. 
 
124 Standard Life Aberdeen 2020
7. Group financial statements continued   
 
The areas where judgements have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the consolidated financial statements are as  The income statements and cash flows, and statements of financial position of Group entities that have a different functional currency 
follows:  from the Group’s presentation currency have been translated using the following principal exchange rates: 
Financial statement area  Critical judgements in applying accounting policies  Related note    2020  2019 
Defined benefit pension plans  Assessment of whether the Group has an unconditional right to a refund of  Note 34  Income statement and  Statement of financial Income statement and cash  Statement of financial 
the surplus    cash flows (average rate)  position (closing rate)  flows (average rate)  position (closing rate) 
Treatment of tax relating to the surplus   Euro  1.127  1.117  1.142  1.180 
US Dollar  1.292  1.367  1.280  1.325 
Investments in associates   Determining whether the investments in Phoenix and HDFC Life should  Note 16 
Indian Rupee  95.602  99.880  90.106  94.563 
continue to be classified as associates 
Identification, valuation and determination of useful lives for equity  Chinese Renminbi  8.905  8.940  8.830  9.228 
accounting purposes, of the Group’s share of its associate’s intangible  Hong Kong Dollar  10.024  10.599  10.030  10.322 
assets at the date of acquisition of an investment in the associate  Singapore Dollar  1.778  1.807  1.745  1.781 
Intangible assets  Icdoemnbtifinicaattioionns  aanndd  vtahleu adteiotenr mofi ninattaionng iobfle u asessfuelt sliv aersis ing from business  Note 15  (a)(v) Going concern  FIN
A
The Group’s business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and financial position, are  N
Provisions  Determining whether a provision is required for separation costs  Note 37  C
  set out in the Strategic report. This includes details on our liquidity and capital management and our viability statement in the Chief  IA
L
Financial Officer’s overview section and our principal risks in the Risk management section including the impact of COVID-19 on these   IN
Determining the group of cash-generating units to which goodwill acquired in a business combination should be allocated is no longer  principal risks. In addition, these financial statements includes notes on the Group’s subordinated liabilities (Note 33), management of its  FO
considered a critical judgement in applying accounting policies following the impairment of goodwill in 2020. Additionally, our judgement  R
risks including market, credit and liquidity risk (Note 38), its contingent liabilities and commitments (Notes 42 and 43), and its capital  M
relating to the classification of Phoenix and HDFC Life as associates has considered the reductions in these shareholdings during the  A
structure and position (Note 46).  T
year ended 31 December 2020. There are no other changes to critical judgements in applying accounting policies from the prior year.   IO
N
In preparing these financial statements on a going concern basis, the Directors have considered the following matters and have taken 
The areas where assumptions and other sources of estimation uncertainty at the end of the reporting period have a significant risk of   
into account the uncertainty created by COVID-19. 
resulting in a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are as follows:  
• The fundamental basis of our business has not been impacted by COVID-19, although fee based revenue has been reduced as a 
Financial statement area  Critical accounting estimates and assumptions  Related note 
result of the fall in global equity markets and the shift in client preferences to assets with lower fees. We consider that COVID-19 will 
Defined benefit pension plans  Determination of principal UK pension plan assumptions for mortality,  Note 34 
accelerate the key global trends already underway in our industry and already factored into our strategy which are discussed further in 
discount rate and inflation 
the Strategic report on pages 10 to 11, and that the Group is well placed to manage its business risks successfully. 
Intangible assets  Determination of the recoverable amount in relation to impairment  Note 15  • The Group has robust cash and liquid resources of £2.5bn at 31 December 2020. In addition the Company has a revolving credit 
assessment of the segregated and similar customer relationship intangible  facility of £400m as part of our contingency funding plans which is due to mature in 2024 and remains undrawn. 
asset 
• The Group’s indicative regulatory capital surplus was £2.3bn in excess of capital requirements at 31 December 2020. The regulatory 
Investments in associates  Determination of the recoverable amount in relation to the impairment  Note 16 
capital surplus does not include the majority of the value of the Group’s listed associates or the listed investment in HDFC Life which 
assessment of investments in associates 
were £2.3bn and £1.2bn respectively at 31 December 2020. 
• The Group performs regular stress and scenario analysis as described in the Annual report and accounts 2020 Viability statement. 
The following changes have been made to the Group’s critical estimates and assumptions: 
The market stresses considered in these analyses are considerably more severe than experienced as a result of COVID-19, and the 
• As a result of market and revenue movements, the determination of the recoverable amount in relation to the impairment assessment  diverse range of management actions available meant the Group was able to withstand these extreme stresses.  
of the segregated and similar customer relationship intangible asset is now considered a critical estimate  • In addition, the Group has performed specific scenario analysis in the period taking into account COVID-19 impacts on revenue, asset 
• The Group’s asset management goodwill was fully impaired at 30 June 2020. While there was significant judgement relating to the  mix, flows and listed associates. These scenarios assumed that key equity market indexes held at the lowest levels witnessed during 
recoverable amount at 30 June (refer Note 15), this is no longer a source of estimation uncertainty at the end of the reporting period.  the COVID-19 outbreak, with only modest growth during 2021. Liquidity and capital remained robust over the going concern period in 
these scenarios. 
• The determination of the fair value of contingent consideration assets and liabilities relating to the sale of the UK and European 
insurance business to Phoenix is no longer considered to be a critical area of estimation uncertainty following the settlement of certain  • The Group’s operational resilience processes have operated effectively during the period including the provision of services by key 
indemnities  outsource providers. We have put in place additional processes to monitor key outsource providers during this remote working 
environment. 
All other critical accounting estimates and assumptions are the same as the prior year.  
Based on a review of the above factors the Directors are satisfied that the Group and Company have and will maintain sufficient 
Further detail on critical accounting estimates and assumptions is provided in the relevant note.  resources to enable them to continue operating for at least 12 months from the date of approval of the financial statements. Accordingly, 
the financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis. There were no material uncertainties relating to this going 
concern conclusion. 
(a)(iv) Foreign currency translation 
   
The consolidated financial statements are presented in million pounds Sterling. 
The statements of financial position of Group entities, including associates and joint ventures accounted for using the equity method, 
that have a different functional currency than the Group’s presentation currency are translated into the presentation currency at the 
year end exchange rate and their income statements and cash flows are translated at average exchange rates for the year. All 
resulting exchange differences arising are recognised in other comprehensive income and the foreign currency translation reserve in 
equity. On disposal of a Group entity the cumulative amount of any such exchange differences recognised in other comprehensive 
income is reclassified to profit or loss. 
Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency at the exchange rate prevailing at the date of the transaction. 
Gains and losses arising from such transactions and from the translation at year end exchange rates of monetary assets and 
liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognised in the relevant line in the consolidated income statement. 
Translation differences on non-monetary items, such as equity securities held at fair value through profit or loss, are reported as part 
of the fair value gain or loss within investment return in the consolidated income statement. Translation differences on financial assets 
and liabilities held at amortised cost are included in the relevant line in the consolidated income statement. 
 
  Standard Life Aberdeen 2020 125
7. Group financial statements continued 
(b)  Basis of consolidation 
The Group’s financial statements consolidate the financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries.  
Subsidiaries are all entities (including investment vehicles) over which the Group has control. Control arises when the Group is 
exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its 
power over the entity. For operating entities this generally accompanies a shareholding of 50% or more in the entity. For investment 
vehicles, including structured entities, the control assessment also considers the removal rights of other investors and whether the 
Group acts as principal or agent in assessing the link between power and variable returns. In determining whether the Group acts as 
principal, and therefore controls the entity, the removal rights of other investors and the magnitude of the variability associated with 
the returns are also taken into account. As a result, the Group often is considered to control investment vehicles in which its 
shareholding is less than 50%.  
Where the Group is considered to control an investment vehicle, such as an open-ended investment company, a unit trust or a limited 
partnership, and it is therefore consolidated, the interests of parties other than the Group are assessed to determine whether they 
should be classified as liabilities or as non-controlling interests. The liabilities are recognised in the third party interest in consolidated 
funds line in the consolidated statement of financial position and any movements are recognised in the consolidated income 
statement. The financial liability is designated at fair value through profit or loss (FVTPL) as it is implicitly managed on a fair value 
basis as its value is directly linked to the market value of the underlying portfolio of assets. The interests of parties other than the 
Group in all other types of entities are recorded as non-controlling interests. 
All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated in full. 
The Group uses the acquisition method to account for acquisitions of businesses. At the acquisition date the assets and liabilities of 
the business acquired and any non-controlling interests are identified and initially measured at fair value on the consolidated 
statement of financial position.  
When the Group acquires or disposes of a subsidiary, the profits and losses of the subsidiary are included from the date on which 
control was transferred to the Group until the date on which it ceases, with consistent accounting policies applied across all entities 
throughout. 
When the Group sells a subsidiary to an associate, the gain on sale of the subsidiary is recognised in full, with no elimination being 
made for the continuing interest in the subsidiary. 
   
126 Standard Life Aberdeen 2020
7. Group financial statements continued   
 
(b)  Basis of consolidation  Notes to the Group financial statements 
1.  Group structure  
The Group’s financial statements consolidate the financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries.  
(a)   Composition 
Subsidiaries are all entities (including investment vehicles) over which the Group has control. Control arises when the Group is 
The following diagram is an extract of the Group structure at 31 December 2020 and gives an overview of the composition of the Group.  
exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its 
power over the entity. For operating entities this generally accompanies a shareholding of 50% or more in the entity. For investment  Standard Life Aberdeen plc
vehicles, including structured entities, the control assessment also considers the removal rights of other investors and whether the 
Group acts as principal or agent in assessing the link between power and variable returns. In determining whether the Group acts as 
principal, and therefore controls the entity, the removal rights of other investors and the magnitude of the variability associated with  Standard Life Aberdeen Asset Phoenix Group Standard Life Standard Life Standard Life
the returns are also taken into account. As a result, the Group often is considered to control investment vehicles in which its  (HoIlndvinesgtsm) eLnimtsited Management PLC               (UK AHssooldciinatges - p14lc.42%) (Ma u2r0it0iu6 sL Himoiltdeidngs) Savings Limited EmploLyiemei tSeedrvices
shareholding is less than 50%.  
Where the Group is considered to control an investment vehicle, such as an open-ended investment company, a unit trust or a limited  Standard Life Aberdeen Standard Ignis Asset Aberdeen Standard Aberdeen Asset Heng An ESlaevviantges P Loirmtfiotelido FGocrouusp S  Loilmutiitoends
Investments Capital Limited Management  Investments Managers Limited Standard Life Insurance
pshaortunledr sbhei pc,l aasnsdif iiet dis  aths eliraebfoilirteie cso onrs aosli dnaotne-dc,o tnhtero inllitnegre isnttse roefs ptsa.r tTiehse  olitahbeirli ttiheasn a rthee r eGcroogunpis aerde  ians tshees tsheirdd  tpoa dretyt einrmteirnees tw inh ectohnesr othlideayt ed  Limited Limited (Asia) Limited C(oCmhipnaan JyV L -i m50it%ed) MSatannadgaermde LnitfeL Cimliietendt FINAN
funds line in the consolidated statement of financial position and any movements are recognised in the consolidated income  HDFC Asset  Ignis Investment Aberdeen Standard Aberdeen Standard C
Management  Services Limited Investments Fund Managers IA
statement. The financial liability is designated at fair value through profit or loss (FVTPL) as it is implicitly managed on a fair value  (IndCiao Amspsaonciya tLei m- 2it1e.d24 % ) (Hong Kong) Limited Limited P1la8n2n5i nFgin Lainmciitaeld L IN
basis as its value is directly linked to the market value of the underlying portfolio of assets. The interests of parties other than the  F
O
Group in all other types of entities are recorded as non-controlling interests.  Aberdeen Standard Aberdeen Standard Aberdeen Standard RM
All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated in full.  AlternLaimtivitee dFunds LuInxveemsbtmouerngt sS A anIdn vPeesntsmioennsts L Limifeited ATIO
N
Tthhee b Gusroinueps us saecsq tuhiree adc aqnudis aitinoyn  nmoent-hcoodn ttroo lalincgc oinutnetr efosrt sa caqreu iisditeionntisfie odf  baunsdi nineitsiasellys .m Aet athseu raecdq auti sfaitiior nva dluaete o tnh eth aes sceotnss aonlidda ltiaebdi lities of  (PSIrntiavvLnaeitdsmeat miCrtdeae dnpLtiitfsael) AbInevrdesetemn eSnttasn Idnacrd InAvbeesrLtdmiemeeinntet  AdGsrsoeutp  
statement of financial position.  
SLTM Aberdeen Standard Virgin Money Unit 
Limited Investments Ireland Trust Managers
When the Group acquires or disposes of a subsidiary, the profits and losses of the subsidiary are included from the date on which  Limited Limited
control was transferred to the Group until the date on which it ceases, with consistent accounting policies applied across all entities  (UK JV - 50%)
throughout. 
 
When the Group sells a subsidiary to an associate, the gain on sale of the subsidiary is recognised in full, with no elimination being 
made for the continuing interest in the subsidiary.  A full list of the Company’s subsidiaries is provided in Note 48. 
(b)  Acquisitions  
   
(b)(i)  Prior year acquisitions of subsidiaries 
On 29 November 2019, 1825 Financial Planning and Advice Limited (a subsidiary of 1825 Financial Planning Limited) purchased the 
wealth advisory business of Grant Thornton UK LLP through a business acquisition agreement under which the majority of the clients 
and employees of the wealth advisory business transferred to 1825 Financial Planning and Advice Limited. 1825 Financial Planning and 
Advice also purchased the wealth management business of BDO Northern Ireland through a similar business acquisition agreement on 
1 July 2019. 
On 15 February 2019, Aberdeen Asset Management PLC (AAM PLC) completed the purchase of the entire share capital of Orion 
Partners Holding Limited and Orion Partner Services Inc.  
(b)(ii)  Prior year acquisitions of joint ventures 
On 31 July 2019, as part of the Group’s strategic joint venture with Virgin Money, AAM PLC completed the acquisition of 50% (less one 
share) of Virgin Money Unit Trust Managers Limited (VMUTM) for an upfront cash payment of £40m plus 50% of the capital in the 
business and certain other costs. 
(c)  Disposals 
(c)(i)  Subsidiaries  
Standard Life (Asia) Limited (SL Asia) 
On 29 March 2017, the Group announced the proposed sale of its wholly owned Hong Kong insurance business, SL Asia, to the 
Group’s Chinese joint venture business, Heng An Standard Life Insurance Company Limited (HASL). SL Asia is reported in the Asset 
management, platforms and wealth segment and HASL is reported within the Insurance associates and joint ventures segment. The 
sale to HASL of the entire issued share capital of SL Asia was completed on 30 June 2020. 
Total consideration received comprised cash of £19m and the Group recognised a gain on disposal of £8m in respect of the sale within 
continuing operations in the consolidated income statement for the year ended 31 December 2020. On disposal a gain of £8m was 
recycled from the translation reserve and was included in determining the gain on sale.  
Prior to the completion of the sale, SL Asia was classified as an operation held for sale (refer Note 23). 
   
  Standard Life Aberdeen 2020 127
7. Group financial statements continued 
(c)(ii)  Associates 
Profit on disposals of interests in associates of £1,858m includes £1,591m of gains in relation to the sale of equity shares in HDFC Life 
and its reclassification from an investment in associate, £263m of gains in relation to the sale of equity shares in HDFC Asset 
Management and a £4m dilution gain in Phoenix. 
HDFC Life Insurance Company Limited (HDFC Life) 
During 2020, the Group completed sales of equity shares in HDFC Life on the National Stock Exchange of India Limited and BSE 
Limited. The gains on sales and the gain on reclassification from an associate to an equity investment can be summarised as follows: 
2020 
    £m 
Gain on sale of 50,000,000 equity shares in HDFC Life sold through a Bulk Sale on 27 March 2020    206 
Gain on sale of 40,000,000 equity shares in HDFC Life sold through a Bulk Sale on 4 June 2020    182 
Gain on sale of 27,772,684 equity shares in HDFC Life sold through a Bulk Sale on 3 December 2020    152 
Gain on reclassification of remaining 179,539,209 equity shares in HDFC Life from an associate to equity   
investment on 3 December 2020 (Refer Note 16)    1,051 
Gains on disposals and reclassification of HDFC Life    1,591 
 
In total, 5.83% of the issued equity share capital of HDFC Life was sold for a combined total consideration net of taxes and expenses of 
Rs 58,561m (£616m). The combined gain on sale of £540m was calculated using the weighted-average cost method. On disposal a 
loss of £5m was recycled from the translation reserve and was included in determining the gain on sale.  
Following the 3 December 2020 sale, the Group’s shareholding in HDFC Life was 179,539,209 equity shares or 8.89% and HDFC Life 
is no longer considered to be an associate of the Group. The Group’s investment in HDFC Life has been reclassified from an investment 
in associates accounted for using the equity method to equity securities measured at fair value. Refer Note16 for further details of this 
reclassification. A reclassification gain of £1,051m is included in the profit on disposal of interests in associates for the year ended 31 
December 2020 as the fair value on 3 December 2020 of £1,168m is higher than the previous carrying value as an associate of £111m. 
On reclassification a loss of £6m was recycled from the translation reserve and was included in determining the gain. 
HDFC Asset Management Company Limited (HDFC Asset Management) 
During 2020, the Group completed the following sale of equity shares in HDFC Asset Management on the National Stock Exchange of 
India Limited and BSE Limited: 
• 12,000,000 equity shares in HDFC Asset Management sold through an Offer for Sale on 17 and 18 June 2020 
Through the sale, 5.64% of the issued equity share capital of HDFC Asset Management was sold for a total consideration net of taxes 
and expenses of Rs 25,404m (£265m). The gain on sale of £263m before tax was calculated using the weighted-average cost method. 
On disposal a loss of £3m was recycled from the translation reserve and was included in determining the gain on sale. The Group’s 
shareholding in HDFC Asset Management at 31 December 2020 is 45,228,305 equity shares or 21.24%. 
Phoenix Group Holdings (Phoenix) 
On 22 July 2020 the Group’s associate, Phoenix, announced the completion of its acquisition of ReAssure Group plc. Under the terms 
of the transaction, Phoenix issued 277,277,138 new ordinary shares as part consideration for the acquisition. Completion of the 
transaction resulted in the Group’s holding in Phoenix becoming 14.43% of the enlarged Phoenix Group (31 December 2020: 14.42%). 
A dilution gain of £4m was recognised within the Profit on disposal of interests in associates in the consolidated income statement as a 
result of the transaction. 
(c)(iii) Prior year disposal of associates 
HDFC Life  
During 2019, the Group completed the following sales of equity shares in HDFC Life on the National Stock Exchange of India Limited 
and BSE Limited: 
• 92,181,992 equity shares in HDFC Life sold through an Offer for Sale on 12 and 13 March 2019 
• 33,032,381 equity shares in HDFC Life sold through an Offer for Sale from 3 to 6 May 2019 
• 67,100,000 equity shares in HDFC Life sold through a Bulk Sale on 14 August 2019 
• 100,000,000 equity shares in HDFC Life sold through a Bulk Sale on 30 October 2019 
In total, 14.49% of the issued equity share capital of HDFC Life was sold for a combined consideration net of taxes and expenses of  
Rs 135,994m (£1,503m). The combined gain on sale of £1,337m was calculated using the weighted-average cost method.  
HDFC Asset Management 
During 2019, the Group completed the following sale of equity shares in HDFC Asset Management on the National Stock Exchange of 
India Limited and BSE Limited: 
• 6,422,310 equity shares in HDFC Asset Management sold through an Offer for Sale on 4 and 5 December 2019 
Through the sale, 3.02% of the issued equity share capital of HDFC Asset Management was sold for a total consideration net of taxes 
and expenses of Rs 18,279m (£195m). The gain on sale of £204m before tax was calculated using the weighted-average cost method.  
 
128 Standard Life Aberdeen 2020
7. Group financial statements continued   
 
(c)(ii)  Associates   2.  Segmental analysis 
Profit on disposals of interests in associates of £1,858m includes £1,591m of gains in relation to the sale of equity shares in HDFC Life 
The Group’s reportable segments have been identified in accordance with the way in which the Group is structured and managed. 
and its reclassification from an investment in associate, £263m of gains in relation to the sale of equity shares in HDFC Asset 
IFRS 8 Operating Segments requires that the information presented in the financial statements is based on information provided to 
Management and a £4m dilution gain in Phoenix. 
the ‘Chief Operating Decision Maker’ which for the Group is the executive leadership team. 
HDFC Life Insurance Company Limited (HDFC Life) 
During 2020, the Group completed sales of equity shares in HDFC Life on the National Stock Exchange of India Limited and BSE 
(a)  Basis of segmentation 
Limited. The gains on sales and the gain on reclassification from an associate to an equity investment can be summarised as follows: 
The Group’s reportable segments for 2020 and 2019 were as follows: 
2020 
Continuing operations:  
    £m 
Asset management, platforms and wealth  
Gain on sale of 50,000,000 equity shares in HDFC Life sold through a Bulk Sale on 27 March 2020    206 
This segment primarily relates to our asset management, platforms and wealth activities. The Investments, Adviser and Personal 
Gain on sale of 40,000,000 equity shares in HDFC Life sold through a Bulk Sale on 4 June 2020    182 
vectors are all part of this segment. Our asset management subsidiaries and our asset management associate in India, HDFC Asset 
Gain on sale of 27,772,684 equity shares in HDFC Life sold through a Bulk Sale on 3 December 2020    152  Management, provide a range of investment products and services for individuals and institutional customers through a number of  FIN
Gain on reclassification of remaining 179,539,209 equity shares in HDFC Life from an associate to equity    different investment vehicles. Our platforms include the Standard Life branded Wrap and Elevate platforms which provide administration  AN
C
investment on 3 December 2020 (Refer Note 16)    1,051  services to advisers. Our Wealth activity primarily relates to: Aberdeen Standard Capital which manages assets for private clients,  IA
L
Gains on disposals and reclassification of HDFC Life    1,591  intermediaries acting for clients, charities and trustees; 1825 which undertakes our financial planning and advice activity; Parmenion   IN
F
  which undertakes activities for clients and intermediaries; and our strategic joint venture with Virgin Money (VMUTM). The segment also  O
R
includes other wholly owned activities of the Group including the corporate centre and related activities and the UK and Ireland Standard  M
In total, 5.83% of the issued equity share capital of HDFC Life was sold for a combined total consideration net of taxes and expenses of  Life staff defined benefit pension plans.  AT
Rs 58,561m (£616m). The combined gain on sale of £540m was calculated using the weighted-average cost method. On disposal a  IO
N
loss of £5m was recycled from the translation reserve and was included in determining the gain on sale.   Insurance associates and joint ventures   
This segment comprises our life insurance associates and joint ventures in the UK (Phoenix) and China (HASL) and our life insurance 
Following the 3 December 2020 sale, the Group’s shareholding in HDFC Life was 179,539,209 equity shares or 8.89% and HDFC Life  business in India (HDFC Life), which was classified as an associate until 3 December 2020. These businesses offer a range of pension, 
is no longer considered to be an associate of the Group. The Group’s investment in HDFC Life has been reclassified from an investment  insurance and savings products to the UK, European, Chinese and Indian markets. 
in associates accounted for using the equity method to equity securities measured at fair value. Refer Note16 for further details of this 
reclassification. A reclassification gain of £1,051m is included in the profit on disposal of interests in associates for the year ended 31  The Group’s reportable segments will be revised in 2021 to align with the growth vectors.    
December 2020 as the fair value on 3 December 2020 of £1,168m is higher than the previous carrying value as an associate of £111m. 
On reclassification a loss of £6m was recycled from the translation reserve and was included in determining the gain. 
HDFC Asset Management Company Limited (HDFC Asset Management) 
During 2020, the Group completed the following sale of equity shares in HDFC Asset Management on the National Stock Exchange of 
India Limited and BSE Limited: 
• 12,000,000 equity shares in HDFC Asset Management sold through an Offer for Sale on 17 and 18 June 2020 
Through the sale, 5.64% of the issued equity share capital of HDFC Asset Management was sold for a total consideration net of taxes 
and expenses of Rs 25,404m (£265m). The gain on sale of £263m before tax was calculated using the weighted-average cost method. 
On disposal a loss of £3m was recycled from the translation reserve and was included in determining the gain on sale. The Group’s 
shareholding in HDFC Asset Management at 31 December 2020 is 45,228,305 equity shares or 21.24%. 
Phoenix Group Holdings (Phoenix) 
On 22 July 2020 the Group’s associate, Phoenix, announced the completion of its acquisition of ReAssure Group plc. Under the terms 
of the transaction, Phoenix issued 277,277,138 new ordinary shares as part consideration for the acquisition. Completion of the 
transaction resulted in the Group’s holding in Phoenix becoming 14.43% of the enlarged Phoenix Group (31 December 2020: 14.42%). 
A dilution gain of £4m was recognised within the Profit on disposal of interests in associates in the consolidated income statement as a 
result of the transaction. 
(c)(iii) Prior year disposal of associates 
HDFC Life  
During 2019, the Group completed the following sales of equity shares in HDFC Life on the National Stock Exchange of India Limited 
and BSE Limited: 
• 92,181,992 equity shares in HDFC Life sold through an Offer for Sale on 12 and 13 March 2019 
• 33,032,381 equity shares in HDFC Life sold through an Offer for Sale from 3 to 6 May 2019 
• 67,100,000 equity shares in HDFC Life sold through a Bulk Sale on 14 August 2019 
• 100,000,000 equity shares in HDFC Life sold through a Bulk Sale on 30 October 2019 
In total, 14.49% of the issued equity share capital of HDFC Life was sold for a combined consideration net of taxes and expenses of  
Rs 135,994m (£1,503m). The combined gain on sale of £1,337m was calculated using the weighted-average cost method.  
HDFC Asset Management 
During 2019, the Group completed the following sale of equity shares in HDFC Asset Management on the National Stock Exchange of 
India Limited and BSE Limited: 
• 6,422,310 equity shares in HDFC Asset Management sold through an Offer for Sale on 4 and 5 December 2019 
Through the sale, 3.02% of the issued equity share capital of HDFC Asset Management was sold for a total consideration net of taxes 
and expenses of Rs 18,279m (£195m). The gain on sale of £204m before tax was calculated using the weighted-average cost method.  
 
  Standard Life Aberdeen 2020 129
7. Group financial statements continued 
(b)   Reportable segments – Group adjusted profit before tax and revenue information 
(b)(i) Analysis of Group adjusted profit before tax 
Adjusted profit before tax is the key alternative performance measure utilised by the Group’s management in their evaluation of 
segmental performance and is therefore also presented by reportable segment. 
Asset 
management,  Insurance  Total 
platforms  associates and  continuing  Discontinued 
    and wealth  joint ventures  operations  operations  Eliminations  Total  
31 December 2020  Notes  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m 
Fee based revenue    1,425  –  1,425  –  –  1,425 
Adjusted operating expenses    (1,206)  –  (1,206)  –  –  (1,206) 
Adjusted operating profit    219  –  219  –  –  219 
Capital management    21  –  21  –  –  21 
Share of associates’ and joint ventures’ 
profit before tax1    44  203  247  –  –  247 
Adjusted profit before tax     284  203  487  –  –  487 
Tax on adjusted profit    (38)  –  (38)  –  –  (38) 
Share of associates’ and joint ventures' tax 
expense  10  (12)  (26)  (38)  –  –  (38) 
Adjusted profit after tax     234  177  411  –  –  411 
Adjusted for the following items               
Restructuring and corporate transaction 
expenses   9  (326)  (29)  (355)  –  –  (355) 
Amortisation and impairment of intangible 
assets acquired in business combinations 
and through the purchase of customer 
contracts2    (1,180)  (107)  (1,287)  –  –  (1,287) 
Profit on disposal of interests in 
associates  1  263  1,595  1,858  –  –  1,858 
Impairment of associates and joint 
ventures  16  (45)  –  (45)  –  –  (45) 
Change in fair value of significant listed 
investments  13  –  65  65  –  –  65 
Investment return variances and 
economic assumption changes  13  –  46  46  –  –  46 
Other     22  64  86  (15)  –  71 
Total adjusting items    (1,266)  1,634  368  (15)  –  353 
Tax on adjusting items    53  –  53  –  –  53 
Share of associates’ and joint ventures’ tax 
expense on adjusting items    20  1  21  –  –  21 
Profit attributable to non-controlling interests 
(preference shares)    (5)  –  (5)  –  –  (5) 
(Loss)/profit for the year attributable to 
equity shareholders of Standard Life 
Aberdeen plc    (964)  1,812  848  (15)  –  833 
Profit attributable to non-controlling interests               
Preference shares        5  –  –  5 
Profit for the year        853  (15)  –  838 
1  Share of associates’ and joint ventures’ profit before tax comprises the Group’s share of results of HDFC Asset Management, Phoenix, HASL, VMUTM and HDFC Life (until 3 
December 2020). 
2  Amortisation and impairment of intangible assets acquired in business combinations and through the purchase of customer contracts includes £1,180m included in 
administrative expenses and set out in Note 15, and £107m relating to intangibles recognised on the part acquisition of associates and included in Share of profit from 
associates and joint ventures in the consolidated income statement. 
Fee based revenue is reported as the measure of revenue in the analysis of adjusted profit before tax and relates to revenues generated 
from external customers. Refer Note 4 for a reconciliation of fee based revenue to revenue from contracts with customers. 
All interest income, interest expense, depreciation and amortisation from continuing operations relates to the Asset management, 
platforms and wealth segment. 
In the year ended 31 December 2020, transactions with one external customer amounted to more than 10% of fee based revenue. This 
fee based revenue of £195m is included in the Asset management, platforms and wealth segment. 
   
130 Standard Life Aberdeen 2020
7. Group financial statements continued   
 
(b)   Reportable segments – Group adjusted profit before tax and revenue information  Asset  Insurance 
management,  associates  Total 
(b)(i) Analysis of Group adjusted profit before tax 
platforms   and joint  continuing  Discontinued 
Adjusted profit before tax is the key alternative performance measure utilised by the Group’s management in their evaluation of      and wealth  ventures  operations  operations  Eliminations  Total  
segmental performance and is therefore also presented by reportable segment.  31 December 2019  Notes  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m 
Fee based revenue    1,634  –  1,634  –  –  1,634 
Asset 
management,  Insurance  Total  Adjusted operating expenses    (1,333)  –  (1,333)  –  –  (1,333) 
platforms  associates and  continuing  Discontinued 
    and wealth  joint ventures  operations  operations  Eliminations  Total   Adjusted operating profit    301  –  301  –  –  301 
31 December 2020  Notes  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  Capital management    37  –  37  –  –  37 
Fee based revenue    1,425  –  1,425  –  –  1,425  Share of associates’ and joint ventures’ 
Adjusted operating expenses    (1,206)  –  (1,206)  –  –  (1,206)  profit before tax1    57  189  246  –  –  246 
Adjusted operating profit    219  –  219  –  –  219  Adjusted profit before tax     395  189  584  –  –  584 
CShaapritea lo mf aasnsaogceiamteesn’t  and joint ventures’    21  –  21  –  –  21  TSahxa roen o af dajsussotecdia pteros’f iat nd joint ventures' tax    (69)  –  (69)  –  –  (69)  FINAN
profit before tax1    44  203  247  –  –  247  expense  10  (21)  (25)  (46)  –  –  (46)  CIA
Adjusted profit before tax     284  203  487  –  –  487  Adjusted profit after tax     305  164  469  –  –  469  L IN
Tax on adjusted profit    (38)  –  (38)  –  –  (38)  Adjusted for the following items                FO
R
Share of associates’ and joint ventures' tax  Restructuring and corporate transaction  M
A
expense  10  (12)  (26)  (38)  –  –  (38)  expenses   9  (379)  (28)  (407)  –  –  (407)  TIO
Adjusted profit after tax     234  177  411  –  –  411  Amortisation and impairment of intangible  N
assets acquired in business combinations   
Adjusted for the following items               
and through the purchase of customer 
Restructuring and corporate transaction  contracts2    (1,733)  (111)  (1,844)  –  –  (1,844) 
expenses   9  (326)  (29)  (355)  –  –  (355) 
Profit on disposal of interests in 
Amortisation and impairment of intangible  associates  1  205  1,337  1,542  –  –  1,542 
assets acquired in business combinations 
Reversal of impairment of associates  16  –  243  243  –  –  243 
and through the purchase of customer 
contracts2    (1,180)  (107)  (1,287)  –  –  (1,287)  Investment return variances and 
economic assumption changes  13  –  (25)  (25)  –  –  (25) 
Profit on disposal of interests in 
Other     160  (2)  158  56  –  214 
associates  1  263  1,595  1,858  –  –  1,858 
Impairment of associates and joint  Total adjusting items    (1,747)  1,414  (333)  56  –  (277) 
ventures  16  (45)  –  (45)  –  –  (45)  Tax on adjusting items    41  –  41  –  –  41 
Change in fair value of significant listed  Share of associates’ and joint ventures’ tax 
investments  13  –  65  65  –  –  65  expense on adjusting items    (5)  43  38  –  –  38 
Investment return variances and  Profit attributable to non-controlling interests 
economic assumption changes  13  –  46  46  –  –  46  (preference shares)    (5)  –  (5)  –  –  (5) 
Other     22  64  86  (15)  –  71  (Loss)/profit for the year attributable to 
Total adjusting items    (1,266)  1,634  368  (15)  –  353  equity shareholders of Standard Life 
Aberdeen plc    (1,411)  1,621  210  56  –  266 
Tax on adjusting items    53  –  53  –  –  53 
Profit attributable to non-controlling interests               
Share of associates’ and joint ventures’ tax 
expense on adjusting items    20  1  21  –  –  21  Preference shares        5  –    5 
Profit attributable to non-controlling interests  Profit for the year        215  56    271 
(preference shares)    (5)  –  (5)  –  –  (5)  1  Share of associates’ and joint ventures’ profit before tax comprises the Group’s share of results of HDFC Life, HDFC Asset Management, Phoenix, HASL and VMUTM. 
(Loss)/profit for the year attributable to  2  Amortisation and impairment of intangible assets acquired in business combinations and through the purchase of customer contracts includes £1,733m included in 
equity shareholders of Standard Life  administrative expenses and set out in Note 15, and £111m relating to intangibles recognised on the part acquisition of associates and included in Share of profit from 
Aberdeen plc    (964)  1,812  848  (15)  –  833  associates and joint ventures in the consolidated income statement. 
Profit attributable to non-controlling interests                 
Preference shares        5  –  –  5   
Profit for the year        853  (15)  –  838     
1  Share of associates’ and joint ventures’ profit before tax comprises the Group’s share of results of HDFC Asset Management, Phoenix, HASL, VMUTM and HDFC Life (until 3 
December 2020). 
2  Amortisation and impairment of intangible assets acquired in business combinations and through the purchase of customer contracts includes £1,180m included in 
administrative expenses and set out in Note 15, and £107m relating to intangibles recognised on the part acquisition of associates and included in Share of profit from 
associates and joint ventures in the consolidated income statement. 
Fee based revenue is reported as the measure of revenue in the analysis of adjusted profit before tax and relates to revenues generated 
from external customers. Refer Note 4 for a reconciliation of fee based revenue to revenue from contracts with customers. 
All interest income, interest expense, depreciation and amortisation from continuing operations relates to the Asset management, 
platforms and wealth segment. 
In the year ended 31 December 2020, transactions with one external customer amounted to more than 10% of fee based revenue. This 
fee based revenue of £195m is included in the Asset management, platforms and wealth segment. 
   
  Standard Life Aberdeen 2020 131
7. Group financial statements continued 
(b)(ii) Total income and expenses 
The following table provides a reconciliation of fee based revenue and adjusted operating expenses, as presented in the analysis of 
Group adjusted profit by segment, to total income and total expenses respectively, as presented in the IFRS consolidated income 
statement. 
    2020  2019 
  Income  Expenses  Income  Expenses 
  £m  £m   £m  £m  
Fee based revenue and adjusted operating expenses as presented in 
the analysis of Group adjusted profit by segment from continuing 
operations  1,425  (1,206)  1,634  (1,333) 
Insurance and participating investment contract claims and change in 
liabilities  17  (17)  156  (156) 
Change in non-participating investment contract liabilities  56  (56)  265  (265) 
Change in liability for third party interest in consolidated funds  (3)  3  21  (21) 
Other presentation differences  144  (144)  177  (177) 
Profit on disposal of interests in associates  1,858  –  1,542  – 
Amortisation and impairment of intangible assets acquired in business 
combinations and through the purchase of customer contracts  –  (1,180)  –  (1,733) 
Other adjusting items included in income and expenses  91  (320)  161  (387) 
Capital management  21  –  37  – 
Total income and expenses as presented in the IFRS consolidated 
income statement from continuing operations  3,609  (2,920)  3,993  (4,072) 
This reconciliation includes a number of reconciling items which arise due to presentation differences between IFRS reporting 
requirements and the determination of fee based revenue and adjusted operating expenses. Fee based revenue and adjusted operating 
expenses exclude items which have an equal and opposite effect on IFRS income and IFRS expenses in the consolidated income 
statement, such as investment returns which are for the account of policyholders. Other presentation differences generally relate to 
items included in administrative expenses which are borne by policyholders or are directly related to fee income. Other presentation 
differences include commission expenses and other cost of sales which are presented in expenses in the consolidated income 
statement but are netted against fee based revenue in the analysis of Group adjusted profit by segment.  
(c)   Total income from continuing operations by geographical location 
Total income from continuing operations as presented in the consolidated income statement split by geographical location is as follows: 
  2020  2019 
  £m  £m 
UK  1,399  1,862 
Europe, Middle East and Africa  180  265 
Asia Pacific  1,880  1,708 
Americas  150  158 
Total  3,609  3,993 
The income of the operating businesses shown above is allocated based on where the income is earned. The return on investment 
funds is allocated based on where funds are registered. 
(d)   Non-current non-financial assets by geographical location 
  2020  2019 
  £m  £m 
UK  629  1,700 
Europe, Middle East and Africa  15  60 
Asia Pacific  17  71 
Americas  76  142 
Total  737  1,973 
Non-current non-financial assets for this purpose consist of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets. 
 
 
 
 
   
132 Standard Life Aberdeen 2020
7. Group financial statements continued   
 
(b)(ii) Total income and expenses  3.  Investment return  
The following table provides a reconciliation of fee based revenue and adjusted operating expenses, as presented in the analysis of 
Gains and losses resulting from changes in both market value and foreign exchange on investments classified as fair value through 
Group adjusted profit by segment, to total income and total expenses respectively, as presented in the IFRS consolidated income 
profit or loss are recognised in the consolidated income statement in the period in which they occur. The gains and losses include 
statement. 
investment income received such as interest payments but exclude dividend income. Dividend income is separately recognised in the 
    2020  2019  consolidated income statement when the right to receive payment is established. 
  Income  Expenses  Income  Expenses 
Interest income on financial instruments measured at amortised cost is separately recognised in the consolidated income statement 
  £m  £m   £m  £m  
using the effective interest rate method. The effective interest rate method allocates interest and other finance costs at a constant rate 
Fee based revenue and adjusted operating expenses as presented in 
over the expected life of the financial instrument, or where appropriate a shorter period, by using as the interest rate the rate that 
the analysis of Group adjusted profit by segment from continuing 
exactly discounts the future cash receipts over the expected life to the net carrying value of the instrument.  
operations  1,425  (1,206)  1,634  (1,333) 
Insurance and participating investment contract claims and change in 
 
liabilities  17  (17)  156  (156)   
    2020  2019  F
Change in non-participating investment contract liabilities  56  (56)  265  (265)  IN
    £m  £m  A
Change in liability for third party interest in consolidated funds  (3)  3  21  (21)  Interest and similar income        NC
OPrtohfeitr  opnre dsiesnptoastaiol no fd iinffteerreensctse sin  associates  1,815484   (14–4)   1,514727   (177–)   CDaesbht  saencdu rciatieshs  meqeuaivsaulreendt sa t  amortised cost     109   1180   IAL INFO
Amortisation and impairment of intangible assets acquired in business  R
    19  28  M
combinations and through the purchase of customer contracts  –  (1,180)  –  (1,733)  A
Other adjusting items included in income and expenses  91  (320)  161  (387)  Gains on financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss        TIO
N
Equity securities and interests in pooled investment funds (other than dividend income)    137  365 
Capital management  21  –  37  –   
Debt securities    5  21 
Total income and expenses as presented in the IFRS consolidated 
income statement from continuing operations  3,609  (2,920)  3,993  (4,072)  Derivative financial instruments    (30)  1 
    112  387 
This reconciliation includes a number of reconciling items which arise due to presentation differences between IFRS reporting  Dividend income    41  52 
requirements and the determination of fee based revenue and adjusted operating expenses. Fee based revenue and adjusted operating  Gains on financial instruments at amortised cost    –  1 
expenses exclude items which have an equal and opposite effect on IFRS income and IFRS expenses in the consolidated income 
Foreign exchange losses on financial instruments other than those at fair value through profit or loss    (9)  (4) 
statement, such as investment returns which are for the account of policyholders. Other presentation differences generally relate to 
Investment return from continuing operations    163  464 
items included in administrative expenses which are borne by policyholders or are directly related to fee income. Other presentation 
differences include commission expenses and other cost of sales which are presented in expenses in the consolidated income 
Included in investment return from continuing operations of £163m (2019: £464m) is £49m (2019: £392m) in relation to unit linked 
statement but are netted against fee based revenue in the analysis of Group adjusted profit by segment.  
business including (£13m) (2019: £107m) relating to operations held for sale. Investment returns relating to unit linked business are for 
(c)   Total income from continuing operations by geographical location  the account of policyholders and are excluded from adjusted operating income as they have an equal and opposite effect on IFRS 
Total income from continuing operations as presented in the consolidated income statement split by geographical location is as follows:  income and IFRS expenses in the consolidated income statement. 
  2020  2019 
Following the reclassification of HDFC Life from an associate to an equity security on 3 December 2020 gains of £65m have been 
  £m  £m 
included in equity securities and interests in pooled investment funds (refer Note 16 for further details of the reclassification). 
UK  1,399  1,862 
4.  Revenue from contracts with customers 
Europe, Middle East and Africa  180  265 
Asia Pacific  1,880  1,708  Revenue from contracts with customers is recognised as services are provided i.e. as the performance obligation is satisfied and it is 
Americas  150  158  highly probable that a significant reversal will not occur. Where revenue is received in advance (front-end fees), this income is 
Total  3,609  3,993  deferred and recognised as a deferred income liability until the services have been provided (refer Note 35). 
Revenue from contracts with customers excludes premium written and earned on insurance and participating investment contracts 
The income of the operating businesses shown above is allocated based on where the income is earned. The return on investment 
(Refer Note 31).  
funds is allocated based on where funds are registered. 
(d)   Non-current non-financial assets by geographical location  (a)   Revenue from contracts with customers 
  2020  2019  The following table provides a breakdown of total revenue from contracts with customers: 
  £m  £m 
  2020  2019 
UK  629  1,700    £m  £m 
Europe, Middle East and Africa  15  60  Asset management     
Asia Pacific  17  71  Management fee income – Insurance1  216  312 
Americas  76  142  Management fee income – Other clients1  1,008  1,122 
Total  737  1,973  Performance fees   30  37 
Revenue from contracts with customers for asset management  1,254  1,471 
Non-current non-financial assets for this purpose consist of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets. 
Fund platforms     
Fee income   193  204 
 
Other revenue from contracts with customers  80  68 
  Total revenue from contracts with customers from continuing operations  1,527  1,743 
1  In addition to revenues earned as a percentage of AUM, management fee income includes certain other revenues such as registration fees. 
 
   
 
   
  Standard Life Aberdeen 2020 133
7. Group financial statements continued 
Asset management 
Through a number of its subsidiaries, the Group provides asset management services to its customers. This performance obligation is 
performed over time with the revenue recognised as the obligation is performed. The Group generally receives asset management fees 
based on the percentage of the assets under management. The percentage varies depending on the level and nature of assets under 
management. Asset management fees are either deducted from assets or invoiced. Deducted fees are generally calculated, recognised 
and collected on a daily basis. Other asset management fees are invoiced to the customer either monthly or quarterly with receivables 
recognised for unpaid invoices. The payment terms for invoiced revenue vary but are typically 30 days from receipt of invoice. Accrued 
income is recognised to account for income earned but not yet invoiced. There is also some use of performance fees and carried 
interest arrangements. Performance fees and carried interest are earned from some investment mandates when contractually agreed 
performance levels are exceeded within specified performance measurement periods. Performance fees and carried interest are only 
recognised once it is highly probable that a significant reversal will not occur in future periods. Given the unpredictability of future 
performance, the risk of a significant reversal occurring will typically only be considered low enough to make recognition appropriate 
upon the crystallisation event occurring. 
Fund platforms 
Through a number of its subsidiaries, the Group offers customers access to fund platforms. The platforms give customers the ongoing 
functionality to manage and administer their investments. This performance obligation is performed over time with the revenue 
recognised as the obligation is performed. Customers pay a platform charge which is generally calculated as a percentage of their 
assets. The percentage varies depending on the level of assets on the specific platform. The main platform charges are calculated either 
daily or monthly and are collected and recognised monthly. The charges are collected directly from assets on the platform. There are no 
significant payment terms.  
Fee income from fund platforms includes revenue passed to the product provider and included below in other cost of sales. 
The revenue from the contracts with customers is reported within the Asset management, platforms and wealth segment. The following 
table provides a reconciliation of Revenue from contracts with customers as presented in the consolidated income statement to fee 
based revenue, as presented in the analysis of adjusted profit before tax for the Asset management, platforms and wealth segment. 
  2020  2019 
  £m  £m 
Revenue from contracts with customers from continuing operations as presented in the 
consolidated income statement  1,527  1,743 
Presentation differences     
Commission expenses   (77)  (89) 
Other cost of sales  (27)  (26) 
Other differences  2  6 
Fee based revenue from continuing operations as presented in the Asset management, platforms 
and wealth segment  1,425  1,634 
Commission expenses and other costs of sales are netted against fee based revenue in the segment reporting but are included within 
expenses in the consolidated income statement. Other presentation differences relate to amounts presented in a different income line 
item of the consolidated income statement and charges made to third parties for expenses incurred by the Group. 
(b)   Contract receivables, assets and liabilities 
The Group has recognised the following receivables, assets and liabilities in relation to contracts with customers. 
31 December  31 December  1 January  
    2020  2019  2019 
  Notes  £m  £m  £m 
Amount receivable from contracts with customers   21  115  130  112 
Accrued income from contracts with customers  21  221  227  214 
Cost of obtaining customer contracts  15  49  60  80 
Deferred acquisition costs  22  4  6  6 
Total contract receivables and assets    389  423  412 
 
31 December  31 December  1 January  
    2020  2019  2019 
  Notes  £m  £m  £m 
Deferred Income  35  73  67  75 
Accruals  36  –  3  5 
Total contract liabilities    73  70  80 
5.  Other income 
The Group’s other income for the year ended 31 December 2020 of £30m (2019: £178m) includes the £8m gain on the sale of SL Asia 
(refer Note 1). Other income for the year ended 31 December 2019 included £140m in relation to the settlement of arbitration with 
Lloyds Banking Group. 
   
134 Standard Life Aberdeen 2020
7. Group financial statements continued   
 
Asset management  6.  Other administrative expenses 
Through a number of its subsidiaries, the Group provides asset management services to its customers. This performance obligation is      2020  2019 
performed over time with the revenue recognised as the obligation is performed. The Group generally receives asset management fees    Notes  £m  £m 
based on the percentage of the assets under management. The percentage varies depending on the level and nature of assets under  Interest expense     2  5 
management. Asset management fees are either deducted from assets or invoiced. Deducted fees are generally calculated, recognised 
Commission expenses     77  89 
and collected on a daily basis. Other asset management fees are invoiced to the customer either monthly or quarterly with receivables 
Other cost of sales    27  26 
recognised for unpaid invoices. The payment terms for invoiced revenue vary but are typically 30 days from receipt of invoice. Accrued 
Staff costs and other employee-related costs    625  646 
income is recognised to account for income earned but not yet invoiced. There is also some use of performance fees and carried 
interest arrangements. Performance fees and carried interest are earned from some investment mandates when contractually agreed  Short-term and low value lease rentals    3  2 
performance levels are exceeded within specified performance measurement periods. Performance fees and carried interest are only  Auditors’ remuneration  8  8  8 
recognised once it is highly probable that a significant reversal will not occur in future periods. Given the unpredictability of future  Depreciation of property, plant and equipment  17  46  47 
performance, the risk of a significant reversal occurring will typically only be considered low enough to make recognition appropriate  Amortisation of intangible assets  15  152  184 
upon the crystallisation event occurring.  Impairment losses on intangible assets1  15  149  2  F
IN
Fund platforms  Impairment losses on disposal group classified as held for sale  23  1  –  A
N
Through a number of its subsidiaries, the Group offers customers access to fund platforms. The platforms give customers the ongoing  Impairment losses on property right-of-use assets  17  2  16  CIA
functionality to manage and administer their investments. This performance obligation is performed over time with the revenue  Other     514  626  L IN
recognised as the obligation is performed. Customers pay a platform charge which is generally calculated as a percentage of their  F
     1,606  1,651  O
assets. The percentage varies depending on the level of assets on the specific platform. The main platform charges are calculated either  R
Acquisition costs deferred during the year    –  (2)  M
daily or monthly and are collected and recognised monthly. The charges are collected directly from assets on the platform. There are no  AT
significant payment terms.   Amortisation of deferred acquisition costs     2  2  IO
N
Total other administrative expenses from continuing operations     1,608  1,651 
Fee income from fund platforms includes revenue passed to the product provider and included below in other cost of sales.   
1  Impairment losses on intangible assets excludes a goodwill impairment charge of £915m (2019: £1,569m) recognised separately as an individual item on the consolidated 
The revenue from the contracts with customers is reported within the Asset management, platforms and wealth segment. The following  income statement. Refer Note 15. 
table provides a reconciliation of Revenue from contracts with customers as presented in the consolidated income statement to fee 
In addition to interest expense of £2m (2019: £5m) set out above, interest expense of £24m (2019: £29m) was incurred in respect of 
based revenue, as presented in the analysis of adjusted profit before tax for the Asset management, platforms and wealth segment. 
subordinated liabilities and the related cash flow hedge (refer Note 20) and interest expense of £6m (2019: £7m) in respect of lease 
  2020  2019  liabilities which are included in Finance costs in the consolidated income statement.  
  £m  £m 
7.  Staff costs and other employee-related costs 
Revenue from contracts with customers from continuing operations as presented in the 
consolidated income statement  1,527  1,743  The following table shows the staff costs and other employee-related costs aggregated for both continuing and discontinued operations. 
Presentation differences          2020  2019 
Commission expenses   (77)  (89)    Notes  £m  £m 
Other cost of sales  (27)  (26)  The aggregate remuneration payable in respect of employees:       
Other differences  2  6  Wages and salaries    465  531 
Fee based revenue from continuing operations as presented in the Asset management, platforms  Social security costs    55  63 
and wealth segment  1,425  1,634  Pension costs       
Defined benefit plans    (19)  (40) 
Commission expenses and other costs of sales are netted against fee based revenue in the segment reporting but are included within 
Defined contribution plans    58  58 
expenses in the consolidated income statement. Other presentation differences relate to amounts presented in a different income line 
Employee share-based payments and deferred fund awards  44  66  34 
item of the consolidated income statement and charges made to third parties for expenses incurred by the Group. 
Total staff costs and other employee-related costs    625  646 
(b)   Contract receivables, assets and liabilities 
The Group has recognised the following receivables, assets and liabilities in relation to contracts with customers.  In addition, wages and salaries of £28m (2019: £40m), social security costs of £4m (2019: £4m), pension costs – defined benefit plans 
of less than £1m (2019: less than £1m), pension costs – defined contribution plans of £1m (2019: £1m), employee share-based 
31 December  31 December  1 January   payments and deferred fund awards of £27m (2019: £19m) and termination benefits of £31m (2019: £67m) have been included in 
    2020  2019  2019 
restructuring and corporate transaction expenses. Refer Note 9. 
  Notes  £m  £m  £m 
Amount receivable from contracts with customers   21  115  130  112  The average number of staff employed by the Group during the year was 6,029 (2019: 6,268). All staff were employed within the asset 
Accrued income from contracts with customers  21  221  227  214  management, platforms and wealth segment. 
Cost of obtaining customer contracts  15  49  60  80  Information in respect of Directors’ remuneration is provided in the Directors’ remuneration report on pages 73 to 95. 
Deferred acquisition costs  22  4  6  6 
8.  Auditors’ remuneration 
Total contract receivables and assets    389  423  412 
The following table shows the auditors’ remuneration aggregated for both continuing and discontinued operations. 
 
  2020  2019 
31 December  31 December  1 January  
    2020  2019  2019    £m  £m 
  Notes  £m  £m  £m  Fees payable to the Company’s auditors for the audit of the Company’s individual and consolidated 
Deferred Income  35  73  67  75  financial statements  1.1  1.1 
Accruals  36  –  3  5  Fees payable to the Company’s auditors for other services     
The audit of the Company’s consolidated subsidiaries pursuant to legislation  4.1  3.7 
Total contract liabilities    73  70  80 
Audit related assurance services  2.3  2.1 
5.  Other income  Total audit and audit related assurance fees  7.5  6.9 
The Group’s other income for the year ended 31 December 2020 of £30m (2019: £178m) includes the £8m gain on the sale of SL Asia 
Other assurance services  0.8  1.2 
(refer Note 1). Other income for the year ended 31 December 2019 included £140m in relation to the settlement of arbitration with 
Other non-audit fee services  –  – 
Lloyds Banking Group. 
Total non-audit fees  0.8  1.2 
   
Total auditors’ remuneration  8.3  8.1 
  Standard Life Aberdeen 2020 135
7. Group financial statements continued 
Auditors’ remuneration disclosed above excludes audit and non-audit fees payable to the Group’s principal auditor by Group managed 
funds which are not controlled by the Group, and therefore not consolidated in the Group’s financial statements.  
During the year ended 31 December 2020 no audit fees were payable in respect of defined benefit plans to the Group’s principal auditor 
(2019: £nil). 
For more information on non-audit services, refer to the Audit Committee report in Section 3 – Corporate governance statement.  
9.  Restructuring and corporate transaction expenses 
Total restructuring and corporate transaction expenses incurred from continuing operations during the year were £297m (2019: £374m). 
The expenses mainly relate to ongoing transformation costs for integration, separation from Phoenix and implementing our simplified 
operating model. 2019 expenses also included £49m in respect of the repurchase of subordinated liabilities (refer Note 33). Deal costs 
relating to acquisitions included in restructuring and corporate transaction expenses for the year ended 31 December 2020 were £1m 
(2019: £2m).  
The table below reconciles restructuring and corporate transaction expenses in the consolidated income statement with restructuring 
and corporate transaction expenses used to determine adjusted profit before tax. 
    2020  2019 
    £m  £m 
Restructuring and corporate transaction expenses    297  374 
Asset management joint venture and insurance associate restructuring and corporate transaction     
expenses    39  33 
Impairment of internally generated software and right-of-use assets as a result of restructuring, which   
are included in Other administrative expenses    19  – 
Restructuring and corporate transaction expenses used to determine adjusted profit before tax    355  407 
 
10.  Taxation 
The Group’s tax expense comprises both current tax and deferred tax expense.  
Current tax is the expected tax payable on taxable profit for the year and is calculated using tax rates and laws substantively enacted 
at the balance sheet date.  
A deferred tax asset represents a tax deduction that is expected to arise in a future period. It is only recognised to the extent that 
there is expected to be future taxable profit or investment return to offset the tax deduction. A deferred tax liability represents taxes 
which will become payable in a future period as a result of a current or prior year transaction. Where local tax law allows, deferred tax 
assets and liabilities are netted off on the statement of financial position. The tax rates used to determine deferred tax are those 
enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date that are expected to apply when the deferred tax asset or liability are 
realised.  
Deferred tax is recognised on temporary differences arising from investments in subsidiaries and associates unless the timing of the 
reversal is in our control and it is expected that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.  
Current tax and deferred tax is recognised in the consolidated income statement except when it relates to items recognised in other 
comprehensive income or directly in equity, in which case it is credited or charged to other comprehensive income or directly to equity 
respectively.  
The Group operates in a large number of territories and during the normal course of business will be subject to audit or enquiry by 
local tax authorities. At any point in time the Group will also be engaged in commercial transactions the tax outcome of which may be 
uncertain due to their complexity or uncertain application of tax law. Tax provisions, therefore, are subjective by their nature and 
require management judgement based on the interpretation of legislation, management experience and professional advice. As such, 
this may result in the Group recognising provisions for uncertain tax positions. Management will provide for uncertain tax positions 
where they judge that it is probable there will be a future outflow of economic benefits from the Group to settle the obligation. In 
assessing uncertain tax positions management considers each issue on its own merits using their judgement as to the estimate of the 
most likely outcome. When making estimates, management considers all available evidence. This may include forecasts of future 
profitability, the frequency and severity of any losses, and statutory carry forward and carry back provisions as well as management 
experience of tax attributes expiring without use. Where the final outcome differs from the amount provided this difference will impact 
the tax charge in future periods. Management re-assesses provisions at each reporting date based upon latest available information. 
   
136 Standard Life Aberdeen 2020
7. Group financial statements continued   
 
Auditors’ remuneration disclosed above excludes audit and non-audit fees payable to the Group’s principal auditor by Group managed  (a)   Tax charge in the consolidated income statement 
funds which are not controlled by the Group, and therefore not consolidated in the Group’s financial statements.   (a)(i)  Current year tax expense 
During the year ended 31 December 2020 no audit fees were payable in respect of defined benefit plans to the Group’s principal auditor      2020  2019 
(2019: £nil).      £m  £m 
Current tax:       
For more information on non-audit services, refer to the Audit Committee report in Section 3 – Corporate governance statement.  
UK    (1)  6 
9.  Restructuring and corporate transaction expenses  Overseas    55  49 
Total restructuring and corporate transaction expenses incurred from continuing operations during the year were £297m (2019: £374m).  Adjustment to tax expense in respect of prior years    9  (1) 
The expenses mainly relate to ongoing transformation costs for integration, separation from Phoenix and implementing our simplified 
Total current tax attributable to continuing operations    63  54 
operating model. 2019 expenses also included £49m in respect of the repurchase of subordinated liabilities (refer Note 33). Deal costs 
Deferred tax:       
relating to acquisitions included in restructuring and corporate transaction expenses for the year ended 31 December 2020 were £1m 
(2019: £2m).   Deferred tax credit arising from the current year    (76)  (26) 
Adjustment to deferred tax in respect of prior years    (2)  –  F
The table below reconciles restructuring and corporate transaction expenses in the consolidated income statement with restructuring  IN
and corporate transaction expenses used to determine adjusted profit before tax.  Total deferred tax attributable to continuing operations    (78)  (26)  AN
C
Total tax (credit)/expense attributable to continuing operations     (15)  28  IA
    2020  2019  L IN
    £m  £m  F
The share of associates’ and joint ventures’ tax expense is £17m (2019: £8m) and is included in profit before tax in the consolidated  O
Restructuring and corporate transaction expenses    297  374  income statement in ‘Share of profit from associates and joint ventures’.  RM
A
Asset management joint venture and insurance associate restructuring and corporate transaction      T
In 2020 unrecognised tax losses from previous years were used to reduce the current tax expense by £1m (2019: £nil). Unrecognised  IO
expenses    39  33  N
tax losses and timing differences were used to reduce the deferred tax expense by £1m (2019: £1m).  
Impairment of internally generated software and right-of-use assets as a result of restructuring, which     
are included in Other administrative expenses    19  –  Current tax recoverable and current tax liabilities at 31 December 2020 were £9m (2019: £9m) and £15m (2019: £19m) respectively. In 
addition current tax recoverable and current tax liabilities in relation to unit linked business were £1m (2019: £nil) and £1m (2019: £2m) 
Restructuring and corporate transaction expenses used to determine adjusted profit before tax    355  407 
respectively. Current tax assets and liabilities at 31 December 2020 and 31 December 2019 are expected to be recoverable or payable 
 
in less than 12 months. 
10.  Taxation 
(a)(ii) Reconciliation of tax expense 
The Group’s tax expense comprises both current tax and deferred tax expense.       2020  2019 
    £m  £m 
Current tax is the expected tax payable on taxable profit for the year and is calculated using tax rates and laws substantively enacted 
Profit before tax from continuing operations    838  243 
at the balance sheet date.  
Tax at 19% (2019: 19%)    159  46 
A deferred tax asset represents a tax deduction that is expected to arise in a future period. It is only recognised to the extent that  Remeasurement of deferred tax due to rate changes1    9  1 
there is expected to be future taxable profit or investment return to offset the tax deduction. A deferred tax liability represents taxes 
Permanent differences    (20)  (4) 
which will become payable in a future period as a result of a current or prior year transaction. Where local tax law allows, deferred tax 
assets and liabilities are netted off on the statement of financial position. The tax rates used to determine deferred tax are those  Tax effect of accounting for share of profit from associates and joint ventures     (37)  (15) 
enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date that are expected to apply when the deferred tax asset or liability are  Impairment losses on intangible assets    174  298 
realised.   Impairment/ (reversal of impairment) of investment in associates and joint 
ventures    9  (46) 
Deferred tax is recognised on temporary differences arising from investments in subsidiaries and associates unless the timing of the 
Differences in overseas tax rates1    (21)  (16) 
reversal is in our control and it is expected that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.  
Adjustment to current tax expense in respect of prior years    9  (1) 
Current tax and deferred tax is recognised in the consolidated income statement except when it relates to items recognised in other 
Recognition of previously unrecognised tax credit    (2)  (1) 
comprehensive income or directly in equity, in which case it is credited or charged to other comprehensive income or directly to equity 
Deferred tax not recognised    7  13 
respectively.  
Adjustment to deferred tax expense in respect of prior years    (2)  – 
The Group operates in a large number of territories and during the normal course of business will be subject to audit or enquiry by 
Write down of deferred tax asset    –  6 
local tax authorities. At any point in time the Group will also be engaged in commercial transactions the tax outcome of which may be 
Non-taxable profit on sale of subsidiaries and associates    (303)  (254) 
uncertain due to their complexity or uncertain application of tax law. Tax provisions, therefore, are subjective by their nature and 
Other    3  1 
require management judgement based on the interpretation of legislation, management experience and professional advice. As such, 
this may result in the Group recognising provisions for uncertain tax positions. Management will provide for uncertain tax positions  Total tax (credit)/expense from continuing operations for the year    (15)  28 
where they judge that it is probable there will be a future outflow of economic benefits from the Group to settle the obligation. In  1  2019 figures were previously disclosed as a single line – different tax rates (£15m). 
assessing uncertain tax positions management considers each issue on its own merits using their judgement as to the estimate of the 
most likely outcome. When making estimates, management considers all available evidence. This may include forecasts of future  The standard UK corporation tax rate for the accounting period is 19%. In the Spring Budget 2020, the government announced that the 
profitability, the frequency and severity of any losses, and statutory carry forward and carry back provisions as well as management  standard UK corporation tax rate would remain at 19% from 1 April 2020 rather than reducing to 17% as previously enacted. This new 
experience of tax attributes expiring without use. Where the final outcome differs from the amount provided this difference will impact  legislation was substantively enacted on 17 March 2020 to repeal the planned reduction in the standard UK corporation tax rate and 
the tax charge in future periods. Management re-assesses provisions at each reporting date based upon latest available information.  maintain the rate at 19%. This will impact both current tax in the UK going forward and also the valuation of deferred tax assets and 
liabilities in the UK, which have been revalued at the balance sheet date to take account of this change. 
   
On 3 March 2021, the UK Government announced its intention to increase the rate of UK corporation tax rate from 19% to 25% with 
effect from 1 April 2023. The proposed increase in the rate of UK corporation tax is expected to be enacted in Finance Act 2021. As the 
rate change was not substantively enacted as at 31 December 2020, it has not been taken account of in computing the UK deferred tax 
assets and liabilities which are reflected in the statement of financial position for that date. However, the rate change is expected to be 
substantively enacted during 2021. The effect of this change in the rate of UK corporation tax if it had been substantively enacted at 31 
December 2020 would have been to increase the deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities in the statement of financial position by 
£19m and £9m respectively and increase the tax credit in the income statement by £10m. 
   
  Standard Life Aberdeen 2020 137
7. Group financial statements continued 
The accounting for certain items in the consolidated income statement results in certain reconciling items in the table above, the values 
of which vary from year to year depending upon the underlying accounting values. 
Details of significant reconciling items are as follows: 
• Permanent differences in 2020 include expenses and accounting losses which are not deductible for tax purposes. It also includes the 
difference between the tax basis and accounting value for employee share-based awards. Notably, within permanent differences, is a 
(£12m) tax adjustment for non-taxable fair value movements that arose following reclassification of the investment in HDFC Life. 
• The share of profits from associates and joint ventures is presented net of tax in the consolidated income statement and therefore 
gives a reconciling item 
• The impairments of both the goodwill intangible asset and investment in associates and joint ventures are not tax deductible 
• Certain profits are taxed at rates which differ from the UK corporation tax rate (such as the profit attributable to our Asian business) 
and, in 2020, mainly comprises a non-recurring reconciling item associated with the gain arising on a sale of shares in our associate 
HDFC Asset Management being taxed at a rate of less than 19%. This arose because the Indian rate of tax on long-term capital gains 
is less than the UK corporate tax rate. 
• An additional £9m tax charge arises on the revaluation of deferred tax assets and liabilities in the UK following the reversal of a 
proposed tax rate reduction in the UK 
• The ability to value tax losses and other tax assets also affects the tax charge. We have not recognised a deferred tax asset of £7m 
on tax losses arising in the year due to uncertainty as to when these losses will be utilised. In addition, we have recognised £2m of 
previously unrecognised deferred tax assets due to evidence of their current or future utilisation. 
• The sales of shares in HDFC Life did not give rise to taxable gains due to the effect of reliefs available under India’s tax legislation and 
its international tax treaties 
• A deferred tax liability of £10m has been recognised in the period in relation to our share of the unremitted earnings of HDFC AMC. 
This results from a change to the taxation of dividends from Indian companies under Indian tax law that took effect from 1 April 2020. 
The corresponding charge forms part of the tax expense in the consolidated income statement. The change also gives rise to the 
release of a deferred tax liability of £18m attributable to our holdings in HDFC AMC and HDFC Life that related to the taxation of 
undistributed reserves under the preceding Indian tax rules. This release gives rise to the recognition of an £18m credit to the Share of 
profit from associates and joint ventures line item in the consolidated income statement. 
(b)  Tax relating to components of other comprehensive income 
Tax relating to components of other comprehensive income is as follows: 
    2020  2019 
    £m  £m 
Tax relating to defined benefit pension plan deficits    (2)  – 
Equity holder tax effect relating to items that will not be reclassified subsequently to 
profit or loss    (2)  – 
Tax relating to fair value losses recognised on cash flow hedges    (1)  (2) 
Tax relating to cash flow hedge losses transferred to consolidated income statement    3  4 
Equity holder tax effect relating to items that may be reclassified subsequently to 
profit or loss    2  2 
Tax relating to other comprehensive income from continuing operations    –  2 
All of the amounts presented above are in respect of equity holders of Standard Life Aberdeen plc. 
(c)  Deferred tax assets and liabilities 
(c)(i)  Movements in net deferred tax asset/(liability) 
    2020  2019 
    £m  £m 
Opening balance carried forward    (13)  (39) 
Effect of change in accounting policy to IFRS 91    –  1 
Effect of change in accounting policy to IFRS 161    –  1 
Opening balance at 1 January    (13)  (37) 
Reclassified as held for sale during the year    –  – 
Acquired through business combinations    –  (2) 
Amounts credited to the consolidated income statement    78  26 
Amounts credited directly to equity in respect of employee share-based payments    –  – 
Tax on defined benefit pension plan deficits    2  – 
Tax on cash flow hedge     (2)  (2) 
Other    –  2 
Net deferred tax asset/(liability) at 31 December    65  (13) 
1  The Group has initially applied IFRS 9 and IFRS 16 at 1 January 2019. Under the transition methods chosen, comparative information is not restated. 
   
138 Standard Life Aberdeen 2020
7. Group financial statements continued   
 
The accounting for certain items in the consolidated income statement results in certain reconciling items in the table above, the values  (c)(ii) Analysis of recognised deferred tax 
of which vary from year to year depending upon the underlying accounting values. 
    2020  2019 
Details of significant reconciling items are as follows:      £m  £m 
Deferred tax assets comprise:       
• Permanent differences in 2020 include expenses and accounting losses which are not deductible for tax purposes. It also includes the 
Losses carried forward    89  40 
difference between the tax basis and accounting value for employee share-based awards. Notably, within permanent differences, is a 
Depreciable assets    12  12 
(£12m) tax adjustment for non-taxable fair value movements that arose following reclassification of the investment in HDFC Life. 
Employee benefits    28  22 
• The share of profits from associates and joint ventures is presented net of tax in the consolidated income statement and therefore 
gives a reconciling item  Provisions and other temporary timing differences    2  1 
• The impairments of both the goodwill intangible asset and investment in associates and joint ventures are not tax deductible  Gross deferred tax assets    131  75 
Less: Offset against deferred tax liabilities    –  (1) 
• Certain profits are taxed at rates which differ from the UK corporation tax rate (such as the profit attributable to our Asian business) 
and, in 2020, mainly comprises a non-recurring reconciling item associated with the gain arising on a sale of shares in our associate  Deferred tax assets    131  74 
HDFC Asset Management being taxed at a rate of less than 19%. This arose because the Indian rate of tax on long-term capital gains  Deferred tax liabilities comprise:        FIN
is less than the UK corporate tax rate.  Unrealised gains on investments    4  2  AN
C
• An additional £9m tax charge arises on the revaluation of deferred tax assets and liabilities in the UK following the reversal of a  Employee benefits    –  3  IA
L
proposed tax rate reduction in the UK  Temporary timing differences    –  2   IN
F
• The ability to value tax losses and other tax assets also affects the tax charge. We have not recognised a deferred tax asset of £7m  Deferred tax on intangible assets acquired through business combinations    52  78  OR
on tax losses arising in the year due to uncertainty as to when these losses will be utilised. In addition, we have recognised £2m of  Other    10  3  MA
T
previously unrecognised deferred tax assets due to evidence of their current or future utilisation.  Gross deferred tax liabilities    66  88  IO
N
• The sales of shares in HDFC Life did not give rise to taxable gains due to the effect of reliefs available under India’s tax legislation and 
Less: Offset against deferred tax assets    –  (1)   
its international tax treaties 
Deferred tax liabilities    66  87 
• A deferred tax liability of £10m has been recognised in the period in relation to our share of the unremitted earnings of HDFC AMC. 
Net deferred tax asset/(liability) at 31 December    65  (13) 
This results from a change to the taxation of dividends from Indian companies under Indian tax law that took effect from 1 April 2020. 
The corresponding charge forms part of the tax expense in the consolidated income statement. The change also gives rise to the 
A deferred tax asset of £89m (2019: £40m) for the Group has been recognised in respect of losses of various subsidiaries. Deferred tax 
release of a deferred tax liability of £18m attributable to our holdings in HDFC AMC and HDFC Life that related to the taxation of 
assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that the losses will be capable of being offset against taxable profits and gains in 
undistributed reserves under the preceding Indian tax rules. This release gives rise to the recognition of an £18m credit to the Share of 
future periods. The value attributed to them takes into account the certainty or otherwise of their recoverability. Their recoverability is 
profit from associates and joint ventures line item in the consolidated income statement. 
measured against the reversal of deferred tax liabilities and anticipated taxable profits and gains based on business plans. The deferred 
(b)  Tax relating to components of other comprehensive income  tax asset recognised on losses primarily relates to UK entities where there is currently no restriction on the period of time over which 
Tax relating to components of other comprehensive income is as follows:  losses can be utilised. Recognition of this deferred tax asset requires that management must consider if it is more likely than not that this 
asset will be recoverable in future periods against future profits arising in the UK. In making this assessment management have 
    2020  2019 
considered future operating plans and forecast taxable profits and are satisfied that, following completion of transformation activities, 
    £m  £m 
forecast taxable profits will be sufficient to enable recovery of the UK tax losses. Based upon the level of forecast taxable profits 
Tax relating to defined benefit pension plan deficits    (2)  –  management do not consider there is significant risk of a material adjustment to the carrying amount of the deferred tax asset on UK tax 
Equity holder tax effect relating to items that will not be reclassified subsequently to  losses within the next financial year. 
profit or loss    (2)  – 
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are expected to be recovered or settled after more than 12 months.  
Tax relating to fair value losses recognised on cash flow hedges    (1)  (2) 
Tax relating to cash flow hedge losses transferred to consolidated income statement    3  4  (d)   Unrecognised deferred tax 
Equity holder tax effect relating to items that may be reclassified subsequently to  Due to uncertainty regarding recoverability, deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of the following: 
profit or loss    2  2 
• Cumulative losses carried forward of £80m in the UK and £287m overseas (2019: £80m, £301m respectively) 
Tax relating to other comprehensive income from continuing operations    –  2 
Of these unrecognised deferred tax assets, certain losses have expiry dates as follows: 
All of the amounts presented above are in respect of equity holders of Standard Life Aberdeen plc. 
• US losses of £164m with expiry dates between 2027-2037 (2019: £164m) 
(c)  Deferred tax assets and liabilities 
• Other overseas losses of £26m with expiry dates before 2024 (2019: £19m) 
(c)(i)  Movements in net deferred tax asset/(liability) 
• Other overseas losses of £22m with expiry dates between 2025 and 2030 (2019: £9m) 
    2020  2019 
    £m  £m  11.  Discontinued operations 
Opening balance carried forward    (13)  (39) 
The Group classifies as discontinued operations areas of business which have been disposed of or are classified as held for sale at 
Effect of change in accounting policy to IFRS 91    –  1 
the year end and which either, represent a separate major line of business or geographical area, or are part of a plan to dispose of 
Effect of change in accounting policy to IFRS 161    –  1  one. The results of discontinued operations are shown separately on the face of the consolidated income statement from the results 
Opening balance at 1 January    (13)  (37)  of the remaining (continuing) parts of the Group’s business. 
Reclassified as held for sale during the year    –  – 
Acquired through business combinations    –  (2) 
The consolidated income statement loss and cash flows from discontinued operations relate solely to the UK and European insurance 
Amounts credited to the consolidated income statement    78  26 
business which was sold in 2018 to Phoenix. For the year ended 31 December 2020, the loss from discontinued operations was £15m 
Amounts credited directly to equity in respect of employee share-based payments    –  – 
(2019: profit of £56m) which reflected changes in the value of contingent consideration relating to the sale. The 2020 loss includes the 
Tax on defined benefit pension plan deficits    2  – 
impact of the resolution of certain legacy issues with Phoenix, refer Note 47. For the year ended 31 December 2020, net cash flows from 
Tax on cash flow hedge     (2)  (2)  discontinued operations of (£42m) (2019: £63m) are included in net cash flows from investing activities. There was no other 
Other    –  2  comprehensive income from discontinued operations for the year ended 31 December 2020 (2019: £nil).  
Net deferred tax asset/(liability) at 31 December    65  (13) 
 
1  The Group has initially applied IFRS 9 and IFRS 16 at 1 January 2019. Under the transition methods chosen, comparative information is not restated. 
   
   
  Standard Life Aberdeen 2020 139
7. Group financial statements continued 
12.  Earnings per share 
Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing profit attributable to ordinary equity holders by the weighted average number of 
ordinary shares in issue during the year excluding shares owned by the employee trusts that have not vested unconditionally to 
employees. 
Diluted earnings per share is calculated by adjusting the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year to 
assume the conversion of all dilutive potential ordinary shares, such as share options granted to employees.  
Adjusted earnings per share is calculated on adjusted profit after tax attributable to ordinary equity holders of the Company i.e. 
adjusted profit net of dividends paid on preference shares. 
Basic earnings per share was 37.8p (2019: 11.2p) and diluted earnings per share was 37.2p (2019: 11.1p) for the year ended 31 
December 2020. The following table shows details of basic, diluted and adjusted earnings per share.  
  2020  2019 
Continuing  Discontinued  Continuing  Discontinued 
  operations  operations  Total  operations  operations  Total 
  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m 
Adjusted profit before tax  487  –  487  584  –  584 
Tax on adjusted profit  (38)  –  (38)  (69)  –  (69) 
Share of associates’ and joint ventures’ tax 
expense  (38)  –  (38)  (46)  –  (46) 
Adjusted profit after tax  411  –  411  469  –  469 
Dividend paid on preference shares  (5)  –  (5)  (5)  –  (5) 
Adjusted profit after tax attributable to 
equity shareholders of the Company  406  –  406  464  –  464 
Adjusting items  368  (15)  353  (333)  56  (277) 
Tax on adjusting items  53  –  53  41  –  41 
Share of associates’ and joint ventures’ tax 
expense on adjusting items  21  –  21  38  –  38 
Profit attributable to equity shareholders of 
the Company  848  (15)  833  210  56  266 
 
   
  Millions  Millions 
Weighted average number of ordinary 
shares outstanding       2,202      2,374 
Dilutive effect of share options and awards      37      32 
Weighted average number of diluted 
ordinary shares outstanding       2,239      2,406 
 
           
  Pence  Pence  Pence  Pence  Pence  Pence 
Basic earnings per share   38.5  (0.7)  37.8  8.9  2.3  11.2 
Diluted earnings per share  37.9  (0.7)  37.2  8.8  2.3  11.1 
Adjusted earnings per share  18.4  –  18.4  19.5  –  19.5 
Adjusted diluted earnings per share   18.1  –  18.1  19.3  –  19.3 
   
140 Standard Life Aberdeen 2020
7. Group financial statements continued   
 
12.  Earnings per share  13.  Adjusted profit and adjusting items 
Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing profit attributable to ordinary equity holders by the weighted average number of  Adjusted profit before tax is the Group’s key alternative performance measure. Adjusted profit excludes the impact of the following 
ordinary shares in issue during the year excluding shares owned by the employee trusts that have not vested unconditionally to  items: 
employees. 
• Restructuring costs and corporate transaction expenses. Restructuring includes the impact of major regulatory change. 
Diluted earnings per share is calculated by adjusting the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year to  • Amortisation and impairment of intangible assets acquired in business combinations and through the purchase of customer 
assume the conversion of all dilutive potential ordinary shares, such as share options granted to employees.   contracts 
Adjusted earnings per share is calculated on adjusted profit after tax attributable to ordinary equity holders of the Company i.e.  • Profit or loss arising on the disposal of a subsidiary, joint venture or associate accounted for using the equity method 
adjusted profit net of dividends paid on preference shares.  • Impairment loss/reversal of impairment loss recognised on investments in associates and joint ventures accounted for using the 
equity method 
• Change in fair value of significant listed investments 
Basic earnings per share was 37.8p (2019: 11.2p) and diluted earnings per share was 37.2p (2019: 11.1p) for the year ended 31 
December 2020. The following table shows details of basic, diluted and adjusted earnings per share.   • Fair value movements in contingent consideration  FIN
  2020  2019  • Items which are one-off and, due to their size or nature, are not indicative of the long-term operating performance of the Group  ANC
Continuing  Discontinued  Continuing  Discontinued  Adjusted profit also excludes impacts arising from investment return variances and economic assumption changes in the Group’s  IAL
  operations  operations  Total  operations  operations  Total  insurance entities as described further below.    IN
F
  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  O
Adjusted profit before tax  487  –  487  584  –  584  Dtreivaidtmenednst  opfa oyradbinlea royn s phraerfeesre. nScime islahralyr etos  pclraesfesrifeiendc ea ss hnaorne-sc,o cnotruoplloinngs  ipnateidre osnts p aerrep eetxucalul ddeedb tf rinosmtr uamdjeunsttes dc lparsosfiitf ieind l ianse  ewqiuthit yth feo r  RMAT
Tax on adjusted profit  (38)  –  (38)  (69)  –  (69)  which interest is only accounted for when paid is excluded from adjusted profit. This includes our share of interest payable on Tier 1  ION
Share of associates’ and joint ventures’ tax 
debt instruments held by associates. Coupons payable on perpetual debt instruments classified as equity for which interest is   
expense  (38)  –  (38)  (46)  –  (46)  accrued are included in adjusted profit before tax. 
Adjusted profit after tax  411  –  411  469  –  469 
Dividend paid on preference shares  (5)  –  (5)  (5)  –  (5) 
(a)  Investment return variances and economic assumptions changes – insurance entities 
Adjusted profit after tax attributable to 
Associates and joint ventures insurance entities 
equity shareholders of the Company  406  –  406  464  –  464 
Where associates and joint ventures have a policy for determining investment return variances and economic assumption changes, the 
Adjusting items  368  (15)  353  (333)  56  (277) 
Group uses the policy of the associate or joint venture for including their results in the Group’s adjusted profit. This currently applies only 
Tax on adjusting items  53  –  53  41  –  41  to the Group’s investment in Phoenix. The Phoenix policy is described below. 
Share of associates’ and joint ventures’ tax 
The components of IFRS profit attributable to market movements and interest rate changes which give rise to variances between actual 
expense on adjusting items  21  –  21  38  –  38 
and expected returns on investments backing both owner and policyholder funds, with consistent allowance for the corresponding 
Profit attributable to equity shareholders of 
expected movement in liabilities, as well as the impact of changes in economic assumptions on liabilities, are excluded from adjusted 
the Company  848  (15)  833  210  56  266 
profit. The impact of strategic asset allocation activities, such as investment in higher yielding illiquid assets, is also excluded from 
  adjusted profit. 
   
  Millions  Millions  The expected return on investments backing both owner and policyholder funds is based on opening economic assumptions applied to 
Weighted average number of ordinary  the funds under management at the beginning of the reporting period. Expected investment return assumptions are derived actively 
shares outstanding       2,202      2,374  based on market yields on risk-free fixed interest assets at the start of each financial year. Investment return variances, including those 
Dilutive effect of share options and awards      37      32  relating to owners’ funds, also include gains and losses on derivatives held to hedge life company Solvency II surplus positions. 
Weighted average number of diluted  Adjusted profit includes the effect of variance in experience for non-economic items, for example mortality, persistency and expenses, 
ordinary shares outstanding       2,239      2,406  and the effect of changes in non-economic assumptions. It also incorporates the impacts of significant management actions where such 
  actions are consistent with Phoenix’s core operating activities (for example, actuarial modelling enhancements and data reviews). 
           
  Pence  Pence  Pence  Pence  Pence  Pence  Wholly owned insurance entities 
Basic earnings per share   38.5  (0.7)  37.8  8.9  2.3  11.2  The Group’s wholly owned insurance business, SL Asia, was sold on 30 June 2020 (refer Note 1). The policy applied to wholly owned 
Diluted earnings per share  37.9  (0.7)  37.2  8.8  2.3  11.1  insurance entities is similar to that used by Phoenix as described above. The main difference relevant to SL Asia is that Phoenix 
recognises charges on unit linked business based on expected investment returns, whereas wholly owned insurance entities use actual 
Adjusted earnings per share  18.4  –  18.4  19.5  –  19.5 
investment returns. 
Adjusted diluted earnings per share   18.1  –  18.1  19.3  –  19.3 
    (b)  Significant listed investments 
Following the reclassification of HDFC Life from an associate to an equity security on 3 December 2020 fair value gains of £65m have 
been included in investment return in the consolidated income statement but excluded from adjusted profit (refer Note 16 for further 
details of the reclassification). These gains represent the impact of movements in the market value of our remaining 8.89% holding in 
HDFC Life from 3 December 2020 to 31 December 2020. Excluding fair value movements on significant listed investments for the 
purposes of adjusted profit is aligned with our treatment of gains on disposal for these holdings when they were classified as an 
associate, and reflects that the fair value movements are not indicative of the long-term operating performance of the group. 
(c)  Other 
In the reconciliation of consolidated adjusted profit before tax to profit for the period the other adjusting item sub-total of £71m (2019: 
£214m) includes £66m which predominantly relates to our share of Phoenix gains on the acquisition of ReAssure (Refer Note 16) and 
the completion of the Part VII transfer of their Legal and General mature savings business. Also included is the gain on disposal of SL 
Asia of £8m. Net fair value movements in contingent consideration were (£10m) (2019: £61m) including (£15m) (2019: £56m) relating to 
discontinued operations. 
The other adjusting items in 2019 included £140m relating to the settlement of arbitration with Lloyds Banking Group.  
  Standard Life Aberdeen 2020 141
7. Group financial statements continued 
14.   Dividends on ordinary shares 
Dividends are distributions of profit to holders of Standard Life Aberdeen plc’s share capital and as a result are recognised as a 
deduction in equity. Final dividends are announced with the Annual report and accounts and are recognised when they have been 
approved by shareholders. Interim dividends are announced with the Half year results and are recognised when they are paid. 
 
  2020  2019 
  Pence per share  £m1  Pence per share  £m 
Prior year’s final dividend paid   14.3  320  14.30  345 
Interim dividend paid  7.3  159  7.30  173 
Total dividends paid on ordinary shares    479    518 
         
Current year final recommended dividend   7.3  154  14.30  320 
1  Estimated for current year final recommended dividend. 
The final recommended dividend will be paid on 25 May 2021 to shareholders on the Company’s register as at 16 April 2021, subject to 
approval at the 2021 Annual General Meeting. After the current year final recommended dividend, the total dividend in respect of the 
year ended 31 December 2020 is 14.60p (2019: 21.60p). 
   
142 Standard Life Aberdeen 2020
7. Group financial statements continued   
 
14.   Dividends on ordinary shares  15.  Intangible assets  
Dividends are distributions of profit to holders of Standard Life Aberdeen plc’s share capital and as a result are recognised as a  Goodwill is created when the Group acquires a business and the consideration exceeds the fair value of the net assets acquired. In 
deduction in equity. Final dividends are announced with the Annual report and accounts and are recognised when they have been  determining the net assets acquired in business combinations, intangible assets are recognised where they are separable or arise 
approved by shareholders. Interim dividends are announced with the Half year results and are recognised when they are paid.  from contractual or legal rights. Intangible assets acquired by the Group through business combinations consist mainly of customer 
relationships, technology and brands. Any remaining value that cannot be identified as a separate intangible asset on acquisition 
  forms part of goodwill. 
  2020  2019  In addition to intangible assets acquired through business combinations, the Group recognises as intangible assets software which 
  Pence per share  £m1  Pence per share  £m  has been developed internally and other purchased technology which is used in managing and executing our business. Costs to 
Prior year’s final dividend paid   14.3  320  14.30  345  develop software internally are capitalised after the research phase and when it has been established that the project is technically 
feasible and the Group has both the intention and ability to use the completed asset. 
Interim dividend paid  7.3  159  7.30  173 
Total dividends paid on ordinary shares    479    518  Intangible assets are recognised at cost and amortisation is charged to the income statement over the length of time the Group 
          expects to derive benefits from the asset. The allocation of the income statement charge to each reporting period is dependent on the  FIN
expected pattern over which future benefits are expected to be derived. Where this pattern cannot be determined reliably the charge  A
Current year final recommended dividend   7.3  154  14.30  320  is allocated on a straight-line basis.  NCIA
1  Estimated for current year final recommended dividend.  Goodwill is not charged to the income statement unless it becomes impaired.  L IN
F
O
The final recommended dividend will be paid on 25 May 2021 to shareholders on the Company’s register as at 16 April 2021, subject to  The Group also recognises the cost of obtaining customer contracts (refer Note 4) as an intangible asset. These costs primarily relate  R
M
approval at the 2021 Annual General Meeting. After the current year final recommended dividend, the total dividend in respect of the  to the cost of acquiring existing investment management contracts from other asset managers and commission costs for initial  A
T
year ended 31 December 2020 is 14.60p (2019: 21.60p).  investors into new closed end funds where these are borne by the Group. For the cost of obtaining customer contracts, the intangible  IO
N
asset is amortised on the same basis as the transfer to the customer of the services to which the intangible asset relates. 
     
  
    Acquired through business combinations         
Customer 
relationships  Cost of 
and investment  Internally  Purchased  obtaining 
management  developed  software  customer 
    Goodwill  Brand  contracts   Technology   software1  and other  contracts  Total 
  Notes  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m 
Gross amount                   
At 1 January 2019    3,438  93  1,019  67  121  4  96  4,838 
Additions    37  –  13  –  10  3  2  65 
Other    –  –  (1)  –  –  (4)  (2)  (7) 
At 31 December 2019    3,475  93  1,031  67  131  3  96  4,896 
Reclassified as held for sale 
during the year    –  –  –  (3)  (2)  –  –  (5) 
Additions    –  –  –  –  2  2  8  12 
At 31 December 2020    3,475  93  1,031  64  131  5  104  4,903 
Accumulated amortisation 
and impairment                   
At 1 January 2019    (906)  (26)  (386)  (41)  (59)  –  (16)  (1,434) 
Amortisation charge for the 
year     –  (19)  (111)  (13)  (20)  (1)  (20)  (184) 
Impairment losses recognised2    (1,569)  –  –  (1)  (1)  –  –  (1,571) 
At 31 December 2019    (2,475)  (45)  (497)  (55)  (80)  (1)  (36)  (3,189) 
Reclassified as held for sale 
during the year    –  –  –  2  1  –  –  3 
Amortisation charge for the year   6  –  (18)  (86)  (7)  (21)  (1)  (19)  (152) 
Impairment losses recognised2  6  (915)  –  (134)  (1)  (14)  –  –  (1,064) 
At 31 December 2020    (3,390)  (63)  (717)  (61)  (114)  (2)  (55)  (4,402) 
Carrying amount                   
At 1 January 2019    2,532  67  633  26  62  4  80  3,404 
At 31 December 2019    1,000  48  534  12  51  2  60  1,707 
At 31 December 2020    85  30  314  3  17  3  49  501 
1  Included in the internally developed software of £17m (2019: £51m) is £8m (2019: £6m) relating to intangible assets not yet ready for use. 
2  For the year ended 31 December 2020, goodwill impairment losses of £915m (2019: £1,569m) were recognised on asset management goodwill and presented separately in 
the consolidated income statement. 
At 31 December 2020 £85m of goodwill (2019: £85m) is attributable to a number of smaller cash-generating units in the Asset 
management, platforms and wealth segment. At 31 December 2020, there was no goodwill (2019: £915m) attributable to the asset 
management group of cash-generating units, which comprises the Group’s asset management business excluding HDFC Asset 
Management, in the Asset management, platforms and wealth segment. 
  Standard Life Aberdeen 2020 143
7. Group financial statements continued 
On the acquisition of Aberdeen Asset Management PLC (AAM PLC) in 2017, we identified intangible assets in relation to customer 
relationships, brand and technology as being separable from goodwill. Identification and valuation of intangible assets acquired in 
business combinations is a key judgement. 
The customer relationships acquired through AAM PLC were grouped where the customer groups have similar economic characteristics 
and similar useful economic lives. This gave rise to three separate intangible assets which we have termed Lloyds Banking Group, open 
ended funds, and segregated and similar.  
In relation to the open ended funds we considered that it was most appropriate to recognise an intangible asset relating to customer 
relationships between AAM PLC and open ended fund customers, rather than an intangible asset relating to investment management 
agreements between AAM PLC and AAM PLC’s open ended funds. Our judgement was that the value associated with the open ended 
fund assets under management was predominantly derived from the underlying customer relationships, taking into account that a 
significant proportion of these assets under management are from institutional clients. 
The intangible asset for Lloyds Banking Group had a carrying value of £nil at the end of 2019. The description of the remaining two 
separate intangible assets including their estimated useful life at the acquisition date of 14 August 2017 was as follows: 
Useful life at  Fair value on  Carrying   Carrying  
Customer relationship  acquisition  acquisition  value  value 
intangible asset  Description  date  date  2020   2019  
      £m  £m  £m 
Open ended funds  Separate vehicle group – open ended investment  11 years  223  87  111 
vehicles 
Segregated and  All other vehicle groups dominated by segregated  12 years  427  107  280 
similar  mandates which represent 75% of this group 
Measuring the fair value of intangible assets acquired in business combinations required further assumptions and judgements. 
Customer relationships were valued using discounted cash flow projections. The key assumptions in measuring the fair value of the 
customer relationships at the acquisition date were as follows: 
• Net attrition – net attrition represents the expected rate of outflows of assets under management net of inflows from existing 
customers. This assumption was primarily based on recent experience.  
• Market growth – a market growth adjustment was applied based on the asset class 
• Operating margin – this assumption was consistent with forecast margins and included the impact of synergies that would be 
expected by any market participant and impacted the Aberdeen customer relationship cash flows 
• Discount rate – this assumption was based on the internal rate of return (IRR) of the transaction and is consistent with a market 
participant discount rate 
The above assumptions, and in particular the net attrition assumption, were also used to determine the useful economic life at the 
acquisition date of each asset used for amortisation. The reducing balance method of amortisation is considered appropriate for these 
intangibles, consistent with the attrition pattern on customer relationships which means that the economic benefits delivered from the 
existing customer base will reduce disproportionately over time. 
There has been no change to the useful lives of the Open ended funds and Segregated and similar customer relationship intangible 
assets. Therefore the residual useful life of the Open ended funds customer relationship intangible asset is 7.6 years and the residual life 
of the Segregated and similar customer relationship intangible asset is 8.6 years. 
Estimates and assumptions 
The key estimates and assumptions in relation to intangible assets are: 
• Determination of the recoverable amount of goodwill and customer intangibles 
• Determination of useful lives 
Determination of the recoverable amount of goodwill and customer intangibles  
For all intangible assets including goodwill, an assessment is made at each reporting date as to whether there is an indication that the 
goodwill or intangible asset has become impaired. If any indication of impairment exists then the recoverable amount of the asset is 
determined. The recoverable amounts are defined as the higher of fair value less costs of disposal (FVLCD) and the value in use 
(VIU) where the value in use is based on the present value of future cash flows. Where the carrying value exceeds the recoverable 
amount then the carrying value is written down to the recoverable amount. 
In assessing value in use, expected future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate. Judgement 
is required in assessing both the expected cash flows and an appropriate discount rate which is based on current market 
assessments of the time value of money and the risks associated with the asset. 
In 2020, an impairment of goodwill of £915m (2019: £1,569m) and an impairment of customer relationships and investment 
management contracts of £134m (2019: £nil) have been recognised. Both impairments relate to assets included in the Asset 
management, platforms and wealth segment. The impairments are included within administrative expenses in the consolidated 
income statement. 
 
 
144 Standard Life Aberdeen 2020
7. Group financial statements continued   
 
On the acquisition of Aberdeen Asset Management PLC (AAM PLC) in 2017, we identified intangible assets in relation to customer 
Goodwill 
relationships, brand and technology as being separable from goodwill. Identification and valuation of intangible assets acquired in 
The impairment of £915m was recognised at 30 June 2020 and relates to an impairment of asset management goodwill, the group of 
business combinations is a key judgement. 
cash-generating units for which is our asset management business excluding HDFC Asset Management and VMUTM (2019: 
The customer relationships acquired through AAM PLC were grouped where the customer groups have similar economic characteristics  £1,569m). The impairment resulted from the impact on reported revenue and future revenue projections of global equity market falls 
and similar useful economic lives. This gave rise to three separate intangible assets which we have termed Lloyds Banking Group, open  and a shift in asset mix towards lower margin assets. Both the fall in equity markets and the shift in asset mix were global market 
ended funds, and segregated and similar.   impacts primarily resulting from COVID-19. Additional projections were prepared to take into account these COVID-19 impacts, and 
uncertainties over future financial markets, and these projections were a key input to the impairment review process. The asset 
In relation to the open ended funds we considered that it was most appropriate to recognise an intangible asset relating to customer 
relationships between AAM PLC and open ended fund customers, rather than an intangible asset relating to investment management  management goodwill recognised is now fully impaired. 
agreements between AAM PLC and AAM PLC’s open ended funds. Our judgement was that the value associated with the open ended  The recoverable amount of this group of cash-generating units at 30 June 2020 was £1,654m, which is based on FVLCD. This is also 
fund assets under management was predominantly derived from the underlying customer relationships, taking into account that a  the carrying value at 30 June 2020. The FVLCD considered a number of valuation approaches, with the primary approach being a 
significant proportion of these assets under management are from institutional clients.  price to earnings multiple approach. This is a level 3 measurement as it is measured using inputs which are not based on observable 
market data. Key assumptions used in the earnings multiples valuation approach were: 
The intangible asset for Lloyds Banking Group had a carrying value of £nil at the end of 2019. The description of the remaining two  F
IN
separate intangible assets including their estimated useful life at the acquisition date of 14 August 2017 was as follows:  • Projected adjusted profits which were based on management forecasts of maintainable earnings and market consensus views.  A
N
Revenues in the management forecasts reflected past experience and modelling based on assets under management and fee  C
Useful life at  Fair value on  Carrying   Carrying   IA
Customer relationship  acquisition  acquisition  value  value  revenue yields by asset class. Equity markets in 2020 were assumed to stay broadly in line with 30 June levels. Expenses in the  L IN
intangible asset  Description  date  date  2020   2019   management forecasts were based on past experience adjusted for planned expense savings.  F
O
      £m  £m  £m  • Price to earnings multiples which were determined based on market data on multiples of a peer group of comparable European  RM
Open ended funds  Separate vehicle group – open ended investment  11 years  223  87  111  asset managers as at 30 June 2020  AT
vehicles  IO
• Premiums for control and discounts for lack of liquidity which were determined based on comparable transactions adjusted to  N
Segregated and  All other vehicle groups dominated by segregated  12 years  427  107  280  remove strategic control premiums   
similar  mandates which represent 75% of this group  • The expected cost of disposal, which was based on past experience of previous transactions 
In addition to the price to earnings multiple approach, other valuation approaches were considered including discounted cash flows 
Measuring the fair value of intangible assets acquired in business combinations required further assumptions and judgements. 
and deriving the valuation from the market capitalisation of the Group, which gave a range of reasonable outcomes. The primary 
Customer relationships were valued using discounted cash flow projections. The key assumptions in measuring the fair value of the 
valuation approach was within this range of reasonable outcomes and reflected market conditions and uncertainties at 30 June 2020, 
customer relationships at the acquisition date were as follows: 
including significant uncertainties relating to the impact of COVID-19 at that point. Under IFRS requirements an impairment of 
• Net attrition – net attrition represents the expected rate of outflows of assets under management net of inflows from existing  goodwill recognised in an interim period cannot be reversed due to changes in circumstances during the second half of the financial 
customers. This assumption was primarily based on recent experience.   year. 
• Market growth – a market growth adjustment was applied based on the asset class 
The recoverable amount of this group of cash-generating units at 31 December 2019 was £2,603m based on VIU, which was 
• Operating margin – this assumption was consistent with forecast margins and included the impact of synergies that would be  assessed by management as being higher than the FVLCD. The VIU continues to be significantly reduced by the IFRS requirement 
expected by any market participant and impacted the Aberdeen customer relationship cash flows  to add back certain expense savings to management’s expectation of the level of future operating expenses, as was also the case at 
• Discount rate – this assumption was based on the internal rate of return (IRR) of the transaction and is consistent with a market  31 December 2019. Considering this, and as a result of the increased market uncertainty in the COVID-19 environment and the 
participant discount rate  impact of reduced reported revenue and future revenue projections, management has now assessed that the FVLCD is higher.  
The above assumptions, and in particular the net attrition assumption, were also used to determine the useful economic life at the  For the remaining goodwill of £85m (2019: £85m), which is attributable to a number of smaller cash-generating units in the Asset 
acquisition date of each asset used for amortisation. The reducing balance method of amortisation is considered appropriate for these  management, platforms and wealth segment, we concluded that no impairment was required.  
intangibles, consistent with the attrition pattern on customer relationships which means that the economic benefits delivered from the 
Customer relationship and investment management contract intangibles 
existing customer base will reduce disproportionately over time. 
The recoverable amount for customer relationship intangible assets for which there were indicators of impairment is VIU. In assessing 
There has been no change to the useful lives of the Open ended funds and Segregated and similar customer relationship intangible  VIU, expected future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate. Judgement is required in 
assets. Therefore the residual useful life of the Open ended funds customer relationship intangible asset is 7.6 years and the residual life  assessing both the expected cash flows and an appropriate discount rate which is based on current market assessments of the time 
of the Segregated and similar customer relationship intangible asset is 8.6 years.  value of money and the risks associated with the asset. 
The impairment of £134m (2019: £nil) relates to the Segregated and similar customer relationship intangible asset which was 
Estimates and assumptions 
recognised on the acquisition of AAM PLC. The impairment resulted from the impact of markets, net outflows and a fall in revenue 
The key estimates and assumptions in relation to intangible assets are: 
yield on future earnings expectations. The impairment was recognised at 30 June 2020. The recoverable amount of this asset which 
• Determination of the recoverable amount of goodwill and customer intangibles  is its VIU at 30 June 2020 was £119m and was calculated using a pre-tax discount rate of 14.8%. 
• Determination of useful lives  The other key assumptions in the VIU were: 
Determination of the recoverable amount of goodwill and customer intangibles   • Future assets under management which were modelled based on past experience of attrition rates and assumed market growth 
For all intangible assets including goodwill, an assessment is made at each reporting date as to whether there is an indication that the  rates tapered to 2% in the longer term 
goodwill or intangible asset has become impaired. If any indication of impairment exists then the recoverable amount of the asset is  • Fee revenue yields based on past experience adjusted to assume a decline due to changes in asset mix over the projection period 
determined. The recoverable amounts are defined as the higher of fair value less costs of disposal (FVLCD) and the value in use 
• Operating expense margins based on past experience and management forecasts 
(VIU) where the value in use is based on the present value of future cash flows. Where the carrying value exceeds the recoverable 
amount then the carrying value is written down to the recoverable amount.  At 31 December 2020, there is no indication that the Segregated and similar customer relationship intangible asset has become 
further impaired. The following table shows the consequence of illustrative downside sensitivities of key assumptions on the carrying 
In assessing value in use, expected future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate. Judgement 
amount of the Segregated and similar customer relationship intangible balance at 31 December 2020. An increase in the discount 
is required in assessing both the expected cash flows and an appropriate discount rate which is based on current market 
rate of two percentage points would not lead to a further impairment loss. 
assessments of the time value of money and the risks associated with the asset. 
In 2020, an impairment of goodwill of £915m (2019: £1,569m) and an impairment of customer relationships and investment          £m 
management contracts of £134m (2019: £nil) have been recognised. Both impairments relate to assets included in the Asset  30% increase in attrition        (2) 
management, platforms and wealth segment. The impairments are included within administrative expenses in the consolidated  25% one-off decrease in AUM at 1 January 2021        (12) 
income statement. 
Operating expense margin decreased by five percentage points        (11) 
 
   
 
  Standard Life Aberdeen 2020 145
7. Group financial statements continued 
Determination of useful lives 
The determination of useful lives requires judgement in respect of the length of time that the Group expects to derive benefits from the 
asset and considers for example expected duration of customer relationships and when technology is expected to become obsolete 
for technology based assets. The amortisation period and method for each of the Group’s intangible asset categories is as follows: 
• Customer relationships acquired through business combinations – generally between 7 and 12 years, generally reducing balance 
method 
• Investment management contracts acquired through business combinations – between 10 and 17 years, straight-line 
• Brand acquired through business combinations – 5 years, straight-line 
• Technology acquired through business combinations – between 3 and 6 years, straight line 
• Internally developed software – between 2 and 6 years. Amortisation is on a straight-line basis and commences once the asset is 
available for use. 
• Purchased software – between 2 and 6 years, straight-line 
• Costs of obtaining customer contracts – between 3 and 12 years, generally reducing balance method 
Internally developed software 
The determination of amounts to be recognised as internally developed software requires judgement and assumptions in respect of 
whether assets are capable of being separated and the extent to which development costs form part of the separable asset. 
Additionally judgement is required to determine which costs have been incurred in relation to the research phase, which are not 
capitalised, and which have been incurred in relation to the development phase of a project, which can be capitalised. We consider 
that costs are directly attributable to the software asset and can therefore be capitalised, where they would not have been incurred if 
the software development had not taken place. 
 
The impairment of internally developed software of £14m recognised during the year to 31 December 2020 related to software made 
obsolete as a result of the development of the new investment platform in the Asset management, platforms and wealth segment. 
   
146 Standard Life Aberdeen 2020
7. Group financial statements continued   
 
16.  Investments in associates and joint ventures  
Determination of useful lives 
The determination of useful lives requires judgement in respect of the length of time that the Group expects to derive benefits from the  Associates are entities where the Group can significantly influence decisions made relating to the financial and operating policies of 
asset and considers for example expected duration of customer relationships and when technology is expected to become obsolete  the entity but does not control the entity. For entities where voting rights exist, significant influence is presumed where the Group 
for technology based assets. The amortisation period and method for each of the Group’s intangible asset categories is as follows:  holds between 20% and 50% of the voting rights. Where the Group holds less than 20% of voting rights, consideration is given to 
other indicators and entities are classified as associates where it is judged that these other indicators result in significant influence. 
• Customer relationships acquired through business combinations – generally between 7 and 12 years, generally reducing balance 
method  Joint ventures are strategic investments where the Group has agreed to share control of an entity’s financial and operating policies 
• Investment management contracts acquired through business combinations – between 10 and 17 years, straight-line  through a shareholders’ agreement and decisions can only be taken with unanimous consent. 
• Brand acquired through business combinations – 5 years, straight-line  Associates, other than those accounted for at fair value through profit or loss, and joint ventures are accounted for using the equity 
• Technology acquired through business combinations – between 3 and 6 years, straight line  method from the date that significant influence or shared control, respectively, commences until the date this ceases with consistent 
accounting policies applied throughout.  
• Internally developed software – between 2 and 6 years. Amortisation is on a straight-line basis and commences once the asset is 
available for use.  Under the equity method, investments in associates and joint ventures are initially recognised at cost. When an interest is acquired at 
F
• Purchased software – between 2 and 6 years, straight-line  fair value from a third party, the value of the Group’s share of the investee’s identifiable assets and liabilities is determined applying  INA
• Costs of obtaining customer contracts – between 3 and 12 years, generally reducing balance method  tinhvee ssatemee.  Wvahlueareti ocno sctr iitse rhiaig ahse rf othr ea  dbiuffesirneenscse  ciso midbeinntaiftieiodn  aast  tghoeo adcwqilul iasnitdio nth dea intev.e Tshteise  isis  cinoimtiapllayr eredc toog tnhiese cdo satt  ocfo tsht ew ihnivcehs itnmcelundt eins  tthheis   NCIA
L
Internally developed software  component of goodwill. Where cost is lower a bargain purchase has arisen and the investee is initially recognised at the Group’s   IN
F
The determination of amounts to be recognised as internally developed software requires judgement and assumptions in respect of  share of the investee’s identifiable assets and liabilities unless the recoverable amount for the purpose of assessing impairment is  OR
whether assets are capable of being separated and the extent to which development costs form part of the separable asset.  lower, in which case the investee is initially recognised at the recoverable amount.  MA
T
Additionally judgement is required to determine which costs have been incurred in relation to the research phase, which are not  Subsequently the carrying value is adjusted for the Group’s share of post-acquisition profit or loss and other comprehensive income  IO
N
capitalised, and which have been incurred in relation to the development phase of a project, which can be capitalised. We consider  of the associate or joint venture, which are recognised in the consolidated income statement and other comprehensive income 
 
that costs are directly attributable to the software asset and can therefore be capitalised, where they would not have been incurred if  respectively. The Group’s share of post-acquisition profit or loss includes amortisation charges based on the valuation exercise at 
the software development had not taken place.  acquisition. The carrying value is also adjusted for any impairment losses. 
 
On partial disposal of an associate, a gain or loss is recognised based on the difference between the proceeds received and the 
The impairment of internally developed software of £14m recognised during the year to 31 December 2020 related to software made 
equity accounted value of the portion disposed of. Indicators of significant influence are reassessed based on the remaining voting 
obsolete as a result of the development of the new investment platform in the Asset management, platforms and wealth segment. 
rights. Where significant influence is judged to have been lost, the investment in associate is reclassified to interests in equity 
    securities and pooled investment funds measured at fair value. If an entity is reclassified, the difference between the fair value and 
the remaining equity accounted value is accounted for as a reclassification gain or loss on disposal. 
Where the Group has an investment in an associate, a portion of which is held by, or is held indirectly through, a mutual fund, unit 
trust or similar entity, including investment-linked insurance funds, that portion of the investment is measured at FVTPL. In general, 
investment vehicles which are not subsidiaries are considered to be associates where the Group holds more than 20% of the voting 
rights. 
 
The level of future dividend payments and other transfers of funds to the Group from associates and joint ventures accounted for using 
the equity method could be restricted by the regulatory solvency and capital requirements of the associate or joint venture, certain local 
laws or foreign currency transaction restrictions. 
(a)  Investments in associates and joint ventures accounted for using the equity method  
  2020  2019 
Joint  Joint 
  Associates  ventures  Total  Associates  ventures  Total 
  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m 
At 1 January   1,257  252  1,509  1,260  184  1,444 
Exchange translation adjustments  (11)  8  (3)  (16)  (11)  (27) 
Additions  –  5  5  –  51  51 
Disposals  (102)  –  (102)  (178)  –  (178) 
Profit after tax  177  17  194  63  16  79 
Other comprehensive income  –  –  –  (22)  12  (10) 
Dilution gains  4  –  4  –  –  – 
(Impairment)/Reversal of impairment   –  (45)  (45)  243  –  243 
Distributions of profit  (80)  –  (80)  (93)  –  (93) 
Reclassified to equity securities and interests in pooled 
investments funds  (111)  –  (111)  –  –  – 
At 31 December  1,134  237  1,371  1,257  252  1,509 
   
  Standard Life Aberdeen 2020 147
7. Group financial statements continued 
The following associates and joint ventures are considered to be material to the Group as at 31 December 2020.  
Fair value of  Fair value of 
interest held by  interest held by 
Principal  Interest held by   the Group at   Interest held by   the Group at  
Nature of  place of  Measurement  the Group at 31  31 December  the Group at 31  31 December 
Name of associate   relationship  business  Method  December 2020   2020  December 2019   2019  
Phoenix Group Holdings plc  Associate  United  Equity  14.42%  1,010  19.97%  1,079 
(Phoenix)  Kingdom  Accounted 
HDFC Asset Management  Associate  India   Equity  21.24%  1,321  26.91%  1,937 
Company Limited (HDFC Asset  Accounted 
Management) 
Heng An Standard Life Insurance  Joint  China  Equity  50.00%  n/a  50.00%  n/a 
Company Limited (HASL)  venture  Accounted 
The country of incorporation or registration is the same as their principal place of business. The interest held by the Group is the same 
as the proportion of voting rights held. The material associates are all listed. HASL is not listed.  
The Group’s investment in the following company was considered to be a material associate at 31 December 2019 but was reclassified 
to equity securities and interest in pooled investment funds during 2020. Refer Section (b) below for further details.  
Interest held by   Fair value of interest 
Nature of  Principal place  Measurement  the Group at 31  held by the Group at  
Name of associate   relationship  of business  Method  December 2019   31 December 2019  
HDFC Life Insurance Company Limited  Associate  India  Equity Accounted  14.73%  1,968 
(HDFC Life) 
(b)  Investments in associates accounted for using the equity method 
The table below provides summarised financial information for those associates which are considered to be material to the Group. The 
summarised financial information reflects the amounts presented in the financial statements or management accounts of the relevant 
associates amended to reflect adjustments made when using the equity method, including fair value adjustments on acquisition and not 
the Group’s share of those amounts.  
  2020  2019 
HDFC Asset  HDFC Asset 
  Phoenix  Management1  Phoenix  HDFC Life2  Management1 
  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m 
Summarised financial information of associate:           
Revenue  4,704  220  4,182  3,617  276 
Profit after tax (all from continuing operations)  690  132  28  128  170 
Other comprehensive income  25  –  (110)  –  – 
Total comprehensive income  715  132  (82)  128  170 
Total assets3  334,193  474  242,666  14,607  388 
Total liabilities3  326,441  28  237,043  13,818  27 
Net assets  7,752  446  5,623  789  361 
Attributable to NCI and other equity holders  835  –  808  –  – 
Attributable to investee’s shareholder  6,917  446  4,815  789  361 
Interest held  14.42%  21.24%  19.97%  14.73%  26.91% 
Share of net assets  998  95  962  116  97 
 
  2020  2019 
HDFC Asset  HDFC Asset 
  Phoenix   Management  Other4  Total  Phoenix  HDFC Life2 Management  Other  Total 
  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m 
Carrying value of associates 
accounted for using the equity 
method   1,008  116  10  1,134  961  167  120  9  1,257 
Dividends received  67  13  –  80  67  9  17  –  93 
Share of profit/(loss) after tax4  110  48  19  177  (5)  26  42  –  63 
1  Revenue and profit after tax for HDFC Asset Management are presented for the 12 months to 31 December 2020 and total assets and total liabilities are presented as at 31 
December 2020. For 2019, revenue and profit after tax for HDFC Asset Management presented were for the 15 months to 31 December 2019 (refer below for details of 
accounting period alignment) and total assets and total liabilities presented were as at 30 September 2019 as the statement of financial position at 31 December 2019 was not 
made publicly available. 
2  As noted above, the Group’s investment in HDFC Life was reclassified to equity securities and interests in pooled investment funds in 2020 so HDFC Life was not a material 
associate at 31 December 2020 (refer below for further details of the reclassification).  
3  As a liquidity presentation is used by insurance companies when presenting their statement of financial position, an analysis of total assets and total liabilities between current 
and non-current has not been provided for Phoenix and HDFC Life. The majority of HDFC Asset Management’s assets and liabilities are current.  
4  For the year ended 31 December 2020 the share of profit/(loss) after tax of £19m for Other relates to HDFC Life for the period from 1 January 2020 to 3 December 2020 prior 
to its reclassification to equity securities and interests in pooled funds (refer below for further details of the reclassification).  
148 Standard Life Aberdeen 2020
7. Group financial statements continued   
 
The following associates and joint ventures are considered to be material to the Group as at 31 December 2020.   Phoenix 
Phoenix is the largest life and pensions consolidator in Europe. Our investment in Phoenix supports our strategic partnership. On 23 
Fair value of  Fair value of 
interest held by  interest held by  February 2021, the Group announced a simplification and extension of the strategic partnership between the Group and Phoenix. Refer 
Principal  Interest held by   the Group at   Interest held by   the Group at   Note 47. 
Nature of  place of  Measurement  the Group at 31  31 December  the Group at 31  31 December 
Name of associate   relationship  business  Method  December 2020   2020  December 2019   2019   Following the completion of the Sale of the Group’s UK and European insurance business in August 2018, as part of the total 
Phoenix Group Holdings plc  Associate  United  Equity  14.42%  1,010  19.97%  1,079  consideration, the Group was issued with new Phoenix shares representing 19.98% of the issued share capital of Phoenix. While our 
(Phoenix)  Kingdom  Accounted  interest was less than 20%, being the threshold where significant influence is presumed, our judgement was that Phoenix should be 
HDFC Asset Management  Associate  India   Equity  21.24%  1,321  26.91%  1,937  classified as an associate. This judgement took into account other key indicators of significant influence from the contractual 
Company Limited (HDFC Asset  Accounted  relationships with Phoenix, including the licensing to Phoenix of the Standard Life brand, and the Group’s representation on the Phoenix 
Management)  Board. 
Heng An Standard Life Insurance  Joint  China  Equity  50.00%  n/a  50.00%  n/a  On 22 July 2020 the Group’s associate, Phoenix, announced the completion of its acquisition of ReAssure Group plc. Under the terms 
Company Limited (HASL)  venture  Accounted 
of the transaction, Phoenix issued 277,277,138 new ordinary shares as part consideration for the acquisition. Phoenix have recognised 
F
a gain on acquisition of £372m reflecting the excess of the fair value of the net assets acquired over the consideration paid and the  IN
The country of incorporation or registration is the same as their principal place of business. The interest held by the Group is the same  Group’s share of this gain is recognised in our share of profit from Phoenix. Completion of the transaction resulted in the Group’s holding  AN
C
as the proportion of voting rights held. The material associates are all listed. HASL is not listed.   in Phoenix becoming 14.4% of the enlarged Phoenix Group. A dilution gain of £4m was recognised within the Profit on disposal of  IA
L
The Group’s investment in the following company was considered to be a material associate at 31 December 2019 but was reclassified  interests in associates in the consolidated income statement as a result of the transaction. Refer Note 1 for further details. Although our   IN
F
to equity securities and interest in pooled investment funds during 2020. Refer Section (b) below for further details.   interest in Phoenix has reduced to 14.4%, taking into account our continued representation on Phoenix’s board and, in particular, the  OR
contractual relationships with Phoenix, including the licencing to Phoenix of the Standard Life brand, our judgement was that Phoenix  M
A
Interest held by   Fair value of interest  should continue to be classified as an associate.   T
Nature of  Principal place  Measurement  the Group at 31  held by the Group at   IO
N
Name of associate   relationship  of business  Method  December 2019   31 December 2019   At acquisition the value of the Group’s share of Phoenix’s identifiable assets and liabilities was determined. This value was determined 
 
HDFC Life Insurance Company Limited  Associate  India  Equity Accounted  14.73%  1,968  using the same valuation bases as required for a business combination under which most of the identifiable assets and liabilities of the 
(HDFC Life)  enlarged Phoenix group (including Standard Life Assurance Limited (SLAL)) were measured at fair value. The most significant assets 
that were not measured at fair value were Phoenix’s defined benefit pension schemes which were measured at their IAS 19 value.  
(b)  Investments in associates accounted for using the equity method 
The table below provides summarised financial information for those associates which are considered to be material to the Group. The  A key judgement was the identification, valuation and determination of useful lives, of the Group’s share of Phoenix’s intangible assets at 
summarised financial information reflects the amounts presented in the financial statements or management accounts of the relevant  the date of acquisition. The main intangible assets identified were the acquired present value of in-force business (AVIF) for both SLAL 
associates amended to reflect adjustments made when using the equity method, including fair value adjustments on acquisition and not  and other Phoenix entities. AVIF comprised the difference between the fair value and IFRS carrying value of insurance contracts 
the Group’s share of those amounts.   together with the fair value of future profits expected to arise on investment contracts. The valuation of the AVIF was determined using 
the application of present value techniques to the best estimate cash flows expected to arise from policies that were in-force at the 
  2020  2019  acquisition date, adjusted to reflect the price of bearing the uncertainty inherent in those cash flows. This approach incorporated a 
HDFC Asset  HDFC Asset  number of judgements and assumptions which impacted the resultant valuation, the most significant of which were mortality rates, 
  Phoenix  Management1  Phoenix  HDFC Life2  Management1 
expected policy lapses, the expenses associated with servicing the policies, future investment returns, the discount rate and the risk 
  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m 
adjustment for uncertainty, determined using a cost of capital approach. The Group’s share of profit after acquisition under the equity 
Summarised financial information of associate:            method reflects the amortisation of these intangible assets. This differs from the amortisation recognised in Phoenix’s own IFRS financial 
Revenue  4,704  220  4,182  3,617  276  statements due to the revaluation of the existing Phoenix intangible assets at August 2018 for equity method purposes. The amortisation 
Profit after tax (all from continuing operations)  690  132  28  128  170  method reflects the expected emergence of economic benefits which results in higher amortisation in earlier periods. 
Other comprehensive income  25  –  (110)  –  – 
Following the completion of the ReAssure transaction, the Group’s current share of Phoenix’s intangible assets recognised at the date of 
Total comprehensive income  715  132  (82)  128  170  acquisition has reduced from 19.98% to 14.4%. The notional partial disposal of these intangible assets results in a reduction in the 
Total assets3  334,193  474  242,666  14,607  388  corresponding amortisation recognised in the Group’s share of profit under the equity method. 
Total liabilities3  326,441  28  237,043  13,818  27 
Useful life at   Fair value at   Group’s share at 
Net assets  7,752  446  5,623  789  361  acquisition date  acquisition date   acquisition date1 
Attributable to NCI and other equity holders  835  –  808  –  –    Years  £m  £m 
Attributable to investee’s shareholder  6,917  446  4,815  789  361  Intangible asset:       
Interest held  14.42%  21.24%  19.97%  14.73%  26.91%  SLAL AVIF  24  2,931  586 
Share of net assets  998  95  962  116  97  Existing Phoenix AVIF  15  1,503  300 
  1  Based on Group’s share at the date of acquisition (19.98%). 
  2020  2019 
There has been no change to the useful lives of the SLAL AVIF and Existing Phoenix AVIF. Therefore the residual useful lives of these 
HDFC Asset  HDFC Asset 
  Phoenix   Management  Other4  Total  Phoenix  HDFC Life2 Management  Other  Total  assets at 31 December 2020 are 21.7 years and 12.7 years respectively.   
  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  The determination of longevity and persistency actuarial assumptions, and the determination of the bargain purchase gain in relation to 
Carrying value of associates  the acquisition of ReAssure are also key judgements in the determination of the Phoenix profits for 2020 and therefore the Group’s 
accounted for using the equity  carrying value of Phoenix at 31 December 2020 and share of profits for the year ended 31 December 2020. 
method   1,008  116  10  1,134  961  167  120  9  1,257 
Dividends received  67  13  –  80  67  9  17  –  93 
Share of profit/(loss) after tax4  110  48  19  177  (5)  26  42  –  63 
1  Revenue and profit after tax for HDFC Asset Management are presented for the 12 months to 31 December 2020 and total assets and total liabilities are presented as at 31 
December 2020. For 2019, revenue and profit after tax for HDFC Asset Management presented were for the 15 months to 31 December 2019 (refer below for details of 
accounting period alignment) and total assets and total liabilities presented were as at 30 September 2019 as the statement of financial position at 31 December 2019 was not 
made publicly available. 
2  As noted above, the Group’s investment in HDFC Life was reclassified to equity securities and interests in pooled investment funds in 2020 so HDFC Life was not a material 
associate at 31 December 2020 (refer below for further details of the reclassification).  
3  As a liquidity presentation is used by insurance companies when presenting their statement of financial position, an analysis of total assets and total liabilities between current 
and non-current has not been provided for Phoenix and HDFC Life. The majority of HDFC Asset Management’s assets and liabilities are current.  
4  For the year ended 31 December 2020 the share of profit/(loss) after tax of £19m for Other relates to HDFC Life for the period from 1 January 2020 to 3 December 2020 prior 
to its reclassification to equity securities and interests in pooled funds (refer below for further details of the reclassification).  
  Standard Life Aberdeen 2020 149
7.Group financial statements continued
Estimates and assumptions 
A key area of estimation is determining the recoverable amount of Phoenix on a value in use basis for the purpose of assessing 
impairment. We consider that under IAS 28 the market value of Phoenix represents the best estimate of the present value of future 
dividends and therefore this market value is used as the value in use. As the value in use is based on the market value, a discount 
rate is not determined. 
At 31 December 2020 the market value of the Group’s interest in Phoenix was £1,010m which was above the carrying value so 
no impairment was identified. 
At 31 December 2019 the market value of the Group’s interest in Phoenix was £1,079m and this was used as the value in use at this 
date. On this basis, a reversal of a previously recognised impairment of £243m was recognised in the consolidated income statement 
for the year ended 31 December 2019. 
The determination that market value should be used as the value in use is an area of judgement. If the recoverable amount falls 
below the carrying value in a future period this will result in a future impairment. 
Refer Note 47 for disclosure regarding the reclassification of Phoenix from an associate to an equity investment subsequent to the 
year end date of 31 December 2020. 
Phoenix has taken advantage of the temporary exemption granted to insurers in IFRS 4 Insurance Contracts from applying IFRS 9 as a 
result of meeting the exemption criteria as at 31 December 2015. 
The financial assets with contractual cash flows that are solely payments of principal and interest (excluding those held for trading or 
managed on a fair value basis) are set out below together with all other financial assets, measured at fair value through profit and loss. 
Fair value as at   Fair value as at  
31 December 2020  31 December 2019 
£m  £m 
Financial assets with contractual cash flows that are solely payments of principal and interest 
(SPPI) excluding those held for trading or managed on a fair value basis  13,436  6,197 
Financial assets other than those above1  298,176  218,355 
Total  311,612  224,552 
1  The change in fair value in the year to 31 December 2020 of all other financial assets that are FVTPL is a gain of £11,087m (2019: gain of £20,231m). 
An analysis of credit ratings of financial assets wiht contractual cash flows that are SPPI, excluding those held for trading or managed on 
a fair value basis, is provided below: 
AAA  AA  A  BBB  BB and below  Non-rated  Unit linked  Total 
2020  2019  2020  2019  2020  2019  2020  2019  2020  2019  2020  2019  2020  2019  2020  2019 
Carrying value  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m 
Loans and 
deposits  – –  6 21  195  47  – 164 – –  368  284 78  – 647  516
Cash and cash 
equivalents  30  295  1,728  733  7,035  3,105  193  23 – –  4  142  2,008 40 10,998  4,338 
Accrued 
income  – –  – –  – –  – –  – –  251  160 – –  251  160
Other 
receivables  – –  – –  – –  – –  – –  1,540  1,183 – –  1,540  1,183
30  295  1,734  754  7,230  3,152  193  187  – –  2,163  1,769  2,086 40 13,436  6,197 
HDFC Asset Management 
HDFC Asset Management manages a range of mutual funds and provides portfolio management and advisory services. The investment 
in HDFC Asset Management is a strategic investment in a leading asset manager in India, one of the world’s fastest growing markets. 
During 2020 the Group further reduced its interest in HDFC Asset Management to 21.24% (2019:26.91%). Refer Note 1 for further 
details.  
The difference between the carrying value of this associate and the Group’s share of net assets is due primarily to goodwill arising on 
the buyback of shares by HDFC Asset Management from employees. 
The year end date of HDFC Asset Management is 31 March which is different from the Group’s year end date of 31 December. For the 
purposes of the preparation of the Group’s consolidated financial statements, financial information for the period to 31 December is used 
for HDFC Asset Management. Prior to 2019, financial information for the 12 months to 30 September was used for HDFC Asset 
Management and 2019 included the Group’s share of HDFC Asset Management’s profits for the 15 months to 31 December 2019. 
£42m, which included £7m relating to the three months to 31 December 2018 (£12m net of tax of £5m), was recognised in the 
consolidated income statement for 2019. Profits for the three months to 31 December 2018 were excluded from 2019 adjusted profit. 
150 Standard Life Aberdeen 2020
7. Group financial statements continued   
 
HDFC Life  
Estimates and assumptions  
HDFC Life is one of India’s leading life insurance companies. The investment in HDFC Life allows the Group to benefit from the life 
A key area of estimation is determining the recoverable amount of Phoenix on a value in use basis for the purpose of assessing 
insurance market in one of the world’s fastest growing economies. 
impairment. We consider that under IAS 28 the market value of Phoenix represents the best estimate of the present value of future 
dividends and therefore this market value is used as the value in use. As the value in use is based on the market value, a discount  During 2020 the Group further reduced its interest in HDFC Life to 8.89% (2019:14.73%). Refer Note 1 for further details of the sales 
rate is not determined.  during 2020. While the Group’s remaining interest at 31 December 2019 was less than 20%, being the threshold where significant 
influence is presumed, our judgement was that HDFC Life should continue to be classified as an associate. This judgement took into 
At 31 December 2020 the market value of the Group’s interest in Phoenix was £1,010m which was above the carrying value so 
account other key indicators of significant influence including the Group’s representation on the board of HDFC Life and the Group’s 
no impairment was identified. 
ability to participate in policy-making processes including decisions about dividends or other distributions that require unanimous board 
 
approval under the articles of association. The final sale on 3 December 2020 reduced the Group’s interest from 10.27% to 8.89% and 
At 31 December 2019 the market value of the Group’s interest in Phoenix was £1,079m and this was used as the value in use at this 
the Group is no longer entitled to representation on the board of HDFC Life and, from this date, HDFC Life is no longer considered to be 
date. On this basis, a reversal of a previously recognised impairment of £243m was recognised in the consolidated income statement 
an associate of the Group.  
for the year ended 31 December 2019.  
On 3 December 2020, the Group’s investment in HDFC Life was reclassified to equity securities and interests in pooled investment 
The determination that market value should be used as the value in use is an area of judgement. If the recoverable amount falls  F
funds measured at fair value. The equity accounted value of the investment at this date was £111m. The fair value of the Group  IN
below the carrying value in a future period this will result in a future impairment.  A
investment in HDFC Life at this date was £1,168m based on the HDFC Life share price on the date of the reclassification and a  N
C
Refer Note 47 for disclosure regarding the reclassification of Phoenix from an associate to an equity investment subsequent to the  reclassification gain of £1,051m has been recognised in the consolidated income statement. On reclassification a loss of £6m was  IA
L
year end date of 31 December 2020.  recycled from the translation reserve and was included in determining the gain.   IN
F
O
The year end date for HDFC Life is 31 March which is different from the Group’s year end date of 31 December. For the purposes of the  R
M
Phoenix has taken advantage of the temporary exemption granted to insurers in IFRS 4 Insurance Contracts from applying IFRS 9 as a  preparation of the Group’s consolidated financial statements, financial information for the period from 1 January 2020 to 3 December  A
T
result of meeting the exemption criteria as at 31 December 2015.  2020 was used for HDFC Life (2019: as at and for the 12 months ended 31 December 2019) for equity accounting purposes. The  IO
N
difference between the carrying value of this associate and the Group’s share of net assets at 31 December 2019 was due primarily to 
The financial assets with contractual cash flows that are solely payments of principal and interest (excluding those held for trading or   
goodwill of £49m arising from additional investments being made at fair value rather than book value.  
managed on a fair value basis) are set out below together with all other financial assets, measured at fair value through profit and loss. 
At 31 March 2016 HDFC Life had significant insurance liabilities and its liabilities arising from contracts within the scope of IFRS 4 and 
Fair value as at   Fair value as at  
liabilities connected with insurance were over 90% of its total liabilities. Therefore HDFC Life was eligible to defer the implementation of 
  31 December 2020  31 December 2019 
IFRS 9 for equity accounting purposes. 
  £m  £m 
Financial assets with contractual cash flows that are solely payments of principal and interest  As the Group’s investment in HDFC Life is now measured at fair value, we are no longer applying the temporary exemption from IFRS 9 
(SPPI) excluding those held for trading or managed on a fair value basis  13,436  6,197  in relation to HDFC Life at 31 December 2020. The fair value of HDFC Life’s financial assets at 31 December 2019 that remained under 
Financial assets other than those above1  298,176  218,355  IAS 39 for equity accounting purposes and the change in fair value during the year ended 31 December 2019 were as follows: 
Total  311,612  224,552 
Fair value as at  
1  The change in fair value in the year to 31 December 2020 of all other financial assets that are FVTPL is a gain of £11,087 (2019: gain of £20,231m).    31 December 2019 
  £m 
An analysis of credit ratings of financial assets with contractual cash flows that are SPPI, excluding those held for trading or managed on  Financial assets with contractual cash flows that are solely payments of principal and interest (SPPI) excluding 
a fair value basis, is provided below:  those held for trading or managed on a fair value basis1,2  6,871 
Financial assets other than those above2  8,046 
  AAA  AA  A  BBB  BB and below  Non-rated  Unit linked  Total 
Total  14,917 
  2020  2019  2020  2019  2020  2019  2020  2019  2020  2019  2020  2019  2020  2019  2020  2019 
Carrying value  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  1  Financial assets that were SPPI (excluding those held for trading or managed on a fair value basis) are predominantly AAA debt instruments including central and state 
Loans and  government securities. Their carrying value at 31 December 2019 was £6,659m. Securities with fair value and carrying value of £34m were rated below BBB. 
deposits  –  –  6  21  195  47  –  164  –  –  368  284  78  –  647  516  2  The change in fair value in the year to 31 December 2019 for financial assets that are SPPI (excluding those held for trading or managed on a fair value basis) was a gain of 
£758m. The change in fair value for all other financial assets is a gain of £727m.  
Cash and cash 
equivalents  30  295  1,728  733  7,035  3,105  193  23  –  –  4  142  2,008  40 10,998  4,338  (c)  Investments in joint ventures 
Accrued    HASL  Other  Total 
income  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  251  160  –  –  251  160    2020  2019  2020  2019  2020  2019 
Other    £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m 
receivables  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  1,540  1,183  –  –  1,540  1,183  Carrying value of joint ventures accounted for using the 
  30  295  1,734  754  7,230  3,152  193  187  –  –  2,163  1,769  2,086  40 13,436  6,197  equity method  236  205  1  47  237  252 
Dividends received  –  –  –  –  –  – 
HDFC Asset Management 
Share of profit/(loss) after tax  23  20  (6)  (4)  17  16 
HDFC Asset Management manages a range of mutual funds and provides portfolio management and advisory services. The investment 
in HDFC Asset Management is a strategic investment in a leading asset manager in India, one of the world’s fastest growing markets. 
The Group’s share of the profit after tax (all from continuing operations) and total comprehensive income of other joint ventures was a 
During 2020 the Group further reduced its interest in HDFC Asset Management to 21.24% (2019:26.91%). Refer Note 1 for further  loss of £6m (2019: loss of £4m). 
details.  
HASL 
The difference between the carrying value of this associate and the Group’s share of net assets is due primarily to goodwill arising on  The Group has a 50% share in HASL, one of China’s leading life insurance companies offering life and health insurance products. The 
the buyback of shares by HDFC Asset Management from employees.  investment in HASL is a strategic investment giving the Group access to one of the world’s largest markets. 
The year end date of HDFC Asset Management is 31 March which is different from the Group’s year end date of 31 December. For the  On 30 June 2020, HASL completed the acquisition of SL Asia. Refer Note 1 for further details.  
purposes of the preparation of the Group’s consolidated financial statements, financial information for the period to 31 December is used 
   
for HDFC Asset Management. Prior to 2019, financial information for the 12 months to 30 September was used for HDFC Asset 
Management and 2019 included the Group’s share of HDFC Asset Management’s profits for the 15 months to 31 December 2019. 
£42m, which included £7m relating to the three months to 31 December 2018 (£12m net of tax of £5m), was recognised in the 
consolidated income statement for 2019. Profits for the three months to 31 December 2018 were excluded from 2019 adjusted profit. 
   
  Standard Life Aberdeen 2020 151
7. Group financial statements continued 
The table below provides summarised financial information for HASL, the joint venture which is considered to be material to the Group. 
The summarised financial information reflects the amounts presented in the financial statements of HASL amended to reflect 
adjustments made when using the equity method.  
  HASL 
  2020  2019 
  £m  £m 
Summarised financial information of joint venture:     
Revenue  481  426 
Depreciation and amortisation  3  3 
Interest income  57  57 
Interest expense  2  2 
Income tax (expense)/income  (3)  6 
Profit after tax (all from continuing operations)  46  41 
Other comprehensive income  1  25 
Total comprehensive income  47  66 
Total assets1  3,156  1,957 
Total liabilities1  2,685  1,547 
Cash and cash equivalents  122  67 
Net assets  471  410 
Attributable to investee’s shareholder  471  410 
Interest held  50%  50% 
Share of net assets  236  205 
1  As a liquidity presentation is used by insurance companies when presenting their statement of financial position, an analysis of total assets and total liabilities between current 
and non-current has not been provided for HASL.  
At 31 December 2015 HASL had significant insurance liabilities and its liabilities arising from contracts within the scope of IFRS 4 and 
liabilities connected with insurance were over 90% of its total liabilities. Therefore HASL was eligible to defer the implementation of IFRS 
9 for equity accounting purposes. 
The fair value of HASL’s financial assets at 31 December 2020 that remain under IAS 39 for equity accounting purposes and the change 
in fair value during the year ended 31 December 2020 are as follows: 
Fair value as at   Fair value as at  
  31 December 2020  31 December 2019 
  £m  £m 
Financial assets with contractual cash flows that are solely payments of principal and interest 
(SPPI) excluding those held for trading or managed on a fair value basis1,2  1,862  1,344 
Financial assets other than those above2  431  598 
Total  2,293  1,942 
1  Financial assets that are SPPI (excluding those held for trading or managed on a fair value basis) are predominantly AAA debt instruments. Their carrying value at 31 
December 2020 is £1,378m (2019: £1,321m). No securities are rated below BBB (2019: none).  
2  The change in fair value in the year to 31 December 2020 for financial assets that are SPPI (excluding those held for trading or managed on a fair value basis) is a gain of 
£129m (2019: £63m). The change in fair value for all other financial assets is a gain of £23m (2019: gain of £68m). 
VMUTM 
Other joint ventures carrying value of £1m (2019: £47m) includes £1m (2019: £47m) for VMUTM.  
In 2020 an impairment loss of £45m has been recognised on the Group’s interest in VMUTM (2019: £nil). The impairment resulted from 
a reduction in projected future revenues as a result of a business plan reassessment by the joint venture which took into account the fall 
in UK equity markets due to COVID-19, and an increase in projected costs to develop a new retail customer proposition. The impairment 
charge is recognised in the Asset management, platforms and wealth segment and is included in loss on impairment of interests in 
associates and joint ventures in the consolidated income statement. 
The impairment was recognised at 30 June 2020. Following the impairment, the carrying value of the investment in the VMUTM joint 
venture at 30 June 2020 was £nil which was the recoverable amount. The recoverable amount was based on value in use (VIU), the key 
assumptions for which are the discount rate, terminal growth rate and forecast cash flows. The pre-tax discount rate used was 14.9% 
and the terminal growth rate used was 2%. Cash flow projections for the five years to 30 June 2025 were based on management 
approved profit forecasts, with the terminal growth rate used for subsequent years. Profits were adjusted to a cash flow basis, e.g. 
amortisation and depreciation removed. The VIU cash flow projections at 30 June 2020 took into account expected future capital 
contributions to the business. 
(d)  Investments in associates measured at FVTPL 
The aggregate fair value of associates accounted for at FVTPL included in equity securities and interests in pooled investment funds 
(refer Note 19) at 31 December 2020 is £54m (2019: £45m) none of which are considered individually material to the Group. 
   
152 Standard Life Aberdeen 2020
7. Group financial statements continued   
 
The table below provides summarised financial information for HASL, the joint venture which is considered to be material to the Group.  17.   Property, plant and equipment  
The summarised financial information reflects the amounts presented in the financial statements of HASL amended to reflect 
adjustments made when using the equity method.   Property, plant and equipment consists primarily of property owned and occupied by the Group and the computer equipment used to 
carry out the Group’s business along with right-of-use assets for leased property and equipment.  
  HASL 
Owner occupied property: Owner occupied property is initially recognised at cost and subsequently revalued to fair value at each 
  2020  2019 
reporting date. Depreciation, being the difference between the carrying amount and the residual value of each significant part of a 
  £m  £m 
building, is charged to the consolidated income statement over its useful life. The useful life of each significant part of a building is 
Summarised financial information of joint venture:     
estimated as being between 30 and 50 years. A revaluation surplus is recognised in other comprehensive income unless it reverses 
Revenue  481  426  a revaluation deficit which has been recognised in the consolidated income statement. 
Depreciation and amortisation  3  3 
Equipment: Equipment is initially recognised at cost and subsequently measured at cost less depreciation. Depreciation is charged 
Interest income  57  57  to the income statement over 2 to 15 years depending on the length of time the Group expects to derive benefit from the asset. 
Interest expense  2  2 
Right-of-use asset: Refer Note 18 below for the accounting policies for right-of-use assets.  
Income tax (expense)/income  (3)  6  F
Profit after tax (all from continuing operations)  46  41    INA
Owner  Right-of-use  Right-of-use  N
OTToothttaaellr   cacosomsmeptpsrre1e hheennssivivee  ininccoommee   3,154671    1,9526756        Not es  opcrcouppe£iremtdy    Equipme£nmt   parsospeet£srmt y–    eqausipsmete£snm –t    To£tmal   CIAL INFO
Cost or valuation               R
Total liabilities1  2,685  1,547  M
Cash and cash equivalents  122  67  At 31 December 2018    2  101  –  –  103  ATIO
Net assets  471  410  Right-of-use assets recognised on implementation of  N
IFRS 161    –  –  354  1  355   
Attributable to investee’s shareholder  471  410 
At 1 January 2019    2  101  354  1  458 
Interest held  50%  50% 
Additions    –  28  74  1  103 
Share of net assets  236  205 
Disposals and adjustments2    –  (3)  (9)  –  (12) 
1  As a liquidity presentation is used by insurance companies when presenting their statement of financial position, an analysis of total assets and total liabilities between current 
and non-current has not been provided for HASL.   Derecognition of right-of-use assets relating to 
subleases classified as finance leases    –  –  (11)  –  (11) 
At 31 December 2015 HASL had significant insurance liabilities and its liabilities arising from contracts within the scope of IFRS 4 and  Foreign exchange adjustment    –  (1)  (4)  –  (5) 
liabilities connected with insurance were over 90% of its total liabilities. Therefore HASL was eligible to defer the implementation of IFRS  At 31 December 2019    2  125  404  2  533 
9 for equity accounting purposes. 
Reclassified as held for sale during the year    –  (4)  (7)  –  (11) 
The fair value of HASL’s financial assets at 31 December 2020 that remain under IAS 39 for equity accounting purposes and the change  Additions    –  13  16  1  30 
in fair value during the year ended 31 December 2020 are as follows:  Disposals and adjustments2    –  (26)  (38)  –  (64) 
Fair value as at   Fair value as at   Derecognition of right-of-use assets relating to 
  31 December 2020  31 December 2019  subleases classified as finance leases    –  –  (5)  –  (5) 
  £m  £m  At 31 December 2020    2  108  370  3  483 
Financial assets with contractual cash flows that are solely payments of principal and interest 
Accumulated depreciation and impairment             
(SPPI) excluding those held for trading or managed on a fair value basis1,2  1,862  1,344 
Financial assets other than those above2  431  598  At 31 December 2018    –  (42)  –  –  (42) 
Right-of-use assets recognised on implementation of 
Total  2,293  1,942 
IFRS 161    –  –  (176)  –  (176) 
1  Financial assets that are SPPI (excluding those held for trading or managed on a fair value basis) are predominantly AAA debt instruments. Their carrying value at 31 
At 1 January 2019    –  (42)  (176)  –  (218) 
December 2020 is £1,378m (2019: £1,321m). No securities are rated below BBB (2019: none).  
2  The change in fair value in the year to 31 December 2020 for financial assets that are SPPI (excluding those held for trading or managed on a fair value basis) is a gain of  Depreciation charge for the year  6  –  (18)  (28)  (1)  (47) 
£129m (2019: £63m). The change in fair value for all other financial assets is a gain of £23m (2019: gain of £68m).  Disposals and adjustments2    –  1  3  –  4 
Derecognition of right-of-use assets relating to 
VMUTM  subleases classified as finance leases    –  –  8  –  8 
Other joint ventures carrying value of £1m (2019: £47m) includes £1m (2019: £47m) for VMUTM.  
Impairment    –  –  (16)  –  (16) 
In 2020 an impairment loss of £45m has been recognised on the Group’s interest in VMUTM (2019: £nil). The impairment resulted from  Foreign exchange adjustment    –  –  2  –  2 
a reduction in projected future revenues as a result of a business plan reassessment by the joint venture which took into account the fall  At 31 December 2019    –  (59)  (207)  (1)  (267) 
in UK equity markets due to COVID-19, and an increase in projected costs to develop a new retail customer proposition. The impairment 
Reclassified as held for sale during the year    –  2  2  –  4 
charge is recognised in the Asset management, platforms and wealth segment and is included in loss on impairment of interests in 
Depreciation charge for the year   6  –  (19)  (26)  (1)  (46) 
associates and joint ventures in the consolidated income statement. 
Disposals and adjustments2    (1)  27  36  –  62 
The impairment was recognised at 30 June 2020. Following the impairment, the carrying value of the investment in the VMUTM joint 
Derecognition of right-of-use assets relating to 
venture at 30 June 2020 was £nil which was the recoverable amount. The recoverable amount was based on value in use (VIU), the key 
subleases classified as finance leases    –  –  3  –  3 
assumptions for which are the discount rate, terminal growth rate and forecast cash flows. The pre-tax discount rate used was 14.9% 
Impairment    –  –  (2)  –  (2) 
and the terminal growth rate used was 2%. Cash flow projections for the five years to 30 June 2025 were based on management 
Foreign exchange adjustment    –  –  (1)  –  (1) 
approved profit forecasts, with the terminal growth rate used for subsequent years. Profits were adjusted to a cash flow basis, e.g. 
amortisation and depreciation removed. The VIU cash flow projections at 30 June 2020 took into account expected future capital  At 31 December 2020    (1)  (49)  (195)  (2)  (247) 
contributions to the business.  Carrying amount             
At 1 January 2019    2  59  178  1  240 
(d)  Investments in associates measured at FVTPL 
At 31 December 2019    2  66  197  1  266 
The aggregate fair value of associates accounted for at FVTPL included in equity securities and interests in pooled investment funds 
(refer Note 19) at 31 December 2020 is £54m (2019: £45m) none of which are considered individually material to the Group.  At 31 December 2020    1  59  175  1  236 
1  The Group has initially applied IFRS 16 at 1 January 2019. Under the transition methods chosen, comparative information is not restated and the cumulative effect of initially 
   
applying these standards is recognised in retained earnings at the date of initial application.  
2  For the year ended 31 December 2020 £26m (2019: £nil) of disposals and adjustments relates to equipment with net book value of £nil which is no longer in use. 
  Standard Life Aberdeen 2020 153
7. Group financial statements continued 
Included in property right-of-use assets, are right-of-use assets that meet the definition of investment property. Their carrying amount at 
31 December 2020 is £25m (2019: £28m). This is made up a gross carrying value of £47m (2019: £46m) and accumulated depreciation 
of £22m (2019: £18m). During the year to 31 December 2020 there were additions of £nil (2019: £26m), transfers to investment property 
of £5m (2019: £nil), depreciation of (£2m) (2019: (£2m)), derecognitions related to new subleases classified as finance leases of (£2m) 
(2019: (£4m)), impairments of (£2m) (2019: (£16m)) and disposals and adjustments of (£2m) (2019 £nil) related to these assets. Rental 
income received and direct operating expenses incurred to generate that rental income in the year to 31 December 2020 were £3m 
(2019: £2m) and £2m (2019: £3m) respectively. In addition, there were direct expenses of £1m (2019: £nil) in relation to investment 
properties not currently generating income.  
The fair value of these right-of-use assets at 31 December 2020 is £25m (2019: £28m). The valuation technique used to determine the 
fair value considers the rental income expected to be received under sub-leases during the term of the lease and the direct expenses 
expected to be incurred in managing the leased property, discounted using a discount rate that reflects the risks inherent in the cash 
flow estimates. It is not based on valuations by an independent valuer. This is a Level 3 valuation technique as defined in Note 40. 
If owner occupied property was measured using the cost model, the historical cost before impairment would be £1m (2019: £2m). As the 
expected residual value of owner occupied property is in line with the current fair value, no depreciation is currently charged. 
Further details on the leases under which the Group’s right-of-use assets are recognised are provided in Note 18 below.  
18.   Leases  
A contract is, or contains, a lease if the contract conveys the right to control the use of an identified asset for a period of time in 
exchange for consideration. At inception of a contract, the Group assesses whether a contract is, or contains, a lease. In 2019, on 
adoption of IFRS 16 the Group used the practical expedient permitted to apply the new standard at transition solely to leases 
previously identified in accordance with IAS 17 and IFRIC 4 Determining whether an Arrangement Contains a Lease. 
Right-of-use assets are measured at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses and are presented in property, plant 
and equipment (refer Note 17). The Group does not revalue its right-of-use assets. This applies to all right-of-use assets, including 
those that are assessed as meeting the definition of investment property. The cost comprises the amount of the initial measurement 
of the lease liability plus any initial direct costs and expected restoration costs not relating to wear and tear. Costs relating to wear and 
tear are expensed over the term of the lease. Depreciation is charged on right-of-use assets on a straight line basis from the lease 
commencement date to the earlier of the end of the useful life of the right-of-use asset or the end of the lease term. The Group 
assesses right-of-use assets for impairment when such indicators exist, and where required, reduces the value of the right-of-use 
asset accordingly. 
The related lease liability (included in other financial liabilities – refer Note 36) is calculated as the present value of the future lease 
payments. The lease payments are discounted using the rate implicit within the lease where readily available or the Group’s 
incremental borrowing rate where the implicit rate is not readily available. Interest is calculated on the liability using the discount rate 
and is charged to the consolidated income statement under finance costs. 
In determining the value of the right-of-use assets and lease liabilities, the Group considers whether any leases contain lease 
extensions or termination options that the Group is reasonably certain to exercise. 
Where a leased property has been sublet, the Group assesses whether the sublease has transferred substantially all the risk and 
rewards of the right-of-use asset to the lessee under the sublease. Where this is the case, the right-of-use asset is derecognised and 
a net investment in finance leases (included in Receivables and other financial assets – refer Note 21) is recognised, calculated as 
the present value of the future lease payments receivable under the sublease. Where a property is only partially sublet, only the 
portion of the right-of-use asset relating to the sublet part of the property is derecognised and recognised as a net investment in 
finance leases. 
Any difference between the initial value of the net investment in finance leases and the right-of-use asset derecognised is recognised 
in the consolidated income statement (within other income or expenses). Interest is calculated on the net investment in finance lease 
using the discount rate and is recognised in the consolidated income statement as interest income. 
Where the sublease does not transfer substantially all the risk and rewards of the right-of-use assets to the lessee under the 
sublease, the Group continues to recognise the right-of-use asset. The sub-lease is accounted for as an operating lease with the 
lease payments received recognised as property rental income in other income in the consolidated income statement. Lease 
incentives granted are recognised as an integral part of the property rental income and are spread over the term of the lease. 
The Group does not recognise right-of-use assets and lease liabilities for short-term leases (less than one year from inception) and 
leases where the underlying asset is of low value.  
   
154 Standard Life Aberdeen 2020
7. Group financial statements continued   
 
Included in property right-of-use assets, are right-of-use assets that meet the definition of investment property. Their carrying amount at  (a)  Leases where the Group is lessee  
31 December 2020 is £25m (2019: £28m). This is made up a gross carrying value of £47m (2019: £46m) and accumulated depreciation  The Group leases various offices and equipment used to carry out its business. Leases are generally for fixed periods but may be 
of £22m (2019: £18m). During the year to 31 December 2020 there were additions of £nil (2019: £26m), transfers to investment property  subject to extensions or early termination clauses. The remaining periods for current leases range from less than 1 year to 18 years 
of £5m (2019: £nil), depreciation of (£2m) (2019: (£2m)), derecognitions related to new subleases classified as finance leases of (£2m)  (2019: less than 1 year to 19 years). A number of leases which are due to end in 2031 contain options that would allow the Group to 
(2019: (£4m)), impairments of (£2m) (2019: (£16m)) and disposals and adjustments of (£2m) (2019 £nil) related to these assets. Rental  extend the lease term. The Group reviews its property use on an ongoing basis and these extensions have not been included in the 
income received and direct operating expenses incurred to generate that rental income in the year to 31 December 2020 were £3m  right-of-use asset or lease liability calculations. 
(2019: £2m) and £2m (2019: £3m) respectively. In addition, there were direct expenses of £1m (2019: £nil) in relation to investment 
The Group has recognised the following assets and liabilities in relation to these leases where the Group is a lessee: 
properties not currently generating income.  
  2020  2019 
The fair value of these right-of-use assets at 31 December 2020 is £25m (2019: £28m). The valuation technique used to determine the 
  £m  £m 
fair value considers the rental income expected to be received under sub-leases during the term of the lease and the direct expenses 
Right-of-use assets:     
expected to be incurred in managing the leased property, discounted using a discount rate that reflects the risks inherent in the cash 
flow estimates. It is not based on valuations by an independent valuer. This is a Level 3 valuation technique as defined in Note 40.  Property  175  197 
Equipment  1  1  F
If owner occupied property was measured using the cost model, the historical cost before impairment would be £1m (2019: £2m). As the  IN
Total right-of-use assets  176  198  A
expected residual value of owner occupied property is in line with the current fair value, no depreciation is currently charged.  N
      CIA
Further details on the leases under which the Group’s right-of-use assets are recognised are provided in Note 18 below.   L
Lease liabilities   (249)  (268)   IN
F
18.   Leases   O
The following table provides a maturity analysis of the contractual undiscounted cash flows for the lease liabilities:  R
M
A contract is, or contains, a lease if the contract conveys the right to control the use of an identified asset for a period of time in    2020  2019  AT
exchange for consideration. At inception of a contract, the Group assesses whether a contract is, or contains, a lease. In 2019, on    £m  £m  ION
adoption of IFRS 16 the Group used the practical expedient permitted to apply the new standard at transition solely to leases  Less than 1 year   30  33   
previously identified in accordance with IAS 17 and IFRIC 4 Determining whether an Arrangement Contains a Lease.  Greater than or equal to 1 year and less than 2 years  30  29 
Right-of-use assets are measured at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses and are presented in property, plant  Greater than or equal to 2 years and less than 3 years  28  28 
and equipment (refer Note 17). The Group does not revalue its right-of-use assets. This applies to all right-of-use assets, including  Greater than or equal to 3 years and less than 4 years  24  26 
those that are assessed as meeting the definition of investment property. The cost comprises the amount of the initial measurement  Greater than or equal to 4 years and less than 5 years  22  23 
of the lease liability plus any initial direct costs and expected restoration costs not relating to wear and tear. Costs relating to wear and 
Greater than or equal to 5 years and less than 10 years  98  102 
tear are expensed over the term of the lease. Depreciation is charged on right-of-use assets on a straight line basis from the lease 
Greater than or equal to 10 years and less than 15 years  44  57 
commencement date to the earlier of the end of the useful life of the right-of-use asset or the end of the lease term. The Group 
Greater than or equal to 15 years  10  14 
assesses right-of-use assets for impairment when such indicators exist, and where required, reduces the value of the right-of-use 
asset accordingly.  Total undiscounted lease liabilities   286  312 
The related lease liability (included in other financial liabilities – refer Note 36) is calculated as the present value of the future lease 
Details of the movements in the Group’s right-of-use assets including additions and depreciation are included in Note 17.  
payments. The lease payments are discounted using the rate implicit within the lease where readily available or the Group’s 
incremental borrowing rate where the implicit rate is not readily available. Interest is calculated on the liability using the discount rate  The interest on lease liabilities for the year ended 31 December 2020 was £6m (2019: £7m). 
and is charged to the consolidated income statement under finance costs. 
The Group does not recognise right-of-use assets and lease liabilities for short-term leases and leases where the underlying asset is of 
In determining the value of the right-of-use assets and lease liabilities, the Group considers whether any leases contain lease  low value. The expenses for these leases for the year ended 31 December 2020 were £3m (2019: £2m).The Group lease commitment 
extensions or termination options that the Group is reasonably certain to exercise.  for short-term leases was £nil at 31 December 2020 (2019: £nil).  
Where a leased property has been sublet, the Group assesses whether the sublease has transferred substantially all the risk and  The total cash outflow for lease liabilities recognised in the consolidated statement of cash flows for the year ended 31 December 2020 
rewards of the right-of-use asset to the lessee under the sublease. Where this is the case, the right-of-use asset is derecognised and  was £35m (2019: £32m). 
a net investment in finance leases (included in Receivables and other financial assets – refer Note 21) is recognised, calculated as 
(b)  Leases where the Group is lessor (subleases) 
the present value of the future lease payments receivable under the sublease. Where a property is only partially sublet, only the 
Where the Group no longer requires a leased property, the property may be sublet to a third party. The sublease may be for the full 
portion of the right-of-use asset relating to the sublet part of the property is derecognised and recognised as a net investment in 
remaining term of the Group’s lease or only part of the remaining term.  
finance leases. 
At 31 December 2020, the Group had a net investment in finance leases asset of £18m (2019: £15m) for subleases which had 
Any difference between the initial value of the net investment in finance leases and the right-of-use asset derecognised is recognised 
transferred substantially all the risk and rewards of the right-of-use assets to the lessee under the sublease. All other sub-leases are 
in the consolidated income statement (within other income or expenses). Interest is calculated on the net investment in finance lease 
accounted for as operating leases. Prior to the implementation of IFRS 16, all the Group’s subleases were accounted for as operating 
using the discount rate and is recognised in the consolidated income statement as interest income. 
leases. The increase during the year ended 31 December 2020 was mainly due to one new sublease entered into during the year.  
Where the sublease does not transfer substantially all the risk and rewards of the right-of-use assets to the lessee under the 
(b)(i) Finance leases 
sublease, the Group continues to recognise the right-of-use asset. The sub-lease is accounted for as an operating lease with the 
lease payments received recognised as property rental income in other income in the consolidated income statement. Lease  During the year ended 31 December 2020, the Group received finance income on the net investment in finance leases asset of less 
incentives granted are recognised as an integral part of the property rental income and are spread over the term of the lease.  than £1m (2019: less than £1m). The Group recorded an initial gain of £2m in relation to new sub-leases entered into during the year 
ended 31 December 2020 (2019: £4m).  
The Group does not recognise right-of-use assets and lease liabilities for short-term leases (less than one year from inception) and 
leases where the underlying asset is of low value.      
   
  Standard Life Aberdeen 2020 155
7. Group financial statements continued 
The following table provides a maturity analysis of the future contractual undiscounted cash flows for the net investment in finance 
leases and a reconciliation to the net investment in finance leases asset: 
  2020  2019 
  £m  £m 
Less than 1 year   3  2 
Greater than or equal to 1 year and less than 2 years  2  2 
Greater than or equal to 2 years and less than 3 years  2  2 
Greater than or equal to 3 years and less than 4 years  2  1 
Greater than or equal to 4 years and less than 5 years  2  1 
Greater than or equal to 5 years and less than 10 years  9  7 
Greater than or equal to 10 years and less than 15 years  –  2 
Total contractual undiscounted cash flows under finance leases  20  17 
Unearned finance income   (2)  (2) 
Total net investment in finance leases  18  15 
(b)(ii) Operating leases 
During the year ended 31 December 2020, the Group received property rental income from operating leases of £3m (2019: £2m). 
The following table provides a maturity analysis of the future contractual undiscounted cash flows for subleases classified as operating 
leases: 
  2020  2019 
  £m  £m 
Less than 1 year   2  3 
Greater than or equal to 1 year and less than 2 years  2  3 
Greater than or equal to 2 years and less than 3 years  1  2 
Total contractual undiscounted cash flows under operating leases  5  8 
19.   Financial assets 
Financial assets are initially recognised at their fair value. Subsequently all equity securities and interests in pooled investment funds 
and derivative instruments are measured at fair value. All equity securities and interests in pooled investment funds are classified as 
FVTPL on a mandatory basis. Changes in their fair value are recognised in investment return in the consolidated income statement. 
The classification of derivatives and the accounting treatment of derivatives designated as a hedging instrument are set out in Note 
20.  
The subsequent measurement of debt instruments depends on whether their cash flows are solely payments of principal and interest 
and the nature of the business model they are held in as follows: 
SPPI1 test satisfied?  Business model    Classification 
Yes  A: Objective is to hold to collect contractual cash flows  Amortised cost2 
Yes  B: Objective is achieved by both collecting contractual cash  Fair value through other comprehensive 
  flows and selling  income (FVOCI)2 
Yes  C: Objective is neither A nor B  FVTPL 
No  N/A  FVTPL 
1  Solely payments of principal and interest. 
2  May be classified as FVTPL if doing so eliminates or significantly reduces a measurement or recognition inconsistency (sometimes referred to as an ‘accounting 
mismatch’) that would otherwise arise from measuring assets or liabilities or recognising the gains and losses on them on different bases. 
The Group has no debt instruments that are managed within a business model whose objective is achieved both by collecting 
contractual cash flows and selling and therefore there are no debt instruments classified as FVOCI. Debt instruments classified as 
FVTPL are classified as such due to the business model they are managed under, predominantly being held in consolidated 
investment vehicles.  
The methods and assumptions used to determine fair value of financial assets at FVTPL are discussed in Note 40. 
Amortised cost is calculated, and related interest is credited to the consolidated income statement, using the effective interest 
method. Impairment is determined using an expected credit loss impairment model which is applied to all financial asset measured at 
amortised cost. Financial assets measured at amortised cost attract a loss allowance equal to either:  
• 12 month expected credit losses (losses resulting from possible default within the next 12 months) 
•  Lifetime expected credit losses (losses resulting from possible defaults over the remaining life of the financial asset) 
Financial assets attract a 12 month ECL allowance unless the asset has suffered a significant deterioration in credit quality or the 
simplified approach for calculation of ECL has been applied. As permitted under IFRS 9 Financial Instruments, the Group has applied 
the simplified approach to calculate the ECL allowance for trade receivables and contract assets recognised under IFRS 15 Revenue 
from Contracts with Customers and lease receivables recognised under IFRS 16 Leases. Under the simplified approach the ECL is 
calculated over the remaining life of the asset. 
156 Standard Life Aberdeen 2020
7. Group financial statements continued   
 
The following table provides a maturity analysis of the future contractual undiscounted cash flows for the net investment in finance  The table below sets out an analysis of financial assets excluding those assets backing unit linked liabilities which are set out in Note 25.  
leases and a reconciliation to the net investment in finance leases asset: 
 At fair value through  Cash flow  
  2020  2019      profit or loss1  hedge  At amortised cost  Total 
  £m  £m      2020  2019  2020  2019  2020  2019  2020  2019 
Less than 1 year   3  2    Notes  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m 
Greater than or equal to 1 year and less than 2 years  2  2  Derivative financial assets  20  18  16  –  3  –  –  18  19 
Greater than or equal to 2 years and less than 3 years  2  2  Equity securities and interests in 
Greater than or equal to 3 years and less than 4 years  2  1  pooled investment funds  40  1,980  725  –  –  –  –  1,980  725 
Greater than or equal to 4 years and less than 5 years  2  1  Debt securities  40  787  769  –  –  325  602  1,112  1,371 
Greater than or equal to 5 years and less than 10 years  9  7  Financial investments    2,785  1,510  –  3  325  602  3,110  2,115 
Greater than or equal to 10 years and less than 15 years  –  2                     
Total contractual undiscounted cash flows under finance leases  20  17  Receivables and other financial assets  21  28  1  –  –  593  559  621  560  F
Unearned finance income   (2)  (2)  Cash and cash equivalents  24  –  –  –  –  1,519  1,615  1,519  1,615  INA
N
Total net investment in finance leases  18  15  Total    2,813  1,511  –  3  2,437  2,776  5,250  4,290  CIA
(b)(ii) Operating leases  1  AFVll TfinPaLn. c ial assets measured at fair value through profit or loss have been classified at FVTPL on a mandatory basis. The Group has not designated any financial assets as  L INF
O
During the year ended 31 December 2020, the Group received property rental income from operating leases of £3m (2019: £2m).  R
M
The amount of debt securities expected to be recovered or settled after more than 12 months is £231m (2019: £273m). Due to the  A
The following table provides a maturity analysis of the future contractual undiscounted cash flows for subleases classified as operating  T
nature of equity securities and interests in pooled investment funds, there is no fixed term associated with these securities.  IO
leases:  N
  2020  2019  20.  Derivative financial instruments   
  £m  £m 
A derivative is a financial instrument that is typically used to manage risk and whose value moves in response to an underlying 
Less than 1 year   2  3 
variable such as interest or foreign exchange rates. The Group uses derivative financial instruments in order to match subordinated 
Greater than or equal to 1 year and less than 2 years  2  3  debt liabilities and to reduce the risk from potential movements in foreign exchange rates on seed capital and co-investments and 
Greater than or equal to 2 years and less than 3 years  1  2  potential movements in market rates on seed capital. Certain consolidated investment vehicles may also use derivatives to take and 
Total contractual undiscounted cash flows under operating leases  5  8  alter market exposure, with the objective of enhancing performance and controlling risk.  
19.   Financial assets  Management determines the classification of derivatives at initial recognition. All derivative instruments are classified as at FVTPL 
except those designated as part of a cash flow hedge or net investment hedge. Derivatives at FVTPL are measured at fair value with 
Financial assets are initially recognised at their fair value. Subsequently all equity securities and interests in pooled investment funds  changes in fair value recognised in the consolidated income statement.  
and derivative instruments are measured at fair value. All equity securities and interests in pooled investment funds are classified as 
On adoption of IFRS 9 Financial instruments in 2019, the Group has elected to continue applying the hedge accounting requirements 
FVTPL on a mandatory basis. Changes in their fair value are recognised in investment return in the consolidated income statement. 
of IAS 39. The accounting treatment below applies to derivatives designated as part of a hedging relationship.  
The classification of derivatives and the accounting treatment of derivatives designated as a hedging instrument are set out in Note 
20.   Using derivatives to manage a particular exposure is referred to as hedging. For a derivative to be considered as part of a hedging 
relationship its purpose must be formally documented at inception. In addition, the effectiveness of the hedge must be initially high 
The subsequent measurement of debt instruments depends on whether their cash flows are solely payments of principal and interest 
and be able to be reliably measured on a regular basis. Derivatives used to hedge variability in future cash flows such as coupons 
and the nature of the business model they are held in as follows: 
payable on subordinated liabilities or revenue receivable in a foreign currency are designated as cash flow hedges, while derivatives 
SPPI1 test satisfied?  Business model    Classification  used to hedge currency risk on investments in foreign operations are designated as net investment hedges.  
Yes  A: Objective is to hold to collect contractual cash flows  Amortised cost2 
Where a derivative qualifies as a cash flow or net investment hedge, hedge accounting is applied. The effective part of any gain or 
Yes  B: Objective is achieved by both collecting contractual cash  Fair value through other comprehensive  loss resulting from the change in fair value is recognised in other comprehensive income, and in the cash flow or net investment 
  flows and selling  income (FVOCI)2  hedge reserve in equity, while any ineffective part is recognised immediately in the consolidated income statement. If a derivative 
Yes  C: Objective is neither A nor B  FVTPL  ceases to meet the relevant hedging criteria, hedge accounting is discontinued. 
No  N/A  FVTPL 
For cash flow hedges, the amount recognised in the cash flow hedge reserve is transferred to the consolidated income statement 
1  Solely payments of principal and interest.  (recycled) in the same period or periods during which the hedged item affects profit or loss and is transferred immediately if the cash 
2  May be classified as FVTPL if doing so eliminates or significantly reduces a measurement or recognition inconsistency (sometimes referred to as an ‘accounting  flow is no longer expected to occur. For net investment hedges, the amount recognised in the net investment hedge reserve is 
mismatch’) that would otherwise arise from measuring assets or liabilities or recognising the gains and losses on them on different bases.  transferred to the consolidated income statement on disposal of the investment. 
The Group has no debt instruments that are managed within a business model whose objective is achieved both by collecting   
contractual cash flows and selling and therefore there are no debt instruments classified as FVOCI. Debt instruments classified as 
     2020  2019 
FVTPL are classified as such due to the business model they are managed under, predominantly being held in consolidated 
Contract  Fair value  Fair value  Contract  Fair value  Fair value 
investment vehicles.       amount  assets  liabilities  amount  assets  liabilities 
  Notes  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m 
The methods and assumptions used to determine fair value of financial assets at FVTPL are discussed in Note 40. 
Cash flow hedges  19,32  549  –  6  566  3  – 
Amortised cost is calculated, and related interest is credited to the consolidated income statement, using the effective interest 
FVTPL/Held for trading  19,32  687  18  7  534  16  3 
method. Impairment is determined using an expected credit loss impairment model which is applied to all financial asset measured at 
Derivative financial instruments   40  1,236  18  13  1,100  19  3 
amortised cost. Financial assets measured at amortised cost attract a loss allowance equal to either:  
Derivative financial instruments 
• 12 month expected credit losses (losses resulting from possible default within the next 12 months)  backing unit linked liabilities  25  463  6  9  669  5  6 
•  Lifetime expected credit losses (losses resulting from possible defaults over the remaining life of the financial asset)  Total derivative financial 
instruments    1,699  24  22  1,769  24  9 
Financial assets attract a 12 month ECL allowance unless the asset has suffered a significant deterioration in credit quality or the 
simplified approach for calculation of ECL has been applied. As permitted under IFRS 9 Financial Instruments, the Group has applied 
Derivative assets of £nil (2019: £4m) are expected to be recovered after more than 12 months. Derivative liabilities of £5m (2019: £1m) 
the simplified approach to calculate the ECL allowance for trade receivables and contract assets recognised under IFRS 15 Revenue 
are expected to be settled after more than 12 months.  
from Contracts with Customers and lease receivables recognised under IFRS 16 Leases. Under the simplified approach the ECL is 
calculated over the remaining life of the asset. 
  Standard Life Aberdeen 2020  157  
7. Group financial statements continued 
(a)   Hedging strategy 
The Group generally does not hedge the currency exposure relating to revenue and expenditure, nor does it hedge translation of 
overseas profits in the income statement. Where appropriate, the Group may use derivative contracts to reduce or eliminate currency 
risk arising from individual transactions or seed capital and co-investment activity. 
(a)(i) Cash flow hedges 
On 18 October 2017, the Group issued subordinated notes with a principal amount of US$750m. In order to manage its foreign 
exchange risk relating to the principal and coupons payable on these notes the Group entered into a cross-currency swap which is 
designated as a cash flow hedge. The cash flow hedge was fully effective during the year. The cross-currency swap has the effect of 
swapping the 4.25% US Dollar fixed rate subordinated notes into 3.2% Sterling fixed rate subordinated notes with a principal amount of 
£569m. The cross-currency swap has a fair value liability position of £6m (2019: £3m asset). During the year ended 31 December 2020 
fair value losses of £3m (2019: losses of £10m) were recognised in other comprehensive income in relation to the cross-currency swap. 
Losses of £19m (2019: losses of £28m) and forward points/gains of £6m (2019: gains of £6m) were transferred from other 
comprehensive income to investment return and finance costs respectively in the consolidated income statement in relation to the cross-
currency swap during the year.  
(a)(ii) FVTPL/Held for trading 
Derivative financial instruments classified as FVTPL/held for trading include those that the Group holds as economic hedges of financial 
instruments that are measured at fair value. FVTPL/held for trading derivative financial instruments are also held by the Group to match 
contractual liabilities that are measured at fair value or to achieve efficient portfolio management in respect of instruments measured at 
fair value. 
  2020  2019 
Contract  Fair value  Fair value  Contract   Fair value  Fair value 
  amount  assets  liabilities  amount  assets  liabilities 
  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m 
Equity derivatives:             
Futures  100  1  9  177  2  1 
Variance swaps  6  6  –  5  6  – 
Total return swaps  –  –  –  29  –  1 
Bond derivatives:             
Futures  –  –  –  1  –  – 
Interest rate derivatives:             
Swaps  52  –  4  153  –  2 
Futures  34  –  –  –  –  – 
Foreign exchange derivatives:             
Forwards  859  15  2  718  10  5 
Other derivatives:             
Inflation rate swaps  18  2  –  14  1  – 
Credit default swaps   81  –  1  106  2  – 
Derivative financial instruments at FVTPL/ 
held for trading  1,150  24  16  1,203  21  9 
   
158 Standard Life Aberdeen 2020
7. Group financial statements continued   
 
(a)   Hedging strategy  (b)   Maturity profile 
The Group generally does not hedge the currency exposure relating to revenue and expenditure, nor does it hedge translation of  The maturity profile of the contractual undiscounted cash flows in relation to derivative financial instruments is as follows: 
overseas profits in the income statement. Where appropriate, the Group may use derivative contracts to reduce or eliminate currency 
Within 1  1-5  5-10  10-15  15-20  Greater than 20 
risk arising from individual transactions or seed capital and co-investment activity. 
  year  years  years  years  years  years  Total 
(a)(i) Cash flow hedges    2020  2019  2020  2019  2020  2019  2020  2019  2020  2019  2020  2019  2020  2019 
  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m 
On 18 October 2017, the Group issued subordinated notes with a principal amount of US$750m. In order to manage its foreign 
exchange risk relating to the principal and coupons payable on these notes the Group entered into a cross-currency swap which is  Cash inflows                             
designated as a cash flow hedge. The cash flow hedge was fully effective during the year. The cross-currency swap has the effect of  Derivative financial assets  367  411  –  99  –  651  –  –  –  –  –  1  367  1,162 
swapping the 4.25% US Dollar fixed rate subordinated notes into 3.2% Sterling fixed rate subordinated notes with a principal amount of  Derivative financial 
£569m. The cross-currency swap has a fair value liability position of £6m (2019: £3m asset). During the year ended 31 December 2020  liabilities  183  281  93  –  607  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  883  281 
fair value losses of £3m (2019: losses of £10m) were recognised in other comprehensive income in relation to the cross-currency swap.  Total  550  692  93  99  607  651  –  –  –  –  –  1  1,250  1,443 
Losses of £19m (2019: losses of £28m) and forward points/gains of £6m (2019: gains of £6m) were transferred from other 
ccuormrepnrecyh esnwsaivpe d iunrcionmg eth teo  yinevaer.s  tment return and finance costs respectively in the consolidated income statement in relation to the cross-  Cash outflows                                            FINA
N
Derivative financial assets  (360)  (386)  –  (73)  –  (633)  –  –  –  –  –  –  (360) (1,092)  C
(a)(ii) FVTPL/Held for trading  IA
Derivative financial instruments classified as FVTPL/held for trading include those that the Group holds as economic hedges of financial  Dliaebriilvitaietisv e financial  (187)  (287)  (73)  (1)  (614)  (1)  –  –  –  –  –  (1)  (874)  (290)  L INF
instruments that are measured at fair value. FVTPL/held for trading derivative financial instruments are also held by the Group to match  Total  (547)  (673)  (73)  (74)  (614)  (634)  –  –  –  –  –  (1) (1,234) (1,382)  ORM
contractual liabilities that are measured at fair value or to achieve efficient portfolio management in respect of instruments measured at  A
                              T
fair value.  IO
Net derivative financial  N
  2020  2019  instruments cash   
Contract  Fair value  Fair value  Contract   Fair value  Fair value  inflows  3  19  20  25  (7)  17  –  –  –  –  –  –  16  61 
  amount  assets  liabilities  amount  assets  liabilities 
  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m 
Included in the above maturity profile are the following cash flows in relation to cash flow hedge assets: 
Equity derivatives:             
Futures  100  1  9  177  2  1  Within 1  1-5  5-10  10-15  15-20  Greater than 20 
  year  years  years  years  years  years  Total 
Variance swaps  6  6  –  5  6  – 
  2020  2019  2020  2019  2020  2019  2020  2019  2020  2019  2020  2019  2020  2019 
Total return swaps  –  –  –  29  –  1    £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m 
Bond derivatives:              Cash inflows   23  24  93  96  607  650  –  –  –  –  –  –  723  770 
Futures  –  –  –  1  –  –  Cash outflows   (18)  (18)  (73)  (73)  (614)  (632)  –  –  –  –  –  –  (705)  (723) 
Interest rate derivatives:             
Net cash flow hedge 
Swaps  52  –  4  153  –  2  cash inflows  5  6  20  23  (7)  18  –  –  –  –  –  –  18  47 
Futures  34  –  –  –  –  – 
Foreign exchange derivatives:              Cash inflows and outflows are presented on a net basis where the Group is required to settle cash flows net. 
Forwards  859  15  2  718  10  5 
21.  Receivables and other financial assets 
Other derivatives:             
    2020  2019 
Inflation rate swaps  18  2  –  14  1  –    Notes  £m  £m 
Credit default swaps   81  –  1  106  2  –  Amounts receivable from contracts with customers  4(b)  115  130 
Derivative financial instruments at FVTPL/  Accrued income    227  231 
held for trading  1,150  24  16  1,203  21  9 
Cancellations of units awaiting settlement    126  111 
   
Net investment in finance leases    18  15 
Collateral pledged in respect of derivative contracts  38  28  18 
Contingent consideration asset  40  28  1 
Other    79  54 
Receivables and other financial assets    621  560 
The carrying amounts disclosed above reasonably approximate the fair values as at the year end. 
The amount of receivables and other financial assets expected to be recovered after more than 12 months is £33m (2019: £25m). 
Accrued income includes £221m (2019: £227m) of accrued income from contracts with customers (refer Note 4(b)). 
22.   Other assets  
  2020  2019 
  £m  £m 
Prepayments  40  48 
Deferred acquisition costs  4  6 
Other  2  1 
Other assets  46  55 
The amount of other assets expected to be recovered after more than 12 months is £4m (2019: £6m).  
All deferred acquisition costs above are costs deferred on investment contracts (deferred origination costs) which relate to contracts with 
customers (refer Note 4(b)). The amortisation charge for deferred origination costs relating to contracts with customers from continuing 
operations for the year was £2m (2019: £2m). 
  Standard Life Aberdeen 2020 159
7. Group financial statements continued 
23.  Assets and liabilities held for sale 
Assets and liabilities held for sale are presented separately in the consolidated statement of financial position and consist of 
operations and individual non-current assets whose carrying amount will be recovered principally through a sale transaction 
(expected within one year) and not through continuing use.  
Operations held for sale, being disposal groups, and investments in associates accounted for using the equity method are measured 
at the lower of their carrying amount and their fair value less disposal costs. No depreciation or amortisation is charged on assets in a 
disposal group once it has been classified as held for sale. 
Operations held for sale include newly established investment vehicles which the Group has seeded but is actively seeking to divest 
from. For these investment funds, which do not have significant liabilities or non-financial assets, financial assets continue to be 
measured based on the accounting policies that applied before they were classified as held for sale. The Group classifies seeded 
operations as held for sale where the intention is to dispose of the investment vehicle in a single transaction. Where disposal of a 
seeded investment vehicle will be in more than one tranche the operations are not classified as held for sale in the consolidated 
statement of financial position. 
Certain amounts seeded into funds are classified as interests in pooled investment funds. Investment property and owner occupied 
property held for sale relates to property for which contracts have been exchanged but the sale had not completed during the current 
financial year. Interests in pooled investment funds and investment property held for sale continue to be measured based on the 
accounting policies that applied before they were classified as held for sale. 
 
    2020  2019 
    £m  £m 
Assets of operations held for sale       
Parmenion Capital Partners LLP    18  – 
Standard Life (Asia) Limited    –  765 
Investment vehicles    1  2 
Assets held for sale    19  767 
Liabilities of operations held for sale       
Parmenion Capital Partners LLP    11  – 
Standard Life (Asia) Limited    –  747 
Investment vehicles    –  – 
Liabilities of operations held for sale    11  747 
(a)(i)  Parmenion Capital Partners LLP 
On 30 November 2020, the Group confirmed its exploration of the potential sale of Parmenion Capital Partners LLP (Parmenion) and 
has subsequently classified these operations as held for sale. Parmenion is reported in the asset management, platforms and wealth 
segment. 
At 31 December 2020, this disposal group was measured at its carrying amount and comprised the following assets and liabilities: 
  2020 
  £m 
Assets of operations held for sale   
Intangible assets   2 
Property, plant and equipment  7 
Receivables and other financial assets  5 
Other assets  1 
Cash and cash equivalents   3 
Total assets of operations held for sale   18 
Liabilities of operations held for sale   
Other financial liabilities  11 
Total liabilities of operations held for sale   11 
Net assets of operations held for sale   7 
Net assets of operations held for sale are net of intercompany balances between Parmenion and other group entities, the net assets of 
Parmenion on a gross basis as at 31 December 2020 are £12m. 
 
 
 
   
160 Standard Life Aberdeen 2020  
7. Group financial statements continued   
 
23.  Assets and liabilities held for sale  (a)(ii) Standard Life (Asia) Limited  
On 30 June 2020, the Group sold its wholly owned Hong Kong insurance business, SL Asia to the Group’s Chinese joint venture 
Assets and liabilities held for sale are presented separately in the consolidated statement of financial position and consist of 
business, HASL. Refer Note 1 for further details. SL Asia was reported in the Asset management, platforms and wealth segment and 
operations and individual non-current assets whose carrying amount will be recovered principally through a sale transaction 
HASL is reported within the Insurance associates and joint ventures segment. Prior to the sale SL Asia was classified as an operation 
(expected within one year) and not through continuing use.  
held for sale. 
Operations held for sale, being disposal groups, and investments in associates accounted for using the equity method are measured 
At 31 December 2019, this disposal group was measured at fair value less cost to sell and comprised the following assets and liabilities: 
at the lower of their carrying amount and their fair value less disposal costs. No depreciation or amortisation is charged on assets in a 
disposal group once it has been classified as held for sale.    2019 
  £m 
Operations held for sale include newly established investment vehicles which the Group has seeded but is actively seeking to divest 
Assets of operations held for sale   
from. For these investment funds, which do not have significant liabilities or non-financial assets, financial assets continue to be 
Equity securities and interests in pooled investment funds   674 
measured based on the accounting policies that applied before they were classified as held for sale. The Group classifies seeded 
operations as held for sale where the intention is to dispose of the investment vehicle in a single transaction. Where disposal of a  Cash and cash equivalents   26 
seeded investment vehicle will be in more than one tranche the operations are not classified as held for sale in the consolidated  Other assets   65  FIN
statement of financial position.  Total assets of operations held for sale   765  AN
C
Certain amounts seeded into funds are classified as interests in pooled investment funds. Investment property and owner occupied  Liabilities of operations held for sale    IA
L
property held for sale relates to property for which contracts have been exchanged but the sale had not completed during the current  Non-participating insurance contract liabilities   647   IN
F
financial year. Interests in pooled investment funds and investment property held for sale continue to be measured based on the  Non-participating investment contract liabilities   49  OR
accounting policies that applied before they were classified as held for sale.  M
Other liabilities   51  A
T
  Total liabilities of operations held for sale   747  ION
Net assets of operations held for sale   18   
    2020  2019 
    £m  £m 
Net assets of operations held for sale were net of intercompany balances between SL Asia and the rest of the Group. The net assets of 
Assets of operations held for sale       
SL Asia on a gross basis as at 31 December 2019 were £18m. 
Parmenion Capital Partners LLP    18  – 
Standard Life (Asia) Limited    –  765  Following the remeasurement of the disposal group to the lower of its carrying amount and its fair value less costs to sell prior to the 
sale, an impairment loss of £1m (2019: £nil) is included in Other administrative expenses in the consolidated income statement. Fair 
Investment vehicles    1  2 
value was determined by reference to the sale price. 
Assets held for sale    19  767 
Liabilities of operations held for sale        24.   Cash and cash equivalents 
Parmenion Capital Partners LLP    11  –  Cash and cash equivalents include cash at bank, money at call and short notice with banks, money market funds and any highly 
Standard Life (Asia) Limited    –  747  liquid investments with less than three months to maturity from the date of acquisition. For the purposes of the consolidated statement 
Investment vehicles    –  –  of cash flows, cash and cash equivalents also include bank overdrafts which are included in other financial liabilities on the 
Liabilities of operations held for sale    11  747  consolidated statement of financial position.  
Where the Group has a legally enforceable right of set off and intention to settle on a net basis, cash and overdrafts are offset in the 
(a)(i)  Parmenion Capital Partners LLP 
consolidated statement of financial position.  
On 30 November 2020, the Group confirmed its exploration of the potential sale of Parmenion Capital Partners LLP (Parmenion) and 
has subsequently classified these operations as held for sale. Parmenion is reported in the asset management, platforms and wealth 
 
segment. 
  2020  2019 
At 31 December 2020, this disposal group was measured at its carrying amount and comprised the following assets and liabilities:    £m  £m 
Cash at bank and in hand  788  852 
  2020 
  £m  Money at call, term deposits, reverse repurchase agreements and debt instruments with less than 
Assets of operations held for sale    three months to maturity from acquisition  615  698 
Intangible assets   2  Money market funds  116  65 
Property, plant and equipment  7  Cash and cash equivalents  1,519  1,615 
Receivables and other financial assets  5   
Other assets  1      2020  2019 
Cash and cash equivalents   3    Notes  £m  £m 
Total assets of operations held for sale   18  Cash and cash equivalents    1,519  1,615 
Liabilities of operations held for sale    Cash and cash equivalents backing unit linked liabilities  25  38  44 
Other financial liabilities  11  Cash and cash equivalents classified as held for sale  23  3  26 
Total liabilities of operations held for sale   11  Bank overdrafts  36  (202)  (338) 
Net assets of operations held for sale   7  Total cash and cash equivalents for consolidated statement of cash flows    1,358  1,347 
Net assets of operations held for sale are net of intercompany balances between Parmenion and other group entities, the net assets of  Cash at bank, money at call and short notice and deposits are subject to variable interest rates. 
Parmenion on a gross basis as at 31 December 2020 are £12m.  Included in cash and cash equivalents and bank overdrafts are £230m (2019: £592m) and £202m (2019: £338m) respectively relating to 
balances within a cash pooling facility in support of which cross guarantees are provided by certain subsidiary undertakings and interest 
 
is paid or received on the net balance. Cash and cash equivalents includes an offsetting overdraft of £nil (2019: £219m) where the 
Group has a legally enforceable right to offset the recognised amounts, and there is an intention to settle on a net basis.  
 
Cash and cash equivalents in respect of unit linked funds (including third party interests in consolidated funds) are held in separate bank 
  accounts and are not available for general use by the Group.  
   
    Standard Life Aberdeen 2020 161
7. Group financial statements continued 
25.   Unit linked liabilities and assets backing unit linked liabilities 
The Group operates unit linked life assurance businesses through a number of subsidiaries. These subsidiaries provide investment 
products through a life assurance wrapper. These products do not contain any features which transfer significant insurance risk and 
therefore are classified as investment contracts. Unit linked non-participating investment contracts are separated into two components 
being an investment management services component and a financial liability. All fees and related administrative expenses are 
deemed to be associated with the investment management services component (refer Note 4). The financial liability component is 
designated at FVTPL as it is implicitly managed on a fair value basis as its value is directly linked to the market value of the underlying 
portfolio of assets.  
Where the Group is deemed to control an investment vehicle as a result of holdings in that vehicle by subsidiaries to back unit linked 
non-participating investment contract liabilities, the assets and liabilities of the vehicle are consolidated within the Group’s statement of 
financial position. The liability for third party interest in such consolidated funds is presented as a unit linked liability. 
Unit linked liabilities and assets backing unit linked liabilities are presented separately in the consolidated statement of financial 
position except for those held in operations held for sale, which are presented in assets and liabilities held for sale in the consolidated 
statement of financial position.  
Contributions received on non-participating investment contracts and from third party interest in consolidated funds are treated as 
deposits and not reported as revenue in the consolidated income statement. 
Withdrawals paid out to policyholders on non-participating investment contracts and to third party interest in consolidated funds are 
treated as a reduction to deposits and not recognised as expenses in the consolidated income statement. 
Investment return and related benefits credited in respect of non-participating investment contracts and third party interest in 
consolidated funds are recognised in the consolidated income statement as changes in investment contract liabilities and changes in 
liability for third party interest in consolidated funds respectively. Investment returns relating to unit linked business are for the account 
of policyholders and have an equal and opposite effect on income and expenses in the consolidated income statement with no impact 
on profit after tax. 
Assets backing unit linked liabilities comprise financial investments, which are all classified as FVTPL on a mandatory basis, and 
receivables and other financial assets and cash and cash equivalents which are measured at amortised cost. 
(a)   Financial instrument risk management 
The shareholder is not directly exposed to market risk or credit risk in relation to the financial assets backing unit linked liabilities. The 
shareholder’s exposure to market risk on these assets is limited to variations in the value of future fee based revenue as fees are based 
on a percentage of fund value.  
The shareholder is exposed to liquidity risk relating to unit linked funds. For the unit linked business, liquidity risk is primarily managed by 
holding a range of diversified instruments which are assessed against cash flow and funding requirements. A core portfolio of assets is 
maintained and invested in accordance with the mandates of the relevant unit linked funds. Given that unit linked policyholders can 
usually choose to surrender, in part or in full, their unit linked contracts at any time, the non-participating investment contract unit linked 
liabilities are designated as payable within one year. Such surrenders would be matched in practice, if necessary, by sales of underlying 
assets. Policyholder behaviour and the trading position of asset classes are actively monitored. The Group can delay settling liabilities to 
unit linked policyholders to ensure fairness between those remaining in the fund and those leaving the fund. The length of any such 
delay is dependent on the underlying financial assets. 
(b)   Fair value measurement of unit linked financial liabilities and financial assets backing unit linked liabilities 
Each of the unit linked financial liabilities and the financial assets backing unit linked liabilities has been categorised below using the fair 
value hierarchy as defined in Note 40. Refer Note 40 for details of valuation techniques used. 
Classified as 
  Level 1  Level 2  Level 3  Not at fair value  held for sale1  Total 
  2020  2019  2020  2019  2020  2019  2020  2019  2020  2019  2020  2019 
  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m 
Financial investments  832  1,991  545  211  18  –  –  –  –  (674)  1,395  1,528 
Receivables and other financial 
assets  –  –  –  –  –  –  7  10  –  –  7  10 
Cash and cash equivalents  –  –  –  –  –  –  38  45  –  (1)  38  44 
Total financial assets backing 
unit linked liabilities  832  1,991  545  211  18  –  45  55  –  (675)  1,440  1,582 
Investment contract liabilities  –  –  1,024  1,201  18  –  –  –  –  (49)  1,042  1,152 
Third party interest in 
consolidated funds  –  –  388  416  –  –  –  –  –  –  388  416 
Other unit linked financial 
liabilities  7  –  2  6  –  –  1  6  –  –  10  12 
Total unit linked financial 
liabilities  7  –  1,414  1,623  18  –  1  6  –  (49)  1,440  1,580 
1  Financial investments in 2019 include financial assets backing unit linked liabilities classified as non-participating insurance contracts within liabilities of operations held for sale. 
(Refer Note 23). 
162 Standard Life Aberdeen 2020
7. Group financial statements continued   
 
25.   Unit linked liabilities and assets backing unit linked liabilities  The financial investments backing unit linked liabilities comprise equity securities and interests in pooled investment funds of £1,244m 
(2019: £1,338m), debt securities of £145m (2019: £185m) and derivative financial assets of £6m (2019: £5m). In addition to financial 
The Group operates unit linked life assurance businesses through a number of subsidiaries. These subsidiaries provide investment  assets backing unit linked liabilities and unit linked financial liabilities shown above there is a current tax asset of £1m (2019: £nil) 
products through a life assurance wrapper. These products do not contain any features which transfer significant insurance risk and  included in unit linked assets and a current tax liability of £1m (2019: £2m) included in unit linked liabilities. 
therefore are classified as investment contracts. Unit linked non-participating investment contracts are separated into two components 
being an investment management services component and a financial liability. All fees and related administrative expenses are  The fair value of financial instruments not held at fair value approximates to their carrying value at 31 December 2020 and 31 December 
deemed to be associated with the investment management services component (refer Note 4). The financial liability component is  2019. 
designated at FVTPL as it is implicitly managed on a fair value basis as its value is directly linked to the market value of the underlying  Transfers from level 1 to level 2 and from level 2 to level 1 during 2020 were £309m (2019: £nil) and £nil (2019: £nil) respectively. 
portfolio of assets.   Transfers from level 1 to level 2 in the period primarily relate to interests in pooled investment vehicles which are priced daily but 
Where the Group is deemed to control an investment vehicle as a result of holdings in that vehicle by subsidiaries to back unit linked  where the daily price is only offered by the fund manager. The Group now considers these investments to be level 2. All other 
non-participating investment contract liabilities, the assets and liabilities of the vehicle are consolidated within the Group’s statement of  transfers relate to assets where changes in the frequency of observable market transactions resulted in a change in whether the market 
financial position. The liability for third party interest in such consolidated funds is presented as a unit linked liability.  was considered active. The movements during the period of level 3 unit linked assets and liabilities held at fair value are analysed below.  
Uponsiti tliionnk eedx clieapbtil iftoier sth aonsde  ahseslde tisn  boapcekriantgio unnsi th leinldk efodr l isaablieli,t iewsh iacrhe  aprree sperensteedn tseedp ianr aatseslye tisn  athned  clioanbsiliotileidsa hteedld s ftoart esmaleen int  othf efin caonncsiaoll idated    Eqinu iptyo osleecdu irnitvieess tamnedn itn ftuenredsst s  Investlmiabeinlitt iceosn tract   FINA
N
statement of financial position.     312 D0e2c0    312 D01e9c    312 D0e2c0    312 D01e9c    CIAL
Contributions received on non-participating investment contracts and from third party interest in consolidated funds are treated as    £m  £m  £m  £m   IN
F
deposits and not reported as revenue in the consolidated income statement.  At start of period  –  –  –  –  OR
M
Withdrawals paid out to policyholders on non-participating investment contracts and to third party interest in consolidated funds are  Total gains/(losses) recognised in the consolidated income statement  (2)  –  2  –  A
T
treated as a reduction to deposits and not recognised as expenses in the consolidated income statement.  Sales  (1)  –  1  –  IO
N
Investment return and related benefits credited in respect of non-participating investment contracts and third party interest in  Transfers in to level 31  21  –  (21)  –   
consolidated funds are recognised in the consolidated income statement as changes in investment contract liabilities and changes in  At end of period  18  –  (18)  – 
liability for third party interest in consolidated funds respectively. Investment returns relating to unit linked business are for the account  1  Transfers are deemed to have occurred at the end of the calendar quarter in which they arose.  
of policyholders and have an equal and opposite effect on income and expenses in the consolidated income statement with no impact 
on profit after tax.  Unit linked level 3 assets relate to holdings in real estate funds. No individual unobservable input is considered significant. Changing 
unobservable inputs in the measurement of the fair value of these unit linked level 3 financial assets and liabilities to reasonably possible 
Assets backing unit linked liabilities comprise financial investments, which are all classified as FVTPL on a mandatory basis, and 
alternative assumptions would have no impact on profit attributable to equity holders or on total assets. 
receivables and other financial assets and cash and cash equivalents which are measured at amortised cost. 
Transfers of unit linked assets and liabilities to level 3 generally arise when external pricing providers stop providing prices for the 
underlying assets and liabilities in the funds or where the price provided is considered stale.  
(a)   Financial instrument risk management 
The shareholder is not directly exposed to market risk or credit risk in relation to the financial assets backing unit linked liabilities. The  (c)   Change in non-participating investment contract liabilities 
shareholder’s exposure to market risk on these assets is limited to variations in the value of future fee based revenue as fees are based  The change in non-participating investment contract liabilities was as follows: 
on a percentage of fund value.  
   2020  2019 
The shareholder is exposed to liquidity risk relating to unit linked funds. For the unit linked business, liquidity risk is primarily managed by     £m  £m 
holding a range of diversified instruments which are assessed against cash flow and funding requirements. A core portfolio of assets is  At 1 January    1,152  1,468 
maintained and invested in accordance with the mandates of the relevant unit linked funds. Given that unit linked policyholders can  Contributions    83  158 
usually choose to surrender, in part or in full, their unit linked contracts at any time, the non-participating investment contract unit linked 
Account balances paid on surrender and other terminations in the year    (249)  (729) 
liabilities are designated as payable within one year. Such surrenders would be matched in practice, if necessary, by sales of underlying 
Change in non-participating investment contract liabilities recognised in the consolidated income statement1    58  258 
assets. Policyholder behaviour and the trading position of asset classes are actively monitored. The Group can delay settling liabilities to 
Recurring management charges    (2)  (3) 
unit linked policyholders to ensure fairness between those remaining in the fund and those leaving the fund. The length of any such 
delay is dependent on the underlying financial assets.  At 31 December    1,042  1,152 
(b)   Fair value measurement of unit linked financial liabilities and financial assets backing unit linked liabilities  1  Change in non-participating investment contract liabilities recognised in the consolidated income statement in the table above excludes (£2m) (2019: £7m) in relation to non-
participating investment contract liabilities classified as held for sale. 
Each of the unit linked financial liabilities and the financial assets backing unit linked liabilities has been categorised below using the fair 
value hierarchy as defined in Note 40. Refer Note 40 for details of valuation techniques used.  (d)   Derivatives 
The treatment of collateral accepted and pledged in respect of financial instruments and the Group’s approach to offsetting financial 
Classified as 
  Level 1  Level 2  Level 3  Not at fair value  held for sale1  Total  assets and liabilities is described in Note 38. The following table presents the impact of master netting agreements and similar 
  2020  2019  2020  2019  2020  2019  2020  2019  2020  2019  2020  2019  arrangements for derivatives backing unit linked liabilities. 
  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m 
Related amounts not offset on the consolidated 
Financial investments  832  1,991  545  211  18  –  –  –  –  (674)  1,395  1,528        statement of financial position     
Receivables and other financial  Gross amounts of financial 
instruments as presented 
assets  –  –  –  –  –  –  7  10  –  –  7  10 
on the consolidated 
Cash and cash equivalents  –  –  –  –  –  –  38  45  –  (1)  38  44  statement of financial  Financial   Financial collateral 
  position  instruments  pledged/(received)  Net position 
Total financial assets backing 
unit linked liabilities  832  1,991  545  211  18  –  45  55  –  (675)  1,440  1,582    2020  2019  2020  2019  2020  2019  2020  2019 
  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m 
Investment contract liabilities  –  –  1,024  1,201  18  –  –  –  –  (49)  1,042  1,152 
Financial assets                 
Third party interest in 
Derivatives1  5  3  –  (2)  –  –  5  1 
consolidated funds  –  –  388  416  –  –  –  –  –  –  388  416 
Total financial assets  5  3  –  (2)  –  –  5  1 
Other unit linked financial 
liabilities  7  –  2  6  –  –  1  6  –  –  10  12  Financial liabilities                 
Total unit linked financial  Derivatives1  (2)  (5)  –  2  –  –  (2)  (3) 
liabilities  7  –  1,414  1,623  18  –  1  6  –  (49)  1,440  1,580  Total financial liabilities  (2)  (5)  –  2  –  –  (2)  (3) 
1  Financial investments in 2019 include financial assets backing unit linked liabilities classified as non-participating insurance contracts within liabilities of operations held for sale.  1  Only OTC derivatives subject to master netting agreements have been included above. 
(Refer Note 23). 
  Standard Life Aberdeen 2020 163
7. Group financial statements continued 
26.  Issued share capital and share premium 
Shares are classified as equity instruments when there is no contractual obligation to deliver cash or other assets to another entity on 
terms that may be unfavourable. The Company’s share capital consists of the number of ordinary shares in issue multiplied by their 
nominal value. The difference between the proceeds received on issue of the shares and the nominal value of the shares issued is 
recorded in share premium. 
The movement in the issued ordinary share capital and share premium of the Company was: 
  2020  2019 
Share  Share 
  Ordinary share capital  premium  Ordinary share capital  premium 
Issued shares fully paid  13 61/63p each  £m  £m  13 61/63p each  £m  £m 
At 1 January  2,338,723,724  327  640  2,529,412,224  353  640 
Shares issued in respect of share incentive plans  2,188  –  –  1,114  –  – 
Share buyback  (144,610,296)  (21)  –  (190,689,614)  (26)  – 
At 31 December  2,194,115,616  306  640  2,338,723,724  327  640 
All ordinary shares in issue in the Company rank pari passu and carry the same voting rights and entitlement to receive dividends and 
other distributions declared or paid by the Company.  
On 7 February 2020, the Company announced a share buyback of up to £400m through on-market purchases which commenced on 10 
February 2020. The previous buyback of up to £750m through on-market purchases which was approved by shareholders on 25 June 
2018 completed in December 2019. During 2020, the Company has bought back and cancelled 144,610,296 shares (2019: 
190,689,614 shares). The total consideration was £362m (2019: £516m) which includes transaction costs and any unsettled purchases 
of shares already transacted. At 31 December 2020, there were unsettled purchases of shares for 507,757 shares (2019: none). In 
addition at 31 December 2020 there was an irrevocable contractual obligation with a third party to purchase the Company’s own shares 
of £40m (2019: £nil). This obligation has been recognised as a part of the share buyback reduction to retained earnings for the year of 
£402m, with a corresponding £40m liability included within other financial liabilities (refer Note 36). 
The accounting treatment adopted in the Half year results 2020 did not appropriately recognise a reduction to retained earnings and a 
corresponding liability within other financial liabilities for such an irrevocable contractual obligation. This will be corrected, and the 30 
June 2020 retained earnings and other financial liabilities restated, in the Half year results 2021.The impact will be a reduction to 30 
June 2020 retained earnings of £226m and the recognition of a corresponding other financial liability. There will be no impact on 30 June 
2020 reported profit, earnings per share, regulatory capital or cash flows. There is no impact of this correction on any other previous 
reporting periods. 
This share buyback has resulted in a reduction in retained earnings of £402m (2019: £390m), There was no reduction in the special 
reserve for the share buyback in 2020 (2019: £126m). An amount of £21m (2019: £26m) has been credited to the capital redemption 
reserve relating to the nominal value of the shares cancelled.  
The Company can issue shares to satisfy awards granted under employee incentive plans which have been approved by shareholders. 
Details of the Group’s employee plans are provided in Note 44.  
27.  Shares held by trusts 
Shares held by trusts relates to shares in Standard Life Aberdeen plc that are held by the Standard Life Aberdeen Employee Benefit 
Trust (SLA EBT), Standard Life Employee Trust (ET), the Aberdeen Asset Management Employee Benefit Trust 2003 (AAM EBT) 
and, prior to SLA plc issuing its closure instruction to the Trustees on 13 December 2019, the Standard Life Unclaimed Asset Trust 
(UAT). The SLA EBT was established on 28 March 2019. 
The SLA EBT, ET and AAM EBT purchase shares in the Company for delivery to employees under employee incentive plans. 
Purchased shares are recognised as a deduction from equity at the price paid for them. Where new shares are issued to the SLA 
EBT, ET or AAM EBT the price paid is the nominal value of the shares. When shares are distributed from the trust their 
corresponding value is released to retained earnings. 
The number of shares held by trusts was as follows: 
        2020  2019 
Number of shares held by trusts           
Standard Life Aberdeen Employee Benefit Trust        37,667,681  15,378,831 
Standard Life Employee Trust        23,773,359  26,685,390 
Aberdeen Asset Management Employee Benefit Trust 2003        6,294,765  10,579,914 
   
164 Standard Life Aberdeen 2020
7. Group financial statements continued   
 
26.  Issued share capital and share premium  28.  Retained earnings 
The following table shows movements in retained earnings during the year. The movements are aggregated for both continuing and 
Shares are classified as equity instruments when there is no contractual obligation to deliver cash or other assets to another entity on 
discontinued operations. 
terms that may be unfavourable. The Company’s share capital consists of the number of ordinary shares in issue multiplied by their 
nominal value. The difference between the proceeds received on issue of the shares and the nominal value of the shares issued is      2020  2019 
recorded in share premium.    Notes  £m  £m 
Opening balance carried forward    2,886  2,778 
The movement in the issued ordinary share capital and share premium of the Company was:  Effect of change in accounting policy to IFRS 91    –  (12) 
Effect of change in accounting policy to IFRS 161    –  (5) 
  2020  2019 
Opening balance at 1 January    2,886  2,761 
Share  Share 
  Ordinary share capital  premium  Ordinary share capital  premium         
Issued shares fully paid  13 61/63p each  £m  £m  13 61/63p each  £m  £m  Recognised in comprehensive income       
At 1 January  2,338,723,724  327  640  2,529,412,224  353  640  Recognised in profit for the year attributable to equity holders    833  266  F
IN
Shares issued in respect of share incentive plans  2,188  –  –  1,114  –  –  Recognised in other comprehensive income        A
N
Share buyback  (144,610,296)  (21)  –  (190,689,614)  (26)  –  Remeasurement gains/(losses) on defined benefit pension plans  34  280  (23)  CIA
L
At 31 December  2,194,115,616  306  640  2,338,723,724  327  640  Share of other comprehensive income of associates and joint ventures     –  (10)   IN
F
Equity holder tax effect of items that will not be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss  10  2  –  O
R
All ordinary shares in issue in the Company rank pari passu and carry the same voting rights and entitlement to receive dividends and  Total items recognised in comprehensive income    1,115  233  MA
other distributions declared or paid by the Company.   T
        IO
N
On 7 February 2020, the Company announced a share buyback of up to £400m through on-market purchases which commenced on 10  Recognised directly in equity       
 
February 2020. The previous buyback of up to £750m through on-market purchases which was approved by shareholders on 25 June 
Dividends paid on ordinary shares    (479)  (518) 
2018 completed in December 2019. During 2020, the Company has bought back and cancelled 144,610,296 shares (2019: 
Reclassification of preference shares to liability  30,33  (1)  – 
190,689,614 shares). The total consideration was £362m (2019: £516m) which includes transaction costs and any unsettled purchases 
Shares buyback  26  (402)  (390) 
of shares already transacted. At 31 December 2020, there were unsettled purchases of shares for 507,757 shares (2019: none). In 
addition at 31 December 2020 there was an irrevocable contractual obligation with a third party to purchase the Company’s own shares  Transfer between reserves on impairment of subsidiaries  29  1,834  780 
of £40m (2019: £nil). This obligation has been recognised as a part of the share buyback reduction to retained earnings for the year of  Transfer for vested employee share-based payments    38  57 
£402m, with a corresponding £40m liability included within other financial liabilities (refer Note 36).  Transfer from the Standard Life Unclaimed Asset Trust    –  1 
Shares distributed by employee and other trusts    (21)  (38) 
The accounting treatment adopted in the Half year results 2020 did not appropriately recognise a reduction to retained earnings and a 
corresponding liability within other financial liabilities for such an irrevocable contractual obligation. This will be corrected, and the 30  Total items recognised directly in equity    969  (108) 
June 2020 retained earnings and other financial liabilities restated, in the Half year results 2021.The impact will be a reduction to 30  At 31 December     4,970  2,886 
June 2020 retained earnings of £226m and the recognition of a corresponding other financial liability. There will be no impact on 30 June 
1  The Group has initially applied IFRS 9 and IFRS 16 at 1 January 2019. Under the transition methods chosen, comparative information is not restated and the cumulative effect 
2020 reported profit, earnings per share, regulatory capital or cash flows. There is no impact of this correction on any other previous  of initially applying these standards is recognised in retained earnings at the date of initial application.  
reporting periods. 
29.  Movements in other reserves 
This share buyback has resulted in a reduction in retained earnings of £402m (2019: £390m), There was no reduction in the special 
reserve for the share buyback in 2020 (2019: £126m). An amount of £21m (2019: £26m) has been credited to the capital redemption  In July 2006 Standard Life Group demutualised and during this process the merger reserve, the reserve arising on Group 
reserve relating to the nominal value of the shares cancelled.   reconstruction and the special reserve were created.  
The Company can issue shares to satisfy awards granted under employee incentive plans which have been approved by shareholders.  Merger reserve: the merger reserve consists of two components. Firstly at demutualisation in July 2006 the Company issued shares 
Details of the Group’s employee plans are provided in Note 44.   to former members of the mutual company. The difference between the nominal value of these shares and their issue value was 
recognised in the merger reserve. The reserve includes components attaching to each subsidiary that was transferred to the 
27.  Shares held by trusts 
Company at demutualisation based on their fair value at that date. Secondly following the completion of the merger of Standard Life 
plc and AAM PLC on 14 August 2017, an additional amount was recognised in the merger reserve representing the difference 
Shares held by trusts relates to shares in Standard Life Aberdeen plc that are held by the Standard Life Aberdeen Employee Benefit 
between the nominal value of shares issued to shareholders of AAM PLC and their fair value at that date. On disposal or impairment 
Trust (SLA EBT), Standard Life Employee Trust (ET), the Aberdeen Asset Management Employee Benefit Trust 2003 (AAM EBT) 
of a subsidiary any related component of the merger reserve is released to retained earnings. 
and, prior to SLA plc issuing its closure instruction to the Trustees on 13 December 2019, the Standard Life Unclaimed Asset Trust 
(UAT). The SLA EBT was established on 28 March 2019.  Reserve arising on Group reconstruction: The value of the shares issued at demutualisation was equal to the fair value of the 
business at that date. The business’s assets and liabilities were recognised at their book value at the time of demutualisation. The 
The SLA EBT, ET and AAM EBT purchase shares in the Company for delivery to employees under employee incentive plans. 
difference between the book value of the business’s net assets and its fair value was recognised in the reserve arising on Group 
Purchased shares are recognised as a deduction from equity at the price paid for them. Where new shares are issued to the SLA 
reconstruction. The reserve comprises components attaching to each subsidiary that was transferred to the Company at 
EBT, ET or AAM EBT the price paid is the nominal value of the shares. When shares are distributed from the trust their 
demutualisation. On disposal of such a subsidiary any related component of the reserve arising on Group reconstruction is released 
corresponding value is released to retained earnings. 
to retained earnings. 
Special reserve: Immediately following demutualisation and the related initial public offering, the Company reduced its share 
The number of shares held by trusts was as follows:  premium reserve by court order giving rise to the special reserve. Dividends can be paid out of this reserve.  
        2020  2019  Capital redemption reserve: In August 2018, as part of the return of capital and share buyback (refer Note 26) the capital 
Number of shares held by trusts            redemption reserve was created. 
Standard Life Aberdeen Employee Benefit Trust        37,667,681  15,378,831 
   
Standard Life Employee Trust        23,773,359  26,685,390 
Aberdeen Asset Management Employee Benefit Trust 2003        6,294,765  10,579,914 
   
  Standard Life Aberdeen 2020 165
7. Group financial statements continued 
The following tables show the movements in other reserves during the year. The movements are aggregated for both continuing and 
discontinued operations. 
Foreign  Equity  Reserve arising  Capital 
Cash flow  currency  Merger  compensation  Special  on Group  redemption 
    hedges  translation  reserve  reserve  reserve  reconstruction  reserve  Total 
  Notes  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m 
1 January 2020    4  3  2,317  54  115  (685)  1,037  2,845 
Recognised in other 
comprehensive income                   
Fair value losses on cash 
flow hedges    (3)  –  –  –  –  –  –  (3) 
Exchange differences on 
translating foreign 
operations    –  (8)  –  –  –  –  –  (8) 
Items transferred to profit or 
loss from continuing   
operations    13  6  –  –  –  –  –  19 
Aggregate tax effect of 
items recognised in other 
comprehensive income    (2)  –  –  –  –  –  –  (2) 
Total items recognised in 
other comprehensive 
income    8  (2)  –  –  –  –  –  6 
Recognised directly in 
equity                   
Share buyback  26  –  –  –  –  –  –  21  21 
Reserves credit for 
employee share-based 
payments     –  –  –  64  –  –  –  64 
Transfer to retained 
earnings for vested 
employee share-based 
payments    –  –  –  (38)  –  –  –  (38) 
Transfer between reserves 
on impairment of 
subsidiaries    –  –  (1,834)  –  –  –  –  (1,834) 
Total items recognised 
directly within equity    –  –  (1,834)  26  –  –  21  (1,787) 
At 31 December 2020    12  1  483  80  115  (685)  1,058  1,064 
The merger reserve includes £470m (2019: £2,304m) in relation to the Group’s asset management businesses. Following the 
impairment of the Company’s investments in its asset management entities (refer Section 8), £1,834m (2019: £780m) was transferred 
from the merger reserve to retained earnings to mitigate the impact on distributable reserves.  
   
166 Standard Life Aberdeen 2020
7. Group financial statements continued   
 
The following tables show the movements in other reserves during the year. The movements are aggregated for both continuing and  Available- Reserve 
discontinued operations.  Cash  Foreign  for-sale  Equity  arising on  Capital 
flow  currency  financial  Merger  compensation  Special  Group  redemption 
Foreign  Equity  Reserve arising  Capital      hedges  translation  assets  reserve  reserve  reserve  reconstruction  reserve  Total 
Cash flow  currency  Merger  compensation  Special  on Group  redemption    Notes  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m 
    hedges  translation  reserve  reserve  reserve  reconstruction  reserve  Total 
31 December 2018    (6)  49  7  3,097  68  241  (685)  1,011  3,782 
  Notes  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m 
Effect of change in 
1 January 2020    4  3  2,317  54  115  (685)  1,037  2,845 
accounting policy to  
Recognised in other  IFRS 91    –  –  (7)  –  –  –  –  –  (7) 
comprehensive income                   
1 January 2019    (6)  49  –  3,097  68  241  (685)  1,011  3,775 
Fair value losses on cash 
Recognised in other 
flow hedges    (3)  –  –  –  –  –  –  (3) 
comprehensive income                     
Exchange differences on 
Fair value losses on cash 
torpaenrsalatitoinngs  foreign    –  (8)  –  –  –  –  –  (8)  flow hedges    (10)  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  (10)  FINA
Exchange differences on  N
Items transferred to profit or  C
loopsesr afrtoiomn sc ontinuing      13  6  –  –  –  –  –  19  toIrtpeaemnrssala ttitroiannngss  ffoerrereigdn t o profit    –  (46)  –  –  –  –  –  –  (46)  IAL INFO
Aggregate tax effect of  or loss from continuing    RM
items recognised in other  operations    22  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  22  AT
comprehensive income    (2)  –  –  –  –  –  –  (2)  IO
Aggregate tax effect of  N
Total items recognised in  items recognised in other   
other comprehensive  comprehensive income    (2)  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  (2) 
income    8  (2)  –  –  –  –  –  6 
Total items recognised 
Recognised directly in  in other comprehensive 
equity                    income    10  (46)  –  –  –  –  –  –  (36) 
Share buyback  26  –  –  –  –  –  –  21  21 
Recognised directly in 
Reserves credit for  equity                     
employee share-based 
Share buyback  26  –  –  –  –  –  (126)  –  26  (100) 
payments     –  –  –  64  –  –  –  64 
Reserves credit for 
Transfer to retained 
employee share-based 
earnings for vested 
payments     –  –  –  –  43  –  –  –  43 
employee share-based 
Transfer to retained 
payments    –  –  –  (38)  –  –  –  (38) 
earnings for vested 
Transfer between reserves 
employee share-based 
on impairment of 
payments    –  –  –  –  (57)  –  –  –  (57) 
subsidiaries    –  –  (1,834)  –  –  –  –  (1,834) 
Transfer between 
Total items recognised  reserves on impairment 
directly within equity    –  –  (1,834)  26  –  –  21  (1,787)  of subsidiaries    –  –  –  (780)  –  –  –  –  (780) 
At 31 December 2020    12  1  483  80  115  (685)  1,058  1,064 
Total items recognised 
directly within equity    –  –  –  (780)  (14)  (126)  –  26  (894) 
The merger reserve includes £470m (2019: £2,304m) in relation to the Group’s asset management businesses. Following the 
At 31 December 2019    4  3  –  2,317  54  115  (685)  1,037  2,845 
impairment of the Company’s investments in its asset management entities (refer Section 8), £1,834m (2019: £780m) was transferred 
from the merger reserve to retained earnings to mitigate the impact on distributable reserves.   1  The Group has initially applied IFRS 9 at 1 January 2019. Under the transition method chosen, comparative information is not restated and the cumulative effect of initially 
applying this standard is recognised in retained earnings at the date of initial application.  
   
30.  Non-controlling interests  
Non-controlling interests included preference shares.  
(a)   Non-controlling interests – ordinary shares  
Non-controlling interests – ordinary shares of £3m were held at 31 December 2020 (2019: £3m).  
(b)   Non-controlling interests – preference shares  
  2020  2019 
  £m  £m 
5% 2015 Non-voting perpetual non-cumulative redeemable preference shares  –  99 
The Group recognised preference shares issued by AAM PLC as non-controlling interests. On 4 June 2020, AAM PLC notified the 
holders of the redeemable preference shares of its irrevocable intention to redeem the preference shares. Following notification the 
preference shares were reclassified as subordinated liabilities as an obligation to deliver cash was created. Refer Note 33.  
The profit attributable to these non-controlling interests from continuing operations for the year ended 31 December 2020 was £5m 
(2019: £5m). Preference share dividends were discretionary and where declared, were paid in arrears in two tranches at a rate of 5% 
per annum and were non-cumulative. No interest accrued on any cancelled or unpaid dividends. During the year ended 31 December 
2020 preference share dividends of £5m (2019: £5m) were paid including £2m paid as part of the redemption of the preference shares 
on 8 July 2020. Refer Note 33. 
  Standard Life Aberdeen 2020 167
7. Group financial statements continued 
31.  Insurance contracts, investment contracts and reinsurance contracts 
Insurance contracts, participating investment contracts and reinsurance contracts relate to SL Asia which was sold on 30 June 2020 
(refer Note 1). 
SL Asia held non-participating insurance and investment contracts. A contract is classified as an insurance contract only if it transfers 
significant insurance risk. Insurance risk is significant if an insured event could cause an insurer to pay significant additional benefits to 
those payable if no insured event occurred, excluding scenarios that lack commercial substance. Life and pensions business contracts 
that are not classified as insurance contracts are classified as investment contracts. 
SL Asia’s insurance and investment contracts did not contain any discretionary participating features so were classified as non-
participating.  
SL Asia’s non-participating investment contracts were unit linked and details of the accounting policies for these contracts are given in 
Note 25. The accounting policies for SL Asia’s non-participating insurance contracts are given below. 
(a)(i) Premiums, claims and change in insurance contract liabilities 
Premiums received on insurance contracts are recognised as revenue in the consolidated income statement when due for payment 
except for unit linked premiums which are accounted for when the corresponding liabilities are recognised. For single premium business, 
this is the date from which the policy is effective. For regular (and recurring) premium contracts, receivables are established at the date 
when payments are due. 
Claims paid on insurance contracts are recognised as expenses in the consolidated income statement. Maturity claims and annuities 
are accounted for when due for payment. Surrenders are accounted for when paid or, if earlier, on the date when the policy ceases to be 
included within the calculation of the insurance liability. Death claims and all other claims are accounted for when notified. Claims 
payable include the direct costs of settlement. Reinsurance recoveries are accounted for in the same period as the related claim.  
The change in insurance and participating investment contract liabilities, comprising the full movement in the corresponding liabilities 
during the period, is recognised in the consolidated income statement. 
(a)(ii) Measurement – non-participating insurance contract liabilities 
The Group’s policy for measuring liabilities for non-participating insurance contracts issued by overseas subsidiaries is to apply the 
valuation technique used in the issuing entity’s local statutory or regulatory reporting. 
The Group applies a liability adequacy test at each reporting date to ensure that the insurance contract liabilities (less related deferred 
acquisition costs) are adequate in the light of the estimated future cash flows. This test is performed by comparing the carrying value of 
the liability and the discounted projections of future cash flows. If a deficiency is found in the liability (i.e. the carrying value amount of its 
insurance liabilities is less than the future expected cash flows), that deficiency is provided for in full. The deficiency is recognised in the 
consolidated income statement. 
(a)(iii) Measurement – reinsurance contracts 
Reinsurance contracts are measured using valuation techniques and assumptions that are consistent with the valuation techniques and 
assumptions used in measuring the underlying policy benefits and taking into account the terms of the reinsurance contract. 
(a)   Insurance contract premium income 
    2020  2019 
    £m  £m 
Gross earned premium    32  67 
Premium ceded to reinsurers    (1)  (1) 
Insurance contract premium income from continuing operations    31  66 
(b)   Insurance contract claims and change in liabilities 
    2020  2019 
    £m  £m 
Claims and benefits paid     28  61 
Claim recoveries from reinsurers    –  (2) 
Net insurance claims    28  59 
Change in reinsurance assets and liabilities    (3)  1 
Change in insurance contract liabilities     (8)  96 
Insurance contract claims and change in liabilities from continuing operations    17  156 
   
168 Standard Life Aberdeen 2020
7. Group financial statements continued   
 
31.  Insurance contracts, investment contracts and reinsurance contracts  32.  Financial liabilities 
Insurance contracts, participating investment contracts and reinsurance contracts relate to SL Asia which was sold on 30 June 2020  Management determines the classification of financial liabilities at initial recognition. Financial liabilities which are managed and 
(refer Note 1).  whose performance is evaluated on a fair value basis are designated as at fair value through profit or loss. Changes in the fair value 
of these financial liabilities are recognised in the consolidated income statement. 
SL Asia held non-participating insurance and investment contracts. A contract is classified as an insurance contract only if it transfers 
significant insurance risk. Insurance risk is significant if an insured event could cause an insurer to pay significant additional benefits to  Derivatives are also measured at fair value. Changes in the fair value of derivatives are recognised in investment return in the 
those payable if no insured event occurred, excluding scenarios that lack commercial substance. Life and pensions business contracts  consolidated income statement except for derivative instruments that are designated as a cash flow hedge or net investment hedge. 
that are not classified as insurance contracts are classified as investment contracts.  The classification of derivatives and the accounting treatment of derivatives designated as a hedging instrument are set out in Note 
20.  
SL Asia’s insurance and investment contracts did not contain any discretionary participating features so were classified as non-
participating.   Other financial liabilities are classified as being subsequently measured at amortised cost. Amortised cost is calculated, and the 
related interest expense is recognised in the consolidated income statement, using the effective interest method. 
SL Asia’s non-participating investment contracts were unit linked and details of the accounting policies for these contracts are given in 
Note 25. The accounting policies for SL Asia’s non-participating insurance contracts are given below.  All financial liabilities are initially recognised at fair value less, in the case of financial liabilities subsequently measured at amortised  F
cost, transaction costs that are directly attributable to the issue of the liability.   IN
A
(a)(i) Premiums, claims and change in insurance contract liabilities  N
Premiums received on insurance contracts are recognised as revenue in the consolidated income statement when due for payment  Where the terms of a financial liability measured at amortised cost are modified and the modification does not result in the  CIA
except for unit linked premiums which are accounted for when the corresponding liabilities are recognised. For single premium business,  derecognition of the liability, the liability is adjusted to the net present value of the future cash flows less transaction costs with a  L IN
modification gain or loss recognised in the income statement.   F
this is the date from which the policy is effective. For regular (and recurring) premium contracts, receivables are established at the date  O
R
when payments are due.  The methods and assumptions used to determine fair value of financial liabilities measured at fair value through profit or loss and derivatives  M
A
Claims paid on insurance contracts are recognised as expenses in the consolidated income statement. Maturity claims and annuities  are discussed in Note 40.  TIO
N
are accounted for when due for payment. Surrenders are accounted for when paid or, if earlier, on the date when the policy ceases to be 
 
included within the calculation of the insurance liability. Death claims and all other claims are accounted for when notified. Claims  The table below sets out an analysis of financial liabilities excluding unit linked financial liabilities which are set out in Note 25. 
payable include the direct costs of settlement. Reinsurance recoveries are accounted for in the same period as the related claim.  
Designated as at fair 
The change in insurance and participating investment contract liabilities, comprising the full movement in the corresponding liabilities      value through profit or 
loss  Cash flow hedge  At amortised cost  Total 
during the period, is recognised in the consolidated income statement. 
    2020  2019  2020  2019  2020  2019  2020  2019 
(a)(ii) Measurement – non-participating insurance contract liabilities    Notes  £m    £m    £m    £m   
The Group’s policy for measuring liabilities for non-participating insurance contracts issued by overseas subsidiaries is to apply the  Third party interest in 
valuation technique used in the issuing entity’s local statutory or regulatory reporting.  consolidated funds    77  119  –  –  –  –  77  119 
Subordinated liabilities  33  –  –  –  –  638  655  638  655 
The Group applies a liability adequacy test at each reporting date to ensure that the insurance contract liabilities (less related deferred 
Derivative financial liabilities  20  7  3  6  –  –  –  13  3 
acquisition costs) are adequate in the light of the estimated future cash flows. This test is performed by comparing the carrying value of 
Other financial liabilities  36  6  14  –  –  1,171  1,301  1,177  1,315 
the liability and the discounted projections of future cash flows. If a deficiency is found in the liability (i.e. the carrying value amount of its 
insurance liabilities is less than the future expected cash flows), that deficiency is provided for in full. The deficiency is recognised in the  Total    90  136  6  –  1,809  1,956  1,905  2,092 
consolidated income statement. 
33.  Subordinated liabilities 
(a)(iii) Measurement – reinsurance contracts 
Subordinated liabilities are debt instruments issued by the Company which rank below its other obligations in the event of liquidation 
Reinsurance contracts are measured using valuation techniques and assumptions that are consistent with the valuation techniques and 
but above the share capital. Subordinated liabilities are initially recognised at the value of proceeds received after deduction of issue 
assumptions used in measuring the underlying policy benefits and taking into account the terms of the reinsurance contract. 
expenses. Subsequent measurement is at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method. 
 
(a)   Insurance contract premium income 
    2020  2019 
    2020  2019  Principal   Carrying  Principal   Carrying 
    £m  £m    Notes  amount  value  amount  value 
Gross earned premium    32  67  Subordinated notes           
Premium ceded to reinsurers    (1)  (1)  4.25% US Dollar fixed rate due 30 June 2028    $750m  £546m  $750m  £563m 
Insurance contract premium income from continuing operations    31  66  5.5% Sterling fixed rate due 4 December 2042    £92m  £92m  £92m  £92m 
Total subordinated liabilities  40    £638m    £655m 
(b)   Insurance contract claims and change in liabilities 
    2020  2019 
A description of the key features of the Group’s subordinated liabilities as at 31 December 2020 is as follows: 
    £m  £m 
Claims and benefits paid     28  61 
Claim recoveries from reinsurers    –  (2)    4.25% US Dollar fixed rate1  5.5% Sterling fixed rate 
Principal amount  $750m  £92m 
Net insurance claims    28  59 
Issue date  18 October 2017  4 December 2012 
Change in reinsurance assets and liabilities    (3)  1 
Change in insurance contract liabilities     (8)  96  Maturity date  30 June 2028  4 December 2042 
Insurance contract claims and change in liabilities from continuing operations    17  156  Not applicable  4 December 2022 and on every interest  
Callable at par at option of the Company from   payment date (semi-annually) thereafter 
   
Not applicable  4.85% over the five-year gilt rate  
If not called by the Company interest will reset to  (and at each fifth anniversary) 
1  The cash flows arising from the US dollar subordinated notes give rise to foreign exchange exposure which the Group manages with a cross-currency swap designated as a 
cash flow hedge. Refer Note 20 for further details. 
The difference between the fair value and carrying value of the subordinated liabilities is presented in Note 40. A reconciliation of 
movements in subordinated liabilities in the year is provided in Note 41.  
  Standard Life Aberdeen 2020 169
7. Group financial statements continued 
The principal amount of all the subordinated liabilities is expected to be settled after more than 12 months. The accrued interest on the 
subordinated liabilities of less than £1m (2019: less than £1m) is expected to be settled within 12 months. 
During the year to 31 December 2020, the 5% 2015 Non-voting perpetual non-cumulative redeemable preference shares issued by 
AAM PLC were reclassified as subordinated liabilities. Refer Note 30 for further details. The liabilities were recognised at fair value of 
£102m with fair value movements since acquisition of £1m being transferred to retained earnings. The fair value included the final 
dividend paid of £2m as part of the redemption. The preference shares were redeemed on 8 July 2020 for a total consideration of 
£102m which included the dividend. 
During the year to 31 December 2019, the Company repurchased 5.5% Sterling fixed rate subordinated notes with a principal amount of 
£408m (out of a total principal amount of £500m). The total amount paid was £462m including £7m of accrued interest and a repurchase 
loss of £49m was included in restructuring and corporate transaction expenses for the year ended 31 December 2019 (refer Note 9).  
34.  Pension and other post-retirement benefit provisions  
The Group operates two types of pension plans:  
• Defined benefit plans which provide pension payments upon retirement to members as defined by the plan rules. All of the Group’s 
defined benefit plans, with the exception of a small plan in Ireland, are closed to future service accrual. 
• Defined contribution plans where the Group makes contributions to a member’s pension plan but has no further payment 
obligations once the contributions have been paid 
The Group’s liabilities in relation to its defined benefit plans are valued by at least annual actuarial calculations. The Group has 
funded these liabilities in relation to its UK and Ireland defined benefit plans by ring-fencing assets in trustee-administered funds. The 
Group has further smaller defined benefit plans some of which are unfunded.  
The statement of financial position reflects a net asset or net liability for each defined benefit pension plan. The liability recognised is 
the present value of the defined benefit obligation (estimated future cash flows are discounted using the yields on high quality 
corporate bonds) less the fair value of plan assets, if any. If the fair value of the plan assets exceeds the defined benefit obligation, a 
pension surplus is only recognised if the Group considers that it has an unconditional right to a refund of the surplus from the plan. 
The amount of surplus recognised will be limited by tax and expenses. Our judgement is that, in the UK, an authorised surplus tax 
charge is not an income tax. Consequently, the surplus is recognised net of this tax charge rather than the tax charge being included 
within deferred taxation. 
For the principal defined benefit plan (UK Standard Life Group plan), the Group considers that it has an unconditional right to a refund 
of a surplus, assuming the gradual settlement of the plan liabilities over time until all members have left the plan. The plan trustees 
can purchase annuities to insure member benefits and can, for the majority of benefits, transfer these annuities to members. The 
trustees cannot unconditionally wind up the plan or use the surplus to enhance member benefits without employer consent. Our 
judgement is that these trustee rights do not prevent us from recognising an unconditional right to a refund and therefore a surplus. 
Net interest income (if a plan is in surplus) or interest expense (if a plan is in deficit) is calculated using yields on high quality corporate 
bonds and recognised in the consolidated income statement. A current service cost is also recognised which represents the expected 
present value of the defined benefit pension entitlement earned by members in the period. A past service cost is also recognised 
which represents the change in the present value of the defined benefit obligation for service in prior periods, resulting from an 
amendment or curtailment to a plan. 
Remeasurements, which include gains and losses as a result of changes in actuarial assumptions, the effect of the limit on the plan 
surplus and returns on plan assets (other than amounts included in net interest) are recognised in other comprehensive income in the 
period in which they occur. Remeasurements are not reclassified to profit or loss in subsequent periods. 
For defined contribution plans, the Group pays contributions to separately administered pension plans. The Group has no further 
payment obligations once the contributions have been paid. The contributions are recognised in current service cost in the 
consolidated income statement as staff costs and other employee-related costs when they are due. 
 
   
170 Standard Life Aberdeen 2020
7. Group financial statements continued   
 
The principal amount of all the subordinated liabilities is expected to be settled after more than 12 months. The accrued interest on the  Defined contribution plans 
subordinated liabilities of less than £1m (2019: less than £1m) is expected to be settled within 12 months. 
The defined contribution plans comprise a mixture of arrangements depending on the employing entity and other factors. Some of these 
During the year to 31 December 2020, the 5% 2015 Non-voting perpetual non-cumulative redeemable preference shares issued by  plans are located within the same legal vehicles as defined benefit plans. The Group contributes a percentage of pensionable salary to 
AAM PLC were reclassified as subordinated liabilities. Refer Note 30 for further details. The liabilities were recognised at fair value of  each employee’s plan. The contribution levels vary by employing entity and other factors. 
£102m with fair value movements since acquisition of £1m being transferred to retained earnings. The fair value included the final   
dividend paid of £2m as part of the redemption. The preference shares were redeemed on 8 July 2020 for a total consideration of  Defined benefit plans 
£102m which included the dividend.  UK plans 
During the year to 31 December 2019, the Company repurchased 5.5% Sterling fixed rate subordinated notes with a principal amount of  These plans are governed by trustee boards, which comprise employer and employee nominated trustees and an independent trustee. 
£408m (out of a total principal amount of £500m). The total amount paid was £462m including £7m of accrued interest and a repurchase  The plans are subject to the statutory funding objective requirements of the Pensions Act 2004, which require that plans be funded to at 
loss of £49m was included in restructuring and corporate transaction expenses for the year ended 31 December 2019 (refer Note 9).   least the level of their technical provisions (an actuarial estimate of the assets needed to provide for benefits already built-up under the 
plan). The trustees perform regular valuations to check that the plans meet the statutory funding objective.  
34.  Pension and other post-retirement benefit provisions  
While the IAS 19 valuation reflects a best estimate of the financial position of the plan, the funding valuation reflects a prudent estimate.  F
The Group operates two types of pension plans:   There is no material difference in how assets are measured. The funding measure of liabilities (technical provisions) and the IAS 19  IN
A
• Defined benefit plans which provide pension payments upon retirement to members as defined by the plan rules. All of the Group’s  mdisecaosuunret  raartee  mreaflteecrita clloyr pdoifrfeartee nbto. nTdh ey ikeeldys d, itfhfeer efunncdeisn ga rme ethaes udries cdoisucnot urantte r aatned r einflfelacttiso na  apsrsuudmenptt ieosntsim. Wateh iolef  IfAutSu r1e9 i nreveqsutirmees ntth aret ttuhren s  NCIA
defined benefit plans, with the exception of a small plan in Ireland, are closed to future service accrual.  based on the actual investment strategy. The funding valuation adopts a market consistent measure of inflation without any adjustment.  L IN
• Defined contribution plans where the Group makes contributions to a member’s pension plan but has no further payment  The IAS 19 assumption incorporates an adjustment to remove the inflation risk premium believed to exist within market prices.  FO
R
obligations once the contributions have been paid  M
The trustees set the plan investment strategy to protect the ratio of plan assets to the trustees’ measure of technical provisions. This  A
T
The Group’s liabilities in relation to its defined benefit plans are valued by at least annual actuarial calculations. The Group has  investment strategy does not aim to protect the IAS 19 surplus or the ratio of plan assets to the IAS 19 measure of liabilities.  IO
N
funded these liabilities in relation to its UK and Ireland defined benefit plans by ring-fencing assets in trustee-administered funds. The 
After consulting the relevant employers, the trustees prepare statements of funding and investment principles and set a schedule of   
Group has further smaller defined benefit plans some of which are unfunded.  
contributions. If necessary, this schedule includes a recovery plan that aims to restore the funding level to the level of the technical 
The statement of financial position reflects a net asset or net liability for each defined benefit pension plan. The liability recognised is  provisions. 
the present value of the defined benefit obligation (estimated future cash flows are discounted using the yields on high quality 
UK Standard This is the Group’s principal defined benefit plan. The plan closed to new membership in 2004 and changed from a final 
corporate bonds) less the fair value of plan assets, if any. If the fair value of the plan assets exceeds the defined benefit obligation, a 
Life Group  salary basis to a revalued career average salary basis in 2008. Accrual ceased in April 2016. 
pension surplus is only recognised if the Group considers that it has an unconditional right to a refund of the surplus from the plan. 
plan 
The amount of surplus recognised will be limited by tax and expenses. Our judgement is that, in the UK, an authorised surplus tax  Following a High Court ruling against a third party’s pension scheme in 2018, that required pension schemes to address 
(principal 
charge is not an income tax. Consequently, the surplus is recognised net of this tax charge rather than the tax charge being included  inequalities for the effect of unequal GMPs accrued between May 1990 and April 1997, an allowance for assumed 
plan) 
within deferred taxation.  equalisation was recognised as a past service cost for our principal defined benefit plan in 2018 and this adjustment has 
been carried forward to 2020. There was a further judgment in 2020 requiring pension schemes to address inequalities for 
For the principal defined benefit plan (UK Standard Life Group plan), the Group considers that it has an unconditional right to a refund 
the effect of unequal GMPs for those beneficiaries that transferred out of the scheme between May 1990 and October 
of a surplus, assuming the gradual settlement of the plan liabilities over time until all members have left the plan. The plan trustees 
2018. The estimated impact is immaterial and is recognised as a past service cost in 2020. 
can purchase annuities to insure member benefits and can, for the majority of benefits, transfer these annuities to members. The 
trustees cannot unconditionally wind up the plan or use the surplus to enhance member benefits without employer consent. Our  The funding of the plan depends on the statutory valuation performed by the trustees, and the relevant employers, with 
judgement is that these trustee rights do not prevent us from recognising an unconditional right to a refund and therefore a surplus.  the assistance of the scheme actuary – i.e. not the IAS 19 valuation. The funding valuation was last completed as at 31 
December 2019, and measured plan assets and liabilities to be £4.6bn and £3.3bn respectively. This corresponds to a 
Net interest income (if a plan is in surplus) or interest expense (if a plan is in deficit) is calculated using yields on high quality corporate 
surplus of £1.3bn and funding level of 140%. As there is currently no deficit, no recovery plan is required. 
bonds and recognised in the consolidated income statement. A current service cost is also recognised which represents the expected 
present value of the defined benefit pension entitlement earned by members in the period. A past service cost is also recognised  Other UK  The Group also operates two UK defined benefit plans as a result of the acquisition of AAM PLC in 2017. These plans are 
which represents the change in the present value of the defined benefit obligation for service in prior periods, resulting from an  plans  final salary based, with benefits depending on members’ length of service and salary prior to retirement. At the last 
amendment or curtailment to a plan.  statutory valuation date, these plans were in deficit and the Group agreed funding plans which aimed to eliminate the 
deficits, with the plans’ trustees. At 31 December 2020, one of the two schemes is in surplus on an IAS 19 basis. The 
Remeasurements, which include gains and losses as a result of changes in actuarial assumptions, the effect of the limit on the plan  funding valuations were last competed as at 30 June 2019; both plans were in deficit and recovery plans have been 
surplus and returns on plan assets (other than amounts included in net interest) are recognised in other comprehensive income in the  agreed. 
period in which they occur. Remeasurements are not reclassified to profit or loss in subsequent periods. 
Other plans 
For defined contribution plans, the Group pays contributions to separately administered pension plans. The Group has no further 
Ireland  In December 2009, this plan closed to new membership and changed from a final salary basis to a career average 
payment obligations once the contributions have been paid. The contributions are recognised in current service cost in the 
Standard Life revalued earnings (CARE) basis. Following the sale of the UK and European insurance business in 2018, there remain 
consolidated income statement as staff costs and other employee-related costs when they are due.  plan  fewer than 10 employees who continue to accrue benefits under this plan.  
 
At the last funding valuation, effective 1 January 2019, the plan was 72% funded on an ongoing basis. 
   
Other  The Group operates smaller funded and unfunded defined benefit plans in other countries. 
Plan regulations 
The plans are administered according to local laws and regulations in each country. Responsibility for the governance of the plans rests 
with the relevant trustee boards (or equivalent).  
(a)  Analysis of amounts recognised in the consolidated income statement  
The amounts recognised in the consolidated income statement for defined contribution and defined benefit plans are as follows: 
    2020  2019 
    £m  £m 
Current service cost    59  60 
Past service cost    –  (13) 
Net interest income    (23)  (31) 
Administrative expenses    3  2 
Expense from continuing operations recognised in the consolidated income statement    39  18 
  Standard Life Aberdeen 2020 171
7. Group financial statements continued 
Contributions made to defined contribution plans are included within current service cost, with the balance attributed to the Group’s 
defined benefit plans. 
Contributions to defined benefit plans in the year ended 31 December 2020 comprised £14m (2019: £15m) to the Other UK plans and 
the Ireland Standard Life plan. Contributions are expected to remain at this level over 2021 and are not expected to change materially 
over the subsequent two years. These contributions include a mixture of deficit funding and funding to achieve a targeted level of overall 
financial strength.  
(b)  Analysis of amounts recognised in the consolidated statement of financial position  
  2020  2019 
Principal  Principal 
  plan   Other  Total  plan   Other  Total 
  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m 
Present value of funded obligation  (3,015)  (375)  (3,390)  (2,852)  (339)  (3,191) 
Present value of unfunded obligation  –  (4)  (4)  –  (3)  (3) 
Fair value of plan assets  5,253  343  5,596  4,609  308  4,917 
Effect of limit on plan surplus  (783)  –  (783)  (615)  –  (615) 
Net asset/(liability)  1,455  (36)  1,419  1,142  (34)  1,108 
The principal plan surplus is considered to be recoverable as a right to a refund exists. The surplus has been reduced to reflect an 
authorised surplus payments charge that would arise on a refund. Other includes a defined benefit plan with a surplus of £19m at 31 
December 2020 (2019: £21m). 
(c)  Movement in the net defined benefit asset 
Present value  Fair value of  Effect of limit on 
  of obligation  plan assets  Total  plan surpluses  Total 
  2020  2019  2020  2019  2020  2019  2020  2019  2020  2019 
  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m 
At 1 January   (3,194)  (2,856)  4,917  4,527  1,723  1,671  (615)  (598)  1,108  1,073 
Total expense                     
Current service cost  (1)  (2)  –  –  (1)  (2)  –  –  (1)  (2) 
Past service cost  –  13  –  –  –  13  –  –  –  13 
Interest (expense)/income  (63)  (79)  99  127  36  48  (13)  (17)  23  31 
Administrative expenses   (3)  (2)  –  –  (3)  (2)  –  –  (3)  (2) 
Total (expense)/income recognised in 
consolidated income statement  (67)  (70)  99  127  32  57  (13)  (17)  19  40 
Remeasurements                     
Return on plan assets, excluding 
amounts included in interest income  –  –  712  385  712  385  –  –  712  385 
Gain from change in demographic 
assumptions  286  16  –  –  286  16  –  –  286  16 
Loss from change in financial 
assumptions  (607)  (459)  –  –  (607)  (459)  –  –  (607)  (459) 
Release of death in service obligation  –  7  –  –  –  7  –  –  –  7 
Experience gains  44  28  –  –  44  28  –  –  44  28 
Change in effect of limit on plan 
surplus  –  –  –  –  –  –  (155)  –  (155)  – 
Remeasurement (losses)/gains 
recognised in other comprehensive 
income  (277)  (408)  712  385  435  (23)  (155)  –  280  (23) 
Exchange differences  (7)  7  5  (5)  (2)  2  –  –  (2)  2 
Employer contributions  –  –  14  15  14  15  –  –  14  15 
Benefit payments  151  133  (151)  (132)  –  1  –  –  –  1 
At 31 December   (3,394)  (3,194)  5,596  4,917  2,202  1,723  (783)  (615)  1,419  1,108 
(d)  Defined benefit plan assets  
Investment strategy is directed by the trustee boards (where relevant) who pursue different strategies according to the characteristics 
and maturity profile of each plan’s liabilities. Assets and liabilities are managed holistically to create a portfolio with the dual objectives of 
return generation and liability management. In the principal plan this is achieved through a diversified multi-asset absolute return 
strategy seeking consistent positive returns, and hedging techniques which protect liabilities against movements arising from changes in 
interest rates and inflation expectations. Derivative financial instruments support both of these objectives and may lead to increased or 
decreased exposures to the physical asset categories disclosed below. 
To provide more information on the approach used to determine and measure the fair value of the plan assets, the fair value hierarchy 
has been used as defined in Note 40. Those assets which cannot be classified as level 1 have been presented together as level 2 or 3.  
172 Standard Life Aberdeen 2020
7. Group financial statements continued   
 
Contributions made to defined contribution plans are included within current service cost, with the balance attributed to the Group’s  The distribution of the fair value of the assets of the Group’s funded defined benefit plans is as follows: 
defined benefit plans. 
  Principal plan  Other  Total 
Contributions to defined benefit plans in the year ended 31 December 2020 comprised £14m (2019: £15m) to the Other UK plans and    2020  2019  2020  2019  2020  2019 
the Ireland Standard Life plan. Contributions are expected to remain at this level over 2021 and are not expected to change materially    £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m 
over the subsequent two years. These contributions include a mixture of deficit funding and funding to achieve a targeted level of overall  Assets measured at fair value based on level 1 inputs             
financial strength.  
Derivatives   2  3  –  –  2  3 
(b)  Analysis of amounts recognised in the consolidated statement of financial position   Equity securities   183  171  –  –  183  171 
  2020  2019  Interests in pooled investment funds1             
Principal  Principal  Debt  –  330  –  12  –  342 
  plan   Other  Total  plan   Other  Total  Equity  –  –  –  34  –  34 
  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m 
Property  –  117  –  6  –  123 
Present value of funded obligation  (3,015)  (375)  (3,390)  (2,852)  (339)  (3,191) 
Present value of unfunded obligation  –  (4)  (4)  –  (3)  (3)  ACbassohl ute return  ––   27658   ––   11262   ––   128947   FINAN
Fair value of plan assets  5,253  343  5,596  4,609  308  4,917  C
Debt securities  4,431  3,098  –  4  4,431  3,102  IA
Effect of limit on plan surplus  (783)  –  (783)  (615)  –  (615)  Total assets measured at fair value based on level 1 inputs  4,616  4,062  –  194  4,616  4,256  L IN
Net asset/(liability)  1,455  (36)  1,419  1,142  (34)  1,108  F
Assets measured at fair value based on level 2 or 3 inputs              OR
M
The principal plan surplus is considered to be recoverable as a right to a refund exists. The surplus has been reduced to reflect an  Derivatives   95  262  –  (4)  95  258  AT
authorised surplus payments charge that would arise on a refund. Other includes a defined benefit plan with a surplus of £19m at 31  Equity securities   101  102  –  –  101  102  ION
December 2020 (2019: £21m).  Interests in pooled investment funds1               
Debt  434  104  13  –  447  104 
(c)  Movement in the net defined benefit asset 
Equity  37  –  32  –  69  – 
Present value  Fair value of  Effect of limit on 
  of obligation  plan assets  Total  plan surpluses  Total  Multi-asset private markets  164  157  –  –  164  157 
  2020  2019  2020  2019  2020  2019  2020  2019  2020  2019  Property  119  –  12  10  131  10 
  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  Absolute return  74  –  100  –  174  – 
At 1 January   (3,194)  (2,856)  4,917  4,527  1,723  1,671  (615)  (598)  1,108  1,073  Cash  43  –  16  –  59  – 
Total expense                      Debt securities  139  121  78  34  217  155 
Current service cost  (1)  (2)  –  –  (1)  (2)  –  –  (1)  (2)  Qualifying insurance policies  3  6  80  71  83  77 
Past service cost  –  13  –  –  –  13  –  –  –  13  Total assets measured at fair value based on level 2 or 3 inputs  1,209  752  331  111  1,540  863 
Interest (expense)/income  (63)  (79)  99  127  36  48  (13)  (17)  23  31  Cash and cash equivalents  175  222  12  3  187  225 
Administrative expenses   (3)  (2)  –  –  (3)  (2)  –  –  (3)  (2)  Liability in respect of collateral held  (743)  (426)  –  –  (743)  (426) 
Total (expense)/income recognised in  Other  (4)  (1)  –  –  (4)  (1) 
consolidated income statement  (67)  (70)  99  127  32  57  (13)  (17)  19  40 
Total  5,253  4,609  343  308  5,596  4,917 
Remeasurements                     
1  Transfers from level 1 to level 2 in the period primarily relate to interests in pooled investment vehicles which are priced daily but where the daily price is only offered by the 
Return on plan assets, excluding 
fund manager. The Group now considers these investments to be level 2. All other transfers relate to assets where changes in the frequency of observable market transactions 
amounts included in interest income  –  –  712  385  712  385  –  –  712  385  resulted in a change in whether the market was considered active. 
Gain from change in demographic 
assumptions  286  16  –  –  286  16  –  –  286  16  Further information on risks is provided in Section (g) of this note. The £4,648m (2019: £3,257m) of debt securities includes £4,487m 
(2019: £3,205m) government bonds (including conventional and index-linked). Of the remaining £161m (2019: £52m) debt securities, 
Loss from change in financial 
assumptions  (607)  (459)  –  –  (607)  (459)  –  –  (607)  (459)  £101m (2019: £22m) are investment grade corporate bonds or certificates of deposit. 
Release of death in service obligation  –  7  –  –  –  7  –  –  –  7  Included in the qualifying insurance policy asset of £83m (2019: £77m) is an insurance policy purchased by the trustees of one of the 
Experience gains  44  28  –  –  44  28  –  –  44  28  Other UK defined benefit plans to protect the plan against future investment and actuarial risks. 
Change in effect of limit on plan 
The £743m liability in respect of collateral held (2019: £426m) consists of repurchase agreements of £647m (2019: £125m), margins on 
surplus  –  –  –  –  –  –  (155)  –  (155)  –  derivatives of £51m (2019: £25m) and collateral of £45m (2019: £276m). 
Remeasurement (losses)/gains 
One Other UK plan has a contract in place to hedge longevity risk for pensioners. The fair value of this derivative is £nil at 31 December 
recognised in other comprehensive 
income  (277)  (408)  712  385  435  (23)  (155)  –  280  (23)  2020 (2019: £nil). 
Exchange differences  (7)  7  5  (5)  (2)  2  –  –  (2)  2 
Employer contributions  –  –  14  15  14  15  –  –  14  15 
Benefit payments  151  133  (151)  (132)  –  1  –  –  –  1 
At 31 December   (3,394)  (3,194)  5,596  4,917  2,202  1,723  (783)  (615)  1,419  1,108 
(d)  Defined benefit plan assets  
Investment strategy is directed by the trustee boards (where relevant) who pursue different strategies according to the characteristics 
and maturity profile of each plan’s liabilities. Assets and liabilities are managed holistically to create a portfolio with the dual objectives of 
return generation and liability management. In the principal plan this is achieved through a diversified multi-asset absolute return 
strategy seeking consistent positive returns, and hedging techniques which protect liabilities against movements arising from changes in 
interest rates and inflation expectations. Derivative financial instruments support both of these objectives and may lead to increased or 
decreased exposures to the physical asset categories disclosed below. 
To provide more information on the approach used to determine and measure the fair value of the plan assets, the fair value hierarchy 
has been used as defined in Note 40. Those assets which cannot be classified as level 1 have been presented together as level 2 or 3.  
  Standard Life Aberdeen 2020 173
7. Group financial statements continued 
(e)   Estimates and assumptions 
Determination of the valuation of principal plan liabilities is a key estimate as a result of the assumptions made relating to both 
economic and non-economic factors. 
The key economic assumptions for the principal plan, which are based in part on current market conditions, are shown below: 
  2020  2019 
  %  % 
Discount rate  1.45  2.05 
Rates of inflation     
Consumer Price Index (CPI)  2.40  2.00 
Retail Price Index (RPI)   2.90  2.90 
The changes in economic assumptions over the period reflect changes in both corporate bond prices and market implied inflation. 
The population of corporate bond prices used in 2020 excludes bonds issued by UK universities which is a change in methodology 
for calculating the discount rate and therefore a change to the accounting estimate. The impact of this change in accounting estimate 
on the defined benefit obligation was a reduction of £72m. The inflation assumption reflects the future reform of RPI effective from 
2030 as described in (g)(i) and this is the primary driver of the increase in the CPI assumption. The impact of the increase in the CPI 
assumption on the defined benefit obligation was an increase of £203m. 
The most significant non-economic assumption for the principal plan is post-retirement longevity which is inherently uncertain. The 
assumptions (along with sample expectations of life) are illustrated below: 
      Expectation of life from NRA 
      Normal Retirement  Male age today  Female age today 
2020  Table  Improvements  Age (NRA)  NRA  40  NRA  40 
Core parameterisation of the CMI 2019  60  27  28  29  31 
Plan specific basis  mortality improvements model (SK parameter 
(calibrated by Club Vita)  of 7.0), with an initial improvement (or ‘A’) 
reflecting membership  parameter of +0.5% for males and females, 
  demographics  and a long-term rate of improvement of 1.5% 
 
      Expectation of life from NRA 
      Normal Retirement   Male age today  Female age today 
2019  Table  Improvements  Age (NRA)  NRA  40  NRA  40 
Advanced parameterisation of CMI 2013  60  30  32  32  34 
Plan specific basis  mortality improvements model – adjusted to 
(calibrated by Club Vita)  assume that improvements continue to 
reflecting membership  increase in the short term before declining 
  demographics  toward an ultimate long-term rate of 1.375% 
The change in longevity assumptions over the period reflects the assumptions that have been agreed with the trustees for the 2019 
triennial funding valuation. These assumptions reflect a cautious allowance for the recently observed slowdown in longevity 
improvements. 
(f)  Duration of defined benefit obligation 
The graph below provides an illustration of the undiscounted expected benefit payments included in the valuation of the principal plan 
obligations.  
Undiscounted benefit payments (£m) 
120
100
80
60
Non-current pensioner
Current pensioner
40
20
0
2021 2030 2040 2050 2060 2070 2080 2090 2100 2110 2120 
 
174 Standard Life Aberdeen 2020  
7. Group financial statements continued   
 
  2020  2019 
(e)   Estimates and assumptions 
Weighted average duration  years  years 
Determination of the valuation of principal plan liabilities is a key estimate as a result of the assumptions made relating to both 
Current pensioner  14  15 
economic and non-economic factors. 
Non-current pensioner  27  28 
The key economic assumptions for the principal plan, which are based in part on current market conditions, are shown below: 
(g)  Risk 
  2020  2019 
(g)(i) Risks and mitigating actions 
  %  % 
The Group’s consolidated statement of financial position is exposed to movements in the defined benefit plans’ net asset. In particular, 
Discount rate  1.45  2.05 
the consolidated statement of financial position could be materially sensitive to reasonably likely movements in the principal assumptions 
Rates of inflation     
for the principal plan. By offering post-retirement defined benefit pension plans the Group is exposed to a number of risks. An 
Consumer Price Index (CPI)  2.40  2.00  explanation of the key risks and mitigating actions in place for the principal plan is given below. 
Retail Price Index (RPI)   2.90  2.90 
Asset volatility 
Investment strategy risks include underperformance of the absolute return strategy and underperformance of the liability hedging  F
The changes in economic assumptions over the period reflect changes in both corporate bond prices and market implied inflation.  IN
strategy. As the trustees set investment strategy to protect their own view of plan strength (not the IAS 19 position), changes in the IAS  A
The population of corporate bond prices used in 2020 excludes bonds issued by UK universities which is a change in methodology  N
for calculating the discount rate and therefore a change to the accounting estimate. The impact of this change in accounting estimate  19 liabilities (e.g. due to movements in corporate bond prices) may not always result in a similar movement in plan assets.  CIA
L
on the defined benefit obligation was a reduction of £72m. The inflation assumption reflects the future reform of RPI effective from  Failure of the asset strategy to keep pace with changes in plan liabilities would expose the plan to the risk of a deficit developing, which   IN
F
2030 as described in (g)(i) and this is the primary driver of the increase in the CPI assumption. The impact of the increase in the CPI  could increase funding requirements for the Group.  O
R
assumption on the defined benefit obligation was an increase of £203m.  M
Yields/discount rate  A
T
The most significant non-economic assumption for the principal plan is post-retirement longevity which is inherently uncertain. The  Falls in yields would in isolation be expected to increase the defined benefit plan liabilities.   IO
N
assumptions (along with sample expectations of life) are illustrated below: 
The principal plan uses both bonds and derivatives to hedge out yield risks on the plan’s funding basis, rather than the IAS 19 basis,   
      Expectation of life from NRA  which is expected to minimise the plan’s need to rely on support from the Group. 
      Normal Retirement  Male age today  Female age today  Inflation 
2020  Table  Improvements  Age (NRA)  NRA  40  NRA  40 
Increases in inflation expectations would in isolation be expected to increase the defined benefit plan liabilities.  
Core parameterisation of the CMI 2019  60  27  28  29  31 
Plan specific basis  mortality improvements model (SK parameter  The principal plan uses both bonds and derivatives to hedge out inflation risks on the plan’s funding basis, rather than the IAS 19 basis, 
(calibrated by Club Vita)  of 7.0), with an initial improvement (or ‘A’)  which is expected to minimise the plan’s need to rely on support from the Group. 
reflecting membership  parameter of +0.5% for males and females, 
In the principal plan pensions in payment are generally linked to CPI, however inflationary risks are hedged using RPI instruments due to 
  demographics  and a long-term rate of improvement of 1.5% 
lack of availability of CPI linked instruments. Therefore, the plan is exposed to movements in the actual and expected long-term gap 
 
between RPI and CPI. 
      Expectation of life from NRA 
A House of Lords report in 2019 raised the potential for changes to the RPI measure of inflation, which was followed by 
      Normal Retirement   Male age today  Female age today 
recommendations from the UK Statistics Authority. The results of the consultation on the reform of RPI (announced on 25 November 
2019  Table  Improvements  Age (NRA)  NRA  40  NRA  40 
2020) confirmed that RPI will be aligned to CPIH (CPI excluding owner occupiers’ housing costs) as proposed, but not before 2030. 
Advanced parameterisation of CMI 2013  60  30  32  32  34 
While uncertainty remains, there is a risk that future cash flows from, and thus the value of, the plan’s RPI-linked assets fall without a 
Plan specific basis  mortality improvements model – adjusted to 
corresponding reduction in the plan’s CPI-linked liabilities. While not directly observable from market data, the plan’s RPI-linked asset 
(calibrated by Club Vita)  assume that improvements continue to 
values may already reflect an element of the expected changes and risk of such changes.  
reflecting membership  increase in the short term before declining 
  demographics  toward an ultimate long-term rate of 1.375% 
Life expectancy 
Increases in life expectancy beyond those currently assumed will lead to an increase in plan liabilities. Regular reviews of longevity 
The change in longevity assumptions over the period reflects the assumptions that have been agreed with the trustees for the 2019  assumptions are performed to ensure assumptions remain appropriate. 
triennial funding valuation. These assumptions reflect a cautious allowance for the recently observed slowdown in longevity 
(g)(ii)  Sensitivity to key assumptions 
improvements. 
The sensitivity of the principal plan’s obligation and assets to the key assumptions is disclosed below. 
    2020  2019 
(f)  Duration of defined benefit obligation 
(Increase)/decrease  Increase/(decrease)  (Increase)/decrease   Increase/(decrease)  
The graph below provides an illustration of the undiscounted expected benefit payments included in the valuation of the principal plan  in present value   in fair value of   in present value   in fair value of  
obligations.     Change in assumption  of obligation  plan assets  of obligation  plan assets 
    £m  £m  £m  £m 
Undiscounted benefit payments (£m) 
Yield/discount rate  Decrease by 1% (e.g. from 
1.45% to 0.45%)  (776)  1,666  (846)  1,522 
Increase by 1%  617  (1,232)  593  (1,092) 
         
Rates of inflation  Decrease by 1%  555  (1,036)  587  (889) 
Increase by 1%  (698)  1,430  (756)  1,243 
         
Life expectancy  Decrease by 1 year  103  n/a  82  n/a 
Increase by 1 year  (103)  n/a  (96)  n/a 
         
   
 
 
    Standard Life Aberdeen 2020 175
7. Group financial statements continued 
35.  Deferred income  
Where the Group receives fees in advance (front-end fees) for services it is providing, including investment management services, 
these fees are initially recognised as a deferred income liability and released to the consolidated income statement over the period 
services are provided. 
 
    2020  2019 
    £m  £m 
At 1 January    67  75 
Additions during the year    25  – 
Released to the consolidated income statement as revenue from contracts with customers     (19)  (8) 
At 31 December    73  67 
The amount of deferred income expected to be settled after more than 12 months is £3m (2019: £60m). 
36.  Other financial liabilities 
    2020  2019 
  Notes  £m  £m 
Outstanding purchases of investment securities    6  – 
Accruals    408  469 
Creation of units awaiting settlement    121  110 
Lease liabilities  18  249  268 
Cash collateral held in respect of derivative contracts  38  14  21 
Bank overdrafts  24  202  338 
Contingent consideration liabilities  40  6  14 
Outstanding contractual obligation for share buyback  26  40  – 
Other    131  95 
Other financial liabilities    1,177  1,315 
The amount of other financial liabilities expected to be settled after more than 12 months is £217m (2019: £239m). 
Accruals includes £nil (2019: £3m) relating to contracts with customers (refer Note 4(b)). 
37.  Provisions and other liabilities  
Provisions are obligations of the Group which are of uncertain timing or amount. They are recognised when the Group has a present 
obligation as a result of a past event, it is probable that a loss will be incurred in settling the obligation and a reliable estimate of the 
amount can be made.  
(a)  Provisions 
The movement in provisions during the year is as follows: 
Separation  Other   Total  
  costs  provisions  provisions 
  2020  2019  2020  2019  2020  2019 
  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m 
Opening balance carried forward  77  80  25  25  102  105 
Effect of change in accounting policy to IFRS 161  –  –  –  (12)  –  (12) 
At 1 January  77  80  25  13  102  93 
Charged/(credited) to the consolidated income 
statement             
Additional provisions  –  –  16  19  16  19 
Release of unused provision  –  –  (7)  (7)  (7)  (7) 
Used during the year  (9)  (3)  (9)  –  (18)  (3) 
At 31 December   68  77  25  25  93  102 
1  The Group has initially applied IFRS 16 at 1 January 2019. Under the transition method chosen, comparative information is not restated and the cumulative effect of initially 
applying this standard is recognised in retained earnings at the date of initial application.  
   
176 Standard Life Aberdeen 2020  
7. Group financial statements continued   
 
35.  Deferred income   The provision for separation costs of £68m (2019: £77m) is for costs expected to be incurred following the sale of the UK and European 
insurance business to Phoenix. Our judgement is that a provision should be recognised for costs for which the Group will not derive 
Where the Group receives fees in advance (front-end fees) for services it is providing, including investment management services,  ongoing benefits such as those relating to the de-coupling and decommissioning of systems and data but that a provision should not be 
these fees are initially recognised as a deferred income liability and released to the consolidated income statement over the period  recognised for costs related to the development of replacement systems and services as these will give future benefits. Our estimate of 
services are provided.  the total separation costs, including those relating to the development of replacement systems and services, remains unchanged at 
£310m of which £282m has been accounted for as at 31 December 2020. The £282m includes the £80m provision recognised in 2018 
 
for separation costs of which £68m remains unused at 31 December 2020. The main uncertainty relating to the provision relates to the 
    2020  2019 
costs required to complete the de-coupling of systems. The costs covered by the provision are expected to be incurred in the next two 
    £m  £m 
years. 
At 1 January    67  75 
Other provisions primarily relate to restructuring and are expected to be settled within 12 months. 
Additions during the year    25  – 
Released to the consolidated income statement as revenue from contracts with customers     (19)  (8)  The amount of provisions expected to be settled after more than 12 months is £12m (2019: £34m).  
At 31 December    73  67 
(b)  Other liabilities  F
IN
The amount of deferred income expected to be settled after more than 12 months is £3m (2019: £60m).  As at 31 December 2020, other liabilities totalled £6m (2019: £5m). The amount of other liabilities expected to be settled after more than  AN
C
12 months is £2m (2019: £2m).   IA
36.  Other financial liabilities  38.  Financial instruments risk management   L IN
F
    2020  2019  O
(a)  Overview  R
  Notes  £m  £m  M
The principal risks and uncertainties that affect the Group’s business model and the Group’s approach to risk management are set out in  A
Outstanding purchases of investment securities    6  –  the Risk management section of the Strategic report.   TIO
Accruals    408  469  N
Creation of units awaiting settlement    121  110  The Group’s exposure to financial instrument risk is derived from the financial instruments that it holds directly, the assets and liabilities   
of the unit linked funds of the life operations of the Group and the Group’s defined benefit pension plans. In addition due to the nature of 
Lease liabilities  18  249  268 
the business, the Group’s secondary exposure extends to the impact on investment management and other fees that are determined on 
Cash collateral held in respect of derivative contracts  38  14  21 
the basis of a percentage of AUM and are therefore impacted by financial risks borne by third party investors. In this note exposures and 
Bank overdrafts  24  202  338  sensitivities provided relate to the financial instrument assets and liabilities, in scope of IFRS 7, to which the shareholder is directly 
Contingent consideration liabilities  40  6  14  exposed. 
Outstanding contractual obligation for share buyback  26  40  – 
For the purposes of this note:  
Other    131  95 
• Shareholder business refers to the assets and liabilities to which the shareholder is directly exposed. The shareholder refers to the 
Other financial liabilities    1,177  1,315 
equity holders of the Company and the preference shareholders.  
The amount of other financial liabilities expected to be settled after more than 12 months is £217m (2019: £239m).  • Unit linked funds refers to the assets and liabilities of the unit linked funds of the life operations of the Group. It does not include the 
cash flows (such as asset management charges or investment expenses) arising from the unit linked fund contracts. These cash 
Accruals includes £nil (2019: £3m) relating to contracts with customers (refer Note 4(b)). 
flows are included in shareholder business.  
37.  Provisions and other liabilities   • Third party interest in consolidated funds and non-controlling interests refers to the assets and liabilities recorded on the Group’s 
consolidated statement of financial position which belong to third parties. The Group controls the entities which own the assets and 
Provisions are obligations of the Group which are of uncertain timing or amount. They are recognised when the Group has a present 
liabilities but the Group does not own 100% of the equity or units of the relevant entities.  
obligation as a result of a past event, it is probable that a loss will be incurred in settling the obligation and a reliable estimate of the 
amount can be made.   Unit linked funds are excluded from the analysis in this note. Details regarding the financial risks of instruments relating to the Group’s 
unit linked funds can be found in Note 25 and the risks relating to the Group’s principal defined benefit pension plan are explained in 
Note 34.  
(a)  Provisions 
The movement in provisions during the year is as follows:  Third party interests in consolidated funds do not expose the shareholder to market, credit or liquidity risk since the financial risks from 
the assets and obligations are borne by third parties. As a result equity risk, interest rate risk and credit risk quantitative disclosures in 
Separation  Other   Total  
this note exclude these assets.  
  costs  provisions  provisions 
  2020  2019  2020  2019  2020  2019  Under IFRS 7 the following financial instruments are excluded from scope:  
  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m 
• Interests in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures 
Opening balance carried forward  77  80  25  25  102  105 
• Rights and obligations arising from employee benefit plans 
Effect of change in accounting policy to IFRS 161  –  –  –  (12)  –  (12) 
• Insurance contracts as defined by IFRS 4 
At 1 January  77  80  25  13  102  93 
Charged/(credited) to the consolidated income  • Share-based payment transactions 
statement              For the purposes of managing risks to the Group’s financial instrument assets and liabilities, the Group considers the following 
Additional provisions  –  –  16  19  16  19  categories: 
Release of unused provision  –  –  (7)  (7)  (7)  (7) 
Risk  Definition and exposure 
Used during the year  (9)  (3)  (9)  –  (18)  (3) 
Market  The risk of financial loss as a result of adverse financial market movements. The shareholder is directly exposed to 
At 31 December   68  77  25  25  93  102  the impact of movements in equity prices, interest rates and foreign exchange rates on the value of assets held by 
1  The Group has initially applied IFRS 16 at 1 January 2019. Under the transition method chosen, comparative information is not restated and the cumulative effect of initially  the shareholder business. 
applying this standard is recognised in retained earnings at the date of initial application.   Credit  The risk of financial loss as a result of the failure of a counterparty, issuer or borrower to meet their obligations or 
    perform them in a timely manner. The shareholder is directly exposed to credit risk from holding cash, debt 
securities, loans and derivative financial instruments. 
Liquidity  The risk of financial loss as a result of being unable to settle financial obligations when they fall due, as a result of 
having insufficient liquid resources or being unable to realise investments and other assets other than at excessive 
costs. The shareholder is directly exposed to the liquidity risk from the shareholder business if it is unable to realise 
investments and other assets in order to settle its financial obligations when they fall due, or can do so only at 
excessive cost. 
    Standard Life Aberdeen 2020 177
7. Group financial statements continued 
(b)  Market risk  
Market risk exposures in the Asset management, platforms and wealth segment primarily arise as a result of holdings in newly 
established investment vehicles which the Group has seeded and co-investments in property and infrastructure funds. Seed capital is 
classified as held for sale when it is the intention to dispose of the vehicle in a single transaction and within one year. Co-investments are 
typically held for a longer term and align the Group’s economic interests with those of property, private equity and infrastructure fund co-
investors. The consolidated statement of financial position includes the following amounts in respect of seed capital and co-investments. 
    2020  2019 
  Notes  £m  £m 
Equity securities and interests in pooled investment funds at FVTPL    222  195 
Debt securities    54  78 
Assets held for sale  23  1  2 
Total seed capital    277  275 
       
Equity securities and interests in pooled investment funds at FVTPL    86  84 
Total co-investments    86  84 
The Group sets limits for investing in seed capital and co-investment activity and regularly monitors exposures arising from these 
investments. The Group will consider hedging its exposure to market risk in respect of seed capital investments where it is appropriate 
and efficient to do so. The Group will also consider hedging its exposure to currency risk in respect of co-investments where it is 
appropriate and efficient to do so. Other market risks associated with co-investments are not hedged given the need for the Group’s 
economic interests to be aligned with those of the co-investors. 
Market risk exposures in the Insurance associates and joint ventures segment primarily relates to our investment in HDFC Life. 
(b)(i)  Elements of market risk 
The main elements of market risk to which the Group is exposed are equity risk, interest rate risk and foreign currency risk, which are 
discussed on the following pages. 
Information on the methods used to determine fair values for each major category of financial instrument measured at fair value is 
presented in Note 40. 
(b)(i)(i) Exposure to equity risk 
The Group is exposed to the risk of adverse equity market movements which could result in losses. This applies to daily changes in the 
market values and returns on the holdings in its equity securities portfolio.  
At 31 December 2020 the shareholder exposure to equity markets was £1,411m (2019: £199m) in relation to equity securities. This 
primarily relates to the Group’s investment in HDFC Life of £1,216m (2019: £nil), seed capital investments of £109m (2019: £118m), and 
equity securities held by the Standard Life Foundation of £53m (2019: £48m).  
The Group is also exposed to adverse market price movements on its interests in pooled investment funds. The shareholder exposure 
of £523m (2019: £458m) to pooled investment funds primarily relates to £199m (2019: £161m) of seed capital and co-investments, 
corporate funds held in absolute return funds of £223m (2019: £210m), investments in certain managed funds to hedge against liabilities 
from variable pay awards that are deferred and settled in cash by reference to the price of those funds of £58m (2019: £44m) and 
pooled investment funds held by the Standard Life Foundation of £36m (2019: £35m). 
The Equities and interests in pooled investment funds at FVTPL included in the consolidated statement of financial position includes 
£46m (2019: £68m) of third party interest in consolidated funds to which the shareholder is not exposed. 
Exposures to equity risk are primarily managed though the hedging of market risk in respect of seed capital investments where it is 
appropriate and efficient to do so. Additionally limits are imposed on the amount of seed capital and co-investment activity that may be 
undertaken. The Group does not hedge equity risk in relation to its investment in HDFC Life. 
(b)(i)(ii) Exposure to interest rate risk 
Interest rate risk is the risk that arises from exposures to changes in the shape and level of yield curves which could result in losses due 
to the value of financial assets and liabilities, or the cash flows relating to these, fluctuating by different amounts. 
The main financial assets held by the Group which give rise to interest rate risk are debt securities and cash and cash equivalents. The 
Group is also exposed to interest rate risk on its investments in pooled investment funds where the underlying instruments are exposed 
to interest rate risk.  
Interest rate exposures are managed in line with the Group’s risk appetite.  
(b)(i)(iii) Exposure to foreign currency risk 
Foreign currency risk arises where adverse movements in currency exchange rates impact the value of revenues received from, and the 
value of assets and liabilities held in, currencies other than UK Sterling. The Group’s financial assets are generally held in the local 
currency of its operational geographic locations. The Group generally does not hedge the currency exposure relating to revenue and 
expenditure, nor does it hedge translation of overseas profits in the income statement. Where appropriate, the Group may use derivative 
contracts to reduce or eliminate currency risk arising from individual transactions or seed capital and co-investment activity. The Group 
does not hedge foreign exchange risk in relation to its investment in HDFC Life. 
   
178 Standard Life Aberdeen 2020
7. Group financial statements continued   
 
(b)  Market risk   The table below summarises the financial instrument exposure to foreign currency risks in UK Sterling. 
Market risk exposures in the Asset management, platforms and wealth segment primarily arise as a result of holdings in newly 
UK  US  Singapore  Other 
established investment vehicles which the Group has seeded and co-investments in property and infrastructure funds. Seed capital is     
Sterling  Indian Rupee  Euro  Dollar  Dollar  currencies  Total 
classified as held for sale when it is the intention to dispose of the vehicle in a single transaction and within one year. Co-investments are 
    2020  2019  2020  2019  2020  2019  2020  2019  2020  2019  2020  2019  2020  2019 
typically held for a longer term and align the Group’s economic interests with those of property, private equity and infrastructure fund co-   Notes  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m 
investors. The consolidated statement of financial position includes the following amounts in respect of seed capital and co-investments. 
Financial assets  19  3,170  3,387  1,233  –  258  256  373  356  37  80  179  211  5,250  4,290 
    2020  2019  Financial liabilities  32  (1,025)  (1,246)  –  –  (60)  (57)  (750)  (718)  (23)  (19)  (47)  (52)  (1,905)  (2,092) 
  Notes  £m  £m  Cash flow hedges    (549)  (566)  –  –  –  –  549  566  –  –  –  –  –  – 
Equity securities and interests in pooled investment funds at FVTPL    222  195  Non- designated 
Debt securities    54  78  derivatives    297  266  –  –  (80)  (62)  (156)  (131)  (1)  –  (60)  (73)  –  – 
Assets held for sale  23  1  2      1,893  1,841  1,233  –  118  137  16  73  13  61  72  86  3,345  2,198 
Total seed capital    277  275 
F
        The Indian Rupee exposure primarily relates to the Group’s investment in HDFC Life. Other currencies include assets of £10m (2019:  INA
£12m) and liabilities of £6m (2019: £nil) in relation to the fair value of derivatives used to manage currency risk.   N
Equity securities and interests in pooled investment funds at FVTPL    86  84  C
IA
Total co-investments    86  84  On 18 October 2017, the Group issued US dollar subordinated notes with a principal amount of US$750m. The related cash flows  L IN
expose the Group to foreign currency risk on the principal and coupons payable. The Group manages the foreign exchange risk with a  F
O
The Group sets limits for investing in seed capital and co-investment activity and regularly monitors exposures arising from these  cross-currency swap which is designated as a cash flow hedge.  RM
A
investments. The Group will consider hedging its exposure to market risk in respect of seed capital investments where it is appropriate  Non-designated derivatives relate to foreign exchange forward contracts that are not designated as cash flow hedges or net investment  TIO
and efficient to do so. The Group will also consider hedging its exposure to currency risk in respect of co-investments where it is  hedges and primarily relate to the management of currency risk arising from seed capital and co-investment activity.  N
appropriate and efficient to do so. Other market risks associated with co-investments are not hedged given the need for the Group’s   
economic interests to be aligned with those of the co-investors.  In addition to financial instruments analysed above, the principal source of foreign currency risk for shareholders arises from the Group's 
investments in overseas subsidiaries and associates and joint ventures accounted for using the equity method. The carrying value and, 
Market risk exposures in the Insurance associates and joint ventures segment primarily relates to our investment in HDFC Life. 
where listed, market value of the Group’s Indian and Chinese associates and joint ventures are disclosed in Note 16. The Group does 
(b)(i)  Elements of market risk  not hedge foreign currency risk in relation to these investments. 
The main elements of market risk to which the Group is exposed are equity risk, interest rate risk and foreign currency risk, which are  (b)(ii) Sensitivity of financial instruments to market risk analysis  
discussed on the following pages. 
The Group’s profit after tax and equity are sensitive to variations in respect of the Group’s market risk exposures and a sensitivity 
Information on the methods used to determine fair values for each major category of financial instrument measured at fair value is  analysis is presented below. The analysis has been performed by calculating the sensitivity of profit after tax and equity to changes in 
presented in Note 40.  equity security prices (equity risk), changes in interest rates (interest rate risk) and changes in foreign exchange rate (foreign currency 
risk) as at the reporting date applied to assets and liabilities other than those classified as held for sale, and after allowing for the Group’s 
(b)(i)(i) Exposure to equity risk  hedging strategy. 
The Group is exposed to the risk of adverse equity market movements which could result in losses. This applies to daily changes in the 
market values and returns on the holdings in its equity securities portfolio.   The variables used in the sensitivity analysis are considered reasonable assumptions and are consistent with market peers. Changes to 
variables are provided by internal specialists who determine what are reasonable assumptions. 
At 31 December 2020 the shareholder exposure to equity markets was £1,411m (2019: £199m) in relation to equity securities. This 
primarily relates to the Group’s investment in HDFC Life of £1,216m (2019: £nil), seed capital investments of £109m (2019: £118m), and  Profit after tax and equity sensitivity to market risk 
equity securities held by the Standard Life Foundation of £53m (2019: £48m).       31 December 2020  31 December 2019 
A reasonable  A reasonable 
The Group is also exposed to adverse market price movements on its interests in pooled investment funds. The shareholder exposure  change in the  Increase/  change in the  Increase/ 
of £523m (2019: £458m) to pooled investment funds primarily relates to £199m (2019: £161m) of seed capital and co-investments,  variable within the  (decrease) in   variable within the  (decrease) in  
corporate funds held in absolute return funds of £223m (2019: £210m), investments in certain managed funds to hedge against liabilities      next calendar year   post-tax profit  next calendar year   post-tax profit 
    %  £m  %  £m 
from variable pay awards that are deferred and settled in cash by reference to the price of those funds of £58m (2019: £44m) and 
pooled investment funds held by the Standard Life Foundation of £36m (2019: £35m).  Equity prices  Increase  10  146  10  40 
  Decrease  10  (146)  10  (40) 
The Equities and interests in pooled investment funds at FVTPL included in the consolidated statement of financial position includes 
Indian Rupee against US Dollar  Strengthen  10  136  –  – 
£46m (2019: £68m) of third party interest in consolidated funds to which the shareholder is not exposed. 
  Weaken  10  (110)  –  – 
Exposures to equity risk are primarily managed though the hedging of market risk in respect of seed capital investments where it is 
US dollar against Sterling  Strengthen  10  11  10  11 
appropriate and efficient to do so. Additionally limits are imposed on the amount of seed capital and co-investment activity that may be 
  Weaken  10  (9)  10  (11) 
undertaken. The Group does not hedge equity risk in relation to its investment in HDFC Life. 
Euro against Sterling  Strengthen  10  12  10  15 
(b)(i)(ii) Exposure to interest rate risk 
  Weaken  10  (9)  10  (15) 
Interest rate risk is the risk that arises from exposures to changes in the shape and level of yield curves which could result in losses due 
to the value of financial assets and liabilities, or the cash flows relating to these, fluctuating by different amounts. 
The equity prices and Indian Rupee sensitivities primarily relate to the Group’s investment in HDFC Life which is held by an intermediate 
The main financial assets held by the Group which give rise to interest rate risk are debt securities and cash and cash equivalents. The  subsidiary which has a US Dollar functional currency. 
Group is also exposed to interest rate risk on its investments in pooled investment funds where the underlying instruments are exposed 
The reasonable change in variables have no impact on any other components of equity. These sensitivities concern only the impact on 
to interest rate risk.  
financial instruments and exclude indirect impacts of the variable on fee income and certain costs which may be affected by the changes 
Interest rate exposures are managed in line with the Group’s risk appetite.   in market conditions. 
(b)(i)(iii) Exposure to foreign currency risk  Interest rate sensitivity to a reasonable change in the variable within the next calendar year are not material in both 2020 or 2019. 
Foreign currency risk arises where adverse movements in currency exchange rates impact the value of revenues received from, and the 
Limitations 
value of assets and liabilities held in, currencies other than UK Sterling. The Group’s financial assets are generally held in the local 
The sensitivity of the Group’s profit after tax and equity may be non-linear and larger or smaller impacts should not be derived from 
currency of its operational geographic locations. The Group generally does not hedge the currency exposure relating to revenue and 
these results. The sensitivities provided illustrate the impact of a reasonably possible change in a single sensitivity factor, while the other 
expenditure, nor does it hedge translation of overseas profits in the income statement. Where appropriate, the Group may use derivative 
sensitivity factors remain unchanged. Correlations between the different risks and/or other factors may mean that experience would 
contracts to reduce or eliminate currency risk arising from individual transactions or seed capital and co-investment activity. The Group 
differ from that expected if more than one risk event occurred simultaneously. 
does not hedge foreign exchange risk in relation to its investment in HDFC Life. 
   
  Standard Life Aberdeen 2020 179
7. Group financial statements continued 
(c)  Credit risk 
Exposures to credit risk and concentrations of credit risk are managed by setting exposure limits for different types of financial 
instruments and counterparties. The limits are established using the following controls: 
Financial instrument with credit risk 
exposure  Control 
Cash and cash equivalents  Maximum counterparty exposure limits are set with reference to internal credit assessments.  
Derivative financial instruments  Maximum counterparty exposure limits, net of collateral, are set with reference to internal credit 
assessments. The forms of collateral that may be accepted are also specified and minimum 
transfer amounts in respect of collateral transfers are documented. 
Debt securities   The Group’s policy is to set exposure limits by name of issuer, sector and credit rating. 
Other financial instruments  Appropriate limits are set for other financial instruments to which the Group may have exposure at 
certain times. 
Group Treasury perform central monitoring of exposures against limits and are responsible for the escalation of any limit breaches to the 
Chief Risk Officer. 
Expected credit losses (ECL) are calculated on financial assets which are measured at amortised cost. 
Financial assets attract an ECL allowance equal to either:  
12 month ECL (losses resulting from possible  –  No significant increase in credit risk since initial recognition 
default within the next 12 months)  –  Trade receivables or contract assets with significant financing component, or lease 
receivables if lifetime ECL measurement has not been elected  
Lifetime ECL (losses resulting from possible  –  Significant increase in credit risk since initial recognition 
defaults over the remaining life of the financial  –  Trade receivables or contract assets with no significant financing component 
asset)  –  Trade receivables or contract assets with significant financing component, or lease 
receivables for which lifetime ECL measurement has been elected 
Changes in Lifetime ECL  –  Credit-impaired at initial recognition 
In determining whether a default has taken place, or where there is an increased risk of a default, a number of factors are taken into 
account including a deterioration in the credit quality of a counterparty, the number of days that a payment is past due, and specific 
events which could impact a counterparty’s ability to pay.  
The Group assumes that a significant increase in credit risk has arisen when contractual payments are more than 30 days past due. The 
Group assumes that credit risk on a financial instrument has not increased significantly since initial recognition if the financial instrument 
is determined to have low credit risk at the reporting date. Financial instruments with an external rating of ‘investment grade’ are 
presumed to have low credit risk in the absence of evidence to the contrary. Investment grade financial instruments are financial assets 
with credit ratings assigned by external rating agencies with classification within the range of AAA to BBB. If a financial asset is not rated 
by an external agency it is classified as ‘not rated’. 
The Group applies the simplified approach, as permitted under IFRS 9, to calculate the ECL allowance for trade receivables, contract 
assets and lease receivables. Under the simplified approach, the ECL allowance is calculated over the remaining life of the asset, using 
a provision matrix approach based on historic observed default rates adjusted for knowledge of specific events which could influence 
loss rates. Historically, default levels have been insignificant. Trade debtors past due but not in default as at 31 December 2020 were 
£44m (2019: £45m) the majority of which were less than 90 days past due (2019: less than 90 days). 
At 31 December 2020 the Group does not hold financial assets at amortised cost that it regards as credit-impaired (2019: £nil). In 
making this assessment the Group has considered if any evidence is available to indicate the occurrence of an event which would result 
in a detrimental impact on the estimated future cash flows of these assets. 
   
180 Standard Life Aberdeen 2020
7. Group financial statements continued   
 
(c)  Credit risk  (c)(i)  Credit exposure 
Exposures to credit risk and concentrations of credit risk are managed by setting exposure limits for different types of financial  The following table presents an analysis of the credit quality of shareholder financial assets and the maximum exposure to credit risk 
instruments and counterparties. The limits are established using the following controls:  without taking into account any collateral held: 
Financial instrument with credit risk        Amortised cost   
exposure  Control  Fair value through  12 month   Lifetime ECL – not 
Cash and cash equivalents  Maximum counterparty exposure limits are set with reference to internal credit assessments.     profit or loss  Cash flow hedge  ECL  credit impaired  Total 
Derivative financial instruments  Maximum counterparty exposure limits, net of collateral, are set with reference to internal credit    2020  2019  2020  2019  2020  2019  2020  2019  2020  2019 
assessments. The forms of collateral that may be accepted are also specified and minimum    £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m 
transfer amounts in respect of collateral transfers are documented.  AAA  –  –  –  –  151  100  –  –  151  100 
Debt securities   The Group’s policy is to set exposure limits by name of issuer, sector and credit rating.  AA+ to AA-  88  178  –  –  467  843  –  –  555  1,021 
Other financial instruments  Appropriate limits are set for other financial instruments to which the Group may have exposure at  A+ to A-  631  485  –  3  1,088  1,146  –  –  1,719  1,634 
certain times.  BBB  61  54  –  –  117  120  –  –  178  174 
F
BB  –  –  –  –  –  2  6  –  6  2  IN
A
Group Treasury perform central monitoring of exposures against limits and are responsible for the escalation of any limit breaches to the  Not rated  31  25  –  –  255  187  352  372  638  584  NC
Chief Risk Officer.  IA
Gross carrying amount  811  742  –  3  2,078  2,398  358  372  3,247  3,515  L
 IN
Expected credit losses (ECL) are calculated on financial assets which are measured at amortised cost.  Loss allowance  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  F
O
Financial assets attract an ECL allowance equal to either:   Carrying amount  811  742  –  3  2,078  2,398  358  372  3,247  3,515  RM
A
                      T
12 month ECL (losses resulting from possible  –  No significant increase in credit risk since initial recognition  IO
Derivative financial assets  18  16  –  3  –  –  –  –  18  19  N
default within the next 12 months)  –  Trade receivables or contract assets with significant financing component, or lease  Debt securities  763  725  –  –  320  602  5  –  1,088  1,327   
receivables if lifetime ECL measurement has not been elected  
Receivables and other financial assets  30  1  –  –  244  187  352  372  626  560 
Lifetime ECL (losses resulting from possible  –  Significant increase in credit risk since initial recognition 
Cash and cash equivalents  –  –  –  –  1,514  1,609  1  –  1,515  1,609 
defaults over the remaining life of the financial  –  Trade receivables or contract assets with no significant financing component 
asset)  –  Trade receivables or contract assets with significant financing component, or lease  Carrying amount  811  742  –  3  2,078  2,398  358  372  3,247  3,515 
receivables for which lifetime ECL measurement has been elected 
In the table above debt securities exclude debt securities relating to third party interests in consolidated funds of £24m (2019: £44m). 
Changes in Lifetime ECL  –  Credit-impaired at initial recognition 
Cash and cash equivalents exclude cash and cash equivalents relating to third party interests in consolidated funds of £7m (2019: £6m). 
Derivative financial assets exclude derivative financial assets relating to third party interests in consolidated funds of £nil (2019: £nil). 
In determining whether a default has taken place, or where there is an increased risk of a default, a number of factors are taken into  Receivables and other financial assets exclude receivables and other financial assets relating to third party interests in consolidated 
account including a deterioration in the credit quality of a counterparty, the number of days that a payment is past due, and specific  funds of £nil (2019: £nil). The shareholder is not exposed to the credit risk in respect of third party interests in consolidated funds since 
events which could impact a counterparty’s ability to pay.   the financial risk of the assets are borne by third parties. 
The Group assumes that a significant increase in credit risk has arisen when contractual payments are more than 30 days past due. The  (c)(ii) Collateral accepted and pledged in respect of financial instruments 
Group assumes that credit risk on a financial instrument has not increased significantly since initial recognition if the financial instrument 
Collateral in respect of bilateral over-the-counter (OTC) derivative financial instruments and bilateral repurchase agreements is accepted 
is determined to have low credit risk at the reporting date. Financial instruments with an external rating of ‘investment grade’ are 
from and provided to certain market counterparties to mitigate counterparty risk in the event of default. The use of collateral in respect of 
presumed to have low credit risk in the absence of evidence to the contrary. Investment grade financial instruments are financial assets 
these instruments is governed by formal bilateral agreements between the parties. For OTC derivatives the amount of collateral required 
with credit ratings assigned by external rating agencies with classification within the range of AAA to BBB. If a financial asset is not rated 
by either party is determined by the daily bilateral OTC exposure calculations in accordance with these agreements and collateral is 
by an external agency it is classified as ‘not rated’. 
moved on a daily basis to ensure there is full collateralisation. Under the terms of these agreements, collateral is posted with the 
The Group applies the simplified approach, as permitted under IFRS 9, to calculate the ECL allowance for trade receivables, contract  ownership captured under title transfer of the contract. With regard to either collateral pledged or accepted, the Group may request the 
assets and lease receivables. Under the simplified approach, the ECL allowance is calculated over the remaining life of the asset, using  return of, or be required to return, collateral to the extent it differs from that required under the daily bilateral OTC exposure calculations.  
a provision matrix approach based on historic observed default rates adjusted for knowledge of specific events which could influence 
Where there is an event of default under the terms of the agreements, any collateral balances will be included in the close-out 
loss rates. Historically, default levels have been insignificant. Trade debtors past due but not in default as at 31 December 2020 were 
calculation of net counterparty exposure. At 31 December 2020, the Group had pledged £28m (2019: £18m) of cash and £nil (2019: 
£44m (2019: £45m) the majority of which were less than 90 days past due (2019: less than 90 days). 
£nil) of securities as collateral for derivative financial liabilities. At 31 December 2020, the Group had accepted £14m (2019: £21m) of 
At 31 December 2020 the Group does not hold financial assets at amortised cost that it regards as credit-impaired (2019: £nil). In  cash and £120m (2019: £25m) of securities as collateral for derivatives financial assets and reverse repurchase agreements. None of 
making this assessment the Group has considered if any evidence is available to indicate the occurrence of an event which would result  the securities were sold or repledged at the year end.  
in a detrimental impact on the estimated future cash flows of these assets. 
(c)(iii)  Offsetting financial assets and liabilities 
   
Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount reported on the consolidated statement of financial position only when 
there is a legally enforceable right to offset the recognised amounts and there is an intention to settle on a net basis, or to realise the 
asset and settle the liability simultaneously. 
Other than cash and cash equivalents disclosed in Note 24, the Group does not offset financial assets and liabilities on the consolidated 
statement of financial position, as there are no unconditional rights to set off. Consequently, the gross amount of other financial 
instruments presented on the consolidated statement of financial position is the net amount. The Group’s bilateral OTC derivatives are 
all subject to an International Swaps and Derivative Association (ISDA) master agreement. ISDA master agreements and reverse 
repurchase agreements entered into by the Group are considered master netting agreements as they provide a right of set off that is 
enforceable only in the event of default, insolvency, or bankruptcy.  
The Group does not hold any other financial instruments which are subject to master netting agreements or similar arrangements.  
The following table presents the effect of master netting agreements and similar arrangements. 
  Standard Life Aberdeen 2020 181
7. Group financial statements continued 
Related amounts not offset on the consolidated 
    statement of financial position   
Gross amounts of financial 
instruments as presented 
on the consolidated 
statement of financial  Financial   Financial collateral 
  position  instruments  pledged/(received)  Net position 
  2020  2019  2020  2019  2020  2019  2020  2019 
  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m 
Financial assets                 
Derivatives1  11  13  (3)  (2)  (1)  (9)  7  2 
Reverse repurchase 
agreements  120  25  –  –  (120)  (25)  –  – 
Total financial assets  131  38  (3)  (2)  (121)    (34)  7  2 
Financial liabilities                 
Derivatives1  (11)  (2)  3  2  1  –  (7)  – 
Total financial liabilities  (11)  (2)  3  2  1  –  (7)  – 
1  Only OTC derivatives subject to master netting agreements have been included above. 
(d)  Liquidity risk 
The shareholder is exposed to liquidity risk if the Group is unable to realise investments and other assets in order to settle its financial 
obligations when they fall due, or can do so only at excessive cost. The following quantitative liquidity risk disclosures are provided in 
respect of these financial liabilities. 
The Group has a liquidity risk framework and processes in place for monitoring, assessing, and controlling liquidity risk.  
This framework ensures that liquidity risks are identified and also identifies which entities in the Group have this exposure. Stress testing 
of these risks is performed to understand the quantum of risk under stress conditions. This then informs the level of liquid resources that 
need to be maintained. Where appropriate, this is enhanced with external credit facilities and the Group has a syndicated revolving 
credit facility of £400m which was undrawn at 31 December 2020. 
The level of liquid resources in the Group is also projected under a number of adverse scenarios. These are described more fully in the 
Viability Statement. 
Contingency funding plans are also maintained to ensure that if liquidity risk did materialise, processes and procedures are already in 
place to assist with resolving the issue. Regular monitoring of liquid assets is performed and projections undertaken (under both base 
and stressed conditions) to understand the outlook. 
As a result of the policies and processes established to manage risk, the Group expects to be able to manage liquidity risk on an 
ongoing basis. We recognise there are a number of scenarios that can impact the liquid resources of a business as discussed in the 
Risk management section of the Strategic report.  
(d)(i) Maturity analysis 
The analysis that follows presents the undiscounted cash flows payable by remaining contractual maturity at the reporting date for all 
financial liabilities, other than those related to unit linked funds which are discussed in Note 25. 
Within  1-5  5-10  10-15  15-20  Greater than 
  1 year  years  years  years  years  20 years  Total 
  2020  2019  2020  2019  2020  2019  2020  2019  2020  2019  2020  2019  2020  2019 
  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m 
Subordinated liabilities  28  29  113  116  629  676  22  25  22  25  101  107  915  978 
Other financial liabilities  963  1,124  108  107  101  102  44  57  10  14  –  – 1,226  1,404 
Total   991  1,153  221  223  730  778  66  82  32  39  101  107 2,141  2,382 
Refer Note 20 for the maturity profile of undiscounted cash flows of derivative financial instruments. 
The Group also had unrecognised commitments in respect of financial instruments as at 31 December 2020 with a contractual maturity 
of within one year, between one and five years and over five years of £7m, £22m and £7m respectively (2019: £2m, £39m and £6m).  
   
182 Standard Life Aberdeen 2020
7. Group financial statements continued   
 
Related amounts not offset on the consolidated  39.  Structured entities 
    statement of financial position   
Gross amounts of financial  A structured entity is an entity that is structured in such a way that voting or similar rights are not the dominant factor in deciding who 
instruments as presented  controls the entity. The Group has interests in structured entities through investments in a range of investment vehicles including: 
on the consolidated 
statement of financial  Financial   Financial collateral  • Pooled investment funds managed internally and externally, including OEICs, SICAVs, unit trusts and limited partnerships 
  position  instruments  pledged/(received)  Net position 
• Debt securitisation vehicles which issue asset-backed securities 
  2020  2019  2020  2019  2020  2019  2020  2019 
  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  The Group consolidates structured entities which it controls. Where the Group has an investment in, but not control over these types 
Financial assets                  of entities, the investment is classified as an investment in associate when the Group has significant influence. Investments in 
Derivatives1  11  13  (3)  (2)  (1)  (9)  7  2  associates at FVTPL are included in equity securities and pooled investment funds in the analysis of financial investments. 
Reverse repurchase  The Group also has interests in structured entities through asset management fees and other fees received from these entities.  
agreements  120  25  –  –  (120)  (25)  –  – 
Total financial assets  131  38  (3)  (2)  (121)    (34)  7  2  F
(a)  Consolidated structured entities  IN
Financial liabilities                  A
As at 31 December 2020 and 31 December 2019, the Group has not provided any non-contractual financial or other support to any  N
Derivatives1  (11)  (2)  3  2  1  –  (7)  –  consolidated structured entity and there are no current intentions to do so.  CIA
L
Total financial liabilities  (11)  (2)  3  2  1  –  (7)  –   IN
(b)   Unconsolidated structured entities  F
1  Only OTC derivatives subject to master netting agreements have been included above.  As at 31 December 2020 and 31 December 2019, the Group has not provided any non-contractual financial or other support to any  ORM
(d)  Liquidity risk  unconsolidated structured entities and there are no current intentions to do so.  AT
IO
The shareholder is exposed to liquidity risk if the Group is unable to realise investments and other assets in order to settle its financial  The following table shows the carrying value of the Group’s interests in unconsolidated structured entities by line item in the consolidated  N
obligations when they fall due, or can do so only at excessive cost. The following quantitative liquidity risk disclosures are provided in  statement of financial position.   
respect of these financial liabilities. 
  2020  2019 
The Group has a liquidity risk framework and processes in place for monitoring, assessing, and controlling liquidity risk.  
  £m   £m 
This framework ensures that liquidity risks are identified and also identifies which entities in the Group have this exposure. Stress testing  Financial investments     
of these risks is performed to understand the quantum of risk under stress conditions. This then informs the level of liquid resources that  Equity securities and interests in pooled investment funds  1,003  917 
need to be maintained. Where appropriate, this is enhanced with external credit facilities and the Group has a syndicated revolving 
Debt securities  40  12 
credit facility of £400m which was undrawn at 31 December 2020. 
Total financial investments  1,043  929 
The level of liquid resources in the Group is also projected under a number of adverse scenarios. These are described more fully in the  Receivables and other financial assets  234  221 
Viability Statement. 
Other financial liabilities  128  129 
Contingency funding plans are also maintained to ensure that if liquidity risk did materialise, processes and procedures are already in 
(b)(i) Investments in unconsolidated structured entities 
place to assist with resolving the issue. Regular monitoring of liquid assets is performed and projections undertaken (under both base 
Equity securities and interests in pooled investment funds includes £729m (2019: £650m) of unconsolidated structured entities which 
and stressed conditions) to understand the outlook. 
are managed by the Group and in which the Group has a direct investment. At 31 December 2020 the asset value of these 
As a result of the policies and processes established to manage risk, the Group expects to be able to manage liquidity risk on an  unconsolidated structured entities is £78,499m (2019: £22,795m). The total fees recognised in respect of these assets under 
ongoing basis. We recognise there are a number of scenarios that can impact the liquid resources of a business as discussed in the  management during the year to 31 December 2020 were £356m (2019: £137m). 
Risk management section of the Strategic report.  
The total issuance balance relating to unconsolidated structured debt securitisation vehicles in which the Group has an investment is 
(d)(i) Maturity analysis  £2,857m (2019: £1,000m). 
The analysis that follows presents the undiscounted cash flows payable by remaining contractual maturity at the reporting date for all 
The Group’s maximum exposure to loss in respect of its investments in unconsolidated structured entities is the carrying value of the 
financial liabilities, other than those related to unit linked funds which are discussed in Note 25. 
Group’s investment and, where the structured entity is managed by the Group, loss of future fees. As noted in Note 38, the shareholder 
Within  1-5  5-10  10-15  15-20  Greater than  is not exposed to market or credit risk in respect of investments held in the unit linked funds, and third party interest in consolidated 
  1 year  years  years  years  years  20 years  Total  funds and non-controlling interests risk segments. 
  2020  2019  2020  2019  2020  2019  2020  2019  2020  2019  2020  2019  2020  2019 
Additional information on how the Group manages its exposure to risk can be found in Note 38. 
  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m 
Subordinated liabilities  28  29  113  116  629  676  22  25  22  25  101  107  915  978  (b)(ii) Other interests in unconsolidated structured entities 
Other financial liabilities  963  1,124  108  107  101  102  44  57  10  14  –  – 1,226  1,404  For those structured entities which the Group receives asset management or other fees from but has no direct investment, the maximum 
exposure to loss is loss of future fees. 
Total   991  1,153  221  223  730  778  66  82  32  39  101  107 2,141  2,382 
Total assets under management of structured entities in which the Group has no direct investments but has other interests in are 
Refer Note 20 for the maturity profile of undiscounted cash flows of derivative financial instruments.  £58,110m at 31 December 2020 (2019: £102,558m). The fees recognised in respect of these assets under management during the 
year to 31 December 2020 were £269m (2019: £581m). 
The Group also had unrecognised commitments in respect of financial instruments as at 31 December 2020 with a contractual maturity 
of within one year, between one and five years and over five years of £7m, £22m and £7m respectively (2019: £2m, £39m and £6m).      
   
  Standard Life Aberdeen 2020 183
7. Group financial statements continued 
40.  Fair value of assets and liabilities 
The Group uses fair value to measure many of its assets and liabilities. Fair value is the amount for which an asset could be 
exchanged, or a liability settled, between knowledgeable willing parties in an arm’s length transaction. 
An analysis of the Group’s financial assets and financial liabilities in accordance with the categories of financial instrument set out in 
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments is presented in Notes 19, 25 and 32 and includes those financial assets and liabilities held at fair value. 
(a)  Fair value hierarchy 
In determining fair value, the following fair value hierarchy categorisation has been used: 
• Level 1: Fair values measured using quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. An active market 
exists where transactions take place with sufficient frequency and volume to provide pricing information on an ongoing basis. 
• Level 2: Fair values measured using inputs other than quoted prices included within level 1 that are observable for the asset or 
liability, either directly (i.e. as prices) or indirectly (i.e. derived from prices) 
• Level 3: Fair values measured using inputs that are not based on observable market data (unobservable inputs) 
Information on the methods and assumptions used to determine fair values for equity securities and interests in pooled investment 
funds, debt securities and derivatives measured at fair value is given below: 
  Equities and interests in pooled investment funds1,2  Debt securities  Derivatives3 
Level 1  Equity instruments listed on a recognised  Debt securities listed on a  Exchange traded derivatives 
exchange valued using prices sourced from their  recognised exchange valued using  valued using prices sourced from 
primary exchange.   prices sourced from their primary  the relevant exchange. 
exchange. 
Level 2  Pooled investment funds where daily unit prices  Debt securities valued using prices  Over-the-counter derivatives 
are available and reference is made to observable  received from external pricing  measured using a range of 
market data.  providers based on quotes  valuation models including 
received from a number of market  discounting future cash flows and 
participants.   option valuation techniques. 
 
Debt securities valued using 
models and standard valuation 
formulas based on observable 
market data4.  
Level 3  These relate primarily to interests in private equity,  Debt securities valued using prices  N/A 
real estate and infrastructure funds which are  received from external pricing 
valued at net asset value. Underlying real estate  providers based on a single broker 
and private equity investments are generally  indicative quote. 
valued in accordance with independent   
professional valuation reports or International  Debt securities valued using 
Private Equity and Venture Capital Valuation  models and standard valuation 
Guidelines where relevant. The underlying  formulas based on unobservable 
investments in infrastructure funds are generally  market data4. 
valued based on the phase of individual projects 
forming the overall investment and discounted 
cash flow techniques based on project earnings. 
 
Where net asset values are not available at the 
same date as the reporting date, these valuations 
are reviewed and, where appropriate, adjustments 
are made to reflect the impact of changes in 
market conditions between the date of the 
valuation and the end of the reporting period. 
 
Other unlisted equity securities are generally 
valued at indicative share prices from off market 
transactions. 
1  Investments in associates at FVTPL are valued in the same manner as the Group’s equity securities and interests in pooled investment funds. 
2  Where pooled investment funds have been seeded and the investment in the funds have been classified as held for sale, the costs to sell are assumed to be negligible. The 
fair value of pooled investment funds held for sale is calculated as equal to the observable unit price. 
3  Non-performance risk arising from the credit risk of each counterparty is also considered on a net exposure basis in line with the Group’s risk management policies. At 31 
December 2020 and 31 December 2019, the residual credit risk is considered immaterial and no credit risk adjustment has been made. 
4  If prices are not available from the external pricing providers or are considered to be stale, the Group has established procedures to arrive at an internal assessment of the fair 
value. 
The fair value of liabilities in respect of third party interest in consolidated funds and non-participating investment contracts are calculated 
equal to the fair value of the underlying assets and liabilities. 
   
184 Standard Life Aberdeen 2020
7. Group financial statements continued   
 
40.  Fair value of assets and liabilities  Thus, the value of these liabilities is dependent on the methods and assumptions set out above in relation to the underlying assets and 
liabilities:  
The Group uses fair value to measure many of its assets and liabilities. Fair value is the amount for which an asset could be 
exchanged, or a liability settled, between knowledgeable willing parties in an arm’s length transaction.  • For third party interest in consolidated funds, when the underlying assets and liabilities are valued using readily available market 
information the liabilities in respect of third party interest in consolidated funds are treated as level 2. Where the underlying assets and 
liabilities are not valued using readily available market information the liabilities in respect of third party interest in consolidated funds 
An analysis of the Group’s financial assets and financial liabilities in accordance with the categories of financial instrument set out in  are treated as level 3.  
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments is presented in Notes 19, 25 and 32 and includes those financial assets and liabilities held at fair value. 
• For non-participating investment contracts, the underlying assets and liabilities are predominately categorised as level 1 or 2 and as 
(a)  Fair value hierarchy  such, the inputs into the valuation of the liabilities are observable and these liabilities are predominately categorised within level 2 of 
In determining fair value, the following fair value hierarchy categorisation has been used:  the fair value hierarchy. Where the underlying assets are categorised as level 3, the liabilities are also categorised as level 3. 
• Level 1: Fair values measured using quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. An active market  In addition, contingent consideration assets and contingent consideration liabilities are also categorised as level 3 in the fair value 
exists where transactions take place with sufficient frequency and volume to provide pricing information on an ongoing basis.  hierarchy. Contingent consideration assets and liabilities have been recognised in respect of acquisitions and disposals. 
Generally valuations are based on unobservable assumptions regarding the probability weighted cash flows and, where relevant, 
• Level 2: Fair values measured using inputs other than quoted prices included within level 1 that are observable for the asset or  discount rate.   FIN
liability, either directly (i.e. as prices) or indirectly (i.e. derived from prices)  A
N
• Level 3: Fair values measured using inputs that are not based on observable market data (unobservable inputs)  This includes the contingent consideration relating to the terms of the sale of SLAL to Phoenix in August 2018. The terms include  CIA
Information on the methods and assumptions used to determine fair values for equity securities and interests in pooled investment  ava nluuem obfe trh oisf  cinodnetimngneitniets c tohnasti dgeivrea trioisne  atot  3c1o nDtiencgeemntb ceor n2s0id2e0r raetiloante. dT thoe t hmea attnenrsu itthya st ahlaeds  pthrea cmticoesst  sinigdneimficnaintyt ,i manpda cret loante tdh eta fxa,i ra nd  L INF
O
funds, debt securities and derivatives measured at fair value is given below:  the resolution of other legacy matters which were previously under dispute. The valuation of these elements of the contingent  R
M
  Equities and interests in pooled investment funds1,2  Debt securities  Derivatives3  consideration at 31 December 2020 was based on the amount expected to be received from Phoenix. This was in line with the  AT
Level 1  Equity instruments listed on a recognised  Debt securities listed on a  Exchange traded derivatives  £34m received in February 2021, refer Note 47.  ION
exchange valued using prices sourced from their  recognised exchange valued using  valued using prices sourced from  (a)(i) Fair value hierarchy for assets measured at fair value in the statement of financial position   
primary exchange.   prices sourced from their primary  the relevant exchange. 
The table below presents the Group's non-unit linked assets measured at fair value by level of the fair value hierarchy (refer Note 25 for 
exchange. 
fair value analysis in relation to assets backing unit linked liabilities).  
Level 2  Pooled investment funds where daily unit prices  Debt securities valued using prices  Over-the-counter derivatives 
are available and reference is made to observable  received from external pricing  measured using a range of          Fair value hierarchy 
market data.  providers based on quotes  valuation models including  As recognised in 
received from a number of market  discounting future cash flows and  the consolidated 
participants.   option valuation techniques.  statement of 
financial position  Classified as 
    line item  held for sale  Total  Level 1   Level 2   Level 3 
Debt securities valued using    2020  2019  2020  2019  2020  2019  2020  2019  2020  2019  2020  2019 
models and standard valuation    £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m 
formulas based on observable 
Owner occupied property  1  2  –  –  1  2  –  –  –  –  1  2 
market data4.  
Derivative financial assets  18  19  –  –  18  19  –  –  18  19  –  – 
Level 3  These relate primarily to interests in private equity,  Debt securities valued using prices  N/A 
Equity securities and interests in 
real estate and infrastructure funds which are  received from external pricing 
pooled investment vehicles  1,980  725  1  2  1,981  727  1,422  609  458  36  101  82 
valued at net asset value. Underlying real estate  providers based on a single broker 
and private equity investments are generally  indicative quote.  Debt securities  787  769  –  14  787  783  2  57  784  725  1  1 
valued in accordance with independent    Contingent consideration asset  28  1  –  –  28  1  –  –  –  –  28  1 
professional valuation reports or International  Debt securities valued using  Total assets at fair value  2,814  1,516  1  16  2,815  1,532  1,424  666  1,260  780  131  86 
Private Equity and Venture Capital Valuation  models and standard valuation 
Guidelines where relevant. The underlying  formulas based on unobservable  Transfers from level 1 to level 2 and from level 2 to level 1 during the year ended 31 December 2020 were £355m (2019: £7m) and £7m 
investments in infrastructure funds are generally  market data4.  (2019: £6m) respectively. Transfers from level 1 to level 2 in the period primarily relate to interests in pooled investment vehicles which 
valued based on the phase of individual projects 
are priced daily but where the daily price is only offered by the fund manager. The Group now considers these investments to be level 2. 
forming the overall investment and discounted 
All other transfers relate to assets where changes in the frequency of observable market transactions resulted in a change in whether 
cash flow techniques based on project earnings. 
the market was considered active. Transfers are deemed to have occurred at the end of the calendar quarter in which they arose.  
 
Where net asset values are not available at the  Refer Note 40(a)(iii) for details of movements in level 3. 
same date as the reporting date, these valuations 
   
are reviewed and, where appropriate, adjustments 
are made to reflect the impact of changes in 
market conditions between the date of the 
valuation and the end of the reporting period. 
 
Other unlisted equity securities are generally 
valued at indicative share prices from off market 
transactions. 
1  Investments in associates at FVTPL are valued in the same manner as the Group’s equity securities and interests in pooled investment funds. 
2  Where pooled investment funds have been seeded and the investment in the funds have been classified as held for sale, the costs to sell are assumed to be negligible. The 
fair value of pooled investment funds held for sale is calculated as equal to the observable unit price. 
3  Non-performance risk arising from the credit risk of each counterparty is also considered on a net exposure basis in line with the Group’s risk management policies. At 31 
December 2020 and 31 December 2019, the residual credit risk is considered immaterial and no credit risk adjustment has been made. 
4  If prices are not available from the external pricing providers or are considered to be stale, the Group has established procedures to arrive at an internal assessment of the fair 
value. 
The fair value of liabilities in respect of third party interest in consolidated funds and non-participating investment contracts are calculated 
equal to the fair value of the underlying assets and liabilities. 
   
  Standard Life Aberdeen 2020 185
7. Group financial statements continued 
(a)(ii)  Fair value hierarchy for liabilities measured at fair value in the statement of financial position 
The table below presents the Group's non-unit linked liabilities measured at fair value by level of the fair value hierarchy. 
        Fair value hierarchy 
As recognised in 
the consolidated 
statement of 
financial position   Classified as 
  line item  held for sale  Total  Level 1  Level 2  Level 3 
  2020  2019  2020  2019  2020  2019  2020  2019  2020  2019  2020  2019 
  £m  £m   £m  £m   £m  £m   £m  £m   £m  £m   £m  £m 
Liabilities in respect of third 
party interest in consolidated 
funds  77  119  –  –  77  119  –  –  77  119  –  – 
Derivative financial liabilities  13  3  –  –  13  3  2  1  11  2  –  – 
Contingent consideration 
liabilities  6  14  –  –  6  14  –  –  –  –  6  14 
Total liabilities at fair value  96  136  –  –  96  136  2  1  88  121  6  14 
There were no significant transfers between levels 1 and 2 during the year (2019: none). Refer Note 40(a)(iii) for details of movements in 
level 3. 
(a)(iii) Reconciliation of movements in level 3 instruments 
The movements during the year of level 3 assets and liabilities held at fair value, excluding unit linked assets and liabilities and assets 
and liabilities held for sale, are analysed below. 
Equity securities 
and interests in 
Owner occupied  pooled investment 
  property  funds  Debt securities 
  2020  2019  2020  2019  2020  2019 
  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m 
At 1 January  2  2  82  59  1  1 
Total gains/(losses) recognised in the consolidated income statement  –  –  2  2  –  – 
Purchases  –  –  29  23  –  – 
Sales and other adjustments  (1)  –  (13)  (8)  –  – 
Transfers in to level 31  –  –  1  6  –  – 
At 31 December  1  2  101  82  1  1 
1  Transfers are deemed to have occurred at the end of the calendar quarter in which they arose.  
 
Contingent   Contingent  
  consideration asset  consideration liabilities 
  2020  2019  2020  2019 
  £m  £m  £m  £m 
At start of period  1  8  (14)  (29) 
Total amounts recognised in the income statement  (12)  56  2  5 
Additions  –  –  –  (8) 
Settlements  39  (63)  6  18 
At end of period  28  1  (6)  (14) 
 
For the year ended 31 December 2020 losses of £13m (2019: gains of £56m) were recognised in the consolidated income statement in 
respect of assets and liabilities held at fair value classified as level 3 at the period end, excluding assets and liabilities held for sale. Of 
this amount gains of £nil (2019: losses of £1m) were recognised in other income, gains of £2m (2019: gains of £1m) were recognised in 
investment return and losses of £15m (2019: gains of £56m) were recognised in respect of discontinued operations. 
Transfers of equity securities and interests in pooled investment funds and debt securities into level 3 generally arise when external 
pricing providers stop providing a price or where the price provided is considered stale. Transfers of equity securities and interests in 
pooled investment funds and debt securities out of level 3 arise when acceptable prices become available from external pricing 
providers. 
   
186 Standard Life Aberdeen 2020
7. Group financial statements continued   
 
(a)(ii)  Fair value hierarchy for liabilities measured at fair value in the statement of financial position  (a)(iv) Significant unobservable inputs in level 3 instrument valuations  
The table below presents the Group's non-unit linked liabilities measured at fair value by level of the fair value hierarchy.  The table below identifies the significant unobservable inputs in relation to equity securities and interests in pooled investment funds 
categorised as level 3 instruments at 31 December 2020 with a fair value of £101m (2019: £82m). 
        Fair value hierarchy 
As recognised in    Fair value        
the consolidated  2020  2019 
statement of    £m  £m Valuation technique  Unobservable input  Range (weighted average) 
financial position   Classified as 
  line item  held for sale  Total  Level 1  Level 2  Level 3  Private equity, real estate and  85  65 Net asset value   Net asset value statements  A range of unobservable 
  2020  2019  2020  2019  2020  2019  2020  2019  2020  2019  2020  2019  infrastructure funds  provided for six significant  inputs is not applicable as 
  £m  £m   £m  £m   £m  £m   £m  £m   £m  £m   £m  £m  funds (fair value >£5m) and we have determined that 
a large number of smaller  the reported NAV 
Liabilities in respect of third 
funds  represents fair value at the 
party interest in consolidated 
end of the reporting period 
funds  77  119  –  –  77  119  –  –  77  119  –  – 
Derivative financial liabilities  13  3  –  –  13  3  2  1  11  2  –  –  Other unlisted equity securities  16  17 Indicative share price  Recent off market capital  A range of unobservable  FIN
raising transactions  inputs is not applicable as  A
Contingent consideration  N
we have determined that  C
liabilities  6  14  –  –  6  14  –  –  –  –  6  14  IA
the indicative share price  L
Total liabilities at fair value  96  136  –  –  96  136  2  1  88  121  6  14  from off market transactions   INF
O
represents fair value at the  R
There were no significant transfers between levels 1 and 2 during the year (2019: none). Refer Note 40(a)(iii) for details of movements in  end of the reporting period  MA
level 3.  TIO
N
The table below identifies the significant unobservable inputs in relation to contingent consideration assets and liabilities categorised as 
(a)(iii) Reconciliation of movements in level 3 instruments 
 
level 3 instruments at 31 December 2020 with a fair value of £22m (2019: (£13m)).  
The movements during the year of level 3 assets and liabilities held at fair value, excluding unit linked assets and liabilities and assets 
and liabilities held for sale, are analysed below.    Fair value        
  £m  Valuation technique  Unobservable input  Input used 
Equity securities 
and interests in  2020  22  Probability weighted  Unobservable inputs relate to probability  Amount expected to be 
Owner occupied  pooled investment  Contingent  cash flows  weighted cash flows; and where relevant,  received from Phoenix at 31 
  property  funds  Debt securities  consideration assets  discount rates. The most significant  December 2020. This was in 
  2020  2019  2020  2019  2020  2019  and liabilities  unobservable inputs relate to assumptions  line with the £34m received 
  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  used to value the contingent consideration  in February 2021, refer Note 
At 1 January  2  2  82  59  1  1  related to the sale of SLAL to Phoenix.  47. The residual fair value 
relates to a number of 
Total gains/(losses) recognised in the consolidated income statement  –  –  2  2  –  – 
smaller contingent 
Purchases  –  –  29  23  –  –  consideration liabilities for 
Sales and other adjustments  (1)  –  (13)  (8)  –  –  which the input used is 
Transfers in to level 31  –  –  1  6  –  –  expected payments based 
on earn-out terms and 
At 31 December  1  2  101  82  1  1 
indemnity assessments. 
1  Transfers are deemed to have occurred at the end of the calendar quarter in which they arose.  
2019  (13)  Probability weighted  Unobservable inputs relate to probability   
  Contingent  cash flows and where weighted cash flows; and where relevant, 
Contingent   Contingent   consideration assets  applicable discount  discount rates. The most significant 
  consideration asset  consideration liabilities  and liabilities  rates  unobservable inputs relate to assumptions 
  2020  2019  2020  2019  used to value the contingent consideration 
  £m  £m  £m  £m  related to the sale of SLAL to Phoenix, in 
At start of period  1  8  (14)  (29)  particular those related to: 
Total amounts recognised in the income statement  (12)  56  2  5        –  SLAL’s annuity sales practices  Expected amount required to 
provision  cover the redress due to 
Additions  –  –  –  (8) 
customers compared to 
Settlements  39  (63)  6  18 
SLAL’s provision at 31 
At end of period  28  1  (6)  (14)  December 2017 
 
      –  Future lapse rates on relevant UK unit  Statistical distribution used 
For the year ended 31 December 2020 losses of £13m (2019: gains of £56m) were recognised in the consolidated income statement in  linked products of SLAL  in the Group’s Solvency II 
respect of assets and liabilities held at fair value classified as level 3 at the period end, excluding assets and liabilities held for sale. Of  internal model at 31 
this amount gains of £nil (2019: losses of £1m) were recognised in other income, gains of £2m (2019: gains of £1m) were recognised in  December 2017 
investment return and losses of £15m (2019: gains of £56m) were recognised in respect of discontinued operations. 
      –  Management’s assessment of the  Our assessment of the 
Transfers of equity securities and interests in pooled investment funds and debt securities into level 3 generally arise when external  outcome of ongoing discussions with  expected resolution taking 
pricing providers stop providing a price or where the price provided is considered stale. Transfers of equity securities and interests in  Phoenix in respect of disagreements  into account our legal advice 
pooled investment funds and debt securities out of level 3 arise when acceptable prices become available from external pricing  over the operation of certain aspects of 
providers.  the governing contracts that were 
entered into at the time of the sale of 
   
SLAL to Phoenix 
   
  Standard Life Aberdeen 2020 187
7. Group financial statements continued 
(a)(v)  Sensitivity of the fair value of level 3 instruments to changes in key assumptions  
At 31 December 2020 the shareholder is directly exposed to movements in the value of all non-unit linked level 3 instruments. Changing 
unobservable inputs in the measurement of the fair value of these level 3 financial assets and financial liabilities to reasonably possible 
alternative assumptions would not have a significant impact on profit attributable to equity holders or on total assets. No level 3 
instruments are held in in consolidated structured entities. See Note 25 for unit linked level 3 instruments.  
(b)  Assets and liabilities not carried at fair value 
The table below presents estimated fair values by level of the fair value hierarchy of non-unit linked financial assets and liabilities whose 
carrying value does not approximate fair value. Fair values of assets and liabilities are based on observable market inputs where 
available, or are estimated using other valuation techniques. 
As recognised in 
the consolidated 
statement of 
financial position 
    line item  Fair value  Level 1  Level 2  Level 3 
    2020  2019  2020  2019  2020  2019  2020  2019  2020  2019 
  Notes  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m 
Assets                       
Debt securities    325  602  335  614  –  23  335  591  –  – 
Liabilities                       
Subordinated liabilities  33  638  655  688  688  –  –  688  688  –  – 
The estimated fair values for subordinated liabilities are based on the quoted market offer price. 
The carrying value of all other financial assets and liabilities measured at amortised cost approximates their fair value. 
41.  Statement of cash flows 
The Group classifies cash flows in the consolidated statement of cash flows as arising from operating, investing or financing activities.  
Cash flows are classified based on the nature of the activity to which they relate and with consideration to generally accepted 
presentation adopted by peers. For activities related to asset management business, cash flows arising from the sale and purchase 
of debt securities and equity securities and interests in pooled investment funds, with the exception of those related to unit linked 
funds, are classified as cash flows arising from investing activities. For activities related to insurance business, including those related 
to unit linked funds, cash flows arising from the sale and purchase of debt securities and equity securities and interests in pooled 
investment funds are classified as cash flows arising from operating activities.  
For activities related to the acquisition and disposal of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, cash flows are classified as 
investing activities. The settlement of contingent and deferred amounts recognised on acquisitions and disposals are classified as 
investing activities where there is not considered to be a significant financing component of the related inflows or outflows. 
Purchases and sales of financial investments are presented on a gross basis except for purchases and sales of short-term 
instruments held in consolidated liquidity funds which are presented on a net basis. 
Dividends received from associates and joint ventures are presented as cash flows arising from operating activities. 
The tables below provide further analysis of the balances in the statement of cash flows. 
(a)  Change in operating assets 
  2020  2019 
  £m  £m 
Equity securities and interests in pooled investment funds  23  135 
Debt securities  9  (55) 
Derivative financial instruments  (12)  (12) 
Receivables and other financial assets and other assets  46  227 
Assets held for sale  751  (137) 
Change in operating assets  817  158 
(b)  Change in operating liabilities 
  2020  2019 
   £m  £m 
Other financial liabilities, provisions and other liabilities  (122)  (230) 
Pension and other post-retirement benefit provisions  (30)  (60) 
Deferred income  6  (8) 
Investment contract liabilities  (110)  (316) 
Change in liability for third party interest in consolidated funds  1  197 
Liabilities held for sale  (736)  126 
Change in operating liabilities  (991)  (291) 
188 Standard Life Aberdeen 2020
7. Group financial statements continued   
 
(a)(v)  Sensitivity of the fair value of level 3 instruments to changes in key assumptions  
(c)  Other non-cash and non-operating items  
At 31 December 2020 the shareholder is directly exposed to movements in the value of all non-unit linked level 3 instruments. Changing 
  2020  2019 
unobservable inputs in the measurement of the fair value of these level 3 financial assets and financial liabilities to reasonably possible 
   £m  £m 
alternative assumptions would not have a significant impact on profit attributable to equity holders or on total assets. No level 3 
instruments are held in in consolidated structured entities. See Note 25 for unit linked level 3 instruments.   Gain on sale of subsidiaries  (8)  – 
Profit on disposal of associates  (1,858)  (1,542) 
(b)  Assets and liabilities not carried at fair value 
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment  46  47 
The table below presents estimated fair values by level of the fair value hierarchy of non-unit linked financial assets and liabilities whose 
Amortisation of intangible assets  152  184 
carrying value does not approximate fair value. Fair values of assets and liabilities are based on observable market inputs where 
available, or are estimated using other valuation techniques.  Impairment losses on intangible assets  1,064  1,571 
(Reversal of)/loss on impairment of associates  45  (243) 
As recognised in 
Impairment losses recognised on property, plant and equipment  2  16 
the consolidated 
statement of  Impairment losses on disposal group held for sale  1  – 
financial position  F
    line item  Fair value  Level 1  Level 2  Level 3  Movement in contingent consideration asset/liability  10  (61)  INA
    2020  2019  2020  2019  2020  2019  2020  2019  2020  2019  Equity settled share-based payments  64  43  NC
  Notes  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  Finance costs  30  36  IAL
Assets                        Share of profit from associates and joint ventures accounted for using the equity method  (194)  (79)   INF
O
Debt securities    325  602  335  614  –  23  335  591  –  –  Other non-cash and non-operating items  (646)  (28)  R
M
Liabilities                        d)  Disposal of subsidiaries: SL Asia  ATIO
Subordinated liabilities  33  638  655  688  688  –  –  688  688  –  –  N
      2020 
 
   Notes    £m 
The estimated fair values for subordinated liabilities are based on the quoted market offer price. 
Equity securities and interests in pooled investment funds      711 
The carrying value of all other financial assets and liabilities measured at amortised cost approximates their fair value.  Other assets of operations disposed of       74 
41.  Statement of cash flows  Non-participating insurance contract liabilities      (689) 
Non-participating investment contract liabilities      (52) 
The Group classifies cash flows in the consolidated statement of cash flows as arising from operating, investing or financing activities.  
Other liabilities of operations disposed of      (25) 
Cash flows are classified based on the nature of the activity to which they relate and with consideration to generally accepted  Net assets disposed of       19 
presentation adopted by peers. For activities related to asset management business, cash flows arising from the sale and purchase 
of debt securities and equity securities and interests in pooled investment funds, with the exception of those related to unit linked  Items transferred to profit or loss on disposal of subsidiaries   1    (8) 
funds, are classified as cash flows arising from investing activities. For activities related to insurance business, including those related  Gain on sale   1    8 
to unit linked funds, cash flows arising from the sale and purchase of debt securities and equity securities and interests in pooled  Total cash consideration       19 
investment funds are classified as cash flows arising from operating activities.  
Cash and cash equivalents disposed of      (27) 
For activities related to the acquisition and disposal of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, cash flows are classified as  Cash outflow from disposal of subsidiary  1    (8) 
investing activities. The settlement of contingent and deferred amounts recognised on acquisitions and disposals are classified as 
investing activities where there is not considered to be a significant financing component of the related inflows or outflows.  There were no operations disposed of in the year ended 31 December 2019.   
Purchases and sales of financial investments are presented on a gross basis except for purchases and sales of short-term  (e)   Movement in subordinated liabilities 
instruments held in consolidated liquidity funds which are presented on a net basis. 
The following table reconciles the movement in subordinated liabilities in the year, split between cash and non-cash items.  
Dividends received from associates and joint ventures are presented as cash flows arising from operating activities. 
  2020  2019 
  £m  £m 
Opening balance carried forward  655  1,081 
The tables below provide further analysis of the balances in the statement of cash flows. 
Effect of change in accounting policy to IFRS 91  –  5 
(a)  Change in operating assets 
Opening balance at 1 January  655  1,086 
  2020  2019       
  £m  £m 
Cash flows from financing activities     
Equity securities and interests in pooled investment funds  23  135 
Repayment of subordinated liabilities  (100)  (455) 
Debt securities  9  (55)  Dividend paid2  (2)  – 
Derivative financial instruments  (12)  (12) 
Interest paid  (30)  (39) 
Receivables and other financial assets and other assets  46  227 
Cash flows from financing activities  (132)  (494) 
Assets held for sale  751  (137) 
Non-cash items     
Change in operating assets  817  158 
Amounts reclassified from equity  102  – 
(b)  Change in operating liabilities  Interest expense  30  35 
  2020  2019  Transfer to profit or loss on redemption of subordinated liabilities  –  47 
   £m  £m  Foreign exchange adjustment  (17)  (19) 
Other financial liabilities, provisions and other liabilities  (122)  (230)  At 31 December  638  655 
Pension and other post-retirement benefit provisions  (30)  (60)  1  The Group has initially applied IFRS 9 at 1 January 2019. Under the transition method chosen, comparative information is not restated. 
Deferred income  6  (8)  2  Dividends of £2m were paid as part of the redemption of the preference shares on 8 July 2020 subsequent to the reclassification of the preference shares as subordinated 
Investment contract liabilities  (110)  (316)  liabilities (Refer Note 30). 
Change in liability for third party interest in consolidated funds  1  197     
Liabilities held for sale  (736)  126 
Change in operating liabilities  (991)  (291) 
  Standard Life Aberdeen 2020 189
7. Group financial statements continued 
(f)   Movement in lease liabilities 
The following table reconciles the movement in lease liabilities in the year, split between cash and non-cash items.  
  2020  2019 
  £m  £m 
Opening balance carried forward  268  – 
Effect of change in accounting policy to IFRS 161  –  227 
Opening balance at 1 January  268  227 
     
Cash flows from financing activities     
Payment of lease liabilities  (35)  (32) 
Cash flows from financing activities  (35)  (32) 
Non-cash items     
Reclassified as held for sale during the year  (7)  – 
Additions  19  74 
Disposals  (2)  (5) 
Interest capitalised  6  7 
Foreign exchange adjustment  –  (3) 
At 31 December  249  268 
1  The Group has initially applied IFRS 16 at 1 January 2019. Under the transition method chosen, comparative information is not restated.  
42.  Contingent liabilities and contingent assets  
Contingent liabilities are possible obligations of the Group of which timing and amount are subject to significant uncertainty. 
Contingent liabilities are not recognised on the consolidated statement of financial position but are disclosed, unless they are 
considered remote. If such an obligation becomes probable and the amount can be measured reliably it is no longer considered 
contingent and is recognised as a liability. 
Conversely, contingent assets are possible benefits to the Group. Contingent assets are only disclosed if it is probable that the Group 
will receive the benefit. If such a benefit becomes virtually certain it is no longer considered contingent and is recognised as an asset. 
Legal proceedings, complaints and regulations 
The Group is subject to regulation in all of the territories in which it operates insurance and investment businesses. In the UK, where the 
Group primarily operates, the FCA has broad powers, including powers to investigate marketing and sales practices. 
The Group, like other financial organisations, is subject to legal proceedings, complaints and regulatory discussions, reviews and 
challenges in the normal course of its business. All such material matters are periodically reassessed, with the assistance of external 
professional advisers where appropriate, to determine the likelihood of the Group incurring a liability. Where it is concluded that it is more 
likely than not that a material outflow will be made a provision is established based on management’s best estimate of the amount that 
will be payable. In some cases it will not be possible to form a view, for example because the facts are unclear or because further time is 
needed to properly investigate, and no provisions are held for such matters. It is not possible to predict with certainty the extent and 
timing of the financial impact of legal proceedings, complaints and related regulatory matters.  
43.  Commitments 
The Group has contractual commitments in respect of expenditure on investment property, funding arrangements and leases which 
will be payable in future periods. These commitments are not recognised on the Group’s statement of financial position at the year 
end but are disclosed to give an indication of the Group’s future committed cash flows.  
(a)  Unrecognised financial instruments  
As at 31 December 2020, the Group has committed to investing an additional £35m (2019: £46m) into funds in which it holds a co-
investment interest. 
(b)  Capital commitments 
As at 31 December 2020, the Group has capital commitments other than in relation to financial instruments of £7m (2019: £nil). 
   
190 Standard Life Aberdeen 2020
7. Group financial statements continued   
 
(f)   Movement in lease liabilities  44.  Employee share-based payments and deferred fund awards 
The following table reconciles the movement in lease liabilities in the year, split between cash and non-cash items.  
The Group operates share incentive plans for its employees. These generally take the form of an award of options, conditional 
  2020  2019  awards or restricted shares in Standard Life Aberdeen plc (equity-settled share-based payments) but can also take the form of a cash 
  £m  £m  award based on the share price of Standard Life Aberdeen plc (cash-settled share-based payments). The Group also incentivises 
Opening balance carried forward  268  –  certain employees through the award of units in Group managed funds (deferred fund awards) which are cash-settled. All the Group’s 
Effect of change in accounting policy to IFRS 161  –  227  incentive plans have conditions attached before the employee becomes entitled to the award. These can be performance and/or 
service conditions (vesting conditions) or the requirement of employees to save in the save-as-you-earn scheme (non-vesting 
Opening balance at 1 January  268  227 
condition). The period over which all vesting conditions are satisfied is the vesting period and the awards vest at the end of this 
     
period.  
Cash flows from financing activities     
For all share-based payments services received for the incentive granted are measured at fair value.  
Payment of lease liabilities  (35)  (32) 
Cash flows from financing activities  (35)  (32)  For equity-settled share-based payment transactions, the fair value of services received is measured by reference to the fair value of 
the equity instruments at the grant date. The fair value of the number of instruments expected to vest is charged to the income  F
Non-cash items      IN
statement over the vesting period with a corresponding credit to the equity compensation reserve in equity.   A
Reclassified as held for sale during the year  (7)  –  N
C
Additions  19  74  At each period end the Group reassesses the number of equity instruments expected to vest and recognises any difference between  IA
L
Disposals  (2)  (5)  the revised and original estimate in the consolidated income statement with a corresponding adjustment to the equity compensation   IN
F
reserve.  O
Interest capitalised  6  7  R
M
Foreign exchange adjustment  –  (3)  At the time the equity instruments vest, the amount recognised in the equity compensation reserve in respect of those equity  A
T
At 31 December  249  268  instruments is transferred to retained earnings.   ION
1  The Group has initially applied IFRS 16 at 1 January 2019. Under the transition method chosen, comparative information is not restated.   For cash-settled share-based payment and deferred fund awards transactions, services received are measured at the fair value of   
the liability. The fair value of the liability is remeasured at each reporting date and any changes in fair value are recognised in the 
42.  Contingent liabilities and contingent assets  
consolidated income statement. 
Contingent liabilities are possible obligations of the Group of which timing and amount are subject to significant uncertainty. 
Contingent liabilities are not recognised on the consolidated statement of financial position but are disclosed, unless they are  The following plans made awards during the year ended 31 December 2020: 
considered remote. If such an obligation becomes probable and the amount can be measured reliably it is no longer considered 
Conditional  Restricted  Typical vesting  Contractual life  Conditions which must be met prior 
contingent and is recognised as a liability.  Plan  Options  awards  shares  period (years)  for options   Recipients  to vesting  
Standard Life  Yes  Yes  No  1-3 years   Up to 10  Executives  Service, or service and 
Conversely, contingent assets are possible benefits to the Group. Contingent assets are only disclosed if it is probable that the Group 
Aberdeen plc  (3-5 years for  years from  and senior  performance conditions. These 
will receive the benefit. If such a benefit becomes virtually certain it is no longer considered contingent and is recognised as an asset. 
Deferred Share  EIP awards)  date of grant  management  can be tailored to the individual 
Plan/  award. 
Legal proceedings, complaints and regulations  Discretionary 
The Group is subject to regulation in all of the territories in which it operates insurance and investment businesses. In the UK, where the  Share Plan1 
Group primarily operates, the FCA has broad powers, including powers to investigate marketing and sales practices.  Sharesave  Yes  No  No  3 or 5   Up to six  UK and Irish  Service only 
(Save-as-you- months after  employees 
The Group, like other financial organisations, is subject to legal proceedings, complaints and regulatory discussions, reviews and 
earn)  vesting  
challenges in the normal course of its business. All such material matters are periodically reassessed, with the assistance of external 
Share incentive  No  No  Yes  3 (2 for  Not  UK and Irish  Service only  
professional advisers where appropriate, to determine the likelihood of the Group incurring a liability. Where it is concluded that it is more 
plan  Ireland)  applicable  employees 
likely than not that a material outflow will be made a provision is established based on management’s best estimate of the amount that 
will be payable. In some cases it will not be possible to form a view, for example because the facts are unclear or because further time is  1  Included in Deferred and discretionary share plans in Section (b)(i) below. 
needed to properly investigate, and no provisions are held for such matters. It is not possible to predict with certainty the extent and 
timing of the financial impact of legal proceedings, complaints and related regulatory matters.   All of the awards made under these plans are equity-settled except for a small number of cash-settled awards for the deferred and 
discretionary share plans 2020 (see Section (d)(ii) below). 
43.  Commitments 
The fair value of awards granted under the Group’s incentive schemes is determined using a relevant valuation technique, such as the 
The Group has contractual commitments in respect of expenditure on investment property, funding arrangements and leases which  Black Scholes option pricing model.  
will be payable in future periods. These commitments are not recognised on the Group’s statement of financial position at the year 
The awards made under the deferred and discretionary share plans include awards for deferred bonuses of the prior year. With the 
end but are disclosed to give an indication of the Group’s future committed cash flows.  
exception of the Executive Incentive Plan (EIP) awards, the deferred bonus awards have service conditions of one, two and three years 
after the date of the award and no outstanding performance conditions. The awards for deferred bonus for executive Directors in 2020 
(a)  Unrecognised financial instruments   were made under the conditions of the EIP including a performance underpin.  
As at 31 December 2020, the Group has committed to investing an additional £35m (2019: £46m) into funds in which it holds a co- The awards made under the deferred and discretionary share plans also include the awards under the 2020 LTIP for executive Directors 
investment interest.  and awards to senior management with specific performance conditions.  
(b)  Capital commitments  Further details of the EIP and the 2020 LTIP are set out in the Directors’ remuneration report. 
As at 31 December 2020, the Group has capital commitments other than in relation to financial instruments of £7m (2019: £nil). 
The deferred and discretionary share plans also made a number of deferred fund awards in the year end 31 December 2020 (see 
    Section (d)(i) below). 
Options and conditional awards are all at nil cost with the exception of Sharesave where eligible employees in the UK and Ireland save a 
monthly amount from their salaries, over either a three or five year period, which can be used to purchase shares in the Company at a 
predetermined price.  
The share incentive plan allows employees the opportunity to buy up to £1,800 of shares from their salary each year with the Group 
matching up to £600 per year. The matching shares awarded are granted each month but are restricted for three years (two years for 
Ireland).  
   
  Standard Life Aberdeen 2020 191
7. Group financial statements continued 
In addition, the Group operates the following plans for which there are outstanding awards but for which no awards were made during 
the year ended 31 December 2020: 
Conditional  Restricted  Typical vesting  Contractual  Conditions which must be met 
Plan  Options  awards  shares  period (years)  life for options  Recipients  prior to vesting  
Standard Life  Yes  No  No  3 (5 for  Up to six  Executives and  Service and performance 
Long-Term  executive  months after  senior  conditions as set out in the 
Incentive Plan   Directors)  vesting   management  Directors’ remuneration report 
Standard Life  Yes  No  No  3  Up to six  Executives and  Service and performance 
Investments  months after  senior  conditions  
Long-Term  vesting   management  
Incentive Plan  
Standard Life  Yes  No  No  1-3   Up to six  Executives (other  Service, or service and 
Restricted stock  months after  than executive  performance conditions. 
plan (RSP)  vesting   Directors) and  These are tailored to the 
senior  individual award. 
management 
Standard Life  Yes  No  No  3  Up to six  Executives and  Service only. There are no 
Group Short- months after  senior  outstanding performance 
term incentive  vesting  management  conditions at date of grant.  
plan1 
Aberdeen Asset  Yes  No  No  1-3 (3-5 for  Up to 10  Executives and  Service only. There are no 
Management  executive  years from  senior  outstanding performance 
Deferred Share  management)  date of grant  management   conditions at date of grant. 
Plan 20091 
Aberdeen Asset  No  Yes  No  1-3 (3-5 for  Not  US based  Service only. There are no 
Management  executive  applicable  executives and  outstanding performance 
USA Deferred  management)  senior  conditions at date of grant. 
Share Award  management 
Plan 
1  Included in Annual bonus deferred share options Section (b)(i) below. 
(a)  Employee share-based payments and deferred fund awards expense 
The amounts recognised as an expense for equity-settled share-based payment transactions and deferred fund awards with employees 
are as follows: 
  2020  2019 
  £m  £m 
Share options and share awards granted under deferred and discretionary share plans1  61  36 
Share options granted under long-term incentive plans  –  4 
Share options granted under Sharesave  2  2 
Matching shares granted under share incentive plans  1  1 
Equity-settled share-based payments  64  43 
Cash-settled deferred fund awards  29  10 
Total expense  93  53 
1  Includes expense for annual bonus deferred share options and conditional awards. 
Included in the expense above is £27m (2019: £19m) of share-based payment expenses which are included in restructuring and 
corporate transaction expenses in the consolidated income statement. 
   
192 Standard Life Aberdeen 2020
7. Group financial statements continued   
 
In addition, the Group operates the following plans for which there are outstanding awards but for which no awards were made during  (b)  Options and conditional awards granted  
the year ended 31 December 2020:  (b)(i) Deferred and discretionary share plans 
The number and remaining contractual life for options outstanding and the share price at exercise of options exercised during the year 
Conditional  Restricted  Typical vesting  Contractual  Conditions which must be met 
Plan  Options  awards  shares  period (years)  life for options  Recipients  prior to vesting   are as follows: 
Standard Life  Yes  No  No  3 (5 for  Up to six  Executives and  Service and performance 
  2020  2019 
Long-Term  executive  months after  senior  conditions as set out in the 
Incentive Plan   Directors)  vesting   management  Directors’ remuneration report  Deferred and  Annual bonus   Deferred and  Annual bonus 
discretionary share  deferred share   discretionary share  deferred share 
Standard Life  Yes  No  No  3  Up to six  Executives and  Service and performance    plans  options  plans  options 
Investments  months after  senior  conditions   Outstanding at 1 January  22,956,158  15,469,459  –  26,220,720 
Long-Term  vesting   management  
Granted  27,486,468  –  23,636,874  – 
Incentive Plan  
Forfeited  (3,134,233)  (113,150)  (257,360)  (651,976) 
Standard Life  Yes  No  No  1-3   Up to six  Executives (other  Service, or service and 
Exercised   (1,231,007)  (4,685,978)  (423,356)  (10,099,285) 
Restricted stock  months after  than executive  performance conditions.  F
plan (RSP)  vesting   Directors) and  These are tailored to the  Expired  –  –  –  –  INA
N
senior  individual award.  Outstanding at 31 December  46,077,386  10,670,331  22,956,158  15,469,459  C
Standard Life  Yes  No  No  3  Up to six  mExaencaugteivmese natn d  Service only. There are no  ERxeemrcaiisnainbgle c aotn 3tr1a Dcteucaelm lifbee or f options outstanding  973,894  8,109,711  35,295  10,357,995  IAL INFO
Group Short- months after  senior  outstanding performance  (years)1  8.85  5.28  9.29  5.99  RM
term incentive  vesting  management  conditions at date of grant.   A
plan1  Options exercised during the year          TIO
Share price at time of exercise1  232p  268p  275p  271p  N
Aberdeen Asset  Yes  No  No  1-3 (3-5 for  Up to 10  Executives and  Service only. There are no 
 
Management  executive  years from  senior  outstanding performance  1  Weighted average. 
Deferred Share  management)  date of grant  management   conditions at date of grant. 
Plan 20091  The options granted under the deferred and discretionary share plans were made throughout the year ended 31 December 2020 with a 
Aberdeen Asset  No  Yes  No  1-3 (3-5 for  Not  US based  Service only. There are no  main grant date of 9 April 2020 and had a £nil exercise price. The weighted average option term was 2.31 years. The weighted average 
Management  executive  applicable  executives and  outstanding performance  share price at grant date was 234p which was also the weighted average fair value at grant date. The options include an entitlement to 
USA Deferred  management)  senior  conditions at date of grant.  the receipt of dividends in respect of awards that ultimately vest between the date of grant and the vesting date. 
Share Award  management 
In addition to nil costs options, 3,858,367 nil cost conditional awards were also granted under the deferred and discretionary share plans 
Plan 
(2019: 4,283,186) with a weighted average share price at grant date was 230p which was also the weighted average fair value at grant 
1  Included in Annual bonus deferred share options Section (b)(i) below.  date. 
(a)  Employee share-based payments and deferred fund awards expense  (b)(ii)  Standard Life/Standard Life Investments Long-term incentive plans 
The amounts recognised as an expense for equity-settled share-based payment transactions and deferred fund awards with employees  The number and remaining contractual life for options outstanding and the share price at exercise of options exercised during the year 
are as follows:  are as follows: 
  2020  2019    2020  2019 
  £m  £m  Long-term   Long-term  
Share options and share awards granted under deferred and discretionary share plans1  61  36  incentive plans   incentive plans  
  (excluding RSP)  RSP  (excluding RSP)  RSP 
Share options granted under long-term incentive plans  –  4 
Outstanding at 1 January  36,411,803  1,997,896  55,702,777  6,562,186 
Share options granted under Sharesave  2  2 
Granted  –  –  –  – 
Matching shares granted under share incentive plans  1  1 
Forfeited  (19,454,369)  (827,383)  (18,310,221)  (1,693,033) 
Equity-settled share-based payments  64  43 
Exercised   (754,907)  (901,616)  (952,703)  (2,855,702) 
Cash-settled deferred fund awards  29  10 
Expired  –  –  (28,050)  (15,555) 
Total expense  93  53 
Outstanding at 31 December  16,202,527  268,897  36,411,803  1,997,896 
1  Includes expense for annual bonus deferred share options and conditional awards.  Exercisable at 31 December  –  –  –  89,798 
Included in the expense above is £27m (2019: £19m) of share-based payment expenses which are included in restructuring and  Remaining contractual life of options outstanding 
corporate transaction expenses in the consolidated income statement.  (years)1  0.92  0.75  1.22  1.17 
Options exercised during the year         
    Share price at time of exercise1  237p  265p  268p  252p 
1  Weighted average. 
   
  Standard Life Aberdeen 2020  193  
7. Group financial statements continued 
(b)(iii) Sharesave 
The number, exercise price and remaining contractual life for options outstanding and the share price at exercise of options exercised 
during the year are as follows: 
  2020  2019 
Weighted average  Weighted average 
exercise price for  exercise price for 
  Sharesave  Sharesave  Sharesave  Sharesave 
Outstanding at 1 January  7,870,064  227p  9,260,389  292p 
Granted  3,449,144  189p  5,473,382  199p 
Forfeited  (159,189)  234p  –  – 
Exercised   (149,911)  273p  (353,534)  282p 
Expired  (333,555)  272p  –  – 
Cancelled  (1,941,634)  225p  (6,510,173)  294p 
Outstanding at 31 December  8,734,919  210p  7,870,064  227p 
Exercisable at 31 December  225,676  341p  426,840  285p 
Remaining contractual life of options outstanding 
(years)1  2.98    3.29   
Options exercised during the year         
Share price at time of exercise1  296p    305p   
1  Weighted average. 
The Sharesave options were granted on 14 October 2020 with an exercise price of 189p. The weighted average option term was 3.64 
years. The weighted average share price at grant date was 247p and the weighted average fair value at grant date was 44p. Sharesave 
options have no dividend entitlement. In determining the fair value of options granted under the Sharesave scheme the historic volatility 
of the share price over a period of up to five years and a risk free rate determined by reference to swap rates was also considered. 
The following table shows the range of exercise prices of Sharesave options outstanding at 31 December 2020.  
  2020  2019 
Number of options  Number of options 
  outstanding  outstanding 
189p-199p  7,346,548  5,442,217 
200p-327p  873,002  1,711,180 
328p-345p  515,369  716,667 
Outstanding at 31 December  8,734,919  7,870,064 
(c)   Matching shares granted under share incentive plans 
During the year ended 31 December 2020, 371,274 matching shares were granted under the share incentive plan (2019: 348,161). The 
weighted average share price at grant date was 254p which was also the weighted average fair value at grant date. The plans include 
the entitlement to the receipt of dividends in respect of awards that ultimately vest between the date of grant and the vesting date.  
(d)  Deferred fund awards and cash settled share based payments 
(d)(i)  Deferred fund awards 
At 31 December 2020, the liability recognised for cash-settled deferred fund awards was £61m (2019: £46m). 
(d)(ii) Cash settled share based payments 
At 31 December 2020, the liability recognised for cash-settled share based payments was £nil (2019: £nil). 
45.  Related party transactions 
(a)  Transactions and balances with related parties 
In the normal course of business, the Group enters into transactions with related parties that relate to insurance and asset management 
business.  
During the year, the Group recognised management fees from Group managed non-consolidated investment vehicles. These fees are 
disclosed in Note 39. It also recognised management fees of £4m (2019: £4m) from the Group’s defined benefit pension plans.  
In the year ended 31 December 2020, for associates accounted for using the equity method, the Group recognised sales primarily in 
relation to management fees of £195m (2019: £200m1) and purchases in relation to services received of £79m (2019: £49m). 
Management fees include sales where the selection of the Group as the asset manager is made by the underlying policyholder. 
In the year ended 31 December 2020 there were sales to joint ventures of £10m (2019: £1m) and purchases from joint ventures of £nil 
(2019: £1m).  
In addition to these transactions between the Group and related parties during the year, in the normal course of business the Group 
made a number of investments into/divestments from investment vehicles managed by the Group including investment vehicles which 
are classified as investments in associates measured at FVTPL. Group entities paid amounts for the issue of shares or units and 
received amounts for the cancellation of shares or units.  
1  2019 comparative restated to include sales where the selection of the Group as the asset manager is made by the underlying policyholder.   
194 Standard Life Aberdeen 2020
7. Group financial statements continued   
 
(b)(iii) Sharesave  The Group had balances due from associates accounted for using the equity method of £65m (2019: £55m), balances due to 
The number, exercise price and remaining contractual life for options outstanding and the share price at exercise of options exercised  associates accounted for using the equity method of £43m (2019: £22m), £1m due from joint ventures (2019: £nil) and no amounts due 
during the year are as follows:  to joint ventures (2019: £nil) as at 31 December 2020. The Group’s defined benefit pension plans have assets of £965m (2019: 
£1,154m) invested in investment vehicles managed by the Group. 
  2020  2019 
Weighted average  Weighted average  Note 47 (b) sets out Events after the reporting date relating to Phoenix. 
exercise price for  exercise price for 
  Sharesave  Sharesave  Sharesave  Sharesave  Details of the sale of a subsidiary to a joint venture business are included in Note 1. 
Outstanding at 1 January  7,870,064  227p  9,260,389  292p  In 2020, the Group committed to providing £12m of additional funding to a joint venture subject to the fulfilment of specified conditions 
Granted  3,449,144  189p  5,473,382  199p  (2019: £nil). 
Forfeited  (159,189)  234p  –  – 
(b)   Compensation of key management personnel 
Exercised   (149,911)  273p  (353,534)  282p  In 2020, key management personnel includes Directors of Standard Life Aberdeen plc (since appointment) and the members of the 
Expired  (333,555)  272p  –  –  executive leadership team (since appointment).  
F
Cancelled  (1,941,634)  225p  (6,510,173)  294p  IN
On 24 May 2019 the executive leadership team replaced the executive committee. For 2019 key management personnel therefore  A
Outstanding at 31 December  8,734,919  210p  7,870,064  227p  included Directors of Standard Life Aberdeen plc (since appointment) and the executive committee (since appointment) for the period  NC
Exercisable at 31 December  225,676  341p  426,840  285p  from 1 January 2019 until 23 May 2019 and from 24 May 2019 included Directors of Standard Life Aberdeen plc (since appointment)  IAL
 IN
Remaining contractual life of options outstanding  and the members of the executive leadership team (since appointment).   F
O
(years)1  2.98    3.29    R
The summary of compensation of key management personnel is as follows:   M
Options exercised during the year          AT
Share price at time of exercise1  296p    305p      2020  2019  ION
  £m  £m 
1  Weighted average.   
Salaries and other short-term employee benefits  9  8 
The Sharesave options were granted on 14 October 2020 with an exercise price of 189p. The weighted average option term was 3.64  Post-employment benefits  –  – 
years. The weighted average share price at grant date was 247p and the weighted average fair value at grant date was 44p. Sharesave  Share-based payments and deferred fund awards  12  7 
options have no dividend entitlement. In determining the fair value of options granted under the Sharesave scheme the historic volatility  Termination benefits  1  1 
of the share price over a period of up to five years and a risk free rate determined by reference to swap rates was also considered.  Total compensation of key management personnel  22  16 
The following table shows the range of exercise prices of Sharesave options outstanding at 31 December 2020.  
(c)   Transactions with key management personnel and their close family members 
  2020  2019  Certain members of key management personnel hold investments in investments products which are managed by the Group. None of 
Number of options  Number of options  the amounts concerned are material in the context of funds managed by the Group. All transactions between key management and their 
  outstanding  outstanding  close family members and the Group during the year are on terms which are equivalent to those available to all employees of the Group.  
189p-199p  7,346,548  5,442,217 
46.  Capital management 
200p-327p  873,002  1,711,180 
(a)   Capital and risk management policies and objectives 
328p-345p  515,369  716,667 
Managing capital is the ongoing process of determining and maintaining the quantity and quality of capital appropriate for the Group and 
Outstanding at 31 December  8,734,919  7,870,064 
ensuring capital is deployed in a manner consistent with the expectations of our stakeholders. For these purposes, the Board considers 
(c)   Matching shares granted under share incentive plans  our key stakeholders to be our clients, the providers of capital (our equity holders and holders of our subordinated liabilities) and the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) as the lead prudential supervisor for the Group. 
During the year ended 31 December 2020, 371,274 matching shares were granted under the share incentive plan (2019: 348,161). The 
weighted average share price at grant date was 254p which was also the weighted average fair value at grant date. The plans include  There are two primary objectives of capital management within the Group. The first objective is to ensure that capital is, and will continue 
the entitlement to the receipt of dividends in respect of awards that ultimately vest between the date of grant and the vesting date.   to be, adequate to maintain the required level of financial stability of the Group and hence to provide an appropriate degree of security to 
our stakeholders. The second objective is to create equity holder value by driving profit attributable to equity holders.  
(d)  Deferred fund awards and cash settled share based payments 
(d)(i)  Deferred fund awards  The liquidity and capital management policy forms one element of the Group’s overall management framework. Most notably, it operates 
At 31 December 2020, the liability recognised for cash-settled deferred fund awards was £61m (2019: £46m).  alongside and complements the strategic investment policy and the Group risk policies. Integrating policies in this way enables the 
Group to have a capital management framework that robustly links the process of capital allocation, value creation and risk 
(d)(ii) Cash settled share based payments 
management. 
At 31 December 2020, the liability recognised for cash-settled share based payments was £nil (2019: £nil). 
Capital requirements are forecast on a periodic basis and assessed against the forecast available capital resources. In addition, internal 
45.  Related party transactions  rates of return achieved on capital invested are assessed against hurdle rates, which are intended to represent the minimum acceptable 
(a)  Transactions and balances with related parties  return given the risks associated with each investment. The capital planning process is the responsibility of the Chief Financial Officer. 
In the normal course of business, the Group enters into transactions with related parties that relate to insurance and asset management  Capital plans are ultimately subject to approval by the Board. 
business.   The formal procedures for identifying and assessing risks that could affect the capital position of the Group are described in the Risk 
During the year, the Group recognised management fees from Group managed non-consolidated investment vehicles. These fees are  management section of the Strategic report on page 39. Information on financial instruments risk is also provided in Note 38. 
disclosed in Note 39. It also recognised management fees of £4m (2019: £4m) from the Group’s defined benefit pension plans.  
(b) Regulatory capital 
In the year ended 31 December 2020, for associates accounted for using the equity method, the Group recognised sales primarily in  (b)(i) Regulatory capital framework 
relation to management fees of £195m (2019: £200m1) and purchases in relation to services received of £79m (2019: £49m).  The Group is supervised under the CRD IV regulatory regime for group prudential supervisory purposes and therefore measures and 
Management fees include sales where the selection of the Group as the asset manager is made by the underlying policyholder.  monitors its capital on that basis. The Group’s regulatory capital position under CRD IV is determined by consolidating the eligible capital 
and reserves of the Group (subject to a number of deductions) to derive regulatory capital resources, and comparing this to the Group’s 
In the year ended 31 December 2020 there were sales to joint ventures of £10m (2019: £1m) and purchases from joint ventures of £nil 
regulatory capital requirements. 
(2019: £1m).  
Stress testing is completed to determine the appropriate level of regulatory capital and liquidity that the Group must hold, with results 
In addition to these transactions between the Group and related parties during the year, in the normal course of business the Group 
shared with the FCA at least annually. In addition, the Group monitors a range of capital and liquidity statistics on a daily, monthly or less 
made a number of investments into/divestments from investment vehicles managed by the Group including investment vehicles which 
frequent basis as required. Surplus capital levels are forecast, taking account of projected dividends and investment requirements, to 
are classified as investments in associates measured at FVTPL. Group entities paid amounts for the issue of shares or units and 
ensure that appropriate levels of capital resources are maintained. 
received amounts for the cancellation of shares or units.  
1  2019 comparative restated to include sales where the selection of the Group as the asset manager is made by the underlying policyholder.       
  Standard Life Aberdeen 2020 195
7. Group financial statements continued 
The Group is required to hold capital resources to cover both Pillar 1 and Pillar 2 capital requirements, described below. 
Pillar 1 – minimum requirement for capital 
Pillar 1 focuses on fixed overhead requirements and the Group’s exposure to credit and market risks in respect of risk-weighted assets, 
and sets a minimum requirement for capital based on these measures. At 31 December 2020, the Group’s draft Pillar 1 minimum 
requirement for capital was £0.5bn (2019: £0.4bn). 
Pillar 2 – ICAAP and supervisory review and evaluation process 
Pillar 2 supplements the Pillar 1 minimum requirement via the ICAAP, which is the means by which the Group assesses the level of 
capital that adequately supports all of the relevant current and future risks in its business. The ICAAP focuses on the principal risks to 
the consolidated financial position and examines each risk category to identify exposures that could put the Group’s capital at risk. The 
results of the Group’s ICAAP process will be subject to periodic review by the FCA under the Supervisory Review and Evaluation 
Process (SREP).  
(b)(ii) Regulatory capital position (unaudited) 
  20201  20191 
  £bn  £bn 
IFRS equity attributable to equity holders of Standard Life Aberdeen plc  6.8  6.6 
Deductions for intangibles and defined benefit pension assets, net of related deferred tax liabilities  (2.0)  (2.9) 
Deductions for significant investments in financial sector entities  (0.9)  (1.1) 
Deductions for non-significant investments in financial sector entities  (0.8)  – 
Other deductions and adjustments, including provision for foreseeable dividend  (0.2)  (0.4) 
Common Equity Tier 1 capital resources  2.9  2.2 
Tier 2 capital resources  0.5  0.6 
Total regulatory capital resources   3.4  2.8 
Total regulatory capital requirements  (1.1)  (1.1) 
Surplus regulatory capital  2.3  1.7 
1  2020 draft position on 9 March 2021 following finalisation of the Annual report and accounts, 2019 based on Pillar 3 reporting. 
The Group’s current capital resources include approximately £0.8bn (2019: approximately £0.3bn) from holdings in insurance entities 
that it is expected will no longer be eligible following the implementation of the Investment Firm Prudential Regime from 1 January 2022. 
The Investment Firm Prudential Regime is also expected to introduce constraints on the proportion of the minimum capital requirement 
that can be met by each tier of capital. As a result, it is estimated that approximately £0.3bn of existing Tier 2 capital, whilst continuing to 
be reported within the Group’s capital resources, would not be available to meet the minimum capital requirement from 1 January 2022. 
The Group has complied with all externally imposed capital requirements during the year. The Group’s Pillar 3 disclosures will be 
published on the Group’s website at www.standardlifeaberdeen.com/annualreport 
   
196 Standard Life Aberdeen 2020
7. Group financial statements continued   
 
The Group is required to hold capital resources to cover both Pillar 1 and Pillar 2 capital requirements, described below.  47.  Events after the reporting date 
Pillar 1 – minimum requirement for capital  (a)   Acquisition of Tritax Management LLP 
Pillar 1 focuses on fixed overhead requirements and the Group’s exposure to credit and market risks in respect of risk-weighted assets,  On 9 December 2020, the Group announced the proposed acquisition of 60% of the equity of Tritax Management LLP, a specialist 
and sets a minimum requirement for capital based on these measures. At 31 December 2020, the Group’s draft Pillar 1 minimum  logistics real estate fund manager. The initial cash consideration payable at completion for the acquisition is £64m. Subject to the 
requirement for capital was £0.5bn (2019: £0.4bn).  satisfaction of certain conditions, an additional contingent deferred earn-out is expected to be payable to acquire the remaining 40% of 
equity in Tritax Management LLP via three exercisable put options in each of years ended 31 March 2024, 2025 and 2026. The Group 
Pillar 2 – ICAAP and supervisory review and evaluation process 
will also have the right to purchase any outstanding equity interests at the end of the five-year period through exercising a call option. 
Pillar 2 supplements the Pillar 1 minimum requirement via the ICAAP, which is the means by which the Group assesses the level of 
The amount payable under the contingent deferred earn-out is dependent on the growth in future profitability of the business and is a 
capital that adequately supports all of the relevant current and future risks in its business. The ICAAP focuses on the principal risks to 
maximum of £140m. Completion is subject to certain conditions including relevant regulatory approvals. The assets under management 
the consolidated financial position and examines each risk category to identify exposures that could put the Group’s capital at risk. The 
of Tritax Management LLP at 31 December 2020 were approximately £5.5bn. 
results of the Group’s ICAAP process will be subject to periodic review by the FCA under the Supervisory Review and Evaluation 
Process (SREP).   (b)   Simplification and extension of the strategic partnership between the Group and Phoenix 
On 23 February 2021, the Group announced the purchase of certain products in the Phoenix Group’s savings business offered through 
(b)(ii) Regulatory capital position (unaudited)  F
the Standard Life Aberdeen Wrap platform, comprising a self-invested pension plan (SIPP) and an onshore bond product; together with  IN
  20201  20191  A
the Phoenix Group’s trustee investment plan (TIP) business for UK pension scheme clients. The assets relating to these Phoenix  N
  £bn  £bn  C
Group-administered businesses at 31 December 2020 are £38bn and are currently included in Group AUMA. The transaction will be  IA
IFRS equity attributable to equity holders of Standard Life Aberdeen plc  6.8  6.6  effected through a Part VII transfer which is targeted to complete in late 2022. The upfront consideration paid by the Group in February  L IN
Deductions for intangibles and defined benefit pension assets, net of related deferred tax liabilities  (2.0)  (2.9)  2021 was £62.5m, which will be offset in part by expected payments from Phoenix to the Group relating to profits of the business prior to  FO
R
Deductions for significant investments in financial sector entities  (0.9)  (1.1)  completion of the legal transfer. The transaction will result in the Group earning adjusted profit in relation to the acquired businesses post  M
A
Deductions for non-significant investments in financial sector entities  (0.8)  –  completion.    TIO
Other deductions and adjustments, including provision for foreseeable dividend  (0.2)  (0.4)  The Group have also agreed to sell the ‘Standard Life’ brand to Phoenix by mid-2021, replacing the existing agreement to licence the  N
 
Common Equity Tier 1 capital resources  2.9  2.2  brand for no fee to Phoenix, and to transfer related employees to Phoenix. In addition the Group will pay £32m to Phoenix later in 2021 
Tier 2 capital resources  0.5  0.6  in return for Phoenix bearing the costs of workplace pensions marketing staff, who are currently employed by the Group but provide 
services to Phoenix. The sale of the brand and transfer of related marketing staff is not expected to materially impact on our results.   
Total regulatory capital resources   3.4  2.8 
Total regulatory capital requirements  (1.1)  (1.1)  The strategic asset management partnership (under which the Group manages £171.5bn of Phoenix assets at 31 December 2020) will 
Surplus regulatory capital  2.3  1.7  be extended and will now operate for at least 10 years up to February 2031. 
1  2020 draft position on 9 March 2021 following finalisation of the Annual report and accounts, 2019 based on Pillar 3 reporting.  The Group have also resolved legacy issues with Phoenix relating to the operation of certain aspects of the agreements that were 
entered into at the time of the sale of SLAL to Phoenix and which impacted the value of certain indemnities and other payments under 
The Group’s current capital resources include approximately £0.8bn (2019: approximately £0.3bn) from holdings in insurance entities  the transaction terms. The impact of the resolution of these legacy matters is included in the 2020 results and resulted in the Group 
that it is expected will no longer be eligible following the implementation of the Investment Firm Prudential Regime from 1 January 2022.  receiving a cash inflow of £34m in February 2021. 
The Investment Firm Prudential Regime is also expected to introduce constraints on the proportion of the minimum capital requirement 
The Group’s shareholding in Phoenix remains at 14.4%. Following the changes to the commercial agreements set out above, in 
that can be met by each tier of capital. As a result, it is estimated that approximately £0.3bn of existing Tier 2 capital, whilst continuing to 
particular in relation to the licencing of the ‘Standard Life’ brand, our judgement is that Phoenix should no longer be accounted for as an 
be reported within the Group’s capital resources, would not be available to meet the minimum capital requirement from 1 January 2022. 
associate with effect from 23 February 2021, and should instead be accounted for as an investment at fair value. The primary impact of 
The Group has complied with all externally imposed capital requirements during the year. The Group’s Pillar 3 disclosures will be  this reclassification is that the Group will recognise changes in fair value of the investment in the consolidated income statement rather 
published on the Group’s website at www.standardlifeaberdeen.com/annualreport  than the Group’s share of Phoenix profits under the equity method. 
     
   
  Standard Life Aberdeen 2020 197
7. Group financial statements continued 
48.  Related undertakings  
The Companies Act 2006 requires disclosure of certain information about the Group’s related undertakings which is set out in this 
note. Related undertakings are subsidiaries, joint ventures, associates and other significant holdings. In this context significant means 
either a shareholding greater than or equal to 20% of the nominal value of any class of shares, or a book value greater than 20% of 
the Group’s assets.  
The particulars of the Company’s related undertakings at 31 December 2020 are listed below. For details of the Group’s consolidation 
policy refer to (b) Basis of consolidation in the Presentation of consolidated financial statements section. Under that policy limited 
partnerships in which the Group has no interest but whose general partner is controlled by the Group are not consolidated. However 
such limited partnerships are considered to be related undertakings under Companies Act 2006 and therefore are listed below. Where 
the Group has no interest in a limited partnership that is considered a related entity, the interest held is disclosed as 0%. 
The ability of subsidiaries to transfer cash or other assets within the Group for example through payment of cash dividends is generally 
restricted only by local laws and regulations, and solvency requirements. Included in equity attributable to equity holders of Standard Life 
Aberdeen plc at 31 December 2020 is £93m (2019: £88m) related to the Standard Life Foundation, a subsidiary undertaking of the 
Group. The assets of the Standard Life Foundation are restricted to be used for charitable purposes. 
The registered head office of all related undertakings is 1 George Street, Edinburgh, EH2 2LL unless otherwise stated.  
(a)   Direct subsidiaries  
Name of related undertaking    Share class1  % interest held2 
1825 Financial Planning Limited3    Ordinary shares  100% 
30 STMA 1 Limited3    Ordinary shares  100% 
30 STMA 2 Limited3    Ordinary shares  100% 
30 STMA 3 Limited3    Ordinary shares  100% 
30 STMA 4 Limited3    Ordinary shares  100% 
30 STMA 5 Limited3    Ordinary shares  100% 
Aberdeen Asset Management PLC4    Ordinary shares  100% 
Focus Solutions Group Limited5    Ordinary shares  100% 
Standard Life Aberdeen Charitable Foundation4    N/A  100% 
Standard Life Aberdeen Trustee Company Limited    Ordinary shares  100% 
Standard Life Charity Fund    N/A  100% 
Standard Life Client Management Limited    Ordinary shares  100% 
Standard Life Employee Services Limited    Ordinary shares  100% 
Standard Life Finance Limited    Ordinary shares  100% 
Standard Life Foundation    N/A  100% 
Standard Life Investments (Holdings) Limited    Ordinary shares  100% 
Standard Life (London) Limited3    Ordinary shares  100% 
Standard Life (Mauritius Holdings) 2006 Limited6    Ordinary shares  100% 
Standard Life Oversea Holdings Limited    Ordinary shares  100% 
Standard Life Savings Limited    Ordinary shares  100% 
The Standard Life Assurance Company 2006    N/A  100% 
Threesixty Services LLP7    Limited Liability Partnership  100% 
Threesixty Support LLP7    Limited Liability Partnership  100% 
(b)   Other subsidiaries, joint ventures, associates and other significant holdings  
Name of related undertaking    Share class1  % interest held2 
1825 Financial Planning and Advice Limited3  Ordinary A shares   100% 
  Ordinary B shares 
21ASI Long Term Fund I SCSp8    Limited Partnership  0% 
6 SAS 1 Limited    Ordinary shares  100% 
Aberdeen ACM Team LP4    Limited Partnership  0% 
Aberdeen ACP LLP4    Limited Liability Partnership  100% 
Aberdeen Alternatives (Holdings) Limited4    Ordinary shares  100% 
Aberdeen Asia IV (General Partner) S.a.r.l.9    Ordinary shares  100% 
Aberdeen Asia Pacific Fund (Offshore), L.P.10    Limited Partnership  0% 
Aberdeen Asia Pacific Fund II (Offshore), L.P.10    Limited Partnership  0% 
Aberdeen Asia Pacific Fund, L.P.10     Limited Partnership  0% 
Aberdeen Asia Pacific Fund II, L.P.10     Limited Partnership  0% 
Aberdeen Asia Pacific III Ex-Co-Investment (Offshore), L.P.10     Limited Partnership  0% 
Aberdeen Asia Pacific III Ex-Co-Investment, L.P.10     Limited Partnership  0% 
Aberdeen Asia Pacific III, L.P.10    Limited Partnership  0% 
Aberdeen ASIF Carry LP4     Limited Partnership  25% 
198 Standard Life Aberdeen 2020  
7. Group financial statements continued   
 
48.  Related undertakings   Name of related undertaking    Share class1  % interest held2 
Aberdeen Asset Investment Group Limited3    Ordinary shares  100% 
The Companies Act 2006 requires disclosure of certain information about the Group’s related undertakings which is set out in this 
Aberdeen Asset Investments Limited3    Ordinary shares  100% 
note. Related undertakings are subsidiaries, joint ventures, associates and other significant holdings. In this context significant means 
Aberdeen Asset Management Cayman Limited10    Ordinary shares  100% 
either a shareholding greater than or equal to 20% of the nominal value of any class of shares, or a book value greater than 20% of 
the Group’s assets.   Aberdeen Asset Management Denmark A/S11    Ordinary shares  100% 
Aberdeen Asset Management Finland Oy12    Ordinary shares  100% 
The particulars of the Company’s related undertakings at 31 December 2020 are listed below. For details of the Group’s consolidation 
Aberdeen Asset Management US GP Control LLC13    Limited Liability Company  100% 
policy refer to (b) Basis of consolidation in the Presentation of consolidated financial statements section. Under that policy limited 
partnerships in which the Group has no interest but whose general partner is controlled by the Group are not consolidated. However  Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited4    Ordinary shares  100% 
such limited partnerships are considered to be related undertakings under Companies Act 2006 and therefore are listed below. Where  Aberdeen Asset Middle East Limited14    Ordinary shares  100% 
the Group has no interest in a limited partnership that is considered a related entity, the interest held is disclosed as 0%.  Aberdeen Capital Management LLC13    Limited Liability Company  100% 
Aberdeen Capital Managers GP LLC15    Limited Liability Company  100% 
The ability of subsidiaries to transfer cash or other assets within the Group for example through payment of cash dividends is generally 
restricted only by local laws and regulations, and solvency requirements. Included in equity attributable to equity holders of Standard Life  Aberdeen Claims Administration, Inc.16    Ordinary shares  100%  FIN
Aberdeen plc at 31 December 2020 is £93m (2019: £88m) related to the Standard Life Foundation, a subsidiary undertaking of the  Aberdeen Co-Investment Mandate LP4    Limited Partnership  0%  AN
Group. The assets of the Standard Life Foundation are restricted to be used for charitable purposes.  Aberdeen Direct Property (Holding) Limited3    Ordinary shares  100%  CIA
The registered head office of all related undertakings is 1 George Street, Edinburgh, EH2 2LL unless otherwise stated.   Aberdeen do Brasil Gestao de Recursos Ltda17    Limited Liability Company  100%  L IN
Aberdeen Emerging Asia Fund, L.P.10     Limited Partnership  0%  FO
(a)   Direct subsidiaries   R
Aberdeen Emerging Asia Pacific II (Offshore), L.P.10     Limited Partnership  0%  M
N18a2m5e  Fofin raelnacteiadl  uPnldaenrntainkgin gL imited3     OrdiSnhaaryr es chlaarsess1   % interest1 h0e0l%d2   Aberdeen Emerging Asia Pacific III Ex-Co-Investments, L.P.10    Limited Partnership  0%  ATION
Aberdeen Emerging Capital Limited18    Ordinary shares  100% 
30 STMA 1 Limited3    Ordinary shares  100%   
Aberdeen Energy & Resource Company IV, LLC13    Limited Liability Company  73% 
30 STMA 2 Limited3    Ordinary shares  100% 
Aberdeen Energy & Resources Company V, LLC13    Limited liability company  100% 
30 STMA 3 Limited3    Ordinary shares  100% 
Aberdeen Energy & Resources Partners IV, L.P.13    Limited Partnership  1% 
30 STMA 4 Limited3    Ordinary shares  100% 
Aberdeen Energy & Resources Partners V, L.P.13    Limited Partnership  0% 
30 STMA 5 Limited3    Ordinary shares  100% 
Aberdeen European Infrastructure Carry GP Limited4    Ordinary shares  100% 
Aberdeen Asset Management PLC4    Ordinary shares  100% 
Aberdeen European Infrastructure Carry Limited4    Ordinary shares  100% 
Focus Solutions Group Limited5    Ordinary shares  100% 
Aberdeen European Infrastructure Co-Invest II LP3    Limited Partnership  0% 
Standard Life Aberdeen Charitable Foundation4    N/A  100% 
Aberdeen European Infrastructure GP Limited3    Ordinary shares  100% 
Standard Life Aberdeen Trustee Company Limited    Ordinary shares  100% 
Aberdeen European Infrastructure GP II Limited3    Ordinary shares  100% 
Standard Life Charity Fund    N/A  100% 
Aberdeen European Infrastructure GP III Limited3    Ordinary shares  100% 
Standard Life Client Management Limited    Ordinary shares  100% 
Aberdeen European Infrastructure Partners Carry LP4    Limited Partnership  25% 
Standard Life Employee Services Limited    Ordinary shares  100% 
Aberdeen European Infrastructure Partners Carry II LP4    Limited Partnership  25% 
Standard Life Finance Limited    Ordinary shares  100% 
Aberdeen European Infrastructure Partners Carry III LP4    Limited Partnership  25% 
Standard Life Foundation    N/A  100% 
Aberdeen European Infrastructure Partners LP3    Limited Partnership  3% 
Standard Life Investments (Holdings) Limited    Ordinary shares  100% 
Aberdeen European Infrastructure Partners II LP3    Limited Partnership  3% 
Standard Life (London) Limited3    Ordinary shares  100% 
Aberdeen European Infrastructure Partners III LP3    Limited Partnership  1% 
Standard Life (Mauritius Holdings) 2006 Limited6    Ordinary shares  100% 
Aberdeen European Residential Opportunities Fund SCSp19    Limited Partnership  1% 
Standard Life Oversea Holdings Limited    Ordinary shares  100% 
Aberdeen France S.A.20    Ordinary shares  100% 
Standard Life Savings Limited    Ordinary shares  100% 
Aberdeen Fund Distributors LLC16    Limited Liability Company  100% 
The Standard Life Assurance Company 2006    N/A  100% 
Aberdeen Fund Management Oy12    Ordinary shares  100% 
Threesixty Services LLP7    Limited Liability Partnership  100% 
Aberdeen Fund Management II Oy12    Ordinary shares  100% 
Threesixty Support LLP7    Limited Liability Partnership  100% 
Aberdeen Fund Management Ireland Limited21    Ordinary shares  100% 
(b)   Other subsidiaries, joint ventures, associates and other significant holdings   Aberdeen General Partner 1 Limited4    Ordinary shares  100% 
Name of related undertaking    Share class1  % interest held2  Aberdeen General Partner 2 Limited4    Ordinary shares  100% 
1825 Financial Planning and Advice Limited3  Ordinary A shares   100%  Aberdeen General Partner CAPELP Limited10    Ordinary shares  100% 
  Ordinary B shares  Aberdeen General Partner CGPLP Limited10     Ordinary shares  100% 
21ASI Long Term Fund I SCSp8    Limited Partnership  0%  Aberdeen General Partner CMENAPELP Limited10    Ordinary shares  100% 
6 SAS 1 Limited    Ordinary shares  100%  Aberdeen General Partner CPELP Limited10    Ordinary shares  100% 
Aberdeen ACM Team LP4    Limited Partnership  0%  Aberdeen General Partner CPELP II Limited10    Ordinary shares  100% 
Aberdeen ACP LLP4    Limited Liability Partnership  100%  Aberdeen Global Absolute Return Strategies Fund13    Mutual fund  47% 
Aberdeen Alternatives (Holdings) Limited4    Ordinary shares  100%  Aberdeen Global ex-Japan FoF's LP10    Limited Partnership  6% 
Aberdeen Asia IV (General Partner) S.a.r.l.9    Ordinary shares  100%  Aberdeen Global ex-Japan GP Limited10    Ordinary shares  100% 
Aberdeen Asia Pacific Fund (Offshore), L.P.10    Limited Partnership  0%  Aberdeen Global Infrastructure Carry GP Limited4    Ordinary shares  100% 
Aberdeen Asia Pacific Fund II (Offshore), L.P.10    Limited Partnership  0%  Aberdeen Global Infrastructure GP Limited22    Ordinary shares  100% 
Aberdeen Asia Pacific Fund, L.P.10     Limited Partnership  0%  Aberdeen Global Infrastructure GP II Limited22    Ordinary shares  100% 
Aberdeen Asia Pacific Fund II, L.P.10     Limited Partnership  0%  Aberdeen Global Infrastructure Partners Carry LP4    Limited Partnership  25% 
Aberdeen Asia Pacific III Ex-Co-Investment (Offshore), L.P.10     Limited Partnership  0%  Aberdeen Global Infrastructure Partners II Carry LP4    Limited Partnership  25% 
Aberdeen Asia Pacific III Ex-Co-Investment, L.P.10     Limited Partnership  0%  Aberdeen Global Infrastructure Partners LP3    Limited Partnership  1% 
Aberdeen Asia Pacific III, L.P.10    Limited Partnership  0%  Aberdeen Global Infrastructure Partners II LP4    Limited Partnership  0% 
Aberdeen ASIF Carry LP4     Limited Partnership  25%  Aberdeen GP 1 LLP4    Limited Liability Partnership  100% 
    Standard Life Aberdeen 2020 199
7. Group financial statements continued 
Name of related undertaking    Share class1  % interest held2 
Aberdeen GP 2 LLP4    Limited Liability Partnership  100% 
Aberdeen GP 3 LLP4    Limited Liability Partnership  100% 
Aberdeen Infrastructure Feeder GP Limited4    Ordinary shares  100% 
Aberdeen Infrastructure Finance GP Limited22    Ordinary shares  100% 
Aberdeen Infrastructure GP II Limited3    Ordinary shares  100% 
Aberdeen Infrastructure Partners II Carry LP4     Limited Partnership  25% 
Aberdeen Infrastructure Partners II LP4    Limited Partnership  0% 
Aberdeen Infrastructure Partners LP Inc23    Limited Partnership  0% 
Aberdeen Institutional Commingled Funds LLC - Long Duration Corporate Bond Fund24    Unit Trust  100% 
Aberdeen Investment Company Limited4    Ordinary shares  100% 
Aberdeen Investment Solutions Limited4     Ordinary shares  100% 
Aberdeen Investments Euro Limited3    Ordinary shares  100% 
Aberdeen Investments Jersey Limited25    Ordinary shares  100% 
Aberdeen Investments Limited3    Ordinary shares  100% 
Aberdeen Investments USD Limited3    Ordinary shares  100% 
Aberdeen Keva Asia IV Property Partners SCSp9    Limited Partnership  0% 
Aberdeen Liquidity Fund (Lux)       
Seabury Sterling Liquidity 1 Fund19    SICAV  100% 
Aberdeen Pension Trustees Limited4    Ordinary shares  100% 
Aberdeen Pooling II GP AB26    Ordinary shares  100% 
Aberdeen Private Equity Company VII, LLC13    Limited Liability Company  100% 
Aberdeen Private Equity Company VIII, LLC13    Limited liability company  100% 
Aberdeen Private Equity VII, L.P.13     Limited Partnership  1% 
Aberdeen Private Equity VIII, LP13    Limited Partnership  0% 
Aberdeen Property Fund Finland I Feeder Ky12    Limited Partnership  0% 
Aberdeen Property Fund Finland LP12     Limited Partnership  0% 
Aberdeen Property Fund Limited Partner Oy12    Ordinary shares  100% 
Aberdeen Property Fund Management (Jersey) Limited25    Ordinary shares  100% 
Aberdeen Property Fund Management Estonia Ou27    Ordinary shares  100% 
Aberdeen Property Investors (General Partner) S.a.r.l.28    Ordinary shares  100% 
Aberdeen Property Investors Estonia Ou29    Ordinary shares  100% 
Aberdeen Property Investors France SAS20    Ordinary shares  100% 
Aberdeen Property Investors Limited Partner Oy12    Ordinary shares  100% 
Aberdeen Property Investors The Netherlands BV30    Ordinary shares  100% 
Aberdeen Property Secondaries Partners II19    Limited Partnership  1% 
Aberdeen Property UK Retail Parks Partnership3    Limited Partnership  0% 
Aberdeen Real Estate Fund Finland LP31     Limited Partnership  5% 
Aberdeen Real Estate Operations Limited4    Ordinary shares  100% 
Aberdeen Residential JV Feeder Limited Partner Oy12    Ordinary shares  100% 
Aberdeen Secondaries II GP S.a.r.l.19    Ordinary shares  100% 
Aberdeen Sidecar LP Inc23    Limited Partnership   
Aberdeen SP 2013 A/S11    Ordinary shares  100% 
Aberdeen Standard (Jersey) Limited32    Ordinary shares  100% 
Aberdeen Standard 2019 European PE A Carry LP    Limited Partnership  100% 
Aberdeen Standard 2019 European PE B Carry LP    Limited Partnership  100% 
Aberdeen Standard Alternative Funds Limited     Ordinary shares  100% 
Aberdeen Standard ASC I       
ASI Sustainable Index World Equity Fund3    OEIC  100% 
ASI Sustainable Index UK Equity Fund3    OEIC  99% 
Aberdeen Standard Asset Management (Shanghai) Co., Ltd.33    Ordinary shares  100% 
Aberdeen Standard Asset Management (Thailand) Limited34    Ordinary shares  100% 
Aberdeen Standard Asset Management Limited    Ordinary shares  100% 
Aberdeen Standard Capital (CI) Limited35    Ordinary shares  100% 
Aberdeen Standard Capital International Limited36    Ordinary shares  100% 
Aberdeen Standard Capital Limited    Ordinary shares  100% 
Aberdeen Standard Carlsbad Carry LP4    Limited Partnership  25% 
Aberdeen Standard Carlsbad GP Limited22    Ordinary shares  100% 
Aberdeen Standard Carlsbad LP4    Limited Partnership  0% 
200 Standard Life Aberdeen 2020  
7. Group financial statements continued   
 
Name of related undertaking    Share class1  % interest held2  Name of related undertaking    Share class1  % interest held2 
Aberdeen GP 2 LLP4    Limited Liability Partnership  100%  Aberdeen Standard Diversified Fixed Income Fund37    OEIC  23% 
Aberdeen GP 3 LLP4    Limited Liability Partnership  100%  Aberdeen Standard ECF II GP LP     Limited Partnership  100% 
Aberdeen Infrastructure Feeder GP Limited4    Ordinary shares  100%  Aberdeen Standard European Co-Investment II SCSp19    Limited Partnership  0% 
Aberdeen Infrastructure Finance GP Limited22    Ordinary shares  100%  Aberdeen Standard European Infrastructure Partners Carry IV LP4     Limited Partnership  25% 
Aberdeen Infrastructure GP II Limited3    Ordinary shares  100%  Aberdeen Standard European Property Growth Fund L.P.3    Limited Partnership  0% 
Aberdeen Infrastructure Partners II Carry LP4     Limited Partnership  25%  Aberdeen Standard Fund Managers Limited3    Ordinary shares  100% 
Aberdeen Infrastructure Partners II LP4    Limited Partnership  0%  Aberdeen Standard Global Infrastructure GP III Ltd.22    Ordinary shares  100% 
Aberdeen Infrastructure Partners LP Inc23    Limited Partnership  0%  Aberdeen Standard Greater China Value Fund38    Investment Trust  74% 
Aberdeen Institutional Commingled Funds LLC - Long Duration Corporate Bond Fund24    Unit Trust  100%  Aberdeen Standard Group Limited    Ordinary shares  100% 
Aberdeen Investment Company Limited4    Ordinary shares  100%  Aberdeen Standard Gulf Carry GP Limited4    Ordinary shares  100% 
Aberdeen Investment Solutions Limited4     Ordinary shares  100%  Aberdeen Standard Indonesia Balanced Growth Fund39    Unit Trust  84%  F
IN
Aberdeen Investments Euro Limited3    Ordinary shares  100%  Aberdeen Standard Indonesia Bond Fund39    Unit Trust  69%  A
N
Aberdeen Investments Jersey Limited25    Ordinary shares  100%  Aberdeen Standard Indonesia Equity Fund39    Unit Trust  67%  CIA
Aberdeen Investments Limited3    Ordinary shares  100%  Aberdeen Standard Investment Management Limited    Ordinary shares  100%  L IN
Aberdeen Investments USD Limited3    Ordinary shares  100%  Aberdeen Standard Investments (Asia) Limited40    Ordinary shares  100%  FO
R
Aberdeen Keva Asia IV Property Partners SCSp9    Limited Partnership  0%  Aberdeen Standard Investments (Canada) Limited41    Ordinary shares  100%  M
A
T
Aberdeen Liquidity Fund (Lux)        Aberdeen Standard Investments (Holdings) Limited    Ordinary shares  100%  IO
N
Seabury Sterling Liquidity 1 Fund19    SICAV  100%  Aberdeen Standard Investments (Hong Kong) Limited42    Ordinary shares  100% 
 
Aberdeen Pension Trustees Limited4    Ordinary shares  100%  Aberdeen Standard Investments (Japan) Limited43    Ordinary shares  100% 
Aberdeen Pooling II GP AB26    Ordinary shares  100%  Aberdeen Standard Investments (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd44    Ordinary shares   100% 
Aberdeen Private Equity Company VII, LLC13    Limited Liability Company  100%  Irredeemable non-convertible 
Aberdeen Private Equity Company VIII, LLC13    Limited liability company  100%  preference shares 
Aberdeen Private Equity VII, L.P.13     Limited Partnership  1%  Aberdeen Standard Investments (Switzerland) AG45    Ordinary shares  100% 
Aberdeen Private Equity VIII, LP13    Limited Partnership  0%  Aberdeen Standard Investments Australia Limited37    Ordinary shares  100% 
Aberdeen Property Fund Finland I Feeder Ky12    Limited Partnership  0%  Aberdeen Standard Investments Beteiligungs GmbH46    Limited Liability Company  94% 
Aberdeen Property Fund Finland LP12     Limited Partnership  0%  Aberdeen Standard Investments Churchill Square General Partner Limited     Ordinary shares  100% 
Aberdeen Property Fund Limited Partner Oy12    Ordinary shares  100%  Aberdeen Standard Investments Colombia SAS47    Ordinary shares  100% 
Aberdeen Property Fund Management (Jersey) Limited25    Ordinary shares  100%  Aberdeen Standard Investments Deutschland AG46    Ordinary shares  94% 
Aberdeen Property Fund Management Estonia Ou27    Ordinary shares  100%  Aberdeen Standard Investments ETFs (US) LLC48    Limited liability company  100% 
Aberdeen Property Investors (General Partner) S.a.r.l.28    Ordinary shares  100%  Aberdeen Standard Investments ETFs Advisors LLC48    Limited liability company  100% 
Aberdeen Property Investors Estonia Ou29    Ordinary shares  100%  Aberdeen Standard Investments ETFs Sponsor LLC48    Limited liability company  100% 
Aberdeen Property Investors France SAS20    Ordinary shares  100%  Aberdeen Standard Investments Fund Management AS49    Ordinary shares  100% 
Aberdeen Property Investors Limited Partner Oy12    Ordinary shares  100%  Aberdeen Standard Investments Inc.13    Ordinary shares  100% 
Aberdeen Property Investors The Netherlands BV30    Ordinary shares  100%  Aberdeen Standard Investments Ireland Limited50    Ordinary shares  100% 
Aberdeen Property Secondaries Partners II19    Limited Partnership  1%  Aberdeen Standard Investments Korea Co. Ltd.51    Ordinary shares  100% 
Aberdeen Property UK Retail Parks Partnership3    Limited Partnership  0%  Aberdeen Standard Investments Life and Pensions Limited3    Ordinary shares  100% 
Aberdeen Real Estate Fund Finland LP31     Limited Partnership  5%  Aberdeen Standard Investments Limited    Ordinary shares  100% 
Aberdeen Real Estate Operations Limited4    Ordinary shares  100%  Aberdeen Standard Investments Luxembourg Corporate Manager S.a.r.l.9    Ordinary shares  100% 
Aberdeen Residential JV Feeder Limited Partner Oy12    Ordinary shares  100%  Aberdeen Standard Investments Luxembourg S.A.19    Ordinary shares  100% 
Aberdeen Secondaries II GP S.a.r.l.19    Ordinary shares  100%  Aberdeen Standard Investments Nominees Services (HK) Limited42    Ordinary shares  100% 
Aberdeen Sidecar LP Inc23    Limited Partnership    Aberdeen Standard Investments Norway AS49    Ordinary shares  100% 
Aberdeen SP 2013 A/S11    Ordinary shares  100%  Aberdeen Standard Investments Norway Holding AS49    Ordinary shares  100% 
Aberdeen Standard (Jersey) Limited32    Ordinary shares  100%  Aberdeen Standard Investments Operations AS49    Ordinary shares  100% 
Aberdeen Standard Investments Sweden AB26    Ordinary shares  100% 
Aberdeen Standard 2019 European PE A Carry LP    Limited Partnership  100% 
Aberdeen Standard Investments Taiwan Limited38    Ordinary shares  100% 
Aberdeen Standard 2019 European PE B Carry LP    Limited Partnership  100% 
Aberdeen Standard Islamic Investments (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd.44    Ordinary shares  100% 
Aberdeen Standard Alternative Funds Limited     Ordinary shares  100% 
Aberdeen Standard Life Asset Management Limited    Ordinary shares  100% 
Aberdeen Standard ASC I       
ASI Sustainable Index World Equity Fund3    OEIC  100%  Aberdeen Standard Life Group Limited    Ordinary shares  100% 
ASI Sustainable Index UK Equity Fund3    OEIC  99%  Aberdeen Standard Life Investments Limited    Ordinary shares  100% 
Aberdeen Standard Asset Management (Shanghai) Co., Ltd.33    Ordinary shares  100%  Aberdeen Standard Life Limited    Ordinary shares  100% 
Aberdeen Standard Asset Management (Thailand) Limited34    Ordinary shares  100%  Aberdeen Standard Limited    Ordinary shares  100% 
Aberdeen Standard MSPC Fund SCSp19    Limited Partnership  0% 
Aberdeen Standard Asset Management Limited    Ordinary shares  100% 
Aberdeen Standard Capital (CI) Limited35    Ordinary shares  100%  Aberdeen Standard MSPC General Partner S.a.r.l.19    Limited Liability Company  100% 
Aberdeen Standard Capital International Limited36    Ordinary shares  100%  Aberdeen Standard Multi-Sector Private Credit Fund SCSp19    Limited Partnership  0% 
Aberdeen Standard OEIC I       
Aberdeen Standard Capital Limited    Ordinary shares  100% 
Aberdeen Standard Carlsbad Carry LP4    Limited Partnership  25%  ASI Sterling Long Dated Government Bond Fund3    OEIC  38% 
Aberdeen Standard Carlsbad GP Limited22    Ordinary shares  100%  ASI China A Share Equity Fund3    OEIC  63% 
Aberdeen Standard Carlsbad LP4    Limited Partnership  0%   
    Standard Life Aberdeen 2020 201
7. Group financial statements continued 
Name of related undertaking    Share class1  % interest held2 
Aberdeen Standard OEIC III       
ASI MyFolio Sustainable I Fund3    OEIC  100% 
ASI MyFolio Sustainable II Fund3    OEIC  100% 
ASI MyFolio Sustainable III Fund3    OEIC  100% 
ASI MyFolio Sustainable IV Fund3    OEIC  100% 
ASI MyFolio Sustainable V Fund3    OEIC  100% 
Aberdeen Standard OEIC V       
ASI UK Impact - Employment Opportunities Equity Fund3     OEIC  96% 
Aberdeen Standard Overseas Investment Fund Management (Shanghai) Co., Ltd.33    Ordinary shares  100% 
Aberdeen Standard Pan European Residential Property Fund SICAV-RAIF19    Limited Partnership  1% 
Aberdeen Standard Private Equity Company IX, LLC13     Limited liability company  100% 
Aberdeen Standard Private Equity IX, L.P.24    Limited Partnership  0% 
Aberdeen Standard Private Real Assets Co-Investment Fund I GP, LLC13    Limited liability company  100% 
Aberdeen Standard Private Real Assets Co-investment Fund I GP, LP24    Limited partnership  79% 
Aberdeen Standard Private Real Assets Co-Investment Fund I, L.P.13    Limited Partnership  1% 
Aberdeen Standard Secure Credit LP    Limited Partnership  0% 
Aberdeen Standard SICAV I       
Aberdeen Standard SICAV I - Artificial Intelligence Global Equity Fund19    SICAV  70% 
Aberdeen Standard SICAV I - ASI-CCBI Belt & Road Bond Fund19    SICAV  33% 
Aberdeen Standard SICAV I - Asian Credit Bond Fund19    SICAV  50% 
Aberdeen Standard SICAV I - Asian Sustainable Development Equity Fund19    SICAV  99% 
Aberdeen Standard SICAV I - Emerging Markets Local Currency Corporate Bond Fund19    SICAV  84% 
Aberdeen Standard SICAV I - European Equity (ex-UK) Fund19    SICAV  23% 
Aberdeen Standard SICAV I - German Equity Fund19    SICAV  28% 
Aberdeen Standard SICAV I - Global Dynamic Dividend Fund19    SICAV  45% 
Aberdeen Standard SOF Evergreen GP LP    Limited Partnership  100% 
Aberdeen Standard SOF Evergreen LP    Limited Partnership  0% 
Aberdeen Standard SOF IV Feeder LP    Limited Partnership  0% 
Aberdeen Standard SOF IV GP LP    Limited Partnership  100% 
Aberdeen Standard SOF IV LP    Limited Partnership  0% 
Aberdeen Standard Syariah Asia Pacific Equity USD Fund39    Unit trust  38% 
Aberdeen Standard UK Shopping Centre Feeder Fund Limited Partnership3    Limited Partnership  0% 
Aberdeen Standard Unit Trust 1       
ASI Diversified Growth Fund3    Unit trust  42% 
Aberdeen Standard Venture Company XII, LLC13    Limited liability company  100% 
Aberdeen Standard Venture XII, LP13    Limited Partnership  0% 
Aberdeen Trust Limited4    Ordinary shares  100% 
Aberdeen UK Infrastructure Carry GP Limited4    Ordinary shares  100% 
Aberdeen UK Infrastructure Carry Limited4    Ordinary shares  100% 
Aberdeen Unit Trust Managers Limited4    Ordinary shares  100% 
Aberdeen U.S. Mid Cap Equity Fund24    OEIC  86% 
Aberdeen U.S. Sustainable Leaders Fund24    OEIC  95% 
Aberdeen Venture Company X, LLC13   Limited Liability Company  100% 
Aberdeen Venture Company XI, LLC13    Limited liability company  100% 
Aberdeen Venture Partners X SPV-A, L.P.13    Limited Partnership  0% 
Aberdeen Venture Partners X, L.P.13    Limited Partnership  0% 
Aberdeen Venture XI, LP13    Limited Partnership  0% 
ACM Carry LP4    Limited Partnership  40% 
AEROF (Luxembourg) GP S.a.r.l.19    Ordinary shares  100% 
AIA Series T Holdings LLC24    Limited liability company  0% 
AIPP Folksam Europe II Kommanditbolag52    Limited Partnership  0% 
AIPP Pooling I SA19    Ordinary shares  100% 
Airport Industrial GP Limited3    Ordinary shares  100% 
Airport Industrial Limited Partnership3    Limited Partnership  0% 
Aldwych Capital Partners, L.P.    Limited Partnership  0% 
Amberia General Partner Oy12    Ordinary shares  100% 
Andean Social Infrastructure Fund I LP4    Limited Partnership  0% 
Andean Social Infrastructure GP Limited10    Ordinary shares  100% 
202 Standard Life Aberdeen 2020  
7. Group financial statements continued   
 
Name of related undertaking    Share class1  % interest held2  Name of related undertaking    Share class1  % interest held2 
Aberdeen Standard OEIC III        Arden Garden State NJ Fund, L.P.24    Limited Partnership  0% 
ASI MyFolio Sustainable I Fund3    OEIC  100%  Arden Institutional Advisers, L.P.24    Limited Partnership  0% 
ASI MyFolio Sustainable II Fund3    OEIC  100%  Arden Institutional Fund LP24    Limited Partnership  0% 
ASI MyFolio Sustainable III Fund3    OEIC  100%  Arthur House (No.6) Limited3    Ordinary shares  100% 
ASI MyFolio Sustainable IV Fund3    OEIC  100%  Artio Global Investors Inc.16    Ordinary shares  100% 
ASI MyFolio Sustainable V Fund3    OEIC  100%  ASI Core Private Equity Fund GP, LLC13    Limited liability company  100% 
Aberdeen Standard OEIC V        ASI Core Private Equity Fund L.P.13    Limited Partnership  0% 
ASI UK Impact - Employment Opportunities Equity Fund3     OEIC  96%  ASI Direct RE GP LLP    Limited Liability Partnership  100% 
Aberdeen Standard Overseas Investment Fund Management (Shanghai) Co., Ltd.33    Ordinary shares  100%  ASI European Long Income RE Fund SCSp19    Limited Partnership  0% 
Aberdeen Standard Pan European Residential Property Fund SICAV-RAIF19    Limited Partnership  1%  ASI European Private Equity 2019 B LP    Limited Partnership  0% 
Aberdeen Standard Private Equity Company IX, LLC13     Limited liability company  100%  ASI (General Partner 2019 European PE B) Limited     Ordinary shares  100%  F
IN
Aberdeen Standard Private Equity IX, L.P.24    Limited Partnership  0%  ASI (General Partner 2019 European PE A Carry) Limited    Ordinary shares  100%  A
N
Aberdeen Standard Private Real Assets Co-Investment Fund I GP, LLC13    Limited liability company  100%  ASI (General Partner 2019 European PE A) S.à r.l.19    Ordinary shares  100%  CIA
Aberdeen Standard Private Real Assets Co-investment Fund I GP, LP24    Limited partnership  79%  ASI (General Partner AS 2020 FF) S.a r.l.19     Ordinary shares  100%  L IN
Aberdeen Standard Private Real Assets Co-Investment Fund I, L.P.13    Limited Partnership  1%  ASI (General Partner ECF II) Limited    Ordinary shares  100%  FO
R
Aberdeen Standard Secure Credit LP    Limited Partnership  0%  ASI (General Partner PE2) Limited    Ordinary shares  100%  M
A
Aberdeen Standard SICAV I        ASI (General Partner PFF 2018) S.a.r.l.19     Ordinary shares  100%  TIO
N
Aberdeen Standard SICAV I - Artificial Intelligence Global Equity Fund19    SICAV  70%  ASI (General Partner SOF IV) Limited    Ordinary shares  100% 
 
Aberdeen Standard SICAV I - ASI-CCBI Belt & Road Bond Fund19    SICAV  33%  ASI (General Partners 2019 European PE B) LLC13    Limited liability company  100% 
Aberdeen Standard SICAV I - Asian Credit Bond Fund19    SICAV  50%  ASI (Gold) Limited3    Ordinary shares  100% 
Aberdeen Standard SICAV I - Asian Sustainable Development Equity Fund19    SICAV  99%  ASI Han Co-Investment LP    Limited Partnership  0% 
Aberdeen Standard SICAV I - Emerging Markets Local Currency Corporate Bond Fund19    SICAV  84%  ASI Hark Capital I GP, LLC13    Limited liability company  100% 
Aberdeen Standard SICAV I - European Equity (ex-UK) Fund19    SICAV  23%  ASI Hark Capital II GP, LLC13    Limited liability company  100% 
Aberdeen Standard SICAV I - German Equity Fund19    SICAV  28%  ASI Hark Capital I Parallel, LP24    Limited Partnership  0% 
Aberdeen Standard SICAV I - Global Dynamic Dividend Fund19    SICAV  45%  ASI Hark Capital II Parallel, LP24    Limited Partnership  0% 
Aberdeen Standard SOF Evergreen GP LP    Limited Partnership  100%  ASI Hark Capital I, LP24    Limited Partnership  0% 
Aberdeen Standard SOF Evergreen LP    Limited Partnership  0%  ASI Hark Capital II, LP24    Limited Partnership  0% 
Aberdeen Standard SOF IV Feeder LP    Limited Partnership  0%  ASI Hark Capital III, LP13    Limited Partnership  0% 
Aberdeen Standard SOF IV GP LP    Limited Partnership  100%  ASI Hark Capital III GP, LLC13    Limited liability company  100% 
Aberdeen Standard SOF IV LP    Limited Partnership  0%  ASI (KFAS) RE GP LLP     Limited Liability Partnership  100% 
Aberdeen Standard Syariah Asia Pacific Equity USD Fund39    Unit trust  38%  ASI Korea GP 2 Pte. Ltd.53    Ordinary shares  100% 
Aberdeen Standard UK Shopping Centre Feeder Fund Limited Partnership3    Limited Partnership  0%  ASI Korea Separate Account 2 LP53    Limited Partnership  0% 
Aberdeen Standard Unit Trust 1        ASI Little Mill Carry LP4    Limited Partnership  100% 
ASI Diversified Growth Fund3    Unit trust  42%  ASI Little Mill LP4    Limited Partnership  0% 
Aberdeen Standard Venture Company XII, LLC13    Limited liability company  100%  ASI Mid Market Fund 1 LP19    Limited Partnership  0% 
Aberdeen Standard Venture XII, LP13    Limited Partnership  0%  ASI Mid-Market 1 LP4    Limited Partnership  0% 
Aberdeen Trust Limited4    Ordinary shares  100%  ASI MM Executive Co Investment LP4    Limited Partnership  0% 
Aberdeen UK Infrastructure Carry GP Limited4    Ordinary shares  100%  ASI PE 1 Carry LP4    Limited Partnership  40% 
Aberdeen UK Infrastructure Carry Limited4    Ordinary shares  100%  ASI (PGPE III) GP LP    Limited Partnership  0% 
Aberdeen Unit Trust Managers Limited4    Ordinary shares  100%  ASI Phoenix Fund Financing SCSp19    Limited Partnership  0% 
Aberdeen U.S. Mid Cap Equity Fund24    OEIC  86%  ASI Phoenix Global Private Equity III LP    Limited Partnership  0% 
Aberdeen U.S. Sustainable Leaders Fund24    OEIC  95%  ASI Private Equity 1 LP4    Limited Partnership  0% 
Aberdeen Venture Company X, LLC13   Limited Liability Company  100%  ASI Private Equity 2 GP LP    Limited Partnership  100% 
Aberdeen Venture Company XI, LLC13    Limited liability company  100%  ASI Private Equity 2 LP    Limited Partnership  0% 
Aberdeen Venture Partners X SPV-A, L.P.13    Limited Partnership  0%  ASI REMM GP LLP4    Limited Liability Partnership  100% 
Aberdeen Venture Partners X, L.P.13    Limited Partnership  0%  ASI Shin Co-Investment LP4    Limited Partnership  0% 
Aberdeen Venture XI, LP13    Limited Partnership  0%  ASI Shin Global Investment GP Limited10    Ordinary shares  100% 
ACM Carry LP4    Limited Partnership  40%  ASI (SOF E GP) Limited    Ordinary shares  100% 
AEROF (Luxembourg) GP S.a.r.l.19    Ordinary shares  100%  ASPER (Luxembourg) GP S.a.r.l.19     Ordinary shares  100% 
AIA Series T Holdings LLC24    Limited liability company  0%  Baigrie Davies & Company Limited3    Ordinary shares  100% 
AIPP Folksam Europe II Kommanditbolag52    Limited Partnership  0%  Baigrie Davies Holdings Limited3    Ordinary shares  100% 
AIPP Pooling I SA19    Ordinary shares  100%  Bonaccord Capital Company LP13    Limited Partnership  0% 
Airport Industrial GP Limited3    Ordinary shares  100%  BoS Mezzanine Partners Fund L.P.54    Limited Partnership  0% 
Airport Industrial Limited Partnership3    Limited Partnership  0%  BOSEMP Feeder LP4    Limited Partnership  0% 
Aldwych Capital Partners, L.P.    Limited Partnership  0%  Castlepoint General Partner Limited55    Ordinary shares  100% 
Amberia General Partner Oy12    Ordinary shares  100%  Castlepoint LP55    Limited Partnership  0% 
Andean Social Infrastructure Fund I LP4    Limited Partnership  0%  Castlepoint Nominee Limited55    Ordinary shares  100% 
Andean Social Infrastructure GP Limited10    Ordinary shares  100%  C.C. U.S. Private Equity Fund GP, LLC13    Limited Liability Company  100% 
    Standard Life Aberdeen 2020 203
7. Group financial statements continued 
Name of related undertaking    Share class1  % interest held2 
C.C. U.S. Private Equity Fund GP II, LLC13    Limited liability company   
C.C. U.S. Private Equity Fund, L.P.24    Limited Partnership  0% 
C.C. U.S. Private Equity Fund II, L.P.13    Limited Partnership  0% 
Concession Infrastructure Investments Manager Limited56    Ordinary shares  50% 
Coutts Asian Private Equity Limited Partnership10    Limited Partnership  0% 
Coutts Global Property Limited Partnership10    Limited Partnership  0% 
Coutts Middle East and North Africa Private Equity Limited Partnership10    Limited Partnership  0% 
Coutts Private Equity Limited Partnership10    Limited Partnership  0% 
Coutts Private Equity Limited Partnership II10    Limited Partnership  0% 
CPP General Partner Limited Partnership    Limited Partnership  20% 
Cumberland Place Financial Management Limited3    Ordinary shares  100% 
Edinburgh Fund Managers Group Limited4    Ordinary shares  100% 
Edinburgh Fund Managers Plc    Ordinary shares  100% 
Edinburgh Unit Trust Managers Limited4    Ordinary shares  100% 
Deferred shares 
Elevate Portfolio Services Limited3    Ordinary shares  100% 
ESF I Executive Co Investment Limited Partnership    Limited Partnership  0% 
ESP 2004 Co Investment Limited Partnership    Limited Partnership  0% 
ESP 2004 Conduit LP    Limited Partnership  0% 
ESP 2004 General Partner Limited Partnership    Limited Partnership  100% 
ESP 2006 Co Investment Limited Partnership    Limited Partnership  0% 
ESP 2006 Conduit LP    Limited Partnership  0% 
ESP 2006 General Partner Limited Partnership    Limited Partnership  5% 
ESP 2008 Coinvestment Fund L.P.    Limited Partnership  0% 
ESP 2008 Coinvestment General Partner Limited partnership    Limited Partnership  0% 
ESP 2008 Conduit LP    Limited Partnership  0% 
ESP 2008 Executive Co Investment Limited Partnership    Limited Partnership  0% 
ESP 2008 General partner Limited Partnership    Limited Partnership  0% 
ESP CPPIB European Mid Market Fund    Limited Partnership  0% 
ESP General Partner Limited Partnership    Limited Partnership  0% 
ESP Golden Bear Europe Fund    Limited Partnership  2% 
ESP Golden Bear General Partner Limited Partnership    Limited Partnership  0% 
ESP II Co Investment Limited Partnership    Limited Partnership  0% 
ESP II Conduit LP    Limited Partnership  0% 
ESP II General Partner Limited Partnership    Limited Partnership  0% 
ESP Tidal Reach General Partner Limited Partnership    Limited Partnership  20% 
ESP Tidal Reach LP    Limited Partnership  1% 
European Strategic Partners    Limited Partnership  0% 
European Strategic Partners - I LP    Limited Partnership  0% 
European Strategic Partners 2004 'A'    Limited Partnership  0% 
European Strategic Partners 2004 'B'    Limited Partnership  0% 
European Strategic Partners 2006 'A'    Limited Partnership  0% 
European Strategic Partners 2006 'B'    Limited Partnership  0% 
European Strategic Partners 2008 'A'    Limited Partnership  0% 
European Strategic Partners 2008 'B'    Limited Partnership  0% 
European Strategic Partners II 'A'    Limited Partnership  0% 
European Strategic Partners II 'B'    Limited Partnership  0% 
European Strategic Partners II 'C'    Limited Partnership  0% 
European Strategic Partners II 'D'    Limited Partnership  0% 
European Strategic Partners II 'E'    Limited Partnership  0% 
European Strategic Partners Scottish 'B'    Limited Partnership  0% 
European Strategic Partners Scottish 'C'    Limited Partnership  0% 
Flag Asia Company III, L.P.13    Limited Partnership  0% 
Flag Asia Company III, LLC13    Limited liability company  100% 
Flag GG Opportunity Company, LLC13    Limited liability company  100% 
Flag Global Company, LLC13    Limited liability company  100% 
Flag International Company, L.P.13    Limited Partnership  0% 
Flag International Company II, L.P.13    Limited Partnership  0% 
204 Standard Life Aberdeen 2020
7. Group financial statements continued   
 
Name of related undertaking    Share class1  % interest held2  Name of related undertaking    Share class1  % interest held2 
C.C. U.S. Private Equity Fund GP II, LLC13    Limited liability company    Flag International Company III, L.P.13    Limited Partnership  0% 
C.C. U.S. Private Equity Fund, L.P.24    Limited Partnership  0%  Flag International Company, LLC13    Limited liability company  100% 
C.C. U.S. Private Equity Fund II, L.P.13    Limited Partnership  0%  Flag International Company II, LLC13    Limited liability company  100% 
Concession Infrastructure Investments Manager Limited56    Ordinary shares  50%  Flag International Company III, LLC13    Limited liability company  100% 
Coutts Asian Private Equity Limited Partnership10    Limited Partnership  0%  Flag Private Equity Company, LLC13    Limited liability company  100% 
Coutts Global Property Limited Partnership10    Limited Partnership  0%  Flag Private Equity Company II, LLC13    Limited liability company  100% 
Coutts Middle East and North Africa Private Equity Limited Partnership10    Limited Partnership  0%  Flag Private Equity Company III, LLC13    Limited liability company  100% 
Coutts Private Equity Limited Partnership10    Limited Partnership  0%  Flag Private Equity Company IV, LLC13    Limited liability company  100% 
Coutts Private Equity Limited Partnership II10    Limited Partnership  0%  Flag Private Equity Company V, LLC13    Limited liability company  100% 
CPP General Partner Limited Partnership    Limited Partnership  20%  Flag Private Equity Company VI, LLC13    Limited liability company  100% 
Cumberland Place Financial Management Limited3    Ordinary shares  100%  Flag Private Equity Company III, L.P.13    Limited Partnership  0%  F
IN
Edinburgh Fund Managers Group Limited4    Ordinary shares  100%  Flag Private Equity Company IV, L.P.13    Limited Partnership  0%  A
N
Edinburgh Fund Managers Plc    Ordinary shares  100%  Flag Private Equity Company V, L.P.13    Limited Partnership  0%  CIA
Edinburgh Unit Trust Managers Limited4    Ordinary shares  100%  Flag Real Assets Company LLC13    Limited liability company  100%  L IN
Deferred shares  Flag Real Assets Company, L.P.13    Limited Partnership  0%  FO
R
Elevate Portfolio Services Limited3    Ordinary shares  100%  Flag Real Estate Company II, LLC13    Limited liability company  100%  M
A
ESF I Executive Co Investment Limited Partnership    Limited Partnership  0%  Flag Real Estate Company III, LLC13    Limited liability company  100%  TIO
N
ESP 2004 Co Investment Limited Partnership    Limited Partnership  0%  Flag Squadron Asia Pacific III GP LP10    Limited Partnership  100% 
 
ESP 2004 Conduit LP    Limited Partnership  0%  Flag Venture Company II, LLC13    Limited liability company  100% 
ESP 2004 General Partner Limited Partnership    Limited Partnership  100%  Flag Venture Company III, LLC13    Limited liability company  100% 
ESP 2006 Co Investment Limited Partnership    Limited Partnership  0%  Flag Venture Company IV, LLC13    Limited liability company  100% 
ESP 2006 Conduit LP    Limited Partnership  0%  Flag Venture Company V, LLC13    Limited liability company  100% 
ESP 2006 General Partner Limited Partnership    Limited Partnership  5%  Flag Venture Company VI, L.LC13    Limited liability company  100% 
ESP 2008 Coinvestment Fund L.P.    Limited Partnership  0%  Flag Venture Company VII, LLC13    Limited liability company  100% 
ESP 2008 Coinvestment General Partner Limited partnership    Limited Partnership  0%  Flag Venture Company VIII, LLC13    Limited liability company  100% 
ESP 2008 Conduit LP    Limited Partnership  0%  Flag Venture Company IX, LLC13    Limited liability company  100% 
ESP 2008 Executive Co Investment Limited Partnership    Limited Partnership  0%  Flag Venture Company VI, L.P.13    Limited Partnership  0% 
ESP 2008 General partner Limited Partnership    Limited Partnership  0%  Flag Venture Company VII, L.P.13    Limited Partnership  0% 
ESP CPPIB European Mid Market Fund    Limited Partnership  0%  Flag Venture Company VIII, L.P.13    Limited Partnership  0% 
ESP General Partner Limited Partnership    Limited Partnership  0%  Focus Business Solutions Limited5    Ordinary shares  100% 
ESP Golden Bear Europe Fund    Limited Partnership  2%  Focus Holdings Limited5    Ordinary shares  100% 
ESP Golden Bear General Partner Limited Partnership    Limited Partnership  0%  Focus Software Limited5    Ordinary shares  100% 
ESP II Co Investment Limited Partnership    Limited Partnership  0%  Focus Solutions EBT Trustee Limited5    Ordinary shares  100% 
ESP II Conduit LP    Limited Partnership  0%  FOF III Venture Company, LLC13    Limited liability company  100% 
ESP II General Partner Limited Partnership    Limited Partnership  0%  FOF IV Venture Company, LLC13    Limited liability company  100% 
ESP Tidal Reach General Partner Limited Partnership    Limited Partnership  20%  FOF V Venture Company, LLC13    Limited liability company  100% 
ESP Tidal Reach LP    Limited Partnership  1%  Fraser Heath Financial Management Limited3    Ordinary shares  100% 
European Strategic Partners    Limited Partnership  0%  Griffin Nominees Limited3    Ordinary shares  100% 
European Strategic Partners - I LP    Limited Partnership  0%  GTAAN – SL LP    Limited Partnership  1% 
European Strategic Partners 2004 'A'    Limited Partnership  0%  HDFC Asset Management Company Limited57    Ordinary shares   21% 
European Strategic Partners 2004 'B'    Limited Partnership  0%  Redeemable  
European Strategic Partners 2006 'A'    Limited Partnership  0%  Preference shares 
European Strategic Partners 2006 'B'    Limited Partnership  0%  Healthcare Private Equity Limited Partnership3    Limited Partnership  0% 
European Strategic Partners 2008 'A'    Limited Partnership  0%  Healthcare Private Equity LP58    Limited Partnership  0% 
European Strategic Partners 2008 'B'    Limited Partnership  0%  Heng An Standard Life Insurance Company Limited59    Ordinary shares  50% 
European Strategic Partners II 'A'    Limited Partnership  0%  Ignis Asset Management Limited    Ordinary shares  100% 
European Strategic Partners II 'B'    Limited Partnership  0%  Ignis Cayman GP2 Limited10    Ordinary shares  100% 
European Strategic Partners II 'C'    Limited Partnership  0%  Ignis Cayman GP3 Limited10    Ordinary shares  100% 
European Strategic Partners II 'D'    Limited Partnership  0%  Ignis Fund Managers Limited    Ordinary shares  100% 
European Strategic Partners II 'E'    Limited Partnership  0%  Ignis Investment Services Limited    Ordinary shares  100% 
European Strategic Partners Scottish 'B'    Limited Partnership  0%  Jones Sheridan Financial Consulting Limited3    Ordinary shares  100% 
European Strategic Partners Scottish 'C'    Limited Partnership  0%  Jones Sheridan Holdings Limited3    Ordinary shares  100% 
Flag Asia Company III, L.P.13    Limited Partnership  0%  KFAS Real Estate Limited Partnership    Limited Partnership  0% 
Flag Asia Company III, LLC13    Limited liability company  100%  Lothian Thirty L.P.    Limited Partnership  0% 
Flag GG Opportunity Company, LLC13    Limited liability company  100%  Murray Johnstone Holdings Limited4    Ordinary shares  100% 
Flag Global Company, LLC13    Limited liability company  100%  Murray Johnstone Limited4    Ordinary shares  100% 
Flag International Company, L.P.13    Limited Partnership  0%  NASP 2006 General Partner Limited Partnership    Limited Partnership  5% 
Flag International Company II, L.P.13    Limited Partnership  0%  NASP 2006 Special Limited Partnership    Limited Partnership  0% 
  Standard Life Aberdeen 2020 205
7. Group financial statements continued 
Name of related undertaking    Share class1  % interest held2 
NASP 2008 General Partner Limited Partnership    Limited Partnership  0% 
NASP 2008 Special Limited Partnership    Limited Partnership  0% 
Next Generation Associates III, LLC13    Limited liability company  100% 
Next Generation Associates IV, LLC13    Limited liability company  100% 
Next Generation Associates V, LLC13    Limited liability company  100% 
Next Generation Associates V, L.P.13    Limited Partnership  0% 
North American Strategic Partners (Feeder) 2006    Limited Partnership  0% 
North American Strategic Partners (Feeder) 2008 Limited Partnership    Limited Partnership  0% 
North American Strategic Partners 2006 LP10    Limited Partnership  0% 
North American Strategic Partners 2008 LP10    Limited Partnership  0% 
North American Strategic Partners Companion Fund LP60    Limited Partnership  0% 
North American Strategic Partners, LP60    Limited Partnership  4% 
North East Trustees Limited61    Ordinary A shares   100% 
Ordinary B shares 
Origo Services Limited62    Ordinary shares  19% 
Orion Partners CLP Inc.63    Ordinary shares  100% 
Orion Partners Holdings Limited64     Ordinary shares  100% 
Orion Partners Services Inc.63    Ordinary shares  100% 
Ostara China RE Fund LP    Limited Partnership  0% 
Ostara China Real Estate Fund L.P.63    Limited Partnership  0% 
Ostara Japan Fund 3 LP63    Limited Partnership  0% 
Ostara Korea GP 2 Pte. Ltd.53    Ordinary shares  100% 
Ostara Korea Separate Account LP53    Limited Partnership  0% 
Ostara Partners Inc. China63    Ordinary shares  100% 
Ostara Partners Inc. Japan 363    Ordinary shares  100% 
Pace Financial Solutions Limited3  Ordinary A shares   100% 
Ordinary B shares  
  Ordinary C shares 
Pace Mortgage Solutions Limited3  Ordinary A shares   100% 
  Ordinary B shares 
Parmenion Capital Ltd65    Ordinary shares  100% 
Parmenion Capital Partners LLP65    Limited Liability Partnership  100% 
Parmenion Nominees Limited65    Ordinary shares  100% 
Parnell Fisher Child & Co. Limited3    Ordinary shares  100% 
Parnell Fisher Child Holdings Limited3  Ordinary A shares   100% 
  Ordinary B shares 
PE1 LP4    Limited Partnership  0% 
PE1A LP4    Limited Partnership  0% 
PE2 LP4    Limited Partnership  0% 
Pearl Private Equity LP    Limited Partnership  0% 
Pearl Strategic Credit LP    Limited Partnership  0% 
Pearson Jones & Company (Trustees) Limited61    Ordinary shares  100% 
Pearson Jones Nominees Limited61    Ordinary shares  100% 
PGB European Buy-out Fund I SCSp19    Limited Partnership  0% 
Phoenix Group Holdings plc66    Ordinary shares  14% 
PT Aberdeen Standard Investments Indonesia39    Limited Liability Company  99% 
PURetail Luxembourg Management Company S.a.r.l.67     Class A shares  50% 
Regent Property Partners (Retail Parks) Limited3    Ordinary shares  100% 
Self Directed Investments Ltd.65    Ordinary shares  100% 
Serin Wealth Limited3    Ordinary shares  100% 
Shin Global Investment Partners LP10    Limited Partnership  95% 
SL Capital 2016 Co-Investment GP LP    Limited Partnership  5% 
SL Capital 2016 Co-Investment LP    Limited Partnership  0% 
SL Capital ECF GP LP    Limited Partnership  4% 
SL Capital ESF I GP LP    Limited Partnership  0% 
SL Capital ESF I LP    Limited Partnership  1% 
SL Capital European Co-Investment B LP    Limited Partnership  0% 
SL Capital European Co-Investment LP    Limited Partnership  0% 
SL Capital Ignis Private Equity Founder LP    Limited Partnership  65% 
206   Standard Life Aberdeen 2020  
7. Group financial statements continued   
 
Name of related undertaking    Share class1  % interest held2  Name of related undertaking    Share class1  % interest held2 
NASP 2008 General Partner Limited Partnership    Limited Partnership  0%  SL Capital Ignis Strategic Credit Founder LP    Limited Partnership  0% 
NASP 2008 Special Limited Partnership    Limited Partnership  0%  SL Capital Infrastructure Fund II Top-Up Co-Investment Fund SCSp19     Limited Partnership  0% 
Next Generation Associates III, LLC13    Limited liability company  100%  SL Capital Infrastructure I GP LP    Limited Partnership  100% 
Next Generation Associates IV, LLC13    Limited liability company  100%  SL Capital Infrastructure I LP    Limited Partnership  0% 
Next Generation Associates V, LLC13    Limited liability company  100%  SL Capital Infrastructure II LTP LP    Limited Partnership  100% 
Next Generation Associates V, L.P.13    Limited Partnership  0%  SL Capital Infrastructure II SCSp28    Limited Partnership  0% 
North American Strategic Partners (Feeder) 2006    Limited Partnership  0%  SL Capital Infrastructure Secondary I GP LP    Limited Partnership  100% 
North American Strategic Partners (Feeder) 2008 Limited Partnership    Limited Partnership  0%  SL Capital Infrastructure Secondary I LP    Limited Partnership  0% 
North American Strategic Partners 2006 LP10    Limited Partnership  0%  SL Capital NASF I A LP    Limited Partnership  2% 
North American Strategic Partners 2008 LP10    Limited Partnership  0%  SL Capital NASF I Carry LP    Limited Partnership  0% 
North American Strategic Partners Companion Fund LP60    Limited Partnership  0%  SL Capital NASF I GP LP    Limited Partnership  0%  F
IN
North American Strategic Partners, LP60    Limited Partnership  4%  SL Capital NASF I LP    Limited Partnership  0%  A
N
North East Trustees Limited61    Ordinary A shares   100%  SL Capital Partners (US) Limited    Ordinary shares  100%  CIA
Ordinary B shares  SL Capital Partners LLP    Limited Liability Partnership  100%  L IN
Origo Services Limited62    Ordinary shares  19%  SL Capital Pearl Private Equity GP LP    Limited Partnership  0%  FO
R
Orion Partners CLP Inc.63    Ordinary shares  100%  SL Capital Pearl Strategic Credit GP LP    Limited Partnership  1%  M
A
Orion Partners Holdings Limited64     Ordinary shares  100%  SL Capital SOF I Feeder LP    Limited Partnership  0%  TIO
Orion Partners Services Inc.63    Ordinary shares  100%  SL Capital SOF II Feeder LP    Limited Partnership  0%  N
 
Ostara China RE Fund LP    Limited Partnership  0%  SL Capital SOF III Feeder LP    Limited Partnership  0% 
Ostara China Real Estate Fund L.P.63    Limited Partnership  0%  SL Capital SOF I GP LP    Limited Partnership  0% 
Ostara Japan Fund 3 LP63    Limited Partnership  0%  SL Capital SOF II GP LP    Limited Partnership  0% 
Ostara Korea GP 2 Pte. Ltd.53    Ordinary shares  100%  SL Capital SOF III GP LP    Limited Partnership  0% 
Ostara Korea Separate Account LP53    Limited Partnership  0%  SL Capital SOF I LP    Limited Partnership  0% 
Ostara Partners Inc. China63    Ordinary shares  100%  SL Capital SOF II LP    Limited Partnership  0% 
Ostara Partners Inc. Japan 363    Ordinary shares  100%  SL Capital SOF III LP    Limited Partnership  0% 
Pace Financial Solutions Limited3  Ordinary A shares   100%  SLA Corporate Secretary Limited    Ordinary shares  100% 
Ordinary B shares  
SLC EC I Executive Co Investment Limited Partnership    Limited Partnership  0% 
  Ordinary C shares 
SLCI (Infrastructure 2018 A) Co-Invest LP    Limited Partnership  0% 
Pace Mortgage Solutions Limited3  Ordinary A shares   100% 
SLCI I Executive Co Investment Limited Partnership    Limited Partnership  0% 
  Ordinary B shares 
Parmenion Capital Ltd65    Ordinary shares  100%  SLCI Rail Co-Invest LP    Limited Partnership  0% 
Parmenion Capital Partners LLP65    Limited Liability Partnership  100%  SLCP (Founder Partner Ignis Private Equity) Limited    Ordinary shares  100% 
Parmenion Nominees Limited65    Ordinary shares  100%  SLCP (Founder Partner Ignis Strategic Credit) Limited    Ordinary shares  100% 
Parnell Fisher Child & Co. Limited3    Ordinary shares  100%  SLCP (General Partner 2016 Co-investment) Limited    Ordinary shares  100% 
Parnell Fisher Child Holdings Limited3  Ordinary A shares   100%  SLCP (General Partner CPP) Limited    Ordinary shares  100% 
  Ordinary B shares  SLCP (General Partner EC) Limited    Ordinary shares  100% 
PE1 LP4    Limited Partnership  0%  SLCP (General Partner Edcastle) Limited    Ordinary shares  100% 
PE1A LP4    Limited Partnership  0%  SLCP (General Partner ESF I) Limited    Ordinary shares  100% 
PE2 LP4    Limited Partnership  0%  SLCP (General Partner ESF II) Limited    Ordinary shares  100% 
Pearl Private Equity LP    Limited Partnership  0%  SLCP (General Partner ESP 2004) Limited    Ordinary shares  100% 
Pearl Strategic Credit LP    Limited Partnership  0%  SLCP (General Partner ESP 2006) Limited    Ordinary shares  100% 
Pearson Jones & Company (Trustees) Limited61    Ordinary shares  100%  SLCP (General Partner ESP 2008 Coinvestment) Limited    Ordinary shares  100% 
Pearson Jones Nominees Limited61    Ordinary shares  100%  SLCP (General Partner ESP 2008) Limited    Ordinary shares  100% 
PGB European Buy-out Fund I SCSp19    Limited Partnership  0%  SLCP (General Partner ESP CAL) Limited    Ordinary shares  100% 
Phoenix Group Holdings plc66    Ordinary shares  14%  SLCP (General Partner Europe VI) Limited    Ordinary shares  100% 
PT Aberdeen Standard Investments Indonesia39    Limited Liability Company  99%  SLCP (General Partner II) Limited    Ordinary shares  100% 
PURetail Luxembourg Management Company S.a.r.l.67     Class A shares  50%  SLCP (General Partner Infrastructure I) Limited    Ordinary shares  100% 
Regent Property Partners (Retail Parks) Limited3    Ordinary shares  100%  SLCP (General Partner Infrastructure Secondary I) Limited    Ordinary shares  100% 
Self Directed Investments Ltd.65    Ordinary shares  100%  SLCP (General Partner NASF I) Limited    Ordinary shares  100% 
Serin Wealth Limited3    Ordinary shares  100%  SLCP (General Partner NASP 2006) Limited    Ordinary shares  100% 
Shin Global Investment Partners LP10    Limited Partnership  95%  SLCP (General Partner NASP 2008) Limited    Ordinary shares  100% 
SL Capital 2016 Co-Investment GP LP    Limited Partnership  5%  SLCP (General Partner Pearl Private Equity) Limited    Ordinary shares  100% 
SL Capital 2016 Co-Investment LP    Limited Partnership  0%  SLCP (General Partner Pearl Strategic Credit) Limited    Ordinary shares  100% 
SL Capital ECF GP LP    Limited Partnership  4%  SLCP (General Partner SOF I) Limited    Ordinary shares  100% 
SL Capital ESF I GP LP    Limited Partnership  0%  SLCP (General Partner SOF II) Limited    Ordinary shares  100% 
SL Capital ESF I LP    Limited Partnership  1%  SLCP (General Partner SOF III) Limited    Ordinary shares  100% 
SL Capital European Co-Investment B LP    Limited Partnership  0%  SLCP (General Partner Tidal Reach) Limited    Ordinary shares  100% 
SL Capital European Co-Investment LP    Limited Partnership  0%  SLCP (General Partner USA) Limited    Ordinary shares  100% 
SL Capital Ignis Private Equity Founder LP    Limited Partnership  65%  SLCP (General Partner) Limited    Ordinary shares  100% 
       Standard Life Aberdeen 2020 207
7. Group financial statements continued 
Name of related undertaking    Share class1  % interest held2 
SLCP (Holdings) Limited    Ordinary shares  100% 
SLIF Property Investment LP    Limited Partnership  0% 
SLIPC (General Partner Infrastructure II LTP 2017) Limited    Ordinary shares  100% 
SLIPC (General Partner Infrastructure II) S.a.r.l.28    Ordinary shares  100% 
SLIPC (General Partner PMD Co-Invest 2017) Limited    Ordinary shares  100% 
SLIPC (General Partner SCF 1) Limited     Ordinary shares  100% 
SLIPC PMD Co-Invest 2017 LP    Limited Partnership  0% 
SLTM Limited    Ordinary shares  100% 
SOF I Executive Co Investment Limited Partnership    Limited Partnership  0% 
SOF II Executive Co Investment Limited Partnership    Limited Partnership  0% 
SOF III Executive Co Investment Limited Partnership    Limited Partnership  0% 
SOF IV Carry LP    Limited Partnership  25% 
Squadron Capital Asia Pacific GP, LP10    Limited Partnership  100% 
Squadron Capital Asia Pacific II GP LP10    Limited Partnership  100% 
Squadron Capital Partners Limited10    Ordinary shares  100% 
Standard Aberdeen Asset Management Limited    Ordinary shares  100% 
Standard Aberdeen Group Limited    Ordinary shares  100% 
Standard Aberdeen Investment Management Limited    Ordinary shares  100% 
Standard Aberdeen Investments Limited    Ordinary shares  100% 
Standard Aberdeen Limited    Ordinary shares  100% 
Standard Life Aberdeen Asset Management Limited    Ordinary shares  100% 
Standard Life Aberdeen Group Limited    Ordinary shares  100% 
Standard Life Digital Solutions Limited    Ordinary shares  100% 
Standard Life Investments Brent Cross General Partner Limited    Ordinary shares  100% 
Standard Life investments Brent Cross LP    Limited Partnership  0% 
Standard Life Investments Commercial Real Estate Debt LP3    Limited Partnership  0% 
Standard Life Investments European RE Club (Offshore Feeder) Ltd10    Ordinary shares  100% 
Standard Life Investments European RE Club II (Offshore Feeder) Ltd10    Ordinary shares  100% 
Standard Life Investments European Real Estate Club II LP3    Limited Partnership  0% 
Standard Life Investments European Real Estate Club II LP Feeder Fund10    Limited Partnership  0% 
Standard Life Investments European Real Estate Club III LP3    Limited Partnership  2% 
Standard Life investments European Real Estate Club LP3    Limited Partnership  2% 
Standard Life Investments European Real Estate Club LP Feeder Fund10    Limited Partnership  0% 
Standard Life Investments (France) SAS20    Ordinary shares  100% 
Standard Life Investments (General Partner CRED) Limited3    Ordinary shares  100% 
Standard Life Investments (General Partner ELIREF) S.a.r.l.19    Ordinary shares  100% 
Standard Life Investments (General Partner EPGF) Limited    Ordinary shares  100% 
Standard Life Investments (General Partner European Real Estate Club) Limited3    Ordinary shares  100% 
Standard Life Investments (General Partner European Real Estate Club II) Limited3    Ordinary shares  100% 
Standard Life Investments (General Partner European Real Estate Club III) Limited3    Ordinary shares  100% 
Standard Life Investments (General Partner GARS) Limited    Ordinary shares  100% 
Standard Life Investments (General Partner GFS) Limited    Ordinary shares  100% 
Standard Life Investments (General Partner Global Tactical Asset Allocation) Limited    Ordinary shares  100% 
Standard Life Investments (General Partner MAC) Limited    Ordinary shares  100% 
Standard Life Investments (General Partner PDFI) Limited    Ordinary shares  100% 
Standard Life Investments (General Partner UK Shopping Centre Feeder Fund LP) Limited3    Ordinary shares  100% 
Standard Life Investments Global Absolute Return Strategies Master Fund Limited10     Ordinary shares  100% 
Standard Life Investments Global Absolute Return Strategies Offshore Feeder Fund Limited10    Ordinary shares  100% 
Standard Life Investments Global Absolute Return Strategies Onshore Feeder Fund, L.P.    Limited Partnership  0% 
Standard Life Investments Global Focused Strategies Master Fund Limited10     Ordinary shares  100% 
Standard Life Investments Global Focused Strategies Offshore Feeder Fund Limited10     Ordinary shares  100% 
Standard Life Investments Global SICAV       
Standard Life Investments Global SICAV Dynamic Multi Asset Income Fund68    SICAV  100% 
Standard Life Investments Global SICAV Global Equities Unconstrained Fund68    SICAV  48% 
Standard Life Investments Global SICAV II       
Standard Life Investments Global SICAV II Emerging Market Debt Sustainable &    SICAV  100% 
Responsible Investment Fund68 
Standard Life Investments Global SICAV II Global Equity Impact Fund68    SICAV  20% 
208 Standard Life Aberdeen 2020  
7. Group financial statements continued   
 
Name of related undertaking    Share class1  % interest held2   
SLCP (Holdings) Limited    Ordinary shares  100%  Name of related undertaking    Share class1  % interest held2 
SLIF Property Investment LP    Limited Partnership  0%  Standard Life Investments Global SICAV II MyFolio Multi-Manager I Fund68    SICAV  41% 
SLIPC (General Partner Infrastructure II LTP 2017) Limited    Ordinary shares  100%  Standard Life Investments Global SICAV II MyFolio Multi-Manager II Fund68    SICAV  21% 
SLIPC (General Partner Infrastructure II) S.a.r.l.28    Ordinary shares  100%  Standard Life Investments Global SICAV II MyFolio Multi-Manager III Fund68    SICAV  27% 
SLIPC (General Partner PMD Co-Invest 2017) Limited    Ordinary shares  100%  Standard Life Investments Global SICAV II MyFolio Multi-Manager IV Fund68    SICAV  33% 
SLIPC (General Partner SCF 1) Limited     Ordinary shares  100%  Standard Life Investments Global SICAV II MyFolio Multi-Manager V Fund68    SICAV  35% 
SLIPC PMD Co-Invest 2017 LP    Limited Partnership  0%  Standard Life Investments (Hong Kong) Limited69    Ordinary shares  100% 
SLTM Limited    Ordinary shares  100% 
Standard Life Investments Limited    Ordinary shares  100% 
SOF I Executive Co Investment Limited Partnership    Limited Partnership  0% 
Standard Life Investments (Mutual Funds) Limited    Ordinary shares  100% 
SOF II Executive Co Investment Limited Partnership    Limited Partnership  0%  Standard Life Investments (PDF No. 1) Limited32    Ordinary shares  50% 
SOF III Executive Co Investment Limited Partnership    Limited Partnership  0%  F
Standard Life Investments (Private Capital) Limited    Ordinary shares  100%  IN
SOF IV Carry LP    Limited Partnership  25%  Standard Life Investments (SLIPIT) Limited Partnership3    Limited Partnership  0%  AN
Squadron Capital Asia Pacific GP, LP10    Limited Partnership  100%  Standard Life Investments UK Shopping Centre Feeder Fund Company Limited70    Ordinary shares  100%  CIA
Squadron Capital Asia Pacific II GP LP10    Limited Partnership  100%  Standard Life Investments (USA) Limited    Ordinary shares  100%  L IN
Squadron Capital Partners Limited10    Ordinary shares  100%  FO
Standard Life Portfolio Investments Limited    Ordinary shares  100%  R
Standard Aberdeen Asset Management Limited    Ordinary shares  100%  Standard Life Portfolio Investments US Inc.24    Ordinary shares  100%  MA
T
Standard Aberdeen Group Limited    Ordinary shares  100%  Standard Life Premises Services Limited    Ordinary shares  100%  IO
N
Standard Aberdeen Investment Management Limited    Ordinary shares  100% 
Standard Life Savings Nominees Limited    Ordinary shares  100%   
Standard Aberdeen Investments Limited    Ordinary shares  100%  Tenet Group Limited71    Ordinary B shares  25% 
Standard Aberdeen Limited    Ordinary shares  100%  Tenon Nominees Limited4    Ordinary shares  100% 
Standard Life Aberdeen Asset Management Limited    Ordinary shares  100%  The Coaching Platform Limited5    Ordinary shares  100% 
Standard Life Aberdeen Group Limited    Ordinary shares  100%  The Munro Partnership Ltd.72    Ordinary shares  100% 
Standard Life Digital Solutions Limited    Ordinary shares  100%  Threesixty Partnerships Limited7    Ordinary shares  100% 
Standard Life Investments Brent Cross General Partner Limited    Ordinary shares  100%  Touchstone Insurance Company Limited73    Ordinary shares  100% 
Standard Life investments Brent Cross LP    Limited Partnership  0%  Two Rivers Limited Partnership3    Limited Partnership  0% 
Standard Life Investments Commercial Real Estate Debt LP3    Limited Partnership  0%  Two Rivers One Limited74    Ordinary shares  100% 
Standard Life Investments European RE Club (Offshore Feeder) Ltd10    Ordinary shares  100%  Two Rivers Two Limited74    Ordinary shares  100% 
Standard Life Investments European RE Club II (Offshore Feeder) Ltd10    Ordinary shares  100%  UK PRS Opportunities General Partner Limited3    Ordinary shares  100% 
Standard Life Investments European Real Estate Club II LP3    Limited Partnership  0%  UK PRS Opportunities LP3    Limited Partnership  0% 
Standard Life Investments European Real Estate Club II LP Feeder Fund10    Limited Partnership  0%  Virgin Money Unit Trust Managers Limited75    Ordinary shares  50% 
Standard Life Investments European Real Estate Club III LP3    Limited Partnership  2%  VZWL Private Equity GmbH & Co geschlossene Investment KG46    Limited Partnership  40% 
Standard Life investments European Real Estate Club LP3    Limited Partnership  2%  Waverley Healthcare Private Equity Limited4    Ordinary shares  100% 
Standard Life Investments European Real Estate Club LP Feeder Fund10    Limited Partnership  0%  Wealth Horizon Limited65    Ordinary shares  100% 
Standard Life Investments (France) SAS20    Ordinary shares  100%  Wise Trustee Limited65    Ordinary shares  100% 
Standard Life Investments (General Partner CRED) Limited3    Ordinary shares  100% 
Standard Life Investments (General Partner ELIREF) S.a.r.l.19    Ordinary shares  100%  1  OEIC = Open-ended investment company  
  SICAV = Société d’investissement à capital variable 
Standard Life Investments (General Partner EPGF) Limited    Ordinary shares  100% 
2  Limited partnerships in which the Group has no interest but whose general partner is controlled by the Group are considered related undertakings under Companies Act 2006. 
Standard Life Investments (General Partner European Real Estate Club) Limited3    Ordinary shares  100% 
Where the Group has no interest in a limited partnership that is considered a related undertaking, the interest held is disclosed as 0%. 
Standard Life Investments (General Partner European Real Estate Club II) Limited3    Ordinary shares  100% 
 
Standard Life Investments (General Partner European Real Estate Club III) Limited3    Ordinary shares  100% 
Standard Life Investments (General Partner GARS) Limited    Ordinary shares  100% 
Standard Life Investments (General Partner GFS) Limited    Ordinary shares  100% 
Standard Life Investments (General Partner Global Tactical Asset Allocation) Limited    Ordinary shares  100% 
Standard Life Investments (General Partner MAC) Limited    Ordinary shares  100% 
Standard Life Investments (General Partner PDFI) Limited    Ordinary shares  100% 
Standard Life Investments (General Partner UK Shopping Centre Feeder Fund LP) Limited3    Ordinary shares  100% 
Standard Life Investments Global Absolute Return Strategies Master Fund Limited10     Ordinary shares  100% 
Standard Life Investments Global Absolute Return Strategies Offshore Feeder Fund Limited10    Ordinary shares  100% 
Standard Life Investments Global Absolute Return Strategies Onshore Feeder Fund, L.P.    Limited Partnership  0% 
Standard Life Investments Global Focused Strategies Master Fund Limited10     Ordinary shares  100% 
Standard Life Investments Global Focused Strategies Offshore Feeder Fund Limited10     Ordinary shares  100% 
Standard Life Investments Global SICAV       
Standard Life Investments Global SICAV Dynamic Multi Asset Income Fund68    SICAV  100% 
Standard Life Investments Global SICAV Global Equities Unconstrained Fund68    SICAV  48% 
Standard Life Investments Global SICAV II       
Standard Life Investments Global SICAV II Emerging Market Debt Sustainable &    SICAV  100% 
Responsible Investment Fund68 
Standard Life Investments Global SICAV II Global Equity Impact Fund68    SICAV  20% 
    Standard Life Aberdeen 2020 209
7. Group financial statements continued 
Registered offices  39 16th Floor, Menara Dea Tower 2, Kawasan Mega Kuningan, Jl Mega Kuningan 
3  Bow Bells House, 1 Bread Street, London, EC4M 9HH  Barat Kav. E4.3 No. 1-2, 12950 Jakarta, Indonesia 
4  10 Queen's Terrace, Aberdeen, AB10 1XL  40 21 Church Street, #01-01, Capital Square Two, 049480, Singapore 
5  Cranford House, Kenilworth Road, Blackdown, Leamington Spa, CV32 6RQ   41 1 First Canadian Place, 100 King Street West, Toronto, Ontario, Canada 
6  c/o IQ EQ Fund Services (Mauritius) Ltd, 33 Edith Cavell Street, Port Louis,  42 6th Floor, Alexandra House, 18 Chater Road, Central, Hong Kong 
11324, Mauritius  43 Toranomon Seiwa Building 11F, 1-2-3 Toranomon, Minato-ku, Tokyo, 105-
7  2nd Floor, The Royals, Altrincham Road, Sharston, Manchester, M22 4BJ  0001, Japan 
8  6, rue Gabriel Lippmann L – 5365 Munsbach, Luxembourg, Luxembourg  44 Suite 1005, 10th Floor, Wisma Hamzah-Kwong Hing No.1, Leboh Ampang 
9  2-8 avenue Charles De Gaulle, L-1653 Luxembourg, Luxembourg  50100 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia 
45 Schweizergasse 14, Zurich, 8001, Switzerland 
10 c/o Maples Corporate Services Limited, Ugland House, PO Box 309, George 
Town, KY1-1104, Cayman Islands  46 Bockenheimer Landstrasse 25, 60325 Frankfurt am Main, Germany 
11 Tuborg Havnevej 15, 2nd Floor, DK-2900 Hellerup, Denmark  47 AC 82 NO. 10 60 P 5 Bogota DC, Columbia 
12 Kaivokatu 6, Helsinki, 00100, Finland  48 712 5th Ave, New York, NY 10019, USA 
13 c/o Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington, DE,  49 Henrik Ibsens gate 100, PO Box 2882 Solli, 0230 Oslo, Norway 
19808, USA  50 24 Merrion Row, Dublin 2, Republic of Ireland 
14 Office Unit 8, 6th Floor, Al Khatem Tower, Abu Dhabi Global Market Square, Al  51 13th Fl., B Tower (Seocho-dong, Kyobo Tower Building), 465, Gangnam-daero, 
Marya Island, PO Box 764605, Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates  Seocho-gu, Seoul, Korea 
15 c/o The Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange  52 Sveavägen 24, 111 57 Stockholm, Sweden 
Street, DE 19801 Wilmington, USA 
53 80 Robinson Road, #02-00, 068898, Singapore 
16 c/o Corporation Service Company, 2711 Centerville Road, Suite 400, 
Wilmington, DE 19808, USA  54 7 Melville Crescent, Edinburgh, EH3 7JA 
17 Av Brigadeiro Faria Lima, 3729, SALA, 506, Brasil  55 11th Floor, Two Snowhill, Birmingham, B4 6WR 
18 1 More London Place, London, SE1 2AF  56 c/o Paget-Brown Trust Company Ltd, Boundary Hall, Cricket Square, P.O. Box 
1111, Grand Cayman, KY1-1102, Cayman Islands 
19 35a Avenue John F. Kennedy, L-1855 Luxembourg, Luxembourg 
57 HDFC House, 2nd floor, H.T. Parekh Marg, 165-166, Backbay Reclamation, 
20 29 Rue De Berri, Paris, 75008, France  Churchgate, Mumbai – 400 020, India 
21 40 Upper Mount Street, Dublin 2, Republic of Ireland  58 Edinburgh One, Morrison Street, Edinburgh, EH3 8BE 
22 First Floor Dorey Court, Admiral Park, St Peter Port, Guernsey, GY1 6HJ  59 18F, Tower II, The Exchange, 189 Nanjing Road, Heping District, Tianjin, 
23 Western Suite, Ground Floor Mill Court, La Charroterie, St Peter Port,  People’s Republic of China, 300051 
Guernsey, GY1 1EJ  60 1 Rodney Square 10th Fl, 10 & King St, Wilmington, DE 19801, USA 
24 1900 Market St, Suite 200, Philadelphia, PA 19103, USA  61 Clayton Wood Close, West Park Ring Road, Leeds, LS16 6QE 
25 1 Seaton Place, St Helier, Jersey, JE4 8YJ  62 7 Lochside View, Edinburgh, EH12 9DH 
26 Box 3039, Stockholm, 103 63, Sweden  63 Campbells Corporate Services Limited, 4th Floor, Willow House, Cricket 
27 Ahtri 6a, Tallinn, 10151, Estonia  Square, KY1-9010, Cayman Islands 
28 2 Boulevard de la Foire, L-1528 Luxembourg, Luxembourg  64 28th and 30th Floor, LHT Tower, 31 Queen's Road Central, Hong Kong 
29 Pamu Mnt 15, Talinn, 10141, Estonia  65 Aurora (3rd Floor) Finzels Reach, Counterslip, Bristol, BS1 6BX 
30 WTC, H-Tower, 20th Floor, Zuidplein 166, 1077 XV Amsterdam, Netherlands  66 Juxon House, 100 St Paul's Churchyard, London, EC4M 8BU 
31 Mikonkatu 9 Fin 00100, Helsinki, Finland  67 80, Route d'Esch, L-1470 Luxembourg, Luxembourg 
32 44 Esplanade, St Helier, Jersey, JE4 9WG  68 2-4, Rue Eugène Ruppert, L-2453 Luxembourg, Luxembourg 
33 West Area, 2F, No.707 Zhangyang Road, China (Shanghai) Pilot Free Trade  69 30th Floor, Jardine House, One Connaught Place, Hong Kong 
Zone  70 Ogier House, The Esplanade, St Helier, JE4 9WG, Jersey 
34 Bangkok City Tower, 28th Floor, 179 South Sathorn Road, Thungmahamek,  71 5 Lister Hill, Horsforth, Leeds, LS18 5AZ 
Sathorn, Bangkok, 10120, Thailand 
72 Citadel House, 6 Citadel Place, Ayr, KA7 1JN 
35 IFC 1 The Esplanade, St Helier , JE1 4BP, Jersey 
73 c/o Aon, PO Box 33, Maison Trinity, Trinity Square, St Peter Port, Guernsey 
36 First Floor, Sir Walter Raleigh House, 48-50 Esplanade, St Helier, Jersey, JE2 
GY1 4AT 
3QB 
74 Lime Grove House, Green Street, St Helier, Jersey, JE1 2ST 
37 Level 10, 255 George Street, Sydney, NSW 2000, Australia 
75 Jubilee House, Gosforth, Newcastle-Upon-Tyne, NE3 4PL 
38 8F-1, No. 101, Songren Road, Taipei City, 110, Taiwan, Republic of China 
 
210 Standard Life Aberdeen 2020  
7. Group financial statements continued  8. Company financial statements 
 
Registered offices  39 16th Floor, Menara Dea Tower 2, Kawasan Mega Kuningan, Jl Mega Kuningan 
3  Bow Bells House, 1 Bread Street, London, EC4M 9HH  Barat Kav. E4.3 No. 1-2, 12950 Jakarta, Indonesia  Company statement of financial position 
4  10 Queen's Terrace, Aberdeen, AB10 1XL  40 21 Church Street, #01-01, Capital Square Two, 049480, Singapore 
As at 31 December 2020 
5  Cranford House, Kenilworth Road, Blackdown, Leamington Spa, CV32 6RQ   41 1 First Canadian Place, 100 King Street West, Toronto, Ontario, Canada 
6  c/o IQ EQ Fund Services (Mauritius) Ltd, 33 Edith Cavell Street, Port Louis,  42 6th Floor, Alexandra House, 18 Chater Road, Central, Hong Kong      2020  2019 
11324, Mauritius  43 Toranomon Seiwa Building 11F, 1-2-3 Toranomon, Minato-ku, Tokyo, 105-   Notes  £m  £m 
7  2nd Floor, The Royals, Altrincham Road, Sharston, Manchester, M22 4BJ  0001, Japan  Assets       
8  6, rue Gabriel Lippmann L – 5365 Munsbach, Luxembourg, Luxembourg  44 Suite 1005, 10th Floor, Wisma Hamzah-Kwong Hing No.1, Leboh Ampang  Investments in subsidiaries  A  4,013  6,027 
9  2-8 avenue Charles De Gaulle, L-1653 Luxembourg, Luxembourg  50100 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia 
45 Schweizergasse 14, Zurich, 8001, Switzerland  Investments in associates and joint ventures  B  1,216  1,229 
10 c/o Maples Corporate Services Limited, Ugland House, PO Box 309, George 
Town, KY1-1104, Cayman Islands  46 Bockenheimer Landstrasse 25, 60325 Frankfurt am Main, Germany  Deferred tax assets  M  77  35 
11 Tuborg Havnevej 15, 2nd Floor, DK-2900 Hellerup, Denmark  47 AC 82 NO. 10 60 P 5 Bogota DC, Columbia  Loans to subsidiaries  C  109  – 
12 Kaivokatu 6, Helsinki, 00100, Finland  48 712 5th Ave, New York, NY 10019, USA  Derivative financial assets  C  1  3  F
IN
13 c/o Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington, DE,  49 Henrik Ibsens gate 100, PO Box 2882 Solli, 0230 Oslo, Norway  Equity securities and interests in pooled investment funds  C  249  218  AN
14 1OM9faf8irc0yea8 , U IUsnlaSitn A8d , , 6PthO F Bloooxr ,7 A6l4 K60h5a,t eAmb uT Dowhearb,i ,A Ubnui tDedh aAbria Gb loEbmailr aMteasrk et Square, Al  5501  21S43e tohMc Fehrlo.r,i- ogBnu T ,R Soowewoe,ur  Dl(,S uKeboolirnce ha2o , -Rdoenpgu,b Klicy oobf oIr eTlaonwde r Building), 465, Gangnam-daero,  DReebcet isveacbuleristi easn d other financial assets  CC   32560   60153   CIAL INF
15 cS/tore Teht,e D CEo 1rp9o8r0a1ti oWn iTlmruinsgt tCono,m UpSaAny , Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange  52 Sveavägen 24, 111 57 Stockholm, Sweden  Other assets  F  –  14  ORM
16 c/o Corporation Service Company, 2711 Centerville Road, Suite 400,  53 80 Robinson Road, #02-00, 068898, Singapore  Cash and cash equivalents  C  47  19  ATIO
Wilmington, DE 19808, USA  54 7 Melville Crescent, Edinburgh, EH3 7JA  Total assets    6,088  8,163  N
17 Av Brigadeiro Faria Lima, 3729, SALA, 506, Brasil  55 11th Floor, Two Snowhill, Birmingham, B4 6WR 
 
18 1 More London Place, London, SE1 2AF  56 c/o Paget-Brown Trust Company Ltd, Boundary Hall, Cricket Square, P.O. Box         
19 35a Avenue John F. Kennedy, L-1855 Luxembourg, Luxembourg  1111, Grand Cayman, KY1-1102, Cayman Islands  Equity       
57 HDFC House, 2nd floor, H.T. Parekh Marg, 165-166, Backbay Reclamation, 
20 29 Rue De Berri, Paris, 75008, France  Churchgate, Mumbai – 400 020, India  Share capital  G  306  327 
21 40 Upper Mount Street, Dublin 2, Republic of Ireland  58 Edinburgh One, Morrison Street, Edinburgh, EH3 8BE  Shares held by trusts  H  (161)  (119) 
22 First Floor Dorey Court, Admiral Park, St Peter Port, Guernsey, GY1 6HJ  59 18F, Tower II, The Exchange, 189 Nanjing Road, Heping District, Tianjin,  Share premium reserve  G  640  640 
23 Western Suite, Ground Floor Mill Court, La Charroterie, St Peter Port,  People’s Republic of China, 300051  Retained earnings  I     
Guernsey, GY1 1EJ  60 1 Rodney Square 10th Fl, 10 & King St, Wilmington, DE 19801, USA 
24 1900 Market St, Suite 200, Philadelphia, PA 19103, USA  61 Clayton Wood Close, West Park Ring Road, Leeds, LS16 6QE  Brought forward retained earnings    2,933  2,035 
25 1 Seaton Place, St Helier, Jersey, JE4 8YJ  62 7 Lochside View, Edinburgh, EH12 9DH  (Loss)/profit for the year attributable to equity shareholders of Standard Life 
26 Box 3039, Stockholm, 103 63, Sweden  63 Campbells Corporate Services Limited, 4th Floor, Willow House, Cricket  Aberdeen plc    (1,266)  1,020 
27 Ahtri 6a, Tallinn, 10151, Estonia  Square, KY1-9010, Cayman Islands  Other movements in retained earnings    964  (122) 
28 2 Boulevard de la Foire, L-1528 Luxembourg, Luxembourg  64 28th and 30th Floor, LHT Tower, 31 Queen's Road Central, Hong Kong  Total retained earnings    2,631  2,933 
29 Pamu Mnt 15, Talinn, 10141, Estonia  65 Aurora (3rd Floor) Finzels Reach, Counterslip, Bristol, BS1 6BX  Other reserves  J  1,842  3,621 
30 WTC, H-Tower, 20th Floor, Zuidplein 166, 1077 XV Amsterdam, Netherlands  66 Juxon House, 100 St Paul's Churchyard, London, EC4M 8BU 
Total equity    5,258  7,402 
31 Mikonkatu 9 Fin 00100, Helsinki, Finland  67 80, Route d'Esch, L-1470 Luxembourg, Luxembourg 
 
32 44 Esplanade, St Helier, Jersey, JE4 9WG  68 2-4, Rue Eugène Ruppert, L-2453 Luxembourg, Luxembourg       
33 West Area, 2F, No.707 Zhangyang Road, China (Shanghai) Pilot Free Trade  69 30th Floor, Jardine House, One Connaught Place, Hong Kong  Liabilities       
Zone  70 Ogier House, The Esplanade, St Helier, JE4 9WG, Jersey  Subordinated liabilities  K  638  655 
34 BSaanthgokronk,  BCaitnyg Tkoowk,e 1r,0 2182t0h,  FTlhoaoirla, 1n7d9  South Sathorn Road, Thungmahamek,  71 5 Lister Hill, Horsforth, Leeds, LS18 5AZ  Derivative financial liabilities  D  6  – 
72 Citadel House, 6 Citadel Place, Ayr, KA7 1JN 
35 IFC 1 The Esplanade, St Helier , JE1 4BP, Jersey  Other financial liabilities  K  110  25 
73 c/o Aon, PO Box 33, Maison Trinity, Trinity Square, St Peter Port, Guernsey 
36 First Floor, Sir Walter Raleigh House, 48-50 Esplanade, St Helier, Jersey, JE2  GY1 4AT  Provisions  O  68  77 
3QB 
74 Lime Grove House, Green Street, St Helier, Jersey, JE1 2ST  Other liabilities  O  8  4 
37 Level 10, 255 George Street, Sydney, NSW 2000, Australia 
38 8F-1, No. 101, Songren Road, Taipei City, 110, Taiwan, Republic of China  75 Jubilee House, Gosforth, Newcastle-Upon-Tyne, NE3 4PL  Total liabilities    830  761 
  Total equity and liabilities    6,088  8,163 
The financial statements on pages 211 to 221 were approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by the following Directors: 
   
         
Sir Douglas Flint          Stephanie Bruce 
Chairman          Chief Financial Officer 
9 March 2021          9 March 2021 
 
The Notes on pages 214 to 221 are an integral part of these financial statements. 
 
   
    Standard Life Aberdeen 2020 211
8. Company financial statements continued 
Company statement of changes in equity 
For the year ended 31 December 2020 
Share 
Shares held  premium  Retained 
    Share capital  by trusts  reserve  earnings Other reserves   Total equity 
2020  Notes  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m 
1 January    327  (119)  640  2,933  3,621  7,402 
Loss for the year     –  –  –  (1,266)  –  (1,266) 
Other comprehensive 
income for the year     –  –  –  –  8  8 
Total comprehensive 
income for the year    –  –  –  (1,266)  8  (1,258) 
Dividends paid on 
ordinary shares    –  –  –  (479)  –  (479) 
Share buyback  G  (21)  –  –  (402)  21  (402) 
Reserves credit for 
employee share-based 
payment   J  –  –  –  –  64  64 
Transfer to retained 
earnings for vested 
employee share-based 
payment   J  –  –  –  38  (38)  – 
Transfer between 
reserves on impairment 
of investment in 
subsidiaries  J  –  –  –  1,834  (1,834)  – 
Shares acquired by 
employee trusts    –  (66)  –  –  –  (66) 
Shares distributed by 
employee and other 
trusts and related 
dividend equivalents    –  24  –  (27)  –  (3) 
31 December     306  (161)  640  2,631  1,842  5,258 
 
The Notes on pages 214 to 221 are an integral part of these financial statements. 
 
   
212 Standard Life Aberdeen 2020  
8. Company financial statements continued   
 
Company statement of changes in equity  Share 
Shares held  premium  Retained 
For the year ended 31 December 2020 
    Share capital  by trusts  reserve  earnings Other reserves   Total equity 
Share 
2019  Notes  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m 
Shares held  premium  Retained 
    Share capital  by trusts  reserve  earnings Other reserves   Total equity  1 January    353  (88)  640  2,035  4,505  7,445 
2020  Notes  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  Profit for the year     –  –  –  1,020  –  1,020 
1 January    327  (119)  640  2,933  3,621  7,402  Other comprehensive 
Loss for the year     –  –  –  (1,266)  –  (1,266)  income for the year     –  –  –  –  10  10 
Other comprehensive  Total comprehensive 
income for the year     –  –  –  –  8  8  income for the year    –  –  –  1,020  10  1,030 
Total comprehensive  Dividends paid on  FIN
income for the year    –  –  –  (1,266)  8  (1,258)  ordinary shares    –  –  –  (518)  –  (518)  AN
C
Dividends paid on  Share buyback  G  (26)  –  –  (390)  (100)  (516)  IA
L
ordinary shares    –  –  –  (479)  –  (479)  Reserves credit for   IN
F
Share buyback  G  (21)  –  –  (402)  21  (402)  employee share-based  OR
payment   J  –  –  –  –  43  43  M
Reserves credit for  A
T
employee share-based  Transfer to retained  IO
payment   J  –  –  –  –  64  64  earnings for vested  N
 
employee share-based 
Transfer to retained 
payment   J  –  –  –  57  (57)  – 
earnings for vested 
employee share-based  Transfer between 
payment   J  –  –  –  38  (38)  –  reserves on impairment 
of investment in 
Transfer between 
subsidiaries  J  –  –  –  780  (780)  – 
reserves on impairment 
of investment in  Shares acquired by 
subsidiaries  J  –  –  –  1,834  (1,834)  –  employee trusts    –  (76)  –  –  –  (76) 
Shares acquired by  Shares distributed by 
employee trusts    –  (66)  –  –  –  (66)  employee and other 
trusts and related 
Shares distributed by 
dividend equivalents    –  45  –  (52)  –  (7) 
employee and other 
trusts and related  Transfer from the 
dividend equivalents    –  24  –  (27)  –  (3)  Standard Life Unclaimed 
Asset Trust    –  –  –  1  –  1 
31 December     306  (161)  640  2,631  1,842  5,258 
  31 December     327  (119)  640  2,933  3,621  7,402 
 
The Notes on pages 214 to 221 are an integral part of these financial statements. 
 
The Notes on pages 214 to 221 are an integral part of these financial statements. 
     
   
  Standard Life Aberdeen 2020 213
8. Company financial statements continued 
Company accounting policies 
(a)  Basis of preparation 
These separate financial statements are presented as required by the Companies Act 2006. The Company meets the definition of a 
qualifying entity under Application of Financial Reporting Requirements 100 as issued by the Financial Reporting Council. Accordingly, 
the financial statements for period ended 31 December 2020 have been prepared in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 101 
Reduced Disclosure Framework (FRS 101) as issued by the Financial Reporting Council. 
The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis and under the historical cost convention, as modified by the 
revaluation of financial assets and financial liabilities (including derivative instruments) at fair value through profit or loss (FVTPL). 
As permitted by FRS 101, the Company has taken advantage of the following disclosure exemptions available under that standard: 
• A cash flow statement and related notes 
• Capital management 
• Effect of IFRSs issued but not effective 
• Related party transactions with wholly owned subsidiaries 
As equivalent disclosures are given in the consolidated financial statements, we have also applied the disclosure exemptions for share 
based payments and financial instruments.  
The principal accounting policies adopted are the same as those given in the consolidated financial statements, together with the 
Company specific policies set out below. These accounting policies have been consistently applied to all financial reporting periods 
presented in these financial statements.  
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption in section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 not to present its own income 
statement in these financial statements. The auditors’ remuneration for audit and other services is disclosed in Note 8 to the 
consolidated financial statements. The Company has no employees. 
(a)   Investment in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures 
The Company has certain subsidiaries which are investment vehicles such as open-ended investment companies, unit trusts and limited 
partnerships whose primary function is to generate capital or income growth through holding investments. This category of subsidiary is 
held at FVTPL since they are managed on a fair value basis. 
Investments in subsidiaries (other than those measured at FVTPL), associates (other than those measured at FVTPL) and joint ventures 
are initially recognised at cost and subsequently held at cost less any impairment charge. An impairment charge is recognised when the 
carrying amount of the investment exceeds its recoverable amount. Any gain or loss on disposal of a subsidiary, associate or joint 
venture is recognised in profit for the year.  
Distributions received of non-cash assets, including investments in subsidiaries, are recognised at fair value in the balance sheet and as 
dividends in specie in the income statement. 
(b)  Critical accounting estimates and judgements in applying accounting policies 
The preparation of financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions and exercise judgements in applying 
the accounting policies that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported 
amounts of revenues and expenses arising during the year. Estimates and judgements are continually evaluated and based on historical 
experience and other factors, including expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.  
The areas where judgements have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements are as follows: 
Critical judgements in applying accounting 
Financial statement area  policies  Related notes 
Investments in subsidiaries  Determining the cash-generating unit to be used  Note A  
in relation to the recoverable amount of 
investments in subsidiaries 
The areas where assumptions and other sources of estimation uncertainty at the end of the reporting period have a significant risk of 
resulting in a material adjustment to the carrying amount of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are as follows: 
Financial statement area  Critical accounting estimates and assumptions  Related notes 
Investments in subsidiaries, associates   Determination of the recoverable amount  Note A and B 
and joint ventures held at cost 
   
214 Standard Life Aberdeen 2020
8. Company financial statements continued   
 
Company accounting policies  Notes to the Company financial statements 
(a)  Basis of preparation  A.  Investments in subsidiaries   
These separate financial statements are presented as required by the Companies Act 2006. The Company meets the definition of a      2020  2019 
qualifying entity under Application of Financial Reporting Requirements 100 as issued by the Financial Reporting Council. Accordingly, 
  Notes  £m  £m 
the financial statements for period ended 31 December 2020 have been prepared in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 101 
Reduced Disclosure Framework (FRS 101) as issued by the Financial Reporting Council.  Investments in subsidiaries measured at cost    3,568  5,465 
Investments in subsidiaries measured at FVTPL  C  445  562 
The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis and under the historical cost convention, as modified by the 
revaluation of financial assets and financial liabilities (including derivative instruments) at fair value through profit or loss (FVTPL).  Investments in subsidiaries    4,013  6,027 
 
As permitted by FRS 101, the Company has taken advantage of the following disclosure exemptions available under that standard: 
• A cash flow statement and related notes      2020  2019 
• Capital management      £m  £m  FINA
• Effect of IFRSs issued but not effective  At 1 January    6,027  6,467  NC
IA
• Related party transactions with wholly owned subsidiaries  Investment into existing subsidiaries measured at cost    26  150  L IN
As equivalent disclosures are given in the consolidated financial statements, we have also applied the disclosure exemptions for share  Acquisition of subsidiaries at cost    –  –  FOR
based payments and financial instruments.   Disposal of subsidiaries measured at cost    (50)  (139)  MA
The principal accounting policies adopted are the same as those given in the consolidated financial statements, together with the  Impairment of subsidiaries measured at cost    (1,873)  (795)  TION
Company specific policies set out below. These accounting policies have been consistently applied to all financial reporting periods  Acquisition of subsidiaries at FVTPL    8  344   
presented in these financial statements.   Disposal of subsidiaries at FVTPL    (126)  – 
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption in section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 not to present its own income  Gains on subsidiaries at FVTPL    1  – 
statement in these financial statements. The auditors’ remuneration for audit and other services is disclosed in Note 8 to the  At 31 December    4,013  6,027 
consolidated financial statements. The Company has no employees. 
(a)   Investment in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures  Details of the Company’s subsidiaries are given in Note 48 of the Group financial statements. 
The Company has certain subsidiaries which are investment vehicles such as open-ended investment companies, unit trusts and limited  (a)  Acquisitions 
partnerships whose primary function is to generate capital or income growth through holding investments. This category of subsidiary is 
During 2020, the Company made the following acquisitions of subsidiaries measured at cost: 
held at FVTPL since they are managed on a fair value basis. 
• The Company increased its investment in 1825 Financial Planning Ltd (1825) through the purchase of 17,000,000 ordinary shares for 
Investments in subsidiaries (other than those measured at FVTPL), associates (other than those measured at FVTPL) and joint ventures 
a cash consideration of £17m 
are initially recognised at cost and subsequently held at cost less any impairment charge. An impairment charge is recognised when the 
• The company increased its investment in Aberdeen Asset Management PLC (AAM PLC) through the purchase of 1,171,875 ordinary 
carrying amount of the investment exceeds its recoverable amount. Any gain or loss on disposal of a subsidiary, associate or joint 
shares for a cash consideration of £3.8m and through the purchase of 500,000 ordinary shares for a cash consideration of £1.6m 
venture is recognised in profit for the year.  
• The company increased its investment in Standard Life Employee Services Limited (SLESL) through the purchase of 3,584 ordinary 
Distributions received of non-cash assets, including investments in subsidiaries, are recognised at fair value in the balance sheet and as 
shares for a cash consideration of £3.6m 
dividends in specie in the income statement. 
During 2019, the Company made the following acquisitions of subsidiaries measured at cost: 
(b)  Critical accounting estimates and judgements in applying accounting policies 
• The Company increased its investment in AAM PLC through the purchase of 100,000,000 ordinary shares for a non-cash 
The preparation of financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions and exercise judgements in applying 
consideration of £10m and through the purchase of 22,010,558 ordinary shares for a cash consideration of £70.4m 
the accounting policies that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported 
amounts of revenues and expenses arising during the year. Estimates and judgements are continually evaluated and based on historical  • The Company increased its investment in 1825 through the purchase of 63,600,000 ordinary shares for a cash consideration of 
experience and other factors, including expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.   £63.6m 
The areas where judgements have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements are as follows:  • The Company increased its investment in Focus Solutions Group Limited through the purchase of 30,000,000 ordinary shares for a 
cash consideration of £3m 
Critical judgements in applying accounting 
• The Company increased its investment in SLESL through the purchase of 3,389 ordinary shares for a cash consideration of £3.4m 
Financial statement area  policies  Related notes 
Investments in subsidiaries  Determining the cash-generating unit to be used  Note A   See Section (d) below for details on investments in subsidiaries at FVTPL.  
in relation to the recoverable amount of 
(b)  Disposals 
investments in subsidiaries 
During 2020, the Company made the following disposals of subsidiaries measured at cost: 
The areas where assumptions and other sources of estimation uncertainty at the end of the reporting period have a significant risk of  • The Company redeemed £44.4m of equity capital in Standard Life (Mauritius Holdings) 2006 Limited through the cancellation of 
resulting in a material adjustment to the carrying amount of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are as follows:  553,336.19 Participating shares 
Financial statement area  Critical accounting estimates and assumptions  Related notes  • The Company received £5.2m by way of distribution of the unallocated divisible surplus from the Standard Life Assurance Company 
2006 (SLAC 06) following its deauthorisation. The Company was the sole member of SLAC 06 and this amount was previously held 
Investments in subsidiaries, associates   Determination of the recoverable amount  Note A and B 
as a subsidiary measured at cost. 
and joint ventures held at cost 
During 2019, the Company made the following disposals of subsidiaries measured at cost: 
   
• The Company redeemed £139m of equity capital in Standard Life (Mauritius Holdings) 2006 Limited through the cancellation of 
1,779,047.32 Participating shares 
 
 
  Standard Life Aberdeen 2020 215
8. Company financial statements continued 
(c)  Impairment 
The Company holds investments in AAM PLC and Standard Life Investments (Holdings) Limited (SLIH). As AAM PLC and SLIH are 
managed and reported together within the Asset management, Platforms and Wealth segment, and the synergies from the merger of 
these entities are expected to benefit both entities, we judge that it is appropriate to consider the recoverable amount of these entities on 
a combined basis. The Company impaired its investments in AAM PLC and SLIH by £1,834m in 2020 (2019: £780m). Following the 
impairment, £1,834m (2019: £780m) was transferred from the merger reserve to retained earnings (refer Note J). 
The impairment of £1,834m was recognised at 30 June 2020, at the same time as a further impairment of the asset management 
goodwill was recognised in the Group financial statements. Refer Note 15 of the Group financial statements. The recoverable amount at 
30 June 2020 was £3,074m which is based on fair value less cost of disposal (FVLCD). The FVLCD includes the fair value of HDFC 
Asset Management which is an associate of SLIH. The approach and key assumptions in determining the FVLCD are the same as used 
in the impairment review for asset management goodwill set out in Note 15 of the Group financial statements. Following the impairment 
loss recognised at 30 June 2020, the recoverable amount was equal to the carrying amount. At 31 December 2020, there is no 
indication that the Company’s investments in AAM PLC and SLIH have become further impaired. The recoverable amount is impacted 
by changes in the fair value of HDFC AMC, which was £1,321m at 31 December 2020 (£1,204m at 30 June 2020), and the key 
assumptions used in determining the FVLCD of the asset management group of cash generating units at 30 June 2020 which are 
detailed in Note 15 of the Group financial statements. As for the valuation of the asset management goodwill set out in Note 15 of the 
Group financial statements, the primary valuation approach was within a range of reasonable outcomes and reflected market conditions 
and uncertainties at 30 June 2020, including significant uncertainties relating to the impact of COVID-19 at that point.  An impairment of 
an investment in subsidiaries can be reversed due to changes in circumstances; however, no indicators of reversal were identified 
during the course of the second half of the year. 
The recoverable amount at 31 December 2019 of £4,808m was based on value in use, which was assessed by management as being 
higher than the FVLCD at this date. As set out in Note 15 of the Group financial statements, management has now assessed that the 
FVLCD is higher. 
The Company’s investment in its subsidiary 1825 Financial Planning Limited (1825 FPL) was impaired during 2020 by £39m (2019: 
£nil). The recoverable amount which is its FVLCD at 31 December 2020 was £115m. The FVLCD considered a number of valuation 
approaches, with the primary approach being a multiples approach based on price to revenue and price to assets under advice 
(AUAdv). Multiples were based on recent acquisitions, adjusted to take into account profitability where appropriate, and were 
benchmarked against other recent external transactions. Revenue and AUAdv were based on December 2020 actuals. The expected 
cost of disposal was based on past experience of previous transactions. This is a level 3 measurement as it is measured using inputs 
which are not based on observable market data. The impairment resulted from losses incurred by the business during the year and the 
impact of the level of profitability on valuation expectations for certain parts of the business. As the year end carrying value is the 
recoverable amount any downside sensitivity will lead to a further future impairment loss. A 10% reduction in recurring revenue and 
AUAdv would result in a further impairment of £13m. 
The Company’s investment in its subsidiary Focus Solutions Group Limited (Focus) was impaired during 2019 by £15m. The carrying 
amount of the Company’s investment in Focus is £nil (2019: £nil). 
(d)  Investments in subsidiaries at FVTPL 
Investments in subsidiaries at FVTPL, valued at £445m (2019: £562m), relate to holdings in funds over which the Company has control.  
B.  Investments in associates and joint ventures 
    2020  2019 
    £m  £m 
Investment in associates measured at cost     1,020  1,033 
Investment in joint venture measured at cost    196  196 
Investments in associates and joint ventures    1,216  1,229 
(a)  Investment in associates 
The Company’s investments in associates are measured at cost less impairment.  
The Company has an interest of 14.4% (2019: 19.97%) in Phoenix Group Holdings plc (Phoenix), a company incorporated in England 
and Wales. On 22 July 2020, Phoenix announced the completion of its acquisition of ReAssure Group plc. Under the terms of the 
transaction, Phoenix issued 277,277,138 new ordinary shares as part consideration for the acquisition. Completion of the transaction 
resulted in the Company’s holding in Phoenix becoming 14.4% of the enlarged Phoenix Group.  
For Phoenix, we consider that the market value of Phoenix represents the best estimate of the present value of future dividends and 
therefore this market value is used as the VIU for determining any impairment or reversal of impairment of the Company’s investment in 
Phoenix. As the VIU is based on the market value, a discount rate is not determined. At 31 December 2020 the market value of the 
Company’s interest in Phoenix was £1,010m (31 December 2019: £1,079m) and a £13m impairment has been recognised in 2020 
(2019: reversal of impairment £211m). Further details of this associate are provided in Note 16 of the Group financial statements. 
The Company has an interest of 25.3% (2019: 25.3%) in Tenet Group Limited, a company incorporated in England and Wales.  
(b)  Investment in joint venture 
The Company has a 50% (2019: 50%) interest in Heng An Standard Life Insurance Company Limited (HASL), a company incorporated 
in China. Further details on this joint venture are provided in Note 16 of the Group financial statements.    
216 Standard Life Aberdeen 2020  
8. Company financial statements continued   
 
(c)  Impairment  C.  Financial investments 
The Company holds investments in AAM PLC and Standard Life Investments (Holdings) Limited (SLIH). As AAM PLC and SLIH are  Derivative financial 
managed and reported together within the Asset management, Platforms and Wealth segment, and the synergies from the merger of   Fair value through   instruments used 
   
these entities are expected to benefit both entities, we judge that it is appropriate to consider the recoverable amount of these entities on  profit or loss  for hedging   Amortised cost  Total 
a combined basis. The Company impaired its investments in AAM PLC and SLIH by £1,834m in 2020 (2019: £780m). Following the      2020  2019  2020  2019  2020  2019  2020  2019 
impairment, £1,834m (2019: £780m) was transferred from the merger reserve to retained earnings (refer Note J).    Notes  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m 
The impairment of £1,834m was recognised at 30 June 2020, at the same time as a further impairment of the asset management  Investments in subsidiaries 
goodwill was recognised in the Group financial statements. Refer Note 15 of the Group financial statements. The recoverable amount at  measured at FVTPL  A  445  562  –  –  –  –  445  562 
30 June 2020 was £3,074m which is based on fair value less cost of disposal (FVLCD). The FVLCD includes the fair value of HDFC 
Loan to subsidiaries    –  –  –  –  109  –  109   – 
Asset Management which is an associate of SLIH. The approach and key assumptions in determining the FVLCD are the same as used 
Derivative financial assets  D  –  –  1  3  –  –  1   3 
in the impairment review for asset management goodwill set out in Note 15 of the Group financial statements. Following the impairment 
loss recognised at 30 June 2020, the recoverable amount was equal to the carrying amount. At 31 December 2020, there is no  Equity securities and interests in  FIN
indication that the Company’s investments in AAM PLC and SLIH have become further impaired. The recoverable amount is impacted  pooled investment funds    249  218  –  –  –  –  249   218  AN
C
by changes in the fair value of HDFC AMC, which was £1,321m at 31 December 2020 (£1,204m at 30 June 2020), and the key  Debt securities    –  –  –  –  326  603  326   603  IA
assumptions used in determining the FVLCD of the asset management group of cash generating units at 30 June 2020 which are  Receivables and other financial  L IN
detailed in Note 15 of the Group financial statements. As for the valuation of the asset management goodwill set out in Note 15 of the  F
Group financial statements, the primary valuation approach was within a range of reasonable outcomes and reflected market conditions  assets  E  28  1  –  –  22  14  50   15  ORM
and uncertainties at 30 June 2020, including significant uncertainties relating to the impact of COVID-19 at that point.  An impairment of  Cash and cash equivalents    –  –  –  –  47  19  47   19  AT
an investment in subsidiaries can be reversed due to changes in circumstances; however, no indicators of reversal were identified  Total    722  781  1  3  504  636  1,227   1,420  ION
during the course of the second half of the year.   
The amount of debt securities expected to be recovered or settled after more than 12 months is £231m (2019: £266m). The amount of 
The recoverable amount at 31 December 2019 of £4,808m was based on value in use, which was assessed by management as being 
loans to subsidiaries expected to be recovered or settled after more than 12 months is £100m (2019: £nil). 
higher than the FVLCD at this date. As set out in Note 15 of the Group financial statements, management has now assessed that the 
FVLCD is higher.  Under IFRS 9 the Company calculates expected credit losses (ECL) on financial assets which are measured at amortised cost (refer to 
Note 38 (c) of the Group financial statements), including loans to subsidiaries (which are unrated). At 31 December 2020 the Company 
The Company’s investment in its subsidiary 1825 Financial Planning Limited (1825 FPL) was impaired during 2020 by £39m (2019: 
does not hold financial assets at amortised cost that it regards as credit-impaired or for which it considers the probability of default would 
£nil). The recoverable amount which is its FVLCD at 31 December 2020 was £115m. The FVLCD considered a number of valuation 
result in material expected credit losses (2019: £nil). In making this assessment the Company has considered if any evidence is 
approaches, with the primary approach being a multiples approach based on price to revenue and price to assets under advice 
available to indicate the occurrence of an event which would result in a detrimental impact on the estimated future cash flows of these 
(AUAdv). Multiples were based on recent acquisitions, adjusted to take into account profitability where appropriate, and were 
assets. 
benchmarked against other recent external transactions. Revenue and AUAdv were based on December 2020 actuals. The expected 
cost of disposal was based on past experience of previous transactions. This is a level 3 measurement as it is measured using inputs  D.  Derivative financial instruments 
which are not based on observable market data. The impairment resulted from losses incurred by the business during the year and the  The Company uses derivative financial instruments in order to reduce the risk from potential movements in foreign exchange rates.  
impact of the level of profitability on valuation expectations for certain parts of the business. As the year end carrying value is the 
recoverable amount any downside sensitivity will lead to a further future impairment loss. A 10% reduction in recurring revenue and    2020  2019 
AUAdv would result in a further impairment of £13m.  Contract   Fair value   Fair value  Contract   Fair value   Fair value 
  amount  assets  liabilities  amount  assets  liabilities 
The Company’s investment in its subsidiary Focus Solutions Group Limited (Focus) was impaired during 2019 by £15m. The carrying 
  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m 
amount of the Company’s investment in Focus is £nil (2019: £nil). 
Cash flow hedges  549  –  6  566  3  – 
(d)  Investments in subsidiaries at FVTPL 
Foreign exchange forwards  79  1  –  74  –  – 
Investments in subsidiaries at FVTPL, valued at £445m (2019: £562m), relate to holdings in funds over which the Company has control.  
Derivative financial instruments  628  1  6  640  3  – 
B.  Investments in associates and joint ventures 
    2020  2019  The derivative liability of £6m (2019: derivative asset of £3m) is expected to be settled after more than 12 months. 
    £m  £m  On 18 October 2017, the Company issued subordinated notes with a principal amount of US $750m. In order to manage the foreign 
Investment in associates measured at cost     1,020  1,033  exchange risk relating to the principal and coupons payable on these notes the Company entered into a cross-currency swap which is 
designated as a hedge of future cash flows. 
Investment in joint venture measured at cost    196  196 
The maturity profile of the contractual undiscounted cash flows in relation to derivative financial instruments is as follows: 
Investments in associates and joint ventures    1,216  1,229 
Within   2-5   6-10   11-15  
(a)  Investment in associates    1 year  years  years  years  Total 
The Company’s investments in associates are measured at cost less impairment.  
  2020  2019  2020  2019  2020  2019  2020  2019  2020  2019 
The Company has an interest of 14.4% (2019: 19.97%) in Phoenix Group Holdings plc (Phoenix), a company incorporated in England    £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m 
and Wales. On 22 July 2020, Phoenix announced the completion of its acquisition of ReAssure Group plc. Under the terms of the 
Cash inflows                     
transaction, Phoenix issued 277,277,138 new ordinary shares as part consideration for the acquisition. Completion of the transaction 
resulted in the Company’s holding in Phoenix becoming 14.4% of the enlarged Phoenix Group.   Cash flow hedges  23  24  93  96  607  650  –  –  723  770 
Foreign exchange forwards  62  57  –  –  –  –  –  –  62  57 
For Phoenix, we consider that the market value of Phoenix represents the best estimate of the present value of future dividends and 
therefore this market value is used as the VIU for determining any impairment or reversal of impairment of the Company’s investment in  Total  85  81  93  96  607  650  –  –  785  827 
Phoenix. As the VIU is based on the market value, a discount rate is not determined. At 31 December 2020 the market value of the                       
Company’s interest in Phoenix was £1,010m (31 December 2019: £1,079m) and a £13m impairment has been recognised in 2020 
Cash outflows              –       
(2019: reversal of impairment £211m). Further details of this associate are provided in Note 16 of the Group financial statements. 
Cash flow hedges  (18)  (18)  (73)  (73)  (614)  (632)  –  –  (705)  (723) 
The Company has an interest of 25.3% (2019: 25.3%) in Tenet Group Limited, a company incorporated in England and Wales.  
Foreign exchange forwards  (61)  (56)  –  –  –  –  –  –  (61)  (56) 
(b)  Investment in joint venture  Total  (79)  (74)  (73)  (73)  (614)  (632)  –  –  (766)  (779) 
The Company has a 50% (2019: 50%) interest in Heng An Standard Life Insurance Company Limited (HASL), a company incorporated 
Net derivative financial 
in China. Further details on this joint venture are provided in Note 16 of the Group financial statements.    
instruments cash flows  6  7  20  23  (7)  18  –  –  19  48 
    Standard Life Aberdeen 2020 217
8. Company financial statements continued 
E.  Receivables and other financial assets 
    2020  2019 
    £m  £m 
Amounts due from related parties    16  12 
Contingent consideration asset    28  1 
Other financial assets    6  2 
Total receivables and other financial assets    50  15 
The carrying amounts disclosed above reasonably approximate the fair values at the year end. 
Receivables and other financial assets of £43m (2019: £15m) are expected to be recovered within 12 months. 
F.  Other assets 
Other assets of £14m in 2019 comprised amounts due from related parties which were expected to be recovered within 12 months. 
G.  Share capital and share premium 
Details of the Company’s share capital and share premium are given in Note 26 of the Group financial statements including details of the 
share buyback.  
H.  Shares held by trusts 
Shares held by trusts relates to shares in Standard Life Aberdeen plc that are held by the Standard Life Aberdeen Employee Benefit 
Trust (SLA EBT), Standard Life Employee Trust (ET) and, prior to SLA issuing its closure instructions to the Trustees on 13 December 
2019, the Standard Life Unclaimed Asset Trust (UAT). The SLA EBT was established on 28 March 2019. Further details of these trusts 
are provided in Note 27 of the Group financial statements. 
I.  Retained earnings  
Details of the dividends paid on the ordinary shares by the Company are provided in Note 14 of the Group financial statements. Note 14 
also includes information regarding the final dividend proposed by the Directors for the year ended 31 December 2020.  
   
218 Standard Life Aberdeen 2020
8. Company financial statements continued   
 
E.  Receivables and other financial assets  J.  Movements in other reserves 
    2020  2019  The following tables show the movements in other reserves during the year: 
    £m  £m 
Equity  Capital 
Amounts due from related parties    16  12  Merger  compensation  Special redemption  Cash flow 
 
reserve   reserve  reserve  reserve  hedges  Total 
Contingent consideration asset    28  1 
2020  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m 
Other financial assets    6  2 
At 1 January   2,412  53  115  1,037  4  3,621 
Total receivables and other financial assets    50  15 
Fair value losses on cash flow hedges  –  –  –  –  (3)  (3) 
The carrying amounts disclosed above reasonably approximate the fair values at the year end.  Realised losses on cash flow hedges transferred 
to income statement  –  –  –  –  13  13 
Receivables and other financial assets of £43m (2019: £15m) are expected to be recovered within 12 months.  F
Share buyback  –  –  –  21  –  21  INAFIN
F.  Other assets  NA
Reserves credit for employee share-based  CN
OGt.h er Sashsaertse o cf a£p14itma li na 2n0d1 9s hcoamrep rpiseredm amiuomun ts due from related parties which were expected to be recovered within 12 months.  pTaraynmsefenrt sto  retained earnings for vested  –  64  –  –  –  64  IAL INFOCIAL INF
Details of the Company’s share capital and share premium are given in Note 26 of the Group financial statements including details of the  employee share-based payments   –  (38)  –  –  –  (38)  RMOR
AM
share buyback.   Transfer between reserves on impairment of  TIOAT
investment in subsidiaries   (1,834)  –  –  –  –  (1,834)  NIO
H.  Shares held by trusts  N
 
Tax effect of items that may be reclassified 
Shares held by trusts relates to shares in Standard Life Aberdeen plc that are held by the Standard Life Aberdeen Employee Benefit 
subsequently to profit or loss  –  –  –  –  (2)  (2) 
Trust (SLA EBT), Standard Life Employee Trust (ET) and, prior to SLA issuing its closure instructions to the Trustees on 13 December 
2019, the Standard Life Unclaimed Asset Trust (UAT). The SLA EBT was established on 28 March 2019. Further details of these trusts  At 31 December  578  79  115  1,058  12  1,842 
are provided in Note 27 of the Group financial statements.   
I.  Retained earnings  
Equity  Capital 
Details of the dividends paid on the ordinary shares by the Company are provided in Note 14 of the Group financial statements. Note 14 
Merger  compensation  Special redemption  Cash flow 
 
also includes information regarding the final dividend proposed by the Directors for the year ended 31 December 2020.   reserve   reserve  reserve  reserve  hedges  Total 
2019  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m 
   
At 1 January   3,192  67  241  1,011  (6)  4,505 
Fair value losses on cash flow hedges  –  –  –  –  (10)  (10) 
Realised losses on cash flow hedges 
transferred to income statement  –  –  –  –  22  22 
Share buyback  –  –  (126)  26  –  (100) 
Reserves credit for employee share-based 
payments  –  43  –  –  –  43 
Transfer to retained earnings for vested 
employee  
share-based payments   –  (57)  –  –  –  (57) 
Transfer between reserves on impairment of 
investment in subsidiaries   (780)  –  –  –  –  (780) 
Tax effect of items that may be reclassified 
subsequently to profit or loss  –  –  –  –  (2)  (2) 
At 31 December  2,412  53  115  1,037  4  3,621 
During 2020, £21m (2019: £26m) was recognised in the capital redemption reserve for the share buyback (refer Note 26 of the Group 
financial statements). 
Following the impairment loss recognised in the period on the Company’s investments in AAM PLC and SLIH (refer Note A), £1,834m 
(2019: £780m) was transferred from the merger reserve to retained earnings. 
K.  Financial liabilities 
    Amortised cost  Total 
    2020  2019  2020  2019 
2020  Notes  £m  £m  £m  £m 
Subordinated liabilities  L  638  655  638  655 
Other financial liabilities  N  110  25  110  25 
Total    748  680  748  680 
 
   
  Standard Life Aberdeen 2020 219
8. Company financial statements continued 
L.  Subordinated liabilities 
  2020  2019 
Principal  Carrying   Principal  Carrying  
  amount  value  amount  value 
Subordinated notes:         
4.25% US Dollar fixed rate due 30 June 2028   $750m  £546m  $750m  £563m 
5.5% Sterling fixed rate due 4 December 2042  £92m  £92m  £92m  £92m 
Total subordinated liabilities     £638m    £655m 
Subordinated liabilities are considered current if the contractual re-pricing or maturity dates are within one year. The principal amount of 
all the subordinated liabilities is expected to be settled after more than 12 months. The accrued interest on the subordinated liabilities of 
less than £1m (2019: less than £1m) is expected to be settled within 12 months. 
On 26 March 2019, the Company repurchased 5.5% Sterling fixed rate subordinated notes with a principal amount of £408m (out of a 
total principal amount of £500m). 
Further information including the terms and conditions of all subordinated liabilities is given in Note 33 of the Group financial statements. 
M.  Deferred tax assets and liabilities 
    2020  2019 
    £m  £m 
Deferred tax assets    77  35 
The amount of deferred tax assets expected to be recovered or settled after more than 12 months are £77m (2019: £35m). 
Recognised deferred tax 
    2020  2019 
    £m  £m 
Deferred tax assets comprise:       
Unused tax losses    80  36 
Unrealised losses on cash flow hedges    (2)  – 
Gross deferred tax assets     78  36 
Less: Offset against deferred tax liabilities    (1)  (1) 
Deferred tax assets    77  35 
Deferred tax liabilities comprise:       
Unrealised gains on investments    1  1 
Gross deferred tax liabilities    1  1 
Less: Offset against deferred tax assets    (1)  (1) 
Deferred tax liabilities    –  – 
Net deferred tax asset at 31 December    77  35 
Movements in net deferred tax assets comprise:       
At 1 January    35  22 
Amounts credited to profit or loss    44  15 
Amounts charged to other comprehensive income    (2)  (2) 
At 31 December    77  35 
The deferred tax assets recognised are in respect of unused tax losses arising in the year and unrealised losses on cash flow hedges. 
The deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that the losses will be capable of being offset against future 
taxable profits.   
220 Standard Life Aberdeen 2020
8. Company financial statements continued   
 
L.  Subordinated liabilities  N.  Other financial liabilities 
  2020  2019      2020  2019 
Principal  Carrying   Principal  Carrying       £m  £m 
  amount  value  amount  value 
Outstanding purchase of investment securities    6  – 
Subordinated notes:          Amounts due to related parties    47  2 
4.25% US Dollar fixed rate due 30 June 2028   $750m  £546m  $750m  £563m  Collateral held in respect of derivative contracts    7  13 
5.5% Sterling fixed rate due 4 December 2042  £92m  £92m  £92m  £92m  Outstanding contractual obligation for share buyback    40  – 
Total subordinated liabilities     £638m    £655m  Other    10  10 
Other financial liabilities    110  25 
Subordinated liabilities are considered current if the contractual re-pricing or maturity dates are within one year. The principal amount of 
F
all the subordinated liabilities is expected to be settled after more than 12 months. The accrued interest on the subordinated liabilities of  IN
Other financial liabilities of £110m (2019: £25m) are expected to be settled within 12 months.  A
less than £1m (2019: less than £1m) is expected to be settled within 12 months.  N
C
O.  Provisions and other liabilities  IA
On 26 March 2019, the Company repurchased 5.5% Sterling fixed rate subordinated notes with a principal amount of £408m (out of a  L
total principal amount of £500m).  Of Provisions of £68m (2019: £77m), £58m are expected to be settled within 12 months (2019: £48m). The provisions in 2020 and 2019   INF
relate to separation costs. Refer Note 37 of the Group financial statements for further information and details of the provisions.  O
R
Further information including the terms and conditions of all subordinated liabilities is given in Note 33 of the Group financial statements.  M
Of Other liabilities of £8m (2019: £4m), £8m are expected to be settled within 12 months (2019: £4m) and include £8m (2019: £2m) in  A
T
M.  Deferred tax assets and liabilities  respect of amounts due to related parties.  IO
N
    2020  2019  P.  Contingent liabilities, contingent assets, indemnities and guarantees   
    £m  £m 
(a)  Legal proceedings and regulations 
Deferred tax assets    77  35  The Company, like other financial organisations, is subject to legal proceedings and complaints in the normal course of its business. All 
such material matters are periodically reassessed, with the assistance of external professional advisers where appropriate, to determine 
The amount of deferred tax assets expected to be recovered or settled after more than 12 months are £77m (2019: £35m).  the likelihood of the Company incurring a liability. Where it is concluded that it is more likely than not that a material outflow will be made 
a provision is established based on management’s best estimate of the amount that will be payable. In some cases it will not be possible 
Recognised deferred tax 
to form a view, for example because the facts are unclear or because further time is needed to properly investigate, and no provisions 
    2020  2019  are held for such matters. It is not possible to predict with certainty the extent and timing of the financial impact of legal proceedings, 
    £m  £m  complaints and related regulatory matters. 
Deferred tax assets comprise:        (b)  Indemnities and guarantees 
Unused tax losses    80  36  Under the trust deed in respect of the UK Standard Life defined benefit pension plan, Standard Life Employee Services Limited 
(SLESL), the principal employer, must pay contributions to the pension plan as the trustees’ actuary may certify necessary. The 
Unrealised losses on cash flow hedges    (2)  – 
Company has guaranteed the obligations of SLESL in relation to this plan. In addition the Company has guaranteed similar obligations 
Gross deferred tax assets     78  36  in respect of certain other subsidiaries’ UK and Ireland defined benefit pension plans. 
Less: Offset against deferred tax liabilities    (1)  (1)   
None of these guarantees give rise to any liabilities at 31 December 2020 (2019: none). 
Deferred tax assets    77  35 
Deferred tax liabilities comprise:        Q.  Related party transactions 
(a)   Key management personnel 
Unrealised gains on investments    1  1 
The Directors and key management personnel of the Company are considered to be the same as for the Group. See Note 45 of the 
Gross deferred tax liabilities    1  1 
Group financial statements for further information. 
Less: Offset against deferred tax assets    (1)  (1) 
R.  Events after the reporting date 
Deferred tax liabilities    –  – 
On 23 February 2021, the Group announced a simplification and extension of the strategic partnership between the Group and Phoenix. 
Net deferred tax asset at 31 December    77  35  Further information is given in Note 47 of the Group financial statements. 
Movements in net deferred tax assets comprise:        The Company’s shareholding in Phoenix remains at 14.4%. Following the changes to the commercial agreements between the Group 
At 1 January    35  22  and Phoenix, the Group concluded that Phoenix should no longer be accounted for as an associate with effect from 23 February 2021. 
From this date, the Company has reclassified its investment in Phoenix from an investment in associates measured at cost less 
Amounts credited to profit or loss    44  15 
impairment to equity securities measured at fair value. 
Amounts charged to other comprehensive income    (2)  (2) 
At 31 December    77  35 
The deferred tax assets recognised are in respect of unused tax losses arising in the year and unrealised losses on cash flow hedges. 
The deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that the losses will be capable of being offset against future 
taxable profits.   
  Standard Life Aberdeen 2020 221
9. Supplementary information
9.1  Key performance indicators 
Key performance indicators (KPIs) are defined as the measures by which the development, performance or position of the business can 
be measured effectively. The KPIs that we use may not be directly comparable with similarly named measures used by other 
companies. The addition of adjusted capital generation was the only change to our KPIs in 2020, reflecting the linkage with our dividend 
policy. 
9.2  Alternative performance measures 
We assess our performance using a variety of measures that are not defined under IFRS and are therefore termed alternative 
performance measures (APMs). The APMs that we use may not be directly comparable with similarly named measures used by other 
companies. 
We have presented below reconciliations from these APMs to the most appropriate measure prepared in accordance with IFRS. All 
APMs should be read together with the IFRS consolidated income statement, IFRS consolidated statement of financial position and 
IFRS consolidated statement of cash flows, which are presented in the Group financial statements section of this report. Ratios are 
presented in Section 9.4. 
KPI  Key performance indicators (KPIs) are defined as the measures by which the development, performance or position of the business can be measured effectively .
R  Metric used for executive remuneration in 2020. See pages 79 and 84 for more information. 
Definition  Purpose 
Adjusted profit before tax  KPI 
Adjusted profit before tax is the Group’s key alternative performance measure. Adjusted  Adjusted profit reporting provides further 
profit excludes the impact of the following items:   analysis of the results reported under 
IFRS and the Directors believe it helps to 
• Restructuring costs and corporate transaction expenses. Restructuring includes the
give shareholders a fuller understanding 
impact of major regulatory change.
of the performance of the business by 
• Amortisation and impairment of intangible assets acquired in business combinations
identifying and analysing adjusting items. 
and through the purchase of customer contracts
Adjusted profit before tax is consistent 
• Profit or loss arising on the disposal of a subsidiary, joint venture or associate
with the way that financial performance 
• Impairment loss/reversal of impairment loss recognised on investments in associates
is measured by management and 
and joint ventures accounted for using the equity method
reported to the Board and executive 
• Changes in fair value of significant listed investments and related dividend income leadership team. Adjusted profit before 
• Fair value movements in contingent consideration tax is also a key input to the adjusted 
• Items which are one-off and, due to their size or nature, are not indicative of the long- earnings per share measure which is 
used to assess performance for 
term operating performance of the Group
remuneration purposes.  
• Impacts arising from investment return variances and economic assumption changes
in the Group’s associate and joint venture insurance entities where they have a policy  Fee based revenue is shown net of 
for determining investment return variances and economic assumption changes commission, costs of sale and similar 
• Dividends payable on preference shares classified as non-controlling interests are charges so as to show the net charges 
excluded from adjusted profit in line with the treatment of ordinary shares. Similarly to received on AUMA and provides the 
preference shares, coupons paid on perpetual debt instruments classified as equity for basis for reporting of the fee revenue 
which interest is only accounted for when paid is excluded from adjusted profit. This yield financial ratio. 
includes our share of interest payable on Tier 1 debt instruments held by associates.
Further details are included in Note 13 of the Group financial statements. 
Fee based revenue is a component of adjusted profit and includes revenue we generate 
from asset management charges (AMCs), platform charges and other transactional 
charges. Fee based revenue is shown net of fees, costs of sale, commissions and 
similar charges. Refer to Note 4 of the Group financial statements. 
Adjusted capital generation   KPI 
Adjusted capital generation is part of the analysis of movements in CRDIV regulatory  This measure aims to show how 
capital. Adjusted capital generation is calculated as adjusted profit after tax less returns  adjusted profit contributes to regulatory 
relating to pension schemes in surplus, which do not benefit regulatory capital. It also  capital, and therefore provides insight 
excludes the Group’s share of associates and joint ventures profit after tax which is  into our ability to generate capital that is 
replaced by dividends received from these entities. Dividends from significant listed  deployed to support value for 
investments are also included. Adjusted diluted capital generation per share is  shareholders. 
calculated as adjusted capital generation divided by the weighted average number of 
diluted ordinary shares outstanding. 
Cash and liquid resources 
Cash and liquid resources are IFRS cash and cash equivalents (netted down for  The purpose of this measure is to 
overdrafts), money market instruments and holdings in money market funds. It also  demonstrate how much cash and 
includes surplus cash that has been invested in liquid assets such as high quality  invested assets we hold and can be 
corporate bonds, gilts and pooled investment funds. Seed capital and co-investments  readily accessed. 
are excluded.  
222 Standard Life Aberdeen 2020
 
9. Supplementary information 
 
9.1  Key performance indicators  Adjusted profit before tax  
Key performance indicators (KPIs) are defined as the measures by which the development, performance or position of the business can  Reconciliation of adjusted profit to IFRS profit by component 
be measured effectively. The KPIs that we use may not be directly comparable with similarly named measures used by other  The key components of adjusted profit before tax are fee based revenue, adjusted operating expenses and share of associates’ and 
companies. The addition of adjusted capital generation was the only change to our KPIs in 2020, reflecting the linkage with our dividend  joint ventures’ profit before tax. These components provide a meaningful analysis of our adjusted results.  
policy. 
The table below provides a reconciliation of movements between adjusted profit component measures and relevant IFRS terms. A 
9.2  Alternative performance measures  reconciliation of Fee based revenue to the IFRS item Revenue from contracts with customers is provided in Note 4 of the Group 
We assess our performance using a variety of measures that are not defined under IFRS and are therefore termed alternative  financial statements. 
performance measures (APMs). The APMs that we use may not be directly comparable with similarly named measures used by other  Share of 
companies.  associates’ 
Group  and joint  Non-
We have presented below reconciliations from these APMs to the most appropriate measure prepared in accordance with IFRS. All 
adjusted Presentation  Adjusting   Capital  ventures’  controlling  Group 
APMs should be read together with the IFRS consolidated income statement, IFRS consolidated statement of financial position and  Adjusted profit term  profit  differences  items management tax expense  interests   IFRS  IFRS term  F
IFRS consolidated statement of cash flows, which are presented in the Group financial statements section of this report. Ratios are  2020  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m     INA
presented in Section 9.4.    NC
 KPI    Key performance indicators (KPIs) are defined as the measures by which the development, performance or position of the business can be measured effectively.  FAedeju sbtaesde dop reervaetninuge  e xpeKPnI s eRs   (11,,240265)   (221144)   (11,,590409 )  21–   ––   ––   (23,,962009)  TToottaall  ienxcpoemnese s  IAL INFO
R    Metric used for executive remuneration in 2020. See pages 78 and 83 for more information.  Capital management  21  –  –  (21)  –  –  –  N/A  RM
Definition  Purpose  Share of associates’ and joint  Share of profit from  AT
  ventures’ profit before tax  247  –  (81)  –  (17)  –  149  associates and JVs1  ION
Adjusted profit before tax   KPI        
Adjusted profit before tax 
Adjusted profit before tax is the Group’s key alternative performance measure. Adjusted  Adjusted profit reporting provides further 
from continuing operations  487  –  368  –  (17)  –  838  Profit before tax   
profit excludes the impact of the following items:   analysis of the results reported under 
IFRS and the Directors believe it helps to  Tax on adjusted profit  (38)  –  53  –  –  –  15  Total tax expense 
• Restructuring costs and corporate transaction expenses. Restructuring includes the 
impact of major regulatory change.  give shareholders a fuller understanding  Share of associates’ and joint 
• Amortisation and impairment of intangible assets acquired in business combinations  of the performance of the business by  ventures’ tax  (38)  –  –   –  38  –  –  N/A 
identifying and analysing adjusting items.  
and through the purchase of customer contracts  Adjusted profit after tax  Profit for the year from 
• Profit or loss arising on the disposal of a subsidiary, joint venture or associate  Adjusted profit before tax is consistent  from continuing operations  411  –  421  –  21  –  853  continuing operations 
with the way that financial performance 
• Impairment loss/reversal of impairment loss recognised on investments in associates  Adjusted profit after tax from  Profit for the year from 
is measured by management and 
and joint ventures accounted for using the equity method  discontinued operations  –   –  (15)  –  –  –  (15) discontinued operations 
reported to the Board and executive 
• Changes in fair value of significant listed investments and related dividend income  leadership team. Adjusted profit before  Adjusted profit after tax  411  –  406  –  21  –  838  Profit for the year 
• Fair value movements in contingent consideration  tax is also a key input to the adjusted  1  Includes £45m impairment of interests in joint ventures. 
• Items which are one-off and, due to their size or nature, are not indicative of the long- earnings per share measure which is 
Share of 
used to assess performance for 
term operating performance of the Group  associates’ 
• Impacts arising from investment return variances and economic assumption changes  remuneration purposes.   Group  and joint  Non-
adjusted Presentation  Adjusting   Capital  ventures’  controlling  Group 
in the Group’s associate and joint venture insurance entities where they have a policy  Fee based revenue is shown net of 
Adjusted profit term  profit  differences  items management tax expense  interests   IFRS IFRS term 
for determining investment return variances and economic assumption changes  commission, costs of sale and similar 
2019  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m    
• Dividends payable on preference shares classified as non-controlling interests are  charges so as to show the net charges 
excluded from adjusted profit in line with the treatment of ordinary shares. Similarly to  received on AUMA and provides the  Fee based revenue  1,634  619  1,703  37  –  –  3,993  Total income 
preference shares, coupons paid on perpetual debt instruments classified as equity for  basis for reporting of the fee revenue  Adjusted operating expenses  (1,333)  (619)  (2,120)  –  –  –  (4,072) Total expenses 
which interest is only accounted for when paid is excluded from adjusted profit. This  yield financial ratio.  Capital management  37  –  –  (37)  –  –  –  N/A 
includes our share of interest payable on Tier 1 debt instruments held by associates.  
  Share of associates’ and joint  Share of profit from 
Further details are included in Note 13 of the Group financial statements.  ventures’ profit before tax  246  –  84  –  (8)  –  322  associates and JVs2 
Fee based revenue is a component of adjusted profit and includes revenue we generate  Adjusted profit before tax 
from asset management charges (AMCs), platform charges and other transactional  from continuing operations  584  –  (333)  –  (8)  –  243  Profit before tax 
charges. Fee based revenue is shown net of fees, costs of sale, commissions and 
Tax on adjusted profit  (69)  –  41  –  –  –  (28) Total tax expense 
similar charges. Refer to Note 4 of the Group financial statements. 
Share of associates’ and joint 
 
Adjusted capital generation   KPI       ventures’ tax  (46)  –  –  –  46  –  –  N/A 
Adjusted capital generation is part of the analysis of movements in CRDIV regulatory  This measure aims to show how  Adjusted profit after tax  Profit for the year from 
capital. Adjusted capital generation is calculated as adjusted profit after tax less returns  adjusted profit contributes to regulatory  from continuing operations  469  –  (292)  –  38  –  215  continuing operations 
relating to pension schemes in surplus, which do not benefit regulatory capital. It also  capital, and therefore provides insight 
Adjusted profit after tax from  Profit for the year from 
excludes the Group’s share of associates and joint ventures profit after tax which is  into our ability to generate capital that is 
discontinued operations  –  –  56  –  –  –  56  discontinued operations 
replaced by dividends received from these entities. Dividends from significant listed  deployed to support value for 
Adjusted profit after tax  469  –  (236)  –  38  –  271  Profit for the year 
investments are also included. Adjusted diluted capital generation per share is  shareholders. 
calculated as adjusted capital generation divided by the weighted average number of  2  Includes £243m reversal of impairment of interests in associates. 
diluted ordinary shares outstanding. 
This reconciliation includes a number of reconciling items which arise due to presentation differences between IFRS reporting 
Cash and liquid resources    requirements and the determination of fee based revenue and adjusted operating expenses. Fee based revenue and adjusted operating 
Cash and liquid resources are IFRS cash and cash equivalents (netted down for  The purpose of this measure is to  expenses exclude items which have an equal and opposite effect on IFRS income and IFRS expenses in the consolidated income 
overdrafts), money market instruments and holdings in money market funds. It also  demonstrate how much cash and  statement. This particularly relates to income and expenses of unit linked funds, where investment returns are for the account of 
includes surplus cash that has been invested in liquid assets such as high quality  invested assets we hold and can be  policyholders. Investment return from unit linked business in 2020 was £49m (2019: £392m). Other presentation differences also include 
corporate bonds, gilts and pooled investment funds. Seed capital and co-investments  readily accessed.  commission and other cost of sales expenses which are presented in expenses in the consolidated income statement but are netted 
are excluded.   against fee based revenue in the analysis of Group adjusted profit by segment.  
    Standard Life Aberdeen 2020 223
9. Supplementary information continued 
The table below provides a summarised reconciliation of adjusted profit before tax (split by continuing operations, discontinued 
operations and Total) to Profit before tax: 
  Continuing operations  Discontinued operations  Total 
  2020  2019  2018  2020  2019  2018  2020  2019  2018 
  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m 
Adjusted profit before tax  487  584  650  –  –  210  487  584  860 
Share of associates’ and joint ventures’ tax   
expense  (17)  (8)  (40)  –  –  –  (17)  (8)  (40) 
Total adjusting items  368  (333)  (1,397)  (15)  56  1,519  353  (277)  122 
Profit attributable to non-controlling 
interests – ordinary shares  –  –  –  –  –  5  –  –  5 
Profit before tax1   838  243  (787)  (15)  56  1,734  823  299  947 
1  Discontinued operations shown as (loss)/profit before tax expense attributable to equity holders. 
Analysis of adjusting items 
The table below provides detail of the adjusting items made in the calculation of adjusted profit before tax: 
  Continuing operations  Discontinued operations  Total 
  2020  2019  2018  2020  2019  2018  2020  2019  2018 
  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m 
Restructuring and corporate transaction 
expenses   (355)  (407)  (239)  –  –  (264)  (355)  (407)  (503) 
Amortisation and impairment of intangible 
assets acquired in business combinations 
and through the purchase of customer 
contracts  (1,287)  (1,844)  (1,155)  –  –  –  (1,287)  (1,844)  (1,155) 
Profit on disposal of subsidiaries  –  –  –  –  –  1,780  –  –  1,780 
Profit on disposal of interests in associates  1,858  1,542  185  –  –  –  1,858  1,542  185 
(Loss on)/reversal of impairment of 
associates and joint ventures  (45)  243  (228)  –  –  –  (45)  243  (228) 
Change in fair value of significant listed 
investments   65  –  –  –  –  –  65  –  – 
Investment return variances and economic 
assumption changes  46  (25)  54  –  –  (41)  46  (25)  13 
Other  86  158  (14)  (15)  56  44  71  214  30 
Total adjusting items  368  (333)  (1,397)  (15)  56  1,519  353  (277)  122 
An explanation for why individual items are excluded from adjusted profit is set out below:  
• Restructuring and corporate transaction expenses are excluded from adjusted profit. Restructuring includes the impact of major 
regulatory change. By highlighting and excluding these costs we aim to give shareholders a fuller understanding of the performance of 
the business. Restructuring and corporate transaction expenses include costs relating to the integration of businesses acquired. Other 
restructuring costs excluded from adjusted profit relate to projects which have a significant impact on the way the Group operates. 
Costs are only excluded from adjusted profit where they are outwith business as usual activities and the costs would not have been 
incurred had the restructuring project not taken place. For headcount related costs, where duplicate posts are identified as a result of 
an integration or transformation plan, the duplicated cost will be treated as a restructuring cost from the beginning of the process 
which eliminates the duplicate cost. The 2020 expenses included costs relating to integration and implementing our simplified 
operating model of £79m (2019: £214m), £112m (2019: £37m) in respect of Phoenix separation costs, and £69m (2019: £41m) of 
other transformation related restructuring costs. 2020 also included £39m (2019: £33m) relating to our share of the restructuring costs 
of joint ventures and associates (primarily Phoenix). 2019 also included £49m relating to the repurchase of subordinated debt and 
£20m variable compensation expense related to the receipt of £140m LBG compensation. 
• Amortisation and impairment of intangible assets acquired in business combinations and through the purchase of customer contracts 
is included as an adjusting item. This is consistent with peers and therefore excluding these items aids comparability. Highlighting this 
as an adjusting item aims to give a fuller understanding of these accounting impacts which arise where businesses have been 
acquired but do not arise where businesses have grown organically. Further details are provided in Note 15 of the Group financial 
statements. 
• Profits on the disposal of a subsidiary, joint venture or associate are also removed to assist comparability of results period on period. 
Profit on disposal of interests in associates in 2020 of £1,858m (2019: £1,542m), includes a one-off accounting gain of £1,051m 
following the reclassification of HDFC Life from an investment in associates accounted for using the equity method to equity securities 
measured at fair value (see Note 16), £540m from the sale of 5.83% of shares in HDFC Life (2019: £1,337m, 14.49%) and £263m 
from the sale of 5.64% of shares in HDFC Asset Management (2019: £204m, 3.02%). Details are provided in Note 1 of the Group 
financial statements.  
224 Standard Life Aberdeen 2020
9. Supplementary information continued   
The table below provides a summarised reconciliation of adjusted profit before tax (split by continuing operations, discontinued  • The impairment of associates and joint ventures of £45m relates to our joint venture with Virgin Money. The reversal of impairment of 
operations and Total) to Profit before tax:  associates in 2019 of £243m reflected the recovery of the Phoenix share price and reversed the impairment recognised in 2018. 
These impairment losses/reversals are considered one-off items and not indicative of the long-term operating performance of the 
  Continuing operations  Discontinued operations  Total 
Group and have therefore been excluded from adjusted profit to assist comparability of results period to period. More details are 
  2020  2019  2018  2020  2019  2018  2020  2019  2018  provided in Note 16 of the Group financial statements. 
  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  • The change in fair value of significant listed investments of £65m represents the impact of movements in the listed share price on our 
Adjusted profit before tax  487  584  650  –  –  210  487  584  860  8.89% holding in HDFC Life from 3 December 2020 to 31 December 2020. Excluding fair value movements on significant listed 
Share of associates’ and joint ventures’ tax    investments for the purposes of adjusted profit is aligned with our treatment of gains on disposal for these holdings when they were 
classified as an associate, and reflects that the fair value movements are not indicative of the long-term operating performance of the 
expense  (17)  (8)  (40)  –  –  –  (17)  (8)  (40) 
group. 
Total adjusting items  368  (333)  (1,397)  (15)  56  1,519  353  (277)  122 
• Investment return variances and economic assumption changes in the Group’s associate and joint venture insurance entities are 
Profit attributable to non-controlling  excluded from adjusted profit. Where associates and joint ventures have a policy for determining investment return variances and  FIN
interests – ordinary shares  –  –  –  –  –  5  –  –  5  economic assumption changes, the Group uses the policy of the associate or joint venture for including their results in the Group’s  A
N
Profit before tax1   838  243  (787)  (15)  56  1,734  823  299  947  adjusted profit. This currently applies only to the Group’s investment in Phoenix. Details of the Phoenix policy are included in Note 13  CIA
1  Discontinued operations shown as (loss)/profit before tax expense attributable to equity holders.  of the Group financial statements.  L IN
• Details on items classified as ‘Other’ in the table on the previous page are provided in Note 13 of the Group financial statements. In  FO
Analysis of adjusting items  R
2020 this includes £66m relating to our share of Phoenix gains relating to the acquisition of ReAssure and the completion of the Part  M
The table below provides detail of the adjusting items made in the calculation of adjusted profit before tax:  VII transfer of the Legal and General mature savings business. Also included is the gain on disposal of SL Asia of £8m.  AT
IO
  Continuing operations  Discontinued operations  Total  The table below provides a breakdown for the calculation of our share of adjusted profit before tax from Phoenix of £163m which is  N
included in the Insurance associates and joint ventures reportable segment total of £203m. Phoenix use an operating profit alternative 
  2020  2019  2018  2020  2019  2018  2020  2019  2018 
performance measure which is before finance costs, while the Group’s adjusted profit is after deducting finance costs.    
  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m 
Restructuring and corporate transaction    2020  2020  2019  2019 
expenses   (355)  (407)  (239)  –  –  (264)  (355)  (407)  (503)    100%  14.42%1  100%  19.97% 
Amortisation and impairment of intangible    £m  £m  £m  £m 
assets acquired in business combinations  Operating profit before tax (Phoenix APM)  1,199  196  810  162 
and through the purchase of customer 
Finance costs  (191)  (33)  (127)  (26) 
contracts  (1,287)  (1,844)  (1,155)  –  –  –  (1,287)  (1,844)  (1,155) 
Adjusted profit before tax (Standard Life Aberdeen APM)   1,008  163  683  136 
Profit on disposal of subsidiaries  –  –  –  –  –  1,780  –  –  1,780 
Profit on disposal of interests in associates  1,858  1,542  185  –  –  –  1,858  1,542  185  1  Our holding in the enlarged Phoenix Group reduced from 19.97% to 14.43% following the completion of its acquisition of ReAssure Group plc on 22 July 2020 (31 December 
2020: 14.42%) and therefore the results shown above are based on 19.97% until 21 July 2020. 
(Loss on)/reversal of impairment of 
Adjusted capital generation 
associates and joint ventures  (45)  243  (228)  –  –  –  (45)  243  (228) 
The table below provides a reconciliation of movements between adjusted profit after tax and adjusted capital generation. A 
Change in fair value of significant listed 
investments   65  –  –  –  –  –  65  –  –  reconciliation of adjusted profit after tax to IFRS profit for the year is included earlier in this section. 
Investment return variances and economic    2020  2019 
assumption changes  46  (25)  54  –  –  (41)  46  (25)  13    £m  £m 
Other  86  158  (14)  (15)  56  44  71  214  30  Adjusted profit after tax   411  469 
Total adjusting items  368  (333)  (1,397)  (15)  56  1,519  353  (277)  122  Remove staff pension scheme returns  (20)  (29) 
An explanation for why individual items are excluded from adjusted profit is set out below:   Remove associates’ and joint ventures’ adjusted profit after tax  (209)  (200) 
• Restructuring and corporate transaction expenses are excluded from adjusted profit. Restructuring includes the impact of major  Add associates’ and joint ventures’ dividends received  80  93 
regulatory change. By highlighting and excluding these costs we aim to give shareholders a fuller understanding of the performance of  Adjusted capital generation  262  333 
the business. Restructuring and corporate transaction expenses include costs relating to the integration of businesses acquired. Other 
restructuring costs excluded from adjusted profit relate to projects which have a significant impact on the way the Group operates.  Staff pension scheme returns 
Costs are only excluded from adjusted profit where they are outwith business as usual activities and the costs would not have been  Staff pension scheme returns are the contribution to adjusted profit before tax from defined benefit pension schemes which are in 
incurred had the restructuring project not taken place. For headcount related costs, where duplicate posts are identified as a result of  surplus and reconciled below: 
an integration or transformation plan, the duplicated cost will be treated as a restructuring cost from the beginning of the process 
which eliminates the duplicate cost. The 2020 expenses included costs relating to integration and implementing our simplified    2020  2019 
operating model of £79m (2019: £214m), £112m (2019: £37m) in respect of Phoenix separation costs, and £69m (2019: £41m) of    £m  £m 
other transformation related restructuring costs. 2020 also included £39m (2019: £33m) relating to our share of the restructuring costs  Total income recognised in the consolidated income statement per Note 34 (c) of the Group financial 
of joint ventures and associates (primarily Phoenix). 2019 also included £49m relating to the repurchase of subordinated debt and  statements  19  40 
£20m variable compensation expense related to the receipt of £140m LBG compensation. 
Past service costs (included in adjusting items)  –  (13) 
• Amortisation and impairment of intangible assets acquired in business combinations and through the purchase of customer contracts 
Remove IFRS charge relating to schemes in deficit  1  2 
is included as an adjusting item. This is consistent with peers and therefore excluding these items aids comparability. Highlighting this 
as an adjusting item aims to give a fuller understanding of these accounting impacts which arise where businesses have been    20  29 
acquired but do not arise where businesses have grown organically. Further details are provided in Note 15 of the Group financial     
statements. 
• Profits on the disposal of a subsidiary, joint venture or associate are also removed to assist comparability of results period on period. 
Profit on disposal of interests in associates in 2020 of £1,858m (2019: £1,542m), includes a one-off accounting gain of £1,051m 
following the reclassification of HDFC Life from an investment in associates accounted for using the equity method to equity securities 
measured at fair value (see Note 16), £540m from the sale of 5.83% of shares in HDFC Life (2019: £1,337m, 14.49%) and £263m 
from the sale of 5.64% of shares in HDFC Asset Management (2019: £204m, 3.02%). Details are provided in Note 1 of the Group 
financial statements.  
  Standard Life Aberdeen 2020 225
9. Supplementary information continued 
Share of associates’ and joint ventures’ adjusted profit after tax 
An analysis is provided below: 
  2020  2019 
  £m  £m 
Share of associates’ and joint ventures’ adjusted profit before tax – Note 2 (b)(i)  247  246 
Share of associates’ and joint ventures’ adjusted tax expense – Note 2 (b)(i)  (38)  (46) 
Share of associates’ and joint ventures’ adjusted profit after tax  209  200 
Associates’ and joint ventures’ dividends received 
This information is disclosed in Note 16 of the Group financial statements. An analysis is provided below: 
  2020  2019 
  £m  £m 
Phoenix  67  67 
HDFC Life  –  9 
HDFC Asset Management  13  17 
Associates’ and joint ventures’ dividends received  80  93 
Cash and liquid resources 
The table below provides a reconciliation between IFRS cash and cash equivalents and cash and liquid resources. Seed capital and co-
investments are excluded. Details of seed capital and co-investments are provided in Note 38 (b). 
  2020  2019 
  £bn  £bn 
Cash and cash equivalents per Note 24 of the Group financial statements  1.5  1.6 
Bank overdrafts – Note 24  (0.2)  (0.3) 
Debt securities excluding third party interests1 – Note 38 (c)(i)  1.0  1.2 
Corporate funds held in absolute return funds – Note 38 (b)(i)(i)  0.2  0.2 
Cash and liquid resources  2.5  2.7 
1  Excludes £54m (2019: £78m) relating to seeding, see Note 38 (b). 
9.3 Surplus regulatory capital 
The £2.3bn indicative capital surplus below includes a deduction to allow for the proposed final dividend which will be paid in May 2021. 
At 31 December 2020, the indicative regulatory capital position was as follows: 
  2020  FY 2019 
CRD IV Group regulatory capital position  £bn  £bn 
Common Equity Tier 1 capital resources  2.9  2.2 
Tier 2 capital resources  0.5  0.6 
Total regulatory capital resources  3.4  2.8 
Total regulatory capital requirements  (1.1)  (1.1) 
Surplus regulatory capital  2.3  1.7 
The Group’s capital resources include c£0.8bn (2019: c£0.3bn) from holdings in insurance entities that it is expected will no longer be 
eligible following the implementation of the Investment Firm Prudential Regime (IFPR) from 1 January 2022. The IFPR is also expected 
to introduce constraints on the proportion of the minimum capital requirement that can be met by each tier of capital. As a result, it is 
estimated that c£0.3bn of existing Tier 2 capital, whilst continuing to be reported within the Group’s capital resources, would not be 
available to meet the current minimum capital requirement from 1 January 2022.  
   
226 Standard Life Aberdeen 2020
9. Supplementary information continued   
Share of associates’ and joint ventures’ adjusted profit after tax  9.4  Financial ratios  
An analysis is provided below:  We also use a number of financial ratios to help assess our performance and these are also not defined under IFRS. Details of our main 
financial ratios and how they are calculated are presented below: 
  2020  2019 
  £m  £m  Definition  Purpose and changes 
 
Share of associates’ and joint ventures’ adjusted profit before tax – Note 2 (b)(i)  247  246  Cost/income ratio  KPI   R   
Share of associates’ and joint ventures’ adjusted tax expense – Note 2 (b)(i)  (38)  (46)  This is an efficiency measure that is calculated as adjusted operating  This ratio is used by management to assess efficiency and 
Share of associates’ and joint ventures’ adjusted profit after tax  209  200  expenses divided by fee based revenue in the period.   reported to the Board and executive leadership team. 
This ratio is also a measure used to assess performance 
Associates’ and joint ventures’ dividends received 
for remuneration purposes. 
This information is disclosed in Note 16 of the Group financial statements. An analysis is provided below: 
For 2020, we changed the KPI basis for the cost/income  F
IN
  2020  2019  ratio to exclude the share of associates’ and joint ventures’  AN
  £m  £m  profit before tax. This change better links revenue to  CIA
Phoenix  67  67  expenses.  L IN
HDFC Life  –  9  Adjusted diluted earnings per share   KPI   R    FORM
HDFC Asset Management  13  17  Adjusted diluted earnings per share is calculated on adjusted profit after  Earnings per share is a commonly used financial metric  AT
IO
Associates’ and joint ventures’ dividends received  80  93  tax. The weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue is adjusted  which can be used to measure the profitability and capital  N
during the period to assume the conversion of all dilutive potential  efficiency of a company over time. We also calculate 
Cash and liquid resources  ordinary shares, such as share options granted to employees.  adjusted diluted earnings per share to illustrate the impact   
The table below provides a reconciliation between IFRS cash and cash equivalents and cash and liquid resources. Seed capital and co- of adjusting items on the metric. 
Details on the calculation of adjusted diluted earnings per share are set 
investments are excluded. Details of seed capital and co-investments are provided in Note 38 (b).  out in Note 12 of the Group financial statements.  This ratio is used by management to assess performance 
and reported to the Board and executive leadership team. 
  2020  2019 
  £bn  £bn     
Fee revenue yield (bps) 
Cash and cash equivalents per Note 24 of the Group financial statements  1.5  1.6 
The fee revenue yield is calculated as annualised fee based revenue  The average revenue yield on fee based business is a 
Bank overdrafts – Note 24  (0.2)  (0.3) 
(excluding performance fees, SL Asia, Focus and Threesixty) divided by  measure that illustrates the average margin being earned 
Debt securities excluding third party interests1 – Note 38 (c)(i)  1.0  1.2  monthly average fee based assets.  on the assets that we manage, administer or advise our 
clients on. 
Corporate funds held in absolute return funds – Note 38 (b)(i)(i)  0.2  0.2   
Cash and liquid resources  2.5  2.7  Fee revenue yield is now presented on a vector basis 
reflecting changes in our strategy. This includes changes in 
1  Excludes £54m (2019: £78m) relating to seeding, see Note 38 (b).  the allocation of fee based revenue, a reconciliation is 
provided in Section 9.4.3. 
9.3 Surplus regulatory capital 
 
The £2.3bn indicative capital surplus below includes a deduction to allow for the proposed final dividend which will be paid in May 2021.   
Investment performance  KPI   R 
At 31 December 2020, the indicative regulatory capital position was as follows: 
Investment performance has been aggregated using a money weighted  As an asset managing business this measure 
average of our assets under management which are outperforming their  demonstrates our ability to generate investment returns for 
  2020  FY 2019 
respective benchmark. Calculations for investment performance are  our clients. 
CRD IV Group regulatory capital position  £bn  £bn  made gross of fees with the exception of those for which the stated 
Common Equity Tier 1 capital resources  2.9  2.2  comparator is net of fees. The investment performance calculation 
covers all funds that aim to outperform a benchmark, with certain assets 
Tier 2 capital resources  0.5  0.6 
excluded where this measure of performance is not appropriate or 
Total regulatory capital resources  3.4  2.8  expected, such as private markets, execution only mandates and 
Total regulatory capital requirements  (1.1)  (1.1)  Aberdeen Standard Capital, as well as replication tracker funds which 
aim to perform in line with a given index. 
Surplus regulatory capital  2.3  1.7 
   
The Group’s capital resources include c£0.8bn (2019: c£0.3bn) from holdings in insurance entities that it is expected will no longer be 
eligible following the implementation of the Investment Firm Prudential Regime (IFPR) from 1 January 2022. The IFPR is also expected 
to introduce constraints on the proportion of the minimum capital requirement that can be met by each tier of capital. As a result, it is 
estimated that c£0.3bn of existing Tier 2 capital, whilst continuing to be reported within the Group’s capital resources, would not be 
available to meet the current minimum capital requirement from 1 January 2022.  
   
  Standard Life Aberdeen 2020 227
9. Supplementary information continued 
9.4.1 Cost/income ratio  
 
  2020  2019 
Adjusted operating expenses (£m)  (1,206)  (1,333) 
Fee based revenue (£m)  1,425  1,634 
Share of associates’ and joint ventures’ profit before tax (£m)  247  246 
Cost/income ratio (%)  85  82 
Cost/income ratio including our share of associates’ and joint ventures’ profit before tax (%)  72  71 
9.4.2 Fee revenue yield (bps)1 
  Average AUMA (£bn)    Fee based revenue (£m)    Fee revenue yield (bps) 
  2020  2019    2020  2019    2020  2019 
Investments                 
Institutional and Wholesale2  235.1  239.0    922  1,027    38.8  42.8 
Insurance  204.7  258.5    224  317    10.9  12.2 
Adviser  61.5  59.3    137  150    22.3  25.3 
Personal2  12.6  10.6    80  70    58.5  59.2 
Parmenion  7.3  6.2    25  21    34.2  34.8 
Eliminations  (10.2)  (10.1)    N/A  N/A    N/A  N/A 
Fee revenue yield2  511.0  563.5    1,388  1,585    26.9  27.9 
SL Asia        7  12       
Performance fees        30  37       
Fee based revenue        1,425  1,634       
Analysis of Institutional and Wholesale by asset class3 
 
  Average AUM (£bn)    Fee based revenue (£m)    Fee revenue yield (bps) 
  2020  2019    2020  2019    2020  2019 
Equities  61.9  71.8    403  472    65.1  65.7 
Fixed income  47.1  47.5    137  131    29.0  27.6 
Multi-asset  33.5  39.3    125  173    37.4  44.0 
Private markets  16.5  15.4    79  71    47.9  46.5 
Real estate  27.1  29.3    129  142    47.8  48.3 
Alternatives4  19.0  13.0    20  17    10.5  12.9 
Quantitative  6.6  5.5    4  3    5.6  5.5 
Cash/Liquidity  23.4  17.2    16  12    6.8  7.1 
Institutional and Wholesale  235.1  239.0    913  1,021    38.8  42.8 
Analysis of Adviser revenue yield 
Fee based revenue (gross basis) includes revenue passed to the product provider as shown below in other cost of sales. The cost of 
sales are netted against fee based revenue as presented in 9.4.2 above. The fee revenue yield presented on a gross basis in the table 
below represents the average bps charge payable by clients. 
  Average AUMA (£bn)    Fee based revenue (£m)    Fee revenue yield (bps) 
  2020  2019    2020  2019    2020  2019 
Fee based revenue (net of cost of sales)  61.5  59.3    137  150    22.3  25.3 
Add: Other cost of sales – Note 4 (a)  N/A  N/A    27  26    N/A  N/A 
Fee based revenue (gross of cost of sales)  61.5  59.3    164  176    26.7  29.6 
1  Fee revenue yield is now presented on a vector basis and 2019 comparatives have been restated on this basis. See Section 9.4.3 for more information. 
2  Institutional and Wholesale fee revenue yield excludes revenue of £9m (2019: £6m) and Personal fee revenue yield excludes revenue of £7m (2019: £7m), for which there are 
no attributable assets.  
3  Excludes revenue of £9m (2019: £6m), for which there are no attributable assets. 
4  Alternatives average AUM includes c£12bn (2019: c£7bn) of lower margin advisory mandates. At 31 December 2020 the closing AUM of these mandates was c£12bn. 
   
228 Standard Life Aberdeen 2020
9. Supplementary information continued   
9.4.1 Cost/income ratio   9.4.3 Fee based revenue – reconciliation to previously disclosed information  
 
  2020  2019 
Adjusted operating expenses (£m)  (1,206)  (1,333)  Reallocation 
Fee based revenue (£m)  1,425  1,634  of technology 
business and 
Share of associates’ and joint ventures’ profit before tax (£m)  247  246  Fee based  Methodology  Virgin Money  Parmenion  Fee based 
  revenue  change  revenue  reallocation   revenue   
Cost/income ratio (%)  85  82 
2019 as previously disclosed  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  2019 on revised basis 
Cost/income ratio including our share of associates’ and joint ventures’ profit before tax (%)  72  71 
            Investments 
9.4.2 Fee revenue yield (bps)1  Institutional and Wholesale  1,011  9  7  –  1,027  Institutional and Wholesale 
  Average AUMA (£bn)    Fee based revenue (£m)    Fee revenue yield (bps) 
Strategic insurance partners  317  –  –  –  317  Insurance  F
  2020  2019    2020  2019    2020  2019  Platforms and Wealth              INAN
Investments                  Wrap and Elevate  150  –  –  –  150  Adviser  CIA
Institutional and Wholesale2  235.1  239.0    922  1,027    38.8  42.8  Wealth  107  (9)  (7)  (21)  70  Personal  L IN
F
Insurance  204.7  258.5    224  317    10.9  12.2    –  –  –  21  21  Parmenion  OR
M
Adviser  61.5  59.3    137  150    22.3  25.3  A
Eliminations  N/A  –  –  –  N/A  Eliminations  T
Personal2  12.6  10.6    80  70    58.5  59.2    1,585  –  –  –  1,585    ION
Parmenion  7.3  6.2    25  21    34.2  34.8 
SL Asia  12  –  –  –  12  SL Asia 
Eliminations  (10.2)  (10.1)    N/A  N/A    N/A  N/A   
Performance fees  37  –  –  –  37  Performance fees 
Fee revenue yield2  511.0  563.5    1,388  1,585    26.9  27.9 
Fee based revenue  1,634  –  –  –  1,634  Fee based revenue 
SL Asia        7  12       
Performance fees        30  37        9.4.4 Investment performance  
Fee based revenue        1,425  1,634          1 year    3 years    5 years 
Analysis of Institutional and Wholesale by asset class3  % of AUM ahead of benchmark1  2020  2019    2020  2019    2020  2019 
 
  Average AUM (£bn)    Fee based revenue (£m)    Fee revenue yield (bps)  Equities  73  59    74  31    62  31 
  2020  2019    2020  2019    2020  2019  Fixed income  78  83    81  86    85  72 
Equities  61.9  71.8    403  472    65.1  65.7  Multi-asset  61  68    33  46    36  61 
Fixed income  47.1  47.5    137  131    29.0  27.6  Real estate  41  39    37  48    44  36 
Multi-asset  33.5  39.3    125  173    37.4  44.0  Alternatives  95  89    95  98    93  100 
Private markets  16.5  15.4    79  71    47.9  46.5  Quantitative  32  44    17  52    24  58 
Real estate  27.1  29.3    129  142    47.8  48.3  Cash/Liquidity  94  91    89  88    87  88 
Alternatives4  19.0  13.0    20  17    10.5  12.9  Total  71  74    66  60    68  67 
Quantitative  6.6  5.5    4  3    5.6  5.5  1  The investment performance calculation covers all funds (including Insurance) that aim to outperform a benchmark, with certain assets excluded where this measure of 
performance is not appropriate or expected. Calculations for investment performance are made gross of fees except where the stated comparator is net of fees. Further details 
Cash/Liquidity  23.4  17.2    16  12    6.8  7.1  about the calculation of investment performance are included in the Glossary. 
Institutional and Wholesale  235.1  239.0    913  1,021    38.8  42.8     
Analysis of Adviser revenue yield 
Fee based revenue (gross basis) includes revenue passed to the product provider as shown below in other cost of sales. The cost of 
sales are netted against fee based revenue as presented in 9.4.2 above. The fee revenue yield presented on a gross basis in the table 
below represents the average bps charge payable by clients. 
  Average AUMA (£bn)    Fee based revenue (£m)    Fee revenue yield (bps) 
  2020  2019    2020  2019    2020  2019 
Fee based revenue (net of cost of sales)  61.5  59.3    137  150    22.3  25.3 
Add: Other cost of sales – Note 4 (a)  N/A  N/A    27  26    N/A  N/A 
Fee based revenue (gross of cost of sales)  61.5  59.3    164  176    26.7  29.6 
1  Fee revenue yield is now presented on a vector basis and 2019 comparatives have been restated on this basis. See Section 9.4.3 for more information. 
2  Institutional and Wholesale fee revenue yield excludes revenue of £9m (2019: £6m) and Personal fee revenue yield excludes revenue of £7m (2019: £7m), for which there are 
no attributable assets.  
3  Excludes revenue of £9m (2019: £6m), for which there are no attributable assets. 
4  Alternatives average AUM includes c£12bn (2019: c£7bn) of lower margin advisory mandates. At 31 December 2020 the closing AUM of these mandates was c£12bn. 
   
  Standard Life Aberdeen 2020 229
9. Supplementary information continued 
9.5  Assets under management and administration and flows  
Definition  Purpose and changes 
AUMA     
AUMA is a measure of the total assets we manage, administer or advise  The amount of funds that we manage, administer or 
on behalf of our clients. It includes assets under management (AUM),  advise directly impacts the level of fee based revenue 
assets under administration (AUA) and assets under advice (AUAdv).  that we receive. 
AUM is a measure of the total assets that we manage on behalf of  AUMA is now presented on a vector basis and 2019 
individual and institutional clients. AUM also includes captive assets  comparatives have been restated on this basis.  
managed on behalf of the Group including assets managed for corporate 
See Section 9.9 for a reconciliation to previously 
purposes. 
disclosed information. 
AUA is a measure of the total assets we administer for clients through 
platform products such as ISAs and SIPPs.  
AuAdv is a measure of the total assets we advise our clients on, for which 
there is an ongoing charge. 
Net flows     
Net flows represent gross inflows less gross outflows or redemptions. Gross  The level of net flows that we generate directly impacts 
inflows are new funds from clients. Gross outflows or redemptions is the  the level of fee based revenue that we receive.  
money withdrawn by clients during the period. 
Net flows are now presented on a vector basis and 
2019 comparatives have been restated on this basis. 
 
9.5.1 Analysis of AUMA1 
Opening  Market   Closing 
AUMA at  Gross  and other  Corporate  AUMA at 
  1 Jan 2020  inflows  Redemptions  Net flows  movements  actions  31 Dec 2020  
12 months ended 31 December 2020  £bn  £bn  £bn  £bn  £bn  £bn  £bn 
Investments               
Institutional  160.6  26.6  (23.4)   3.2   7.9  –   171.7 
Wholesale  76.1  23.2  (26.1)   (2.9)   6.8  –   80.0 
Insurance  235.8  17.6  (50.4)   (32.8)   2.2  –   205.2 
Adviser  62.6  6.3  (4.4)    1.9   2.5  –   67.0 
Personal2  12.8  1.1  (1.1)   –   0.5  –   13.3 
Parmenion  6.9  1.5  (0.5)    1.0   0.2  –   8.1 
Eliminations2  (10.2)   (2.0)   2.6   0.6  (1.1)   –  (10.7) 
Total AUMA   544.6   74.3  (103.3)  (29.0)   19.0  –   534.6 
 
Opening  Market   Closing 
AUMA at  Gross  and other  Corporate  AUMA at 
  1 Jan 2019  inflows  Redemptions  Net flows movements3  actions4  31 Dec 2019  
12 months ended 31 December 2019  £bn  £bn  £bn  £bn  £bn  £bn  £bn 
Investments               
Institutional   166.7   27.1  (41.3)   (14.2)    8.1  –   160.6 
Wholesale   72.5   23.8  (27.6)   (3.8)    6.7   0.7   76.1 
Insurance   255.0   26.9  (71.3)   (44.4)    25.2  –   235.8 
Adviser   54.2   7.0  (4.7)    2.3   6.1  –   62.6 
Personal2   5.7   1.1  (1.0)    0.1   5.2   1.8   12.8 
Parmenion   5.2   2.4  (1.3)    1.1   0.6  –   6.9 
Eliminations2  (7.8)   (2.1)    2.6   0.5  (2.9)   –  (10.2) 
Total AUMA   551.5   86.2  (144.6)   (58.4)    49.0   2.5   544.6 
1  AUMA is now presented on a vector basis and 2019 comparatives have been restated on this basis. See Section 9.9 for more information. 
2  Eliminations remove the double count reflected in Investments, Adviser and Personal. The Personal vector includes assets that are reflected in both Aberdeen Standard 
Capital and Advice businesses. This double count is also removed within Eliminations. 
3  Personal market and other movements include 1825 opening assets under advice of £4.0bn. 
4  Corporate actions in Wholesale relate to the acquisition of Orion Partners (£0.7bn). Personal corporate actions include £1.8bn of assets under advice following 1825’s 
acquisition of Grant Thornton’s wealth advisory business and BDO Northern Ireland’s wealth management business. 
 
230 Standard Life Aberdeen 2020
9. Supplementary information continued   
9.5  Assets under management and administration and flows   9.5.2 Quarterly net flows1 
Definition  Purpose and changes  3 months to   3 months to   3 months to   3 months to   3 months to  
  31 Dec 20  30 Sep 20  30 Jun 20  31 Mar 20  31 Dec 19 
AUMA     
15 months ended 31 December 2020  £bn  £bn  £bn  £bn  £bn 
AUMA is a measure of the total assets we manage, administer or advise  The amount of funds that we manage, administer or 
Investments           
on behalf of our clients. It includes assets under management (AUM),  advise directly impacts the level of fee based revenue 
Institutional  1.4  0.4  2.4  (1.0)  – 
assets under administration (AUA) and assets under advice (AUAdv).  that we receive. 
Wholesale  (0.4)  (0.5)  (0.2)  (1.8)  2.3 
AUM is a measure of the total assets that we manage on behalf of  AUMA is now presented on a vector basis and 2019 
individual and institutional clients. AUM also includes captive assets  comparatives have been restated on this basis.   Insurance  (2.6)  (4.0)  0.3  (26.5)  (10.8) 
managed on behalf of the Group including assets managed for corporate  Adviser  0.5  0.3  0.4  0.7  0.6 
See Section 9.9 for a reconciliation to previously 
purposes. 
Personal  (0.1)  –  0.2  (0.1)  0.1 
disclosed information.  F
AUA is a measure of the total assets we administer for clients through  Parmenion  0.2  0.2  0.3  0.3  0.3  INA
N
platform products such as ISAs and SIPPs.   Eliminations  0.2  0.2  –  0.2  –  CIA
L
AuAdv is a measure of the total assets we advise our clients on, for which  Total net flows  (0.8)  (3.4)  3.4  (28.2)  (7.5)   IN
there is an ongoing charge.  FO
R
9.6  Institutional and Wholesale AUM  M
Net flows      A
T
Detailed asset class split  IO
Net flows represent gross inflows less gross outflows or redemptions. Gross  The level of net flows that we generate directly impacts  N
inflows are new funds from clients. Gross outflows or redemptions is the  the level of fee based revenue that we receive.   Opening  Market   Closing  
AUM at  Gross  and other  Corporate  AUM at 
money withdrawn by clients during the period.  Net flows are now presented on a vector basis and    1 Jan 2020  inflows  Redemptions  Net flows  movements  actions  31 Dec 2020    
2019 comparatives have been restated on this basis.  12 months ended 31 December 20201  £bn  £bn  £bn  £bn  £bn  £bn  £bn 
Developed markets equities  14.7  3.6  (3.8)  (0.2)  0.2  –  14.7 
 
Emerging markets equities  21.6  1.6  (6.2)  (4.6)  2.0  –  19.0 
9.5.1 Analysis of AUMA1 
Asia Pacific equities  23.3  4.2  (4.8)  (0.6)  3.9  –  26.6 
Opening  Market   Closing 
AUMA at  Gross  and other  Corporate  AUMA at  Global equities  9.4  1.4  (2.7)  (1.3)  0.8  –  8.9 
  1 Jan 2020  inflows  Redemptions  Net flows  movements  actions  31 Dec 2020  
Total equities  69.0  10.8  (17.5)  (6.7)  6.9  –  69.2 
12 months ended 31 December 2020  £bn  £bn  £bn  £bn  £bn  £bn  £bn 
Developed markets credit  32.2  6.8  (9.3)  (2.5)  3.0  –  32.7 
Investments               
Developed markets rates  3.3  0.7  (0.9)  (0.2)  (0.3)  –  2.8 
Institutional  160.6  26.6  (23.4)   3.2   7.9  –   171.7 
Emerging markets fixed income  10.9  3.8  (2.5)  1.3  –  –  12.2 
Wholesale  76.1  23.2  (26.1)   (2.9)   6.8  –   80.0 
Total fixed income  46.4  11.3  (12.7)  (1.4)  2.7  –  47.7 
Insurance  235.8  17.6  (50.4)   (32.8)   2.2  –   205.2 
Absolute return  12.7  0.7  (2.6)  (1.9)  0.7  –  11.5 
Adviser  62.6  6.3  (4.4)    1.9   2.5  –   67.0 
Personal2  12.8  1.1  (1.1)   –   0.5  –   13.3  Diversified growth/income  1.9  0.2  (0.4)  (0.2)  (1.1)  –  0.6 
MyFolio  15.7  2.4  (2.9)  (0.5)  0.4  –  15.6 
Parmenion  6.9  1.5  (0.5)    1.0   0.2  –   8.1 
Eliminations2  (10.2)   (2.0)   2.6   0.6  (1.1)   –  (10.7)  Other multi-asset  4.1  0.9  (1.0)  (0.1)  5.7  –  9.7 
Total multi-asset  34.4  4.2  (6.9)  (2.7)  5.7  –  37.4 
Total AUMA   544.6   74.3  (103.3)  (29.0)   19.0  –   534.6 
Private equity  12.1  1.9  (1.0)  0.9  (1.8)  –  11.2 
 
Private credit and solutions  –  0.5  –  0.5  0.3  –  0.8 
Opening  Market   Closing 
AUMA at  Gross  and other  Corporate  AUMA at  Infrastructure equity  4.0  0.1  –  0.1  0.9  –  5.0 
  1 Jan 2019  inflows  Redemptions  Net flows movements3  actions4  31 Dec 2019  
Total private markets  16.1  2.5  (1.0)  1.5  (0.6)  –  17.0 
12 months ended 31 December 2019  £bn  £bn  £bn  £bn  £bn  £bn  £bn 
UK real estate  13.4  0.5  (1.3)  (0.8)  (3.4)  –  9.2 
Investments               
European real estate  12.1  1.0  (1.0)  –  –  –  12.1 
Institutional   166.7   27.1  (41.3)   (14.2)    8.1  –   160.6 
Global real estate  1.0  0.3  (0.3)  –  0.8  –  1.8 
Wholesale   72.5   23.8  (27.6)   (3.8)    6.7   0.7   76.1 
Real estate multi-manager  1.4  0.3  (0.1)  0.2  –  –  1.6 
Insurance   255.0   26.9  (71.3)   (44.4)    25.2  –   235.8 
Total real estate  27.9  2.1  (2.7)  (0.6)  (2.6)  –  24.7 
Adviser   54.2   7.0  (4.7)    2.3   6.1  –   62.6 
Personal2   5.7   1.1  (1.0)    0.1   5.2   1.8   12.8  Total alternatives  17.7  2.4  (1.1)  1.3  0.5  –  19.5 
Parmenion   5.2   2.4  (1.3)    1.1   0.6  –   6.9  Total quantitative  7.8  1.3  (1.6)  (0.3)  (1.1)  –  6.4 
Eliminations2  (7.8)   (2.1)    2.6   0.5  (2.9)   –  (10.2)  Total cash/liquidity   17.4  15.2  (6.0)  9.2  3.2  –  29.8 
Total AUMA   551.5   86.2  (144.6)   (58.4)    49.0   2.5   544.6  Total  236.7  49.8  (49.5)  0.3  14.7  –  251.7 
1  AUMA is now presented on a vector basis and 2019 comparatives have been restated on this basis. See Section 9.9 for more information.  1  AUMA is now presented on a vector basis and 2019 comparatives have been restated on this basis. See Section 9.9 for more information. 
2  Eliminations remove the double count reflected in Investments, Adviser and Personal. The Personal vector includes assets that are reflected in both Aberdeen Standard     
Capital and Advice businesses. This double count is also removed within Eliminations. 
3  Personal market and other movements include 1825 opening assets under advice of £4.0bn. 
4  Corporate actions in Wholesale relate to the acquisition of Orion Partners (£0.7bn). Personal corporate actions include £1.8bn of assets under advice following 1825’s 
acquisition of Grant Thornton’s wealth advisory business and BDO Northern Ireland’s wealth management business. 
 
  Standard Life Aberdeen 2020 231
9. Supplementary information continued 
Opening  Market   Closing  
AUM at  Gross  and other  Corporate  AUM at 
  1 Jan 2019  inflows  Redemptions  Net flows  movements  actions  31 Dec 2019  
12 months ended 31 December 20191  £bn  £bn  £bn  £bn  £bn  £bn  £bn 
Developed markets equities  12.9  2.7  (3.4)  (0.7)  2.5  –  14.7 
Emerging markets equities  25.0  2.1  (9.5)  (7.4)  4.0  –  21.6 
Asia Pacific equities  22.5  3.8  (5.3)  (1.5)  2.3  –  23.3 
Global equities  12.5  1.0  (5.6)  (4.6)  1.5  –  9.4 
Total equities  72.9  9.6  (23.8)  (14.2)  10.3  –  69.0 
Developed markets credit  32.1  6.0  (7.8)  (1.8)  1.9  –  32.2 
Developed markets rates  5.2  0.6  (2.8)  (2.2)  0.3  –  3.3 
Emerging markets fixed income  9.4  3.7  (2.5)  1.2  0.3  –  10.9 
Total fixed income  46.7  10.3  (13.1)  (2.8)  2.5  –  46.4 
Absolute return  21.9  1.1  (12.8)  (11.7)  2.5  –  12.7 
Diversified growth/income  1.7  0.5  (0.3)  0.2  –  –  1.9 
MyFolio  13.9  2.5  (2.4)  0.1  1.7  –  15.7 
Other multi-asset  5.5  0.8  (2.2)  (1.4)  –  –  4.1 
Total multi-asset  43.0  4.9  (17.7)  (12.8)  4.2  –  34.4 
Private equity  12.3  2.1  (2.8)  (0.7)  0.5  –  12.1 
Private credit and solutions  –  –  (0.1)  (0.1)  0.1  –  – 
Infrastructure equity  3.7  0.4  –  0.4  (0.1)  –  4.0 
Total private markets  16.0  2.5  (2.9)  (0.4)  0.5  –  16.1 
UK real estate  15.3  0.9  (2.3)  (1.4)  (0.5)  –  13.4 
European real estate  12.2  1.6  (0.8)  0.8  (0.9)  –  12.1 
Global real estate  0.8  0.1  (0.2)  (0.1)  (0.4)  0.7  1.0 
Real estate multi-manager  1.4  0.3  (0.2)  0.1  (0.1)  –  1.4 
Total real estate  29.7  2.9  (3.5)  (0.6)  (1.9)  0.7  27.9 
Total alternatives  12.3  7.7  (1.7)  6.0  (0.6)  –  17.7 
Total quantitative  2.1  5.2  (0.8)  4.4  1.3  –  7.8 
Total cash/liquidity   16.5  7.8  (5.4)  2.4  (1.5)  –  17.4 
Total  239.2  50.9  (68.9)  (18.0)  14.8  0.7  236.7 
9.7 Analysis of Insurance 
Opening  Market   Closing  
AUM at  Gross  Net  and other  Corporate   AUM at 
  1 Jan 2020  inflows  Redemptions   flows  movements  actions  31 Dec 2020  
12 months ended 31 December 2020  £bn  £bn  £bn  £bn  £bn  £bn  £bn 
Phoenix2  169.7  13.0  (18.7)  (5.7)  7.5  –  171.5 
Lloyds  64.5  4.2  (31.5)  (27.3)  (5.4)  –  31.8 
Other2  1.6  0.4  (0.2)  0.2  0.1  –  1.9 
Total  235.8  17.6  (50.4)  (32.8)  2.2  –  205.2 
 
Opening  Market   Closing 
AUMA at  Gross  and other  Corporate  AUMA at 
  1 Jan 2019  inflows  Redemptions  Net flows  movements   actions  31 Dec 2019 
12 months ended 31 December 2019  £bn  £bn  £bn  £bn  £bn  £bn  £bn 
Phoenix2  154.8  16.3  (17.3)  (1.0)  15.9  –  169.7 
Lloyds  98.6  10.6  (53.7)  (43.1)  9.0  –  64.5 
Other2  1.6  –  (0.3)  (0.3)  0.3  –  1.6 
Total  255.0  26.9  (71.3)  (44.4)  25.2  –  235.8 
1  AUMA is now presented on a vector basis and 2019 comparatives have been restated on this basis. See Section 9.9 for more information. 
2  Following the acquisition of ReAssure by the Phoenix Group in 2020, ReAssure is now included within Phoenix for the analysis of Insurance AUM. 2019 has been restated on 
the same basis. 
232 Standard Life Aberdeen 2020  
9. Supplementary information continued   
1
Opening  Market   Closing   9.8 Analysis of total AUM (excluding Parmenion)  
AUM at  Gross  and other  Corporate  AUM at 
9.8.1 AUM by geography 
  1 Jan 2019  inflows  Redemptions  Net flows  movements  actions  31 Dec 2019  
12 months ended 31 December 20191  £bn  £bn  £bn  £bn  £bn  £bn  £bn    31 Dec 2020  31 Dec 2019 
Institutional  Institutional and 
Developed markets equities  12.9  2.7  (3.4)  (0.7)  2.5  –  14.7   and Wholesale  Insurance  Personal2  Total  Wholesale  Insurance  Personal2  Total 
Emerging markets equities  25.0  2.1  (9.5)  (7.4)  4.0  –  21.6    £bn  £bn  £bn   £bn  £bn  £bn  £bn  £bn 
Asia Pacific equities  22.5  3.8  (5.3)  (1.5)  2.3  –  23.3  UK   116.5   205.2  7.8  329.5   112.2   235.8  7.1  355.1 
Global equities  12.5  1.0  (5.6)  (4.6)  1.5  –  9.4  Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA)   65.9  –  –   65.9   55.8  –  –   55.8 
Total equities  72.9  9.6  (23.8)  (14.2)  10.3  –  69.0  Asia Pacific (APAC)   16.8  –  –   16.8   16.9  –  –   16.9 
Developed markets credit  32.1  6.0  (7.8)  (1.8)  1.9  –  32.2  Americas   52.5  –  –   52.5   51.8  –  –   51.8 
F
Developed markets rates  5.2  0.6  (2.8)  (2.2)  0.3  –  3.3  Total AUM   251.7   205.2   7.8   464.7   236.7   235.8   7.1   479.6  INA
N
Emerging markets fixed income  9.4  3.7  (2.5)  1.2  0.3  –  10.9  C
9.8.2 AUM by asset class  IA
Total fixed income  46.7  10.3  (13.1)  (2.8)  2.5  –  46.4    31 Dec 2020  31 Dec 2019  L IN
F
Absolute return  21.9  1.1  (12.8)  (11.7)  2.5  –  12.7  O
Institutional and  Institutional and  R
Diversified growth/income  1.7  0.5  (0.3)  0.2  –  –  1.9    Wholesale  Insurance  Personal2  Total  Wholesale  Insurance  Personal2  Total  MA
T
MyFolio  13.9  2.5  (2.4)  0.1  1.7  –  15.7    £bn  £bn  £bn   £bn  £bn  £bn  £bn   £bn  IO
N
Other multi-asset  5.5  0.8  (2.2)  (1.4)  –  –  4.1  Equities   69.2   48.8  –   118.0   69.0   50.3  –   119.3 
Total multi-asset  43.0  4.9  (17.7)  (12.8)  4.2  –  34.4  Fixed income   47.7   69.0  –   116.7   46.4   88.5  –   134.9   
Private equity  12.3  2.1  (2.8)  (0.7)  0.5  –  12.1  Multi-asset   37.4   7.0   7.8   52.2   34.4   10.2   7.1   51.7 
Private credit and solutions  –  –  (0.1)  (0.1)  0.1  –  –  Private markets   17.0   1.8  –   18.8   16.1   0.8  –   16.9 
Infrastructure equity  3.7  0.4  –  0.4  (0.1)  –  4.0  Real estate   24.7   8.3  –   33.0   27.9   9.2  –   37.1 
Total private markets  16.0  2.5  (2.9)  (0.4)  0.5  –  16.1  Alternatives   19.5  –  –   19.5   17.7   0.6  –   18.3 
Quantitative    6.4   45.0  –   51.4   7.8   46.7  –   54.5 
UK real estate  15.3  0.9  (2.3)  (1.4)  (0.5)  –  13.4 
Cash/Liquidity   29.8   25.3  –   55.1   17.4   29.5  –   46.9 
European real estate  12.2  1.6  (0.8)  0.8  (0.9)  –  12.1 
Total AUM   251.7   205.2   7.8   464.7   236.7   235.8   7.1   479.6 
Global real estate  0.8  0.1  (0.2)  (0.1)  (0.4)  0.7  1.0 
Real estate multi-manager  1.4  0.3  (0.2)  0.1  (0.1)  –  1.4  1  AUMA is now presented on a vector basis and 2019 comparatives have been restated on this basis. See Section 9.9 for more information. 
2  Excludes assets under advice of £5.5bn at 31 December 2020 (2019: £5.7bn). 
Total real estate  29.7  2.9  (3.5)  (0.6)  (1.9)  0.7  27.9 
9.9 AUMA – Reconciliation to previously disclosed information  
Total alternatives  12.3  7.7  (1.7)  6.0  (0.6)  –  17.7 
Closing  Parmenion  Virgin Money  Closing 
Total quantitative  2.1  5.2  (0.8)  4.4  1.3  –  7.8 
  AUMA  reallocation   reallocation  AUMA  
Total cash/liquidity   16.5  7.8  (5.4)  2.4  (1.5)  –  17.4  2019 as previously disclosed  £bn  £bn  £bn  £bn  2019 on revised basis 
Total  239.2  50.9  (68.9)  (18.0)  14.8  0.7  236.7            Investments 
Institutional  160.6  –  –  160.6  Institutional  
9.7 Analysis of Insurance 
Wholesale  72.4  –  3.7  76.1  Wholesale 
Opening  Market   Closing  
AUM at  Gross  Net  and other  Corporate   AUM at  Strategic insurance partners  235.8  –  –  235.8  Insurance 
  1 Jan 2020  inflows  Redemptions   flows  movements  actions  31 Dec 2020  
Platforms and Wealth           
12 months ended 31 December 2020  £bn  £bn  £bn  £bn  £bn  £bn  £bn 
Wrap and Elevate  62.6  –  –  62.6  Adviser 
Phoenix2  169.7  13.0  (18.7)  (5.7)  7.5  –  171.5 
Wealth  23.4  (6.9)  (3.7)  12.8  Personal 
Lloyds  64.5  4.2  (31.5)  (27.3)  (5.4)  –  31.8 
  –  6.9  –  6.9  Parmenion 
Other2  1.6  0.4  (0.2)  0.2  0.1  –  1.9 
Eliminations  (10.2)  –  –  (10.2) Eliminations 
Total  235.8  17.6  (50.4)  (32.8)  2.2  –  205.2 
Total AUMA  544.6  –  –  544.6  Total AUMA 
   
Opening  Market   Closing 
AUMA at  Gross  and other  Corporate  AUMA at 
  1 Jan 2019  inflows  Redemptions  Net flows  movements   actions  31 Dec 2019 
12 months ended 31 December 2019  £bn  £bn  £bn  £bn  £bn  £bn  £bn 
Phoenix2  154.8  16.3  (17.3)  (1.0)  15.9  –  169.7 
Lloyds  98.6  10.6  (53.7)  (43.1)  9.0  –  64.5 
Other2  1.6  –  (0.3)  (0.3)  0.3  –  1.6 
Total  255.0  26.9  (71.3)  (44.4)  25.2  –  235.8 
1  AUMA is now presented on a vector basis and 2019 comparatives have been restated on this basis. See Section 9.9 for more information. 
2  Following the acquisition of ReAssure by the Phoenix Group in 2020, ReAssure is now included within Phoenix for the analysis of Insurance AUM. 2019 has been restated on 
the same basis. 
    Standard Life Aberdeen 2020  233  
Other 
Contents
Information 10.  Glossary ......................................................................................................................................................................236
11.  Shareholder information .............................................................................................................................................238
12.  Forward‑looking statements .......................................................................................................................................239
13.  Contact us ...................................................................................................................................................................IBC
234 Standard Life Aberdeen 2020
Contents
10.  Glossary ......................................................................................................................................................................236
11.  Shareholder information .............................................................................................................................................238
12.  Forward‑looking statements .......................................................................................................................................239
13.  Contact us ...................................................................................................................................................................IBC
O
T
H
E
R
 IN
F
O
R
M
A
T
IO
N
Standard Life Aberdeen 2020 235
10. Glossary 
Aberdeen Asset Management or Aberdeen  benefit staff pension plans and net assets relating to the financing 
Aberdeen Asset Management PLC, or Aberdeen Asset  of subordinated liabilities.  
Management PLC and its subsidiaries. 
Chief Operating Decision Maker 
Adjusted operating expenses  The executive leadership team. 
Adjusted operating expenses is a component of adjusted profit 
Company 
and relates to the day-to-day expenses of managing our business.  
Standard Life Aberdeen plc.  
Adjusted profit 
Cost/income ratio  
Adjusted profit before tax is the Group’s key alternative 
This is an efficiency measure that is calculated as adjusted 
performance measure. Adjusted profit excludes the impact of the 
operating expenses divided by fee based revenue. The measure 
following items: 
may also be disclosed on a basis that includes the share of 
• Restructuring costs and corporate transaction expenses.  associates’ and joint ventures’ profit before tax.  
Restructuring includes the impact of major regulatory change. 
CRD IV 
• Amortisation and impairment of intangible assets acquired in 
CRD IV is the European regulatory capital regime (comprising the 
business combinations and through the purchase of customer 
Capital Requirements Directive and Capital Requirements 
contracts 
Regulation) that applies to investment firms. 
• Profit or loss arising on the disposal of a subsidiary, joint venture 
or associate  Director 
• Impairment loss/reversal of impairment loss recognised on  A director of the Company. 
investments in associates and joint ventures accounted for  Earnings per share (EPS) 
using the equity method 
EPS is a commonly used financial metric which can be used to 
• Changes in fair value of significant listed investments   measure the profitability and strength of a company over time. 
• Fair value movements in contingent consideration  EPS is calculated by dividing profit by the number of ordinary 
shares. Basic EPS uses the weighted average number of ordinary 
• Items which are one-off and, due to their size or nature, are not 
shares outstanding during the year. Diluted EPS adjusts the 
indicative of the long-term operating performance of the Group 
weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding to 
Adjusted profit also excludes impacts arising from investment  assume conversion of all dilutive potential ordinary shares, such 
return variances and economic assumption changes in the  as share options awarded to employees. 
Group’s associate and joint venture insurance entities where they 
Effective tax rate  
have a policy for determining investment return variances and 
economic assumption changes. This currently applies only to the  Tax expense/(credit) attributable to equity holders’ profit divided by 
Group’s investment in Phoenix.  profit before tax attributable to equity holders’ profits expressed as 
a percentage. 
Dividends payable on preference shares classified as non-
controlling interests are excluded from adjusted profit in line with  Executive leadership team  
the treatment of ordinary shares. Similarly to preference shares,  Responsible for providing overall leadership of the business and 
coupons paid on perpetual debt instruments classified as equity  comprises: Chief Executive Officer; Chief Financial Officer; CEO 
for which interest is only accounted for when paid is excluded from  Aberdeen Standard Capital; CEO Aberdeen Standard 
adjusted profit. This includes our share of interest payable on Tier  Investments Asia Pacific; CEO Adviser Platforms; Chief HR 
1 debt instruments held by associates. Coupons payable on  Officer; Chief Investment Officer; Chief Brand, Marketing and 
perpetual debt instruments classified as equity for which interest is  Corporate Affairs Officer; Chief Risk Officer; General Counsel; 
accrued are included in adjusted profit before tax.  Global Chief Operating Officer; Global Head of Aberdeen 
Standard Investments; Global Head of Product and Client 
Assets under management and administration 
Solutions; Global Head of Strategic Partnerships; Head of 
(AUMA) 
Americas and Head of EMEA and UK. 
AUMA is a measure of the total assets we manage, administer or 
advise on behalf of our clients. It includes assets under  Fair value through profit or loss (FVTPL) 
management (AUM), assets under administration (AUA) and  FVTPL is an IFRS measurement basis permitted for assets and 
assets under advice (AUAdv). AUMA does not include assets for  liabilities which meet certain criteria. Gains or losses on assets or 
associates and joint ventures.  liabilities measured at FVTPL are recognised directly in the 
income statement.  
AUM is a measure of the total assets that Aberdeen Standard 
Investments manages on behalf of individual and institutional  FCA 
clients. AUM also includes assets managed for corporate  Financial Conduct Authority of the United Kingdom. 
purposes.  
Fee based revenue 
AUA is a measure of the total assets we administer for clients 
Fee based revenue is a component of adjusted profit and includes 
through our Platforms. AuAdv is a measure of the total assets we 
revenue we generate from asset management charges (AMCs), 
advise our clients on, for which there is an ongoing charge. 
platform charges and other transactional charges. AMCs are 
Board  earned on products such as mutual funds, and are calculated as a 
percentage fee based on the assets held. Investment risk on these 
The Board of Directors of the Company. 
products rests principally with the client, with our major indirect 
Capital management   exposure to rising or falling markets coming from higher or lower 
Capital management is a component of adjusted profit and relates  AMCs. Fee based revenue is shown net of fees, costs of sale, 
to the return from the net assets of the shareholder business, net  commissions and similar charges. Costs of sale include revenue 
of costs of financing. This includes the net assets in defined  from fund platforms which is passed to the product provider. 
236 Standard Life Aberdeen 2020    
10. Glossary continued 
10. Glossary 
 
Aberdeen Asset Management or Aberdeen  benefit staff pension plans and net assets relating to the financing  Fee revenue yield (bps)   AUM (the transferring AUM) will be transferred to third party 
Aberdeen Asset Management PLC, or Aberdeen Asset  of subordinated liabilities.   The average revenue yield on fee based business is a measure  managers appointed by LBG through a series of planned tranches 
Management PLC and its subsidiaries.  that illustrates the average margin being earned on the assets  from 24 July 2019. During this period, the Group will continue to 
Chief Operating Decision Maker 
under management, administration or advice. It is calculated as  be remunerated for its services in relation to the transferring AUM. 
Adjusted operating expenses  The executive leadership team. 
annualised fee based revenue (excluding performance fees, SL  Net flows 
Adjusted operating expenses is a component of adjusted profit  Company  Asia, Focus and Threesixty) divided by monthly average fee 
Net flows represent gross inflows less gross outflows or 
and relates to the day-to-day expenses of managing our business.   Standard Life Aberdeen plc.   based assets.   redemptions. Gross inflows are new funds from clients. Gross 
Adjusted profit  Cost/income ratio   Global absolute return strategies (GARS)  outflows or redemptions is the money withdrawn by clients during 
Adjusted profit before tax is the Group’s key alternative  This is an efficiency measure that is calculated as adjusted  A discretionary multi-asset fund provided under several regulated  the period. 
performance measure. Adjusted profit excludes the impact of the  operating expenses divided by fee based revenue. The measure  pooled and segregated structures globally by Aberdeen Standard  Phoenix or Phoenix Group 
following items:  may also be disclosed on a basis that includes the share of  Investments. The investment objective is to target a level of return  Phoenix Group Holdings plc or Phoenix Group Holdings plc and 
• Restructuring costs and corporate transaction expenses.  associates’ and joint ventures’ profit before tax.   over a rolling three-year period equivalent to cash plus 5% a year  its subsidiaries. 
Restructuring includes the impact of major regulatory change.  (gross of fees), and to do so with as little risk as possible. 
CRD IV  Pillar 1 
• Amortisation and impairment of intangible assets acquired in  Group, Standard Life Aberdeen Group or Standard 
CRD IV is the European regulatory capital regime (comprising the  Under CRD IV, Pillar 1 focuses on fixed overhead requirements 
business combinations and through the purchase of customer  Capital Requirements Directive and Capital Requirements  Life Aberdeen  and the Group’s exposure to credit and market risks in respect of 
contracts 
Regulation) that applies to investment firms.  Relates to the Company and its subsidiaries.   risk-weighted assets, and sets a minimum requirement for capital 
• Profit or loss arising on the disposal of a subsidiary, joint venture  based on these measures. 
or associate  Director  Growth vectors 
• Impairment loss/reversal of impairment loss recognised on  A director of the Company.  We provide services across three growth vectors:  Pillar 2  O
investments in associates and joint ventures accounted for  Earnings per share (EPS)  • Investments: Asset management investment solutions for  The requirement for companies to assess the level of additional  THE
using the equity method  EPS is a commonly used financial metric which can be used to  institutional, wholesale and insurance clients  capital held against risks not covered in Pillar 1.  R IN
• Changes in fair value of significant listed investments   measure the profitability and strength of a company over time.  • Adviser: Our Wrap and Elevate adviser platforms   Pillar 3  FO
R
• Fair value movements in contingent consideration  EPS is calculated by dividing profit by the number of ordinary  • Personal: Comprises our 1825 financial planning and advice  This complements Pillar 1 and Pillar 2 with the aim of improving  MA
• Items which are one-off and, due to their size or nature, are not  shares. Basic EPS uses the weighted average number of ordinary  business and our Aberdeen Standard Capital discretionary  market discipline by requiring companies to publish certain details  TIO
indicative of the long-term operating performance of the Group  shares outstanding during the year. Diluted EPS adjusts the  investment management business  of their risks, capital and risk management. The latest available  N
weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding to  Group’s Pillar 3 disclosures are published at 
Adjusted profit also excludes impacts arising from investment  assume conversion of all dilutive potential ordinary shares, such  ICAAP  www.standardlifeaberdeen.com/annualreport 
return variances and economic assumption changes in the  as share options awarded to employees.  Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process. The ICAAP is the 
Group’s associate and joint venture insurance entities where they  means by which the Group assesses the level of capital that  Platform    
have a policy for determining investment return variances and  Effective tax rate   adequately supports all of the relevant current and future risks in  An investment platform (e.g. Wrap or Elevate) which is essentially 
economic assumption changes. This currently applies only to the  Tax expense/(credit) attributable to equity holders’ profit divided by  its business.  a trading platform enabling investment funds, pensions, direct 
Group’s investment in Phoenix.  profit before tax attributable to equity holders’ profits expressed as  equity holdings and some life assurance contracts to be held in the 
a percentage.  International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS)  same administrative account rather than as separate holdings. 
Dividends payable on preference shares classified as non- International Financial Reporting Standards are accounting 
controlling interests are excluded from adjusted profit in line with  Executive leadership team   standards issued by the International Accounting Standards Board  Pro forma basis 
the treatment of ordinary shares. Similarly to preference shares,  Responsible for providing overall leadership of the business and  (IASB).   The merger of Standard Life plc and Aberdeen completed on 14 
coupons paid on perpetual debt instruments classified as equity  comprises: Chief Executive Officer; Chief Financial Officer; CEO  August 2017, with the merger accounted for as an acquisition of 
for which interest is only accounted for when paid is excluded from  Aberdeen Standard Capital; CEO Aberdeen Standard  Investment performance  Aberdeen by Standard Life plc on that date. Pro forma results for 
adjusted profit. This includes our share of interest payable on Tier  Investments Asia Pacific; CEO Adviser Platforms; Chief HR  Investment performance has been aggregated using a money  the Group are prepared as if Standard Life Group and Aberdeen 
1 debt instruments held by associates. Coupons payable on  Officer; Chief Investment Officer; Chief Brand, Marketing and  weighted average of our assets under management which are  had always been merged and are included for comparative 
perpetual debt instruments classified as equity for which interest is  Corporate Affairs Officer; Chief Risk Officer; General Counsel;  outperforming their respective benchmark. Calculations for  periods to assist in explaining trends in financial performance by 
accrued are included in adjusted profit before tax.  Global Chief Operating Officer; Global Head of Aberdeen  investment performance are made gross of fees with the  showing a full 12 months performance for the combined Group for 
Standard Investments; Global Head of Product and Client  exception of those for which the stated comparator is net of fees.  all years.  
Assets under management and administration 
Solutions; Global Head of Strategic Partnerships; Head of  Benchmarks differ by fund and are defined in each fund’s 
(AUMA)  Reported basis 
Americas and Head of EMEA and UK.  Investment Management Agreement (for example, the benchmark 
AUMA is a measure of the total assets we manage, administer or  for our GARS unit trust fund is six-month GBP LIBOR). The  The merger of Standard Life plc and Aberdeen completed on 14 
advise on behalf of our clients. It includes assets under  Fair value through profit or loss (FVTPL)  investment performance calculation covers all funds that aim to  August 2017, with the merger accounted for as an acquisition of 
management (AUM), assets under administration (AUA) and  FVTPL is an IFRS measurement basis permitted for assets and  outperform a benchmark, with certain assets excluded where this  Aberdeen by Standard Life plc on that date. The financial 
assets under advice (AUAdv). AUMA does not include assets for  liabilities which meet certain criteria. Gains or losses on assets or  measure of performance is not appropriate or expected, such as  statements for 2017 have been prepared on this basis, with 
associates and joint ventures.  liabilities measured at FVTPL are recognised directly in the  private markets, execution only mandates and Aberdeen Standard  Aberdeen results included only from the date of merger onwards. 
income statement.   Capital, as well as replication tracker funds which aim to perform  This is referred to as the Reported basis.  
AUM is a measure of the total assets that Aberdeen Standard 
in line with a given index. Investment performance is calculated as 
Investments manages on behalf of individual and institutional  FCA  Subordinated liabilities 
if Standard Life Group and Aberdeen had always been merged. 
clients. AUM also includes assets managed for corporate  Financial Conduct Authority of the United Kingdom.  Subordinated liabilities are debts of a company which, in the event 
purposes.   LBG tranche withdrawals  of liquidation, rank below its other debts but above share capital.  
Fee based revenue 
AUA is a measure of the total assets we administer for clients  On 24 July 2019, the Group announced that it had agreed a final 
Fee based revenue is a component of adjusted profit and includes   
through our Platforms. AuAdv is a measure of the total assets we  settlement in relation to the arbitration proceedings between the 
revenue we generate from asset management charges (AMCs), 
advise our clients on, for which there is an ongoing charge.  parties concerning LBG’s attempt to terminate investment 
platform charges and other transactional charges. AMCs are 
management arrangements under which assets were managed 
Board  earned on products such as mutual funds, and are calculated as a  by members of the Group for LBG entities. In its decision of March 
percentage fee based on the assets held. Investment risk on these 
The Board of Directors of the Company.  2019, the arbitral tribunal found that LBG was not entitled to 
products rests principally with the client, with our major indirect 
terminate these investment management contracts. The Group 
Capital management   exposure to rising or falling markets coming from higher or lower 
had continued to manage approximately £104bn (as at 30 June 
Capital management is a component of adjusted profit and relates  AMCs. Fee based revenue is shown net of fees, costs of sale,  2019) of assets under management (AUM) for LBG entities during 
to the return from the net assets of the shareholder business, net  commissions and similar charges. Costs of sale include revenue  the period of the dispute. Approximately two thirds of the total 
of costs of financing. This includes the net assets in defined  from fund platforms which is passed to the product provider. 
        Standard Life Aberdeen 2020 237
11. Shareholder information 
Registered office  Preventing unsolicited mail 
1 George Street  By law, the Company has to make certain details from its share 
Edinburgh  register publicly available. Because of this, it is possible that some 
EH2 2LL  registered shareholders could receive unsolicited mail or phone 
Scotland  calls. You could also be targeted by fraudulent ‘investment 
specialists’. Frauds are becoming much more sophisticated and 
Company registration number: SC286832 
may use company branding, or email addresses that appear to 
For shareholder services call:   come from the company. If you get a social or email message and 
0345 113 0045*  you're unsure if it is from us, you can send it to 
emailscams@aberdeenstandard.com and we'll look into it for 
*Calls may be monitored and/or recorded to protect both you and us and help with our 
you.  
training. Call charges will vary. 
Secretary  You can find more information about share scams at the Financial 
Kenneth A Gilmour  Conduct Authority website www.fca.org.uk/consumers/scams 
If you are a certificated shareholder, your name and address may 
Registrar 
appear on a public register. Using a nominee company to hold 
Link Market Services Limited (Link) 
your shares can help protect your privacy. You can transfer your 
Auditors  shares into the Company-sponsored nominee – the Standard Life 
KPMG LLP  Aberdeen Share Account – by contacting Link, or you could get in 
touch with your broker to find out about their nominee services. 
Solicitors 
Slaughter and May  If you want to limit the amount of unsolicited mail you receive 
generally, please visit www.mpsonline.org.uk 
Brokers 
Financial calendar 
JP Morgan Cazenove 
Goldman Sachs 
Full year results 2020  9 March 
Shareholder services  Ex-dividend date for 2020 final dividend  15 April 
We offer a wide range of shareholder services. For more 
information, please:  Record date for 2020 final dividend  16 April 
• Contact our registrar, Link, who manage this service for us.  Last date for DRIP elections for 2020 final 
5 May 
Their details can be found on the inside back cover.  dividend 
• Visit our share portal at  Annual General Meeting – Edinburgh  18 May 
www.standardlifeaberdeenshares.com 
Dividend payment date for 2020 final dividend  25 May 
Sign up for Ecommunications 
Signing up means:  Half year results 2021  10 August 
• You’ll receive an email when documents like the Annual report  Ex-dividend date for 2021 interim dividend  19 August 
and accounts, Half year results and AGM guide are available on 
our website   Record date for 2021 interim dividend  20 August 
• Voting instructions for the Annual General Meeting will be sent 
Last date for DRIP elections for 2021 
to you electronically  8 September 
interim dividend 
Dividend payment date for 2021 interim dividend  28 September 
Set up a share portal account 
Having a share portal account means you can: 
• Manage your account at a time that suits you  Analysis of registered shareholdings at 31 December 2020 
• Download your documents when you need them    Number  % of total  Number of  % of total 
Range of shares of holders  holders  shares  shares 
 
1-1,000  63,666  65.24  25,688,131  1.17 
To find out how to sign up, visit 
1,001-5,000  29,045  29.76  59,210,354  2.70 
  www.standardlifeaberdeenshares.com 
5,001-10,000  2,778  2.85  18,480,640  0.84 
 
10,001-100,000  1,564  1.60  38,235,469  1.74 
 
#100,001+  538  0.55  2,052,501,022  93.55 
Total  97,591  100.00  2,194,115,616  100.00 
#  These figures include the Company-sponsored nominee – the Standard Life 
Aberdeen Share Account – which had 994,615 participants holding 665,021,873 
shares. 
 
238 Standard Life Aberdeen 2020
11. Shareholder information  12. Forward-looking statements 
 
Registered office  Preventing unsolicited mail  This document may contain certain ‘forward-looking statements’ with respect to the financial condition, performance, results, strategy, 
1 George Street  By law, the Company has to make certain details from its share  targets, objectives, plans, goals and expectations of the Company and its affiliates. These forward-looking statements can be identified 
Edinburgh  register publicly available. Because of this, it is possible that some  by the fact that they do not relate only to historical or current facts. 
EH2 2LL  registered shareholders could receive unsolicited mail or phone 
Forward-looking statements are prospective in nature and are not based on historical or current facts, but rather on current expectations, 
Scotland  calls. You could also be targeted by fraudulent ‘investment 
assumptions and projections of management about future events, and are therefore subject to risks and uncertainties which could cause 
specialists’. Frauds are becoming much more sophisticated and 
Company registration number: SC286832  actual results to differ materially from the future results expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements. For example but without 
may use company branding, or email addresses that appear to 
limitation, statements containing words such as ‘may’, ‘will’, ‘should’, ‘could’, ‘continue’, ‘aims’, ‘estimates’, ‘projects’, ‘believes’, ‘intends’, 
For shareholder services call:   come from the company. If you get a social or email message and 
‘expects’, ‘hopes’, ‘plans’, ‘pursues’, ‘ensure’, ‘seeks’, ‘targets’ and ‘anticipates’, and words of similar meaning (including the negative of 
0345 113 0045*  you're unsure if it is from us, you can send it to  these terms), may be forward-looking. These statements are based on assumptions and assessments made by the Company in light of 
emailscams@aberdeenstandard.com and we'll look into it for 
*Calls may be monitored and/or recorded to protect both you and us and help with our  its experience and its perception of historical trends, current conditions, future developments and other factors it believes appropriate. 
you.  
training. Call charges will vary. 
By their nature, all forward-looking statements involve risk and uncertainty because they are based on information available at the time 
Secretary  You can find more information about share scams at the Financial  they are made, including current expectations and assumptions, and relate to future events and/or depend on circumstances which may 
Kenneth A Gilmour  Conduct Authority website www.fca.org.uk/consumers/scams  be or are beyond the Group’s control, including among other things: the direct and indirect impacts and implications of the coronavirus 
If you are a certificated shareholder, your name and address may  COVID-19 on the economy, nationally and internationally, and on the Group, its operations and prospects; UK domestic and global 
Registrar 
appear on a public register. Using a nominee company to hold  political, economic and business conditions (such as the UK’s exit from the EU); market related risks such as fluctuations in interest 
Link Market Services Limited (Link) 
your shares can help protect your privacy. You can transfer your  rates and exchange rates, and the performance of financial markets generally; the impact of inflation and deflation; the impact of 
Auditors  shares into the Company-sponsored nominee – the Standard Life  competition; the timing, impact and other uncertainties associated with future acquisitions, disposals or combinations undertaken by the 
KPMG LLP  Aberdeen Share Account – by contacting Link, or you could get in  Company or its affiliates and/or within relevant industries; the value of and earnings from the Group’s strategic investments and ongoing 
touch with your broker to find out about their nominee services.  commercial relationships; default by counterparties; information technology or data security breaches (including the Group being subject 
Solicitors  to cyberattacks); operational information technology risks, including the Group’s operations being highly dependent on its information  O
Slaughter and May  If you want to limit the amount of unsolicited mail you receive  technology systems (both internal and outsourced); natural or man-made catastrophic events (including the impact of the coronavirus  TH
Brokers  generally, please visit www.mpsonline.org.uk  COVID-19); climate change and a transition to a low-carbon economy (including the risk that the Group may not achieve its targets);  ER IN
JP Morgan Cazenove  Financial calendar  exposure to third party risks including as a result of outsourcing; the failure to attract or retain necessary key personnel; the policies and  FO
actions of regulatory authorities (including changes in response to the coronavirus COVID-19 and its impact on the economy); and the  R
Goldman Sachs  M
Full year results 2020  9 March  impact of changes in capital, solvency or accounting standards, and tax and other legislation and regulations (including changes to the  A
T
regulatory capital requirements that the Group is subject to or changes in connection with the coronavirus COVID-19) in the jurisdictions  IO
N
Shareholder services  Ex-dividend date for 2020 final dividend  15 April  in which the Company and its affiliates operate. As a result, the Group’s actual future financial condition, performance and results may 
We offer a wide range of shareholder services. For more  differ materially from the plans, goals, objectives and expectations set forth in the forward-looking statements. 
information, please:  Record date for 2020 final dividend  16 April   
Persons receiving this document should not place reliance on forward-looking statements. Neither the Company nor its affiliates assume 
• Contact our registrar, Link, who manage this service for us.  Last date for DRIP elections for 2020 final  5 May  any obligation to update or correct any of the forward-looking statements contained in this document or any other forward-looking 
Their details can be found on the inside back cover.  dividend  statements it or they may make (whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise), except as required by law. Past 
• Visit our share portal at  Annual General Meeting – Edinburgh  18 May  performance is not an indicator of future results and the results of the Company and its affiliates in this document may not be indicative 
www.standardlifeaberdeenshares.com  of, and are not an estimate, forecast or projection of, the Company’s or its affiliates’ future results.   
Dividend payment date for 2020 final dividend  25 May 
Sign up for Ecommunications 
Signing up means:  Half year results 2021  10 August 
• You’ll receive an email when documents like the Annual report  Ex-dividend date for 2021 interim dividend  19 August 
and accounts, Half year results and AGM guide are available on 
our website   Record date for 2021 interim dividend  20 August 
• Voting instructions for the Annual General Meeting will be sent 
Last date for DRIP elections for 2021 
to you electronically  8 September 
interim dividend 
Dividend payment date for 2021 interim dividend  28 September 
Set up a share portal account 
Having a share portal account means you can: 
• Manage your account at a time that suits you  Analysis of registered shareholdings at 31 December 2020 
• Download your documents when you need them    Number  % of total  Number of  % of total 
Range of shares of holders  holders  shares  shares 
 
1-1,000  63,666  65.24  25,688,131  1.17 
To find out how to sign up, visit 
1,001-5,000  29,045  29.76  59,210,354  2.70 
  www.standardlifeaberdeenshares.com 
5,001-10,000  2,778  2.85  18,480,640  0.84 
 
10,001-100,000  1,564  1.60  38,235,469  1.74 
 
#100,001+  538  0.55  2,052,501,022  93.55 
Total  97,591  100.00  2,194,115,616  100.00 
#  These figures include the Company-sponsored nominee – the Standard Life 
Aberdeen Share Account – which had 994,615 participants holding 665,021,873 
shares. 
 
 
  Standard Life Aberdeen 2020 239
 
 
Notes 
240 Standard Life Aberdeen 2020    
Contact us
Got a shareholder question? Contact our shareholder services team.
UK and Ireland
phone   0345 113 0045*
  (01) 431 9829*
  +44 (0)20 3367 8224*
email   questions@standardlifeaberdeenshares.com
visit   www.standardlifeaberdeenshares.com
mail   Standard Life Aberdeen Shareholder Services 
  C/o Link Group 
  10th Floor 
  Central Square 
  29 Wellington Street 
  Leeds LS1 4DL
Germany
phone   +49 (0)69 9753 3030*
email   fragen@standardlifeaberdeenshares.de
visit   www.standardlifeaberdeenshares.com
mail   Standard Life Aberdeen Aktionärsservice 
  Postfach 2705 
  36243 Niederaula 
  Germany
Canada
phone   1‑866‑982‑9939
email   questions@standardlifeaberdeenshares.ca
visit   www.standardlifeaberdeenshares.com
mail   Standard Life Aberdeen Shareholder Services 
  PO Box 4636, Station A 
  Toronto M5W 7A4 
  Canada
* Calls may be monitored and/or recorded to protect both you and us and help with our training. Call charges will vary.
S
t
a
n
d
a
r
d
 
L
i
f
e
 
A
b
e
r
d
e
e
n
 
p
l
c
 
 
 
 
 
A
n
n
u
a
l
 
r
e
p
o
r
t
 
a
n
d
 
a
c
c
o
u
n
t
s
 
2
0
2
0
Designed by Black Sun Plc (Strategic report) and  
Standard Life Aberdeen plc (rest of Annual report and accounts)
Published by Adare SEC (Nottingham) Limited
Please remember that the value of shares can go down as well as up 
and you may not get back the full amount invested or any income from it. 
All figures and share price information have been calculated as at  
31 December 2020 (unless otherwise indicated).
This document has been published by Standard Life Aberdeen plc for 
information only. It is based on our understanding as at March 2021 and 
does not provide financial or legal advice.
Standard Life Aberdeen plc is registered in Scotland (SC286832)  
at 1 George Street, Edinburgh EH2 2LL.
www.standardlifeaberdeen.com © 2021 Standard Life Aberdeen,  
images reproduced under licence. All rights reserved.
UKARA20 0321