
Achieving 
positive impact
Allianz Global Investors
Sustainability Report 2020
Value. Shared.
Contents
01  02 
Introduction Sustainability strategy 
and governance
01.1 CEO perspective  03
01.2  Introduction from the Global Head of  02.1  Sustainable investing: strategy  
Sustainable and Impact Investing  04 and approach  09
01.3 About Allianz Global Investors  05 02.2  Our purpose and impact  11
01.4 Our global context   07 02.3  Assessing the financial implications  
of climate change  13
02.4  Contributing to the UN Sustainable 
Development Goals (SDGs)  15
02.5  Governance  16
03  04 
Sustainable investing Sustainable business 
operations
03.1 ESG research and analysis  19
03.2  Active stewardship  20 04.1 Client satisfaction  31
03.3  Integrated ESG  25 04.2 Human resources  32
03.4  Sustainable strategies  26 04.3 Compliance and data privacy  38
03.5 S DG-aligned  27 04.4 Environmental management  40
03.6 Impact investing  28 04.5 Corporate citizenship  41
Allianz Global Investors Sustainability Report 2020 1
01
01 
Introduction
01.1 CEO perspective
01.2  Introduction from the 
Global Head of Sustainable  Introduction
and Impact Investing 
01.3  About Allianz  
Global Investors
01.4 Our global context
02 
Sustainability strategy 
and governance
03 
Sustainable investing
04 
Sustainable business operations
Allianz Global Investors (AllianzGI) is an  About this report Among the first
active investment management firm and part  As we continue to drive transparency and performance  50 
across our sustainable investment approach and 
of Allianz Group. Our focus is on securing the 
beyond, we published our first full Sustainability  asset managers to sign PRI in 2007
future for our clients. Sustainable investing 
Report in 2019. This year, our reporting also includes a 
is in our DNA. We began our sustainable  separate Stewardship Report 2020 which details our  Active in sustainable investing since
investing journey over 20 years ago and  engagement and proxy voting and a separate Climate- 1999
Related Financial Disclosure which sets out our climate-
published our first global Responsible 
related risks and opportunities and how we integrate 
Investing Report in 2018. them into our business. A or A+
For information on the sustainability commitments 
score across all Principles for  
and performance of Allianz Group, please refer to 
Responsible Investment (PRI) categories*
the Allianz Group Sustainability Report 2020.
AllianzGI Stewardship Report 2020 
AllianzGI TCFD Report 2020 
Allianz Group Sustainability Report 2020
*  AllianzGI achieved the highest possible “A+” score for five categories: Strategy and Governance, Listed Equity – Incorporation, Infrastructure Equity and,  
for the first time, Listed Equity – Active Ownership and Fixed Income – Corporate Non-Financial. A ranking, a rating or an award provides no indicator of future 
performance and is not constant over time.
Allianz Global Investors Sustainability Report 2020 2
01.1 CEO perspective
01 
Introduction
01.1 CEO perspective
01.2  Introduction from the 
Global Head of Sustainable  We know that focusing on the long term, especially  and achieve a sustainable future. We see blended 
and Impact Investing  at times of peak market volatility, is essential for  finance, where we have specialised expertise, as an 
01.3  About Allianz   preserving and enhancing our clients’ wealth.   efficient way to mobilise capital in these markets. 
Global Investors Our focus on sustainable investing is critical to that  This combines public capital from development finance 
01.4 Our global context perspective. What’s more, our clients increasingly put  institutions and philanthropic funds to create attractive 
environmental, social and governance (ESG) concerns  opportunities for private investors – a strong example 
02  at the top of their list of priorities. As asset managers,  of collaborative approaches in action.
Sustainability strategy  we play a leading role in facilitating the flow of private 
and governance With the appointment in December 2020 of Matt 
capital into sustainable investments, to combat 
Christensen as our new Global Head of Sustainable 
issues such as climate change and its far-reaching 
03  and Impact Investing, we are set to accelerate our 
implications. I believe that active asset managers 
Sustainable investing progress. An early milestone was the conversion of 74 
are uniquely placed to make a difference. Engaging 
of our investment strategies to meet sustainable criteria, 
constructively with our investee companies – and 
04  affecting EUR 70 billion of assets under management 
Sustainable business operations exercising our voting rights to influence their operations  in 2021. We are also beginning a specialised climate 
and strategy – is just one way we contribute to a more 
engagement programme that combines exclusions 
sustainable future.
Tobias C. Pross and engagement to help companies on their climate 
Chief Executive Officer  In response to Covid-19, many investors intensified  transition pathway – underscoring the urgency with 
Allianz Global Investors their focus on sustainable investing as the pandemic  which we and our clients view this topic. 
shone a light on vulnerabilities within companies, 
The broader global context for sustainable investing 
communities and broader society. As governments 
is positive too. Overall, it seems we can look forward 
across the world pledge to “build back better”, private 
The year 2020 may be remembered for  to greater cooperation around the world on the most 
capital – channeled in a targeted way, frequently by 
pressing issues facing humanity, such as climate 
all the wrong reasons, but I am proud of  active asset managers – is, and will be, a critical part 
change. The UN Climate Change Conference, 
the way we continued serving our clients  of the long-term solution. We see new investment 
scheduled for November 2021, will be another 
opportunities being created, and some of these will 
amid the challenges. Covid-19 reshaped the  important show of global coordination, and we 
require innovative financing approaches.
world, in some ways that will be temporary  are pleased to be a sponsor. With a strong belief 
So, while I am proud of our 20-year track record in  in the necessity of collaboration, we are using our 
and others that have more fundamental 
sustainable investing, now is not the time to lean back.  membership of the Climate Action 100+ initiative, 
implications. Throughout the year, we stayed 
That is why our sustainable investment proposition  pressing the largest corporate greenhouse gas emitters 
focused on our core purpose of securing our  continues to evolve at pace. Clients increasingly  to act. 
clients’ future – a goal we share with our  want their investments to contribute to positive real-
I welcome your feedback on this report, as our partners 
world change, and we have expanded our range of 
parent company, Allianz.  in making change happen. Thank you.
products aligned to the United Nations Sustainable 
Development Goals (SDGs). Our SDG offering now 
targets outcome-led topics including food security,  Tobias C. Pross
global water and smart energy. Chief Executive Officer 
Allianz Global Investors
Our impact investing strategies – also focused on 
positive environmental and social outcomes – range 
from green bonds to a variety of private markets 
investments, including renewable infrastructure and 
development finance. The latter is a crucial source 
of financing for emerging and frontier markets as 
they seek to reduce poverty, drive economic growth 
Allianz Global Investors Sustainability Report 2020 3
01.2  Introduction from the Global Head of Sustainable 
01 
Introduction
and Impact Investing
01.1 CEO perspective
01.2  Introduction from the 
Global Head of Sustainable  Indeed, rather than distracting attention from  Governments will do their part to encourage the change 
and Impact Investing  sustainability, the pandemic has highlighted real-world  they want to see. The European Union has committed to 
01.3  About Allianz   issues that only sustainable investments can help  making ESG concerns a central part of financial services 
Global Investors solve. In addition, many sustainable finance products  regulation – including with the important new mandate 
01.4 Our global context have exhibited resilient performance during this  for sustainability-related disclosures in the financial 
period of volatility – further underscoring the case for  services sector (SFDR). Moreover, the EU Taxonomy to be 
02  sustainable investing. implemented by the end of 2021 will show investors what 
Sustainability strategy  funds labelled “environmentally sustainable” should 
and governance But increased investor commitment comes with 
entail. These actions set a template for other countries 
significantly higher expectations. The next challenge 
around the world.
03  for the asset management industry is to help our clients 
Sustainable investing position themselves for the opportunities of the new era  Furthermore, the pandemic showed that governments 
of sustainable investing – and to help clients target the  are unafraid to take action to address crises. There is no 
04  outcomes they seek. escaping the critical role that governments play – from 
Sustainable business operations setting policy on climate change to sponsoring the 
This is a challenge embraced by all of us at Allianz 
research and development required to develop zero-
Global Investors. The last financial crisis still casts a 
Matt Christensen carbon solutions. Many have heard the global rallying 
long shadow on the industry, and we must use this 
Head of Sustainable and Impact Investing  cry to “build back better” following the pandemic – and 
opportunity to build our clients’ trust and show our 
Allianz Global Investors that requires thinking sustainably.
purpose. That means allocating capital to areas with 
the most transformative opportunities – for investors  While much of the focus has rightly been on climate 
and for society at large. change, as asset managers we must be ready to help 
The past year has been an inflection point for  our clients address other areas of growing priority – 
These are just some of the many reasons why, at this 
including providing better healthcare, improving food 
sustainable investing. In previous years, the  time of change and transformation, I am excited to join 
security, conquering the digital divide and addressing 
focus for asset managers was often on proving  Allianz Global Investors in my new role as Global Head 
inequality in all its guises – that are rising up the 
of Sustainable and Impact Investing. 
the performance of sustainable strategies.  agenda for investors.
With the passing of 2020, the massive flows  The world is also experiencing a transformational 
Yet even with so much work to be done, I am 
moment – as evidenced by the meaningful, 
into these strategies speak for themselves:  encouraged that the world is moving in the right 
coordinated action being taken on climate change. 
people have been convinced of the necessity  direction. Asset managers can continue to do their part 
The Paris Agreement sets legally binding targets for 
by working with partners and clients – across both the 
and value of investing sustainably.  countries to combat climate change, and US President 
public and private sectors – to create opportunities, 
Joe Biden took an early decision to have the US 
This represents a fundamental shift in mindset.  rejoin this key global initiative. The UN Sustainable  not just identify them. Investors want to see real-world 
Even as the Covid-19 pandemic roiled the markets  Development Goals, now six years old, provide another  change, and it is incumbent on the industry to help 
and upended ways of working and living, investors  clear blueprint for government action – and they also  make this happen. This report showcases what we are 
allocated more to sustainable investing strategies.  show investors how to have a measurable impact on  doing at Allianz Global Investors on that score. We 
have a number of key milestones planned for 2021, 
This growth is set to continue. In its best-case  real-world issues. but I am proud of the contribution we showcase in the 
scenario, PwC predicts that environmental, social and  Moreover, the European Green Deal means the EU will  following pages, as both a sustainable investor and a 
governance (ESG) fund assets under management  push to become climate-neutral by 2050, and China  sustainable business.
could account for over 50% of total European mutual  has pledged to reach “peak carbon” by 2030 on the 
fund assets by 2025, representing a compound annual  way to its goal of carbon-neutrality by 2060. Clearly, 
growth rate of 28.8% from 2019 to 20251. meaningful improvements will be achieved over the  Matt Christensen
Head of Sustainable and Impact Investing 
coming decades. 
Allianz Global Investors
1 “2022: The growth opportunity of the century”, PwC, 2020
Allianz Global Investors Sustainability Report 2020 4
01.3 About Allianz Global Investors
01 
Introduction
01.1 CEO perspective
01.2  Introduction from the 
Global Head of Sustainable  As one of the world’s leading active asset 
and Impact Investing  managers, AllianzGI employs more than 730  2020 highlights
01.3  About Allianz  
investment professionals and 600 relationship 
Global Investors
managers across 24 offices worldwide. 
01.4 Our global context EUR 582bn  A+
Together, we manage EUR 582 billion1  
02  (USD 712 billion) of assets for institutions   Total assets under management. A+ score from the PRI Association for 
Sustainability strategy 
and governance and individuals around the globe.  Strategy and Governance for four 
consecutive years; we retained our 
We offer a diversified range of active investment  high marks of 2019 and improved in the 
03  EUR 205.5bn* 
Sustainable investing strategies across four main pillars: equities, fixed  Listed Equity – Active Ownership and 
income, multi asset and alternatives. Our key markets  Fixed Income – Corporate Non-Financial 
04  are in Europe, the Asia-Pacific region and the  Total value of sustainable   categories, receiving an “A+” for both.
Sustainable business operations United States.  investment offering.
We have built extensive expertise covering developed 
and emerging markets, and public and private markets. 
+24%  Client 
Our investment advisory services, delivered by our 
specialist risklab offering, help clients achieve their  Increase in assets under management  satisfaction 
investment objectives. (AuM) in sustainable investments 
compared to 2019. 1st quartile ratings and Quality Leader 
in core markets Germany and Europe.
1  Data as at 31 December 2020.
*  This figure includes EUR 156.2bn of integrated ESG assets that are not considered 
sustainable according to EU Sustainable Finance Disclosure Regulation. 
Allianz Global Investors Sustainability Report 2020 5
01.3 About Allianz Global Investors continued
01 
Introduction
01.1 CEO perspective
01.2  Introduction from the 
Global Head of Sustainable  Active asset management Our commitment to elevating the active asset  3. Foster a fulfilling work environment for employees
and Impact Investing  Our commitment to active asset management is  management experience for clients includes unlocking the  We motivate our people by fostering a merit-
01.3  About Allianz   clear. Being an active asset manager offers unique  full potential of our sustainable investing proposition by:  based, values-driven culture and providing the right 
Global Investors
advantages in today’s investment environment –   – Integrating ESG risk considerations into  technology and support. The annual global Allianz 
01.4 Our global context whatever the asset class, geographic scope or  our investment processes and active  Engagement Survey is our main tool for assessing 
investment style. Being active also allows us to stay  stewardship approach  employee satisfaction. The results highlight what is 
02  ahead of our clients’ future needs. working well and where we need to improve (see 
Sustainability strategy  – Constructing portfolios designed for strong  section 4.2).
and governance We engineer active solutions that meet our clients’  sustainability performance 
unique investment challenges, powered by an  4. Grow our company organically and sustainably 
03  innovative approach to allocation and a deep  – Allocating capital in a way that, in addition to  We measure our growth in terms of revenues and net 
Sustainable investing understanding of risk. With 60 investment advisers  generating financial returns, seeks to support   cash flow to gauge the extent to which we are offering 
globally, risklab, an advisory team within AllianzGI,  specific environmental or social outcomes to create  clients the most relevant and attractive capabilities.
04  helps our clients to meet their investment goals through  long-term value for our clients and society.
Sustainable business operations specialist advice and solutions.*  Creating long-term value 5. Generate profitable growth for our shareholders
All five objectives are interlinked: by serving our 
We build our solutions around three primary  Our mission is to secure the future for our clients. 
clients well and motivating our employees to excel, 
investment pillars: Creating value goes beyond simply delivering 
our company will grow sustainably and deliver strong 
investment returns. Our clients are our centre of gravity 
– A technology-enhanced listed markets research  results for our shareholders over the long term.
and we aim to generate value through long-term 
platform which harmonises fundamental and 
partnerships that support them every step of the way. 
quantitative inputs to help find alpha for our clients 
across a range of truly active products We focus on five principal business objectives:
– A forward-looking approach to factor investing  1. Generate strong investment returns for our clients
that enables us to further diversify the sources  We measure our strategies’ asset-weighted 
of potential investment alpha, and optimise risk  performance against their benchmarks over one- and 
management costs three-year periods. We also track how strategies are 
– A powerful private markets engine focused on  performing against peers.
expanding the boundaries of active management to  2. Provide excellent client service 
help find solutions for both Allianz and our clients.
We measure client satisfaction through an annual 
survey carried out by independent consultants 
Greenwich Associates. It assesses how our institutional 
and intermediary clients view our investment and client-
services. We aim to achieve first-quartile performance 
and we use the feedback to identify areas where we 
can strengthen our offerings (see section 4.1).
*  Advice is provided through local expertise, as far as permissible by 
applicable law, leveraging advice from the global team
Allianz Global Investors Sustainability Report 2020 6
01.4 Our global context
01 
Introduction
01.1 CEO perspective
01.2  Introduction from the 
Global Head of Sustainable  As well as its devastating human cost, the  Global cooperation on climate change Given these developments, sustainable investing has 
and Impact Investing  Covid-19 pandemic has fuelled significant  Even as they battle the pandemic, governments around  become an essential consideration in effective portfolio 
01.3  About Allianz   disruption and market volatility over the  the world are putting the spotlight on sustainability –  management. Asset managers play a leading role in 
Global Investors particularly efforts to combat climate change. There  driving capital towards sustainable companies and 
past year. At the same time, it has reinforced 
01.4 Our global context are signs of renewed global cooperation with Joe  projects that address what investors view as the world’s 
the importance of sustainable investing  Biden’s first act as US president to re-join the Paris  biggest challenges. Governments are realising the 
02  with many governments committing  Climate Agreement. The EU’s Green Deal outlines a  benefits of rejuvenating existing infrastructure – such 
Saunsdt agionvaebrinliatyn csetrategy  to “build back better” through major  framework to ensure all member states are carbon  as electricity networks – while building the social, 
neutral by 2050 and China has implemented its own  environmental and energy projects that will support 
infrastructure programmes. 
green deal, committing to carbon neutrality by 2060.  the wellbeing and prosperity of future generations. 
03 
Sustainable investing Building back better following the pandemic All these developments present a strong need for  Companies are increasingly finding that addressing 
funding and will create further opportunities for private  sustainability issues such as climate change can shape 
04  The Covid-19 pandemic is testing the resilience of  investors to support the transition to clean energy  their strategy and improve their competitive position. 
Sustainable business operations economies, markets and businesses worldwide.   and development of technologies that will enable the  Finally, investors are seeing proof that consciously 
Within some badly impacted sectors, certain  achievement of bold climate ambitions. approaching ESG factors as a risk management toolkit 
companies prospered – showing the importance for  can improve their risk-adjusted return potential. 
investors of being able to identify firms which can  Continued rise in sustainable investing
weather unprecedented and unforeseen events.  Unsurprisingly, investors everywhere are looking to  We expect these trends to continue as sustainable 
Analysing environmental, social and governance (ESG)  see their values represented in the way they invest.  principles stand investors in good stead during both 
factors is a crucial tool for identifying major risks and  They want to know that they are contributing to real  the good times and through challenging times such 
assessing the resilience of businesses.  and positive change. The increasing recognition of the  as these.
Many investors have responded to the crisis by  importance of sustainable investing has translated into 
refocusing their priorities and examining the social  global ESG assets totalling USD 40.5 trillion in 2020,  
and environmental impact of economic activity.  a figure that has doubled over the previous four years.2
Investors are increasingly looking towards putting  Investment opportunities to support the global 
their capital to work in a sustainable way. Demand is  sustainability agenda could take the form of public-
growing quickly for creative and targeted investments  private partnerships, with contributing parties 
that drive meaningful real-world change in response  shouldering different responsibilities across the value 
to challenges such as climate change and social  chain to address societal and environmental priorities. 
inequality. The growing racial justice movement in the  Thematic-focused investing around these goals can 
US and elsewhere has highlighted social issues that are  give investors access to opportunities aligned with 
in urgent need of solutions.  the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and other 
These topics are not going to go away and there  long-term trends. 
is encouraging evidence that they are gaining 
momentum. As governments seek to “build back 
better” following the pandemic, they are putting 
green initiatives and approaches at the heart of their 
infrastructure programmes. The prolonged period of 
low interest rates looks set to continue and access to 
affordable debt could make innovative projects an 
increasing reality, particularly in emerging markets.
2 Opimas, http://www.opimas.com/research/570/detail/ 
Allianz Global Investors Sustainability Report 2020 7
02
01 
Introduction
02 
Sustainability strategy 
and governance Sustainability strategy 
02.1   Sustainable investing: strategy 
and approach
02.2 Our purpose and impact
02.3  Assessing the financial   and governance
implications of climate change
02.4  Contributing to the  
UN Sustainable Development  
Goals (SDGs)
02.5 G  overnance
03 
Sustainable investing
04 
Sustainable business operations
Sustainability is at the heart of our investment 
Stakeholders
process and our purpose to help secure 
our clients’ future. We aim to address the 
most important sustainability issues for our 
Sustainability at Allianz Global Investors
stakeholders and our business through a 
robust strategy and governance. 
Sustainable  Sustainable 
Our sustainability strategy is focused on two  investing business
key priorities.
Sustainable investing drives capital allocation and 
corporate engagement as key levers for sustainable 
development.  Shareholder Regulators Clients Employees Civil society
Sustainable business ensures we run our operations 
sustainably and make a positive contribution to local 
communities and the wider society.
Allianz Global Investors Sustainability Report 2020 8
02.1 Sustainable investing: strategy and approach
01 
Introduction
02 
Sustainability strategy 
and governance Our track record and commitment to ESG  In 2021, we took further steps to strengthen our  SDG-aligned
dates back two decades. Our conviction  sustainability value proposition, converting 74  Public market investments in companies that enable 
02.1 S  ustainable investing: strategy 
and approach today is that ESG factors matter in all  strategies to meet sustainability criteria. This represents  positive change towards one or multiple Sustainable 
product conversions of EUR 70 billion in 2021. We  Development Goals (SDGs) – labelled as “SDG-aligned” 
02.2 Our purpose and impact investment decisions. Reflecting on the 
are in the process of launching an innovative climate  investments. 
02.3  Assessing the financial   diverse needs of our clients, we offer a range  engagement approach to drive investee companies 
implications of climate change See page 28
of sustainable investing approaches that  towards transition pathways for a low carbon future.
02.4  Contributing to the   Impact investing
UN Sustainable Development   support clients in managing risk, addressing  Integrated ESG*
Goals (SDGs) real-world problems and generating returns  Combining integrated ESG analysis with robust  Public market investments (such as green bonds) 
or private market investments designed to deliver 
02.5 G  overnance from investments. stewardship and engagement to help improve risk 
outcomes and report against key performance 
profiles and steer companies towards more sustainable 
03  As a pioneer of sustainable investing solutions, we were  long-term profitability. We believe this adds up to more  indicators specifically related to societal or 
Sustainable investing environmental goals, known in the industry as ”impact” 
among the first 50 asset managers to sign up to the  robust risk management and improved investment 
investments. 
Principles for Responsible Investment in 2007. In 2015,  performance without constraining the investment 
04  we launched a green bond strategy ahead of the  universe upfront.  See page 29 
Sustainable business operations
Paris agreement and we were the first asset manager 
See page 25
to back the private investment and venture capital 
sector in Africa. In 2020, we expanded our SDG aligned  Sustainable Sustainable investment 
product range to six strategies. Our total assets under  Sustainable strategies apply sustainability assessments  AuM growth (billion)
management in sustainable investments reached EUR  to construct portfolios reflecting our clients’ values.   205.5bn
206 billion in 2020. All apply exclusions and climate engagement or SRI 
best-in-class in addition. We offer sustainable strategies 
We regard sustainable investing as a long-term market  165.1bn
across equities, fixed income and multi-asset.
trend underscored by three core beliefs: 
See page 26
– ESG factors are increasingly intrinsic to investment 
performance 156.2
– Client and regulatory demand for sustainable  135
investing will continue to increase
– Active engagement instead of exclusions is the most 
effective strategy to achieve real world impact.
42.9
Our current business strategy aims for all assets under  23.5
management to be classified as one of the following  6.6 6.4
sustainability categories: Integrated ESG; Sustainable;  2019 2020
SDG-aligned; Impact; or ESG risk-assessed (where we  SDG-aligned/ Sustainable Integrated ESG*
aim to consider sustainability risks in our investment  impact investing
processes for all assets we manage).
Source: Allianz Global Investors, 2021. For illustrative purposes only. Allianz Global Investors supports the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs)
*  Integrated ESG is not considered sustainable according to EU Sustainable Finance Disclosure Regulation. AllianzGI categories Sustainable, SDG-aligned and 
Impact are sustainable according to EU Sustainable Finance Disclosure Regulation
Allianz Global Investors Sustainability Report 2020 9
02.1 Sustainable investing: strategy and approach continued
01 
Introduction
02 
Sustainability strategy 
and governance Sustainable business operations Compliance and data privacy: Our clients’ trust is our 
Beyond generating long-term financial returns for  licence to operate. Our robust policy framework and 
02.1 S  ustainable investing: strategy 
and approach clients, we strive to manage the potential impact of our  strong control mechanisms are designed to ensure 
operations – both positive and negative – on society,  employees follow the company’s Code of Ethics. 
02.2 Our purpose and impact
local communities and the environment. We believe  See page 39
02.3  Assessing the financial  
we have a responsibility to lead by example and to 
implications of climate change Environmental management: Like any global 
hold ourselves to account, clearly demonstrating 
02.4  Contributing to the   business, our stakeholders expect us to manage our 
the standards and commitments we expect of the 
UN Sustainable Development   consumption of natural resources efficiently and 
Goals (SDGs) companies we invest in. 
effectively and to manage the potential detrimental 
02.5 G  overnance See page 31 environmental impacts of our operations.
Client satisfaction: Our long-term success is built on  See page 41
03 
clients’ trust in our integrity and our products, the way 
Sustainable investing Corporate citizenship: We aim to connect with and 
we inform and advise them, and the personal conduct 
contribute to the social and economic development 
and capability of our people. We measure client 
04  of society and local communities around the world 
Sustainable business operations satisfaction so we can continually improve our service.
through our global operations.
See page 32
See page 42
Human resources: As an active manager, we depend 
on attracting and retaining talented people who 
share our core values of passion, integrity, respect 
and excellence. 
See page 33
Allianz Global Investors Sustainability Report 2020 10
02.2 Our purpose and impact
01 
Introduction
02 
Sustainability strategy 
and governance Our purpose is not only to help secure the  Our approach As a next step, we analysed the level of influence we 
02.1   Sustainable investing: strategy  future for our clients and ensure financial  After identifying our stakeholder groups, we highlighted  can exert on the identified issues, whether through the 
and approach returns to our shareholders. At the same time,  those issues that we think are most important to them  allocation of assets on behalf of our clients or through 
and our business. We used a diverse range of sources  our own business operations or conduct. Finally,  
02.2 Our purpose and impact we seek to make a positive contribution to  of information to conduct our assessment. A significant  to validate the assessment, our Sustainability team 
02.3  Assessing the financial   society as a whole.  contributor was the analysis conducted in 2019 by our  engaged with internal stakeholders, including senior 
implications of climate change
parent company, Allianz, which draws on surveys   managers from different functions (including executive 
02.4  Contributing to the   To focus our sustainability approach, we identified  of employees and clients and external data sources  management, HR, distribution, legal and compliance, 
UN Sustainable Development  
Goals (SDGs) the most important issues for our stakeholders and  such as RepRisk (for media) and SIGWATCH   and investments) to review the results. 
our business. This helps us target our efforts and  (for non-governmental organisations).
02.5 G  overnance
reporting to ensure we are doing as much as we can 
to exert a positive influence where we can make the 
03 
biggest difference.
Sustainable investing
04 
1.  Identification   2. Prioritisation 3. Outcomes
Sustainable business operations
and engagement
Use of Allianz SE’s materiality analysis,  Engagement with internal stakeholders  Identification of 11 issues which stakeholders 
based on internal and external stakeholder  from a broad range of functions to rate the  consider to be of the highest importance.
engagement, as well as external data sources.  importance of previously identified issues.
These issues will continuously guide our 
Reassessment of the issues relevant to   These stakeholders were asked to quantify  allocation of resources and inform our 
our business. the extent to which they think Allianz Global  strategic priorities.
Investors can influence these issues.
Grouping of neighbouring and  
overlapping issues.
Allianz Global Investors Sustainability Report 2020 11
02.2 Our purpose and impact continued
01 
Introduction
02 
Sustainability strategy 
and governance The results of the assessment identified the  F. Supporting employees and the workplace 
following sustainability topics that we perceive as the  encompasses future, current and past employees.  Important issues for Allianz Global Investors
02.1   Sustainable investing: strategy 
most important to address:  Employees are the key driver of our business. Their 
and approach
expertise, diversity and skills in the context of an  A
02.2 Our purpose and impact A. Delivering on clients’ goals is the key driver of  inclusive workplace are the reason we can thrive as an  llia
02.3  Aimsspeliscsaintigo nths eo fif nclaimncaitael  c hange oaunrd b bursainneds rse. pInuvteasttiomne anltl  pcoernftorirbmuaten ctoe ,o culire snut sstearivniecde   aoffcteivr eth mea snoalugtieorn, isn tshpeirye n treuesdt .among our clients and  nzGI's a F A
02.4  CUGoNona Stlrsui bs(StuaDtiinGnags)b tloe  tDhee v elopment   sscuthacaycniengsges . c aAlonssd leo d ntiosgr -outueprrt micol niien.nvtess itno rtism, wees  ocof anccecenlteraratete odn   fGo.r F maactnoyr oinfg o iunr  ecnlievnirtosn, emmepnltoayle iesssu aensd is i nevsesestneteia l  bility to inﬂ D G
00S23u .s5t aG inoavbelren iannvceesting BomAuc.a crCn osoatrmadgkiebne,ag hw totieonld  gcteha crenls i  Wmdarnaoivdtreel, d g pc iEohvcesaoinntni vgtoheeme  ci sihvc oaa Fl nusogemrrueie omo uon’ssf    t2aihs0ssiss2u e1teot  sGfp owlicro e.ab  lal l  cteaaonnkmvdei rp aodacnifftnmievieeerseln.yn tC aet anfl orfgiornamoggts pai,n ribgninoc otul unotd  fte hionneugv rie r ibmnouvnpismrrionoenevnmisntsage oln  tpitsh esceura aents i  ownisth   uence the issu C H I E K J B
investee companies. e
Risks Report, failure to act on climate change is the 
04 
Sustainable business operations number one long-term risk in terms of impact, and  H. Championing human rights is important to all  Importance to stakeholders
second in terms of likelihood. In this context, we help  stakeholders. As an active investor, we can use our 
our clients to reflect climate risks and opportunities in  influence with the companies in which we invest or  Inﬂuenced mainly by how we invest X
their holdings. We also encourage investee companies  apply investment filters to exclude companies that do 
to integrate climate change considerations in their  not meet the appropriate standards. Inﬂuenced mainly by how we operate our business X
strategic decision-making process. I. Enabling innovation is material to our business in two  Via investments and in operations X
C. Fostering corporate citizenship is an area where we  key ways. Client and market dynamics make innovation 
can provide a direct contribution to local communities  an imperative while an innovative culture is a key driver  K. Complying with regulation is a prerequisite for 
and wider society – through outreach, volunteering and  for attracting and retaining top talent – creating a  doing business in financial services, and has always 
fundraising – while fostering employee engagement. virtuous circle of innovation. been critical to establishing and maintaining trust with 
D. Safeguarding data privacy is a material issue  J. Navigating market volatility is a key requirement  clients and other stakeholders. The increasing emphasis 
for our clients: they want to be confident that we are  for our clients, including investors and their advisers.  on sustainable finance is leading to a major rewrite 
handling their data correctly. It is also a focus for our  They want their investment manager to show thought  of the rule books for corporations, asset managers, 
company engagement activities given the increased  leadership to help them to understand better  investors and their advisers. In this context, two 
risk it represents for our investee companies. the ramifications, protect their wealth in times of  elements are particularly important: transparency and 
decreasing markets and actively seize opportunities  availability of adequate investment solutions. 
E. Monitoring demographic change remains a 
in an effort to generate alpha. Our sustainable 
major consideration for our clients with the majority 
approach helps us to think long-term even in times 
of the assets we manage designed to provide future 
of market dislocation.
retirement income. With average life expectancy 
rising across the globe, public pay-as-you-go pension 
schemes are under increasing pressure, which 
underscores the importance of funded pensions.
Allianz Global Investors Sustainability Report 2020 12
02.3 Assessing the financial implications of climate change
01 
Introduction
02 
Sustainability strategy 
and governance As an active investor, we are positioned to  Next to mainstream strategies, we offer climate  Climate risk management
find innovative ways to reallocate capital  thematic and impact-driven opportunities such  We have performed in-depth initial assessments of 
02.1   Sustainable investing: strategy 
and approach to support a climate transition that meets  as green bonds, climate transition equity and  a range of pathways and different methodologies to 
illiquid renewable energy equity. These “green”  help foster internal debate around climate scenario 
02.2 Our purpose and impact the Paris Agreement goals. As part of our 
assets contribute to the alignment of an asset  analysis. Currently, we see a rapidly increasing number 
02.3 A ssessing the financial   commitment to increase transparency  owner’s portfolio and its compatibility with climate  of methodologies, all of which seek to estimate climate-
implications of climate change
and performance across our sustainable  transition targets. related risks. Several of them, despite differing inputs 
02.4  Contributing to the  
UN Sustainable Development   investment approach, we published our first  A key belief in our philosophy surrounding climate  and methodologies, lead to highly similar outputs. 
Goals (SDGs) Task Force on Climate-Related Financial  investments is that public corporate disclosures on  This is why we believe an important starting point for a 
02.5 G  overnance climate are not yet in-depth enough to inform simple  globally aligned climate risk assessment is a common 
Disclosures (TCFD) report for 2020.
rules-based strategies. We believe market inefficiencies  set of standards on climate scenario assumptions 
03  We strongly believe that, for investors to be able to  on climate risks and opportunities exist and active  such as:
Sustainable investing make informed decisions, companies must report  research and corporate engagement are necessary  – Being associated with limiting warming to 1.5°C 
comprehensively on how they are tackling dominant  to comprehensively tackle the dominant long-term  above pre-industrial levels, with at least 50% 
04  global long-term trends, such as climate change. We  global trends.  probability (or at least well below 2°C with more than 
Sustainable business operations
have been an active member of the Paris Aligned  Climate-related risks and opportunities 66% probability)
Investment Initiative, launched by the Institutional 
Diverse transition and physical climate factors may  – Targeting global net zero emissions by 2050, 
Investors Group on Climate Change (IIGCC) to develop 
pose a significant risk or opportunity in the short,  or soon after
a “Net Zero Investment Framework”. 
medium and long term – through the value of assets 
– Providing differentiated pathway information 
For more information see our Climate Policy Framework   we manage on behalf of our clients, the investment 
for regions and sectors which may require net 
on our website products at the core of our business and how we 
zero emissions earlier or later, consistent with the 
operate as a corporation.
Climate strategy global goal
According to the World Economic Forum’s Global Risks  In the short term, we see policy and reputational risks of  – Having a global peak emissions year of the current 
Report 2021, failure of climate change mitigation and  our investee companies as the leading climate-related  year or later
adaption is a pressing long-term risk in terms of both  risks that may affect investments. In the medium 
impact and likelihood. In this context, we help our  term, market and technology risks associated with the  – Embracing (or linking to) a multi-sector model, taking 
clients to reflect climate risks and opportunities in their  climate transition may develop more substantially,  account of all emissions sources
holdings. As a committed member of the Net Zero  while acute physical risks may emerge more frequently.  – Relying on limited volume of Negative Emissions 
Asset Manager Initiative, we are focused on supporting  In the long term, we take the view that chronic physical  Technologies (NETs) to 2050.
the goal of net zero greenhouse gas emissions by 2050,  climate risks could become more substantial.
in line with global efforts to limit warming to 1.5°C  When it comes to the opportunities, we see initiatives  While these details are still being finalised, they have 
(net zero emissions by 2050 or sooner). that enable and benefit from the climate transition  allowed us to gather valuable insights to assess the 
potential climate risks of our investees and generate 
as the leading climate-related opportunities that 
portfolio profiles around climate change mitigation 
may affect investments in the short term. In the 
and adaptation. Our aim is to continue to develop 
medium and long term, climate-related investment 
and enhance our climate capabilities and adjust them 
opportunities will arise from competitive positioning 
in response to the latest advancements in climate 
and climate innovation.
science investments.
Allianz Global Investors Sustainability Report 2020 13
02.3 Assessing the financial implications of climate change continued
01 
Introduction
02 
Sustainability strategy 
and governance We will also continue to engage with companies 
on climate-related issues and encourage them  TCFD-focused climate engagement also explored which options companies consider 
02.1   Sustainable investing: strategy 
and approach to increase transparency reporting on TCFD and  In 2020, we engaged major oil companies in Europe  when it comes to low-carbon business models, for 
science-based targets, for example. We believe  and the United States on their path to an energy  example with respect to investments in renewables. 
02.2 Our purpose and impact
02.3 Ai msspeliscsaintigo nths eo fif nclaimncaitael  c hange tphrios vwidilel dle taod o tuor i minvperostvoerds  tqou eanliatyb olef  tdhisecmlo tsou rmese et their  ttrhaisn sseitciotonr. ,W ureg cinogn csiodmerp oaunriseesl vtoe sa amne ancdt itvhee oirw bnuesirn iens s  Dexupriencgt aotuior ne nthgaatg ceommepnatns,i ewse s hexopurldes dsiesdcl othsee  more 
02.4  Contributing to the   climate ambitions.  model and transition to low-carbon energy provision. consistently on climate-related risks, whether physical 
UN Sustainable Development   Active stewardship We scrutinised the ways companies are  or transitional. We also encourage companies 
Goals (SDGs) Recognising the importance of climate change and  implementing TCFD recommendations in relation to  to join the Science Based Targets Initiative (SBTi) 
02.5 G  overnance the power of engagement to drive real-world impact,  governance, strategy, stress-testing, resilience and  and closely monitor the industry’s lobbying activity 
we have launched a dedicated climate engagement  risk metrics, and expressed our expectation that  to analyse the extent to which industry lobby 
03  approach for a number of funds. Our approach  companies endorse these recommendations. We  groups’ activities conflict with their commitment to 
Sustainable investing focuses on engagement with companies on the climate  addressing climate change.
transition pathway towards a low-carbon economy.
04 
Sustainable business operations See page 27 for more details of this initiative. Investment-related climate metrics 
Metrics and targets Indicator Unit 2020 YOY change 2019
We aim to be as transparent as possible in our 
climate-related profile. This includes disclosure of our  Listed equity portfolio indicators
investment-related climate metrics. We will also report 
Total financed emissions mn t CO 13.44 -13.0% 15.45
on Net Zero Asset Manager activities in our annual  2
PRI reporting. 
Portfolio carbon intensity t CO/€ mn invested 59.70 -27.6% 82.45
2
We have committed to setting an interim target for 
Weighted average carbon intensity t CO/€ mn revenues 135.57 -5.7% 143.77
the proportion of assets to be managed in line with  2
the ambition of net zero emissions by 2050 or sooner. 
Emission data coverage of equities AuM % 96.5% 0.7% 95.8%
We will review our interim target at least every five 
years with a view to increasing the proportion of assets  Corporate bonds portfolio indicators
under management covered until 100% of assets 
are included.3  Total financed emissions mn t CO 18.01 11.6% 16.4
2
Portfolio carbon intensity t CO/€ mn invested 127.37 6.7% 119.35
2
Weighted average carbon intensity t CO/€ mn revenues 216.86 4.9% 206.71
2
Emission data coverage of corporate bonds 
AuM % 86.5% 2.3% 84.6%
Green assets 
3 T he portfolio carbon footprint report is designed to show the implied CO2  Investments in renewable energy EUR mn 4,756.27 -10.4% 5,307.00
emission intensity of all companies in the portfolio versus the benchmark.  
It is based on underlying data comprised of estimated annual direct (scope 1) 
and indirect (scope 2) CO emission of corporates. Total carbon intensity is the  Investments in green bonds EUR mn 6,468.07 41.9% 4,557.00
2
weighted sum of the carbon intensity of the underlying corporates adjusted 
by their respective weight in the portfolio or the benchmark. all values as at 31 December 2020
For metrics related to our business operations, see p40 ; for more information see our separate TCFD report
Allianz Global Investors Sustainability Report 2020 14
02.4 Contributing to the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs)
01 
Introduction
02 
Sustainability strategy 
and governance The UN SDGs have come to represent a  – Much of our business is linked to retirement saving and  3. SDGs addressed through our investment strategies 
global call to action for stakeholders from all  wealth management and capital preservation. We  – Our investments increasingly target companies and 
02.1   Sustainable investing: strategy 
and approach countries to address the challenges facing  help to secure stable income streams across ages and  activities that support and facilitate positive change 
provide a solution to demographic change, reducing  towards achieving one or multiple SDGs. 
02.2 Our purpose and impact society. Business has a clear role to play and 
inequalities across age cohorts and generations.
02.3  Assessing the financial   the goals have become an important tool for  – We address these SDGs via impact and SDG-aligned 
implications of climate change investments.
assessing companies’ impact on society. 
02.4 C  ontributing to the  
– We are expanding these strategies to offer our 
UN Sustainable Development  
Goals (SDGs) We have the opportunity to make a positive,  clients more opportunities to invest directly into one 
02.5 G  overnance measurable contribution to the SDGs through our core  – Climate risks have become a major consideration in  or multiple SDGs, with a view to supporting positive 
business and targeted investments. We support the  our assessment of the value of potential holdings.  change across the universe of SDGs.
delivery of the SDGs as an employer and as an active, 
03  As an active investor, we look for innovative ways to 
engaged investor. 
Sustainable investing reallocate capital towards a low-carbon economy. 
Our client-centric approach to seeking the most 
– We respond to the rising commitments of clients and 
04  promising allocation of capital contributes to many  
Sustainable business operations asset owners to decarbonise their portfolios – as 
of the SDGs, both directly and indirectly. 
exemplified by our membership of the Net Zero Asset 
We cluster our contribution to the SDGs into three  Managers Initiative to act on climate demands with 
different categories: other investment industry members.
1.  SDGs that are inextricably linked to our purpose 
and are material to our core business as an 
asset manager
– We have identified five SDGs to which we contribute  – Our involvement in collaborative initiatives, such as 
through our investment activities. Climate Action 100+, and partnerships with public 
– Our portfolio managers aim to identify the most  finance (blended finance) drive progress towards 
promising business ideas and allocate clients’ money  the SDGs.
to areas that provide sustainable outcomes. 
– In line with our growing private markets 
infrastructure business, we are increasingly laying the 
early foundations to maximise the opportunity for a 
prosperous economy.  2.  SDGs supported by our operations and corporate 
citizenship activities 
– In the longer term, our sustainable investment 
– We contribute to several SDGs through our business 
activities promote inclusive and sustainable 
operations, as an employer and through our 
economic growth, employment and decent work 
corporate citizenship activities. 
for all.
Allianz Global Investors Sustainability Report 2020 15
02.5 Governance
01 
Introduction
02 
Sustainability strategy 
and governance Sustainability is embedded throughout  sustainable investing, which is headed by Matt  the central governance and decision-making body 
AllianzGI, and our sustainability approach  Christensen, who joined as Global Head of Sustainable  for AllianzGI and other relevant committees on 
02.1   Sustainable investing: strategy 
and Impact Investing in late 2020. He succeeded  sustainability issues. The Executive Committee has 
and approach is encouraged and overseen by senior 
Beatrix Anton-Groenemeyer, AllianzGI’s first Chief  responsibility for all sustainability-related topics. The 
02.2 Our purpose and impact management. Our position as part of the 
Sustainability Officer. Beatrix integrated all key  Investment Executive Committee and Global Head of 
02.3  Assessing the financial   broader Allianz Group also means we are  sustainable investment functions and paved the  Investments have responsibility for all sustainability 
implications of climate change
subject to its strong governance requirements  ground to set a strong foundation for AllianzGI’s  related topics within investments.
02.4  Contributing to the   next steps on sustainability. Matt Christensen’s 
UN Sustainable Development   relating to ESG matters.  The Sustainable Investment team at Allianz Global 
strategically important role will accelerate the growth 
Goals (SDGs) Investors is overseen by the Global Head of Sustainable 
02.5 G  overnance Sustainability governance of impact investing as part of our fast-growing  and Impact Investing and comprises:
private markets offering. He will lead the continued 
The Allianz Group ESG Board is the highest governing 
integration of ESG factors across AllianzGI’s existing  – Sustainable Investment Office
03  body for sustainability issues and oversees the Allianz 
public markets offering, including the evolution of the 
Sustainable investing Group Climate Change Strategy. It comprises five  – Sustainability Methodologies and Analytics
team’s organization to support data, research and 
members of the Allianz SE Board of Management, 
stewardship activities as well as the development of  – Sustainability Research and Stewardship
04  meets quarterly and reports to the Allianz SE Board 
Sustainable business operations new sustainable investment products.
on relevant topics and activities at least twice a year.  – Impact Investing Private Markets. 
Allianz Group has created a dedicated Group Centre  AllianzGI has a Sustainable Investment Working 
Each team is supported by a network of sustainability 
for Global Sustainability to support the group-wide  Group in place with representatives from the 
specialists to develop and implement our strategy and 
implementation of Allianz Group ESG Strategy.   Investment Executive Committee and relevant internal 
policy, inform individual strategies and communicate 
At AllianzGI, we have a dedicated function for  stakeholders. It advises the Executive Committee, 
our sustainable proposition to clients. 
Organisational Structure – Sustainable and Impact Investing Sustainability Governance Structure
Global Head of Sustainable and Impact Investing Executive Committee
Sustainability  
Investment Executive Committee
Research and Stewardship
Impact 
Sustainable   Sustainability  
Investing  
Investment  Methodologies  
Private 
Office and Analytics
Markets
Sustainability  Sustainable Investing  Global Proxy   Sustainability  
Stewardship
Research Working Group Voting Committee Committee
Allianz Global Investors Sustainability Report 2020 16
03
01 
Introduction
02 
Sustainability strategy 
and governance Sustainable
03 
Sustainable investing
03.1 ESG research and analysis investing
03.2 Active stewardship 
03.3 Integrated ESG 
03.4 Sustainable strategies
03.5 SDG-aligned
03.6 Impact investing
04 
Sustainable business operations
With sustainable investing no longer seen 
as a trend but as an essential consideration 
in portfolio management, the investment 
Integrated ESG* Sustainable SDG-aligned Impact
industry is at a tipping point. Sustainable 
investments can deliver significant positive  Risk Values Mission Impact
outcomes, and active engagement with the 
Integrating material  Using ESG assessments  Intentionally contributing   Generating measurable 
companies in which we invest also offers huge  environmental, social  to construct portfolios  to positive environmental  environmental and 
potential benefits. and governance (ESG)  reflecting our clients’  and societal change in  societal outcomes against 
values through  alignment with one or  specific key performance 
risk considerations into 
Sustainable investing incorporates non-financial inputs,  exclusions and climate  multiple UN Sustainable  indicators in alignment 
investment analysis and 
such as ESG factors, to seek sustainable outcomes and  engagement or SRI  Development Goals  with one or multiple SDGs. 
strong financial returns. Integration of ESG criteria and  decisions without  Best-in-Class  (SDGs).  Allianz Global Investors supports the 
development of sustainable investing solutions is at  constraining the   considerations  Allianz Global Investors supports the   UN SDGs.
the heart of our sustainable investing approach with  investment universe. UN SDGs.
the potential to deliver significant positive outcomes. 
Active engagement with investee companies is a key 
component. For example, we may help to accelerate a  Active stewardship: company engagement and proxy voting
company’s decision to exit unsustainable practices or to 
enter new business areas that provide solutions with a 
*  Integrated ESG is not considered sustainable according to EU Sustainable Finance Disclosure Regulation. AllianzGI categories Sustainable, SDG-aligned and 
positive societal impact.  Impact are sustainable according to EU Sustainable Finance Disclosure Regulation
Allianz Global Investors Sustainability Report 2020 17
03 Sustainable investing continued
01 
Introduction
02 
Sustainability strategy 
and governance What is ESG? Our sustainable investing journey
ESG is defined as the consideration of environmental, social and governance factors alongside financial factors in  In 2007, AllianzGI was among the first 50 asset 
03  the investment decision-making process.  managers to sign the UN-supported Principles for 
Sustainable investing Responsible Investment (PRI). The PRI Reporting 
03.1 ESG research and analysis Environment Social Governance Framework aims to build a common language 
and industry standard for reporting responsible 
03.2 Active stewardship 
investment activities. 
03.3 Integrated ESG  Climate change Human capital Risk management
03.4 Sustainable strategies Today, the principles continue to guide our approach 
03.5 SDG-aligned and drive continuous improvement across our 
Health  
03.6 Impact investing Natural resources and safety  Corporate leadership business. Given the diversity of investors’ objectives 
and requirements, we provide a broad range of 
approaches, adaptable to different levels of ESG 
04  Pollution  
Sustainable business operations and waste Supply chain Internal controls incorporation and client preferences. This diverse 
approach enhances clients’ investment decisions and 
creates wide benefits for society.
Environmental opportunities Social opportunities Executive remuneration
You can find the Allianz Global Investors PRI Transparency 
Report on our website
Shareholder rights
Allianz Global Investors Sustainability Report 2020 18
03.1 ESG research and analysis
01 
Introduction
02 
Sustainability strategy 
and governance As an active investor, we see the results of  Our global approach includes sharing every piece of  collaboration, and discussion of ESG risks and factors. 
ESG research as an important signal of future  ESG analysis with investment professionals via our  Analysts and portfolio managers are at the heart of this 
03  performance. Our strong track record of  proprietary research and collaboration platform. This  process. They undertake an initial review of third-party 
Sustainable investing facilitates and systematically records debate and  research and formally request further analysis and 
bottom-up research is fundamental to our 
assessment of ESG risks and opportunities. Discussions  input from the ESG research team. 
03.1 ESG research and analysis
investment decisions and engagement. cover a global universe of corporate issuers, sectors 
03.2 Active stewardship  All output from the ESG research team, including 
and themes.
03.3 Integrated ESG  Why is ESG research important?  comments from sector analysts and portfolio 
As a starting point, third-party research and numerical  managers, is available via the collaboration platform 
03.4 Sustainable strategies While accurate information on a company’s financial 
ratings are made available through the proprietary  alongside other information and company research. 
03.5 SDG-aligned performance is extremely important, it does not 
research database and collaboration system. Use  ESG analysts post their views on a company, highlight 
03.6 Impact investing provide a complete picture in an economy where 
of third-party ratings and underlying research helps  identified material risks or opportunities and make 
an increasing percentage of a company’s assets are 
to provide the necessary coverage while indicating  a decision with regard to the company’s intrinsic 
04  intangible and are not shown on the balance sheet. 
to our portfolio managers the likely market view on  ESG rating.
Sustainable business operations Intangible assets include reputation, human capital, 
companies in their portfolios.
intellectual property, customer loyalty and brand value  This approach ensures we are not overly reliant on 
– many of which fall into the ESG category. The added value for clients comes from proprietary  external research and seeks to generate independent 
insights obtained through internal knowledge of a  and differentiated insights on ESG topics ahead of the 
Our investment teams complement research from 
company’s business, our in-house ESG expertise and  market, while ensuring full transparency internally.
third-party providers with their own proprietary 
ESG research. In-house analysts and portfolio 
managers, through their expertise and access to  Increasing transparency on cyber security  We found that organisations with a highly 
company management, are able to gain additional  Data is sometimes called the “new oil” given  structured approach to cyber-security can better 
insights to support analysis of a company’s ESG risks  its integral role in the functioning of the  identify, quantify and mitigate data risks and that 
and opportunities.  world’s economy. they include provisions on their balance sheets. 
Our dedicated and experienced ESG research team  Companies experienced in managing cyber risks 
is the cornerstone of its active investment approach.  But is it secure? As more and more of our daily  follow more robust governance and security 
The team works hand in hand with investment  interactions move online – accelerated by the  practices. This can be a competitive advantage 
professionals, providing ESG knowledge and insights  Covid-19 pandemic – mishandling data can pose  as more comprehensive approaches mean they 
that support investment decisions by considering  an existential threat to firms. When data security is  can move more quickly and confidently to seize 
ESG risks and opportunities that may not have been  breached, companies can face fines, operational  opportunities. It may also favour firms with simpler 
fully priced by markets. The ESG research team offers  interruptions and devastating reputational damage.  business models.
Investors want to be confident that they are investing 
specialist expertise across the entire spectrum of ESG- in companies that are protected. By tracking publicly available information on the 
related requirements, including: companies we engaged with, we found that six of the 
– ESG research, both company-specific and thematic Cyber-security incidents are on the rise, and  17 companies have since improved their disclosures, 
regulators and investors are increasingly scrutinising  risk management and governance. This added 
– Proprietary ESG rating models for  companies’ policies and protections, given the costly  transparency would be helpful for companies that 
dedicated strategies implications of these incidents. To foster dialogue  do not yet disclose enough information about their 
– Research to support proxy voting and company and  and transparency on cyber issues, we engaged   cyber-security practices to enable investors to fully 
policy-level engagement. 17 companies in the most vulnerable sectors –  assess the risks. We plan to extend this engagement 
including financials, technology and the internet –   to other industries, because these issues are of 
to understand their approaches and share best  growing and universal relevance as more business 
practices across these industries. activity and social interaction moves online.
Read the full report here
Allianz Global Investors Sustainability Report 2020 19
03.2 Active stewardship
01 
Introduction
02 
Sustainability strategy 
and governance We are committed to the active stewardship  Our engagement takes various forms, including:
of the assets we manage for clients. Our  Engagements per topic 
– Face-to-face meetings and conference calls 
03  approach aims to steer investee companies  with investor relations, executive directors and  %
Sustainable investing
towards sustainable business success through  senior management, board chairmen and non-
03.1 ESG research and analysis executive board members, company secretaries, 
corporate dialogue and active voting. 
03.2 Active stewardship  as well as heads of operational, controls and  Corporate governance 5 4 21
03.3 Integrated ESG  Consistent with our investment philosophy and  sustainability functions Environmental risks/impacts 5
03.4 Sustainable strategies approach, we routinely engage in dialogue with  – Formal letters to boards and management Social risks/impacts
03.5 SDG-aligned investee companies and seek proactively to present  Transparency and disclosure 8 45
a viewpoint, effect positive change and monitor the  – Dialogue and collaboration with other shareholders  Business conduct and culture
03.6 Impact investing
results of engagement. Our investment views are  – Public interventions (exceptionally) through co- Capital management 9
Strategy/business model
04  influenced by the outcomes of engagements and are  filing/filing shareholder resolutions, speaking at  Risk management
Sustainable business operations linked to the proxy voting process, forming a consistent  shareholder meetings and commenting in the media. Audit and accounting 19
stewardship approach. We believe in taking a long-
term approach to investing to create sustainable value.  As an active manager, we are ideally positioned 
This means working with companies to help them  to engage in dialogue with investee companies. 
evolve, rather than reacting in the short term to day-to- Our engagement activities commonly relate to an  Engagements per industry 
day news flow. investee company’s strategy, operational or financial  % of occasions
performance, capital management and corporate 
Read our Stewardship Statement
governance, as well as environmental and social risks 
Engagement and dialogue and impacts. 
4 3
At AllianzGI, we believe in gaining a deep  Where our investment teams have concerns that  Financials 6 19
Materials
understanding of the businesses in which we invest.  cannot be resolved through normal interactions with  Industrials 6
Our portfolio managers, fundamental analysts and  investee companies, we may start a more focused  Technology 7
ESG analysts hold thousands of meetings with listed  engagement. Our preference is to engage investee  Cons Discretionary 14
issuers every year to inform our investment decisions.  companies confidentially. We are prepared to escalate  Telecoms 7
Most of these meetings are aimed at enhancing  our engagements more publicly if a company does  Health
knowledge of their business, management teams,  not respond constructively, or where our shareholding  Consumer Staples 11 12
performance and value drivers. We are also committed  is insufficient for an effective escalation on our own.  Energy 12
to engaging with investee companies to improve  Options we might consider include: Real Estate
performance and safeguard their long-term prospects.  Utilities
Active stewardship is an ongoing process and is not  – Voting against resolutions at shareholder meetings
limited to circumstances where formal escalation is  – Expressing concerns through company advisers
deemed necessary. 
– Collaborating with other institutional investors
– Co-filing/filing resolutions at shareholder meetings.
In addition to direct engagement with boards and 
management of sizeable holdings, we lead targeted, 
themed engagement projects – for example on 
the impact of climate change on strategy. We also 
participate in collaborative engagement initiatives 
aimed at improving corporate practices and disclosure 
of information at industry and market levels. 
Allianz Global Investors Sustainability Report 2020 20
03.2 Active stewardship continued
01 
Introduction
02 
Sustainability strategy 
and governance In 2020, we engaged on 303 occasions (2019: 448) 
and covered 491 topics (2019: 711), often engaging  Engagements per geography 
03  on more than one topic per company. We saw a  Allianz Global Investors engaged 224 companies across 29 markets globally in 2020.
Sustainable investing decline in engagement compared with the previous 
year due to Covid-19 and other market factors which  USA Germany  UK France
03.1 ESG research and analysis
put considerable pressure on resources industry- 20% 16% 13% 9%
03.2 Active stewardship 
wide. However, our overall focus on engagement   
03.3 Integrated ESG  was undiminished, as is exemplified by the examples 
03.4 Sustainable strategies provided in our Stewardship Report 2020.  Japan China   Netherlands Switzerland
03.5 SDG-aligned 8% 5% 4% 4%
03.6 Impact investing
includes Hong Kong 
04 
Sustainable business operations
Italy Europe other Asia other  Other 
3% 13% 3% 2%
Engagements spanned 224 companies in 29 markets.  Engaging with green bond issuers
Around 60% of engagements covered corporate  In our dedicated green bond strategy, we engage with 
“ Voting at general meetings, while an  governance, business conduct and transparency issues.  issuers on the alignment of their green bonds with 
We registered 23 stewardship outcomes, capturing  the Green Bond Principles relating to transparency, 
important part of our approach, is by no 
companies’ reaction to investor feedback by taking  disclosure and reporting. During 2020 we had 
means the only way in which we signal  action in the desired direction. Some cases involved  notable engagements with two issuers that had 
our expectations to investee companies.  multi-year engagements. Executive remuneration  missed publication of their green bond reports. Our 
We seek constructive ongoing dialogue  and governance issues were the focus in about half  engagement was led either by portfolio managers or 
with companies to raise our expectations  of cases. by the credit research team and the outcomes varied: 
one issuer answered positively and provided its report, 
and concerns and, where necessary, 
while the other did not. Regarding the latter, the 
initiate improvements.” 
investment team decided to divest the position because 
the issuer failed to publish a green bond report despite 
Antje Stobbe committing to producing one.
Head of Stewardship 
Allianz Global Investors
Allianz Global Investors Sustainability Report 2020 21
03.2 Active stewardship continued
01 
Introduction
02 
Sustainability strategy 
and governance Focus on climate transition
Number of companies engaged, by topic In 2020, we engaged 77 companies on environmental  Engagement topic: Covid-19 related risks 
03  risks and impacts, including climate change.  and challenges
Sustainable investing Environmental issues gained relative importance in our  The Covid-19 pandemic marked a turning 
03.1 ESG research and analysis Corporate 170 engagement activities, increasing by five percentage  point for businesses and broader society. Our 
governance points to comprise 19% of all engagements. This  engagements with investee companies on 
03.2 Active stewardship 
reflects the high priority that decarbonising of the  Covid-related topics looked beyond the financial 
03.3 Integrated ESG 
Environmental economy represents for our clients.  and strategic implications of the crisis. We also 
03.4 Sustainable strategies 77
risk/impacts engaged with them regarding board oversight in 
03.5 SDG-aligned Many discussions focused on climate risk assessment,  times of crisis, the conversations and frequency of 
exploring how companies are reflecting climate 
03.6 Impact investing meetings held between boards and management, 
Social risks/ 42 risk and the low carbon transition in their strategy, 
impacts the appropriateness of the company’s risk 
operations and product pipelines. Other topics 
04  management systems, and employee health and 
Sustainable business operations included the adoption of science-based targets 
safety issues. 
Transparency 34 and disclosures on climate- and water-related key 
and disclosure
performance indicators (KPIs).  Our Covid-related engagement activities covered 
multiple industries and countries. In the industrials 
Our engagements spanned multiple sectors including 
Business conduct sector, we sought to understand how companies 
25 but not limited to oil and gas, utilities, materials, 
and culture ensured workers’ health by changing work 
financials and consumer goods. Underscoring 
processes and implementing social distancing. 
our ambition to use the power of engagement to 
Capital 24 drive real-world impact, we will launch a climate  For example, we engaged a financial services 
management company on the implementation of remote 
engagement with outcome approach in March 2021 
working for their employees, how long this 
for specific strategies.
transition took after the health crisis escalated 
Strategy/
business model 20 Read our Stewardship Report 2020 for more detailed  in the spring, and cyber security-related topics 
information on engagement examples and statistics related to working at home.
Risk  We engaged oil majors in Europe and the US on their  We also raised questions concerning the 
10
management path to energy transition. We are an active owner in  impact on executive compensation of the crisis 
this sector and urge companies to amend their business  and resulting business uncertainty. Executive 
models and transition to low-carbon energy provision. directors of some European companies 
Other 6 Find out more in the case study on page 14 on TCFD-focused  waived their variable conversation because 
climate engagement of the challenging environment while others 
reduced fixed compensation. In the case of one 
industrials company, we sought to understand 
how its Remuneration Committee assessed the 
appropriateness of performance measures set 
in the Covid environment and how they ensured 
targets remained appropriately challenging.
Allianz Global Investors Sustainability Report 2020 22
03.2 Active stewardship continued
01 
Introduction
02 
Sustainability strategy 
and governance Proxy voting Voting matters and potential conflicts of interest are 
As well as actively engaging with the businesses in  assessed on a case-by-case basis. We are committed  Voting in 10,1831 shareholder meetings 
03  which we invest, we fulfil our fiduciary responsibilities  to full transparency of our proxy-voting activities.  %
Sustainable investing to clients by exercising voting rights on their behalf  We publish detailed Global Corporate Governance 
03.1 ESG research and analysis during shareholder meetings. This allows us to have  Guidelines and a Stewardship Statement, and we 
a say on some of the most important issues affecting  provide real-time disclosure of all votes cast,  
03.2 Active stewardship 
society and individual investee companies – including  including commentary on votes against management  28%
03.3 Integrated ESG  executive compensation, the election of board  and abstentions. (23%)
03.4 Sustainable strategies
directors, climate change, workforce diversity, political 
See our website for further details
03.5 SDG-aligned donations and lobbying activities, and appointment of 
03.6 Impact investing external auditors.  In 2020, we participated in 10,183 shareholder 
meetings (2019: 9,532) and voted against, withheld or 
04  We put great effort and care into developing in-house  abstained from at least one agenda item at 72% of all  In favour of management 72%
Sustainable business operations views and positions on corporate governance and  meetings globally (2019: 77%). We opposed 23% of   Against management, withhold  (77%)
proxy voting matters. We consider all proposals on  all resolutions globally (2019: 24%). These figures reflect  or abstain with at least one vote
merit and support those deemed to be beneficial for  our highly active and globally consistent approach 
the company and our investment. Voting decisions  to stewardship, and our willingness to vote against 
are informed by in-depth research and analysis and  proposals that do not meet our expectations of  Voting on 105,426 single proposals 
discussions with investee companies. Detailed proxy  investee companies.  %
voting policies help shape our voting decisions and our 
View details of how we voted at individual 
robust proxy voting process ensures strong governance. 
shareholder meetings
6%
Read our Global Corporate Governance Guidelines (6%)
23%
(24%)
In favour of management 
Against management  71%
(70%)
Abstained / did not vote
1 E quals c.95% of all votable meetings. 
Source: Allianz Global Investors, as at 31 December 2020.
Allianz Global Investors Sustainability Report 2020 23
03.2 Active stewardship continued
01 
Introduction
02 
Sustainability strategy 
and governance How we voted in 2020 Board independence and overboarding: we promote 
We see voting on shareholder proposals as a key part  high-quality boards and use our voting rights to  Proxy voting 
03  of our stewardship programme. Shareholder proposals  support boards with a good balance of independence  Total percentage votes against all management 
Sustainable investing offer companies an important insight into the views  and diversity of background, experience and skills  proposals by location in 2020 
03.1 ESG research and analysis and concerns of their investors. We provide meaningful  relevant to the business.
03.2 Active stewardship  support for any issues raised in shareholder proposals  26%
that merit careful consideration by companies’ boards  Japan 41%
03.3 Integrated ESG 
and management. of director-related proposals voted against 
03.4 Sustainable strategies
03.5 SDG-aligned Environmental and social matters: a key part of  (2019: 27%) USA 34%
our stewardship programme is aimed at reducing 
03.6 Impact investing
environmental and social risks in our portfolios. In 2020,  Auditor-related votes: we expect investee companies  Italy 34%
04  we showed our backing for shareholder resolutions  to evaluate and re-tender audit contracts regularly 
Sustainable business operations on environmental and social matters. We supported  and change auditors after a maximum of 20 years 
almost 90% of proposals requesting improved  of service. Hong Kong 28%
reporting on climate change and sustainability and 
25%
100% of proposals on community environmental  France 20%
impact. 
of respective management proposals voted against 
Human rights: this was another area where we  (2019: 23%) Belgium 19%
showed strong support. We voted for almost 
95% of all proposals, including those focused on 
improving a company’s human rights standards or  Capital-related reauthorisation: only in exceptional  Taiwan 18%
policies. As in 2019, we strongly supported proposals  circumstances, and when justified by the company, will 
seeking transparency of political contributions and  we support an increase in capital with pre-emption  Switzerland 18%
lobbying payments. rights of greater than 33%, and an increase in capital 
without pre-emption rights of greater than 10%.
Key reasons for voting against proposals: Germany 17%
16%
Executive compensation: we typically voted against 
packages that were not supported by robust and  Netherlands 16%
of capital-related proposals voted against 
challenging targets or when performance KPIs and 
(2019: 18%)
actual targets were not sufficiently transparent. 
Spain 14%
Other concerns included the use of stock options to 
encourage unsustainable decision-making at the 
expense of shareholders and variable compensation  China 12%
that apparently rewarded underperformance.
49% Sweden 9%
of compensation-related proposals voted against 
UK 5%
(2019: 48%) 
Source: Allianz Global Investors, as at 31 December 2020
Allianz Global Investors Sustainability Report 2020 24
03.3 Integrated ESG
01 
Introduction
02 
Sustainability strategy 
EUR 156 billion
and governance
03  of AuM by the end of 2020 according 
Sustainable investing Integrated ESG* Sustainable SDG-aligned Impact to the integrated ESG approach
03.1 ESG research and analysis
Risk Values Mission Impact
03.2 Active stewardship 
03.3 Integrated ESG 
The challenges and opportunities companies face related to social and environmental 
03.4 Sustainable strategies
pressures are increasingly important considerations in the investment decisions we make.  
03.5 SDG-aligned
03.6 Impact investing Our portfolio managers and analysts systematically consider ESG factors as part of their 
investment analysis. 
04 
Sustainable business operations Central to our fiduciary responsibilities, ESG integration  This puts us in a unique position to engage with the 
applies a holistic lens to identify material ESG risks and  companies that need it most, as we seek to reduce  
opportunities when we invest. Understanding these  ESG risk through positive and transparent change.  
impacts is vital to inform investment decisions that  One of the strengths of Integrated ESG is that it builds 
deliver long-term performance for clients.  an additional factor into our existing investment 
processes – enhancing rather than changing the 
We combine integrated ESG analysis with robust 
process without constraining the investment universe. 
stewardship and engagement to improve the risk 
profile of our investments and steer companies towards  To evidence our Integrated ESG approach, we 
greater and more sustainable long-term profitability.  document ESG risk reviews, risk/reward considerations, 
This approach promotes the adoption of better  company engagements and proxy voting discussions. 
business models and business behaviours among  This ensures full transparency internally and, on 
investee companies.  request, to clients.
We are committed to applying Integrated ESG  By end of 2020, we managed EUR 156 billion of AuM 
across all asset classes we offer – including equities,  according to the Integrated ESG approach. 
fixed income, multi asset and alternatives. Portfolio 
We are on a journey with our clients and investee 
teams are responsible for questioning potential asset 
companies to consider sustainability risks in all 
holdings with low ESG ratings and contributing to 
our investment activities. With our new Global 
the digital debate about companies’ ESG risks. This 
Sustainability Risk Management Policy, launched in 
internal crowdsourcing ensures experienced portfolio 
March 2021, we aim to consider sustainability risks 
managers and industry analysts contribute their views, 
globally in our investment processes across all the 
rather than relying solely on external ESG ratings and 
assets we manage.
third-party methodologies and judgements.
Our portfolio managers understand ESG risk and can 
invest in companies with higher ESG risks. When a 
portfolio team sees a compelling opportunity to invest 
in a company despite an acknowledged ESG risk, 
they must document their risk/return thinking via our 
collaborative, cloud-based research system. 
*  Integrated ESG is not considered sustainable according to EU Sustainable Finance Disclosure Regulation
Allianz Global Investors Sustainability Report 2020 25
03.4 Sustainable strategies
01 
Introduction
02 
Sustainability strategy 
and governance Our proprietary ESG analysis approach uses external 
data sources and qualitative research to provide a 
03  deep understanding of the ESG factors that matter 
Sustainable investing Integrated ESG Sustainable SDG-aligned Impact for a Sustainable portfolio. Proprietary SRI ratings are 
available for sovereigns, companies, governments, 
03.1 ESG research and analysis
Risk Values Mission Impact agencies and supranationals, and we review the SRI 
03.2 Active stewardship 
methodology annually.
03.3 Integrated ESG 
Our Sustainable strategies aim to create a sustainable investment portfolio by combining  Expanding our SRI BIC offering 
03.4 Sustainable strategies
financial and sustainability assessments in investment analysis and portfolio construction.   83%
03.5 SDG-aligned
03.6 Impact investing We offer Sustainable strategies across equity, fixed income, and multi asset strategies.
increase in AuM in Sustainable strategies in 2020
04  The Sustainable offering appeals to clients who want  How does the SRI BIC analysis work? 
Sustainable business operations their investments to generate financial value and, at 
Our SRI analysis focuses on four topics that we weight 
the same time, reflect their values and commitments to 
according to their relevance to the respective sectors:
a sustainable future. Through our deep experience in 
sustainable and responsible investing (SRI), we are well  Corporate governance: Strong corporate governance 
equipped to provide investment solutions that address  helps to foster long-term investment, financial stability 
these values. and business integrity, thereby supporting stronger 
growth and more inclusive societies.4 We assess issuers 
All portfolios within this offering apply minimum 
on their ability to organise their internal structure to 
exclusion criteria in addition to SRI Best-in-Class* 
improve risk management. For corporate issuers, this 
(SRI BIC) considerations or our Climate Engagement 
“ Sustainable research has been an integral  includes evaluating management or supervisory board 
with Outcome approach, introduced in March 2021.
composition, board independence, and remuneration 
part of our approach since 2000. In the 
SRI BIC methodology transparency including independent remuneration, 
present, ever-changing environment, this 
Our SRI BIC strategies combine multiple approaches  nomination and audit committees. We analyse the 
including “best-in-class” (selecting companies  allows us to adapt and innovate to tackle  audit and control mechanisms in place to prevent 
with superior ESG credentials compared with their  pressing challenges like climate change and  abuse and reduce the risks under review. Finally, we 
peers) and “best efforts” (selecting companies that  social inclusion. That way we play a role in  analyse shareholder rights and anti-takeover measures. 
demonstrate an upwards trend in their ESG profile).  shaping the future.”  For sovereign issuers, we evaluate the systems used to 
At the other end of the spectrum, a “worst in class”  prevent and fight corruption, the stability of political 
exclusion approach eliminates laggards and targets  structures, and government capacity to introduce 
specific high-risk industries. We apply a minimum  Isabel Reuss, necessary reforms. 
Head of Sustainability Research 
exclusion list and a human rights filter. We also offer  Allianz Global Investors Environment: We assess issuers’ direct and indirect 
strategies that apply additional filters geared towards  environmental impacts and risks, and their approach 
specific client values. to environmental responsibility and development of 
environmental solutions. Our analysis of sovereigns 
assesses measures taken to address the full range of 
environmental issues. A country’s political and legal 
framework are key elements of the system.
4 OECD, Principles of Corporate Governance of the G20 and the OECD
*  SRI Best-in-Class spans strategies that seek returns, measured in financial and social/environmental terms. SRI Best-in-Class strategies also seek to reflect 
investors values. SRI Best-in-class strategies support sustainability efforts of portfolio firms and thereby can improve investment returns. Financially material 
and non-material ESG factors are part of a company´s analysis. Portfolio construction is geared towards a superior ESG quality and a set of exclusions is 
applied.
Allianz Global Investors Sustainability Report 2020 26
03.4 Sustainable strategies continued
01 
Introduction
02 
Sustainability strategy 
and governance Social: We review the extent of issuers’ dialogue with  Engaging for a low-carbon economy 
employees, workplace health and safety, and the  Recognising the importance of addressing climate 
03  relationship with suppliers. We consider general social  change and using the power of engagement to drive 
Sustainable investing policy when assessing sovereigns, with a focus on  real-world impact, we have launched a dedicated 
03.1 ESG research and analysis topics such as healthcare, education, the role played by  Climate Engagement with Outcome approach in March 
women in civil society and the infrastructure available  2021 for specific strategies. This uses engagement with 
03.2 Active stewardship 
to provide access to basic needs. companies to support the climate transition pathway 
03.3 Integrated ESG 
Business behaviour: We assess the relationships  towards a low-carbon economy. As a proxy for climate 
03.4 Sustainable strategies
03.5 SDG-aligned banetdw loeecanl  icssoumemrs uannidtie tsh,e tihr es uimppplayc cth oafi nthse, ciru pstroomduecrtss   pimoprtafoctli,o w. eW ied eanntaiflyy sthe eb teospt  parbascotliucetes  CpeOr2 s eemctiottre arsn pde sre t 
03.6 Impact investing or services on society, and their respect for market  realistic future targets for each company. 
regulations and fair business practices. This topic area  These company-specific targets will be aligned with our 
04 
Sustainable business operations does not apply to sovereign issuers. investment teams and will be documented in our global 
research and collaboration platform. Examples could 
be greenhouse gas emissions reduction targets  
and board-level remuneration targets linked to  
climate change. 
We will conduct engagements centrally and track 
them over time, reporting their outcomes to support 
our investment and divestment decisions. Ultimately, 
climate engagement targets should help to improve 
risk-adjusted returns by helping companies to adapt 
their business models for the future.
Allianz Global Investors Sustainability Report 2020 27
Integrated ESG Sustainable SDG-aligned Impact
Risk Values Mission Impact
03.5 SDG-aligned
01 
Introduction
02 
Sustainability strategy 
and governance
03 
Sustainable investing Integrated ESG Sustainable SDG-aligned Impact
03.1 ESG research and analysis
Risk Values Mission Impact
03.2 Active stewardship 
03.3 Integrated ESG 
The 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) set by the UN General Assembly in 2015 aim 
03.4 Sustainable strategies
to mobilise stakeholders to achieve a better and more sustainable future by 2030. The UN 
03.5 SDG-aligned
03.6 Impact investing Commission on Trade and Development (UNCTAD) estimates that meeting the SDGs will require 
USD 5-7 trillion in investment annually, making large capital investments crucial. 
04 
Sustainable business operations Investors are increasingly realising that they have  We believe investment decisions that aim to maximise 
the power to make a positive impact through where  positive environmental and social outcomes will lead 
and how they invest their capital. Investing with the  to superior performance over time. We will adapt and 
SDGs in mind allows investors to influence the way the  actively manage our investments over time as different 
economy works and how individual companies behave.  capital needs are prioritised and the degree of a 
This approach can drive innovation by channelling  company’s contribution changes.
money towards new technologies, reinforce positive 
behaviour by rewarding good practices, and impact 
the entire economic value chain. Such focused investing  How investors can play a role in enhancing  and support production that is geographically closer 
can channel investments towards a specific goal,  food security to the point of consumption.
such as addressing the need for clean water or curbing  Millions of people globally live in the shadow of  The increasing recognition of the extent and 
carbon emissions.  hunger. However, a third of all food produced ends  impact of food waste is driving demand for more 
Our SDG-aligned investment framework is designed  up as waste, with the equivalent of 1.3 billion tonnes  sustainable methods of packaging and distributing 
to allow clients to contribute to positive environmental  of food lost or wasted.5 The current food-production  food – in line with SDG12 (Responsible Consumption 
and societal change in alignment with one or multiple  system has a significant environmental impact and  and Production). Reducing our reliance on animal 
SDGs. In response to growing client demand, we have  the answer is not simply to produce more food in the  agriculture would also bring immense environmental 
extended our range of strategies that target progress  same way. The world needs investment in innovative  benefits. Plant-based protein and meat substitutes 
against the SDGs.  systems to improve the sustainability of food supply.  provide nutritious food with less environmental 
Aligning with the UN SDGs can provide helpful  impact and they are increasingly popular among 
These strategies integrate ESG considerations and  guidance about where to invest. consumers who cite the health and environmental 
apply select exclusion criteria to ensure companies  We are seeing the emergence of technologies  benefits. Other companies are focused on enhancing 
contribute to real-world positive outcomes in an  that promise to radically enhance agricultural  food safety and shelf-life by improving quality control 
environmentally and socially responsible way, and  productivity. Such precision agriculture can enhance  in the processing, packaging and distribution of food.
that they are well governed. Through this combined 
approach, we aim to focus investment on companies  production while reducing the ecological damage  While there are no easy answers to the challenges 
with a net positive contribution to the environment  associated with the traditional use of chemicals –  of food security, it is an urgent issue. Investing in 
and society. addressing SDG14 (Life Below Water) and SDG15  companies that can create a positive impact by 
(Life on Land). New farming methods include  aligning themselves with the food-related SDGs is an 
aquaponics, where plants are grown in water that is  exciting opportunity for investors and society.
fertilised by fish, and vertical farming, where crops 
are grown in stacks. These can reduce fertiliser use 
5 Food and Agricultural Organization of the United Nations
Allianz Global Investors Sustainability Report 2020 28
03.6 Impact investing
01 
Introduction
02 
Sustainability strategy 
and governance Focus on development finance
Development finance complements our existing 
03 
sustainability and impact strategies by focusing on 
Sustainable investing Integrated ESG Sustainable SDG-aligned Impact
achieving the UN Sustainable Development Goals 
03.1 ESG research and analysis (SDGs) in emerging and frontier markets. More than 
Risk Values Mission Impact
03.2 Active stewardship  USD 2.5 trillion6 in annual investment may be needed 
03.3 Integrated ESG  in these markets to reduce poverty, increase economic 
Our goal is to enable clients to maximise their exposure to positive environmental and social  growth and achieve a sustainable future that leaves no 
03.4 Sustainable strategies
outcomes in private and public markets across asset classes. We provide an increasingly broad  one behind.
03.5 SDG-aligned
03.6 Impact investing range of impact investments, including green bonds for public markets and a variety of private  Within emerging markets, public capital markets focus 
market investments ranging from renewable infrastructure to development finance.  mainly on investing in upper middle-income countries. 
04  A limited amount of investment is directed towards 
Sustainable business operations What distinguishes our impact investments is that  Private market impact investing can directly measure  the nations that need it the most, because commercial 
they must measure and show evidence of associated  its impact and demonstrate causality between the  investors often perceive these lower-income markets 
positive (net) outcomes – rather than simply relate to  investment and the impact generated due to the  as risky and difficult to access. This leaves governments 
a social or environmental theme. This measurement of  inherent proximity between the investor and the  and development-focused institutions as the main 
outcomes is done in line with industry standards such  company and/or project. Traditional public market  investors in these countries and there is still a daunting 
as the Global Impact Investing Network (GIIN) and the  investing, by its very nature of seeking to facilitate  funding gap that must be bridged to meet the 2030 
Impact Management Project (IMP).  capital flows between the widest possible audience,  deadline for the UN SDGs. 
may provide less documentation specifically aimed 
Our impact investment strategies are defined by three  One of the most efficient ways to mobilise private 
at the topic of impact measurement. However, the 
core beliefs: capital in emerging and frontier markets is through the 
public market is developing with the emergence of 
field of “blended finance”. This combines capital from 
Intention: the intention of investments is to generate  more explicit impact-focused mandates, such as 
development finance institutions and philanthropic 
incremental positive social and/or environmental value  the likes of green and social bonds offering levels of 
funds to create opportunities for commercial investors.
while delivering financial returns  documentation and reporting that enable investors 
to measure outcomes in a similar manner to private  AllianzGI has one of the few dedicated development 
Association: a clear association exists between each 
market impact investments. finance teams in the market. We have raised more than 
investment and the positive output delivered
USD 2 billion towards sustainable development finance 
Through its mix of private investments, impact 
Measurement and report: the impact will be measured  products since 2017. Funding is structured through 
investing can generate largely uncorrelated 
on a “best efforts” basis and reported to validate the  “risk-tiered” vehicles, where commercial investors 
and attractive financial returns for clients, while 
investment. take a senior position and the junior capital (ie, first 
delivering environmental and/or social impact. This 
loss) is invested by public or philanthropic capital. 
impact is continuously measured and improved, 
Relationships with development finance institutions 
and this continuous improvement is integral to the 
(DFIs) are key. They have the track record and presence 
investment process.
in these markets and their investments help to de-risk 
a project. Additionally, DFIs provide access to projects 
that can make a big difference for local communities.
6 Source: United Nations (https://www.un.org/sustainabledevelopment/sg-finance-strategy/) 
Allianz Global Investors Sustainability Report 2020 29
03.6 Impact investing continued
01 
Introduction
02 
Sustainability strategy 
and governance Blended finance also depends on asset managers 
with experience in structuring vehicles that provide  Blended finance in practice
03  investable opportunities for institutional investors –  In our Sustainability Report 2019, we announced 
Sustainable investing essentially bringing all the parties together. Blended  the launch of an Africa initiative – a EUR 200 
finance can be an attractive proposition for private and  million fund of funds set up by AllianzGI on behalf 
03.1 ESG research and analysis
public investors alike.  of the German Federal Ministry for Economic 
03.2 Active stewardship 
Cooperation and Development. The initiative’s 
03.3 Integrated ESG  – It enables private investors to build highly diversified  mandate is to have a catalytic effect on emerging 
loan portfolios. The combination of diversification 
03.4 Sustainable strategies and dynamic small or medium-size enterprises in 
and first-loss protection can help attract larger 
03.5 SDG-aligned Africa – and on the entire start-up ecosystem.
amounts of commercial capital from investors 
03.6 Impact investing “ Blended finance is likely to become a very 
who appreciate the potential for reduced risk and  To that end, the first investment made was a 
powerful tool for ensuring a resilient recovery 
attractive risk/return characteristics. At the same  venture capital fund which aims to help bridge the 
04  time, they are able to contribute to the UN SDGs in  and a more sustainable world, based on  financing gap by actively supporting firms with a 
Sustainable business operations
markets where capital is scarce.  innovative public-private partnerships and   digital edge and giving them a head start through 
– This structure allows public or philanthropic investors  a new paradigm of competition, collaboration  infrastructure and technology. 
to deploy scarce public resources effectively. Public  and international cooperation.”  One of the venture capital fund’s first investments 
resources act as a catalyst for attracting – and  was in a ride-hailing company that uses a 
thereby multiplying – the funding available to  Deborah Zurkow smartphone app to offer affordable, reliable and 
support the relevant SDGs.  Global Head of Investment Platform  safe mobility solutions to an increasing urban 
Allianz Global Investors population. The company contributes to SDG 8 
(Decent Work and Economic Growth) and SDG 10 
(Reduced Inequalities) by building a driver-centric 
approach and establishing partnerships with local 
Commercial taxi syndicates. It creates formal jobs and training 
capital – with around 30,000 active drivers at the end of 
2019 – and more than one-third of its permanent 
employees are women.
Another portfolio company is a developer of 
mobile phone operating systems. In a continent 
where 800 million people do not have internet 
access, this company is helping extend access to 
the myriad digital services available via the mobile 
Development internet. By opening up the internet to underserved 
Finance parts of the African population, the company is 
Development Public and contributing to SDG 9 (Industry, Innovation and 
ﬁnance philanthropic Infrastructure) and SDG 10 (Reduced Inequalities). 
institutions capital
With 300 permanent employees (at the end 
of 2019), it has established partnerships with 
universities, coding schools and start-ups that will 
promote the rise of a skilled developer community 
in Africa. 
Allianz Global Investors Sustainability Report 2020 30
04
01 
Introduction
02 
Sustainability strategy 
and governance Sustainable business 
03 
Sustainable investing
operations
04 
Sustainable business operations
04.1 Client satisfaction
04.2 Human resources
04.3 Compliance and data privacy 
04.4 Environmental management
04.5 Corporate citizenship
Beyond generating long-term financial  Client satisfaction: We look beyond pure economic  Environmental management: Like any global 
returns for our clients, we strive to manage  gain and aim to develop strong, long-term partnerships  business, our stakeholders expect us to manage our 
with our clients to create value together.  consumption of natural resources efficiently and 
the potential impacts of our operations – 
effectively and to manage the potential detrimental 
both positive and negative – on society,  Human resources: Asset management is a people 
environmental impacts of our operations. 
business that depends on talented individuals who 
local communities and the environment. 
are able to make sense of markets to generate  Corporate citizenship: As a global business, we seek 
We believe we have a responsibility to 
strong performance for clients and advise on client  to have a positive impact in the many communities in 
lead by example by demonstrating the  needs. We aim to be an attractive employer for  which we operate. This has been particularly important 
standards and commitments we expect  current and future talent and foster an inclusive and  during the Covid-19 pandemic.
diverse workforce.
of the companies we invest in.   
Compliance and data security: Compliance, risk 
management and data security are central to the 
integrity of our operations and systems and we uphold 
the highest standards to gain and keep trust in our 
fiduciary business. 
Allianz Global Investors Sustainability Report 2020 31
04.1 Client satisfaction
01 
Introduction
02 
Sustainability strategy 
and governance Our reputation is built on the way we inform  The key to excellent client service is understanding each  Highlights from the 2020 Greenwich Report include:
and advise clients – and stay focused on  client’s unique needs and acting in their best interests. 
– Ninth consecutive year as Greenwich Quality Leader 
03  securing their future, whatever the market  Through our consultative approach, almost 600  in institutional investment management in Germany, 
Sustainable investing relationship managers globally ensure that we offer 
conditions. The conduct and capabilities  and third consecutive year in Europe
solutions that truly address our clients’ needs. By being 
04  of our colleagues are pivotal to this goal.  active, we can customise solutions and aim to optimally  – Second consecutive year as Greenwich Quality 
Sustainable business operations This was even more important in 2020 against  position our clients, even in times of market adversity. Leader in overall European intermediary 
04.1 Client satisfaction the backdrop market volatility as a result  We continue to develop our services in line with clients’  distribution quality
04.2 Human resources of Covid-19. needs. With 60 investment advisers globally, risklab, an  – Greenwich Quality Leader in both institutional and 
04.3 Compliance and data privacy  advisory team within AllianzGI, helps our clients to   intermediary services in Asia
04.4 Environmental management We look beyond pure economic gain to develop strong,  meet their investment goals through specialist advice 
– Leading ESG Investment Manager for Institutional 
04.5 Corporate citizenship long-term partnerships with our clients and create  and solutions.*  Clients in Continental Europe in 2020.
value together. We believe every conversation and 
Risklab is investing to evolve our capabilities in ESG 
interaction counts in building a strong relationship, and 
advice in the areas of:
our overall aim is to elevate the investing experience. 
– ESG portfolio strategy advice
Drawing on our toolkit of capabilities, we create 
solutions that help clients achieve their investment  – Portfolio analysis and benchmarking
objectives – both today and in the future. In response 
– Sustainable portfolio construction and optimisation
to the pandemic, we maintained close dialogue with 
all our clients, providing transparency on the impact of  – Customised ESG solutions.
market volatility on their portfolios and the potential 
We are proud that independent client satisfaction 
risks and long-term opportunities that may ensue. 
surveys consistently show one of our main strengths as 
the quality of client service. Historically, AllianzGI has 
ranked in the first quartile against competitors across 
all relevant major markets. We are a quality leader – 
as recognised by Greenwich Associates for more than 
a decade – with technological capabilities and client 
service procedures that ensure we stay close to clients. 
We actively use the findings of these surveys to help us 
continually enhance our service.
*  Advice is provided through local expertise, as far as permissible by 
applicable law, leveraging advice from the global team
Allianz Global Investors Sustainability Report 2020 32
04.2 Human resources
01 
Introduction
02 
Sustainability strategy 
and governance We foster a working environment where  Our values and people attributes: 
our people, performance and clients matter 
Trust, founded on our values. We foster trust as a prerequisite for how we build and sustain our 
03  equally. We take a strong stance regarding  business. We aim to be sustainable in everything we do, and create trust by living our values of 
Sustainable investing
inclusion and taking care of the health, well- excellence, passion, integrity and respect. 
04  being and safety of our employees. Collaborative leadership. We promote active collaboration, take ownership of final outcomes 
Sustainable business operations
and win together as a team, in order to be at our best and serve our clients most effectively. 
As one of our biggest differentiators, our culture helps 
04.1 Client satisfaction
us attract and retain the talent we need to elevate  Customer and market excellence. We put the client first and create value for our clients through 
04.2 Human resources
the active asset management experience and to  our commitment to excellence – from how we invest to how we deliver a high-quality service. 
04.3 Compliance and data privacy  deliver excellence for clients today and in the future.  Investment returns are the most important proof points, and we always strive to be solutions 
04.4 Environmental management Our culture is active, investment-oriented and client- oriented and offer new sources of alpha. 
04.5 Corporate citizenship centric. Our values and people attributes are at the 
core of all our activities. Inclusion and diversity. We benefit from and encourage diversity in our workforce, and 
we build an inclusive culture. We believe in the benefits of a diverse workforce. A mix of 
experience, backgrounds and outlooks helps us understand diverse client needs and deliver 
optimal outcomes.
Entrepreneurship. We think out of the box and understand failure as a learning opportunity. 
By embracing agile ways of working and continuous innovation, we display an open-minded, 
entrepreneurial spirit. We believe that creating and sharing value through active asset 
management is sustainable only by constantly evolving what we do, being courageous and 
making tough choices, – in line with dynamic client needs. 
Allianz Global Investors Sustainability Report 2020 33
04.2 Human resources continued
01 
Introduction
02 
Sustainability strategy 
and governance Inclusive Meritocracy  2020 was marked by the redefinition of our I&D 
Inclusive Meritocracy is the term Allianz uses to  strategy, focused on three key pillars: Staff snapshot (as of 31 December 2020) 
03  describe a working environment where both people  Workplace – how does it feel to work at AllianzGI?  Gender
Sustainable investing and performance matter. The Allianz People Attributes 
Focusing on how our employees from majority and 
are at the core of all activities and AllianzGI employees 
04  live by these principles which lie at the heart of our  minority groups can feel more included and valued in 
Sustainable business operations our workplace.
corporate culture. The People Attributes also impact all 
04.1 Client satisfaction areas of people management – from talent acquisition  Workforce – who do we recruit and how do we 
04.2 Human resources and strengthening the feedback culture to people  develop our people? 
04.3 Compliance and data privacy  development, promotion and reward.  Attracting and developing a large variety of talents to  41.9% 58.1%
04.4 Environmental management The Inclusive Meritocracy Index (IMIX) measures our  grow the diversity of our workforce.
04.5 Corporate citizenship progress towards Inclusive Meritocracy and covers  Marketplace – what do we do to serve our  Male
aspects of leadership, performance and corporate  social purpose?  Female
culture. In 2020, Allianz Group reached its 2021 target 
Using our responsible investor values to make a positive 
of an Inclusive Meritocracy Index (IMIX) score of 73%. 
contribution to society.
The target for 2021 has been increased to 74% as 
a result. In 2020, 71% of our employees responded  For each of these pillars, we aim to nurture a healthy  Age
favourably on this index. workforce and support all dimensions of diversity –  
ethnicity, sexual orientation, gender identity, age, 
Inclusion and diversity 0.5% 0.7%
disability, thoughts, skills and backgrounds. Because we 
We believe that building an inclusive organisation  are all defined by more than just one of those traits, we  11.6%
will unlock the power of our diversity and drive  address our I&D challenges with an intersectional lens. 18.2%
performance and innovation to create long-term value 
for our clients and society. 
82% Under 25
Consistent with the Allianz Group Code of Conduct, we  25–34 34.0%
have zero tolerance for discrimination and harassment  35–44
of Allianz Global Investors employees said they are 
irne stpheo nwsoibrlkep floarc ceo. E-cvreerayotinnge  wanh oin wclourskivse a ctu Altluliaren azGndI i s  comfortable talking about their background, identity  4555––5644 35.1%
and their true self at work. 65 and older
acting in accordance with our commitment to inclusion 
& diversity (I&D), as outlined in our Global I&D policy 
and zero-tolerance approach for discrimination and 
harassment in the workplace. This is embedded in a 
Behavioural Goal in each employee’s personal year-
end performance appraisal. 
Allianz Global Investors Sustainability Report 2020 34
04.2 Human resources continued
01 
Introduction
02 
Sustainability strategy 
and governance Gender equality Black Lives Matter Supporting people with disabilities
Achieving gender equality means supporting both  We have endorsed the Black Lives Matter movement  We work to raise awareness and understanding of 
03  women and men in achieving their goals and raising  and stand in solidarity with all Americans and all  the different forms disability can take, both visible 
Sustainable investing their potential. For many years, we have devised  people in the fight for equality. We are committed to  and invisible, and promote disability inclusion. This 
ambitious targets to improve female representation  continue our efforts to fight systemic racism and are  includes marking the International Day of People with 
04  across the firm and in senior management roles   reviewing our policies related to anti-discrimination  Disabilities globally since 2017. In addition to our digital 
Sustainable business operations
in particular. and anti-harassment. In March 2021, we published  Disability Flyer, we have created a video showcasing 
04.1 Client satisfaction a guide on how to talk about ethnic diversity in the  specific Windows 10 accessibility features aimed at 
Our extensive gender equality plan spans talent 
04.2 Human resources workplace. We have also engaged with a new initiative  improving the daily work of people with disabilities. 
attraction, hiring, compensation benchmarking 
04.3 Compliance and data privacy  and specific development opportunities for women.  – #100blackinterns – to tackle the underrepresentation  We also partnered with Lions Clubs and collected 
of black people across the UK’s investment industry. 370 unwanted pairs of glasses and made a tangible 
04.4 Environmental management We have made good progress and will continue our 
contribution to prevent avoidable blindness.
04.5 Corporate citizenship efforts to achieve gender equality.  LGBT+
In 2020, Allianz Group defined new targets to have  Creating an LGBT+ inclusive workplace is a priority for  Training and development
female representation of 20% at Executive Committee  us, and we work to make sure every employee can be  We face strong competition for highly skilled 
(ExCo) level, 30% at MD level (excluding ExCo) and 35%  their authentic self at work. We became a signatory  professionals and believe in the importance of lifelong 
at director level by 2023. We have achieved gender  of the UN Standards of Conduct for Business in 2019  learning. The skillset that leaders and professionals 
parity in the Executive Committee. As of February 2020,  to support LGBT+ equal rights and fair treatment.  need to succeed is constantly changing and we are 
26% of AllianzGI first-tier managers (reporting to the  The Standards set out five actions that companies  evolving a wide range of learning and development 
Executive Committee) were women and there was 34%  should take to align their policies and practices with  approaches to develop a workforce that is fit for 
female representation at the second management tier. international human rights standards and tackle  the future. 
discrimination in the workplace and the broader 
We partner with organisations such as the Diversity  community. We have continued to raise awareness on  We offer a wide range of internal development 
Project and 100 Women in Finance to make the  LGBT+ rights by surveying our employees and giving  opportunities. Being a global company, virtual 
financial services industry and our company more  them a voice on the topic. We published a guide   and remote learning was already well-integrated 
attractive for women from all backgrounds.  on LGBT+ inclusion, aimed at improving the  in our training and development offers before the 
pandemic and it meant we were well placed to 
We have signed the Women in Finance Charter, a  understanding of sexual orientation and gender  continue developing our people. The roll out of Modern 
commitment by the UK government and signatory firms  identity and fighting misconceptions. Our senior  Workplace enabled a seamless transition to virtual 
to work together to build a more balanced and fair  leaders showed their support to the LGBT+ community  delivery of all our programmes. 
industry. The Charter commits firms to supporting the  by taking part in LGBT Great’s #Project1000 campaign 
progression of women into senior roles in the financial  on social networks.
services sector. In 2020, we hosted 12 young women 
as part of the Lord Mayor of London’s Appeal “She 
Can Be”, to help them appreciate the variety of options 
available to them in the asset management industry.
Allianz Global Investors Sustainability Report 2020 35
04.2 Human resources continued
01 
Introduction
02 
Sustainability strategy 
and governance Development at AllianzGI is about creating  Next to this, we enable employees to actively manage 
opportunities for employees to build and expand their  their learning activities via an Allianz-wide Learning 
03  capabilities. We want to create an environment which  Platform which provides a rich source of learning 
Sustainable investing encourages and supports everyone to develop the  content, allowing everyone to learn anytime and 
skills and knowledge they need to be successful in their  anywhere. Relationship- and experience-based 
04  current roles and to prepare for potential future roles.  learning complements our offerings. Via a digital 
Sustainable business operations platform which is self-managed and crowd-sourced, 
The Global Graduate Programme (GGP) gives 
04.1 Client satisfaction candidates the opportunity to gain a unique  we facilitate mentoring (relationship-based learning) 
and opportunities to participate and learn from 
04.2 Human resources and immersive start in the world of active asset 
various projects and stretch assignments (experience-
04.3 Compliance and data privacy  management in a truly global, engaging and diverse 
based learning).
04.4 Environmental management environment. The programme prepares employees 
04.5 Corporate citizenship for their next professional steps while creating value  Performance management and transparent feedback
for our clients, colleagues and individual employees.  To maximise business success, we must continuously ask 
The GGP includes a comprehensive overview of the  ourselves how we can best contribute to everything we 
firm, job rotations between different departments and  do. By setting global, functional and individual goals 
dedicated learning modules, giving graduates access  that align with our strategy, values (passion, excellence, 
to company insights and a broad network. We hired 12  respect, integrity) and employee and client value 
new graduates to take part in the programme in 2020. propositions, we create a firm-wide understanding of 
We have rolled out a new leadership development  performance excellence. We embed high standards 
program for all people managers, irrespective of their  through continuous feedback, regular appraisals and 
level. The mandatory Allianz-wide #lead programme  structured goal setting. Our revamped performance 
includes online digital modules and virtually facilitated  management approach increases the focus on driving 
training classes.  performance, alongside the traditional measurement 
of performance. 
Allianz Global Investors Sustainability Report 2020 36
04.2 Human resources continued
01 
Introduction
02 
Sustainability strategy 
and governance Engaging our employees  We continue to take action to improve areas 
Employee engagement is a high priority – an engaged  highlighted for improvement in the 2019 employee  2020 employee survey result highlights
03  workforce performs better, is more committed and  survey, including: 
91%
Sustainable investing accountable, and delivers a strong customer focus. – Career and development: Global roll out of 
04  The annual Allianz Engagement Survey (AES) is our  the Opportunity Platform to provide short-term  said “In my working environment colleagues and 
Sustainable business operations main platform for gathering employee feedback and  collaboration opportunities, mentoring, reverse  I cooperate to get the job done.“ (+1%p)
promoting a high-performance culture. We encourage  mentoring and more – connected to AllianzU 
04.1 Client satisfaction managers and employees to discuss the results within  with AllianzGI-specific learning paths for career  87%
04.2 Human resources their teams and to agree on actions to address areas  development 
04.3 Compliance and data privacy  for improvement. On-demand pulse surveys and  – Leadership development: A new mandatory  said “My manager and I work together in an 
04.4 Environmental management discussion tools increase dialogue across functions and  development programme for all people managers,  atmosphere based on mutual trust and respect.“ 
04.5 Corporate citizenship levels and enable us to better understand employee  #lead, rolled out across the Allianz world, reflecting  (no change)
sentiment and engagement throughout the year.  the importance of leadership and aligned 
We saw a decline in our AES scores this year related to  people management standards at any Allianz 
84%
corporate restructurings and associated impacts on  operating entity
perceptions around the importance of employees and  – Workload and process simplification: Multiple  said “My manager listens and responds to my 
career development opportunities. We have listened  process automations within and across functions and  ideas and concerns.“ (+2%p)
to feedback and are putting actions in place to drive  global roll out of a source-to-pay solution
improvements in these areas over the coming year. 
– Tools, information and digital literacy: Global roll 
84%
Reflections around Covid-19 and its impact on the work  out of a universal software system along with an 
environment showed that our people managers have  AllianzGI wide Digital Literacy Programme
done exceptionally well during an unprecedented year.  said “Access to flexible work arrangements at 
AES topics related to employees’ immediate proximity  – Senior management and strategy: In 2021  our company meet my current needs with regard 
and day-to-day experience – such as “my colleagues”,  we began our Livingroom sessions, giving each  to where and when I perform my tasks.“ (+6%p)
“my manager” and “my job” – are strong, stable and  employee the chance to meet informally with a 
improving. member of our International Management Group, to  83%
discuss our business and strategy as part of a small 
group. We completed 270 of these sessions within the 
said “My job is a good fit for my abilities and 
first three months of 2021.
experience.“ (+12%p)
83%
said “My manager clearly communicates what is 
expected of me.“ (+2%p)
83%
said “I get a sense of accomplishment from my 
work.“ (no change)
Allianz Global Investors Sustainability Report 2020 37
04.2 Human resources continued
01 
Introduction
02 
Sustainability strategy 
and governance Health and wellbeing Tackling work-related stress
The health and wellbeing of our people directly  Stress is a major health-related challenge facing 
03  impacts our business success. We strive to create  today’s workforce, especially for people in service-
Sustainable investing a productive workplace where employees are  oriented, desk-based jobs. We track work-related stress 
empowered to balance work, career development and  through the Allianz Group Work Well index (WWi®), 
04  personal priorities.  a scientifically validated tool introduced in 2015 that 
Sustainable business operations
measures work-related psychosocial stress. It is based 
Since the beginning of the pandemic, we have 
04.1 Client satisfaction on 10 equally weighted metrics including demands, 
developed a number of tools and resources to support 
04.2 Human resources rewards, control, support and social capital. A higher 
colleagues across the business in navigating the 
04.3 Compliance and data privacy  challenging situation. To promote wellbeing while  index score is associated with better employee health 
and productivity. In 2020, our score remained at a 
04.4 Environmental management working remotely, we published a guide on living 
stable level of 66% (2018 and 2019: 66%).
04.5 Corporate citizenship and working well from home. We also provided 
managers with FAQs on how to effectively manage 
84% 
remote working teams, actively promoted our 
Employee Assistance Programmes and held weekly 
feedback polls on our intranet to maintain employee  of employees feel that our flexible work 
engagement and share targeted communication in  arrangements meet their needs according to 
response to their needs. the recent employee engagement survey. 
Initiatives to help teams and individuals stay healthy 
and connected during the sustained period of remote 
working included virtual yoga and mindfulness 
sessions, Employeegram, a group-wide Instagram-style 
channel for sharing pictures and starting conversations, 
and the Random Virtual Coffee App, initially launched 
in Germany, France and the US, and rolled out globally 
to all employees in April 2021.
To maintain real-time engagement between employees 
and management we held regular “Ask the ExCo” 
webcasts where Executive Committee members 
and guests have an open dialogue with colleagues, 
including an “ask anything“ Q&A. 
Engagement activity was underpinned by a 
“coronavirus portal“ on our intranet to provide a single 
source of all the information and support available 
to colleagues, from travel advice to health and 
wellbeing resources.
Allianz Global Investors Sustainability Report 2020 38
04.3 Compliance and data privacy
01 
Introduction
02 
Sustainability strategy 
and governance Our success is built on the trust our investors,  The responsibility to perform tasks concerning anti- Data privacy
our employees and the public have in our  money laundering and to implement procedures to  We are committed to protecting the privacy rights of 
03  performance and integrity. They expect their  prevent money laundering and terrorist financing  our employees, clients, business partners and other 
Sustainable investing following the “Three Lines of Defence” model lies  third-parties when processing their personal data. 
personal information to be treated with the 
within the business and the Compliance and Audit  Personal data includes any information related to 
04  utmost care and we take this responsibility  functions. We document all procedures and measures  an identified or identifiable individual. We adhere to 
Sustainable business operations extremely seriously.  regarding the prevention of money laundering and  strict data privacy laws as well as to the Allianz Privacy 
04.1 Client satisfaction terrorist financing. Standard (APS).
Code of Ethics 
04.2 Human resources Further key responsibilities of the Compliance  The data privacy function of AllianzGI is handled 
04.3 Compliance and data privacy  We have embedded robust business policies  function include: by the Global Data Protection Officer (DPO). The 
and processes with regard to ethics and client 
04.4 Environmental management confidentiality. These are detailed in the Allianz Global  – Implementation of regulatory requirements into the  DPO informs, advises and issues recommendations 
04.5 Corporate citizenship Investors Code of Ethics and echo Allianz SE’s overall  business processes of AllianzGI regarding compliance with applicable data privacy 
laws and regulations, the APS, and other internal 
group standards.  – Management of conflicts of interest standards and guidelines. The DPO works in close 
Employees are required to act in accordance with these  – Anti-Money Laundering and Anti-Bribery/ cooperation with the respective Information Security 
policies at all times, whether dealing with customers,  Fraud monitoring Officer to ensure that adequate data protection-
external third parties or other employees of Allianz  related technical and organisational measures are in 
Group. They must, at all times, adhere to confidentiality  – Setting up information barriers to prevent  place. This includes controls regarding confidentiality 
in relation to customer information and AllianzGI  confidential information from being passed on and integrity, availability and resilience as well as 
activities. Additionally, employees must not engage  – Monitoring of personal account dealings  procedures for regular testing.
in any activities that would result in either a direct or 
indirect conflict of interest with our activities.  – Prevention of insider trading and market abuse Risk management 
The Global Risk Management function manages 
The Compliance function oversees the effective  – Monitoring trading activities in order to ensure best  four main risk categories: portfolio risk, business 
implementation of all regulations stipulated in the  execution to all clients risk, operational risk and reputational risk. Portfolio 
Code of Ethics regarding acceptable business practices,  – Investment guideline coding and monitoring:  risk is defined as the risk of changes in the value 
conflicts of interest policies and expected standards of  AllianzGI checks portfolios for compliance with  of investment portfolios that can be perceived not 
ethical behaviour within all departments of AllianzGI.  investment guidelines on both pre and post- to be in line with the risk profile of the respective 
In addition, it ensures every employee participates in  trade bases portfolio communicated to the investor – including 
regular compliance training. A key issue of importance  the risk that the company is exposed to market risk 
for compliance with the Code of Ethics is personal  – Employee regulatory training and credit risk in the portfolio via implicit or explicit 
account dealing, which is monitored via a computer- – Implementation and maintenance of an effective  performance promises. Portfolio risk also includes risk 
based system (StarCompliance). Compliance Programme (including the execution  relating to: liquidity, counterparty and settlement, and 
Our Anti-Money Laundering (AML) policy and Know  of a Compliance Risk Analysis and an annual  portfolio compliance. 
Your Customer (KYC) guidelines reflect the current  Compliance Self-Assessment). Operational risk is defined as the risk of loss inherent 
requirements of the fifth EU AML Directive, the  in our internal organisational setup, processes and 
recommendations of the Financial Action Task Force  controls resulting from potential failure to deliver 
on Money Laundering (FATF), and the German Anti- our products or services in the required time and 
Money Laundering Act and other European AML laws.  quality and in line with all regulations. Our definition 
AllianzGI has implemented procedures and controls to  of operational risk includes risk relating to: projects, 
prevent money laundering and terrorist financing. outsourcing and third parties, legal, regulatory and 
compliance, IT and business continuity, corporate tax/
finance and people.
Allianz Global Investors Sustainability Report 2020 39
04.3 Compliance and data privacy continued
01 
Introduction
02 
Sustainability strategy 
and governance Business resilience IT and IT security
Business resilience (business continuity and disaster  As part of Allianz Group, we comply with the Allianz 
03  recovery) is an essential component of our service  Group Information Security Framework, which sets out 
Sustainable investing commitment to our clients and its importance came to  minimum requirements for information security. Our 
the fore in 2020. Our business resilience framework is a  approach is based on the requirements and methods 
04  multi-tiered risk defence model with input from steering  of the International Organization for Standardization 
Sustainable business operations
groups, a corporate resilience organisation and directly  ISO 27001 and 27002. 
04.1 Client satisfaction from each function within our firm. The programme 
We monitor the cyber threat and risk landscape and 
04.2 Human resources is subject to oversight by Allianz Group and Allianz 
leverage state-of-the-art techniques and tools to 
04.3 Compliance and data privacy  Asset Management (AAM). Annual self-assessments  prevent data breaches of any kind. These include 
are submitted to AAM in accordance with group 
04.4 Environmental management dynamic malware inspection and continuous 
requirements. The programme is subject to periodic 
04.5 Corporate citizenship monitoring of all systems. We use a robust framework 
audit reviews by the AAM audit department.
to detect and respond to any cybersecurity or 
The business resilience team is responsible for  information security incident.
administering the programme and ensuring all business 
functions comply with the framework. Its role includes 
identifying threats, creating guidelines and policies, 
developing tools and best practices, and delivering 
training and awareness. 
Functional business recovery plans are designed by 
functions to ensure that key business processes can 
resume in the event of a serious interruption to business 
activities. These plans cover scenarios involving the loss 
of staff, facility, technology and third-party support. 
We review our functional recovery plans at least once 
a year to ensure their feasibility and effectiveness. 
Tests are performed and results analysed to enhance 
the effectiveness of business continuity management. 
Allianz Global Investors Sustainability Report 2020 40
04.4 Environmental management
01 
Introduction
02 
Sustainability strategy 
and governance The Allianz Group has been carbon-neutral  Allianz Global Investors environmental data at a glance 
2019 2020
since 2012. As part of this commitment,  
03  we offset our carbon emissions by retiring  Total GHG emissions (tons per employee) 3.5 1.9
Sustainable investing
carbon credits created via investments in 
Energy consumption  1.6 1.4
04  sustainable forest protection projects.  
Sustainable business operations
The savings in emissions are independently  Business travel 1.9 0.5
04.1 Client satisfaction measured and certified once a year.
Paper consumption 0.03 0.02
04.2 Human resources
04.3 Compliance and data privacy  As a signatory to the RE100 initiative, Allianz has  Share of renewable energy in the mix (%)
committed to source 100% of power for its group-wide 
04.4 Environmental management
04.5 Corporate citizenship operations from renewable sources by 2023. AllianzGI  Share of renewable energy 46 47
in Europe has made major steps towards achieving 
this goal, with 92% of our energy coming from  Water consumption (cubic metres per employee)
renewable sources.
Water consumption 26 21
In 2020, lower energy and paper consumption coupled 
with a large decrease in business travel activities  Waste output (kg per employee)
reduced our total GHG emissions per employee by 46% 
compared to 2019.  Waste output 149 90
This fall in energy, paper, water and waste consumption 
is a direct consequence of reduced office use resulting  In 2020, we set new targets to be achieved by 2025  Responsible procurement
from the Covid-19 pandemic. Travel restrictions around  (baseline year 2019): Sustainability is a key driver for the future success of 
the globe led to a big reduction in our CO2 footprint.  – 34% reduction of GHG emissions per employee our procurement function. Our procurement processes 
We expect the new Global Travel Policy to have a  are designed to deliver best value for money for our 
further positive impact in 2021, as it encourages  – 20% reduction of business travel (km travelled  business functions, while reflecting ESG requirements to 
employees to consider alternatives to travel, including  per employee) the best extent possible. 
video conferencing and other tools that proved 
successful during the pandemic. – 10% reduction of energy consumption in office  We focus on sustainable processes and supply chains, 
buildings (per employee) and on the smart procurement of goods and services. 
Besides the impact of Covid-19 on non-financial data,  – 20% reduction of paper consumption (per employee) Our targets look beyond cost reduction to include 
initiatives are ongoing in all offices to improve our CO2  efficiency gains and waste elimination.
footprint and decrease water and waste consumption  – 10% reduction of water consumption (per employee)
per employee. We have introduced a new simplified Global Travel 
– 11% reduction of waste output (per employee). Policy that enables us to reduce costs and CO 
2
emissions. We are also developing a new supplier 
management process that will focus on integrity 
of our suppliers and support the development of a 
sustainable supply chain. In category management, 
we are implementing measures to buy recycled 
paper only, increase use of renewable energy and 
reduce packaging. 
Allianz Global Investors Sustainability Report 2020 41
04.5 Corporate citizenship
01 
Introduction
02 
Sustainability strategy 
and governance Beyond our core operations and sustainable  – An organisation tackling social exclusion in France
investing, we seek to use our resources and 
– Local projects helping to provide food to 
03  employee skills to have a positive impact  disadvantaged communities in France, Germany, 
Sustainable investing
and contribute to the social and economic  Hong Kong, Italy, Singapore, the UK and US
04  development of communities.  – A charity working with children and adults with 
Sustainable business operations developmental disabilities in Hong Kong
Shaping the future of sustainability
04.1 Client satisfaction – Médecins Sans Frontière efforts to provide medical 
Our partnership with the German division of the global 
04.2 Human resources assistance to regions afflicted by endemic diseases.
student network, Enactus, aims to drive social impact 
04.3 Compliance and data privacy 
among younger populations. Enactus’s mission is to  “ Enactus is the world’s largest experimental 
04.4 Environmental management
“engage the next generation of entrepreneurial leaders  learning platform, dedicated to creating 
04.5 Corporate citizenship to use innovation and business principles to improve  Championing the plight of bees in Germany  a better world while developing the next 
the world”.  and beyond
generation of entrepreneurial leaders and 
One project that has emerged from our 
Our employees support and mentor teams of university  social innovators.” 
partnership with Enactus is Place to Bee, a 
students as they create sustainable solutions that 
scheme to support the restoration of the wild 
address the UN SDGs. The partnership complements 
bee population in Germany. Just over half of the  Prof Dr Oliver Faber
our focus on impact, SDG-aligned and sustainable 
580 domestic wild bee species in Germany are  Managing Director / Country Leader 
investments. Beyond the potential positive impact 
classified as threatened and the loss of these  Enactus Germany
of projects, it also provides opportunities for senior 
pollinators could cause harvests to collapse  
employees within AllianzGI to mentor the business 
by up to 90%. 
leaders of tomorrow.
Place to Bee connects landowners with sponsors 
Supporting our communities
who want to encourage biodiversity. The 
In addition to helping our clients navigate the Covid  organisation helps to arrange the details of the 
crisis, we have been acutely aware of its impacts on  lease and works with experts to ensure land is 
communities. Beyond the outreach and volunteering  adapted and maintained to prioritise the needs 
of individual employees, AllianzGI supported a range  of bees. By protecting the bees’ natural habitat 
of initiatives in communities local to our operations,  and creating new natural areas to encourage 
including: biodiversity, the project aims to support the 
– Charities supporting children with cancer in Germany,  recovery of threatened species. Our employees 
children’s charities in the world’s poorest areas  have supported the project start-up with seed 
and Save the Children’s coronavirus relief fund in  funding while also mentoring and advising the 
Hong Kong project team on its journey to foster impactful 
social entrepreneurship.
In addition, allied with our investment in a 
German solar plant, we have worked with a local 
beekeeper to ensure that the land surrounding 
the plant is hospitable to native insect species. The 
project launched in Germany in 2020 and we will 
expand it to other European sites during 2021  
and beyond.
Allianz Global Investors Sustainability Report 2020 42
04.5 Corporate citizenship continued
01 
Introduction
02 
Sustainability strategy 
Initiative Allianz Global Investors’ Position Since Initiative Allianz Global Investors’ Position Since
and governance
30% Club France  Member 2021 CFLI (Climate Finance  Founding Member 2019
03 
Leadership Initiative)
Sustainable investing
ACGA (Asian Corporate  Member 2013
Governance Association) CII (Council of  Member 2017
04 
Institutional Investors)
Sustainable business operations
AFG (Association Francaise  Member since inception
04.1 Client satisfaction de la Gestion financiere) Climate Action 100+ Participant 2017
Member Corporate Governance  since inception 
04.2 Human resources
Committee The Conference Board Co-Chair Corporate Governance  2019
04.3 Compliance and data privacy 
Council II
04.4 Environmental management Member SRI Label specifications 2019
04.5 Corporate citizenship DVFA (Deutsche  Board Member/Sponsor 2005
Member of Diversity working group 2020 Vereinigung für 
Finanzanalyse und Asset  Member Kommission Sustainable  2018
Member Technical Committee  2019 Management) Investing
Responsible Investment
Member Kommission Corporate  2015
AIGCC (Asian Investor Group  Member 2018 Governance
on Climate Change)
EFAMA (European  Member Stewardship, Market  since inception
Bloomberg Roundtable on  Participant 2019 Fund and Asset  Integrity, ESG Investment Standing 
EU Sustainable Finance Management Association) Committee
BVI (Bundesverband  Member 2011 ELFA (European Leveraged  Member/ Member of ESG  2020
Investment und Asset  Finance Association) Committee
Management) Member of the working group on  2011
responsible investing FAIRR Initiative Member 2019
 
Member of the working group on  2015 FIR (Forum pour  Member 2009
corporate governance l´Investissement 
Responsable)
Member of the working group on  2019
ESG risk management FFS (Forum per la  Board member 2011
Finanza Sostenibile)
CDP (Carbon  Investor Member 2015
Disclosure Project) FNG (German, Austrian  Member 2013
and Swiss Sustainable 
CBI (Climate   Partner 2015
Investment Forum)
Bonds Initiative)
Allianz Global Investors Sustainability Report 2020 43
04.5 Corporate citizenship continued
01 
Introduction
02 
Sustainability strategy 
Initiative Allianz Global Investors’ Position Since Initiative Allianz Global Investors’ Position Since
and governance
GBP (Green Bond Principles) Member 2015 SASB (Sustainability  Member SASB Alliance 2020
03 
Accounting 
Sustainable investing   Member Advisory Council Green  2019 Standards Board) Member SASB Investor  2020
Bonds and Social Bonds Advisory Group 
04   
Sustainable business operations
GIIN (Global Impact  Member 2018
04.1 Client satisfaction Investing Network) SpainSIF (Spain Sustainable  Member 2018
Investment Forum)
04.2 Human resources
IA (The Investment  Member 2015
04.3 Compliance and data privacy 
Association) TCFD (Taskforce  Supporter 2019
04.4 Environmental management Member Stewardship Committee 2016 on Climate-related 
04.5 Corporate citizenship   Financial Disclosures)
Member Sustainable and  2018
 
Responsible Investment Committee US CFTC (US  Member Climate-Related Market  2019
Commodity Futures  Risk Subcommittee
ICGN  Member  2015 Trading Commission)
(International Corporate 
Governance Network) WBA (World  Member 2019
Benchmarking Alliance)
The Investor Forum, UK Underwriting signatory 2015
The Investor Mining &  Participant 2019
Tailings safety Initiative
Nasdaq Sustainable  Member of the advisory board  2019
Bond Network
Net Zero Asset  Member 2021
Manager Initiative
PRI (UN Principles for  Signatory 2007
Responsible Investment)
Member of the Infrastructure 
  Advisory Committee 2017
 
Member of the Global Policy 
  Reference Group 2018
  Member Sovereign Working Group 2018
Member working group on ensuring  2020
a sustainable financial system in 
Covid-19 recovery phase
Allianz Global Investors Sustainability Report 2020 44
Imprint Project responsibility
Copyright © Allianz Global Investors 2021 Felix Mueller, Business Manager,  
Sustainable Investment Office 
Publisher
Allianz Global Investors GmbH  John Bolton, Head of Content Management,  
Bockenheimer Landstr. 42–44  Marketing and Communications
60323 Frankfurt  Tatiana Kalashnikova, Global Graduate Programme
Germany
Design, concept and production
www.allianzgi.com/sustainability
Radley Yeldar, London, U.K.
Editor-in-chief
ry.com
Matt Christensen, Global Head of Sustainable  
and Impact Investing We would like to thank all of our colleagues and 
partners who have helped us to create this report.
Date of publication: 30 April 2021
Disclaimer: Investing involves risk. The value of an investment and the income from it will fluctuate and investors may not get back the principal invested. There is no guarantee that actively managed investments will outperform the broader.
Investing involves risk. The value of an investment and the income from it will fluctuate and investors may not get back the principal invested. Past performance is not indicative of future performance. This is a marketing communication. It is for 
informational purposes only. This document does not constitute investment advice or a recommendation to buy, sell or hold any security and shall not be deemed an offer to sell or a solicitation of an offer to buy any security.
The views and opinions expressed herein, which are subject to change without notice, are those of the issuer or its affiliated companies at the time of publication. Certain data used are derived from various sources believed to be reliable, but the 
accuracy or completeness of the data is not guaranteed and no liability is assumed for any direct or consequential losses arising from their use. The duplication, publication, extraction or transmission of the contents, irrespective of the form, is not 
permitted.
This material has not been reviewed by any regulatory authorities. In mainland China, it is used only as supporting material to the offshore investment products offered by commercial banks under the Qualified Domestic Institutional Investors 
scheme pursuant to applicable rules and regulations. This document does not constitute a public offer by virtue of Act Number 26.831 of the Argentine Republic and General Resolution No. 622/2013 of the NSC. This communication’s 
sole purpose is to inform and does not under any circumstance constitute promotion or publicity of Allianz Global Investors products and/or services in Colombia or to Colombian residents pursuant to part 4 of Decree 2555 of 2010. This 
communication does not in any way aim to directly or indirectly initiate the purchase of a product or the provision of a service offered by Allianz Global Investors. Via reception of his document, each resident in Colombia acknowledges and 
accepts to have contacted Allianz Global Investors via their own initiative and that the communication under no circumstances does not arise from any promotional or marketing activities carried out by Allianz Global Investors. Colombian 
residents accept that accessing any type of social network page of Allianz Global Investors is done under their own responsibility and initiative and are aware that they may access specific information on the products and services of Allianz 
Global Investors. This communication is strictly private and confidential and may not be reproduced. This communication does not constitute a public offer of securities in Colombia pursuant to the public offer regulation set forth in Decree 2555 
of 2010. This communication and the information provided herein should not be considered a solicitation or an offer by Allianz Global Investors or its affiliates to provide any financial products in Brazil, Panama, Peru, and Uruguay. In Australia, 
this material is presented by Allianz Global Investors Asia Pacific Limited (“AllianzGI AP”) and is intended for the use of investment consultants and other institutional/professional investors only, and is not directed to the public or individual retail 
investors. AllianzGI AP is not licensed to provide financial services to retail clients in Australia. AllianzGI AP (Australian Registered Body Number 160 464 200) is exempt from the requirement to hold an Australian Foreign Financial Service License 
under the Corporations Act 2001 (Cth) pursuant to ASIC Class Order (CO 03/1103) with respect to the provision of financial services to wholesale clients only. AllianzGI AP is licensed and regulated by Hong Kong Securities and Futures Commission 
under Hong Kong laws, which differ from Australian laws.
This document is being distributed by the following Allianz Global Investors companies: Allianz Global Investors U.S. LLC, an investment adviser registered with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission; Allianz Global Investors Distributors 
LLC, distributor registered with FINRA, is affiliated with Allianz Global Investors U.S. LLC; Allianz Global Investors GmbH, an investment company in Germany, authorized by the German Bundesanstalt für Finanzdienstleistungsaufsicht (BaFin); 
Allianz Global Investors (Schweiz) AG; Allianz Global Investors Asia Pacific Ltd., licensed by the Hong Kong Securities and Futures Commission; Allianz Global Investors Singapore Ltd., regulated by the Monetary Authority of Singapore Company 
Registration No. 199907169Z; Allianz Global Investors Japan Co., Ltd., registered in Japan as a Financial Instruments Business Operator Registered No. The Director of Kanto Local Finance Bureau (Financial Instruments Business Operator), No. 
424, Member of Japan Investment Advisers Association and Investment Trust Association, Japan; and Allianz Global Investors Taiwan Ltd., licensed by Financial Supervisory Commission in Taiwan. 1574706
Allianz Global Investors Sustainability Report 2020
Allianz Global Investors
Global Head of Sustainable and Impact Investing
3 Boulevard des Italiens 
75002 Paris
France
www.allianzgi.com/sustainability