
SHAPING OUR 
SUSTAINABLE 
FUTURE
ALLIANZ GROUP  
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018
1 Allianz Sustainability Report 2018 Introduction In-focus Managing sustainability Our roles Data and performance
CONTENTS
01 INTRODUCTION  2 WHAT IS NEW IN THIS REPORT?
05 OUR ROLE AS A RESPONSIBLE INVESTOR  32 08 OUR ROLE AS A COMMITTED 
SDG Icons: Throughout the report, you will find 
02 IN-FOCUS: Driving progress towards a    05.1 Our approach  33   CORPORATE CITIZEN  70
icons related to the U.N. Sustainable Development 
  low-carbon future  7   05.2 ESG in our role as asset owner  34   08.1 Our approach  71
Goals (SDGs). For each chapter and case study, we 
  05.3 ESG in our real estate investments  39   08.2 Encouraging future generations  72 have determined the SDGs where Allianz most 
03 MANAGING SUSTAINABILITY  11   05.4 ESG in third-party asset management  40   08.3 Corporate volunteering  79 contributes with its activities. The size of each icon 
  03.1  Our Corporate Strategy  12   08.4 Corporate giving  80 indicates the level of impact we can have. 
  03.2 Our Corporate Responsibility Strategy  13
  03.3 Contributing to the UN Sustainable  06 OUR ROLE AS A TRUSTED COMPANY  45 09 ALLIANZ’S CLIMATE-RELATED 
    Development Goals  17   06.1 Our approach  46   FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE  81
  03.4 Embedding sustainability in our    06.2 Growing with our customers  47   09.1 Governance  82
    insurance and investment business  18 Highlighting our performance: In this report, our 
  06.3 Progressing towards digital by default  48   09.2 Strategy  84
sustainability performance data is highlighted in two 
  03.5 Climate change and decarbonization  20
  06.4 Protecting our customers  49   09.3 Risk and opportunity management  88 ways. Firstly, we have included graphs highlighting 
  03.6 Corporate responsibility governance  21
  06.5 Political engagement  53   09.4 Metrics and targets  90 the most important trends. Secondly, we refer to our 
  03.7 Corporate responsibility management  22
  06.6 Environmental impact  54 data tables in the back using a circle icon (example: 
  03.8 Stakeholder engagement  23
  06.7 Trust in our supply chain  57 10 SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE DATA  91  Table ESG-1) to help you better understand 
  10.1 Our targets and achievements  92 trends in our data.
  10.2 Memberships and partnerships  96
04 OUR ROLE AS A SUSTAINABLE INSURER  25
07 OUR ROLE AS AN ATTRACTIVE EMPLOYER  58   10.3 ESG performance  97
  04.1 Our approach  26
  07.1 Our approach  59   10.4 Environmental performance  100
  04.2 Sustainable solutions  27
  07.2 Leading our people into a digital future  61   10.5 Human resources performance  102
  04.3 Solutions for emerging consumers  29
  07.3 AllianzU  63   10.6 Additional sustainability performance  105
  04.4 Solutions for a changing climate  30
  07.4 People attraction and    10.7 Reporting parameters, scope  
    talent management  64     and materiality  106
  07.5 Diversity and inclusion  65
  07.6 Employee engagement  67
  07.7 Employee health & Work Well  69
This year’s cover page shows the office tower at  
10 Hudson Yards in New York City (USA). The tower received 
LEED Platinum Certification from the US Green Building Council.
The tower is one of the certified green buildings in the portfolio 
of Allianz Real Estate GmbH.
Disclaimer regarding rounding 
Due to rounding, numbers presented may not add up precisely to the totals 
provided and percentages may not precisely reflect the absolute figures. 
2 Allianz Sustainability Report 2018 Introduction In-focus Managing sustainability Our roles Data and performance
01
INTRODUCTION
WELCOME How to use this report • The Non-Financial Report1 which is  DISCLOSING OUR CORPORATE 
compiled in accordance with the German  RESPONSIBILITY APPROACH
In this report, we disclose our major corporate 
CSR Directive Implementation Act (EU 
responsibility-related policies, strategies, 
Directive 2014/95/EU) and focuses on the 
actions and progress, including delivered 
INCREASING TRANSPARENCY through our: ESG Integration Framework;  key performance indicators (KPIs) that  ESG   Allianz  
reflect our most material sustainability  Integration   Climate  
Allianz believes that building a sustainable  Allianz Climate Strategy; Allianz Corporate 
issues and that we use to manage  Framework Strategy
business means increasing transparency  Citizenship Strategy; Group Environmental 
our business. 
and promoting open dialog about our  Guideline; Group Code of Conduct; Modern 
opportunities and challenges. That is  Slavery Statement and other policies and  • Specialized reports such as the Allianz 
why we aim to communicate openly and  frameworks. For details on these policies,  People Fact Book, the Allianz Tax 
Allianz 
comprehensively about our corporate  please see our website.  Transparency Report and Principles for  Group 
Corporate 
responsibility commitments, approach and  Responsible Investment (PRI) Transparency  Environmental 
Our suite of reports Citizenship 
performance against our commitments. Report which go into greater depth on  Strategy Guideline
Our Sustainability Report is part of an  specific issues.
We organize our Sustainability Report 
increasingly comprehensive suite of reports 
around our strategic approach and the five  • Sustainability reports published by several 
that provide transparency and information  Additional disclosures
key roles we play in society. This year, we  of our operating entities, which provide a 
for all our stakeholders. They include: Group Code of Conduct, Responsible Tax 
begin with an in-depth look how Allianz is  more in-depth view of the local corporate  Strategy, Modern Slavery Statement, Lobbying 
helping to drive progress towards a low- • The Allianz Group Annual Report which  responsibility activities, achievements  Code of Conduct ...
carbon future, and how we are addressing  provides detailed information for our  and challenges.
the challenges and opportunities to  investors on our corporate governance,  REPORTING ON OUR PROGRESS
You can find all reports and disclosures 
decarbonize our business.  management and financial statements.
on our website at www.allianz.com/
sustainability. 
Group  Non- 
Sustainability   Financial  
Report Report
Additional reports
People Fact Book, Tax Transparency Report, PRI 
transparency Report ...
1  The Non-Financial Report is part of the Allianz Group Annual Report as of reporting year 2018. 
3 Allianz Sustainability Report 2018 Introduction In-focus Managing sustainability Our roles Data and performance
INTRODUCTION: 
ALLIANZ GROUP  
AT A GLANCE
With over 92 million customers  Total revenue approx. 
worldwide, Allianz has grown  €130.6 bn
to be one of the world’s largest 
insurers, investors and  
assistance providers. 
Third-party assets of 
€1,436 bn
This enables us to protect our 
customers locally and to offer an 
increasingly diverse global portfolio of 
products and services that meet both 
our customers’ needs and the needs of  Allianz Group serves 
wider society. 
92 mn
We stand for trust and strive for 
profitable and sustainable growth that  customers
ensures everyone who belongs to our 
community benefits.
Over 
142,300
employees worldwide
Active in more than 
70
countries
4 Allianz Sustainability Report 2018 Introduction In-focus Managing sustainability Our roles Data and performance
INTRODUCTION: 
BUSINESS MODEL
Allianz SE and its subsidiaries   INSURANCE OPERATIONS  ASSET MANAGEMENT  CORPORATE AND OTHER 
(the Allianz Group) offer property-
We offer a wide range of property-casualty  Our two major investment management  The Corporate and Other business segment’s 
casualty insurance, life/health insurance, 
and life/health insurance products to both  businesses, PIMCO and AllianzGI, operate  activities include the management and 
and asset management products 
retail and corporate customers: under Allianz Asset Management (AAM).  support of the Allianz Group’s businesses 
and services in over 70 countries, with 
We are one of the largest asset managers in  through its central holding functions, as 
• The Property-Casualty business segment 
the largest of our operations located 
the world that actively manage assets. Our  well as Alternative Investments and other 
includes motor, accident, property, 
in Europe. The Allianz Group insures  offerings cover a wide range of equity, fixed  business units.
general liability, travel insurance and 
92 million customers.  income, and alternative investment products 
assistance services.
and solutions. Our core markets here are the 
Our structure reflects both our business 
• The Life/Health business segment offers  United States, Germany, France, Italy, the 
segments and geographical regions. 
savings and investment-oriented products  United Kingdom, and the Asia-Pacific region. 
Business activities are organized by 
in addition to life and health insurance. 
product and type of service: insurance 
activities, asset management activities,  We are the leading Property-Casualty insurer 
worldwide and rank among the top five in 
and corporate and other activities. 
the Life/Health insurance business. Most of 
Insurance activities are further  
our insurance markets are served by local 
divided into Property-Casualty  
Allianz companies. However, some business 
and Life/Health categories. 
lines – such as Allianz Global Corporate & 
Specialty (AGCS), Allianz Partners (AP) and 
Credit Insurance – are run globally. 
5 Allianz Sustainability Report 2018 Introduction In-focus Managing sustainability Our roles Data and performance
INTRODUCTION: 
SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS
SUSTAINABLE   • 470 insurance transactions assessed for ESG risks. • 43.8 million customers in the emerging consumers market.
• 1.56 billion Euro revenue generated through Sustainable Solutions. • Continued to train underwriters and relevant employees 
INSURER
on our ESG screening processes.
See more in section 04.
RESPONSIBLE   • 5.4 billion Euro additional sustainable investments,  • Tightened restrictions on coal-based business models and 
bringing the total to 25.1 billion Euro. introduced a long-term action plan for coal until 2040.
INVESTOR
• Launched systematic approach for engagement on environment,  • 175.6 billion Euro third party Sustainable and Responsible 
social and governance with 12 companies. Investments (SRI) across AllianzGI and PIMCO.
See more in section 05.
• AllianzGI and PIMCO published their first ESG reports.
TRUSTED   • Net Promoter Score: 74% of Allianz Group business segments  • Acceptance of our Binding Corporate Rules for international 
scored above market average or in a loyalty leader position  data transfers.
COMPANY
in 2018. • Signed up to RE100 committing to 100% renewable energy 
• Adopted the Allianz Privacy Standard reflecting requirements  by 2023.
See more in section 06.
of the GDPR. • 27% cut in CO₂ emissions per employee since 2010.
• 562 suppliers have contracted our Vendor Code of Conduct for 2018.
ATTRACTIVE   • 71% score in the Inclusive Meritocracy Index – our key measure of  • 38% Allianz managers in our core business are women.
cultural change – up from 68% in 2015. • Rolled out newly launched Employee Share Purchase 
EMPLOYER
• Launched LinkedIn Learning @ Allianz. Program to around 80% of Allianz population.
See more in section 07.
COMMITTED  • 25.8 million Euro corporate giving (2017: 20 million Euro). • Since 2017, our Social Innovation Fund has invested almost 
• Expanded Encouraging Future Generations with the Allianz  400,000 Euro across 14 countries to support the education, 
CORPORATE  
Social Innovation Fund and Allianz Future Generations Award. training and employability of children and youth.
CITIZEN
• Third Allianz World Run raised 300,000 Euro for SOS 
Children’s Villages.
See more in section 08.
6 Allianz Sustainability Report 2018 Introduction In-focus Managing sustainability Our roles Data and performance
INTRODUCTION: 
CEO’S PERSPECTIVE
If you’ve earned and kept clients’ trust for  can reasonably deny that human-induced  provide advice to young people from the 
considerably more than a century, you’re no  climate change (CO₂ emissions) represents  Villages, for example on how to prepare a 
stranger to sustainability. Not in business,  not only a social and environmental risk,  job application.
and not in dealing with the environment you  but also a considerable financial one. 
I’m especially proud that Allianz is consistently 
work in. In fact, our commitment to society is  Therefore, everything we do must take into 
viewed as a Corporate Responsibility 
completely inseparable from our operations  consideration ESG (environmental, social, 
leader. In 2018, for example, the Dow Jones 
as one of the world’s largest insurers and  governance) factors. We’re proud to say 
Sustainability Index rated us the leader in our 
asset managers, with over 92 million clients.  that we’re a pioneer in turning away from 
industry for the second time in a row. During 
They’ve chosen Allianz because they trust  coal business – both as an investor and as 
the 2018 reporting year, the responsible 
us. Because they’re sure that with us, their  an insurer. Our aim is that 100% of Allianz’s 
investment strategies of Allianz SE, PIMCO 
money is in good hands. Not to mention  energy needs to come from renewable 
and Allianz Global Investors received A+ 
because – today more than ever – they quite  sources by 2023. And by 2050, we want all 
“ After 128 years of a company history  ratings from the Principles for Responsible 
rightly expect us to deliver not just success  our assets to be climate-neutral.
Investment. The MSCI ESG Research rating 
filled with changes, transformation 
for our clients, shareholders and employees, 
This report also provides detailed information  agency rated us AAA. As we see it, all of this 
has once again taken center stage  but positive contributions toward resolving 
about our application of ESG criteria at  confirms that our sustainability strategy is 
in our strategy and demands our  the problems of society as a whole. And that 
all levels of our business, and keeping our  on the right track – even as we constantly 
attention. It will determine not just  will only work if we ourselves are the ones 
sustainability approach up-to-date. It is  continue to learn along the way.
how we do business, but how we live  pushing transformation ahead on a global  also about what we’re doing to promote 
scale, both in business as well as at the  I hope you enjoy reading this report and that 
up to our corporate responsibility for  social inclusion – including our Encouraging 
societal level.  it brings you a great deal of optimism about 
the environment, climate and society  Future Generations program, which supports 
the future. And I hope you’ll join us in shaping 
as a whole, all over the world.” Our understanding of Corporate  children and young people around the  a world that is healthier, less wasteful, more 
Responsibility, and what we’re doing  world. This segment of our sustainability 
productive, more fair, and more sustainable. 
to support sustainable development,  strategy is particularly important to me. It 
forms the basis of this report. It includes  pertains, for example, to our partnership 
our consideration of the United Nations  with the SOS Children’s Villages, which our 
Sustainable Development Goals, and offers  employees help support worldwide through 
an overview of our entire commitment to  efforts such as our Allianz World Run. The 
corporate responsibility. number of kilometers our employees run 
determines the size of our donation to the 
One example of our commitment is  Chairman of the Board of Management 
Villages. We’ve raised 1.4 million Euro over 
our climate strategy. This demonstrates  Allianz SE 
the last three years, with the participation 
how transformation, sustainability and 
of up to 10,000 runners in 123 countries. 
profitability can go hand-in-hand. Since the 
We also rolled out a new online mentoring 
2015 Paris Climate Conference, nobody 
program in which Allianz employees can 
7 Allianz Sustainability Report 2018 Introduction In-focus Managing sustainability Our roles Data and performance
0  2
IN-FOCUS:
DRIVING PROGRESS  
TOWARDS A LOW-CARBON  
FUTURE 
In 2018, the Intergovernmental Panel on  For Allianz, countering climate change and  “ Climate change generates enormous economic and social risks. It is already 
Climate Change (IPCC) reiterated the  limiting global warming is a crucial priority.  harming millions of people today. As a leading insurer and investor, we want 
importance of limiting global warming  We are fully committed to the 2015 Paris  to promote the transition to a climate-friendly economy.” 
to well below 2°C. The panel’s report  Climate Agreement’s target to limit global 
states that, if the current rate of warming  warming to well below 2°C and we understand   
continues, we will see a global temperature  that reaching this goal will require a rapid and 
full decarbonization of the global economy. 
increase of 1.5°C by around 2040 with a 
high risk of dangerous and catastrophic  As one of the world’s largest insurers and 
impacts – ranging from loss of species and  institutional investors, we have an important 
vulnerable small island communities to  opportunity and a responsibility to use our 
severe and frequent droughts, heatwaves  leverage to shape the global low-carbon future. 
and flooding.  We are taking concrete actions and working 
with others to understand the science, develop     
and implement solutions and mitigate the  Oliver Bäte 
impacts of climate change. We are anticipating    Chairman of the Board of Management 
IN THIS SECTION the risks of climate change, protecting and  Allianz SE
caring for our customers through our insurance 
02.1  Our climate change strategy  8
products and enabling the transition to a 
02.2  Translating strategy into action  9
low-carbon economy with our insurance and 
investment activities. 
8 Allianz Sustainability Report 2018 Introduction In-focus Managing sustainability Our roles Data and performance
IN-FOCUS: DRIVING PROGRESS TOWARDS A LOW-CARBON FUTURE
02.1 OUR CLIMATE CHANGE STRATEGY
ANTICIPATE. CARE. ENABLE.  Care.
DELIVERING THE UN SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS 
Since 2005, our Climate Change Strategy  We care for those vulnerable to climate 
has aimed at developing solutions that  change, supporting our customers to  The SDGs are a universal call to action to end poverty, protect the planet and improve global 
help mitigate and manage the impacts of  reduce risks and minimize damage  political and economic stability. By the very nature of what we do – protecting people and 
climate change by focusing on our ability  while compensating those who have  businesses against risks – we contribute to our customers’ long-term financial wellbeing and 
to anticipate, care and enable. We have  suffered losses and insuring low-carbon  stabilize local economies which underpin the SDGs. 
regularly updated our strategy and have  developments. We are working with our  We have identified the following two SDGs (and the respective targets) as those to which we 
adopted the Paris Climate Agreement’s  partners to provide climate risk insurance  make the greatest contribution by delivering our Climate Change Strategy: 
target in our ambition across our business  for up to 400 million people in the most 
activities, building on our well-established  vulnerable developing countries by 2020  SDG 7  
ESG approach.  as well as to pilot innovative solutions in  Ensure access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and modern energy for all
developing and emerging countries. 
Anticipate. SDG Targets:
Enable.
We constantly work to identify and manage  7.1 B  y 2030, ensure universal access to affordable, reliable and modern 
risks and opportunities resulting from climate  We have announced new commitments to  energy services.
change, both as part of our overall business  actively support the transition to a global 
7.2 B  y 2030, increase substantially the share of renewable energy in the global 
strategy and in developing and adjusting our  low-carbon economy over the coming 
energy mix.
financial products and services. This includes  decades. We provide sustainable solutions 
screening investments for climate-related  for our customers, including insurance  7.3 By 2030, double the global rate of improvement in energy efficiency.
risks and excluding certain sectors, as well  solutions that support renewables and 
as improving transparency around climate- energy efficiency around the world. In May  SDG 13 
related disclosures. We have an industry- 2018, we joined the Science Based Targets  Take urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts 
leading threshold for coal and we have  initiative (SBTi) and committed to set long- SDG Targets:
committed to bring this down to zero thereby  term climate goals for our operations and 
completely phasing out coal-based business  proprietary investments, linked to the Paris  13.1 S trengthen resilience and adaptive capacity to climate-related hazards 
models from our business no later than 2040. Climate Agreement’s target to limit global  and natural disasters in all countries.
warming to well below 2°C. We are striving to  13.2 I ntegrate climate change measures into national policies, strategies 
We are working to further align our strategy 
minimize our environmental impact and are  and planning.
and reporting with the recommendations 
committed to source 100% renewable power 
developed by the G20 Financial Stability  13.3 I mprove education, awareness-raising and human and institutional 
for our group-wide operations by 2023. 
Board’s Task Force on Climate-related  capacity on climate change mitigation, adaptation, impact reduction and 
Financial Disclosures (TCFD).  early warning.
Read on to find out more about how we are translating our 
Climate Change Strategy into action.
Find out more about how we are contributing to the UN Sustainable Development Goals on page 17.
9 Allianz Sustainability Report 2018 Introduction In-focus Managing sustainability Our roles Data and performance
IN-FOCUS: DRIVING PROGRESS TOWARDS A LOW-CARBON FUTURE
02.2 TRANSLATING STRATEGY INTO ACTION
Through our strategy, we are taking a multi- We have decided to no longer provide  Finance Initiative (UNEP FI), and the  “As a long-term investor, we want 
faceted approach to decarbonization and  insurance for the construction and/or  Principles for Sustainable Insurance (PSI)  to drive and shape the change 
supporting the transformation to a low-carbon  operation of single coal-fired power plants  initiative, as well as through our memberships 
to a climate-friendly economy. 
economy. These are just some of our actions. or coal mines as of 2018. in The B Team, the World Economic Forum 
There is still pioneering work to 
(WEF) Alliance of CEO Climate Leaders 
ANTICIPATE. Companies that generate electricity from  be done. For example, we need 
and others. 
multiple sources, such as coal, other fossil  valid methods to evaluate climate 
Phasing out coal to tackle long-term risks
fuels, or renewable energies, will continue to  CARE. strategies of companies. For our 
We began divesting from coal-based  be insured and individually reviewed on the 
Protecting the most vulnerable portfolio, the adaptability of 
business models in 2015 and we continue to  basis of our general ESG criteria (page 26). 
business models to a well-below 
strengthen our approach. We will lower the  To support the change, we are committed  As well as working to combat climate 
threshold for coal-based business models  to working with our clients to find suitable  change, we reduce the impacts of climate  2°C target will be a decisive 
from 30 percent to 25 percent by the end of  solutions that enable a joint path towards  risks, incentivize preventive measures  selection criterion. It is important to 
2022, a value that applies to the maximum  a low-carbon economy. We are further  to increase customers’ resilience and  limit global warming. We hope that 
revenue mining companies can generate by  developing our approach to coal to reach  compensate for climate-related damages  our efforts support political action.”
mining coal and the maximum percentage  our target of a complete phase-out by 2040  by providing insurance. The higher the level 
of electricity energy companies are allowed  at the latest. of insurance coverage of a country, the more   
to generate from coal. This is a short-term  resilient it is to extreme natural events. 
Working towards greater transparency
step towards our commitment to fully phase 
We aim to help provide climate risk 
We strongly believe that, for customers 
out coal-based business models across our 
insurance for up to 400 million people in 
and investors to be able to make informed 
proprietary investments and property & 
the most vulnerable developing countries 
decisions, companies must report 
casualty (P&C) insurance portfolios. We will 
by 2020 through our active support of the 
comprehensively on their climate-related risks 
continue to successively lower the threshold 
InsuResilience Global Partnership. We also 
and their actions to tackle them. We have 
to zero by 2040 at the latest. 
share our expertise to help countries manage 
advocated for greater transparency and 
   
Additionally, we strengthened our exclusion  climate risks. In 2017, we formed a three-
reporting on these risks by companies for 
Katharina Latif 
criteria to no longer invest in energy  year strategic alliance with the German 
a number of years and we strongly support 
  Head of Corporate Responsibility 
companies that put the Paris Climate  Corporation for International Cooperation 
the 2017 recommendations of the TCFD. 
Allianz SE
Agreement’s target at risk by building coal- (GIZ) with the goal of ‘Closing the Protection 
As well as reporting on our own climate-
fired power plants considered excessive, or  Gap’. Through our partnership, we are setting 
related risks and opportunities based on the 
that would have to retire more than 50% of  up programs to reduce flood risk and provide 
TCFD framework, we are encouraging other 
their generation’s capacities over the next ten  insurance for municipalities in Ghana’s 
companies within our sector and beyond to 
years in order to meet the target2. capital, Accra, as well as for small and 
improve their disclosure. We do this through 
medium-sized enterprises in an important 
our work with the G7 Investor Leadership 
industrial zone in Morocco (see page 30). 
Network, the UN Environment Programme 
2  For details and definitions, please see the case study on Decarbonizing our investments on page 36. 
10 Allianz Sustainability Report 2018 Introduction In-focus Managing sustainability Our roles Data and performance
IN-FOCUS: DRIVING PROGRESS TOWARDS A LOW-CARBON FUTURE
02.2 TRANSLATING STRATEGY INTO ACTION
ENABLE. Most importantly, we have committed that  The financial industry is challenged by only-
our investment portfolio will have net-zero  emerging methods and analytical tools to  WHAT IS THE SCIENCE BASED  
Our science-based approach 
emissions by 2050. This is one of the main  conduct forward-looking and science-based  TARGETS INITIATIVE?
to decarbonization
ways we can leverage our influence to tackle  carbon analysis. Many companies are still 
The Science Based Targets initiative 
We are working to reduce greenhouse gas  climate change.  unable to make precise statements about 
(SBTi) is a non-profit organization which 
emissions from our operations in line with  their carbon performance or those of their 
Measures will continue to be steered through  supports companies in setting emission 
the target of the Paris Climate Agreement.  supply chain due to a lack of data and 
our ESG integration approach, which is  reduction targets that are in line with 
In 2018, as part of the RE100 initiative, we  procedures. By setting the clear expectation 
applied to companies with high ESG risks  achieving the Paris Climate Agreement 
committed to source 100% renewable power  that companies commit to verifiable 
(see section 05.2). Companies that do not  target. It is the most ambitious initiative on 
for our group-wide operations by 2023 (page  climate targets that are pursued and 
succeed in adjusting their greenhouse gas  decarbonization in the market, requiring 
54). This commitment will more than double  made transparent (e.g. by joining the SBTi), 
emissions to the Paris C Agreement target will  real-economy decarbonization targets and 
the current share of renewables in our energy  we will not only drive down our portfolio 
be gradually removed from our portfolio. progress in line with pathways to well below 
mix and covers the power demand for the  emissions, but, more importantly, achieve 
2°C. We see the SBTi as an enabler to build 
office space we occupy and our data centers.  Promoting active dialog real-world emission reductions. We are also 
on our long-standing commitments and our 
With operations in over 70 countries, we will  working with recognized climate experts, 
Reaching the target of the Paris Climate  efforts on driving the low-carbon economy.
need to engage deeply with our suppliers  non-governmental organizations, and 
Agreement will need wide-ranging 
and landlords to bring this about. committed companies within SBTi to develop 
decarbonization efforts across markets 
marketable analysis tools for investors to 
We are also working with academia  and industries. This is why we have chosen 
integrate the “well below 2°C target.”  Find out more
and the Science Based Targets initiative  an active engagement approach towards 
(SBTi) to develop methodologies to set  investee companies as well as policy makers  Investments to support the global  To read more about how we are tackling climate change 
through our sustainability roles and strategy, please refer to the 
long-term goals for climate protection  as our best opportunity to create real- energy transition
following pages:
and to fully integrate the Paris Climate  economic impact and foster commitments 
Our low-carbon investment portfolio  Integrating ESG into investments and insurance: section 03.4.
Agreement target into the investment of our  from other companies to define and 
continues to grow through, for example, 
customers’ insurance premiums. This means  implement climate strategies in line  Investing in the low-carbon economy: page 37.
investments in environmentally certified 
applying different approaches to quantify  with science.  Insuring the low-carbon economy: section 04.4.
real estate (page 39), co-financing 
the carbon performance of our entire 
We started active dialogs with companies  renewable energy in emerging markets with  Promoting access to financial solutions for emerging consumers:  
proprietary investment portfolio to better  page 29.
to define and implement their own climate  development banks, seeking opportunities 
understand risks and opportunities related 
protection targets, starting with four  in green bond investing and expanding our  Managing our environmental impacts and reducing our 
to decarbonization. emissions: section 06.6.
particularly energy-intensive sectors: Energy,  investments in renewable energy (page 37). 
Transport, Industry and Materials.
Our total financial commitment to low-
carbon investments3 amounts to 23.7 billion 
Euro (see also   Table ESG-8) at the end of 
2018. We plan on increasing our investments 
in the future. 
3  Renewable energy investments, certified green buildings, and green bonds. 
11 Allianz Sustainability Report 2018 Introduction In-focus Managing sustainability Our roles Data and performance
0  3
MANAGING  
SUSTAINABILITY
MOST SUSTAINABLE INSURER  “ As a responsible insurer, investor and employer, we 
IN THIS SECTION contribute to positive social and economic development 
No. 1 
in all markets in which we are present. The ranking in 
03.1  Our Corporate Strategy  12
sustainability indices motivates us. It shows that our focus 
03.2  Our Corporate Responsibility Strategy 13 insurer in the Dow Jones Sustainability 
Index for the second year in a row.  on ecological, social and governance criteria is being 
03.3  C  ontributing to the UN Sustainable 
acknowledged by sustainability experts.”
Development Goals  17
Our score of 85 out of 100 points was 
03.4  E mbedding sustainability in our   well above the average sector score of    Günther Thallinger 
insurance and investment business  18 47 points. We were also rated best in the    Member of the Board of Management,  
03.5  Climate change and decarbonization 20 sector for climate strategy, human capital  Investment Management and ESG 
03.6  Corporate responsibility governance  21 development, information security, tax  Allianz SE
strategy and financial inclusion.
03.7  Corporate responsibility management 22
03.8  Stakeholder engagement  23
12 Allianz Sustainability Report 2018 Introduction In-focus Managing sustainability Our roles Data and performance
MANAGING SUSTAINABILITY
03.1 OUR CORPORATE STRATEGY
Allianz Group seeks to position itself  OUR RENEWAL AGENDA
as one of the world’s most trusted 
Five mutually reinforcing levers…
financial services providers and a global 
sustainability leader. That means creating 
sustainable economic value through a  TRUE CUSTOMER CENTRICITY Make superior customer experience the top priority for all our actions.
long-term commitment to strong corporate 
governance, social responsibility and 
DIGITAL BY DEFAULT Move from selected leading assets to become ‘Digital by Default’ everywhere.
environmental stewardship.
We want our stakeholders to know that 
Allianz is a financially solid, trustworthy  TECHNICAL EXCELLENCE Create superior margins, innovation, and growth through best talents and state-of-the-art skills.
company that embraces sustainable business 
as good business. A company whose heart 
GROWTH ENGINES Systematically exploit new sources for profitable growth.
beats for its customers, and its employees. 
To achieve it, we are adapting our business 
strategy to deliver the Renewal Agenda.  INCLUSIVE MERITOCRACY Reinforce a culture where both people and performance matter.
It drives us forward by setting out what we want 
to achieve and how we will work together to 
deliver our goals across five key areas. 
TARGETS
In 2018, we continued to develop and 
To deliver our Renewal Agenda, we set clear annual targets: 
implement our strategic approach, building 
on the five pillars of success – integrity,  Targets 2018  Results 2018 Targets 2019–2021
financial strength, technical competence,  3–year Earnings per Share (EPS) growth with a compound annual growth rate (CAGR) of 5% 6.2% 5% plus
operational excellence and talent base.  Total Return on Equity (RoE4) of 13% 13.2% 13% plus
Our Corporate Responsibility Strategy  At least 75% of our businesses to be rated by their customers as Loyalty Leader in terms of Net Promoter Score 74% 75% plus
ensures we deliver these goals in a way  Increase our Inclusive Meritocracy Index (IMIX) to 72% 71% 73% plus
that makes us one of the most responsible 
insurance and investment businesses in 
the world.
For further details read here
4  Excluding unrealized gains/losses on bonds, net of shadow accounting. 
13 Allianz Sustainability Report 2018 Introduction In-focus Managing sustainability Our roles Data and performance
MANAGING SUSTAINABILITY
03.2 OUR CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY STRATEGY
Our Corporate Responsibility (CR) Strategy 
ensures that we manage our sustainability- IMPORTANCE OF MEGATRENDS FOR ALLIANZ AGAINST ABILITY OF ALLIANZ TO INFLUENCE MEGATRENDS AND LINK TO CORE BUSINESS
related risks and opportunities. It drives 
performance across the sustainability 
issues that are most important to our  5.0 Key5
business strategy and our stakeholders. 
1 Climate change and environment (e.g. pollution, climate 
We are working to align our CR Strategy  induced impacts, biodiversity loss and ecosystem collapse)
with the Renewal Agenda and ensure it 
2 Digitalization / automation
drives implementation and continuous 
4 1
improvement across the Group. 4.0 3 Customer safety (e.g. traﬃc, accidents, ﬁre etc.)
MATERIALITY 2 4 Natural disasters (e.g. earthquakes, extreme weather 
To succeed, we need to understand and  olders) 15 10 6 5 3 5 eFvineanntsc ieatlc c.)risis / shocks
respond to the changing world in which we  h 8
owpee idraetnet. iWfy itthhe o mure mgaattreerniadlsit ya nadss seoslsumtieonnts   all stake 3.0 16 14113211 9 7 67 CCyhbroenr iicn c/ iidnefencttsious diseases
perceived as being of highest importance  s (
d
to our stakeholders to our sustainability  en 8 Globalization
approach. So we can ensure that our CR  atr
g 9 Nationalism and polarization
e
Strategy and our report content continue to  m
focus on the most important matters.  of  2.0 10 Political instability
e 
c
an 11 Rising income and wealth disparity
ort
Please find the methodology of our materiality assessment on  p 12 Terrorism
m
page 15. I
13 Urbanization
The results showed that the perceived 
1.0
most important megatrends we should be  14 Unemployment / underemployment
addressing are: 
15 Internal conﬂicts
• Climate change and environment  
16 Migration
(e.g. climate-induced impacts, biodiversity 
loss, etc.) 
0
• Digitalization / automation 
0 1.0 2.0 3.0 4.0 5.0
• Customer safety  
Ability of Allianz to inﬂuence megatrends and link to core business
(through insurance products) 
• Natural disasters (e.g. earthquakes,     
extreme weather events etc.)  5  The megatrends are ranked according to a total score, which is th e average of the inﬂuence and importance values. The size of the bubbles is related to the importance of the trend. 
14 Allianz Sustainability Report 2018 Introduction In-focus Managing sustainability Our roles Data and performance
MANAGING SUSTAINABILITY
03.2 OUR CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY STRATEGY
MATERIALITY CONTINUED
IMPORTANCE OF SOLUTIONS FOR ALLIANZ AGAINST ABILITY OF ALLIANZ TO INFLUENCE SOLUTIONS AND LINK TO CORE BUSINESS
To address those megatrends we offer various 
solutions. The results of the analysis are shown 
■ I ntegrating ESG criteria  ■ I nvesting in projects / ■ I nvesting in renewable energies ■ E nsuring fair treatment of claims ■ B eing compliant with the law (i.e. anti-corruption, bribery 
on the right. We constantly work on aligning  in investment decisions  companies with a positive  ■ G iving prevention and resilience  ■ I ntegrating ESG criteria in investment decisions for  and anti-competitive behavior)
our solutions to address these megatrends. for funds managed for  social impact advice for natural catastrophes to  insurance assets ■ P rotecting sensitive customer data and privacy
third parties ■ I nvesting in forest protection clients or societal partners ■  B eing transparent on company data ■ H aving and adhering to own Business Code of Conduct 
Key findings of our 2018   ■ O ffering socially responsible  ■ Offering social solutions ■ I ntegrating ESG criteria in insurance decisions (e.g. on ethics & integrity) 
investing products for 3rd 
materiality assessment:  party clients ■ M  anaging procurement and  ■    Considering risks and opportunities from  ■ B eing a financially stable, resilient and high-
supply chain responsibly new technologies performing company
• These results do not differ significantly  ■ C ommitting to global sustainability initiatives  ■ H aving efficient business risk management and systematic 
from our 2016 results and they continue to  and frameworks  risk assessments 
support our current CR approach. ■ B uilding and promoting an environmental and  ■ S ustainability being part of corporate strategy and 
socially responsible brand  corporate culture
• Our focus on climate change and the  ■ O ffering green solutions  ■ E nsuring respect of employee rights
environment was confirmed; risk and  4–5 ers) ■ E ngaging internal and external stakeholders in  ■ B oard and senior management engagement and support 
disaster prevention are already addressed  old trust-based relationships ■ I mproving customer satisfaction
bbnayu stvuianreraisols ud. sWi sfauesn wtceitlrilo sfn utsor t ahesen prs uaarsrets  eothsfs eo ytuh are rc etoo frpueil cly o f  ons (all stakeh ■■  RbPc  oureousdvinnuitdecriiisnnesgsg o   viepnuneslnvuriaerratorianonbcnmelsee p tnorto acdll iufmocotastt peinr c idnhtea fvnreoglmeop oinwgn   ■■■■    FPRS    oureospstvppeidoroininrntsggiinb  dgtlrei avi niesncarilslnueitgssyi   vaaaennn ddlde   meaeddqaueurkcrasealh ttoiiionppng pa  onocodprtm pucoonmrrittpuiueonnsri icataiteetsi oc nuslture
reflected in our strategy and reporting.  oluti ■ H aving fair employment mechanisms
of s ■ H aving processes for strategic talent attraction and retention
• Digitalization is a key topic of our  e 
nc ■ T aking positions publicly and influencing public opinion
Corporate Strategy and is considered  orta ■ G enerating jobs and hiring qualified employees 
material by our stakeholders. We will  Imp ■ P romoting employee health and wellbeing
increase our focus on communicating  ■ I mproving employee satisfaction 
about digitalization in the context  ■ E xtending digital offerings for customers 
of corporate responsibility and will  ■ C ooperating with local  ■ R eporting on structure, diversity  ■ S haring information and being part of global  ■ C onducting responsible public policy and lobbying 
further assess strategic links between  partners and suppliers and remuneration of the Board sustainability networks practices in collaboration with regulators
■ S upporting social  ■ S upporting local communities with  ■ Supporting customers’ health and safety
our digitalization and Corporate 
3–4 organizations and partners corporate donations ■ Offering financial literacy programs
Responsibility Strategies.  ■ S upporting own employees to 
engage socially
• Customer safety is a core business topic  ■ H aving own corporate foundations
and considered materially important by 
2–3
our stakeholders. We will focus more on 
0–2
the role insurers play in society (providing 
Ability of Allianz to inﬂuence solutions and link to core business
safety through insurance solutions, 
0–2 2–3 3–4 4–5
providing advice and risk-awareness and 
prevention) in our external communication  ■ S ustainability Leader  ■ Trusted Company ■ Sustainable Insurer ■ Attractive Employer ■ Responsible Investor ■ Committed Corporate Citizen
and reporting. (Managing sustainability) 
15 Allianz Sustainability Report 2018 Introduction In-focus Managing sustainability Our roles Data and performance
MANAGING SUSTAINABILITY
03.2 OUR CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY STRATEGY
MATERIALITY CONTINUED
METHODOLOGY OF MATERIALITY 
• Social trends were rated relatively low, 
ASSESSMENT
despite external reports highlighting major 
social trends such as social instability,  • Alongside research to assess external 
involuntary migration, the aging society,  megatrends, reports such as PwC 
population growth in developing  Megatrends and various Allianz 
countries etc. as being highly relevant.  customer reports like the AGCS Risk 
Social topics (corporate citizenship activities)  Barometer with more than 2,000 risk 
were also rated lowest on the solutions  experts being surveyed, we carried out 
side. We will focus on linking our social  a survey involving 598 stakeholders 
inclusion pillar to the core business and  including customers, employees, peers, 
communicating our efforts more clearly.  NGOs, and investors.
We will also further analyze our impacts  • We asked them to rate the importance 
on social topics and define key areas for  of our material issues (megatrends 
implementation, supported by our ongoing  impacting Allianz and solutions Allianz 
SDG impact assessment. can offer).
• Corporate governance topics scored  • 545 stakeholders6 participated 
highly, demonstrating their perceived  in an online survey; the others 
importance to our stakeholders.  were interviewed in workshops or 
These aspects are already integrated and  via telephone.
communicated in our organization. 
• Our methodology was based on the 
• Integrating CR into our company strategy  Global Reporting Initiative‘s guidance 
is of high relevance to our stakeholders, as  on materiality analyses as well as on 
is the topic of company culture and strong  external rating requirements such 
board and senior management support.  as those given by the Dow Jones 
We will continue to work on integrating CR  Sustainability Index (DJSI). 
across countries and functions backed by 
strong board support. 
Besides the materiality analysis, we have 
regular touchpoints with our various 
stakeholder groups to ensure their views are 
considered in our decision making (for further 
details please see page 23).
6  S takeholders engaged: 545 customers across Germany, France, 
UK, Malaysia and Australia; 37 Allianz employees and 16 societal 
stakeholders (5 NGOs, 4 investors, 5 peers and 2 journalists). 
16 Allianz Sustainability Report 2018 Introduction In-focus Managing sustainability Our roles Data and performance
MANAGING SUSTAINABILITY
03.2 OUR CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY STRATEGY
DEVELOPING OUR CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY STRATEGY 
COMMITTED 
CORPORATE  
Using our roles as an Insurer and Investor to help manage the  CITIZEN
risks arising from climate change and to promote the  
LOW-CARBON 
low-carbon economy.
ECONOMY
Our Climate Change Strategy lies at the heart of our business 
model that aims to protect people and businesses from risk. 
ATTRACTIVE  
EMPLOYER
Using our roles as an Insurer, Employer and Committed 
OUR   WE ALIGN  Corporate Citizen to contribute to more inclusive societies.  AND TRANSLATED 
OUR STRATEGY   SOCIAL   THOSE INTO FIVE  TRUSTED  
MATERIAL   Encouraging Future Generations is our social inclusion 
TO THREE   INCLUSION ROLES ALLIANZ  COMPANY
ISSUES PILLARS program that is promoting inclusion of young  PLAYS IN SOCIETY
people worldwide.
RESPONSIBLE 
Managing material ESG risks and seizing ESG opportunities, 
INVESTOR
while embedding compliance, responsible sales and 
transparency as well as data protection and privacy across 
BUSINESS   all areas of our business.
INTEGRATION
Our global ESG integration approach ensures that 
environmental, social and governance matters are taken 
into consideration in our insurance business and investments  SUSTAINABLE 
of proprietary assets. INSURER
17 Allianz Sustainability Report 2018 Introduction In-focus Managing sustainability Our roles Data and performance
MANAGING SUSTAINABILITY
03.3  CONTRIBUTING TO THE UN SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS
The United Nations Sustainable  In 2017, we analyzed and identified the  So far, we were not able to measure the  • science-based, data-rich assessment of 
Development Goals (SDGs) represent  SDGs to which we contribute most using  actual positive or negative impact we have  SDG materiality across the value chain and 
a global call to action for stakeholders  the guidance set out in ‘Business Reporting  on the SDGs. Therefore, in 2018, we engaged  operating geographies;
in all countries to come together and  on the SDGs: An Analysis of the Goals  an external agency to carry out a data-rich 
• quantified SDG risks and opportunities 
address some of the greatest barriers to  and Targets’. We collected input from our  assessment of how our business activities 
linked to future social and business value;
sustainable development facing society.  business units and experts to map strategic  and revenue / income streams align with 
As the role business must play has become  projects, targets, policies, and disclosures  the SDGs across the value chain, to enable  • comprehensive assessment of our 
clearer, the goals have developed into an  against the business indicators of the SDGs.  us to better measure and communicate our  SDG alignment and benchmarking to 
increasingly important tool for assessing  The outcome enabled us to initially identify  financial, environmental and social impacts  sector averages;
the impacts of companies on society  the SDGs to which we believe Allianz makes  and benefits. 
• focus on the most material SDGs relevant to 
more comprehensively. a particularly significant contribution. 
The assessment encompassed both the  our business model and operations; and 
Throughout this report we highlight all SDGs 
positive and negative impacts of Allianz’s 
• SDG gap assessment to assess current 
we are contributing to (the size of the SDG 
performance on the SDGs, including 
strategies and where better alignment 
reflects how much we pay into it).
benchmarking against our industry peers, 
is needed. 
using a process which included:
The details of the analysis will be published 
on our website in spring 2019.
18 Allianz Sustainability Report 2018 Introduction In-focus Managing sustainability Our roles Data and performance
MANAGING SUSTAINABILITY
03.4 E  MBEDDING SUSTAINABILITY IN OUR INSURANCE 
AND INVESTMENTS BUSINESS 
We aim to lead our industry by embedding  ESG INTEGRATION APPROACH   ESG REFERRAL AND ASSESSMENT PROCESSES
strong environment, social and governance  AND PROCESSES NUMBER OF ASSESSMENTS BY CATEGORY 
(ESG) standards into our everyday 
We systematically integrate ESG through our 
decision-making across our insurance and 
ESG referral and assessment process and  631
investment businesses.  WHAT IS ESG?
guidelines for sensitive business areas across  583 1 109
Our industry-leading approach integrates  all property and casualty underwriting (P&C)  43 Environmental, social and governance 
508
ESG concerns by applying group-wide  and unlisted investments. Furthermore, we  23 2 52 (ESG) refers to non-financial issues which 
corporate rules and ESG instruments across  piloted the extension of the referral approach  539 can be influenced by, and can influence, our 
all our underwriting, investment, and asset  to our procurement activities. This approach  483 470 business activities. Examples include human 
management activities.  will be further refined in 2019.  rights violations, illegal logging activities or 
In 2018, we launched the next generation  Every transaction is screened locally to  2016 2017 2018 severe corruption allegations. ESG factors 
of ESG guidelines through the updated  identify potential ESG concerns. If a risk  can also represent business opportunities – 
Insurance Investments Procurement Other
Allianz Standard for Reputational Risk and  is identified, the case is referred to the  such as is the case for insuring and investing 
Issues Management. We also published the  appropriate group-level ESG function to  in renewable energy to support the 
third edition of the Allianz ESG Integration  assess the ESG risk in more detail. energy transition.
ASSESSMENT RESULTS 
Framework to further increase transparency  Our ESG functions conducted 631  % of assessed transactions in 2018 If they are not identified and managed 
around our internal processes and guidelines  effectively, ESG risks can have significant 
assessments based on the guidelines in 2018  10%
related to our ESG approach.  Do not  knock on repercussions for our business, 
(2017: 583 assessments). 53% of cases were  proceed
our customers, and our invested companies. 
approved, 37% were approved subject to 
These span legal and reputational risks, 
certain mitigation measures or conditions, 
53%
and 10% were declined or not pursued  Proceed supply chain and business disruption risks, 
quality and operational risks, human rights, 
(for details see   Tables ESG–1 to 3).
37% and financial risks. 
Proceed with 
mitigation or  We manage these risks diligently across our 
additional conditions
businesses. Our industry-leading approach 
integrates ESG concerns by applying group-
wide corporate rules and ESG instruments 
across all our underwriting, investment and 
asset management activities. 
For further details read here.
19 Allianz Sustainability Report 2018 Introduction In-focus Managing sustainability Our roles Data and performance
MANAGING SUSTAINABILITY
03.4 E  MBEDDING SUSTAINABILITY IN OUR INSURANCE AND INVESTMENTS BUSINESS 
ESG INTEGRATION APPROACH  In 2018, we published the third edition of  Our collaborative approach is designed to 
AND PROCESSES CONTINUED  the Allianz ESG Integration Framework.  address material ESG risks and concerns, 
The updated version provides additional  build understanding and ultimately drive 
For ESG integration in listed assets, we 
details on our ESG engagement approach as  change and ESG improvements. 
continue to roll out our ESG scoring 
well as the updated approach to coal-based 
approach to better manage ESG risks and  Other tools that help to integrate ESG into 
investment and insurance activities (sections 
opportunities in our proprietary portfolio.  our investment processes include: ESG 
04.4 and 05.2).
This expands the coverage of our ESG  investment exclusions; asset manager 
framework and allows us to systematically  We also introduced a systematic approach to  selection and monitoring with ESG criteria 
integrate ESG across all our asset classes   engaging with selected investee companies  in mind; sustainability-themed investments 
(see sections 04.1 and 04.2). that have a low ESG performance.  such as renewable energy, green real 
estate, and green bonds, and regular dialog 
and exchange with peers, regulators and 
ESG PROCESSES ACROSS ALLIANZ BUSINESS LINES internationally recognized NGOs.
Investment
ESG IN ASSET MANAGEMENT
Insurance Listed Non-Listed
Our asset managers, Allianz Global Investors 
ESG Referral Process  (AllianzGI) and the Pacific Investment 
Management Company (PIMCO), continue 
ESG Sensitive Business Guidelines7
to expand their ESG capabilities and 
Sensitive Countries List product offerings. 
ESG Scoring Approach  This way, we are actively supporting our 
asset management clients in developing 
Engagement and Dialog8
tailor-made solutions to integrating 
ESG Exclusion Policies  ESG considerations in the investment of 
their portfolios.
Asset Manager Mandating, Selection and Review 
Both published reports outlining their 
responsible investment activities for the 
first time in 2018. For further details, see 
section 05.4.
7  O  ur 13 sensitive business guidelines: Agriculture, Fisheries and Forestry, Animal Welfare, Betting and Gambling, Clinical Trials, Animal Testing, Defense, 
Human Rights, Hydro-Electric Power (HEP), Infrastructure, Mining, Nuclear Energy, Oil and Gas, Sex Industry.
8  Included investment engagement as an asset owner as well as insurance-based risk dialogs.
20 Allianz Sustainability Report 2018 Introduction In-focus Managing sustainability Our roles Data and performance
MANAGING SUSTAINABILITY
03.5 CLIMATE CHANGE AND DECARBONIZATION
Achieving the 2015 Paris Climate  OUR CLIMATE CHANGE STRATEGY 3. We enable the low-carbon transition. Our strategy is regularly updated, including 
Agreement’s commitment to limit global  aligning it with the recommendations of 
Since 2005, the Allianz Group Climate  We provide sustainable solutions for our 
warming to well below 2°C will require  the TCFD. Find out more about our strategy 
Change Strategy has focused our efforts on  customers, including insurance that supports 
a rapid and full decarbonization of the  and actions around climate change and 
encouraging solutions for tomorrow’s climate: renewables and energy efficiency around 
global economy. As one of the world’s  decarbonization in our In-Focus article in 
the world (page 30/31). Working with the 
largest institutional investors and  1. We anticipate the risks of a  section 02 of this report.
Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi) 
insurers, we have a leading role to play  changing climate.
, we have committed to set long-term 
in supporting the global transition to a 
We identify and manage climate-related  climate goals, linked to the Paris Climate 
low-carbon future.
risks and opportunities as part of our  Agreement’s target to limit global warming 
business strategy and through our financial  to well below 2°C, and we are committed 
products and services. We screen investments  to sourcing 100% renewable power for our 
for climate-related risks and exclude certain  group-wide operations by 2023 (page 54). 
sectors, such as coal-based business models. 
We are improving transparency around 
climate-related disclosures and are working 
to further align our strategy and reporting 
with the recommendations developed by the 
G20 Financial Stability Board’s Task Force on 
Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD).
WORKING TOWARDS GREATER  memberships in The B Team, the WEF 
2. We care for the climate-vulnerable.
TRANSPARENCY ON CLIMATE CHANGE Alliance of CEO Climate Leaders and 
We support customers to reduce risks and  others. Our other efforts include advancing 
minimize damage while compensating  We strongly support the 2017  capabilities together with the European 
those who have suffered losses and insure  recommendations of the TCFD, which aim to  Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
low-carbon developments. Our ambition  provide guidelines for consistent disclosure  and peers to include physical climate risks 
is to provide climate risk insurance with our  of climate-related risks and opportunities by  and opportunities in financial disclosures. 
partners for up to 400 million people in the  companies to give meaningful information 
most vulnerable developing countries by  to their stakeholders.
2020 (page 30).  We are encouraging other companies –  Find our disclosure on climate-related risks and opportunities 
based on the TCFD framework in section 09.
both within our sector and beyond – to step 
up and improve their disclosure. We do 
this through our work with the G7 Investor 
Leadership Network, the UNEP FI, and 
the Principles for Sustainable Insurance 
(PSI) initiative, as well as through our 
21 Allianz Sustainability Report 2018 Introduction In-focus Managing sustainability Our roles Data and performance
MANAGING SUSTAINABILITY
03.6 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE
Strong corporate governance is pivotal 
GROUP ESG BOARD
to our sustainability approach and is 
identified by our stakeholders as one of  
our most important material issues.
Established in 2012, the Group ESG Board is 
the highest governing body for sustainability-
related issues. It consists of three Allianz 
SE Board members as well as non-voting 
representatives of several functions. 
They meet quarterly and are responsible for 
ensuring ESG integration across all business  Günther Thallinger Giulio Terzariol Jacqueline Hunt
lines and core processes dealing with 
Member of the Board of Management of  Member of the Board of Management  Member of the Board of Management of 
insurance and investment decisions. 
Allianz SE since 1 January, 2017, responsible  of Allianz SE as of 1 January, 2018,  Allianz SE since 1 July, 2016, responsible for 
The Group ESG Board also takes  for Investment Management. responsible for Finance, Controlling and  Asset Management and US Life Insurance.
ownership of corporate responsibility  Risk Management.
Member of the Group ESG Board since  Member, of the Group ESG Board since  
and climate-related topics, and leads on 
1 January, 2017; Chair of the Group ESG  Member of the Group ESG Board as of  1 July, 2016.
associated stakeholder engagement. 
Board since January 1, 2018. 1 January, 2018.
Functional departments provide regular 
updates on sustainability issues directly to 
the Group ESG Board.
Key Allianz Group functions are represented  Furthermore, Dr. Christof Mascher, member  Group Finance and Risk Committee: 
In 2018, key topics for the Group ESG  on the ESG Board:  of the Board of Management of Allianz SE,  oversees risk management and monitoring, 
Board included: Operations, Allianz Services, was invited  including sustainability risk. The committee 
• Head of Corporate Responsibility;
as standing guest for all topics related to  is the escalation point for ESG-related topics, 
• withdrawal from insuring single coal-fired 
• Group Communications and  sustainability in operations. based on analysis and deliberations within 
power plants and coal mines;
Corporate Responsibility; the Group ESG Board. 
In addition to the Group ESG Board, several 
• full phase-out of coal-based business 
• Group Risk; committees play an important role in our  Group Underwriting Committee: monitors 
models across our proprietary investments 
decision-making processes:  the underwriting business and its risk 
and Property & Casualty (P&C) portfolios  • Group Compliance;
management, as well as developing new 
by 2040 the latest; and • Allianz Investment Management SE; and
underwriting policies and strategy.
• decision to join the Science Based  • Allianz Global Corporate and Specialty SE.
Targets initiative as part of our long-term 
commitment to the development of the 
low-carbon economy.
22 Allianz Sustainability Report 2018 Introduction In-focus Managing sustainability Our roles Data and performance
MANAGING SUSTAINABILITY
03.7 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY MANAGEMENT
The Corporate Responsibility function is  TRANSPARENT REPORTING This helps formalize the way sustainability  RATINGS AND BENCHMARKS 
responsible for the strategic framework  is embedded across core functions and 
We base our management approach  We strive to be a sustainability leader in our 
that drives all group-wide sustainability  business units. A sample of operating entities 
and reporting on voluntary international  sector. Sustainability ratings and industry 
activities. Its scope includes managing CR  of Allianz SE is reviewed by PwC onsite on a 
standards and guidelines such as the GRI  benchmarks enable us to improve our 
governance, fulfilling external reporting  regular basis depending on their impact on 
Standards guidelines, sustainability indices,  performance and transparency. We take 
and rating requirements and supporting  the Group’s sustainability activities.
and engagement with expert working groups  part in a wide range of external assessments 
operating entities to effectively integrate 
such as the United Nations Environment  “Non-financial reporting at Allianz  and benchmarking initiatives, such as those 
the Group’s strategic sustainability 
Programme Finance Initiative (UNEP FI). has come a long way in the past  listed below.
approach and policies into their 
business processes. Our annual UNGC Communication on  years. As we continue to improve  Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI)
Progress and our German Sustainability  transparency across all our 
The Group Corporate Responsibility  Allianz has been included in the DJSI since 
Code (GSC) reports can be found on our  operating entities, we are focused 
function is part of Group Communications  2000. In 2018, we took the leading position 
website, as well as on the UNGC and  on improving data quality and 
and Corporate Responsibility (GCORE).  within the insurance sector for the second 
GSC websites.
GCORE is part of the CEO’s division of Allianz  driving further integration of  year running, scoring 85 out of 100 points. 
SE. This enables a close alignment with the  In compliance with the 2017 German  sustainability through our  
Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP)
CEO’s agenda. implementation of the E.U. Non-Financial  global business.”
Reporting Directive (2014/95/E.U.),  Allianz Group was a founding member of 
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY  we published relevant non-financial  the CDP and we continue to support it as a 
COORDINATORS NETWORK information within the Governance  responding company and as an asset owner 
section of the Group Annual Report 2018.  and asset manager. In 2018, we achieved a 
The Group Corporate Responsibility 
Non-financial information is audited  B rating.
function works in close alignment with a 
by PricewaterhouseCoopers GmbH 
network of about 60 corporate responsibility  FTSE4Good Index
Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft (PwC) 
coordinators in Allianz operating entities 
Included since 2001, Allianz is one of the 
and approved by the Supervisory Board of 
around the globe. This enables us to 
longstanding members of the FTSE4Good 
Allianz SE.
implement our CR strategy on a global 
Index series. We were ranked among the top 
level with local adaptations and share   
DATA AND ASSURANCE 6% of our sector in 2018.
best practices between experts in our  Dr. Saskia Juretzek
local entities. To enhance the quality of our sustainability    Senior Manager Sustainability   MSCI Rating
reporting, PwC has been conducting limited  Allianz SE
In 2018, Allianz once again received an AAA 
assurance reviews of our reports, processes 
rating from MSCI ESG Research. We are one 
and data since reporting year 2016.
of the top performers in our sector.
Oekom Corporate Rating
We received Prime status again in 2018, 
ranking us among the world’s best 
companies in our industry.
23 Allianz Sustainability Report 2018 Introduction In-focus Managing sustainability Our roles Data and performance
MANAGING SUSTAINABILITY
03.8 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT
The challenges we face as a multinational  PARTNERSHIPS FOR CIVIC ENGAGEMENT
business are diverse and complex and we 
Our long-term partnerships are instrumental 
must understand stakeholder needs to  OUR KEY  
to delivering our sustainability agenda. 
form our products, services and approach.  STAKEHOLDER GROUPS
Next to stakeholder surveys (see page  Our strategic partners include:
13–14) we engage and collaborate 
• SOS Children’s Villages (see page 73)
with a broad range of individuals and 
  INVESTORS   CUSTOMERS
organizations. The insight they provide  • Impact Hub collaboration (see page 76)
enables us to focus our Corporate  We engage with our investors to communicate  Feedback from our customers helps us to  • German Corporation for 
Responsibility Strategy, activities, and  our sustainability strategy and performance,  improve our products, services and processes,  International Cooperation 
reporting on the right areas. enabling them to make informed decisions  and to offer easy and adaptable solutions.
• International Paralympic Committee 
about their own investments and us to 
Besides our many commitments to  • Customer surveys and dialogs
understand their expectations. • International Olympic Committee 
international and national sustainability  • Learning from and sharing customer insights
• Annual General Meeting (as of 2021)
bodies and initiatives, our engagement 
• Review of financial services 
activities focus on the four stakeholder  • Dialogs and roadshows
sector developments GLOBAL INITIATIVES 
groups, which are most impacted by  • Ratings and benchmarks
• Research and development to support 
our business. • Website, Sustainability Report, rating results   product innovations Our businesses are signatories to and 
members of a wide range of global 
e.g. DJSI
• Using the Net Promoter Score (NPS)
sustainability initiatives and principles, 
• Allianz Risk Barometer Survey which guide us to:
• incorporate best practice sustainable 
  SOCIETY   EMPLOYEES development principles into our activities, 
products, services and investments;
Given the pace and scale of global change, it is  We believe employees who are engaged with 
• work with and learn from our 
vital we work with other partners, governments  and committed to their jobs generate long-
and institutions to identify sustainable solutions  term value for our business. To this end, we  peers through open dialog and 
and maximize our positive impact. continuously seek their views and respond to  knowledge sharing;
their ideas and concerns through:
• Partnerships for civic engagement • collaborate to find solutions that address 
• Thought leadership on global issues • The Allianz Engagement Survey (AES) local and global challenges relevant to our 
• Employee dialogs and networks industry and beyond; and
• Panel discussions and roundtables
• Foundations, donations and volunteering • Corporate volunteering programs • improve transparency in our own 
• Press events, journalist surveys  operations and across the value chain.
and roundtables
For an excerpt of our memberships and 
• Formal dialogs with NGOs and  partnerships, please refer to page 96.
ESG professionals
24 Allianz Sustainability Report 2018 Introduction In-focus Managing sustainability Our roles Data and performance
OUR ROLES
This section translates our work into five 
roles we play in society:
04
As a Sustainable Insurer, we need to 
continue to provide solutions that support  SUSTAINABLE  
sustainable development and a low-
carbon future. 
INSURER
In order to be considered a Responsible 
Investor, we will continue to integrate ESG 
criteria across our investment decisions. 08  Page 25
05 
Data and privacy protection, improving 
COMMITTED  
customer satisfaction and reducing our 
RESPONSIBLE  
environmental impact all play a major part 
in being a Trusted Company.  CORPORATE  
INVESTOR
Our role as an Attractive Employer is of 
high relevance as we depend on having  CITIZEN
the best people in place, and keeping them 
Page 32
motivated to serve our customers. 
Page 70
We act as a Committed Corporate Citizen 
to maximize our positive contribution and 
to create a more stable economy and 
resilient markets.
07  06
ATTRACTIVE   TRUSTED  
EMPLOYER COMPANY
Page 58 Page 45
25 Allianz Sustainability Report 2018 Introduction In-focus Managing sustainability Our roles Data and performance
0  4
OUR ROLE AS A
S  USTAINABLE  
INSURER
By the very nature of what we do – 
protecting people and businesses 
against risk – we focus on our customers 
and base our decisions on a long-term 
view. Our expertise in insurance, risk 
management, consulting and assistance 
services means we are ideally 
positioned to help meet the challenges 
facing society and to create innovative 
solutions for emerging issues.  HIGHLIGHTS
 470  €1.56 bn  43.8 mn
insurance transactions assessed  revenue generated through  customers in the emerging  Continued to train underwriters 
for ESG risks. Sustainable Solutions. consumers market. and relevant employees on our 
ESG screening processes.
CHALLENGES
       
IN THIS SECTION
04.1  Our approach  26 Engaging insurance brokers, clients  Developing the expertise to model  Quantifying and assessing the  Supporting clients as they make 
and the wider value chain on the  different climate scenarios across all  impacts of the insurance industry  the transition away from coal-based 
04.2  Sustainable solutions  27
importance of ESG risk and disclosure  types of insurance. and its externalities. business models.
04.3  Solutions for emerging consumers  29 in all countries.
04.4  Solutions for a changing climate  30
26 Allianz Sustainability Report 2018 Introduction In-focus Managing sustainability Our roles Data and performance
SUSTAINABLE INSURER:
04.1 OUR APPROACH
COMMITMENT TO THE PRINCIPLES FOR  opens up new opportunities for solutions that  rate, i.e. clients stay with us for many years,  ESG REFERRAL AND ASSESSMENT PROCESS
SUSTAINABLE INSURANCE (PSI) support sustainable development and a low- consequently we introduced tools throughout  ESG ASSESSMENTS CONDUCTED ON 
carbon future. As an insurer and risk expert,  2018 for underwriters to enhance the  INSURANCE TRANSACTIONS
We believe the insurance industry can make 
our exposure to ESG risk is mostly indirect  efficiency of the process especially for clients 
its sector more sustainable, by using its risk  539
through the risks we accept for our insurance  that were assessed repeatedly and turned 
management skills to create a positive  483 470
clients. A strong ESG risk management  out to be uncritical. We are continuously 
impact. Allianz is a signatory of the United 
approach is embedded throughout our  sharpening our risk focus.
Nations Environment Programme Finance 
underwriting processes, and our ESG referral 
Initiative (UNEP FI) Principles for Sustainable  The number of cases that requires referral to 
and assessment process ensures ESG risks 
Insurance (PSI). We submit our Disclosure on  our ESG functions has gone down by 13%.
are identified, assessed and managed 
Progress annually. 
(see section 03.4). These are integrated via  Being responsible for a significant 
We co-lead the PSI initiative to develop an  the Allianz Group risk management policy  underwriting portfolio requires resources  2016 2017 2018
industry standard on ESG integration in  framework that is applied to all our insurance  to screen and assess ESG risks as well 
insurance9. We are engaging with insurers,  business globally, whether we are acting as  as to engage clients and brokers in ESG 
reinsurers, brokers, academics and regulators  lead insurer or as part of a panel.  risk dialogs. Increasingly, we use digital  A detailed description of the Allianz ESG 
to identify the ESG risks that are most  infrastructure to scale-up the standardization  approach and processes relating to our 
Our insurance underwriters identify ESG 
material to different insurance lines. This work  and efficiency that is required to sufficiently  insurance business can be found in the 
risks and refer these for assessment by 
continued in 2018 with a global survey of  cover all the risks we manage. Allianz ESG Integration Framework.
either the AGCS ESG Business Services team 
underwriters on ESG. We will co-host an 
and/or the Group ESG Office at Allianz SE. 
industry conference with the PSI in early 2019  ADDING VALUE TO OUR BUSINESS, OUR  In 2018, AGCS published two research 
These experts conduct in-depth assessments 
to present results of the project. CLIENTS AND THE SECTOR AS A WHOLE  reports designed to support understanding 
of ESG risks such as human rights violations 
of ESG risks: 
Allianz is also part of the PSI working group  like forced resettlement, poor health and  We apply our in-depth know-how and 
that is focused on developing an industry  safety performance and unmitigated  expertise to both our own risk management  Measuring and managing environmental 
level response to the TCFD requirements.  environmental impacts. Based on the  and underwriting due diligence and also  exposure: a business sector analysis of 
At present there is no guidance on how  outcome of their assessment, our experts  to that of our clients, brokers and business  natural capital risk – this report provides a 
different climate scenarios would impact  decide whether a transaction may proceed,  partners. As ESG risk experts, we offer  first insight to business implications such as 
on various types of insurance (e.g. personal,  proceed with conditions or mitigation  consulting services that enable our clients to  liability and business interruption related to 
P&C, Life & Health, reinsurance, etc.). Our aim  measures, or not proceed (see   Tables  identify and assess material environmental,  dependencies and impact companies have 
is to develop this guidance together with 15  ESG–1 to ESG–3). social and governance risks. This risk dialog  related to natural capital. 
other industry participants. and sharing of expertise adds value to 
In 2018, we assessed 470 insurance  The predictive power of ESG for insurance – 
improve overall risk awareness and mitigation.
INTEGRATING ESG IN INSURANCE transactions for ESG risks. This decline from  the report confirms the relevance of ESG 
2017 is rooted in increasing process maturity  We conduct in-depth research so that  for the management of insurance risk. 
Embedding ESG issues into our insurance  and refinement of risk screening criteria  our stakeholders can stay ahead of new  ESG parameters have predictive power and 
business enables us to manage the risks and  and tools. Our business has a high retention  developments and to inform and develop  add additional information to perform an 
our own approach to risk management.   effective risk analysis.
9   http://www.unepfi.org/psi/underwriting-esg-risks/. 
27 Allianz Sustainability Report 2018 Introduction In-focus Managing sustainability Our roles Data and performance
SUSTAINABLE INSURER:
04.2 SUSTAINABLE SOLUTIONS
With no let up in growth in consumer  HOW WE IDENTIFY AND DEVELOP   and report revenue figures for solutions that  solutions, including 94 sustainable insurance 
demand for responsible solutions,  SUSTAINABLE SOLUTIONS  qualify – both new and existing ones – to  solutions and 37 insurance solutions with 
sustainable innovation represents a  show how we are progressing in growing our  a sustainability component. In 2018, we 
Products must comply with a set of criteria 
significant business opportunity for the  sustainable solutions portfolio. developed a methodology to measure 
to be included as one of our sustainable 
insurance market. Through our Sustainable  the avoided emissions, which we enable 
solutions. Every year, local entities and  As sustainability is becoming more 
Solutions program, we develop and  through a selection of our sustainable 
global lines develop new insurance products  mainstream, we have now decided to 
monitor products and services that create  insurance solutions.
and services for customers and we score  differentiate between standard insurance 
social value by improving people’s lives 
these products to decide if they meet our  products with a sustainability component  Details about the number of sustainable 
or delivering a positive environmental or 
sustainable solutions criteria. and sustainable solutions. solutions we offer and associated revenues 
climate-related impact. 
and trends can be found in   Tables ESG–
Solutions must meet at least one of six  In 2018, we generated revenues totaling 
We are a leader in the emerging consumers  4 to 5.
criteria (see box on page 28). We collect  1.56 billion Euro from 185 sustainable 
sector and have reached over 43.8 million 
people living on low incomes in Asia, 
Africa and Latin America with affordable  WHAT DO WE MEAN BY SUSTAINABLE SOLUTIONS? Examples of Allianz products with an environmental or social added value.
microinsurance and microsavings solutions 
(see section 04.3).
Additionally, Allianz is a strong partner of  Sustainable  
Sustainable   Emerging  
the transition to a low-carbon economy.  asset  
insurance  consumers  
We provide insurance, risk management  management  
solutions10 solutions11
solutions and advice to individuals,  solutions12
companies, and governments related to 
renewable energy projects and climate-
related risks (see section 04.4).
€1.56 bn  
 
     
revenue from sustainable solutions.
2017: €1.21bn Asgorliucutilotunrsa l   sMoloubtiiolintys    Envliiraobnimliteyn  tal   Reenneewrgayb l e   effiEnceiergnyc y 
solutions solutions solutions
185
Crop insurance Electric auto insurance Pollution liability Photovoltaic insurance Green home energy 
Forest insurance Bonus drive app Impairment liability Wind turbine insurance saving pack 
sustainable solutions. Electric bike insurance Water pollution liability Home-based renewable  Energy performance  
2017: 165 energy insurance services/certificate
10 This includes Insurance solutions with a sustainability component. 11 See section 04.3 for more details. 12 See section 05.4 for more details.
28 Allianz Sustainability Report 2018 Introduction In-focus Managing sustainability Our roles Data and performance
SUSTAINABLE INSURER:
04.2 SUSTAINABLE SOLUTIONS
SUSTAINABLE SOLUTIONS PERFORMANCE13 NOTEWORTHY EXAMPLES
SUSTAINABLE SOLUTIONS EVALUATION CRITERIA
REVENUE FROM SUSTAINABLE SOLUTIONS BY CATEGORY14,15  
Environmental criteria16  Social criteria
€mn Allianz Austria
1. S upports development of sustainable  1. F acilitates activities to tackle social 
1,557.7
technology and markets such as  challenges and issues faced by  Smart Repair: a solution that encourages 
305.8
renewable energy, environmental goods  socially disadvantaged groups17 (e.g.  resource-efficient vehicle repairs 
1,097.6 1,101.2 and services, and/or green infrastructure  insurance tailored to social value-adding  over replacement.
371.2
302.6 256.5 products/services which would otherwise 
2. C  onserves natural resources or 
not be insured)
346.4 389.8 biodiversity or helps to mitigate against  Allianz France
880.1
climate change (e.g. solutions that  2. S pecifically tailored solutions for 
448.6 454.9 encourage or reward environmentally  socially disadvantaged groups (e.g.  Sustainable Car Claim Settlement: 
2016 2017 2018 responsible behavior) products aimed at reducing the risk of  a settlement program that promotes the 
underserved groups by providing otherwise  uptake of used vehicle parts.
3. P  rotects against environmental risks and 
unavailable access to finance)
NUMBER OF SUSTAINABLE SOLUTIONS BY CATEGORY   supports adaptation to climate change 
impacts (e.g. insurance or incentives to  3. R  aises awareness to prevent and 
Allianz Care
185 manage weather-related risks) mitigate challenges faced by socially 
163 169 29
12 15 disadvantaged groups (e.g. products that  Health insurance for refugees: administration 
25 25 25 include cause-related marketing or 
of health insurance for 1 million Syrian 
37 37 37 support schemes) refugees, funded by the U.N.
89 92 94
2016 2017 2018
Sustainable insurance solutions
Insurance solutions with a sustainability component  
Emerging consumer solutions
Sustainable asset management solutions
13 Data from 2016 and 2017 has been restated as a result of change of methodology and scope. 14 Our current data collection process does not allow for a complete tracking of revenue data. Revenues are included subject to data availability. 15 Revenue figures exclude sustainable asset management solutions.
16 Initial environment criteria developed in conjunction with WWF and KPMG in 2011. 17 Socially disadvantaged groups are defined as populations that are excluded in their local society for reasons that may be tied to age, sex, disability, ace, ethnicity, origin, religion, economic or other status.
29 Allianz Sustainability Report 2018 Introduction In-focus Managing sustainability Our roles Data and performance
SUSTAINABLE INSURER:
04.3 SOLUTIONS FOR EMERGING CONSUMERS
We pioneered our first ever microinsurance  TARGETTING UNDERSERVED CUSTOMERS
in Germany in 1926. Today, we focus our  In 2016, a strategic partnership was 
In 2018, revenues were at 305.8 million 
offer particularly on supporting lower- established between GOJEK and Allianz 
Euro (2017: 256.4 million Euro) – equivalent 
income customers in Asia, Africa and Latin  Indonesia followed by an USD 35 million 
to around 6.98 Euro in annual revenue 
America. We are committed to expanding  investment in GOJEK, through Allianz’s 
per customer for this market. We served 
our emerging consumers business with the  digital investment unit Allianz X in 2018. 
43.8 million customers. 
goal of closing the protection gap for more  The partnership initially started with a 
people and providing access to affordable  The great majority of these customers still  voluntary health insurance plan launched to 
financial services, tailored to their needs. have only one insurance policy – mostly life  GOJEK drivers and family members in 2016. 
insurance – showing that this segment is still  It offers an affordable premium rate at €0,20 
The emerging consumers market includes 
severely underinsured.  per day, paid daily through GOJEK’s own 
a potential 3.7 billion customers18. We see 
e-wallet, enabling easy access to affordable 
business expanding steadily in this area,  Because traditional financial services 
quality healthcare.
along with the growth of the global middle  infrastructure is not established in many 
classes, which are expected to reach five  markets, our emerging consumer segment  CASE STUDY: The Allianz Indonesia insurance health plan 
billion by 2030. offers major potential for digitalization.  GOJEK & ALLIANZ   has provided health solutions to a mass 
To make the most of these opportunities,  market otherwise untapped. The partnership 
DIGITAL PARTNERSHIP  
we are partnering with digital businesses  with GOJEK additionally allows Allianz 
€305.8 mn to distribute and expand our reach in these  OPENS ACCESS TO  to tap into four other segments: GOJEK 
markets, for example through mobile phone- MASS MARKET employees, GOJEK customers, GOJEK 
revenues generated from emerging consumer solutions. based insurance solutions.  merchants and the markets of GOJEK 
The Southeast Asian leading mobile 
entities. Regionally the partnership opens 
platform GOJEK is Indonesia’s own ride-
up substantial opportunities where GOJEK 
hailing company and the first Indonesian 
and Allianz are present such as Singapore, 
startup unicorn. Since its inception in 2010, 
Thailand and the Philippines.
the Jakarta-based startup now offers its 
79 million consumers on-demand and  The product offerings have grown from health 
payment services for transport, food  to life products and to general insurance, 
delivery, and shopping, among others.  as Allianz continues to provide insurance 
With more than 1.5 million two- and four- solutions to GOJEK’s other business segments. 
wheeler drivers of motorbike and car taxis,  For Allianz, digital investments and strategic 
GOJEK serves customers in more than 50  partnerships have opened up access to 
cities across the archipelagic Indonesia, as  untapped segments, provided unmet 
well as Vietnam, Singapore, Thailand and  protection needs of the mass market, created 
the Philippines. new businesses for Allianz and accelerated the 
digital transformation of the Group.
18  2017 World Bank and OECD figures. Total population is based on the de facto definition of population, which counts all residents regardless of legal  Watch the video here.
status or citizenship. The values shown are midyear estimates.
30 Allianz Sustainability Report 2018 Introduction In-focus Managing sustainability Our roles Data and performance
SUSTAINABLE INSURER:
04.4 SOLUTIONS FOR A CHANGING CLIMATE 
Climate change, mainly caused by human  INSURING CLIMATE RISKS We aim to reach significant market share in 
activity-induced global warming, poses a  PHASING OUT COAL IN OUR   these emerging renewable energy markets, 
We insure climate-related risks for 
major risk to the livelihoods of millions of  INSURANCE PORTFOLIOS building on our expertise from more than 
commercial and private customers and 
people worldwide. Through our business,  70 countries where we insure renewable 
incentivize preventive measures to increase  Building on our divestment from coal-
we anticipate the risks of climate change,  energy already.
customers’ resilience to a changing  based business models, we announced 
work to protect and care for our customers, 
climate. With our experience as a leading  in May 2018 that we will no longer  Building and operating renewable energy 
and enable the transition to the low-carbon 
microinsurer and reinsurer in agriculture, we  provide insurance to single-site/stand- plants involves multiple stakeholders and 
economy. Our Climate Change Strategy 
can bring innovative climate risk insurance  alone coal power plants or mines,  poses complex risks at different stages for 
is focused on developing and offering 
to vulnerable regions – including weather  that are being operated or planned –  investors, construction companies, operators 
insurance solutions that help our customers 
index insurance, yield loss and animal  effective immediately. Companies that  and manufacturers. As critical infrastructure 
respond to a changing climate and develop 
mortality covers.  generate electricity from multiple  becomes smarter and more interconnected, 
the low-carbon economy. 
sources, such as coal, other fossil fuels or  exposure to high-impact risks such as cyber 
We actively support the InsuResilience 
renewable energies, are continued to be  threats, terrorist attacks and extreme weather 
Global Partnership, which builds upon the 
CASE STUDY: insured and individually reviewed on the  events will also increase. 
G7 Climate Risk Insurance Initiative to provide 
basis of our general ESG criteria. We are 
BUILDING FLOOD   climate risk insurance for up to 400 million  Our solutions cover all stages of the project 
committed to completely phasing out 
people in the most vulnerable developing  lifecycle – from planning to decommissioning – 
RESILIENCE TO SUPPORT   all coal-based risks from P&C insurance 
countries by 2020. In 2017, we formed a  and we provide a variety of solutions including 
AT-RISK COMMUNITIES portfolios by 2040 at the latest and we 
three-year strategic alliance with the GIZ with  erection and construction all risk insurance, 
are further developing our approach to 
Our integrated flood risk management  the goal of ‘Closing the Protection Gap’.  reach this target. liability insurance, marine insurance and 
and parametric insurance products  technical advisory solutions.
We have also joined forces with our peers 
are designed to protect vulnerable  through the Insurance Development Forum  We are specialists in insuring the renewable 
communities from the impacts of  (IDF) to provide insurance solutions that  For further information please see our Statement  energy sector. Our tailor-made risk insurance 
climate change. In Morocco, we are  allow governments in countries vulnerable  on Coal-based Business Models and our ESG  covers complex renewable energy projects 
Integration Framework.
strengthening the resilience of businesses  to climate change to better protect their  for technical failure, business interruption and 
in the industrial zone of Ait Melloul, near  populations against natural disasters.  third-party liability. We also offer insurance 
Agadir, through an insurance product  Our work includes researching the actual and  INSURING THE LOW-CARBON ECONOMY  against financial losses from lower than 
that enables the park owner to cover  future impacts of climate change to provide  expected annual energy yields for renewable 
The low-carbon economy continues to 
flood risks (and potentially other perils)  the best possible risk advice to society and  energy plants. 
develop at pace as both cost competitiveness 
for all tenants. In Accra, Ghana’s capital, 
our customers as well as develop prevention 
and installed capacity of renewables 
we are supporting municipalities by 
and resilience approaches in response. 
increase. The large and growing demand for 
building understanding of flood risks, 
electricity in developing countries and the 
identifying and implementing risk 
potential of renewables to reduce pollution 
reduction measures, and insuring public 
as well as carbon dioxide emissions present 
infrastructure against flooding.
this as an attractive growth market. 
31 Allianz Sustainability Report 2018 Introduction In-focus Managing sustainability Our roles Data and performance
SUSTAINABLE INSURER:
04.4 SOLUTIONS FOR A CHANGING CLIMATE 
SURE (Scaling Up Renewable Energy)
CASE STUDY: 
Launched in 2017, SURE (Scaling Up 
Renewable Energy) aims to further solidify  BRINGING RENEWABLE ENERGY TO  
Allianz’s position as the global “go-to”  MEDIUM-SIZED COMPANIES
provider of insurance for renewable energy 
Clean, affordable and reliable energy is  risk – especially when it comes to mid-
projects and infrastructure. It is designed to 
one of the biggest challenges facing many  sized projects. 
help bring our proven renewable energy 
economies, especially for small- and medium-
insurance competences at group-level to  We can make a positive contribution by 
sized companies. Governments have 
fast developing growth markets – such as  acting as an intermediary, bringing together 
realized this and many have started 
Turkey, the CEE region, and several African  risk assessments, certification and risk transfer 
initiatives to support small- and medium-
countries – to support their transition to the  – ultimately helping to bring reliable and 
sized companies, providing opportunities 
low-carbon economy. Group experts from  clean energy to medium-sized companies. 
for national and international renewable 
Allianz Climate Solutions and Allianz Re work  Through the renewables services and 
energy project developers. However, project 
with local entities to develop best practice  products for medium-sized companies, which 
developers need money to start building and, 
and increase local capacity. This year, we  are part of our SURE initiative, we make 
often, when renewable energy technology 
have rolled out training for our global  renewable energy projects bankable, 
is introduced into the market, banks and 
accredited underwriters and further on- investable and insurable. 
investors don’t know how to assess the 
boarded our operating entities. Our biggest 
onboarding achievements are Allianz Russia 
and Ukraine, which have undergone all 
SUSTAINABLE INSURER:
technical and underwriting trainings and 
helped us to further develop our wind pricing  Looking ahead
tool. Furthermore, Allianz Russia is a member 
We will further expand our  We will phase-out all coal- In 2018, we kicked-off a pilot project 
of the Russian Association of Wind Power 
sustainable product range  based business models from  to measure the environmental and 
Industry. We are proud to see the renewable 
and create more transparent  our P&C insurance portfolios  social externalities of our insurance 
energy business to be further integrated into 
communication around sustainable  by 2040 at the latest and  business. The results of this impact 
our daily business. 
offerings. This includes growing our  support clients as they make  assessment will be published on our 
renewable energy portfolio. the transition. website in the first half of 2019.
Allianz Climate Solutions supports 
the renewable energy industry with 
With the Principles for  We will further develop and 
insurance and risk management 
Sustainable Insurance (PSI), we  improve measurement of 
solutions and, in parallel, works with 
will create an industry framework  avoided emissions enabled 
both private and public sector partners 
on ESG risks in underwriting and  through our sustainable 
towards improving societal resilience 
develop our approach to TCFD. insurance products.
to climate change through dedicated 
insurance approaches. 
32 Allianz Sustainability Report 2018 Introduction In-focus Managing sustainability Our roles Data and performance
0  5
OUR ROLE AS A
RESPONSIBLE 
INVESTOR
Strong ESG management is key 
to mitigating our risks and seizing 
opportunities. We want to create a 
lasting positive legacy for society 
through our investments and we 
strongly believe that sustainable 
business practices improve the financial 
performance of companies. That is why 
we consider ESG aspects whenever we 
allocate money. Over the past five years, 
HIGHLIGHTS AS AN ASSET OWNER HIGHLIGHTS AS AN ASSET MANAGER
ESG has become an integral part of our 
investment processes.  €5.4 bn  12  €175.6 bn
additional sustainable investments,  Launched systematic approach for  Tightened restrictions on coal-based  third-Party Sustainable and Responsible  AllianzGI and PIMCO 
bringing the total to 25.1 billion Euro. engagement with investee companies on  business models and introduced  Investments (SRI) across AllianzGI  published their first 
environment, social and governance (ESG)  a long-term action plan for coal  and PIMCO. ESG reports.
grounds. In our pilot we engaged with  until 2040. 
12 companies.
CHALLENGES
IN THIS SECTION
     
05.1  Our approach  33
05.2  ESG in our role as asset owner  34 While more ESG data becomes  Measuring the true social and environmental  Global coverage beyond minimum 
available, there remains a lack of  impact of our investments, especially with  standards is a challenge as the 
05.3  ESG in our real estate investments  39
material, reliable and comparable  regards to SDGs, without a common, proven  interpretation of ESG aspects is 
05.4  ESG in third-party asset  management 40 data across industries. industry-wide standard. different from market to market.
33 Allianz Sustainability Report 2018 Introduction In-focus Managing sustainability Our roles Data and performance
RESPONSIBLE INVESTOR:
05.1 OUR APPROACH
Our role as an investor is two-fold: 
OUR ESG INTEGRATION
••  a0piawon5usrsesi  .mruaa 3 icnrnn)aau,v   waranseitlcssseyosset   mtieet nhchttveue  iomrers dpswsta.o-tr p ennmoameauerrgrit ru (ypessm ;rar eao ess(nps s cesedroeietelsc lts etoaeiconrctyn etb isaod e0sn hfs5 r0eao.2t5lmsf .a ,4o  on)f, du r   AAPSSPERTO OAWCHN AESR AN  ESG integrnsa (ticooan:l, e tE cSom nGat rnsoacvgoeerrirsnsi gasel  awlenecdta ieopnno,gn msa, gaenetcdm.a)etinntg  aapproach
IPnr ibnocitphl eros lfeosr,  wRees aproen csoibmlem Initvteedst mtoe tnhte ( PRI),  atic  usio n ass nd m 81%
which Allianz SE has signed as an asset  m xcl G i on
e e S it LISTED INVESTMENTS
oaws ansesre at nmda AnlaliagnezrsG. TI ahensde P pIMrinCcOip lheas vgeu sidigen ed  Syst ESG  E PROPRIETARY ASSETS oring (ﬁxed income, listed equities) 
our approach to responsible investment 
€706 
and drive continuous improvement across 
bn
our businesses. 
h
c
a
ntegramtieonn:t  appro
E S G rSeyfsteerrmala tiac nEdS Ga issess
(greenS ubsotnadinsa, bglree einnv besutilmdienngts, etc)
Simpliﬁed illustration of Allianz ESG integration approach for proprietary 
investments. Illustration not to scale. Figures based on economic view.  19%
Compared to accounting view it reﬂects a volume increase due to switch 
from book to market values and changed asset scope (e.g. including FVO,  NON-LISTED INVESTMENTS 
trading and real estate own-use). (alternatives, real estate, infrastructure, renewables, ...)
34 Allianz Sustainability Report 2018 Introduction In-focus Managing sustainability Our roles Data and performance
RESPONSIBLE INVESTOR:
05.2 ESG IN OUR ROLE AS ASSET OWNER 
Allianz invests more than 706 billion  2. Systematic integration of ESG factors – 
Euro19 in a wide range of asset classes.  ESG referral and assessment process: For  OUR ESG SCORING AND 
We systematically integrate ESG  unlisted investments such as real estate,  ENGAGEMENT APPROACH
considerations across our entire investment  infrastructure and private equity, we address 
Our ESG scoring and  Setting the ESG 
portfolio and we continuously enhance and  ESG risks by using our referral process.  engagement approach  threshold
deepen our approach.  We have guidelines for 13 sensitive business 
systematically identifies and 
areas (see also section 03.4) and ESG 
Our approach comprises the following  manages risks in our listed 
screening is mandatory for all transactions 
key elements: proprietary investment portfolio.
within these areas. Upon detection of an ESG 
1. Asset manager selection, mandating  risk, we trigger the referral process, leading  Long-term ESG  Apply ESG  
and monitoring: Asset managers investing  to detailed assessment of the potential  performance  threshold  
improvements to portfolio
on behalf of Allianz are required to  risk by the Group ESG Office. Based on the 
integrate ESG into their investment process  outcome of this assessment, we make the 
(see   Table ESG–7). Allianz Investment  decision either to proceed with a transaction, 
Management SE (AIM) closely monitors  to proceed and require the mitigation and 
individual approaches and will discuss if  management of ESG risks, or to decline 
an asset manager does not comply with  a transaction on ESG grounds. In 2018, 
Systematic  Operationalizing  
our expectations.  we assessed 52 investment transactions.  engagement the scoring
For further details, see   Tables ESG–1 to 3.
99%
52
of our assets under management are managed by asset 
managers who are either PRI signatories and/or who have an  3. Systematic integration of ESG factors –  We have set an ESG performance threshold 
ESG policy in place. ESG assessments conducted on investment transactions.  ESG scoring: We apply our ESG scoring  below which we consider investments as ‘ESG 
(2016: 95%, 2017: 99%)
process to all our listed assets including  critical’. Investments in companies below the 
ASSETS MANAGED BY FIRMS WITH ESG POLICY  ESG ASSESSMENTS CONDUCTED ON  sovereign bonds, corporate bonds and public  threshold are continually monitored. An asset 
AND/OR THAT ARE PRI SIGNATORIES INVESTMENT TRANSACTIONS  
equity. We systematically assess the ESG  manager with investments scoring below 
% of total assets
1%  52 performance of individual issuers using ESG  this threshold must ‘comply-or-explain’ – 
managed by ﬁrms that are not PRI  data provided by our external data provider,  meaning either reallocate to another issuer 
signatories or without an ESG policy  43
MSCI ESG Research. We use this information  or explain and provide reasons for holding 
to consider ESG criteria in our investment  these issuers. The reasoning is discussed and 
23 selection, leading to a more holistic steering  assessed during the ESG deep dive meetings 
of our portfolio and targeted management  with asset managers. 
of ESG risks and opportunities.
2016 2017 2018
99% 19 B  ased on economic view. Compared to accounting view it reflects a volume increase due to switch from book to market values and changed 
managed by PRI signatories  asset scope (e.g. including FVO, trading and real estate own-use).
and/or ﬁrms with an ESG policy
35 Allianz Sustainability Report 2018 Introduction In-focus Managing sustainability Our roles Data and performance
RESPONSIBLE INVESTOR:
05.2 ESG IN OUR ROLE AS ASSET OWNER 
4. Active Ownership – ESG engagement:  12 ESG ENGAGEMENT APPROACH HIGHLIGHTS
In 2018, we continued rolling out our 
ENGAGEMENTS BY INDUSTRY SECTOR  ENGAGEMENTS BY REGION 
systematic approach to engaging investee  % in 2018
companies on ESG topics. We are aware that   total number of engagements for 2018. 8%
Chemicals  25% 8%
meaningful change can take several years  Metals  Emerging Markets
their ESG risk management and/or to solve  and Mining
and we see engagement as an ongoing 
and avoid further ESG issues, the company  17%
process that can be both impactful and  Other 17%
engagement is closed.  Asia Paciﬁc
mutually beneficial. We could not take part in 
inducing this positive real world change if we  Should answers continually prove 
50%
automatically withdrew our investments.  insufficient, the company shows no  17% Europe
willingness to improve its ESG performance,  Tobacco
Based on the initial research and prioritization  17%
or it does not respond to our engagement 
of companies falling under our ESG scoring  Construction 25%
communications, the Chair of the ESG Board  and Engineering 17% Steel North America
threshold, we prepare a list of companies 
approves the restriction of that company 
to be engaged with based upon material 
from all proprietary portfolios based on 
ESG risks and/or concerns. Topics range from 
the recommendation from AIM SE and the 
toxic emissions and waste to child labor and 
Group ESG Office. In addition to our own  ENGAGEMENT TOPICS  ENGAGEMENT OUTCOMES
negative impacts on communities. Of course,  engagements, our two asset managers,  % in 2018 %
there can be multiple topics we want to 
AllianzGI and PIMCO, also conduct  10% 29% 8%
discuss with companies. ongoing ESG-specific engagements with  BiodiveLrasintyd  aUnsde Taonxdi cW Eamsitsesions  closed witEhn rgeastgreicmtioennst 2E5n%gagement 
The engagement team then conducts  investee companies. closed successfully
in-depth research for each company using  14%
Following the pilot phase in 2017, we  Health
information from MSCI ESG Research, various  and Safety
expanded the engagement approach in  0%
other ESG data and intelligence providers,  Continued
2018 to cover our global portfolio. In 2018, 
and the respective corporate disclosures  monitoring
we closed three successful engagements, one 
and publications of each company. 
was unsuccessful, and eight are still ongoing.
Relevant questions linked to the identified  24% 67%
ESG risks and engagement objectives are  5. Active Ownership – Voting: Our voting  CanOd₂  MEmainsasigoenms ent 2La4b%or Standards Eonng gaoginegment 
submitted to the company and, based on  rights are exercised by AllianzGI on our 
their response, we may conduct additional  behalf. Details on the AllianzGI voting policy 
research and engagement activities to  and voting records can be found online20. 
clarify open points and address potential 
ESG risks. If the company’s answers show 
significant action or willingness to improve  Please see Proxy Voting Records on the AllianzGI ESG page here 
20  Please note that this reporting covers Allianz’s proprietary insurance assets as well as assets from third-party clients on whose behalf AllianzGI exercises voting rights.
36 Allianz Sustainability Report 2018 Introduction In-focus Managing sustainability Our roles Data and performance
RESPONSIBLE INVESTOR:
05.2 ESG IN OUR ROLE AS ASSET OWNER 
6. Excluding certain sectors and 
companies: Our Exclusion lists are updated 
annually based on data from external 
service providers and in-house research. 
Our approach covers multiple aspects:  CASE STUDY:
1. Exclusion and restriction of certain sectors,  DECARBONIZING OUR  ENERGY GENERATION FROM COAL COAL PHASE-OUT PLAN
such as companies producing or associated 
INVESTMENTS
with controversial weapons21 and excluding  • Companies deriving 30% or more of their  The exclusion thresholds for the energy 
companies involved in coal-based business  Allianz has not financed coal-based  generated electricity from thermal coal,  generation share from coal power plants 
models, which went into a new phase in May  business models since 2015; no new  and/or  and the revenue share from coal mining 
2018 (see details in case study on the right). investments have been allowed, equity  • planning more than 0.5 gigawatts (GW) of  will be tightened over time. We will 
2. Restriction of certain sovereign bonds:  stakes have been divested and fixed  thermal coal capacity additions22 which are  strengthen the thresholds from the 30% in 
We also restrict investments in sovereign  income investments made before 2015  not in line with the 2°C threshold, and/or place since 2015 to 0% by 2040 the latest. 
are in run-off.  As of December 31, 2022, we will reduce 
bonds from countries associated with severe  • having to retire23 more than 50% of their  our thresholds to 25%24.
human rights violations and significant issues  In May 2018, we announced a further  generation capacities in the next ten years 
managing ESG concerns.  commitment to expand the scope of coal  to be in line with the 2°C ceiling. Additional details on our approach 
exclusions (see the article on page 30).  can be found in the Allianz ESG 
3. Exclusion and restriction of issuers as 
The following exclusion criteria are now  COAL MINING Integration Framework.
a result of the scoring and engagement 
in place.
process: As part of the ESG scoring and  • Companies deriving 30% or more of their  DIVESTMENT STATUS
engagement processes, single issuers below  Excluded are companies involved, either  revenues from mining thermal coal.
In 2018, we divested a further 61.5 million 
the ESG threshold and where engagement  directly or through entities they control 
Euro in equities and an additional 
has not been successful may be excluded if: (indirectly, minimum of 20% stake), in coal-
906.7 million Euro fixed income is in run-off. 
based business models, which are defined 
• answers to engagement questions are  This brings the total of divested/run-off 
as follows:
consistently insufficient, or assets to 326.5 million Euro/ 5.7 billion Euro 
(see also   Table ESG–10).
• the company shows no willingness to 
improve its ESG performance, or
• the company does not respond to any of 
Allianz’s engagement communications 
over the annual cycle.
21  Weapons that fall under the scope of the following international conventions: Ottawa Convention (anti-personnel landmines); Convention on Cluster Munitions (cluster ammunition/-bombs); Biological and Toxin Weapons Convention (biological weapons); and Chemical Weapons Convention (chemical weapons).
22  Coal capacity additions: This criterion is based on International Energy Agency’s World Energy Outlook (IEA WEO) data. It assesses whether a company is planning and/or building additions of more than 0.5 GW in coal power capacity over the next ten years which exceed the ceiling compatible with limiting global 
warming to below 2°C compared to pre-industrial times. This allowance is established mainly for data and technical reasons, e.g. to allow retrofitting or refurbishment of existing plants in order to improve their efficiency. This criterion is provided by the 2° Investing Initiative (2dii). The build-up of new coal power capacities 
is only possible in limited number of occasions according to the scientific estimations and projections provided by the International Energy Agency, for instance.
23 R equired retirements: This criterion is based on IEA WEO data. It assesses if a company needs to retire more than 50% of its current generation capacity over the next ten years to be compatible with the 2°C ceiling. The data is provided by 2dii.
24  F urther reductions are expected to happen in steps of no more than five percentage points and within no more than five years of the previous adjustment.
37 Allianz Sustainability Report 2018 Introduction In-focus Managing sustainability Our roles Data and performance
RESPONSIBLE INVESTOR:
05.2 ESG IN OUR ROLE AS ASSET OWNER 
7. Sustainability-themed investments:  €25.1 bn 
As well as managing ESG risks related to 
megatrends like climate change, food 
invested in sustainability-themed assets at the end of 2018.
security and biodiversity loss, we also actively 
look for investment opportunities that offer 
solutions to such challenges. At the end  SUSTAINABILITY-THEMED INVESTMENTS
of 2018, our investments in sustainability- INVESTMENTS BY ASSET CLASS  
themed assets totaled 25.1 billion Euro  € bn
(see also   Table ESG–8). Through selected  25.1 0.2
0.8
ESG-themed investments, we can generate  3.6 0.4
19.7
stable returns and create long-term value  0.2
2.5
for society. 
13.3
We are steadily increasing our sustainability- 9.4 11.4
0.9
themed investments and have become one  3.9
of the largest investors in renewable energy  4.6 5.6 6.8
(see graph on the right). We also finance 
2016 2017 2018
infrastructure projects with environmental 
Renewable energy investments
and social benefits such as the Thames 
Certiﬁed green buildings
Tideway Tunnel in London, public transport  Green bonds CASE STUDY:
infrastructure including metro infrastructure  Social bonds
in Madrid and Barcelona, a Finnish power  Sustainability bonds FINANCING A LOW-CARBON ECONOMY
Other (e.g. aﬀordable housing, dedicated investment 
distributor and a windpark in Peru. 
in PIMCO ESG fund) With a growing portfolio of wind and solar  Through our fund investments, we also 
We increasingly look for investment  power our equity investments in renewable  finance energy innovations, energy efficiency 
opportunities in sustainable infrastructure  energy at the end of 2018 were 3.8 billion  measures and renewable energy on a small 
in emerging economies. These markets  Euro (2017: 3.7 billion Euro). Next to our  and large scale to enable the global energy 
face large financing gaps and, with  equity investments, we provided debt  transition. Examples include investments 
our investments alongside multilateral  financing to renewable energy projects  in the AllianzGI Renewable Energy Fund, 
development banks and other partners,  amounting to over 3.0 billion Euro by  the Méridiam Transition Fund, and the 
we can support sustainable development  the end of 2018 (2017: 1.9 billion Euro).  Mini Hydro Power Plant Fund in Indonesia. 
and economic growth. An example is  In total, we have invested 6.8 billion Euro  Our green bond portfolio is growing, with 
our partnership with the International  in renewable energy projects, including  current investments of 3.6 billion Euro by the 
Finance Corporation (IFC) through which  86 wind parks and 9 solar farms with a  end of 2018 (2017: 2.5 billion Euro). The same 
we committed to investing 500 million  combined generating capacity of 2.2 GW.  is true of our investments in certified green 
U.S. Dollars in infrastructure projects in  buildings, which stand at 13.3 billion Euro at 
emerging countries worldwide.  the end of 2018 (2017: 11 billion Euro).
38 Allianz Sustainability Report 2018 Introduction In-focus Managing sustainability Our roles Data and performance
RESPONSIBLE INVESTOR:
05.2 ESG IN OUR ROLE AS ASSET OWNER 
ADVOCACY AND PUBLIC POLICY  for regulatory measures – such as carbon  THE ALLIANZ CLIMATE AND  
ENGAGEMENT  pricing and the phase-out of subsidies for  ENERGY MONITOR CLIMATE ACTION 100+
fossil fuels – to drive sustainable finance and 
Alongside our efforts to promote greater  We work with other investors, think tanks and 
enable the achievement of the Paris Climate 
transparency around ESG issues by  academic institutions to measure risks and  We are a member of Climate Action 
Agreement, as well as the SDGs. Examples of 
business, we are a staunch supporter of the  opportunities arising from the low-carbon  100+. Led by investors, the initiative’s 
our advocacy and engagement in 2018 on 
recommendations developed by the TCFD  transition and physical climate change.  purpose is to engage with the world’s 
these topics include: 
on how companies should report on their  largest corporate greenhouse gas 
Our annual publication, the Allianz 
climate risks and opportunities (see page 20).  • Supporting the 2018 Global Investor  emitters to curb emissions, strengthen 
Climate and Energy Monitor, analyzes 
We encourage all companies to implement  Statement to Governments on Climate  climate-related financial disclosures and 
the G20 countries’ need for renewable 
this framework and we started doing so  Change, calling on global leaders to  improve governance on climate change.
energy investments to bring the energy 
ourselves in our 2017 Sustainability Report.  work towards achieving the Paris Climate 
system on a trajectory compatible with 
This year’s detailed reporting against the  Agreement’s targets, to accelerate private 
the 2°C/1.5°C temperature limits of the 
TCFD framework can be found in section 09. sector investment into the low-carbon 
Paris Climate Agreement. It also assesses 
transition and to commit to improve 
Policy Engagement: In line with our PRI  the attractiveness of the regulatory and 
climate-related financial disclosure. 
commitment, we help to increase ESG  economic conditions in these countries for 
Read online. 
integration and transparency by working  renewable energy investors. 
with our peers, regulators and other market  • Joining the Climate Leadership Council in 
The Monitor aims to inform policy makers 
participants. Allianz is represented in current  the U.S. as a founding member, promoting 
and other stakeholders on what is needed 
efforts by the European Commission’s  a carbon dividends framework. 
to support the development of an effective 
Technical Expert Group on Sustainable 
• Supporting a letter by global businesses  regulatory framework to drive low-carbon 
Finance and is actively providing input to the 
and the WEF to world leaders ahead  investing in every country. 
Commission’s work.
of COP 2425, calling for action around 
As a partner of the G7 Investor Leadership  effective carbon pricing, stimulation of 
Network, we support speeding up the  low-carbon finance and investments 
implementation of uniform and comparable  and policy tools to positively influence 
climate-related disclosures under the TCFD  societal demand for low-carbon solutions. 
framework. Furthermore, we are calling  Read online. 
Read the full report online.  
Allianz Climate Energy 
Monitor 2018
25  24th Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC).
39 Allianz Sustainability Report 2018 Introduction In-focus Managing sustainability Our roles Data and performance
RESPONSIBLE INVESTOR:
05.3 ESG IN OUR REAL ESTATE INVESTMENTS 
Our ambition is to act as a Responsible  2. Engage: As we move into the management 
Investor and asset manager and to  phase, our collaborative engagement 
constantly improve our ESG practices.  strategy seeks to influence business partners 
Increasing the share of properties in our  to strengthen their ESG activities. This includes 
portfolio that have an environmental or  ensuring asset managers fully consider ESG 
sustainability certification is a priority.  topics as part of their performance review 
To achieve it, Allianz Real Estate (ARE)  meetings with joint venture partners and 
launched a new ESG policy in 2018. supporting external property managers to 
improve ESG standards and performance.
€13.3 bn  3. Improve: We aim to measure and 
improve the ESG performance of our real 
estate portfolio. For example, we seek out 
invested in certified green buildings  
(thereof: equity investments: 10.9, debt investments: 2.4). pilot “lighthouse” projects and group-wide 
initiatives that can include procurement of 
It is based on three key areas of activity:  certified green energy, investment in on-site 
assess, engage and improve.  energy production facilities and specific 
energy efficiency measures, such as the 
1. Assess: During the acquisition phase 
installation of LED lighting.
in particular, we screen transactions for  ‘Sue & Til’, Winterthur: This environmentally friendly complex is one of the largest wooden multi-family structure in Switzerland and is owned by ARE.
potential ESG issues. Every new equity 
investment undergoes a thorough due 
diligence process, including a technical and  CASE STUDY:
environmental due diligence and a property- DECARBONIZATION OF OUR REAL ESTATE PORTFOLIO
related ESG assessment. As a general rule, 
any new office or retail investment (equity)  As part of our commitment to the Science  The working group has developed action 
must have an environmental or sustainability  Based Targets initiative (SBTi) (see page  areas that will drive progress towards 
certification that is either globally recognized  54), ARE has established a SBTi working  decarbonization targets in the coming years. 
(such as LEED or BREEAM) or locally  group which is focused on increasing  This includes further investments in certified 
dominant (for example HQE in France and  activities with regards to decarbonization  green buildings, increased use of renewable 
DGNB in Germany). With regards to new  of its real estate portfolio. As a first step, we  energy, energy efficiency improvements 
fund investments, fund managers must have  have estimated the carbon footprint of our  (e.g. via energy audits for selected assets) 
an ESG policy. global direct portfolio. Using this, we have  and targeted engagement with tenants. 
derived respective science-based emission  The outcomes of this work will be used by 
reduction targets which will be refined  ARE to shape its future ESG framework.
before application for approval by the SBTi. 
40 Allianz Sustainability Report 2018 Introduction In-focus Managing sustainability Our roles Data and performance
RESPONSIBLE INVESTOR:
05.4 ESG IN THIRD-PARTY ASSET MANAGEMENT 
Allianz is one of the world’s largest asset  ALLIANZ GLOBAL INVESTORS ASSETS UNDER MANAGEMENT: 505 BILLION EURO
managers. Allianz Asset Management  Impact 6 billion Euro
Active is: Unlocking the potential of ESG
GmbH runs our asset management  Investing for impact
business through two operational entities:  Environmental, social and governance  ESG informed 360 billion Euro Investments targeting environmental and 
ESG is in our DNA social outcomes alongside ﬁnancial returns
Allianz Global Investors and PIMCO.  (ESG) factors are important investment 
We are committed to integrating ESG 
performance drivers, both from a return  factors into all investment decisions  
The two asset management firms have  SRI 21 billion Euro
and a risk perspective. As a result, AllianzGI  and across all assets classes.
different regional focuses and investment  Best-in-class approach
strategies, and each has its own approach  aims to incorporate ESG criteria across the  ESG factors are crucial investment  Assessment of ESG practices and 
entire investment value chain to deliver  performance drivers, both from a return  values in the analysis process and in 
to embedding ESG criteria into asset  better investment outcomes and competitive  and risk perspective portfolio construction
management. Both offer a range of ESG 
returns for clients.
integrated solutions, socially responsible  All investment professionals have access to 
ESG analysis via our proprietary digital  Integrated ESG 118 billion Euro
investing (SRI) products as well as services  As an active investor, research is core to the  research platform Active ESG risk management
using strategies such as a best-in-class  ability to generate returns. AllianzGI has  Financially material ESG factors integrated
approach, impact investing, negative  been able to demonstrate that ESG research  We pursue an active stewardship approach  into portfolio strategies without constraining 
to improve business practices and performance  universe. Portfolio managers justifying their 
screening and exclusions. These solutions  can provide an important signal of  of companies Investment decisions on ESG risk return
provide customers with an array of ESG  future performance. All of our investment 
investment options that deliver financial,  professionals globally have access to our 
social and environmental returns that meet  proprietary ESG research and are ESG 
ESG rating in view of forward-looking ESG  One of the strengths of Integrated ESG is 
the needs of the clients.  informed for investment decisions. It’s 
risk/reward.  that it builds an additional factor into existing 
through our internal collaboration system 
At the end of 2018, total sustainable and ESG  investment processes: enhancing rather than 
that experienced portfolio managers, sector  When a portfolio team sees a compelling 
investments managed for third parties by  changing or constraining the investment 
analysts and ESG analysts generate and  opportunity to invest in a company 
AAM entities amounted to 175.6 billion Euro.  process. Yet for a number of clients, ESG is 
share new and valuable insights on ESG risks  despite the acknowledged ESG risk, they 
PIMCO’s share of these SRI assets totalled  more than a risk-based investment factor. 
of our holdings which is superior to relying  must document their risk/return thinking 
134.7 billion Euro and AllianzGI managed  Through its nearly 20 years of experience in 
entirely on external ESG ratings and third- through a digital collaboration system. 
40.9 billion Euro. Socially Responsible Investing (SRI), AllianzGI 
party methodologies and judgments.  Because portfolio managers understand and 
is well equipped to provide investment 
Both AllianzGI and PIMCO published their  have the ability to manage ESG risk, AllianzGI 
As active owners and stewards of the assets  solutions that address clients’ extra financial 
first responsible investment (ESG) reports  is in a unique position to engage with the 
we manage, through corporate dialog and  needs – whether that is through the 
in 2018. companies that need it most, in order to see 
proxy voting, we aim to steer corporates to a  application of negative screening or, through 
those risks reduced through change. In this 
Allianz Capital Partners, the Group’s in-house  more sustainable business success.  positive screening and societal impact. 
way, AllianzGI is committed to, and in the 
asset manager for private equity, renewable  In addition to 21 billion Euro in SRI strategies, 
AllianzGI takes a rigoros approach to its  process of, embedding ESG as a tangible 
energy and infrastructure became part of  AllianzGI manages some 6 billion Euro of 
‘Integrated ESG’ labeling. Portfolio managers  factor across all strategies regardless of asset 
AllianzGI in 2018. impact investments. 
in charge of Integrated ESG portfolios have  class. Already, Integrated ESG applies to 
to review and comment holdings with a low  118 billion Euro of the assets.
41 Allianz Sustainability Report 2018 Introduction In-focus Managing sustainability Our roles Data and performance
RESPONSIBLE INVESTOR:
05.4 ESG IN THIRD-PARTY ASSET MANAGEMENT 
Looking ahead, AllianzGI will further extend  Engagement and stewardship activities Engagement activities in 2018 “In a world where businesses 
its number of Integrated ESG flagship  are much more exposed to 
AllianzGI investment professionals are  In 2018, we undertook 343 engagement 
strategies in 2019 and increase its focus on 
committed to engaging with investee  activities across 11 industries and 21 markets,  externalities, and intangible assets 
IESG in Fixed Income strategies. AllianzGI will 
companies to help them improve  up 75% on the previous year. have become the most significant 
also intensify its efforts to drive low-carbon 
performance and safeguard their long- value drivers, it is increasingly 
investment strategies either through  term prospects. Engagement is aimed  +75% important that active asset 
direct investments in renewable energy 
at enhancing our understanding of the 
infrastructure or via expanding the reach of  managers integrate ESG factors 
company, assessing leadership and 
an equity strategy that specifically identifies  more engagement activities in 2018 compared  in order to create long-term 
oversight, and building our confidence  with the year before.
companies that are well prepared for or  value for clients. Active capital 
in the board and management. 
indeed particularly enabling the transition  Common engagement activities relate  ALLIANZGI ENGAGEMENT ACTIVITIES allocation is a driver of change 
towards a low-carbon economy.
to an investee company’s strategy,  ENGAGEMENTS BY SECTOR  and can accelerate the pace at 
operational or financial performance, capital  % 2018 4% which innovations are adopted in 
5%
Health
management, corporate governance, as well  Utilities areas that need it most, such as 
5% 24%
as their environmental and social impacts.  Energy Financials climate transition.”
Investment views are influenced by the  5%
Real Estate
outcome of these activities and linked to the 
6%  
proxy-voting process, forming a consistent  Consumer
Staples
stewardship approach.
8% 15%
In addition to our focus on direct  Consumer  Industrials
Discretionary
engagement with the boards and  9%
management of sizeable holdings, we lead  Telecoms 9% 10%
Materials Technology
a series of targeted, themed engagement 
projects e.g. on cyber security or the role  ENGAGEMENT BY TOPICS
of climate change in investee companies’  4%    
strategy. We also participate in collaborative  Social Risks/Impa5c%ts Other Andreas Utermann 
engagement initiatives aimed at improving  5% CEO 
Transparency & Disclosure
corporate practices and disclosure of  7% Allianz Global Investors
information at an industry or market level. Risk Management 48%
Corporate 
7%
Governance
Capital 
Management
You can find more detail on AllianzGI’s ESG related policies 
7%
For an overview please consult AllianzGI’s   and proxy voting reports and in the PRI Transparency Report for  Strategy & 
“Responsible Investing Report 2018”. 2018: Key documents. Business Model 8%
Business Conduct  10%
& Culture Environmental Risks/Impacts
42 Allianz Sustainability Report 2018 Introduction In-focus Managing sustainability Our roles Data and performance
RESPONSIBLE INVESTOR:
05.4 ESG IN THIRD-PARTY ASSET MANAGEMENT 
COMMITMENT TO ADDRESS 
CASE STUDY:
CLIMATE CHANGE
SUPPORTING THE  
AllianzGI places great emphasis on its 
responsibility to incorporate material climate  SUSTAINABLE  
change risks and opportunities in our  FINANCE AGENDA 
investment decisions, risk management and 
portfolio strategies. During 2018, we have  The European Commission has sent 
noticed an increased interest in our liquid  out a strong signal to the market on its 
strategies that address climate change, be it  commitment upon publishing the Action 
in the green bond space or how companies  Plan on Sustainable Finance. Allianz Global 
prepare for climate transition. We are  Investors is one of the 35 members appointed 
engaging with companies to encourage  to the Technical Expert Group which is 
more disclosure and better practices around  advising on details and implementation 
climate-related risks through for example  of the Action Plan. For AllianzGI, this is an 
the Climate Action 100+ investor initiative.  opportunity to actively share value and 
We are also an active member of the  engage on a policy level by helping to shape 
Institutional Investors Group on Climate  the European sustainable finance agenda 
Change (IIGCC) Scenario working group,  and its current focus on the low-carbon 
which has developed an investor guide on  transition and alignment with the 2 degree 
climate-related scenario analysis in line with  target (see page 7). This includes building a 
the TCFD recommendations to improve  European taxonomy on climate mitigation 
industry standards. and adaptation, building European green 
bond standards, setting standards for low-
carbon and ESG benchmarks and shaping 
Read the AllianzGI Climate Risk Statement online.
guidelines for corporates on better climate 
risk and opportunity disclosure. 
You can find an overview on the European Union’s Sustainable 
Finance agenda here.
43 Allianz Sustainability Report 2018 Introduction In-focus Managing sustainability Our roles Data and performance
RESPONSIBLE INVESTOR:
05.4 ESG IN THIRD-PARTY ASSET MANAGEMENT 
PIMCO In 2018, PIMCO expanded its existing ESG 
fund suite with an ESG Credit strategy.  CASE STUDY: Despite this high awareness, most companies 
In managing risk and delivering returns  This fund now sits alongside our other ESG  CORPORATE REPORTING   are finding it challenging to translate support 
for its clients, PIMCO integrates ESG issues  fund strategies covering Global Bonds,  into action and to identify targets that 
across all of its actively managed strategies.  Emerging Markets, U.S. Fixed Income and  ON THE SDGS: MAPPING   can add business value, with only 19% of 
Early identification of ESG risk factors is a  Short maturity bonds. A SUSTAINABLE FUTURE  companies that reference the SDG setting 
priority to ensure that value deterioration  quantitative targets for meeting the goals. 
is avoided in securities that are negatively  PIMCO also continued to build out its ESG  UN Sustainable Development Goals  It is clear that the need for a common set of 
affected by ESG developments.  platform this year by enhancing the analysis  (SDGs) are a powerful framework with  impact performance indicators has never 
of securitized debt with a proprietary ESG  which to construct and manage portfolios 
PIMCO has created a dedicated ESG  been greater for investors to compare the 
score. In addition, we developed an in-house  designed to deliver positive societal 
platform for investors who wish to target  SDG contribution of companies. PIMCO’s 
ESG scoring methodology of municipal  impact alongside competitive returns. 
positive social and environmental change.  study illustrates best practice case studies 
debt and further refined our ESG scoring for  But to enable investors to make informed 
ESG portfolios utilize the same investment  of corporate activity, together with some 
sovereign issuers. decisions and direct capital towards 
resources and incorporate the same macro  actionable recommendations.
positive impact, companies need to 
positioning as other PIMCO portfolios. 
publish relevant SDG performance data. 
Unlike other portfolios however, ESG 
PIMCO recently conducted a review on  Find out more here.
portfolios emphasize three additional 
the quality of corporate reporting on 
building blocks: exclusions, evaluation 
the SDGs, with the study examining the 
BREAKDOWN OF SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING STATUS 
and engagement:
corporate disclosure of more than 240 
9% 12%
• exclusion of issuers whose business  issuers. Generally companies have a high  SDG progress reporting  SDG content mentioned
practices are misaligned with  level of awareness of the SDGs, with 63% 
10%
sustainability principles; referencing them, of which 39% map  SDG targets set
business activities to specific goals. 
• evaluation of issuers based on their ESG 
credentials and favoring of those with   49%
best-in-class ESG practices; and SHARE OF COMPANIES REFERENCING THE SDGs 20% SDG labeling
SDG mapping
• engagement with issuers to improve their 
ESG practices.
Source: PIMCO as of 30 November 2018. Data for 154 companies referencing the SDGs.
37% 63% SDG mentioned: Without discussion on how they relate to business activities.
SDGs not SDGs 
SDG labeling: Existing sustainability activities tagged to applicable SDGs without 
referenced referenced evidence of any in-depth analysis.
SDG mapping: The Company has conducted a though mapping analysis and 
prioritized relevant goals.
SDG target set: The Company articulates measurable indicators for priority goals 
and sets meaningful objectives.
Source: PIMCO as of 30 November 2018. Data for 246 issuers reviewed. SDG progress reporting: The Company discloses progress against targets.
44 Allianz Sustainability Report 2018 Introduction In-focus Managing sustainability Our roles Data and performance
RESPONSIBLE INVESTOR:
05.4 ESG IN THIRD-PARTY ASSET MANAGEMENT 
“What is clear is that ESG investing in  ADVOCACY AND ENGAGEMENT  PIMCO also published its first ESG Annual 
fixed income is still developing; we  Investment Report for its stakeholders, 
PIMCO supported a number of different 
providing a comprehensive overview 
and others across the investment  initiatives in 2018, including working with 
across multiple ESG initiatives, including 
community have more work to do.  the UN Global Compact to jointly host 
engagement progress. In 2019, it will 
‘Evolution, not revolution’ has been  an Inaugural Symposium in California 
also publish its first UN Global Compact 
PIMCO’s approach at each stage  for representatives of corporations, asset 
progress report.
managers, asset owners and global 
of our development, and ESG is no 
policymakers. Its purpose was to discuss 
different. We want to make sure 
the increasing role of the private sector 
that as we expand our platform, 
and capital markets to help meet the UN’s 
we retain all that is best about 
Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). 
PIMCO – a focus on performance as  It was the first ever event that the UN Global 
well as excellence in client service.”  Compact has co-hosted and co-organized 
with a private sector asset manager. You can find details of PIMCO’s ESG approach on 
their ESG website, in their ESG annual report and 
 
PRI Transparency Report for the fiscal year 2018.
 
RESPONSIBLE INVESTOR:
Emmanuel Roman
Looking ahead. 
  Managing Director  
PIMCO
As we look ahead, we have a number of workstreams aimed at further deepening our ESG work. These encapsulate the 
roll-out of our integration and engagement platforms across further fixed income segments and new product build out.
We will maintain our focus on measuring the social and environmental impact of our investments and aligning our 
investment strategy with the SDGs where we can have the greatest impact.
45 Allianz Sustainability Report 2018 Introduction In-focus Managing sustainability Our roles Data and performance
06
OUR ROLE AS A
TRUSTED COMPANY
Customers’ trust in Allianz is based on 
resilience, integrity and competence. To 
build on these attributes and ensure that 
we are fit for the future, we are changing 
the way we think about and engage 
with our customers. We recognize that 
the way people communicate continues 
to evolve with technology. Today, 
communication happens in real-time, 
across borders and languages, and in 
more transparent and personal ways.  
We must use these opportunities 
to empower, engage and inspire 
our customers and build trusting  HIGHLIGHTS
relationships. This means engaging 
with communities and networks around   74%  GDPR  RE100  27%  562
specific issues and keeping abreast of 
emerging issues as they arise.
Net Promoter Score: Allianz  Adopted the Allianz Privacy  Acceptance of our Binding  Signed up to RE100  cut in CO₂ emissions per  562 suppliers have 
Group business segments score  Standard reflecting requirements  Corporate Rules for  committing Allianz to 100%  employee since 2010. contracted our Vendor 
IN THIS SECTION above market or in a loyalty leader  of the GDPR.  international data transfers. renewable energy by 2023. Code of Conduct for 2018.
position in 2018. 
06.1  Our approach  46
CHALLENGES
06.2  Growing with our customers  47
06.3   Progressing towards digital  
by default  48
06.4  Protecting our customers  49
Reinforcing stakeholder trust  Further optimizing the customer  Reducing the 
06.5  Political engagement  53
in Allianz through continued  experience using paperless  environmental impacts 
06.6  Environmental impact  54 transparency, competence   communication, simplified product  from our own operations in 
and resilience. design and digital servicing, whilst  the long term, in line with 
06.7  Trust in our supply chain  57 ensuring data security. climate science.
46 Allianz Sustainability Report 2018 Introduction In-focus Managing sustainability Our roles Data and performance
TRUSTED COMPANY:
06.1 OUR APPROACH
TRUE CUSTOMER CENTRICITY DIGITAL BUSINESS TRANSFORMATION  FOSTERING INTEGRITY AND MANAGING  TAX TRANSPARENCY
OUR IMPACTS 
To achieve True Customer Centricity, we  As the insurance industry continues to evolve,  In times of an international, globalized 
are transforming into a company that  so do the needs and expectations of our  Our success depends on being seen by  business landscape, taxation becomes more 
revolves around its customers. We want  customers. Through online technologies,  customers as a financially stable and  and more complex. We recognize that this 
our customers to see Allianz as a company  more people can find out about, buy, and  trustworthy company. We achieve this by  complexity raises external expectations for 
whose heart beats for them and that  interact with our products. This is especially  demonstrating integrity, competence, and  “The B Team Responsible Tax Principles” 
designs its products and services from their  important in emerging markets.  resilience in everything we do. We work hard  increased tax transparency. As a member 
perspective. This means radically simplifying  to build a culture of compliance, ethical  to the B Team, Allianz SE, together with 
Our digital business transformation combines 
and digitalizing our products and processes,  decision-making, and good governance,  a group of companies has developed 
our essential business aspects with our 
ensuring what we provide is relevant and  combined with transparent financial  the so-called ‘B Team Responsible Tax 
overall goal of being a digital and data 
delivering superior value through excellent  communication and thought leadership on  Principles’, a common framework of core 
driven company. Our Customer Excellence 
and caring customer service.  the issues affecting our customers. principles and practical commitments for 
Program is focused on ensuring we better 
companies to demonstrate responsibility in 
To understand and meet the needs of our  understand our customers’ experiences by  Our approach encompasses a wide 
their tax-approach. 
diverse global customers, we use a three step  collecting qualitative, personal feedback.  range of focus areas that take into 
model: measure, analyze, act. We collect  The Global Digital Factory (see page 48)  account: robust data privacy and security;  In 2018, Allianz paid 2.7 billion Euro in income 
direct customer feedback using proven and  is our digital transformation unit which  high ethical standards through strong  taxes to governments around the world. 
tested survey tools and methodologies and  collaborates with Allianz companies around  leadership; the Allianz Code of Conduct and  Please find a breakdown of income taxes per 
we take action based on what we learn.  the globe, helping them transform their  internal controls. region in   Table TAX–1 on page 105.
business and improve customer satisfaction, 
Our ambition is to achieve a step-change  Furthermore, we manage our environmental  Last year, Allianz published its first Tax 
effectiveness and efficiency.
in our global Net Promoter Score (NPS)  impacts with a particular focus on climate  Transparency Report outlining its approach 
performance, with 75% of our business  Digitalization also comes with data security  change and promoting sustainability in our  to being a responsible taxpayer. The 2017 
segments achieving above market average  risks. It is the insurance sector’s responsibility  supply chain. report is available online. The 2018 report will 
or a loyalty leader position by 2019. to protect customer privacy. To ensure that  be published in May 2019.
advances in digitalization do not compromise 
In order to ensure that our global ambitions 
data security and privacy, we are closely 
2019 will be met, dedicated ‘NPS activation  ALLIANZ GROUP 
involved in political engagements on the 
workshops’ will be organized in the first  TAX TRANSPARENCY 
update and modernization of European  REPORT 2017
half of 2019 with all OEs in scope to identify 
privacy legislation.
performance gaps and define concrete 
action plans.
47 Allianz Sustainability Report 2018 Introduction In-focus Managing sustainability Our roles Data and performance
TRUSTED COMPANY:
06.2 GROWING WITH OUR CUSTOMERS
Customer centricity – one of the five  MEASURING CUSTOMER LOYALTY Our Customer Excellence Program  In 2018, we embedded a more continuous 
pillars of our Renewal Agenda – involves  aims to take us ahead of the industry  form of monitoring and improvement of 
We use the globally recognized Net 
practicing relentless execution for our  by systematically measuring customer  customer journeys with the introduction of 
Promoter Score (NPS) as our key metric for 
customers while outperforming the  experience, identifying areas for  a 5-star rating program. It allows customers 
customer loyalty through their willingness 
competition. To achieve it, we need to  improvement and enhancing the drivers of  to evaluate their satisfaction on a 5-point 
to recommend Allianz. Since it is applied 
understand our customers’ emerging  satisfaction along the entire customer journey  scale at various touch points in the journey. 
regularly according to global cross-industry 
needs and adapt our business accordingly.  (as opposed to discrete touch points). By the  For example in the claims journey, whenever 
standards, NPS allows benchmarking 
Customer feedback enables us to do  end of 2018, 35 Allianz Group companies  customers have a claim against us, we ask 
against our competitors and industry peers. 
this by informing our products, services  and global lines around the world had  them afterwards to rate their satisfaction 
and processes and offering easy and  74% of Allianz Group business segments  applied the Customer Excellence approach.  with the settlement. If their rating is below 3 
adaptable solutions.  score above market or in a loyalty leader  We have now optimized about 180 customer  stars, we follow up to ensure that the issue 
position in 2018; Ambition: 75% of Allianz  journeys worldwide in the past three years.  is resolved and prevented from happening 
To gain a better understanding of our 
Group business segments score above  Furthermore, to ensure a continuous  again to other customers. We aim at 
customers’ needs and how well we are 
market or in a loyalty leader position in 2019. customer centric approach, local capabilities  publishing customer feedback online for 
meeting them, we ask for direct feedback 
have been built in the operating entities  full transparency to our customers and 
regarding the experience of dealing with 
including 28 Customer Excellence Masters  prospective customers. 
Allianz and whether they would recommend  CUSTOMER LOYALTY
and over 100 Customer Excellence Experts.
us. We seek feedback at different stages of  SHARE OF ALLIANZ GROUP BUSINESS SEGMENTS SCORE
the customer journey, for example at point  ABOVE MARKET OR IN A LOYALTY LEADER POSITION   CUSTOMER EXCELLENCE: WINNING HEARTS  Approx. 180
of sale, submitting a claim, or canceling/ 74
WITH WOW-MOMENTS
renewing a contract.  60 customer journeys optimized since 2015.
To achieve Customer Excellence, we 
55
need to better understand our customer’s 
35 
personal experiences. This can only  28
be achieved by collecting qualitative 
Allianz companies and Global Lines had applied the Customer  feedback from individual customers. 
Customer Excellence Masters and over 100 
Excellence approach by the end of 2018. Our Customer Excellence Program will  Customer Experts across the Group.
2016 2017 2018 see operating entities interview some 
500 to 1000 customers to identify the 
‘pain points’ in the customer journey, and 
the root causes that lie behind them. 
Overcoming these problems can mean 
coming up with innovative solutions to 
exceed our customers’ expectations. 
48 Allianz Sustainability Report 2018 Introduction In-focus Managing sustainability Our roles Data and performance
TRUSTED COMPANY:
06.3 PROGRESSING TOWARDS DIGITAL BY DEFAULT
The Global Digital Factory (GDF) is the digital  A customer journey is the story of the 
transformation unit of Allianz Group, building  customer’s end-to-end experience,  CASE STUDY:
engaging digital customer experiences since  starting from when they go through a  MOTOR CLAIMS ‘ONE APP’
2016. The GDF collaborates with Allianz  disruptive moment in their life. In the 
companies around the globe, helping  case study on the right you can find an  After the successful launch of the Motor 
them transform their business and improve  exemplary journey; co-created between  Claims MyMobility App in Austria, UK 
customer satisfaction, effectiveness and  GDF and Allianz entities: and AGCS, it has now been extended 
efficiency. Based in Munich, the Global Digital  to ‘One App’, supporting all Lines of 
Factory delivers scalable digital solutions to  Business (Mobility, Home and Health/Life/
serve customers globally.  Investments). Built in a modular way, ‘One 
A mixed team of designers, developers,  App’ includes Digital Assistance services, 
user researchers, product owners, digital  Customer Portal functionalities and 
marketers and insurance experts explore  many value-adding services to increase 
innovative ways of working, user-centric  customer engagement.
design, development methodologies as well 
as cutting-edge technology. So far, the GDF  “The Allianz [MyMobility App] 
has co-created 11 customer journeys, for  solution addresses the 4As our 
instance motor claims, health claims and  customers expect: Anyone, Anytime, 
global retail product. Seven of these digital 
Anywhere, Anything – kicked off by a 
customer journeys have already been rolled 
personalized video at the beginning 
out in 16 Allianz entities. 
of the customer journey. This is a 
good example of how combining 
72% 
Heritage and Renewal creates 
something powerful!”
of our outbound communication is digital. 
Xaver Woelfl
Chief Digital Officer 
Allianz Austria
49 Allianz Sustainability Report 2018 Introduction In-focus Managing sustainability Our roles Data and performance
TRUSTED COMPANY:
06.4 PROTECTING OUR CUSTOMERS
Meeting our customers’ needs and  The Allianz Standard for Data Protection  SAFEGUARDING PERSONAL DATA ENGAGING WITH EMPLOYEES
protecting their information is central to our  and Privacy defines rules and principles 
The security of the personal data we hold is  We continue to focus on employee 
ambition to be the most trusted partner in  for collecting and processing personal 
equally as important. Our robust Information  engagement to build understanding of 
insurance and investments. Our customers  data. It sets out six privacy principles that 
Security Framework applies strict security  privacy requirements, including through the 
rightly expect their personal information  we expect all our employees to respect, 
processes, standards, and tools globally.  deployment of our interactive data privacy 
to be treated with the utmost care and  wherever they are in the world: due care; 
It defines minimum requirements, based  training in 2018 to ensure Allianz employees 
we take this responsibility seriously.  purpose specification; reasonable limitation; 
on the ISO 27001 standard for information  understand their responsibilities in protecting 
Embedded within our commitment to a  transparency and openness; choice and 
security management. This includes a  customers’ privacy. Our Digital Privacy 
Digital by Default service, we ensure robust  consent; and privacy by design. We also 
requirement for vulnerability assessments  Guidelines have been deployed to all Allianz 
privacy controls to give our customers  publish a Privacy Notice that clearly states 
along the software development value  Group companies and cover privacy-related 
peace of mind that their personal  what information we collect, and why. 
chain (including penetration tests and  topics impacting digital projects – both 
information is safe and secure. In 2018, our data protection authority 
security audits), monitoring of systems via  privacy by design (as part of new product 
accepted our Binding Corporate Rules 
STRENGTHENING OUR GLOBAL PRIVACY  multi-level security systems, and effective  and service design processes) and privacy by 
for international data transfers.
FRAMEWORK  IT Security Management and Business  default (so that where individuals are given 
PRIVACY RISK MANAGEMENT Continuity Management. choices around the use and onward sharing 
The Allianz Privacy Framework includes: a 
of their personal data, the initial settings 
global standard for data privacy; a privacy  We consider the identification and  COMPLIANCE WITH INDUSTRY 
restrict disclosure). 
impact assessment and risk management  management of privacy risks at the  DEVELOPMENTS 
process; integration with Information Security  operational process level to ensure we  In 2018, over 100 legal, compliance, privacy 
core functions; and training for employees on  measure, monitor and remediate risks across  We keep abreast of regulatory and industry  and information security professionals came 
the appropriate processing of personal data  Allianz’s core businesses. Privacy Impact  developments and aim to reflect these in  together for the third Allianz Privacy Summit. 
belonging to our customers, employees and  Assessments (PIAs) of high exposure  our operational and governance processes  Over three days, they exchanged knowledge 
third-party partners. All measures are subject  processes that use personal data enable  and procedures. The Allianz Privacy Renewal  and best practice to achieve a sustainable 
to regular audit and assurance activities. the early identification of risks to ensure  Program was established in 2016 to address  level of data privacy and protection across all 
they are managed. In 2016, we began  the E.U. General Data Protection Regulation  Allianz Group companies.
(GDPR), which came into effect in May 
work to fully automate the PIA process  Looking ahead, we will continue working to 
2018. Since that date, we have undertaken 
for all Allianz Group companies. The PIA  ensure compliance with the E.U. GDPR and 
our governance function through a formal 
tool has been implemented across Allianz  will update the Allianz Privacy Standard, 
process of collecting the implementation 
Group in conjunction with training sessions.  functional rules, and privacy guidance to 
status of the Allianz Privacy Renewal 
Privacy risks are included in Allianz’s  reflect regulatory changes and judicial 
Program across the Group. We have 
Integrated Risk and Control System (IRCS),  decisions. We will also facilitate deeper 
worked with Allianz Group companies and 
which helps us measure and monitor privacy  engagement on privacy-related issues across 
other group functions to remediate gaps 
risks across the organization. the Group, including through ongoing data 
in organizational set-up, processes, and 
privacy training.
IT systems.
50 Allianz Sustainability Report 2018 Introduction In-focus Managing sustainability Our roles Data and performance
TRUSTED COMPANY:
06.4 PROTECTING OUR CUSTOMERS
INTEGRITY RESPONSIBLE SALES We have also further refined how we identify  • potential Board members of Allianz Group 
products that could lead to a negative  entities and certain senior executives 
Integrity and honesty are fundamental to  Our positive reputation is built on the trust 
impact for the client/customer. This initiative,  are interviewed systematically by 
building relationships of trust. This means  that customers, shareholders, employees, 
overseen by the Allianz CEO, aims to ensure  Legal, Compliance and Audit to assess 
conducting our business with transparency  and the general public have in our integrity. 
that the value to customer is maintained  their integrity.
in every single transaction, wherever we  This trust depends on the quality of our 
for existing and new products. We will 
are in the world. Our anti-corruption and  products, the way we inform and advise our  The implementation project for regulatory 
work to better define ‘social’ products and 
anti-trust programs, alongside our approach  customers, and on the personal conduct  changes in Europe (MiFID II/IDD) is paying 
assess the potential for more transparent 
to international sanctions and embargoes,  and capability of our sales employees  special attention to the advice given to 
communication around these. 
help to ensure we make decisions based on  and representatives. The Allianz Broker  customers and establishing clear rules in 
what is right and good for business, while  Remuneration Principles state that “Allianz  PROMOTING ETHICAL STANDARDS this area.
complying with applicable legal restrictions. commits itself not to devise or agree to 
In addition to The Allianz Broker  LISTENING TO OUR CUSTOMERS
remuneration schemes which are aimed at 
ETHICAL STANDARDS Remuneration Principles, in the course 
inducing Brokers to act to the detriment of  A responsible approach to sales is more 
of the implementation of the Insurance 
Based on the principles of trust and  our customers or to distort fair competition.” likely to lead to customer satisfaction. In turn, 
Distribution Directive (IDD), the Markets in 
integrity, the Allianz Code of Conduct for  satisfied customers are loyal and more willing 
We have set Minimum Standards for Asset  Financial Instruments Directive (MiFID II) and 
Business Ethics and Compliance establishes  to recommend us. Our customers’ interests 
Management Marketing Practices, which  the Packaged Retail and Insurance-based 
minimum standards of conduct for all Allianz  take priority whenever they seek advice from 
include the principles of truthful, clear and  Investment Products (PRIIPS), we have 
employees worldwide. It also sets out the  us, and exemplary sales practices are of 
accurate information on investment styles  developed solutions that go beyond the pure 
ethical responsibilities of the Board, especially  particular importance.
and philosophies. legal requirements in order to foster True 
with respect to handling potential conflicts 
Our global standard Sales Compliance  Customer Centricity. In addition to customer surveys, complaints 
of interest and standards of corporate 
are an important source of feedback and 
disclosure. Separate standards apply to  Program comprises of processes and controls  The globally binding Allianz Code of 
we analyze them closely to identify potential 
each risk area and cover employee ethical  for communication, monitoring and audit.  Conduct for Business Ethics and Compliance 
improvements. We have internally certified 
behavior, both personally and professionally.  Recent initiatives include enhancement  underpins all of these responsible sales 
our subsidiaries to ensure group-wide quality 
Group Compliance has established a  of product governance principles and  controls. It specifies that:
standards for handling complaints are met 
new solutions to deal with the low interest 
dedicated function for integrity culture. 
• employees of Allianz Group must not,  and customers are treated fairly. 
rate environment in Life Insurance. After a 
The Allianz Standard for Capital Markets  either by their action or statements, seek to 
successful start involving 18 entities in 2017, 
Compliance ensures adherence by  mislead the market or customers;
all affected Allianz entities globally are now 
employees with market abuse rules, and 
reviewing their portfolio of retail insurance  • when establishing a customer relationship, 
integrates the requirements of the E.U. 
products against quantitative criteria.  or providing financial services to a client, 
Market Abuse Regulations into our rules 
appropriate care shall be taken to ensure 
and procedures.
that the customer receives information that 
is necessary for a reasonable decision to be 
taken by the customer; and
51 Allianz Sustainability Report 2018 Introduction In-focus Managing sustainability Our roles Data and performance
TRUSTED COMPANY:
06.4 PROTECTING OUR CUSTOMERS
ZERO TOLERANCE OF FRAUD   sanctions restrictions. Allianz companies are  COMPETITION LEADERSHIP STRUCTURE
AND CORRUPTION responsible for implementing appropriate 
We believe that fair competition and access  We believe that good corporate governance 
Compliance Programs and related processes 
We take a zero-tolerance approach to  to the market drives innovation, stimulates  is not restricted to fulfilling our legal 
to avoid the risk of money laundering and 
fraud and corruption. At a minimum,  growth and benefits the consumer. As a  obligations. Rather, it is an integral part of 
terrorism financing, in accordance with 
that means complying fully with local  global player and a leading provider in our  our corporate culture and a way in which we 
applicable law. 
and international anti-corruption and  sector, we have a responsibility to ensure  can build trust. This is why the Allianz Code of 
anti-bribery laws. Going further than just  RESPECTING ECONOMIC SANCTIONS   that we act in compliance with competition  Conduct for Business Ethics and Compliance 
compliance, the Allianz Anti-Corruption  AND EMBARGOES  law. To take on this responsibility, we have  is fundamental to our responsible 
Program sets standards for a consistent and  adopted the global Allianz Antitrust Program  corporate governance.
We have global policies and procedures in 
comprehensive group-wide approach in  consisting of the Antitrust Standard, which 
Allianz operates a two-tier Board system: 
place for compliance with trade and financial 
every jurisdiction. Aimed at employees and  was updated this year and lays out the 
the Supervisory Board is made up of six 
sanctions. These policies and procedures 
third parties with whom we do business,  compliance measures to be adopted across 
independent Directors and six employee 
include, among others, requirements for the 
the program and policy prohibit the offer,  the Group and the Allianz Antitrust Code, 
representatives, while the Management 
screening of customer and counterparty 
acceptance, payment or authorization of  which provides for a set of behavioral rules 
Board consists of nine senior executives 
names against the sanctions lists provided 
any bribe, or any other form of corruption,  that employees must observe when dealing 
appointed by the Supervisory Board for a 
by the UN, E.U. and the U.S. Office of 
be it with the private sector or with  with competitors, customers and business 
maximum term of five years.
Foreign Assets Control (OFAC). Our global 
government officials.  partners. We regularly provide classroom 
requirements also include an enhanced  and online training to Top Management and  All members of the Supervisory Board are 
Anti-corruption training is compulsory for all  review requirement for high-risk transactions  Exposed Employees to refresh and develop  considered independent according to the 
employees, with online and in-class training  related to countries, sectors or parties subject  their understanding of antitrust rules and  German Corporate Governance Board’s 
delivered in 25 languages.  to sanctions programs. how they affect their daily business. definition. Potential Board members of 
Allianz Group entities and certain Senior 
ANTI-MONEY LAUNDERING Some of our insurance coverage and other 
Executives are interviewed systematically 
business can relate to clients’ underlying 
Within the framework established by Allianz  by Legal, Compliance and Audit to assess 
business transactions that may involve 
Group’s Code of Conduct for Business Ethics  their integrity.
sanctioned countries or sanctioned persons. 
and Compliance, Allianz companies have 
Our sanctions compliance program aims 
established policies and procedures for 
to ensure that we respect all applicable 
the prevention of money laundering and 
sanctions restrictions (for example, where 
terrorism financing based on high standards 
permitted, we may provide insurance for 
of customer identification, verification and 
humanitarian goods), with a focus on high-
monitoring, as well as suspicious activity 
risk transactions. These transactions are 
reporting in compliance with applicable 
subject to a mandatory enhanced review 
legal requirements. We use various screening 
process, as mentioned above.
and monitoring systems to manage risks 
and to ensure compliance with economic 
52 Allianz Sustainability Report 2018 Introduction In-focus Managing sustainability Our roles Data and performance
TRUSTED COMPANY:
06.4 PROTECTING OUR CUSTOMERS
The Chairman of the Supervisory Board 
of Allianz SE is Michael Diekmann, who  COMPLIANCE GOVERNANCE REGULATORY COMPLIANCE OUR COMPLIANCE MISSION: 
was a former member of the Board of  Monitoring and ensuring eﬀective Conducting advisory, risk identiﬁcation
implementation of Compliance  and assessment, monitoring and early  We safeguard Allianz 
Management and has observed the  programs within the Allianz Group. warning tasks.   reputation as a trusted 
legally required two-year ‘cooling off’ 
financial services provider 
period. Within the Supervisory Board, the 
and promote, in partnership 
Nomination Committee is responsible   SALES COMPLIANCE DATA PRIVACY
Ensuring that all Allianz Ensuring the right treatment  with management and 
for drawing up selection criteria for  subsidiaries oﬀer fair and of personal data to keep  business, a culture of integrity 
shareholder representatives. It comprises   transparent products  our customer’s trust. 
and compliance by advising 
to customers.
the Supervisory Board Chairman and two 
on business conduct that 
other shareholder representatives. 
“Our integrity is  is lawful, ethical and in the 
interest of our customers, 
MANAGING COMPLIANCE the foundation of 
CAPITAL MARKETS shareholders, business 
Monitoring Group standards of trust and of sustainable  ECONOMIC SANCTIONS
In 2018, we completed the second cycle  investor protection, market  Applying global policies and  partners and colleagues; 
success. Integrity starts
of the integrated compliance risk scoping  transparency, conduct  procedures to comply with preventing and detecting 
and assessment activities as part of the  and integrity. with you and me.” trade and ﬁnancial sanctions. violations of laws and 
Allianz’s Integrated Risk and Control System.  – Oliver Bäte regulations through identifying 
We continue to strengthen the risk-based  and managing compliance 
focus of compliance control reviews and  risks and advocating Allianz‘s 
testing and to improve our IT solutions to  ANTI-CORRUPTION / ANTI-FRAUD ANTI-MONEY LAUNDERING compliance positions 
Preventing bribery, corruption 
optimize and harmonize all these activities  and fraud through global policies  Fighting money laundering  with regulators.
and terrorism ﬁnancing.
and reporting activities across the Group and  and monitoring.
ensure data quality. We have also rolled out 
a further enhanced compliance assurance 
ANTITRUST FATCA
approach that now includes baseline reviews  Promoting free and fair competition and Complying with relevant FATCA
to fast track compliance onboarding of newly  complying with all applicable antitrust laws. regulations and responsibilities. 
acquired entities, risk-based targeted reviews 
of existing entities, and key control testing. 
‘SPEAKUP!’ for topical issues. Generally, any minimum  As well as our group-wide SpeakUp! hotline,  guidance to ensure incoming reports are 
level of variable compensation is based  employees have access to other local and  handled appropriately. We also continuously 
Every employee that joins Allianz receives 
on compliance and integrity targets and  group-wide whistleblowing channels through  promote whistleblowing as part of internal 
a link to the compliance portal that 
Senior Executive remuneration is linked to  which they can raise concerns anonymously  events and campaigns.
includes a welcome presentation. SpeakUp! 
upholding the Code of Conduct and other  (unless local legal restrictions apply). 
Facility Compliance Officers can also be 
compliance requirements.  Our Whistleblowing Guidelines provide 
contacted via the intranet and hotlines 
53 Allianz Sustainability Report 2018 Introduction In-focus Managing sustainability Our roles Data and performance
TRUSTED COMPANY:
06.5 POLITICAL ENGAGEMENT 
We participate in open dialog with political  LOBBYING AND POLITICAL NETWORKING OUR POSITIONS Systemic risk regulation: as a Global 
stakeholders. To this end, we hold ongoing  Systemically Important Insurer, we 
Group Regulatory Affairs and Public Policy  One of the roles of GRAPP is to develop and 
events and dialogs with governments and  participate in consultations, field testing, and 
(GRAPP) is the center of competence for  uphold Allianz’s position on relevant political 
financial institutions to explore societal  working groups to better understand the 
Allianz’s regulatory and political activities  and regulatory issues. In 2018, these included:
issues and communicate policy positions to  implications of the capital requirements for 
globally. It supports operating entities with 
support public policy development.  Digitalization and data security: we support  Allianz Group and advocate our position in 
regard to regulatory and political strategy 
the European Commission’s Digital Single  regulatory dialog. 
EXTENDING OUR INFLUENCE and oversees regulatory and political topics 
Market Strategy (DSM), the engagement 
within the Group. The seventh Berlin Demography Forum: 
Given the challenges facing society, we  to update the European competition rules 
“Shaping the Future: Domestic and 
believe that it is vital to work together –   We are committed to democracy and we  facing new digital competitors and are 
International Migration in Europe”.
as partners, governments, and institutions –  have made financial contributions for many  actively contributing to public discussions, 
to identify sustainable solutions. We engage  years to political parties that support the  with a special focus on practicability of  In April 2018, the seventh Annual Berlin 
in political lobbying as part of the democratic  social market economy. In 2018, Allianz  regulation for Allianz Group. Demography Forum (BDF) was held to 
process, contributing our expertise and  Germany contributed 20,000 Euro to CDU,  Consumer protection: we are involved  raise awareness and explore solutions 
knowledge to support policy development.  CSU, SPD, Greens and FDP respectively.  in discussions around the Pan-European  to the long-term consequences of a 
We share our insights to help tackle  Every party’s youth organizations received  Personal Pension Product (PEPP), the  demographic change. Designed as an 
regulatory and macroeconomic challenges.  a grant of 10,000 Euro to support their  Insurance Distribution Directive and the  annual conference, the BDF brings together 
We ensure that all lobbying and political  focus on social issues of our future.  implementation of the new regulation for  leading politicians, scientists, economists and 
networking activities are undertaken in line  Because we donate below the German  Packaged Retail Insurance-Based Investment  representatives of international organizations 
with the Allianz Lobbying Code of Conduct,  Bundestag reporting threshold of 50,000  Products. We also contributed to discussions  and civil society to debate possible routes 
which mandates minimum standards for  Euro, we publish a press release outlining  on the initiative ‘A new deal for consumers.’  towards sustainable development and 
contacts with representatives of politics,  our political donations. communicates them publicly. Against the 
The E.U. Capital Markets Union (CMU):  backdrop of demographic change, the 
private sector and society. 
we fully support and actively contribute to  seventh forum sought to examine the 
We are a signatory of the European Union  public discussion and consultations on the  role of migration within and between 
Transparency Register Code of Conduct and  CMU’s objectives to create deeper and more  different countries and regions in Europe. 
our Group Regulatory Affairs and Public  integrated capital markets in its 28 Member  Within the debate, regional implications 
Policy department monitors regulatory and  States, in particular those fostering long- and international comparison received 
legislative developments and channels  term investments. special attention. Being a partner of the 
appropriate responses.
forum, Allianz sponsors the ‘Allianz European 
Global insurance capital standards (ICS): 
Demographer Awards’ as well as the ‘Allianz 
we support the development of global 
Nachwuchspreise für Demografie’ (Allianz 
comparable capital standards and we 
Demography Award for junior researchers), 
believe current approaches must converge 
which were announced in the Allianz Forum 
over time to achieve true comparability.
during the annual evening reception. 
54 Allianz Sustainability Report 2018 Introduction In-focus Managing sustainability Our roles Data and performance
TRUSTED COMPANY:
06.6 ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT 
As well as improving environmental  CARBON REDUCTION STRATEGY CO₂ EMISSIONS OUR ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE
standards and helping to drive 
We have a long-established carbon  Our most material CO₂ emissions arise from  CHANGE IN CO₂ EMISSIONS27
decarbonization through our insurance and 
reduction strategy to manage CO₂ emissions  energy consumption, business travel and  (tons of CO₂e per employee) 
investment business, we continually strive 
from our operations, for example through  paper use. We have committed to reduce  2.8 2.7 2.7
to improve the environmental performance 
energy-efficient planning, construction  CO₂ emissions by 30% per employee by 2020, 
of our own operations. 
and operation of buildings, buying green  against a 2010 baseline. By the end of 2018, 
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT electricity, and using carbon efficient vehicles.  we had reduced CO₂ emissions by 27% per 
In May 2018, we joined the Science Based  employee (2017: 27%27).
Our group-wide Environmental 
Targets initiative (SBTi) and committed to set 
Management System (EMS) provides 
long-term climate goals, linked to the Paris 
standards and controls, supports  Climate Agreement to limit global warming  Full details of our CO₂ emission disclosure, including by Scope 1, 
environmental data collection, and promotes  2, and 3 emissions, are provided in   Table ENV–2.  2016 2017 2018
to well below 2°C. 
transparent reporting of environmental 
impacts across our operations. It guides us in  Allianz Group has been carbon-neutral since 
45%
monitoring and managing our CO₂ footprint,  2012, achieved by neutralizing our remaining 
managing our use of natural resources  CO₂ emissions through investments in 
including water and energy, and reducing  carbon-reduction projects. of our electricity use came from renewable, 
our waste. Operational implementation  In 2018, under the RE100 initiative, we  low-carbon sources in 2018 (2017: 45%26).
of our EMS is monitored by the Group  committed to source 100% renewable power 
Environmental Officer and supported by the  for our group-wide operations by 2023.  27%
Board of Management of Allianz SE. In 2018,  This commitment will more than double the 
94% of employees were included under  share of renewables in our electricity mix. 
cut in CO₂ emissions per employee against our 
the scope of our EMS (2017: 91%) (see also  It covers the power demand for the office  2010 baseline.
 Table ENV–1).  space we occupy and our data centers. 
As part of our efforts to strengthen our  With operations in over 74 countries, we will  34%
environmental management, Allianz SE  need to engage deeply with our suppliers 
headquarters in Munich, was certified to the  and landlords to achieve this.
reduction in energy consumption from office 
international standard ISO 14001 in 2017. buildings per employee against our 2010 baseline.
Further information on our Group  
Environmental Guideline can be found here.
26 Please note, that the data for 2017 has been restated, for further details, please see our explanatory notes.
27 Please note, that the data for 2017 and 2016 have been restated, for further details, please see our explanatory notes.
55 Allianz Sustainability Report 2018 Introduction In-focus Managing sustainability Our roles Data and performance
TRUSTED COMPANY:
06.6 ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT 
REDUCING ENERGY CONSUMPTION
Our target is to reduce energy consumption 
in our office buildings per employee by 30% 
by 2020, compared with 2010. We have 
achieved a 34% cut (2017: 30%), and 
exceeded our 2020 targets. 45% of the 
electricity we used came from renewable, 
low-carbon sources (2017: 45%), which 
contributes towards our target of switching 
to 100% renewable power by 2023 for the 
operations of Allianz Group (see   Table 
ENV–3 for further details).
OUR ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE
CHANGE IN ENERGY CONSUMPTION FROM OFFICE 
BUILDINGS (gigajoules per employee)
CASE STUDY:
17.9
17.0
16.1 SHIFTING AWAY FROM PLASTIC
At Allianz SE in Munich, we are working  and biodegradable corn-based plastic.  a single-use cup or container, how to source 
to eliminate single-use-plastic waste in  With developments such as the upcoming  those from compostable materials instead 
our gastronomy. Starting by engaging  E.U. directive on single-use-plastic, we  of plastic. An educational campaign and 
with our local suppliers, much of our  expect more opportunities to reduce our  a $0.10 discount was launched in 2012 to 
fresh food is delivered in reusable and  use of single-use and other plastics in the  encourage employees to choose reusable 
2016 2017 2018 returnable packaging. Since 2015, our  coming years.  glass cups instead of plastic. Since then, 
refill system of ceramic mugs saves more  AllianzUS Life employees have purchased 
Another example on how Allianz is 
than 600,000 disposable coffee cups every  over 80,000 beverages in reusable cups. 
eliminating plastic is at AllianzUS Life, 
year. During 2018, the single-use-plastic  They have also removed most of the plastic 
where they have been focused on reducing 
packaging in our canteen and bistro was  container options, and as of today, 90-95% 
and eliminating single-use plastics in their 
systematically replaced with returnable  of the food and drink container options for 
on-campus cafeterias. To accomplish this, 
glass containers with a deposit system and  employees are compostable, including cups, 
they focused on two main areas: how to get 
other sustainable packaging solutions.  silverware, and straws.
employees to avoid using single-use cups 
We no longer use plastic straws and our 
and containers, and if an employee must use 
sandwiches are packaged using paper 
56 Allianz Sustainability Report 2018 Introduction In-focus Managing sustainability Our roles Data and performance
TRUSTED COMPANY:
06.6 ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT 
CUTTING CO₂ EMISSIONS FROM   WATER 
BUSINESS TRAVEL
Minimizing water use is a principle 
In 2018, business travel accounted for 37%  commitment under our Group Environmental 
of our CO₂ emissions from operations.  Guidelines. This is of particular relevance in 
To reduce this, we encourage employees to  areas at risk of water-stress (see also   Table 
avoid travel for non-business-critical and  ENV–7). 
non-client-related meetings of less than three 
WASTE
hours. We also continue to improve the CO₂ 
performance of our vehicle fleet. We also  We seek to minimize the waste we generate 
supported the Indian branch of Allianz  and to re-use or recycle materials wherever 
Technology on its e-mobility journey towards  possible. In 2018, our employees also actively 
new mobility concepts in the future (see also  supported local ‘clean up’ activities, for 
 Table ENV–6). example in Paris and Munich in 2018 (see 
also   Table ENV–8).
PAPER REDUCTION
CASE STUDY: 3,000 CleanUps catalyzed, involving more 
Our target is to reduce paper use by 40%  CARBON-NEUTRAL SINCE 2012 than 200,000 people all over France. 
MOBILIZING EMPLOYEES  
per policy by 2020 against a 2014 baseline.  We have been a carbon-neutral company  Allianz France employees, together with 
AND COMMUNITIES TO KEEP 
By the end of 2018, we had achieved a  since 2012 by investing in projects that offset  employees of other companies, collected 
reduction of 38% (2017: 27%), putting us well  our operational emissions. In 2018, we retired  OUR ENVIRONMENT CLEAN  200,000 cigarette butts in just two hours at 
on track to achieve our 2020 target (see also  373,448 carbon credits by investing in low- Paris La Defense. 
In 2018, Allianz France partnered with 
 Table ENV–9). carbon initiatives, each credit accounting  World CleanUp Day to encourage  Also in 2018, Allianz marked World 
for one metric ton of carbon. The savings in  employees, customers and the general  Environment Day in different ways around 
CHANGE IN PAPER CONSUMPTION   emissions are independently measured and  public to unite to clean up their local  the world. This included employees in Munich 
(grams per policy) certified once a year. environment. A targeted campaign  cleaning the banks of the Isar, Munich’s 
117 Investments in 2018 included: on social media and emails sent to  local river, and an environmental panel 
98 1.3 million Allianz customers saw some  discussion with AGCS colleagues in Auckland, 
Wildlife Works Carbon LLC: we hold a 
83 New Zealand. 
10% share in WWC, the world’s leading 
developer of Reducing Emissions from 
Deforestation and Degradation (REDD) 
emissions per year, while the DRC REDD+  By helping to prevent the deforestation 
projects. Through this investment, we are 
project achieves an average of 5.7 million  of nearly 65,000 hectares of peat swamp 
supporting forest protection in Kenya and 
tons of carbon reductions per year. forest, the world’s largest project of its kind 
2016 2017 2018 the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC). 
aims to avoid more than 130 million tons of 
The Kenyan Kasigau Corridor REDD project  Rimba Raya: we began investing in this 
carbon emissions.
aims to offset 1 million tons of carbon  REDD project in Borneo, Indonesia, in 2013. 
57 Allianz Sustainability Report 2018 Introduction In-focus Managing sustainability Our roles Data and performance
TRUSTED COMPANY:
06.7 TRUST IN OUR SUPPLY CHAIN
Our risks, impacts, and opportunities  environmental stewardship in their own  “ Sustainability is part of our  for our operations. Allianz US Life, 
extend to our supply chain. We require all  supply chain. 88% of our global suppliers28,  Procurement Mission, processes  for example, is already well on the 
vendors above a certain spend threshold  representing a total spend of 1.6 billion 
and Travel Policies. In Procurement,  way towards achieving this. We also 
to meet the standards set out in the Allianz  Euro, contracted a Vendor Code of Conduct 
we expand awareness and provide  supported the Indian branch on the 
Code of Conduct, Procurement Policy  in 2018.
our business with products and  e-mobility journey resulting in the 
and Purchasing Principles. Our standards 
ASSESSING VENDOR RISK   services from our suppliers that  first e-car fleet in the region, helping 
are aligned with International Labor 
Organization (ILO) standards and the UN  AND COMPATIBILITY are in line with our sustainability  to reduce CO₂ emissions.”
Global Compact (UNGC). We require all vendors with a contract  goals. In Allianz France, we recently 
Managing our supply chain risks means  value over a certain threshold29 to undergo  became certified ISO 20400 
focusing on a broad range of issues in the  a vendor screening to ensure they are in  for sustainable Procurement. 
area of facility services and logistics, building  compliance with the Allianz Group Standard  We have an important role to play 
maintenance and projects, IT systems,  for Procurement due diligence and mitigation  in achieving low-carbon operations  Martin Rädler
insurance, lease cars and business travel,  against counter-party risks. Vendor Code of  in line with climate science. As part  Allianz Group 
marketing and communications support,  Conduct and environmental management- Procurement Officer 
of our efforts, we support the aim 
and other professional services. related questions have been included as a  Allianz Technology
to use 100% renewable electricity 
prerequisite to sourcing and contracting into 
THE ALLIANZ VENDOR CODE OF CONDUCT the new procurement system registration 
process since 2017. Data on screening and 
Our Vendor Code of Conduct stipulates the 
compliance with the Code of Conduct forms 
standards our vendors and their supplier 
part of the Procurement KPI Reporting.
network must meet with regards to fair  TRUSTED COMPANY:
labor practices including modern slavery in  In 2018, Global Sourcing and Procurement  Looking ahead
the supply chain, human rights and non- and the Group ESG Office collaborated to 
discrimination, environmental protection  develop and pilot a process to conduct ESG  Continue to implement measures to achieve the switch to 100% 
and sustainability.  assessments for potentially critical vendors.  renewable power for our Group operations and achieve longer-term 
This process will be further refined in 2019. carbon reduction targets. 
Vendors must comply with all applicable 
laws and regulations, industry standards, 
agreements and guidelines regarding  562 
Publish our second Allianz Group Tax Transparency Report in 
the environment and sustainability and, 
May 2019.
where appropriate, establish policies and 
suppliers have contracted our Vendor 
management practices that encourage  Code of Conduct for 2018.
Continue to work towards our ambition to achieve Net Promoter Scores 
above market or in a loyalty leader position.
28 Includes suppliers with a spend volume greater than €250,000.
29 Defined locally by market.
58 Allianz Sustainability Report 2018 Introduction In-focus Managing sustainability Our roles Data and performance
0  7
OUR ROLE AS AN
ATTRACTIVE               
EMPLOYER
Allianz is “the home for those who dare.” 
Without people who drive change, 
our long history would not have been 
as successful as it is. At the same time, 
the economic environment in which we 
operate is radically changing. This has 
a significant impact on our role as an 
employer – we depend on having the 
best people in place, and keeping them 
motivated and engaged to successfully  HIGHLIGHTS
deliver our business strategy and goals. 
 71%  80%  38%
score in the Inclusive Meritocracy Index – our  employee population covered by our newly  Allianz managers in our core business  Launched LinkedIn Learning @ Allianz.
IN THIS SECTION key measure of cultural change – up from 68%  launched Employee Share Purchase Program. are women. 
in 2015. 
07.1  Our approach  59
07.2  Leading our people into a   CHALLENGES
  digital future  61
07.3  AllianzU  63
07.4  People attraction and  
  talent management  64
Engaging all Allianz employees globally in  Seizing opportunities offered by data analytics  Transforming the Human Resource (HR)  Further improve Inclusive Meritocracy 
07.5  Diversity and inclusion  65 delivering the Renewal Agenda. and strategic workforce planning to make  functions across operating entities into  Index: We reached a challenging threshold, 
Allianz resilient in a rapidly changing industry. one global HR function and deploying a  shown by a 1%pt decrease since 2017 after 
07.6  Employee engagement  67 state-of-the-art and harmonized IT system  continuous improvement since 2015.
and processes.
07.7  Employee Health & Work Well  69
59 Allianz Sustainability Report 2018 Introduction In-focus Managing sustainability Our roles Data and performance
ATTRACTIVE EMPLOYER:
07.1 OUR APPROACH
At Allianz, we foster a working  Our remuneration system provides a  “ People are our most important asset and preparing them for the future is a 
environment where both people and  transparent, fair and integrated offering to  top priority, as the world around us is drastically changing. Organizations 
performance matter. We take a stance  attract, motivate and retain highly qualified 
must be able to deal with rapid technological change, the increasing need 
regarding gender equality and diversity in  employees. We continuously strive for market 
for digitalization, new ways of working and the constant emergence of 
our company, and we care for the health  excellence by obtaining benchmarking 
new skills and roles. With strategic workforce planning, we are laying the 
and safety of our employees.  information and ensuring employees are 
foundations to understand what skills and capabilities we need at Allianz 
treated equally. We review compensation 
Defining our future workforce requirements 
annually to ensure that Allianz’s  in the future. With this baseline we will be able to upskill our employees 
in a fast-changing world is one of our key 
remuneration offering remains competitive  by offering a variety of learning paths and focus on self-directed learning 
challenges. Which employees do we recruit? 
in the relevant markets, taking into account  for our people globally. We have already started this with implementing 
Which trainings do we offer? And which 
working environment, leadership styles,  individual performance as well as internal  LinkedIn Learning in January last year. 
and external equity aspects. Our variable 
development and remuneration strategies 
remuneration system aligns remuneration   We have launched our new Employee Share Purchase Program as 
will help us remain an ‘Attractive Employer’ 
with the performance of the individual and  we are aiming to establish more of a shareholder culture among our 
going forward?
the achievement of Allianz’s financial and  employees and ultimately this is a means of sharing the ‘digital dividend’ 
DELIVERING WHILE TRANSFORMING:  strategic goals. This ‘pay for performance’ 
with all employees.
CREATING ONE HR  culture allows us to operate effectively in 
different performance scenarios and business   What do all these initiatives have in common? They’re about people –  
We continue to focus on unifying our activities 
circumstances, while promoting risk control 
our own, but also those who will become a part of Allianz in the future,  
into One Global Allianz HR to ensure our 
and avoiding inappropriate risk taking. 
structure is fit for the future. We are investing  with people being at the heart of what we do.”
over 135 million Euro in the development of  As part of the HR transformation, we 
our HR function, taking a holistic view that  evaluate and grade all jobs globally using 
considers processes, technology, people and  one consistent methodology. Our aim is 
organization. This transformation underpins  to bring greater transparency around job 
our global business by delivering greater  roles and capabilities across the global 
operational efficiency, improved insights and  organization by establishing a common 
analytics, along with world-class HR services  global language and understanding of 
and solutions for our diverse workforce. roles. This will enable us to better tailor 
our HR programs and support individual 
FAIR AND TRANSPARENT REWARD career paths and personal development, 
as well as supporting strategic workforce    Aylin Somersan-Coqui
In designing our remuneration and incentive 
planning, succession planning and learning    Chief Human Resources Officer 
structures to reward people in a fair and 
initiatives. It also underpins fair and equal    Allianz SE 
appropriate way, we use both monetary 
pay initiatives.
and non-monetary rewards to encourage 
sustainable value creation. 
60 Allianz Sustainability Report 2018 Introduction In-focus Managing sustainability Our roles Data and performance
ATTRACTIVE EMPLOYER:
07.1 OUR APPROACH
BUILDING A CULTURE WHERE PEOPLE AND  CREATING A CULTURE OF LEADERSHIP journeys and content related to the Renewal  EMBEDDING INCLUSIVE MERITOCRACY
PERFORMANCE MATTER: INCLUSIVE  Agenda are available to everyone. In 2018, 
Multi Rater Feedback INCLUSIVE MERITOCRACY INDEX (IMIX)  
MERITOCRACY  the classroom was attended by close to 
We continue to embed the four People  3,000 users.  70 72 71
Inclusive Meritocracy is the term we use to 
Attributes in our new standards for 
describe a working environment where both  We encourage a positive attitude towards 
recruiting and onboarding and across our 
people and performance matter. Our People  change and ensure that our People 
global performance management system. 
Attributes are at the core of all our  Attributes shape our corporate behavior in 
Launched in 2016, our innovative Multi Rater 
activities: Customer and Market Excellence,  all relevant HR processes globally – from 
Feedback tool enables employees to gain 
Collaborative Leadership, Entrepreneurship,  recruiting and talent management to 
feedback on their performance from their 
and Trust. We live by these principles and  learning and performance.
peers, direct reports, managers, and others. 
implement them in our corporate culture. 
This provides valuable insights for both the  Our activities in 2018 included:
They impact all areas of HR management  employees and their line manager and a  2016 2017 2018
• Fostering collaboration across business 
– from recruiting and strengthening our 
transparent basis for development. In 2018, 
lines and operational entities to eliminate 
feedback culture to people development, 
the Multi Rater Feedback process took place 
silo-thinking, promote best practice 
promotion and reward. 
for a third consecutive year and some 50 
sharing and implement agile project 
OEs participated. The number of employees 
management tools.
receiving feedback has been continuously 
rising – from just over 1,000 in 2016 to nearly  • Increasing mobility of employees across 
9,000 in 2018. All Allianz executives and  functions, business divisions and countries. 
a large number of non-executives were  • Addressing target behaviors and 
assessed in 2018, each employee received  integrating the Allianz People Attributes 
feedback from 15 people on average with  into performance management and other 
an overall completion rate of 85%.  HR processes such as recruitment and 
Embedding Inclusive Meritocracy talent management.
Our annual Inclusive Meritocracy Index  • Promoting open and honest two-way 
(IMIX) measures progress towards a desired  communication and developing a stronger 
culture where both people and performance  feedback culture, including piloting a new 
matter. In 2018, we achieved a score of 71%  Feedback App. 
(2017: 72%).  • Scaling up skilling and capability-building 
We broadened the Inclusive Meritocracy  by offering digital learning initiatives to 
Virtual classroom beyond our executive  prepare our employees for the impacts 
population to include all employees. It is  of digitalization. 
now being expanded so that new learning 
61 Allianz Sustainability Report 2018 Introduction In-focus Managing sustainability Our roles Data and performance
ATTRACTIVE EMPLOYER:
07.2 LEADING OUR PEOPLE INTO A DIGITAL FUTURE 
Digitalization has already changed the  STRATEGIC WORKFORCE PLANNING
way Allianz operates and it will do so 
Understanding what the transition to a more 
even more in the future. The number of 
digital world means for our business and 
people working on repetitive and basic 
our people is a strategic priority. In 2017, we 
operational tasks is likely to decrease, 
launched a pilot project to assess the future 
while people working in areas that 
workforce impacts of digitalization. One key 
involve personal customer contact, such 
output was the identification of some 150 
as providing advice and services, is likely 
digital skills that a large part of our workforce 
to increase. We are actively preparing our 
would benefit from developing. They include 
workforce for these changes through up 
five key cross-functional skills essential for 
skilling opportunities that will help them 
the digital transformation organization-wide: 
to remain relevant in their current role 
Agile Methodology, Collaboration and Co-
as it evolves, or to be better qualified for 
creation, Understanding of Digital Processes 
some of the roles which will be growing 
and Tools, Digital Customer Centricity, and 
or emerging. We are looking at these 
Data Management. The development 
and other ways to help our employees to 
of these skills was a key driver of tailored 
embrace and lead in this period of change. 
LinkedIn Learning paths which were designed 
and launched during 2018. 
Based on our experience so far, we launched 
another, deep-dive project to identify the 
specific roles and digital skills that we  CASE STUDY: will help leverage high quality learning 
will need in the workforce, leading to the  content on digital skills and enrich it to meet 
DIGITAL LEARNING:  
development of five-year strategic workforce  our specific needs. The tool can be accessed 
LINKEDIN LEARNING 
plans. The results have been convincing  by employees wherever they are in the world 
and clearly demonstrate the imperative for  @ ALLIANZ  and training can be chosen depending on 
digital upskilling as well as the opportunity  their interest or need. We have developed 
Our goal is to help people discover and 
to achieve a transformation while minimizing  learning paths for different employee 
develop the skills they need through 
social and financial impacts. We are now  groups based on the outputs of our strategic 
a personalized, data-driven learning 
using the digital skills defined in these  workforce planning activity. This aims to 
experience that will enable our employees 
projects in the development of upskilling and  define appropriate learning content and 
to upskill themselves for the future. 
recruiting solutions. We are also expanding  offer the flexibility for our employees to 
To increase its impact and efficiency, 
our strategic workforce planning projects  develop new, and enhance, their existing 
AllianzU is going digital. All employees now 
in other operating entities and through  skills. Other digital education offerings 
have access to LinkedIn Learning @ Allianz. 
self-service tools and building our internal  include Time Warp, eBites and our Open 
This state-of-the art online learning solution 
capabilities in our HR teams. Source Online Learning Library.
62 Allianz Sustainability Report 2018 Introduction In-focus Managing sustainability Our roles Data and performance
ATTRACTIVE EMPLOYER:
07.2 LEADING OUR PEOPLE INTO A DIGITAL FUTURE 
DIGITAL SKILLS AND CAPABILITIES  We operate in a competitive employment  INCENTIVIZING DIGITALIZATION The “Digital dividend” was shared with 
THROUGH LIFELONG LEARNING market where there is a shortage of skilled  employees globally through one market-
We want to motivate our employees to 
employees in certain critical functions.  competitive and attractive employee share 
As the global workplace and our business  contribute to the Renewal Agenda and 
It is therefore important that we focus  purchase program covering 30 countries, in 
continues to evolve, those who work on  our digital transformation. In 2018, we 
on recruiting and training specialists in  21 languages, and centrally administered 
developing their learning skills over the long  launched our new Employee Share Purchase 
particular areas. Our Global Actuarial  by a global provider. The ESPP is available 
term will be best prepared to respond to  program (ESPP) – the “Digital dividend” 
and Risk Development Program is aimed  to over 100,000 employees globally, 80% 
emerging trends and opportunities. To be  – to encourage longer term and more 
at senior actuaries and risk managers  of the Allianz population. In the future, we 
equipped for the future – be it within or  sustainable investments from employees 
and our Property and Casualty Academy  will extend the share plan so that more 
outside Allianz – people need to acquire or  and give them the opportunity to play 
aims to strengthen underwriting and  employees can benefit from the success of 
adapt their skills in line with the changing  an active role in shaping the future of our 
pricing capabilities throughout the Group.  our Renewal Agenda.
needs of the work place. In 2018, we invested  company as employees and as shareholders. 
We also have programs to develop talent 
over 88 million Euro annually in learning  Employees can benefit directly from the 
and leadership in areas such as finance, 
to support our employees in doing so.  dividends of digitalization and we aim to 
communications, market management, 
Going forward, we will focus our investment  align employees’ interests with those of 
and operations. 
on promoting lifelong employability and  shareholders in long-term value creation by 
digital skills.  extending the holding period of shares to 
three years in all countries. 
We are committed to promoting lifelong 
learning to help our employees become 
fit for the future. Lifelong learning is a key 
part of our strategy for implementing 
technological and organizational 
restructuring measures in a way that is 
socially responsible. A systematic process 
will also improve quality and enhance the 
employability of people in the labor market.
63 Allianz Sustainability Report 2018 Introduction In-focus Managing sustainability Our roles Data and performance
ATTRACTIVE EMPLOYER:
07.3 ALLIANZU 
In the face of a rapidly changing world,  learning. The vision of AllianzU is to provide 
ensuring our employees continuously  every employee across the entire Group with 
develop the skills and knowledge they  the right development program to support 
need for the future enables us to remain  their continuous development.
agile and responsive. 
Performance and development reviews 
LEARNING AND DEVELOPMENT including Personal Development Plans 
(PDPs) are key tools in enabling individuals 
So that our employees can develop 
and managers to discuss competencies, skills, 
themselves for the future, we provide an 
experience, performance and potential.
environment that encourages open feedback 
In 2018, we spent over 88 million Euro 
and lifelong learning. Allianz University 
on learning, equivalent to 646 Euro per 
(AllianzU) is our group-wide home for all 
employee. About 70% of employees took 
learning activities. It offers easy access to 
part in at least one targeted training session 
learning technologies to empower Allianz 
and we delivered an average of three days of 
employees to equip themselves with the right 
training per employee. 
information at the right time. Its key purpose 
is to unite existing learning and development 
offerings and opportunities, create new  €88 mn
learning content and frameworks and realize 
opportunities that reinforce a culture where 
invested in learning in 2018.
both people and performance matter. 
Our long-term success depends on 
fostering strong leadership skills at all levels.  Leading with people development
In addition to the strategic and functional  For the second year in succession, 
programs already available, we are now  Allianz led the insurance sector for 
developing a Leadership Academy to better  ‘human capital development’ with a 
align leadership development activities  score of 100% in the DJSI. This is based 
across the group and to support our Renewal  on the work of the AllianzU in improving 
Agenda and Inclusive Meritocracy ambitions. and making use of the outcomes of 
We use a wide range of learning and  learning evaluation. 
development approaches to develop 
our people including on-the-job learning, 
mentoring and coaching, classroom training 
workshops, peer circles, and digital / mobile 
64 Allianz Sustainability Report 2018 Introduction In-focus Managing sustainability Our roles Data and performance
ATTRACTIVE EMPLOYER:
07.4 PEOPLE ATTRACTION AND TALENT MANAGEMENT
ATTRACTING, DEVELOPING AND   As more entities and countries migrate to  Career development and mobility:  
MANAGING TALENT  the new website until 2020, more relevant  Dare to grow LEADING WITH DIGITAL TALENT 
local content will be visible for the respective  COMMUNICATIONS 
Allianz’s digitalization is not only about  We understand career development is a 
potential applicants. It is now possible for 
technology and processes, it is largely  combination of upward, lateral and on- The Global Potential Park Ranking 
candidates to switch between different 
founded on the right people and culture.  the-job development in the current role.  evaluates employers’ digital talent 
countries and vacancies and, no matter 
This is why we have a two-fold people  Additionally, we consider cross-functional,  communications according to 300 
where in the world candidates may be, they 
attraction and talent management strategy.  cross-company and cross-country mobility  criteria, listing the top 79 out of over 
can view all available positions at Allianz. 
On the one hand, we aim to recruit the best  as valuable experience that drives career  400 companies worldwide. In 2018, 
digital talent in the market and, on the other,  Google Voice Assistant – One of the most  development. It enables talented employees  Allianz was awarded first place in the 
we develop those employees who wish to  dauting steps in the application process  who want to grow to gain different  global ranking and the top spot in the 
grow to use digital technologies and adapt  is the job interview. Now, with the Allianz  experiences and bring their skill sets to new  sub-categories: Career Website, Online 
to evolving methods and new approaches. interview simulation, available via Google  challenges. To enable mobility and support  Application and Social Media. 
Voice Assistant, applicants can prepare for  career development, we have launched an 
Employer Branding
the job interview by getting to know specific  internal Talent Brokerage function which 
In these times of rapid digitalization, we no  interview situations upfront. We can also use  supports business managers to fill open 
longer compete for talent against only our  the Google Voice Assistant to attract target  executive positions and projects beyond their 
peers in the financial services industry, but  groups like data scientists by setting tailored  own department or operating entity and 
against every company that needs digital  challenges, which benefit both the applicant  provides opportunities for mobile executives 
Also in 2018, Allianz was again named 
skills and profiles. Changing online candidate  and our business. In 2018 Google Voice  who want to take a next career step. 
one of top 25 companies where Germans 
behaviors and needs are driving increasingly  Assistant won the HR Excellence Award in the  The global brokerage team holds career 
like to work by LinkedIn. The yearly 
candidate-centric online services. To maintain  category Tech / Data.  aspiration discussions and shares potentially 
ranking is based on the interaction of 
our position as a leading global employer,  suitable job openings with mobile candidates 
LinkedIn users using an algorithm that 
we are focused on enhancing the candidate  to support them in identifying potential 
HUMAN RESOURCES singles out the employers doing best at 
experience using digital tools. EXCELLENCE next steps in their careers. Within the first six  attracting experts and managers. 
AWARDS
2018 months, 62 mobile executives were matched 
One Allianz Career Website – Instead of  WINNER
to open positions and 12 executive positions 
maintaining 40+ local and operating entity-
were filled with talent from a different 
specific career websites, we are bringing  Other technological innovations include 
operating entity or country, saving external 
them into the One Allianz Group platform to  our career chat-bot Allie, which helps 
search costs.
simplify the IT landscape. The new website  potential candidates with the job search. It is 
is an easy-to-use platform that displays  available 24/7 and up to 75% of candidates 
all job opportunities available within our  consult the bot. Another new feature is an 
organization. It will provide a great user  online business game, “Rise of drones”, 
experience for candidates and also capitalize  which enables potential applicants to find 
on the fact that we are a global company.  out how their decisions reflect and fit with 
Allianz’s values. 
65 Allianz Sustainability Report 2018 Introduction In-focus Managing sustainability Our roles Data and performance
ATTRACTIVE EMPLOYER:
07.5 DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION 
We are proud of our diversity and believe  Day across the Group. Launched in 2017 in  Specific initiatives aimed at achieving  WOMEN IN LEADERSHIP
it is fundamental to our success and  line with the UN International Day for Persons  gender parity and equal opportunities in 
WOMEN IN MANAGEMENT ROLES  
innovation. Our global workforce includes  with Disabilities, it aims to foster awareness  general include: (% of managers in core business)
people from many different nationalities  and recognize the efforts of the global 
• the JET Program – our initiative to support  37.2 37.6 37.8
and backgrounds – be it gender, ethnicity,  Allianz community to advance inclusion of 
non-executive women in driving their 
age, religious belief, education, sexual  employees and customers with disabilities. 
career development. Notably through 
orientation, disability or nationality30. 
fostering their mobility across the group; 
We require a diverse workforce to provide 
Leading on gender equality • sponsorship and mentoring programs 
the broad range of skills and experience 
for women;
with which we can respond to challenges  We were listed in the 2018 Bloomberg 
and opportunities and meet our customers’  Gender Equality Index in recognition  • creating greater opportunities for flexible 
needs. We therefore promote diversity and  of our strong commitment to  working to better manage work-life  2016 2017 2018
inclusion by empowering and developing  gender diversity. balance, e.g. Allianz Suisse advertising all 
people based on individual performance  new roles with an 80% part-time option;
and demonstrated potential. We also have 
• creating awareness around the importance 
a long-standing Global Inclusion Council,  WOMEN IN LEADERSHIP “ Our business starts and ends 
of gender balance for business, e.g. 
with people.”
which drives the success of our Diversity 
We have group-wide gender parity across  through gender sensitivity training for 
and Inclusion Strategy chaired by a Board 
our workforce and we continue in our efforts  executives at Allianz Technology; and
Member of Allianz SE, Niran Peiris. 
to reflect this at management levels by 
• systematic analysis of policies and practices 
Consistent with our Code of Conduct,  taking deliberate actions to support future 
with regard to gender balance, like the 
we have a zero tolerance policy for  female leaders. In 2018, women represented 
EDGE certification at AllianzGI. 
discrimination and harassment in the  51.2% of our core workforce (2017: 51.8%) 
workplace. We actively train people on  and 37.8% of managers in our core business 
38%
the topic of unconscious bias to raise  were female (2017: 37.6%). In Allianz SE 
awareness and educate them on what can  and Allianz Germany, we have committed 
be done to reduce the negative impact  to achieve at least 20% in the first and 30%  of managers in our core business are female.
of bias in, for example, job interviews and  in the second tiers below the board of    Niran Peiris
performance reviews. Management by end of 2021. Globally, our    Member of the Board of Management, 
target for women in Boards of Management 
Allianz is proud to have LGBT (lesbian, gay,     Global Insurance Lines & Anglo Markets, 
and in talent pools is 25% 40%, respectively, 
bisexual, and transgender) networks in  Reinsurance, Middle East, Africa 
by the end of 2021. With the current growth 
several companies. We celebrate AllAbility  Allianz SE
rate, we believe that we will achieve our 
goals by 2021.
30  Our workforce profile, including demographic indicators such as age 
and gender, is shown in section 10.5. 
66 Allianz Sustainability Report 2018 Introduction In-focus Managing sustainability Our roles Data and performance
ATTRACTIVE EMPLOYER:
07.5 DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION 
FOSTERING INCLUSION AND CELEBRATING   • Allianz France formally signed the  EMPLOYEE RIGHTS 
DIFFERENCE Charter of LGBT commitment and held a 
We actively support employee rights and 
conference on LGBT workplace inclusion to 
In addition to our focus on gender balance,  strive to apply core human rights principles 
raise awareness among employees.
we support a large number of initiatives  based on the United Nations Universal 
designed to raise awareness, spark dialog  • Allianz Australia and Allianz UK have  Declaration of Human Rights throughout 
and celebrate our diverse workforce. initiated their LGBT employee networks  our organization. As a participant of the 
and joined the global Allianz Pride  United Nations Global Compact, we 
• Many Allianz entities run annual Diversity 
community for LGBT inclusion. have integrated its 10 principles into our 
Days, dedicating one or more days to 
globally binding Code of Conduct. We also 
creating dialog and emphasizing our  • Many entities celebrated the annual 
respect the Organization for Economic 
commitment to diversity.  AllAbility Day to foster the inclusion for 
Co-operation and Development (OECD)
people with a disability.
• AGCS, Allianz UK, Allianz Technology,  Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises 
Allianz Germany and Allianz France  As well as providing an inclusive environment  and we are a signatory to the International 
have joined the global Dive In Festival  for our employees, we encourage inclusivity  Labor Organization (ILO) Declaration on 
– the insurance industry diversity and  in the world of sport. We have partnered  Fundamental Rights and Principles at 
inclusion event – as official sponsor  with the International Paralympic Committee  Work, including the ILO declaration on the 
and host of several round tables and  (IPC) since 2006. Our long-running global  freedom of association and the right to 
keynote speeches.  partnership helps to increase awareness and  collective bargaining. To support employee 
popularity of sports for people living with  rights, we were one of the first companies to 
• AGCS has created an employee page 
an impairment.  create pan-European worker participation 
dedicated to highlighting employees’ 
standards and to establish a European 
experiences with career development 
SE Works Council under the legislation for 
and flexible working. 
Societas Europaea companies. 
67 Allianz Sustainability Report 2018 Introduction In-focus Managing sustainability Our roles Data and performance
ATTRACTIVE EMPLOYER:
07.6 EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT 
An engaged workforce performs better,  ALLIANZ ENGAGEMENT SURVEY Key learnings from our 2018 survey include: ACTING ON EMPLOYEE FEEDBACK 
is more committed and delivers a strong 
We encourage managers and employees to  • Our strengths as a group still lie in our  In 2017, Allianz SE launched VOICE – an 
customer focus, so we make employee 
discuss the results of the Allianz Engagement  peoples’ belief in diversity and inclusion,  initiative designed to give bottom-up impetus 
engagement a high priority. Over the 
Survey (AES) within their teams and to agree  integrity and responsibility (dimension  to the cultural change journey and to 
past eight years, the Allianz Engagement 
actions to address areas for improvement.  score of 83%), customer satisfaction  empower employees to develop pragmatic, 
Survey has become our main employee 
Results are also directly linked to the  (84%) and satisfaction with direct line  implementable solutions to issues identified 
feedback platform for gathering feedback 
performance objectives of the Group’s Board  management (80%). through the AES. 
and promoting a high-performance culture. 
of Management. 
• 84% of our employees (+2%pt above  In 2018, we continued with successful ideas 
EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT INDEX Reflecting our commitment to building a  external Best-In-Class benchmark) see  like Simplithon – a hackathon format for 
We use the Employee Engagement Index  culture of Inclusive Meritocracy, where open  customer satisfaction as a high priority,  innovating to simplify, fireside chats and open 
(EEI) to monitor employee satisfaction,  and honest feedback and communication  which shows that we are progressing well  doors with HR heads, and HR roadshows 
loyalty, advocacy and pride within their  is the norm, results are shared with all  with our change journey and towards a  aimed at making information more 
organizations. In 2018, 121,913 employees  eligible managers via a dashboard within  truly customer-centric culture. transparent to employees. Mentored by four 
from more than 50 Allianz companies  72 business hours of the survey closing.  • However, only 52% (-1%pt) of employees  Board Members, this year’s team discussed 
worldwide were invited to take part in  Results are also shared publicly on our  feel that new ideas and ways of doing  163 ideas received from employees 
the survey, with a response rate of 81%  intranet. Allianz SE publishes the AES results  things are implemented quickly and,  across Allianz SE around the topic ‘of 
(2017: 84%).  for all its Group Center divisions on the  while there is an awareness to listen to our  enhancing productivity’.
local intranet. 
customers, we need to become faster in 
Our 2018 Employee Engagement Index 
our response. 
score was 70%. We are pleased with this 
81% 
score given the pace of organizational  • Employee perception of collaboration 
change, which tends to impact  and communication, one of our key focus 
employee engagement. employees participated in our 2018 employee survey. areas last year, decreased slightly by 1%pt, 
mirroring a slightly negative trend across all 
questions in the AES. 
• Fostering an innovative and entrepreneurial 
culture and empowering our employees 
in their daily work will be one of our 
key focus areas in the upcoming years. 
Each operating entity is now developing 
its own measures based on their specific 
survey results and focus areas. 
68 Allianz Sustainability Report 2018 Introduction In-focus Managing sustainability Our roles Data and performance
ATTRACTIVE EMPLOYER:
07.6 EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT 
Four new initiatives were developed  ENGAGING WITH EMPLOYEE  Following up on existing agreements –  Tackling work-related stress
and implemented: REPRESENTATIVES: SOCIAL DIALOG 2.0 with focus topics including lifelong learning, 
Stress is one of the major health-related 
stress policy and the Allianz Joint Declaration 
• Appraisal – an app for recognizing  We engage closely with employee  challenges facing today’s workforce 
on Telework. 
employees across hierarchies. representatives to ensure that we successfully  and it is particularly prevalent in service 
implement change and support our  Social Impact Management – considering  oriented, desk-based jobs. We have 
• Innovation Journey – design thinking 
employees to manage impacts and  the impact of current and planned strategic  signed a pan-European agreement on 
workshops that aim to develop solutions 
opportunities. Social Dialog was established  initiatives on employees, including the  guidelines concerning work-related stress. 
to concrete business problems identified 
as a pan-European forum in 2007. Given the  implications of new ways of working and  These apply to all Allianz companies in 
by employees.
progress of our Renewal Agenda and the  employee representation in global structures.  the E.U. member states, the contracting 
• Care2Share – an initiative to enhance  increased pace of change due to factors  states of the European Economic Area 
With this changed setting and scope, the 
trust between employees and managers.  such as the digital revolution, since 2017 we  and Switzerland.
Social Dialog will offer a unique platform 
Free coffee and ice-cream vouchers were  have increased the frequency of meetings 
for Allianz and its employee representatives  Flexible working in terms of location and 
provided which employees could use for a  from twice to four times a year. Meetings will 
to work together in a positive way to  hours, including part-time jobs at all levels, is 
personal exchange with their managers or  follow a more interactive format, including 
shape the future of Allianz for all its  one of the ways we help employees manage 
even managers of managers. sessions with external guest speakers to 
employees worldwide. work-related stress and work-life balance. 
• Spotlight on Employees – a video series  provide input on current research and bring  It also supports employee engagement 
featuring individual board members  all members of the Social Dialog to the same  HEALTH AND WELLBEING and motivation. Where it is possible for the 
and employees who were nominated by  level of knowledge. We extended meetings  The health and wellbeing of our people  business and the individual, we support 
their peers to discuss the topic ‘making  to include global representatives from Allianz  directly impacts on our business success.  flexible working including Telework on a 
recognition a culture’.  Partners, AGCS and Allianz Technology,  We aim to provide a productive and  regular basis and mobile working for less 
among others. 
health-promoting workplace to enable  regular occasions. 
The main focus areas of the Social Dialog 2.0  our employees to prioritize health and 
Allianz SE’s management and the (European) 
going forward will be: avoid stress. 
SE Works Council have signed a Joint 
Working in changing times – looking at  Activities to promote health and wellbeing  Declaration on telework which guarantees 
how the working environment is developing  take place in nearly all companies and are  an effective operation of telework and 
to inspire innovation and serve as a  managed at country level, in line with local  serves as good practice guidance for Allianz 
starting point for discussion around change  customs and requirements. The Allianz  companies deploying telework. 
initiatives. Exemplary focus topics will include  Operating Model that is implemented across 
organization of work, changing requirements  the Group ensures the HR function of each 
of leadership, and use and development of  subsidiary applies the same high standard of 
corporate social media. local health and safety management. 
69 Allianz Sustainability Report 2018 Introduction In-focus Managing sustainability Our roles Data and performance
ATTRACTIVE EMPLOYER:
07.7 EMPLOYEE HEALTH & WORK WELL
Work well As part of the program, the Allianz Board  Program implementation is driven by a  WORK WELL AWARD
of Management approved ten minimum  centrally located team of specialists who 
Our global Work Well Program focuses  In 2018, we presented the first ever Work Well 
actions that have been implemented  support a broad network of representatives 
on systematically analyzing root causes  award – launched to drive a systematic and 
over the past few years in the largest  across respective entities, including HR and 
of work-related stress, identifying effective  sustainable approach for employee health. 
50 companies. These actions include,  senior business executives. 
solutions and making changes to the work  The award is based on three criteria:
for example:
environment that enable our employees  In 2018, our Work Well Index remained on a 
• improvement of the Work Well index over 
to realize their full potential. To track the  • top-down communications to break the  stable level of 66% (2017: 66%, 2016: 64%). 
the last 3 years;
program’s impact, we have developed our  stigma of work-related stress;
Work Well index (WWi®), a scientifically  • 24/7 assistance hotlines for employees; 20  • systematic approach including analysis, 
validated tool that measures work-related  targets, indicators and evaluation; and
psychosocial stress. • flexible working arrangements; and
• capability maturity model – a self-rated 
out of 56 operating entities increased their Work 
The WWi was introduced in 2015. It is based  • e-learnings and classroom seminars to  Well Index score in 2018. tool introduced to help OEs measure the 
on 10 equally weighted metrics including  help managers understand and address  organizational set-up including resources 
demands, rewards, control, support and  stress with their team members.  and structure, quality of actions and their 
social capital, where a higher index score is  perceived impact on employee well-being.
associated with better employee health and 
Allianz Spain was the first entity to be 
productivity. The measure can also be used 
awarded the new prize.
to provide a deep-dive analysis of specific 
loads that drive work-related stress. Many of 
our entities have also established their own 
additional ambitious measures to counter  ATTRACTIVE EMPLOYER:
work-related stress.
Looking ahead
We aim to create an environment that has the experience 
We will continue to identify and act to fill gaps in 
and diversity of our employees at its heart, including 
the skill sets of our employees as we transition to a 
dedicated measures to raise awareness on the impact of 
digital future.
leadership behaviors.
We will bring all health-related activities under 
one global umbrella to create a network of experts 
who will share best practices and develop common 
strategies to improve safety, health and wellbeing of 
our employees. 
70 Allianz Sustainability Report 2018 Introduction In-focus Managing sustainability Our roles Data and performance
0  8
OUR ROLE AS A
COMMITTED  
CORPORATE CITIZEN
We believe social inclusion is one 
of the most important challenges 
facing society. According to the World 
Economic Forum’s Annual Global Risk 
Report31, profound social instability 
due to unrest in communities is a 
growing global risk. This highlights 
the importance having social 
inclusion as part of our Corporate 
Responsibility Strategy.
HIGHLIGHTS
 €25.8 mn  €300,000 ~€400,000
corporate giving (2017: 20.0 million Euro). raised for SOS Children’s Villages in third  invested since 2017 across 14 countries to  Expanded Encouraging Future Generations 
Allianz World Run. support education, training and employability  Program with the Allianz Social Innovation 
of youth through our Social Innovation Fund. Fund and Allianz Future Generations Award.
CHALLENGES
IN THIS SECTION
08.1  Our approach  71
08.2  Encouraging future generations  72
Scaling up our positive societal impact across  Breaking down barriers facing children and  Creating and encouraging an enabling  Creating a link between our corporate 
08.3  Corporate volunteering  79 all operating countries. young people around the world. environment for social ventures.  citizenship activities and our business activities.
08.4  Corporate giving  80
31 https://www.weforum.org/reports/the-global-risks-report-2018. 
71 Allianz Sustainability Report 2018 Introduction In-focus Managing sustainability Our roles Data and performance
COMMITTED CORPORATE CITIZEN:
08.1 OUR APPROACH
Our Social Inclusion Strategy provides  How we contribute In 2018, we broadened our group-wide  “ Around the world, social 
a group-wide focus for our corporate  approach to measuring the progress of our  instability is growing and the 
We support initiatives through global 
citizenship activities. We recognize that each  programs against our Corporate Citizenship 
partnerships, financial contributions, sharing  risk to the insurance industry is 
country has different social priorities and we  Strategy. The Group ESG Board has the 
our expertise and by encouraging our  significant. We are making it our 
encourage local operations to build on our  responsibility for overseeing this progress 
140,000 skilled employees to volunteer  business to help increase social 
strategy and diversify their approach.  and is informed regularly of the results 
their time. In this way, our employees have  inclusion, particularly among the 
we achieve. 
Encouraging Future Generations the opportunity to develop their skills 
world’s children and youth. It is 
and our stakeholders benefit from our 
Encouraging Future Generations is our Social  a commitment that sits at the 
expertise in their field of need, promoting  Our ambition is to increase our reach 
Inclusion program that is focused on driving  heart of our role as a Committed 
community cohesion and trust in our  among children and youth by 20% 
change by providing opportunities to young 
business. Other activities include awareness  by 202032. Corporate Citizen, and it is driving 
people around the globe, hand-in-hand with 
campaigns, dialogs, training, awards, social  our contribution to the Sustainable 
our employees. 
partnerships and sponsoring, fundraising,  Development Goals.” 
The Program gives Allianz the opportunity to  donations and the initiatives  
invest in one of the most vulnerable groups,  of our corporate foundations.  
and the group that holds society’s future 
potential – today’s young people. It provides  MEASURING OUR REACH
a framework and focus to scale up our social 
Measuring and communicating the reach of 
contribution and promotes opportunities for 
our corporate citizenship activities on society 
our employees to contribute their time and  is important so that we can be confident   
expertise to support future generations. 
that we are achieving the right outcomes, 
In 2018, we committed to focus our efforts  in the right areas. We want to know that 
in support of UN SDG 8 – Decent Work and  the investments we make are reaching the   
Economic Growth. We incorporated one of  children and youth they are meant to benefit.   
the SDG targets into our own KPIs; through  As our Corporate Citizenship Strategy  Sabia Schwarzer
Encouraging Future Generations, we are  primarily contributes to SDG 1 (No Poverty)    Head of Group Communications and 
aiming to increase our reach to children and  and SDG 8 (Decent Work and Economic  Corporate Responsibility 
youth by 20% by 2020 (baseline 2018). Growth), we also want to know how much  Allianz SE
of our investment is diverted to training, 
education and improving employability. 
32 Baseline 2018. 
72 Allianz Sustainability Report 2018 Introduction In-focus Managing sustainability Our roles Data and performance
COMMITTED CORPORATE CITIZEN:
08.2 ENCOURAGING FUTURE GENERATIONS
Allianz makes it its business to look ahead  OUR ENCOURAGING FUTURE GENERATIONS  The program focuses on three key areas: 
at what the future holds. We see children  STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES:
• Our global partnership with SOS 
and youth as the future and we invest in 
• Using our expertise to contribute positively  Children’s Villages International aims to 
them as the leaders of tomorrow. 
to social inclusion in humanitarian, inter- build more resilient future generations.
As a Committed Corporate Citizen, we see it  cultural and economic areas.
• The Allianz Social Innovation Fund builds 
as our responsibility to foster an environment 
• Caring about one of the most vulnerable  on existing social initiatives developed by 
for society to succeed. Investment is key, 
groups, children and young people, so that  our operating entities as well as offering a 
but transformational change requires 
they can grow with confidence. framework for new projects. 
partnership and collaboration between 
businesses and stakeholders. We are a  • Increase number of children and youth  • The Allianz Future Generations Award 
signatory of the UN Global Compact (UNGC)  in education, training and employability  encourages and recognizes social ventures.  
and our support for the SDGs drives us to  by 202033.
contribute beyond the boundaries of our own 
• Reasoning about the social needs of future 
business and value chain. 
generations in an open dialog and create 
Launched in 2016, our Encouraging Future  innovative solutions.
Generations Program aims to break down 
• Fostering strategic partnerships and 
barriers facing children and young people 
engagement using innovative formats.
and invest in social ventures to increase their 
impact and create a multiplying effect.  • Measuring our impact on business  Allianz
and society.
In 2018, we took a step further when we 
committed to increase our reach to children  • Promoting Allianz as a trustworthy 
and youth by 20% by 2020 (baseline 2018)  company by creating visibility for our 
through our Corporate Citizenship Strategy.  projects and our social responsibility.
Encouraging Future Generations is our key 
tool for contributing to the UN SDGs to help 
eradicate poverty, provide quality education, 
GENERATIONS
tackle social inequality and create decent 
work and economic growth.
33 Baseline 2018. 
73 Allianz Sustainability Report 2018 Introduction In-focus Managing sustainability Our roles Data and performance
COMMITTED CORPORATE CITIZEN:
08.2 ENCOURAGING FUTURE GENERATIONS
GLOBAL PARTNERSHIP WITH SOS  information and a network of trusted local  to act as initial ‘hubs’ for emergency response  In addition to global activities, Allianz and 
CHILDREN’S VILLAGES INTERNATIONAL  stakeholders to minimize weather- and  within their surrounding communities,  SOS Children’s Villages further strengthened 
conflict-related risks for local communities.  providing sufficient materials for at least a  local partnerships around the globe with 
We launched our global partnership with 
One of the aims is to turn SOS Children’s  week after a disaster strikes until additional  Madagascar as the newest addition. 
SOS Children’s Villages International 
Villages facilities into safe emergency  support arrives in the area. In 2018, we  By 2021, our goal is to have partnerships in 
(SOS–CVI) in 2015. SOS–CVI is the largest 
hubs for local communities in the event of  funded the further roll-out of EPREP to  31 countries. Many of our local partnerships 
non-governmental organization (NGO) 
a disaster.  include SOS Children’s Villages in Sri Lanka  include engagement opportunities for 
supporting children without parental care 
and Florida. We also provided funds for  Allianz employees, such as training SOS 
and families at risk. Together, we are focused  In 2017, we funded the EPREP pilot and 
two Education in Emergencies projects  staff and children on safety, cyber security, 
on supporting children and young people  rolled out in ten SOS Children’s Villages in 
in Italy and Brazil and two Emergency  financial literacy, job orientation, supporting 
and building resilient future generations. high-risk regions across the globe. Our aim is 
Response Programs in Chad and Central  renovations and fundraising events.
to enable and equip SOS Children’s Villages 
Our partnership concentrates on two  African Republic. 
key areas:
Youth employability: By mobilizing 
employees, activating networks and 
providing expertise, we aim to increase youth  CASE STUDY: “ My online mentor enabled me to discover 
employability and support disadvantaged  ONLINE MENTORING  a better version of myself. The self-
young people. To amplify our role, we joined  confidence and knowledge I gained 
PILOT PROGRAM 
the YouthCan! initiative in 2017 – a global  helped me to perform excellently in my 
program that supports children and young  job interview.”
In 2018, we conducted an Online Mentoring 
people to successfully manage the transition 
Pilot involving young people from SOS 
from school to independent adulthood.    David, Online Mentee – 
Children’s Villages in Peru and Nigeria. 
Through YouthCan!, SOS–CVI and partners    22, Nigeria. 
36 young people benefited from the 
jointly create uplifting and inspiring 
expertise of 36 dedicated Allianz mentors 
opportunities to provide young people with  who spent more than 150 hours mentoring  “ This program really makes you reflect on 
practical experiences, skills and knowledge.  the young people in 1:1 digital sessions.  all the knowledge, skills and experience 
As of 2018, we have YouthCan! partnerships  Both mentors and mentees rated YouthLinks  you have. Thanks to my employer and 
in Colombia, Indonesia, Madagascar and  Online Mentoring exceptionally high in terms  Volunteer Vision for giving me this 
Argentina and aim to expand over the  of skills enhancement and volunteering for  opportunity to change someone’s life.” 
coming years.
impact. In the overall evaluation including 
Emergency preparedness: With the support  participating partner companies, mentees    Gavin, Online Mentor – 
of Allianz, the Emergency Preparedness  rated their job search skills after the    45, UK. 
Program (EPREP) of SOS–CVI aims to  mentoring at 4.5 out of 5, while mentors rated 
combine cutting-edge technology, practical  the improvement of their intercultural skills at 
4.2 out of 5.
74 Allianz Sustainability Report 2018 Introduction In-focus Managing sustainability Our roles Data and performance
COMMITTED CORPORATE CITIZEN:
08.2 ENCOURAGING FUTURE GENERATIONS
USING TECHNOLOGY TO IMPROVE 
CASE STUDY: education in emergency in the refugee  “ Every runner made a real 
DISASTER RISK MANAGEMENT
camp of Amboko, including a safe, child- difference in the lives of the 
THE ALLIANZ  
In 2018, Allianz continued to support  friendly space for 200 children to receive 
children in the SOS programs  
the roll-out of the innovative global  WORLD RUN psychological support and education and 
that were supported.”
SOS Disaster Risk Management System,  1,000 school kits. 
For the past three years, SOS CVI has been 
designed to improve preparedness and 
the beneficiary of the Allianz World Run, a  In Italy, the project will support    Norbert Meder
response operations across SOS Children’s 
global volunteering and fundraising event.  unaccompanied and separated refugee    CEO  
Villages. The system sets a new milestone in 
In the last three years, a total of 1.4 million  children and local young people, providing  SOS Children’s Villages
translating early warning into early action. 
Euro was donated, benefiting 26 countries. courses such as bike repair and bee 
It uses satellite-based early warning and 
keeping to build their confidence and 
damage mapping services, incident reports  In 2018, runners worldwide completed the  “ As a company that cares about 
capabilities and to provide opportunities for 
and emergency maps linked to an online  third Allianz World Run. 9,590 runners from 
the communities we live in, 
self-employment. 
emergency management platform named  123 countries took part to raise funds for 
we have a sincere interest in 
Resilience360 (R360), originally developed  a project in their continent. Together, they  In Brazil, we are reaching 500 vulnerable 
promoting physical activity to 
by DHL. Being the first global humanitarian  ran a total of 1,065,204 km, raising 300,000  Venezuelan children, teenagers, young 
improve general fitness and 
organization to use it, we have been  Euro for SOS CVI. The money will be used  people and adults living in communities 
supporting SOS–CVI to adapt the system to  to benefit some 3,200 children and young  near the Venezuelan-Brazilian border.  health. The Allianz World Run has 
meet its specific needs. The platform has now  people by enabling SOS Children’s Villages  The project is focused on furthering the  proven to be an engaging way 
been implemented across several national  to implement Emergency Preparedness  educational development of these young  to work as a team and achieve 
and regional SOS offices, with the aim to  Programs in North America and South-East  people and providing opportunities through  this. Our colleagues showed 
expand the reach to even more vulnerable  Asia, Emergency Relief Programs in Africa, as  Portuguese language workshops, formal 
commitment and endurance, 
countries running SOS programs. well as Education in Emergency Programs in  education, training and thematic activities. 
running for a good cause. We 
South America and Europe.
In Sri Lanka, emergency preparedness  now encourage all runners – from 
In Chad, Africa, the project aims to reach  activities aim to mitigate some of the risks 
professionals to casual joggers – 
vulnerable people, including refugee  of environmental hazards in the Villages 
to join us.”
children from the Central African Republic.  of Anuradhapur and Nuwara Eliya, where 
It will build the capacity of SOS CV Chad to  there is significant risk of flooding, mud slides 
  Oliver Bäte 
be able to respond in emergency situations  and drought. 
  Chairman of the Board of Management 
and become a player in the humanitarian 
In Florida, which is vulnerable to storms and  Allianz SE
field. A 12-month emergency intervention 
flooding, the project will strengthen the SOS 
program will focus on child protection and 
CV’s preparedness for such incidents. 
75 Allianz Sustainability Report 2018 Introduction In-focus Managing sustainability Our roles Data and performance
COMMITTED CORPORATE CITIZEN:
08.2 ENCOURAGING FUTURE GENERATIONS
ALLIANZ SOCIAL INNOVATION FUND 2018 Innovation Fund winners Allianz Italy: Impariamo dall’eccellenza  Allianz Poland: Multimedia workplace 
(Learning from Excellence) – equal opportunities for children from 
We launched the Allianz Social Innovation  Allianz Brazil: Digital center for children 
underserved communities
Fund in April 2017 to foster innovation and  and adolescents Through its charitable foundation, Allianz 
creativity and support our operating entities  Italy has been providing employment  The partnership in Poland is focused 
In partner with ABA Foundation, Allianz Brazil 
in delivering Encouraging Future Generations  opportunities for young people for  on equalizing health and educational 
aims to promote digital literacy in Sao Paulo. 
programs in their communities.  over a decade. This project will provide  differences among disadvantaged children 
With a target audience aged five and above 
opportunities in hospitality and use employee  and young people involved in the Family 
Operating entities can apply to win funding  and into adolescence, children learn program 
skills to further engage and develop youth to  Strengthening Program in Lublin. The aim is 
for impact-oriented social projects that  logics while they play with dynamic software. 
participate in the program.  to prepare them for the future so that they 
contribute to child and youth development. 
Allianz Ghana: Allianz creates  can focus on having fulfilling jobs. 
In 2018, we aligned the focus of the award  Winning 2018 SOS CV Partnerships
through waste
with our SDG 8 objective; increasing the  Allianz Portugal: Aldeias SOS,  
Allianz Argentina: Building a future for 
number of children and youth in education,  This project will see plastic waste that is  Allianz with Children
adolescents and youth in Argentina
training and employment. We also added a  currently endangering Ghana’s beaches 
This project targets young people who are 
category to encourage the development of  recycled and used initially to transform a  YouthCan! is a framework that brings 
either finishing their academic education 
partnerships with SOS–CVI around the world.  pilot school´s play yard. Later, the aim is to  together companies and NGOs to share their 
and preparing to enter the professional 
generate an income for activities at the pilot  expertise, networks and experience to create 
We received 25 applications from 22  workplace or who have had professional 
school, with Allianz employees supporting  new avenues and opportunities for young 
countries, out of which 60% were from  experience as an intern or employee and are 
and focusing on environmental awareness.  people. Programs are designed locally and 
new countries. Entries reflected the diverse  independent but still live in the ‘autonomy 
the main focus in Argentina will be soft and 
challenges facing local communities.  Allianz Germany: GORILLA Health  apartments’ of Aldeias de Criancas SOS–CV. 
technical skills training, job orientation and 
Five projects stood out for their focus on  promotion and education program 
early work experience. 
education, training and employment,  GORILLA is an international health promotion 
along with employee engagement and  and education program for young people  Allianz Madagascar: Educational and 
a long-term partnership approach.  between the age of nine and 25. Its aim is  professional mentoring of young people
These projects each received an award  to raise awareness of and encourage more  This project between Allianz and SOS–CV 
of 20,000 Euro. Additionally, four SOS– exercise through freestyle sports, balanced  Madagascar aims to help smooth the 
CVI partnership proposals were granted  nutrition and sustainable consumption. transition from education to employment 
10,000 Euro to enhance their partnerships  for young people by providing meaningful 
Allianz Life Indonesia: Organic aquaculture 
promoting employability.  work experience that benefits youth and 
entrepreneurship program for youth
local businesses. 
Allianz Indonesia plans to establish organic 
aquaculture – organically farming marine 
species – to generate employment for young 
people and create a sustainable revenue model 
to further develop future opportunities. 
76 Allianz Sustainability Report 2018 Introduction In-focus Managing sustainability Our roles Data and performance
COMMITTED CORPORATE CITIZEN:
08.2 ENCOURAGING FUTURE GENERATIONS
Launched in November 2017, the Investment 
AWARDS: CASE STUDY: Ready Program ‘Encouraging Future 
The project has gone on to win a number of  ALLIANZ AUSTRALIA – WINNER OF THE 2017   Generations’, developed by Allianz and 
awards, including the 2017 Human Rights  ALLIANZ SOCIAL INNOVATION FUND  the Impact Hub, is a powerful acceleration 
Business Award (from the Australian Human  program tailored to enable purpose-
Rights Commission) the 2017 Cross-Cultural  The Allianz Ladder is part of our partnership  permanent employment to 24 refugees,  driven entrepreneurs that aim to foster 
Management Award (from the Australian  with Settlement Services International (SSI)  along with almost 100 educational  social inclusion of children and youth. 
Human Resources Institute) and it was a  that includes Education Scholarships and  scholarships and a refugee youth pre- The Investment Ready Program engages 
finalist in the 2017 Business Inclusion Award  the Sustainable Employment Program, for  employment pathway that is being used  successful applicants and links them with 
(from the Migration Council). which Allianz was awarded the Human  as a template with other organizations. Allianz mentors and experts. The support it 
Rights Business Award in 2017. In 2018, the  provides is valued at around 20,000 Euro for 
“ What a privilege it is to support 
project continued to assist refugee youth  each social venture, in addition to invaluable 
transition into the Australian workforce by  the Allianz-SSI partnership which  networking and experience which money 
helping them find meaningful employment.  gives these amazing people  cannot buy. Key outcomes of the program for 
Allianz Ladder engages young refugees in  access to opportunities so they  participants include reviewing their business 
a program of development, mentoring and  can fulfill their career goals.  models and strategy and help to craft a 
innovation sessions that help them develop  Through our refugee employment  sustainable growth and investment plan.
foundational business skills such as problem  programs I have seen first-hand  In 2018, the first cycle of the program 
solving, entrepreneurialism, communication  the talent and potential that they  received 100 applications and 10 social 
and teamwork. It seeks to support young  ventures were selected from across Brazil, 
bring to the workforce.“
people making the transition from study to  Germany, Malaysia, and Turkey to receive 
employment. Selected participants progress  mentoring and the opportunity to win a 
into the Allianz Sustainable Employment    Richard Feledy 40,000 Euro grant to scale up their business. 
Program which, to date, has provide    Allianz Managing Director Under the Investment Ready Program, 
finalists had the opportunity to go through 
rigorous training to make their businesses 
ALLIANZ FUTURE GENERATIONS AWARD committed to empowering those who want  investment-ready. 
their businesses to deliver a societal impact. 
Studies show that Millennials today want 
meaningful employment; they value a sense  We do this by giving them a chance to learn 
of purpose / impact on society when making  about developing and running a successful 
decisions about their careers34. Allianz is  business and attracting investment.
34 https://www.weforum.org/agenda/2017/09/heres-what-millennials-really-want-from-business. 
77 Allianz Sustainability Report 2018 Introduction In-focus Managing sustainability Our roles Data and performance
COMMITTED CORPORATE CITIZEN:
08.2 ENCOURAGING FUTURE GENERATIONS
In the first year, over 25 events and 
ALLIANZ FUTURE GENERATIONS AWARD
workshops were attended by more than 600 
Social game changers selected for the 2018 program: participants. Together, ventures received over 
550 hours of support from experts, including 
Volunteer Vision, Germany –  Kind in Diagnostik (KiD),  Reflect, Turkey –  Binyaprak, Turkey –  Scode (Code World), Turkey –  Allianz coaches and employees. 
The digital gateway for  Germany –  Transforming fashion into  A digital marketplace for  Teaching young people how   During the course of the program, four 
employees to become  An expert institution for child  a driver of creativity and  young women to find role  to code via story-telling.
ventures successfully secured additional 
mentors for young  trauma diagnostics and  social impact for vulnerable  models, career building events 
external investment totaling 700,000 Euro. 
disadvantaged people. treatment, and forerunner   communities, including children  and networks.
Five ventures established partnerships with 
in youth welfare. and youth.
Allianz operating entities and, in total, 24 new 
jobs were created. Across all ventures, there 
was a 26% increase35 in children and youth 
that were reached.
You can read more about the successful ventures online here.
Carlotas, Brazil and Germany – 
Developing social and 
emotional skills like empathy, 
fairness and respect through a 
program based on playfulness 
and art.
Verbem, Brazil – 
Offering a solution to vision-
related school dropouts 
by democratizing access 
Amandla Edufootball,  ANB Agro, Malaysia –  The Picha Project, Malaysia – 
to eyeglasses.
Germany and South Africa –  Providing livelihoods to poor  Social enterprise that 
Using football to educate and  single mothers and disabled  empowers refugees in Malaysia 
empower vulnerable youth. youth via agriculture and  through a food delivery and 
35 T his result refers to the period from January to July 2018. The numbers 
cottage industry. catering business. are not related to the Group’s ambition of the Encouraging Future 
Generations Program, but only to the Allianz Future Generations Award. 
78 Allianz Sustainability Report 2018 Introduction In-focus Managing sustainability Our roles Data and performance
COMMITTED CORPORATE CITIZEN:
08.2 ENCOURAGING FUTURE GENERATIONS
As the award program enters its second  TECH4 IMPACT FUND 
CASE STUDY: cycle, it now on-boards social ventures from 
With support from the European 
WINNER OF THE 2018 ALLIANZ FUTURE   Germany, Greece, Indonesia and Spain. 
Commission, Allianz partnered with Phineo 
To apply for the Investment Ready Program, 
GENERATIONS AWARD: THE PICHA PROJECT  to conduct a feasibility study and develop 
initiatives must be incorporated in one of 
an investment strategy and pre-marketing 
The Picha Project from Malaysia received the  can now afford to send their children  these countries and aims to tackle issues with  materials for the ‘tech4impact fund’ initiative. 
very first Allianz Future Generations Award  to school. children and youth in education, training  The overarching goal is to improve the 
of 40,000 Euro. It is a social enterprise that  “ We joined the Investment Ready  and employability.  impact orientation of the current tech startup 
empowers refugees in Malaysia to generate  Applicants must meet some  and business angel ecosystem in Austria, 
Program to gain exposure and 
an income stream through food delivery and  basic requirements:  Germany and Switzerland and to encourage 
knowledge for the business. Our 
catering businesses. ‘tech4good’ entrepreneurship. To this end, 
hearts are so full because this win  • the technology, product or solution must be 
When Kim Lim, Swee Lin and Suzanne Ling  proven feasible;  the tech4impact fund aims to provide 
means we can have more families 
were language and music tutors in a refugee  impact oriented-seed-stage funding and 
shelter in Malaysia, they couldn’t help but  involved in The Picha Project.  • some initial market validation in terms  impact management support to purpose 
notice the mouth-watering aromas that  And to be globally recognized  of price testing, customer development  driven entrepreneurs who deploy scalable, 
wafted around as refugees cooked their  for a cause we are fighting for  and trial licensing should have delivered  technology-based solutions to societal 
meals. The three saw an opportunity to give  is just incredible. It just proves  positive results; and challenges, thereby helping the impact 
these families an income stream by enabling  that it is possible to do good in a  • the product or solution must be scalable.  investing market thrive and enabling fund 
them to develop a catering business and The  sustainable way.”  A grand finale in 2019 will see the successful  investors to assume social responsibility in an 
Picha Project was born. Today, it generates  entrepreneurial way. The E.U. project duration 
teams pitch their ideas to a jury with the 
income for over a dozen families from  has been extended until December 2018.
winner receiving the annual Allianz Future 
Myanmar, Yemen, Syria and Ethiopia, taking    Kim Lim
Generations Award, which comes with a 
up catering orders for up to 300 guests.    Co-founder of The Picha Project. 
40,000 Euro grant.
Thanks to the project, these refugee families 
79 Allianz Sustainability Report 2018 Introduction In-focus Managing sustainability Our roles Data and performance
COMMITTED CORPORATE CITIZEN:
08.3 CORPORATE VOLUNTEERING 
Our commitment to society is an act  Investment Ready Program  MY FINANCE COACH
of collaboration with our employees 
During the Investment Ready Program (see  We are a founding member and parent 
around the globe. The Encouraging 
page 76), social ventures received extensive  company of My Finance Coach (MFC), 
Future Generations Program provides 
coaching and mentoring from Allianz  a non-profit initiative that aims to improve 
diverse opportunities for volunteering, 
employees in many countries. financial literacy among 10 to 16 year-olds. 
and encourages employees to actively 
Since its launch in 2010, MFC has reached 
participate throughout the year. 
“ In the course of the Investment Ready Program, I supported the social start- over 1,600,000 pupils all over Germany. 
We encourage our employees to volunteer,  In 2018, Allianz continued to provide financial 
up, Volunteer Vision. They work with NGOs and profit companies to support 
in order to share our collective financial  support and office facilities, and was a 
employees of companies to engage in social projects with NGOs. It was 
and business skills and assist charitable  member of the advisory council. 412 Allianz 
very surprising for me to see the high degree of professionalism of this 
organizations. In 2018, Allianz employees  employees volunteered their time to support 
completed more than 77,200 hours  start-up and the complex environment. In order to receive funds from social  the program, bringing the total to 2,677 
of corporate volunteering around the  investors, the start-up had to establish a non-profit corporation (gGmbH),  employees who have volunteered in the 
world. 78% (no change to the previous  however, it was not allowed to make profits. It also had employees that  program by the end of 2018.
year) of employees that took part in the  needed to be paid. I helped them structure the tasks that result from this 
Allianz Engagement Survey agreed to the 
environment, prioritize and assign these and build a communication plan.  
following statement: “My company shows 
I learnt a lot about starting a company in general, and a social company 
a high responsibility towards society and 
in particular. I would recommend to everyone who has the chance to take 
the environment and offers appropriate 
part in the Investment Ready Program and become a coach or a mentor. 
opportunities for me to get involved”. 
Firstly, it is a mutual process of learning and secondly, you can really make 
an impact.“
 
  Kristina Bartel
  Allianz Consulting
80 Allianz Sustainability Report 2018 Introduction In-focus Managing sustainability Our roles Data and performance
COMMITTED CORPORATE CITIZEN:
08.4 CORPORATE GIVING 
CORPORATE GIVING Our operating entities worldwide give  (2017: 20.0 million Euro). Given the nature 
financial donations and charitable  of our business, this included support for  COMMITTED CORPORATE CITIZEN:
We give money to support social initiatives 
memberships to local organizations, and  disaster management. 
through financial donations and charitable  Looking ahead
we also give through our 13 charitable 
memberships, as well as through our global  Our 13 foundations enable us to extend 
network of foundations. We ensure our  foundations. Our Guidance on Donations  our reach to tackle social, environmental  We will design the social 
contributions are transparent and based  and Charitable Memberships stipulates  and cultural issues in communities around  pillar strategy aligned 
on clearly agreed principles – namely the  that such money can only be given by  the world. Operating independently from  with company purpose 
Allianz Group Guidance for Donations and  local entities to organizations that are not  the company, they are linked to Allianz  and business.
in conflict with the principles set out in the 
Charitable Memberships. This stipulates  subsidiaries all over the world. 
Allianz Code of Conduct for Business Ethics 
that corporate giving can only be made to 
and Compliance.
organizations that are not in conflict with  €25.8 mn We will create new 
the principles set out in the Allianz Code of  In 2018, corporate giving of Allianz entities  partnerships and programs 
Conduct for Business Ethics and Compliance. and foundations totaled 25.8 million Euro  serving the new strategy.
corporate giving in 2018.
ALLIANZ GROUP CHARITABLE FOUNDATIONS We will expand scope 
of current partnerships 
United States of America United Kingdom Germany Czech Republic
and programs towards 
• Allianz Foundation for  • Petplan Charitable Trust • Allianz Direct Help Foundation  • Allianz Nadacni Fond business alignment.
North America
• Allianz Cultural Foundation
• PIMCO Foundation
• Allianz Environmental  
Foundation We will further roll out the 
online mentoring globally.
• Allianz for Children and Youth
• My Finance Coach Foundation 
(non-profit limited company)
• OLB Foundation36
France Italy Slovakia Indonesia
• Fondacion Allianz • Allianz Umana  • Nadacia Allianz • Foundation Allianz Peduli
Mente Foundation
36 The sale of Oldenburgische Landesbank AG was closed on 7 February 2018.
81 Allianz Sustainability Report 2018 Overview In-focus Managing sustainability Our roles Data and performance
09 
ALLIANZ’S CLIMATE-
RELATED FINANCIAL 
DISCLOSURE 
In our corporate reporting on 
climate change, we are applying the 
recommendations developed by the 
G20 Financial Stability Board’s Task 
Force on Climate-related Financial 
Disclosures (TCFD). The TCFD’s four-
pillar framework provides guidance 
on how companies can disclose and  HIGHLIGHTS
address risks and opportunities from a  In 2018, our climate change strategy saw two major achievements:
changing climate in business practice. 
(1)  C  ommitment to set ourselves long- (2)  F urthermore, we decided to stop  Last year we laid strong foundations to this by 
To drive best practice and tools, we strive 
term emissions reduction targets for  offering P&C insurance for single-site  implementing the recommendations of the 
to continuously enhance our reporting 
our proprietary investment portfolio in  coal-fired power plants and coal mines,  TCFD and enhancing our systematic approach 
and business practices.
line with the Paris Climate Agreement’s  be they operated or planned; we  to investor engagement.
target of limiting global warming to well  also strengthened our coal exclusion 
For 2019, we will focus to operationalize our 
below 2°C, as part of the Science Based  approach in investments by introducing 
SBTi commitment by piloting portfolios, co-
Targets initiative (SBTi). To this end, all  forward-looking criteria, covering also 
developing sector methodologies as well as 
tradable proprietary investments are to  new coal installations that are not in line 
working towards target development after 
IN THIS SECTION be structured climate-neutral by 2050. with 2°C pathways. For both insurance 
the methodologies are final. Together with 
and investments we are committed to 
09.1  Governance  82 the UN Principles for Sustainable Insurance 
reduce the thresholds to eventually 0% 
(UN PSI), we will furthermore develop new 
09.2  Strategy  84 in 2040 latest with the next step being a 
approaches on risk assessment tools for the 
09.3  R  isk and opportunity management  88 reduction to 25% in 2022.
insurance industry. This shall enable a better 
09.4  Metrics and targets  90
understanding of the impacts of climate 
change scenarios on the different lines of 
insurance business.
82 Allianz Sustainability Report 2018 Overview In-focus Managing sustainability Our roles Data and performance
ALLIANZ‘S CLIMATE-RELATED FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE:
09.1 GOVERNANCE
OVERARCHING AND BOARD-LEVEL  The highest governing body for sustainability- The Group Finance and Risk Committee  BUSINESS AND MANAGEMENT-LEVEL 
GOVERNANCE  related issues is the Group ESG Board.  (GFRC) consists of members of the BoM and  GOVERNANCE
Three Allianz SE board members host the  oversees risk management and monitoring, 
Allianz SE has a divisional Board structure  The Allianz Group Corporate Responsibility 
ESG Board, meeting quarterly. It owns  including sustainability and climate risks. 
based on functional and business  department, and particularly the Group ESG 
corporate responsibility and climate- It also serves as an escalation point based on 
responsibilities. Business-related divisions  Office, including a team dedicated to Climate 
related topics and oversees the Allianz  analysis and deliberations within the Group 
reflect our business segments Property/ Integration, is responsible for steering the 
Group Climate Change Strategy. Thereby it  ESG Board. Risks identified as emerging and/
Casualty, Life/Health, Asset Management,  integration of ESG and climate aspects into 
steers the whole corporate responsibility  or significant are addressed either in the 
and Corporate and Other. In 2018 they  core investment and insurance activities and 
agenda, including climate-related topics;  GFRC or the Group Underwriting Committee 
were overseen by five Board members.  acts as the Executive Office of the Group ESG 
this includes the integration of climate and  (GUC). The GUC consists of Members of the 
The following divisions focus on Group  Board. It also handles reporting on non-
ESG aspects into all business lines and  Board of Management, the Group Chief 
functions, along with business-related  financial matters and supports operating 
core processes dealing with insurance and  Risk Officer, Chief Underwriting Officers, and 
responsibilities: Chairman of the Board of  entities in integrating the Group’s strategic 
investment. It also informs and involves  other executives of the Group. It monitors 
Management; Finance, Controlling and  approach and policies.
the Board of Management on relevant  underwriting business, as well as its risk 
Risk; Investment Management; Operations; 
topics and activities at least twice a year.  management and strategy and develops an  Key insurance operating entities, our 
Human Resources, Legal, Compliance, and 
It also reviews and recommends policy  underwriting policy.  internal asset managers, and the complete 
M&A; Business Transformation. For further 
proposals for consideration by the Board  investment management function Allianz 
information on Board of Management  The Board of Management reports regularly 
of Management and relevant Board  Investment Management (AIM) have well-
members and their responsibilities, please  and comprehensively to the Supervisory 
committees. Functional departments directly  established dedicated climate and ESG 
refer to the Annual Report 2018, page 10. Board on business development, the 
update the Group ESG Board on material  functions and practice, which eventually also 
company’s financial position and earnings, 
 The Allianz Group has had a Climate  sustainability issues. report to Board level.
planning and achievement of objectives, 
Change Strategy in place since 2005, 
business strategy, and risk exposure. Climate-
which steers our insurance and investment 
related issues are part of these regular 
business and is regularly updated. Within the 
updates where relevant.
Group, diverse functions and committees 
steer sustainability topics within their scope 
of influence. 
83 Allianz Sustainability Report 2018 Overview In-focus Managing sustainability Our roles Data and performance
ALLIANZ‘S CLIMATE-RELATED FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE:
09.1 GOVERNANCE
BUSINESS AND MANAGEMENT-LEVEL  For the implementation of science-based 
GOVERNANCE CONTINUED targets for our proprietary investments and 
operations, we have set up a task force 
At AIM, the Investment Management 
expanding across all relevant investment 
Board (IMB) oversees the implementation 
and operational departments and entities, 
of the climate and ESG strategy for 
comprising more than 50 employees, 
Allianz’s proprietary investment portfolio of 
including executive functions and reporting 
706 billion Euro37 (FY 2018). This includes 
to the board members responsible for 
regular discussions and decisions around 
investments and operations. The task force 
operationalization of the portfolio 
regularly reports to the Group ESG Board.
decarbonization and SBTi, analyses on asset 
stranding in climate scenarios, as well as  Additional bodies and functions within 
engagement dedicatedly on climate aspects.  the Group monitor and analyze market, 
Within AIM, climate and ESG is steered at  technological as well as regulatory trends 
IMB level, with the managing director in  and developments – insights are shared with 
charge of the implementation.  relevant stakeholders. In 2019, we are further 
strengthening the Group-wide network on 
ESG specialists and/or representatives from 
climate and ESG-related matters.
different local operating entities, global lines 
and Group centers come together in the  Moreover, several units also have dedicated 
ESG Working Group to develop and discuss  competence centers on promoting low-
projects and proposals for ESG and climate  carbon technologies: Allianz Capital 
integration in the business.  Partners, Allianz Global Investors, Allianz 
Global Corporate & Specialty, Allianz Climate 
Specifically for climate change, we have a 
Solutions, and others.
Climate Contact Group (CCG), consisting of 
experts from across the Group, exchanging 
and developing proposals on climate 
More information on our risk governance and committees can 
integration into business. Input from the  be found in the Allianz Group Annual Report 2018 on page 74ff. 
CCG informs top management and Group  For more details on our corporate responsibility governance see 
page 21.
ESG Board. 
37  Based on economic view. Compared to accounting view it reflects a volume increase due to switch from 
book to market values and changed asset scope (e.g. including FVO, trading and real estate own-use).
84 Allianz Sustainability Report 2018 Overview In-focus Managing sustainability Our roles Data and performance
ALLIANZ‘S CLIMATE-RELATED FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE:
09.2 STRATEGY
CLIMATE-RELATED RISKS AND  IMPACT ON OUR BUSINESS AND  Our business strategy includes systematically 
OPPORTUNITIES OUR RESPONSES leveraging opportunities for financing a  WHAT IS THE SCIENCE BASED 
low-carbon and climate-resilient future, e.g.  TARGETS INITIATIVE?
The identification and management of risks  Allianz Group is exposed to a variety of 
by investing in renewable energy, energy 
and opportunities resulting from climate  risks. The largest general risks in terms of  The Science Based Targets initiative 
efficiency in real estate or electric vehicle 
change are part of our overall business  their contribution to Allianz’s risk profile are  (SBTi) is a non-profit organization which 
infrastructure, or by providing insurance 
strategy. Measures we take include:  market risk, especially equity risk, credit and  supports companies in setting emission 
solutions for physical climate impacts 
developing and adjusting financial products  credit spread risks driven by assets backing  reduction targets that are in line with 
and low-carbon business models. For our 
and services; improving decision-making,  long-term liabilities; furthermore Property- achieving international climate targets. 
proprietary investments, the ESG Functional 
policies and processes; the setting of targets;  Casualty premium and reserve risks resulting  It is the most ambitious initiative on 
Rule for Investments provides the foundation 
managing our operational climate footprint;  from natural and man-made catastrophes as  decarbonization in the market, requiring 
of integrating climate-related issues. 
as well as engaging with internal and  well as from claims uncertainty. real-economy decarbonization targets 
It comprises Asset Manager selection and 
external stakeholders. and progress in line with pathways to 
Climate change impacts our business mainly  systematic integration of climate and ESG 
well below 2°C. We see the SBTi as an 
We believe that climate change will  in two ways: through insurance policies, e.g.  factors into our investment decisions. 
enabler to build on our long-standing 
materially affect economies and therefore  covering property damage, health impacts 
commitments and our efforts on driving 
our lines of business. Arising risks and  and other losses, as well as changes in 
the low-carbon economy.
opportunities can be seen already today  sectors and business models we underwrite.  For more information on our climate and ESG governance, 
please see our ESG Integration Framework.
and will grow over the mid- and long-term.  Furthermore, we are affected as a large-
These can for instance be acute and chronic  scale institutional investor with significant  As a landmark outcome of the incorporation 
physical impacts on property or human  stakes in various economies, companies,  of climate-related risk and opportunity 
health like warming temperatures, extreme  infrastructure and real estate that are or will  assessments into our business strategy, we 
weather events, rising sea levels, intensifying  be affected by the physical impacts from  committed in 2018 to set ourselves long-
heatwaves and droughts or a change in  climate change and by the transition to a  term emissions reduction targets for our 
vector-borne diseases. Further risks and  low-carbon economy, which can have direct  proprietary investment portfolio and for our 
opportunities result from the cross-sectoral  impacts on the ability of assets to generate  business operations. To this end, we joined the 
structural change stemming from the  long-term value.  Science Based Targets initiative in May 2018. 
transition towards a low-carbon economy.  This also builds upon our 2017 assessment 
This includes changes in climate policy,  where we identified the listed equity and 
technology, or market sentiment, and  the corporate bond portfolio as being most 
impacts thereof on the market value of  sensitive to climate transition scenarios.
financial assets, as well as risks resulting from 
climate change liability.
85 Allianz Sustainability Report 2018 Overview In-focus Managing sustainability Our roles Data and performance
ALLIANZ‘S CLIMATE-RELATED FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE:
09.2 STRATEGY
IMPACT ON OUR BUSINESS AND  Furthermore, we announced in May 2018  Additionally, we plan to join forces with other  From an opportunity perspective, Allianz is a 
OUR RESPONSES CONTINUED that we will no longer provide P&C insurance  asset owners in encouraging companies to  pioneer in insuring low-carbon technologies. 
to single-site coal power plants or coal  implement such pathways. Our participation  We provide standardized and tailor-made 
Our targets will be in line with latest climate 
mines, that are being operated or planned  in the Transition Pathway Initiative,  insurance products as part of our Sustainable 
science to support the Paris Climate 
– effective immediately. Companies that  the engagement platform of Climate  Solutions approach and are insuring 
Agreement’s target of limiting global 
generate electricity from multiple sources,  Action 100+, as well as in the Portfolio  renewables in more than 70 countries. 
warming to well below 2°C. To this end, 
such as coal, other fossil fuels or renewable  Decarbonization Coalition and the Principles 
all tradable proprietary investments are  In 2018 we also made significant progress 
energies, continue to be insured and  for Responsible Investment (PRI), connects 
to be structured climate-neutral by 2050.  on seizing climate-related insurance 
individually reviewed on the basis of our  us with like-minded investors and offers 
We conduct detailed analysis in particularly  opportunities by scaling our renewable 
general ESG criteria. Also for our P&C  platforms for collaborative engagement.
energy-intensive sectors on emission profiles,  energy insurance services to fast-developing 
insurance portfolios we are committed 
possible proto-decarbonization pathways  These are first steps and, going forward, we  growth markets through our initiative ‘Scaling 
to completely phase-out all coal-based 
and necessary technology shifts. The results  will continually expand these and develop  Up Renewable Energy (SURE)’. 
risks by 2040 the latest and we are further 
of this are used for portfolio carbon analysis,  new ones.
developing our approach to reach this target. While working to combat global warming 
the definition of decarbonization pathways, 
Our voting rights are exercised by AllianzGI  and climate change, we also aim to reduce 
our corporate engagement process as well  ACTIVE COMPANY DIALOG on our behalf and details on voting policy  the impacts of climate risks, by incentivizing 
as management decisions. The methodology 
and voting records can be found online.  preventive measures to increase customers’ 
To strengthen this effort, we have designed 
for financial portfolios is currently developed 
resilience, and compensating for climate-
an engagement approach and a dedicated 
by civil society representatives, academia and 
related damages. Examples include Risk 
engagement function at Allianz Investment 
the sector, including us, as part of the SBTi. For further information please see our Statement on Coal-based  Consulting services offered by AGCS, our 
Management besides the Group ESG Office 
Business Models and our ESG Integration Framework. Please see 
As an early step in enabling the low-carbon  to create an impact in the real economy  all proxy voting records on the AllianzGI ESG page here. active support of the InsuResilience Global 
transition and to managing transition  and encourage companies to define and  Partnership and our work with the German 
risks connected with climate change, we  implement climate strategies in line with  TAPPING OPPORTUNITIES Corporation for International Cooperation 
announced in 2015 to no longer invest  science. By actively engaging with companies  We strategically invest in low-carbon assets  (GIZ) to pilot innovative insurance solutions in 
proprietary assets in companies that derive  to have them set measurable climate targets  since more than a decade and increased our  emerging and developing countries.
more than 30% of revenue from coal mining  that are transparently pursued, for example  exposure. This includes renewable energy, 
or generate over 30% of energy from burning  by joining the SBTi, we aim to not only reduce  certified green buildings, and green bonds 
For more details on these and other examples, please read 
coal. In 2018, we updated the approach by  carbon emissions in our portfolio but also in  (see also section 09.4). sections 04 and 05.
introducing forward-looking criteria covering  the real world.
also new coal installations that are not in 
line with 2°C pathways and by committing 
to reduce the thresholds to eventually 0% in 
2040 the latest with the next step being a 
reduction to 25% in the end of 2022. 
86 Allianz Sustainability Report 2018 Overview In-focus Managing sustainability Our roles Data and performance
ALLIANZ‘S CLIMATE-RELATED FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE:
09.2 STRATEGY
STRATEGY RESILIENCE, STRESS TESTS AND  Examples from 2018 include:  • Allianz Real Estate conducted an energy  We will continue to scale up this effort. 
CLIMATE SCENARIO ANALYSIS and carbon performance overview of  In 2019, we will be conducting asset and 
• Allianz Economic Research and AIM 
the direct real estate portfolio, including  portfolio scenario analysis for our direct 
Allianz’s investment strategy incorporates  analyzed potential transition risk 
indicative science-based targets. infrastructure investments and plan to 
systematic analyses of long-term projections  drivers (policy, technology, market) and 
develop more scenarios and stress tests as 
on the risks and opportunities of the low- financial impacts on the sectors energy,  • Allianz co-led jointly with the UN PSI the 
part of our risk governance. 
carbon transition. Our core investment  utilities, materials, industrials, consumer  development of an ESG guide to non-life 
databases include climate and carbon  discretionary, financials and information  underwriting, including a risk heat map for 
data, which enables portfolio-wide analyses  and communication technology for  economic sectors which also covers climate 
For more details see for instance the ESG guide for non-life 
and measures.  2°C and 1.5°C scenarios in different  change-related risk assessments. underwriting here, our stranded asset analysis here and the 
geographies. Results were translated  Sustainable Investment Report of Allianz France here.
Climate change considerations are an integral 
into heat maps. For the energy sector, 
part of our insurance and investment strategy  detailed quantitative analysis on potential  DEVELOPING APPROACHES ON CLIMATE-
which is informed by regular stress tests and  loss of value from stranded assets has  RELATED FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE FOR 
additional climate-related scenario analysis. 
been conducted, informing Investment  INSURANCE PORTFOLIOS
We perform, for instance, sensitivity and 
Management Board discussions 
scenario analysis with time horizons up to  As part of UN PSI, Allianz is, together 
and decisions.
2040 and including scenarios ranging from  with 17 other insurance companies, 
well below 2°C to 4°C with internal models  • Allianz France piloted methods and  developing new approaches on risk 
and with external partners. While time  disclosure on climate for the investment  assessment tools designed to enable the 
horizons naturally differ depending on specific  portfolio by measuring alignment with  insurance industry to better understand 
lines of business under consideration, the  a 2°C scenario, conducting physical risk  the impacts of climate change scenarios 
range of scenarios we apply allows to better  analysis, as well as exploring value-at- on their lines of insurance business. 
assess the variety of risks and opportunities  risk metrics with results disclosed in its  The pilot will make use of the latest 
associated with climate change. We rely  2018 Sustainable Investment Report  climate science, including some of 
for this on scenarios from the IPCC, IEA or  published in accordance with Article  the most advanced, forward-looking 
IRENA, among others, but also on own  173 of the French Energy Transition for  climate scenarios available. This shall 
scenarios. We apply scenarios in analyzing  Green Growth Law and in line with the  help the industry to pioneer insurance 
decarbonization pathways of sectors  TCFD recommendations. climate risk disclosures in line with the 
and assets, potential stranded assets and  recommendations of the Financial 
• Allianz Group ran climate scenario and 
technology developments across different  Stability Board’s Task Force on Climate-
alignment analysis on listed equity and 
sectors. We are furthermore using scenario  related Financial Disclosures (TCFD). 
corporate bond portfolios.
data and analysis to develop forward-looking  Results are expected towards Q1 2020.
criteria for our investment decisions for carbon-
intensive business models as well as low-
carbon opportunities. 
87 Allianz Sustainability Report 2018 Overview In-focus Managing sustainability Our roles Data and performance
ALLIANZ‘S CLIMATE-RELATED FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE:
09.2 STRATEGY
09.4 PARTNERSHIPS, MEMBERSHIPS AND  Through our work with the G7 Investor 
SECTOR ENGAGEMENT Leadership Network, the UNEP FI, and the 
UN PSI, as well as through our memberships 
Allianz is partnering with international 
in The B Team, the World Economic Forum 
organizations to drive climate-smart 
Alliance of CEO Climate Leaders, and others, 
investment and insurance. One example is 
we are encouraging other companies – both 
the Sustainable Development Investment 
within our sector and beyond – to step up 
Partnership (SDIP) to scale the use of 
and improve their climate-related disclosure. 
blended finance in sustainable infrastructure 
Another key initiative in 2018 has been 
investments in developing countries, an 
working together with the European Bank for 
initiative coordinated by the World Economic 
Reconstruction and Development and peers 
Forum with support from the OECD. 
in advancing capabilities to promote the 
Another example is our three-year strategic 
strategic assessment and management of 
alliance with the German Corporation for 
physical climate risks and opportunities.
International Cooperation (GIZ) aiming at 
“Closing the Protection Gap” around climate 
risks in developing countries. 
For more details see page 96 on our Memberships 
and Partnerships.
We are also an active member of relevant 
climate-related industry associations and 
initiatives like the Munich Climate Insurance 
Initiative, the Climate Finance Lab, Climate 
Action 100+, the Accelerating Sustainable 
Finance initiative, the Geneva Association, 
the World Economic Forum Alliance of CEO 
Climate Leaders, The B Team, ClimateWise, 
the Science Based Targets initiative, RE100, 
the Transition Pathway Initiative, the Portfolio 
Decarbonization Coalition, the PRI, the UN 
PSI, and the Finance Initiative of United 
Nations Environment (UNEP FI) where Allianz 
is the Thematic Advisor on Climate Change 
of the Investment Committee. 
88 Allianz Sustainability Report 2018 Overview In-focus Managing sustainability Our roles Data and performance
ALLIANZ‘S CLIMATE-RELATED FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE:
09.3 RISK AND OPPORTUNITY MANAGEMENT
As a general principle at Allianz, the “first  and the delivery of key strategic objectives,  We are using special modeling techniques  COMPREHENSIVE PROCESSES FOR 
line of defense” of our risk governance  regardless of whether they can be quantified  for natural catastrophes which combine  CLIMATE-RELATED RISKS
rests with business managers in the related  or not. This assessment is being conducted  portfolio data (geographic location, 
Our ESG approach integrates ESG concerns 
undertaking. They are responsible for both  both on the level of operating entities as well  characteristics of insured objects, and their 
by applying group-wide corporate rules and 
the risks and returns from their decisions.  as the Group. Supplemented by quarterly  values) with simulated natural disaster 
ESG instruments across all our underwriting, 
Our “second line of defense” is made up of  updates, senior management decides on  scenarios to estimate the magnitude and 
investment, and asset management activities. 
independent global oversight functions.  a risk management strategy and related  frequency of potential losses. Where such 
In 2018, we launched the next generation 
This includes Risk, Actuarial, Compliance,  actions. Climate-related factors are included  stochastic models do not exist, we use 
of ESG guidelines through the updated 
and Legal, which support the Board in  in Top Risk Assessments. deterministic, scenario-based approaches 
Allianz Standard for Reputational Risk and 
defining the risk frameworks within which the  to estimate potential losses. We are 
Issues Management. We also published the 
business can operate. Audit forms the “third  continuously testing several dozens of 
third edition of the Allianz ESG Integration 
line of defense”, independently and regularly  For more details on these risk management processes please see  natural catastrophe scenarios, including 
the Allianz Group Annual Report 2018 on page 74. Framework to further increase transparency 
reviewing risk governance implementation,  atmospheric events, mapping a range of 
around our internal processes and guidelines 
compliance with risk principles, performing  NATURAL CATASTROPHE  perils and regions. The results provide the 
related to our ESG approach. To this end, 
quality reviews of risk processes, and testing  RISK GOVERNANCE basis for group-wide risk monitoring, risk 
we also rely on external providers for data 
adherence to business standards, including  limits and subsequent business decisions. 
Also applicable for natural catastrophes, the  related to climate, ESG and reputational risks.
the internal control framework. The top three perils contributing to natural 
Group uses a group-wide risk management 
catastrophe risk for Allianz Group as  As an additional layer, building on the 
Climate-related risks are addressed as part of  framework. Each operating entity is 
of 31 December 2017 and 2018 were:  explanations in the Governance section 
an overarching qualitative and quantitative  responsible for controlling its exposure to 
windstorms in Europe, floods in Germany,  (09.1), the climate team within the Corporate 
risk reporting and controlling framework.  individual catastrophes and defining its 
and earthquakes in Australia. Furthermore,  Responsibility department works on early 
Early-warning indicators are monitored and  local reinsurance requirements, based on 
we are conducting selected stress scenario  identification, measurement and business 
regularly reported to senior management  its local risk appetite and capital position. 
analysis on natural catastrophe risks like hail  integration of climate risks as well as on 
including risk dashboards, risk capital  The respective cover is then provided by 
or windstorms to be used in risk steering.  opportunities arising from physical climate 
allocation, and limit consumption reports,  Allianz SE or one of its subsidiaries. At the 
Our natural catastrophe models are regularly  change and the low-carbon transition. 
where climate aspects become material.  Group level, the Allianz SE Board reviews and 
updated according to newest scientific  Examples include regulatory activity 
One key tool is the Allianz Risk Capital  approves the risk appetite. The reinsurance 
information. We are continuously improving  around climate change and sustainable 
Model, which assesses, amongst many other  division is then responsible for designing and 
the inclusion of global natural catastrophe  finance, the integration of ESG and climate 
criteria, natural catastrophe events for the  implementing Group catastrophe protections 
hazard information, including climate, into  considerations in business processes as well 
upcoming year on a subsidiary and Group  within given exposure limits. These covers 
underwriting decisions.  as particular projects such as an annual 
level. Another instrument is the yearly Top  take various forms and aim to protect the 
assessment of investment needs and 
Risk Assessment with the goal to identify and  Group against excessive losses from major 
attractiveness for renewable energy in G20 
remediate significant threats to financial  natural catastrophes. 
countries in the Allianz Climate & Energy. 
results, operational viability, reputation 
89 Allianz Sustainability Report 2018 Overview In-focus Managing sustainability Our roles Data and performance
ALLIANZ‘S CLIMATE-RELATED FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE:
09.3 RISK AND OPPORTUNITY MANAGEMENT
COMPREHENSIVE PROCESSES FOR  • the Global Claims Review, which analyzes  Allianz contributing to the report. You can 
CLIMATE-RELATED RISKS CONTINUED more than 470,000 claims in over 200  access the report “The Heat Is On” here.
countries and territories. This Review 
Monitor, and others. These insights are also  For our proprietary investments, the ESG 
found wind storms as the only natural 
aligned with the Climate Contact Group as  Functional Rule for Investments provides the 
catastrophe event to appear in the top 
well as the ESG network. Substantial topics  foundation of integrating climate-related 
10 causes of loss. Natural catastrophes in 
are channeled to the Group ESG Board to  issues. It comprises asset manager selection 
total account for 5% of claims in number 
inform decision-making. and systematic integration of climate and 
and 13% of total value of all claims and 
ESG factors into our investment decisions. 
Risk and opportunity considerations are  represent some of the largest exposures 
Our portfolio-wide ESG assessment 
supplemented by additional processes,  to the energy as well as property and 
processes and data, including a variety 
including: engineering segments. Environmental- and 
of climate and carbon data (see section 
climate change-related liability issues are 
• our NGO dialog, a regular materiality  09.4), enables a continuous monitoring and 
seen to potentially increase in future;
assessment of emerging ESG and climate  steering of performance at security and 
issues and opportunities;  • On-going dialogs with policy-makers,  portfolio level. For listed assets, we use ESG 
NGOs and academia on key economic,  scores and climate indicators to manage 
• the annual Risk Barometer by Allianz 
governmental, environmental and  ESG risks and opportunities in our proprietary 
Global Corporate & Specialty, a survey 
societal issues, including climate change  portfolio. If certain assets score below 
amongst corporate clients, brokers, industry 
to find and contribute to solutions for a  defined thresholds, further investigation is 
trade organizations, risk consultants, 
sustainable tomorrow. mandatory under central monitoring, leading 
underwriters, senior managers and 
to a variety of potential measures, including 
claims experts; in total collecting more  In addition, Allianz is a member of the 
engagement with the respective companies. 
than 2,400 responses from 86 countries.  working group on emerging risk in the Chief 
Climate change as a cross-cutting risk  Risk Officers’ Forum. This group defines  In the first half of 2019, we will run pilot 
driver is now ranked eight, naturally  climate change as a trend which might result  portfolios on climate-related target-setting 
linking to natural catastrophes (#3) as  in emerging risks for non-physical climate  and steering which will ideally allow us to 
a key risk to property business but also  risks. Relevant emerging risks are discussed  identify data gaps, derive monitoring and 
with increasing importance in shaping  by the GFRC or GUC and following that,  steering approaches and metrics as well as 
emission-prone industries in the transition  underwriting opportunities or mitigation  potential investment management actions.
side. Business interruption as another  measures might be implemented where 
overarching topic ranked highest, with  necessary. The CRO Forum has published 
potential triggers also found in climate- in early 2019 a landmark report on the  For more details on our activities as a Sustainable Insurer and 
Responsible Investor see in section 04 and 05.
related events; implications of climate change to the 
insurance industry, with several authors from 
90 Allianz Sustainability Report 2018 Overview In-focus Managing sustainability Our roles Data and performance
ALLIANZ‘S CLIMATE-RELATED FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE:
09.4 METRICS AND TARGETS
Our approach to the low-carbon transition  Investment and insurance metrics (list    – T otal equity securities divested:  BUSINESS OPERATIONS
will be steered by our commitment to the  not exhaustive) 326.5 million Euro
Also in our business operations, we 
SBTi. To this end, we will set ourselves long-
• Revenue generated from our sustainable    – E quity securities additionally divested  continually strive to improve the 
term emissions reduction targets for our 
solutions including the number of products  in 2018 due to tightening of criteria as  environmental and climate performance. 
business operations as well as our proprietary 
offered: 1,557.15 million Euro, 185 products well as new forward-looking criteria:  For this, our group-wide Environmental 
insurance asset portfolio in line with the Paris 
61.5 million Euro Management System provides the 
Climate Agreement’s target of limiting global  • Total sustainability-themed investments, 
framework, including 47 KPIs related 
warming to well below 2°C. We expect to  incl. climate aspects: 25.1 billion Euro • V  olume of Sustainable and Responsible 
to, amongst others, CO emissions per 
develop science-based targets towards the  Investments (SRI) for our third-party assets:  2
• Amount of green assets in the portfolio, all  employee, electricity consumption, the 
end of this year and to have them approved  175.6 billion Euro
with growth targets: share of renewable energy or the number 
by the Science Based Targets initiative in the 
  – D  ebt and equity investments in  • F urthermore, we analyze our investment  of carbon certificates used to offset our 
first half of 2020.
renewable energy: 6.8 billion Euro, an  portfolio with a broad range of climate-  remaining emissions to be carbon-neutral.
and carbon-related data and indicators 
METRICS increase by 1.2 billion Euro
from data sources like MSCI ESG, Transition 
To monitor, assess and steer climate-related    – N  umber of renewable energy parks in  Pathway Initiative, InfluenceMap,  More information on our environmental management can be 
aspects of the economy, Allianz uses a variety  portfolio: 95 CarbonTracker, or SBTi (list not exhaustive):  found in section 06.6. 
of indicators across the different lines of 
  – C  apacity of renewable energy parks in    – C  arbon footprint information
business. Our complete list of sustainability-
portfolio: 2.2 GW As part of the Group Sustainability 
related KPIs can be accessed in section 10.   – F ossil fuel reserves incl. potential emissions
  – D  ebt and equity investments in green  Report, an assurance review of our 
On the investment side it is helpful to  buildings: 13.3 billion Euro   – C  arbon efficiency scores climate-related financial disclosure 
contextualize, for instance, our commitment    – C  arbon risk and risk  was conducted by our auditor.
to the Science Based Targets initiative    – I nvestments in green bonds: 
management indicators
with mainstream financial information like  3.6 billion Euro
the spread across different asset classes,    – L ow-carbon opportunities scores
•  In 2015, we stopped financing coal-based 
jurisdictions and sectors. This information 
business models. Amount of securities    –  Decarbonization targets
can be accessed via the FY 2018 annual 
affected by stop of coal-based business 
report documents, for instance the financial 
model financing:
supplement or the analyst presentation here. For more details on our climate- and sustainability-related 
  – F ixed-income securities in run-off:  metrics and targets see pages sections 02, 06.6 and 10. 
5.7 billion Euro
  – F ixed-income securities added to run-off 
in 2018 due to tightening of criteria as 
well as new forward-looking criteria: 
906.7 million Euro
91 Allianz Sustainability Report 2018 Overview In-focus Managing sustainability Our roles Data and performance
10 
SUSTAINABILITY  
PERFORMANCE  
DATA
IN THIS SECTION
10.1  Our targets and achievements  92
10.2  Memberships and partnerships  96
10.3  ESG performance  97
10.4  Environmental performance  100
10.5  Human resources performance  102
10.6  A  dditional sustainability performance 105
10.7  R  eporting parameters, scope 
and materiality  106
92 Allianz Sustainability Report 2018 Overview In-focus Managing sustainability Our roles Data and performance
SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE DATA:
10.1 OUR TARGETS AND ACHIEVEMENTS
LOW-CARBON ECONOMY
Topic Targets 2018  Achievements 2018 Targets 2019 and beyond Reference Sections / Data Table
CLIMATE STRATEGY •   Investigate on how to further align our investment strategy with a  •  Committed to Science Based Targets initiative in May 2018. •   Set long-term climate targets for our proprietary investments and  Sections 02.1; 03.5; 09.2
2°C target.  business operations in line with the Paris Climate Agreement’s goal 
to limit global warming to well below 2°C.
•   In the first half of 2019, we will run pilot portfolios on climate-
related target-setting and steering which will ideally allow us to 
identify data gaps, derive monitoring and steering approaches and 
metrics as well as potential investment management actions.
•   Together with the UN Principles for Sustainable Insurance, we will 
furthermore develop new approaches on climate risk assessment 
tools for the insurance industry. This shall enable a better 
understanding of the impacts of climate change scenarios on the 
different lines of insurance business.
COAL •   Implement a group-wide divestment from coal-based  •   Decided to no longer insure single-site coal-fired power plants and coal mines that are  •   Fully phase out coal-based business models across our proprietary  Sections 02.2; 04.4; 05.2 
business models. being operated or planned as of 2018. investments and property-casualty portfolios by 2040 at the latest. Table ESG–10
•   Further strengthened the coal exclusion approach in investments in 2018. 
•   Tightened restrictions on coal based business models and introduced a long-term action 
plan for coal until 2040.
RENEWABLE ENERGY •   Increase debt and equity investments in renewable energy in the  •   Investments of 6.8 billion Euro (2017: 5.6 billion Euro) in renewable energy. Sections 02.2; 03.4; 04.2; 04.4; 05.2; 05.4; 09.2
mid-term. Tables ESG–8, ESG–9
•   Further investigate a more holistic role of green energy in  •   Signed up to RE100 committing Allianz to 100% renewable energy by 2023. •   We are striving to minimize our environmental impact and  Sections 02.1; 02.2; 03.5; 06.6
our operations. committed to source 100% renewable power for our group-wide  Table ENV–5
operations by 2023.
•   Achieved a share of 45% green electricity of total electricity used (2017I: 45%) within  •   Achieve 100% green electricity for our operations by 2023 within  Section 06.6
Allianz Group. Allianz Group. Table ENV–5 
ENERGY CONSUMPTION •   30% reduction in energy consumption per employee by 2020 (2010  •  Achieved a 34% cut in 2018 within Allianz Group. •   30% reduction in energy consumption per employee by 2020 (2010  Section 06.6
baseline) within Allianz Group. baseline) within Allianz Group. Table ENV–3
GHG EMISSIONS PER  •   30% reduction of CO2 emissions per employee by 2020 (2010  •   In 2018, our carbon footprint per employee was 2.7 tons. This represents a 27% reduction  •   Reduce carbon emissions by 30% per employee by 2020 (2010  Section 06.6
EMPLOYEEII. baseline) within Allianz Group. through increase in the share of green electricity and higher energy efficiency, against a  baseline) within Allianz Group.  Table ENV–2
2010 baseline within Allianz Group.
PAPER CONSUMPTION •  40% paper reduction by 2020 (2014 baseline) within Allianz Group. •   Achieved a reduction of 38% within Allianz Group by the end of 2018. •  40% paper reduction by 2020 (2014 baseline) within Allianz Group. Section 06.6
Table ENV–9
I.  Energy data for 2017 was adjusted.
II.  Please note that all environmental indicators (greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions per employee and % of green electricity) are assessed based on a limited assurance engagement, not on a reasonable assurance level. 
93 Allianz Sustainability Report 2018 Overview In-focus Managing sustainability Our roles Data and performance
SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE DATA:
10.1 OUR TARGETS AND ACHIEVEMENTS
SOCIAL INCLUSION
Topic Targets 2018  Achievements 2018 Targets 2019 and beyond Reference Sections / Data Table
STRATEGY •  Develop KPIs and measurement tools for the Social Inclusion pillar. •   KPI is set for the pillar; initial data collection methodology is rolled out and tested. The KPI is  •   Develop measurement tools to address robust numbers  Section 08
to increase reach to children and youth by 20% by 2020 (baseline 2018).  for beneficiaries.
•  Align Social Inclusion pillar activities with our focus SDGs. •  The alignment was done for SDG 1 and SDG 8. Section 08
•   New target for 2019: Further develop the Social Pillar strategy to  Section 08
connect with the business and its operations.
SOS CHILDREN’S  •   Continue to roll out the active partnership with SOS Children’s  •   Allianz and SOS Children’s Villages further strengthened local partnerships in countries  •   Increase partnerships with SOS Children’s Villages to 31 countries  Section 08.2
VILLAGES Villages to 18 countries in total during 2018. around the globe with Madagascar newly added. by 2021.
•   Continue to roll out the Resilience 360° platform within SOS  •   Successfully continued roll-out and supported implementation of Emergency  •   Continue to support overall SOS disaster preparedness and  Chapter 08.2
Children’s Villages in 2018, an early warning and emergency  Preparedness (EPREP).  response in 2019. 
management tool for natural and man-made catastrophes.
•   Continue to roll out the Allianz participation in YouthCan!, a global  •   As of 2018, we have YouthCan! partnerships in Colombia, Indonesia, Madagascar  •  Further expand YouthCan! partnerships to more countries. Section 08.2
program led by SOS Children’s Villages to foster youth development  and Argentina.
in two pilot countries in 2018.
•   Third Allianz World Run raised 300,000 Euro for SOS Children’s Villages. Section 08.2
ENCOURAGING FUTURE  •   Social Innovation Fund to be reopened for application from  •   Granted funds to nine social projects including SOS CV partnerships globally through our  •   Continue with Social Innovation Fund to encourage operating  Section 08.2
GENERATIONS operating entities worldwide. Social Innovation Fund.  entities to on-board with the strategy.
PROGRAM •   Expand the focus on employee engagement with the Social 
Innovation Fund. 
•   Hold the Encouraging Future Generations Day (EFGD) to  •  EFGD was held together with a diverse group of internal and external stakeholders. •   The second EFGD is planned to include various stakeholders  Section 08.2
address our Social Inclusion pillar and create a dialog platform  •   The event attracted 200 internal and external guests and generated 200 views online. to address Allianz’s social strategy and create dialog among 
for stakeholders. key stakeholders. 
•   Second cycle of Investment Ready Program (IRP) with the Impact  •   Second cycle of the IRP has enrolled in Greece, Indonesia, Spain and Germany with eight  •   Program to include the Academy in Munich to engage Allianz  Section 08.2
Hub to be launched in 2018. social ventures. employees as mentors and experts to the ventures.
•   EFGD to serve as the final pitch day for the program participants 
where one will win the 40,000 Euro grant from Allianz.
•   Tech4 Seed-Fund (now called ‘tech4impact fund’) to support  •   The E.U. project has been concluded: A discussion paper about a comprehensive tech4good  •   For 2019, the execution of the fundraising process for the new  Section 08.2
young entrepreneurs develop digital solutions that solve  impact management framework is currently under preparation.  impact holding structure (goal: start impact investing activities 
societal challenges. •   Based on the insights from the market sounding process, PHINEO decided that the  based on a cumulative commitment of at least 5–10 million Euro) 
‘tech4impact fund’ would better be implemented by other organizations, preferably with a  has been handed over to the network partners but continues to be 
modified legal structure.  supported by PHINEO.
•   Together with trusted network partners a new concept for a “tech4impact” evergreen  •   Publish discussion paper on tech4good impact management 
holding structure has been developed. in 2019. 
EMERGING CONSUMERS •   Allianz is expanding its access to emerging consumers with new digital offerings by  •   We aim to continue our expansion in the emerging consumers  Sections 04.2; 04.3
collaborating with leading partners like BIMA and Go-Jek. market Africa, Asia and Latin America. Tables ESG–4; ESG–5; ESG–6
•  In 2018, we had 43.8 million customers in the emerging consumers market.
94 Allianz Sustainability Report 2018 Overview In-focus Managing sustainability Our roles Data and performance
SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE DATA:
10.1 OUR TARGETS AND ACHIEVEMENTS
SOCIAL INCLUSION CONTINUED
Topic Targets 2018  Achievements 2018 Targets 2019 and beyond Reference Sections / Data Table
EMPLOYEE  •  Enhance the employee volunteering program within Allianz Group. •   Social Innovation Fund focused on employee engagement elements for the winning projects  •   Social Innovation Fund expand the focus on employee  Section 08.3
VOLUNTEERING  to implement locally. engagement programs. Table CC–2
PROGRAM •   In four different countries Investment Ready Program offered mentoring and  •   Online Mentoring Program to be rolled out on a global scale with 
expertise opportunities. 100 youth and mentors. 
•  The Online Mentoring pilot was successfully completed.
•   In 2018, Allianz employees completed more than 77,268 hours of corporate volunteering 
around the world. 
•   My Finance Coach (MFC): Since its launch in 2010, MFC has reached over 1,600,000 pupils 
all over Germany. In 2018, Allianz continued to provide financial support and office facilities, 
and was a member of the advisory council. 412 Allianz employees volunteered their time 
to support the program, bringing the total to 2,677 employees who have volunteered in the 
program by the end of 2018. 
CHARITABLE DONATIONS •   In 2018, corporate giving of Allianz entities and foundations totaled 25.8 million Euro  Section 08.4
(2017: 20.0 million Euro). Given the nature of our business, this included support for  Table CC–1
disaster management.
BUSINESS INTEGRATION
Topic Targets 2018  Achievements 2018 Targets 2019 and beyond Reference Sections / Data Table
ESG •  Allianz Real Estate to launch a new ESG framework in 2018. •  Allianz Real Estate launched its ESG framework. Sections 05.2; 05.3
•   Allianz Real Estate increased its investments in certified green buildings from 11.4 to 13.3  Table ESG–8
billion Euro.
•   Third edition of the Allianz ESG Integration Framework to further increase transparency  Section 05.4
around our internal processes and guidelines related to our ESG approach.
•   Support UNEP-FI Principles for Sustainable Insurance (PSI) to  •  Project ongoing. •   Launch global consultation on final draft standard with the  Sections 02.2; 03.5; 03.7; 04.1; 09.2
develop an industry-wide ESG standard until 2019. insurance industry.
•   Full implementation of the ESG engagement approach with investee  •   Launched systematic approach for engagement with investee companies on environment,  Sections 03.4; 05.2
companies until 2019. social and governance (ESG) grounds. In our pilot we engaged with 12 companies.
•  631 transactions referred and assessed for ESG risks. •  Review referral and assessment process. Sections 03.4; 04.1; 04.2; 05.1; 05.2
•  1.56 billion Euro revenue generated through Sustainable Solutions. Tables ESG–1; ESG–3; ESG–4; ESG–8
•  Continued to train underwriters and relevant employees on our ESG screening processes.
•  5.4 billion Euro additional sustainable investments, bringing the total to 25.1 billion Euro.
HUMAN RIGHTS •   Human rights matters have been taken into account within the 2018 ESG risk  •   Continue to apply ESG Sector Guidelines and Human Rights  Sections 03.4; 04.1; 06.7
assessment process.  Guidelines for sensitive countries into all business lines and core  Table ESG–3
•   Additionally, according to the Allianz Group – Modern Slavery Statement we did not have  processes dealing with insurance and investment decisions. 
any issues raised in regard to human right matters specific to the Allianz Group in 2018.  •   Conduct annual review for U.K. and Group Modern Slavery 
Statements in 2019.
•   Develop human rights guidance within PSI ESG in underwriting 
project for property-casualty insurance in 2019.
VENDOR CODE  •   Our aim is to further enhance the percentage of our global vendors  •  562 suppliers have contracted our Vendor Code of Conduct for 2018. Section 06.7
OF CONDUCT who have signed the Vendor Code of Conduct.
RATINGS •   Dow Jones Sustainability Index: we took the leading position within the insurance sector for  Section 03.7
the second year running, scoring 85 out of 100 points.
95 Allianz Sustainability Report 2018 Overview In-focus Managing sustainability Our roles Data and performance
SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE DATA:
10.1 OUR TARGETS AND ACHIEVEMENTS
OTHERSIII.
Topic Targets 2018  Achievements 2018 Targets 2019 and beyond Reference Chapter / Data Table
EMPLOYEE MATTERS –  •  72% IMIX score in 2018 within Allianz Group. •  71% IMIX score in 2018 within Allianz Group.  •  73% IMIX score in 2021 within Allianz Group. Sections 03.1; 07.1
IMIXIV. •   As 2018 targets were not fully reached for the Allianz Group, the following initiatives will be  Table HR–11
implemented or continued to improve results in the mid-term: Inclusive Leadership Training, 
Inclusive Meritocracy Virtual Classrooms, broad upskilling offering (LinkedIn Learning) for all 
Allianz employees globally, and further specific local measures at OE level. 
EMPLOYEE MATTERS –  •  20% women in Boards of Management globally.  •  23.9% women in Boards of Management globally. •  25% women in Boards of Management globally by the end of 2021. Section 07.5
DIVERSITY
EMPLOYEE MATTERS –  •   Continue to implement the 10 minimum actions within the Work  •   In 2018, our Work Well Index (WWi) remained on a stable level of 66% (2017: 66%). 20 out  •  Targets to be set. Section 07.7
WORK WELL Well program. (To track the program’s impact, we have developed  of 56 OEs participating in the AES increased their WWi score in 2018. Table HR–11
our Work Well index (WWi), a scientifically validated tool that  •   In 2018, we presented the first ever Work Well award – launched to drive a systematic and 
measures work-related psychosocial stress.) sustainable approach for employee health. Allianz Spain was successful in becoming the 
first entity to be awarded the new prize.
EMPLOYEE MATTERS –  •   Launched LinkedIn Learning @ Allianz. Chapter 07.2
LEARNING
GLOBAL NPS  •   By the end of 2018, the Allianz Group aims to achieve a step- •   74% of the business segments of the Allianz Group’s entities scored above market or in a  •   75% of Allianz Group business segments of our entities score above  Sections 03.8; 06.1; 06.2
PERFORMANCE,  change global Net Promoter Score (NPS) performance, with 75% of  loyalty leader position in 2018. market or in a loyalty leader position in 2019 (75% in 2018).  Table NPS–1
ALLIANZ GROUPV. our business segments above market or in a loyalty leader position. •   In order to ensure that our global ambitions 2019 will be met, 
dedicated ”NPS activation workshops” will be organized in the first 
half of 2019 with all OEs in scope to identify performance gaps and 
define concrete action plans.
DATA PRIVACY  •   The General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) requirements have been implemented by  Sections 06.1; 06.4
CONCEPTS Group Privacy in 2018 globally ensuring stricter requirements on the way Allianz collects 
and uses personal data of individuals.
COMPLIANCE •  Roll-out of an enhanced compliance assurance approach in 2018.  •   Completion of the third cycle of the integrated compliance risk  Section 06.4
•   Completion of the second cycle of the integrated compliance risk scoping and assessment  scoping and assessment activities as part of the company’s 
activities as part of the company’s IRCS. IRCS process.
•   Review and simplify the current risk scoping and maturity 
assessment processes. 
DIGITAL OUTBOUND  •   The Allianz Group aims to achieve 72% share of digital outbound  •  The Allianz Group achieved a 72% share of digital outbound communication during 2018. Table DIG–1
COMMUNICATION communication during 2018.
E.U. GENERAL  •   Global crossfunctional project to address upcoming changes in  •   Since the GDPR came into effect in May 2018, we have undertaken our governance function  •   Looking ahead, we will continue working to ensure compliance  Section 06.4
DATA PROTECTION  the E.U. General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) across Allianz  through a formal process of collecting the implementation status of the Allianz Privacy  with the E.U. GDPR and will update the Allianz Privacy Standard, 
REGULATION Group companies by May 2018. In 2018, we will further roll out an  Renewal Program across the Group. We have worked with Allianz Group companies and  functional rules, and privacy guidance to reflect regulatory changes 
enhanced assurance approach, comprising of a more detailed risk  other group functions to remediate gaps in organizational set-up, processes and IT systems. and judicial decisions. We will also facilitate deeper engagement on 
scoping, a maturity self-assessment and further control testing. privacy-related issues across the Group, including through ongoing 
data privacy training.
III.  These targets and achievements are related to other parts of our corporate strategy, i.e. the Renewal Agenda or our HR approach.
IV.  Please note that the IMIX data is delivered by an external service provider and that we did not evaluate the data collection process of the provider.
V.  Please note that the NPS data is delivered by an external service provider and that we did not evaluate the data collection process of the provider.
96 Allianz Sustainability Report 2018 Overview In-focus Managing sustainability Our roles Data and performance
SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE DATA:
10.2 MEMBERSHIPS AND PARTNERSHIPS
Below is an excerpt of some of our memberships and partnerships
Memberships 
Founders Circle, The B Team
Investor Signatories, ClimateAction100+ (CA100+)
Founding Member, Climate Leadership Council (CLC)
Member, ClimateWise
Member, the Global Innovation Lab for Climate Finance
Member, Institutional Investors Group on Climate Change (IIGCC)
Member, Insurance Development Forum (IDF)
Member, InsuResilience Global Partnership
Member, Investment Leaders Group (ILG)
Member, Investor Leadership Network – A G7 initiative (ILN)
Member, Munich Climate Insurance Initiative (MCII)
Member, Portfolio Decarbonization Coalition (PDC)
Signatories, Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI)VI.
Signatory, Principles for Sustainable Insurance (PSI)
Member, RE100
Member, Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi)
Member, Stifterverband der Deutschen Wissenschaft
Signatory, UN Global Compact (UNGC)
Founding Member, UNEP Finance Initiative (UNEP FI)
Member, World Economic Forum Alliance of CEO Climate Leaders
Partnerships
Partnership with the German Corporation for International Cooperation (GIZ)
Partnership with the International Finance Corporation (IFC), World Bank Group
Partnership with Impact Hub Munich
Partnership with International Paralympic Committee (IPC)
Partnership with SOS Children‘s Villages International (SOS–CVI)
Partnership with Volunteer Vision
Partnership with Youth Bridge Munich
VI.  Allianz SE, AllianzGI, PIMCO are separate signatories to the PRI.
97 Allianz Sustainability Report 2018 Overview In-focus Managing sustainability Our roles Data and performance
SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE DATA:
10.3 ESG PERFORMANCE
This section contains data related to the ESG performance of Allianz Group. Data in this section 
is part of the Managing Sustainability, Sustainable Insurer and Responsible Investor sections.
Table ESG–1 Table ESG–2
ESG REFERRALS AND ASSESSMENTS
ESG REFERRALS AND ASSESSMENTS: ASSESSMENT OUTCOMES  
As of December 31 2018 2017 2016 % share of total referrals
Insurance 470 539 483
As of December 31 2018 2017 2016
Investments 52 43 23
Proceed 53.2 44.9 47.2
ProcurementVII. 109 n/a n/a
Proceed with mitigation or additional conditions 36.5 48.4 49.5
Other 0 1 2
Do not proceed 10.3 6.7 3.3
Total 631 583 508
VII.  Procurement activities were included the scope of the ESG referral and assessment process in 2018.
Table ESG–3
ESG REFERRALS AND ASSESSMENTS BY SENSITIVE BUSINESS AREA
As of December 31 2018 2017 2016
Proceed 
with  Do not  Proceed with  Proceed with 
Proceed mitigation proceed Total Proceed mitigation Do not proceed Total Proceed mitigation Do not proceed Total
Agriculture, Fisheries and Forestry 9 13 0 22 11 15 1 27 3 15 1 19
Animal Testing 2 0 0 2 0 0 0 0 1 1 0 2
Animal Welfare 3 1 0 4 2 2 0 4 1 2 0 3
Betting and Gambling 6 1 0 7 6 3 0 9 13 3 0 16
Clinical Trials 9 7 0 16 13 11 2 26 15 7 0 22
Defense 26 21 5 52 31 22 5 58 41 22 3 66
Human Rights 4 16 3 23 7 8 0 15 21 8 1 30
Hydro-Electric Power 6 11 1 18 11 10 2 23 14 9 2 25
Infrastructure 45 38 36 119 58 61 10 129 45 50 0 95
Mining 21 61 7 89 34 75 8 117 18 66 3 87
Nuclear Energy 3 0 0 3 4 6 1 11 7 6 1 14
Oil and Gas 19 29 3 51 24 38 2 64 17 48 2 67
Sex Industry 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
Procurement Transactions 109 0 0 109 n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a
Other ESG and Reputational Issues 74 32 10 116 61 31 8 100 44 14 4 62
Total 336 230 65 631 262 282 39 583 240 251 17 508
98 Allianz Sustainability Report 2018 Overview In-focus Managing sustainability Our roles Data and performance
SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE DATA:
10.3 ESG PERFORMANCE
Table ESG–4 Table ESG–7
REVENUES FROM SUSTAINABLE SOLUTIONSVIII.  ESG IN ASSET MANAGER SELECTION  
€ mn %
As of December 31 2018 2017IX. 2016IX. As of December 31 2018 2017 2016
Sustainable insurance solutions 880.1 454.9 448.6 Share of asset managers being PRI signatories and/or having an ESG policy in place 99 99 95
Insurance solutions with a sustainability component 371.2 389.8 346.4
Emerging consumer solutions 305.8 256.4 302.6 Table ESG–8
Total 1,557.2 1,101.2 1,097.6 SUSTAINABILITY-THEMED INVESTMENTS 
VIII.  Our current data collection process does not allow for a complete tracking of revenue data. Revenues are included subject to data availability. Proprietary Investments € bn
IX.  Data from 2016 and 2017 has been updated due to a change in scope. As of December 31 2018 2017XIII. 2016XIII.
Renewable energy investments 6.8 5.6 4.6
Table ESG–5
thereof: Infrastructure equity 3.8 3.7 3.6
NUMBER OF SUSTAINABLE SOLUTIONS
thereof: Infrastructure debt 3.0 1.9 1.0
As of December 31 2018 2017X. 2016X. Certified green buildings 13.3 11.4 3.9
Sustainable insurance solutions 94 92 89 thereof: Equity investments 10.9 8.8 n/a
Insurance solutions with a sustainability component 37 37 37 thereof: Debt investments 2.4 2.6 n/a
Emerging consumer solutions 25 25 25 Green bonds 3.6 2.5 0.9
Sustainable asset management solutions 29 15 12 Sustainability bonds 0.4 0.0 0.0
Total 185 169 163 Social bonds 0.8 0.0 0.0
X.  Data from 2016 and 2017 has been updated due to a change in scope. Other (e.g. affordable housing, dedicated investment in PIMCO ESG fund) 0.2 0.2 0.0
Total 25.1 19.7 9.4
Table ESG–6
XIII.  Data is not part of assurance scope.
EMERGING CONSUMER BUSINESS
Table ESG–9
As of December 31 2018 2017 2016XI.
Gross Written Premiums (GWP) € mn 305.8 256.4 302.6 RENEWABLE ENERGY INVESTMENTS
thereof from non-consolidated entitiesXII. € mn 279.5 228.8 278.4 As of December 31 2018 2017 2016
No. of in-force insured people 43,785,733 58,734,168 60,796,900 Number of wind farms 86 81 72
thereof from non-consolidated entitiesXII. 37,037,669 51,352,372 54,466,423 Number of solar farms 9 7 7
GWP per customer  €/cust 6.98 4.37 4.98 Total number of facilities 95 88 79
XI.  2016 data is restated due to a change in scope. Total generating capacity of renewables investments GW 2.2 1.9 1.7
XII.  Please see note 43 to the Consolidated Financial Statements of Allianz Group Annual Report 2018.
99 Allianz Sustainability Report 2018 Overview In-focus Managing sustainability Our roles Data and performance
SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE DATA:
10.3 ESG PERFORMANCE
Table ESG–10 Table ESG–14
COMMITMENT TO DIVEST FROM COAL-BASED BUSINESS MODELSXIV   ESG ENGAGEMENT TOPICS
Proprietary Investments € mn As of December 31 2018
2018 2017 2015 Labor standards 5
Cumulative action since November 2015 Biodiversity and land use 2
Fixed income investments to run-off or already disposed 5,706.7 4,800.0 3,900.0 CO₂ Emissions and management 5
Listed equities divested or in divestment 326.5 265.0 225.0 Toxic emissions and waste 6
Additional action Health and safety 3
Net additional fixed income investments to run-off 906.7 900.0 3,900.0
Additional listed equities divested or in divestment 61.5 40.0 225.0 Table ESG–15
ESG ENGAGEMENT OUTCOMES
Table ESG–11
As of December 31 2018
NUMBER OF ESG ENGAGEMENTS
Continued monitoring 0
As of December 31 2018 Engagement closed successfully 3
Number of active engagements 12 Engagement on-going 8
Engagement closed with restrictions 1
Table ESG–12
ESG ENGAGEMENT BY SECTOR Table ESG–16
SUSTAINABLE INVESTMENTS FOR THIRD-PARTY ASSETS  
As of December 31 2018
Tobacco 2 Third-Party Assets € bn 
Metals and mining 3 As of December 31 2018 2017 2016
Steel 2 Allianz Global InvestorsXV. 40.9 14.7 12.6
Chemicals 1 Integrated ESG strategiesXVI. 26.8 n/a n/a
Construction and engineering 2 SRI strategies 12.3 13.0 10.5
Other 2 Impact strategies 1.8 1.7 1.3
Thematic n/a n/a 0.8
Table ESG–13 Norm / Value-based n/a n/a 0.1
ESG ENGAGEMENT BY REGION PIMCO 134.7 130.3XVII. 105.9XVII.
Total 175.6 145.0 118.5
As of December 31 2018
Europe 6 XV.  T he classification of ESG products was revised in 2017. Certain funds and products from the thematic and norm / value-based clusters were reclassified 
into SRI and responsible. See section 05.4 for definitions of these categories. For definitions of integrated ESG, SRI and impact strategies, see page 40. 
Asia Pacific 2 For definitions of the expiring clusters (thematic and norm/value-based), please see the Group Sustainability Report 2016, page 39.
North America 3 XVI.  Integrated ESG strategies were announced in late 2017 and new products were launched in 2018.
Emerging markets 1 XVII.  2016 / 2017 data restated due to correction of USD/EUR exchange rate.
XIV.  N  o additional commitment in 2016.
100 Allianz Sustainability Report 2018 Overview In-focus Managing sustainability Our roles Data and performance
SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE DATA:
10.4 ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE
This section contains data related to the environmental performance of Allianz Group. Data in  Table ENV–3
this section is part of the Trusted Company section. ENERGY CONSUMPTIONXIX.
Our reporting on environmental data generally follows the GRI Standards of the Global  As of December 31 2018 2017XX. 2016
Reporting Initiative. The Group’s carbon footprint is oriented towards the Greenhouse Gas  Energy consumption from our office buildings GJ 2,240,060 2,391,123 2,494,055
(GHG) Protocol’s Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard. For data compilation,  Energy consumption from our data centers GJ 396,338 392,055 475,275
Allianz further applies the standards developed by the Association of Financial Institutions  Total energy consumption GJ 2,636,398 2,783,178 2,969,330
for Environmental Management and Sustainability (Verein fur Umweltmanagement und  Energy consumption from office buildings per employee GJ/empl 16.1 17.0 17.9
Nachhaltigkeit in Finanzinstitutionen ‘VfU’) as they are tailored to financial services institutions.  Energy reduction from office buildings per employee since 2010
Target -30% by 2020 % -34 -30 -26
Detailed guidance for environmental data compilation is further defined in internal guidelines 
XIX.   We are in the process of consolidating our global data center real estate. The reported energy consumption relates to our strategic data centers in 
for environmental reporting and in the publicly available explanatory notes. Europe, the U.S. and Singapore. Up to the end of this consolidation program, the energy consumption from some local data centers will be included in 
the energy consumption reported for office buildings.
Table ENV–1 XX  Please note, that the data for 2017 have been restated, for further details, please see our explanatory notes.
EMS COVERAGE
Table ENV–4
As of December 31 2018 2017 2016 ENERGY SOURCES
Share of employees in scope by our environmental  
management system (EMS) % 94 91 92 As of December 31 2018 2017XXI. 2016
Electricity % 72.2 70.9 71.5
Table ENV–2 Fossil fuels % 14.1 16.4 17.1
GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS Long-distance heating % 13.5 12.4 11.1
Other sources (incl. energy from own sources including  
As of December 31 2018 2017XVIII. 2016XVIII. photovoltaic, internal waste heat) % 0.2 0.3 0.3
Scope 1 – Direct GHG emissions t CO₂e 46,734 51,838 56,856
XXI. Please note, that the data for 2017 have been restated, for further details, please see our explanatory notes.
Scope 2 – Indirect GHG emissions (market based) t CO₂e 159,181 167,888 164,090
Scope 2 – Indirect GHG emissions (location based) t CO₂e 239,132 257,488 260,516 Table ENV–5
Scope 3 – Other indirect GHG emissions t CO₂e 167,533 158,664 168,459 RENEWABLE ELECTRICITY
Scope 1–3, GHG emissions total t CO₂e 373,448 378,391 389,405
As of December 31 2018 2017XXII. 2016
Total GHG Emissions per employee t/empl 2.7 2.7 2.8
Renewable electricity GJ 859,862 882,222 878,393
Overall GHG reduction per employee since 2010
Target -30% by 2020 % -27 -27 -24 Renewable electricity as a share of all electricity sources
Target 100% by 2023 % 45 45 41
XVIII. Please note, that the data for 2017 and 2016 have been restated, for further details, please see our explanatory notes.
XXII. Please note, that the data for 2017 have been restated, for further details, please see our explanatory notes.
101 Allianz Sustainability Report 2018 Overview In-focus Managing sustainability Our roles Data and performance
SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE DATA:
10.4 ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE
Table ENV–6 Table ENV–8
BUSINESS TRAVEL WASTE
As of December 31 2018 2017 2016 As of December 31 2018 2017 2016
Total travel km 941,564,230 952,221,036 917,846,303 Total waste t 19,575 21,474 21,438
Road travel (incl. rental, fleet, and private cars) % 38.3 40.7 43.9 Waste incinerated % 40.3 39.5 43.3
Air travel % 53.9 51.5 47.5 Waste recycled % 39.9 40.7 40.2
Rail travel % 7.9 7.8 8.5 Waste to landfills % 19.8 19.4 15.9
Travel per employee km/empl 6,749 6,776 6,582 Special waste treatment % 0.1 0.3 0.6
Waste per employee kg/empl 140 153 154
Table ENV–7
WATER CONSUMPTION Table ENV–9
PAPER CONSUMPTION
As of December 31 2018 2017 2016
Total water consumption m³ 1,830,782 1,940,030 1,887,526 As of December 31 2018 2017 2016
Drinking water % 87.6 86.6 87.2 Total paper consumption t 12,332 14,038 16,325
Rain water % 0.4 0.3 0.4 Recycled paper % 40 37 37
Natural water % 12.0 13.1 12.4 FSC-labeled paper % 50 47 47
Water consumption per employee m³/empl 13.1 13.8 13.5 Paper consumption per policy g/policy 83 98 117
Paper reduction since 2014
Target -40% by 2020 % -38 -27 -13
102 Allianz Sustainability Report 2018 Overview In-focus Managing sustainability Our roles Data and performance
SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE DATA:
10.5 HUMAN RESOURCES PERFORMANCE
This section contains data related to the Human Resources performance of Allianz Group.
Data in this section is part of the Attractive Employer section.
Table HR–1 Table HR–3
EMPLOYEE OVERVIEW  EMPLOYMENT RELATIONSHIPSXXIV 
As of December 31 2018 2017 2016 % of total employees (core business)
Total number of employees (core business) 142,327 140,399 140,120 As of December 31 2018 2017 2016
thereof: men % 49 48 48 Full-time employee 87.3 86.9 87.0
thereof: women % 51 52 52 thereof: male 53.5 53.4 53.5
Total number of employees (core and non-core) 142,460 140,553 140,253 thereof: female 46.5 46.6 46.5
Part-time employee 12.7 13.1 13.0
Table HR–2 thereof: male 22.1 19.8 18.7
EMPLOYEES BY REGIONXXIII. thereof: female 77.9 80.2 81.3
Trainee ratioXXV. 2.5 2.9 2.7
As of December 31 2018 2017 2016
Germany 38,089 40,149 40,167
As of December 31 2018 2017 2016
France 14,467 14,893 15,437
Permanent employees 92.2 91.6 92.3
United States 8,112 7,996 8,008
Temporary employees 7.8 8.4 7.7
United Kingdom 6,540 6,814 6,905
Italy 6,356 6,563 6,642 XXIV.  F igures based on the number of employees in Allianz’s core business, which includes all companies in and related to the insurance and asset 
management business, including our banking activities in Germany, France, Italy and Central and Eastern Europe. The figures do not include fully 
India  5,969 4,878 4,270
consolidated companies that are considered as pure financial investments and companies classified as held for sale.
Australia 5,294 5,525 5,515 XXV.  T rainees are employees at the beginning of their career participating in a trainee program, i.e. undergoing practical training designed to facilitate their 
Spain 4,376 3,556 3,593 development of knowledge and skills, e.g. apprentices, trainees, interns and working students, and with a formal arrangement (e.g. employment contract 
or third-party agreement with a school or university).
Brazil 3,269 3,355 3,414
Austria 3,213 3,410 3,461 Table HR–4
Other 46,775 43,414 42,841 AGE STRUCTURE 
Total 142,460 140,553 140,253
% of total employees (core business)
XXIII.  Total number of employees with an employment contract of all affiliated companies (core and non-core business). As of December 31 2018 2017 2016
% of 24 or under 7.2 7.2 7.0
% of 25–34 28.0 27.2 27.8
% of 35–44 26.9 27.1 27.3
% of 45–54 24.4 25.0 25.2
% of 55–64 12.9 12.9 12.3
% of 65 or over 0.6 0.6 0.4
Average age years 40.6 40.8 40.6
103 Allianz Sustainability Report 2018 Overview In-focus Managing sustainability Our roles Data and performance
SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE DATA:
10.5 HUMAN RESOURCES PERFORMANCE
Table HR–5 Table HR–7
EMPLOYEE TURNOVER  DIVERSITY 
% % of total employees (core business)
As of December 31 2018 2017 2016 As of December 31 2018 2017 2016
Employee turnover rate 16.6 14.1 14.5 Women in executive positionsXXVI. % 28.9 27.7 27.8
Turnover rate (men) 15.8 13.1 13.6 Female managersXXVII. % 37.8 37.6 37.2
Turnover rate (women)  16.9 15.1 15.2 Share of women in core business % 51.2 51.8 52.4
Turnover rate by region
XXVI.   Including women at all executive positions below the Board of Management.
Asia Pacific 26.7 24.8 21.8
XXVII. Including women functionally responsible for other staff, regardless of level, e.g. division, department and team managers.
Eastern Europe 21.9 22.6 24.7
Germany 7.4 5.9 6.5 Table HR–8
Middle East & Africa 24.7 13.9 14.6 SICKNESS-RELATED ABSENTEEISM average days per employee
North America 12.0 13.7 13.9
As of December 31 2018 2017 2016
Rest of Europe 19.4 15.8 16.0
Overall average 8.4 8.4 8.4
South America 23.3 14.2 21.1
Average days by region
Asia Pacific 4.0 4.4 4.9
Table HR–6
Germany 12.3 12.3 12.2
EMPLOYEE RECRUITMENT
Middle East and Africa 3.2 2.4 3.7
As of December 31 2018 2017 2016 Eastern Europe 7.0 7.6 6.5
Total recruitment (external and internal) 24,702 21,890 21,863 North America 1.9 2.1 2.3
Total recruitment (share of men)  % 48.4 47.3 48.3 South America 3.1 3.0 3.0
Total recruitment (share of women)  % 51.6 52.7 51.7 Rest of Europe 8.6 8.3 8.4
Total recruitment rate by region
Asia Pacific % 29.6 25.3 27.7 Table HR–9
Eastern Europe % 15.0 12.7 13.4 TOTAL ABSENTEEISM
Germany % 8.9 8.6 8.8
As of December 31 2018 2017 2016
Middle East & Africa % 37.0 23.6 21.5
Total absenteeism lost days  days 1,134,910 1,141,720 1,134,957
North America % 15.4 13.4 13.4
Absenteeism – coverage of employees % 100 100 100
Rest of Europe % 20.2 18.8 18.3
South America % 13.4 12.8 13.2
104 Allianz Sustainability Report 2018 Overview In-focus Managing sustainability Our roles Data and performance
SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE DATA:
10.5 HUMAN RESOURCES PERFORMANCE
Table HR–10
EMPLOYEE TRAINING
As of December 31 2018 2017 2016
Total expenses for employee training € mn 88  91  93 
Training expenses per employee € 646  670   690 
Average training days days  3.0   3.0   2.9 
Staff days  3.0   3.0   2.9 
Managers days  3.1   3.1   3.1 
Employees undergoing at least one training session %  69.9   70.9   70.7 
Staff %  68.6   69.6   69.1 
Managers %  78.5   79.8   80.9 
Table HR–11
ALLIANZ ENGAGEMENT SURVEY
2018 2017 2016
Number of employees invited to participate in the Allianz Engagement 
Survey (AES)  121,913   122,282   124,027 
Number of OEs invited to participate in the AES  56   60   59 
AES Participation rate %  81   84   85 
Work Well Index %  66   66   64 
Employee Engagement Index %  70   72   72 
Inclusive Meritocracy Index (IMIX) %  71   72   70 
105 Allianz Sustainability Report 2018 Overview In-focus Managing sustainability Our roles Data and performance
SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE DATA:
10.6 ADDITIONAL SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE
This section contains data related to the ESG performance of Allianz Group. 
Data in this section is part of the Trusted Company and Corporate Citizenship sections.
Table TAX–1 Table DIG–1
INCOME TAXES BY REGIONXXVIII.  DIGITAL COMMUNICATIONS 
€ mn %
As of December 31 2018 2017XXIX. 2016XXIX. As of December 31 2018 2017 2016
Americas 513 883 851 Share of digital outbound communicationXXX. % 72.3 65.1 58.8
Asia Pacific 190 171 36
XXX.  Digital contract- and claims-related outbound communication to customers, intermediaries, agents and external service providers.
Europe 1,976 1,864 2,132
Other 17 22 23 Table NPS–1
Total 2,696 2,941 3,042 CUSTOMER SATISFACTION 
XXVIII. For additional details, please see the Allianz Tax Transparency Report 2018, to be published in May 2019. %
XXVIX. Data not included in the assurance scope of the external Sustainability Report assurance. Reporting started with reporting period 2016. As of December 31 2018 2017 2016
Net Promoter Score (NPS) greater than local market average or loyalty 
Table CC–1
leadership in their market % 74 60 55
CORPORATE CHARITABLE DONATIONS 
€ mn
As of December 31 2018 2017 2016
Corporate giving total (Cash contributions) € mn 25.8 20.0 19.3
Table CC–2
CORPORATE VOLUNTEERING 
hours
As of December 31 2018 2017 2016
Volunteering hours hours 77,268 80,435 90,728
106 Allianz Sustainability Report 2018 Overview In-focus Managing sustainability Our roles Data and performance
SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE DATA:
10.7 REPORTING PARAMETERS, SCOPE AND MATERIALITY
Reflecting our ambition of being the most  Scope of reporting  Detailed references to our approach to each of these disclosures can be found in the GRI 
trusted financial institution, we reflect our  Content Index.
Our 2018 Sustainability Report relates 
values of integrity, competence and resilience 
to the entire Allianz Group. All measures,  GRI Standards Disclosures and Topics Allianz material solutions
in our reporting. We continue with our focus 
activities and key figures refer to the  GRI 102 (General Disclosures) Being transparent on company data 
on reporting online, cross-linking to the 
2018 fiscal year (1 January 2018 to  GRI 102–12 (External initiatives) Committing to global sustainability initiatives and frameworks 
sustainability section of our website, the  GRI 102–13 (Membership of associations)
31 December 2018), unless otherwise stated.  Engaging internal and external stakeholders in trust-based relationships
People Fact Book and our Annual Report, 
This is our 18th annual Sustainability Report.  GRI 102–14 (Statement from senior decision-maker) Board and senior management engagement and support 
offering extra financial information.
Unless otherwise stated, we take operational  Sustainability being part of corporate strategy and corporate culture 
Content of the report is focused on the  control as the boundary for reporting.  GRI 102–15 (Key impacts, risks, and opportunities) Having efficient business risk management and systematic risk 
assessments
key requirements of our stakeholders and  An increasing number of Allianz subsidiaries 
GRI 102–16 (Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior) Having and adhering to own Business Code of Conduct (e.g. on ethics 
sustainability rating and benchmarking  now publish their own sustainability reports,  GRI 102–17 (Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics) & integrity)
providers. The primary target audience of the  which are available for download on  GRI 102–41 (Collective bargaining agreements) Ensuring respect of employee rights 
content of this report is such rating providers,  our website. GRI 201 (Economic Performance) Being a financially stable, resilient and high-performing company
analysts, investors and NGOs. Furthermore,  GRI 203 (Indirect Economic Impacts) Providing insurance products in developing countries vulnerable to 
this report contains key insights for our other  MATERIAL ISSUES AND ASPECTS climate change
stakeholder groups such as customers and  The key topics to be included in Allianz’s  GRI 205 (Anti-corruption) Being compliant with the law (i.e. anti-corruption, bribery, anti-
GRI 206 (Anti-competitive Behavior) competitive behavior)
employees. As outlined in section 01, this  Sustainability Report were shaped by  GRI 301 (Materials) Reducing environmental footprint from own business operations
report makes links to other documents,  our materiality analysis, which satisfies  GRI 302 (Energy)
disclosing our approach and reporting on  the GRI Principles for Defining Report  GRI 303 (Water and Effluents)
GRI 305 (Emissions)
our progress. content (sustainability context, materiality, 
GRI 401 (Employment) Generating jobs and hiring qualified employees
completeness, and stakeholder 
Our Sustainability Report has been prepared  Having fair employment mechanisms 
inclusiveness). To ensure alignment with 
in accordance with the Global Reporting  Having processes for strategic talent attraction and retention 
GRI Standards, we mapped the outcomes 
Initiative (GRI) Standards – core option. GRI 403 (Occupational Health and Safety) Promoting employee health and wellbeing
of our stakeholder consultation and  GRI 404 (Training and Education) Providing training and education opportunities
The GRI Content Index, available as an 
materiality assessment with our solutions  GRI 405 (Diversity and Equal Opportunity) Fostering diversity and equal opportunities 
appendix to this report is accessible through 
to the GRI Standards topics. Based on the  Supporting inclusive leadership and corporate culture 
our website.
material issues identified by our materiality  GRI 412 (Human Rights Assessment) Integrating ESG criteria in insurance decisions 
analysis, we have mapped the issues to GRI  Integrating ESG criteria in investment decisions for insurance assets 
disclosures and identified the upstream and  GRI 415 (Public Policy) Taking positions publicly and influencing public opinion 
downstream boundaries (see disclosure  GRI 417 (Marketing and Labeling) Responsible sales and marketing communications 
103–1 for each material topic in the GRI  GRI 418 (Customer Privacy) Protecting sensitive customer data and privacy
Content Index).
107 Allianz Sustainability Report 2018 Overview In-focus Managing sustainability Our roles Data and performance
SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE DATA:
10.7 REPORTING PARAMETERS, SCOPE AND MATERIALITY
MATERIAL ISSUES AND ASPECTS CONTINUED
In addition to the material topics matched to the GRI topics, we have identified and reported on 
the following topics in the report. 
Topic Allianz material solution Reference
Core Business Considering risks and opportunities from  See Group Annual Report, Risk and 
new technologies  opportunity report
Customer Satisfaction Building and promoting an environmental and  See sections 06.2 Growing with our customers, 
socially responsible brand 06.3 Progressing towards digital by default and 
06.4 Protecting our customers
Ensuring fair treatment of claims 
Extending digital offerings for customers 
Improving customer satisfaction
Employee Satisfaction Improving employee satisfaction See section 07.6 Employee engagement
ESG Opportunities Management Offering green solutions  See section 04.2 Sustainable solutions
ESG Risk Management Integrating ESG criteria in insurance decisions  See sections 03.4 Embedding sustainability in 
our insurance and investments business and 
04.1 Our approach
Integrating ESG criteria in investment decisions  See sections 03.4 Embedding sustainability in our 
for insurance assets  insurance and investments business and 05.2 ESG 
in our role as asset owner
108 Allianz Sustainability Report 2018
Imprint Photo credit Cautionary note regarding   Click here to view the Assurance Report.
Copyright © Allianz SE 2019 page 22: Goran Gajanin (IHK München  forward-looking statements Click here to view the GRI Content Index.
und Oberbayern)
  The statements contained herein may 
Click here to view the Explanatory Notes.
Publisher include statement of future expectations 
Allianz SE  and other forward-looking statements that 
Group Communications and   are based on management’s current views 
Corporate Responsibility  and assumptions and involve known and 
Königinstraße 28  unknown risks and uncertainties that could 
80802 Munich  cause actual results performance or events 
Germany  to differ materially from those expressed 
www.allianz.com/sustainability or implied in such statement. The company 
corporate.responsibility@allianz.com assumes no obligation to update any 
forward-looking statement.  
 
Project responsibility
Nico Ahn   We welcome your views
Group Communications and  
We warmly invite all our stakeholders to 
Corporate Responsibility 
provide feedback and comments on our 
Allianz SE
Sustainability Report: 
 
Design, concept and production corporate.responsibility@allianz.com
Radley Yeldar, London, U.K. 
ry.com
We would like to thank all of our colleagues 
and partners who have helped us to create 
this report.
 
Date of publication: 11 April 2019
For more information on key Human Resources facts and  For more information on Allianz Group, 
figures, achievements in 2018 and an outlook for 2019,  see the Annual Report 2018. 
see the Allianz People Fact Book 2018.
Allianz SE
Group Communications and  
Corporate Responsibility  
Königinstraße 28  
80802 Munich  
Germany
www.allianz.com/sustainability