
2020
Corporate  
Social  
Responsibility 
Report
Contents
  INTRODUCTION   KEEPING THE PROMISE 
3
TO CLIENTS  33
Amundi, the leading European asset manager  4
Editorial: Xavier Musca and Yves Perrier  6 3.1  Developing a long-lasting 
relationship with partner 
2020 key figures  8
networks and their clients  33
Environment and Strategy  10
3.2  Establishing relationships of 
Our business model  12 trust with our corporate and 
Changes in governance  14 institutional clients and offering 
Board of Directors  16 them solutions tailored to their 
needs  34
General Management Committee  18
3.3  An independent compliance 
Executive Committee  19
and risk management structure 
Global Advisory Board  20
to guarantee our commitment 
Role of the management bodies  21 to our clients  35
3.4  Data protection (GDPR)  37
  AMUNDI’S CSR  
 1
COMMITMENTS  23   MAKING INDIVIDUAL 
4
AND COLLECTIVE 
1.1  Amundi’s CSR challenges  23 DEVELOPMENT CENTRAL 
1.2  Amundi’s participation in the Crédit  TO OUR RESPONSIBILITY 
Agricole S.A. Group’s FReD initiative  23 AS AN EMPLOYER  38
1.3  Amundi’s non-financial ratings and 
participation in socially responsible  4.1  Amundi Identity Card as of 
stock market indices  24 31 December 2020  38
1.4  Charters and securities market  4.2  Employment, training and 
practices to which we are committed  24 compensation  40
1.5  Application of the duty of vigilance  25 4.3  Social cohesion, Quality of life 
1.6  Respect for human rights  25 at work and Commitment  42
  ACTING AS A RESPONSIBLE    ACTING AS A 
2 FINANCIAL INSTITUTION  26 5 COMMUNITY MINDED, 
ECO-AWARE CITIZEN  45
2.1  An ambitious action plan  26
2.2  Amundi’s responsible investment  5.1  Inclusion  45
strategy  27 5.2  Sponsorship and solidarity 
2.3  Amundi’s ESG policy  28 actions  46
2.4  Climate action  30 5.3  Responsible purchasing  47
2.5  Social and Solidarity Impact Investing  31 5.4  Direct environmental footprint  48
2.6  The commitment of the Real and 
Alternative Assets division  32
  METHODOLOGY 
6
AND INDICATORS  51
6.1  Methodological note  51
6.2  Table of indicators  53
2 AMUNDI - 2020 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
Corporate Social 
Responsibility 
Report
2020
Amundi, the leading European asset manager, ranking 
among the top 10 global players(1), offers its 100 million 
clients - retail, institutional and corporate - a complete 
range of savings and investment solutions in active and 
passive management, in traditional or real assets. 
With its six international investment hubs(2), financial 
and extra-financial research capabilities and long-
standing commitment to responsible investment, Amundi 
is a key player in the asset management landscape.
Amundi clients benefit from the expertise and advice of 
4,700 employees in more than 35 countries. A subsidiary of 
the Crédit Agricole group and listed on the stock exchange, 
Amundi currently manages more than €1.700 trillion of assets(3).
By law, Amundi is not required to issue an Extra- Financial Performance Report (DPEF) 
insofar as Crédit Agricole S.A., its parent company, draws up a consolidated DPEF for the 
Group that incorporates the extra-financial information of its subsidiaries and is published 
in its annual registration document. 
Nevertheless, to report to its stakeholders on its commitments and accomplishments 
in this area, Amundi is publishing this CSR report, whichcorresponds to Chapter 3 of its 
Registration Document.
(1) S ource: IPE “Top 500 Asset Managers” published in June 2020, based on assets 
under management as at 31/12/2019..
(2) Boston, Dublin, London, Milan, Paris and Tokyo.
(3) Amundi data as of 31/12/2020
AMUNDI - 2020 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 3
Amundi, the leading European  
asset manager
The no. 1 
European asset
manager in the global
top 10(1)
The highest  
 market capitalisation
in Europe(2)
€378 bn
Assets under 
responsible investment 
management
€1,729 bn
Assets under 
management
Asia 
Europe   17%
excl. France  
and Italy  
13% Rest of the world  
2%
Italy   Americas  
10% 4%
Breakdown 
of AuM
by geography 
(31/12/2020)
France  
54%
(1) Source: IPE “Top 500 Asset Managers” published in June 2020, based on assets under management at 31 December 2019.
(2) Among traditional asset managers – Refinitiv, December 2020.
4 AMUNDI - 2020 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
Amsterdam Erevan Mumbai Varsovie
Bangkok Francfort Munich Vienne
Barcelone Genève Paris Zurich
Beijing Helsinki Prague
Boston Hong Kong Santiago du Chili
Bratislava Kuala Lumpur Séoul
Bruxelles Londres Shanghai
Bucarest Luxembourg Singapour
Budapest Madrid Sofia
 I nvestment hubs
Casablanca Mexico Stockholm  Local investment centres
 O ther Amundi entities
Dubaï Miami Taipei  Joint ventures
Dublin Milan Tokyo
As of 31/12/2020.
Durham Montréal Toronto
 
A complete range   More tha n 
of active and passive management 100 
in traditional and real assets   
million clients
More than 
35  4,700
countries employees
AMUNDI - 2020 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 5
Editorial: Xavier Musca and Yves 
Perrier
Xavier Musca
Chair of the Board of Directors of Amundi
Deputy Chief Executive Officer of Crédit Agricole S.A.
The year 2020 will be remembered as one of unprecedented 
crisis. However, Amundi successfully passed this test of 
resilience. The company’s business lines sustained their 
momentum with contributions from all client segments, and 
financed internal growth investments thanks to continued 
productivity gains. Its cost/income ratio (51.7%) remained 
amongst the best in the industry. Corrected for market effects, 
results for 2020 are in line with the company’s 2018-2020 
plan. On the back of this strong performance and our sound  Amundi’s ever more numerous initiatives to foster a form of 
financial structure, the Board has submitted a proposed  finance that better respects the environment and promotes 
dividend of 2.90 euros per share to the Annual General  social cohesion contribute to the Crédit Agricole Group’s 
Meeting. This is equivalent to 65% of the Group’s share of net  ambition  to  become  Europe’s  leading  company  for 
income. responsible investment.
Throughout this turbulent year, Amundi continued paving  Paving the way forward also includes tending to management 
the way forward with new initiatives: creating a new joint  succession. After 14 years helming the Group, Yves Perrier has 
venture  with  Bank  of  China,  wished to pass on the responsibilities 
acquiring Banco Sabadell Asset  of Chief Executive Officer. Under his 
Management in Spain and launching  “In 2020, Amundi  leadership, Amundi has grown to be 
Amundi Technology.  the leading European asset manager 
continued its trajectory  
and a global leader recognised for 
Amundi is entirely aligned with all  of profitable growth   the strength of its business model, 
three dimensions (client, human and  its  dynamic  growth  and  its 
and entered  
societal) of the Crédit Agricole   positioning as a financial player 
Group’s project. As a leader on ESG  a new phase of its  committed to society. Both Amundi 
issues, Amundi is able to offer  and the Crédit Agricole Group owe 
commitment  
clients of the Group’s networks and  a great deal to Yves Perrier. 
third-party  distributors  savings  to sustainability as a 
solutions  that  meet  their  The  Board  of  Directors  has 
responsible investor.”
expectations regarding social and  nominated  Valérie  Baudson  to 
environmental goals. Consistent  succeed Yves as CEO and I have 
with objectives announced in 2018,  proposed that he take my place as 
100% of Amundi’s actively managed funds now take ESG  Chair of the Board of Directors so that Amundi continues to 
criteria into account(1). The company has also exceeded its target  benefit from his unparalleled experience. This change in 
for assets held in ‘green solutions’, increasing assets under  governance will help us ensure a smooth transition and 
management at end-2020 to €21.9 billion from €12.3 billion.  guarantee Amundi’s continued success. 
(1) February 2021. when an ESG-rating methodology can be applied.
6 AMUNDI - 2020 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
Yves Perrier
Chief Executive Officer  
of Amundi
Despite  the  unprecedented  acquisition  of  Sabadell  Asset 
health crisis, Amundi successfully  “Amundi   Management in Spain strengthen the 
demonstrated the strength of its  once again confirmed   company in its two priority areas for 
business model and organisation.  international growth: Europe and 
the strength of  
Asia.  And  lastly, the  launch of 
The  robustness  of  our  IT  its business model   Amundi Technology, a new business 
infrastructure and the commitment  line, leveraging the IT expertise we 
and launched several 
of employees made it possible to  have developed in-house, is set to 
ensure a high level of service all year  strategic initiatives   deliver a new source of growth. 
long, throughout the 36 countries 
that will fuel  
in which the company operates. Today, Amundi is the industry’s 
its growth going  
European  leader,  recognised 
The 2020 financial year reaffirmed  forward.” worldwide for its expertise, its 
the profitable growth momentum  growth momentum and profitability, 
which the company has sustained  as well as for its commitment as a 
since its creation. Inflows remained  responsible investor. 
high (+45 billion euros), and adjusted net income (962 million 
euros) is – excluding market effects – in line with the  It is in this context that I decided, after 14 years at the helm 
objectives set out in the 2018-2020 strategic plan. And lastly  of the company, that the time had come to hand off the 
the cost/income ratio (51.7%) remains one of the industry’s  duties of Chief Executive Officer. As of 10 May 2021, Valérie 
highest. These results made it possible to reinforce the  Baudson will succeed me in this role, while I will become 
company’s financial structure and resume paying a dividend  Chair of the Board of Directors. Valérie Baudson has been 
consistent with the policy announced at the time of the IPO  with the company since 2007 and has played a key role in 
(65% of consolidated net income).  Amundi’s success by developing the passive/ETF business 
and CPR AM, as well as through her active contributions to 
2020 also yielded a wealth of strategic initiatives. Our  the Group as an executive. I have full confidence in her 
agreements with Société Générale were renewed for five years.  ability to steer Amundi along a continued trajectory of 
The joint venture created in China with Bank of China and the  growth. 
AMUNDI - 2020 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 7
2020 key figures
In 2020, Amundi continued its profitable growth trajectory. During  
an exceptional pandemic year, Amundi demonstrated its resilience  
by remaining 100% operational and by maintaining a strong business 
momentum, with net inflows of +€45bn(1).Net income(2) stayed robust  
at €962m, almost stable excluding the impact of the market downturn  
in 2020(3).These sound results reflect excellent operating efficiency,  
with expenses down by 2.6% vs 2019, and a cost/income ratio(2)  
at 51.7%. The financial situation remains solid with tangible equity(4) 
amounting to €3.2bn and a CET1 ratio at 20.0%.
Activity
 
+€45 bn €1,729 bn
 
Net inflows(1) Assets under 
management(1)
Profitability
€962m
Net income,  
Group share(2)
51.7%
Cost/income  
ratio(2)
(1) Assets under management and inflows including Sabadell AM as of Q3 2020 and include assets under advisory and assets marketed 
and take into account 100% of the Asian joint ventures’ inflows and assets under management. For Wafa in Morocco, assets are 
reported on a proportional consolidation basis.
(2) Adjusted data: excluding amortisation of distribution contracts.
(3) Restatement of the impact in 2020 of the decline in the average EuroStoxx index and financial income in the amount of ~-€50m after tax.
(4) Equity excluding goodwill and intangible assets.
8 AMUNDI - 2020 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
Growth in assets under management 2009-2020
Assets under management at year-end, in €bn
670 705 671 749 792 878 985 1 083 1 426 1 425 1 653 1,729
2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020
Breakdown of AuM
as of 31/12/2020
6%
€96bn 18%
Real and Structured Assets
€318bn
Equities
46% 15%
€791bn By asset class €252bn
Fixed Income Liquidity Solutions
16%
€272bn
Multi-Asset
26% 27%
€449bn €464bn
Retail excluding joint ventures -   Crédit Agricole &  
Partner networks and other networks Société Générale Groups’ Insurance Companies
By client type
14%
33%
€239bn
Joint-ventures €577bn
Institutional & Corporate clients
AMUNDI - 2020 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 9
Environment and Strategy
A unique positioning
Since its creation in 2010, Amundi has based its development on a strategic vision: to offer simple investment 
solutions tailored to the needs of retail and institutional clients, in France and abroad, by developing all its areas 
of expertise and establishing a presence in the main international investment regions. 
This strategy is based on four pillars: a comprehensive, high-performance range of products and services, 
strong advisory capabilities, excellent operational efficiency and a strong commitment to social responsibility.
It is also based on a unique organisational model: a structure that is both global and local, client centric and 
coupled with an industrial approach to the business.
This strategy has been confirmed by a significant increase in assets under management and earnings, which 
have increased 2.6-fold between 2010 and 2020.. 
Accelerating basic trends confirm the  
value of Amundi’s development model
Continued pressure on margins Increasingly demanding regulation
For several years now, the financial sector as a whole has  Since the 2008 crisis, increasing regulatory requirements 
been confronted with persistently low interest rates. This  have required significant investments and led to industrial 
situation, accentuated by the concerted actions of central  logic.
banks in response to the Covid-19 crisis, is reflected in 
lower returns on the assets in which client savings are  Stronger client needs for services  
invested and consequently greater pressure on asset  and new uses
managers’ margins, while encouraging the development  Distributors are also subject to pressure on margins, 
of passive management, which benefits from low costs.  stricter regulatory requirements, particularly in terms of 
This pressure on margins is compounded by growing  advisory services, and changing client expectations. As a 
competition from the large US asset management  result, they are increasingly looking for partners capable 
companies, which benefit from a powerful domestic  of offering them a complete range of solutions: operational 
market: the US market accounts for 50% of the global  services, management and advisory solutions, as well as 
market.  digital tools, made even more essential by the health crisis. 
Similarly, institutional clients may request advisory services 
Increased demand for comprehensive  or need to outsource all or part of their investment 
offerings, covering all areas of expertise processes.
In an uncertain environment marked by persistently low 
interest rates, clients – both retail and institutional – are 
looking for tailored, flexible solutions adapted to the 
market context. These solutions must therefore be able 
to include both traditional assets, under active or passive 
management, and real assets (real estate, private debt, 
private equity and infrastructure, amongst others). This 
represents an opportunity for players with a full range of 
expertise and allocation capabilities.
10 AMUNDI - 2020 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
Growing investor expectations   New opportunities  
for ESG issues in Asia
Beyond economic considerations, the asset management  Lastly, the crisis of 2020 accelerated the shift in economic 
industry is also facing ESG challenges. Investors now want  growth  from  Western  countries  to  Asia.  This  has 
to be more responsible towards the environment, society  accentuated the need for savings solutions among the 
and in terms of governance. They are therefore looking  middle classes in emerging Asian countries, particularly 
for investment solutions that fully integrate these factors.  in China and India.
This trend has accelerated: in 2020, 49% of flows in 
medium and long-term assets went to funds with an ESG(1) 
dimension.
An effective strategy that remains unchanged
The strategy implemented by Amundi since 2010 is fully in  5. Transform technology into a new growth 
line with these developments. It is based on the following  driver by:
priorities:  c ontinuing to invest in our IT platform and promoting it to 
external clients through our Amundi Technology offering;
1. Accelerate our development in our two    enriching the range of support services for distribution 
client segments, Retail and Institutional, by: networks by deploying innovative, customised digital tools.
  consolidating our leadership as a preferred partner of 
networks and distributors, building on a range of solutions,  6. Strengthen our positioning as a responsible 
services and tools adapted to each distribution channel, investor, a commitment at the very core of Amundi’s 
  increasing  penetration  among  institutional  clients,  model, which is embodied in both:
leveraging our full range of expertise and our advisory and   t he widespread consideration of extra-financial criteria 
services offering. in all our management activities and in our engagement 
policy vis-à-vis issuers;
2. Support this development with a high-  t he  development  of  specific  innovative  solutions  to 
performance management offering that is  meet the growing demand of our clients.
constantly being enriched, by continuing to 
invest in fast-growing areas of expertise (in  7. Favour organic development strategy that 
particular passive management and real assets) and in  applies to all our businesses, areas of expertise and 
new solutions (discretionary management, to name  geographies. This strategy may be complemented 
just one). by external acquisitions if they create sufficient value 
to enable to accelerate the implementation of our strategy.
3. Consolidate our leadership in Europe and 
roll out more extensively in Asia, building on 
our  direct  presence,  our  joint  ventures  and  new 
partnerships, notably the acquisition of Sabadell Asset 
Management and the creation of a new subsidiary in China 
in partnership with Bank of China.
4. Leverage the efficiency of our industrial 
model to keep costs among the lowest in the industry, a 
key  competitive  advantage  in  an  environment  of 
persistently low interest rates. The constant search for 
productivity gains and economies of scale enables us to 
finance the investments necessary for development, while 
ensuring that our offers remain competitive.
(1) Source: Broadridge, in % of open-ended funds flows in 2020.
AMUNDI - 2020 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 11
Our business model
Our raison d’être* :  
Amundi, a trusted partner working every day  
in the interest of its clients and society.
Our strengths
1.  M  anagement platforms present across  
all asset classes
 Active and passive management
 Traditional and real assets
Our 
 6  international hubs (Boston, Dublin, London, Milan, Paris  
and Tokyo) organisation  
2.  Large-scale innovation capabilities is both  
 W  e are constantly developing new savings and investment 
solutions (thematic, ESG…) global  
and local
3. Diversified profile
 E ntities in more than 35 countries
 1 00 million Retail clients, via our partner networks and  
our third-party distributors Client-focused, with  
 1 ,500 institutional clients an industrial approach.  
Our management platforms 
4. Experienced, committed employees and our risk controls  
 4 ,700 employees, of which 750 are investment professionals 
are fully integrated for  
covering all asset classes
 C  ommitted employees (ERI score(1) of 74%) the entire Group.
Our sales teams are dedicated 
5. State-of-the-art technology to each client profile, in more 
  ALTO(2): a high-quality proprietary back-to-front tool
than 35 countries, adapting  
to specific local requirements.
6. Strong commitment to social responsibility
 R ecognised ESG analysis capabilities
 A   position adopted since our creation and built on in 2018  
with a new ESG action plan
 1 0,000 ESG-rated issuers
7. Solid financials
 F itch Ratings: A+ with stable outlook 
 A   strong balance sheet and stable shareholder base
 E xcellent operational efficiency
* According to the Notat-Senard report of March 2018 entitled “L’entreprise, objet d’intérêt collectif”, raison d’être is defined as what is 
“essential to fulfil the corporate object, i.e. the scope of the company’s activities”. The Crédit Agricole Group’s raison d’être, “Working 
every day in the interest of our clients and society”, is not a statutory concept and was formulated as part of the Group’s project and the 
2022 Medium-Term Plan.
(1) Engagement and Recommendation Index. (2) Amundi Leading Technologies & Operations. (3) Adjusted data: excluding amortisation of 
distribution contracts; average annual growth between 2018 and 2022 (based on market-neutral assumptions over the period). (4) 2020 
data. (5) 5-year period: scope of open-ended funds. (6) Consultants: AonHewitt, Cambridge Associates, Mercer, Russell, Willis Towers 
Watson, Bfinance, December 2020 data.
12 AMUNDI - 2020 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
Our business
We offer savings and investment solutions tailored to the needs of our clients – Retail, 
Institutional and Corporate –, striving constantly to have a positive impact on society and  
the environment. To achieve this, we rely on an organisation that is both global and local  
and a full range of expertise and services.
Our ambition
To be among the top 5 players in the global asset management industry, being recognised for:
 the quality of expertise and services provided to our clients
 our growth and profitability momentum, with two major objectives:
• 5% average annual growth in adjusted net earnings from 2018 to 2022(3)
• cost/income ratio of 53% or less(3)
 our positioning as a committed financial player
Our value  
creation for(4)…
RETAIL INSTITUTIONAL    
CLIENTS AND   1.  Our clients
CORPORATE CLIENTS  7 4% of assets under management in the 1st and  
2nd quartiles of the Morningstar ranking(5)
 67% of positive recommendations from consultants(6)
 R etail Client Recommendation Index covering  
4 countries (France, Italy, Czech Republic, Slovakia)  
A DEPARTMENT DEDICATED   and 7 partner banks (Crédit Agricole Regional Banks, 
TO RESPONSIBLE INVESTMENT… LCL, CA Italy, UniCredit Italy, KB, UniCredit CZ and 
UniCredit SK)
DEDICATED SALES   DEDICATED SALES   2. Our employees
AND  AND   Average annual pay: €143,100(7)
MARKETING TEAMS MARKETING TEAMS  G  lobal fairness ratio: 21(8)
 2 8.6% women on the Executive Committee
 6 2% of employees trained
… FOR THE BENEFIT OF CLIENTS…   C  apital increase reserved for employees  
(30% discount)
3. Society
INTEGRATED PLATFORMS 
 €  378bn in Responsible Investment assets under 
IN ACTIVE MANAGEMENT, PASSIVE MANAGEMENT 
management
AND REAL ASSETS
 €  331m in social impact investing assets under 
management
 T axes paid: €564m, of which €359m in France(9)
…AND LIAISING CLOSELY WITH THE INVESTMENT TEAMS  8 6% of votes in favour of climate resolutions  
at the General Meetings of companies in which Amundi 
is a shareholder
 9 00 young people in training (work-study students  
CENTRALISED IT PLATFORM, 
and interns)
SUPPORT SERVICES  
AND RISK CONTROLS
4. Our shareholders
 73%: TSR(10) of the share since the IPO
 Excellent cost/income ratio: 51.7%
 Dividend pay-out rate: 65%
(7) Global scope - Wages and salaries of employees divided by the average workforce. (8) Methodology available in section 2.4 of the Universal 
Registration Document for 2020. (9) Taxes and social security contributions. (10) Total Shareholder Return: change in share price at 31/12/2020  
+ dividends paid from 2016 to 2019 + detachment of the preferential subscription right in March 2017.
AMUNDI - 2020 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 13
Changes  
in governance
On 10 May 2021, the date of the shareholders’ meeting,  
Amundi governance will change as follows:
– Valérie Baudson will succeed Yves Perrier as Chief Executive Officer,
–  Yves Perrier will take on the role of Chair of the Board of Amundi, 
succeeding Xavier Musca.
This change in governance will ensure Amundi continues to grow  
and develop according to the strategy implemented successfully since 
its creation.
14 AMUNDI - 2020 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
Valérie Baudson joined the company 14 years ago. 
She  has  been  a  member  of  the  Executive 
Committee  since  2013  and  of  the  General 
Management Committee since 2016. She heads 
the following businesses: CPR AM, the ETF, 
Indexing and Smart beta, and the Distribution and 
Wealth division.
Yves Perrier
She has been a key player in Amundi’s success, 
thanks to the development of the Indexing/ETF 
business and of CPR AM, as well as her active 
contribution to the general management.
Yves Perrier, who has led the company for the 
past 14 years, was the architect behind the  Valérie Baudson will become a member of the 
creation of Amundi in 2010 and steered its  Executive  Committee  and  Deputy  General 
development. Today, Amundi is the leading  Manager of Crédit Agricole S.A.
European asset manager and one of the top 
players globally. She is a graduate of HEC Paris. 
Under the leadership of Yves Perrier, the company 
saw substantial development achieved through 
organic growth, supplemented by successful 
external growth operations, in particular the 
acquisition of Pioneer Investments in 2017. Assets 
under management rose 2.5-fold between 2010 
and 2020 and earnings have virtually doubled 
since its Initial Public Offering in 2015. The 
company’s stock market capitalisation has also 
virtually doubled since the IPO.
Going beyond its economic performance, Amundi 
has confirmed its position as a leader in ESG, 
particularly by applying extra-financial criteria 
across all its management operations.
Aged 67, Yves Perrier is a graduate of ESSEC and 
is a Certified Public Accountant (CPA). 
 Valérie Baudson
AMUNDI - 2020 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 15
Board of Directors
Members  
15 of the Board of Directors as at 31/12/2020
Changes in governance as of 10 May 2021
(see pages 14/15)
Xavier Musca Yves Perrier Henri Buecher Michèle Guibert 
Chair of the Board of Directors Chief Executive Officer   Director Director
since 2012 and Director since 2019 since 2020
Deputy Chief Executive Officer  since 2007  Chair of Caisse Régionale of  Chief Executive Officer of Caisse 
of Crédit Agricole S.A. Deputy Managing Director  Crédit Agricole Alsace Vosges Régionale du Crédit Agricole 
of Crédit Agricole S.A. des Côtes d’Armor
William   Michel Mathieu Christian Rouchon Andrée Samat
Kadouch-Chassaing Director Director Director
Director since 2016 since 2009 since 2015
since 2018 Chief Executive Officer of LCL Chief Executive Officer of Caisse  Chair of Caisse Régionale of 
Deputy General Manager  Régionale du Crédit Agricole du  Crédit Agricole Provence Côte 
in charge of Finance of  Languedoc d’Azur
Société Générale Group
Virginie Cayatte Laurence Danon-Arnaud Robert Leblanc Hélène Molinari
Independent   Independent   Independent   Independent  
director director director director
since 2015 since 2015 since 2015 since 2015
Financial Director of Adisseo Chair of Primerose SAS Chair and Chief Executive  Manager of AHM Conseil
Officer of Aon France
Éric Tazé-Bernard Jean-Michel Forest Gianni Franco Papa
Director elected by the employees Non-voting member Non-voting member
since 2016  since 2015 since 2018
Chief Asset Allocation Advisor  Chair of Caisse Régionale  Former Chief Executive Officer 
for the institutional investors of  du Crédit Agricole Loire  of UniCredit
Amundi Asset Management Haute-Loire
16 AMUNDI - 2020 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
At 31/12/2020
Specialised 
committees
5
Strategic and CSR
Audit
Risk
Compensation
Appointments
Overview  
of the Board 
of Directors
Overview 
33% of the Group’s 
Management Bodies
independent(1) (2)
General   Executive 
42%
Management  Committee(6) 
Committee(5)
14 28
female(2) (3)
members members
61
years
3   6  
average age nationalities nationalities
3  8 
women women
22
(1) In accordance with Recommendation 9.3 of the AFEP-MEDEF Code, the 
director elected by employees is not taken into account when calculating 
meetings(4) this percentage.
(2) In the absence of regulatory constraints, non-voting members are not taken 
into account in calculations.
(3) In accordance with Article L. 225-27 para. 2 of the French Commercial 
96.7%  Code, the Director elected by the employees is not taken into account when 
calculating this percentage.
(4) Total number and overall attendance rate at Committee meetings and Board 
of Directors’ meetings in 2020.
attendance rate(4) (5) The General Management Committee coordinates Amundi’s core business 
lines, balances priorities and makes major governance decisions.
(6) The Executive Committee ensures the consistent and effective deployment 
of the strategy in all countries in which the Amundi Group is present.
AMUNDI - 2020 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 17
General  
Management  
Committee
As of 31/12/2020 Yves PERRIER 
Chief Executive Officer
Changes in 
governance as 
of 10 May 2021
(see pages 14/15)
Bernard DE WIT  Valérie BAUDSON  Fathi JERFEL 
Head of the Support   Chief Executive Officer   Head of the Partner  
and Control Division of CPR AM, of the Third-Party  Networks Division
Distribution & Private Banking 
Division and Passive Management
Pascal BLANQUÉ  Dominique  Guillaume LESAGE 
Chief Investment Officer CARREL-BILLIARD  Chief Operating Officer
Head of Real Assets
Nicolas CALCOEN  Jean-Jacques BARBÉRIS  Isabelle SENÉTERRE 
Head of Finance, Strategy  Head of the Institutional and  Head of Human Resources
and Public Affairs Corporate Clients Division
Vincent MORTIER  Cinzia TAGLIABUE  Matteo GERMANO  Éric VANDAMME 
Deputy Chief Investment  Deputy Head of Partner  Head of Multi-Asset  Chief Risk Officer
Officer Networks Division,   and CIO Italy
CEO Italy
18 AMUNDI - 2020 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
Executive Committee
The Executive Committee is composed of General Management Committee members and of:
Éric BRARD  Fannie WURTZ  Élodie LAUGEL  Thierry ANCONA 
Head of Fixed Income Head of Passive Investing Chief Responsible Investment  Head of Sales, Third-Party 
Officer and Head of  Distributors and Wealth
Institutional Marketing
Christophe COQUEMA  Alain BERRY  Laurent BERTIAU 
Head of Retail Marketing Head of Communication Head of Japan
Julien FONTAINE  Xiaofeng ZHONG,   Lisa JONES  Domenico AIELLO 
Head of Partnerships,   Chairman of Greater China Head of the Americas Chief Financial Officer
in charge of Joint Ventures
David HARTE  Catherine CHABREL   Dorothée PIREL 
Head of Ireland   Head of Compliance Head of Internal Audit 
and Deputy Chief 
Operating Officer
AMUNDI - 2020 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 19
Global  
Advisory Board
As of 31/12/2020
Hubert VÉDRINE  Sir Simon FRASER  Hye-Min LEE 
Chair of the Board Former Permanent Secretary  Former Ambassador  
Former Foreign Affairs  at the UK Foreign and  to France for the Republic  
Minister in France Commonwealth Office of Korea
Enrico LETTA(1)  Maurice LÉVY  Christian NOYER 
Former Prime Minister   Chair of the Supervisory  Honorary Governor  
of Italy Board of Publicis Group of the Banque de France
Dr. Jürgen STARK  Yuan WANG  Tatsuo YAMASAKI 
Former member of the Executive  Chief Economist of   Former Finance  
Board and the Governing Council  the China Development Bank  Vice Minister of Japan
of the European Central Bank
(1) Stepped down in March 2021 after his election as Secretary General of the Italian Democratic Party.
20 AMUNDI - 2020 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
Role of  
the management  
bodies
The Board of Directors
The Board of Directors, acting on the recommendation 
of Amundi’s Chair and Chief Executive Officer, defines 
the  strategic  orientations,  approves  strategic 
investment projects, decides on the general principles 
of internal financial organisation and exercises its 
supervisory role, particularly in the area of risk 
management.
The Management Committee  
and the Executive Committee
The Management Committee ensures coordination 
between the main business lines, sets priorities and 
makes the main governance decisions.
The Executive Committee defines the Group’s strategy 
and ensures it is consistently and effectively rolled out 
in all our host countries.
The Global Advisory Board
Since 2016, the Global Advisory Board has brought 
together world-renowned figures from the political and 
economic arenas. This advisory committee regularly 
shares its perspective on global developments at both 
economic and geopolitical level, delivering original 
visions that can guide Amundi in its decisions. 
AMUNDI - 2020 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 21
Key figures
Commitment 1
Acting as a responsible financial institution
Responsible 
investment assets
€378.3
bn
of which multi-criteria ESG  of which thematic  of which AuM of the Finance et Solidarité 
approach environment solutions fund (social and solidarity impact)
€355.9 €21.9 €0.33
bn bn bn
Commitment 2 Commitment 3
Making individual and collective  Acting as a  
development central to our  community-minded,  
responsibility as an employer eco-aware citizen
Carbon emissions
Amundi commitment score 2020 Energy and business travel
80 5,412
% tCO
 
2
Training rate Amount of contributions
62 €2.7
% m
Percentage of women among  Purchases from sheltered 
executives (1) sector companies
30.1 €0.4
% m
By law, Amundi is not required to issue a Non-Financial Performance Report (DPEF) insofar as Crédit Agricole S.A., 
its parent company, draws up a consolidated DPEF for the Group that incorporates the non-financial information 
of its subsidiaries and is published in its annual Universal Registration Document.
However, in order to report on its commitments and achievements in this area to its stakeholders, Amundi is 
publishing this CSR report corresponding to Chapter 3 of its Universal Registration Document.
(1) % of women in the Senior Leadership Team (Top 150)
22 AMUNDI - 2020 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
1
Amundi’s CSR commitments
Amundi’s participation in the Crédit Agricole S.A. 
Acting as a responsible financial institution is a core  Amundi fully identifies with the three flagship projects that 
commitment of Amundi’s development strategy. This  form the bedrock of the Crédit Agricole Group’s development:
commitment is reflected in our responsible management and 
■  client project, which aims for excellence in relationships;
the offer of responsible investment solutions tailored to our 
customers’ needs. Our commitment is also reflected in our  ■  human project, based on responsibility;
corporate societal and environmental policy (CSR). ■  societal project, centred on our role in society, for the 
Amundi’s CSR commitments form part of Crédit Agricole’s  benefit of sustainable development.
new Group Project and its guiding purpose(1): “Acting in the  The objective of this report is to give a clear picture of the 
interests of our clients and society every day”. Since its values  direct and indirect social and environmental impacts of 
have been at the heart of its commitment from its creation,  Amundi’s business and to illustrate how the Company takes 
into account, and satisfies, the expectations of its stakeholders.
1  AMUNDI’S CSR COMMITMENTS
1.1  Amundi’s CSR challenges
As a pioneer in the field of responsible investment, Amundi has  involvement of its employees are Amundi’s CSR objectives. 
implemented a policy that seeks to incorporate environmental,  This policy is carried out both in France and abroad.
social and governance (ESG) criteria into its management 
Furthermore, considering the general issues inherent to asset 
strategies, beyond traditional financial analysis. We developed 
managers, Amundi’s specific challenges, the commitments of 
as well specific initiatives to promote the energy transition 
the Crédit Agricole Group and the analysis of the direct and 
and support the social and solidarity economy. As a leading 
indirect impacts of its activities, the Company has made three 
European asset manager with more than €1,729 billion in 
principal commitments:
assets under management as of the end of 2020, Amundi 
launched an ambitious three-year action plan in autumn 2018  ■  commitment to our clients: act as a responsible financial 
to take its ESG commitments to a new level. institution and deliver on the client promise;
Amundi’s responsibility is also to apply the principles of  ■  commitment to our employees: make individual and 
sustainable development to its own operations. Reducing  collective development central to our responsibility as an 
and managing its environmental impact, eliminating  employer;
discrimination, promoting equal opportunity, ensuring  ■  commitment to society and the world around us: act as a 
transparency and integrity in its governance, developing a  community-minded, eco-aware citizen.
long-term philanthropic policy and encouraging the social 
1.2  Amundi’s participation in the Crédit Agricole S.A. Group’s FReD initiative
Since 2012, the Crédit Agricole Group has deployed the FReD  and managing the social and environmental commitments 
initiative(2) in its various entities, including Amundi. This tool  of the Crédit Agricole Group. The participative approach 
for managing and measuring progress in the area of CSR  consists of defining six projects each year to be implemented 
makes it possible to manage the challenges of CSR and  in each entity in the three areas of CSR: economy, society and 
promotes the involvement of the executives and of the entire  environment.
workforce. In 2019, FReD became the tool for implementing 
(1) According to the Notat-Senard report of March 2018 entitled “L’entreprise, objet d’intérêt collectif”, raison d’être is defined as what is 
“essential to fulfil the corporate object, i.e. the scope of the company’s activities”. The Crédit Agricole Group’s raison d’être, “Working 
every day in the interest of our clients and society”, is not a statutory concept and was formulated as part of the Group’s project and the 
2022 Medium-Term Plan.
(2) FReD is an acronym for FIDES (economic element), RESPECT (social and societal commitments) and DEMETER (environmental 
actions). For more information on the FReD initiative, see: https://www.credit-agricole.com/en/responsible-and-committed/
our-csr-strategy-partnering-a-sustainable-economy/fred-an-original-csr-approach
AMUNDI - 2020 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 23
1
Amundi’s CSR commitments
Amundi’s non-financial ratings and participation in socially responsible stock market indices
1.3  Amundi’s non-financial ratings and participation in socially responsible 
stock market indices
Amundi is subject to several non-financial ratings confirming  ■  ranked 116th out of 673 financial companies in terms of CSR 
its CSR performance: performance by Sustainalytics;
■  “Advanced” rating from Vigeo Eiris, with the best score  ■  rated A by MSCI.
(70/100) in its sector;
The Amundi share is included in the British FTSE4Good index 
■  “Prime” rating from ISS ESG with a score of B-; and the Euronext Vigeo Eiris indices: World 120, Europe 120, 
Eurozone 120 and France 20.
1.4  Charters and securities market practices to which we are committed
Charters to which we are committed
Amundi is committed to and conducts its CSR strategy on a voluntary basis in accordance with the values and principles articulated 
in the following charters:
Date of entry 
Charters or signature
United Nations Global Compact 2003
Founding member of the Principles for Responsible Investment 2006
Charte de la Diversité (Diversity Charter) 2008
UNEP FI 2014
Charte de la Parentalité (Parenthood Charter) 2015
UK Modern Slavery Act 2017
Charte des Achats responsables (Responsible Purchasing Charter) 2018
Women in Finance Charter (Amundi UK) 2019
Operating Principles for Impact Management 2019
Securities market practices in 2020 As a key player in the management of assets, Amundi has 
played an active part in the work and consultations surrounding 
Amundi is an active participant in working groups conducted 
the European projects for the regulation of ESG investment, 
by market bodies aimed at moving responsible finance, 
namely disclosure regulations, taxonomy regulations. Amundi 
sustainable development and corporate governance forward. 
has contributed to the work of the AFG, particularly the 
Amundi is notably a member of the AFG(1), EFAMA (whose 
work of the Responsible Investment Committee. Amundi 
Standing Committee Stewardship & ESG is now co-chaired 
strives to reconcile the effectiveness of markets and of its 
by an Amundi representative), IFA, ORSE, SFAF, French, 
asset management business with the promotion of a more 
Spanish, Italian, Swedish, Canadian, Japanese and Australian 
responsible investment model that is more oriented to serving 
closed-end investment trusts, and of the French association 
the economy. As a European leader in asset management and 
“Entreprises pour l’Environnement”. Amundi is also a member 
pioneer of SRI management, Amundi has been able to share 
and director of Finansol and one of its representatives is a 
its vision and experience with the various players involved in 
member of the SRI Label Committee.
the project in Brussels, following on from the contributions 
In addition, a member of Amundi’s Senior Management chairs  already made in 2018 and 2019 at the HLEG (High-Level 
the Paris Europlace Investors’ Committee and a member of the  Expert Group on Sustainable Finance).
Executive Committee is Vice-Chair of Finance for Tomorrow. 
More generally, Amundi has contributed to the regulatory 
Amundi’s Director of Public Affairs chairs the Paris Europlace 
work carried out by the AFG, AFIC, ASPIM and AMAFI and 
Working Group on the cost of financial and non-financial 
Paris Europlace for France, as well as that of the EFAMA in 
data. Lastly, a member of the Amundi Responsible Investment 
Brussels and the AFME and ICMA in London. Lastly, Amundi’s 
Department has been appointed to the AMF’s Climate and 
subsidiaries in Europe belong to the professional associations 
Sustainable Finance Committee, while another has been 
of their respective countries.
appointed a member of the European Lab Project Task Force 
on Reporting of Non-financial Risks and Opportunities. In 2020, Amundi responded to at least ten consultations 
on European or French regulations under development or 
revision.
(1) AFG: Association Française de la Gestion financière (French Asset Management Association); AFIC: Association Française des Investisseurs 
pour la Croissance (French Association of Investors for Growth); ASPIM: Association française des Sociétés de Placement Immobilier 
(French Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts); AMAFI: Association française des Marchés Financiers (French Association of 
Financial Market Professionals); EFAMA: European Fund and Asset Management Association; AFME: Association for Financial Markets 
in Europe; ICMA: International Capital Market Association; IFA: Institut Français des Administrateurs (French Directors’ Institute); ORSE: 
Observatoire de la Responsabilité Sociétale des Entreprises (Corporate Social Responsibility Observatory); SFAF: Société Française des 
Analystes Financiers (French Society of Financial Analysts); SIF: Sustainable Investment Forums.
24 AMUNDI - 2020 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
1
Amundi’s CSR commitments
Respect for human rights
Amundi’s support for collective initiatives
Coordinated at international level, investor coalitions have  healthcare in developing countries. The coalitions work as 
as their goal to encourage governments to adopt incentives  well to get petroleum and mining companies to show greater 
and companies to improve their ESG practices. The areas  transparency in their dealings with the countries where they 
of concern are climate change, water, deforestation and  operate.
Supported by 
Initiative Theme Amundi since
IIGCC - Institutional Investors Group on Climate Change Climate change 2003
CDP – formerly Carbon Disclosure Project Climate change, transparency of ESG data 2004
PRI – Principles for Responsible Investment Responsible investment 2006
Access to Medicine Index Health 2010
ICGN – International Corporate Governance Network Governance Before 2013
Access to Nutrition Index Access to nutrition 2013
PDC – Portfolio Decarbonisation Coalition Climate change 2014
Montreal Carbon Pledge Climate change 2015
Green Bonds Principles Climate change 2015
CBI – Climate Bonds Initiative Climate change 2016
Pensions for purpose Impact investment 2017
Finance for tomorrow Sustainable finance 2017
TCFD – Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures Climate change 2017
Climate Action 100+ Climate change 2017
Embankment Project for Inclusive Capitalism Sustainable finance 2018
PLWF – Platform for Living Wage Financials Living wage 2018
The Japan TCFD Consortium Climate change 2019
OPSWF – One Planet Sovereign Wealth Fund Asset Manager 
Initiative Climate change 2019
ICI – International Climate Initiative Climate change 2019
La Fondation de la Mer Biodiversity, pollution 2019
Investor Action on AMR initiative Health 2020
Tobacco-Free Finance Pledge Health 2020
The 30% Club France Investor Group Gender diversity 2020
AIGCC – Asia Investor Group On Climate Change Climate change 2020
FAIIRR – Farm Animal Investment Risk & Return Alternative to intensive agriculture 2020
1.5  Application of the duty of vigilance
The French law on the duty of vigilance of parent companies  Crédit Agricole S.A., as the Parent company, reports on the 
and contracting companies applies to the Crédit Agricole S.A.  effective implementation of the measures laid out in the 
Group, which is obliged to prepare and implement a vigilance  vigilance plan for the Crédit Agricole S.A. Group as a whole, 
plan to better identify and prevent the risks of serious impacts  and therefore including Amundi. Further details on the Crédit 
from its activities on fundamental human rights and freedoms,  Agricole S.A. Group’s vigilance plan are presented in Chapter 3 
personal health and safety and on the environment. of the 2020 Universal Registration Document.
1.6  Respect for human rights
The commitment to respect human rights is fundamental at  violations without taking effective measures to remedy those 
Amundi, both as an advocate of responsible management and  violations, this constitutes a breach of the 10 principles of the 
as an employer. Respect for human rights is one of the criteria  Global Compact. Following discussions with that business, 
used to rate issuers and, together with the environmental  Amundi can therefore exclude it from its investment universe.
criteria, constitutes the basis for Amundi’s exclusion policy 
For several years, Amundi has maintained a shareholder 
(see section 2.1 Promoting responsible finance). Specifically, 
commitment with many companies on the subject of the living 
respect for human rights is taken into account in the ESG rating 
wage in order to ensure that direct employees, regardless of 
through the criterion “Local communities and human rights”. 
their country of establishment and the development of social 
When a business commits serious and repeated human rights 
AMUNDI - 2020 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 25
2
Acting as a responsible financial institution
An ambitious action plan
law in that country, receive a salary that enables them to  violations. Particularly migrant workers, who are at greater 
live with dignity and to meet their needs and those of their  risk, require special attention in the context of monitoring 
family. The results of this commitment are used to refine the  programmes that can be put in place by ordering companies.
ESG rating of companies supplied by Amundi and taken into 
This commitment is also reflected in Amundi’s HR policy, in 
account by managers when setting up funds.
the form of actions to promote diversity, the fight against 
The human rights aspect is also present in the analysis of the  discrimination, the importance of social dialogue and 
supply chains of businesses in some sectors where vigilance  collective bargaining, and compliance with freedom of 
is particularly important in order to prevent human rights  association (see section 4.2).
2  ACTING AS A RESPONSIBLE FINANCIAL INSTITUTION
Acting as a responsible financial institution is a founding  in investment policies has a positive impact on financial 
principle of Amundi and a central commitment of its  performance. This commitment is reflected in our various 
development strategy. This choice is based on two convictions.  management processes through challenges associated 
The first is that of having a clear conscience with respect to  with ESG integration, exclusion and voting policies, and of 
investors’ responsibility to allocate savings by taking into  course in the range of responsible solutions and services that 
account not just financial criteria but also its impact on society  Amundi has developed to support its various clients in their 
in general. The second is the conviction that taking into  ESG strategy.
account environmental, social and governance (ESG) criteria 
2.1  An ambitious action plan
In 2018, an ambitious plan was announced to expand  ■  “Climate” solutions: numerous partnerships and 
this approach, including objectives aimed in particular at  innovations were initiated with public entities (including 
applying ESG criteria across all management operations and  IFC(2), EIB(3)and AIIB(4)) to develop climate-specific 
developing specific initiatives (funding the energy transition  products and solutions.
and social inclusion) by doubling assets under management 
The total assets under management in Responsible Investment 
from €10 billion to €20 billion. The year 2020 was marked 
increased from €276 billion at the end of 2018 to €378 billion 
firstly by completion of the ESG plan for 2018–2021, secondly 
at the end of 2020.
by the continuation of the innovation policy, and lastly by an 
increased recognition of Amundi as a key player.
An active ESG innovation policy in 2020
Commitments met This increase in assets under management has benefited 
from the continuation of the active ESG innovation and 
These commitments, announced in 2018, are met:
development policy:
■  active management: 100% of open-ended funds(1)now 
■  Launch of AIIB–Amundi Climate Change Investment 
include ESG criteria; the objective for each fund’s portfolio 
Framework, using for the first time a holistic approach 
is to have a better ESG rating than its benchmark universe;
to build portfolios resistant to climate risks, based on the 
■  specific initiatives: assets under management for specific  three key objectives of the Paris Agreement;
initiatives (funding the energy transition and social 
■  Amundi was selected by a group of French institutional 
inclusion) totalled €22 billion at the end of 2020;
investors (including the Caisse des Dépôts) to manage the 
■  solidarity: at the end of 2020, the Amundi Solidarité fund  first Equity index fund aligned with the Paris Agreement;
reached €331 million in assets under management, versus 
■  Three ETFs were launched replicating the PAB (Paris 
€200 million in 2018;
Aligned Benchmarks) climate indices, thereby broadening 
■  ESG analysis: in 2020, Amundi covered 10,000 issuers; the  the range of “climate transition” solutions;
objective was to go up from 5,500 issuers to 8,000);
(1) February 2021. All open-ended funds actively managed by Amundi to which an ESG rating methodology can be applied.
(2) World Bank subsidiary.
(3) European Investment Bank.
(4) AIIB: Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank.
26 AMUNDI - 2020 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
2
Acting as a responsible financial institution
Amundi’s responsible investment strategy
■  Launch of the CPR Social Impact fund, the first Global  Amundi enjoys increasing recognition 
Equity investment fund dedicated to the theme of reducing  as a key player
social inequality, followed by the launch of a “Social Bond” 
global fund; ■  Amundi is ranked #1 in Europe in ESG AuM (open-ended 
funds) according to Broadridge(2).
■  Start of the first year of the GRECO fund for promoting 
the development of new green asset classes in Europe,  ■  Morgan Stanley selected Amundi as the only financial stock 
with support from the EIB(1), thus contributing to a post  of the 15 recommended stocks benefiting from market 
Covid-19 green recovery. trends on ESG(3).
The engagement policy was updated, with two major  ■  Amundi is the first asset manager to use estimated CDP(4) 
priorities regarding dialogue with issuers and the voting  temperature in its ESG analysis.
policy: contribution to the energy transition and contribution  ■  2020 PRI assessment results: Amundi has improved since 
to social cohesion. 2019, winning the highest score of A+ across all categories, 
including Private Equity, which participated this year for 
the first time.
2.2  Amundi’s responsible investment strategy
Amundi’s responsible investment strategy revolves around  or collaborative actions on the major challenges of 
several major areas: sustainable development.
■  Integrating ESG into management ■  ESG voting policy
All managers have access to the ESG ratings produced by  Amundi’s voting policy is in line with its vision as a 
the ESG Analysis team, i.e. 10,000 issuers worldwide. responsible investor and with the desire to help companies 
move towards more sustainable objectives.
■  A targeted exclusion policy
■  Responsible investment solutions
Amundi applies targeted exclusion rules in all its active 
management strategies that concern companies that do  Amundi offers its clients solutions tailored to the various 
not comply with its ESG policy, or with international and  ESG challenges and approaches: best-in-class funds, 
national conventions and frameworks. In addition, Amundi  labelled funds, thematic funds and impact funds. In 2020, 
implements sector-specific exclusions for the coal and  Amundi continued to innovate across all asset classes to 
tobacco industries, which were strengthened at the end  develop this range.
of 2020.
■  Innovative partnerships
■  Commitment with issuers
Lastly, through innovative partnerships with major public 
A key pillar of our responsible investor vision, commitment  investors, Amundi is developing solutions to finance the 
is demonstrated during analysts’ exchanges with  energy transition. We favour initiatives that stimulate both 
companies throughout the year and through individual  supply and demand and contribute to the creation of a 
dynamic market for responsible investment instruments.
At 31 December 2020
AUM €1,729 Bn
Responsible investment assets under management at 31 December 2020 €378.3bn
As % of AuM 21.9%
Funds and mandates incorporating a multi-criteria ESG approach
(ESG over-/underweighting, special exclusions based on Amundi or client guidelines or requirements) €355.9bn
Specific initiatives related to the environment and with a strong social impact
■  Environment (climate, energy transition, water, natural resources) €21.9bn
■  AuM invested in the social and solidarity economy €0.33bn
(1) European Investment Bank.
(2) Source: Broadridge, data at 30 November 2020 on open-ended funds in Europe.
(3) Morgan Stanley memo: “Sustainability & ESG in 2021: Key Themes and 15 Stocks to Buy”, 13 December 2020.
(4) CDP: International organisation (formerly Carbon Disclosure Project)
AMUNDI - 2020 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 27
2
Acting as a responsible financial institution
Amundi’s ESG policy
2.3  Amundi’s ESG policy
ESG analysis at the heart of our responsible  ■  businesses that severely and repeatedly contravene one or 
investment process more of the 10 principles of the Global Compact.
These are G-rated issuers according to Amundi’s rating 
Amundi’s ESG analysis methodology is based on a Best-in-
system.
Class approach. This approach consists of rating businesses 
on their ESG practices in their respective sectors on a scale  Furthermore, Amundi implements targeted sector exclusions 
from A (highest rating) to G (lowest rating). In order to rate  specific to the coal and tobacco industries, which apply to 
more than 10,000 issuers worldwide, Amundi’s ESG rating  all active management strategies for which Amundi has full 
is initially based on a consensus between the analyses of  portfolio management discretion.
partners who supply non-financial data.
In 2020, 617 issuers (Corporates and States) were excluded 
The analysis methodology is based on 37 criteria, including 16  from the managed portfolios(2).
generic criteria, common to all sectors, and 21 specific criteria, 
relevant to the challenges of the various sectors. Coal policy
To be effective and accurate, the ESG analysis should  Coal is the largest single contributor to climate change 
systematically target the major criteria relating to the  attributable to human activity. Since 2016, Amundi has applied 
company’s business sector. The weighting allocated to the  a sector-specific policy to thermal coal, which excludes certain 
selected criteria is a crucial element of the ESG analysis. In  companies and issuers. Every year, Amundi strengthens its 
each sector, ESG analysts weight four to five key criteria more  exclusion policies. In particular, exclusion thresholds based on 
heavily. The more the company faces a major risk for a given  the exposure of income to thermal coal have been reduced on 
criterion, the more demanding the ESG analysts will be in  an annual basis to 25% income exposure for mining companies 
terms of the quality of its practices. and 25% income exposure for coal-fired electricity generation 
and/or coal mining for all companies that are not committing 
The ESG rating is a weighted average of the ratings for the E, 
to a transition trajectory in line with the climate commitments 
S and G aspects. Each aspect is itself the weighted average 
of the Crédit Agricole Group (companies with more than 50% 
of the benchmark criteria that comprise it, with each of the 
of their income exposed being completely excluded). These 
37 analysis criteria also rated from A to G. Ultimately, the 
commitments are the result of the Group’s climate strategy, in 
company is awarded an overall rating ranging from A to G. A 
accordance with the United Nations Sustainable Development 
single rating is given to each issuer, regardless of the selected 
Goals and the Paris Agreements of 2015. This strategy is 
benchmark universe. The ESG rating given to companies is 
based on the research and recommendations of a Scientific 
thus “sector neutral”, i.e. no sector is favoured or penalised. 
Committee, which takes into account the energy scenarios 
ESG ratings are updated monthly by our proprietary SRI expert 
of the IEA (International Energy Agency), Climate Analytics 
tool(1) based on data provided by rating agencies. News from 
and Science-Based Targets. At the end of 2020, as part of 
issuers is monitored continuously and controversies and alerts 
an update to its policy on the thermal coal sector, Amundi 
are taken into account immediately for updating the analysis. 
broadened its coal exclusion policy, which now excludes any 
Analysts regularly readjust their analysis methodology 
company that develops or plans to develop new thermal coal 
according to the environment and current events, particularly 
operating capacities.
if controversies arise.
Tobacco policy
A targeted exclusion policy
Since October 2018, Amundi has limited the ESG ratings of 
Amundi applies a targeted exclusion policy, which is the  companies in the tobacco sector to E, on a scale from A to G 
pillar of its fiduciary responsibility. It is applied in all its active  (with G-rated companies being excluded). This limit aims to 
management strategies and consists of excluding companies  penalise investment in this type of company, which should be 
whose practices do not comply with ESG convictions or  offset by investments in more virtuous companies. Amundi’s 
with international agreements and frameworks and their  policy applies to the tobacco sector as a whole, particularly 
transposition into national laws. Amundi thus excludes: suppliers, cigarette manufacturers and distributors. In May 
2020, Amundi became a signatory to the Tobacco-Free 
■  any direct investment in businesses involved in the 
Finance Pledge and extended its exclusion policy so as to 
manufacture, trading, stocking or servicing of anti-
exclude producers of cigarettes and complete tobacco 
personnel mines or cluster munitions, in accordance with 
products. The decision to strengthen the tobacco policy has 
the Ottawa and Oslo conventions;
taken into account concerns related to public health, as well 
■  businesses producing, stocking or marketing chemical,  as the violation of human rights, poverty, the environmental 
biological and depleted uranium weapons; consequences and the considerable economic cost associated 
with tobacco, estimated at over USD 1,000 billion per year 
worldwide, according to the World Health Organisation. 
(1) SRI: Sustainable Rating Integrator, an information collection and ESG rating platform that enables dissemination to the management and 
financial analysis teams.
(2) Excluding index funds and ETFs constrained by their reference index.
28 AMUNDI - 2020 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
2
Acting as a responsible financial institution
Amundi’s ESG policy
Companies manufacturing complete tobacco products are  The voting policy is reviewed annually at the start of the year 
thus excluded and companies involved in the manufacturing,  for implementation at the start of the voting campaign. It is 
supply and distribution of tobacco are limited to an ESG rating  based on the lessons of the previous campaign. Corporate 
of E. Governance analysts submit proposals for changes to their 
voting practices to Amundi’s Senior Management (Voting 
Committee) on the main pillars: Shareholders’ rights, Boards, 
An active commitment policy
Committees and Executive Bodies, Financial Operations and 
Amundi has implemented a commitment policy based on  Executive Compensation Policies. At the end of this iterative 
three main approaches: thematic commitment, ongoing  process, the integration of new principles, the abandonment 
commitment and shareholder dialogue. This policy is an  of others and their implementation in the form of rules of 
essential component of Amundi’s fiduciary responsibility and  application are validated by the Voting Committee.
its role as a responsible investor. In the context of exercising the voting rights of its UCITS-type 
Amundi’s commitment strategy covers a range of ESG themes  funds, Amundi may be faced with situations where there are 
that have a strong impact on the major challenges that society  conflicts of interest, particularly with Group entities. To avoid 
faces. However, two themes are given priority because they  this contingency, a procedure has been set up allowing those 
are systemic risk vectors for our societies and opportunities  conflicts to be resolved. It is primarily formulated around 
for companies that can incorporate them positively: a pre-established list of issuers where a potential conflict 
of interest has been identified. For these companies, the 
■  global warming and the deterioration of ecosystems, which  proposals for voting on resolutions will, in line with Amundi’s 
threaten to cause destructive chain reactions;
voting policy, be submitted to the Voting Committee (chaired 
■  growing inequality that leads to social divisions  by Amundi’s Deputy CEO) for validation ahead of the AGM.
endangering the economic and political stability of 
democracies. In this period of health crisis, fair distribution 
Voting campaign 2020
of added value seems even more necessary.
AGMs dealt with 4,241
As part of our thematic commitments on the living wage, 
we participated in a collective statement on the importance  Resolutions dealt with 49,968
of prioritising worker safety and long-term relations with 
suppliers in managing the crisis. As part of the Living  In 2020, the voting scope continued to broaden compared to 
Wage Financials Platform, we engaged certain companies  2019. The increase in the number of voting funds is the result 
specifically on this subject. In terms of exercising votes,  of a systematic review of funds that hold or may hold shares. 
we were particularly vigilant about resolutions relating to  Furthermore, funds of an ESG nature voted on all issuers in 
dividends, in order to ensure that companies took a cautious  the portfolio from the first euro, regardless of the geographic 
approach to the situation. area of investment (Europe/Non-Europe).
In 2020, we engaged in dialogue with 878 issuers on the  We focused on checking that the compensation policies and/
subjects of ESG analysis, commitment and voting. or the compensation reports submitted for voting included an 
ESG criteria component. In addition, we very often supported 
Amundi has a policy committing it on specific issues, helping  shareholder resolutions demanding greater transparency on 
companies move towards better practices. The ESG analysis  matters of ecological and the energy transition. We thus 
and Corporate Governance teams publish this work in an  record 86% of votes in favour of shareholder resolutions on 
annual commitment report, available at www.amundi.com. In  climate at the General Meetings of companies in which Amundi 
2020, specific thematic commitments focused in particular on  participated as an investor. Going forward, the objectives are 
the circular economy, the strategy of alignment with the Paris  to increase shareholder dialogue with issuers against which 
agreements and the living wage. we cast one or more opposing votes in 2020. Lastly, due 
to the Covid-19 pandemic and its economic consequences 
Voting and shareholder dialogue
on corporate life, Amundi has been stricter on the dividend 
Since 1996, Amundi has followed its own voting policy(1),  distribution and share redemption policy. In particular, we 
updated annually, that includes environmental and social  paid close attention to the dividend policy of companies that 
criteria. Shareholder commitment is an increasingly influential  made use of government assistance aimed at maintaining 
driver of climate and social issues. Amundi intends to play its  workforce employment.
full role as a responsible investor and is thus gearing itself up 
to support resolutions on climate or social issues.
(1) A report on voting rights exercised and shareholder discussions, updated half-yearly, is available on the Amundi website (www.amundi.
com).
AMUNDI - 2020 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 29
2
Acting as a responsible financial institution
Climate action
ESG investment solutions offering the responsibility to rate these companies. ESG analysts 
work alongside a team of voting policy specialists and in 
Amundi offers a wide range of open-ended funds to help 
dialogue prior to General Meetings. Based in Paris, they 
implement an ESG strategy:
define the voting policy applicable at the General Meetings 
■  SRI funds constructed according to a best-in-class  of companies in which Amundi invests on behalf of its 
selection approach; clients;
■  funds constructed according to a specific ESG integration  ■  ESG methods and solutions: This team of four quantitative 
approach; analysts is responsible for maintaining and developing 
Amundi’s ESG rating system and for selecting external 
■  funds with specific labelling: SRI label, Greenfin label, 
data providers to generate proprietary ESG scores. They 
Febelfin label, Luxflag, etc.;
help analysts and portfolio managers to incorporate ESG 
■  commitment funds; considerations into their investment decisions and sales 
development teams to create innovative solutions by 
■  exclusion funds (alcohol, gambling, etc.);
incorporating data related to sustainable development 
■  tailor-made solutions for dedicated mandates and funds. into financial products (ESG ratings, climate data, impact 
In 2020, Amundi innovated with the launch of the “ESG  measures, controversies, etc.). They are also responsible 
Improvers” range, which offers a long-term approach aimed  for implementing the ESG exclusion rules specific to clients.
at identifying companies that have begun an improvement  Many departments are involved in assisting, reporting and 
trajectory in terms of sustainable development. In passive  supporting Amundi’s responsible investment process. A real 
management, new ETF and index-based solutions replicating  time distribution interface means fund managers are granted 
ESG or SRI indices were also launched. access to the ESG ratings of issuers (Corporates and States), 
in the same way as financial ratings.
Responsible Investment business line
Amundi’s Responsible Investment business line defines and  Dedicated governance
implements Amundi’s sustainable finance strategy in all its  With the support of these teams, Amundi drives governance 
aspects, for various management types: analysis and rating  dedicated to responsible investment:
of companies, commitment and voting, integration of ESG 
factors and design of sustainable investment solutions, key  ■  the ESG Strategic Committee, to define and validate the 
indicators of portfolio sustainability, ESG promotion and  ESG policy and the Amundi Group’s strategic guidelines;
participation in local work and initiatives. It brings together  ■  the ESG Rating Committee, to define and validate the ESG 
34 specialists, including: rating;
■  ESG, commitment and voting analysis: This international  ■  the ESG Voting Committee, to examine and validate 
team of 20 experts covers Paris, Dublin, London and Tokyo.  Amundi’s commitments and exercise of voting rights, 
ESG analysts meet, engage and maintain dialogue with  and to ensure the consistency of these with the key ESG 
companies in order to improve their ESG practices, with  engagement themes;
2.4  Climate action
The challenges associated with the energy transition are at  through specific initiatives on the energy transition and 
the heart of Amundi’s responsible investment strategy, which  portfolio decarbonisation.
continued its commitments to a low carbon economy in 2020. 
Amundi offers turnkey investment solutions in the form of 
These commitments are part of the Crédit Agricole Group’s 
either open-ended funds or bespoke funds run as investment 
Climate strategy and the governance implemented for that 
mandates or dedicated funds. These solutions form part of a 
purpose. As of 31 December 2020, assets supporting the 
range of financial innovations: index-based solutions aligned 
energy transition and green growth reached €21.9 billion, a 
with the Paris agreements, green bond funds, thematic funds, 
significant increase over 2019 (+78%).
joint management company with EDF, etc., and of a series of 
The asset management industry faces financial risks  measures, such as strategic partnerships sealed with major 
associated with climate change. For Amundi, these risks  public institutions and participation in initiatives such as the 
are not specific, as they are covered by the ESG approach  Green Bond Principles, the IIGCC(2) and the AIGCC(3), aimed at 
that Amundi has placed at the heart of its raison d'être(1) as a  engaging investors in the transition to a low carbon economy.
responsible investor. Indeed, the ESG approach implemented 
since the creation of Amundi and expanded since 2018 is 
based in particular on integrating non-financial criteria (ESG) 
into management processes, on a targeted exclusion policy, 
(1) According to the Notat-Senard report of March 2018 entitled “L’entreprise, objet d’intérêt collectif”, raison d’être is defined as what is 
“essential to fulfil the corporate object, i.e. the scope of the company’s activities”. The Crédit Agricole Group’s raison d’être, “Working 
every day in the interest of our clients and society”, is not a statutory concept and was formulated as part of the Group’s project and the 
2022 Medium-Term Plan.
(2) IIGCC: Institutional Investors Group on Climate Change.
(3) AIGCC: Asia Investor Group on Climate Change.
30 AMUNDI - 2020 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
2
Acting as a responsible financial institution
Social and Solidarity Impact Investing
Financing the energy transition to this bond portfolio, the programme plans to leverage an 
additional USD 500 million from institutional investors wishing 
Investments in green finance most often relate to the areas of 
to take part in the fight against climate change.
energy efficiency and green infrastructure. They are designed 
to address the environmental, social and economic issues that 
represent the increasing scarcity of natural resources, as well  Development of climate metrics
as the management of environmental damage linked to water, 
air, soil, waste and ecosystems. The carbon footprint of the portfolios
As part of our climate solutions package, we offer thematic  Amundi chose Trucost, the world leader in environmental 
funds dedicated to financing the energy transition in the main  research and carbon data, to calculate the carbon impact(1) 
asset classes, thereby making the fight against climate change  of its funds. This helps us both to take account of CO related 
accessible to all investors. to assets under management in the reporting of fu2nds and 
to develop innovative strategies for reducing the carbon 
footprint of investment portfolios.
Innovative partnerships
Amundi is at the forefront of major innovations to develop  Temperature trajectories
green asset financing, through major partnerships to generate 
In 2020, we used a new methodology for estimating the 
both supply and demand for new green financing projects.
temperature of portfolios developed by WWF (World Wide 
In 2018 and then 2019, Amundi launched three climate funds  Fund for Nature) and the CDP (Carbon Disclosure Project) 
with: across four of our equity portfolios. This pilot project 
represents a new stage in our ESG research work to strengthen 
■  the IFC (World Bank International Finance Corporation): 
the forward-looking assessment of corporates. It also helps 
launch of the largest emerging green bond fund (USD 2 
to identify the degree of action required to align climate 
billion);
trajectories, particularly through engaging with issuers to set 
■  the European Investment Bank (EIB): to accelerate energy  more ambitious emission reduction targets based on scientific 
transition projects in Europe with the “Green Credit  data.
Continuum” fund (€1 billion);
■  the AIIB (Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank): bond  Energy Transition score
portfolio of USD 500 million aimed at combating climate 
Amundi, together with other Crédit Agricole Group entities, 
change.
has developed an “Energy Transition” score to incorporate 
In 2020, Amundi and the AIIB developed an innovative  the challenges and opportunities of the energy transition 
framework, the Climate Change Investment Framework,  into investment decisions. This is a measure of the level of 
which considers three variables – green financing, limitation  commitment and the ability of corporates to adapt their 
of climate risks and resistance to climate change – to analyse  economic model to the challenges posed by combating global 
the ability of issuers to confront climate change. In addition  warming and the energy transition.
2.5  Social and Solidarity Impact Investing
In 2020, Amundi continued to reinforce its social and solidarity  With a growth of 13% in its assets under management, 
impact investment activity in line with its ambition, announced  Amundi’s social impact management continued to develop 
in 2018, to become the sector leader. The Amundi Finance  in 2020; this momentum is explained, as in 2019, by a growing 
et Solidarité fund is now the leading social and solidarity  interest on the part of private individuals, via solidarity-based 
investment fund in France with €331 million in assets under  employee savings, and on the part of institutional investors for 
management at the end of 2020. meaningful investments.
The year 2020 was characterised by the Covid-19 global health  Our five investment themes are unchanged and in 2020 
crisis. First of all, we focused a significant part of our efforts on  they seek to address the fundamental needs of men and 
the support, assistance and monitoring of companies present  women: to have access to proper housing, recognised work, 
in the portfolio. Nearly €40 million was therefore reinvested  healthcare, education and appropriate training, to protect 
to strengthen and develop the economic model of companies  the environment and to support solidarity entrepreneurship. 
already present in the portfolio. We were particularly vigilant  These factors combined help ensure stronger social cohesion.
about the cash position of supported companies. At the same 
In 2020, we consolidated our partnerships with France Active 
time, we made new investments, nearly €7 million, in iconic 
Investissement and ADIE, regional solidarity funders. These 
companies with new trends based on the social economy and 
partnerships allow us to reach a large number of start-up or 
solidarity around co-working, environmental protection and 
small-scale companies, while the Amundi Finance et Solidarité 
a more equal sharing of value with short supply chains and 
fund supports ESS companies with scaling.
recycling.
(1) Direct and indirect emissions (scopes 1, 2 and part of scope 3 correspond to the indirect emissions of first-tier suppliers), as well as carbon 
reserves, are covered.
AMUNDI - 2020 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 31
2
Acting as a responsible financial institution
The commitment of the Real and Alternative Assets division
At the end of 2020, the Amundi Finance et Solidarité fund  to illustrate pathways to revival, enlivenment and inclusion. 
financed 43 solidarity companies, six of which were new:  This may help local authorities, for example, to come up with 
Synergie Family, Darwin, Castalie, Les Alchimistes, Il était un  ideas to identify more inclusive projects as part of urban 
fruit and Ecodrop, which are especially active in the education,  centre renovation and revitalisation projects.
employment/integration and circular economy sector. Within 
the portfolio companies, we supported in particular the 
Solidarity-based savings – Key  31 December 
development of innovative solutions for inclusive habitat:  figures 2020
Homnia, which offers co-tenancy solutions for people with 
disabilities, and Vivre en béguinage that brings “beguinage”  AuM €3,779m
community living for seniors right up to date. Variation 2020/2019 +13.1%
Our website (https://amundi.oneheart.fr) has been enhanced  Number of social companies financed 43
by a section on “the solidarity village”; the portfolio companies  Number of Finansol certified funds 5
are shown there in an entertaining way within a virtual village 
2.6  The commitment of the Real and Alternative Assets division
Amundi Immobilier Amundi Private Equity Funds
In 2020, Amundi Immobilier continued its Responsible  Following Amundi’s example, Amundi PEF has incorporated 
Investment approach applied to its entire portfolio, both for  the ESG approach for over five years as a lever for creating 
the selection and management of its assets. Accordingly,  value in its investment decisions and throughout the holding 
in 2020, the rating of approximately 240 of our assets was  period for its investments.
updated. In 2020, Amundi Immobilier began to roll out its 
During the audits of the equity, infrastructure and private debt 
Supplier Charter, now systematically incorporated into calls 
funds, the ESG policies of the managers are carefully reviewed 
for tender. Amundi Immobilier’s responsible investment 
and made part of the total assessment of the investment 
approach reflected in its Responsible Investment Charter is 
proposals. To expand this approach during the investment 
public and accessible on its website. The quality of buildings 
period, Amundi PEF analyses pertinent quantitative and 
is reinforced by obtaining labels. In 2020, Amundi Immobilier 
qualitative ESG indicators, across managers and across their 
certified four buildings in order to enhance their environmental 
underlying investments. As an active shareholder participating 
performance. A guide to environment-friendly behaviour 
in corporate governance, Amundi PEF also ensures that 
was circulated to tenants encouraging them to do something 
ESG issues are discussed in Board meetings and that these 
for the environment every day. In 2020, Amundi Immobilier 
companies make progress on these issues throughout the 
increased the greening of its assets by around 40,000 m2, 
duration of the investment (five years on average). Our 
accounting for nearly 200,000 m2 (roofs, terraces, open 
commitment approach involves recommendations covering 
ground), thereby working towards local biodiversity, adapting 
periods that vary in length, adapted to the company and its 
towns and cities to climate change and reconnecting users 
sector.
with nature. Over the year, the solar power capacity installed 
across the property portfolio managed by Amundi increased  Amundi PEF and the extra-financial analysis teams are already 
by 20%, approximately 700,000 kWh in 2020, rising to more  integrated into the market working groups alongside the other 
than 4,600,000 kWh. investment capital players of the Parisian association France 
Invest. Amundi is also an active contributor to France Invest’s 
Pursuing better control of energy consumption across our 
ESG guide.
entire portfolio Amundi Immobilier has made a commitment 
alongside Deepki to deploy a platform for the automatic  In 2020, Amundi PEF participated in the annual evaluation of 
collection of energy data. In the long term, this platform must  PRI (Principles for Responsible Investment) and was awarded 
drive the reduction of energy consumption across the assets.  a rating of A+, i.e. the highest rating.
Lastly, during this year, Amundi Immobilier had several of its 
funds assessed by the non-financial rating agency GRESB, an 
Private debt
international organisation comparing the ESG performance 
of real assets. Two funds performed very well by obtaining a  Since its creation in 2012, the Private Debt business has applied 
rating of over 80/100, i.e. 4 out of 5 stars – OPCIMMO with a  Amundi’s ESG principles tailored to the specific features of 
rating of 83 and AREPE with a rating of 81 – thus placing them  this asset class. The ESG approach to private debt is based on 
above the average assessment for their comparison universe. the sector-based approach taken upstream by Amundi’s ESG 
analysts. The approach is then passed on by the Private Debt 
team managers and analysts via questionnaires and personal 
interviews. In 2020, Amundi’s Private Debt team continued 
to go from strength to strength and to further diversify its 
expertise. It currently manages €6 billion in corporate senior 
debt, real estate debt and acquisition debt.
32 AMUNDI - 2020 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
3
Keeping the promise to clients
Developing a long-lasting relationship with partner networks and their clients
Consideration of ESG criteria is an integral part of the private  Corrective measures may take the form of a redemption 
debt investment process, from the investment selection phase  request (in accordance with documentation clauses relating to 
and until the loans and bonds mature. This is an ESG best  controversies in particular), disposal on the secondary market 
efforts policy. In terms of exclusion, private debt valuations  in the case of liquid assets or enhanced monitoring with the 
apply an exclusion policy to their investments in line with that  borrower. Regular dialogue with borrowers can usually allow 
of Amundi. Each opportunity presented to the investment  teams to anticipate issues and react quickly. Investors are 
committee is subject to due diligence relating to the ESG  provided with an annual report on ESG performance.
risks identified. This due diligence is an integral part of the 
analysis criteria and helps to inform credit analysis, conducted 
Amundi Transition Énergétique
concurrently. It is a way for investors to guard against long-
term risks (financial, regulatory, operational and reputational)  In 2016, Amundi entered into a partnership with EDF as part 
and to fully exercise their responsibility. ESG due diligence  of the financing of the Amundi Transition Énergétique (ATE) 
is carried out through each valuation, in collaboration with  energy transition. ATE is an asset management company 
Amundi’s ESG teams and, depending on the issuers, may  dedicated to green infrastructure and the energy transition, 
include questionnaires, discussions with management or  which aims to establish a robust and sustainable energy model 
sector-based study reviews by non-financial rating agencies. in the face of energy supply issues, price changes, resource 
The analysis document presented to the investment committee  depletion and environmental protection requirements. 
for approval highlights ESG points of note, if necessary. As  ATE has investment capacity of €2 billion and has made 
part of portfolio monitoring, each issuer invested by private  several investments in solar farms in France with an installed 
debt funds is reviewed on recent performance at least once  capacity of 110.4 MW. In June 2020, Amundi launched 
a year. In the event of improvement or deterioration at ESG  AMUNDI ÉNERGIES VERTES, the first energy transition fund 
level, the management team brings it to the attention of the  eligible for life insurance policies investing directly in green 
investment committee in order to inform overall performance.  infrastructure. This is a new investment vehicle that allows 
In the event that an ESG aspect is downgraded (such as a  private individuals to participate in financing the energy 
controversy arising), which is contrary to Amundi’s exclusion  transition while benefiting from the appeal of investing in real 
policy or likely to have an adverse impact on credit, the  assets. Amundi Énergies Vertes was placed third in the AGEFI 
committee may, at its discretion, approve corrective measures  Coupoles de la Distribution innovation awards.
designed to protect investors’ capital and their reputation. 
3  KEEPING THE PROMISE TO CLIENTS
Our commitment is to provide our clients with high- ■  developing specific investment solutions for our 
performing, transparent investment and saving solutions as  institutional clients and corporate clients’ customers.
part of a long-lasting relationship based on mutual trust.
Since 2016, Amundi has been hosting an advisory committee 
Amundi is organised around two main business lines: composed of leading experts to discuss the global economic 
and geopolitical outlook, analyse its impacts on the financial 
■  supplying savings products that meet the needs of private 
markets in each of the major geographic regions and sharpen 
individuals in our partner networks and of third-party 
our understanding of clients’ financial needs, particularly in 
distributors;
countries where we have decided to establish a presence.
3.1  Developing a long-lasting relationship with partner networks 
and their clients
Amundi is a historic partner in four banking networks in France  Amundi’s dedicated teams in charge of these partnerships rely 
(Crédit Agricole Regional Banks, LCL, Société Générale and  on the excellent knowledge held by each of these networks 
Crédit du Nord) and in 14 other networks in Europe and Asia.  of the varied needs of their different client segments. They 
The Amundi teams work closely with each of the partner  work closely with their correspondants on identifying the 
networks in identifying the needs and the most appropriate  investment vehicles and services that are best suited to 
resources and services for their clients. For example, nearly 130  the needs of their clients. In this way, the characteristics of 
people at Amundi in France are dedicated to the relationships  each product, the composition of the ranges on offer and 
with the four long-standing partners. the associated services and communication are developed 
together and validated periodically by Products and Services 
Beyond the partner networks, Amundi is developing a 
Committees.
growing business with other French and foreign distributor 
networks (banks, insurance companies, brokers), which most 
often distribute savings solutions built by Amundi using open 
architecture and intended for customers of their networks.
AMUNDI - 2020 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 33
3
Keeping the promise to clients
Establishing relationships of trust with our corporate and institutional clients and offering them solutions tailored to their needs
Know the needs of individual clients employees of the Crédit Agricole Regional Bank network (retail 
market, asset market and Private Banking) and more than 
Amundi works to ensure active regulatory and competitive 
18,000 asset-based clients were made aware of responsible 
monitoring, not only centrally from Paris but also locally with 
investment. A global communication plan for Responsible 
its contacts in each of the markets where its partner networks 
Investment was deployed and written communications are 
supply their products. The objective is to remain informed of 
regularly disseminated. In 2020, Amundi broadened its offer 
local developments on each of its partners’ markets in terms 
of responsible solutions with the completion in June 2020 of a 
of savings behaviour and potential new savings solutions 
new range and the launch of an Climate Impact offering. These 
made possible by regulatory developments, and to monitor 
launches were supported by an extensive, fully digitalised 
the offerings of competitors in order to help our contacts to 
communication system: podcasts, product videos, sales and 
offer their private clients the products that best meet their 
training guides and a communication kit for advisors.
needs.
In 2020, many distributors set up responsible ranges for their 
The theme of responsible savings is enjoying increasing 
clients. Amundi supported them in this process by helping 
interest from savers. At the beginning of 2020, Amundi 
them to define their range, by labelling new funds and by 
conducted a survey with the MOAI agency on savers and 
providing regular support on regulatory developments in 
responsible investment. This study enabled us to identify the 
Europe.
expectations of private individuals and to use operational 
elements to guide our action. The study will be repeated in 
2021. Product validation
The Products and Services Committee, a decision-making and 
Supporting our partner networks in France  governance body chaired each month by the Head of Retail 
and abroad Marketing, formally validates the creation and development of 
investment vehicle ranges and the associated services on offer. 
For Amundi, developing the expertise of the teams of advisors  No product can be marketed without the favourable opinion of 
of our partner networks when it comes to our savings products  the Risk, Legal and Compliance business lines represented on 
and solutions is a priority. In the particular healthcare context  this committee. Approval requests to supervisory authorities 
of 2020, Amundi adapted its support system for clients by  are then completed before the teams responsible for the 
favouring digital formats, particularly web conferencing. The  product’s distribution deploy all the necessary resources in 
teams in charge of distribution networks have adapted their  conjunction with the partner networks.
communication plan, by providing numerous web conference 
training sessions and by setting up regular videoconference 
calls with their clients. Online awareness campaigns were also  Measuring client satisfaction
deployed with client advisors and the events initially planned 
Amundi is mindful of the opinions of its distributors and in 
as face-to-face were digitalised. To launch the new offerings, 
2020 it continued to regularly measure the satisfaction of its 
Amundi developed a number of digital tools: podcasts, 
distribution networks through the Client Recommendation 
product videos, and sales and training guides.
Index. In 2020, the campaigns were repeated for the Regional 
Banks of Crédit Agricole and LCL in France, Crédit Agricole 
Specific actions carried out with networks  and UniCredit in Italy, KB in the Czech Republic and extended 
for the first time to the UniCredit networks in Slovakia and in 
to promote responsible finance
the Czech Republic. The CRI survey of CA and LCL networks 
In 2020, the theme of ESG and responsible finance was  for 2020 revealed very positive levels and a significant 
prioritised in events organised by Amundi or in which Amundi  increase compared to 2019; the CRI increased from 25 to 31 
took part and spoke. For example, in 2020, more than 3,000  in 2020 for the Regional Banks and from 59 to 65 for LCL.
3.2  Establishing relationships of trust with our corporate and institutional 
clients and offering them solutions tailored to their needs
Institutional clients (Sovereign, Institutional, Corporate)  funds and covers the themes of asset allocation in uncertain 
expect an asset manager to have a detailed and thorough  times, the growth of “target-based” investing and ESG as the 
understanding of their specific needs and to provide  cornerstone of investment.
appropriate solutions, all within a relationship of trust built 
over time.
Supporting our institutional clients
In the particular healthcare context of 2020, Amundi adapted 
Understanding the needs of institutional 
the support system for its clients by favouring digital formats. 
clients
The events initially planned as face-to-face were digitalised 
In 2020, the Institutional Division acquired a number of  and new channels of communication were developed with 
external studies. In addition, specific studies are carried out  the launch of the Outerblue podcast channel and the launch 
with clients and/or prospective clients. The annual Amundi  of a series of videos on major themes normally dealt with at 
CREATE survey of European Pension Funds, launched in  the annual Forum (Europe, Monetary Policy, inequality, etc.), 
2014, was repeated. It was conducted with 158 pension  which was cancelled owing to the health situation.
34 AMUNDI - 2020 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
3
Keeping the promise to clients
An independent compliance and risk management structure to guarantee our commitment to our clients
Specific actions to promote responsible  its services. To date, these commitments have meant that 
finance Amundi receives a very limited number of complaints.
Amundi is committed to handling complaints as promptly as 
Many actions were undertaken in 2020 to promote Amundi’s 
possible and to providing consistent and systematic quality 
ESG approach and its products. Specific training on 
in its answers. Where necessary, the implementation of action 
responsible finance topics were organised for clients taking 
plans is monitored by the Risk Management Department’s 
part in the annual Executive Training Programme. Amundi is 
Permanent Control team. The complaints process is part of 
prompt to promote the ESG theme whenever it communicates 
the set of monthly performance indicators. In practice, in 
and when organising events. Awareness of responsible finance 
2020, the number of client complaints decreased compared 
is also being raised with the publication of documentary series 
to the previous year and a reduction in the time for handling 
and research work, for example on the importance of ESG 
client complaints was recorded. More than three quarters 
factors in value generation for various asset classes in Europe 
of complaints in 2020 related to the quality of the offering 
and the United States.
(dissemination of Net Asset Values or reporting), with the 
Amundi has also expanded its range of responsible solutions  remaining quarter being linked to one-off or specific issues.
intended for its institutional clients with the launch of new ESG 
In 2020, Amundi again achieved ISAE 3402 certification, 
funds: ESG Improvers, ESG ETFs, as well as the Amundi Social 
an internationally recognised standard for the quality of 
Bond Fund and the specific funds for green bonds (Emerging 
a risk management policy, through the assessment of the 
Corporate Green Bond, Climate ETFs).
operational relevance and efficiency of its key controls 
To help its institutional clients work to promote the energy  pertaining to services provided to clients, thereby reflecting 
transition, Amundi has launched, in partnership with AIIB, a  ongoing rigour in process organisation and improvement.
benchmark tool for assessing the risks associated with climate 
change in line with the objectives of the Paris agreement.
Measuring the satisfaction of institutional 
clients
Quality of client service
Amundi continues its efforts to measure the satisfaction 
Amundi offers client service that meets the expectations and 
of its institutional clients. In this regard, the Customer 
needs of its clients, whether in setting up a dedicated fund 
Recommendation Index measurement, launched in 2019 for 
or mandate, or as part of the operational, administrative and 
our main European clients, was extended to new European 
reporting aspects of its day-to-day relationships.
countries (Austria, Nordics, etc.) and to Asia (under test) in 
The Client Service Department stands behind the quality of  2020, with the addition of new questions to refine diagnosis, 
the service rendered, the responsiveness and the honouring  particularly on the commercial relationship and client 
of the Group’s commitments through its everyday interactions  relationship. The process is under construction. It will be 
with all the links in the Amundi value chain. The company  continued in 2021.
carries out a continuous effort to improve the quality of 
3.3  An independent compliance and risk management structure to guarantee 
our commitment to our clients
Amundi has an integrated and independent control system to  ensures that all complaints are handled and processed in 
respect the orientations and constraints set by its clients. In  accordance with the law, regulations and procedures. It 
this way, the Risk and Compliance functions help strengthen  approves all replies to clients before they are sent.
the reliability of Amundi’s products and services and help us 
To conduct its mission, the Compliance Department has 
meet our obligations to our clients.
formalised a “Set of Compliance Procedures” detailing the 
compliance rules that apply, particularly those laid out in 
Compliance the Code of Professional Ethics, the Compliance Manual and 
the Anti-Money Laundering Manual, and that are carried 
The Compliance teams play an essential, preventive role  out through written procedures. This set of procedures is 
ensuring compliance with regulations, Good Conduct Codes  distributed to local managers and applies to all entities.
and professional standards, which they safeguard. They look 
after the clients’ interest, ensure the integrity of the market  Key compliance highlights of 2020
and the independence of our activities.
In 2020, the high volatility of the markets led to a significant 
In order to ensure that clients are protected, Compliance 
increase in the number of alerts. To address this, Compliance 
validates all newly created products and substantial 
implemented a differentiated process for certain alerts. This 
modifications of existing products above and beyond 
adjustment was made in line with the recommendations issued 
the regulatory requirements. For partner networks, this 
by the regulator in April 2020, which recognised that “the 
responsibility also extends to sales and marketing documents 
number of alerts may have increased significantly and that 
intended for the networks’ clients or prospects and for the 
each player must be discerning and take market conditions 
advisors. For client complaints, the Compliance Department 
into account”.
In 2020, the scope of Compliance monitoring was extended 
to the Amundi BOC Wealth Management joint venture and to 
Sabadell Asset Management.
AMUNDI - 2020 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 35
3
Keeping the promise to clients
An independent compliance and risk management structure to guarantee our commitment to our clients
Regulatory training Risk management
“Compliance” culture is an essential aspect of best practice in  Controlling risks and honouring its obligations are basic to 
asset management and contributes to Amundi’s reputation. It  the relationship of trust that Amundi has with its clients. 
is structured around four themes: respect for market integrity,  Amundi’s Risk Management function is highly integrated, in 
financial security, including international sanctions and anti- order to give the Group a consistent, systematic approach to 
money laundering/combating the financing of terrorism,  measuring and monitoring risks for all its activities.
professional ethics and the prevention of fraud and corruption. 
The function is based on a worldwide online business line 
All employees (permanent and fixed-term, international 
organisation and the sharing of methodologies and tools 
volunteering, work-study or equivalent depending on local 
common to all Risk teams. The organisation and controls 
legislation) of Amundi Group entities in France and abroad 
deployed evolve regularly to ensure a risk management 
are affected.
continually adapted to the Company’s challenges and provide 
Because of the lockdown period associated with Covid-19  customers with the assurance that our explicit commitments 
requiring the majority of Group employees to work from  and compliance with regulatory obligations are being 
home, Amundi decided to deploy only three main sessions  implemented. Investments are audited by staff who are 
and catch-up courses in 2020: International sanctions, AML/ independent of fund management personnel. It is integrated 
CFT and the fight against corruption. with Amundi’s Business Support and Audit Division, whose 
main mission is to protect the client’s interest. Its role is to 
Regulatory training provided in 2020 (France scope) ensure, through a dedicated information system, that the 
investment constraints requested by clients or required by 
% employees trained 97.60% regulations are observed.
Number of employees trained 2,407
Risk control personnel install and monitor an internal system 
Number of training hours 4,886 to regulate management processes, in three phases:
Number of training sessions 7,958 ■  devising, in systematic fashion, internal control rules and 
Number of training hours per employee 2.03 regulations specific to each investment strategy, based on 
a preliminary identification of the risk factors that underlie 
performance;
Ethics
■  overseeing on a daily basis the management actions taken, 
In line with the dissemination of Crédit Agricole Group’s code  to check that the investment decisions and the positions in 
of ethics in 2017 and Amundi’s code of conduct in 2019, the  the portfolios are in keeping with the management rules 
internal regulations of Amundi’s 13 French entities, as well as  and the objectives sought;
the IT charter and the compliance ethics appendix attached 
to it, have been updated. A communications initiative was  ■  evaluating ex post the quality of the management 
processes, based on independent measurements made 
carried out at Crédit Agricole S.A. Group level in Q4 2020 to 
using proven methodologies.
strengthen the ethical culture of employees.
To ensure its adherence to principles of fiduciary duty, 
To prevent unethical and criminal behaviour, Amundi, within 
Amundi prepares and sends two documents to its clients, 
the framework of the Sapin 2 Law, has set up a new whistle-
the prospectus and the KIID (Key Investor Information 
blowing tool (BKMS) to support any Company employee, any 
Document), describing the conditions under which the fund 
external employee or any supplier who wishes to exercise 
is managed, as well as the relationship between yield and 
their right to report. This tool, already deployed within the 
the level of risk associated with such management. Several 
Crédit Agricole Group, guarantees an environment of strict 
indicators reflecting the risk level of funds are included in 
confidentiality that allows the facts to be exposed and 
these documents. They are calculated independently by the 
discussed with the person designated to handle whistle-
Risk Management Department.
blowing while protecting the whistle-blower’s identity. The 
tool was rolled out in all 36 Amundi entities in October 2020. Amundi regularly updates its risk management system in the 
light of new regulations, new activities and market challenges. 
More specifically, for 2020, in the context of the Covid-19 
crisis, Amundi changed its risk management system and, 
more specifically, the liquidity risk management system, in 
order to preserve the liquidity of its funds and to serve the 
subscriptions and redemptions recorded in the interests of 
its private and institutional clients.
36 AMUNDI - 2020 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
3
Keeping the promise to clients
Data protection (GDPR)
ESG analysis of investments covers aspects of an issuer’s  risk, operational risk, etc.) associated with an investment 
transactions that may significantly impact its ability to meet its  process/group of investment processes from the perspective 
long-term financial obligations. These risks and opportunities  of investors or from the Company’s point of view.
associated with ESG will vary depending on the country, the 
business sector and characteristics specific to an issuer, 
Business line headcount in Control 
such as size and geographical footprint. In this respect, risk  departments
management strategies, including investment and risk rules,  (at 31 December in FTE) 2020
are established individually for each investment process/
Compliance business line 114.2
investment process group managed by an investment team 
or office. This formalised approach aims to ensure that the  Risk Management business line 222.7
Company meets both its explicit and implicit commitments  Audit business line 42.5
(including ESG). A risk strategy is used to identify and 
As % of total headcount 8.00%
monitor all risks (ESG investment risk, liquidity risk, credit 
3.4  Data protection (GDPR)
In a context where everybody communicates personal data in  In 2020, Amundi increased staff awareness of the protection 
an online environment, the Crédit Agricole Group has drawn  of personal data by reminding internal auditors of the 
up a charter for using its clients’ personal data based on five  obligations related to these regulations so that they can 
principles: usefulness and loyalty, ethics, transparency and  systematically monitor compliance with this regulation during 
education, security and clients’ control over the use of their  their audits. Amundi decided to make participation in the 
data. The charter provides all employees with a reference  training module – already in place since the regulation came 
framework both in France and internationally. It underlines  into force—mandatory for all employees from 2021.
the commitments made by the Group and the good practices 
In the context of the Covid-19 crisis, Amundi has been 
that need to be observed.
particularly attentive to:
Amundi provides its clients with information on the 
■  protection of employees’ and visitors’ personal data 
implementation of rights and procedures for processing the 
processed in order to comply with the protocol defined 
personal data it collects.
by the Government;
As an employer, Amundi guarantees that the personal data of 
■  security of transactions carried out remotely on personal 
its employees will be protected and that their private life will 
data.
be respected by means of an employee charter. A charter for 
job applicants is also available.
AMUNDI - 2020 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 37
4
Making individual and collective development central to our responsibility as an employer
Amundi Identity Card as of 31 December 2020
4  MAKING INDIVIDUAL AND COLLECTIVE DEVELOPMENT 
CENTRAL TO OUR RESPONSIBILITY AS AN EMPLOYER
Amundi’s human resources policy aims to foster the growth  Agricole Group’s Human Project(1). In 2020, our two priorities 
of its employees, personally and collectively, in order to serve  were to safeguard the health and safety of employees and 
the performance of the Company. This forms part of Crédit  ensure business continuity.
4.1  Amundi Identity Card as of 31 December 2020
As of the end of December 2020, the Amundi Group has 4,627.3 full-time equivalent (FTE) employees and a presence in 36 
countries.
BREAKDOWN OF HEADCOUNT BETWEEN FRANCE  BREAKDOWN BY GENDER 
AND REST OF WORLD
Rest of world
52% Women
42%
Men
France 58%
48%
BREAKDOWN OF HEADCOUNT BY GEOGRAPHIC  BREAKDOWN BY MAJOR BUSINESS LINE
REGION
Investment management
Asia
25%
8%
Control
Functions
8%
Americas
11%
Sales
& Marketing
22%
Support
Europe Functions
81% 45%
(1) See Crédit Agricole S.A. Universal Registration Document 2020 – Chapter 3.
38 AMUNDI - 2020 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
4
Making individual and collective development central to our responsibility as an employer
Amundi Identity Card as of 31 December 2020
AVERAGE AGE  AVERAGE YEARS OF SERVICE 
44 12
years years
AGE PYRAMID
Over 65 years
Under 65 years
Under 60 years
Under 55 years
Under 50 years
Under 45 years 
Under 40 years
Under 35 years
Under 30 years
Under 25 years
15% 10% 5% 0 5% 10% 15%
Women France Men France Women Rest of world Men Rest of world
AMUNDI - 2020 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 39
4
Making individual and collective development central to our responsibility as an employer
Employment, training and compensation
4.2  Employment, training and compensation
Employment To develop international mobility, a mobility committee 
has been set up specifically at international level, thereby 
Amundi operates a continuous process of adapting its 
encouraging better management of the Group’s various 
workforce to the challenges of the company’s productivity 
employment pools.
and development. There is a focus on internal staff, which 
allows for long-term investment in the company’s human 
resources. Amundi’s employment policy must also allow  Training
employees to develop skills and maintain their employability 
For Amundi, training is an important driver for the Company’s 
over the long term.
development. It implements a set of actions with the following 
objectives, which are directly linked to its strategic ambitions:
Change in headcount
■  to maintain a high level of performance in the position by 
In 2020, the 4.5% increase in Amundi’s workforce was marked 
ensuring a match between the activities, responsibilities 
by the Group’s external growth, with two major transactions:
and skill level required for each employee;
■  the acquisition of SABAM in Spain with the integration of 
■  to develop employability regarding professional projects 
126 employees;
and the company’s needs.
■  the creation of a “Bank of China Wealth Management” 
The skills development plan is set annually to meet individual 
majority joint venture in China, with the recruitment of 44 
and collective needs in line with the company’s structuring 
people.
projects and the regulatory and technical developments in 
In total, we recruited 334 people and recorded 232 departures.  each business line. As a contributor to both development 
Young people under the age of 30 comprise 33% of new hires.  and commitment, professional mobility is monitored on an 
In 2020, we also continued to recruit experienced profiles to  individual basis and supported through training. Similarly, 
support Amundi’s development and pursued our policy of  employees returning from long-term leave are trained without 
insourcing service providers. The Amundi Group’s exit rate  prior arbitration and over the course of the year as soon as 
stands at 5.1%, compared to 7.1% in 2019. the need is reported.
In 2020, in the face of the Covid-19 pandemic crisis, the 
Permanent/fixed-term recruitment  Company continued to roll out its training plan by adapting 
(in number) 2020 its implementation procedures. The majority of the training 
Worldwide 334 package was offered as distance learning. Each employee 
concerned therefore had the choice of accepting the distance 
of which France 161
learning method or postponing their training to 2021 in a face-
Permanent/fixed-term departures  to-face format, subject to the health conditions required at 
(in number) the appropriate time.
Worldwide 232 In parallel with the traditional deployment of the training 
plan, the Company implemented two programmes to support 
of which France 62
teams and managers during the first and second lockdowns in 
2020. A comprehensive system was proposed to enable each 
Internal mobility employee to work comfortably and efficiently from home, 
along with organisation and communication within so-called 
For Amundi, internal mobility is a priority tool for adapting 
hybrid teams. The multidisciplinary approach covered all 
employment:
the needs raised by the issue of working remotely in a crisis 
■  functional mobility to anticipate changes in business lines  context: a webinar on the fundamentals of remote working, 
and encourage employees to move towards developing  virtual classes to support managers on sensitive topics 
sectors; (psychosocial risks, team commitment), workshops for natural 
■  geographical mobility to support the development of  teams to jointly create operating charters, web conferences on 
certain places of business and promote cross-functionality  work life quality themes of trust, resilience, PSR risks (isolation, 
between countries. porous work/life boundary) and the provision of guides and 
fact sheets for managers. This system was supplemented 
In 2020, despite a difficult public health situation, Amundi 
by a wealth of individual and collective support (traditional 
recorded 206(1) internal transfers and 46 transfers 
coaching, coaching boost, hotline managers, co-development 
internationally. Our HR policies and tools aim to support 
workshops).
employees, with special monitoring for those who change 
business line, and to enhance all the company’s business lines.  Managerial training for 2020 focused as a priority on training 
Management committees comprised of the human resources  new managers taking up positions and raising awareness of 
managers of each business line regularly review the positions  new working methods.
that need to be filled and the employees being transferred, 
thereby promoting the coordination of supply and demand. 
In terms of individual support, in addition to interviews and 
career management, Amundi makes a virtual coaching tool 
(JobMaker) available to employees, which helps them prepare 
their personal development.
(1) Excluding reorganisation and creation of new Business Division.
40 AMUNDI - 2020 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
4
Making individual and collective development central to our responsibility as an employer
Employment, training and compensation
The ESG training system was strengthened by the addition  In 2021, training policy will be focused on putting in place 
of training provided by the SFAF on integrating ESG criteria  a development programme for the management function. 
into financial analysis, as well as a modular programme carried  Amundi will also continue a number of schemes deployed in 
out by PCI Academy offering the fundamental principles and  2020, taking advantage of the lessons of the crisis to capitalise 
more advanced concepts to a wider range of employees. on successes, initiatives and best practices of this year under 
considerable stress.
Training (excluding regulatory training) 31/12/2020
% of employees trained 62%
In France 77%
International 42%
Average number of training actions per employee trained 10.42
In France 10
International 10.52
Average number of training hours per employee trained 1.53
In France 1.51
International 1.58
Compensation approved the introduction on 12 December 2019 of a 
new performance share plan for certain beneficiaries. 
Amundi’s compensation policy is based on three pillars that 
This plan follows the same objectives as previous plans, 
combine individual and collective performance. It takes into 
namely the alignment of the interests of the Group’s 
account the economic environment, competitiveness and 
senior executives in achieving the commercial and 
the labour market. As these factors may differ from one 
financial objectives of Amundi’s Medium-Term Plan;
country to another, Amundi adapts its compensation policy 
to local situations and regulations. The compensation policy  ■  collective variable compensation which ensures 
is reviewed annually by the Compensation Committee chaired  employees in France share in the profits of Amundi’s 
by an independent director and composed of directors that  financial performance. The total amount is set as a function 
are either independent or who do not hold an executive  of a benchmark figure adjusted for changes in net income, 
function within Amundi. It complies with regulatory standards  in assets under management, and in the cost-to-income 
(AIFMD/UCITS V, MIFID and CRD IV). ratio. In 2020, the average amount of collective variable 
compensation was more than €9,500, in line with Amundi’s 
The key components of Amundi’s compensation scheme are 
2019 results.
as follows:
In 2020, Amundi’s priorities in implementing the compensation 
■  a fixed salary in line with duties and responsibilities, taking  policy were as follows:
into account specific local and market conditions;
■  to promote the development of young employees and 
■  variable compensation which breaks down into an annual  those who take on new responsibilities;
bonus determined by the manager, and a long-term 
incentive: ■  to pay attention especially to entry-level salaries, which 
in France resulted in the payment of exceptional bonuses 
■  the annual bonus rewards an employee’s contribution to  amounting to at least €600 to 65% of employees whose 
Amundi’s performance and is based on both individual 
overall compensation is less than €80,000, as well as a 
and collective factors,
bonus enhancement for certain support departments. This 
■  the Long-Term Incentive (LTI) is granted to a select group  bonus recognised Amundi’s good results in 2019;
of key executives in the form of Amundi performance 
■  in addition, an exceptional purchasing power bonus in the 
shares, designed to motivate managers to achieve 
amount of €450 was paid to employees who received, over 
financial targets set out in the Amundi Business Plan. 
the 12 months preceding the payment date, an overall gross 
Under the authorisation given by the Annual General 
annual compensation less than three times the annual 
Meeting of 16 May 2019, the Amundi Board of Directors 
value of the SMIC (minimum wage), i.e. €55,419.12.
AMUNDI - 2020 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 41
4
Making individual and collective development central to our responsibility as an employer
Social cohesion, Quality of life at work and Commitment
4.3  Social cohesion, Quality of life at work and Commitment
Diversity and non-discrimination ■  encouragement of women into management positions. 
For this theme, our actions aim to eliminate all the obstacles 
Amundi is a company that considers promoting equal 
(trust, visibility, representations, maternity) that could slow 
opportunities not only to be a question of ethics but also a 
down their careers).
performance factor. In 2008, Amundi signed the Diversity 
Charter, in which it committed to comply with and promote  ■  In 2020, all the actions undertaken helped to record a 
the principle of non-discrimination. Amundi has a policy that  sharp increase in the number of women on Amundi’s 
respects professional diversity. This commitment is specifically  Executive Committee, reaching 28.6% as of 31 December 
reflected in the requirement for fairness in the main human  2020 compared with 18.5% in 2019, and exceeding the 
resources procedures: recruitment, compensation, training,  figure of 30% for female executives.
evaluation and professional promotion. ■  In terms of support, due to the unique nature of 2020, 
only nine women (versus 31 in 2019) were supported 
Gender equality in the workplace through the various Group leadership training 
With regard to gender equality in the workplace, our actions  programmes dedicated specifically to young talent. We 
are driven by two key points: have also continued our efforts to take greater account 
of gender diversity in HR processes: talent pools are now 
■  vigilance regarding equal pay for the same job. 42% women, consistent with the percentage of women 
The actions carried out by Amundi in 2020 dealt with two  in the company; one in three people in the succession 
aspects: the static aspect and the dynamic aspect. plans for key posts in the company are women. Finally, 
the issue of diversity is now systematically addressed 
■  The static aspect comprises the initiatives aimed 
at People Reviews for all employees.
at determining whether there is a difference in the 
treatment of men and women, by means of a calculation  ■  Internationally, actions are also being undertaken to 
of the gender equality index. This index returned a  encourage women into management positions. In 
score of 84 out of a maximum of 100 points, based on  Dublin, several senior female executives took part in a 
the following indicators: equality of rates of individual  training course entitled “Leaders on the Rise – Shaping 
wage increases (excluding promotions), promotion rate,  Future Female Talent”, with the aim of creating a 
proportion of female employees whose wages were  support network for ambitious women managers. In 
increased after returning from maternity leave. the United Kingdom, Amundi is committed to gender 
equality by complying with the Women in Finance 
■  The dynamic aspect comprises all the actions aimed 
Charter, particularly on the theme of gender equality in 
either at reducing unfair gaps or at preventing them 
positions of responsibility.
before they arise. This aspect comes into play through 
initiatives that have been in place for several years: ■  In November 2020, Amundi made a commitment alongside 
six French management companies to create the “30% 
–  financial packages aimed at reducing unfair pay 
Club France Investor Group” to promote better gender 
gaps;
diversity within the SBF 120 governing bodies. This group 
–  a guarantee to female employees returning from  of investors calls on French large caps to draw up an action 
maternity leave of a pay increase equal to at least  plan to ensure that their governing bodies comprise at 
the average increase granted during the period of  least 30% women by 2025.
leave, as part of the annual compensation campaign. 
■  For its part, Amundi’s objective is to achieve 30% women 
All female employees returning from maternity leave 
in its Executive Committee in 2022 and 35% in the Senior 
benefit from this measure;
Leadership Team in 2025.
–  as part of the 2020 campaign, Amundi implemented 
the non-prorating of women’s bonuses for the 
period corresponding to statutory and conventional 
maternity leave (excluding nursing leave).
Percentage of women in the company 31/12/2020
In workforce 41.70%
In management 35.00%
In Senior Leadership Team(1) 30.10%
On Executive Committee 28.60%
On Management Committee 21.40%
In country management 33.30%
On Board of Directors 41.70%
(1)  The Senior Leadership Team brings together employees in the first tier of management of the Amundi Group, i.e. around 150 people.
42 AMUNDI - 2020 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
4
Making individual and collective development central to our responsibility as an employer
Social cohesion, Quality of life at work and Commitment
Parenthood Employer-employee communication
It is important for Amundi to allow women to combine  Amundi’s social policy is to engage in constructive dialogue 
motherhood and their careers. Amundi also includes men in  with the various employee representative bodies, whether 
its policy, as they are also affected by issues of parenthood  through formal or ad hoc bodies. Amundi recognises that 
and work-life balance. To this end, Amundi has decided, from  social dialogue and healthy employee representative bodies 
1 January 2020, to introduce 16 weeks of maternity leave in  contribute to its development.
all its places of business worldwide, and to supplement this 
In 2020, social dialogue in France was heavily impacted by 
scheme with a systematic HR interview to prepare the return 
the Covid-19 pandemic crisis. Four agreements were signed 
from maternity leave, as well as five days of paid paternity 
with the social partners:
leave. These measures fall within the framework of the Crédit 
Agricole Group’s Human Project(1) and that of the International  ■  agreement on mandatory annual negotiation for 2020;
Framework Agreement signed in July 2019 by Crédit 
■  agreement on the exceptional purchasing power premium 
Agricole S.A. and UNI Global Union. This agreement covers 
for 2020;
human rights, fundamental labour rights and the development 
of employer–employee social dialogue. It aims to allow all the  ■  agreement on the procedures for taking leave in the Covid-
Group’s employees to take advantage of a single base of social  19 context;
benefits, regardless of the country where they work, through  ■  agreement on a new accidental death and disability 
a number of commitments to support people with disabilities,  scheme.
as well as parenthood and provident schemes.
From the end of February 2020, social dialogue has constantly 
Aware of the difficulties encountered by parents during the  been an essential driver in addressing the health crisis and 
first lockdown, Amundi has borne part of the childcare costs  adapting work organisation. The aim is to ensure business 
(whether the parent is working remotely or at the office). In  continuity while protecting employees’ health and helping 
addition, educational assistance was offered for employees’  to limit the spread of the epidemic. Social dialogue has 
children. particularly intensified with trade unions and within the ESC(2) 
and occupational health and safety (CSSCT)(3) bodies. At each 
Awareness actions new stage of the health crisis, the quality and regularity of 
discussion enabled the implementation of specific measures 
Training, awareness, communication and the fight against 
tailored to employee protection on the following themes: 
unconscious bias and stereotypes are an integral part of 
remote working, prevention, psychosocial risks, protection 
Amundi’s global action plan to achieve progress in the area 
measures, return to site, taking leave, etc. All measures 
of diversity. In France, the training programme on the fight 
implemented are in compliance with government instructions.
against discrimination continued in 2020. The programme, 
which is mandatory for managers and human resources  Since the first lockdown, remote working has become 
recruiters, was extended from 2019 to include all employees  widespread. For on-site employees, health conditions 
on an optional basis via a serious game hosted on Phileas. have been enhanced, with the disinfection of premises and 
distribution of sanitising gel and masks. Working hours have 
Lastly, the Amundi Women Diversity network had 485 
been arranged to avoid employees taking public transport 
members as of the end of December 2020, including 142 men. 
during rush hours.
In Ireland, diversity and inclusion were highlighted in 2020 
with the creation of the Women in Amundi Ireland network  With the belief that sustainable performance is a process 
and the publication of a series of Intranet interviews on the  of reconciling the search for efficiency with attention to 
careers of several female employees. These topics will also  employee well-being, Amundi will engage in discussions with 
be picked up in 2021, with the creation of a Diversity and  social partners in 2021 on the quality of life at work, which will 
Inclusion Committee and the launch of a “Voices from the  include a remote working component.
Shadows” campaign to encourage all employees to make a 
commitment on this subject. In the United States, a series 
of actions to promote diversity was deployed in 2020:  Quality of life in the workplace
mandatory training on unconscious bias, awareness events, 
the “Light on Diversity” series published on the Intranet and  Psychosocial risks prevention policy (PSR)
disseminated by email.
Amundi’s policy on the prevention of PSR and on quality of life in 
the workplace is one of ongoing improvement and integration 
Cultural diversity
into HR policies. It is notable for its interdisciplinary approach 
Amundi also promotes cultural diversity within its various  – relying on managers, the Human Resources Department, 
entities. In the United States, the year was punctuated by the  occupational medicine, and employee representatives(4).
organisation of events and publications aimed at educating 
In France, specific governance of psychosocial risks in the 
employees on celebrations from various cultures. With a 
workplace is entrusted to a monitoring committee that meets 
different theme every month, a minority or a different culture 
quarterly and tracks the various indicators, in addition to the 
came under the spotlight. In Ireland, as part of Diversity and 
monthly meetings of a management committee dedicated to 
Inclusion Week, several nationalities were highlighted in order 
the HR monitoring of at-risk employees.
to enhance diversity within the entity.
(1) See Crédit Agricole S.A. Registration Document 2019.
(2) Comité Social et Économique (Economic and Social Committee).
(3) Commission Santé Sécurité et Conditions de Travail (Commission on Health and Safety and Working Conditions).
(4) Employee representative bodies.
AMUNDI - 2020 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 43
4
Making individual and collective development central to our responsibility as an employer
Social cohesion, Quality of life at work and Commitment
In 2020, the actions undertaken in previous years were  ■  office equipment such as screens and chairs sent to 
continued (a listening space, monitoring of long absences  employees whose state of health justified it;
in coordination with the Occupational Health Department, 
■  a protocol implemented for detecting, tracing and tracking 
management training on the prevention and management 
contacts and symptomatic/confirmed cases;
of stress, Responsage information and advice platform for 
caregiving staff). These actions have been enhanced to  ■  employees with disabilities and/or at risk monitored and 
provide a suitable response to the potential consequences  supported with telephone calls and email exchanges.
of the health crisis: isolation, loss of community involvement, 
work overload/underload, hyperconnectedness/disconnect,  Well-being at work
work/life balance, stress, etc.
For several years now, Amundi has established measures 
A system for supporting remote working for managers and  intended to improve quality of life in the workplace and to 
employees is currently deployed, with a dual objective of  help employees achieve a better work-life balance.
maintaining the collective bond and strengthening remote 
Exceeding the legal requirements in France, the Company 
managemen. This includes distribution of guides on remote 
acts through:
working, training for managers and employees, management 
coaching and self-help conferences. ■  the organisation of work: meetings that comply with the 
team’s working hours, defined planning ahead of time, 
Other specific mechanisms, opened during the health crisis, 
periods when accessible in the context of remote working, 
are offered to employees:
etc.;
■  remote medical consultation: at no additional cost, Amundi  ■  measures to make parenthood easier: standard breast-
employees can take advantage of a remote medical 
feeding leave, children’s sick days, paternity leave, 
consultation service for any general medical problem;
maternity and parenthood guides, etc.;
■  a Crédit Agricole S.A. psychology unit: in addition to  ■  measures aimed at improving working conditions for 
the traditional listening space that already existed, this 
seniors (two days of remote working for the over-57s), 
remotely accessible unit provides 24/7 moral support to 
facilitating the transition between work and retirement 
employees;
(assisted part-time, personalised review information, 
■  dedicated psychological support by specialised teams for  retirement preparation training, end-of-career leave, 
employees with disabilities. transition leave financed by the European Works Council);
Internationally, entities are also committed to the prevention  ■  solutions to make everyday life easier: company concierge 
of psychosocial risks by offering management training and by  services, dedicated gym, take-away in addition to the 
launching awareness campaigns. In Austria, an assessment of  company restaurant;
workplace stress factors was carried out in 2019 following the 
■  systems dedicated to caregiving staff: practical guide, 
merger with Pioneer Investments and the relocation of the 
Responsage platform (information and advice service), 
company. The action plan scheduled to roll out in 2020 has 
donations of days;
been postponed until 2021 owing to the Covid-19 pandemic. 
In Ireland, the topic of mental health was one of the priorities  ■  supporting the social endeavours of the Works Council: 
for 2020, with the promotion of World Mental Health Day  access to childcare centres, help with childcare costs, 
in October, the distribution of a series of online tips and a  universal service employment vouchers (CESU), etc.
prevention kit comprising five virtual classes, and the raising  Internationally, Amundi is also committed to improving the 
of awareness through the “Mental Health Champions/Mental  quality of life at work for its employees. In Austria, an annual 
Health First Aiders” programme launched in 2019. assessment of the working environment, and particularly 
of individual workstations, is carried out. In Ireland, a 
Health policy comprehensive well-being programme was deployed in 2020. 
This programme includes workshops, individual consultations, 
As a result of the health crisis, most of the health measures 
on-site vaccinations and a seminar.
in the workplace scheduled for 2020 were heavily impacted 
or even cancelled. However, in January, Amundi was able to 
organise seven hours’ training for 14 employees, enabling 
Commitment
them to update their knowledge of first aid. In partnership 
with the Établissement Français du Sang (the French blood 
Talent commitment
bank service), we held two donor sessions in the year, in 
February and September, with 154 volunteer employees. To facilitate the implementation of an employment policy that 
places priority on internal mobility, and to allow everybody to 
To combat the pandemic, the Occupational Health 
evolve and develop within the Group, each employee has an 
Department set about implementing measures tailored to 
assigned HR business partner and individualised employee 
the health situation:
management.
■  thermographic cameras installed at the entrance to each 
In collaboration with the management, employee management 
building;
contributes both to the adaptation of resources to the needs of 
■  individual health kits distributed, containing surgical  the business and to the individual development of employees. 
masks, a sanitising solution and a disinfectant spray for all  The organisation of employee management is aligned with the 
volunteer employees present on site; management structure and incorporates matrix management. 
It is set at an initial local level with a direct hierarchy, then 
organised by business line with dedicated contacts and a 
cross-sectional vision.
44 AMUNDI - 2020 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
5
Acting as a community minded, eco-aware citizen
Inclusion
The role of the HR business partner includes several levels  their projects will be implemented within the Group. The year 
of support: 2020 also saw the resumption of the Top 150 event through 
the creation of the Senior Leadership Team.
■  employee reviews between HR business partner and 
management covering all scopes;
Measurement of employee commitment
■  succession plans put in place to ensure succession for key 
Every year, Amundi carries out a survey to measure the 
positions;
commitment of its employees. Known as the “Engagement 
■  support for employees in difficult circumstances. and Recommendation Index (ERI)” this approach is used 
These exchanges between HR and management are an  within all Crédit Agricole Group entities. In 2020, Amundi 
opportunity to identify employees with high potential for  carried out the survey in France and in all its other places 
development within the business. Talent management  of business around the world. More than 4,400 employees 
continued in 2020 as it adapted to the health crisis. The  were surveyed, giving a participation rate of 73%. The Amundi 
NOVAMUNDI (young talent development programme)  commitment score was 80% favourable responses, up 8 points 
cohorts have completed their work digitally and several of  from 2019.
Commitment survey 2018 2019 2020
Participation rate 59% 76% 73%
Amundi commitment score 70% 72% 80%
Employee share ownership employees, in nine countries, have subscribed to this capital 
increase. Employee ownership in Amundi’s share capital 
The development of employee share ownership is an integral 
represents 0.7%, compared to 0.5% before the transaction. 
part of Amundi’s compensation and social benefits policy. 
A director elected by the employees for a three-year term is 
As in 2019, a capital increase transaction specifically for 
responsible for representing the employees on the Board of 
employees was carried out in autumn 2020. This transaction 
Directors.
allowed eligible employees to subscribe to Amundi shares 
with a 30% discount on the reference price. More than 1,350 
5  ACTING AS A COMMUNITY MINDED, ECO-AWARE CITIZEN
For Amundi, acting as a community-minded citizen means promoting inclusion, carrying out solidarity initiatives with partners over 
the long term, adopting responsible purchasing practices and reducing its environmental impact.
5.1  Inclusion
Amundi formalised its commitment to social inclusion at  quality of the welcome and assistance they offer young 
the end of 2018 by signing the PAQTE agreement. The Pact  people.
with the Neighbourhoods for all Companies (Pacte Avec 
les Quartiers pour Toutes les Entreprises, PAQTE) supports 
Disability
actions already initiated and encourages businesses to work 
for the residents of priority urban policy districts (Quartiers  In 2020, Amundi continued its voluntary activities to 
Prioritaires de la Politique de la Ville, QPV). incorporate people with disabilities based on four pillars: 
recruitment, retention in employment, use of the sheltered 
employment sector(1) and raising employee awareness. 
Policy for hosting young people in training
In 2019, Amundi signed the “Manifesto for the inclusion of 
Amundi contributes significantly to the training of young  people with disabilities in economic life”, thereby committing 
people through internships offered to recently graduated  itself to continue its actions to promote the inclusion of people 
students from diverse areas of study and through work- with disabilities.
study, which enables a young person to both finance his or 
In France, a sixth disability agreement was signed for 
her education and gain his or her first work experience. In 
three years at Crédit Agricole S.A. Group level. It sets 
2020, despite the organisational difficulties associated with 
Amundi’s objective over this period to recruit eight people 
the Covid-19 pandemic, Amundi maintained its policy of 
with disabilities across all types of employment contract: 
welcoming young people for training. As such, nearly 900 
permanent, fixed-term, work-study and temporary. In 2020, 
young people, mainly in France (71%), joined the company 
Amundi recorded nine recruitments of employees with 
on long-term internships, work/study contracts, international 
disabilities, one permanent and eight work-study employees, 
volunteering (VIE) or training through research (CIFRE). 
bringing the number of employees with disabilities to 65 as 
Amundi was awarded the HappyTrainees label for the seventh 
of 31 December. As is the case every year, Amundi has taken 
consecutive year in 2020; this recognises companies for the 
actions to raise awareness among its employees and promote 
(1) The actions carried out with companies in the protected and adapted work sector are described in the paragraph dedicated to the 
Responsible Purchasing Policy.
AMUNDI - 2020 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 45
5
Acting as a community minded, eco-aware citizen
Sponsorship and solidarity actions
the inclusion of people with disabilities. In 2020, Amundi  At international level, several actions have also been 
renewed its financial support for the “Autistes sans frontières”  undertaken in support of disability: financial assistance in Italy, 
(Autism without borders) association. additional leave in Germany, an inclusion initiative in Japan 
which will continue in 2021 with the publication of a guide on 
the recruitment and integration of workers with disabilities.
Changes in the rate of direct and indirect employment of employees with disabilities
(France as of 31 December)
2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019
2.13% 2.50% 3.15% 3.31% 3.86% 4.50% 4.34% 4.00%
Direct employment rate of employees with disabilities(1)
(France as of 31 December) 2020
2.83%
(1)  From 1 January 2020, only direct employment is recognised in calculating the employment rate for people with disabilities.
5.2  Sponsorship and solidarity actions
Corporate sponsorship actions Employee commitment
With 2020 being a year heavily impacted by the Covid-19  Amundi’s commitment to social responsibility has also 
crisis, the three pillars of its sponsorship action – culture,  led to involving employees in joint projects with charitable 
education and solidarity – have come into play more than ever. organisations.
Amundi wanted to support the Red Cross by involving its  In France, for the eighth consecutive year, Amundi ran its 
employees in France and abroad in a voluntary collection  sponsorship programme called “Give A Hand”, aimed at 
campaign. In the field of culture, Amundi continued its support  promoting employee commitment to the voluntary sector. 
for its long-standing partners, namely Villa Médicis, of which it  In addition to the traditional programme, Amundi launched 
is the main sponsor, the Grand Palais and the Théâtre National  a special Covid-19 edition dedicated to the fight against 
de Chaillot, as well as the Château de Vaux-le-Vicomte (started  the pandemic. Some 18 projects were financed in this way, 
in 2019). In the current climate, some sales departments  taking the total number of solidarity projects supported for 
have allocated their end-of-year gift budget to support  2020 to 28. Because of the public health situation, Amundi 
associations such as Hôpitaux de Paris–Hôpitaux de France,  did not organise this year’s toy collection with Rejoué, or the 
to support the creation of SMEs (through ADIE microfinance)  collection of clothing with La Cravate Solidaire; both these 
or to help companies in difficulty (60,000 recoveries). Amundi  associations work on the professional integration of people 
also helped Lebanon, which was severely affected by the  experiencing difficulties. Nevertheless, Amundi reaffirmed its 
economic crisis and a double explosion, through donating to  support for these associations by doubling its annual financial 
the Fondation de France for the reconstruction of the Saint  contribution.
Joseph University Hospital in Beirut and its university hospital, 
Internationally, a large proportion of employee solidarity 
the Hôtel-Dieu de France. Lastly, for the tenth consecutive 
initiatives, such as collections, donations and sports events, 
year, Amundi continued to provide financial support for 
were organised for the Red Cross.
Action Contre la Faim (ACF, Action Against Hunger)
■  In Japan, several employees and their families took part 
Internationally, support for associations was heavily impacted 
in a 30-kilometre bicycle race near Mount Fuji. The funds 
by the health crisis. Amundi Ireland made a financial donation 
collected were paid to the Japanese Red Cross.
to the Mater Foundation to support hospital staff, who are 
on the frontline of the battle against the crisis. In the United  ■  In Austria, employee commitment also focused on the 
States, Amundi also targeted hospitals by encouraging all  Red Cross by organising a collection of essential products 
its employees to make donations to the Boston Medical  such as clothing and hygiene products intended for the 
Center. Amundi USA maintained its commitment to the  homeless and refugees.
re-integration of homeless people hard hit by the health crisis,  ■  In Germany, employees supported the Red Cross through 
by supporting the Horizons for the Homeless association and  donations, matched by Amundi. Employees also joined 
also Rosie’s Place, which provides a safe haven and decent  with 37 other companies to organise a campaign to give 
living conditions for homeless women. In Italy, Amundi  Christmas presents to disadvantaged children and young 
actively mobilised against food insecurity among the Italian  people in and around Munich.
population by financially supporting the Food Bank. Lastly, 
Amundi Germany supported the actions of Klinik Clowns,  Lastly, in the UK, employees were encouraged to provide 
whose mission is to promote healing and to bring joy to the  financial support for the British Heart Foundation, a charitable 
sick through laughter. organisation that funds research related to heart and 
circulatory diseases.
Amundi’s contributions amounted to a total of €2.7 million 
in 2020.
46 AMUNDI - 2020 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
5
Acting as a community minded, eco-aware citizen
Responsible purchasing
5.3  Responsible purchasing
The Crédit Agricole Group has adopted a Responsible  Many actions have been taken to provide the best support to 
Purchasing Policy(1) designed to meet the main challenges  our suppliers during this period of Covid-19 and to limit the 
of the future and contribute to the company’s overall  financial impact of this health crisis on their financial year. As 
performance. This policy is part of the Group’s Ethical Charter  of 18 March 2020, purchasers of business, IT and real estate 
and is based on commitments including the United Nations  services contacted their suppliers to reassure them of Amundi’s 
Global Compact, the Diversity Charter and the Charter on  support during this period and to tell them about the health 
the Mediation of Responsible Supplier Relations. All of the  measures put in place to protect their employees on our sites. 
commitments set forth in these texts relate to respect for  Invoices for March 2020 were paid throughout the month, 
human rights and compliance with labour regulations, the  despite the compulsory halting of services in mid-March. All IT 
fight against all forms of discrimination, the promotion of  service contracts and remotely manageable businesses were 
diversity, environmental protection and business ethics. maintained. Support for our catering providers on offsetting 
a portion of their revenue was provided in conjunction with 
As part of the 2022 Medium-Term Plan (MTP), the Crédit 
Group Purchasing. Specific attention was given to suppliers in 
Agricole Group’s Purchasing business line set out its action 
situations of economic dependency (25% of revenue) through 
plan, entitled “ACTE 2022”. This plan aims to:
the production of quarterly indicators that increase our 
■  boost the Group’s performance and risk control; business’s awareness of the financial risk associated with this 
■  create value for the regions and business lines; dependency (reminder of thresholds, meetings with suppliers 
confronting economic dependency and action plans to limit 
■  translate the purchasing policy into responsible actions; the impact of this dependency on their companies in the short 
■  maintain responsible behaviour with its suppliers. or medium term).
In 2020, Amundi used the three MTP pillars to address these  In 2021, the Purchasing business line will pursue the MTP 
objectives: objectives. In December, the annual agreement of the 
Purchasing business line, bringing together all Purchasing 
■  the societal pillar, with renewal of the Responsible Supplier 
entities of the Crédit Agricole S.A. Group, defined clear 
and Purchasing label, incorporating the CSR aspect into 
objectives for 2021: Listen more to our suppliers and double 
all procurement cases, increasing the CSR weighting in 
our inclusive purchasing in 2021. Lastly, despite the health 
rating grids to 15%, the Group IT white paper including CSR, 
situation and the organisation of remote working teams, 
monitoring indicators on supplier risks, a new EcoVadis 
invoice processing was a priority objective for the Purchasing 
2020 rating campaign after that of 2017 and an action plan 
and Finance teams from the first lockdown and payment 
on improving payment deadlines;
deadlines maintained an 82% rate of invoices settled within 
■  the human pillar with the professionalisation of CSR  the deadline over 2020.
in purchasing. “Buy Responsibly” training on the 
fundamentals of CSR purchasing was taken by all Amundi 
Use of sheltered sector companies
buyers between 2019 and 2020;
■  the relationship excellence pillar with regard to its  Amundi continued its policy of using the sheltered 
suppliers and internal clients: a 360° assessment by  employment sector in 2020. Revenue assigned to companies 
our specifiers concerning the relationships and services  in the adapted sector (EA/ESAT(2)), amounting to €0.5 million 
delivered by the purchasing teams and support functions, a  in 2019, was almost maintained in 2020 (€0.4 million), with the 
quality survey of Group suppliers (including over 64% very  fall recorded as a result of the impact of Covid-19 on building 
small companies and SMEs). The survey confirmed a very  services. However, in order to limit the impact of Covid-19 on 
good perception of the relationship (90.3% overall, 90.7%  these companies during the first lockdown, distributions of 
for very small companies/SMEs, 90.3% for intermediate- packed lunches were arranged, produced by an ESAT, which 
sized enterprises and 88.3% for large companies) and  allowed the company to remain open over the period and a 
positive points such as: distribution of sanitising gel in offices was entrusted to an 
adapted company from October.
■  the feeling that the Group regards its suppliers 
sympathetically; Use was also made of the sheltered sector for as yet 
underdeveloped activities (IT services, contact platforms for 
■  effective management of the supplier relationship; disabled freelancers/entrepreneurs) and a partnership with 
■  an EcoVadis assessment approach; “Inclusion” began in December 2020 to provide access to 
profiles from the sheltered sector through the digital platform 
■  contractual commitments respected.
Malt.
(1) See Crédit Agricole S.A. Registration Document 2020 – Chapter 2.
(2) EA: Adapted company/ESAT: Establishment and service for assistance through work.
AMUNDI - 2020 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 47
5
Acting as a community minded, eco-aware citizen
Direct environmental footprint
5.4  Direct environmental footprint
Amundi’s operations do not have a major direct environmental  A process to improve the energy efficiency of sites is also 
impact. Nevertheless, conscious of the importance of applying  underway in international entities, favouring low-consumption 
the principles of social responsibility to its operations, the  electronic devices and optimising automated lighting, heating 
company undertakes to reduce its environmental impact  and air conditioning systems. In the United Kingdom, a motion 
by managing its buildings and resources responsibly and by  detection lighting system is in place to reduce the site’s 
controlling its CO emissions. In addition, Amundi regularly  power consumption. Several entities have also put in place 
2
conducts actions to raise employee awareness of eco-friendly  an automatic switch-on and switch-off system for computers. 
initiatives. In Italy, this involves around 450 workstations.
Green IT policy
Responsible management of buildings 
Amundi seeks to control the environmental impact of its 
and resources
information systems in several ways:
Building environmental certification ■  All IT equipment intended for users (screens, workstations, 
phones, printers) complies with international energy 
Amundi’s registered office in Paris complies with 
efficiency standards;
environmental standards. It has a BBC(1) Effinergie label and 
HQE Exploitation(2) and BREEAM(3) certification. In 2019,  ■  All computer equipment purchased is certified or complies 
as part of the complete renewal of our HQE Exploitation  with recognised international standards;
certification, Amundi was rated as “Exceptional” in terms of 
■  Lastly, office IT equipment (workstations, printers, laptops, 
Management and Sustainable Use, a score maintained in 2020 
small items, etc.) is recycled by the service provider ATF 
thanks to the continuation of improvement actions. For its 
GAIA, a WEEE certified company contracted by the 
part, Amundi ESR, the subsidiary based in Valence (Drôme), 
Crédit Agricole Group. Equipment components that are 
is located in a building that meets environmental standards. 
not re-used for resale are systematically sent to a certified 
The Amundi offices in Munich, Boston and Milan are all within 
partner. Amundi also recycles its used magnetic cartridges. 
LEED(4) certified premises.
There are bins for recycling used toner drums. In the United 
The Amundi site in Paris took part in the 2020 edition of  States, an end-of-life device management programme is 
the CUBE competition, a national competition organised  also in place. Devices are recycled or put up for sale on the 
by the IFPEB (French Institute for Building Performance),  second-hand market.
which consists, for voluntary candidates, in reducing energy 
consumption over a year. The aim of our participation was to  Responsible use of paper
formalise our commitment and encourage employees to get 
Amundi pursues a responsible paper policy both in France 
involved in efforts to reduce energy consumption.
and abroad, with the objective of reducing its use of paper, 
promoting careful use of paper and recycling used paper.
Audit and energy efficiency
■  With regard to office equipment: automatically 
In accordance with the regulations, Amundi’s premises in Paris 
configuring printers to double-sided, black and white, 
are subject to regular energy audits. The last audit was carried 
swipe cards for making copies, lower-weight paper, the 
out in 2019. In terms of energy efficiency, Amundi continues 
use of certified paper and, in France, electronic invoicing.
to implement the actions in place since 2015, such as reducing 
the operating times of ATUs(5), installing LED lighting and  ■  With regard to communication media: printing on certified 
using window switches to cut fan units when windows are  paper, selecting printers certified by Imprim’Vert and 
open, thus reducing operating times. The introduction of an  regularly making more documents available in electronic 
Energy Performance improvement plan with our technical  form.
maintenance service provider in 2019 enabled us to achieve  ■  With regard to desktop publishing: Amundi ESR, the 
a 5% energy saving. In 2020, efforts continued on optimising  account-keeping subsidiary responsible for employee 
the settings and operating parameters of air conditioning,  savings schemes, continued its efforts to reduce its paper 
heating and plumbing equipment. consumption. In 2020, this activity recorded a rise in 
At the Valence site, a project to optimise the automatic  subscriptions to its e-services from 66% to 69%, which 
lighting, heating and air conditioning system is scheduled for  reduced the amount of printed paper used by 2% over 
2021–2022. Reducing the switch-on time windows of initiating  the year. In total, the reduction in paper consumption in 
devices should allow savings of between 1 hour and 1 hour 30 
minutes per working day depending on the type of device or 
network concerned.
(1) Low Energy Building.
(2) High  Environmental  Quality.  For  more  information  on  certification:  https://www.certivea.fr/offres/
certification-nf-hqe-batiments-tertiaires-neuf-ou-renovation.
(3) Building Research Establishment Environmental Assessment Method.
(4) LEED: Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design.
(5) Air Treatment Unit.
48 AMUNDI - 2020 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
5
Acting as a community minded, eco-aware citizen
Direct environmental footprint
2020 was nearly 5% compared with 2019, despite Amundi  Actions taken to reduce food waste
ESR recording an increase of nearly 10% in the number of 
The partner of the Paris Company restaurant carefully 
accounts managed.
manages its services in order to minimise the amount of 
Several initiatives were implemented in 2020 to reduce paper  food wasted on a daily basis. The year 2020 was an unusual 
consumption or increase the use of recycled paper. At the  year. Firstly, the main restaurant was closed more than half 
Paris headquarters, till receipts for the Company restaurant  the time, particularly during lockdown periods. Secondly, the 
are no longer printed systematically. Several entities are  measures taken to combat the pandemic structurally generate 
continuing their efforts to go paperless: creation of electronic  more waste (packaging of cutlery, meal packs prepared and 
signatures in Italy, digitalisation of meeting handouts and  distributed for take-away in individual packaging).
reports. For the first year, the United Kingdom ordered 
virtual greeting cards. Amundi is switching its subscriptions  Removing plastic
to newspapers and magazines to their digital versions. In the 
In 2020, as part of a responsible consumption approach, 
United Kingdom, only 10% of employees subscribe to paper 
several entities set up initiatives to reduce their plastic 
publications. In 2020, several entities, including Germany, 
consumption. In Japan, recyclable bags are made available 
reduced the number of on-site printers. In Italy, recycled paper 
to employees to reduce the use of disposable bags when 
has almost entirely replaced standard paper.
shopping for lunch outside. In France, coffee machine cups 
Awareness initiatives are conducted with employees. In  were removed from early 2020. In Italy, plastic stirrers for 
Japan, the entity plans to set up a “Smart Printer Day” to raise  coffee will be replaced in 2021 by 100% recyclable wooden 
employee awareness of responsible printing. In Austria, it is  stirrers. In Ireland, stirrers were completely removed in 2020. 
planned to add a banner to raise awareness of responsible  In the United States, plastic capsules were also replaced in 
printing onto email signatures for 2021. order to offer an entirely plastic-free coffee break.
In handling the health crisis, Amundi has reduced its plastic 
Responsible waste management
consumption and its waste production. In Ireland, sanitising 
Amundi has implemented a responsible waste management  gel dispensers are filled from 5-litre containers. Amundi 
policy for several years in France and has promoted selective  France and Ireland have provided all their employees with 
sorting through the voluntary use of recycling bins since  fabric masks to reduce the use of disposable masks.
2013. Recyclable waste(1) (paper, plastic cups and bottles, 
cans, printer supplies, batteries and waste electrical and  Educating employees about “acting green”
electronic equipment [WEEE]) is managed by CEDRE, a 
In France and internationally, Amundi runs communication and 
sheltered workshop employing people with disabilities. In 
awareness actions for its employees on environment-friendly 
addition to selective sorting, Amundi runs a Cleaning Week 
behaviour: awareness campaign for responsible printing 
scheme each year at its Paris premises with a view to sorting 
in several entities (Austria already recorded a significant 
and clearing superfluous paper. Every year, the recycling 
reduction in the amount of printing), an awareness campaign 
work entrusted to CEDRE generates 9.84 Beneficiary Units 
for sorting in several entities, promotion of environmentally 
(disabled employment equivalents).
responsible travel methods in the United States and Italy. 
Every year, Amundi strives to integrate more recyclable  Amundi provides employees with quantitative and qualitative 
materials into its sorting line. In 2018, a cigarette butt recycling  reporting every quarter on the volumes of waste sorted and 
initiative was introduced for our buildings in Paris and Valence.  recycled. In the United Kingdom, an awareness campaign for 
Coffee capsules are also recycled in the UK, Austria and Ireland.  employees to adopt environmentally responsible behaviours 
In Japan, waste sorting bins can be used to sort 15 different  is planned for 2021. In 2021, Amundi USA will launch an internal 
types of waste. Biodegradable consumables were introduced  survey to understand how employees wish to commit to and 
into the cafeteria of the Paris site from 2019. Biowaste is  support these various causes.
collected from the Company restaurant. The grease traps are 
In terms of preserving biodiversity, Amundi has installed 
biologically treated in-house in both buildings, resulting in less 
beehives at its premises in Paris and Valencia. Income from the 
discards and fewer truck movements to clean the traps and 
sale of honey to employees goes to the NGO Planète Urgence.
dispose of the grease at an external station.
Waste (in tonnes) 2020 Control of CO  emissions
2
Recycled waste(1) 11.6
Amundi carbon footprint in 2018
Non-recycled waste 84.5
Every three years, Amundi prepares a complete carbon 
Volume of recycled paper 92.5
footprint, accounting for its scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions, across 
TOTAL 188.6 the entire company. The latest footprint focuses on data for 
the 2018 reference year. It is calculated according to the GHG 
(1) Paper, paper cups, plastic bottles, cans, printer 
protocol (Greenhouse Gas Protocol). Total emissions recorded 
supplies, batteries, WEEE, glass and plastic bottle caps.
in 2018 amounted to 47,000 tonnes of CO equivalent (COeq), 
2 2
i.e. 9.3 tonnes of COeq per employee.
2
(1) Waste collected – differentiate from the following.
AMUNDI - 2020 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 49
5
Acting as a community minded, eco-aware citizen
Direct environmental footprint
DISTRIBUTION OF GHG EMISSIONS BY ITEM (%) Control of CO  emissions
2
Amundi annually calculates CO  emissions in two major 
0.5% categories: energy and business tr2avel.
11% 1% 0.5%
Owing to travel constraints due to the Covid-19 pandemic, 
CO emissions related to business travel were down fivefold 
2
in 2020. However, figures for CO emissions linked to energy 
2
consumption were stable over the period, with buildings 
remaining open throughout the year.
20%
46%
22%
Purchase of services Property, plant and equipment Travel
Energy Air conditioning Waste Freight
CO  EMISSIONS 2018–2020
2
9,000
8,154.35
8,009.20
2.84
7,000
2.03
q
Oe2 5,000
C
t 3,864.80 3,745.20 3,671.30
3,000 0.99 0.95 0.95
1,740.67
0.44
1,000
2018 2019 2020 2018 2019 2020
Energy Business travel tCO2eq/FTE
Energy justify travel (internal (intra-group) travel or external travel for 
Since 2016, our buildings in Paris(1) have been powered using  participation at a conference or client visits) and avoid trips for 
electricity from 100% renewable sources, mainly hydro- which a videoconference meeting would be more appropriate. 
electric. Other countries also have a portion of green energy  Business travel was significantly reduced in 2020.
in their energy mix. This is the case for Germany. Several solar 
panels were installed in Italy in 2019, generating 30,000 kWh 
per year. Amundi’s green energy share reached 52% in 2020.
Travel
The Amundi travel policy applicable to all its entities 
worldwide demonstrates its desire to reduce its CO emissions: 
2
validation of the need to travel, prior authorisation for travel 
abroad, mandatory rail for journeys of under three hours, 
ban on taxi journeys within Paris between 8 am and 8 pm, 
categorisation of rental vehicles according to the number 
of passengers, weekly reporting of forthcoming travel to 
Executive Committee members. Since 2019, new functions 
have been introduced within the reservation system to better 
(1) Excluding data centres.
50 AMUNDI - 2020 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
6
Methodology and indicators
Methodological note
Amundi encourages its employees to reduce emissions in their  is in progress and the terminals are expected to enter into 
commute to work. Amundi encourages its employees to opt  service in 2021–2022. When selecting company cars, Amundi 
for using public transport by paying for transport expenses. In  favours the use of fuel-efficient and hybrid vehicles. In Italy 
France, Amundi covers 80% of public transport expenses (e.g.  and Germany, a transformation of the fleet is underway.
Navigo card or Vélib' card in Paris). In France, Ireland, Italy 
and the United Kingdom, Amundi is putting support in place  Amundi carbon offsetting
to encourage its employees to opt for cycling to get to their 
In 2019, Amundi joined the Crédit Agricole S.A. carbon offset 
workplaces: setting up bicycle mileage allowances, assistance 
scheme (1) via the Livelihoods fund to offset its CO emissions 
with purchasing a bicycle, a self-service bicycle offering and  2
linked to energy and transport, i.e. 15,000 tonnes of CO 
an increase in the number of bicycle parking places. 2
per year. This fund finances agroforestry, rural energy and 
Several electrical charging points have been installed in  ecosystem restoration projects.
Amundi car parks. In Germany and in Valence, the project 
6  METHODOLOGY AND INDICATORS
6.1  Methodological note
HR data data covers 85.9% of the Amundi Group workforce. If certain 
data were unavailable for part of the reporting scope, the 
The HR reporting scope covers the entire Amundi Group as 
coverage rate is recalculated and mentioned next to each 
of 31 December 2020. The workforce of the consolidated and 
indicator.
non-consolidated Amundi Group entities is taken into account 
(excluding minority joint ventures) and includes Sabadell AM, 
a management company acquired by Amundi in 2020, and  Methodology for calculating responsible 
BOC Wealth Management, the joint venture launched at the  investment assets under management
end of 2019 with Bank of China, in which Amundi holds a 
majority stake. The sum of responsible investments managed by Amundi 
takes into account, for the entire Group scope, the AuM of 
Certain HR indicators are only available for France. This data  all open-ended funds, mandates and dedicated funds with a 
is identified as such in the table of indicators. The scope for 
responsible investment objective.
France includes the following entities: Amundi SA, Amundi 
Asset Management, CPR Asset Management, Étoile Gestion,  The typology applied is as follows:
Société Générale Gestion, BFT Investment Managers, Amundi  ■  multi-dimensional ESG integration: funds using ESG ratings 
Finances, Amundi Immobilier, Amundi Intermédiation, Amundi  in a certified or customised framework;
Private Equity Funds, Amundi IT Services, Amundi ESR and 
Amundi Transition Énergétique(2). ■  environmental: funds designed to contribute to the energy 
transition, invest in green assets or reduce the carbon 
Presentation of HR data: unless otherwise indicated, the  footprint of a portfolio;
population covered is that of “active” employees, presented as 
full-time equivalent (FTE). The concept of “active employees”  ■  social: funds aiming to finance the social and solidarity 
economy.
implies a legal bond in the form of a standard permanent or 
fixed-term employment contract (or similar, for international  There is no double counting. If a fund falls under more than 
activities), a presence on the payroll and in the position on the  one theme, only the dominant theme is counted.
last day of the period, and working hours equal to or greater 
than 50%.
Methodology for calculating the 
Changes in the methodology for calculating HR indicators 
beneficiaries of social impact management
relating to age: we have changed our methodology for 
2020 figures. The figures for 2019 and 2018 were adjusted  Amundi has developed a specific analysis method for impact 
compared to those published in the previous report. companies, assessing the continuity of the company’s 
economic model and its impact objectives as well as its 
results. This analysis is based on a sector-wide approach 
Environmental data
comprising quantitative and qualitative criteria as well as 
The environmental reporting scope covers France and  criteria specific to the company. For each company, Amundi 
subsidiaries with more than 100 employees, with the exception  measures the number of beneficiaries and then calculates 
of Sabadell AM. The 2020 scope includes the following  its impact ratio: this is the number of beneficiaries created 
countries: France, the United Kingdom, Italy, Ireland, Austria,  per €10,000 invested. Based on Amundi’s investment in the 
Germany, Japan and the United States. The environmental  company, this ratio allows reporting of the aggregated total 
number of beneficiaries, per impact theme, generated since 
the fund was created in 2012. The impact analysis is updated 
annually. Amundi does not calculate the impact of the Danone 
Communities and Amundi AFD Avenir Durables funds.  
(1) See Chapter 2 of the 2020 Crédit Agricole S.A. Universal Registration Document.
(2) Amundi Transition Énergétique is not part of the scope of financial consolidation.
AMUNDI - 2020 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 51
6
Methodology and indicators
Methodological note
The scope of impacts covers 95.2% of total assets under 
management.
Methodology used for the 2018 carbon footprint
Amundi’s carbon footprint was calculated according to the  data was collected over 2018 for all Amundi Group entities 
Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Protocol. Amundi has chosen to  with more than 100 employees, i.e. a coverage rate of 89.2%. 
calculate its carbon emissions on scopes 1, 2 and 3, which  The data was extrapolated for entities with fewer than 100 
correspond to the entity’s direct and indirect emissions. The  employees.
Methodology and scope for calculating the carbon footprint of portfolios under management
Amundi has retained the provider Trucost for carbon emission  received a value from Trucost, these are supplemented by 
data (expressed in tonnes of CO ) from private issuers.  inherited data from the parent company, where applicable.
2
This data relates to scopes 1 and 2 and a part of scope 3 
The calculation of a portfolio’s carbon footprint initially 
corresponding to indirect emissions related to the first-tier 
consists of calculating the amount of rateable assets in the 
suppliers (“Scope 3 upstream first tier”). The data received 
portfolio. Non-rated and non-rateable securities (securities 
is then incorporated into the Amundi information system and 
issued by States, derivatives, UCITS-type funds, etc.) are 
assigned to an issuer. For companies for which we have not 
excluded. The amount of rated assets is then determined, i.e. 
the amount of the assets for which we have Trucost data.
Two indicators are calculated:
Carbon emissions in million euros invested 
This indicator is used to quantify the carbon emissions resulting from the investment in the portfolio. It is calculated according to 
the following formula:
tCO ∑n Company’s emissions in the portfolio (tCO)
2 i i 2
Portfolio’s emissions ( )=
€m invested Rated portfolio assets (€m)
With:
Company’s emissions in the portfolio 
i =Participation share (%) × Company’s emissions (tCO)
(tCO) i i 2
2
And
Amount invested in a company (shares or debt) (€m)
i
Participation share (%) =
i Company value (shares+debt) (€m)
i
Carbon emissions in million euros of turnover 
This indicator is used to quantify the carbon intensity of the value chain of issuers in the portfolio. It is equal to the weighted sum 
of the carbon footprints of the securities of which it is comprised, i.e.:
Company’s emissions (tCO)
Portfolio emissions (tCO/€m of revenue)=∑n Company’s relative overall weighting in the portfolio (%)x i 2
2 i i Revenue (€m)
i
Methodology for calculating the coal exposure of portfolios under management
Based on data supplied by Trucost, an ESG supplier  In the absence of Trucost data, a rate of 0% is allocated to 
specialising in environmental data, Amundi identifies the  companies not identified as being linked to coal (as a result of 
issuers having activity (electricity generation, extraction)  the sector in particular) or otherwise the percentage declared 
linked to thermal coal. by the company (public report, website or direct information).
Two indicators are calculated, the methodology of which is detailed below:
Weighted exposure of portfolios in billions of euros
For each of the issuers identified, its coal exposure (i.e. the percentage of revenue from coal-related activities) is multiplied by the 
amount invested in the company in question:
∑n Company’s exposure (€) x X% of coal in the sales revenue of the company
i i i
Proportion of portfolios exposed to thermal coal as %
The weighted exposure of portfolios is compared to the total amount of Amundi Group investments in order to calculate the share 
of portfolios exposed to thermal coal:
∑n Company’s exposure (€) x X% of coal in the sales revenue of the company
i i i
Total amount of Amundi Group investments
52 AMUNDI - 2020 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
6
Methodology and indicators
Table of indicators
6.2  Table of indicators
Employment indicators Unit 2020 2019 2018
EMPLOYMENT
Number of employees Number 4,702 4,506 4,417
Number of employees FTE 4,627.3 4,428.50 4,339.9
Number of employees in France FTE 2,224.3 2,161.70 2,094.3
Headcount
Number of employees internationally FTE 2,403.0 2,266.80 2,245.6
Number of employees in joint ventures FTE 1,593.7 1,546.20 1,141.3
Proportion of external personnel on the Amundi(1) staff % 6.3 6.2 9.2
Investment Management FTE 1,135.0 1,046.40 -
Breakdown by  Sales and Marketing FTE 1,028.1 975.7 -
major business 
line Support functions FTE 2,079.8 1,989.1 1,949.4
Control functions FTE 379.4 352.4 348.7
Breakdown by  Number of permanent staff FTE 4,586.9 4,388.1 4,287.3
contract type Percentage of permanent staff % 99.1 99.1 98.8
Breakdown by 
status Proportion of managers % 20.8 - -
Age Average age Years 44 44 44
Years of service Average years of service Years 12 12 13
Women Number 1,961 1,893 1,874
Breakdown by  Men Number 2,741 2,613 2,543
gender Proportion of women % 41.7 42 42.4
Proportion of men % 58.3 58 57.6
Europe FTE 3,757.1 3,587.8 3,517.5
Breakdown by 
geographical  Asia FTE 384.8 338.7 323.6
area
Americas FTE 484.4 501 488.8
Departures Number 232 320 545
Death Number 2 3 2
Resignations Number 124 202 295
Redundancies and dismissals Number 29 33 121
Departures
Retirement Number 12 11 17
Termination of contract Number 24 28 58
Departures to the Crédit Agricole S.A. group Number 8 9 11
Other Number 33 34 41
Europe Number 163 229 342
Departures by  of which France Number 62 74 74
geographical 
area Asia Number 23 50 118
Americas Number 46 41 85
Departure rate % 5.1 7.1 12.3
Departure rate(2) In France % 2.8 3.4 3.5
International % 7.4 10.7 20.6
Temporary 
absences Temporary staff absences Number 95 87 -
Recruitments (permanent + fixed-term contracts) Number 334 492 417
Permanent/fixed-
Recruitments (permanent contracts) Number 296 446 354
term recruitment*
Proportion of permanent-contract recruitments % 88.6 90.7 84.9
Permanent- Europe Number 215 319 237
contract  of which France Number 161 171 138
recruitments by 
geographical  Asia Number 54 75 62
area** Americas Number 27 52 52
AMUNDI - 2020 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 53
6
Methodology and indicators
Table of indicators
Employment indicators Unit 2020 2019 2018
Transformations  Short-term contracts converted into permanent 
of short-term  contracts(3) Number 86 104 116
contracts Contractors brought in-house Number 54 66 69
Median annual gross salary €000 68 68 -
Compensation Average annual gross salary €000 83 85 -
Average(4) overall compensation €000 143.1 -
ORGANISATION OF WORKING HOURS
Part-time employees % 7.5 8.1 8.9
Working hours of which women % 88.1 89.6 89.8
of which men % 11.9 10.4 9.2
TRAINING
Budget allocated to training €000 (excl. tax) 2,452 2,683 -
% individuals trained % 62 55 -
In France % 77 64 60
International % 42 44 -
Number of employees trained Number 2,493 2,223 -
In France Number 1,760 1,418 1,272
International Number 733 805 -
Number of training sessions Number 3,822 4,193 -
In France Number 2,664 2,392 2,096
Training International Number 1,158 1,801 -
Average number of training actions per employee trained Number 1.53 1.89 -
In France Number 1.51 1.69 1.65
International Number 1.58 2.24 -
Number of training hours Number 28,072 - -
In France Number 18,259 20,323 20,762
International Number 7,714 - -
Average number of training hours per employee trained Number 10.42 - -
In France Number 10 14.33 16.3
International Number 10.52 - -
ANNUAL REVIEW
Annual review(5) % of assessment interviews % 93 88 67.6
EMPLOYER–EMPLOYEE RELATIONS
Number of employee representatives Number 46 46 55
Employer-
employee  Number of meetings of the ESC and its committees(6) Number 46 33 32
communication
Number of agreements or amendments signed Number 4 10 7
SAFETY/HEALTH AND ABSENTEEISM
Frequency rate of work-related accidents % 4.8 5.5 5.4
Workplace 
Number of work-related accidents Number 4 12 6
accidents(7)
Number of work-related accidents (travel) Number 13 25 25
Absenteeism(8) Absenteeism rate due to illness % 2.0 2.3 1.9
54 AMUNDI - 2020 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
6
Methodology and indicators
Table of indicators
Employment indicators Unit 2020 2019 2018
NON-DISCRIMINATION
Percentage of women in management positions % 35.0 33.5 33.5
Percentage of women in executive positions % 30.1 27.3 21.9
Percentage of women on the Executive Committee % 28.6 18.5 15.4
Percentage of women on the Board of Directors % 41.7 41.7 41.7
Gender equality Percentage of women in promotions to management 
positions % 43.3 44.9 32.3
Percentage of men in promotions to management 
positions % 56.7 55.1 67.7
Proportion of women in the highest paid 10% % 18.7 16.3 15.2
Gender salary equality index(9) * Score out of 100 84 83 81
Direct and indirect employment rate % - 4 4.34
Disability employment rate(10) % 2.83% - -
Disability*
Number of people with disabilities hired or integrated(11) Number 9 14 12
Number of employees with disabilities Number 65 65 61
Percentage of staff aged under 30 in permanent-contract 
recruitments % 33.1 34.1 34.6
Employment rate for those aged 55 years 
Intergenerational  and over on permanent contracts % 13.5 12.6 -
contract
Number(12) 873 921 838
Number of interns, work study, VIE, CIFRE 
and summer jobs Average 
number(13) 407.8 388.8 333.8
*  Amundi France scope.
(1)  External personnel: temporary workers and service providers.
(2) Departure rate: Number of departures of permanent and fixed-term employees over the year, divided by the total staff at the 
beginning of the year.
(3) Short-term contracts: Fixed-term and work-study contracts.
(4) Salaries and wages of employees divided by the average workforce
(5) Amundi Group scope excluding Amundi USA.
(6) The indicator takes into account the changes in the legal framework concerning staff representation and the introduction of the 
ESC in 2019.
(7) The calculation methodology was amended in 2020 so as not to duplicate a long-term workplace accident from one financial 
year to the next.
(8) The methodology used to calculate sickness absences was changed in 2020, to take into account only employees in the 
workforce. The figures for 2019 and 2018 were recalculated.
(9) The registered index corresponds to the figure published in March of year N+1.
(10) From 1 January 2020, only direct employment is recognised in calculating the employment rate for people with disabilities.
(11) The indicator includes permanent and fixed-term contracts, work-study, interns and temporary workers.
(12) Flows for the year of internship contracts longer than two months, apprenticeships, vocational training contracts, VIE, CIFRE 
and summer jobs.
(13) Average calculated over the year on the basis of staff at the end of the month (number).
AMUNDI - 2020 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 55
6
Methodology and indicators
Table of indicators
Business line indicators Unit 2020 2019 2018
Total assets under management € billion 1,728.8 1,653.4 1,425.1
Assets under management € billion 378.3 323.5 275.8
Responsible  ESG funds and mandates € billion 355.9 310.9 267.3
investment Environment € billion 21.9 12.3 8.2
Strictly social enterprise funds €m 331 256 219
Issuers rated on ESG criteria Number >10,000 >8,000 >5,000
Number of issuers excluded Number 617 319 214
ESG analysis Specialists in ESG Analysis, Voting 
and Quantitative Analysis Number 24 20 18
Commitment with issuers(1) Number 871 - -
Solidarity-based 
savings AuM € billion 3.8 3.3 2.8
Employment % 30 33.0 36.4
Housing % 39 37.0 36.3
Education % 4 4.0 0.7
Health % 16 15.0 14.0
Breakdown of 
social investments  Environment % 7 5.0 4.05
by topic
International solidarity % 4 6.0 7.9
Service to non-profits % 1.4 1.2 0.5
Over-indebtedness % 0.4 0.4 0
Farmers funded % 1.6 1.2 0
Employment Number of beneficiaries 43,655 32,372 16,341
Housing Number of beneficiaries 10,336 8,469 2,315
Education Number of beneficiaries 59,686 46,749 4,186
Health Number of beneficiaries 250,314 168,612 19,280
Impacts of  Hectares 987 594 2,283
solidarity  Environment
investments Tonnes of recycled waste 219,287 137,345 17,674
International solidarity (microcredit) Number of beneficiaries 276,514 228,307 29,948
Service to non-profits Number of beneficiaries 2,499 1,828 360
Over-indebtedness Number of beneficiaries 34,125 39,810 3,477
Farmers funded Number of beneficiaries 5,749 1,358 34
Assets subject to a carbon footprint calculation € billion 574.33 545.0 479.1
Carbon footprint 
Carbon emissions in million euros of turnover tCOeq 243.82 254.2 231.3
of the portfolios 2
Carbon emissions in million euros invested tCOeq 147.19 149.1 151.4
2
Portfolios’  Weighted exposure of portfolios € billion 0.6702 1.006 -
exposure to 
thermal coal Proportion of portfolios exposed to thermal coal % 0.07 0.09 -
56 AMUNDI - 2020 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
6
Methodology and indicators
Table of indicators
Business line indicators Unit 2020 2019 2018
AGMs dealt with Number 4,241 3,492 2,960
Resolutions dealt with Number 49,968 41,429 35,285
Number of resolutions presented by 
shareholders and supported by Amundi 
on corporate governance Number 585 490 520
Number of resolutions presented by 
shareholders and supported by Amundi 
on social/societal issues and human rights Number 138 28 21
Number of resolutions presented 
Voting policy(52)
by shareholders and supported by Amundi 
on environmental matters Number 110 33 48
Total number of resolutions voted against Number 10,031 5,332 5,307
Number of resolutions voted against on Board 
balance Number 5,896 2,294 2,162
Number of resolutions voted against on equity 
transactions (including poison pills) Number 2,032 1,172 1,177
Number of resolutions voted against 
on compensation of Senior Management Number 1,630 1,121 1,408
Number of Compliance Committees Number 11 8 9
Number of complaints Number 1,788 2,104 3,357
Number of employees trained in anti-money 
Ethics and  laundering procedures (AML-CFT)(3) Number 4,200 294 3,632
Compliance
Number of employees trained in external 
anti-fraud procedures(3) Number 855 3,531 3,706
Number of employees trained in international 
sanctions procedures Number 4,757 4,207 -
Total complaints Number 45 48 45
of which contesting a trade Number 2 7 11
Corporate and 
of which concerning the processing time 
Institutional 
of a trade Number 1 2 6
Customer Service
of which concerning the quality of offer Number 38 39 27
of which pricing Number 0 0 1
Percentage of managed portfolios that are 
Risk management(4)
subject to a risk management strategy % 99.5 98.4 98.3
Partner networks(5) Staff specialising in networks FTE 128.5 129.3 129.3
Business line headcount in Risk Departments FTE 222.7 212.7 211.3
Business line  Business line headcount in Audit Departments FTE 42.5 39.4 37.5
headcount 
in Control  Business line headcount in Compliance 
departments Departments FTE 114.2 100.3 99.9
Percentage of total headcount % 8.0 8.0 8.0
Sponsorship Amount of contributions €000 2,740 2,337 2,433
Purchases from sheltered sector companies €000 436 532 543
Number of Beneficiary 
Responsible  Use of sheltered sector companies Units(6) 9.84 24.2 26.2
purchasing*
Percentage of invoices paid within 2 months % 82 81 82
Average payment deadline of suppliers Number of days 50 46.8 -
(1)  This number is an aggregate of all commitments made by the ESG Voting and Analysts teams by issuer.
(2) Amundi Group scope excluding Amundi USA.
(3) Internal and external anti-corruption training is included within the modules on Anti-Money Laundering and Combating the 
Financing of Terrorism (AML-CFT). These training courses are not run every year.
(4) 2018 data was calculated over the entire Group, with the exception of the following countries: Austria, Czech Republic, 
Germany, Italy and the US. In 2019, the calculation scope included all the Amundi Group countries.
(5) Historic partner networks: Crédit Agricole Regional Banks, LCL Gestion, Société Générale Gestion and Étoile Gestion.
(6) A change in methodology for the calculation of Beneficiary Units occurred in 2020, which did not allow for comparison with 
previous financial years.
AMUNDI - 2020 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 57
6
Methodology and indicators
Table of indicators
Reporting 
scope 
coverage 
Environmental indicators Unit 2020 rate 2019 2018
Energy consumption MWh 21,252.7 23,663.1 25,037.5
100%
Proportion of green energy % 52 50 47
Energy Energy consumption per employee MWh/FTE 5.5 5.9 6.5
CO emissions tCOeq 3,671.33 100% 3,745.2 3,864.8
2 2
CO emissions per employee tCOeq/FTE 0.95 0.95 0.99
2 2
Train travel km 1,335,784 5,283,477 4,556,972
CO emissions, train travel tCOeq 60.19 97% 238.1 205.3
2 2
CO emissions per employee, train travel tCOeq/FTE 0.02 0.06 0.06
Business travel 2 2
Air travel km 5,876,549.44 27,786,027 28,410,137
CO emissions, air travel tCOeq 1,680.48 100% 7,771.1 7,949.0
2 2
CO emissions per employee, air travel tCOeq/FTE 0.42 1.97 2.05
2 2
Standard paper consumption Tonnes 245 379 337
Paper 100%
Recycled paper consumption Tonnes 99 44 97
Water consumption m3 21,475.53 36,573 36,862
Water 97%
Water consumption per employee m3/FTE 5.57 10.5 9.8
Volume of non-recyclable waste Tonnes 84.5 85.2% 85.0 113.4
Waste Volume of recycled waste (excl. paper) Tonnes 11.63 97% 33.3 32.0
Volume of recycled paper Tonnes 92.55 97% 160.2 143.8
Designed & published: 
Phone: +33 (0)1 55 32 29 74
58 AMUNDI - 2020 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
AMUNDI
A French limited company with share capital of €505,408,262.50
Registered office: 91-93, boulevard Pasteur 75015 Paris, France
SIREN number: 314 222 902 RCS Paris
LEI : 9695 00 10FL2T1TJKR5 31
Site internet : le-groupe.amundi.com/
Photos credit:
Cover: Julie Guiches 
Capa Pictures / Bea Uhart, Capa Pictures / Stéphane Remael, Capa Pictures / Alexander Dobrovodsky,  
Capa Pictures / Alvise Busetto, GettyImages / MR. Cole
Editorial : Magali Delporte  
Card: Getty Images/Westend61 
Board of Directors: JF Badias, Guillaume Grandin - Société Générale, Régis Corbet, Jean Chiscano, Magali Delporte 
General Management Committee and Executive Committee: Magali Delporte
Global Advisory Board: Tracy Powell, Marthe Lemelle, Martin Joppen, Patrick Iafrate
Designed & published: 
Phone: +33 (0)1 55 32 29 74
 Amundi,
a trusted partner,
working every day in the interest
of its clients and society
amundi.com