
2020
Annual 
Report
Contents
02 02 ID card
04 Editorial by Xavier Musca and Yves Perrier
06  2020 key figures
08 Amundi on the stock market
12  Environment and strategy
14  Our business model
10
16  E SG: a recognised leader  
that meets its commitments
Act  
18  R esponsible investments  
as a responsible   for a more sustainable economy
20  C  DP/Amundi: a pioneering  
leader science-based partnership
24  Strong momentum across all customer segments 
despite the health crisis 
Offer   26  Distribution networks: time for a digital reset
solutions adapted   22 28  The partnership with Bank of China is operational
30  Third-party distribution partnerships with asset 
to the challenges   managers become ever more exclusive
32  “Carteras Master”, a pioneering concept  
of our clients  
for Amundi and CaixaBank AM
and society 34  Institutional investors are sensitive  
to the social impact of their investments
36  A bond to build on: Amundi and the AIIB
40  Solid performances for Amundi’s asset 
management activities
42  ESG investing reinvigorates active management
Strengthen   38 44  A dynamic vision of ESG selection designed  
to capture alpha
our performance   46  The role of passive management as a facilitator 
of the ESG transformation
with a responsible  48  Mounting a passive offensive against climate change
approach 50  Supporting companies in the crisis and 
safeguarding investors’ interests
52  Wifirst: a spin-off gearing up for growth
56  The increasingly critical asset for portfolio 
54 management? Technology
58  International expansion, a new challenge  
Create   for the control functions
60  2020, a year of new challenges for Human Resources
the conditions  
62  On CSR, Amundi knows that to be a responsible 
for confidence player, you need to do as you say
66  Changes in governance
68 Board of Directors
70  General Management Committee  
64
and Executive Committee
72  Global Advisory Board – 
Role of the Management Bodies
74  Glossary 
Governance
Terms listed in the glossary  
are marked with *
  
I
a trusted  
D
partner working  
every day in  
the interest of its 
N
clients and society
U
Being a trusted partner  
means being attentive to our clients’ needs
Confidence cannot be given on demand, it must be earned 
M
every day by delivering concrete results. This is the guiding 
principle we have embodied since 2010, and which has led 
us to develop savings and investment solutions that meet our 
clients’ expectations. We offer all of our clients, whether they 
Aare Retail, Institutional investors or Corporates, a full range 
of investment solutions thanks to our six investment platforms 
operating in all financial markets.
Being a trusted partner  
means being a long-term partner
Together with our 4,700 employees based in more than  
35 countries, we believe that our relationship with our clients 
should be based on confidence. We provide them with support 
on a daily basis to build an enduring relationship based on 
sound advice, long-term performance and a commitment to 
social responsibility. Our advice to clients is supported by our 
unique research capabilities, our proven track record in asset 
management, as well as our high standards of service.
Being a trusted partner  
means being a responsible partner
Responsible investment is one of Amundi’s cornerstones. We 
have always believed that companies and financial actors 
have the responsibility to face today’s major challenges, and 
specifically in energy transition and social inclusion. We 
believe that taking public interest into account strengthens 
financial performance. That is why we integrate both financial 
and non-financial analysis into our investment decisions.
01
Amundi, the leading European  
asset manager
The no. 1 
European asset
manager in the global
top 10(1)
The highest  
 market capitalisation
in Europe(2)
378 
€ bn
Assets under 
responsible investment 
management
1,729 
€ bn
Assets under 
management
Asia 
%
Europe   17
excl. France  
and Italy  
%
13
Rest of the world  
%
2
Italy   Americas  
% %
10 4
Breakdown 
of AuM
by geography 
(31/12/2020)
France  
%
54
(1) Source: IPE “Top 500 Asset Managers” published in June 2020, based on assets under management at 31 December 2019.
(2) Among traditional asset managers – Refinitiv, December 2020.
02/
Amsterdam Durham Montreal Tokyo
Bangkok Frankfurt Mumbai Toronto
Barcelona Geneva Munich Vienna
Beijing Helsinki Paris Warsaw
Boston Hong Kong Prague Yerevan
Bratislava Kuala Lumpur Santiago Zurich
Brussels London Seoul
Bucharest Luxembourg Shanghai
Budapest Madrid Singapore   Investment hubs
 Local investment centres
Casablanca Mexico City Sofia   Other Amundi entities
Dubai Miami Stockholm  Joint ventures
Dublin Milan Taipei As of 31/12/2020.
 
A complete range   More tha n 
of active and passive management 100 
in traditional and real assets   
million clients
More than
35  4,700
countries employees
03
Xavier Musca
Chair of the Board of Directors of Amundi
Deputy Chief Executive Officer of Crédit Agricole S.A.
The  year  2020  will  be  remembered  as  one  of 
unprecedented crisis. However, Amundi successfully 
passed this test of resilience. The company’s business lines 
sustained their momentum with contributions from all 
client segments, and financed internal growth investments 
thanks to continued productivity gains. Its cost/income 
ratio (51.7%) remained amongst the best in the industry. 
Corrected for market effects, results for 2020 are in line 
with the company’s 2018-2020 plan. On the back of this 
strong performance and our sound financial structure, the 
Board has submitted a proposed dividend of 2.90 euros 
per share to the Annual General Meeting. This is equivalent 
to 65% of the Group’s share of net income. environment and promotes social cohesion contribute to 
the Crédit Agricole Group’s ambition to become Europe’s 
Throughout this turbulent year, Amundi continued paving  leading company for responsible investment.
the way forward with new initiatives: creating a new joint 
venture with Bank of China, acquiring Banco Sabadell  Paving the way forward also includes tending to 
Asset Management in Spain and launching Amundi  management succession. After 14 years helming the 
Technology. Group,  Yves  Perrier  has  wished  to  pass  on  the 
responsibilities of Chief Executive Officer. Under his 
Amundi is entirely aligned with all three dimensions  leadership, Amundi has grown to be the leading European 
(client, human and societal) of the Crédit Agricole   asset manager and a global leader recognised for the 
Group’s project. As a leader on ESG issues, Amundi is  strength of its business model, its dynamic growth and 
able to offer clients of the Group’s networks and third- its positioning as a financial player committed to society. 
party distributors savings solutions that meet their  Both Amundi and the Crédit Agricole Group owe a great 
expectations regarding social and  deal to Yves Perrier.
environmental goals. Consistent 
with objectives announced in  The  Board  of  Directors  has 
“In 2020, Amundi 
2018, 100% of Amundi’s actively  nominated Valérie Baudson to 
continued its trajectory  
managed funds now take ESG  succeed Yves as CEO and I have 
criteria  into  account.(1)  The  of profitable growth   proposed that he take my place 
company has also exceeded its  as Chair of the Board of Directors 
and entered  
target for assets held in ‘green  so that Amundi continues to 
solutions’, increasing assets under  a new phase of its  benefit from his unparalleled 
management at end-2020 to   experience.  This  change  in 
commitment  
€21.9 billion from €12.3 billion.  governance will help us ensure a 
Amundi’s ever more numerous  to sustainability as a  smooth transition and guarantee 
initiatives to foster a form of  Amundi’s continued success. 
responsible investor.”
finance that better respects the 
(1)  February 2021. All open-ended funds actively managed by Amundi to which an ESG-rating methodology can be applied.
04/
Yves Perrier
Chief Executive Officer  
of Amundi
2020 also yielded a wealth of strategic initiatives. Our 
agreements with Société Générale were renewed for five 
years. The joint venture created in China with Bank of 
China and the acquisition of Sabadell Asset Management 
in Spain strengthen the company in its two priority areas 
for international growth: Europe and Asia. And lastly, the 
launch of Amundi Technology, a 
Despite  the  unprecedented  new business line, leveraging the 
health crisis, Amundi successfully  “Amundi   IT expertise we have developed 
demonstrated  the  strength   in-house, is set to deliver a new 
once again confirmed  
of  its  business  model  and  source of growth.
organisation. the strength of  
Today, Amundi is the industry’s 
its business model  
The  robustness  of  our  IT  European  leader,  recognised 
infrastructure  and  the  and launched several  worldwide for its expertise, its 
commitment of employees made  strategic initiatives   growth  momentum  and 
it possible to ensure a high level  profitability, as well as for its 
that will fuel  
of  service  all  year  long,  commitment as a responsible 
throughout the 36 countries in  its growth going   investor.
which the company operates.
forward.”
It  is  in  this  context  that  I 
The  2020  financial  year  decided, after 14 years at the 
reaffirmed the profitable growth  helm of the company, that the 
momentum which the company has sustained since its  time had come to hand off the duties of Chief Executive 
creation. Inflows remained high (+€45 billion), and  Officer. As of 10 May, 2021, Valérie Baudson will succeed 
adjusted net income (€962 million) is – excluding market  me in this role, while I will become Chair of the Board 
effects – in line with the objectives set out in the 2018- of Directors. Valérie Baudson has been with the 
2020 strategic plan. And lastly the cost/income ratio  company since 2007 and has played a key role in 
(51.7%) remains one of the industry’s highest. These  Amundi’s success by developing the passive/ETF 
results made it possible to reinforce the company’s  business and CPR AM*, as well as through her active 
financial structure and resume paying a dividend  contributions to the Group as an executive. I have full 
consistent with the policy announced at the time of the  confidence in her ability to steer Amundi along a 
IPO (65% of consolidated net income). continued trajectory of growth. 
05
2020 key figures
In 2020, Amundi continued its profitable growth trajectory. During  
an exceptional pandemic year, Amundi demonstrated its resilience  
by remaining 100% operational and by maintaining a strong business 
momentum, with net inflows(1) of +€45bn. Net income(2) stayed robust  
at €962m, almost stable excluding the impact of the market downturn  
in 2020.(3) These sound results reflect excellent operating efficiency,  
with expenses down by 2.6% vs 2019, and a cost/income ratio(2)  
at 51.7%. The financial situation remains solid with tangible equity(4) 
amounting to €3.2bn and a CET1 ratio at 20.0%.
Activity
 
+€45 bn €1,729 bn
 
Net inflows(1) Assets under 
management(1)
Profitability
€962m
Net income,  
Group share(2)
51.7%
Cost/income  
ratio(2)
(1)  Assets under management and inflows including Sabadell AM as of Q3 2020 and include assets under advisory and assets marketed and take 
into account 100% of the Asian joint ventures’ inflows and assets under management. For Wafa in Morocco, assets are reported on a proportional 
consolidation basis.
(2)  Adjusted data: excluding amortisation of distribution contracts.
(3)  Restatement of the impact in 2020 of the decline in the average EuroStoxx index and financial income in the amount of ~-€50m after tax.
(4)  Equity excluding goodwill and intangible assets.
06/
Growth in assets under management 2009-2020
Assets under management at year-end, in €bn
670 705 671 749 792 878 985 1,083 1,426 1,425 1,653 1,729
2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020
Breakdown of AuM
as of 31/12/2020 6%
€96bn %
18
Real and Structured Assets
€318bn
Equities
% %
46 15
€791bn By asset class €252bn
Fixed Income Liquidity Solutions
%
16
€272bn
Multi-Asset*
26% 27%
€449bn €464bn
Retail excluding joint ventures -   Crédit Agricole &  
Partner networks and other networks Société Générale Groups’ Insurance Companies*
By client type
14%
33%
€239bn
€577bn
Joint-ventures
Institutional & Corporate clients
07
Looking back, what is your take on 
Amundi’s stock market performance?
Listed on the stock market in November 2015 at €45, 
Amundi shares have performed very well since then 
(+48.4%(1)), outperforming both their listed European 
peers and the CAC 40 index. This positive trend is 
attributable to Amundi’s strong operational and financial 
performance, as well as the value creation linked to the 
integration of Pioneer Investments in 2017. TSR(2) is very 
positive at 73%.(1) As was the case for all financial stocks, 
2020 was a challenging year for Amundi shares, which 
fluctuated widely due to the Covid-19 crisis. That said, in 
full-year terms, the decline in the share price was limited 
(-4.4%) and less than that of the CAC 40 (-7.1%).
Nicolas Calcoen,  
What is the financial community’s 
Head of Finance,  
opinion on Amundi shares?
Strategy and Public Affairs
The opinion of investors and financial analysts remains 
highly positive. The share’s track record since the IPO 
Amundi  
has demonstrated the Group’s growth potential and the 
resilience of its results, thanks to its diversified business 
on the stock 
model. The overwhelming majority of financial analysts 
have a “buy” opinion on our stock. In addition, the 
market
strategic initiatives in 2020 in Spain and China were very 
well received. In an asset management industry facing 
many challenges, Amundi is considered a solid player 
with significant long-term growth prospects.
In 2020, the Amundi share price 
held up well in bear markets, 
Who are Amundi’s shareholders?
ending the year at €66.8, close  
to the price at the end of 2019.  
“Stable” shareholders (the Crédit Agricole Group and 
At €13.5 billion,(1) the Group’s 
Amundi employees) account for more than 70% of the 
market capitalisation remains  
share capital. The proportion of employees has grown to 
the largest in Europe and   0.6%, a testament to the success of the capital increase 
the third-largest of traditional   reserved for employees in November 2020. The free float 
(29.4% of the share capital) consists mainly of Institutional 
listed asset managers worldwide.
shareholders with the following geographical breakdown: 
54% of UK and US shareholders and 20% of French 
shareholders, with the remainder divided between 
continental Europe and Asia. We meet regularly with our 
shareholders in order to maintain the trusted relationship 
established since November 2015. 
(1)  As at 31/12/2020.
(2) T otal Shareholder Return: change in share price at 31/12/2020 + dividends paid in 2016, 2017, 2018 and 2019 + detachment of the preferential 
subscription right in March 2017.
08/
%
Breakdown of capital 0.3
As of 31/12/2020 Treasury shares
%
29.4
Free float
%
69.7
%
0.6
Crédit Agricole Group
Employess
A largely positive  
perception 
by the 22 sell-side analysts  
covering Amundi Dividend Indices
As of 31/12/2020
Amundi has resumed its  The Amundi share  
%
68 dividend policy in accordance  is included in the  
with the recommendations  SBF 120 and MSCI,  
published by the European  broad-based indices,  
Central Bank. At the Annual  as well as the  
Shareholders’ Meeting on   FTSE4Good and  
%
27 10 May 2021, a dividend of  Euronext Vigeo Eiris 
€2.90 per share was proposed,  ESG indices.
% representing 65% of net 
5
income and a yield of 4.3%.(1)
Buy Neutral Sell
Change in Amundi’s share price
Comparison with the SBF 120 index (recalculated on the basis of the share price)
Amundi €66.80 
80
on 31/12/2020
70
60
Amundi €45
at the IPO
50
Performance since listing  
40 (11/11/2015):
 Amundi: +48%
30– – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – –  SBF 120: +14%
5  6  6  6  6  7  7  7  7  8  8  8  8  9  9  9  9  0  0  0  0 
11/1 02/1 05/1 08/1 11/1 02/1 05/1 08/1 11/1 02/1 05/1 08/1 11/1 02/1 05/1 08/1 11/1 02/2 05/2 08/2 11/2 Source: Refinitiv.
09
as a responsible 
leader
 T
 
C
A
10/
11
Act as a responsible leader
Environment and strategy
A unique positioning
Since its creation in 2010, Amundi has based its development on a strategic vision: to offer simple 
investment solutions tailored to the needs of Retail and Institutional clients, in France and abroad, by 
developing all its areas of expertise and establishing a presence in the main international investment regions.
This strategy is based on four pillars: a comprehensive, high-performance range of products and 
services, strong advisory capabilities, excellent operational efficiency and a strong commitment to social 
responsibility.
It is also based on a unique organisational model: a structure that is both global and local, client centric 
and coupled with an industrial approach to the business.
This strategy has been confirmed by a significant increase in assets under management and earnings, 
which have increased 2.6-fold between 2010 and 2020.
Accelerating basic trends confirm  
the value of Amundi’s development model
Continued pressure on margins Increasingly demanding regulation
For several years now, the financial sector as a whole  Since  the  2008  crisis,  increasing  regulatory 
has been confronted with persistently low interest rates.  requirements have required significant investments and 
This situation, accentuated by the concerted actions  led to industrial logic.
of central banks in response to the Covid-19 crisis, is 
reflected in lower returns on the assets in which client  Stronger client needs for services  
savings are invested and consequently greater pressure  and new uses
on asset managers’ margins, while encouraging the  Distributors are also subject to pressure on margins, 
development of passive management, which benefits  stricter regulatory requirements, particularly in terms 
from low costs. This pressure on margins is compounded  of advisory services, and changing client expectations. 
by growing competition from the large US asset  As a result, they are increasingly looking for partners 
management companies, which benefit from a powerful  capable of offering them a complete range of solutions: 
domestic market: the US market accounts for 50% of  operational  services,  management  and  advisory 
the global market. solutions, as well as digital tools, made even more 
essential by the health crisis. Similarly, Institutional 
Increased demand for comprehensive  clients may request advisory services or need to 
offerings, covering all areas of expertise outsource all or part of their investment processes.
In an uncertain environment marked by persistently 
low interest rates, clients – both Retail and Institutional 
– are looking for tailored, flexible solutions adapted to 
the market context. These solutions must therefore be 
able to include both traditional assets, under active or 
passive management, and real assets (real estate, 
private debt, private equity and infrastructure, amongst 
others). This represents an opportunity for players with 
a full range of expertise and allocation capabilities.
12/
Growing investor expectations   New opportunities in Asia
for ESG issues Lastly, the crisis of 2020 accelerated the shift in 
Beyond  economic  considerations,  the  asset  economic growth from Western countries to Asia. This 
management industry is also facing ESG challenges.  has accentuated the need for savings solutions among 
Investors now want to be more responsible towards  the middle classes in emerging Asian countries, 
the environment, society and in terms of governance.  particularly in China and India.
They are therefore looking for investment solutions 
that fully integrate these factors. This trend has 
accelerated: in 2020, 49% of flows in medium and long-
term assets went to funds with an ESG(1) dimension.
An effective strategy that remains unchanged
The strategy implemented by Amundi since 2010 is fully  industry,  a  key  competitive  advantage  in  an 
in line with these developments. It is based on the  environment of persistently low interest rates. The 
following priorities: constant search for productivity gains and economies 
of  scale  enables  us  to  finance  the  investments 
1. Accelerate our development in our two  necessary for development, while ensuring that our 
client segments, Retail and Institutional,  offers remain competitive.
by:
 c onsolidating our leadership as a preferred partner of  5. Transform technology into a new growth 
networks and distributors, building on a range of  driver by:
solutions,  services  and  tools  adapted  to  each   c ontinuing to invest in our IT platform and promoting 
distribution channel, it to external clients through our Amundi Technology 
 i ncreasing penetration among Institutional clients,  offering;
leveraging our full range of expertise and our advisory   e nriching the range of support services for distribution 
and services offering. networks by deploying innovative, customised digital 
tools.
2. Support  this  development  with  a  
high-performance management offering  6. Strengthen  our  positioning  as  a 
that  is  constantly  being  enriched,  by  responsible investor, a commitment at the very 
continuing to invest in fast-growing areas  core of Amundi’s model, which is embodied in both:
of  expertise  (in particular passive management   t he  widespread  consideration  of  extra-financial 
and real assets) and in new solutions (discretionary  criteria in all our management activities and in our 
management, to name just one). engagement policy vis-à-vis issuers;
 t he development of specific innovative solutions to 
3. Consolidate our leadership in Europe  meet the growing demand of our clients.
and  roll  out  more  extensively  in  Asia, 
building on our direct presence, our joint ventures and  7. Favour an organic development strategy  
new partnerships, notably the acquisition of Sabadell  that applies to all our businesses, areas of expertise  
Asset Management and the creation of a new subsidiary  and  geographies.  This  strategy  may  be 
in China in partnership with Bank of China. complemented by external acquisitions  
if they create sufficient value that enable to accelerate  
4. Leverage the efficiency of our industrial  the implementation of our strategy.
model  to  keep  costs  among  the  lowest  in  the 
(1) Source: Broadridge, percentage of flows in open-ended funds in 2020.
13
Act as a responsible leader
Our business model
Our raison d’être*:  
Amundi, a trusted partner working every day  
in the interest of its clients and society.
Our strengths
1.   Management platforms present across all asset classes
 Active and passive management
 Traditional and real assets
 6 international hubs (Boston, Dublin, London, Milan, Paris   Our 
and Tokyo)
organisation  
2.  Large-scale innovation capabilities
is both  
  We are constantly developing new savings and investment 
solutions (thematic, ESG…) global  
3. Diversified profile and local
 E ntities in more than 35 countries
  100 million Retail clients, via our partner networks and  
Client-focused, with  
our third-party distributors
  1,500 Institutional clients an industrial approach.  
Our management platforms 
4. Experienced, committed employees and our risk controls  
  4,700 employees, of which 750 are investment professionals  are fully integrated for  
covering all asset classes the entire Group.
  Committed employees (ERI score(1) of 74%)
Our sales teams are dedicated 
to each client profile, in more 
5. State-of-the-art technology
than 35 countries, adapting  
  ALTO(2): a high-quality proprietary back-to-front tool
to specific local requirements.
6. Strong commitment to social responsibility
  Recognised ESG analysis capabilities
 A   position adopted since our creation and built on in 2018  
with a new ESG action plan
 1 0,000 ESG-rated issuers
7. Solid financials
 F itch Ratings: A+ with stable outlook
  A strong balance sheet and stable shareholder base
 E xcellent operational efficiency
 
(1) Engagement and Recommendation Index. (2) Amundi Leading Technologies & Operations. (3) Adjusted data: excluding amortisation of distribution 
contracts; average annual growth between 2018 and 2022 (based on market-neutral assumptions over the period). (4) 2020 data. (5) 5-year period: scope 
of open-ended funds. (6) Consultants: AonHewitt, Cambridge Associates, Mercer, Russell, Willis Towers Watson, Bfinance, December 2020 data.
14/
Our business
We offer savings and investment solutionstailored to the needs of our clients – Retail,
Institutional and Corporate –, striving constantly to have a positive impact on society and 
the environment. To achieve this, we rely on an organisation that is both global and local 
and a full range of expertise and services.
Our ambition
To be among the top 5 players in the global asset management industry, being recognised for:
the quality of expertise and services provided to our clients
our growth and profitability momentum, with two major objectives:
• 5% average annual growth in adjusted net earnings from 2018 to 2022(3)
• cost/income ratio of 53% or less(3)
our positioning as a committed financial player
Our value  
creation for(4)…
INSTITUTIONAL  
RETAIL  
AND  
CLIENTS 1.  Our clients
CORPORATE CLIENTS
  74% of assets under management in the 1st and  
2nd quartiles of the Morningstar ranking(5)
 67% of positive recommendations from consultants(6)
  Retail Client Recommendation Index covering  
4 countries (France, Italy, Czech Republic, Slovakia)  
A DEPARTMENT DEDICATED TO RESPONSIBLE INVESTMENT… and 7 partner banks (Crédit Agricole Regional Banks, 
LCL, CA Italy, UniCredit Italy, KB, UniCredit CZ and 
UniCredit SK)
DEDICATED SALES   DEDICATED SALES  
2. Our employees
AND AND
 Average annual pay: €143,100(7)
MARKETING TEAMS MARKETING TEAMS
  Global fairness ratio: 21(8)
  28.6% women on the Executive Committee
  62% of employees trained
… FOR THE BENEFIT OF CLIENTS… 
  Capital increase reserved for employees  
(30% discount)
INTEGRATED PLATFORMS 3. Society
IN ACTIVE MANAGEMENT, PASSIVE MANAGEMENT   €378bn in responsible investment assets under 
AND REAL ASSETS management
  €331m assets under management invested in a social 
impact fund
…AND LIAISING CLOSELY WITH THE INVESTMENT TEAMS   Taxes paid: €564m, of which €359m in France(9)
  86% of votes in favour of climate resolutions  
at the General Meetings of companies in which Amundi 
is a shareholder
  900 young people in training (work-study students  
CENTRALISED IT PLATFORM,
and interns)
SUPPORT SERVICES  
AND RISK CONTROLS
4. Our shareholders
 73%: TSR(10) of the share since the IPO
 Excellent cost/income ratio: 51.7%
 Dividend pay-out rate: 65%
(7) Global scope - Wages and salaries of employees divided by the average workforce. (8) Methodology available in section 2.4 of the Universal 
Registration Document for 2020. (9) Taxes and social security contributions. (10) Total Shareholder Return: change in share price at 31/12/2020  
+ dividends paid from 2016 to 2019 + detachment of the preferential subscription right in March 2017.
15
Act as a responsible leader
ESG: a recognised leader  
that meets its commitments
Since its founding, Amundi has made responsible investment  
a cornerstone of its strategy. A pioneer in ESG(1) analysis and  
the incorporation of ESG criteria into investment management, the 
company has made multiple commitments to strengthen this approach. 
In 2018, Amundi announced an ambitious plan with milestones to 2021. 
At end 2020, practically all these objectives had already been reached.
Today, all actively managed(2) open-ended funds take  into account. As for assets under management in 
into account ESG criteria. The ESG ratings universe  Amundi’s dedicated initiatives for financing energy 
has considerably broadened to now cover over 10,000  transition and social cohesion, these “amounted to  
companies and public authorities (vs. 5,500 in 2018).  €22 billion at end 2020, already above the initial target 
Amundi has been especially active on the shareholder  of €20 billion,” points out Jean-Jacques Barbéris, who 
dialogue front, voting at close to 4,250 General  oversees the ESG business line.
Meetings in 2020, systematically taking ESG analysis 
Amundi’s standing as a leading player on ESG is by 
now firmly established. With €378 billion in ESG assets 
under management at end 2020, the Group is number 
one in Europe.(3) Prestigious supranational institutions 
and major international investors have entrusted 
Amundi with the management of their climate 
solutions and initiatives. Now, after leading on 
environmental  issues,  the  asset  manager  is  a 
pioneering champion of social and societal topics. 
“Investors have woken up to the importance of social 
issues. The health crisis has accelerated the rise to 
prominence of this criterion, not only as a risk factor, 
but also—and increasingly–in terms of impact,” 
explains Jean-Jacques Barbéris. Amundi was well 
ahead of this trend. In addition to significant research 
activity, the Group has launched several investment 
products focused on reducing social inequalities or 
encouraging projects with positive social impact, while 
continuing to innovate across all ESG categories, as 
evidenced by the new ESG Improvers* category or 
the design of all-new index solutions aligned with the 
Paris Agreement. 
(1) Environmental, Social, Governance.
(2) F ebruary 2021. Actively managed open-ended funds,  
where an ESG rating methodology is applicable.
(3) S ource: Broadridge. Data as at 31/12/2020 covering open-ended 
funds in Europe.
16/
Responsible   Our engagement
investment at Amundi in terms of voting policy
Responsible investment  4,241 49,968
assets under management
€378bn 34
General Meetings resolutions voted on
people including   71% 86%
Paris, 24 experts  
Danudb lTinokyo ivenon atginanaggle yamsnised,n    t avGote twneehdri acalhg M awienees tti n gs  ooreffs  vsoholuatetreisoh innos l fd aevro ur  
at least one  on climate
resolution 20%
A dedicated 
10,000 department working  
in close collaboration  against votes
with the investment 
teams to serve clients’ 
rated issuers needs Thematic breakdown of against votes
47%  Board structure
16%  Compensation
Recognised expertise: 20%  Capital transactions
5%   Resolutions
12%  Other
> 489 pre-General Meeting engagement actions
PRI: rated A+   GRECO & AP EGO 
in all categories awarded 
Environmental Finance 
Green Bond of the  Our priorities 
Year in 2019/2020
 Energy transition
 Social cohesion
Approximately 85 labelled funds
SRI, Greenfin, LuxFlag, Febelfin, etc.
Objectives of the action plan to end-2021
Objectives for 2021 As at 31/12/2020
Analysis Increase number of issuers covered from 5,500 to 8,000 10,000 issuers covered
Shareholder dialogue focusing on 2 priorities:  
Engagement Systematically include ESG issues in voting policy
Energy transition and Social cohesion
100% of our open-ended funds(1) include  
Active  100% of open-ended funds with an ESG score higher 
an environmental and social impact analysis  
management than that of their investment universe
of the companies in which we invest(2)
Specific  Amplify specific Environmental and Social initiatives and 
€22bn
initiatives double assets under management from €10bn to €20bn
Strengthen our commitments to an economy based on 
Solidarity social cohesion and solidarity, increasing AuM from  Amundi Finance et Solidarité* fund - AuM: €331m
€200m to €500m
Advisory  Strengthen our advisory role by helping Institutional 
Development of advisory and services offering
services investors to take into account ESG criteria
(1) All open-ended actively managed funds managed by Amundi Group management companies, where an ESG rating methodology is 
applicable. (2) For more details on the ESG analysis and management policy followed by the management companies belonging to the Amundi 
Group, go to http://about.amundi.com/Responsible-Investor.
17
Act as a responsible leader
Has the pandemic changed  
the course of responsible investing?
Fiona Reynolds: The pandemic has served as an 
accelerator for responsible investment, providing a kind 
of proof point for sustainability. It has driven a shift in 
thinking and a foregrounding of the importance of 
balance—both in natural ecosystems and in our societies. 
In the wake of the crisis, investors are beginning to look 
beyond risk and return and are increasingly taking into 
consideration the outcomes their investments have on 
people and planet in addition to profit.
Élodie Laugel: Covid-19 definitely shined a spotlight 
on the Social dimension in ESG. It also speeded up the 
shift in favour of responsible investment. While no 
Fiona Reynolds, Chief Executive Officer,  guarantee  of  future  strength,  the  clear  2020 
Principles for Responsible Investment
outperformance of ESG best-in-class stocks both in 
and
the US and in Europe should prompt more companies 
Élodie Laugel, Chief Responsible 
to integrate ESG in their models and heighten interest 
Investment Officer, Amundi
in ESG criteria.
How should investors approach  
building back a better economy?
Responsible 
F. R.: At the PRI, we believe that the UN Sustainable 
investments  
Development Goals (SDGs) provide a roadmap for where 
we need to go, and the global recovery from Covid-19 
for a more 
presents us with an unprecedented opportunity to get 
there. We believe our signatories—with a combined  
sustainable 
AuM of more than USD100 trillion—can play a unique 
role in helping the world to realise a future which is 
economy
sustainable, green and just and to meet the SDGs, 
plugging the USD5-7 trillion a year funding gap that is 
currently required from the private sector alone. This 
involves working individually, and in collaboration  
Amundi, a signatory of the PRI(1)  
with fellow investors and broader stakeholders.
since its founding in 2006,  
received an A+ in all modules   É. L.: A sustainable recovery calls for solutions that 
bring everyone on board. For individual end-savers, we 
this year. Fiona Reynolds,  
believe it is crucial to translate the recovery into ESG 
PRI, and Élodie Laugel, Amundi, 
savings products that are easy to understand and 
discuss the future of responsible  transparent. CPR AM*’s Invest — Social Impact* or 
investment. Amundi’s fund on Emerging Market Green Bonds* are 
great examples. More broadly, Amundi’s responsible 
approach aims to reduce ESG risks and support positive 
change through impact, while engaging with companies 
to do better, as in our ESG Improvers* strategy. Amundi 
is glad to see biodiversity and Just Transition on the 
(1) Principles for Responsible Investment. table for COP26. 
18/
Highlights
Amundi’s ESG  
Amundi makes the top 10  
engagement wins 
of Voting Matters 2020  
plaudits in Japan
rankings
At the first edition of the ESG 
Every year, ShareAction publishes their Voting   Finance Awards Japan, Amundi 
Matters report, assessing the voting records   Japan won Silver in the investor 
of the 60 largest global asset management   category. Sponsored by Japan’s 
firms on social issues and climate change.   Ministry of the Environment, 
The 2020 edition shows once again that European   this award recognises Amundi’s 
asset managers, and Amundi in particular, are still leading the way   contribution to developing and 
on resolutions. Amundi was ranked in the top ten for its voting  promoting ESG issues among 
performance on the 102 resolutions under consideration. Most notably,  Japanese investors (both 
the company scored 89% for its votes supporting climate and social  Institutional and individual)  
resolutions. and internationally.
The ESG analysis process
Amundi has developed  
a proprietary ESG analysis  RATING G   F   E   D   C   B   A
methodology to assign  
an ESG rating to each issuer.
ESG
10,000 Standardised score 
distribution from A to G, 
issuers analysed
with A being the best 
score and G the exclusion 
score  
Each of the three criteria, 
(the illustration shows an 
E, S and G, represents   example)
a weight in the rating 
s
si according to the sector 
aly under consideration.
n
a
e 
tiv Internal rating assigned  
ta to each criterion
nti Each of the 37 criteria analysed has  
a a different weighting depending  
u
Q on the issuer’s sector.
Issuer  
37 ESG criteria analysed   Weight  
assessment 
16 generic criteria common   assigned 
by one or more 
to all sectors and   to each provider  
Qualitative  21 sector-specific criteria external service  for each criterion
analysis providers
19
Act as a responsible leader
CDP and CPR AM have been  
working together for a while now, right?
Laurent Babikian: Amundi has been a supporter of 
CDP since 2010. In 2018, there was a realisation on both 
sides that Amundi’s teams could make innovative use 
of our data to create financial products to finance the 
transition to a low carbon economy because we had 
achieved a critical volume in terms of number of 
responding companies to CDP following the TCFD(1) 
recommendations.
Laurent Babikian,   Gilles Cutaya: Indeed. CPR AM partnered with CDP  
Director Capital Markets, CDP Europe to develop our Climate Action* fund, launched in 
and
December 2018, which selects companies accelerating 
Gilles Cutaya, Deputy CEO in charge  
the transition to a low-carbon economy thanks to a 
of International Development,  
rigorous  multidimensional  analysis  process.  More  
Marketing & Communication, CPR AM
recently, Amundi became the first asset manager to 
implement CDP’s new temperature ratings.
CDP/Amundi: 
Can you tell us more about how those work?
pioneering 
L. B.: Certainly, the CDP temperature ratings dataset 
science-based 
calculates the temperature pathway of around 3,000 
companies, based on their emission reduction targets 
partnership
across all scopes of GHG emissions. Practically, it 
measures the alignment of a stock market index or 
portfolio with the Paris Agreement so that investors can 
set themselves targets of global warming potential and 
For 20 years, the CDP  
design action plans to get there.
(formerly Carbon Disclosure Project) 
has spearheaded robust reporting   G. C.: Granularity and depth are key here. We can see 
how the entire portfolio stacks up against the Paris 
of emissions by companies.  
Agreement, assess the contributions of each company, 
Since 2018, Amundi and CDP have 
and model the outcomes of various actions. Our goal is 
teamed up to drive alignment of 
to help investors future-proof their portfolios and funds 
investments with the Paris Agreement.  against climate risk.
Laurent Babikian, CDP, and  
Gilles Cutaya, CPR AM*, discuss  
What brought you together?
this partnership.
G. C.: I’d say we share a certain pragmatism and values. 
At CPR AM we place great emphasis on reliable data as 
the only foundation for solid conclusions. So, we’ve always 
championed disclosure and standardisation, and we 
(1) Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures.
20/
Highlights
CPR Invest - Social Impact*,  
the first fund dedicated  
to reducing social  
inequalities Our performance
i
n
The first fund in the world to make reducing inequalities   d
378
a core premise of its investment process. Launched   € bn ic
in March 2020, this is a global equities fund that selects    a
companies that are the most committed to reducing  Responsible   to
inequalities in their home countries. Its investment universe  AuM r
s
comprises some 1,100 stocks, or almost 36% of the MSCI 
World All Countries.
22
€ bn
 
Specific  
initiatives AuM  
(financing energy  
believe this applies to us too. Lastly, CPR AM and CDP 
transition and social 
are both committed to innovation as a tool for better 
cohesion)
solutions.
L. B.: CDP’s mission is to provide investors with the 
10,000
most accurate environmental data to inform their 
 
investment decisions. Our partnership with Amundi 
illustrates this and shows that companies must not only  ESG-rated issuers
be transparent about their climate-related risks and 
opportunities, but must also be well-scored and/or  
have approved science-based targets. That’s necessary 
to be part of the investable universe of the Climate 
Action fund, and I hope this will encourage other asset 
managers to push for more disclosure. 
A long-term commitment   
to responsible investment
Development   Launch of a 
of low-carbon  comprehensive  €378bn in 
2006 indices with  2017 range of SRI  2019 responsible  2021
MSCI for AP4  equity and  investment 
and FRR bond ETFs  AuM(4)
Signature of  Launch   Innovative  By the end of 2021, 
the Principles  of the largest  partnerships   the ESG policy  
for Responsible  green bond fund  2018 in sustainable  2020 will apply to 100% 
Investment  2014 dedicated   financing with  of the investment(5) 
(PRI) to emerging  the EIB(2) and   and voting 
markets with IFC(1) the AIIB(3) processes
(1) International Finance Corporation. (2) European Investment Bank. (3) Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank. (4) Data as at 31/12/2020.  
(5) Scope of actively managed open-ended funds.
21
solutions adapted  
to the challenges  
of our clients  
and society
R
E
F
F
O
22/
23
Offer solutions adapted to the challenges of our clients and society
Strong momentum across  
all customer segments despite  
the health crisis 
In a market context dominated by the health crisis and a wait-and-see 
attitude on the part of investors, Amundi successfully continued to earn  
the trust of its various clients. With only limited outflows in the first half  
of the year, and a particularly buoyant second half, the company recorded 
€45.1 billion in net annual inflows. All customer segments contributed to this 
solid performance. Net savings inflows from individuals, served by Amundi’s 
partner networks and third-party distributors, were up sharply compared  
to the previous year, driven by demand for medium- to long-term solutions. 
Meanwhile, treasury products played an important role for institutional 
inflows. Amundi’s ESG approach, which was further strengthened in 2020, 
won universal praise from investors.
Retail networks  
processes. This development, which has been under 
and third-party distributors
way at Amundi for several years, has placed greater 
Despite a volatile market environment, which saw an  emphasis on services such as asset allocation advice, 
abrupt halt to inflows during the second quarter, net  the integration of ESG into its range and distribution 
savings flows from individuals, served by Amundi’s  strategy, and the provision of digital marketing and 
partner networks and third-party distributors, rose  training content.
significantly (+€11.7 billion) compared to the previous 
year (+€5.4 billion). French networks (+€7.7 billion)  2020 also stood out for several strategic initiatives. 
and third-party distributors (+€5.3 billion) driven by  Amundi’s  longstanding  partnership  with  Société 
Europe, more than offset the slowdown in international  Générale was renewed for five years. The company also 
networks (-€1.4 billion). Excluding contributions from  signed a new strategic partnership with Banco Sabadell, 
the Group’s joint ventures, Retail customer assets under  alongside  its  acquisition  of  the  latter’s  asset 
management rose 3.8% to €449 billion. management subsidiary. This opens the way for the 
Spanish bank’s networks to offer Amundi products. The 
Medium and long-term investment solutions—especially  transaction has already led to €300 million in inflows 
ESG, thematic and passive—were the main beneficiaries  during the second half of 2020. The creation of a new 
of these new inflows. The French networks have  joint subsidiary with Bank of China Wealth Management 
capitalised on the rise of unit-linked products in life  also opened up a new distribution network for Amundi 
insurance policies and from growing interest in  in the Chinese market. Bank of China is the PRC’s  
discretionary management. This latter option, which  4th largest bank, with a network of 11,000 branches 
Amundi has made widely accessible, is a great success  serving 300 million Retail clients. This new partnership 
not only in France, but also in Italy and Austria.  contributes to Amundi’s development strategy in Asia, 
where the company’s assets under management are 
The health crisis has provided an opportunity to  close to €300 billion. This is in large part due to the 
strengthen the close relationship between Amundi and  contributions of SBI MF, Amundi’s Indian joint venture, 
its network partners and third-party distributors by  which attracted a further €11.7 billion in 2020. Amundi 
accelerating  the  digitalisation  of  sales  support  aims to manage €500 billion in Asia by 2025.
24/
Our performance
Institutional and Corporate clients i
n
In a market environment characterised by a wait-and- More than d
i
see attitude on the part of investors, Amundi successfully  c
100 a
maintained the trust of its Institutional clients. Thanks 
t
to a particularly dynamic second half of the year, net  o
inflows in this customer segment came to €28.1 billion,  million Retail   rs
an increase on 2019, driven by high levels of treasury  clients
products (+€27.3 billion), particularly among Corporate 
customers. These companies especially appreciated the 
1,000
Group’s ability to provide them with cash management  Over 
solutions offering guaranteed liquidity during the first 
third-party distributors
phase of the pandemic.
in more than 20 countries
Cash-related business aside, activity remained healthy 
(+€5.5 billion) in all client segments, except the mandates 
1,500
of Group insurers* (-€4.7 billion). This decline can be 
explained by the current structural outflows facing euro 
Institutional clients
funds in life insurance policies. The most popular long-
term asset class was equities, mainly via passive and 
diversified management. All categories combined, assets 
under management on behalf of Institutional investors 
increased by €54 billion to €1.041 trillion.
Internationally, Amundi continues to grow. In European  Institutional offerings continued to flourish in 2020, with 
countries, the company increased its presence in long- a particular focus on ESG issues. In addition to the 
term solutions where it has yet to attain its ‘natural’  launch of the Green Credit Continuum programme in 
market share. This is particularly true of Germany, where  partnership with the EIB,(2) Amundi launched the 
inflows (+€11 billion) involved all asset classes, but were  Climate Change Investment Framework with the AIIB,(3) 
especially  strong  in  diversified  management.  the first holistic approach to building climate-resilient 
One  notable example here was a major German  portfolios. Furthermore, a group of French Institutional 
group's choice of the Multi-Asset Low Volatility*  investors—including Caisse des Dépôts—selected 
strategy.  Amundi also gained ground in the United  Amundi to manage the first ever equity index fund 
Kingdom and Nordic countries thanks to several new  aligned with the Paris Agreement. Further innovations 
contracts, many of these ESG-related. This includes  will be announced in the coming months, particularly 
winning new passive management  mandates  from  in the areas of climate, social and biodiversity. A Just 
the  British  Pension  Protection Fund and the Danish  Transition for Climate* fund was launched in the first 
pension  fund,  PenSam.  Additionally,  Amundi  half of 2021. Geographically speaking, Amundi intends 
performed well in North Asia and China, which are  to continue to strengthen its presence in European 
important areas for the continued deployment of  markets where it has significant room to increase its 
the Group’s business.  footprint. Another priority is the US market, where 
export of strategies already marketed in the rest of the 
Meanwhile,  Amundi  also  continued  to  grow  in  world is currently under way. Lastly, Amundi plans to 
the  employee  savings  and  corporate  pension  delve more deeply into China’s large Institutional 
markets  in  France.  Despite  the  health  crisis,  market, where it has already won over most of the  
momentum  continued  strong  and  Amundi  won  major players. 
several high-profile clients, notably thanks to a roll-
out  of  increasingly  digitalised  service  offerings.  (1)  Amundi data as at 31/12/2020 (French Asset Management 
Association (AFG) declaration).
Performance  in  employee-share  ownership  was 
(2)  European Investment Bank.
also strong. Already a market leader, the company  (3)  Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank.
maintained its market share, which stood at 45.5%(1) 
at end 2020.
25
Offer solutions adapted to the challenges of our clients and society
What initial conclusions can we draw 
on the impact of Covid-19  
on relations between portfolio 
management firms and their  
distribution partners?
During the first lockdown, both asset managers and 
Fathi Jerfel,  
distribution networks prioritised business continuity. 
Head of the Partner Networks 
For distributors, it was crucial that they be able to 
Division
service their clients as usual in terms of portfolio 
valuation, reporting and training. Nowhere was this 
more true than for services relating to investment 
Distribution 
products they promoted, making the reliability of 
suppliers furnishing them with asset management 
networks:  
solutions even more essential than before. In this 
sense, the health crisis confirmed the importance of 
time for  
a close relationship between networks and asset 
managers. In particular, it highlighted a major 
a digital reset
development  within  multi-channel  distribution 
strategies, meaning the inexorable rise of online sales. 
Our main partners currently estimate that this 
channel may represent as much as a third of business 
within the next two years.
How does Amundi see its role  
in this digital transformation?
All of our commercial and technological processes 
are constantly being adapted and enhanced to fit 
ever-changing circumstances. As far back as May, 
we began taking into account feedback from the 
lockdown period. We considerably simplified the 
offer. We also revised all our commercial and 
marketing materials to make them more effective as 
components in a digitalised relationship between 
advisors and their end-clients. Our technology 
modules,  integrated  within  each  distribution 
network’s platform, are being retooled to facilitate 
26/
Highlights
A strategic partnership  
with Spain’s Banco  
Sabadell
In early 2020, Banco Sabadell and Amundi signed  
a 10-year strategic partnership that provides for 
distribution of Amundi’s product lines via Banco 
Sabadell’s Spanish network (more than 1,900 
branches). As part of the agreement Amundi  
will also acquire full equity in Sabadell Asset 
Management, Spain’s leading asset manager. The  Société Générale  
transaction closed in June 2020. Amundi Iberia  and Amundi  
remains a separate entity dedicated to its existing 
renew their vows
clients. The new partnership makes it possible for 
Amundi to consolidate its position as the leading 
European asset management firm and to even more  In 2020, Amundi and Société Générale renewed  
efficiently roll out its unique business model serving  their partnership agreement for a five-year period. 
retail distribution. Amundi will continue to be Société Générale’s partner 
of choice for savings and investment solutions aimed 
at its retail banking and networks and insurance 
Discretionary management   business. Meanwhile, Société Générale will continue  
is up and running   to be one of Amundi’s leading providers of securities 
services. The two companies’ first agreement dates 
at Crédit Agricole Italy
back to 2009.
Amundi’s discretionary 
management concept is now 
operational across the networks   45.5%
of Crédit Agricole Italy. The Smart 
Advisory range is tailored to each  Amundi reaffirms its number 1 position  
end-client’s risk when they  in France’s employee savings and 
subscribe, and the subscription  retirement landscape with 45.5%(1) 
process is entirely online. These  market share, which translates to 
solutions, for which the minimum  €66.8bn under management.(1)
investment is just €5,000,   
(1) Amundi data as at 31/12/2020 (French Asset 
are exclusively invested in ETFs  Management Association (AFG) declaration).
(exchange traded index funds).
online sales. These efforts have become priorities, 
and we are organising them in concert with our main 
partners. For their part, our partners are also making  “The health  
significant investments to enable online sales of  crisis highlighted  
savings products. The pandemic has accelerated the 
a major development  
digital revolution. Amundi successfully adapted in 
the early days of the crisis and can now offer a range  within multi-channel 
of solutions when it comes to supporting clients in 
distribution strategies.”
the transformations ahead. 
27
Offer solutions adapted to the challenges of our clients and society
for a strong partner to offer our clients new opportunities. 
After a thorough review of the field, Amundi stood out 
for their experience, their focus on Asia, their technology 
and their ESG credentials.
Amundi has focused on JVs in China,  
how come?
Xiaofeng Zhong: At Amundi, we believe our global 
experience and expertise will be most valuable when 
teamed with local know-how. BOC has a fantastic Retail 
network and complements our partnership with the 
Agricultural Bank of China (ABC), bringing an attractive 
client segment and ensuring broader coverage of this 
Huijun Liu,   vast market, a big part of our aim to achieve €500 billion 
Chairperson, Amundi BOC Wealth   in AuM by 2025 in Asia, consistent with our business 
Management Company Limited
growth plan.
and
Xiaofeng Zhong, 
Chairman of Greater China, Amundi
What can you tell us about  
your near-term ambitions?
The partnership  
X. Z.: Our goal is for this new JV to achieve €60 billion 
in AuM by 2025. We are rolling out first to BOC clients 
with Bank  
and Retail networks, with third-parties to be phased in 
later. Right now, we are working with BOC on an all-new 
of China   range of RMB-based fixed-income and Multi-Asset* 
products with a focus on liquidity.
is operational H. L.: I might add that these products target a low to 
moderate risk profile. We are glad to be able to count 
on Amundi’s experience in asset allocation and risk 
management processes, which are especially important 
The 1st foreign majority-controlled 
in China’s rapidly expanding securities market, while 
wealth management joint venture   BOC’s Retail network provides the local expertise 
to earn China’s approval, Shanghai- required to accurately meet and anticipate demand.
based Amundi BOC Wealth 
Management Co. Ltd. launched  
What about other aspects  
in September 2020. Here, two key  of the partnership?
players share their perspectives  
on this adventure. H. L.: We also look forward to fruitful collaboration on 
ESG products, as climate change is a major concern for 
the PRC’s citizens and authorities.
X. Z.: Absolutely. I’d also mention the Amundi ALTO(1) 
What made you decide to reach   platform, which has huge added value for both 
out to Amundi? institutions. Adapting the platform to the Chinese market 
and integrating local tools for the JV creates a future-
Huijun Liu: As China’s 4th largest bank we serve some  proof foundation for tomorrow’s technology needs. 
300 million people and companies. When the authorities 
loosened restrictions, we immediately began looking  (1) Amundi Leading Technologies & Operations.
28/
Asia,  
a major growth  
driver for Amundi
“In addition  
Amundi has been present in Asia for 50 years  
and has a solid footprint covering most   to its subsidiaries,  
markets, with a focus on high-growth countries: 
Amundi relies  
China and India. The Group’s ambitious 
on joint-venture partnerships 
development strategy has enabled it to grow  
its assets under management sevenfold   with leading banks that  
in ten years, representing 24% of its current  
give it access to the heart  
assets under management.(1) Amundi’s objective  
is to reach €500 billion in assets under  of the market in several 
management in Asia by 2025. 
major Asian countries.”
(1) Excluding Crédit Agricole and Société Générale insurers*. Julien Fontaine, 
Head of Partnerships, in charge of Joint Ventures
NH-Amundi  
€37bn JAPAN
€21bn
Amundi BOC Wealth  
ABC-CA  
Management Co. Ltd.
€62bn
Created in  
September 2020
NORTHEAST ASIA
€23bn
SBI MF  
€136bn
SOUTHEAST ASIA
€14bn Assets under management 
as at 31/12/20
  Asian joint ventures
 Asian subsidiaries
Joint venture with Since Stake Key figures
 No.3 in China(1)
ABC 2008 33%
 400 million Retail clients
China
 No.4 in China
Bank of China 2020 55%
 300 million Retail clients
 No.1 in India(2)
India SBI 2004 37%
 450 million clients
 In the top 5 in South Korea(3)
South Korea NH 2003 30%
 6,190 branches
(1) China Banking Association. (2) Indian Bank Association. (3) Financial Supervisory Services Korea.
29
Offer solutions adapted to the challenges of our clients and society
Distribution networks are looking  
to reduce the number of suppliers  
they rely on for investment solutions. 
What does this mean for asset 
management companies?
Valérie Baudson,  
Rather than a new phenomenon, this is something 
Chief Executive Officer  
that has developed over several years. Retailers of 
of CPR AM, of the Third-Party 
financial products face structural pressures on their 
Distribution & Private Banking 
margins,  while  simultaneously  confronted  with 
Division and Passive Management
increasing regulatory burdens. Competition is fierce 
and growing. In 2020, the health crisis further 
accelerated the need to digitalise client relationships. 
Third-party 
Thus the investments needed to adapt to changing 
market conditions are increasing steadily. Given this 
distribution 
context, distributors are seeking out partners that 
can understand their myriad needs and support them 
partnerships  
across a full range of issues. Delivering portfolio 
performance is no longer enough to stand out. To be 
with asset 
short-listed by Retail distributors, asset managers 
today need to reimagine their offerings entirely. This 
managers  
means including tools and services that help optimise 
become ever  
more exclusive
“The experience  
we’ve gained working  
with partner networks  
has led us to develop  
an entire toolkit  
of increasingly digital 
services covering  
the full value chain of  
third-party distributors.”
30/
Highlights
Amundi becomes sole 
shareholder of Fund Channel
Amundi, a founding shareholder of Fund Channel, acquired 
BNP Paribas Asset Management’s 49.96% stake at the end 
of 2020. Once again the sole shareholder of the fund 
distribution platform, Amundi aims to place Fund Channel 
among the pan-European leaders. Fund Channel’s growth 
strategy will be based on developing new services across 
the fund distribution value chain for both distributors and 
asset managers. Fund Channel, which already has more than 
€200 billion in intermediated assets, won several significant 
mandates in 2020 and entered into a significant commercial 
partnership with CA Indosuez Wealth (Asset Management), 
making the platform the manager’s global distributor for its 
range of public and alternative funds. More partnerships  
for Amundi in Germany 
Amundi is establishing additional partnerships 
with German-based online brokers, a segment 
that is gaining momentum as digitalisation 
increases. Some partnerships include both 
active and passive products such as Maxblue 
while others focus on ETFs. Indeed in the 
context of the retail acceleration of the ETF 
segment, a lot of online banks are including  
and promoting ETFs to their end clients. 
Amundi has several distribution agreements 
with leading platforms, including BNP Paribas 
(DAB & Consors), Comdirect, DKB, Flatex, 
Gratisbroker, ING and Targobank.
costs and boost sales efficiency. It also means shifting  innovation. The experience we’ve gained working 
the very nature of these partnerships to a new level,  with partner networks has led us to develop an 
one where negotiations take place among senior  entire toolkit of increasingly digital services that 
management. cover the full value chain of third-party distributors. 
In this way, we can offer turnkey solutions that 
cover  research  and  selection,  fund  hosting*, 
What features make   discretionary management and, of course, advisory—
Amundi stand out for distributors? whether this concerns asset allocation or ESG 
approaches. These various services have now been 
Amundi is a world-class global player. We offer a  brought together as part of a division dedicated to 
comprehensive  palette  of  investment  solutions,  third-party distribution and private banking in order 
including a range of thematic ESG and impact-focused  to maximise operational efficiency. 
funds ideally suited to meeting the current needs of 
distributors and their clients. In the realm of services 
and technical tools, we exhibit similar power and 
31
Offer solutions adapted to the challenges of our clients and society
What is innovative  
about Carteras Master?
Víctor  Allende:  We  designed  this  portfolio 
management model that effectively reduces the costs 
associated with discretionary management and allows 
us to make this premium service available to more of 
our customers at lower cost. Carteras Master combines 
our commitment to our clients with world-class asset 
management talent in an advisory partnership with 
major players. The Master Portfolios highlight all of 
CaixaBank AM’s capabilities in terms of management, 
analysis, monitoring and control, and supplement them 
with knowledge and specialisation—both in terms of 
Víctor Allende, Executive Director,  geographic aspects and specific asset types—of the 
CaixaBank Private Banking
best international managers with custom-made 
and
advisory mandates.
Marta Marin, 
Chief Executive Officer, Amundi Iberia
How does this fit with Amundi’s 
distribution model?
“Carteras 
Marta Marin: Amundi was selected to advise on an 
Master”,  
estimated USD500 million in US bonds. Our team 
based in Boston oversees investments in treasuries, 
a pioneering  
Corporates and government-related issues. This is a 
new kind of relationship that speaks to the strength 
concept for 
of our brand. It is also entirely in keeping with our 
ethos of working closely with banking partners to 
Amundi and 
provide bespoke solutions.
CaixaBank AM
What made Amundi a good choice?
V. A.: Beyond the fact that Amundi is a global leader 
To explore how Amundi was  
and  a  pillar  of  the  Principles  for  Responsible 
selected alongside other top asset  Investment (PRI), we were convinced by the strength 
management firms to advise on  of their fixed-income platform both in terms of 
performance and processes, as well as their successful 
Carteras Master, from CaixaBank, 
integration of Pioneer Investments, continuing a 
Spain’s leader in discretionary 
tradition of excellence.
management with a €25.1 billion 
portfolio, we spoke to Marta Marin, 
How do you see the mutual  
CEO of Amundi Iberia, and  
advantages of this partnership?
Víctor Allende, Executive Director  
of CaixaBank Private Banking.
M. M.: Of course, the first is the honour of bringing 
our expertise to this innovative concept which expands 
our experience in third-party distribution alongside 
32/
Highlights
Spain’s leading asset manager. For Amundi, it’s also 
an opportunity to increase the visibility of our brand 
on the Iberian peninsula, especially as CaixaBank has 
prepared a high-profile marketing campaign that 
features our identity alongside that of CaixaBank and 
the four other asset managers selected.
V. A.: For us, bringing Amundi on board helps us fulfil 
our commitment to bringing in the very best talent 
to oversee our investments for our advisory clients 
while keeping their costs low.  CPR AM’s thematic funds  
are a hit
The commercial success of CPR AM*’s 
thematic funds was confirmed in 2020,  
with €15 billion in assets under management 
at end-2020, up 50% year-on-year. In the  
CPR Invest* range, several solutions especially 
stand out, including the CPR Invest - Global 
Disruptive Opportunities* fund, whose assets 
under management doubled in 2020,  
reaching €4.7 billion at end December.  
Also, the CPR Invest - Medtech* strategy, 
which is dedicated to medical technology,  
saw inflows of over €600 million worldwide.
AXA confirms  
the Group’s expertise  
in discretionary 
Amundi Funds Polen  
management
Capital Global Growth  
raised €240 million in   Amundi and CPR AM have won a request  
the first month following its  for proposals for a discretionary management 
offering combining various risk profiles, based 
launch in Thailand
on ETFs and thematic funds. This achievement 
demonstrates the lead taken by the Group  
Amundi Thailand successfully launched the Amundi  in the field of discretionary management,  
Funds Polen Capital Global Growth* fund in July 2020,  a fast-growing segment in insurance and 
raising €240 million within the first month, the highest  banking networks.
amount raised for an equity fund in Thailand in 2020. 
For this fund, Amundi Thailand partnered with two local 
asset managers, Thanachart Fund Management 
Eastspring and TMBAM Eastspring.
33
Offer solutions adapted to the challenges of our clients and society
Are today’s Institutional investors  
more aware of the social implications 
of their investments?
I would say that yes, this is a growing trend. Having 
recognised the ‘E’ of environmental in ESG, Institutional 
investors, particularly in Europe, are increasingly aware 
of  the  importance  of  social  factors,  the  ‘S’  of 
responsible investment. Looking at the financial 
markets, you can see it in the higher volumes that 
companies with the best ratings on these factors 
command. In fact, the health crisis—and the social 
crisis taking shape in its wake—have significantly 
accelerated the rise to prominence of social and 
Jean-Jacques Barbéris,
societal criteria. Investors are approaching these 
Head of the Institutional and 
factors from the standpoint of impact—as in the case 
Corporate Clients Division
of contributions to reducing inequality. However, they 
are also considering them through the lenses of risk 
and performance. Enthusiasm for the companies most 
Institutional 
respectful of human capital should thus continue to 
grow in the coming years.
investors 
are sensitive   How does Amundi support its various 
clienteles as their expectations shift?
to the social 
Amundi does more than just meet client needs. We 
impact of their 
look ahead to anticipate new requirements and foster 
an ESG mindset. Environmental, social and societal 
investments
commitments are woven into the strands of our 
34/
Highlights
“A proponent  
of fair transition,  
Amundi is once again  
a pioneering institution 
with respect to social  
and societal issues, as it 
was for environmental 
Finnish pension fund 
issues.”
Ilmarinen selects  
the ETF UCITS  
Amundi MSCI Emerging 
ESG Leaders
Group’s DNA. And all the more so today, as the 
company affirms its role in bringing about a fair 
transition. With respect to social and societal issues,  In July 2020, Amundi expanded its range  
Amundi is once again a pioneering institution, as it  of responsible index funds with the launch of the 
was for environmental issues. In the last few years,  ETF UCITS* Amundi MSCI Emerging ESG Leaders*. 
and particularly in 2020, we have published a range  The fund tracks an index providing exposure  
of studies interrogating questions of social inequality  to companies with the most favourable ESG ratings 
and the distribution of added value. We continually  from 26 emerging countries, based on a ‘do no 
invest in our research capabilities in these areas.  harm’ approach. The index thus excludes certain 
Amundi additionally offers dedicated investment  sectors, such as tobacco, alcohol, gambling  
solutions, such as the CPR Invest — Social Impact  and other controversial activities. The ETF  
fund*. We are also the first global asset management  was selected by Ilmarinen, Finland’s largest  
company to have created a fund dedicated to social  pension fund, for emerging markets exposure. 
bonds.(1) This offering should be further enhanced in  Ilmarinen, which has made sustainable  
2021 with the launch of our first fund devoted to the  development a central tenet of its philosophy  
fair transition*.  and investment strategy, made an initial investment 
of USD500 million.
(1)  Bonds that exclusively finance projects offering positive 
social impact.
Amundi and Crédit Agricole 
Corporate & Investment 
Bank join forces  
in the US market
Amundi US and Crédit Agricole Corporate & 
Investment Bank (CACIB) have launched a fruitful 
collaboration in the US market. CACIB and Amundi 
US Institutional teams are working together to 
engage with CACIB Corporate clients, introducing 
Amundi investment capabilities. Through this 
alliance, Amundi US won two new mandates  
from major US corporations, totalling USD1.2 billion 
in AuM.
35
Offer solutions adapted to the challenges of our clients and society
What prompted you to collaborate  
on the USD500 million Asia Climate 
Bond Portfolio?
Stefen Shin: Infrastructure has been a stronghold of 
green  bonds,  which  actually  originated  with 
Stefen Shin, Principal Investment Officer,   development banks, so it made sense for the AIIB to 
Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank
treat this as a priority. Since then, the market has gone 
and
beyond labelled green bonds to conventional bonds 
Timothée Jaulin, Head of ESG Development 
from green issuers. This is what we call the new asset 
and Advocacy, Amundi
class of climate bonds. When we decided to seek a 
private-sector partner, Amundi’s experience stood out.
A bond  
Timothée Jaulin: Amundi has made support for green 
bond  markets  one  of  its  core  sustainability 
to build  
commitments. Working with the AIIB was a fantastic 
opportunity to foster a thriving green bond ecosystem 
on: Amundi  
in Asia, especially in infrastructure-hungry emerging 
markets. It was also a great vote of confidence for our 
and the AIIB
Global Emerging Market Debt team.
What about the AIIB-Amundi Climate 
One aspect of Amundi’s focus   Change Investment Framework?  
on Asia is actively fostering ESG  Was this a separate project?
standards and markets.  
T. J.: Because traditional methods misprice climate 
A great example is the company’s 
risks and opportunities, finance needed a tool that 
work alongside the Asian 
could connect investments with the goals of the Paris 
Infrastructure Investment   Agreement. The Framework supports investors in 
Bank (AIIB). analysing issuers’ balance sheet activities in the 
context of their transition to a low carbon and climate 
resilience. While foundational to the Asia Climate Bond 
Portfolio, the framework is also part of Amundi’s 
ongoing contribution to best practices in responsible 
investing.
S. S.: We felt that the framework offered a potential 
solution to encourage investors to look beyond the 
green bond market for climate change engagement 
opportunities with companies. Endorsed by the 
36/
Highlights
Climate Bonds Initiative, the AIIB-Amundi Framework 
promotes transparency and emulation, a virtuous cycle 
for volumes and credibility ushering in a new phase 
for climate finance in Asia.
What distinguishes this methodology? Amundi,  
the top solutions provider 
S. S.: Its central feature is an active investment 
for Institutional investors
approach, comprising issuance and issuer level 
analysis based on the three objectives of the Paris 
Agreement. It outlines an investment process that  For the second year running, Amundi has been 
looks at physical climate risks and awareness of these  crowned ‘Best Institutional Solutions Provider’  
risks, as well as potential contributions to GHG  by the Asian Investor Asset Management Awards. 
emissions reductions, in order to design new products  This distinction once again recognises Amundi’s 
that encourage future CO2 neutral trajectories. ability to deliver the very best products, services, 
strategies and tools for Institutional clients.
And the benefits?
Amundi’s ESG Global 
T. J.: The Framework enables investors to channel  Equity strategies find  
capital towards emerging markets where the challenge 
a home in the Middle East
of the low-carbon, climate-resilient transition is 
greatest. It also helps guide issuers towards sustainable 
projects. Lastly, it positions an investor to benefit from  Four of the ESG Global 
any future market repricing from sustainability and  Equity* strategies 
climate risk materialisation.  managed by Amundi 
have been selected 
by an asset manager 
based in Saudi Arabia. 
The strategies included 
in this new mandate 
(Global Infrastructure*, 
Global REITs*, Global Low 
Volatility* and Global 
Equities*) will be applied 
via a mutual fund (Sicav*) 
domiciled in Luxembourg 
and available to the  
asset manager’s end 
clients.
37
our performance 
with a responsible 
approach
N
E
H
T
G
N
E
R
T
S
38/
39
Strengthen our performance with a responsible approach
Solid performances for Amundi’s 
asset management activities
In a challenging market environment, our funds successfully adapted  
and delivered, posting solid performances overall. Nearly three-quarters  
of our open-ended funds are listed in the top two Morningstar quartiles over 
three and five years. Inflows rose vs. 2019, driven by money market solutions  
(+€28.2 billion),(1) which benefited from the favourable environment for  
short-term products that prevailed in the second half of the year. Real  
assets, as well as multi-management and thematic equities, also contributed  
to inflows. In 2020, Amundi continued to strengthen its commitment  
to responsible investment, with 100% of actively managed funds(2) now 
incorporating ESG criteria. 
Active management 
delivering better performance than more concentrated 
All strategies combined, Equity assets under management  portfolios. Secondly, Amundi’s Multi-Asset strategies 
increased 1.2% to €102 billion at end 2020. Equity  performed especially well, with several of these, such as 
management strategies outperformed their respective  Absolute Return* and Balanced*, topping the rankings 
benchmark universes. The flagship Amundi Funds  over several periods. ESG solutions were major drivers 
Euroland Equity* grew and is currently ranked 2nd in terms  of growth, with inflows exceeding €3 billion. And lastly, 
of assets under management among European equities.  discretionary management solutions for Retail investors, 
Restored calm in the markets benefitted emerging  as well as custom risk management for Institutional 
equity strategies during the second half of the year. In  investors, were also commercially successful.
2020, equity strategies increased their ESG footprint 
with the launch of the new ESG Improvers* range in  Amundi consolidated its standing as the European leader 
Europe and the United States. in Structured Products. Despite the crisis, structured 
products maturing in 2020 delivered an average annual 
Coordinated action by central banks and governments  return of 4.32% to investors. Formula-based products 
in response to the Covid-19 pandemic pumped liquidity  were once again popular with partner networks in France, 
into the markets and sent bond yields down to historically  showing net inflows of more than €2 billion.
low levels. Against this backdrop, Fixed income posted 
an uneven performance depending on market segment.  Tailwinds for the Liquidity Solutions business line came 
Assets under management increased slightly to €537  from a context favourable to short-term investments and 
billion. Most strategies ended the year on a positive note,  the massive injections of liquidity by the European Central 
with the exception of US high yield and Global fixed  Bank in response to the Covid-19 crisis. Treasury products 
income. The platform also continued to pursue ESG  posted watershed inflows of €28.2 billion,(1) mainly from 
innovation, with the development of new solutions such  Institutional clients, especially Corporate clients.
as Social Bond* and the Just Transition for Climate* fund. 
Passive management
Multi-Asset* recorded robust 6% growth in assets under  The ETF, Indexing and Smart beta* platform saw 
management to €256 billion at end 2020, across both  exceptional inflows of €21.6 billion, up sharply on 2019 
the Institutional and Retail segments. Firstly, 2020  (+€16.2 billion), bringing its assets under management 
demonstrated the advantage of active multi-asset  to €158 billion. Growth of the ETF segment was a major 
strategies, with diversification and tactical allocation  contributor to inflows, attracting €6.7 billion in assets 
40/
Our performance
under management, and earning Amundi a 3rd place in 
Europe in terms of inflows and 5th place in terms of assets  in
under management (€64.4 billion). Demand for ETFs  d
74%
rose among Retail clients in 2020, particularly via online  ic
distribution platforms. The Amundi Prime* range, one of  Close to    a
the most competitive in Europe, benefitted greatly from  of assets in open- to
this trend, with assets under management hitting   ended funds included  r
s
in Morningstar’s top 2 
€2.6 billion at the year end. Above all, this year has 
quartiles over 5 years(1)
confirmed the growing importance of ESG themes in 
general and climate change in particular across all market 
segments. Amundi, a pioneer in these areas, has continued 
177 
to innovate. Several ESG ETFs, including the MSCI 
Emerging ESG Leaders* spearheaded by Ilmarinen—
Finland’s largest pension fund—have been added to the  Amundi funds(2) rated 4 
range, which had 29 equity and fixed income funds at  or 5 stars by Morningstar
the end of December 2020. Amundi also had the 
distinction of launching a series of ETFs replicating the 
(1) Source: Morningstar Direct, 
Paris-Aligned Benchmarks (PAB) climate indices. ESG  open-ended funds and ETFs, global 
offerings as a whole now represents nearly 40% of the  scope, excluding feeder funds,  
31 December 2020. 648 funds for a 
platform’s assets under management. total of €453 billion.
(2) 576 Amundi open-ended funds 
were rated by Morningstar at  
Specific Management 31 December 2020.
The Real Asset business line garnered net positive 
inflows of €4.4 billion for a total of €56.6 billion in 
assets under management at end 2020, an increase of 
6.6% year-over-year. One of the strongest drivers of 
this  commercial  momentum  was  the  resilient   
performance of all solutions on offer, since these asset  In 2020, Amundi also continued to strengthen its social 
classes provided one of the best risk-adjusted return  and inclusive impact investment activity, in keeping 
profiles seen in 2020. Real estate continued to attract  with the firm’s ambition to become the leading player 
both Retail and Institutional investors, with inflows of  in this sector. The Amundi Finance et Solidarité* fund 
nearly €2.7 billion. The Tangram unit-linked fund,  is already France’s leading social and solidarity impact 
launched in France at the end of 2019, has been a  investment, boasting €331 million of assets under 
resounding commercial success, confirming Amundi’s  management at end 2020. In the environmental impact 
status  as  a  leader  in  mass-market  real  estate.  segment, Amundi’s many initiatives stood out in 2020, 
Furthermore, Amundi Real Estate* became Europe’s  such as designing portfolios resistant to climate risks(7) 
leader for office space in 2020.(3) The Private Debt  and managing the first-ever equity index fund aligned 
business attracted close to €1 billion, thanks primarily  with the Paris Agreement. 
to the launch of two innovative funds for leveraged 
debt(4) and impact-linked corporate debt.(5) The direct 
Private Equity business continued to grow with the 
launch of the Megatrends II* programme, which targets 
€500 million in assets under management by the end 
of 2021. Lastly, the real-asset Multi-management line  (1)  Excluding joint ventures.
(2)  F ebruary 2021. Actively managed, open-ended funds,  
increased assets under management to €8 billion, 
where an ESG rating methodology is applicable.
buoyed by several initiatives undertaken in partnership  (3)  Source: IPE Real Assets.
(4)  ELLE, Leverage Loans ELTIF Retail.
with Amundi Transition Energétique, including the  (5)  Initiative Impact.
launch of dedicated Infrastructure funds, AIDF 1*(6) and  (6)  Amundi Infrastructure Diversified Fund.
(7)   With the launch of the Climate Change Investment Framework, 
Amundi Energies Vertes*.  with the AIIB.
41
Strengthen our performance with a responsible approach
Is it fair to say that the rapid rise  
in ESG makes it a competitor  
for active management?
No. What it does is renew our business. The social 
paradigm governing the financial community has 
certainly changed. This ‘tipping point’ has led to a 
rapid acceleration in demand for integration of ESG 
criteria in all types of management which has 
prompted the rise of new investment solutions as well 
as a restructuring of the existing offering across active 
Pascal Blanqué,  
and passive management. Both of these management 
Chief Investment Officer
styles are ESG-compatible, and draw on a common 
foundation  consisting  of  Amundi’s  voting  and 
engagement policies. It is true, however, that the ESG 
ESG investing 
approach, which in essence highlights mispricing or 
risks which financial analysis failed to identify—such 
reinvigorates 
as climate risk or societal risk—is directly related to 
active management. After all, the idea behind active 
active 
management is to exploit market inefficiencies. In this 
sense, ESG management, which involves taking a 
management
stance on environmental, social and governance 
criteria or selecting a particular asset based on its 
engagement profile, opens up new avenues and 
prospects for active management. Furthermore, it is 
our conviction—now broadly recognised by the 
markets—that ESG makes it possible to enhance the 
risk-return profile of investments, which is the specific 
objective of active management.
What does this mean for asset 
managers like Amundi in terms  
of expertise and organisation?
The future of active management lies in ESG. As of 
today, Amundi is an asset manager that is 100% ESG. 
Over the last decade, having gradually built an 
industry leading in-house ESG research competence, 
the team’s analysis is now systematically incorporated 
into every one of our active investment platforms. 
From now on,  all our actively managed open-ended 
42/
“ESG management,  
which involves taking  
a stance on environmental, 
funds seek to exceed the ESG ratings of their reference 
social and governance  universe. Challenges remain of course, but Amundi 
has a considerable head start in issues such as data 
criteria or selecting  
and reporting transparency.
a particular asset based   Amundi also stands out in the field of ideas and 
on its engagement profile,  convictions, in which it has become a true ESG 
benchmark,  with  systematic  integration  in  the 
opens up new avenues  
investment processes, thus setting it apart from its 
and perspectives for active  peers. 
management.”
Highlights
BFT France Futur climbs  
to first place in French mid  
and small cap funds
With close to €800 million in assets under management, BFT 
France Futur is the leader in its category. This achievement 
follows the award in October 2020 of the ‘Relance’ label, 
introduced as part of the French government’s recovery plan, 
which aims to distinguish the financial investments most 
relevant to a sustainable economic recovery. This is precisely 
the positioning of BFT France Futur, a Sicav* focused on 
innovative French SMEs.
Green Credit Continuum 
wins two prizes 
Launched in 2019 by Amundi and the European 
Investment Bank, the Green Credit Continuum 
garnered two awards in 2020. In March the 
programme was awarded first prize in the category 
‘Most Innovative ESG Initiative’ at the Global 
Markets and Media ESG Investing Awards, and in 
April, it was named ‘Green bond fund of the Year’ 
by Environmental Finance.
43
Strengthen our performance with a responsible approach
The ESG Improvers* philosophy is built on the belief 
that Amundi has a responsibility as a global asset 
manager to accelerate the transition to a sustainable 
economy. ESG Improvers is unique in that it takes a 
fundamental and forward-looking approach to ESG 
in order to achieve superior ESG and investment 
returns. “Sustainable investors are ready to move 
beyond a binary black and white view of corporations 
and adopt a dynamic view,” says Vincent Mortier, 
Deputy Chief Investment Officer. “Our ESG Improvers 
range leverages corporate ESG commitments that 
have yet to be priced into the market.”
Combining Amundi’s proprietary ESG analysis with 
Vincent Mortier,  
our fundamental investment analysis, the strategy 
Deputy Chief Investment Officer
aims to identify tomorrow’s ESG winners. These will 
be companies with solid fundamentals and a clear 
path to improving on material ESG parameters. “We 
A dynamic  
believe this approach will be especially relevant in the 
aftermath of the Covid-19 crisis, as public funds 
vision of ESG 
become available for economic recovery and 
authorities may increase scrutiny of how funds get 
selection  
invested,” notes Vincent Mortier.
designed to 
The  ESG  Improvers  range  currently  includes  a 
European and a US Equity ESG Improvers fund 
capture alpha
launched during 2020. The range will be extended 
with a diversified fund and a bond fund in 2021. 
44/
Highlights
Amundi expands its 
sustainable funds 
offering in Austria
In July 2020, Amundi launched the Amundi 
Ethik Fonds ausgewogen* on the Austrian 
market. The fund invests in global equities  
and bonds with a dual approach: securities  
are selected according to their ESG rating  
and the portfolio allocation is set to correspond 
to a so-called ‘balanced’ risk profile, investing 
up to 60% of its assets in equities. The fund has 
been awarded the Austrian Ecolabel(1) certifying 
sustainable financial products.
(1) Austrian Ecolabel for Sustainable Financial Products.
Amundi Funds  
Cash USD passes  
the 4 billion dollar mark
Amundi Funds Cash USD* grew by 60% 
between January 2019 and February 2020. 
With more than USD4 billion under 
management, it has become the largest 
European fund denominated in US dollars 
within Amundi’s standard money market 
category. It is rated A by Fitch Ratings.
Amundi named ‘Asset Manager  
of the Year’ at the Global 
Derivatives Awards 2020
Amundi took the title of ‘Asset Manager of the Year’ awarded 
by the judges of the Global Derivatives Awards 2020, 
organised by Global Capital. They commended both 
the innovation and the growth the Group has shown  
on the global derivatives market. 
45
Strengthen our performance with a responsible approach
Is it fair to say that passive 
management makes it easier for 
investors to opt for ESG-oriented 
solutions?(1)
For investors who wish to reallocate some portion of 
their portfolio to ESG solutions, passive management 
has certain advantages. Highly precise modelling, for 
instance, makes it possible to implement bespoke 
investment strategies relatively quickly. Institutional 
investors often appreciate this option, as it offers them 
solutions  in  line  with  their  ESG  policies,  while 
remaining attuned to market trends with regards to 
investment  opportunities.  Benefits  such  as 
Fannie Wurtz,
accessibility,  transparency  and  low  costs  also 
Head of Passive Investing
contribute  to  the  popularity  of  passive  ESG 
management, particularly in the form of listed index 
products. ETF ranges pegged to ESG indices have 
The role 
expanded greatly in the last few years, so it is no 
surprise that these solutions reflecting new societal 
of passive 
expectations have become favourites among investors.
management 
as a facilitator 
of the ESG 
transformation
46/
Highlights
“Passive management, 
especially in the form  
of listed index products, 
plays a major role  
in the democratisation of 
responsible investment.”
Amundi partners  
with Cambridge  
and Oxford Universities  
to design an ESG index 
strategy
How does Amundi succeed in standing  With Amundi, the college endowment funds  
out within the passive ESG market? at the Universities of Cambridge and Oxford 
are jointly developing a bespoke ESG index 
In this area, Amundi is once again a pioneering figure,  strategy that is fossil free and low carbon.  
contributing to the democratisation of responsible  The strategy is designed to track the 
asset management via index investing, particularly in  performance of the MSCI ACWI, while 
the form of ETFs, which are broadly accessible. In  incorporating several ESG-focused objectives. 
order to address the widest variety of approaches and  It will exclude all assets linked to fossil fuels, 
expectations, we have designed a comprehensive  boost ‘green’ revenues and reduce carbon 
range—over 29 funds to date—segmented according  emissions intensity as well as risks of exposure 
to the ‘intensity’ of their ESG or climate change focus.  to controversial activities. The solution will  
This ETF range has been warmly welcomed, attracting  also leverage Amundi’s capacity to engage  
€5.5 billion in 2020. This success typifies Amundi’s  in dialogue with companies. Clare College, 
approach to product innovation and results from a  Cambridge(1), has shifted the equities allocation 
combination of ongoing dialogue between Amundi  of its endowment fund to this new strategy. 
and investors and proactive discussions with index 
(1) Clare College is one of the 31 colleges that make up  
providers, which develop specific benchmarks to our  the University of Cambridge.
specifications. This ability to customise also explains 
Amundi’s popularity with Institutional investors. 
Thanks to our experience and expertise in the area of  Amundi ETFs receive  
responsible asset management, we can offer them 
a double recognition
support along the entire value chain of their ESG 
policies. This is especially the case upstream, where 
we support Institutionals in defining and developing  In 2020, Amundi was crowned ‘European ETF Provider of 
their investment strategies.  the Year’ by Funds Europe magazine. In November of the 
same year, Amundi was also named ‘Smart Beta* Manager 
of the Year’  for a second consecutive year by Financial 
News. Awarded by a panel of experts, this distinction 
recognises the performance and contributions  
(1) Environmental, Social, Governance. of an asset management firm to the financial industry. 
47
Strengthen our performance with a responsible approach
What made this new partnership 
compelling?
Claus Jørgensen: We appreciated Amundi’s scale and 
stability as the leading European asset manager. But this 
wouldn’t have been enough on its own. Amundi has a 
strong track record of managing ETFs and index assets, 
Claus Jørgensen,   rock solid portfolio construction and a commitment  
Chief Investment Officer, PenSam
to ESG.
and
Laurent Trottier, Global Head of ETF,  
Laurent Trottier: PenSam is a major player in Denmark’s 
Indexing & Smart Beta Management, Amundi
pension landscape, itself the 6th largest in Europe by 
AuM,(1) so, it is an honour to be recognised by them as an 
index management expert. Their trust in us is also  
Mounting  
confirmation of our leadership in low-carbon indexing 
having pioneered the first Low Carbon index solutions 
a passive 
back in 2014.
offensive  
Why choose the MSCI ACWI Climate 
against climate  Change Index?
change C. J.: It uses MSCI’s Low Carbon Transition score and 
other factors to increase exposure to opportunities and 
minimise risks associated with energy transition. Shifting 
from the MSCI AC to the Climate Change Index not only 
PenSam, Denmark’s labour market 
helped us lower the carbon footprint of our portfolios, 
pension fund for workers in elder   but also provides a buffer against shocks and contributes 
care, cleaning, technical services   to a mission-critical aspect of fighting climate change.
and educational care, recently 
selected Amundi for a bespoke  
What’s the logic behind  
€2.6bn mandate benchmarked   a bespoke index fund?
to the MSCI ACWI Climate Change 
index. Claus Jørgensen, PenSam,   C. J.: It was crucial to be able to adjust for our own 
priorities. Construction and allocation choices become 
and Laurent Trottier, Amundi,  
especially  important  when  you  take  impact  into 
discuss the partnership.
account. Three things that Amundi stood out for were 
their ability to partner with Institutional investors to 
develop custom solutions, the depth of their index 
research capabilities and their emphasis on stewardship, 
important for us vis-à-vis our audience.
48/
L. T.: Amundi may be the largest European asset  Do you have other projects together?
manager, but we are very proud of our close relationships  L. T.: Absolutely, we’re already discussing exciting new 
and bespoke support for investors at every stage in their  ideas.
ESG journey. Passive investing is a misnomer, as it 
actually calls for specific decisions to meaningfully  C. J.: There is plenty more to do as we forge ahead 
reflect particular objectives, and that’s where experience  making  our  investments  even  healthier  for  our 
comes in. beneficiaries, financially and for the planet. 
(1) Source: IPE Top 1,000.
Highlights
Amundi launches the first-ever  Amundi Physical 
index solutions aligned with   Gold ETC* solidifies 
the Paris Agreement its success
Amundi has been selected by a group of 12 Institutional  In August 2020, Amundi Physical 
investors(1) in France to launch an equities index fund  Gold ETC(1) passed the 4 billion-dollar 
aligned with the Paris Agreement. Amundi will replicate a  mark in assets under management. 
new index of diverse equities from the eurozone, the Euro  Launched in May 2019, it provides 
iSTOXX Ambition Climat PAB, which was specially created  exposure to the price of gold at  
for this initiative. This is the first investment solution that  a competitive price, with a TER(2)  
can be considered fully  of 0.15%. 
eligible for the future 
European Paris Aligned  (1) Exchange Traded Commodity.
(2) Total Exchange Ratio: ratio showing the management costs  
Benchmark (PAB)  of an investment fund. 
label. Amundi has also 
added to its responsible 
investment range three  €21.6bn
new ETFs that track 
the future PAB climate  2020 total inflows recorded by the ETF, 
indexes.  Indexing and Smart beta* platform,  
an increase of more than 30% compared  
(1) Caisse des Dépôts, EDF, 
Allianz France, Aviva France,  to 2019 (€16.2bn). At end 2020, the 
AXA France, BNP Paribas 
platform’s assets under management  
Cardif, BPCE, CNP Assurances, 
Crédit Agricole Assurances,  stood at €158 billion. 
Macif, Maif and Société 
Générale.
49
Strengthen our performance with a responsible approach
How has Amundi reconciled investor 
interests with support for companies 
since the start of the health crisis?
Real assets, as they are known, are unique for how  
they interact with the economy. The funds invested 
directly in businesses are a critical fuel for their growth. 
When a subset of these companies experiences 
Dominique Carrel-Billiard,
turbulence, investors have a capacity—and, we believe, 
Head of Real Assets
a duty—to help them safely navigate these choppy 
seas in order to safeguard their own interests. Amundi 
was therefore determined to support the economic 
Supporting 
agents most affected by the health crisis. This support 
took any number of forms. In real estate, it consisted 
companies  
in the crisis and 
safeguarding 
investors’  
interests
50/
Highlights
Amundi launches 
Amundi Energies Vertes,   the Amundi 
a new savings solution dedicated   Infrastructure 
to the ecological transition Diversified Fund I
Launched in June 2020, Amundi  Amundi Infrastructure 
Energies Vertes* is a mutual fund  Diversified Fund I* is  
giving individuals the opportunity  a new FPCI(1) dedicated  
to help finance the energy  to infrastructure, launched  
transition. Drawing on the  in December 2020. Aimed  
technical expertise of Amundi  at Institutional investors,  
Transition Energétique and the  it offers strong diversification, 
investment expertise of Amundi  both in terms of sector and 
Private Equity Funds, it invests  Energies Vertes has been  geography, with a focus on 
directly in green infrastructure  recognised twice over: once   core/core+ assets in Europe’s 
(photovoltaic and wind farms,  by the Agefi’s Coupoles de  energy, transport and 
hydroelectric facilities, etc.)  l’Innovation, followed by the  telecommunications sectors. 
generally reserved for Institutional  Innovation Prize from Pyramides  This hybrid and innovative 
clients. Amundi Energies Vertes   de la Gestion de Patrimoine,  vehicle integrates an ESG 
is available as part of Predica’s   awarded by Investissements  approach in its investment 
life insurance policies for Private  Conseils. The fund made its first  process.
Banking customers of Crédit  investment in November 2020,  
Agricole’s Regional Banks and  in a portfolio of 136 active solar 
LCL Banque Privée. Amundi  power plants.
(1) Professional Private Equity Fund.
in deferring or waiving a portion of rents to maintain  assets. However, it’s important to see this decline in 
the solvency of tenants. In private debt, revised  context, coming as it does after a record year in 2019 
repayment schedules were permitted, in exchange for  and in the extraordinary context of the sanitary crisis 
greater transparency or a temporary suspension of  and of its economic and financial consequences. 
dividends.  These  measures  not  only  helped  Taking a longer-term perspective, we believe these 
leaseholders or portfolio companies to ensure business  asset classes will continue their structural growth 
continuity, but also protected the interests of our  trajectory. Real assets offer a structurally attractive 
investors. Obviously, it is better for a building to have  risk-return profile in a low or negative interest rates 
tenants than to stand empty; and an operational  environment and  given the potential return of 
debtor is more desirable than  inflation. But to make good 
one in receivership. on the promise of higher 
returns, it’s important to be 
even more selective and to 
As an asset class,   “The funds   lean towards the safest assets 
did real assets  invested directly   or companies. As it happens, 
become more  these are precisely the core 
attractive in 2020? in businesses   strategies  and  investment 
are a critical fuel   policies Amundi has adopted 
If  we  look  exclusively  at  since its creation. 
for their growth.”
volume, 2020 saw a slowdown 
in both inflows and number 
of  transactions  for  such 
51
Strengthen our performance with a responsible approach
How did the relationship between  
Wifirst and Amundi PEF come about?
Claire Chabrier: It was one of our partners, a Wifirst 
client, that first brought them to our attention. We 
reached out, but at the time the company belonged 
Marc Taïeb, Chair, Wifirst
to Bolloré and was not on the market. A sale was 
and
organised several months later. We participated, of 
Claire Chabrier, Deputy Managing  course, with a view to investing via our Megatrends II* 
Partner, Amundi Private Equity Funds
fund. We also brought in Bpifrance and Socadif Capital 
Investissement to create a majority consortium.
Marc Taïeb: We felt that Wifirst had an opportunity—
Wifirst:  
an obligation, really—to accelerate growth both in 
France  and  abroad.  To  make  this  happen,  we 
a spin-off  
approached a number of leading French investors. 
Amundi came up with the the best project for our 
gearing up  
needs, convincing our then-shareholder to go ahead 
with the spin-off.
for growth
What made the Amundi PEF solution 
attractive?
Wifirst, the French leader   M. T.: The most salient feature was the governance 
in business Wi-Fi services, which  structure Amundi PEF and its co-investors offered 
Amundi Private Equity Funds   us. Unlike many majority investment funds, their 
approach is management-friendly. They’re committed 
has supported as a shareholder  
to supporting our development by providing the 
since 2019, has major development 
advice and tools we need. Of course, Amundi’s strong 
projects underway. Marc Taïeb,  
brand and extensive networks, particularly among 
Chair of Wifirst, and Claire Chabrier,  large companies, were also part of the equation.
Deputy Managing Partner of  
C. C.: I believe our technical and organisational know-
Amundi Private Equity Funds  
how were also factors that played in our favour. And 
(Amundi PEF), explain.
actually, Wifirst saw in short order how we supported 
them  in  structuring  the  new  entity,  actively 
participating  in  the  recruitment  of  a  CFO  and 
introducing powerful, easy-to-use tools for reporting.
52/
Highlights
What are your current plans  
for growth?
M. T.: Our roadmap is pretty straightforward: we will  Initiative Impact 2020,  
continue helping businesses improve their productivity 
for a sustainable recovery
with better connectivity and lower their costs thanks 
to our sustainable multiservice Wi-Fi. The health crisis 
has accelerated companies’ digitalisation efforts and  Amundi has made impact the centrepiece 
Wifirst’s mission is essential to this process. We offer  of its Initiative Impact 2020* strategy.  
companies powerful core connectivity using the latest  This new private debt fund, launched  
generation Wi-Fi to improve workflow, increase  in December 2020, seeks to support 
productivity and prepare the future. Today, we expect  mainly French SMEs that demonstrated 
to expand even faster internationally, including  robust pre-Covid-19 performance and  
potentially through external growth. a real capacity to rebound. It will be 
invested exclusively in the senior debt of 
C. C.: Amundi is actively participating in these projects,  companies from all sectors, selected both 
which, if need be, may be financed by additional equity  on financial and extra-financial criteria 
investment.  according to a rigorous process. Initiative 
Impact 2020 is available exclusively  
to Institutional investors.
Amundi Private 
Amundi Real Estate  
Equity Megatrends II 
enhances its diversification  
receives the French 
in the logistics sector
Relance label
As part of a sector diversification and international development 
strategy, Amundi Real Estate* made several investments   The three funds in the Amundi  
in the logistics sector in 2020. In April,   Private Equity Megatrends II*  
it acquired a 130,435 square-metre logistics  investment programme were awarded 
platform in Lahr, Germany, which is fully  the ‘Relance’ label in November 2020. 
leased to Zalando, for €145 million.   This certification aims to help  
In December, it also made two other  investors identify funds dedicated  
acquisitions, in Le Havre (a 48,000 m2  to supporting the development of 
platform) and Rouen (69,000 m2) in France.   French SMEs,  thereby contributing 
A fund dedicated to European logistics,   directly to the recovery of the real 
which is a particularly resilient property  economy. It is monitored by the  
sector, is due to be launched in 2021. French Treasury.
53
the conditions 
for confidence
 E
 
T
A
E
R
C
54/
55
Create the conditions for confidence
Has the pandemic made technology 
platforms more crucial?
Events have unquestionably shined a light on the 
importance of having technological tools that can 
ensure the continued functioning of business and 
development regardless of circumstances. Access to 
proprietary tools, like the ALTO(1) system that Amundi 
Guillaume Lesage, has developed is a tremendous advantage. Because 
Chief Operating Officer our platform is predominately (over 70%) reliant on 
in-house resources, we were able to mobilise all staff, 
whether on site or remotely. The agility and portability 
of our systems even made it possible for us to 
complete onboarding of our new Spanish partner, 
Banco Sabadell, and to launch our joint venture with 
An increasingly 
Bank of China. These advantages were also key to 
reassuring our own teams. Thanks to the flexibility 
critical asset 
and reliability of our systems, they were able to remain 
fully focused on their tasks.
for portfolio 
management?  Will this strategic importance  
continue going forward?  
Technology If so, how can asset managers adapt?
Technology will remain a critical asset. Thanks to its 
scalability, it offers an answer to the pressure on 
margins asset managers face. With its capacity for 
innovation, it can also address our clients’ increasing 
calls for personalised and high value-added services. 
And lastly, technology enables rapid growth, whether 
organic or external, by winning new markets or 
developing new products. To remain competitive, 
financial institutions and portfolio managers only have 
two options: maintain in-house systems that require 
massive and regular investment, or rely on a third-
party platform. The latter is the alternative provided 
by our Amundi Technology offerings which offer four 
(1) Amundi Leading Technologies & Operations.
56/
“Thanks to the flexibility 
Our performance
and reliability of our 
i
n
systems, teams were 
d
able to remain fully  Amundi   ic
Technology: a
focused on their tasks.” 24  t
  o
  r
s
 non-Group clients,  
including 11 new  
ones in 2020
critical advantages: tools that are 100% open source 
and cloud-based, solutions that cover every asset class 
and clientele, local service and support worldwide, 
especially Europe and Asia, and lastly, a secure 
platform overseen by a regulated entity. 
Highlights
Amundi,  
Amundi Technology,  
“Super Management 
a new business line  
Company” in Ireland
dedicated to IT products  
and services
In May 2020, Ireland’s central bank granted 
Amundi continued status as a “Super 
Management Company”. The firm can therefore  Since its founding in 2010, Amundi has always had its 
leverage four main hubs (France, Luxembourg,  own IT platform, ALTO.(1) This powerful and flexible tool, 
Austria and Ireland) to provide a comprehensive  covering the entire savings and asset management 
range of hosting solutions, from fund structuring  value chain, enables the company to provide the very 
(UCITS* and Alternative Investment Funds)   best management for clients. In 2016, Amundi began 
to marketing and distribution, as well as risk  making these cutting-edge 
management and operational support.   technology services 
This also marks an important step for the   available to other players. 
Fund Hosting* business line, which, after  Building on this experience, 
Luxembourg, is adding another key market   Amundi has decided to 
in European fund distribution to its hubs. expand this development 
by creating a new business 
line, which will rely on 
dedicated IT and sales 
teams. The addressable 
11 market has great potential 
and Amundi Technology 
The number of new clients  aims for annual revenues  
that subscribed to Amundi  of €150 million by 2025.
Technology’s offers in 2020.
(1)  Amundi Leading Technologies & Operations.
57
Create the conditions for confidence
International growth in the asset 
management business can pose  
a challenge for control functions.  
What issues do you see as particularly 
important?
International expansion does indeed force control 
functions to address new challenges. First of all, 
increasing  international  business  comes  with 
exposure to a greater range of national regulations. 
And, despite what you may have heard, these are 
becoming more, rather than less divergent. Deploying 
Bernard De Wit,
abroad also goes hand in hand with more diverse 
Head of the Support  
business activities. Along with core business come 
and Control Division
secondary lines, like unlisted markets. So we not only 
have geographical, but also sectoral dispersion. This 
makes it all the more important to maintain a close 
relationship with local entities and decentralised 
business lines. And lastly, internationalisation cannot 
International 
be  divorced  from  multiculturalism.  Client 
expectations, and especially their perception of 
expansion,  
acceptable risk, differ from one country to the next. 
If they are to be effective, control functions must 
a new challenge 
for the control 
functions
58/
 
Highlights
Amundi’s  
feminine side
“Amundi constantly  
updates its organisation  
Amundi places a strong emphasis on gender 
to be fit for purpose   equality. In addition to strict attention  
to ensuring equal pay for equal work, the 
as its scope changes.”
company has put in place an active policy  
to support the promotion of women to senior 
roles. In 2020, the various actions, taken 
together, contributed to 
a significant increase in 
the number of women 
who sit on Amundi’s 
understand and integrate these cultural differences  Executive Committee 
to ensure that the investment solutions on offer are  (28.6% from 18.6% in 
consistent with each client type. 2019). Women, who 
make up 41.7% of all 
employees, now account 
How has Amundi adapted to overcome  for 35% of management 
these new challenges? positions, and 30.1%  
of senior executives. 
Amundi constantly updates its organisation to be fit  And, as of 10 May 2021, 
for purpose as its scope changes. Support and Control  Amundi is helmed  
functions, in particular, have been reinvented in  by a woman, CEO 
accordance  with  a  twofold  approach  of  Valérie Baudson.
decentralisation and subsidiarity. Decentralisation can 
be seen in the more international make-up of our 
teams, which are now for the most part embedded  Amundi improves  
locally. But simply exporting expertise is not enough 
its pay ratio
in itself. It was also important to increase subsidiarity 
in our processes. This system works thanks to 
common core of internal rules that apply throughout  Since 2018, Amundi has calculated a representative pay 
the  Group.  Building  on  this  foundation,  local  ratio for its global business. This indicator tracks the 
accommodations are possible, provided they respect  relationship between  
the spirit of a common core. In this way, we combine  the average compensation  
consistency on major principles with flexibility.  of a company’s leadership 
and median pay for salaried 
workers. A lower ratio 
indicates a less discrepancy. 
For 2020, Amundi’s pay ratio 
stood at 21, one of the lowest 
recorded by a company  
in the SBF 120 index.
360
More than 
  A+
 professionals  
dedicated to risk management  Amundi once again received  
functions worldwide an A+ from Fitch Ratings in May 2020.
59
Create the conditions for confidence
What has 2020 meant  
for Human Resources’ top priorities?
The health crisis caused us to focus our efforts in two 
areas: maintaining the health and safety of our 
employees  and  ensuring  business  continuity. 
Operational command of all measures was entrusted 
to an ad hoc Management Committee. At no point, 
however, did the urgency of this situation call into 
question Amundi’s singular business model. Remember, 
our international governance model seeks to reconcile 
strong, centralised guidelines with the freedom for 
Isabelle Senéterre,
local specificities and initiatives to flourish. This model 
Head of Human Resources
proved highly effective during the pandemic, which 
did not affect every country at the same time nor to 
the same degree. In particular, sharing experience and 
2020,  
best practices amplified our ability to anticipate and 
respond. European entities in particular were able to 
a year of new 
capitalise significantly on the experience of our Asian 
subsidiaries, both in terms of workflow and health 
challenges 
measures.
for Human 
What are the consequences and 
Resources lessons to be drawn from this unique 
situation?
Amundi is by no means the only company to experience 
such an intense mobilisation of its teams. Nonetheless, 
going  through  lockdown  certainly  gave  us  the 
impression that the values we have upheld since its 
founding—courage, entrepreneurship and solidarity—
emerged strengthened from the experience. We were 
all proud to see how resilient our business model 
proved and how important our social contract was. The 
health crisis increased employees’ confidence both in 
the company itself and their own ingenuity. It brought 
out the best in everyone in terms of worker autonomy 
and management techniques, and it accelerated the 
digitalisation of processes, both internal and external. 
We will not fail to capitalise on this experience to 
improve our approach to work, optimising it for the 
company and employees alike. 
60/
Our performance
i
n
d
74%
i
“Going through   c
  a
the lockdown certainly   Engagement   to
gave us the impression   and Recommendation  r
s
Index
that the values Amundi has 
upheld since its founding — 
28.6%
courage, entrepreneurship  
 
and solidarity— emerged  of women in  
the Executive Committee
strengthened from  
the experience.”
Highlights
74
% Amundi is leading  
the way on gender equality  
For a fifth year running, Amundi has measured 
in the financial sector
employee engagement in the Group. In 2020, 
this survey, known as the ‘Engagement and 
Recommendation Index’, was sent to some  Amundi has surged ahead in rankings of gender 
4,400 employees worldwide and the response  diversity at SBF 120 index companies. Calculated 
rate totalled 73%. Results showed commitment  annually since 2013 under government supervision,(1) 
to Amundi at 74%, a seven-point increase over  this indicator showcases those companies doing  
2019, and 80% of positive responses to  the most to place women in leadership roles and 
questions relating more specifically to Amundi.  implement gender equality policies. In the rankings 
published in July 2020, Amundi moved up 37 places  
to take 1st place among 
businesses in the financial 
900 sector and 21st overall.  
This leap forward  
The number of young interns or work-study  is due to an increase  
participants Amundi welcomed in 2020.  in the number of women  
Despite the logistical challenges caused   in top leadership thanks  
by the pandemic, the Group stayed on track  to deliberate policies  
with its policy to promote training of young  which will actively  
workers. A worthwhile endeavour in   continue in 2021.
France, Amundi was once again awarded 
the HappyTrainees label, recognising   (1) Via the French Secretariat  
in charge of gender equality  
the quality of its programme. and equal opportunities.
61
Create the conditions for confidence
On CSR,  
Amundi knows that  
to be a responsible player,  
you need to do as you say
Behaving as a responsible financial player is a core commitment  
of Amundi’s strategic plan. And one aspect of this commitment  
is an especially stringent policy governing our corporate social  
and environmental responsibility (CSR).
In essence, this boils down to applying the principles of  First and foremost, Amundi’s commitment to clients 
sustainable development to our own business. Amundi’s  involves  fully  respecting  a  responsible  investor 
CSR commitments are thus focused on reducing and  approach. Amundi has established this as a core 
limiting the company’s environmental footprint, fighting  principle of its asset management processes and makes 
discrimination and promoting equal opportunities while  systematic inclusion of ESG criteria a strategic priority. 
ensuring the transparency and integrity of its governance,  The company’s initiatives to support financing for 
developing long-term support for worthy causes and  energy transition and social inclusion have made 
championing employee engagement in France and  Amundi a recognised leader in responsible investment. 
abroad. Amundi is also committed to ensuring the performance 
and transparency of investment solutions it offers its 
In practice, Amundi’s CSR policy revolves around three  clients as part of a long-term relationship based on 
main commitments: mutual trust.
• c ommitted to our clients: we strive to be a responsible 
financial player and honour our promises to clients, Amundi has made the personal and collective growth 
• c ommitted to our employees: we place personal and  of its employees a central tenet of its responsibility as 
shared growth at the heart of our responsibility as an  an employer. One aspect of this entails an employment 
employer, policy that prioritises mobility within the company, 
• c ommitted to society at large: we strive to be an  access to training and employee retention. Founded on 
inclusive corporate citizen and take care to limit our  the values of diversity and non-discrimination, Amundi 
direct environmental impact. also seeks to promote a strong social fabric through 
dialogue, a healthy work environment and employee 
engagement.
Last but not least, Amundi is determined to be a model 
corporate citizen that is inclusive and environmentally 
friendly. This commitment to society at large takes the 
form of actions to promote social inclusion (work study 
and other youth training, proactive hiring of people living 
with disabilities), a strong sponsorship and charitable 
giving programme (especially supportive of individual 
and group employee social volunteering initiatives), a 
responsible procurement policy and targeted actions to 
reduce the company’s environmental impact. 
62/
Highlights
Focus on gender diversity  
Diversity awareness  
as a fundamental component  
training for employees  
of diversity
and managers
In the United Kingdom, Amundi UK signed the Women in 
Amundi has introduced awareness-raising  Finance charter in 2019. In France, Amundi joined forces with six 
and training initiatives to combat  French asset management companies in 2020 to create the “30% 
stereotypes and counteract decision-making  Club France Investor Group” to promote gender diversity within 
bias. In France, between 2018 and 2020,   the governance bodies of SBF 120 companies. In the United 
all the managers attended training sessions  States, Amundi takes part every year in the Women In Investing 
on diversity and non-discrimination issues.  conference organised by Cornell University’s SC Johnson College, 
Since 2018, a diversity management  with a dual objective: to educate female MBA students about  
programme has been included in the training  the asset management industry and to facilitate networking  
process for managers taking up a new  and recruitment opportunities.
position. In the United States, managers 
have undergone mandatory training on 
unconscious bias. In Japan, the focus has  Including employees with 
been on harassment, with training on how   disabilities is a core component  
to prevent it, including awareness raising on 
of social responsibility
non-discrimination. Diversity and inclusion 
training has also been implemented  
in Ireland and the United Kingdom. In order to facilitate and improve the working conditions of 
employees with disabilities, several countries are adopting more 
flexible work organisation arrangements:
• remote working, used in France and in Japan,
• flexible working time, offered in Italy,
• additional leave, offered in Germany, which grants five additional 
days of paid leave to employees with disabilities.
A continuous improvement 
process for health prevention
Developing and improving the quality of life at work and 
Tailored   preventing psychosocial risks is part of the company’s social 
programmes for  responsibility. An example in Austria: following an assessment  
of mental stressors in the workplace, measures were introduced  
minority youth
to reduce and combat these factors. The situation was reassessed 
after the merger and relocation of the company, with new 
In many countries, Amundi seeks to attract  measures being put in place.
under-represented talent and give them an 
opportunity to reach positions that are not easily  Employees’ commitment  
accessible through traditional channels. Two 
to solidarity projects
examples: Amundi US has become a partner of 
the Robert Toigo Foundation, whose mission is 
to promote professional integration and access  Amundi encourages its employees to take part in a number  
to management positions for young people   of solidarity projects: donations, fundraising, charity races, 
from under-represented minorities. In Ireland,  sponsorship and volunteer work. An example in Japan: in 2020,  
Amundi is working with the National College   a 30 km cycling fundraiser was organised around Lakes 
on a mentoring scheme to host students four  Kawaguchiko and Saiko, near Mount Fuji, for the benefit  
days a week. of the Japanese Red Cross.
63
E
C
N
A
N
R
E
V
O
G
64/
65
Governance
Changes  
in governance
On 10 May 2021, the date of the shareholders’ meeting,  
Amundi governance changes as follows:
– Valérie Baudson replaces Yves Perrier as Chief Executive Officer,
–  Yves Perrier takes on the role of Chair of the Board of Amundi, 
succeeding Xavier Musca.
This governance evolution ensures continuity of Amundi’s development, 
in line with the strategy implemented successfully since its creation.
66/
Valérie Baudson joined the company 14 years ago. 
She  has  been  a  member  of  the  Executive 
Committee  since  2013  and  of  the  General 
Management Committee since 2016. She heads 
the following businesses: CPR AM*, the ETF, 
Indexing and Smart beta*, and the Distribution 
and Wealth division.
Yves Perrier
She has been a key player in Amundi’s success, 
thanks to the development of the Indexing/ETF 
business and of CPR AM, as well as her active 
contribution to the General Management.
Yves Perrier, who has led the company for the 
past 14 years, was the architect behind the  Valérie Baudson joins the Executive Committe and 
creation of Amundi in 2010 and steered its  becomes Deputy General Manager of Crédit 
development. Today, Amundi is the leading  Agricole S.A.
European asset manager and one of the top 
players globally. She is a graduate of HEC Paris. 
Under the leadership of Yves Perrier, the company 
saw substantial development achieved through 
organic growth, supplemented by successful 
external growth operations, in particular the 
acquisition of Pioneer Investments in 2017. Assets 
under management rose 2.6-fold between 2010 
and 2020 and earnings have virtually doubled 
since its Initial Public Offering in 2015. The 
company’s stock market capitalisation has also 
virtually doubled since the IPO.
Going beyond its economic performance, Amundi 
has confirmed its position as a leader in ESG, 
particularly by applying extra-financial criteria 
across all its management operations.
Aged 67, Yves Perrier is a graduate of ESSEC and 
is a Certified Public Accountant (CPA). 
 Valérie Baudson
67
Governance
Board  
of Directors
As of 31/12/2020
Changes as of 10/05/2021
(see page 66)
Xavier MUSCA  Yves PERRIER  Henri BUECHER  Michèle GUIBERT 
Chair of the Board   Chief Executive Officer   Director since 2019  Director since 2020 
of Directors since 2012   and Director since 2007  Chair of the Alsace Vosges  Chief Executive Officer  
Deputy Chief Executive  Deputy General Manager   Regional Bank   of the Côtes d’Armor Regional 
Officer of Crédit Agricole S.A. of Crédit Agricole S.A. of Crédit Agricole  Bank of Crédit Agricole
William KADOUCH-CHASSAING  Michel MATHIEU  Christian ROUCHON   Andrée SAMAT 
Director since 2018   Director since 2016  Director since 2009  Director since 2015  
Deputy General Manager   Chief Executive Officer of LCL   Chief Executive Officer   Chair of the Provence-Côte 
of the Société Générale Group Deputy General Manager   of the Languedoc Regional  d’Azur Regional Bank  
of Crédit Agricole S.A. Bank of Crédit Agricole of Crédit Agricole
Virginie CAYATTE   Laurence DANON-ARNAUD  Robert LEBLANC  Hélène MOLINARI 
Independent Director  Independent Director   Independent Director   Independent Director 
since 2015   since 2015  since 2015  since 2015  
Financial Director of Adisseo Chair of Primerose SAS Chair and Chief Executive  Manager of AHM Conseil
Officer of Aon France
Éric TAZÉ-BERNARD  Jean-Michel FOREST   Gianni FRANCO PAPA 
Director elected by the  Non-voting member   Non-voting member   
employees  since 2016   since 2015  since 2018  
Chief Asset Allocation Advisor   Chair of the Loire Haute-Loire  Former Deputy Chief 
for the  Institutional Investors of  Regional Bank   Executive Officer of UniCredit
Amundi Asset Management of Crédit Agricole 
68/
5 specialised 
Committees
Strategy and CSR – Audit – Risks –  
Compensation – Appointments
As of 31/12/2020
Presentation   Presentation  
of the Board   of the Group  
of Directors Management Bodies
General  
33% Management   Executive  
Committee(5) Committee(6)
independent(1)(2)
14 28
42%
members members
women(2)(3)
3 6
61years old
nationalities nationalities
average age
3  8
22 women women
meetings
96.7%
attendance rate(4)
(1)  I n accordance with Recommendation 9.3 of the AFEP-MEDEF Code, the employee-elected director is not taken into account to calculate  
this percentage.
(2)  I n the absence of regulatory constraints, non-voting directors are not included in the calculations.
(3)  I n accordance with Article L. 225-27 paragraph 2 of the French Commercial Code, the employee-elected director is not taken into account  
to calculate this percentage.
(4)  T otal number and aggregate attendance rate at Committee and Board meetings in 2020.
(5)  T he General Management Committee ensures coordination between the main business lines, sets priorities and makes the main governance  
decisions.
(6)  T he Executive Committee defines the Group’s strategy and ensures its coherent and efficient deployment in all the countries where  
the Amundi Group is present.
69
Governance
General  
Management  
Committee
 31/12/2020 Yves PERRIER 
Chief Executive Officer
Changes in 
governance as of 
10 May 2021
(see page 66)
Bernard DE WIT  Valérie BAUDSON  Fathi JERFEL 
Head of the Support   Chief Executive Officer of CPR AM,  Head of the Partner  
and Control Division of the Third-Party Distribution &  Networks Division
Private Banking Division and 
Passive Management
Pascal BLANQUÉ  Dominique  Guillaume LESAGE 
Chief Investment Officer CARREL-BILLIARD  Chief Operating Officer
Head of Real Assets
Nicolas CALCOEN  Jean-Jacques BARBÉRIS  Isabelle SENÉTERRE 
Head of Finance, Strategy  Head of the Institutional and  Head of Human Resources
and Public Affairs Corporate Clients Division
Vincent MORTIER  Cinzia TAGLIABUE  Matteo GERMANO  Éric VANDAMME 
Deputy Chief Investment  Deputy Head of Partner  Head of Multi-Asset  Chief Risk Officer
Officer Networks Division,   and CIO Italy
CEO Italy
70/
Executive Committee
The Executive Committee is composed of General Management Committee members and of:
Éric BRARD  Fannie WURTZ  Élodie LAUGEL  Thierry ANCONA 
Head of Fixed Income Head of Passive Investing Chief Responsible Investment  Head of Sales, Third-Party 
Officer and Head of  Distributors and Wealth
Institutional Marketing
Christophe COQUEMA  Alain BERRY  Laurent BERTIAU 
Head of Retail Marketing Head of Communication Head of Japan
Julien FONTAINE  Xiaofeng ZHONG   Lisa JONES  Domenico AIELLO 
Head of Partnerships, in  Chairman of Greater China Head of the Americas Chief Financial Officer
charge of Joint Ventures
David HARTE  Catherine CHABREL   Dorothée PIREL 
Head of Ireland   Head of Compliance Head of Internal Audit
and Deputy Chief 
Operating Officer
71
Governance
Global  
Advisory Board
As of 31/12/2020
Hubert VÉDRINE  Sir Simon FRASER  Hye-Min LEE 
Chair of the Board  Former Permanent Secretary  Former Ambassador  
Former Foreign Affairs  at the UK Foreign and  to France for the Republic  
Minister in France Commonwealth Office of Korea
Enrico LETTA(1)  Maurice LÉVY  Christian NOYER 
Former Prime Minister   Chair of the Supervisory  Honorary Governor  
of Italy Board of Publicis Group of the Banque de France
Dr. Jürgen STARK  Yuan WANG  Tatsuo YAMASAKI 
Former member of the Executive  Chief Economist of   Former Finance  
Board and the Governing Council  the China Development Bank Vice Minister of Japan
of the European Central Bank
(1) Stepped down in March 2021 after his election as Secretary General of the Italian Democratic Party.
72/
Role of  
the Management  
Bodies
The Board of Directors
The Board of Directors, acting on the recommendation 
of Amundi’s Chair and Chief Executive Officer, defines 
the  strategic  orientations,  approves  strategic 
investment projects, decides on the general principles 
of internal financial organisation and exercises its 
supervisory role, particularly in the area of risk 
management.
The Management Committee  
and the Executive Committee
The Management Committee ensures coordination 
between the main business lines, sets priorities and 
makes the main governance decisions.
The Executive Committee defines the Group’s strategy 
and ensures it is consistently and effectively rolled out 
in all our host countries.
The Global Advisory Board
Since 2016, the Global Advisory Board has brought 
together world-renowned figures from the political and 
economic arenas. This advisory committee regularly 
shares its perspective on global developments at both 
economic and geopolitical level, delivering original 
visions that can guide Amundi in its decisions. 
73
Glossary
Amundi’s funds ausgewogen, page 45 / Amundi Funds Cash USD,  
ESG Improvers, pages 16, 18, 40, 44 / Amundi Finance  page 45 / Amundi Physical Gold ETC, page 49 / 
et Solidarité, pages 17, 41 / CPR Invest – Social Impact,  Initiative Impact 2020, page 53
pages 18, 21, 35 / Emerging Market Green Bond,  
page 18 / Climate Action, page 20 / Multi-Asset Low  These funds do not guarantee performance and pose a 
Volatility, page 25 / Just Transition for Climate, pages  risk of capital loss.
25, 35, 40 / CPR Invest – Global Disruptive Opportunities, 
page 33 / CPR Invest – Medtech, page 33 / Amundi 
Funds Polen Capital Global Growth, page 33 / MSCI  Amundi Real Estate (Amundi Immobilier)
Emerging ESG Leaders, pages 35, 41 / ESG Global  Page 53
Equity, page 37 / Global Infrastructure, page 37 / Global  A public limited company (Société Anonyme) with share 
REITs, page 37 / Global Low Volatility, page 37 / Global  capital of €16,684,660. Portfolio Management Company 
Equities, page 37 / CPR Convictions, page 37 / Amundi  operating under AMF approval no. GP 07000033.  
Funds Euroland Equity, page 40 / Emerging Markets  Paris Trade and Companies Register no. 315 429 837.
Equity Focus, page 40 / Green Bond, page 40 / Credit 
SRI, page 40 / Social Bond, page 40 / AF Absolute 
Return, page 40 / Amundi Prime, page 41 / Amundi  CPR AM
Private Equity Megatrends II, pages 41, 52, 53 / Amundi  Pages 5, 18, 20, 33, 37, 67
Infrastructure Diversified Fund I, pages 41, 51 / Amundi  A limited company (Société Anonyme) with share  
Energies Vertes, pages 41, 51 / Amundi Ethik Fonds  capital of €53,445,705. Portfolio Management Company 
operating under AMF approval no. GP 01.056. Paris Trade 
and Companies Register no. 399 392 141.
Crédit Agricole  
and Société Générale insurers
Pages 7, 25, 29
Entities of the insurance companies of the Crédit  
Agricole and Société Générale groups that have signed 
an agreement with Amundi for the management of 
their general assets.
Fund hosting
Pages 31, 57
Hosting solutions ranging from the creation of investment 
vehicles (including UCITS and Alternative Investment 
Funds) to support marketing of expertise, by making  
its infrastructure available to its clients.
Multi-Asset
Pages 7, 25, 28, 40
Multi-asset investment provides exposure to a globally 
diversified group of asset classes and investment styles.
74/
Raison d’être Sicav
Page 14 Pages 37, 43
According to the Notat-Senard report of March 2018  A Société d’Investissement à Capital Variable or French 
entitled “L’entreprise, objet d’intérêt collectif”, raison  open-ended investment company.
d’être is defined as what is “essential to fulfil the corporate 
object, i.e. the scope of the company’s activities”. The 
Crédit Agricole Group’s raison d’être, “Working every day  UCITS
in the interest of our clients and society”, is not a statutory  Pages 35, 57
concept and was formulated as part of the Group’s  Undertakings for Collective Investment in Transferable 
project and the 2022 Medium-Term Plan. Securities Directives. A set of measures established by 
European Union directives to allow investment funds to 
operate freely in each of the European Union countries, 
Smart beta with distribution subject to a minimum of national 
Pages 41, 47, 49, 67 constraints by governments or local regulators. 
A stock market investment strategy that moves away 
from holding a segment of a market portfolio in order 
to concentrate on individual subsets of securities that 
are expected to outperform the market.
75

The digital version of this document is conform to Web content accessibility standards, WCAG 2.1, 
and is certified ISO 14289-1. Its design enables people with motor disabilities to browse through this 
PDF using keyboard commands. Accessible for people with visual impairments, it has been tagged in 
full, so that it can be transcribed vocally by screen readers using any computer support.  
Accessible PDF powered by
This material is provided solely for information purposes and constitutes neither an offer nor a solicitation to sell or buy financial 
products. It shall not be considered as an investment advice.
This material has been made on the basis of data and information obtained from sources believed to be accurate and reliable, such data 
and information have not been independently verified.
Any information contained in this material may be changed without notice.
Amundi accepts no liability whatsoever, whether direct or indirect, that may arise from the use of information contained in this material.
The information contained in this material shall not be copied, reproduced, modified, translated or distributed without the prior written 
approval of Amundi, to any third person or entity in any country or jurisdiction which would subject Amundi or any of its products, to any 
registration requirements within these jurisdictions or where it might be considered as unlawful. It is not destined to be communicated 
to, or used by, any person, qualified investor or not, from any country or jurisdiction whose laws or regulations would prohibit such 
communication or use.
More specifically, this material is not intended for residents or citizens of the United States of America or for “US Persons” as defined 
by “Regulation S” of the Securities and Exchange Commission under the US Securities Act of 1933.
Amundi is a French Société Anonyme (public limited company) with a share capital of €504,260,885 – Financial corporation – Credit 
institution governed by the French Monetary and Financial Code – Head office: 91-93 boulevard Pasteur – 75015 Paris – France – Siren
number: 314 222 902 RCS Paris.
The information contained in this document is deemed accurate as of 31 December, 2020 (source: Amundi).
The prospectuses and key investor information documents of the products referred to in this material are available free of charge and 
on request to Amundi – servicepresse@amundi.com.
Photo credits: Bérangère Lomont, Brandt-Lassen Photo, CapaPictures/Alvise Busetto, CapaPictures/Bea Uhart, 
CapaPictures/David Cantwell, CapaPictures/EschCollection, CapaPictures/olaser, CapaPictures/Porter Gifford, 
CapaPictures/Raphaël Olivier, CapaPictures/Stéphane Remael, Emmanuelle Rodrigue, Gareth Jones,  
Guillaume Grandin, Henri Tullio, Jean Chiscano, Julie Guiches, Liu Huijun, Magali Delporte, Marthe Lemelle, 
Martin Joppen, Patrick Iafrate, Pierpaolo Scavuzzo, Régis Corbet, Tracy Powell, GettyImages/anucha 
sirivisansuwan, GettyImages/Martin Barraud, GettyImages/franckreporter, GettyImages/Howard Kingsnorth, 
GettyImages/Kohei Hara, GettyImages/Lu ShaoJi, GettyImages/martin-dm, GettyImages/Milos Dimic, 
GettyImages/Mlenny, GettyImages/Morsa Images, GettyImages/MR.Cole_Photographer, GettyImages/pawel.
gaul, GettyImages/Priscila Zambotto, GettyImages/steve lorillere, GettyImages/Toni Hoffmann,  
GettyImages/valentinrussanov, GettyImages/Westend61, All rights reserved. 
Design and production: Amundi’s Communication department supported by   with  
the expertise of Consultland – Nick Landrot– 2008_01425. Writing: EuroBusiness Media (EBM).
Printed in May 2021 by the adapted company Handiprint (France) on 100% recycled paper. 
Amundi,
a trusted partner,
working every day in the interest
of its clients and society
amundi.com