
Annual Sustainable  
Investment Report  
2020
Sustainable investing 
delivered through our 
connected intelligence
CONTENTS 
A time for hope and renewal – New  2 Impactful Ownership  40
Three elements  4 Stewardship principles – Updated  42
Connecting engagement to   44 
Collective Responsibility  6
investment decisions
Global connected intelligence – Updated  8
Purposeful engagements – New  48
ESG integration  10
Human capital: Focus on COVID-19  48
Materiality mapping – Updated  12
Human capital: Snapshots   50
A collaborative approach to  16 
Natural capital: Focus on  52 
investment research
climate change 
Frameworks – New
Natural capital: Snapshots  54
1. Oil majors and Paris Accord  18
Governance: Snapshots  56
2. Greener, healthier, more  20 
Engaging beyond public equities  58
  sustainable revenues 
Outcome-oriented voting – Updated  60
3. A conceptual framework on banks  22
Impactful portfolio  64 
  and climate change 
management  – Updated 
4. Economic resilience to  24 
  to water scarcity   Continuous Innovation  68
5. EU taxonomy eligibility screen  26 Committed to the journey – Updated  70
6. Digital access: How many   28  Combining skillsets for more   72 
  Big Macs for a gigabyte?  innovative solutions – New
Integration in action – New  30 Collaborative initiatives – Updated  76
Digital collaboration advances  32  Industry dialogues  – Updated  78
learning – Updated  Continuing the dialogue – Updated  80
Integration across asset  34 
The road ahead – Updated  82
classes – Updated 
This report focuses on Lazard Asset Management’s approach to Sustainable Investing. For 
further information about Lazard’s corporate sustainability please visit lazard.com.
A TIME FOR HOPE  We continue to expand our offering of ESG 
strategies and tailored solutions to provide value 
to our clients. Their creation is made possible as 
a secondary output of our fully ESG-integrated 
investment approach. Our clients appreciate 
AND RENEWAL
that we view ESG factors as intrinsic to holistic 
financial analysis. It is everyone’s job to be 
able to effectively think through a sustainability 
lens. Our investment professionals are 
A MESSAGE FROM OUR CEO, 
responsible for understanding the ins and outs 
ASHISH BHUTANI
of the material issues facing their respective 
investable universes, pricing the relevant risks 
and opportunities, and assessing how these 
This past year can be summarized as a time  “We have entered a time 
issues may directly impact each company’s 
of uncertainty, pain, education, reflection, 
where companies and  or country’s long-term outlook, including their 
connection, and action. We continue to 
projected cost of capital. 
prioritize the mental and physical health of 
investors must look beyond 
our colleagues, clients, and communities  Climate change may arguably be the single 
around the world. At the same time, we  shareholder primacy and  most important issue of our time. I believe 
remain diligently focused on navigating  that it will also prove to be the single biggest 
recognize that stakeholder 
financial markets in a way that maximizes  financially important one. The physical dangers 
long-term, sustainable value.  stemming from a warming climate, and the 
optimization is paramount. 
implications associated with the transition 
The pandemic has accelerated certain 
It is better for society and it  to a lower-carbon economy, will continue 
market, industry, and lifestyle trends. It has 
to present significant investment risks and 
caused many of us to rethink how we work, 
leads to superior long-term  opportunities. While we are unable to turn back 
live, and engage with others. The uncertainty 
the hands of time to reverse the damage that 
surrounding the pandemic reintroduced  financial outcomes.”
has been done, I believe that it is imperative 
volatility into financial markets and continues 
that the asset management industry do its 
to create significant dislocations and 
part in helping mitigate the impact of climate 
opportunities. As the world evolves, we  All things being equal, companies that move 
change in the future. We have joined the Net 
too must stay in motion. As investors, it is crucial  in the right direction will be rewarded over the 
Zero Asset Management Initiative to help us 
to account for the tidal shifts occurring, not only  long term. Seasoned, active, long-term investors 
foster a positive impact on our collective future. 
because of the pandemic, but also because of  have an edge here, as real impact is derived 
In partnership with our clients, we will work 
technology and climate change.  by identifying directionality within companies 
towards increasingly allocating capital towards 
towards more sustainable practices, products, and 
We have entered a time where companies and 
companies with longer-term sustainable 
operations. Static measurements alone are only 
investors must look past shareholder primacy 
business practices who are committed to doing 
helpful in benchmarking and looking backwards. It 
and recognize the importance of stakeholder 
their part. Together, we can generate both 
is when these data points are input into a broader 
optimization. This should lead to better long-term 
impact and alpha. 
analysis, rooted in deep fundamental research and 
societal and financial outcomes. Recently, we 
active engagement, that we are best positioned 
have seen more and more global asset owners 
to identify future winners. Our clients depend 
acknowledge the stakeholders’ role, and we are 
on us to think long-term. As fiduciaries, we are   
increasingly working with our clients to help them 
committed to invest their capital in businesses  Ashish Bhutani 
invest through this lens. 
that embrace the future.  CEO, Lazard Asset Management
2  Annual Sustainable Investment Report Annual Sustainable Investment Report  3
THREE 
COLLECTIVE RESPONSIBILITY
As a research-driven organization, we see our 
ELEMENTS biggest strength as our ability to cross-pollinate the 
knowledge of our subject matter experts across 
the firm in an organized and purposeful way, and 
draw value from their integrated insights.
UNDERPIN SUSTAINABLE 
INVESTMENT AT LAM
IMPACTFUL OWNERSHIP
As active managers, we are committed to fully 
exercising our role as stewards of capital. This 
entails purposeful engagements with companies 
and sovereigns, outcome-oriented voting, and 
providing our clients with customized sustainability 
solutions that meet their evolving needs.
CONTINUOUS INNOVATION
While we have long been committed to sustainable 
investing and ESG integration, it is important to 
recognize how quickly the field is evolving. This is 
why we continue to innovate and collaborate, both 
within our firm and the wider industry. We seek 
to support initiatives that promote wider adoption 
of sustainable investment practices through better 
standards and increased transparency. 
Annual Sustainable Investment Report  5
COLLECTIVE 
RESPONSIBILITY Quantifying carbon risk
for the sector   Biodiversity impacts 
Employee health & safety:  Business model resilience: 
performance  reserves valuation & capex  
data, & comparison 
Human rights 
SUSTAINABLE INVESTING  & community 
relations 
Customer privacy  
LLeeggaall  &&  rreegguullaattoorryy  
IS WOVEN INTO   Qfruoamn tsiufysitnagin raebvleen pureo doupcptosrtunities              eennvviirroonnmmeenntt  
& solutions 
Preparedness for changing 
consumer behavior patterns 
Responsible sourcing
OUR FABRIC Climate change:  Energy management    Bcorirbruepryt i&on  risk   
supply chain disruption
Business model resilience
Board & company diversity         & energy mix  Local air 
to reﬂect consumer base quality 
Labor practices 
T&r afnasirp saerellnintg i npfroarcmtiacteios n  Feunevli reofnﬁmcieenntcayl  &re gtiuglhatteiorn SoSoffoo  cpcpiirraaoolldd  bbuueeccnntt//eessﬁﬁeettrrssvv//iihhccaaeerr   mm  ss  
Climate change risk  GGHHGG  eemmiissssiioonnss  
& increasing  Accident & 
Predatory lending  Data privacy regulatory focus  safety mgmt. 
vs. ﬁnancial inclusion  & security Materials 
sourcing 
OUR PROPRIETARY  & efﬁciency 
Human capital management in  AAnnttii--ccoommppeettiittiivvee
       the age of robotics & AI   MATERIALITY MAP†  bbeehhaavviioorr        
HIGHLIGHTS CORE  RReessppoonnssiibbllee  ccoonntteenntt     
Disruption & investment Water & waste mgmt. 
in technology Employee engaSgeUmSenTt,AINABILITY ISSUES 
 diversity & inclAusNionD  RECOGNISES THEIR 
Business ethics 
Money laundering practices  INTERCONNECTIVITY Impact of disruptive  Water mgmt. 
technologies on patterns
of use/pricing power     
Product quality  Critical incident risk mgmt. 
Selling practices  and safety 
& product labeling  Labor unions & human capital 
management practices 
Energy affordability 
Access & affordability 
Systemic risk mgmt.  Shareholder rights Energy management 
Climate change: 
physical risks on supply chain 
Quantifying carbon
risk for the sector Identifying human  Executive compensation
rights violations 
Quantifying the revenue opportunities
from sustainable products & solutions Board independence 
& accountability 
Employee health
& safety
Employee health & safety: focus  Independent audit
on incorporating safety into 
executive remuneration Ecological impacts 
Human rights & 
community relations  
Board composition & diversity
Business model resilience:
resource base & capex in
a low-carbon world
6  Annual Sustainable Investment Report Annual Sustainable Investment Report  7
250
GLOBAL
+
CONNECTED  investment professionals 
managing US$229.7billion AUM*. “One of Lazard’s greatest strengths 
is its multicultural and cognitive 
INTELLIGENCE diversity. This brings an element 
    Scale of 
of sensitivity and humility to our 
resource
culture and work, that is hard 
to replicate with just policies or 
12
global offices 
training programs. In today’s times 
with research 
capabilities of rapid technological changes and 
18*
fast-evolving consumer expectations, 
especially when it comes to many 
average years of industry  environmental and social issues, 
experience across asset classes, 
having multiple perspectives and 
sectors, and geographies (United 
the ability to engage in rational 
States, Emerging Markets, Europe, 
Middle East and North Africa) debates is a significant advantage 
Presence in – something our firm’s culture 
17
reinforces.”
Depth of 
Nikita Singhal Co-Head of Sustainable Investment 
experience
and ESG
countries 
10+* and
24
        Global 61*
   cognitive
average years’  cities diversity
tenure at 
languages 
Lazard Asset 
spoken and
Management
87*
nationalities 
represented
*Lazard Asset Management 
investment professionals and 
AUM as at 31 December 2020. 
Figures rounded to the nearest 
whole number.
8  Annual Sustainable Investment Report Annual Sustainable Investment Report  9
ESG INTEGRATION
ESG IS EVERYONE’S JOB
We have embedded ESG into all of our investment  their work. This is not the responsibility of a 
functions, research, portfolio construction, and risk  separate team. Analysts and portfolio managers 
“Materiality is dynamic. Our experience has shown that human 
management. We have developed a proprietary  connect their ideas and unique industry insights 
ESG integration framework using Materiality  by sharing their research on our global research  and natural capital issues that are material today may not be 
Mapping† which is being implemented across the  platform. 
material in the future. Conversely, issues considered to be 
investment platforms.
2. Proprietary and forward-looking research 
negative externalities are increasingly getting priced into the 
For companies, our approach is built on  Our sustainability research is proprietary and 
market. The recent pandemic and magnified social inequities 
granular, in-depth knowledge of their  forward-looking which differentiates us from 
operating environment, combined with  firms that rely primarily on external ratings and  has led to a greater focus on human capital issues such as 
insight into how their activities intersect with  research providers. 
access to, and affordability of essential technologies for 
society and the environment. That’s why our 
3. Linked to performance assessment  
life under lockdown, the health and safety of workers, and 
approach is built on: 
The assessment and compensation of our 
potential short-term trade-offs between employee welfare 
1. Genuine integration  US, International, and emerging market equity 
All of our 250+ investment professionals are  analysts is explicitly linked to the integration of  and business resilience.”
responsible for incorporating sustainability- sustainability-related considerations into their 
Jennifer Anderson  Co-Head of Sustainable Investment and ESG
related risk and opportunity assessments into  research.
APPROACH 1 APPROACH 2 LAM APPROACH LAYERS OF INTEGRATION
Integrated
Research
ANALYST ANALYST
(FINANCIAL (FINANCIAL
INVESTMENT
ANALYSIS) ANALYSIS)   Proxy Voting Committee   Materiality Mapping†    ESG Risk Exposures
PROFESSIONALS   Stewardship Committee Frameworks   Carbon Benchmarking 
  ESG Steering Committee    Integrated Research Notes   Strategy-Specific Client 
(ESG INTEGRATION)
  Investment Council,    Company Questionnaires Reporting
Management Committee, and    ESG Watch List   PRI Transparency & 
ANALYST  Oversight Committee   Sovereign Analysis Assessment Report
(ESG   Client Partnerships    Purposeful Engagements   Sustainable Investment Report
ASSESSMENT)   Collaborative Initiatives   Outcome-Oriented Proxy Voting   TCFD Report
  Sustainability Scorecards
SILOED ESG RESEARCH 
TEAM OR THIRD-
PARTY ESG RESEARCH  A step forward but not true integration ESG integration across the 
Governance,  Risk,  
PROVIDER investment process
Thought   Compliance, 
Sustainability as a core  Leadership Reporting
The “day-one” approach   component of financial analysis
to ESG integration
10  Annual Sustainable Investment Report Annual Sustainable Investment Report  11
MATERIALITY  Key
LAM-identified core material issues Intensifying material issue
MAPPING: A DYNAMIC ASSESSMENT OF MATERIAL HUMAN, 
Other areas likely to be material for >50% of the industry Emerging material issue
NATURAL CAPITAL, AND GOVERNANCE ISSUES†
Consumer  Metals &  Telecoms  Transport & 
Chemicals Goods Energy Financials Healthcare Industrials Mining Technology & Media Defense Utilities
Resource Management
Biodiversity impacts
Energy management, e.g. greenhouse gas emissions
     
Air quality
Responsible packaging
Responsible sourcing of raw materials e.g. palm oil, cocoa
Natural Capital  Water & waste-water management
Considerations Resource Intensity
Business model resilience e.g. reserves valuation and capex
Climate change transition risk impacts on the energy mix
Impact of disruptive technologies, e.g. renewable energy
Opportunities from sustainable products & services
Quantifying risk of carbon pricing and related regulations
Supply chain disruption due to physical climate risk
Employee
Employee diversity, engagement, and inclusion
Employee health & safety
Forced labor & modern slavery
Community
Access and affordability of products/services
Human rights & community relations
Predatory lending vs. financial inclusion
Product labeling & responsible content
Human Capital  Societal harms of product use
Considerations Money laundering practices
Supply chain
Labor practices in supply chain
Human rights issues related to critical sourcing of raw materials
Consumer
Data privacy and security
Consumer engagement on corporate values/ purpose
Corporate diversity and product attributes to reflect consumer base
Human rights & community relations
Product quality & safety
Governance
(Anti)competitive behavior
Board independence, accountability & diversity
Governance 
Critical incident risk management
Considerations
Executive compensation
Independent audit
Shareholder rights
As of 28 February 2021 and a point-in-time reflection of the assessed material issues.
12  Annual Sustainable Investment Report Annual Sustainable Investment Report  13
Dynamic Materiality – 2020 in Review Within utilities—which has been driven by 
Our approach enabled 
the decarbonization theme—the expansive 
us to quickly identify  The Materiality Mapping process is inherently 
growth outlook underpinned by electrification 
emerging environmental,  dynamic, built upon the foundational concepts of 
has sparked emerging issues. These include 
dynamic materiality as espoused by the World 
social, and governance 
access and affordability concerns such as 
Economic Forum, leading academics, and the 
issues in 2020
should consumers burden incremental costs 
collaborative efforts of leading standard-setting 
of changing from coal to gas to renewables—
intuitions, including CDP, the Climate Disclosure 
particularly for emerging economies—as well 
Standards Board (CDSB), the Global Reporting 
as the biodiversity impacts from increasing 
Initiative (GRI), the International Integrated 
land-use changes to accommodate renewable 
Reporting Initiative (IIRC), and the Sustainability 
We analyze key drivers that make ESG 
energy growth.
Accounting Standards Board (SASB).  
issues financially material
In 2020, shifting renewables growth 
Our approach enabled us to quickly identify 
expectations have also rippled through the 
emerging environmental, social, and governance 
System-level risks value chain, becoming a material opportunity 
issues in 2020—which also helped inform our 
(e.g. global climate change) for metals and mining firms. For this sector, 
corporate engagement. Although it was a year 
community relations have always been material 
Trends in ... enable key  to affect decisions of  in a way that changes 
that most would like to forget, history may 
inﬂuencers ... key stakehoders ... the potential ﬁnancial  —we held candid engagements with the 
• Scientiﬁc evidence remember 2020 as a defining moment in the 
• NGOs • Regulators materiality of an ESG  relevant firms in this regard.
• Funding ﬂows evolution of sustainable investing. 
factor due to change 
• Innovation • Media • Customers Innovation in healthcare proved invaluable, 
in:
A lot has been written about the pandemic’s 
• Information access • Industry associates • Employees as companies raced to create vaccines 
• Financial magnitude  
impact on climate awareness and urgency, as 
• Networks • Lobbyists • Suppliers   of impact at unprecedented speeds. In addition to 
well as the elevation of certain social issues. The 
• Leadership ﬁgures • Investors & lenders • Probability of     providing more equitable access to vaccines, 
underlying drivers inducing change in sentiment 
• Investor stewardship   occurrence consideration and appreciation of employees 
on both corporate leaders and the general public 
• Velocity of occurrence and healthcare workers, who risked their lives 
include the effect that the global pandemic has 
• Persistance of impact on the front lines fighting the virus, emerged as 
had on catalyzing a re-think of priorities.  
• Entity’s capacity to   of utmost importance for the sector. Further, 
Structural changes with a direct ﬁnancial impact
  respond Against this backdrop, shifts in our Materiality  a collective realization surfaced tying the 
(e.g. physical risks, megatrends)
Map reflect observations and evaluations from  likelihood of additional infectious diseases to the 
Methods for investors our fundamental analysts.  continued destruction of biodiversity.
With the world in lockdown, transport halted  In technology, focus on product and service 
Sentiment
Megatrend Scenario Sensitivity Value at Risk Big Data Analysis  and with it the price of oil, which currently fuels  access and affordability grew as work from 
Analysis Analysis Analysis (VaR) & Analysis
& NLP most travel. Many took the temporary demand  home and at-home schooling became essential. 
destruction in oil as a preview of what’s to come.  Separately, labeling and responsible content for 
Source: World Economic Forum, Lazard Asset Management. For illustrative purposes only While GHG emissions and business model  social media firms received significant scrutiny 
resilience have long been material in the energy  as vessels for polarization and disinformation. 
sector, an inflection in climate-awareness and a  In some places the ability for platforms to share 
significant change in expectations exacerbated  news content has come under fire. 
the propensity of such issues to affect stock 
“2020 saw operational flexibility and a focus on  valuations. 
employee health and safety rise as important 
1 Dynamic Materiality and Core Materiality: A Primer for Companies and Investors. Robert G. Eccles, Forbes Jan 2020; Embracing the New Age 
differentiators and signals of business resiliency.”
of Materiality: Harnessing the Pace of Change in ESG. World Economic Forum. March 19, 2020; Statement of Intent to Work Together Towards 
Comprehensive Corporate Reporting. CDP, CDSB, GRI, IR, SASB. September 2020.
Andre Shepley, Vice President, Sustainable Investment & ESG 2 See pg. 51 for further details on our engagements with a multinational metals and mining company.
14  Annual Sustainable Investment Report Annual Sustainable Investment Report  15
Global Reach, Local Depth
We have research capabilities all over the globe, from Dubai  
1
to Tokyo to Sydney, with hubs in New York and London.  
Our global perspective on the complex relationships between 
business, industry, society, and the environment, combined 
with our nuanced understanding of local markets, puts us in  
an ideal position to identify investment risks and opportunities.
Targeted Interactions
We believe in connecting directly with the people 
2
influencing business and industry in real time. 
A COLLABORATIVE  Our investment professionals place a high priority 
on meeting with management teams and visiting 
APPROACH TO
companies all over the world.
INVESTMENT 
RESEARCH
Curated Insights
In the digital age, the volume of data has grown 
3
exponentially. We leverage rigorous fundamental analysis, 
Our greatest differentiator is our long-
quantitative approaches, and new data science techniques 
standing commitment to research, 
that draw on both traditional and alternative datasets to 
which helps us generate forward-looking 
explore new ideas, ask the right questions, and reach 
insights that position our investments 
better conclusions. 
ahead of a changing world, rather than  
reacting to it. 
We harness our resources to understand 
an increasingly complex and interconnected  “2020 demonstrated how ESG issues 
world—from fully leveraging the diversity 
are starting to dominate the corporate 
of perspectives among our investment 
and investment agenda. Witness 
professionals across strategies, geographies, 
the response to COVID-19 and the 
and asset classes to tapping specific skills, 
including languages and data science. focus on energy transition and 
decarbonization as environmentally 
friendly economic stimulus measures. 
Any investor who wasn’t already 
thinking about the financial materiality 
of social and environmental 
issues would have missed great 
opportunities this year.”
Nathan Cockrell Co-Director of Global Research
16  Annual Sustainable Investment Report Annual Sustainable Investment Report  17
THIS SECTION HIGHLIGHTS SOME OF  “An important insight gained from the analysis is 
OUR 45 FRAMEWORKS. MATERIALITY  that the capital intensity of growing production 
MAPPING HELPS US TO IDENTIFY  may be underappreciated. Scenarios that follow 
WHERE TO SPEND TIME BUILDING  this major oil company’s strategy of planned 
PROPRIETARY RESEARCH FRAMEWORKS declines in oil production and reserves translate 
into strong cash generation potential, which may 
be returned to investors or reinvested into the 
energy transition.”    
Neil Millar Energy Analyst
FRAMEWORK 1: 
OIL MAJORS AND 
ALIGNMENT WITH THE 
PARIS ACCORD
Despite the Paris Accord being agreed in  energies”. Ultimately, it helps frame the potential 
Scope 1-3 Carbon Emissions Value Over Time
December 2015, only in the last two years  divergence in shareholder returns between more 
Exploring the impact of energy transition strategies  “New energies” set to drive an increasing proportion 
have we seen carbon emissions emerge to  aggressive and less aggressive carbon-reduction 
on future shareholder returns at oil majors—we  of value to the consolidated company—various 
take center stage in investment debates.  strategies among the oil majors. used an anchor example of an aggressive long-term  return-profiles linked to energy transition scenarios 
carbon-reduction strategy. help frame our views on valuation.
This research framework addresses major oil  Our analysis leads to the following observations:
Millions of tons per year (MTpa) with offsets Based on $50 per barrel oil price (%)
companies’ potential alignment with the Paris  350 120
1.  Alignment with Paris Accord is possible, 
Accord. It includes a scenario analysis tool with 
but mix needs to change, especially oil  300 100
flexible assumptions around commodity prices 
production.
and “new energy” returns. We anchored the  250 80
2.  Cash flow will be better than history, 
analysis on a specific oil major’s strategy and 
200 60
despite a shrinking production line.
implication for emissions, with its willingness to 
150 40
shrink oil production and their refining footprint  3.  Sufficient cash flow at $50 per barrel oil 
more aggressively than peers. for full investment into “new energies” and  100 20
dividends.
This model, projected to 2035, allows oil  50 0
production to dwindle (excluding disposals),  4.  New Energies require significant investment 
0 -20
which has significant implications for the  and the cash flow will take a decade to  2021 2023 2025 2027 2029 2031 2033 2035 2021 2023 2025 2027 2029 2031 2033 2035
Total emissions New Energies offset Upstream oil Downstream Rosneft Corporate
ability to allocate capital investment to “new  become meaningful. Net emissions Upstream gas New Energies Macondo Costs
As of 31 January 2021 As of 31 January 2021
Source: Lazard, company data Source: Lazard, company data
18  Annual Sustainable Investment Report Annual Sustainable Investment Report  19
FRAMEWORK 2: 
GREENER, 
Our proprietary framework helps to identify business activities that can 
make the world “greener” and “healthier”, and broadly more “sustainable”. 
HEALTHIER, MORE 
Leveraging global analysts with deep sector  and less need for health services—what 
SUSTAINABLE 
expertise, we’ve created an approach to  is the impact on net demand for the sub-
systematically anticipate the impacts of an  sector?
REVENUES  accelerated move towards a more sustainable 
We transposed the analyst assessment into a 
world on certain areas of the economy. This 
scoring system calibrated by the net revenue 
approach further relates relative positioning with 
exposure and delivered a top-level ‘factor’ 
how individual companies are exposed. 
score on a scale 1 (low) to 5 (high) for around 
Our analysts reviewed over 1,600 sub-sectors  45,000 companies. The score assesses how 
of the economy (based on the Revere Business  the company is aligned with structural trends 
Industry Classification System), asking the  involving improvements to health and the 
following questions: environment. We then use this analysis to 
compare companies as part of our investment 
1.  What impact does a move to a more 
process.
sustainable world have on net demand for 
the sub-sector?
Revenue score example: Siemens
2. In a move to a greener world with 
Score Sustainable Greener Healthier
a theoretically high global price for 
1 20% 20%
environmental externalities (including 
2
carbon), what is the impact on net demand 
3 18% 18% 100%
for the sub-sector?
4 34% 34%
3. In a move towards a healthier world—which  5 28% 28%
Score 3.5 3.5 3.0
may include global improvements in nutrition/
diets, preventative healthcare, increased  As of 31 January 2021
Source: Lazard, FactSet
exercise, sanitation, improved mental health, 
“This framework resulted from global collaboration  “The novel data resulting from this framework has been 
and reflects the innovative capabilities of combining  applied to various parts of the investment process, 
fundamental and quantitative expertise.” including portfolio analysis, screening, idea generation, 
Michael Cook  Quantitative Research Analyst as well as quantitative methodologies and ESG 
composite scoring.”
Daniel Rozier  Industrials Analyst
20  Annual Sustainable Investment Report Annual Sustainable Investment Report  21
FRAMEWORK 3: 
A CONCEPTUAL  We have created a conceptual framework  measurement, which influences behavior that 
to help frame the debate around banks and  has meaningful consequences. Currently most 
FRAMEWORK ON  their approach to climate-friendly finance. global financial institutions are somewhere 
between “Recognition” and “Measurement”. 
Every day, new reports on finance and climate 
BANKS AND CLIMATE  change are published. It’s hard to keep up  Recognition first soared in 2018, when influential 
and even harder to weigh each one’s merit.  central bank governors loudly sponsored action 
CHANGE  We have yet to progress from recognizing the  on climate change. While recognition has 
problem to financial measurement of its causes.  dominated the debate since then, it is quickly 
Until we have enough data to measure the  giving way to measurement. That’s an important 
problem of financed emissions convincingly, it  change in emphasis, because latent investment 
is hard to see lending behavior changing. Until  implications become kinetic when the regulator 
we see behavior changing, we cannot expect  moves from “we’ve got a problem” to “here’s 
progress on reconciling financial activity with  what you’re going to do about it”. 
global warming.
The current challenge is accurately measuring 
In this context, we’ve created a common- the emissions of banks and other financials, 
sense framework to frame the debate, which  especially Scope 3 emissions. Finance hasn’t 
begins with recognition, that then leads to  yet made much progress on measurement (of 
financed emissions) and it’s even harder to 
see how measurement will influence private 
sector behavior. But several European statistical 
Recognition
foundations have been built, which could 
“Only measurement will change 
receive a lot of political sponsorship in 2021, as 
behavior and result in meaningful 
the US rejoins the Paris Accord and as Britain 
consequences. As measurement  hosts the COP26 climate summit.
Consequences Measurement
increases, investment perspectives  Ultimately, we expect this flywheel of 
recognition-> measurement -> behavior -> 
could change, rewarding those 
consequences to spin much faster in the next 
banks and non-bank financials with 
decade, creating momentum and inducing 
a constructive attitude.” change in the real economy—we will leverage 
Behavior
this conceptual framework to monitor progress 
Jonathan Morris Financials Analyst
and anticipate further investment implications.
22  Annual Sustainable Investment Report Annual Sustainable Investment Report  23
Water scarcity issues may proliferate  a water stress exposure score based on the 
as scientific and academic research  company’s geographical footprint, which is then 
demonstrate that climate change will  assessed against earnings margins to determine 
exacerbate droughts in certain regions,  economic resilience.
while causing increased precipitation 
Our initial case study focused on the 
in others. The issue is present in both 
beverage industry. Future work will address 
emerging and developed markets. “Water 
semiconductors, apparel, and other sub-sectors 
scarcity” is defined by physical or economic 
identified through the Materiality Mapping 
lack of access to fresh water for daily 
process.
consumption. About 4 billion people experience 
water scarcity at least one month a year. Two 
billion of those people lack access to clean  Earnings margins vs. water stress exposure
water for most of the year. According to the UN  Earnings Margins* (%)
50
Water Development Report, global water use 
has increased by more than 1% per year since 
the 1980s. The report suggests it will grow at  40
this rate through 2050.
30
This framework systematically analyzes 
corporate resilience to water risk. It involves 
  20
first creating the universe of sub-sectors with 
FRAMEWORK 4: 
high levels of direct and/or indirect water 
10
consumption intensity. This was first identified 
ECONOMIC RESILIENCE  1.0 1.5 2.0 2.5 3.0
Water Risk Score
through our Materiality Mapping process.
Beer - EM CSD - EM Spirits - EM Wine - DM
TO WATER SCARCITY We then map company assets and manufacturing  Beer - DM CSD - DM Spirits - DM
plants and overlay water stress indicators under  As of 31 January 2021
*Earnings Before Interest, Taxes, Depreciation, and 
various climate scenarios as defined by Phase 5 
Amortization (EBITDA)
of the Coupled Model Intercomparison Project  CSD = Carbonated Soft Drinks
Source: CDP, WRI, Company Data, Lazard
(CMIP5). Each stock in the universe is ascribed 
Global physical and economic water
“Future government action could create water 
pricing dynamics that increase the cost base for  Little or no water scarcity
Physical water scarcity
businesses either directly, or indirectly, through 
Approaching physical
water scarcity
supply chain partners. This in turn could have  Economic water scarcity
Not estimated
significant investment implications.”
Dennis Neveling Consumer Analyst
Source: UN World Water Report, March 2020
24  Annual Sustainable Investment Report Annual Sustainable Investment Report  25
Six environmental pillars of the EU Taxonomy alignment:
FRAMEWORK 5: 
EU TAXONOMY 
Climate change  Climate change Sustainable use Transition to a Pollution Protection of
mitigation  adaptation and protection circular economy, prevention healthy
ELIGIBILITY 
of water, and waste prevention and control ecosystems
marine resources and recycling
SCREEN 
The 31 December  will be expected to complete the first set of 
2021 deadline to   taxonomy disclosure pertaining to the first two 
implement the  principles. From an investment perspective, 
EU taxonomy is  this will provide transparency (in publicly 
quickly approaching,  available marketing documents, etc.) to the 
and there may be  overall percentage of annual turnover and/or 
unanticipated ripple  capital investment of a portfolio that meets 
effects that catch  the technical criteria and is thus eligible for 
many financial  alignment. 
market participants 
The regulation aims to limit “greenwashing” and 
off guard. We have built a proprietary  increase capital flows to sustainable economic 
framework to identify the proportion  activity. While it remains uncertain what the 
“Our proprietary framework to identify eligible revenues 
of revenues that are eligible under the  impact of low or high taxonomy alignment will 
first two pillars of taxonomy alignment  have on fund flows into investment products  under the first two pillars of taxonomy alignment 
(Climate mitigation and adaptation). The  marketed as “sustainable”, we are closely  (climate mitigation and adaptation) enables us to run 
EU Taxonomy Technical Report identifies six  monitoring the market dynamics. As with 
portfolio analytics, screen large universes for new, 
environmental objectives. Economic activities  the rise of passive investing and its impact 
that contribute to these environmental  on market liquidity, sustainable investing’s  “science-based sustainable investment ideas”, and run 
objectives by meeting technical thresholds  current rise and the implementation of explicit 
scenarios around potential market impacts.”
will officially be labeled “sustainable”. By  regulation may have unintended effects on 
the end of 2021 financial market participants  market structure and valuations. Andre Shepley Vice President, Sustainable Investment & ESG
26  Annual Sustainable Investment Report Annual Sustainable Investment Report  27
We have developed a framework to assess  issues, first we use price-per-unit of data where 
digital access and affordability that  unlimited data is not offered. Then we normalize 
compares telecoms pricing internationally  prices using The Economist’s Big Mac Index 
and then cross references this with network  to account for purchasing power parity and 
quality metrics to highlight regulatory risk  intuitively quantify affordability.
for telecoms stocks. 
For a holistic view of value for money, we plot 
Due to COVID-19, more and more of our lives  mobile and fixed broadband download speeds 
have moved online. Consequentially, digital  against unit pricing relative to a Big Mac.
inclusion and affordability are at the top of 
This analysis suggests that telecom consumers 
the agenda for governments and telecoms 
generally get what they pay for. Intuitively, 
regulators. Regulation is one of the largest 
higher pricing is needed to recoup the greater 
drivers of returns in the telecoms sector, so 
expense of building high-quality telecoms 
investors need to understand how companies are 
  infrastructure. Governments and regulators 
FRAMEWORK 6:  aligned with their government’s digital agenda. 
therefore face a trade-off: focus on affordability 
The objective in general is to have good quality 
and risk detering investment, or accept higher 
DIGITAL ACCESS: HOW  connectivity available to all at affordable prices. 
prices in exchange for incentivizing greater 
It’s extremely difficult to compare telecoms  network investment. These options result in 
MANY BIG MAC’S FOR 
pricing internationally, as headline pricing does  very different propositions for investors, so 
not capture service quality or reflect a country’s  we need to understand what the priorities of a 
A GIGABYTE? general consumer price levels. To tackle these  country’s digital agenda are.
Mobile Download Speed vs. Relative Price Fixed Download Speed vs. Relative Price
Mobile Download Speed (mbps) Fixed Broadband Download Speed (mbps)
60 120
Canada
South Korea Switzerland Developed Asia
Japan Emerging Asia
50 100 Europe
“We expect the affordability and quality of telecoms  Norway Latin America
North America
Switzerland Sweden
40 80
infrastructure to remain near the top of governments’ 
Belgium
US
Sweden Finland Belgium Norway
priorities. How a country’s pricing compares  30 60
France SpainGermany US France Canada Spain Japan
internationally and the value for money that this  Italy UK Germany South Korea Finland Malaysia
20 40
provides needs to be understood in the context  China BraziMl alaysia DEmeveerlgoipnegd A Asisaia Thailand UK Italy
10 Europe 20
of regulatory objectives. This helps to frame the  India ThaInildaonndesia LNaotrinth A Ammeerircicaa India Brazil Indonesia
China
regulatory risk that we believe investors need to  0 0
0.0 0.5 1.0 1.5 2.0 2.5 3.0 4 6 8 10 12 14 16
Mobile Big Mac Index Fixed Broadband Big Mac Index
incorporate when valuing telecoms stocks.”
As of  31 January 2021
Source: Lazard; Economist’s Mobile Big Mac Index
Edward Lund Telecoms Analyst
28  Annual Sustainable Investment Report Annual Sustainable Investment Report  29
INTEGRATION EXAMPLES OF 
INTEGRATING 
IN ACTION
ESG INTO OUR 
Mitigating Risks
RESEARCH
from Operations
Our integrated analysis of sustainability 
Sustainable Agriculture Opioid Crisis Social vs. Tech Platforms
considerations, such as the energy 
transition and changing consumer behavior,  Analyst Jessica Lu shared her  Analyst Rhett Brown  Analyst Bret Miller highlighted 
enables us to better identify stock-level  conviction in a company on a  recommended avoiding a US  the challenges faced by social 
mission to put ethically  medical technology  media platforms in publishing 
winners and losers from changing industry 
produced food on consumers’  company after identifying  or regulating content. Despite 
dynamics. Here are a few examples of 
tables by working with small  asymmetrical risks related to  very detailed policies drafted 
integration in action. family farms that share the  potential legacy opioid  by these platforms, the debate 
company’s commitment to  exposure that seems to have  between allowing free speech 
humane treatment of animals and sustainable  gone completely unnoticed by both the sell and  and misinformation remains fraught. While 
Opportunities from 
agricultural. The company appears to meet the  buy sides. He sized the potential liability against  some platforms may prefer governmental 
highest standards of verified social and  the current market cap, implying a significant  definition on such policies, longer-term users 
Sustainable Products 
environmental performance, public  potential decline in the stock price. will likely determine these. Most of social media 
transparency, and legal accountability to balance  is a form of discretionary entertainment. This 
and Services Framework: Product Quality and Safety
profit and purpose. We believe the company  contrasts with most other tech platform’s 
enjoys high barriers to entry and has significant  products, such as search, email, maps, 
opportunities to grow. browsers, apps store, and cloud storage, which 
Sustainable Transport act more like utilities to users. As such, he sees 
Framework: Consumer Preferences Shifting 
Electric Vehicle Regulation Impact on Refiners greater long-term sustainability of certain tech 
Towards Purpose-Driven Organizations
Portfolio Manager Giles  platforms vs. social media.
Analyst Peter Hunsberger 
Edwards recommended a 
responded to the news  Framework: Responsible Content
European railway company 
regarding the California state 
concluding that the company 
Consumer Behavior, Plastics governor’s plan to halt sale of 
is a pure play on structural 
all gasoline-powered autos by 
growth (both ESG and fiscal  Analyst Ed Lund 
2035, with electric vehicles  Environmental Risks
spend). The European rail  recommended a European 
getting 100% share of new car 
market is driven by the trend towards a cleaner  packaging company, citing  Analyst Lada Emelianova 
sales by that date. This shift away from gasoline 
environment and urbanization leading to 6%  sustainability-driven  recommended increasing the 
in California (and more broadly “PADD V”, on the 
mainland passenger growth in Europe. As  acceleration in volume growth.  discount rate for a Central 
West Coast) will likely hurt refinery utilization and 
transport presently accounts for about a  The company is well  American mining company 
weigh on West Coast, and probably overall US 
quarter of the EU’s GHG emissions, the EC  positioned for the shift from  after a mechanical failure in 
margins. Within that more challenging backdrop, 
views accelerating the shift to sustainable and  plastic to paper in packaging, which should  its shipping lines. Aside from 
certain refiners will be more exposed than others.
smart mobility as a key to achieving the goals  support organic growth, volume increases, and  operational risks and 
set out in the EU Green New Deal. industry pricing.  Framework: Business Model Resilience: Reserves  relationship with the labor union, the 
Framework: Green Revenues Framework: Responsible Packaging Valuation and Capex company’s mounting regulatory risks limiting 
operations, increasing costs, and threatening 
the loss of key concessions. 
Framework: Product Quality and Safety
Sustainable Fisheries Food Deserts
Energy Transition, Utilities
Analyst Antoine Champenier  Analyst Jay Levy highlighted 
recommended a Norwegian  Analyst Alistair Godrich  the risk of local municipalities 
fishing and biotech company  recommended a multi- in low income areas fighting 
citing ESG as a key driver in  national utility as an enabler  back against the growth of 
the investment thesis. The  of the energy transition.  dollar stores in the US. The 
company sustainably sources  Recent price action reflects a  team is conducting research to 
krill, a product rich in high- greater appreciation for  better understand the relative 
quality omega 3 facing short supply/structural  utilities as investors in  positioning of dollar stores. For these research 
demand growth. It works with NGOs such as  renewable energy, with a significantly  efforts, LAM will collaborate with MIT, leveraging 
Greenpeace or WWF to minimize its  decreasing reliance on fossil-fuel powered  its living wage calculator approach to assess 
environmental impact.  electricity generation, particularly coal. whether the corporation’s wages are sufficient. 
Framework: Changing Consumer Behavior Framework: Energy Mix and Climate Change Framework: Living wage
30  Annual Sustainable Investment Report AAnnnnuuaall  SSuussttaaiinnaabbllee  IInnvveessttmmeenntt  RReeppoorrtt    3311
DIGITAL 
COLLABORATION
ADVANCES 
LEARNING
Source: Dragonfly posts  
on ESG in 2020
In 2010, Lazard Asset Management 
launched an internally developed digital 
message-board system, known as 
“Dragonfly”, which is used by our investment  This valuable resource connects our investment 
professionals as a forum to express and debate  community in real time, allowing investment 
macro views. We believe that this digital  professionals to discuss, share, and debate any 
collaboration is an important tool that further  topic – including climate change, environmental 
strengthens our ability to bring meaningful and  regulation, and gender and diversity issues 
differentiated insight to our research process,  —anywhere in the world. For a deeper look 
and enhances our investment culture. at company-specific issues, investment 
professionals contribute to our internal 
research database, which captures proprietary 
investment theses, company updates, and 
engagement outcomes.
32  Annual Sustainable Investment Report Annual Sustainable Investment Report  33
INTEGRATION Our investment professionals understand  Emerging Markets Equity  
that human and natural capital 
ESG methodology
considerations, such as climate change 
ACROSS 
and societal inequalities, can present  The Lazard Emerging Markets Equity team 
risks and opportunities for all strategies.  incorporates ESG considerations in the 
James Donald 
ASSET  The degree of financial impact and the  Accounting Validation and Portfolio Construction 
Portfolio Manager/Analyst  
drivers of financial materiality may vary  stages of their investment process. We look 
Emerging Markets Equity
among asset classes, individual strategies,  at ESG considerations and where those issues 
CLASSES
and investment time horizons. We tailor  are material and may impact stock valuations, 
our approach according to the asset  we factor in the cost of poor ESG practices (or 
class and style, with the awareness that  the benefits of good ones) into our valuations. 
sustainability considerations impact risk,  The Emerging Markets Equity team has been 
return, liquidity, and other investment  considering integration of these factors since 
objectives, in many different ways.  the late 1990s.
Rohit Chopra 
We formalized proprietary risk scoring for 
Portfolio Manager/Analyst  
emerging markets securities in 2001, which 
Emerging Markets Equity
enables better discussion on investment 
opportunities and greater discipline when buying, 
adding, selling, or trimming positions. Using this 
methodology, the team calculates a weighted 
average risk score based on a company’s 
potential political, portfolio, macro, and ESG risks. 
ESG risks are highly weighted and generally 
Monika Shrestha  account for approximately 40% of the total risk 
Portfolio Manager/Analyst   score. The risk score is then applied to the price 
Emerging Markets Equity target to determine the risk-adjusted upside 
potential of a stock.
The team calculates 
a weighted average 
risk score based on a 
company’s potential 
political, portfolio, macro, 
and ESG risks.
Annual Sustainable Investment Report  35
INTEGRATION Quantitative Equity 
We use a combination of external, internal, and  Most of the data we ingest is composed of  with improving ESG characteristics and/or with 
ACROSS 
fundamental insights for ESG integration that is  detailed operational information instead of  both strong/weak Advantage ESG ratings and 
designed to provide our process with control,  the data inputs based on external ratings. Our  strong/weak fundamental characteristics. The 
ASSET  validation, breadth, and differentiated insights.  process is designed to allow us to use this  risk model uses the principal adverse impact 
Instead of using externally curated ESG scores,  information to full effect to control what we are  indicators to identify, assess, and prioritize 
which tend to be subjective and inflexible, we  looking for and to create unique insights that  ESG risks. These ESG risks are not permitted 
CLASSES
incorporate underlying company, country, and  others may overlook. Being conscious that ESG  to offset any other risks and are only additive 
industry-level data that provide an objective  data and evaluation is far from one-size-fits-all,  within the Advantage risk model.
source of information on forward-looking  this approach allows us to tailor our analysis to 
We seek to develop an ESG score that is most 
commitments and corporate performance (such  specific goals and objectives, often informed by 
relevant to the company’s business make-up. 
as board diversity and other business metrics).  fundamental beliefs. 
For instance, issues affecting the metals and 
We seek to incorporate this information within a 
We create in-house ESG ratings using a  mining industry in terms of natural capital and 
transparent and flexible proprietary framework. 
global systematic process developed by the  social capital are different from those affecting 
Advantage team and a company-specific  the technology sector. The social issues that 
Craig Scholl
Portfolio Manager,   approach employed by Lazard’s fundamental  we have identified for the mining sector focus 
Quantitative Equity teams. The Advantage team’s ESG ratings start  on safety and community relations, whereas 
with Lazard’s Materiality Map and then use  data privacy and content moderation present 
sustainability data to create an aggregate score  the most material social issues for technology 
for over 6,000 companies.  companies.
Process hierarchy example
This ESG rating is used within the calculation  In the illustration the Materiality Mapping is 
Green Taxonomy of each company’s expected return. ESG risks  represented by the area of the segments. This 
Green Revenues
Climate Solutions are incorporated in the Advantage risk model  illustrative example shows the top tiers of 
Climate Response Slavery
Board Independence & Accountability Employee as potential increases in company and portfolio  the full hierarchy for simplicity. Each ring is a 
Inclusion
Employee risks. The relative return model increases/ tier, as is the center ring which represents the 
Independent Sustain- Health
Audit Climate Raebvelen- decreases expected returns for companies  aggregate score.
Shareholder ues Employee Data
Rights Security
Shareholder
Accountability
Anti-competitive Product
Practices Product
Quality
Executive  Consumer
Compensation
Carbon
Pricing Governance Changing
Customer
Stakeholder MBaenhaagveimouernt Human Behaviour
Governance Capital
Sustainable
Product
Critical Product
Incident Risk Labels
Slavery
Critical Community
Incident RiskEmployee Sustainable Resource
Inclusion Product Intensity Natural Affordability
Capital
Carbon
Pricing
Green Community
Revenues Supply Chain Relations
Resource
Repsonsible Management
Materials
Materials
Human
Responsible Rights
Packaging
Biodiversity Supply Chain
Labour
Waste
Manage- Energy Air Quality
ment Manage-
ment
As of February 2021. For illustrative purposes only.
Source: Lazard
36  Annual Sustainable Investment Report Annual Sustainable Investment Report  37
Rathmore
The Lazard Rathmore team, in its convertible 
arbitrage strategy, employs a multifaceted 
approach to ESG integration, centered on direct, 
issuer-level engagements with issuers in the 
Sean Reynolds 
Portfolio Manager/Analyst  strategy’s investment universe, designed to:
1) Better understand an individual issuer’s 
approach to ESG (current, short-term, and 
long-term).
2) More accurately assess ESG risks and 
opportunities at the issuer level.
3) Promote accountability and meaningful change.
Frank Bianco
The direct relationships cultivated with issuers in 
Portfolio Manager/Analyst 
its investment universe over the past 13 years, 
have facilitated the team’s active, integrated  Arnaud Brillois  
approach to ESG. In addition to discussing  Portfolio Manager/Analyst 
differentiated ways for issuers to finesse their 
capital structures, these conversations now 
Global Convertibles
include a detailed review of an issuer’s current 
ESG risk rating (including any material issues 
The analysis of ESG criteria for each company 
identified by Sustainalytics) as well as an issuer’s  ESG Analysis
in the investment universe is an integral part 
Sri Nadesan
broad-based outlook on ESG and long-term plans  (Eight Criteria)
Portfolio Manager/Analyst  of the convertible bond portfolio management 
for expanding its current approach.
process. Each investment thesis produced 
by the strategy includes specific analysis on 
ESG. The ESG part of our investments thesis 
Investment Process is developed under a sustainability scorecard 
model. This scorecard is split into two 
Multifaceted Approach to Integration
components (Products and Operations) and 
eight criteria (Products/Services, Employees, 
Selective Screening Third-Party Analysis Direct Engagement
Community, Supply Chain, Customers, 
Resource Intensity, Resource Management, 
• Pre-trade, customized  • Partnership with  • Ongoing dialogue with issuers 
restricted lists to meet the  Sustainalytics  surrounding individual ESG risk  and Governance). The strategy’s portfolio 
individual needs and sensitiv- • Integration of Sustainalytics  ratings and an issuer’s current,  management team relies on company reports, 
ities of investors subject to  ESG risk ratings into the  short-term and long-term 
structure  strategy’s Universal Monitor approach to ESG integration extra-financial sources, discussion with 
• Independent oversight by  • Direct engagements are logged  company management, and data from our data 
Lazard’s Risk Management  in a database that is maintained 
provider to determine a rationale and a score 
and Compliance Surveillance  by the portfolio management 
teams team ranging from -5 to +5, on an absolute basis 
for each criterion. Additionally, the team uses 
Lazard’s Materiality Mapping process to assign 
materiality of such criteria to the company 
according to its sector. 
The teams investment process is presented here in sequential steps for illustrative purposes only. In practice, the process is not sequential 
and will, as needed, weigh certain criteria over others.
38  Annual Sustainable Investment Report Annual Sustainable Investment Report  39
IMPACTFUL 
OWNERSHIP
REALIZING THE FULL 
POTENTIAL OF OUR 
ROLE AS STEWARDS 
OF CAPITAL
40  Annual Sustainable Investment Report Annual Sustainable Investment Report  41
Stewardship is defined as 
“the responsible allocation, 
management, and oversight 
of capital to create long-
term value for clients and  The concept of active ownership and investor  To ensure a coordinated approach across its 
stewardship is not new. Meeting and engaging  investment platforms Lazard established a 
beneficiaries leading to 
with company management and boards is  Global Stewardship Committee. The Committee 
sustainable benefits for the 
an important part of our fiduciary duty. A  comprises the most senior representatives from 
economy, the environment, 
heightened focus on ESG has, however, caused  each of our investment platforms and regional 
and society”
a step change in what clients and regulators  offices, as well as our Directors of Research and 
expect from asset management in delivering  Co-Heads of Sustainable Investment and ESG. 
stewardship. For example, the 2020 UK 
The Committee is responsible for setting policy 
Stewardship Code sets a new benchmark for 
and coordinating stewardship activities across 
stewardship, globally and across all asset classes.
our global business. Among other things, 
Most notably it seeks to link investment  the Committee also reviews our policies to 
decisions to the real-world economy, including  ensure they deal appropriately with high-profile 
how complex issues like climate change and  shareholder resolutions, conflicts of interest, 
social inequality are managed on behalf of  and situations that require engagements to be 
pensioners and savers. There is also a much  escalated. 
   
greater focus on providing transparency about 
the activities which are being undertaken and 
STEWARDSHIP
the importance of regular and more detailed 
client reporting. 
PRINCIPLES
1.   2.   3.   4. 
“The concept of fiduciary  Board  Board  Board  Audit 
Independence Accountability Make-Up Oversight
duty is evolving to meet 
the challenges of the 21st 
Century. As active managers, 
LAM’s Global 
5.  
engagement with companies  6.  
Shareholder  Governance 
Disclosure
is an integral part of our  Rights Principles
investment process and 
thus we fully welcome the  7.  
Integration of  9.   10. 
ambition of the 2020 UK  8.  
Human and  Fair &  Sustainable 
Culture & 
Stewardship Code.” Natural Capital  Transparent  Capital  
Ethics
and Corporate  Remuneration Allocation
Jeremy Taylor, CEO of Lazard Asset   Governance
Management London
42  Annual Sustainable Investment Report Annual Sustainable Investment Report  43
CONNECTING 
ENGAGEMENT
We are committed to understanding our  As active managers we are able to fully and 
TO INVESTMENT  investee companies over the long term. We  continuously incorporate the insights from our 
seek to build relationships over time, to be  stewardship activities into investment decisions, 
constructive in our approach, and supportive of  and vice versa, in order to enhance long-term 
companies undertaking positive changes.  value for clients and their beneficiaries. 
DECISIONS
Our philosophy towards Stewardship is based on four cornerstones:
As active investment managers, engagement with the companies and bond issuers in 
We believe that stewardship is part of our fiduciary duty. We act on behalf of 
1. 
client portfolios is part of our fiduciary duty and central to our investment process. We are 
FIDUCIARY others —our clients and the ultimate beneficiaries of the assets that we manage. 
committed to fully exercising our role as stewards of our clients’ capital.  DUTY
Protecting and serving their long-term financial interests is our foremost priority.
We believe that stewardship should be  an important differentiator, as we believe that 
conducted by analysts and portfolio managers  shareholder and bondholder engagement is 
so that voting and engagement decisions are  more effective when it is undertaken directly 
Stewardship is our clients’ right, especially where we invest in voting shares on 
consistent with investment rationales. In this  by the analysts and portfolio managers that 
their behalf but it is also a responsibility. We commit to undertake stewardship 
way insights from stewardship activities can  own the companies or sovereign bonds in their  2.
RESPONSIBILITY thoughtfully and purposefully. We will escalate issues if and when we deem it 
inform investment decisions. We see this as  portfolios.
appropriate and use the combined influence of the assets that we manage to seek 
changes that will benefit our clients.
Boards of directors share the responsibility of stewardship with shareholders. 
Stewardship is collaborative and benefits from relationships built over time and 
3. 
COLLABORATION on interactions that are constructive and ongoing. We believe that successful 
stewardship is through an unbroken chain of trust and understanding between 
corporates, asset managers, and asset owners.
In addition to reporting directly to our clients, we will publicly report on our 
stewardship activities once a year. Where there are conflicts of interest resulting 
4.  from the different time horizons and objectives of our various investment strategies, 
TRANSPARENCY
these will be reviewed by our Stewardship Committee. We will assess the interests 
of our clients based on the value of their investment in the relevant securities, not 
the fees that they pay to us or the totality of their assets under our management.
44  Annual Sustainable Investment Report Annual Sustainable Investment Report  45
Our Stewardship Process:
Responsibility lies  
with Portfolio Managers  
& Analysts
Prioritizing Engagements Through   Collaborative Engagement 
Shared Insights
We support several industry and sustainability 
Our regular engagements with companies and  initiatives, including those relating to issues 
Engagement with Policy  As active managers we  sovereigns on human and natural capital issues  around corporate governance, diversity, 
Makers helps to drive  can connect engagement 
industry best practice to investment decisions are informed by our proprietary Materiality  and climate change. See section below on 
Mapping† framework that helps analysts and  collaborative initiatives for further information. 
portfolio managers prioritize the human and  We collaborate with these organizations to 
natural capital issues that are most material and  advance our own thinking, help set strategic 
relevant to the long-term financial success of a  priorities and improve outcomes, or further 
Collaborative initiatives  Engagement topics are 
can help to further  identified and prioritized  company. sustainability standards and disclosures that will 
our priorities according to materiality
broaden the adoption of sustainable investment.
Cross-Pollination of Collected Knowledge 
Engagement with Policymakers
Our proprietary research database allows us 
From time to time we also engage with policy 
to record information on our engagements 
makers to improve standards in the markets in 
and insights from our sustainability-related 
which we operate. For example, Lazard filed an 
We conduct around 4,000 meetings annually  We also engage with companies in which we  issues discussed in meetings with company 
open letter (available on our website) with the 
with company management to understand how  undertake a more structured and outcome- management. Through this database, our 
US Department of Labor regarding its proposal 
they are conducting their business and putting  oriented dialogue with company management  investment professionals can share, in real 
to amend the Investment Duties rule under Title 
our clients’ capital to use. At these meetings,  and/or its board of directors. Through these  time, the investment conclusions of company 
I of the Employee Retirement Income Security 
we may engage with company management  meetings we aim to both protect and unlock  meetings with their colleagues worldwide. 
Act of 1974 (“ERISA”). We believe this would 
on material human and natural capital as well  shareholder value. This type of engagement  Analysts flag whether the meetings covered an 
have imposed unnecessary restrictions and 
as governance-related matters that present  can focus on financial issues such as capital  environmental, social, or governance-related topic 
burdens on plan fiduciaries wanting to provide 
risks and opportunities that could influence the  allocation and governance issues like board  and this research is available on the platform for 
ESG investment options to ERISA-regulated 
company’s valuation, its financial performance,  structure. It may also identify human and natural  all investment professionals to use. This helps 
retirement plans. We also regularly engaged 
or have a material impact on broader  capital objectives that can lead to positive  to ensure all of our analysts and investment 
with the Financial Reporting Council in its 
stakeholders. environmental and social outcomes, as well as  professionals are able to incorporate this 
consultation process to inform aspects of the 
more sustainable financial results.  information into their view on the company.
revised 2020 UK Stewardship Code.
Gathering Information Influencing Change
ESG ENGAGEMENTS BY TOPIC
Continuous
Engagement
ENVIRONMENTAL  SOCIAL  GOVERNANCE 
30% 38% 32%
Our Objective: Information- Our Objective: Influencing 
gathering in order to make fully  change as necessary to protect 
informed investment decisions. and unlock shareholder value.
46  Annual Sustainable Investment Report Annual Sustainable Investment Report  47
PURPOSEFUL ENGAGEMENTS
HUMAN CAPITAL: 
FOCUS ON COVID-19 
Governments and central banks took  Engaging with boards on COVID-19
unprecedented measures to safeguard  We believe that investing in health & safety to 
people’s lives from the pandemic, including  counter the dangers posed by the pandemic 
the provision of loans to listed companies,  and providing employee income protection 
effectively throwing them a lifeline at a  is critical to save human lives and protect 
time of crisis.   shareholder value, especially over the long 
term. Employee relations have long been 
As set out in our Global Governance principles, 
a strategic imperative for the long-term 
we believe that long-term human capital 
business sustainability of all businesses, and 
management leads to better value creation. 
the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic saw 
Following the outbreak of COVID-19 we 
unprecedented impact on human capital.
engaged with boards and senior management 
to understand how they were managing  We have published several papers related to 
furlough schemes and ensuring that employees  COVID-19 on the Insights page of our website.
were supported during the crisis.
48  Annual Sustainable Investment Report Annual Sustainable Investment Report  49
PURPOSEFUL ENGAGEMENTS American Chain of Discount Stores
HUMAN CAPITAL: SNAPSHOTS  Engagement Topics:  
Fair treatment of its employees and other stakeholders  
during the pandemic, alongside product  
sustainability and environmental issues
American Diversified Multinational Mass Media and Entertainment Conglomerate
Engagement Topic:  
Fair treatment of employees
OBJECTIVES FUTURE
Address treatment of  We will continue to engage, 
OBJECTIVES FUTURE stakeholders, specifically  OUTCOMES monitor progress, and 
discussed recent articles in the  encourage the company to 
Address treatment of hourly  We applaud the company’s  media critical of its treatment of  We believe the company has made  advance the issues raised
workers during COVID-19  OUTCOMES decision to continue to pay the  employees in terms of benefits  progress on these issues but has  
business-related closures employee medical costs and  and wages room to improve further 
Multiple meetings with company  believe that this will strengthen 
management and written communication  employee engagement on 
encouraging them to maintain pay for  return to more normal working 
hourly workers during closure patterns. We will continue 
to engage with the company  Multinational Metals and Mining Company
The company paid the employees for over 
as the pandemic restrictions 
a month, then furloughed them, while 
evolve
continuing their medical coverage Engagement Topics:  
Accountability for destruction of heritage site, company culture, and  
organizational structure
American Bank
Engagement Topic:  
Paycheck Protection Program
OBJECTIVES FUTURE
To address destruction  We will continue to encourage 
of a heritage site  OUTCOMES the company to provide 
as much transparency as 
Ensure a process is put in place 
OBJECTIVES FUTURE to prevent future incidents  Multi-layer engagement including formal  possible to stakeholders on 
letters, one-to-one meetings with C-Suite  the organizational and cultural 
that destroy stakeholder 
and senior management changes that have occurred
Encourage participation in the  We will continue   relationships
Paycheck Protection Program  OUTCOMES to monitor the firm’s   The company has begun a detailed process 
(PPP), which provides loans  progress in this direction of auditing its mining sites and reviewing 
to small businesses to keep  The company has played a leading role in  agreements with its traditional owners
workers employed providing relief to its customers and the 
It has modified its process to expedite 
wider community
escalation of similar issues to board level
The company has boosted hourly pay 
A new Senior Independent Director role 
for team members working on-site, 
has been created to enhance community 
establishing pandemic leave, implemented 
engagement
new policies for team members who could 
not come to work, and covered the costs of  Senior executives stepped down 
COVID-19 testing
50  Annual Sustainable Investment Report Annual Sustainable Investment Report  51
We think the company is 
well positioned to capture 
the opportunity to transition 
its energy mix appropriately 
for a net zero pathway
Objectives: We engaged with the 
company as we believe it can unlock 
greater shareholder value through higher 
growth and retained ownership of renewable 
projects. We wanted to encourage the company 
to accelerate their transformation agenda as they  At the company’s first-half results in July, it 
pivot towards areas best placed for the energy  announced an increase in renewable capacity 
transition. expansion alongside an intention to keep more 
projects on the balance sheet. Moreover, the 
PURPOSEFUL ENGAGEMENTS Outcomes: We initiated our 
intention to exit certain businesses means the 
engagement in July 2020, proposing 
NATURAL CAPITAL:  group structure will become more streamlined, 
that the company should retain a 
with assets purely focused at enabling energy 
greater ownership of renewable assets on their 
transition. The company’s emission intensity 
balance sheet rather than selling a sizable 
FOCUS ON   has fallen by 32% over the past two years and 
portion of these assets once developed. We 
should continue to fall thanks to its increased 
believe that would result in the company being 
renewable energy growth and likely further 
valued by the market as an enabler of energy 
CLIMATE CHANGE reduction in its now mainly gas-based electricity 
transition. 
production. We believe the company’s clear 
Changes in the executive leadership team 
communication over its remaining carbon 
raised concerns about the company’s strategic 
footprint will become an increasingly important 
direction, yet we saw this as an opportunity 
area to address.
Climate change is a defining issue of our time. 
This multi-utility company focuses on  to create a new strategic agenda that could 
We recognize the importance of engagement  generating nuclear, coal, gas, and renewable  be implemented by an incoming senior  Communication during the second half of 2020 
with company executives and boards on  energy, transmission and distribution, as well as  management who would execute it rather  improved, with greater clarity on expectation of 
climate change issues, particularly where we  other solutions along the value chain. than create or revamp it. This would allow the  financial performance for the year, as well as on 
believe that physical or transition risks could  implementation of a strategic agenda without  the dividend policy.
The company is transitioning from a high 
materially impact a company’s long-term  delay at a time when the market for renewable   Future: We continue to hold shares 
reliance on fossil-fuel-based electricity 
financial performance. For further information  energy is increasingly attractive. and we will continue monitoring the 
generation towards renewables. Its coal-based 
see our Climate Change Investment Policy and  company’s strategic direction towards 
electricity generation capacity has fallen by  We believe the company’s valuation discount 
TCFD Report available on our website. renewable projects. We think the company is 
70% in recent years, reducing carbon emissions  partly derives from their substandard 
well positioned to capture the opportunity to 
Detailed Case Study: European Utility and  by 60%. As renewable energy costs have  communication regarding the effects of 
transition its energy mix appropriately for a 
the Energy Transition fallen over the past few years this has created  COVID-19 as well as complexity surrounding 
net- zero pathway and we continue to meet with 
a rapidly growing market where large players  its corporate structure. We believed that new 
In cases where Lazard’s analysts identify 
the new management team to help to ensure 
can offer a competitive edge through project  senior leadership could allow the company an 
opportunities for purposeful, outcome-oriented 
the company continues to improve 
execution and economies of scale. We believe  opportunity to improve its communication with 
engagement, we use our deep fundamental 
communication around its strategic direction 
the company has the ability to target high- the financial markets with a clearer presentation 
understanding of the industry and business 
with respect to renewable energy.
quality projects offering attractive returns. of the new agenda.
models to effect change. One such example 
in 2020 relates to a European multi-utility 
company. 
52  Annual Sustainable Investment Report Annual Sustainable Investment Report  53
PURPOSEFUL ENGAGEMENTS Multinational Oil Exploration Company
NATURAL CAPITAL: SNAPSHOTS  Engagement Topic:  
Net-zero emissions alignment strategy
Multinational Banking and Financial Services Company
Engagement Topic:  
Climate risk from financed emissions
OBJECTIVES FUTURE
Explore how the company  The company will seek to 
strategy will evolve to meet its  OUTCOMES link these longer-term goals 
goal of aligning with the Paris  with its compensation policy
Accord, one of the first oil &  The company will target  
Although uncertain,  
gas companies to announce  35-45% reduction in Scope 1 and 2 
we see the effects of these 
OBJECTIVES FUTURE a net-zero goal in its region of  emissions by 2030 and net-zero carbon by  changes on valuations as  
operation 2050, in alignment with the Paris Accord
directionally positive
Explore the company’s  We expect banks to make  The company is expected to drive 
We will continue to engage 
high-level participation in the  OUTCOMES material progress with  improvements through increasing low-
with the company to push 
Taskforce on Scaling Voluntary  quantifying and qualifying  carbon production, GHG abatement, and 
for more detail about its 
Carbon Markets (TSVCM) We learned how the group has been  exposure to carbon on the  increased efficiency, alongside achieving 
net- zero strategy
collaborating with a wide range of  balance sheet zero flaring by 2030
Investigate the risk of stranded 
industry experts to find a way to 
assets and the challenge  We support the group’s  Carbon capture and tree planting will be a 
measure a loan book’s 
measuring and managing carbon  achievements to date but would  part of the 2050 net-zero objective
temperature path.
exposure on the bank’s balance  like to see progress accelerated 
sheet The absence of reliable emissions  through industry collaboration. 
information prohibits banks from living  We will continue to engage with 
up to the measurement expectations of  the company
industry and regulatory expectations South American Diversified Consumer Food and Beverage Company
Engagement Topic:  
Protecting biodiversity related to  
Large European Residential Property Company
palm oil production
Engagement Topics:  
Energy transition risks, remuneration policy
OBJECTIVES FUTURE
As one of the largest users  We will continue to monitor 
OBJECTIVES FUTURE
of palm oil in its country of  OUTCOMES progress towards its 
operation, we wanted to  100% target, alongside its 
Encourage management to  We will continue to engage  raise concerns about palm oil  Supported the company for several  compliance with the  
prepare for the energy transition  OUTCOMES to ensure the new metric  plantation expansion, the impact  years to join the RSPO, which it did  country’s government’s  
to increase business resilience  becomes a formal part of  on deforestation, and lack of  in 2017 target of zero deforestation
and mitigate transition risks Initiated a series of one-to-one  management compensation  sustainable farming practices
meetings with company management  As of the end of 2020, around 30%  We will continue to engage 
Encourage the company  supported by a detailed letter  Encourage the company to join  of its small farm suppliers use  and encourage the move to 
to embed ESG metrics in  to the Chair the Roundtable on Sustainable  sustainable farming techniques,   more sustainable farming
remuneration policy to reflect  Palm Oil (RSPO) with a goal of 100% by 2030
the importance of energy  Company established a “sustainability 
efficiency to the long-term  performance index” as a KPI
success of the company
The company is now formally 
embedding the index into the 
remuneration policy
54  Annual Sustainable Investment Report Annual Sustainable Investment Report  55
PURPOSEFUL ENGAGEMENTS
GOVERNANCE: SNAPSHOTS
Asian Power Tool Manufacturer Multinational Groceries and General Merchandise Retailer
Engagement Topics:   Engagement Topic:  
Board governance, diversity, remuneration CEO remuneration
OBJECTIVES FUTURE OBJECTIVES FUTURE
Address lack of diversity on  Creating the committee clearly  To discuss a retroactive change to  We will continue to monitor 
the board in terms of gender,  OUTCOMES indicates that the company wants  its 2017 long-term incentive plan,  OUTCOMES the company’s commitments 
international representation, and  to improve its board structure   which would have boosted the  with regular meetings to seek 
independent members Multiple letters and meetings to discuss  and composition outgoing CEO’s pay The company expressed willingness  to ensure these changes are 
to integrate return on capital and  seriously considered
how this might link to the company’s  Explain to the company why we 
Request more transparent  We will continue to engage with 
sustainability into its incentive plan 
underperformance relative to peers voted against the proposal despite 
director pay disclosure management to improve corporate 
starting from 2022
strong performance from the 
After slow progress, the company created  governance at the company
executive management team.  We were able to engage in a conversation 
a committee to address director selection 
We also sought to discuss what  that we believe will continue for the long-
and pay, with half the members being 
metrics we would like to see over  term and bring about real change in the 
independent
short, medium and long-term  remuneration policy of the food retailer, 
remuneration policy as significant  ensuring management is better aligned 
shareholders with shareholder 
European Publishing and Information Company
value creation
Engagement Topic:  
Board governance, specifically remuneration
Multinational Internet Company
Engagement Topics:  
Board governance, remuneration, 
and sustainability reporting
OBJECTIVES FUTURE
Discuss proposed changes  We will continue to monitor 
to remuneration policy with  OUTCOMES how the changes to the 
senior management remuneration policy are 
We expressed our reservations about using two  implemented going forward 
Specifically, we were 
different peer groups, where the one used to  and the value that this 
concerned over how the 
benchmark management pay was significantly  alignment provides to  OBJECTIVES FUTURE
company employed a peer 
higher than that used to measure total shareholder  shareholders
group benchmarking for 
return and did not wholly reflect the company’s  Assess recent improvements on  We will continue to monitor 
setting its compensation 
business activities incentive structure and changes to  OUTCOMES progress on reporting and 
policy
executive compensation implementation, while 
The company considered these reservations and 
After hosting a call with  continuing to push for further 
changed the shareholder return peer group, which  Discuss progress on sustainability 
management where we discussed  progress on board diversity 
was approved by shareholders at 2020 AGM reporting disclosure, benchmarks, 
improvements and goals, alongside  and independence
and goals
expressing ongoing board-related 
Revisit concerns around  concerns we have a more positive 
board composition and lack of  view on the extent to which 
independence management is aligned with 
stakeholders
56  Annual Sustainable Investment Report Annual Sustainable Investment Report  57
PURPOSEFUL ENGAGEMENTS
ENGAGING BEYOND
PUBLIC EQUITIES
Fixed Income Collaboration:   selected ESG topics, metrics, and targets. We 
UNPRI Fixed Income Committee continue to monitor the country’s progress over 
While engagement is the cornerstone of  its management of social tensions.
ESG across asset classes, engagement with 
Fixed Income/Equity Team 
governments through fixed income investing 
Collaboration: International Diversified 
remains limited. In this context Yvette Klevan, 
Healthcare Company
Head of Global Fixed Income Strategy sits 
Lazard’s fixed income team also collaborates 
on the Principles for Responsible Investment 
with the equities team, leveraging the equity 
(PRI)’s Fixed Income Advisory Committee and 
team’s fundamental research on corporates 
recently contributed to the PRI report for debt 
and engaging with company management. 
investors. This document shares fresh insight 
For example, in 2021, the fixed income team 
on the topic of sovereign bondholder ESG 
met jointly with a large diversified international 
engagement and is available on our website. 
healthcare company alongside our fundamental 
Fixed Income: North America
Fixed Income: South America equity analysts.
We held several one-on-one discussions with  Development Goals (SDG). We discussed 
A South American country experienced  In this instance the Fixed Income team 
key officials from a sub-sovereign issuer,  the independent opinion (“dark green”) for a 
significant social unrest in 2019 in relation to the  participated in a one-on-one engagement 
questioning their green bond issuance, use  specific issuance, as well as their reporting 
cost of living and inequality. Officials addressed  meeting with the company’s CEO alongside the 
of proceeds, and reporting. The region is  which quantifies the impact of projects in terms 
this specific situation and provided concrete  equity analyst covering the healthcare sector, 
“resource rich”, especially in hydropower,  of GHG emission reduction. We plan to keep 
plans to address it, illustrating good governance  to better understand product health and safety 
putting them in a strong position in evidencing a  track of green bonds issued by this region 
practices. Our team also took the opportunity  issues. The team also gained valuable insight 
move towards “clean” electrification.   and will also track the validation of its use of 
to focus on other ESG areas where the country  from the conversation regarding the company’s 
proceeds, including the value generated from 
was progressing. We met with the sovereign  response to the pandemic and were able to  Many of these state initiatives are financed by 
greener infrastructure.
issuer’s Investor Relations Office, run by its  reflect these views in their issuer research. “green bonds”. It is our assessment that green 
Ministry of Finance, in late 2019 to discuss  bonds are aligned with various Sustainable 
58  Annual Sustainable Investment Report Annual Sustainable Investment Report  59
36%
Meetings where we  
voted against management  
OUTCOME 
in one or more  
proposals
ORIENTED
VOTING
Our Global Proxy Voting Policy is designed 
with our clients’ best interests in mind. 
We do not employ outside vendors to 
vote on our behalf. Rather, our investment 
professionals are responsible for providing 
vote recommendations.
In 2020, our investment professionals voted at 
more than 4,600 annual company meetings, 
covering more than 48,000 proposals. Our 
process includes guidelines on certain topics, so 
that our PMs/Analysts can focus on the more 
complex issues on a case-by-case basis. 
Shareholder proposals Historical shareholder proposals voted by LAM
Emerging   
2020 Markets Europe UK USA Other Total LAM supports the principle that corporations  (%) 2017 2018 2019 2020
100
Total meetings 1607 637 314 1075 970 4603 should act as good citizens, and generally  8% 5% 5% 4%
votes on environmental, climate, social, and 
Meetings voted 98% 91% 100% 100% 100% 98%
80 29% 36%
corporate governance proposals in a way that 
43%
Meetings voted 100%  63% 52% 79% 65% 59% 62% 47%
we believe will increase long-term shareholder 
with management 60
value. As shareholder proposals have become 
Meetings with one or  36% 39% 21% 35% 41% 36%
more votes against  more focused on material issues, they are more  40
66%
60%
management aligned with a company’s business strategy and 
52%
45%
Meetings not voted  2% 9% 0% 0% 0% 2% we have increased our support from 45% in  20
(Share blocking/re-reg) 2017, to 60% in 2020.
0
Meetings with one   3% 1% 7% 1% 0% 2%
Abstain/Did not vote/Other
or more abstentions
Against/withheld
For
60  Annual Sustainable Investment Report Annual Sustainable Investment Report  61
60%
Share of shareholder 
resolutions that we 
supported in 2020
Examples of votes in favor of human capital  
and natural capital-related shareholder proposals:
HUMAN CAPITAL NATURAL CAPITAL
Tyson Foods – Report on human rights risk  Comcast – Report on risks posed by failing to  Tyson Foods – Report on deforestation  United Parcel Service – Report on climate 
assessment process prevent sexual harassment impacts in supply chain change
Sanderson Farms – Report on human rights  Delta Air Lines – Report on sexual harassment  Toronto-Dominion Bank – Request to adopt  YUM! Brands – Report on supply chain impact 
due diligence policy targets for reducing greenhouse gas emissions  on deforestation
associated with underwriting and lending
Skechers U.S.A. – Adopt a comprehensive  Kroger – Report on human rights due diligence  Enphase Energy – Report on sustainability
human rights policy process in operations and supply chain Santos – Approve Paris goals and targets, 
Exxon Mobil – Report on risks of 
approve climate-related lobbying
Facebook – Report on online child sexual  Tesla – Report on employee arbitration,  petrochemical operations in flood-prone areas
exploitation additional reporting on human rights Ovintiv – Report on climate change
Bloomin’ Brands – Report on greenhouse gas 
Woodside Petroleum – Approve Paris goals  emissions disclosure
and targets, approve climate-related lobbying
TJX – Report on reduction of chemical footprint
Phillips 66 – Report on risks of Gulf Coast 
Delta Air Lines – Report on climate lobbying
petrochemical investments
Kroger – Assess environmental impact of non-
iA Financial – Analyze climate risk and report 
recyclable packaging
the results, adopt measured environmental 
Chr. Hansen Holding – Apply the 
impact reduction objectives with clearly 
recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-
identified targets in its sustainable development 
related Financial Disclosures as the framework 
policy
for climate-related disclosure in annual reports
Union Pacific – Report on climate change
62  Annual Sustainable Investment Report Annual Sustainable Investment Report  63
IMPACTFUL 
PORTFOLIO 
MANAGEMENT
SUSTAINABILITY 
PERSPECTIVES 
FROM OUR 
PORTFOLIO 
MANAGERS
Terrence Gray and Jian Tao 
– Bottom Billion
Our strategy focuses on investing in companies  intelligence, and cloud technology to offer 
that are transforming lives at the base of the  products and services at lower cost and wider 
global income pyramid, which accounts for  reach than was possible just a few years ago. 
over 3.6 billion people. We view sustainability  The base of the pyramid represents a growing 
Yvette Klevan and Jared Daniels 
as integral to our investment process and  group of entrepreneurs looking to participate 
– Global Fixed Income
paramount in generating positive investment  in formal markets who want more opportunity. 
returns over the long term. One of the key  We continue to invest in the companies  With growing concerns about climate change  25% of capital invested in bonds labeled green, 
drivers of our strategy is access—access to  servicing these entrepreneurs and consumers  pressuring corporate and government issuers  social, and sustainable bonds in the global fixed 
better paying jobs, high-quality and affordable  by providing affordable products and services,  to reduce their carbon footprints, we believe  income strategies, and have been investing in 
products, financial services, low-cost  supporting local communities, and enhancing  a thematic approach to sustainable investing  these “use-of-proceed” bonds since 2015. Even 
healthcare, education, as well as infrastructure  best business practices which have a positive  will add value from both an opportunistic and  in a difficult year with the pandemic, a record 
such as electricity, sanitation, clean water, and  impact on people’s livelihoods. Examples of  defensive perspective. Our team is vigilant  amount of labelled bonds was issued in 2021, 
roads. Access changes lives and the COVID-19  companies in our portfolio that improve the  about whom we lend money to. Our disciplined  especially social bonds. A key differentiating 
pandemic highlighted the need to focus on  lives of people at the bottom of the pyramid are  security selection process considers ESG  feature of the Global Fixed Income team is 
inequality and protecting the most vulnerable  BRAC Bank in Bangladesh, Apollo Hospitals in  factors in an effort to avoid impairment and earn  that we also collaborate with Lazard equity 
populations.  India, and Glodon in China. These companies  attractive risk-adjusted returns.  colleagues for engagement with corporates, 
operate in financial, healthcare, and software  leveraging their analysis based on Lazard’s 
Digitization has been at the core of providing  Evaluating environmental factors is, in our 
services respectively, all essential human needs  proprietary framework for ESG analysis, 
access in all six of our focus areas, as  view, just as critical as assessing social and 
for the people at the base of the social pyramid. Materiality Mapping.
companies use automation, artificial  governance factors. The team now has over 
64  Annual Sustainable Investment Report Annual Sustainable Investment Report  65
Andrew Lacey and Ross Seiden  Barney Wilson, Jenny Hardy and Louis  Marina Leacock, Barney Wilson, Louis  John King and Steve Wreford 
– US Sustainable Equity Florentin-Lee – Global Sustainable Equity Florentin-Lee – Minerva Gender Diversity  – Global Thematic Equity
We see a long-term, structural shift by  Sustainability forms a key pillar of consistently  We believe that investors increasingly want  We believe sustainable business is a key 
consumers, businesses, and government to  high or improving levels of the financial  to allocate their capital in line with their core  condition for a long-term investment. Identifying 
favor products, services, and policies that  productivity of the companies in which we  values and use that capital as a catalyst for  and evaluating long-term risks to sustainability or 
support sustainability. Our goal is to invest in  invest. We see sustainability as a necessary  change. The business case for diversity  returns is an essential component of fundamental 
enterprises that prosper while aligning their  and material component of the investment  and inclusion is clear. It maximizes talent,  analysis. However, traditional analysis misses an 
products, services, and operations with a  thesis. Our proprietary framework helps us  enhances corporate decision making, improves  increasingly relevant source of risk: the potential 
sustainable world. We look for companies  identify how structural shifts towards a greener,  corporate governance, and ultimately affects a  breakdown of relationships between industries 
that will thrive in a more sustainable future by  healthier, safer, and fairer world may translate  company’s cost of capital. Significant academic  and companies with society. Both industries and 
making the world greener, healthier, and safer,  into sustainably high or improving level of  evidence suggests that increased diversity also  companies operate under a “societal license”; a 
while adhering to our long-term investment  financial productivity.  enhances financial productivity and returns to  shifting combination of law, public opinion, and 
philosophy focusing on the relationship between  shareholders. We invest in the most financially  social expectations. The loss of this license can 
We believe the pandemic will accelerate the 
the level and trajectory of a company’s financial  productive, quality growth companies globally  undermine the company’s fundamentals and its 
move towards sustainability, as the benefit 
productivity and its valuation. that show commitment to empowering women  market valuation. Early identifications of weak or 
of proactively working to avoid a crisis has 
within their organization and beyond. deteriorating relationships with society can be 
2020 was a seminal year for the US market as  become crystal clear. Governments appear 
critical to avoid capital impairment. 
the pandemic and social unrest accelerated  emboldened to take aggressive action, and  Diversity and inclusion moved to the forefront 
the focus on sustainability, particularly how  companies are motivated to act in the interest  in 2020, following tragic events in the  We saw many cases of this being tested during 
companies treat all of their stakeholders. To  of all stakeholders, including their employees,  United States. In our focused meetings with  the COVID-19 pandemic in 2020, whether it was 
this end, we focused on how companies  customers, communities, and supply chains. companies, we advocate for best practices  companies shifting their operations to contain the 
have dealt with continued employment for  and have been encouraged by the level of  spread of the virus, or providing much-needed 
workers unable to operate remotely as well as  commitment to gender diversity demonstrated  support to their employees. Perhaps the next 
the equitable distribution of both healthcare  by management actions. We conducted 43  great test of societal licenses will be how 
equipment and the vaccine roll-out as it relates  meetings in 2020, focusing on actionable  companies deal with an environment increasingly 
to the pandemic. We continue to engage with  targets, and progress, policy improvement,  focused on decarbonization and net-zero 
companies to encourage best practices and  management accountability, increased  operations. Companies that fail to address rising 
assess how their policies regarding human and  disclosure, and broader impact beyond the  climate risks or fall short of their commitments 
natural capital effect return profile. company. may ultimately suffer as well.
66  Annual Sustainable Investment Report Annual Sustainable Investment Report  67
CONTINUOUS 
INNOVATION
COMMITTED TO 
THE JOURNEY
68  Annual Sustainable Investment Report
 COMMITTED
TO THE ESG INTEGRATION  
A DYNAMIC JOURNEY, 
NOT A DESTINATION
JOURNEY
Our efforts in advancing 
sustainability considerations are 
Launch of Global & US Sustainable and 
long-standing, but as the world 
Bottom Billion Strategies
continues to change at a rapid pace, 
we need to remain committed   LAM joins three new initiatives: CDP, Abu 
Dhabi Sustainable Finance Declaration, FAIRR
to the journey ahead. 
Joined PRI Fixed Income 
Advisory Committee Established Climate 
Change Investment Policy
Appointed external ESG  Carbon reporting to European 
research providers Began investing in  Institutional clients
Established Global 
Created  green, social, and  Governance Principles
Became a UK  Proprietary  sustainable bonds  Became a  
Established  Stewardship Code  Quantitative ESG  Became a PRI  in the global fixed  UK Women in Finance  Lazard supports CDP Science-
internal ESG Group Signatory  Ratings Signatory income strategies Charter Signatory Based Targets Campaign
2001 2008 2009 2010 2013 2014 2015 2016 2018 2019 2020
Formal ESG  Equity Advantage  Distributed first external  Developed  Developed  Began tracking   Joined Chief Executives for  Became a 
integration into  team arrival ESG questionnaire for   Quarterly ESG  carbon footprint  ESG Engagements Corporate Purpose (CECP)  Supporter of TCFD
the EM equity  Launch of Global  EM companies watch list  portfolio tool  Strategic Investor Initiative (SII) 
investment  Sustainable  Advisory Board Joined SASB Alliance 
process Advantage 
Became a Japan  Became a member of  Became a 
Decision to follow 
strategy Materiality Mapping† 
Stewardship  the IASB Investors in  member of the 
an integrated ESG 
framework developed
Code Signatory Financial Reporting  Institutional 
approach. PMs/
programme Investors Group 
analysts responsible  
on Climate 
for ESG analysis
Change (IIGCC)
Over time, we have thoughtfully added our support to different 
industry and sustainability initiatives, including those relating 
to issues around corporate governance, diversity, and climate 
change. We collaborate with organizations where we believe 
doing so may advance our own thinking, or help set strategic 
priorities and improve outcomes across the industry.
70  Annual Sustainable Investment Report Annual Sustainable Investment Report  71
Wireframe:
Applying Data Science
COMBINING SKILLSETS FOR 
LAM’s data science capabilities have been  discrete components of analysis. Moreover, 
designed based on best-in-class principles  the technology allows for seamless integration 
MORE INNOVATIVE SOLUTIONS
of modularity. LAM’s Dynamic Portfolio  of fundamental analysis into quantitative 
Solutions (DPS) group can accommodate  processes. For example, our proprietary 
any client need while seamlessly integrating  Sustainable Revenues framework could be 
bespoke parameters and optimizing financial  overlayed against natural language processing 
Sustainability Scorecards: performance alongside other objectives. This  (NLP)-based screening and carbon footprint 
capability offers clients a critical differentiator  analysis to create a thematic basket optimized 
Assessing the Sustainability of Corporate Issuers
within the rapidly evolving field of sustainable  for specific risk/return objectives. 
investing. 
This proprietary tool is designed to provide 
In 2020, LAM created a proprietary framework  Sustainability Scorecards inform the engagement 
Wireframe, the primary software solution  clients with an essential component to meet 
for holistically assessing and quantifying  agenda and provide a threshold for inclusion 
enabling these capabilities, can combine,  their need for nuanced sustainable investment 
the sustainability profile of a corporate  within explicit sustainable portfolios, providing 
qualify, rank, prioritize, and integrate into  products, such as aligning with and meeting the 
issuer. Underpinned by our ESG integration  transparency to clients. These assessments do 
portfolio construction an indefinite number of  thresholds of the EU taxonomy.
philosophy which emphasizes companies’ use  not remain static. We reevaluate them regularly. 
of human and natural capital, Sustainability  They are upgraded or downgraded depending 
Wireframe example
Scorecards focus on three components of  on incremental corporate investments, policies, 
a firm’s business. Within these elements,  initiatives, and behavior. The materiality 
LAM’s dynamic Materiality Mapping†  weighting is dynamically adjusted based on new 
process helps prioritize and weight different  insights from the Materiality Mapping process, 
considerations and contextualize idiosyncratic  capturing the evolution of societal norms and 
factors. stakeholder concerns. 
Products and services
Analyzes alignment with a greener, healthier, safer, and fairer world. This 
alignment and its materiality weighting are considered in the context of 
anticipated structural trends and resulting implications for future revenue 
and earnings growth.
Operations
Assesses the use of human and natural capital. Key areas of analysis and 
performance are tracked by KPIs and measured by a range of stakeholder 
perspectives, including the key constituents experiencing the positive or 
negative externalities resulting from business activity.
Governance
Considers structural factors such as management incentives, board 
composition, voting rights, as well as qualitative concerns like management 
quality, business ethics, and other aspects of corporate behavior. 
72  Annual Sustainable Investment Report AAnnnnuuaall  SSuussttaaiinnaabbllee  IInnvveessttmmeenntt  RReeppoorrtt    7733
Greenhouse Gas Data Analysis
The subgroup of the Technical Expert Group  •  Is the vendor able to systematically check for  This figure compares the properties of the different types of emissions for Reported and Estimated data 
respectively. It reveals a significant difference between the distributions for the Reported and Estimated 
(TEG)—the European body that has devised  updates and new disclosures, such that the 
figures. The systematically lower Estimated values likely result from the size bias in the proportion of Reported 
the EU taxonomy, now called the Platform for  data is current?
vs Estimated data points.
Sustainable Finance—recommends deploying 
•  What model does the vendor use to impute/
the UN’s precautionary principle with respect 
proxy the non-disclosing companies? What 
to GHG data: “Applying the precautionary 
is the rationale behind their approach and  Estimated Scope 1 Scope 2 Total
principle ensures that corporate GHG data is  2500 4000 3000
what are its limitations? Understanding the 
2000 3000
not underestimated and hence companies have  2000
nuances in their modeling is critical in gaining  1500
2000
incentives to commence or enhance reporting  1000 1000
confidence in the data and understanding  500 1000
their GHG emissions.” 
where and how it might be invalid. 0 0 0
Reported
Since consistent disclosure by all corporate 
•  Is the vendor able to explain precisely how  800 1000 800
issuers is some time away, we are increasingly  a particular number came about for a given  600 800 600
scrutinizing the way third-party vendors  400 600 400
company, both in current and historical data?  400
estimate emissions. We have likewise begun  200 200 200
We rely on transparency and expect that 
0 0 0
to explore the merits of creating a proprietary 
vendors provide us with the tools to quickly  0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8
0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
carbon data set.  E+ E+ E+ E+ E+ E+ E+ E+ E+ E+ E+ E+ E+ E+ E+ E+ E+ E+ E+ E+ E+ E+ E+ E+ E+ E+ E+
understand exactly how a particular number  0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
1. 1. 1. 1. 1. 1. 1. 1. 1. 1. 1. 1. 1. 1. 1. 1. 1. 1. 1. 1. 1. 1. 1. 1. 1. 1. 1.
We assess third-party vendor data with the  is derived.
Source: ISS, Sustainalytics, Trucost
following questions:
•  Is the vendor enhancing their data collection 
•  Does the vendor adequately check for  and modeling processes such that their 
reliability in the reported data? We expect  dataset in the future becomes complete and 
them to use outlier analysis on reported data  more coherent? This graph explores the relationship between submissions of Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions from the previous 
graph. Interestingly, the diagonal points in this figure highlight that Scope 1 and Scope 2 have strong linear 
such that the emissions numbers are suitably 
relationships for certain cohorts of companies.
checked for issues such as units used, 
emission scope, and the overall validity.
100000000
10000000
1000000
100000
e 2 10000
p
co 1000
S
100
10
1
0.1
0.01 0.1 1 10 100 1000 10000 100000 1000000 10000000100000000 1E+09
Estimated Reported Scope 1
Source: ISS, Sustainalytics, Trucost
74  Annual Sustainable Investment Report Annual Sustainable Investment Report  75
Sustainability Stewardship & Governance
United Nations-supported Principles for  International Corporate Governance 
Responsible Investment (PRI) Network (ICGN) 
International Accounting Standards 
COLLABORATIVE Board (IASB) Investors in Financial  Japan’s Stewardship Code 
Reporting programme 
Chief Executives for Corporate Purpose 
Korea Stewardship Code 
INITIATIVES (CECP) 
Pensions and Lifetime Savings  FAIRR (Farm Animal Investment Risk & 
Association (PLSA)  Return) Initiative
Lazard Asset Management is a signatory or  Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) in 
a member of several responsible investing  2019, an initiative established by the Financial  Sustainability Accounting Standards 
UN Global Compact
Board (SASB)
organizations.  Stability Board (FSB) which seeks to develop 
a set of voluntary, consistent disclosure 
We embrace our collective responsibility to 
Abu Dhabi Sustainable Finance 
recommendations for companies to provide 
address generational challenges in collaboration  Declaration (AsFF)
climate-related financial risk information to 
and cooperation with other industry participants.
investors, lenders, and  insurers.
We signed the United Nations-supported 
Diversity & Inclusion Climate Change
Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI) in  Lazard is one of the first US-based asset 
2014. The Japan Stewardship Code, the Korea  managers to join the Net Zero Asset 
Institutional Investors Group for 
30% Club
Stewardship Code, and the UK Women in  Managers Initiative, a group of global  Climate Change (IIGCC)
Finance Charter. We are also members of the  asset managers that commit to support 
International Corporate Governance Network  the goal of net-zero greenhouse gas  Task Force on Climate-Related 
UK Women in Finance Charter 
Financial Disclosures (TCFD) 
(ICGN), the Institutional Investors Group on  emissions by 2050, in line with global 
Climate Change (IIGCC), and Sustainability  efforts to limit warming to 1.5°C. Delivering  CDP (formerly, the Carbon Disclosure 
CEO Action for Diversity & Inclusion 
Accounting Standards Board (SASB). In addition,  on this commitment includes prioritizing  Pledge  Project) – Lazard became a member in 
2020
one of our investment professionals serves on  emissions reductions within the sectors 
the PRI Fixed Income Advisory Committee.  and companies in which we invest. 
CDP Science-Based Targets Campaign 
LAM became a supporter of the Task Force on 
Net Zero Asset Managers Initiative
As part of the CDP Science-
Based Targets Campaign, we 
advocate for companies to set 
a science-based emissions 
reduction target aligned with 
1.5°C warming scenarios. 
76  Annual Sustainable Investment Report Annual Sustainable Investment Report  77
Connecting 
the insights of 
INDUSTRY
our investment 
professionals  
DIALOGUES
with our peers
Livewire Markets Response to the US  Mercer Conference PRI webinar: Engaging as a Sovereign 
Climate Change may hit home in more  Department of Labor’s  Jennifer Anderson and Jenny Hardy presented  Bondholder
ESG-related ERISA 
ways than you might think. Ronald Temple  on Materiality Mapping and the resulting  Yvette Klevan represented Lazard at a PRI 
guidelines
commented on the Livewire Markets YouTube  investment frameworks that underpin our  webinar that explored how bondholder 
As discussed in our 
channel how climate risk is interconnected with  sustainable investment approach and its future  engagement can be conducted with sovereign 
response to the US 
financial markets and why he believes investors  evolution. The session was attended by Mercer  issuers, including current practices and 
Department of Labor’s 
should take ESG factors seriously. colleagues and key clients. challenges, and how it can be scaled up 
ESG-related ERISA 
to promote responsible investment. Other 
National Council on Teacher Retirement
guideline, we believe 
panelists included Adam Matthews, Director 
Nikita Singhal was a panelist for a virtual 
the Proposed Release is based on out-of-date 
of Ethics and Engagement at the Church of 
conference held by NCTR moderated by Jack 
research and negative assumptions about the 
England Pensions Board, and representatives 
Ehnes, CEO, CalSTRS. Panelists shared their 
impact of ESG considerations on investment 
from BlueBay Asset Management and 
thoughts on the role of ESG in the face of the 
outcomes. Our response, available on the 
Colchester Global Investors.
market impacts of COVID-19.
“Sustainable Investing” page of our website 
Square Mile & ESG
lays out why we believe that ESG considerations  Insurance Asset 
Jeremy Taylor, CEO Lazard Asset Management 
can help manage investment risks and propel  Management North 
London, talked with Richard Romer-Lee, 
investment returns. We believe that the  America Virtual 
Managing Director at Square Mile, about creating 
Proposed Release would impose unnecessary  Summit
LGC Investment Seminar, UK a successful work culture, the looming tech 
restrictions and burdens on plan fiduciaries  Nikita Singhal 
Jennifer Anderson and Neil Millar presented at  bubble, and the importance of ESG integration.
considering the addition of ESG investment  participated in a panel 
the LGC conference to pension fund trustees 
options to ERISA-regulated retirement plans.  where she debated the 
and investment managers. We discussed the 
We further believe that if adopted, the proposal  topic: Has the COVID-19 pandemic made room 
investment opportunity in the energy sector at a 
would negatively affect pension plans’ long-term  for a more ethical approach to investing?
time when investors are also grappling with the 
investment returns.
PRI Fixed Income Advisory Committee
regulatory environment that has put ESG and 
Investment Trust Panel Yvette Klevan participated in the PRI’s quarterly 
stewardship front of mind.
Jeremy Taylor spoke alongside Stephen Bird,  fixed income advisory committee meetings to 
Standard Life Aberdeen CEO, Jacqui Ferguson,  discuss how ESG factors are considered when 
serial non-executive director (Wood Group,  investors allocate capital to sovereign debt 
Croda, senior adviser to ENGIE and former  and promote more systematic and transparent 
chief of staff to Meg Whitman at HP), Chuka  incorporation of ESG factors in investment 
Umunna, executive director of ESG at Edelman.  decisions in sovereign debt.
The panel focused on the importance of ESG 
factors for investors in the middle of a global 
pandemic and whether or not investor focus had 
shifted back to the bottom line.
78  Annual Sustainable Investment Report Annual Sustainable Investment Report  79
What is the Future of  Renewable Energy 
Green Building Credit’s Carbon Secret
CONTINUING THE
DIALOGUE What COVID-19 Means  Perspectives on Protecting 
for Corporate Strategy Human Capital
In 2020, we published a selection of thought 
leadership pieces on topics from the impact of 
COVID-19 on human capital to the opportunities in 
Global Fixed Income: 
sustainable fisheries and hydrogen, and the expected 
Investing for a 
changes in US policies towards climate change.
Sustainable Future The Value of Water
Sustainable Investing: 
Salmon for the Future Past, Present and Future
Going Green? Climate 
Change Policy Under the 
Biden Administration
Joining the 
debate for 
Hydrogen’s Role in the 
Green Economy continuous 
innovation
80  Lazard Annual Sustainable Investment Report Annual Sustainable Investment Report  81
THE ROAD
AHEAD
At Lazard, we have  and engagement, more positive community  “As fiduciaries, we focus on investing 
long focused on the  relations, and elevated brand perception among 
our clients’ capital to meet their 
level and trajectory of  consumers.
returns on financial  long-term objectives. Identifying 
At the same time, climate change and 
capital as a key driver 
increasingly common natural disasters have  and analyzing the materiality of ESG 
of valuation and 
highlighted the imperative to steward natural 
investor returns. To  risks and opportunities across asset 
resources at all levels of the supply chain. 
us and many other 
As the world endures more frequent and  classes, within sectors, and specific 
investors, it has become increasingly apparent 
severe acts of nature, it has become clear to 
that forecasting profitability requires a multi- to companies, is the job of each 
people across all segments of society that 
faceted approach that incorporates a range of 
short-sighted exploitation of natural resources  of our more than 250 investment 
considerations well beyond traditional financial 
cannot persist. Rather, consumers now expect, 
analysis. Moreover, these financial returns  professionals. Increasingly, our global 
and even demand, transparent, responsible 
are inextricably linked to the management of 
management of the finite resources that were  client base recognizes the value of ESG 
human and natural capital.
historically treated with wanton abandon. 
integration into every aspect of our 
We believe that the most successful firms 
Looking forward, governments, businesses, 
identify meaningful drivers of their competitive  investment analysis and the long-term 
and consumers expect their fiduciaries to invest 
advantages and invest in sustaining and 
based on a more comprehensive assessment 
value creation that can be realized by 
extending these features. Whether it be the 
of risks and opportunities. Where in the past, 
value of a brand, economies of scale, customer  investing through a sustainability lens.”
ESG issues were addressed primarily through 
satisfaction, or employee engagement, 
restrictions and guidelines, investors now 
Nathan Paul Chief Business Officer
management teams that deliver long-term 
increasingly see that these questions are more 
compounding of earnings recognize the 
nuanced and need to be addressed more 
imperative to cultivate and reinvest in critical 
thoughtfully.
resources, including people and natural 
By integrating a more comprehensive set of 
resources. 
ESG considerations into our process, and by 
The global pandemic has reaffirmed the 
recognizing the linkages between returns on 
importance of people at all levels of the 
financial capital and how companies manage 
social ladder and their value to society. The 
their human and natural capital, we believe we 
COVID-19 crisis also has highlighted best 
are able to better deliver attractive risk-adjusted 
practices from employers who prioritized 
returns on behalf of our clients. At the same 
serving their customers, communities, and 
time, we play our small part in shaping a more 
employees versus those that did not. I firmly 
sustainable world.
believe that the companies that work on behalf 
of all their stakeholders will emerge from the  Ronald Temple, CFA 
pandemic with stronger employee loyalty  Co-Head of Multi-Asset and Head of US Equity
82  Annual Sustainable Investment Report Annual Sustainable Investment Report  83
This report focuses on Lazard Asset Management’s approach 
to Sustainable Investing. For further information about Lazard’s 
corporate sustainability please visit lazard.com.
Notes
†  For illustrative purposes only. Size and connections are shown in a stylized and simplified way to demonstrate the inter-connectivity 
between factors within Natural Capital, Human Capital, and Financial Capital. Lazard Asset Management’s proprietary sector-based 
approach to ESG integration is based on elements of SASB’s Materiality Map™, copyright: 2021. All rights reserved. Reprinted with 
permission from The SASB Foundation. All rights reserved.
Important Information
Revised and republished on 27 September 2021. Published on 31 March 2021. 
This document reflects the views of Lazard Asset Management LLC or its affiliates (“Lazard”) based upon information believed to be 
reliable as of the publication date and Lazard makes no representation as to their accuracy or completeness. There is no guarantee that 
any forecast or opinion will be realized.  All opinions expressed herein are as of the published date and are subject to change.
This document is provided by Lazard for informational purposes only. Nothing herein constitutes investment advice or a recommendation 
relating to any security, commodity, derivative, investment management service or investment product. Investments in securities, 
derivatives and commodities involve risk, will fluctuate in price, and may result in losses. Certain assets held in Lazard’s investment 
portfolios, in particular alternative investment portfolios, can involve high degrees of risk and volatility when compared to other assets. 
Similarly, certain assets held in Lazard’s investment portfolios may trade in less liquid or efficient markets, which can affect investment 
performance. Past performance does not guarantee future results. The views expressed herein are subject to change, and may differ 
from the views of other Lazard investment professionals.
Any mention of securities should not be considered a recommendation or solicitation to purchase or sell such securities. It should not 
be assumed that any investment in these securities was, or will prove to be, profitable, or that the investment decisions we make in the 
future will be profitable or equal to the investment performance of securities referenced herein. There is no assurance that any securities 
referenced herein are currently held in the portfolio or that securities sold have not been repurchased. The securities mentioned may not 
represent the entire portfolio.
This document is intended only for persons residing in jurisdictions where its distribution or availability is consistent with local laws and 
Lazard’s local regulatory authorizations. Please visit lazardassetmanagement.com/globaldisclosure for the specific Lazard entities that 
have issued this document and the scope of their authorized activities. 
Certain information contained herein constitutes “forward-looking statements” which can be identified by the use of forward-looking 
terminology such as “may,” “will,” “should,” “expect,” “anticipate,” “target,” “intent,” “continue,” or “believe,” or the negatives thereof 
or other variations thereon or comparable terminology. Due to various risks and uncertainties, actual events may differ materially from 
those reflected or contemplated in such forward-looking statements.
86  Annual Sustainable Investment Report