
Annual Sustainability 
Report, 2019
ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019
2 3
savillsim.com
Introductory  Contents
statement 
02. 26.
Corporate 
Introductory 
Responsibility 
Alex Jeffrey statement 
 
Global Chief Executive 
Savills Investment Management LLP
18.
Reporting our 
At  Savills  Investment  Management  (Savills  IM),  our  We know that transparency and disclosure are a crucial  2019 sustainability 
approach to sustainability encompasses managing our  part of operating in a responsible way. Having been a 
performance
business in an environmentally and socially responsible  signatory of the Principles for Responsible Investment 
way. It likewise entails integrating environmental, social  since 2014, in 2019 we are proud to have increased 
and  governance  criteria,  or  ESG  into  our  portfolio  our grade in Strategy and Governance to an A+ and 
management  decisions  in  an  investment  landscape  maintained our A grade in the Direct: Property module. 
04.
where sustainability topics look to be on the rise and  With transparency in mind, this year’s Savills Investment 
20.
unstoppable.  Management Annual Sustainability Report details our 
sustainability goals and the progress we made towards 
Corporate responsibility examines the environmental and  28.
them in 2019. 
social impact that our business operations have on our  Our sustainability 
people, the environment and the communities where  Resource scarcity, a changing climate and rising levels  Sustainability goals 
vision and values
we operate. We know that operating our business in an  of  inequality  pose  increasingly  material  and  urgent 
and our progress 
environmentally and socially responsible way enables  global concerns to real estate investment managers  Third party 
us to give back to our local communities, attract and  as custodians of the assets we manage on our clients’  towards them
retain the best talent and helps our teams work more  behalf.  With  environmental  concerns  becoming  an  assurance statement
inclusively together.  increasingly  regulated  topic,  the  rise  of  civic  action 
through global movements such as Extinction Rebellion  06.
Savills IM supports staff in donating their time to charities 
and multiple national governments declaring net zero 
by making sure every member of staff is able to take a 
carbon  commitments,  Savills  IM  understands  that 
paid charitable leave day throughout the year. To date,  24.
integrating environmental and social criteria into our 
this has allowed our staff to raise funds for individual 
business  models  is  increasingly  consequential.  With  Insight - Taking 
charity projects. From 2020 we have formalised our 
this rapidly changing situation in mind, we have sought 
commitment to creating a positive social impact on our 
people, the environment and the local communities  investors’ views on the significance of environmental,  the temperature of  Benchmarking 
social  and  governance  concerns.  The  results  are 
where we operate. We promise to commit 0.5% of profits  investors’ engagement 
discussed in the Insight section of this report.  our portfolio 
to further our philanthropic goals, each year. 
with ESG
sustainability
ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019
4 5
savillsim.com
Our sustainability 
vision and values
At  the  core  of  a  robust  sustainability  approach  is  knowing  our 
environmental, social and governance (ESG) vision and values: guiding 
principles by which we operate as a business and integrate into our 
investment decisions. 
In April 2019 we convened a participatory working group of global 
staff who work across functions which are material to our sustainability 
approach – management, investment, risk management, development 
and client relations. Representing different business functions and 
geographies in which we operate, the group worked together to define 
Savills Investment Management (Savills IM)’s core ESG values.
ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019
6 7
savillsim.com
Insight
Taking the temperature of investors’ 
engagement with ESG 
Investor demands for greater environmental and  to limit global warming in line with the Paris 
societal responsibility are now prevalent in the  Agreement. Real estate investment managers – 
asset management industry. This is part of a  whose activity overlaps with that of the financial 
worldwide movement driven by policymakers,  world – are therefore likely to encounter sweeping 
public campaigners and many investors alike,  sustainability-related  regulatory  changes  in 
calling  for  more  ethical  corporate  behaviour  coming years.
and portfolio management to promote social 
The challenge will be for the real estate industry 
justice and protect natural capital. It is finding 
to keep up with these changes. This challenge 
expression in shareholder activity, international 
is compounded by the varied definitions of how 
agreements and increasingly in global public 
to value environmental and climate risks and 
demonstrations.
measure positive social impact. In order to provide 
The real estate asset management industry has  some clarity around this increasingly important 
a key role to play in promoting environmental,  theme, Savills IM has commissioned research 
social and governance (ESG) issues, not least  among institutional investors for a temperature 
because  of  the  impact  that  buildings  have  check on their thoughts around ESG, thereby  Research results and analysis FIGURE 1. Investment institutions with an ESG policy
on  the  environment  and  society.  Buildings  promoting the importance of ESG engagement 
Between 24 June and 26 August 2019, we polled 
consume 70% of generated electrical power  to stakeholders in the investment management 
institutional investors involved in commercial real 
in the developed world and are responsible for  sector (broadly aligned to INREV Sustainable  Yes
estate across EMEA, North America and APAC, 
40% of carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions.1  Policy  Reporting  Guideline  ESG-LTS  /  ESG-ANN 
using  PollRight.  The  111  received  responses 
targeting emissions will therefore almost certainly  2.1 Best Practice: Industry participation. See  56%
show that ESG issues are clearly climbing up 
have an impact on the real estate industry.  the ‘Reporting our sustainability performance 
the agenda for institutional investors: More than 
during 2019’ section this report for details). The 
The  EU  Sustainable  Finance  Taxonomy  also  half (56%) say their organisation now has an ESG 
following analysis explores how important ESG 
suggests that there will be a policy response  policy (figure 1). However, 44% do not. While 
is to investors in relation to real estate, how  No
specifically  from  the  financial  sector,  with  this illustrates that most institutional investors 
they are assessing it and how they want it to be 
policymakers  estimating  that  human  activity  are embracing ESG, it is still some way from 
applied by their asset management partners. 44%
over the next decade will be crucial to our ability  becoming mainstream within the industry.
1 Improving energy efficiency in the built environment, UNECE, 2016
ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019
8 9
savillsim.com
ESG plays a significant role in  FIGURE 2: Importance of ESG in selecting investment managers  FIGURE 4: Importance of real estate investment managers leveraging technological 
and opportunities innovations to assess the environmental standards of their property assets
asset manager selection
31%
Even if investor organisations do not have a formal policy,  27%
ESG is certainly a significant consideration driving their  67%
selection of asset manager partners and investment  18%
opportunities. Nearly two-thirds (64%) of investors say 
12%
that ESG is a factor in their selection rationale, one-
third (33%) of whom say it is of high importance (figure  6% 5%
2). For 31% it is an ‘average’ consideration, but still  1% 49%
on the agenda. Nonetheless, while 6% consider it of 
Extremely  Quite  Average Quite  Extremely  Not at  Don’t 
extremely high importance, double that percentage do 
high high low low all know
not consider it at all important.
Green leases are pivotal FIGURE 3: Expectations of green lease clauses becoming 
23%
universally implemented between tenants and real estate 
The inclusion of ‘green clauses’ in leases is an effective  investment managers 18%
method by which to convert ESG principles into action 
on the ground within the real estate industry today.  37%
Doing so obliges the owners and occupiers of a  31% 6%
building to ensure specific environmental standards are  4%
2% 2%
maintained during occupation and to share emissions 
data,  which  is  crucial  to  implementing  resource  17%
Extremely  Quite  Neither  Quite  Extremely  Not  All   All 
efficiency strategies and furthering carbon reduction  important important important nor  unimportant unimportant important  important unimportant
9% unimportant at all
targets.
5%
With  the  collection  of  emissions  data  still  a  key 
An important aspect of green leases is that successful implementation requires a substantial 
challenge for real estate investment managers, green 
Within two  Between  Between six  More than  Don’t   amount of data on built assets. Green technology and digitisation have increased the 
leases  are  likely  to  become  increasingly  common  years three to five  to 10 years 10 years know
over the next few years. The point at which they  years volume of data that can be collected. Automatic meter readings, building management 
systems and sensors can provide an accurate profile of a building’s temperature, air 
become universally implemented between tenants and 
AVERAGE: 7.2 YEARS quality, waste production, water consumption, desk availability and so on. This means 
investment managers will mark a watershed moment 
asset managers can provide buildings that are more energy efficient and technologically 
in the real estate industry. On average, institutional  Note: Figures may not add up to 100% due to rounding
smart, which are increasingly in demand by tenants.
investors believe this will happen in just over seven 
years’ time (figure 3). Most (73%) believe it will happen  Investors appreciate the importance of real estate investment managers leveraging 
within 10 years. innovations such as automatic meter readings and building sensors to assess buildings. 
Two in three institutional investors (67%) believe it is important to do so, including 18% who 
This consensus prediction of between 7 and 10 years 
say it is ‘extremely important’ (figure 4).
is only slightly behind claims made by the United 
Nations  (UN)–supported  Principle  for  Responsible  Despite the obvious benefits, however, the collection of ESG data for built assets is a 
Investment (PRI) Investible Policy Response project.2  challenge for the real estate industry because it relies not only on technology use but also 
The industry initiative anticipates that governments  on the relationship with tenants, who own and control the data. The green leases that 
globally will significantly step up their policy responses  facilitate data collection must be negotiated with tenants. Engagement with owners and 
to tackle climate change from 2025 onwards in a way  occupiers is a fundamental tool to implementing ESG principles in asset management. For 
that is likely to be ‘forceful, abrupt, and disorderly’  this to become standard practice, a step-change in real estate managers’ behaviour is 
because of the delay in climate-related action from  required, especially for those managers with a light-touch approach to tenant engagement.
industry stakeholders. The project aims to highlight to 
investors the portfolio risks associated with financial 
markets’ failure to adequately price in these likely near-
term policy responses, within which compulsory green 
leases would be a highly effective instrument.
2  Principles for Responsible Investment, Vivid Economics and Energy 
Transition Advisors
ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019
10 11
savillsim.com
Applying ESG principles
While the global pressures for responsible investment have  in the real estate investment industry, a growing amount of ESG 
powerful  momentum,  the  full  integration  of  ESG  principles  material is coming through to help fill it. Studies examining the 
into investment processes is, for many, at an early stage of  correlation  between  corporate  sustainability  strategies  and 
development, with standardisation and industry best practices  investor returns - such as conducted by Harvard Business 
still taking shape. Investors are still having to navigate through   School  as  far  back  as  2014  -  deduced  that  corporations  
a  myriad  of  interpretations,  approaches,  frameworks  and  that systematically measure, manage and report their ESG risks 
methods. More than half (58%) of institutional investors believe  and opportunities in the 1990s outperformed peers over the  
that difficulty in valuing the risks and benefits of ESG factors is a  next 18 years.
valid reason for poor adoption of them in investment decisions. 
But our research also shows that institutional investors want more 
Indeed, 7 out of 10 believe that adoption of ESG principles in 
Stakeholders driving  investment decisions would improve with better understanding of  information and tools to benchmark and monitor their responsible 
investments: 62% of respondents believe that benchmarking is 
ESG policies ESG risks and opportunities.
an essential tool by which to measure and monitor ESG data 
The uncertainty among investors extends to the relationship  in a meaningful way. This result is reflected in the rapid rise in 
Given that the consideration of ESG factors is 
between  ESG  principles  and  investment  returns:  37%  of  adoption of the Global Real Estate Sustainability Benchmark 
becoming increasingly important, what are the 
institutional  investors  believe  that  ESG  considerations  are  (GRESB), which since its inception 10 years ago has risen from 
strongest drivers behind the views and policies 
incompatible  with  short-term  investment  returns,  while  33%  covering the ESG performance of 193 global real estate funds to 
that institutions are implementing? Nearly half 
disagree. Although there is clearly a substantial knowledge gap  over 1,500 reporting entities, equating to USD 4.5 trillion AUM.4 
(45%) of institutional investors say the views of 
underlying investors and beneficiaries, such as 
pension scheme members, are the strongest 
FIGURE 7: Adoption of ESG principles by institutional investors*
drivers (figure 5).
FIGURE 5: Strongest drivers of institutional investors’ ESG views
This illustrates the strength of public sentiment  Strongly  Neither  Strongly  Don’t  All   All 
Agree agree nor  Disagree
relating  to  ESG  concerns,  which  have  found  45% agree disagree know agree** disagree***
disagree
expression in such global movements as the 
Extinction  Rebellion  in  2019.  For  example, 
Difficulty in valuing ESG risks 
ESG  issues  are  highly  prioritised  by  younger  / benefits is a valid reason  11% 47% 17% 19% 4% 2% 58% 23%
generations of pension fund holders who would  for poor adoption of ESG in 
like to know how their money is invested. They  21% 22% investment decisions
are  scrutinising  the  environmental  and  social  Adoption of ESG in investment 
rankings in their portfolios as well as the financial  decisions would improve with  17% 53% 18% 9% 2% 1% 70%  11%
returns, applying bottom-up pressure that is likely  5% 7% better understanding of ESG 
risks and opportunities
to increase over time.
Benchmarking is an essential 
Yet our research also reveals top-down pressure:  Underlying  Investment  Your  Industry  Other tool to measure and monitor  12% 50% 24% 8% 5% 2% 62% 13%
The second strongest driver of an institution’s  investors and  managers organisation’s  organisations  ESG data in a meaningful way
beneficiaries board / senior  (e.g., PREA, 
ESG policies and views is its board and senior  Management REALpac, INREV, 
ESG considerations are 
ANREV, EPRA)
management,  cited  by  22%  of  institutional  incompatible with short-term  12% 25% 28% 23% 10% 2% 37% 33%
investors. A majority (52%) also see board and  investment returns
senior management as the ones most responsible  FIGURE 6: Parties seen as responsible for driving ESG adoption  *Figures may not add up to 100% due to rounding
for driving ESG adoption in investment decisions  in investment decisions by institutions* ** ‘All agree’ is summation of ‘Strongly agree’ and ‘Agree’ columns
(figure 6). ***‘All disagree’ is total of ‘Strongly agree’ and ‘Agree’ columns
While boards and senior management will no 
doubt have consciences and wish to do the 
right thing, it would also seem that they are  52% 40% 10% 9%
responding to pressures from below, as well as 
governance  legislation.  Reporting  the  gender 
pay gap between male and female employees, 
for  example  –  considered  an  indicator  of  Board / Senior  Portfolio  ESG Manager Other
good governance – since 2017 it has been a  Management Manager(s)
requirement for companies in the UK with 250 or 
more employees.3 *Respondents could select more than one answer
3 Gender pay gap reporting: overview, Advisory, Conciliation and Arbitration services; Government Equalities Office, 2017 4 GRESB, 2019
ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019
12 13
savillsim.com
Benchmarking ESG
Drilling further down into investors’ processes, our research 
shows the most common mechanisms used to formulate 
investment decisions around ESG.
50% of institutional investors cited analysing investment 
managers’ reports as the most influential mechanism in 
helping them make investment allocation and manager 
selection decisions (figure 8). This figure is likely to increase 
as ESG reporting becomes a standard requirement within 
the investment community. For shareholders, for example, 
ESG factors are becoming a standard metric to measure 
portfolio performance alongside financial returns.
However, the differing nature of ‘E,’ ‘S’ and ‘G’ criteria 
means the measurement of each also differs, with impacts 
on  the  environment  being  traditionally  much  easier  to 
quantify. For example, the tonnage of CO2 emissions saved 
by modernising a building is readily calculated. Measures of 
social impacts are more challenging. Although numerous 
frameworks to assess quantitative social metrics – such 
as the number of people provided access to supportive or 
social housing – are emerging, understanding true social 
impact requires frameworks that accommodate the highly 
context-specific and qualitative nature of social impacts. 
FIGURE 8. Mechanisms used by institutional investors to make ESG-based investment decisions*
As real estate investors seek more rigour in the assessment 
of ESG portfolio performance, the need for comparable  50%
standards is being met by the establishment of benchmarks 
and quality hallmarks. The PRI for example benchmarks 
ESG  policies  and  performance  at  the  corporate  level; 
whilst  GRESB  benchmarks  ESG  performance  at  the 
35%
portfolio level; and regional, asset level certification such 
as  the  Building  Research  Establishment  Environmental  30%
Assessment  Method  (BREEAM),  German  Sustainable  28% 28%
25%
Building  Certificate  (DGNB)  and  Development  Bank  of 
22% 22%
Japan (DBJ) Green Building Certification indicate high levels 
of environmental sustainability at asset-level. 18%
Asset-level  certification  has  expanded  in  the  past  five  11% 11% 12%
years to include not only environmental but also social  9% 9%
certification such as the WELL Standard, which promotes 
occupants’  health  and  well-being.5  Pressure  will  only 
grow on investment managers to report transparently and 
awcilcl ubrea tcerluyc. iMal ocsritt,e irfi an boyt  wallh, icohf  tthoe d om seon.tioned benchmarks  *ReESG reportingspondents coScreening policiesuld select upProxy voting on  toESG issues three optionESG target settings Tailored ESG strategies for investors UNPRI signatory status Adherence to industry standards (e.g. INREV Sustainability guidelines) CEO and Board accountability Benchmarking (e.g. GRESB) Publishing ESG research ESG cost benefit analysis and financial modelling Representation at public events Case studies Other
 5 International Well Building Institute, 2019
ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019
14 15
savillsim.com
Employees’ well-being an established priority
Social  issues  are  important  to  responsible  real  estate  importance to them is worker well-being (60%) and health 
investors. Given the global trend in urbanisation, sustainability  and  safety  (60%).  Other  issues  of  importance  include 
and socio-economic issues around the built environment  human rights (50%), community impact (46%), stakeholder 
in which we work, live and play are becoming increasingly  engagement (32%) and talent management (17%).
important.
The  working  population  now  includes  the  millennial 
Those involved in the real estate sector must think more  generation who expect their investments to provide – a  
Climate change concerns 
about what is happening to the people using buildings and  better  working  environment  that  offers  the  flexibility 
increasingly material FIGURE 9: Environmental issues that are ‘highly important’ to  those in the surrounding communities. One area in which  required for a better work-life balance. There is increasing 
institutional investors* real estate investors are beginning to recognise their ability  consciousness  of  the  fact  that  it  is  not  just  the  ESG 
There  is  now  intense  focus  globally  on  the  to make a positive social impact is investing in affordable,  credentials of tenants that need to be questioned, but  
impacts  of  climate  change  on  real  assets,  social and supportive housing. also  an  examination  of  the  whole  supply  from  which  
which  is  influencing  investors.  Despite  the  61% 20% they might procure supplies.
    Nonetheless, institutional investors have other expectations 
2015  Paris  Agreement  recommending  that 
Climate change  Sustainable  too: Our research shows that the social issues of most 
global  temperatures  increase  no  more  than 
resilience development / fit-out
two Degrees Celsius (o C) above pre-industrial 
levels, the Intergovernmental Panel for Climate 
Change’s  (IPCC)  2018  Special  Report  goes 
further to recommend that policies must target 
49% 17%
limiting global temperature increases to no more     
FIGURE 10: Social issues that are ‘highly important’ 
than 1.5o C above pre-industrial levels to avoid  Energy efficiency Green building  to institutional investors*
catastrophic consequences.6   certification
However,  the  latest  figures  from  the  World 
60%
Meteorological  Organization  indicate  we  are  49% 14%    
currently on track for a 3-5o C rise in the next 80    Worker wellbeing
Water efficiency Biodiversity
years. Furthermore, the global temperature rise 
appears to be accelerating, having risen by 0.2o 
60%  
C between 2011 and 2015 alone versus 1.1o C in 
total since 1850.7  39%   10% Health and safety
 
This growing concern is reflected in our research, 
Waste management Indoor air quality
with climate change resilience ranked as the  50%  
most important environmental concern among 
institutional investors (61%) (figure 9). The related  Human rights
factor  of  energy  efficiency  is  cited  by  49%,  39% 2%  
 
reflecting investor sentiment that climate change 
Innovation / green  Mandatory green   46%  
mitigation  –  that  is,  reducing  the  real  estate 
technology lease clauses
sector’s impact on global warming by reducing  Community impact
emissions – is also highly material.
Climate change also presents a major risk factor  32%  
in terms of returns for real estate investors. With  20%  7%  
Stakeholder engagement
extreme weather events and changes to the  Sustainable property  Other
environmental regulatory landscape increasing,  management
climate  concerns  are  beginning  to  impact 
17%  
liquidity prospects in the near to mid-term. For 
example, an inefficient building might fail to meet  *Respondents could select up to three options Talent management
environmental standards.
6%  
Other
6 Special Report on Global Warming of 1.5 °C, IPCC, 2018
7 United in Science, compiled by the World Meteorological Organization under the auspices of the Science Advisory Group of the UN Climate Change Summit 2019, September 2019  *Respondents could select up to three options
ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019
16 17
savillsim.com
Investors’ ESG demands will only increase
Institutional investors’ demands for more  on  the  financial  impact  of  climate 
Governance is a bedrock issue for managers responsible real estate investments will  change  and  how  they  are  building 
only become more exacting. They accept  climate  resilience  into  their  operating 
Governance is extremely important in real estate investment due to the fiduciary  that they still have much to learn and are  models. The TCFD Framework aims to 
responsibility, duty of care and regulated nature of the industry, where certain  still largely unsure of methodologies and  develop ‘voluntary, consistent climate-
performance information must be supplied to clients and shareholders. Failure to  approaches. But they are determined  related financial risk disclosures for use 
provide this information, which increasingly includes ESG elements alongside financial  that their real estate investments will play  by companies in providing information to 
performance,  creates  regulatory  and  reputational  risks  with  potentially  serious  a positive role in the global movement  stakeholders’.8 
commercial implications that investment managers must control. towards  meeting  environmental  and 
Falling short of regulatory environmental 
social justice goals, not least because 
An emerging issue in the responsible investing arena is that questions are being raised  or  social  standards  and/or  societal 
of the pressure they are already seeing 
about whether companies really are as ethical as their ESG scores would suggest.  expectations  could  be  punished  by 
from more environmentally and socially 
Investors are increasingly switched on to ‘greenwashing,’ used to describe investment  fines and failure to lease or sell assets. 
conscious generations of workers and 
products and strategies which claim to be more sustainable than their performance  As such, the questions investors are 
shareholders. This means they will want 
would show them to be, in reality. asking  of  investment  managers  are 
to see investment managers who truly 
more involved than ever before. They 
Institutional investors are aware of this, and our research shows that the most  walk the walk – rather than just talk 
are no longer satisfied with case studies 
important governance issue to them, by some distance, is transparency, which was  the talk – of ESG, and those who look 
providing  cherry-picked  evidence  of 
cited by approximately three in four (74%) of our respondents. This was followed by risk  to close the gaps between sustainable 
conformity with ESG standards. Instead, 
management (64%), ethical investment (48%), equality and diversity (42%), the gender  policy and performance. 
comprehensive reporting is increasingly 
pay gap and equal pay (27%) as well as maintaining a responsible supply chain (25%).
Responsibly  invested  real  estate  required, with performance measured in 
portfolios are no longer a ‘nice to have’.  more than just annualised percentage 
FIGURE 11: Governance issues that are ‘highly important’ to institutional investors* Investment managers are increasingly  returns but also in terms of ESG scores.
expected to provide full transparency 
While  there  might  currently  be  a 
around the ESG goals they target and 
significant  knowledge  gap  among 
how positive social and environmental 
institutional  investors  around  ESG 
progress may be achieved. Nor is ESG 
issues,  this  is  closing  fast.  Going 
separate from investment, reputational 
74% 64% 48% 42% forwards, they have shown a desire to 
and  business  risk.  Rather,  it  is 
partner with those investment managers 
increasingly  necessary  for  managers 
who have the experience and networks 
to integrate ESG into risk management 
to source a pipeline of assets that meet 
policies and processes. This is indicated 
their ESG goals – and have the expertise 
Transparency Risk  Ethical  Equality and  by the Task Force for Climate-related 
management investment diversity and technological abilities to manage 
Financial Disclosure (TCFD) framework, 
and report on those assets in a fully 
created  in  response  to  increasing 
transparent manner.
demand  for  consistent,  comparable, 
actionable disclosure from companies 
27% 25% 4%
Gender pay gap  Responsible  Other
and equal pay supply chain
*Respondents could select up to three options
8 Task Force for Climate Related Financial Disclosure; Financial Stability Board, 2017
ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019
18 19
savillsim.com
Scope and purpose of this report
This section of our report details our progress against our sustainability 
Reporting our  goals, alignment with the Sustainable Development Goals and the 2016 
INREV Sustainable Reporting Guidelines. The progress reported against 
our ESG targets covers the 12-month period ending 31 December 2019, 
unless specified otherwise 
As  a  signatory  of  the  UN-aligned  Principles  for  Responsible 
2019 sustainability 
Investment, since 2014 we have also reported transparently against 
the PRI reporting framework. Savills IM’s 2019 Transparency report is 
available  here:    https://www.unpri.org/signatories/savills-investment-
management/1743.article, and may be read in conjunction with this 
report. The PRI assessment methodology is available here:  https://
performance
www.unpri.org/signatories/about-pri-assessment.  This  year  we  are 
proud to have achieved the maximum score grade to an A+ for Strategy 
and Governance (improved from an A in 2018), and maintained an A for 
the Property module, in the latest PRI Assessment report. Our 2019 
Assessment report is available on request.
3 ESG-LTS 1.1 Requirement
Best practice reporting: INREV 
Sustainable Reporting Guidelines
This ESG report is aligned with the 2016 INREV Sustainability Reporting 
Guidelines and includes elements to comply with the mandatory 
reporting requirements as well as elements representing best practice 
recommendations of the INREV Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. 
This report specifies compliance against the mandatory requirements 
and best practice elements of the INREV Sustainability Reporting 
Guidelines framework, however, the Guidelines include references to 
other industry standards which are implemented in the non-listed real 
estate industry; PRI, GRESB, GRI and EPRA. Full details of how the 
2016 INREV Sustainability Reporting Guidelines align to other industry 
standards refer can be found in section 8.4 Alignment with Industry 
Standards, of the full guidelines here: https://www.inrev.org/guidelines/
modulea/sustainability#inrev-guidelines.
INREV Guidelines Compliance 
Statement
The European Association for Investors in Non-Listed Real Estate 
Vehicle  (INREV)  published  the  revised  INREV  Guidelines  in  2014 
incorporating industry standards in the fields of Corporate Governance, 
Reporting, Property Valuation, Performance Measurement, INREV NAV, 
Fees and Expense Metrics, Liquidity and Sustainability Reporting. The 
Assessments follow these guidelines.
INREV provides an Assessment Tool to determine a vehicle compliance 
rate  with  the  INREV  Guidelines  as  a  whole  and  its  modules  in 
particular. These guidelines were designed for application at vehicle-
level reporting, therefore an element of judgement has been used to 
ensure the questions are relevant when applied for this report, which 
discloses ESG performance at a corporate level for Savills Investment 
Management LLP. 
ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019
20 21
savillsim.com
Sustainability goals and our progress towards them
Savills IM’s overall approach to setting a long term ESG strategy  As such, our corporate ESG strategy incorporates the feedback of 
acknowledges that we have a duty to our clients, partners  identified stakeholders to shape the policy, processes and methods 
and stakeholders within the broader communities in which we  used to manage ESG across the portfolios which Savills IM owns 
operate to consider how environmental, social and governance  and manages on behalf of our clients. The strategy is documented in 
aspects of our investment and business activities impact vehicle  an annually reviewed roadmap which includes the specific medium 
performance, alongside financial returns.  and long-term objectives and targets within a specified one to three-
year timeframe, which furthers ESG-ANN 1.1 Requirement. 
Goal Geographic Coverage Timescale SDG alignment INREV Sustainable Guideline alignment Progress (ESG-POR 1:1 Requirement; ESG-POR 2:1 Best Practice)
1.1 Develop process to identify improvements to  Dec - 2019 ESG-LTS 1.1 Requirement (Strategy to reduce and/ Process to systematically identify assets for technical audits established and available to global 
asset efficiency via technical energy, water,  or measure GHG emissions and water and waste  investment teams via company intranet.
waste and health and well-being audits. management)
1.2 Measure and store resource and energy  Dec - 2020 ESG-ANN 1.1 Requirement (Reduce/ measure energy,  On track. By the end of 2019, asset level information required to collect the data in 2020 has been 
consumption data for at least 80% of directly  GHG emission, water, waste management) assimilated. 
managed assets* in an ESG data platform.
1.3 Identify a net zero carbon pathway, outlining  Dec - 2020 ESG-ENV 1.1 Requirement On track; the completion of this objective will be facilitated by objective 1.2.
Savills IM’s trajectory towards net zero 
carbon for new and existing buildings; set  ESG-ANN 1.1 Requirement (Reduce/ measure energy, 
initial like-for-like reduction targets that  GHG emission, water, waste management)
support this commitment and report on 
al progress annually.
t
n
e 1.4 Develop a process to systematically identify  July 2019 ESG-ANN 1.1 Requirement (Green building  Complete. By year-end 2019, assets in portfolios managed by Savills IM have been awarded 60 
m buildings for certification at asset level. certification) environmental and health and well-being certificates.
n
o
r
vi
n
E
 
1. 1.5 Increase participation in Global Real Estate  Dec 2019 ESG-LTS / ESG-ANN 2.1 Best Practice (Participation  Complete. For more detailed reporting on Savills IM’s GRESB performance see the ‘Benchmarking 
Sustainability Benchmark (GRESB) and  in the GRESB survey or/and development of GRESB  our portfolio sustainability’ section of this report. 
improve scores across participating entities. scores)
1.6 Enhance tenant engagement and  3-year period,  ESG-LTS 2.1 Best Practice (Stakeholder activities) On track. In 2018, engagement surveys and tenant sustainability guides were sent to tenants in 
understanding by conducting tenant  2017-2020 portfolios equating to 50% of AUM managed on behalf of by Savills IM clients, in the UK. 
engagement surveys to understand 
sustainability materiality and identify 
opportunities for collaboration.
1.7 Develop processes to manage climate- 2022 On track. An independent sustainability consultant has been commissioned to review Savills IM’s 
related risks in alignment with the Task Force  current climate risk-related processes. A recommendation report and detailed TCFD roadmap 
for Climate-related Financial Disclosure  has been delivered to management. As a PRI signatory, from March 2020 we will be reporting our 
(TCFD) framework. alignment against the TCFD framework in the Annual Transparency Report.
ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019
22 23
savillsim.com
Goal Geographic Coverage Timescale SDG alignment INREV Sustainable Guideline alignment Progress (ESG-POR 1:1 Requirement)
2.1 Develop and implement a health and  Dec 2019 Technical audit identification process in objective 1.1 includes conducting Health and Well-being 
well-being strategy for funds, applicable  audits at the asset level.
at asset level.
al 2.2 Upskill and educate staff by delivering an  Dec 2020 On track. From Q4 2019 an online sustainability training module was available for all Savills IMstaff 
ci ESG training program. and part of induction training for new starters. In 2020, technical ESG training will be developed. 
o Over the reporting period, 220 hours of staff ESG training was delivered to 71 staff, across our global 
S offices.  
 
.
2
2.3 Develop a global corporate social  Dec 2020 On track. Savills IM staff are present on the Savills PLC CSR Committee, ensuring alignment to our 
responsibility program to scale up the  parent company as a fully owned subsidiary. For a detailed report on Savills IM’s 2019 CSR see the 
positive social and environmental impact  ‘Corporate Responsibility’ section of this report.
of Savills IM’s corporate operations.
3.1 Senior management to have ESG related  Dec 2018 and  ESG-LTS / ESG-ANN 2.1 Best practice (employee KPIs  From the start of 2019, all members of the Global Executive Committee (GEC) have had an objective 
KPIs.  ongoing for ESG) to embed ESG into the culture and fabric of Savills IM’s business. 
3.2 Disclose corporate ESG strategy,  Dec 2019 This annual ESG report, broadly aligned to 2016 INREV Sustainable Reporting Guidelines, 
targets and progress in annual ESG  demonstrates fulfillment of objective 3.2.
report, broadly aligned with best-
practice industry sustainability reporting 
guidelines.
3.3 Implement and continue to manage  Mar 2019   ESG-LTS / ESG-ANN 2.1 Best practice (Environmental  Savills IM’s corporate ESG roadmap, as detailed in this section of the report, demonstrates fulfillment 
Savills IM’s corporate ESG policy,  and ongoing Management System) of objective 3.3.
including track goals and progress 
towards them, via an Environmental 
Management System.
3.4 Review ESG policies and processes  Dec 2019 ESG-LTS 2.1 Best Practice (Supply chain management  In 2019 a suite of ESG policies and processes relating to acquisition, procurement, tenant fit-
e to ensure they reflect current best- strategy, tenant engagement) out, refurbishment, tenant sustainability guidance and stakeholder engagement were updated in 
c practice in relation to ESG integration in  collaboration with our independent sustainability consultant. The feedback of relevant global staff 
n acquisition, procurement, tenant fit-out,  ESG-ANN 2.1 Best Practice (Supply chain  has been integrated into the policies following workshops, reflecting the participatory stakeholder 
na refurbishment, tenant sustainability  management strategy, tenant engagement) engagement integral to Savills IM’s ESG policy development.
er gpuoildicaiensc ea nadn dp rsotcaeksesheosld.er engagement  ESG-LTS / ESG-ANN 1.1 Requirement (New build / 
v Refurbishment and Acquisition)
o
G ESG-LTS / ESG-ANN 2.1 Best Practice (Description of 
  how policies are developed)
.
3
3.5 Define and document Savills IM’s core  Jun 2019 In April 2019, a workshop was conducted in which senior and global Savills IM staff defined core ESG 
ESG values. values. These are available in the first section of this report and on our website: http://www.savillsim.
com/responsible-investment/#. The values are supported by SMART ESG objectives, targeted for 
integration into staff appraisal management from 2020.
3.6 Conduct a review of current ESG-related  Dec 2019 ESG-LTS 1.2 Requirement In 2019, Savills IM’s internal Risk and Compliance function completed a review of the materiality 
legislation to scope possible business  of ESG-related regulatory risks in the UK and continental Europe, such as the impacts of the EU 
risk and preparedness for any future  ESG-ANN 1.2 Requirement Sustainable Finance Taxonomy. As a PRI signatory who are required to report our alignment to 
legislation over next 12 months.  the TCFD framework in March 2020, in Q4 2019 Savills IM mandated a sustainability consultant to 
ESG-POR 1.2 Requirement
conduct a review of current climate-risk related processes, to ensure preparedness for alignment to 
the framework.
3.7 Complete disclosure of responsible  Mar 2019 As a signatory of the PRI since 2014, Savills IM transparently disclosed its responsible investment 
investment policies and performance  policies and practices for the fifth year running. We maintained our score of A in the Direct: Property 
against the PRI reporting framework; aim  module and improved to A+ in Strategy and Governance.
to maintain annual Assessment Report 
score
*Within designated measurement parameters
ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019
24 25
savillsim.com
Benchmarking 
our portfolio 
sustainability
In 2019, Savills IM monitored and reported like-for-like and absolute 
water, waste, energy and GHG emissions data for assets under the 
manager’s control to the Global Real Estate Sustainability Benchmark 
(GRESB) for eleven funds and mandates, equating to EUR 5.56 billion 
of assets under management.  
In 2019, six participating funds and mandates achieved Green Star 
Status, indicating above 50% in both Management and Policy, and 
Implementation and Management modules. 
All participating entities improved their overall score in 2019. On 
average,  Savills  IM’s  participating  entities  increased  their  overall 
GRESB score by 12 percentage points year on year, 2018-2019, 
against a 5 percentage point change in GRESB average score.
Entity-level GRESB scores and environmental data can be requested 
via the GRESB online reporting portal.
3 ESG-ENV 1.1 Requirement
3 ESG-ENV 2.1 Best Practice 
ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019
26 27
savillsim.com
Local community  “
Corporate  On  16  October  2019,  Savills  IM  staff  seconded  to  Savills 
Malaysia supported World Food Day by taking part in the Clean  IT IS OUR ROLE AS 
Plate Challenge, diverting food from landfill and raising enough 
money for the Lost Food Project to feed 3,510 people in need,  A RESPONSIBLE 
in Malaysia. The Lost Food Project is Malaysia’s leading food 
bank and rescues quality, nutritious  surplus  food  that  would  
Responsibility INVESTOR AND 
otherwise  end  up  in landfill, redistributing it to those who need 
it most regardless of religion, gender, age, disability or ethnic 
BUSINESS TO DO 
group. Since launching in April 2016,  the  Project  has  rescued 
enough  surplus  food  for  almost  2  million  meals  for  those  
WHAT WE CAN 
in  need  and prevented  over  1  million  kilograms of carbon 
emissions from entering the atmosphere. 
TO POSITIVELY 
IMPACT THE 
We understand that it is our role as a responsible 
ENVIRONMENT, 
investor and business to do what we can to 
GBP 
positively impact the environment, our people 
and the local communities in which we operate.  25,000 OUR PEOPLE 
Alongside our ESG policy which focuses on 
AND THE LOCAL 
the  environmental,  social  and  governance 
performance of the portfolios we manage and 
COMMUNITIES 
own on behalf of our clients, Savills IM operates 
a Corporate Responsibility policy which furthers 
IN WHICH WE 
social and environmental goals in relation to  20
 different 
these three pillars. 
charities OPERATE. 
Savills IM supports staff to give their time for 
charitable fundraising or volunteering, via paid 
Charity Leave. 
In 2019, Savills IM staff volunteered, fundraised 
and  made  contributions-in-kind  equating  to 
over  GBP  25,000,  supporting  20  different  over   “ In Germany, staff volunteered at a home for people with 
special needs close to our Hamburg office, carrying 
charities over the 12-month period. 12-months
out improvements to create a more welcoming outside 
Below is a snapshot of some of the philanthropic  space for residents and visitors by cleaning the terrace, 
initiatives supported by Savills IM over this time. cutting back hedges, removing weeds and felling trees. 
In Frankfurt, staff volunteered with local kindergarten 
and children’s education groups, improving playgrounds 
and taking groups to Frankfurt Zoo.
ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019
28 29
savillsim.com
Our people
Training and communication are an important  Savills IM know that diversity and inclusion are important principles 
component of how Savills IM fulfils our role as  which enhance our ability to make inclusive decisions, by ensuring 
a responsible company. On 4 April 2019 Savills  different points of view are heard. As such we are aligned to the 
IM hosted a sustainability breakfast for our  Savills Group Equality and Diversity Policy and are working to 
staff at the Siemens Crystal in London – one  create a working environment where we embrace agile working 
of the worlds’ most sustainable buildings. The  and offer flexible work opportunities allowing our staff to better 
key  note  speaker  was  sustainability  expert  balance work and outside-work commitments and enhancing 
and practicing architect Michael Pawlyn, who  professional opportunities in particular for those with childcare 
hosted a lecture and Q&A on ‘Biomimicry:  responsibilities. 
Mimicking Nature’s Genius’ which was shared 
Our principles of diversity and inclusion extend to our investment 
online across our global offices. Michael is a 
management activities: in 2019, staff from Savills IM committed 
published author and TED Talk speaker, and 
to inspiring more young women into the Property Investment 
specializes  in  how  business  professionals 
Management  industry  by  organizing  tours  and  presentations 
can learn from nature to develop sustainable 
at development sites for A level students at a London girls’ 
solutions, known as biomimicry. Michael was 
school. In Luxembourg, staff volunteered their time for Dress for 
also one of the principle architects for the 
Success: a charity which empowers women to achieve economic 
transformative Eden Project, in the UK. 
independence and thrive in work and home life by providing 
them with a support network, professional clothing and crucial 
development tools.
Environment 
In the UK, staff continued an ongoing contribution to the Canal and 
River Trust by donating their time to clean London’s waterways, picking 
litter, maintaining the tow path and cutting back vegetation to improve 
the local waterway and towpath environment. The Canal and River trust 
looks after 2,000 miles of canals, rivers, docks and reservoirs across 
the UK, visited by an estimated 18–20 million people each year, 4.3 
million of whom visit regularly, making them one of the UK’s largest 
free-to-access cultural spaces. The Trust plays a vital role in protecting 
and maintaining the UK’s waterway environmental. Staff across all three 
of our German offices donated their time to maintaining the enhancing 
their local environment. A team in Munich improved the grounds of a 
local educational support centre for young people by clearing leaves, 
weeding, pruning and laying bark mulch to improve soil condition. In 
Frankfurt staff re-laid a local a playground by distributing several man-
high sacks of mulch around in the area. 
At the end of 2019, we have collected electricity consumption data 
across nine of the 16 offices occupied by Savills IM and will work 
“ towards  more  complete  disclosure  in  future  reporting.  The  total 
absolute electricity consumption reported across these nine offices in 
2019 was 300,001kWh*.
DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION 
To allow for future annual comparisons, based on the seven assets 
ARE IMPORTANT PRINCIPLES  occupied for the full 12 months of 2019 with reported data, the 
electricity intensity of Savills IM occupied offices was 152kWh/m2 in 
WHICH ENHANCE OUR  the 2019 calendar year.  
ABILITY TO MAKE INCLUSIVE 
* Data has been included where data was available for at least nine months of the year, with 
DECISIONS extrapolation to cover the full 12 months of 2019 where applicable. Where offices have only 
been occupied for less than 9 months of the year, absolute data has not been extrapolated 
and covers the period of occupancy only
ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019
30 31
savillsim.com
IMPORTANT NOTICE
This document is for information purposes only and has been prepared by Savills 
Third party 
Investment Management LLP, a limited liability partnership authorised and regulated by 
the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) of the United Kingdom under firm reference number 
615368, registration number OC306423 (England), and having its registered office at 33 
assurance statement
Margaret Street, London W1G 0JD.  Property is not a financial Instrument as defined by the 
Markets in Financial Instruments Directive under European regulation; consequently, the 
direct investment into and management of property is not regulated by the FCA.
EVORA Global Limited (“EVORA”) was engaged by the directors of Savills 
This document may not be reproduced, in whole or in part and in any form, without the 
Investment Management LLP (“Savills IM”) to provide Type 2 Moderate  permission of Savills Investment Management LLP. To the extent that it is passed on, 
Assurance of Savills IM’s 2019 ESG report for the year ending 31 December  care must be taken to ensure that this is in a form that accurately reflects the information 
2019 in accordance with AccountAbility’s AA1000 Assurance Standard  presented here.
2008 with 2018 Addendum (AA1000AS) and the 2016 INREV Sustainability 
Certain statements included in this document are forward looking and are therefore subject 
Reporting Guidelines.
to risks, assumptions and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially 
EVORA’s scope of assurance covered a series of indicators and assertions  from those expressed or implied because they relate to future events. Consequently, 
the actual performance and results could differ materially from the plans, goals and 
contained in the report including:
expectations set out in our forward-looking statements. Accordingly, no assurance can be 
•  Electricity Consumption (absolute) of Savills IM Offices given that any particular expectation will be met, and readers are cautioned not to place 
undue reliance on forward-looking statements that speak only at their respective dates. 
•  Global Electricity Intensity of Savills IM Offices
Any reference made to specific investments is purely for the purposes of illustration and 
•  Investor Survey Results should not be construed as a recommendation. Savills Investment Management will only 
provide information on its investment products and services and does not provide other 
•  Progress against Savills IM Sustainability Goals
investment advice. Whilst Savills Investment Management believe that the information 
•  Charitable Leave Policy is correct at the date of this document, no warranty or representation is given to this 
effect and no responsibility can be accepted by Savills Investment Management to any 
•  Percentage of profits dedicated to philanthropic goals intermediaries or end users for any action taken based on the information.
•  PRI Grade (2019 and 2018) Past performance is not necessarily a guide to future performance. The information 
contained herein should not be taken as an indicator of investment returns that will be 
•  Alignment with INREV Sustainability Reporting Guidelines
achieved, as this will depend on a variety of factors. Property can be difficult to sell, and it 
•  GRESB 2019 Summary Benchmarking Data may be difficult to realise investments when desired. This is a marketing communication. 
It has not been prepared in accordance with the legal requirements designed to promote 
Nothing came to our attention that causes us to believe that the preparation  the independence of investment research and is not subject to any promotion on dealing 
of the 2019 ESG Report is not in accordance with the AA1000 Accountability  ahead of the dissemination of investment research.
Principles 2018. Furthermore, nothing has come to our attention that 
All rights reserved by Savills Investment Management LLP.
causes us to believe that the Savills IM 2019 ESG report is not prepared 
in accordance with the 2016 INREV Sustainability Reporting Guidelines 
and the AA1000 Assurance Standard 2008 (with 2018 Addendum), in all 
ABOUT SAVILLS INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT
material respects, for the year ending 31 December 2019.
Savills Investment Management is an international real estate investment manager with 
A copy of EVORA’s assurance statement is available upon request.
offices in Australia, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, Luxembourg, Malaysia, the Netherlands, 
Date of Assurance: 14 February 2020. the Nordics, Poland, Singapore, Spain and the UK.
Savills Investment Management manages real estate worth circa EUR 18.9 billion worldwide 
(as of Q3 2019). Savills Investment Management offers comprehensive real estate asset 
and fund management services in the form of individual mandates and fund solutions for a 
broad spectrum of investors, including insurance companies, pension funds, foundations 
and family offices. The investment styles range from core to opportunistic. 
Savills Investment Management is part of the Savills group, whose parent company, Savills 
plc, is a London-listed global real estate services company.
