
ANNUAL REPORT
2020-21
 
A year in transition


,
Table of contents
Highlights 2020-2021  6
Who we are
Letter from the ALFI Chairperson  8
Letter from the ALFI Director General  9
Achieving our strategic priorities  11
Savings and pension products  11
Creating a framework that helps sustainable products flourish  12
Extending the global reach of UCITS as a multi-purpose solution  12
Broadening access to alternative investments  12
Driving innovation and the digital transformation of the Luxembourg  
funds industry  12
Our members  14
Types of membership  14
ALFI head office  15
Organisational chart  15
Governing bodies  16
Involvement in other associations  19
Helping members capitalise on industry trends
Involvement: technical committees  21
Access to exclusive content  22
Members section and dedicated membership communication  22
Connection and visibility  23
Shaping regulation
Legal and regulatory expertise   25
Covid-19  25
AIFMD  26
Sustainable finance  27
PEPP  28
ELTIF  28
MiFID II/MiFIR  29
CMU 
GDPR  31
PRIIPS  32
Brexit  33
Tax  34
Risk management   36
Depositary banking  37
Digital and Fintech  38
Brussels representative office  40
ALFI responses to consultations   41
,
Fostering dedication to professional standards, integrity 
and quality
Deep talent pool and training initiatives  43
Anti-money laundering initiatives  44
Promoting the Luxembourg fund industry
Events  47
From physical to digital  47
Flagship events  47
Roadshows/Digi Pulse events  48
Expert briefings and thematic conferences  49
List of events organised during the period under review  49
Communications  54
Website   54
Social media  55
Campaigns  56
Press  57
Publications  58
State of the industry: statistics
Assets under management in the European investment fund industry  60 
The 10 largest investment fund domiciles in Europe   60
Net assets under management in Luxembourg funds  61
Growth in alternative investment funds  61
Number of Luxembourg investment funds  62
Number of Luxembourg fund units  62
Legal status of Luxembourg-domiciled investment funds  63
Market shares of initiators by origin   63
Investment policy (based on assets) of Luxembourg funds   64
Fund flows per asset class  64
Appendix
Structure of ALFI committees 2020/2021  66
5
Highlights 2020-2021
Luxembourg fund centre
• Total net assets in Luxembourg investment 
funds hit the EUR 5 trillion mark in 
January 2021
• Continuous growth in private assets
○  AuM of regulated real estate investment 
funds increased by 7.22% in 2020
○  AuM of private debt funds increased by 
36.2% in 2020 to a total of EUR 108.4 
billion
• Leader for sustainable funds in 
Europe
○  Net AuM in Luxembourg sustainable 
funds account for EUR 371 bn  
by the end of 2020.
Promotion
• All ALFI events are held virtually
• ALFI Digi Pulse brand becomes the new virtual 
format for ALFI Roadshows
• An ALFI online conference platform was launched at 
the ALFI Rentrée, ALFI’s very first 5-day digital 
conference
• Over 9,500 fund professionals registered for 16 
virtual conferences and 9 Digi Pulse events 
• ALFI published 12 technical guidelines, 
Q&A documents and recommendations 
exclusive to ALFI members, 2 surveys and 
6 general publications
• New series of videos providing thought 
leadership content to its members and expert 
audience
• 130+ articles published in media outlets worldwide
• 11 press releases 
Legal and regulatory work
• ALFI issued 27 position papers and 
comments on legislative and regulatory 
proposals 
• 1,773 members in over 200 
ALFI Technical Committees and 
Working Groups
D&I
• ALFI committed to promoting diversity by 
signing the Diversity Charter Lëtzebuerg
• ALFI launched the ALFI Diversity and 
Inclusion Forum and organised a webinar, 
Why diversity matters
*Period under review: 1 June 2020 – 31 May 2021
6
Who we are
Established in 1988, the Association of the Luxembourg 
Fund Industry (ALFI) represents the face and voice of 
the Luxembourg asset management and investment fund 
community, championing mainstream, private assets and 
sustainable investing. ALFI seeks to promote Luxembourg’s 
fund sector internationally, and to cultivate for the benefit of 
its members a collaborative, dynamic and innovative ecosystem 
underpinned by the most robust regulatory framework. 
Our mission is to lead industry efforts to make 
Luxembourg the most attractive investment fund centre.
Letter from the ALFI Chairperson
A people industry For the second time, I am looking back over  the importance of long-term savings to mitigate 
a period – a full year this time – of living our  the pensions gap has only grown. 
lives during a pandemic. Our work lives as well 
as our private lives have been affected, and  An encouraging piece of news came in January, 
for many people, they have also merged to an  when assets under management (AuM) in 
extent. With some pleasant consequences and  Luxembourg funds surpassed the EUR 5 bn 
some other less pleasant ones. It is striking how  mark. Our hopes are that the way out of the 
very varied our responses to this situation have  pandemic is supported by responsible growth 
been and continue to be. I know of people who  that benefits society as a whole. 
absolutely relish the remote work environment 
that many of us are still in, and who thrive  In retrospect, I am sure that we have all 
in these often more flexible conditions. But  learned something from Covid-19, individually 
I also know of those whose circumstances are  and, I hope, as a community as well. Let us 
such that they really struggle. For them, there  take what these challenging times have taught 
is promise in the ongoing vaccination efforts  us, and let us embrace the opportunities which 
in Luxembourg and neighbouring countries –  lie ahead of us. 
finally a light at the end of the tunnel. 
I would like to express my gratitude to our 
To my mind, it is only natural that people react  members and the ALFI Board of Directors for 
differently to disruption – we are all different,  working tirelessly to achieve the association’s 
our backgrounds and circumstances are, our  goals and help moving our industry forward. 
personalities and coping mechanisms are, too.  I would also like to thank everyone on the 
It is after all an expression of our diversity.  advisory bodies of ALFI and in ALFI working 
Diversity is more than a mélange of people  groups and forums for contributing their time 
with certain formal, measurable indicators  and expertise throughout the year. 
such as nationality, sex or age. It goes 
beyond questions such as which side of the  Let us connect people so that they can meet 
Luxembourg borders we live, whether we are  their financial goals, and let us connect with 
parents or not, and what our level of education  society at large to build a sustainable future. 
is. From a talent perspective, personality 
factors can be just as relevant in order to forge  Corinne Lamesch, ALFI Chairperson 
a winning team. Only a holistic approach to 
our diversity and inclusion efforts is sensible. 
And our D&I efforts at ALFI are taking 
shape. We launched the ALFI Diversity and 
Inclusion Forum towards the end of 2020, 
and in March, we held the ALFI webinar Why 
diversity matters – hopefully the first in a series 
of inspiring and instructive events on the topic. 
In line with the ALFI Ambition 2025, the work 
of the many people that dedicate their time and 
expertise to ALFI often revolves around the 
key objectives we set out last year. Sustainable 
investing is everywhere, and rightly so. It is 
certainly one of the positive effects of the 
pandemic that the necessity to look beyond the 
financial bottom line is recognised by more and 
more people and organisations. Other industry 
trends continue to keep us on our toes, such 
as the quest for user-friendly technology for 
funds. Private assets retain their appeal for 
investors of all kinds in pursuit of return, and 
8
Letter from the ALFI Director General
12 extraordinary months The history of ALFI goes back more than 
three decades, and yet, even before this 
backdrop, the past twelve months have 
been nothing short of extraordinary: an 
entire year’s decisions influenced by the 
pandemic in one form or another. 
Hardly any different from everyone’s 
businesses and private lives, you may think 
– but ALFI had a few tough nuts to crack. 
Bringing people together is in ALFI’s DNA. 
Usually, the asset management community 
has the opportunity of professional and 
personal exchange at ALFI events throughout 
the year, and fund experts put their clever 
heads together regularly in numerous ALFI 
working groups. The output from discussions 
had at conferences and committee meetings 
allows our industry to progress and thrive.  achieving an air of nonchalance to allow for 
There is no bright idea, no brilliant strategic  virtual networking, which despite everyone’s 
thought that doesn’t benefit from being  best efforts has proven elusive – or more 
shared with peers, debated and developed.  precisely, it has proven to remain a mere 
Ensuring this exchange has been our  approximation of the real thing. We do look 
priority since the onset of the pandemic.  forward to meeting you in person again!
By June 2020, we had already held a number  As the pandemic shook up our events calendar, 
of transformed ALFI events – most notably  it also affected our financial structure. Our 
our roadshows, which in their virtual form  association’s finances rely on the revenue from 
found a home under the new ALFI Digi Pulse  industry events and on membership fees. The 
brand. Our AGM 2020 was successfully held  Covid-19 effect meant eating into our reserves 
remotely. Around the same time, the first  over the past year more than we consider 
lockdown was lifted, resulting in a partial  sustainable. In an effort to mitigate the losses, 
return to the ALFI office for our staff over  we did cut our expenses, but our board of 
the summer and autumn, as we were knee- directors had to take the difficult decision of 
deep in preparations for the ALFI Rentrée,  adjusting our membership fees with effect 
which in September would replace two of  1 January 2021. For many years, they had 
our flagship conferences that usually bring  hardly changed, and were well below those of 
large numbers of people together at the  other sister associations. We set up a task force 
biggest Luxembourg conference venues  to perform a thorough analysis of our revenue 
– the ALFI European Asset Management  model, and to look into how the mismatch 
Conference and the ALFI Global Distribution  could be alleviated. The aim was to establish a 
Conference. We dedicated a brand-new  fairer fee structure that takes into account the 
online conference platform to the ALFI  many variables in our members’ organisation 
Rentrée and have since continually adapted  types, structures, and set-ups. The suggested 
it for the use of other ALFI conferences.  changes were approved during our general 
meetings in December 2020. 
Many of us have become all too familiar 
with virtual events. We are experts in using a  While it is never easy to raise fees, and the 
variety of video call solutions and navigating  economic strains from the pandemic could 
online platforms, and we can be proud of  be felt in parts of our industry too, we are 
that. But it has also made us aware of the  convinced that the new fees give ALFI a 
limitations of these technologies. Delivering  stable funding to remain strong and effective. 
content across a distance from screen to  ALFI membership means something. It offers 
screen seems much less problematic than  representation and visibility. ALFI membership 
9
is you. It allows all of you, our members,  find out more about ALFI activity during the 
to be not just informed of current industry  year under review.
developments, but involved in them. And we 
have opened up our membership to individuals,  Make sure you are part of this. Don’t just 
so that independent professionals in the asset  follow your peers – participate in driving 
management community can now become ALFI  the industry forward. 
members too, allowing them to remain involved 
in shaping the future of the fund sector.  Get involved! We count on you.
A good example of this exceptional engagement  Camille Thommes, ALFI Director General
are the working groups, where our members’ 
hard work has again allowed ALFI to respond 
to a multitude of consultations and to produce 
insightful industry guidelines and Q&A 
documents over the course of the year. Take a 
look at our list of publications. I also invite you 
to delve into the details of this annual report to 
10
Achieving our strategic priorities
In June 2020, ALFI defined its 5-year  ALFI’s 5 objectives are:
ambitions. 
■  To lead the development of innovative 
“Our ambition is to empower  cross-border savings and pensions 
investors in their financial journey to  products;
allow them to meet their life goals.  ■  To create a framework that helps 
We aim to achieve this by driving  sustainable products flourish;
innovation and change in the asset  ■  To extend the global reach of UCITS  
management industry in alignment  as a multi-purpose solution;
with the evolving needs of investors  ■  To broaden access to alternative 
and our society. We will do this  investments;
by accompanying investors along  ■  To drive innovation and the digital 
each of the stepping stones in their  transformation of the Luxembourg  
journey to financial success. To be  funds industry.
future-ready, investors need pensions 
and savings products with built-in  ALFI is closely monitoring the developments in 
sustainability features, a recognised  each of the above listed areas and will conduct 
brand name, a reputable product and  a detailed review in 2022, at the mid-term of 
a wealth of online possibilities.” this 5-year project.
Savings and pension  Europe is facing ageing populations as people  brand in the investment world. ALFI 
products are getting older and birth-rates are on the  will work to develop new Luxembourg 
decline. This is placing an increasing strain  PEPPs that will be available for sale in 
on public pension systems throughout the  Luxembourg and throughout Europe, 
EU. Although no two systems are alike, a  including ESG-labelled pension products. 
well-rounded multi-pillar pension approach  Therefore, a new ESG label tailored to 
is of paramount importance if future EU  pension products will also be considered.
citizens are to have sufficient income after 
retirement. Pension products inherently have  In terms of fund industry infrastructure, ALFI 
a (very) long investment horizon and can span  supports the development of digital solutions for 
up to 40 years. Combining the long-term  cross-border pension servicing, and contributes 
nature of these investments with sustainable  towards building an ecosystem and talent pool 
(ESG) characteristics will further increase the  for international pension service providers.
attractiveness of these products as investors 
pursue environmental or societal objectives in  Our ambition is to help savers understand their 
addition to financial returns. long-term saving needs, and show the crucial 
role that investment funds can play in meeting 
The Pan-European Personal Pension product  them. Luxembourg UCITS and alternative 
(PEPP) complements existing retirement  investment funds (AIFs) are solid building 
provisions in the EU. It will complement  blocks for pension funds, and ALFI continues 
national pension systems and has the potential  to share knowledge of how successful strategies 
to become the next UCITS: a recognised  work in practice.
11
Achieving our strategic priorities
Creating a framework that  Sustainability has become a must-have for  classes and the entire fund value chain while 
helps sustainable products  many investors. ALFI wants Luxembourg  encouraging new entrants to the industry to 
flourish products to be sustainable, and support  support asset managers on their sustainable 
investor demand for choice, in terms of impact,  finance journey.
social responsibility and much more. Working 
on sustainable funds will remain a top priority  ALFI has taken the lead to define best practice 
for ALFI, with a view to encouraging market  guidelines that assist asset managers with their 
growth while at the same time making sure the  sustainable finance solutions. These guidelines 
rules work in practice and do not become too  focus on standardisation and efficiency, covering 
prescriptive or stifle innovation. areas like data and measurement, non-financial 
reporting and other disclosures, and integration 
ALFI’s representatives have mobilised policy- of ESG in the investment process.
makers and the fund industry ecosystem to 
embed sustainable finance across all asset 
Extending the global reach  UCITS are the definitive standard for retail  In terms of digital infrastructure and customer 
of UCITS as a multi- investment funds, with built-in protection and  experience, there is currently a large gap 
purpose solution worldwide renown. Luxembourg is the world’s  between customer expectations and the 
leading centre for UCITS and international  structure of the industry. ALFI aims to drive 
fund distribution and ALFI continues to take  change and innovation that will make it easier 
actions that help extend the global reach of  for investors to buy investment funds by 
UCITS to investors worldwide. supporting more streamlined and cost-effective 
tools for the benefit of everyone in the industry 
UCITS are a core building block for both  whether in terms of on-boarding, processing, 
pensions and sustainable finance solutions.  regulatory compliance or reporting.
The association seeks to further refine and 
improve the Luxembourg legal and tax 
frameworks so that they support innovation 
and the growth of UCITS-based solutions.
Broadening access to  As demand for alternative investments  Luxembourg has built a reputation as a 
alternative investments grows, investors are increasingly looking for  significant private equity, real estate and debt 
innovative solutions that keep pace with their  funds cross-border investment and fund service 
new expectations. Alternative investments, for  centre. We seek to take further steps that will 
example, will appear as a building block in  broaden its leading position in the Alternatives 
more and more pension solutions. value chain towards investor relations, limited 
partnerships (LPs) and fundraising.
Driving innovation and  Breakthroughs in technology have already  large and small technology companies interested 
the digital transformation  started to transform all links in the investment  in the industry. Other factors driving disruption 
of the Luxembourg funds  value chain, impacting our traditional way of  include changes in consumer behaviour and 
industry interacting within and thinking about the fund  pressure on costs from end investors.
industry and end investors. This disruption is 
facilitated by innovation from both existing 
market players and an increasing number of 
12
The Luxembourg technology ecosystem must  concepts applied to the fund industry. Digital 
continue to develop. ALFI is facilitating this  solutions for investors, namely those that 
by bringing together the experts who built  streamline onboarding and investing, can be 
the financial centre, and the technology  made smarter and more efficient. ALFI seeks to 
innovators who are disrupting finance notably  play a key role in making this happen.
at the occasion of the events organised in 
Luxembourg and internationally. Asset managers who seek to set up funds in 
Luxembourg need an easier, faster and cheaper 
Working closely with the Luxembourg House  cycle than currently available. In collaboration 
of Financial Technology (LHoFT), other public  with other stakeholders, ALFI seeks to explore 
and private technology communities and  the technological possibilities that can help 
initiatives, competent authorities and others,  resolve current pain points in an innovative 
ALFI brings its technical, regulatory, product  way, while meeting the many requisites 
and market experience to foster collaboration  essential for regulated products.
and innovation, for example in proof-of-
13
Our members
ALFI has been around since 1988 to represent  ALFI membership covers the entire value chain 
and serve an industry at the root of European  of stakeholders servicing asset managers and 
economic growth and innovation. The  investment funds. Our members are investment 
association today represents 1,500 companies  funds, asset management companies, 
that over time have put together their efforts,  depositary banks, legal and consultancy firms, 
knowledge and resources to engage in  tax advisory firms, auditors and accountants, 
constructive dialogues with policymakers,  specialised IT and communication companies, 
advocate for a robust regulatory framework,  and more recently, individual members.
open new markets for investors, produce 
guidelines and best practices and expand 
Luxembourg’s influence and know-how 
worldwide.
Types of membership ALFI has three types of membership: full  ○  They are sponsored by two non-related 
members (i.e. “fund” member and “non-fund”  full members (including investment 
member), individual members and associate  fund members);
members. ○  They are not an employee, partner or 
owner of an existing or potential full or 
Full members associate ALFI member with more than 
one employee;
The following may be full members, provided  ○  They have no criminal record, significant 
that they are established and authorised to  administrative fine or other sanction 
carry out their activities in Luxembourg, and  from any regulatory agency; and
regardless of their legal form: ○  They comply with the ALFI articles of 
association, rules of procedures and 
■  Undertakings for collective investment and  ethical rules of the profession.
other investment vehicles;
■  Providers of  services to the Luxembourg  An independent non-executive director must 
collective investment management  meet an additional criterion: at least one of 
industry, such as, but not limited to:  the mandates is with a full or associate ALFI 
○  Banks or credit institutions; member.
○  Fund and asset management 
companies, investment managers and  Associate members
investment advisors;
○  Other professionals of the financial  The following may be associate members:
sector;
○  Independent auditors; ■  Fund industry players established abroad, 
○  Legal advisors; and provided that they offer services to full 
○  Other service providers offering  members.
specialised services to the fund and  Associate members do not have the right 
asset management industry. to vote.
Individual members
The following may be individual members:
■  Fund industry professionals involved in 
the fund industry through directorships or 
advisory/consultant roles, with connectivity 
to Luxembourg, that meet the below criteria: 
14
Governing bodies 
ALFI head office
Organisational chart
François Drazdik
Marc-André Bechet Camille Thommes Emmanuel Gutton
Director 
Deputy Director General (2) Director General (1) Director Legal and Tax (3)
Head of Administration (4)
Statistics and Member-
Communications Support and HR Legal and Tax
ship Affairs
Adina Lupu
Anna Ferreri Régine Rugani Head of Support - HR  Evelyne Christiaens
Head of Communications  Senior Statistics Advisor Manager Head of Legal
Xue Gong Analaxmi Cunden François Baratte
Communications Officer Support Officer Senior Industry Affairs 
Advisor
Mihaela Mercier EU Representative  Alexandra Fetescu
Senior Communications  Office PA to the Management    Désirée Doenges
Manager Brussels  Legal Advisor 
Christine Grosse-
Hanna Welter Strangmann Vilma Domenicucci
Communications Officer Senior Support Officer Senior Tax Advisor
Antoine Kremer
Ihsane Silistre
Head of European Affairs  Susanne Weismüller
Senior SupITport Officer
(1)(3) Senior Legal Advisor
Sébastien Tirbisch
Aurélie Cassou David Zackenfels
Market Intelligence Support Officer
Senior Advisor Senior Legal Advisor
European Affairs (1)(3)
IT
Sandra Saucourt
Conference Programme  Asia Representative 
 Coordinator Office
Hong Kong
Laurent Molitor 
Alena Schlünz
Senior IT Manager (4)(1)
Technical Writer and Senior 
Industry Affairs Advisor (1)
(2)
Accounting
Events
Catherine Levanti
Head of Accounting 
Murielle Albessard
Irene Schultz-Gerstein
Accounting Officer
Head of Events 
Lydia Galla-Ruscitti
Andreea Bran Accounting Officer
Events Manager
Axel Goffin 
Eleftheria Kollia Accounting Officer
Events Manager
Virginie Tripet
Senior Events Manager
Perrine Zolver
(1); (2); (3); (4) are the reporting lines within the Association
Administrative Assistant
*Number of FTEs : 28.8 (including 2 temporary contracts 
and 1,5 FTE on parental leave)
15
Governing bodies*
Board of Directors ALFI is governed by a board of directors  ALFI at seminars and conferences around the 
(Board of Directors or Board), elected by  world. The Board decides on the creation and 
members of the association for a period of two  dissolution of technical committees and forums 
years. ALFI’s 24 board members are investment  as well as the designation of its chairpersons. 
management industry leaders, reflecting the 
broad range of nationalities present in the 
financial centre and an even broader range 
of companies and servicing industries active 
in the sector. Together, the Board brings a 
wealth of experience to ALFI, while individual 
board members are active in ALFI’s various 
technical committees and regularly represent 
Members of the ALFI Board of Directors:
Corinne Lamesch Chairperson FIL Investment Management (Luxembourg) S.A.
Michael Ferguson Vice-Chairperson Ernst & Young S.A.
Maria Löwenbrück Vice-Chairperson Union Investment Luxembourg S.A. 
Rudolf Kömen Treasurer Credit Suisse Fund Management S.A.
Julie Becker Observer Luxembourg Stock Exchange
Ravi Beegun KPMG Luxembourg Société coopérative
Hermann Beythan Linklaters LLP
Craig Blair Franklin Templeton International Services S.à r.l. 
Finbarr Browne Schroder Investment Management (Europe) S.A. 
Jeanne Duvoux Amundi Luxembourg S.A.
Michèle Eisenhuth Arendt & Medernach
Jean-Marc Goy Capital International Management Company S.à r.l. 
Eduardo Gramuglia State Street Bank Luxembourg S.C.A.
Bettina Graeber-Hendry Pictet & Cie (Europe) S.A. 
Lize Griffiths Deloitte Luxembourg
Ludovic Hallet BNP Paribas Asset Management Luxembourg
Holger Hildebrandt Deka International S.A. 
Ulrich Juchem DZ PRIVATBANK S.A.
Gast Juncker Elvinger Hoss Prussen société anonyme 
Steve Kieffer GAM (Luxembourg) S.A.
Steven Libby PricewaterhouseCoopers
Francesca Prym-Gigli UBS Fund Mangement (Luxembourg) S.A.
Geoff Radcliffe BlackRock (Luxembourg) S.A.
Philippe Ringard JPMorgan Asset Management (Europe) S.à r.l. 
Barbara Schots DWS Investment S.A.
*  Visit https://www.alfi.lu/en-GB/Pages/About-us/Who-we-are/Governing-bodies for the latest composition of ALFI 
governing bodies.
16
Executive Committee An executive committee (Executive Committee  Vice-Chairpersons, the Treasurer and the 
or ExCo) is entrusted with the day-to-day  Director General. The mission of the Executive 
powers delegated to it by the Board, as  Committee includes the preparation and 
provided for in article 14 of the ALFI Articles  approval of the agenda for the meetings of the 
of Association. The members of the Executive  various ALFI bodies, the annual budget as well 
Committee are appointed by the Board and  as urgent and other day-to-day matters.
comprise the Chairperson of ALFI, its two 
Members of the ALFI Executive Committee:
Corinne Lamesch Chairperson FIL Investment Management (Luxembourg) S.A.
Michael Ferguson Vice-Chairperson Ernst & Young S.A.
Maria Löwenbrück Vice-Chairperson Union Investment Luxembourg S.A. 
Rudolf Kömen Treasurer Credit Suisse Fund Management S.A
Camille Thommes Director General ALFI
Permanent invitees – ALFI Management:
Marc-André Bechet Deputy Director General ALFI
François Drazdik Director ALFI
Emmanuel Gutton Director Legal and Tax ALFI
Strategic Advisory  The Strategic Advisory Board (StratBo) acts as  tank” for strategic matters in both a national 
Board an advisory body to the Board and a “think  and an international context.
Members of the ALFI Strategic Board:
Corinne Lamesch Chairperson FIL Investment Management (Luxembourg) S.A.
Lucienne Andring Banque de Luxembourg S.A. 
Ravi Beegun KPMG Luxembourg, Société coopérative 
Marco Bus Eurizon Capital S.A. 
Noel Fessey European Fund Administration S.A.
Jean-Marc Goy Capital International Management Cy S.à r.l. 
Alain Kinsch Independent Director
Steven Libby PricewaterhouseCoopers, Société Coopérative 
Michael Maldener Nordea Investment Funds S.A. 
Geoff Radcliffe BlackRock Fund Management Company S.A. 
David Suetens Independent Director
Denise Voss LuxFLAG
Julien Zimmer DZ Privatbank S.A.
Camille Thommes ALFI
Marc-André Bechet ALFI
François Drazdik ALFI
Emmanuel Gutton ALFI
17
Governing bodies
Regulation Advisory Board The Regulation Advisory Board (RegBo),  technical committee/forum and the ALFI 
composed of a small group of ALFI board  secretariat, or head office;
members, acts as an advisor on regulatory and  ■  Validate the draft ALFI position paper 
supervisory issues to the Board of Directors. prepared by the relevant technical 
committees or ad-hoc working groups 
 The mission of the RegBo is to: and submit the document for approval 
to the Board.
■  Identify, assess and monitor upcoming 
national and European draft regulations 
and consultations which have an impact 
on the Luxembourg fund industry and 
which require a position from ALFI;
■  Identify the topics which need to be 
addressed by ALFI and mandate a sub-
committee or working group to prepare a 
draft position paper in close cooperation 
with the respective chairperson of a 
Members of the ALFI Regulation Advisory Board:
Claude Niedner Chairperson Arendt & Medernach S.A.
Lize Griffiths Vice-Chairperson Deloitte Luxembourg
Gast Juncker Vice-Chairperson Elvinger Hoss Prussen S.A.
Hermann Beythan Linklaters LLP
Nathalie Dogniez PricewaterhouseCoopers, Société Coopérative
Ludovic Hallet BNP Paribas Asset Management Luxembourg
Ulrich Juchem DZ PRIVATBANK S.A.
Mathieu Maurier Société Générale Securities Services 
Luxembourg 
Keith O’Donnell Atoz S.A
Mark Phillips Aviva Investors Luxembourg S.A
Francesca Prym UBS Fund Management (Luxembourg) S.A.
Philippe Ringard JPMorgan Asset Management (Europe) S.à r.l.
Susanne Weismüller Coordinator of the Regulation Advisory Board ALFI
18
Involvement in other associations
At the international level, ALFI is a member  At the national level, ALFI is part of the High 
of the European Fund and Asset Management  Level Committee of the Financial Sector (Haut 
Association (EFAMA), of PensionsEurope  Comité de la place financière, HCPF) and 
and of the International Investment Funds  contributes regularly to the actions of several 
Association (IIFA) through representation at  associations active in the Luxembourg financial 
the level of the decision-making bodies and  field, either through working groups and/or 
through strong and ongoing contribution on  at the level of the board of directors. These 
working group level. associations are:
Luxembourg for Finance, InFiNe, LuxFLAG, 
House of Training.
19
Helping  
members  
capitalise on  
industry trends
Helping members 
capitalise on industry 
trends 
ALFI’s many technical committees and working groups constantly 
review and analyse developments worldwide, as well as legal and 
regulatory changes in Luxembourg, the EU and beyond, to identify 
threats and opportunities for the Luxembourg fund industry.
20
Helping   Involvement: technical committees
members  
A great deal of ALFI’s work is carried out  In addition, working groups can be appointed 
in ALFI Technical Committees and Forums.  by committees, usually for a limited time, to 
capitalise on   On a voluntary basis, representatives of ALFI  tackle specific topics. 
members share practices and experiences, 
engage in research and develop ideas for  View the list of the technical committees and 
industry trends streamlined approaches to industry matters.  working groups as at end of May 2021 on 
Sub-committees focus on specific areas within  page 67.
a committee’s general field of work.
Forums serve as platforms for fund 
professionals to meet regularly, to exchange 
views on subjects of common interest and to 
analyse and monitor significant developments 
in the relevant area. 
1,800+ 200+
representatives of ALFI  ALFI committees, forums 
members share practices  and working groups 
and experiences in  engage in shaping the 
committees and forums future of the fund industry
21
Access to exclusive content
ALFI provides its members with unparalleled  ALFI regularly shares exclusive content to 
access to the asset management and investment  keep its membership up to date with the latest 
fund community in Luxembourg and beyond.  trends and developments in the industry. 
Members section and  Each year, ALFI sends out some 25 exclusive  Each year, ALFI working groups produce a 
dedicated membership  newsletters covering international and national  significant number of technical guidelines 
communication news. This ALFI Newsflash also includes  restricted to access by ALFI members. 
information about the association’s head office, 
latest statistics, publications or upcoming  Over the past year, ALFI published a large 
events.  number of documents reserved to its members:
In addition, ALFI regularly informs its  ■  Guidelines on AML; 
members of endorsed events with discounted  ■  Q&A SRD II, Issue 2; 
fees or other exclusive membership benefits. ■  Guidelines on cybersecurity; 
■  UCITS KIID Q&A;
The ALFI members section offers a unique  ■  SFDR guidelines for Luxembourg by 
opportunity to the membership to get exclusive  Stibbe Avocats, in associations with ALFI, 
content including:  ABBL, ACA;
■  Guidelines on sustainability related pre-
■  Working documents of specific working  contractual disclosures; 
groups and forums; ■  ATAD 2 FAQs;
■  Members-only publications (technical  ■  Reporting under DAC 6; 
guidelines, FAQs, Q&A documents,  ■  Guidelines on UMR;
surveys etc.); ■  Q&A SRD II, Issue 1; 
■  Newsflash and Special Newsflash issues;  ■  ALFI and ABBL guidelines and 
■  Detailed statistics in English, German and  recommendations for depositaries – 
French; safekeeping of other assets; 
■  Access to the job market section with  ■  Guidelines on the valuation process 
the possibility of posting job offers to be  for AIFMs.
published on the ALFI website;
■  Discount codes of industry events 
endorsed by ALFI.
|FAQs |Q&A |Q&A
UCITS KIID Q&A SRD II Q&A
Key Investor Information Documents for  Shareholders’ Rights Directive 
Undertakings for Collective Investment in 
Transferable Securities  Issue 2
ATAD 2 FAQs  Luxembourg, 17 May 2021
Issue 15 marked-up version
Luxembourg, 18 March 2021
in association with
22
Connection and visibility
ALFI events provide a vital channel for the  ALFI members have an exclusive opportunity 
investment fund industry to tell its story to  to showcase awareness of their brands at ALFI 
policymakers, regulators, business leaders and  roadshows (Digi Pulse webinars) and to reach 
opinion-formers at the highest level, and to  out to their existing clients and prospects 
discuss the latest trends and developments. globally.  ALFI members save up to 50% on 
registration fees at events.
ALFI conferences and seminars attract expert 
audiences from across the globe at a time when  View page 47 for more information about 
key decision-makers are looking for innovative  ALFI events.
ways to overcome the challenges they face.
23
Shaping 
regulation 
An up-to-date, innovative legal and fiscal environment is critical to defend and improve 
Luxembourg’s competitive position as a centre for the domiciliation, administration 
and distribution of investment funds. Strong relationships with regulatory authorities, 
the government and the legislative body enable ALFI to make an effective contribution 
to decision-making through relevant input for changes to the regulatory framework, 
implementation of European directives and regulation of new products or services. 
ALFI is recognised and valued by policymakers in Europe and the main distribution markets. ALFI 
provides important industry feedback through consultations, and engages in constructive dialogue with 
policymakers in the name of its members. 
24
Legal and regulatory expertise 
Covid-19 Operational resilience: a real-life test sustainable funds were almost five times 
higher in 2020 than they were three years ago. 
The Covid-19 crisis is still a real-life test of the  Assets in sustainable funds hit a record high 
operational resilience of the asset management  of USD 1,652 billion in December, up 29% 
and fund industry over a prolonged period  from the previous quarter. This is a particularly 
of time. Portfolio managers have kept  marked trend in Europe which accounts for 
on managing their portfolios, depositary  80% of these inflows.
banks and fund administrators have settled 
trades, calculated fund NAVs and processed  Regulatory developments, teleworking
subscriptions and redemptions.
On 9 April 2021, the CSSF issued Circular 
Investment funds have made relatively moderate  21/769 on teleworking, on which ALFI had 
use of the vast array of liquidity management  extensively commented. While this Circular 
tools (LMTs) which are available in Luxembourg.  applies under normal general working 
In Europe at large, suspensions remained “under  conditions and not in pandemic situations such 
control”. At the peak, suspensions concerned  as Covid-19, it is fair to say that the recourse 
funds with AuM of EUR 54 billion or 0.11%  to teleworking has led the Luxembourg 
total AuM, EUR 20 billion of which for UCITS  regulator to clarify the governance and 
(source: Fitch Risk).  security requirements which apply to the 
entities that it supervises. Cybercrime and IT 
Very early on in March 2020, the CSSF  security is a particular area of focus in this 
strongly encouraged market participants to  context. The circular will enter into effect on 
prioritise teleworking.  30 September 2021.
In light of these extreme market conditions,  Luxembourg is ahead of the curve in Europe 
ALFI has been very proactive in centralising  when it comes to LMTs, which benefit from a 
questions from its members. It then engaged in  long-standing and well-established regulatory 
a constructive dialogue with the Luxembourg  practice. Fundamentally, the raison d’être of 
regulator which in turn published FAQs in  LMTs is to increase the resilience of funds and 
response to these questions. ALFI has kept its  ultimately protect investors in a context of 
members abreast of all relevant developments  liquidity crises such as the Covid-19 pandemic. 
through a dedicated information board for  In its letter of 18 August 2020 to the European 
members, with no less than 86 notifications. Commission, ESMA acknowledged their use 
but by the same token, it suggested that their 
While AuM went down by 11.1% in March  use in Europe be harmonised. 
2020, this was primarily the result of the 
market impact. Net redemptions accounted  With respect to money market funds (MMFs), 
for 2.7% only. There has not been any major  the industry believes that the existing 
run by investors on funds. In fact, investors  framework has demonstrated its robustness. 
used the drop in valuations as a window of  Policymakers however take a different view, 
opportunity to invest. In March 2021, AuM  arguing that central banks’ intervention in 
reached an all-time high of EUR 5,249 billion,  March 2020 helped to stabilise markets. 
an increase of 26.48% over the past  IOSCO has announced that it will recommend 
twelve months.  changes for MMFs. ESMA launched a 
consultation on potential reforms of the EU 
The Covid-19 crisis has also prompted  Money Market Funds Regulation (MMFR) 
investors to put sustainability at the forefront  to which ALFI will respond. The consultation 
of their thinking. A recent Morningstar  is aiming to review the stress experienced by 
publication shows that inflows into European  MMFs during the March 2020 turmoil.
25
Legal and regulatory expertise
Cross-border workers pay social security contributions. ALFI advocated 
and supported the efforts of the Luxembourg 
Luxembourg substantially relies on cross-border  government to successfully negotiate the 
workers from the three neighbouring countries.  necessary extraordinary temporary measures 
In a teleworking context, this raises the question  with these three countries. It is reassuring to note 
of where these workers are taxed and where they  that European solidarity has worked here.
■  “Do not fix what is not broken”. 
AIFMD AIFMD – What’s next? A consensus was reached among ALFI 
members on the fact that the AIFMD 
A few weeks after the release in June 2020 of  has succeeded in creating a single market 
the European Commission’s report assessing  for AIFs and in strengthening investor 
the application and scope of the Alternative  protection and financial stability;
Investment Fund Directive (AIFMD), ESMA  ■  Keep the AIFMD as a “manager” 
sent a letter to the European Commission  directive. The spirit of the AIFMD should 
highlighting 19 priority topics which in  be maintained and the AIFMD review 
its views should be considered during the  should not trigger any change in this 
forthcoming AIFMD review. respect;
■  Do not put the delegation framework 
This letter addressed key aspects of the AIFMD  at risk. Accordingly, the current rules 
in relation to which, according to ESMA,  on delegation which apply regardless of 
improvements could be made. It referred in  the location of the delegated portfolio 
particular to some harmonisation between  manager should continue to apply. 
UCITS and AIFMD rules, liquidity management 
tools, depositary rules, reporting regime and data  ALFI organised a well-attended webinar on 
and delegation and substance requirements.  2 February 2021 during which the new chair 
and vice-chairs of the ALFI Regulation Advisory 
In October 2020, the European Commission  Board presented the content of the ALFI 
published an extensive consultation, containing  response to the consultation to our members.
102 questions, with a large scope covering all 
aspects of the AIFMD framework (including  Since then, over the last few months, ALFI has 
most of the items raised in the ESMA letter).  continued interacting and exchanging views 
with many stakeholders and policymakers, at 
As from that date, ALFI started preparing a  national and international levels.
response with no less than 20 working groups 
composed of members representing a substantial  A draft legislative proposal is expected in the 
portion of the Luxembourg asset management  second half of 2021 but the content of the 
industry and its diversity (taking into  proposal is not known yet. Some declarations 
consideration the different asset classes, across  made by representatives of the European 
a broad sectoral geographical representation of  Commission at the occasion of recent public 
the asset management industry in Luxembourg,  events are rather reassuring. Nevertheless, 
set-up, core business etc.). ALFI also performed  ALFI will continue to make its members’ voice 
some advocacy work, liaising with numerous  heard and promote a targeted and technical 
professional associations representing various  review of the AIFMD based on actual past 
EU and non-EU countries and/or asset  experience as initially contemplated by the 
management sectors. ALFI also interacted with  AIFMD itself. 
policymakers in Luxembourg and European 
institutions in Brussels.  Finally, on each occasion ALFI will reiterate its 
cornerstone conviction that notwithstanding 
The ALFI response to the consultation was  the amendment considered, the investor’s 
published on 29 January 2021. It contains  interest shall be the main (if not the only one) 
a series of key messages among which the  criterion to assess the suitability of a proposed 
following ones are topical:  change to the AIFMD. 
26
Sustainable finance EU Action Plan for Sustainable Finance –  Sustainable Finance in Luxembourg
implementation of SFDR and Taxonomy 
Regulation As part of its Ambition 2025, ALFI is 
committed to developing sustainable finance 
By 10 March 2021, investment funds and  education for the industry and individual 
asset managers had to comply with the main  investors. As such, ALFI fully supports various 
provisions of the SFDR1.  educational programmes and in particular the 
Sustainable Finance Certificate offered by the 
The baseline requirement is that all investment  University of Luxembourg, with which it has a 
funds shall describe in their prospectuses how  regular exchange of views. 
sustainability risks are integrated into their 
investment decisions.  ALFI welcomes the decision of the 
Luxembourg government to introduce new 
Asset managers who wish to offer products in  reduced rates of subscription tax for funds 
which sustainability becomes the core focus have  investing a certain minimum percentage 
two options. Investment funds which promote  of their net assets in sustainable economic 
environmental and/or social characteristics are  activities as defined in the Taxonomy 
categorised as article 8 products. As a second  Regulation. The implementation of the law 
option, investment funds with a focus on  requires additional clarification on a number 
sustainability qualify as article 9 products.  of practical considerations, in particular on 
the conditions under which investment funds 
ALFI has been responding to no less than nine  can already avail of the reduction in 2021. 
consultations from the EU and the ESAs over  Discussions are held within the relevant ALFI 
the period under review, thanks to the input  working groups as well as with public bodies.
from its six Responsible Investing working 
groups, with more than 100 participants. Data
In the autumn of 2020, ALFI collected questions  The definition of ESG and sustainable 
from its members which were shared with the  data, templates, collection, aggregation and 
CSSF and discussed in different meetings. It is  dissemination of data are new challenges for 
interesting to note that some of these questions  the industry as well as for investee companies.
are in fact being raised by the ESAs in their 
letter to the EC of 7 January 2021. The EC is conscious of the need to improve 
access to financial and non-financial 
In addition, ALFI published guidelines on  information from companies. It suggests 
SFDR-related pre-contractual disclosures  building a European Single Access Point 
in January 2021 to assist its members in  (ESAP). The overall objective of the ESAP is 
complying with the requirements of SFDR.  to facilitate the flow and use of information, 
The publication was followed by a very well- to make it machine-readable, to reduce 
attended expert briefing in February. search and processing costs and to foster 
interoperability. The ESAP also has the 
The working groups’ focus is currently on  potential to support the EU climate and 
the implementation of the templates for  environmental objectives and the sustainable 
pre-contractual and period disclosures for  finance agenda by enabling better access to 
article 8 and article 9 investment products,  ESG information.
the Commission Delegated Acts as regards 
the sustainability risks and sustainability  ALFI is supportive of different industry bodies 
factors, amending the UCITS Directive and  such as FinDatEx, a European initiative to 
the AIFMD, and the Corporate Sustainability  create European ESG related templates and 
Reporting Directive. an ESG Data Definition Inventory (EDDI) 
aiming to capture transaction-related ESG 
data requested under relevant existing and 
upcoming EU regulatory requirements.
1  Regulation (EU) 2019/2088 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 November 2019 on 
sustainability‐related disclosures in the financial services sector.
27
Legal and regulatory expertise
PEPP The Pan-European Personal Pension  Although EIOPA calls for the PEPP to be a 
launches in March 2022 “simple, flexible, modern and cost-effective 
product, accompanied by strong consumer 
A Pan-European Personal Pension Product  protection rules”3, industry concerns remain 
(PEPP) is a long-term, individual, non- primarily around the cost cap of the default 
occupational personal pension product (third  PEPP. ALFI continues to address with its 
pillar pension), subscribed to on a voluntary  members workable asset management solutions 
basis by so-called PEPP savers to provide  for the benefit of PEPP savers. Particular focus 
supplementary income on retirement. The first  of ALFI’s work continues to be on the vehicle 
PEPP products are anticipated to be launched  best suited to setting up a PEPP fund.
as from March 2022.
The foreseen “portability” of the PEPP, 
As a reminder, Regulation (EU) 2019/1238  enabling retirement savers to transfer the 
on a pan-European Personal Pension Product,  benefits accumulated in one or more Member 
was published on 27 July 2019 and entered  State(s) when moving between them, is a 
into force 20 days thereafter, with Level II –  feature that has been long awaited among an 
Regulatory Technical Standards (RTS) on the  increasingly mobile EU workforce.
PEPP having been published on 22 March 2021, 
the PEPP Regulation will enter into application  Luxembourg is very well positioned to support 
on 22 March 2022, precisely 12 months after  the swift uptake of the PEPP, given its long-
the publication in the Official Journal of the  standing experience in both (i) passporting 
European Union of the delegated acts.  funds such as UCITS across borders, as well 
as in (ii) setting up and administering pension 
The ALFI PEPP working group has been active  fund vehicles, in many cases as cross-border 
in the consultative process and in response to  and multi-employer funds.
the EIOPA consultation paper on the proposed 
approaches and considerations for EIOPA’s  Additional efforts at the level of investor 
Technical Advice, Implementing and RTS  education will be critical, along with the new 
under the PEPP Regulation2.   product’s tax treatment, in making the PEPP 
a true success story.
ELTIF European Long Term Investment Fund 2.0 Luxembourg has been one of the most active 
jurisdictions in which ELTIFs are being set 
The European long-term investment funds  up, which allowed both the investment fund 
(ELTIF) regime was introduced by EU  industry and the regulator to build up a 
Regulation 2015/760 dated 29 April 2015  particular expertise in this field. Luxembourg 
on ELTIFs (the ELTIF Regulation) and is  is the jurisdiction of choice for 18 ELTIFs, 
currently under review. The focus of the ELTIF  which equates to a 35% overall market share6. 
Regulation has been to “boost European  Accordingly, ALFI has a very clear and deep 
long-term investments in the real economy”.  insight into a number of aspects, which we 
Although the ELTIF Regulation has arguably  have advocated for to make the ELTIF more 
only been somewhat successful in achieving its  efficient and attractive to asset managers using 
objective as, since its creation, only 51 ELTIFs4  the ELTIF label, potential managers of ELTIFs 
have been set up in the EU to date. However  and the international groups to which these 
there has been a significant increase in ELTIF  managers belong and investors alike. 
launches, as the number of ELTIF stood at a 
mere 285 as of October 2020.
2  https://www.alfi.lu/en-gb/article/alfi-responds-to-the-consultation-paper-on-pepp
3  http://europa.eu/rapid/press-release_MEMO-19-1993_en.htm
4  ESMA ELTIF Register as at 10 May 2021.
5  https://ec.europa.eu/info/law/better-regulation/have-your-say/initiatives/12570-Long-Term-Investment-Funds-
Review-of-EU-rules/public-consultation_en
6  https://www.esma.europa.eu/document/register-authorised-european-long-term-investment-funds-eltifs
28
ALFI very much supported the findings of  (ii)  Reducing the demand side barriers 
the High-Level Forum on Capital Markets  to investment (with a focus on retail 
Union and in particular the work of the  investors but also including the 
subgroup on Capital Raising Ecosystem and  institutional investor base):  
the recommendations on European Long-Term 
Investment Funds7. In response to the EU  ■  Review of the redemption rules and the 
Commission consultation on the ELTIF review,  end of life of the ELTIFs;
ALFI has recommended making the following  ■  Review the marketing to retail investor 
changes to the ELTIF framework:  provisions in particular as regards:
■  The internal assessment process and 
(i)  Removing limitations on the  suitability test; and 
supply side; i.e. improving the fund  ■  The investment advice requirement. 
structuring possibilities and aspects 
relating to eligible assets: The ALFI ELTIF working group has been 
following the development of the ELTIF 
■  Allowing for flexibility for ELTIF  Regulation very closely and pro-actively from 
investments into other funds; the outset and strongly believes that the ELTIF 
■  Providing practical guidance for  could become a successful third pillar alongside 
investment in real assets; AIFs and UCITS to complement the offering to 
■  Increasing the cap on the market  European investors. Luxembourg is one of the 
capitalisation of listed qualifying portfolio  main domiciles for ELTIFs and notably retail 
undertakings; ELTIFs are mainly set up in Luxembourg.
■  Enhancing flexibility regarding 
“borrowing” provisions ; We believe that “real assets” will be at 
■  Clarifying the conflict of interest  the heart of the success of the ELTIF. This 
provisions of the ELTIF Regulation; asset class has proven to be of interest to 
■  Clarifying EU/non-EU investments;  a significant number of investment fund 
■  Clarifying the duration/term of the ELTIF  managers. The uncertainties around real 
as ALFI believes that there is a high  assets are being reviewed in detail during the 
appetite for “evergreen” ELTIF structures,  consultation and we are confident that the 
which are deemed very attractive by  right changes will be made to design the ELTIF 
managers.  2.0. ALFI eagerly awaits the EU Commission’s 
ELTIF review proposal scheduled for Q4 2021.
MiFID II/MiFIR MiFID II/MiFIR developments “semi-professional” investor category, that 
there should be certain alleviations to product 
2020 marked a new era in the Directive on  governance rules and that professionals 
Markets for Financial Instruments (MiFID II –  should be granted the opportunity to opt out 
Directive 2014/65/EU) evolution, with the  of the ex-ante costs and charges disclosure 
work that started on the review of the Directive  requirements.
and the respective Regulation (Regulation 
(EU) No 600/2014). The consultation that was  In regard of the pandemic, the European 
launched by the European Commission paved  Commission was eager to foster a swift 
the way for first changes to the framework.  economic recovery and therefore to introduce 
ALFI responded to the consultation on 18 May  targeted amendments as early as possible 
2020 and highlighted, among other things,  under the so-called “Capital Markets Recovery 
that there is no need to introduce a new  Package”. ALFI followed the developments 
7  https://ec.europa.eu/info/publications/cmu-high-level-forum_en#200610 
29
Legal and regulatory expertise
closely when the Trilogue negotiations  regulations and administrative provisions 
started in this respect between the European  necessary to comply with this Directive. 
Parliament and the Council.
The journey will soon continue on topics like 
On 26 February 2021, the Directive (EU)  inducements and investor categorisation as per 
2021/338 amending MiFID II regarding  the European Commission Roadmap on “A 
information requirements, product governance  Retail Investment Strategy for the EU” that 
and position limits as well as Directives  was recently issued.
2013/36/EU and (EU) 2019/878 as regards 
their application to investment firms were  In addition, ALFI continued supporting the 
published in the Official Journal of the  initiatives on FinDatEx (Financial Data Exchange 
European Union. The changes included  Template) level to establish standardised 
exemptions from product governance rules  data templates. These templates cover the 
when the investment service is related to bonds  MiFID II requirements on the data exchange 
with a make-whole clause, when financial  between manufacturers and distributors via the 
instruments are exclusively marketed or  “European MiFID Template (EMT) v3.1” and 
distributed to eligible counterparties as well as  the need for distributors to report to product 
exemptions from costs and charges disclosure  manufacturers on sales performed outside of 
requirements for services provided to  the target market via the European Feedback 
professional clients and eligible counterparties. Template (EFT). The templates were developed 
exclusively for the benefit of the financial 
Member States are required to adopt and  industry, are easily accessible, free of copyright 
publish by 28 November 2021 the laws,  and can be used on a voluntary basis.
CMU Setting the scene with a new action plan:  In the introductory remarks to the new action 
CMU 2.0 plan, the Commission states that deepening the 
CMU is complex and no single measure will 
Following the publication of the European  complete it. Therefore, the only way to progress 
Commission’s action plan on building a  is to move steadily in all areas where barriers to 
Capital Markets Union (CMU) in September  the free movement of capital still exist.
2015 and a mid-term review in 2017, a new 
action plan was published in September 2020.  Before the new action plan was adopted, 
The sub-title ”A Capital Markets Union for  the Commission brought together 28 senior 
people and businesses” makes it clear that the  industry executives, experts, consumer 
construction phase is meant to be over and  representatives and scholars in a high-level 
that focus has shifted to the broader audience,  forum on the CMU. In June 2020, the 
notably individuals and firms which should  forum published its final report with 17 
benefit from concrete results. recommendations to the Commission and EU 
Member States for advancing the CMU.
The CMU is the EU’s plan to create a truly 
single market for capital across the EU. It aims  Through the new action plan, the Commission 
to get investment and savings flowing across all  commits to 16 actions to achieve three key 
Member States. According to the Commission,  objectives:
a fully functioning and integrated market for  ■  Support a green, digital, inclusive and 
capital will allow the EU economy to grow in  resilient economic recovery by making 
a sustainable way and be more competitive. An  financing more accessible to European 
economically stronger Europe will better serve  companies;
its citizens and help the EU play a stronger  ■  Make the EU an even safer place for 
role on the global stage. The CMU has even  individuals to save and invest long-term;
become more urgent in light of the crisis  ■  Integrate national capital markets into a 
induced by Covid-19. genuine single market.
30
From a fund and asset management perspective,  Commission’s new action plan. The conclusions 
the setting up of a European Single Access Point  stress that, at this juncture the highest priority 
(ESAP) and the review of the ELTIF (European  should be given to those actions that are 
Long-Term Investment Fund) Regulation are of  important for improving the funding of the 
particular relevance. Further initiatives aim at  economy and particularly of small and medium-
empowering citizens through financial literacy  sized enterprises and that have the potential 
and supporting people in their retirement.  to support a swift economic recovery in the 
Changes to the MiFID (Markets in Financial  context of the Covid-19 pandemic. These 
Instruments Directive), PRIIPs (Packaged Retail  actions should be delivered as soon as possible 
and Insurance-based Investment Products) and  and no later than the end of 2021. The measures 
IDD (Insurance Distribution Directive) rules  that are considered to be the most important 
are meant to help building retail investors’ trust  for mobilising private capital should also be 
in capital markets. Facilitating shareholder  delivered as soon as possible. These should be 
engagement and developing cross-border  followed by measures that are deemed to be of 
settlement services are other key items. Last but  major importance for progressing towards a 
not least, action 16 highlights the Commission’s  more vibrant and globally competitive capital 
intention to work towards an enhanced single  market in the short and medium term.
rulebook and to address any shortcomings in 
the EU supervisory framework. The ALFI CMU working group closely 
monitors and coordinates actions deriving from 
On 3 December 2020, the Council of the  the Commission’s action plan, in cooperation 
EU approved a set of conclusions on the  with numerous other ALFI committees.
GDPR News concerning the protection of  until 1 July 2021. Moreover, it is worth noting 
personal data that the European Commission launched in 
February 2021 a process towards the adoption 
Three years after the application date of  of an adequacy decision for transfers of 
the General Data Protection Regulation  personal data to the UK under the GDPR. Such 
(GDPR), ALFI published another version  a decision would make specific measures and 
of its Q&A document. While the European  agreements redundant, but it remains to be 
Data Protection Board (EDPB) published in  seen whether it will actually be adopted in an 
2020 new guidance on consent and on data  unprecedented short time which would replace 
protection by design and by default, the  any other actions in view of the situation 
updated sections of the ALFI Q&A focus on  after the aforementioned date. The national 
three areas that are of particular relevance for  commission for data protection in Luxembourg 
the fund industry. (Commission nationale pour la protection des 
données, CNPD) published guidance on the 
Data transfers to third countries consequences of Brexit for international data 
transfers, which will be updated regularly.
Following new guidance from the EDPB on the 
territorial scope of the GDPR (notably Article  The EU-US Privacy Shield framework, which 
3), and even more because of Brexit and the  replaced the former EU-US Safe Harbor 
so-called Schrems II decision of the Court of  scheme was declared invalid by the Court 
Justice of the EU the part on data transfers to  of Justice of the EU. Given that there is no 
third countries clearly needed to be revised and  adequacy decision for the United States of 
completed. America, practitioners wishing to transfer 
data to the US can only do so on the basis of 
Pursuant to the trade and cooperation  Binding Corporate Rules (BCR) or Standard 
agreement (TCA) between the UK and the  Contractual Clauses (SCCs) unless specific 
European Commission, personal data can  derogations apply. Data controllers relying on 
continue to flow freely from the EU to the  SCCs are required to verify, on a case-by-case 
UK for a maximum period of six months, i.e.  basis and, where appropriate in collaboration 
31
Legal and regulatory expertise
with the recipient of the data in the third  the legal responsibilities of and interaction 
country, if the SCCs as implemented in the  between data controllers and data processors 
light of the law of the third country ensure  when it comes to data breaches.
a level of protection of the personal data 
transferred that is essentially equivalent to that  Compliance monitoring
guaranteed in the European Economic Area. 
As a result, data exporters are required to add  Last but not least, a new Annex III has been 
measures that are supplementary to the SCCs  added which deals with GDPR compliance 
to ensure effective compliance with that level  monitoring. This analysis is based on the 
of protection where the safeguards contained  CNPD certification criteria as listed for 
in SCCs are not sufficient. 2020 has seen  the certification scheme CARPA. For each 
consultations by the EDPB on supplementary  section, the working group in charge has listed 
measures and by the European Commission  checks that need to be done by the person(s) 
on revised SCCs. The outcome of these  responsible for compliance monitoring.
consultations is not yet available, which leaves 
practitioners in a state of uncertainty. What comes next?
Data breaches Apart from the guidance by the EDPB 
mentioned above and the SCCs which should 
The ALFI Q&A on GDPR now includes a  be published in final form by the Commission, 
longer sub-chapter on breaches. Thanks to  the EDPB is expected to publish guidelines 
experience gained since the regulation has  on the concepts of controller and processor 
become applicable, more detailed information  in the GDPR. Even though the related 
is now available on the different types of data  draft guidelines did not specifically hint at 
breaches and how the competent authority  investment funds or asset managers, further 
has to be notified of these. In this context, the  details on both roles will help to determine 
EDPB is expected to present soon final guidance  responsibilities and may result in another 
containing concrete examples for data breach  update of the ALFI Q&A document on GDPR.
notifications. The Q&A also analyses in detail 
PRIIPS Is the end of The PRIIPs RTS Odyssey  commissioned by the European Commission is 
in sight?  only expected for late 2021.
One or the other got probably lost on where  Review of PRIIPs RTS
we are in terms of the review of Regulation 
(EU) No. 1286-2014 of the European  Already before the PRIIPs rules came into 
Parliament and of the Council of 26 November  application, the industry criticised among other 
2014 on key information documents (KIDs)  things the methodologies for the calculation 
for packaged retail and insurance-based  of costs and concerning the presentation of 
investment products (PRIIPs). Given the  performance scenarios. Issues like negative 
odyssey of the past years, it is worth outlining  transaction costs or overly optimistic returns for 
again the various steps towards an improved  investors proved existing flaws. The European 
disclosure document for retail investors. Commission and the European Supervisory 
Authorities (ESAs) acknowledged certain issues, 
Broader PRIIPs review in particular as regards performance scenarios. 
However, as a first step the Commission 
The PRIIPs rules have been applicable since  only had targeted changes to the Regulatory 
3 January 2018. The initial date for a broad  Technical Standards (RTS) in mind, while 
review of the PRIIPs Regulation was postponed  postponing a broader review of the PRIIPs 
from the end of 2018 to the end of 2019,  Regulation to a later stage (see above).
and has still not taken place. It may only 
start in 2022, because the outcome of a study 
32
A short consultation on revised RTS was  Performance scenarios would also have to be 
conducted in November/December 2018, but  calculated and published on a monthly basis. 
the ESAs decided in February 2019 to not  For the unfavourable, moderate and favourable 
propose targeted amendments and to initiate  scenarios a new historical data requirement of 
a more comprehensive revision of the PRIIPs  ten years would be introduced. If needed, this 
level 2 regulation. At the same time, a political  requirement would have to be fulfilled with 
agreement was reached for the postponement of  benchmark data.
the exemption for UCITS management companies 
by two years until the end of 2021. In October  Given that the inclusion of past performance 
2019, the ESAs published another consultation  information in the KID would have 
paper concerning amendments to the PRIIPs KID.  necessitated a change of the PRIIPs level 1 
ALFI responded to both consultations. Regulation, this information could under the 
new RTS only be published as a complement 
Because of disagreement between the ESAs  on a website or in a factsheet, to which the 
and the European Commission on key aspects,  KID could refer via hyperlink.
it took the ESAs until June 2020 to present a 
draft final report, and further seven months  In terms of costs, the two cost tables would 
until February 2021 to adopt the revised draft  be maintained. Following some adaptations 
RTS. The Commission is now expected to  to the methodology, negative transaction costs 
adopt those RTS in May/June 2021 without  should disappear. The so-called Arrival price 
changes. However, the European Parliament  methodology would only have to be applied 
and Council would still have three months  from 1 January 2025, but it is worth noting that 
to object, and this period could theoretically  the placing of the order to the market should 
be extended to six months. In order to  already be tracked from the beginning of 2022.
ensure proper implementation, the industry 
is lobbying for another extension of the  What comes after?
UCITS exemption, which would also leave 
sufficient time to update the European PRIIPs  It remains to be seen which changes can still be 
Template (EPT) for the exchange of data and  discussed in the context of the broader PRIIPs 
information with insurers. review. The fund industry is still of the view 
that for linear products, only past performance 
Which changes are expected? should be shown. Moreover, market 
movements should not be considered as costs. 
Provided the revised draft RTS are adopted  The ALFI PRIIPs working groups will continue 
as they currently stand, the Summary Risk  to monitor developments and to contribute to 
Indicator (SRI) would in the future no longer  discussions at political and regulatory level. 
be calculated on a weekly, but on a monthly  In order to answer questions from members, 
basis. The KID would have to be updated in  a new version of the ALFI PRIIPs KID Q&A 
case of relevant changes. document is in preparation.
Brexit Operating in a post-Brexit era out out of London while fund servicing and 
distribution is done in and from Luxembourg. 
London remains the largest asset management  With a 17% market share and EUR 899 billion 
centre in Europe. According to the Investment  as at March 2021, UK asset managers are the 
Association, the United Kingdom manages  second-largest group of initiators of funds in 
GBP 9.9 trillion8 AuM in investment funds and  Luxembourg.
segregated mandates. 
The UK is in fact a very important distribution 
Luxembourg and the UK are long-standing  market, with Luxembourg clearly a leader 
partners, with portfolio management carried  among overseas funds. Roughly 25% of 
8  Source: The Investment Association, Investment Management Survey 2019-2020;
33
Legal and regulatory expertise
funds distributed in the UK are overseas  ALFI regularly informed its members through 
funds. As at 31 December 2020, there were  posts on a dedicated digital information 
8,980 funds and sub-funds distributed in the  board in the members section of all relevant 
UK. From this total, 4,421 are Luxembourg- developments. Over the past two years, ALFI 
domiciled9, which thus represents 49% of all  posted 49 news items, supplemented by 
overseas funds registered in the UK. From a  Newsflash issues and Special Newsflash issues. 
Luxembourg perspective, virtually all funds 
that are distributed in the UK made use of the  The vast majority of firms had taken all 
Temporary Permissions Regime, allowing them  the necessary steps to adapt their business 
to continue operating after Brexit. models to the new environment so that the 
transition to a post-Brexit era went relatively 
Already before Brexit, the vast majority of  smoothly. This also entailed some changes in 
UK asset managers had established their  the allocation of assets, in particular with a 
own UCITS management company or AIFM  view to complying with investment limits and 
in Luxembourg. In the meantime, some  investment ratios under UCITS.
additional thirty firms have either set up an 
operation in Luxembourg or taken other  Regulatory developments
steps to continue marketing their funds in 
the EU10. Setting up a management company  ALFI has continuously monitored regulatory 
allows firms to benefit from the European  developments in a Brexit context, engaging with 
management passport in the EU. This was  policymakers at national and international level, 
a logical move when considering that the  and liaising with the Investment Association.
UCITS Directive and AIFMD both feature 
a “product” passport, meaning that the  In May 2020, ALFI responded to the Public 
investment funds themselves may be offered  Consultation on the Overseas Funds Regime of 
across borders in the EU, and a “management”  the UK Government. 
passport for UCITS management companies 
and AIFMs with respect to the funds they  It also kept its members informed of the most 
manage.  relevant developments in the UK such as the 
Financial Services Bill and the consultation of 
Another possible way of retaining access to  HM Treasury on a “Review of the UK funds 
distribution in the EU is to set up the fund in  regime”, in January 2021. Among others, 
Luxembourg while appointing a third-party  the consultation confirms that delegation of 
management company, a route that some asset  portfolio management is a legitimate way of 
managers chose in lieu of setting up a fully- conducting business across borders in the asset 
fledged operation in the EU.  management industry.
Tax DAC 6  would be considered as being potentially 
aggressive tax-planning arrangements. DAC 6 
The Council Directive (EU) 2018/822 of  was amended by Council Directive (EU) 
25 May 2018 amending Directive 2011/16/EU  2020/876 of 24 June 2020 amending Directive 
as regards mandatory automatic exchange  2011/16/EU to address the urgent need to defer 
of information in the field of taxation  certain time limits for the filing and exchange 
in relation to reportable cross-border  of information in the field of taxation as 
arrangements (DAC 6) was designed to obtain  a measure to mitigate the impacts of the 
and subsequently exchange information on  Covid-19 pandemic by providing an option 
cross-border arrangements that would meet  to Member States to postpone the DAC 6 
one of the hallmarks set by DAC 6 and that  reporting deadlines by 6 months. 
9  Source: Refinitiv and PwC analysis, 31 December 2020;
10  Source: Luxembourg for Finance.
34
DAC 6 was initially transposed by  of 29 May 2017 (ATAD 2) to complement the 
Luxembourg with the law of 25 March  hybrid mismatches rules set by ATAD 1 with 
2020 that was subsequently amended by the  rules on hybrid mismatches with third countries. 
Luxembourg law of 24 July 2020 introducing 
the extension of reporting deadlines in relation  On 8 January 2021, the Luxembourg direct 
to DAC 6 as per the option granted to Member  tax authorities published a circular providing 
States by Directive (EU) 2020/876.  guidance on the application of interest 
deduction limitation rules. The purpose of 
The provisions of the law applied as from  this rule is to limit the erosion of the tax base 
1 July 2020 and the reporting obligations  through the deduction of excessive amounts of 
started as from 1 January 2021 with two  interest by a taxpayer.
important reporting deadlines for reportable 
cross-border arrangements implemented  In January 2021, ALFI, together with other 
between 1 July 2020 and 31 December 2020  Luxembourg professional associations, 
that had to be reported by the end of January  published a FAQ document providing common 
2021 and for arrangements implemented  guidelines and best market practices on the 
between 25 June 2018 and 30 June 2020  implementation of ATAD 2.
(the so-called transition period) that had to  
be reported by the end of February 2021. Digital taxation
Against the broadly-worded concepts and  In 2020 and 2021, ALFI has continued to 
notions introduced by DAC 6 and the limited  follow up on the OECD work to address 
number of detailed implementation measures  the challenges of taxation in the digital 
in relation to reporting obligations, in  economy. In that context, in December 2020 
December 2020 ALFI published its guidance  the association responded to the public 
ALFI Considerations on Reporting under  consultation and provided detailed comments 
DAC 6. This document outlines a framework  on the OECD reports on the Unified Approach 
on DAC 6 for investment funds and the  under Pillar One and the Global Anti-Base 
asset management industry, and suggest a  Erosion Proposal (GloBE) under Pillar Two 
systematic and consistent method for analysing  blueprints. ALFI comments focused on the 
potentially reportable arrangements as well as  need for a carve-out of investment fund and 
in-depth considerations for market players on  asset management activities under both Pillar 
both the general concepts and their practical  One and Pillar Two, as well as the need for 
implementation for investment funds. This  additional implementation details in order for 
guidance was presented to ALFI members  the OECD to achieve a workable result on these 
during an expert briefing on 9 December 2020. proposals. On the basis of the outcome of the 
public consultation, the OECD has undertaken 
ATAD additional work to analyse and provide answers 
to the main points raised by the respondents.
The Council Directive (EU) 2016/1164 of 
12 July 2016 laying down rules against tax  Although the EU is obviously engaged in the 
avoidance practices that directly affect the  discussions taking place at OECD level, it also 
functioning of the internal market (ATAD 1)  directly tackles the challenges of taxation of 
was implemented in Luxembourg by the law  the digital economy directly.
of 28 December 2018. It has amended existing 
Luxembourg rules on exit taxation and the  Council Directive (EU) 2021/514 of 22 March 
general anti-abuse rule and has introduced an  2021 amending Directive 2011/16/EU on 
interest limitation rule, a Controlled Foreign  administrative cooperation in the field of 
Company (CFC) rule and hybrid mismatches  taxation has introduced new rules that will 
rules to prevent companies from exploiting  apply as from 1 January 2023 on automatic 
national mismatches to avoid taxation. exchange of information on income earned by 
sellers on their digital platforms (DAC 7).
The Luxembourg law of 20 December 2019 
transposed Council Directive (EU) 2017/952 
35
Legal and regulatory expertise
The European Commission is also currently  The dedicated ALFI Digital Taxation WG 
assessing the need for new rules on reporting and  is in charge of following up on all these 
exchange of information on crypto-assets and  developments and their potential impacts on 
e-money for tax purposes (DAC 8), as well as the  Luxembourg investment funds and the asset 
possible introduction of an EU digital levy. management industry. 
Risk management  Risk management developments requests and maintain their portfolio structure. 
However, ESMA also identified five priority 
The second half of 2020 was among others  areas to improve the funds’ preparedness,  
characterised by the Common Supervisory  such as the supervision of liquidity risk 
Actions (CSAs) that were performed by ESMA  assessments and valuation processes as well  
in coordination with National Competent  as the availability of liquidity management  
Authorities (NCAs) on different aspects in  tools (LMTs). The report also displayed that  
relation to risk management. in Luxembourg LMTs are largely available.
One of the CSAs concerned the compliance  Another important development in 2020 
of UCITS managers with their liquidity risk  was the implementation of the 2019 ESMA 
management (LRM) obligations. The second  guidelines on liquidity stress testing in UCITS 
stage of this CSA was launched in the second  and AIFs in Luxembourg’s legislation via the 
half of 2020 with a more focused, in-depth  CSSF Circular 20/752 in September 2020. 
analysis compared to the first stage initiated in 
January. The results of the CSA were published  Further to the March 2020 market turmoil, 
by ESMA on 24 March 2021 and showed that  ESMA updated their Guidelines on Stress 
the overall level of compliance is satisfactory in  Tests for Money Market Funds (MMFs) as 
most cases. However, in some cases there was  for some parameters, the previous scenarios 
also a need for improvement identified, e.g.  have even been exceeded by the extreme 
regarding documentation, LRM methodologies  market movements. The relevant factors were 
or the reliance on data and presumptions.  updated accordingly, in particular regarding the 
Related work is intended at ESMA level to  redemption scenario, as some funds exceeded 
promote convergence in the way NCAs follow  the 25% redemption rate for professional 
up on the findings of the CSA. In addition,  investors specified in the previous guidelines.
ESMA will consider whether the results of CSA 
should lead to any follow-up policy work. LRM considerations also play an important 
role in the ESMA consultation on the legislative 
A further CSA was launched by ESMA in July  review of the MMF Regulation that was 
2020 in relation to the ESRB Recommendations  launched in March 2021. ALFI will respond 
on Liquidity Risk in Investment Funds. Based  to this consultation that is addressing possible 
on experience during the onset of the crisis,  policy options.
the ESRB had identified corporate debt and 
real estate investment funds as particular  In late 2020, ESMA also published their 
high-priority areas for enhanced scrutiny from  Guidelines on art. 25 of the AIFMD. They aim 
a financial stability perspective. Therefore, it  at promoting convergence in the way NCAs 
recommended that ESMA assess with NCAs the  assess the extent to which the use of leverage 
preparedness of these funds to potential future  within the AIF sector contributes to the build-
adverse shocks. In November 2020, ESMA  up of systemic risk in the financial system and 
published the results of this analysis. It showed  design, calibrate and implement leverage limits. 
that the funds in scope of the assessment overall  The guidelines follow the respective 2-steps 
managed to adequately maintain their activities  approach introduced by IOSCO and the 
when facing redemption pressures and/or  recommendations by the European Systemic 
valuation uncertainties. Only a limited number  Risk Board (ESRB) published in April 2018 on 
suspended subscriptions and redemptions while  how to address liquidity and leverage risk in 
the vast majority was able to meet redemption  investment funds. 
36
ALFI responded to the respective ESMA  European Risk Management Conference 
consultation in July 2020. that was held in association with ALRiM 
on 26 October 2020. This edition of the 
In addition, input from the risk management  well-established event covered especially the 
side was provided to the ALFI response on the  topics sustainability, liquidity, real assets and 
AIFMD review consultation. technology risks. Not only ALFI and ALRiM 
members, but also representatives from national 
Apart from their efforts put into the working  and international authorities presented their key 
groups over the past year, the ALFI risk  considerations. The conference attracted over 
management experts contributed to the ALFI  200 risk management professionals.
Depositary banking Completion of the multi-year guidelines  representatives of the depositary banking 
roadmap industry, with a focus on ownership 
verification and record-keeping duties.
In November 2020, the ALFI/ABBL Depositary 
Bank Forum completed its roadmap of best  Participation in the AIFMD review 
practices guidelines with the publication of the  consultation
last document regarding the “other assets”.
Within the ALFI Depositary Bank Forum, a 
Against this background, in January 2021  dedicated working group was created to collect 
ALFI hosted a members expert briefing in  members’ views on the questions relating to the 
order to share the content of the five best  depositary activities in the consultation on the 
practices depositary guidelines that have  AIFMD review.
been drafted and published by ALFI over 
the course of the last 2.5 years. Professionals  In particular, ALFI took the position that the 
deeply involved in the drafting of these  presence of the depositary in the home country of 
guidelines with the corresponding working  the fund is a stable and valuable point of contact 
groups presented and discussed key notions,  for the regulator, which overall helps the proper 
such as the recording of financial instruments,  implementation of the AIFMD. For this reason, 
obligations linked to collateral, ownership  ALFI thought this satisfying configuration should 
verification duties on other assets and cash  not be modified, and thus did not support the 
flow monitoring. proposal of a depositary passport.
Guidelines on the safekeeping of other  Also, ALFI was of the opinion that when CSDs 
assets act as custody delegates of a depositary, in 
particular in their capacity of investor CSDs, 
The publication of these guidelines on the  they should be subject to the same liability 
safekeeping of other assets concluded a multi- regime as other banking delegates under the 
year effort coordinated by ALFI in the field  AIFMD/UCITS V Directive.
of real assets. The purpose of this document 
is to describe the safekeeping duties that a  Others 
depositary bank has with regard to other assets 
in contrast to all fund assets that fall within  The ALFI head office has been the voice of 
the definition of a financial instrument held in  members on a number of other depositary files.
custody (which are covered by separated best 
practice guidelines already published in early  Following the application of the CDRs 
2020). Ten asset classes are covered: private  2018/1618 and 2018/1619 of AIFM and 
equity, real estate, infrastructure, tangible  UCITS Regulations regarding the books 
assets, UCIs, time deposits, loans, securities  and records duties, the implementation 
lending/repos and derivatives.  principles published by ALFI in 2019 
were confirmed, in particular where prime 
These best practice guidelines have been  brokers and collateral agents are the 
designed from an operational perspective by  custodial delegates of the fund depositary. 
37
Legal and regulatory expertise
An educational note was also drafted to  recommendation to exempt the counterparties 
describe best practices on the use of pooling  using the ISDA SIMM standard model from 
practices from a depositary perspective, in  pre-validation and back-testing requirements. 
compliance with the applicable regulation. ALFI has continued to advocate in favour of 
a variation margin exemption for physically 
In the field of collateral, ALFI published  settled forex forwards and swaps, which was 
guidelines regarding uncleared margin rules  confirmed and clarified for funds by ESMA in 
(UMR) with phase 5 eligible on September  its final report published in November 2020. 
2021, and supported the two postponements 
of UMR last phase combined with the creation  Against this background, ALFI continued to 
of phase 6 (AANA > 8 Bio). The document  be the voice of Luxembourg in the European 
details the custodial implications for the initial  Trustee and Depositary Forum (ETDF).
margin to be exchanged. It also includes a 
Digital and Fintech The Digital/FinTech Forum has attracted more  The working groups were deeply involved in 
than 200 active members (ALFI members and  the elaboration of the ALFI position papers on 
FinTech start-ups) over the past five years.  Digital/FinTech consultations, all published on 
the ALFI website.
The objectives of the Forum are to:
■  Build and spread digital/ FinTech know- In the year 2020/2021, the working groups 
how within our industry; drafted and contributed to the following 
■  Discuss and analyse digital and FinTech  position papers:
developments which are believed to have a  ■  EU Commission – CMU and mid-term 
disruptive and revolutionary impact on the  review;
asset management industry; ■  ESAP – Single Access Point;
■  Gather, analyse and share information; ■  ESMA – Draft guidelines on outsourcing 
■  Contribute to creating a strong and  to cloud service providers;
innovative ICT ecosystem in Luxembourg. ■  EU Commission – EU framework for 
markets in crypto-assets;
The ALFI Digital/FinTech Forum works closely  ■  EU Commission – Digital operational 
with other players in the FinTech ecosystem such  resilience framework for financial services.
as the LHoFT, ABBL and ICT Luxembourg, to 
name just a few. It is also important to highlight  The following documents were published on 
the regular communication with the CSSF. the ALFI website:
■  Tokenisation and digital custody in 
The Forum has currently seven active working  the world of the investment fund – a 
groups: collaborative book;
■  Blockchain and crypto-assets; ■  Guidelines on cybersecurity.
■  Digital funding;
■  Cybersecurity; ALFI welcomes the three regulatory proposals 
■  Fund administration and custody; of the European Commission that are part 
■  Fund distribution and TA; of the digital finance package, a package 
■  Fund governance and risk management; of measures to further enable and support 
■  Digital finance strategy. the potential of digital finance in terms of 
innovation and competition while mitigating 
Recent initiatives the risks arising from it:
■  Proposal for a Regulation of the European 
In 2020/2021, the working groups looked  Parliament and of the Council on Markets 
at an initiative around “digitising” the asset  in Crypto-assets, and amending Directive 
management value chain and the related effects  (EU) 2019/1937 (MiCA);
on the investment fund market. ■  Proposal for a Regulation of the European 
Parliament and of the Council on digital 
operational resilience for the financial 
38
sector and amending Regulations (EC)  In this context, in November 2020, ALFI 
No 1060/2009, (EU) No 648/2012, (EU)  launched the Digital Finance Strategy working 
No 600/2014 and (EU) No 909/2014  group. Over the next 18 months, ALFI will 
(DORA); and follow the EU Commission’s invitation to 
■  Proposal for a Regulation of the  examine and comment on the process of 
European Parliament and of the  defining the digital finance strategy and more 
Council on a pilot regime for market  specifically the regulation, which the EU 
infrastructures based on distributed  Commission intends to put in place.
ledger technology (the Pilot Regime).
39
Brussels representative office
The ALFI Brussels Office:  Even in Covid-19-induced home office times,  on the basis of its response to the dedicated 
speaking to the EU in 2020 the dialogue with the EU institutions goes on  consultation. A legislative proposal is currently 
by more digital means. Indeed, civil servants,  expected by Q4 2021. A similar exercise on 
Commissioners, MEPs and diplomats from  ALFI’s side has been ongoing on the review 
Member States continue working as usual and  of the regulation on European Long Term 
preparing future legislation. Investment Funds (ELTIF).
CMU 2.0 Other topics
A major work stream has been the second  In 2020 there has been ongoing advocacy 
round of measures aiming at creating a genuine  on sustainable finance in particular around 
Capital Markets Union for Europe. ALFI has  delegated acts and regulatory technical 
been engaging in the process among other things  standards, the MiFID/R recovery package, the 
via the Commission, its High-Level Forum as  PEPP level 2, etc. ALFI also closely follows 
well as at the European Parliament and other  developments regarding the set-up of a 
relevant stakeholders. It will continue to do  projected EU AML Authority as well as the 
so in the legislative follow-up work to the  addition of an AML regulation to the directive. 
Commission’s Action Plan in the matter. Issues  Given the importance of tax matters and 
ALFI has been active on include ELTIFs (see  potential changes as result of the authorities’ 
below), the involvement of retail and semi- massive stimulus actions, the association also 
professional investors, withholding tax relief  monitors closely any developments around 
and the convergence and level of supervision.   the financial transaction tax and in the digital 
As part of the process ALFI has engaged with  area that might directly or indirectly impact 
relevant stakeholders on upcoming review of the  the industry.
framework on markets in financial instruments 
(MiFID/R), as well as the PRIIPs level 1 review  Monitoring 
and the RTS developed by the ESAs and actively 
shared members concerns around the timeline  The Brussels Office reports regularly internally 
for implementation. on all relevant Council and European 
Parliament meetings and produces an internal 
Review of the EU’s alternative funds  daily monitoring report of news from the EU 
(managers) regulation and international institutions, authorities and 
organisations as well as other stakeholders.
The Alternative Investment Fund Managers 
Directive (AIFMD) is up for a scheduled  ALFI has been declaring its advocacy interests 
revision. ALFI has been engaging with the  and resources via the European Transparency 
Commission at various levels on the matter in  Register since its inception in 2008. The 
2020 as well as in early 2021 while initiating  Association is also committed to the European 
first exchanges with MEPs and Member States  Code of Conduct in the matter.
40
ALFI responses to consultations 
As the representative body of the Luxembourg  ■  Comments on the European Commission 
investment fund community, ALFI shares its  roadmap on the review of VAT rules for 
comments and concerns on manifold topics  financial and insurance services;
with the regulatory entities at national and  ■  Feedback to European Commission 
international levels.  roadmap on AIFMD review;
■  European Commission consultation on the 
Within the year in review, ALFI has provided  ELTIF review;
the following responses/comments11: ■  European Commission consultation on the 
review of the Alternative Investment Fund 
■  European Commission consultation on  Managers Directive (AIFMD);
NFRD review; ■  ESMA consultation on marketing 
■  European Commission consultation on  communications;
digital finance strategy for Europe; ■  Feedback to European Commission on a 
■  ESMA consultation on draft ITS under  recognition of US Prudential Regulators’ 
EU Regulation facilitating cross-border  rules on over-the-counter (OTC) derivatives;
distribution of collective investment  ■  European Commission targeted 
undertakings; consultation on the establishment of a 
■  EBA consultation on ML/TF risk factor  European single access point (ESAP) for 
Guidelines; financial and non-financial information 
■  Comments on the European Commission’s  publicly disclosed by companies;
draft delegated acts on the integration  ■  ESMA consultation on Fees charged to 
of sustainability factors under UCITS,  Credit Rating Agencies by ESMA;
AIFMD and MiFID; ■  European Commission consultation on EU 
■  European Commission consultation on the  framework for markets in crypto-assets;
renewed sustainable finance strategy; ■  European Commission public consultation 
■  ESMA on outsourcing to cloud service  on the review of VAT rules for financial 
providers; and insurance services;
■  ESMA consultation Guidelines on art. 25  ■  European Commission consultation on 
AIFMD; the review of the Directive on settlement 
■  ESA consultation on ESG Disclosures; finality in payment and securities 
■  IOSCO Consultation Principles on  settlement systems (SFD);
Outsourcing; ■  European Commission consultation on 
■  ESA survey on product disclosure  the review of the Directive on financial 
templates under the SFDR; collateral arrangements (FCD);
■  ESMA consultation on a draft advice to  ■  ESA Joint Consultation concerning 
European Commission under Article 8 of  taxonomy-related sustainability disclosures;
the Taxonomy Regulation;  ■  European Commission consultation on 
■  OECD Reports on Pillar One and Pillar  supervisory convergence and the single 
Two Blueprints; rulebook.
11  ALFI responses can be found here: https://www.alfi.lu/en-gb/news/category/statementsandpositionpapers
41
Fostering 
dedication to 
professional 
standards, integrity 
and quality
Investor trust is essential for success in collective investment 
services and ALFI thus does all it can to promote high professional 
standards, quality products and services, and integrity. Action 
in this area includes organising training at all levels, defining 
codes of conduct, transparency and good corporate governance, 
and supporting initiatives to combat money laundering.
Deep talent pool and training initiatives
Luxembourg’s workforce is not only  Some of the most recent initiatives include:
multicultural, multilingual and internationally  ■  Regular interaction with the University 
diverse, but also highly qualified. According to  of Luxembourg to provide input to the 
the 2015 report on human capital of the World  content for the revised master programme 
Economic Forum (WEF), Luxembourg has the  MSc in Finance and Economics in order to 
largest share of highly skilled workers in the  align it with the required skill set for young 
world and ranks second position for attracting  graduates to enter the financial sector;
talents12 from abroad. ■  Collaboration with a local secondary 
school to contribute to develop a dedicated 
It goes without saying that adequate and  advanced technician certificate designed for 
continuous training initiatives are an essential  the various sectors of the financial industry;
tool in our industry. Professionals have to  ■  Long-standing and ongoing partnership 
follow a complex regulatory agenda which  with House of Training to provide 
generates a constant need to update and  technical courses on topics relevant to the 
strengthen skills on a daily basis.  asset management and fund industry;
■  Participation in initiatives of Luxembourg 
ALFI works closely with several training  for Finance to attract talent to 
institutions in Luxembourg to ensure the  Luxembourg, including job fairs;
best courses are available to both students  ■  Presentations delivered to foreign 
and professionals in finance and specifically  university students about the investment 
investment funds.  fund sector and opportunities to work in 
the financial industry.
12  GFCI 2019
43
Anti-money laundering initiatives
Anti-money laundering  At European level, two documents have been  14 December 2012 on the fight against 
developments in 2020- of particular relevance for our industry during  money laundering and terrorist financing, 
2021 this past year: and Grand Ducal Regulation of 14 August 
■  On 7 May 2020, the European  2020 modifying Grand Ducal Regulation 
Commission issued its AML Action  of 1 February 2010 providing details on 
Plan aiming notably at the creation of  certain provisions of the amended Law of 
a new AML-dedicated EU agency, the  12 November 2004 on the fight against 
strengthening of the existing regulatory  money laundering and terrorist financing. 
tools and the enhancement of anti-money  Both texts aim at reflecting the evolution 
laundering supervision; of the legislation on anti-money laundering 
■  On 1 March 2021 the EBA published its  and counter terrorist financing. The new 
revised Guidelines on ML/TF risk factors,  CSSF Regulation contains, among other 
containing new guidance in particular on  things, clarifications as to the AML/CTF 
the identification of beneficial owners, and  risk-based approach, risk management 
further sectoral guidelines, for example as  and mitigation, customer due diligence 
regards crowdfunding platforms. policy, cross-border correspondent 
relationships and similar relationships 
At national level, there were several legal and  and the risk assessment with regard to 
regulatory highlights during the year, starting  outsourced functions. It underlines that 
with the following two national laws that were  professionals must carry out an assessment 
published in the Mémorial on 25 March 2020: of the ML/TF risk presented by any 
■  The law amending the law of  investment and to take due diligence 
12 November 2004 on the fight against  measures which are adapted to the risk. 
money laundering and terrorist financing  Finally, the text clarifies the functions of 
implements certain provisions of  the person responsible for compliance with 
Directive (EU) 2018/843 of the European  the AML/CFT obligations (the Person 
Parliament and of the Council of 30 May  Responsible for Compliance or RR) and 
2018 (AMLD 5) into national legislation.  of the person responsible for the control 
This text extends the scope of the 2004  of compliance with such obligations (the 
law among others to new professionals  Person Responsible for Control or RC).
such as real estate promoters acting as 
intermediaries for the selling or buying of  The National Risk Assessment of money 
immovable property and real estate agents; laundering and terrorist financing (NRA) for 
■  The law establishing a central electronic  Luxembourg was also updated end 2020. It 
data retrieval for IBAN accounts and safes  must be noted that the CSSF published its 
requires all Luxembourg credit institutions  first ML/FT Risk Analysis on the Collective 
and any institution servicing IBAN  Investment Sector on 17 January 2020. This 
accounts and safes to set up a register of  sub-sector risk assessment looks at ML/FT 
bank accounts to which the CSSF will  inherent risks, but also at risk-mitigating 
have electronic access.  factors applied by Investment Fund Managers 
and competent authorities, as well as their 
The summer season saw new regulations being  impact on inherent risk and the resulting 
published, in particular: residual risk level. 
■  CSSF Circular 20/744 of 3 July 2020, 
which complements CSSF Circular 17/650  A further development marked the beginning 
providing details on certain provisions  of 2021, with the release on 25 January 
of the AML/CFT Law to predicate tax  2021 by the Ministry of Justice of the first 
offenses. The amendments detail new  Luxembourg vertical assessment of money 
indicators to be taken into account in the  laundering and terrorist financing risks related 
context of collective investment activities;  to virtual asset service providers (VASPs). 
■  The law of 10 July 2020 creating a register 
of fiducies and trusts; The Covid-19 health crisis that struck 
■  CSSF Regulation 20-05 of 14 August  the world from the beginning of 2020 
2020 modifying Regulation 12-02 of  also impacted the AML/CTF framework. 
44
The Financial Action Task Force (FATF)  Finally, ALFI has also been very active on 
issued a paper in May on Covid-19-related  the AML/CFT front these last few months. 
money laundering and terrorist financing  Dedicated working groups have updated 
risks and policy responses to the threats  the association’s AML Practices and 
and vulnerabilities arising from the crisis. In  Recommendations, and a new version has been 
Luxembourg, the CSSF published Circular  released in May 2021. This publication aims at 
20/740 providing guidance to all professionals  providing AML/CFT guidance to the securities 
subject to anti-money laundering and counter- sector in Luxembourg and is drafted on the 
terrorism financing supervision of the CSSF in  basis of applicable EU and national legislation 
relation to the money laundering and terrorism  and regulations, as well as international 
financing risks and AML/CFT implications of  standards. A new specific section of our 
the Covid-19 pandemic.  guidelines is dedicated to the due diligence on 
the asset side. The updated guidelines were 
presented to ALFI members during an expert 
briefing organised on 20 May 2021.
45
Promoting  
the Luxembourg 
fund industry
ALFI actively promotes the Luxembourg investment fund industry, its products 
and its services. The pandemic has acted as a significant brake on the global 
economy and its many sectors, including the fund industry, and certainly left 
a mark on everyone’s personal life. Since the lockdown in March 2020, the 
association has had to adapt to the new situation and find appropriate ways to 
remain close to its members and expert audiences exclusively through digital 
channels, be it for its events, promotional campaigns or press meetings. 
Events
From physical to digital The most obvious and direct hit affected the  view and click on the sponsors’ logos and get 
organisation of ALFI events, which could no  access to the exhibitors’ booths to consult the 
longer take place in a physical way. Over the  marketing material and enter in contact with 
past year, ALFI has delivered almost twenty  the firms’ representatives. The participants can 
virtual events on its dedicated platform  also connect with other attendees thanks to a 
developed to address the needs of the sponsors  dedicated networking space.
and the industry. At the time of writing, the 
virtual events are the only option to continue  Conference reports
delivering high-quality content to the expert 
audience while providing a broad range of  With over 30 years of experience in the 
innovative features to ensure that our partners  organisation of events, ALFI conferences are 
get the maximum visibility.  undoubtedly one of the most popular gatherings 
to meet and greet fund industry professionals 
Virtual platform  and peers. With Covid-19 restrictions, ALFI 
has not had the possibility to organise physical 
The ALFI online platform for virtual events  events, however, ALFI has done its utmost 
offers both participants and sponsors a wide  to explore all possibilities to bring high-level 
range of benefits, such as the possibility to  content to our attendees. This has also included 
reach a wide audience or to access the replay  complete post-conference reports available 
sessions for up to 4 weeks after the event.  shortly after the specific event. 
Another important feature is the possibility to 
Flagship events The ALFI flagship events in Luxembourg  Management conference provides a unique 
and London offer an excellent platform for  platform for asset managers and investors, 
industry professionals to come together to  distributors and service providers to debate 
discuss latest trends, operational considerations  current affairs.
and regulatory developments with their peers, 
and share best practices to grow their business. PE & RE Conference
Global Distribution Conference This industry-leading conference gathers 
private equity, private debt and real estate fund 
For more than 25 years, this must-attend  professionals from Luxembourg, Europe and 
conference has been bringing together major  further afield. 
fund distributors and asset managers from 
over 30 countries, drawing on Luxembourg’s  London Conference and Cocktail
unrivalled expertise in global distribution. 
ALFI’s major event outside of Luxembourg 
European Asset Management Conference reflects the strong working relationship 
between London and Luxembourg and has 
The future of the asset management industry  become a standing item in the UK investment 
depends on its ability to adapt to a rapidly  industry’s agenda. 
changing environment. The European Asset 
47
Events
Roadshows/Digi Pulse  Prior to the pandemic, ALFI organised  for increased cooperation. In order to continue 
events roadshows in major cities around the  to connect the fund community and provide 
ALFI events span the world
world having two key goals: updating local  the latest updates and insights while respecting 
asset management communities with the  Covid-19 related restrictions, ALFI redesigned 
latest developments in the European and  the traditional roadshows into the new virtual 
Luxembourg fund markets, and providing a  format – ALFI Digi Pulse.
forum to network and explore opportunities 
Europe
Asia & Pacific
Stockholm A wide range of topics... 
Amsterdam
Market trends| Regulation 
Copenhagen
London
Economic and political 
San Francisco Boston Beijing Tokyo developments | ESG |Pensions 
Luxembourg FFrraannkkffuurrtt
Zurich Distribution | Digitalisation 
New York Geneva
Taipei Blockchain | Big Data | AI 
Hong Kong
Mexico City Kuala Lumpur
Bogotá
Singapore
Johannesburg
Sydney
Lima With many speakers and 
participants...
Santiago de Chile
Cape Town Industry leaders 
Melbourne
Americas Policymakers | Regulators 
South Africa
CEOs | Investors | Disruptors 
Experts | Press 
PAGE 6 PAGE 7
48
Expert briefings and  Following the regulatory agenda and current  to share their know-how and best-in-
thematic conferences market trends and developments, ALFI  class approaches and to hear the views of 
regularly organises topical events targeting  supervisory bodies and policymakers. The 
investment fund industry professionals. conference further provides ample opportunity 
to connect with risk management experts from 
Expert briefings (public or members-only) across Europe.
ALFI keeps its members and other expert  Leading Edge conference series
audiences up to date in a range of dedicated 
seminars, briefings and other get-togethers  The ALFI Leading Edge conference series 
that may focus on specific themes and give an  provides expert knowledge on specialist 
insight into ALFI’s work behind the scenes.  subjects. ALFI Leading Edge presentations are 
designed to inform and inspire the audience. 
European Risk Management Conference They offer rare insights into particularly 
technical issues, focus on state-of-the-art 
Organised by ALFI in association with  industry practices and best-in-class approaches 
ALRiM, this expert event offers a unique  and deliver only the latest content for a real 
opportunity for risk management professionals  educational value. 
List of events organised  List of events organised during the period  ■  Depositary Guidelines on Fund 
during the period under  under review Regulation – Latest Publications of the 
review ALFI/ABBL Depositary Bank Forum,  
All events were organised in a virtual format. 28 January 2021 
■  Digi Pulse Risk, 25 June 2020 ■  SFDR: Are you ready for the 10 March 
■  A Global View on Alternative  2021? 2 February 2021 
Investments - Nicsa webinar sponsored by  ■  AIFMD Review, 2 February 2021 
ALFI, 22 July 2020  ■  Digi Pulse Asia, 24-26 February 2021  
■  ALFI Rentrée* - the virtual reunion of the  ■  Global FinReg Outlook 2021 - Nicsa 
fund industry,14-18 September 2020  webinar sponsored by ALFI, 10 March 2021 
■  Digi Pulse Scandinavia, 22 September 2020  ■  European Asset Management Conference, 
■  Digi Pulse USA, 22 October 2020 16-19 March 2021 
■  European Risk Management Conference,  ■  Why Diversity matters, 30 March 2021 
26 October 2020  ■  Opportunities for liquid alternatives in 
■  A Guide to LIBOR Transition - Nicsa  Europe, 30 March 2021 
webinar sponsored by ALFI, 4 November  ■  ALFI Cybersecurity guidelines,  
2020  30 March 2021 
■  Digi Pulse Germany, 10 November 2020  ■  Digi Pulse Amsterdam, 20 May 2021
■  Digi Pulse Switzerland, 18 November 2020
■  London Conference, 23 November 2020  * Due to the pandemic situation, the European 
■  PE & RE Conference, 1-2 December 2020  Asset Management Conference 2020 and the 
■  Reporting under DAC 6, 9 December  Global Distribution Conference 2020 were 
2020 merged and organised under the name of ALFI 
■  Intelligent Technology: Where are the  Rentrée in September 2020.
opportunities for global asset managers? 
Nicsa webinar sponsored by ALFI, 13 
January 2021
49
50
51
52
53
Communications
Keeping in mind ALFI’s mission to lead  channels to inform its members, industry 
industry efforts to make Luxembourg the most  experts and the broad public about the latest 
attractive international investment fund centre,  developments in the Luxembourg investment 
ALFI uses a broad range of communication  fund sector.
Website  The ALFI website is the main source of  user experience, for example the section 
information about the Luxembourg investment  dedicated to publications has recently been 
fund industry and designed to offer a smooth  upgraded to enhance usability. 
54
Social media YouTube
As a representative body of the asset 
management and the investment fund 
community, ALFI has gained its momentum as 
LinkedIn and Twitter an entity providing thought leadership content 
to its members and expert audience. The 
Over the last years, ALFI has substantially  association has recently reshaped its YouTube 
grown its community on social media  channel in order to provide its followers with 
platforms, mostly on LinkedIn and Twitter.  a high–value experience when they browse 
In line with its digital strategy, the association  through its playlists. 
has been regularly engaging with its audience 
around edifying content.  ALFI gives its members the exclusive 
opportunity to showcase their expertise and 
The ALFI LinkedIn corporate page currently  share views with the community, present the 
counts over 15,300 followers with over 6,000  most recent guidelines as the results of their 
unique visitors around the globe last year while  relentless work in the ALFI working groups or 
the Twitter account has over 5,260 followers. report on the most relevant industry trends and 
topics in the form of studies.
Flickr 
The ALFI YouTube channel has 1741 subscribers 
With 7,586 photos in 141 albums, the ALFI  and 228,000 views of about 200 videos.
Flickr photostream has ample photographic 
documentation of ALFI events over the 
past including social highlights like cocktail 
receptions and golf tournaments.
55
Communications
Campaigns ALFI has ran various campaigns on social  Membership
media to enhance awareness on the following 
topics. ALFI membership represents today a strong 
community of more than 1,500 Luxembourg 
Private assets domiciled investment funds, asset management 
companies and a wide range of business 
The demand for private assets has been  that serve the sector. ALFI seeks to promote 
growing over the past few years as  Luxembourg’s fund sector internationally, 
investors are increasingly looking for  and to cultivate for the benefit of its members 
innovative solutions that keep pace with  a collaborative, dynamic and innovative 
their expectations and yield. ALFI has led a  ecosystem underpinned by the most robust 
campaign to promote two surveys conducted  regulatory framework.
in November 2020 on private debt funds and 
real estate investment funds. Both campaigns  In order to highlight the importance of the 
were promoted on LinkedIn in January 2021. commitment to its community, ALFI run a 
campaign on LinkedIn to present the key 
benefits of being a member of the association.
56
Press
For many years, press relations have been a core  ALFI’s media activity over the past year 
element in ALFI’s communications strategy. includes:
■  130+ articles published in worldwide 
The Covid-19 pandemic has certainly impacted  media outlets
the press activities as well. Journalists can no  ■  11 press releases 
longer travel to Luxembourg to attend ALFI  ■  Media coverage on 4 continents
conferences and meet with the renowned 
speakers. Organising press interviews using  The most popular topics were:
digital facilities has become a norm and keeps 
ALFI and its spokespersons in regular contact  ALFI Ambition 2025, Brexit, the Covid-19 
with the national and international media.  pandemic and the investment fund industry’s 
response, sustainable finance, diversity and 
ALFI works tirelessly to raise its profile in  inclusion, private assets, private equity, real 
the foreign media and to establish long-term  estate investment funds, private debt funds, etc.
relations with specialised journalists in the 
UK, Switzerland, Germany, the United States  ALFI has continued to partner with selected 
and Asia. media to promote its events globally. The 
association has been collaborating with: Funds 
Frequent press releases are testament to the  Europe, Ignites Europe, Global Funds Asia, 
dynamic and fast-paced industry environment  Asset Servicing Times, Securities Lending 
in which the association serves. Times, Absolut Research, Fondsnieuws, 
Luxembourg Times, Delano.
57
Publications
In accordance with its mission to serve  ■  Q&A SRD II, Issue 1; 
investors and the industry, ALFI produces  ■  ALFI and ABBL guidelines and 
an extensive range of documents to provide  recommendations for depositaries – 
accurate and up-to-date information on  Safekeeping of other assets; 
the fund sector, its best practices and  ■  Guidelines on the valuation process for 
business opportunities. Every year, dozens  AIFMs. 
of publications are made available to 
policymakers and ALFI members, including  Surveys:
position papers, technical guidelines, brochures 
and Q&A documents. ■  Luxembourg real estate investment funds 
survey 2020;
Under the year in review, ALFI produced the  ■  Private debt funds survey 2020.
following publications:
Other publications:
Publications reserved to ALFI members:
■  Tokenisation and digital custody in  
■  Guidelines on AML;  the world of the investment fund –  
■  Q&A SRD II, Issue 2;  a collaborative book;
■  Guidelines on cybersecurity;  ■  Membership flyer – gaining unparalleled 
■  UCITS KIID Q&A; access;
■  SFDR guidelines for Luxembourg by  ■  Global fund distribution poster 2020;
Stibbe Avocats, in associations with ALFI,  ■  Luxembourg private equity and venture 
ABBL, ACA; capital 2020;
■  Guidelines on sustainability related pre- ■  10 reasons for a Luxembourg private debt 
contractual disclosures;  fund;
■  ATAD 2 FAQs; ■  Debt funds: an expanding asset class and 
■  Reporting under DAC 6;  alternative source of financing for the 
■  Guidelines on UMR; European economy.
| guidelines | guidelines
GUIDELINES ON THE VALUATION PROCESS 
ALFI GUIDELINES 
TOKENISATION AND DIGITAL CUSTODY  FOR ALTERNATIVE INVESTMENT FUND 
ON CYBERSECURITY
IN THE WORLD OF THE INVESTMENT FUND MANAGERS (AIFM)
A COLLABORATIVE BOOK
|guidelines |FAQs guidelines
REVIEWED PRACTICES AND 
RECOMMENDATIONS AIMED AT 
REDUCING THE RISK OF 
MONEY LAUNDERING AND  ALFI AND ABBL GUIDELINES 
TERRORIST FINANCING IN THE  AND REC OMMENDATIONS 
LUXEMBOURG FUND INDUSTRY ATAD 2 FAQs  FOR DEPSOubStiItlTe ARIES
May 2021 Safekeeping of other assets
in association with
in association with in association with
58
State of the 
industry: 
statistics
59
State of the industry: statistics
Assets under management  bn EUR
in the European  20000
investment fund industry 
18000
16000
14000
12000
10000
8000
6000
4000
2000
0
1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020
Non-UCITS/AIFs (bn EUR) UCITS (bn EUR) Total (bn EUR)
From 2014 on, UCITS and AIF are classified according to the regulatory definition. 
Notice: The data may not always be consistent with data published in previous annual reports due to subsequent adjustments by 
EFAMA. For the years 2007-2014, total does not equal the sum of UCITS and AIF due to the fact the Netherlands was unable to 
provide a breakdown into UCITS and AIF.
Source: EFAMA
Net assets of investment funds domiciled in  27% and 18%, respectively (2020). Germany, 
Europe, UCITS and AIFs, totalled EUR 18.8  France and the United Kingdom follow in this 
trillion at the end of 2020. Luxembourg  ranking13. 
and Ireland are the two largest domiciles 
of UCITS and AIFs, with a market share of 
30%
The 10 largest investment 
fund domiciles in Europe  25%
20%
15%
10%
5%
0%
As at 31 December 2020 
Source: EFAMA
13 https://www.efama.org/about-our-industry/our-industry-numbers
60
6000
Net assets under  bn EUR
management in 
5000
Luxembourg funds
4000
3000
2000
1000
0
*As of Dec 2016 data includes SICARs 
Sources: CSSF/ALFI
Total net assets in Luxembourg investment  over the last 12 months. This evolution 
funds hit EUR 5 trillion mark in January 2021. highlights the strong demand for Luxembourg 
UCITS funds and private assets (private equity, 
Despite considerable challenges the world has  real estate and private debt), which have seen 
been facing and the instability of financial  consistent growth over recent years.
markets last March, the Luxembourg 
investment fund industry has remained robust 
with the volume of net assets rising by 5.44% 
Growth in alternative  bn EUR
investment funds
900
800
700
600
500
400
300
200
100
0
2016 2017 2018 2019 2020
Part II SIF SICAR Total AuM in EUR bn
Source: CSSF/ALFI
Over the last three years, net assets under  the EU, both in terms of new AIFs set up in 
management in regulated alternative funds  Luxembourg and the breadth of non-European 
in Luxembourg have increased by nearly  institutional investment into these funds. With 
30% (including for private equity, real estate,  over three quarters of investors expecting 
private debt and other alternatives such as  to increase their allocation to alternatives, 
infrastructure or hedge funds). The recent  Luxembourg-domiciled AIFs are in a strong 
reports highlight robust growth across all asset  position to capitalise on this growth in interest 
classes for Luxembourg-domiciled funds as  and investment.
they become increasingly attractive outside 
61
State of the industry: statistics
Number of Luxembourg  Number of funds
investment funds
4 500
4 000
3 500
3 000
2 500
2 000
1 500
1 000
500
0
Stand-alone funds Multiple compartment funds
As of Dec 2016 data includes SICARs 
Sources: CSSF/ALFI
Number of Luxembourg 
Number of fund units
fund units
16 000
14 000
12 000
10 000
8 000
6 000
4 000
2 000
0
As of Dec 2016 data includes SICARs 
Sources: CSSF/ALFI
62
Legal status of  Number of funds
Luxembourg-domiciled 
investment funds 4 500
4 000
3 500
3 000
2 500
2 000
1 500
1 000
500
0
Part I (law of 1988) Part I (laws of 2002 and 2010) Part II (law of 1988)
Part II (laws of 2002 and 2010) Institutional UCI (pre-SIF/before Feb 2007) SIFs (law of 2007)
SICAR
From Dec 2016, data includes SICARs
Sources: CSSF/ALFI
Market shares of initiators  35%
by origin 
30%
25%
20%
15%
10%
5%
0%
US GB CH DE FR IT BE LU NL DK Others
Net assets Funds Fund units
As at December 2020
Sources: CSSF/ALFI
63
State of the industry: statistics
Investment policy (based  35%
on assets) of Luxembourg 
funds  30%
25%
20%
15%
10%
5%
0%
Bonds Equities Balanced Fund of funds MMF and cash PE and venture Real estate Others
capital
UCIs SIFs
As at 30 December 2020 
Sources: CSSF/ALFI
Fund flows per asset class
Others
Private equity/venture capital
Real estate
MMF and cash
Fund of funds
Balanced
Equities
Bonds
All UCIs
0 50.000 100.000 150.000 200.000 250.000 300.000 350.000 400.000 450.000
Subscriptions (EUR million) Redemptions (EUR million)
As at 31 March 2021 
Sources: CSSF/ALFI
Take a look at the latest interactive statistics
https://www.alfi.lu/en-GB/Annual-Report/2020-2021/Statistics
64
Appendix
65
Structure of ALFI committees 2020/2021
Technical Committees and  A - Management Company Technical  B - Promotion & Conferences Committee
Working Groups Committee
Chairpersons: Germain Birgen (Banque de 
Chairpersons: Daniela Klasen-Martin (Crestbridge) Luxembourg S.A.)
Craig Blair (Franklin Templeton International  Steve Bernat (ONE)
Services S.à r.l.) ALFI Coordinator: Camille Thommes
ALFI Coordinator: David Zackenfels
B.  Promotion Steering Committee
A.  Management Company Steering  Germain Birgen (Banque de  
Committee Luxembourg S.A.)
Daniela Klasen-Martin (Crestbridge) Steve Bernat (ONE)
Craig Blair (Franklin Templeton  B1  ALFI European Asset Management 
International Services S.à r.l.) Conference Committee
A1   Due Diligence on Management  Chris Edge
Companies (Service Providers on ManCo) B2  ALFI Global Distribution Conference 
Britta Borneff Committee
A2  Due Diligence on Services Providers Chris Edge
Gregory Kok (JTC (Luxembourg) S.A.) B3  ALFI Risk Management Conference
Elina Vincent (M&G International  B4  ALFI PE & RE Conference Committee
Investments S.A.) Lize Griffiths (Deloitte Luxembourg)
Revel Wood (ONE) Lauren Williams 
A3  Marketing and distribution (PricewaterhouseCoopers, Société 
Camilla Lindberg (Carne Global  Coopérative)
Financial Services, Luxembourg S.à r.l.) B5  Golf Event
Daniela Klasen-Martin (Crestbridge) Ulrich Binninger (ULB Consult S.à r.l.)
A4  Management Company and its eco- B6  Roadshows
system Michèle Eisenhuth (Arendt & 
Craig Blair (Franklin Templeton  Medernach S.A.)
International Services S.à r.l.) B6.1 ALFI Roadshow to Frankfurt
Sven Rein (Pancura) Catherine Rückel 
A4.1 Responsibilities (PricewaterhouseCoopers, Société 
Olivia Tournier-Demal (MJ Hudson  Coopérative)
Management S.A.) Maria Löwenbrück (Union Investment 
Sven Rein (Pancura) Luxembourg S.A.)
A4.2 On-Site inspections B6.2 ALFI Roadshow to Switzerland
Craig Blair (Franklin Templeton  Lucienne Andring (Banque de 
International Services S.à r.l.) Luxembourg S.A.)
A4.3 Valuation Daniel Siepmann (Credit Suisse Fund 
Ralph Brödel (LIS) Services (Luxembourg) S.A.)
A5  Cross Border (out and in) B6.3 ALFI Roadshow to London
Gaëtan Parchliniak (FundRock  Chris Edge
Management Company S.A.) B6.4 ALFI Roadshow to the US
Paul Mullins (Wellington Luxembourg  Nicolas Fermaud (Elvinger SARL PLLC)
S.à r.l.) B6.5 ALFI Roadshow to Scandinavia
A6  Conducting officers Isabel Hog-Jensen (Bonn Steichen & 
Craig Blair (Franklin Templeton  Partners)
International Services S.à r.l.) B6.6 ALFI Roadshow to Asia
Gregory Kok (JTC (Luxembourg) S.A.) Stéphane Karolczuk  
A7  ESG and EU SFDR requirements for  (Arendt & Medernach S.A.)
Management Companies Gast Juncker (Elvinger Hoss 
Anika Ratzmann (Crestbridge  Prussen S.A.)
Management Company S.A.) B6.7 ALFI Roadshow to Latin America
  Paul Mullins (Wellington Luxembourg  Germain Birgen (Banque de  
S.à r.l.) Luxembourg S.A.)
B8  ALFI Leading Edge Conference
66
Christophe Lentschat (Arendt  Alessia Lorenti (Edmond de Rothschild 
Services S.A.) Asset Management (Luxembourg))
Graham Goodhew C3.4 REIF Survey
B9  Hong Kong Catherine Gauthier (Brown Brothers 
Stéphane Karolczuk   Harriman (Luxembourg) S.C.A.)
(Arendt & Medernach S.A.) Francisco da Cunha (Deloitte 
Andrew Gordon   Luxembourg)
(RBC Investor & Treasury Services) C3.5 REIF Events
B10  Middle East  Alessia Lorenti (Edmond de Rothschild 
  Germain Birgen   Asset Management (Luxembourg))
(Banque de Luxembourg S.A.) Brian McMahon (The Bank of New York 
B10.1 Dubai Mellon S.A./NV, Luxembourg Branch)
Emmanuelle Entringer   C3.6 REIF Industry Associations
(Arendt & Medernach S.A.) Patrick Reuter (Elvinger Hoss 
B11  Singapore Prussen S.A.)
Valérie Mantot (Apex Fund Services) Sven Rein (Pancura)
C3.7 REIF Professional Development
C - Alternative Investments Committee Conor Cleere (Citco Bank Nederland 
N.V. Luxembourg Branch)
Chairperson: Claude Niedner   David Louis (KPMG Law Luxembourg)
(Arendt & Medernach S.A.) C3.8 REIF Strategy
ALFI Coordinator: Susanne Weismüller Pierre Beissel (Arendt & Medernach S.A.)
Pierre Kreemer (KPMG Luxembourg, 
C1  Alternative Investments  Société coopérative)
Steering Committee C4  Private Equity & Venture Capital
Claude Niedner   Gilles Dusemon (Arendt & 
(Arendt & Medernach S.A.) Medernach S.A.)
C1.1 AIFMD review and developments Alain Kinsch
Claude Niedner (Arendt &   C4.1 PE & VC Legal Aspects
Medernach S.A.) Frédérique Lifrange (Elvinger Hoss 
C2  Hedge Funds and Liquid Alternatives Prussen S.A.)
Jerôme Wigny (Elvinger Hoss Prussen S.A.) Thibaut Partsch (Elvinger Hoss 
Fanny Sergent (PricewaterhouseCoopers,  Prussen S.A.)
Société Coopérative) C4.2 PE & VC Publications
C3  Real Estate Investment Funds Arne Bolch (Dechert (Luxembourg) LLP)
Robert White (Ernst & Young S.A.) Joachim Kuske (VP Fund Solutions 
Lauren Williams  (Luxembourg) S.A.)
(PricewaterhouseCoopers, Société  C5  Infrastructure Funds 
Coopérative) Jean-Christian Six (Allen & Overy)
C3.0 REIF Steering Committee Amaury Evrard (PricewaterhouseCoopers, 
Robert White (Ernst & Young S.A.) Société Coopérative)
Lauren Williams  C5.1 Infrastructure Funds Best Practices
(PricewaterhouseCoopers, Société  John Ravoisin (PricewaterhouseCoopers, 
Coopérative) Société Coopérative)
C3.1 REIF Financial framework C5.2 Infrastructure Funds - Tax, Legal and 
Andreas Meier (Deloitte Luxembourg) Regulatory
Bobbi Jean Breboneria (KPMG  Antoine Badot (KPMG Luxembourg, 
Luxembourg, Société coopérative) Société coopérative)
C3.2 REIF Best Practices - Fund Operations Thierry Braem (PricewaterhouseCoopers, 
Harald Thul (Deloitte Luxembourg) Société Coopérative)
Tamás Márk (IQ EQ (Luxembourg) S.A.) C5.3 Infrastructure Funds - Promotion of 
C3.3 REIF Publications & Media Luxembourg
Arne Bolch (Dechert (Luxembourg) LLP)
67
Structure of ALFI committees 2020/2021
Muhammad Tahir Khan (KPMG  F - Legal & Regulatory Committee
Luxembourg, Société coopérative)
Pierre Mallet (PricewaterhouseCoopers,  Chairpersons: Gast Juncker (Elvinger Hoss 
Société Coopérative) Prussen S.A.)
C6  AIFMD Reporting Hermann Beythan (Linklaters)
Leon Schwab-Mulvany (BlackRock Fund  ALFI Coordinator: Evelyne Christiaens
Management Company S.A.)
Nathalie Dogniez  F1  International Affairs & Developments
(PricewaterhouseCoopers, Société    Hermann Beythan (Linklaters)
Coopérative) F1.1 UCITS Developments
C6.1 AIFMD Reporting - Annual Reports   Hermann Beythan (Linklaters)
Leon Schwab-Mulvany (BlackRock Fund  F1.2 European Marketing Rules
Management Company S.A.)   Frédérique Lifrange (Elvinger Hoss 
Nathalie Dogniez  Prussen S.A.)
(PricewaterhouseCoopers, Société    Hermann Beythan (Linklaters)
Coopérative) F1.3 Exchange Traded Funds (ETF) 
C7  Debt Funds Philippe Lenges (Deloitte Luxembourg)
Pierre Kreemer (KPMG Luxembourg,  F1.4 MiFID / PRIIPs steering committee 
Société coopérative)   Heimo Plössnig (Assenagon Asset 
Isabelle Dauvergne  Management S.A.)
(PricewaterhouseCoopers, Société    Florence Stainier (Arendt & 
Coopérative) Medernach S.A.)
F1.4.1 MiFID / PRIIPs costs and charges
D - Fund Distribution Committee   Anne de Nonancourt (European Fund 
Administration S.A.)
Chairperson: David Claus (The Bank of New  F1.4.2 PRIIPs performance scenarios and risks
York Mellon S.A./NV, Luxembourg Branch) Susanne Weismüller
ALFI Coordinator: Marc-André Bechet F1.4.4 MiFID independent advice and 
inducements
D1  Dematerialised Mutual Fund     Olivia Tournier-Demal (MJ Hudson 
Sales Agreement Management S.A.)
Noel Fessey (European Fund  F1.4.5 MiFID product governance
Administration S.A.)   Florence Stainier (Arendt & 
D2  LFF / ALFI RQFII Medernach S.A.)
Nicolas Mackel (Luxembourg for  F1.4.6 MiFID suitability and appropriateness
Finance)   Josiane Schroeder (Linklaters)
Emmanuel Gutton (ALFI) F1.4.7 PRIIPs general aspects
Camille Thommes (ALFI)   Mario Mantrisi (KNEIP Communication 
D3  UCITS KIID S.A.)
Susanne Schartz (SEQVOIA S.A.)   Bernard Lambeau (More Carrot (Europe) 
D4  UCITS IV - Simplified Notification  S.à r.l.)
Procedure F1.4.8 MiFID Research fees 
ALFI Coordinator: Evelyne Christiaens   Florence Stainier (Arendt & 
D5  Distribution Steering Committee Medernach S.A.)
David Claus (The Bank of New York  F1.5 Capital Markets Union
Mellon S.A./NV, Luxembourg Branch)   Florence Stainier (Arendt & 
Medernach S.A.)
E - Professional Training Committee F1.6 Securitisation
  Frank Mausen (Allen & Overy)
Chairperson: Emmanuel Bégat (ME Business    Matthieu Taillandier (Arendt & 
Solutions S.à r.l.) Medernach S.A.)
ALFI Coordinator: Camille Thommes F1.6.1 Securitisation - Impact on  
investment funds
68
  Frédérique Lifrange (Elvinger Hoss  F2.4.1.4 Application of the AML/CTF Due 
Prussen S.A.) Diligence - Direct investors/Intermediated 
F1.7 Performance fees channel
  Anne de Nonancourt (European Fund    Giovanni Cataldi (AllianceBernstein 
Administration S.A.) (Luxembourg) S.à r.l.)
  Frédéric Botteman    Sandrine Labro (Brown Brothers 
(PricewaterhouseCoopers, Société  Harriman (Luxembourg) S.C.A.)
Coopérative)   Emmanuel Vergeynst (Edmond 
F2  National Affairs & Implementation de Rothschild Asset Management 
  Gast Juncker (Elvinger Hoss  (Luxembourg))
Prussen S.A.) F2.4.1.5 Glossary and Preamble
F2.1 UCITS Implementation   Gast Juncker (Elvinger Hoss 
  Gast Juncker (Elvinger Hoss  Prussen S.A.)
Prussen S.A.)   Hema Jewootah (Lombard Odier Funds 
F2.2 UCITS Eligible Assets (Europe) S.A.)
  Michèle Eisenhuth (Arendt & Medernach  F2.4.1.6 The AML/CTF Regulatory 
S.A.) Framework
  Silke Bernard (Linklaters)   Manfred Hoffmann (Arendt & 
  Nathalie Dogniez  Medernach S.A.)
(PricewaterhouseCoopers, Société    Isabelle Scherf (FIL (Luxembourg))
Coopérative) F2.6 Changes to Luxembourg Company Law
F2.3 Securities Lending   Frédérique Lifrange (Elvinger Hoss 
  Jacques Elvinger (Elvinger Hoss Prussen  Prussen S.A.)
S.A.) F2.7 Money Market Funds
F2.4 Anti-Money Laundering (AML)   Nathalie Dogniez 
  Isabelle Scherf (FIL (Luxembourg)) (PricewaterhouseCoopers, Société 
  Hema Jewootah (Lombard Odier Funds  Coopérative)
(Europe) S.A.) F2.7.1 MMF Implementation and Operational 
F2.4.1 AML Guidelines Steering group Considerations
Isabelle Scherf (FIL (Luxembourg))   Nathalie Dogniez 
Hema Jewootah (Lombard Odier  (PricewaterhouseCoopers, Société 
Funds (Europe) S.A.) Coopérative)
F2.4.1.1 Oversight obligations - the Risk Based  F2.8 Financial stability and supervision
Approach - Impact on Due Diligence   Geoff Radcliffe (BlackRock Fund 
  Isabelle Scherf (FIL (Luxembourg)) Management Company S.A.)
  Frank Schaffer (Fisch Fund Services AG)   Nathalie Dogniez 
  Gerard Green (Invesco Management S.A.) (PricewaterhouseCoopers, Société 
F2.4.1.2 The application of the Risk Based  Coopérative)
Approach - Asset side F2.9 Remuneration Policies in the Financial 
  Frank Schaffer (Fisch Fund Services AG) Sector
  Jerome Vlamynck (Fisch Fund    Dan Hedley (Fidelity International)
Services AG) F2.10 UCITS Sanctions Regime
  Hema Jewootah (Lombard Odier Funds    Isabelle Lebbe (Arendt & 
(Europe) S.A.) Medernach S.A.)
F2.4.1.3 The application of the Risk   F2.11 Changes to Luxembourg fund laws
Based Approach - Liability side   Claude Niedner (Arendt & 
  Giovanni Cataldi (AllianceBernstein  Medernach S.A.)
(Luxembourg) S.à r.l.)   Jacques Elvinger (Elvinger Hoss Prussen 
  Manfred Hoffmann (Arendt &  S.A.)
Medernach S.A.) F2.12 Shareholders Rights Directive II
  Sandrine Labro (Brown Brothers    Kim Kirsch (Waystone Management 
Harriman (Luxembourg) S.C.A.) Company (Lux) S.A.)
F3  Pensions & Long Term Savings
69
Structure of ALFI committees 2020/2021
  Silke Bernard (Linklaters)Gerd Gebhard  G - Market Infrastructure Committee
(Pecoma Actuarial and Risk S.A.)
F3.1 European Long Term Investment Funds  Chairperson: Geoff Radcliffe (BlackRock  
(ELTIF) Fund Management Company S.A.)
  Silke Bernard (Linklaters) ALFI Coordinator: François Baratte
  Yann Power (ME Business Solutions S.à 
r.l.) G1  Market Infrastructure Steering 
F3.2 Pan-European personal pension product  Committee
(PEPP)   Geoff Radcliffe (BlackRock Fund 
  Silke Bernard (Linklaters) Management Company S.A.)
  Gerd Gebhard (Pecoma Actuarial and  G2  Total Expense Ratio (TER)
Risk S.A.)   Daniela Klasen-Martin (Crestbridge)
F3.2.1 Pan-European personal pension product  G2.1 Disclosure of Transaction Costs
(PEPP) Tax   Nadia Faber (Ernst & Young S.A.)
  Gerd Gebhard (Pecoma Actuarial   G2.2 Total Expense Ratio (TER) Survey
and Risk S.A.)   Daniela Klasen-Martin (Crestbridge)
F4  General Data Protection Regulation G3  Global Investment Performance 
  Olivier Reisch (DLA Piper Luxembourg) Standards (GIPS)
  Frédéric Vonner    Fanny Sergent (PricewaterhouseCoopers, 
(PricewaterhouseCoopers, Société  Société Coopérative)
Coopérative) G4  Swing Pricing and Anti-Dilution 
F4.1 GDPR Business impact analysis Committee
  Maria Teresa Fulci-de Rosée (Kredietrust    Geoff Radcliffe (BlackRock Fund 
Luxembourg S.A.) Management Company S.A.)
  Frédéric Vonner    Justin Griffiths (Deloitte Luxembourg)
(PricewaterhouseCoopers, Société    Craig Blair (Franklin Templeton 
Coopérative) International Services S.à r.l.)
F4.2 GDPR AML/KYC and tax aspects   Philippe Ringard (JPMorgan Asset 
  Gast Juncker (Elvinger Hoss Prussen  Management (Europe) S.à r.l.)
S.A.) G4.1 Swing Pricing Survey
F4.3 GDPR General aspects   Sascha Voigt (Deloitte Luxembourg)
  Olivier Reisch (DLA Piper Luxembourg)   John Hosie (Franklin Templeton 
  Anna Roehrs (GAM (Luxembourg) S.A.) International Services S.à r.l.)
F4.4 Guidance on data breaches G4.2 Swing Pricing Brochure
  Olivier Reisch (DLA Piper Luxembourg)   Helen Davies (BlackRock (Luxembourg) 
F4.6 Guidance on a GDPR compliance  S.A.)
monitoring plan   Robert Kaylor (JPMorgan Asset 
  Frédéric Vonner  Management (Europe) S.à r.l.)
(PricewaterhouseCoopers, Société  G5  Solvency II
Coopérative)   Sylvain Crépin (Deloitte Luxembourg)
F4.7 Review of ALFI’s due diligence guidelines    Martin Reinhard (KPMG Luxembourg, 
regarding GDPR Société coopérative)
  Frédéric Vonner  G6  EMIR/OTC Derivatives
(PricewaterhouseCoopers,     Henning Schwabe (Arendt & Medernach 
Société Coopérative) S.A.)
F4.8 GDPR data transfers to third countries   Sven Muehlenbrock (KPMG 
  Olivier Reisch (DLA Piper Luxembourg) Luxembourg, Société coopérative)
  Frédéric Vonner  G7  Fund Accounting and Reporting 
(PricewaterhouseCoopers,   requirements     
Société Coopérative) Justin Griffiths (Deloitte Luxembourg)
G10 Statistics & Research
  ALFI Coordinator: Régine Rugani
G10.1 Data Collection and Nominalization
G10.2 Economic Research
70
  Paolo Vinciarelli (Banque et Caisse  J6  CRS/ Foreign Account Tax Compliance 
d’Epargne de l’Etat, Luxembourg) Act (FATCA)
GG17 Central Securities Depositories    Gérard Laures (KPMG Luxembourg, 
Regulation (CSDR) Société coopérative)
J7  AIFMD tax aspects
H - Responsible Investing Committee   Raymond Krawczykowski (Deloitte 
Luxembourg)
Chairperson: Nathalie Dogniez  J8  Financial Transaction Tax
(PricewaterhouseCoopers, Société Coopérative)   Thorsten Vollmer (Deutsche Asset 
ALFI Coordinator: Marc-André Bechet Management)
J9  BEPS
H1  RI Legal and Policy   Keith O’Donnell (ATOZ Tax Advisers 
  Nathalie Dogniez  Luxembourg)
(PricewaterhouseCoopers,   J9.1  DAC 6
Société Coopérative)   Antoine Badot (KPMG Luxembourg, 
H1.1 RI Legal and Policy - Prospectuses Société coopérative)
  Anika Ratzmann (Crestbridge  J11  German Tax
Management Company S.A.)   Holger Hartmann (bepartners Bödecker 
  David Louis (KPMG Law Luxembourg) Ernst & Partner)
H2  RI Market Intelligence and Outreach   Judith Mertesdorf-Perathoner (Franklin 
  Charles Muller (charlesmuller) Templeton International Services S.à r.l.)
H3  Impact Investing Conference J12  UK Tax
H4  RI Fund Labels   Birgitt Schitthoff-Hönninger (RBC 
  Laurent Capolaghi (Ernst & Young S.A.) Investor Services Bank S.A.)
H5  Disclosures and ESG Reporting J13  Austrian Tax
  Nathalie Dogniez    Johannes Höring (GAM 
(PricewaterhouseCoopers, Société  (Luxembourg) S.A.)
Coopérative) J14  Swiss tax
  Yvonne Billerbeck (Schroder Investment 
J - Tax Committee Management (Europe))
J15  Digital taxation
Chairperson: Keith O’Donnell (ATOZ Tax    Wim Piot (PricewaterhouseCoopers, 
Advisers Luxembourg) Société Coopérative)
ALFI Coordinator: Vilma Domenicucci J16  Transfer pricing
  Alain Goebel (Arendt & Medernach S.A.)
J1  Tax Steering Committee   Sophie Boulanger (KPMG Luxembourg, 
  Keith O’Donnell (ATOZ Tax Advisers  Société coopérative)
Luxembourg)
J2  SubscriptionTax K - Risk Management
  Jacques Elvinger (Elvinger Hoss Prussen 
S.A.) Chairpersons: Christoph Adamy (Allianz 
  Oliver Weber (PricewaterhouseCoopers,  Global Investors GmbH, Zweigniederlassung 
Société Coopérative) Luxembourg)
J2.1  Electronic filing of subscription tax  Olivier Carré (PricewaterhouseCoopers, 
returns Société Coopérative)
  Uwe Gillen (DZ PRIVATBANK S.A.) Thomas Nummer (Trinova S.A.)
  Kerstin Boernecke  ALFI Coordinator: Désirée Doenges
(PricewaterhouseCoopers, Société 
Coopérative) K1  Risk Management Steering Committee
J4  Double Tax Treaties (DTT)   Christoph Adamy (Allianz Global 
  Keith O’Donnell (ATOZ Tax Advisers  Investors GmbH, Zweigniederlassung 
Luxembourg) Luxembourg)
J5  Value Added Tax (VAT)   Olivier Carré (PricewaterhouseCoopers, 
  Michel Lambion (Deloitte Luxembourg) Société Coopérative)
71
Structure of ALFI committees 2020/2021
  Thomas Nummer (Trinova S.A.) K7  Sustainability risk management
K2  Risk Management Promotion &    Stefan Junglen (DWS Investment S.A.)
Communication Support   Adela Baho (Foresight Group)
  Christoph Adamy (Allianz Global    Gianluca Frena (KPMG Luxembourg, 
Investors GmbH, Zweigniederlassung  Société coopérative)
Luxembourg)   Kai Nemec (Union Investment 
  Olivier Carré (PricewaterhouseCoopers,  Luxembourg S.A.)
Société Coopérative) K7.1 Sustainability Risk Definition and 
  Thomas Nummer (Trinova S.A.) General Aspects
K3  Risk Management governance and    Stefan Junglen (DWS Investment S.A.)
operational risks K7.2 Liquid Asset Classes
  Sacha Reverdiau  (Lombard Odier Funds    Kai Nemec (Union Investment 
(Europe) S.A.) Luxembourg S.A.)
  Tilo Reichert (Swiss Life Asset Managers  K7.3 Illiquid Asset Classes
Luxembourg)   Gianluca Frena (KPMG Luxembourg, 
  Kai Nemec (Union Investment  Société coopérative)
Luxembourg S.A.) K7.4 Corporate Risk Management
K4  Market, Credit & Counterparty risks   Adela Baho (Foresight Group)
  Sven Muehlenbrock (KPMG 
Luxembourg, Société coopérative)
  Luc Neuberg (Luxembourg Association 
for Risk Management (ALRiM))
  Riadh Khodri (Pictet Asset Management 
(Europe) S.A.)
K5  Liquidity Risks
  Svetlana Butvina (BlackRock Fund 
Management Company S.A.)
  Michael Derwael (MFS Investment 
Management Company (Lux) S.à r.l.)
K6  Real Asset Risks
  Martin Ewen (Arkus Financial  
Services S.A.)
  Mike Sommer (Schroder Investment 
Management (Europe))
72
Forums 2 - Governance Forum 5.1  Depositary Bank Forum Steering 
Committee
Chairpersons: Michèle Eisenhuth (Arendt &    Nils Cullen (Brown Brothers Harriman 
Medernach S.A.) (Luxembourg) S.C.A.)
Justin Griffiths (Deloitte Luxembourg) 5.2  Depositary Guidelines & Best Practices
Revel Wood (ONE) 5.2.1 Financial Instruments held in Custody 
ALFI Coordinator: David Zackenfels (FIC)
  Christoph Haas (Ernst & Young S.A.)
2.2  ALFI Code of Conduct 5.2.1.1 Financial Instruments held in Custody 
  Michèle Eisenhuth (Arendt & Medernach  (FIC) guidelines
S.A.)   Christoph Haas (Ernst & Young S.A.)
  Justin Griffiths (Deloitte Luxembourg) 5.2.2 Other Assets (OTA)
  Revel Wood (ONE)   Laurent Fessmann (Baker & McKenzie 
2.2.1 ALFI / ILA Guidance material Luxembourg)
  Revel Wood (ONE)   Gillian Jevens (Brown Brothers Harriman 
(Luxembourg) S.C.A.)
3 - Investor Forum 5.2.2.1 Other Assets (OTA) guidelines
  Laurent Fessmann (Baker & McKenzie 
Chairpersons: Christina Coustry (Banque  Luxembourg)
Internationale à Luxembourg S.A.)   Gillian Jevens (Brown Brothers Harriman 
Simon Ramos (Deloitte Luxembourg) (Luxembourg) S.C.A.)
ALFI Coordinator: Mihaela Mercier 5.2.4 Oversight Duties
  Pascale Kohl (Citibank Europe plc, 
4 - TADO Plenary session Luxembourg Branch)
5.3  External Relations
Chairpersons: Rafal Kwasny (Franklin    Franck Wassmer (The Bank of New York 
Templeton International Services S.à r.l.) Mellon S.A./NV, Luxembourg Branch)
Hugo Larguinho Brás (Reply) 5.4  New Regulations Forum
ALFI Coordinator: François Baratte   Hermann Beythan (Linklaters)
5.5  New CDRs on Delegated Safekeeping
4S  TADO Steering Committee   Franck Wassmer (The Bank of New York 
  Rafal Kwasny (Franklin Templeton  Mellon S.A./NV, Luxembourg Branch)
International Services S.à r.l.) 5.6  AIFMD aspects for Depositaries
  Hugo Larguinho Brás (Reply)   Nils Cullen (Brown Brothers Harriman 
4.1  AML / KYC TADO (Luxembourg) S.C.A.)
  Jean-Philippe Houard (The Bank of New 
York Mellon S.A./NV, Luxembourg  6 - Digital/FinTech Forum
Branch)
4.3  TADO Hot Topics Chairpersons: Serge Weyland (Edmond de 
  Mike Stevens (J.P. Morgan Bank  Rothschild Asset Management (Luxembourg))
Luxembourg S.A.) Steven Libby (PricewaterhouseCoopers, Société 
4.7  ALFI TA Steering Committee Asia Coopérative)
  Caroline Higgins (Northern Trust) ALFI Coordinator: François Drazdik
4.9  Client Experience
  Rafal Kwasny (Franklin Templeton  6.1  Digital/FinTECH Steering Committee
International Services S.à r.l.)   Serge Weyland (Edmond de Rothschild 
Asset Management (Luxembourg))
5 - Depositary Forum   Steven Libby (PricewaterhouseCoopers, 
Société Coopérative)
Chairperson: Nils Cullen (Brown Brothers  6.3  Fund Distribution & TA
Harriman (Luxembourg) S.C.A.)   Duncan Christie (International Financial 
Data Services Luxembourg S.A. (IFDS))
ALFI Coordinator: François Baratte   Keith Hale (TrustQuay)
6.4  Blockchain & Crypto Assets 
73
Structure of ALFI committees 2020/2021
  Emilie Allaert (Luxembourg House of    Raphael Machet (BNP Paribas Securities 
Financial Technology) Services, succursale de Luxembourg)
  Laurent Marochini (Société Générale  6.9.2 Regulation on a pilot regime for market 
Luxembourg / Société Générale Securities  infrastructures based on DLT (MIDLT) 
Services) Henning Schwabe (Arendt & Medernach 
6.5  Digital Funding S.A.) 
  David Louis (KPMG Law Luxembourg)   Raphael Machet (BNP Paribas Securities 
  Rolf Caspers (Sanne Group  Services, succursale de Luxembourg)
(Luxembourg) S.A.) 6.9.3 Digital operational resilience (DORA)
6.6  Cybersecurity   Henning Schwabe (Arendt & Medernach 
  Mehtap Numanoglu (Brown Brothers  S.A.) 
Harriman (Luxembourg) S.C.A.)   Raphael Machet (BNP Paribas Securities 
  Martin Dobbins (Sage Advisory) Services, succursale de Luxembourg)
6.6.1 Cybersecurity Steering Committee 6.9.4 Renewed strategy for modern and safe 
  Mehtap Numanoglu (Brown Brothers  retail payments
Harriman (Luxembourg) S.C.A.)   Henning Schwabe (Arendt & Medernach 
  Martin Dobbins (Sage Advisory) S.A.) 
6.6.2 Cybersecurity : Communications   Raphael Machet (BNP Paribas Securities 
  Henning Schwabe (Arendt & Medernach  Services, succursale de Luxembourg)
S.A.) 6.9.5 ECB - Digital Euro 
  Eric Bedell (Franklin Templeton    Henning Schwabe (Arendt & Medernach 
International Services S.à r.l.) S.A.) 
6.6.3 Cybersecurity : Governance and    Raphael Machet (BNP Paribas Securities 
Oversight Services, succursale de Luxembourg)
  Carolyn Linnevers (LuxCSD S.A.)
6.6.4 Cybersecurity : Industry & Associations  7 - Diversity and Inclusion
Engagement
  Kavitha Ramachandran (Maitland  Interim Chairperson: Corinne Lamesch (FIL 
Luxembourg S.A.) (Luxembourg))
  Alain Guérard (Mont Blanc   ALFI Coordinator: Adina Lupu
Consult S.à r.l.)
6.6.5 Cybersecurity : Regulatory 8 - Portfolio Management
  Stéphane Hurtaud (Deloitte 
Luxembourg)  ALFI Coordinator: Camille Thommes
  Laurent de la Vaissière (KPMG 
Luxembourg, Société coopérative)
6.7  Fund Governance & Risk Management
  Stéphane Badey (Arendt Regulatory & 
Consulting S.A.)
  Paul Mullins (Wellington Luxembourg 
S.à r.l.)
6.8  Fund Administration & Custody
  Pierre Bauwens (Alpha Financial Markets 
Consulting (Luxembourg) S.A.)
  Davide Martucci (Next Gate Tech)
6.9  Digital finance strategy
  Henning Schwabe (Arendt & Medernach 
S.A.) 
  Raphael Machet (BNP Paribas Securities 
Services, succursale de Luxembourg)
6.9.1 Regulation on markets in crypto-assets 
(MICA)
  Henning Schwabe (Arendt & Medernach 
S.A.)
74
June 2021
© ALFI. All rights reserved. 
alfi | association of the  12, rue Erasme Tel. +352 22 30 26 - 1
Luxembourg fund industry L-1468 Luxembourg info@alfi.lu / www.alfi.lu