



TABLE OF CONTENTS
Chairman’s Message 10
President’s Message:  The Year in Review 12
I
COMPANY OVERVIEW 15
15 Who We Are
16 Pre-eminence as Our Vision and Investor Satisfaction as Our Mission
17 Our Investment Philosophy and Process
20 Our Products and Services
23 A Culture of Excellence
25 Making Headways in the UITF Industry
26 Our Commitment to Nation Building
II
2020 HIGHLIGHTS 27
27 The Year That Changed Us
30 Reshaping the Future of Investments
32 Innovation at Our Core
III
CLIENT SERVICING DURING THE PANDEMIC 35
IV
FINANCIAL SUMMARY AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS  36
V RISK MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK 40
VI CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 47
VII COMPANY POLICY AND STANDARDS 79
VIII
BOARD, COMMITTEES, AND SENIOR MANAGEMENT 86
IX
CORPORATE INFORMATION 92
X TRANSPARENCY REPORTS 94
PAGE  6 2020 ANNUAL REPORT
Highlights
Largest trust corporation 
in the country
Php 854
18% 
 Billion
Market Share  total Assets Under
Management
2020 ANNUAL REPORT PAGE  7
Over
Php 200
Billion
in new funds 
3-year
managed*
AUM CAGR of 13%
267  116,000 Institutional 
 Human Capital and Individual Clients
*after commencement of standalone trust operations
PAGE  8 2020 ANNUAL REPORT
Awards
2020
Best Managed Fund of the Year for the Equity (Dollar) category
(BPI Invest Global Equity Fund-of-Funds)
CFA Society Philippines
Best Overall Asset and Fund Manager (Philippines)
Best Asset Manager (Money Market Funds) - awarded for the 2nd consecutive year
Best Fund with the Optimal Information Ratio (BPI Invest Money Market Fund)
Alpha Southeast Asia’s Fund Management Awards 2020
Best Asset Manager - Philippines 2020
International Finance Awards 2020
Asset Management Company of the Year - Highly Commended (Philippines)
The  Asset  Triple  A  Sustainable  Investing  Awards  2020  for  Institutional  Investor,  ETF 
and Asset Servicing Providers
2019
Asset Management Company of the Year - Highly Commended (Philippines)
The Asset Triple A Asset Servicing, Institutional Investor and Insurance Awards 2019
Best Asset Manager - Philippines 2019
International Finance Awards 2019
Best Asset Manager (Money Market Funds and Balanced Funds)
Best Fund with the Optimal Information Ratio - Odyssey Asia Pacific High Dividend Equity Fund
Alpha Southeast Asia’s Fund Management Awards 2019
Best Managed Funds of the Year for the Balanced (Peso) and Equity (Dollar) categories
(BPI Invest Balanced Fund & BPI Invest Global Equity Fund-of-Funds)
CFA Society Philippines
Best Fund Product Philippines 2019 (BPI Invest Global Equity Fund-of-Funds)
2019 Global Banking & Finance Review Awards
2020 ANNUAL REPORT PAGE  9
2018
Best Managed Fund of the Year for the Equity (Dollar) category
(BPI Global Equity Fund-of-Funds)
CFA Society Philippines
Best Asset and Fund Manager (Philippines)
Alpha Southeast Asia 12th Annual  Best Financial Institution Awards
Certification to the Asset Manager Code
Chartered Financial Analyst Institute
Philippines’ Asset Management Company of the Year
The Asset Triple A Asset Servicing, Fund Management and Investors Awards 2018
Best Asset Manager - Philippines 2018
International Finance Awards 2018
Investment Fund Category - Gold (awarded for the 9th year)
Reader’s Digest
2017
Best Financial Inclusion Program
2nd Bank Marketing Awards
Best Asset and Fund Manager (Philippines)
Alpha Southeast Asia 11th Annual Best Financial Institution Awards 2017
Best Asset Manager Philippines
International Finance Awards
Best Managed Fund of the Year for the Equity (Dollar) category
(BPI Global Equity Fund-of-Funds)
CFA Society Philippines
Philippines’ Asset Management Company of the Year
The Asset Triple A Asset Servicing, Fund Management and Investors Awards 2017
PAGE  10 2020 ANNUAL REPORT
CHAIRMAN’S MESSAGE 
2020 was a year of unprecedented challenges and massive headwinds. It was however a year 
in which BPI surpassed its goal of hitting One Trillion Pesos in assets under management. 
The experience demonstrates why setting ambitious targets and holding people accountable 
bears fruit in any organization.  From here, management worked out that there had to be changes 
in the way things were being done, an end to the business-as-usual attitude.
We are now confident that with a renewed commitment to delivering superior client service 
and investor returns, and practicing good governance, the current growth trajectory will remain 
firmly in place.  This should enable the company to attain even greater heights as the pandemic 
ends and asset prices recover. 
On behalf of the Board, I would like to congratulate the BPI AMTC Management and Team for 
rising to the challenge and living up to its commitment to its shareholder.
Antonio Jose U. Periquet
Chairman of the Board
2020 ANNUAL REPORT PAGE  11
PAGE  12 2020 ANNUAL REPORT
PRESIDENT’S MESSAGE 
The Year in Review
It  was  in  2017—the  year  we  commenced  operations  for  BPI  Asset  Management  and  Trust 
Corporation (BPI AMTC)—that we asked ourselves what we wanted to achieve for the trust and 
asset management business of the Bank of the Philippine Islands (BPI), our parent bank.  Armed 
with vigor as a stand-alone trust corporation, we set out to plan and execute on our strategies to 
grow our assets under management (AUM) at a pace that will allow us to contribute to and enable 
BPI achieve a consolidated AUM of Php 1 trillion by 2020.
2020 ANNUAL REPORT PAGE  13
For us at BPI AMTC, that meant pursuing client acquisition and penetration activities to 
attain an 18% growth in 2018, and 10% in the succeeding two years. It was an ambitious 
blueprint that could only be achieved with the benefaction of clients who are satisfied with 
our brand of asset management service and fund performance.
A year into our operations, the equity markets in 2018 did not cooperate and we suffered a 
setback. We ended the year with just Php 591 billion in AUM. Our portfolio suffered a decline 
in returns despite generating substantial net flows and new money into our segregated 
portfolios.  Still, we persisted, and as we continued our efforts to gain new relationships 
and improve our service levels for our clients, we saw ourselves making up for lost values 
the following year. In 2019, our AUM reached Php 731 billion from very healthy inflows and 
satisfactory gains.
Precariousness, however, knows no cycle. 2020 started with the Taal volcano eruption that 
affected Philippine businesses and dimmed investing prospects in the region. And just 
when the caldera’s activity has stilled and everyone thought that it was time to rebuild and 
recover, that occurrence turned out to only be a prelude to a greater, global disruptor: the 
COVID-19 pandemic. The worldwide lockdown resulted in deep recession across the world 
and the investing environment saw dramatic changes and challenges.
But even as the Queen of Black Swans brought with it continued and unprecedented volatility, 
our commitment of service and prudential loyalty towards our clients has remained firm 
and unchanged. We are grateful that our clients recognize this. For despite being a perilous 
period on all fronts, and even as the world showed warning signs and rang alarm bells on all 
markets and economies, our clients continued to entrust to us their funds for management.  
Our AUM at BPI AMTC rose to Php 854 billion in 2020, generated mainly through organic 
growth across our product suite on the back of new and stronger client relationships. Owing 
to this, BPI’s total AUM breached the Php 1 trillion mark.
Today, although businesses have geared for a restart and the promise of better health and 
economic prospects are foreseen, uncertainty remains. There are still too many unknowns 
and foremost among our concerns is the safety of our investors’ portfolios. Yet, through all 
these, we know that it is not the markets that shape our existence. For at our core, we know 
that we are built of TRUST—trust in our people, that we all have our clients’ best interest at 
heart; trust in our products and experience as fund managers, that we are set up not just 
to survive but to beat the odds; trust in our clients, that we are aligned in our goals and in 
knowing that their dreams are our priorities and their peace of mind is our greatest reward.
Last year, we have proven the old adage to be true. In difficult times you turn to the ones 
you trust the most. The inflow of funds that we saw that year—investments that our clients 
handed to us to manage—is a testament to the trust that our clients have bestowed upon 
us, anchored on what we have built, over time.
We continue to be driven by the desire to achieve the best results for our clients, believing 
that a better, safer investment universe can be created through fidelity, high quality of 
service and reliable fund and portfolio performance. We are certain. We are determined to 
make that happen.
PAGE  14 2020 ANNUAL REPORT
2020 ANNUAL REPORT PAGE  15
I. COMPANY OVERVIEW
a. Who We Are
BPI  Asset  Management  and  Trust  Corporation  (“BPI  AMTC”,  the  “Company,”  or 
“the Corporation”)  is the largest stand-alone trust corporation in the Philippines. It traces 
its history in the trust business to the early 1960s, operating as a trust department of the 
Bank of the Philippine Islands (“BPI”).
In 2017, BPI AMTC became the first trust entity to be spun-off from its parent bank, BPI, 
establishing itself as a stand-alone trust corporation with its own capital and a reinforced 
independent trust management structure. BPI AMTC remains a wholly-owned subsidiary 
of BPI, continuing to leverage on the expertise of the first bank in Southeast Asia. 
BPI AMTC is under the supervision of the Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas (“BSP”) and is 
authorized to engage in trust and other fiduciary services.
With  twenty-eight  (28)  Unit  Investment  Trust  Funds,  four  (4)  Personal  Equity  and 
Retirement Funds, and a wide range of investment solutions, we take pride in offering the 
country’s most innovative products in the investment space today. We lead the charge 
in digitalizing financial literacy and investor education, and we are at the forefront of 
proliferating financial inclusion in the country.
PAGE  16 2020 ANNUAL REPORT
b. Pre-eminence as Our Vision and 
b. Investor Satisfaction as Our Mission
WE ARE . . .
…the country’s  …the wealth manager  …recognized for our  …capable of delivering 
pre-eminent fund  of choice, preferred by  ability to offer and  consistent superior 
management house  institutional and  service an expanded  returns on investments 
and trust entity. individual investors  and dynamic suite of  through prudent and 
alike. multi-strategy funds  active management. 
and trust products, 
accessible through 
Omni-channels.
2020 ANNUAL REPORT PAGE  17
As a financial institution, we believe in our power to shape a better future for our nation through 
financial literacy and investor education. We believe that investors deserve to be guided with 
well-thought-out investment advice, delivered by capable wealth managers, account officers, and 
investment advisers. We envision a society where people are not afraid to dream big, where they 
can step into the future with confidence, because they are financially secure and their financial 
decisions are borne out of informed choices.
WE ARE . . .
We make investing simple, accessible, and attainable for every investor so that they can build their 
wealth and grow their finances earlier and easier. We are a steady partner who will guide investors 
through all the highs and lows.
We aim to consistently deliver above par risk adjusted returns over the long term. We take pride 
in superior and robust investment and risk management processes which result in sustainable 
performance even through changing market environments.
c. Our Investment Philosophy and Process
At the heart of every investment decision in our organization are three fundamental principles 
anchored on our commitment to deliver excellent products and services to our clients. We draw our 
strength from our ethos, and these principles form the core of our investment philosophy. 
Long-Term Focus
We  believe  that  superior  and  consistent  returns  can  only  be  achieved  by  recognizing 
long-term trends in financial markets and understanding the structural shifts that affect 
these  trends.  This  focus  requires  a  profound  understanding  of  the  interplay  between 
macroeconomic factors, both global and domestic, and among different asset classes. 
Our investment approach relies heavily on quality research and information and the deep 
experience of our investment professionals who make investment decisions that best reflect 
our market views. 
PAGE  18 2020 ANNUAL REPORT
Value Orientation
Our  choice  of  investments  is  backed  by  a  thoughtful  and  thorough 
selection process that focuses on the intrinsic value and growth potential 
of each investment.
2020 ANNUAL REPORT PAGE  19
Risk Management
Recognizing that risk inherently drives returns, we limit downside risks through proper 
analysis, monitoring, and portfolio diversification. We also acknowledge that our fiduciary 
responsibility entails providing investment solutions that match the respective risk profiles 
of our clients, expressed in terms of their willingness and ability to take risks.
Our investment process originates from Management’s consistent assessment and the 
Board of Directors’ periodic review of developments in the macroeconomic landscape 
and  financial  markets.  These  are  used  to  formulate  investment  strategies  that  reflect 
our long-term views and to craft model portfolios covering a whole spectrum of risk profiles.
With these model portfolios as guides, individual portfolios are constructed in accordance 
with clients’ objectives, horizons and risk profiles, and the attendant internal, legal, and 
regulatory considerations. The allocation of fixed income and equity assets is executed to 
meet a portfolio’s target duration and equity exposure. Moreover, portfolios are reviewed on 
a regular basis against corresponding benchmarks and rebalanced to realign investments 
with the original target allocation consistent with clients’ goals and risk tolerance.
PAGE  20 2020 ANNUAL REPORT
d. Our Products and Services
We believe that every investor is unique, and there is no one-size-fits-all approach when it comes 
to investing. This is why we put a premium in offering a personalized approach to investments that 
allow our individual clients to acquire wealth and grow them through solutions tailored to their 
unique investment requirements. Wherever they are in their journey as an investor, our promise 
is that we will be there. 
We offer the most diversified investment fund portfolio in the industry, covering various asset 
classes, regions, sectors, and structures.
Our coverage speaks much about the creative value of our products and how these address varying 
investment needs. This product range allows our clients to easily maneuver their portfolios to suit 
specific requirements or as a response to changing market conditions. 
BPI AMTC has built a strong reputation for innovation, allowing its institutional and individual 
clients to enjoy the widest selection of investment and trust products and services in the industry 
today.
As a full-suite trust entity, we offer a wide range of products and services and continue to employ 
bespoke trust and investment management solutions that are relevant to our clients’ growing 
investment requirements within regulated parameters.
TRUSTS
■ Unit Investment Trust Funds (UITF)
■ Institutional Trust Accounts
• Employee Benefit Plan (Pension and Provident Funds)
• Pre-need Trust
• Other Institutional Trust Accounts
■ Individual Trust Accounts
• Personal Management Trust
2020 ANNUAL REPORT PAGE  21
AGENCY
■ Institutional Agency Accounts
• Employee Benefit Plan 
  (Pension and Provident Funds)
• Pre-need Accounts
• Other Institutional Agency Accounts 
  (Investment Management Account)
■ Individual Agency Accounts
• Other Individual Accounts 
  (Investment Management Account)
OTHER FIDUCIARY SOLUTIONS
■ Personal Equity and Retirement Account (PERA) Administration
■ Corporate Fiduciary Accounts
• Mortgage Trust Indenture
• Facility/Loan Agency or Bond Trusteeship
• Depository
■ Escrow Agency
■ Custody
■ Safekeeping
■ Court Trust
• Executorship
• Guardianship
■ Legislated and Quasi-Judicial Trust
■ Property Administratorship
PAGE  22 2020 ANNUAL REPORT
INVESTMENT FUNDS
BPI Invest Peso Funds
Odyssey Funds - Peso
• BPI Invest Short Term Fund
• Odyssey Peso Medium Term Bond Fund
• BPI Invest Money Market Fund
• Odyssey Peso Bond Fund
• BPI Invest Premium Bond Fund
• Odyssey Diversified Capital Fund
• BPI Invest Balanced Fund
• Odyssey Diversified Balanced Fund
• ABF Philippines Bond Index Fund
• Odyssey Philippine Equity Fund
• BPI Invest Philippine High Dividend Equity Fund
• Odyssey Philippine High Conviction Equity Fund
• BPI Invest Equity Value Fund
• BPI Invest Philippine Equity Index Fund
• BPI Invest Philippine Infrastructure Equity Index Fund
• BPI Invest Philippine Consumer Equity Index Fund
Odyssey Funds - Dollar
• BPI Fixed Income Portfolio Fund-of-Funds
• Odyssey Philippine Dollar Bond Fund
• BPI Invest Catholic Values Global Equity Feeder Fund
• Odyssey Asia Pacific High Dividend Equity 
• BPI Invest Bayanihan Balanced Fund
  Feeder Fund
BPI Invest Dollar Funds
• BPI Invest US Dollar Short Term Fund
• BPI Invest Global Bond Fund-of-Funds
• BPI Invest Philippine Dollar Bond Index Fund
• BPI Invest Global Equity Fund-of-Funds BPI PERA Funds
• BPI Invest US Equity Index Feeder Fund  • BPI PERA Money Market Fund
  (available in US$ and Php classes) • BPI PERA Government Bond Fund
• BPI Invest European Equity Feeder Fund • BPI PERA Corporate Income Fund
• BPI Invest US Dollar Income Feeder Fund • BPI PERA Equity Fund
2020 ANNUAL REPORT PAGE  23
e. A Culture of Excellence
As a leading trustee and investment manager for many of the top institutions in the country, 
we have a proven track record of delivering above par risk-adjusted returns that outperform 
portfolio benchmarks over the long term, earning for us our clients’ trust and recognition from 
industry watchers both in the Philippines and abroad.
In particular, about 90% of our equity investment funds’ AUM either outperform their respective 
benchmarks (for actively managed funds) or closely track their respective indices (for passive funds) 
across various time periods. We manage our portfolios with a forward-looking assessment of the 
economy that enables our clients to ride the waves of a bull market and seize opportunities in a 
bear market.
We are the only domestic institutional asset manager that provides clients with access to 
financial statements for their customized investment solutions via our 24/7 online financial 
reporting system. Our clients highly regard our adherence to strong risk management standards 
which have time and again allowed us to stand strong and resilient even through the most trying 
economic and financial market environments.
We strive to be a reliable investment partner to our clients, allowing them to benefit from our 
fund management expertise, gained from BPI’s 169 years of investment management experience.
Whether a client is just starting to invest or already has a deep understanding of investments, 
they can count on us to be with them every step of the way. 
Our capabilities allow our clients the flexibility to do self-service investments using online, mobile, 
and other web-enabled applications and platforms, and whether to execute on their investment 
placements or avail themselves of our financial advisory and fund management guidance. 
We have also made our wide array of investment products more affordable so everyone could 
conveniently start their wealth-building goals anytime.
We continue to transform savings into wealth.
PAGE  24 2020 ANNUAL REPORT
f. Making Headways in the UITF Industry
BPI AMTC is a trailblazer in the industry as the first to provide access to global investment 
opportunities  through  investment  funds.
Pioneering Investor Funds
We help investors gain exposure to foreign markets by utilizing the investor fund 
structure. As a participant to an investor fund such as a feeder fund or fund-of-funds, 
an investor is afforded a share in a diversified portfolio of one or more collective 
investment schemes. This arrangement allows clients to access multiple foreign 
funds for a lower minimum investment amount.
Equipped  with  our  rigorous  fund  selection  process,  BPI  AMTC  is  the  pioneer 
trust  entity  in  the  country  to  offer  the  fund-of-funds  UITF  structure  in 
2014  through  BPI  Invest  Global  Bond  Fund-of-Funds  (US$  16  million)  and 
BPI Invest Global Equity Fund-of-Funds (US$ 161 million).
We are also the first to offer access to the US and European stock markets in the 
same year through BPI Invest US Equity Index Feeder Fund (US$ 61 million) and 
BPI Invest European Equity Feeder Fund (US$ 5 million).
To bridge the gap and make US dollar investments accessible to more investors, we 
converted BPI Invest US Equity Index Feeder Fund to a multi-currency fund in 2019. 
Through the fund’s Peso unit class, clients are able to access the S&P® 500 index 
without the need to open a US dollar account.
Offering a Premier Unit-Paying Fund
When market turbulences challenged investors in 2018, we launched the BPI Invest 
US Dollar Income Feeder Fund, a balanced fund that invests in multiple uncorrelated 
global investments designed to ride out economic peaks and troughs.
BPI Invest US Dollar Income Feeder Fund is BPI’s premier income-paying fund as 
differentiated by its semi-annual income payout feature. This feature addresses a 
key requirement of Filipino investors who prefer receiving income stream without 
having to redeem their investment. The fund has declared unit income distribution 
five times since its inception, with eligible investors consistently receiving income 
at 4-5% per annum.
Secondary to income payout, the fund offers opportunities for long-term capital 
growth with its portfolio mix of fixed income securities, equities, and alternative 
assets. It also maintains a defensive strategy with managed volatility compared to 
pure equity outlets.
2020 ANNUAL REPORT PAGE  25
Bond Fund Leadership
BPI AMTC is in command of the UITF bond fund space with a 45% market share. Our bond 
fund roster cuts across investment horizons and issues, capturing investors of varying 
appetites to credit risk and changing rate environment, among other factors.  
BPI AMTC’s Flagship Bond Funds
 ABF Philippines Bond Index Fund
 The largest long-term bond fund in the
industry
45%
BPI AMTC  BPI Invest Global Bond Fund-of-Funds
The first bond fund-of-funds in the industry
  Php 33.9 billion
55%
 BPI Invest Premium Bond Fund
 The largest intermediate bond fund in the
industry
 *Based on publicly available Key Information and Investment Disclosure Statements as of 2020.
One of the bond funds in our offering is the ABF Philippines Bond Index Fund which we 
were mandated to manage and distribute since 2006 as part of the Asian Bond Fund (ABF) 
initiative of the Executives’ Meeting of East Asia Pacific Central Banks (EMEAP) to deepen the 
bond market in the country. 
Now at Php 14 billion, the ABF Philippines Bond Index Fund is the first passively-managed 
fixed income fund and the largest long-term bond fund in the country.
PAGE  26 2020 ANNUAL REPORT
g. Our Commitment to Nation Building
With over 58 years of active commitment to uplift the lives of Filipinos, BPI AMTC has been awarded 
mandates to manage various funds on behalf of government institutions. It has also championed 
the cause of financial inclusion by offering products in support of government initiatives to promote 
retirement investing and transformation of savings to wealth.
Among these are the Personal Equity and Retirement Account (PERA) fund offerings. Established 
through Republic Act 9505, PERA aims to promote capital market development and savings 
mobilization. It is a tool intended for use by any person to augment his retirement nest egg, while 
receiving benefits throughout his employment.
BPI AMTC was one of the pioneering PERA administrators and PERA product providers in the market 
since 2016. As PERA administrator, BPI AMTC is responsible for overseeing the client’s PERA account, 
including duties and obligations that come with its management, reporting, and enforcement. As 
product provider, BPI AMTC currently offers the widest range of PERA products in the market, namely 
BPI PERA Money Market Fund (Money Market Fund), BPI PERA Government Bond Fund (Bond 
Fund), BPI PERA Corporate Income Fund (Balanced Fund) and BPI PERA Equity Fund (Equity Fund).
In 2018, BPI AMTC also launched the BPI Invest Bayanihan Balanced Fund. With the intent to help 
increase the risk-taking capacity of moderate investors and ultimately achieve long-term capital 
growth, the fund maintains its equity exposure within 5-20%. This allows clients to mobilize their 
funds for investment in higher-yielding instruments with managed risk levels. Now at Php 210 
million, the fund continues to attract small investors such as micro-insurers, broadening availability 
of fund management services in previously untapped segments.
2020 ANNUAL REPORT PAGE  27
II. 2020 HIGHLIGHTS 
a. The Year That Changed Us
The  weight  and  magnitude  of  the  challenges  we  faced  in  2020  have  been 
unprecedented.  Against  the  backdrop  of  a  health-led  global  economic  shock, 
BPI AMTC, as an organization and institution, has demonstrated its adaptability and 
resilience in times of crises.
We hurdled the operational limitations of the global pandemic and redefined the 
way we connect, interact, and serve our clients and employees. Recognizing that 
investors expect, and require, that we remain “business as usual,” we have pressed 
ourselves to continue to be innovative and dynamic in the way we do business.
PAGE  28 2020 ANNUAL REPORT
New Accounts 
BPI AMTC remained headstrong in capturing new accounts both in the retail 
and segregated portfolio space despite restrictions in mobility.
Individuals
over 21,000 new individual accounts
Our long standing partnerships with institutions are a testament to 
our exceptional service.
Institutions
over 1,000 new corporate accounts
2020 ANNUAL REPORT PAGE  29
Awards  
Despite the challenges this year, BPI AMTC’s effort to deliver exceptional fund 
management has been recognized by prestigious organizations in the local 
and global space.
Our accolades in 2020 include:
Chartered Financial Analyst Society  Best Asset Manager - Philippines
of the Philippines
•  Best Managed Fund of the Year for the Dollar Equity 
category (BPI Invest Global Equity Fund-of-Funds)
The Asset Triple A Sustainable 
Alpha Southeast Asia’s Fund 
Investing Awards 2020 for 
Management Awards 2020
Institutional Investor, ETF and Asset 
Servicing Providers
•  Best Overall Asset and Fund Manager
•  Best Asset Manager (Money Market Funds)   •  Awarded by The Asset for the 13th consecutive years
-awarded for the 2nd consecutive year
•  Best Fund with the Optimal Information Ratio  •  Asset Management Company of the Year                     
(BPI Invest Money Market Fund) - Highly Commended (Philippines)
PAGE  30 2020 ANNUAL REPORT
b. Reshaping the Future of Investor Education
Webinars:  Easy, Accessible, Safe
While the rest of the world banked on physical events to make meaningful connections 
with clients and prospects alike, BPI AMTC had a head start in mounting online events. 
Equipped with the technological know-how and backed with the proper system capability, 
program, and content requirement, BPI AMTC was able to respond quickly and decisively 
when the pandemic hit the Philippines. Despite lockdowns and strict quarantine rules, 
BPI AMTC’s financial wellness and education programs reached Filipinos all over the 
country and around the globe with participants from twenty-six (26) countries such as the 
US, Canada and some from Europe, and the Middle East.
Total number of webinar  Total number of participants  Countries reached:
sessions mounted: 103 reached: 32,330 26
In 2018, BPI AMTC began delivering its financial education programs using the webinar format 
complementing on-ground events that allowed face-to-face interactions with clients. The early 
adoption of the webinar program, recognizing the importance of digitalization in educating 
our clients, allowed us to seamlessly transition to a fully-digital investment education forum at 
the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic during the first quarter of 2020.
2020 ANNUAL REPORT PAGE  31
Responding to the needs of the times, BPI AMTC developed investment education modules tackling 
the most pertinent topics concerning investors. BPI AMTC stepped up its financial education webinars 
during the lockdown as part of a dedicated effort to help clients arrive at informed decisions on how 
to manage, preserve, and grow their money amidst a pandemic. As markets showed unprecedented 
volatility, it was incumbent upon fund managers like ourselves to provide constant insight and advice 
to quell investor anxiety. 
At a time when investor confidence was at its lowest and many were contemplating redeeming their 
investments, the webinars also served as a digital avenue for clients to connect with us and to air their 
questions allaying fears about the market – all done in the comfort and safety of their homes.
Podcasts: Growing Wealth Made Easy
2020 also saw the rebirth of Investment Insights, BPI AMTC’s Spotify channel dedicated to proliferating 
investment knowledge to the digital savvy generation. Investment Insights provides an alternative 
venue for delivering financial tips in bite-sized form, much to the appreciation of its listeners which 
grew almost five-fold from 2,000 listeners in 2019 to 11,000 in 2020. In 2021, we rebranded our Spotify 
channel to Wealth Radio.
 Scan to listen
Wealth Radio
PAGE  32 2020 ANNUAL REPORT
c. Innovation at Our Core
Portfolio Management Accounts
Our strength lies in our ability to innovate and serve new investment solutions that respond 
to  our  clients’  changing  needs.  With  our  Portfolio  Management  Account  (“PMA”), 
our branded line of the Investment Management Account developed for investors who are 
new to the concept of consolidating various types of securities and investment products 
for management under a segregated portfolio, we were able to enhance the investment 
appetite of new clients and allowed them to experience basic portfolio management 
services and advice that are suited to their risk profiles and wealth preferences. 
BPI AMTC has deliberately designed this “entry-level” directional account in order to usher 
in clients who are ready for segregated portfolio mandates, but need to gain experience or 
familiarity with our portfolio services. The PMA line focuses on client engagement through 
active advisory with a dedicated Account Officer that initiates discussions aligned with 
clients’ risk appetite, investment goals, and investment horizons.
PERA Relaunch
BPI AMTC also fulfilled its promise to actively participate in the BSP’s relaunch of PERA in 
September 2020. Originally offered in 2016, PERA enjoyed a 17% increase in active accounts 
at this relaunch. The increased marketing and awareness campaigns were geared to assure 
Filipinos of this product which they could access for better retirement opportunities.
2020’s Best Managed Fund 
As further testament to our consistent performance, one of our flagship products, BPI 
Invest Global Equity Fund-of-Funds, received the Best Managed Fund Award for the fourth 
consecutive year from the CFA Society Philippines. The fund dominated the Dollar Equity 
category for four of five editions of the search. 
BPI Invest Global Equity Fund-of-Funds has consistently shown remarkable performance 
as it beat the returns of Morgan Stanley Capital International (MSCI) World Index despite 
periods of economic downturns and volatilities. 
2020 ANNUAL REPORT PAGE  33
As of December 2020, the fund posted annualized returns of 18.15%, 11.40%, and 11.17% for the one-year, 
three-year, and five-year periods respectively.
Note: pp refers to percentage points
Investing in the Future
We gear up for the coming year by launching new funds that will allow clients to have access to the 
world’s most innovative companies in the technology and health care arenas.
These new funds seek to better position investors for future rebound by providing access to 
investment themes currently on the spotlight. With the health care sector leading our battle 
against COVID-19 and the technology sector providing support as we adapt to the new normal, 
future investors of the funds will be able to capitalize on growth opportunities ahead.
Clients may access the new technology and health care funds by 1Q 2021.
PAGE  34 2020 ANNUAL REPORT
2020 ANNUAL REPORT PAGE  35
III. CLIENT SERVICING 
III. DURING THE
III. PANDEMIC 
At the onset of the full blown crisis in March, BPI AMTC ensured that a relevant and 
open client communications plan was put in place to ensure uninterrupted lines of 
communication and even offering more frequent conversations with clients. Being 
in an industry that is built on trust, we put a premium on responding to our clients’ 
need  for  information,  guidance,  and  assurance,  especially  in  turbulent  times. 
The plan included scheduled client callouts and programmed client meetings 
all done virtually, as well as a pervasive proposition to encourage the use of the 
bank’s digital facilities. This paved the way for our ability to deliver our products 
and services even when mobility was restricted. 
We  redesigned  the  process  in  handling  customer  transactions  allowing  us  to 
receive instructions from and conduct business with our clients even with the 
limited trading times and restricted mobility. It required simulating transactions, 
putting ourselves vicariously in our clients’ shoes, and recognizing the availability 
and limitations of both theirs and our resources. This was a major feat considering 
the extent of coverage required for various transactions and heightened need for 
client assistance. 
Anticipating the pains and challenges that our clients faced, we also prepared and 
provisioned for the onslaught of retirement, retrenchment, redundancy and other 
benefit claims, as well as timed or unplanned withdrawals and redemptions, as 
business operations of clients and personal and financial requirements of investors 
were challenged. In response to the Bayanihan Act, our backroom was geared for 
the processing of bulk availments and the time-sensitive release of benefits in 
addition to making ourselves available to clients to respond to queries regarding 
the application of the Bayanihan Act and its Implementing Rules and Regulations. 
On account of the need to enhance and expand the servicing of clients at all stages 
of the investment cycle, we also spearheaded the continuing education of all our 
front office armories resulting in a high level of investment mandate familiarity, 
portfolio performance analytics, a good grasp of the market, and adeptness at 
regulatory and governance issues. This has been a thrust of the Company for the 
last three (3) years; and in adapting to the ‘New Normal’, internal trainings included 
adaptive  client  handling  strategies  in  consideration  of  a  remote/mobile  work 
structure and virtual/electronic delivery of service.
PAGE  36 2020 ANNUAL REPORT
IV. FINANCIAL SUMMARY 
IV. AND RESULTS OF 
IV. OPERATIONS
a. Financial Summary
b. Review of Results of Operations
Asset Under Management
BPI AMTC ended with Php 854 billion in AUM, which is 17% higher than the 
previous year. Due to uncertainties brought about by the pandemic, we ensured 
that we were navigating the market volatility alongside our clients by keeping 
them abreast of relevant events in relation to their investments or any changes in 
account handling resulting to regulatory or operational restrictions. 
This collective effort brought about an increased business volume of 10% and 31% 
in our segregated portfolio and investment fund products, respectively.
2020 ANNUAL REPORT PAGE  37
Revenues and Income
We were able to grow our revenues by 12% year-on-year to close the year with Php 2.66 billion 
in total income. Our trust and management fees remained to be our primary source of 
revenues with Php 2.47 billion which is 93% of our total income. Our retail funds showed 
strong growth potential while our segregated portfolio products had continued to provide a 
stable revenue base. Meanwhile, 7% of our income was derived from our peripheral operating 
activities. After expenses and taxes, BPI AMTC generated Php 836 million in net income.
Expenses
Our operating expenses ended at Php 1.46 billion, lower by 9% against last year as efficiencies 
across shared services resulted to lower intercompany charges. Moreover, marketing and 
distribution activities were also muted resulting to lower overall controllable expenses.
Assets
We ended the year with Php 3.23 billion in total assets. We had maintained a significant 
portion of our assets in cash and highly liquid and low risk investments aligned with the 
security deposits required and investment holdings allowed by the BSP for trust corporations. 
Our cash position ended at Php 1.56 billion, a 36% decline against the previous year after the 
payment of cash dividends. Meanwhile, our Financial Assets at Fair Value Through Other 
Comprehensive Income (FVOCI) that contained our investments in government securities 
ended at Php 954 million, nearly double last year’s volume, to address regulatory requirements 
on  basic  security  deposit  for  trust  corporations  and  serve  as  BPI  AMTC’s  short-term 
proprietary investments. Meanwhile, the decline in our non-current assets was essentially 
due to Php 277 million in scheduled amortization for our intangible assets for the year.
Liabilities
Our total liabilities ended at Php 458 million for the year, an increase of 31%, on the back of 
higher taxes and the recognition of retirement benefit obligations.
Equity
We ended the year with Php 2.77 billion in equity. Our share capital and additional paid-in 
capital was unchanged. However, our total retained earnings saw a net decline of Php 644 
million after the recognition of net income and payment of dividends. 
Of the total retained earnings, Php 283 million was appropriated as reserves for trust business 
in compliance with existing regulations.
PAGE  38 2020 ANNUAL REPORT
c. Segment Performance and Contribution
Please refer to Sections IV.a. and IV.b. Our company has a centralized client servicing model 
where all clients are handled by our Clients Segment Division. Hence, the Company only 
maintains  one  business  segment.
d. Challenges, Opportunities, Responses
The uncertainty on the magnitude of the pandemic’s impact to the economy and general 
population has posted a challenge to BPI AMTC on all fronts – the delivery of consistent 
service and advisory to our clients, the search for value and investment returns at a time of 
market volatility, and the maintenance of uninterrupted operations and transaction servicing 
– while ensuring the safety, health and well-being of our team. 
In 2020, the focus was on the retention of client funds via top-tier servicing, while ensuring 
that costs are controlled and are directed towards key work force, technology, and operational 
requirements. We believe that a sustainable and lasting relationship is one that is built over the 
long term. Consistency of communication and constant flow of information through market 
changes are essential to keep us and our investors connected. We believe that through active 
engagements, we are able to extend better services and educate our investors. 
Hence, our process improvements and transition to digital solutions have been accelerated 
with the ultimate goal of sustaining the delivery of personalized customer service, relevant 
investment advisory, and fund availability to each client despite operational constraints brought 
about by the pandemic. We continue to devote financial resources to enhance the investing 
experience of our client-interface and digital platforms. To achieve our long-term goals, we 
remain committed to our long-term plans for investing in technology that will improve client 
experience and empower our team of investment professional and operations. 
e. Outlook and Strategic Initiatives
In view of the pandemic affecting the economy and capital markets, our strategic initiatives 
for the coming years will necessarily include the reinforcement of the business continuity 
capabilities of BPI AMTC to make us more robust and resilient to disruptive occurrences. We are 
refocusing our business initiatives to provide employees with tools and resources that will 
allow us to continue to provide client servicing and operating support requirements even while 
mobile, to allow multi-site access to various systems to ensure uninterrupted operations, and to 
improve its digital offerings for clients’ transactional convenience and efficiency.
BPI AMTC aims to cultivate an agile organization that is capable of growing and evolving 
alongside  the  local  and  global  investment  environment  and  our  clients’  ever  changing 
requirements. We will continue to evolve with our clientele by offering nonconventional and 
bespoke segregated portfolio products and multi-currency, multi-strategy, and multi-asset 
class investment funds. Within the regulatory framework of allowable trust and other fiduciary 
products, we also intend to pursue product offerings depending on the preferred servicing 
levels for different client segments, which may also require variance in product line features, 
branding, investment outlets and pricing. 
2020 ANNUAL REPORT PAGE  39
We shall strengthen our capabilities to launch innovative investment products and services 
via  multiple  distribution  channels  that  will  cater  to  the  needs  of  the  investing  public. 
Moreover, our investment management team shall remain dedicated to delivering superior 
risk-adjusted returns.
f. Significant Developments, Major Activities, 
f. and Future Plans/Objectives
Moving into 2021, the following areas will continue to be of utmost importance to BPI AMTC’s 
business and operations as we continue to grapple with the pandemic and its aftershocks.
Employee Welfare
Management shall closely monitor identified roles and employees that will form the workforce. 
Exposure of some personnel to other tasks for training as part of business continuity arrangement 
and succession planning will also continue to evolve. 
Moreover, the development of new protocols and processes that maximize the use of electronic 
and digital solutions shall be welcomed to avoid unnecessary exposure of our employees 
while running effective operations and client servicing. Health recording and monitoring will 
remain in place for the Company to be able to monitor each team’s health status and report the 
manifestation of any COVID-related and other health symptoms. 
Furthermore, provision of logistics for prevention of COVID-19 and health-related assistance will 
be considered as the need arises. 
Client Servicing and Relevant Investment Advisory
The Company shall continue to be agile in adjusting to operational limitations that may be 
imposed due to the pandemic to ensure that the same service quality is offered to clients, as 
much as possible. Moreover, any changes in BPI AMTC’s products, services, and requirements 
are properly communicated to clients. We remain committed to the vision of BPI, our parent 
bank, to provide more advanced services and capabilities to clients as we also go through our 
own system upgrades. We have started working on the upgrade of our core investments and 
funds distribution system in line with our commitment to employ state-of-the-art technology in 
the management of our clients’ funds.
New Product Offerings
Our commitment to innovation remains a core attribute of BPI AMTC. We continuously update 
our products and services to keep abreast with the ever-changing times, and to provide our 
clients access to domestic and international investment alternatives that cater to their evolving 
needs. Investing offshore has been a fast-growing space for us in the past few years. As a proud 
pioneer in the Philippines, BPI AMTC has been at the forefront at building, developing and 
managing our platform of global funds.  
With our foremost objective of bringing the global markets closer to our investors, we aim to 
provide our clients easy access to these vast opportunities abroad. The Company also plans to 
launch thematic funds focusing on more relevant and sustainable businesses.
PAGE  40 2020 ANNUAL REPORT
V. RISK MANAGEMENT       
V. FRAMEWORK
BPI AMTC’s risk management framework is strongly anchored on the cardinal 
principle of fidelity. It is designed to ensure that the Company’s fiduciary activities 
are carried out with the highest standard of care and clients’ assets are prudently 
managed. 
The framework enables the Company to effectively identify, measure, control 
and monitor risks associated with its fiduciary and investment management 
activities, in accordance with the key elements and basic principles of a sound risk 
management system:  active and appropriate oversight by the Board of Directors; 
adequate  risk  management  processes,  policies  and  procedures;  appropriate 
risk measurement system, prudent risk limits, monitoring and management 
information system; and comprehensive and effective internal control system 
and, audit and compliance program.  
BPI AMTC’s risk management framework continuously evolves as the business 
grows, as the market structure and regulations change, as new financial products 
and instruments are introduced in the market and as global risk management 
standards and best practices are enhanced and developed.
2020 ANNUAL REPORT PAGE  41
a. Risk Management Governance Structure 
a. and Risk Strategy
Risk  management  in  BPI  AMTC  is  a  top-down  process  which  starts  with  the 
Board of Directors. The Board has the ultimate responsibility of providing oversight 
of  the  Company’s  risk  management  process  which  involves  establishing  strategic 
direction  and  providing  risk  tolerance  standards  for  fiduciary  and  investment 
management activities. The Board fulfills its risk  management  function  through  the  
BPI  AMTC  Risk  Management Committee (“RMC”), which oversees the development and 
implementation of the overall risk management program and nurtures a culture of risk 
management  across  the  Company. 
The RMC defines risk appetite statements for each functional risk area and reviews risk 
management structures, metrics, limits and issues across the Company. It adopts the 
“three lines of defense” model in managing risks, which defines the risk management 
responsibilities of each unit owning and/ or managing the risk (1st line), overseeing the 
risk management function (2nd line) and providing independent assurance on the quality 
and effectiveness of risk management and controls (3rd line). The RMC is supported by 
Management, through several management committees, and the Risk Management 
Office, led by the Company’s Chief Risk and Compliance Officer. The Risk Management 
Office reports directly to the RMC and carries out the day-to-day implementation of the 
Company’s risk management program which includes the regular measurement and 
monitoring of key risk indicators and reporting of risk exposures against established limits 
and parameters. 
BPI AMTC continuously promotes a culture of proactive and prudent risk management 
with  the  Risk  Management  Office  regularly  engaging  the  RMC,  management  and 
business units, and communicating the risk awareness culture to the rest of the Company 
through various internal channels, facilitating learning programs on risk management 
and promoting best practices enterprise-wide.
PAGE  42 2020 ANNUAL REPORT
BPI AMTC identifies the major risks attendant to its fiduciary and investment management 
activities as investment, and operational and information technology risks. Investment or 
portfolio risk, which consists of market, credit and liquidity risks, is inherent in the portfolios 
and assets that the Company manages for its clients and has a direct impact on clients’ 
earnings and/or principal investment. Market risk arises from adverse movements in market 
risk factors (such as interest rates, foreign exchange rates and equity prices) while credit 
risk arises when clients’ funds are transacted with market counterparties or placed in debt 
instruments. Liquidity risk may arise from the Company’s inability to recognize or address 
changes in the clients’ funding needs or from inadequate market liquidity. 
Operational and information technology risk on the other hand, arises from inadequate 
and failed processes, people, systems or external events which may adversely affect BPI 
AMTC’s earnings and capital. Operational and information technology risk also includes 
legal and compliance risks. The Company is also exposed to strategic risk, which relates to 
the formulation and implementation of business strategies and decisions and BPI AMTC’s 
responsiveness to industry changes. These risks are inter-related and failure to manage the 
same poses risks of financial losses to BPI AMTC and its clients as well as damage to the 
Company’s reputation.
As risk-taking is core to the fiduciary business, BPI AMTC recognizes the importance of a 
sound and effective risk management system in the Company’s pursuit of achieving its goal 
of stable AUM and earnings growth. The Company exercises prudent risk management 
to protect its AUM and to prevent earnings instability and financial losses in the conduct 
of its operations. BPI AMTC takes reasonable and calculated risks in the execution of its 
investment management duties through a clear structure of limits and control parameters 
and compliance with agreed investment mandates. Risks taken are always within clients’ risk 
appetite and commensurate to their return objectives. The Company avoids unwarranted 
risks and aims to generate investment returns without exposing managed portfolios to 
undue risk of loss.  
BPI AMTC aims to ensure the health and safety of its employees and has high moral and 
ethical standards. It has no tolerance for improper business practices, fraudulent activity 
and conflict of interest. It has low tolerance for process failures and high risk audit issues. 
It aims to maintain compliance with regulatory requirements and address noted breaches 
on time. It also aims to have an effective business continuity plan that ensures critical 
processes are recovered within the defined turnaround time and with minimal impact to 
the Company, its employees and its clients. BPI AMTC does not tolerate failures from critical 
service providers of outsourced services.
2020 ANNUAL REPORT PAGE  43
Investment Risk Management
The  Investment  Risk  Management  Department  assists  the  RMC  in  implementing  the 
Company’s investment risk management program by formulating policies and procedures, 
quantifying investment risk exposures through various metrics, establishing and monitoring 
compliance to limits, as well as reporting and tracking the resolution of limit breaches and 
investment-related issues.
Risk  management  is  embedded  in  all  phases  of  the  investment  process.  Prior  to  the 
initiation of transactions, risks arising from new investment instruments or transactions are 
identified. Identified risks are then quantified using measurement tools and methodologies 
appropriate to the nature and complexity of transactions.
Factor sensitivity measures are utilized to measure the risk exposure of actively-managed 
portfolios while tracking error is used as the primary market risk measure  for  passively-managed 
or index tracker funds. Overall portfolio risk is measured by volatility.
Risk-adjusted performance measures are also monitored as a means to gauge the quality 
of returns and to facilitate proper evaluation and comparison of investment portfolios 
with varying levels of risk and return. Credit risk is measured at the issuer level and at the 
counterparty level. Issuer risk is gauged primarily through the use of published credit ratings 
and internal ratings generated from BPI’s credit risk rating system. Liquidity risk is likewise 
gauged on two levels – at the security/asset level and at the portfolio level. Security/asset 
liquidity risk measures are defined by asset class while portfolio liquidity risk measures look 
at actual fund inflows and outflows and funding concentration.
To mitigate market risk, the Company’s investment management activities are subject 
to risk limits and controls that embody the risk tolerance standards of the Board and our 
clients. All managed funds and portfolios are subject to RMC-approved aggregate limits 
and client-specified portfolio-level limits and parameters. Regulatory limits are also strictly 
adhered to. Loss triggers are also established to limit market losses. Credit risk is controlled 
through issuer and counterparty limits. Credit risk management is also heavily anchored 
on the credit approval process which covers credit evaluation and approval, as well as the 
periodic review of outstanding investments, debt issuers/borrowers and counterparties. 
Liquidity risk is mitigated by limiting portfolio investments to tradable/liquid instruments 
and setting liquid buffers based on an assessment of the client’s future funding needs and 
desired level of portfolio liquidity. Liquidity assessment forms are significant part of our 
investment accreditation process. In addition, a liquidity contingency plan is in place, which 
provides a framework for addressing liquidity crisis situations.
With the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic in 2020, investment risk exposures were closely 
monitored and an assessment of the impact of the pandemic on managed funds and 
portfolios was conducted.  The liquidity of the funds vis-à-vis actual and potential client 
redemptions was also assessed and regular updates on the funds’ liquidity position versus 
internal thresholds, net fund flows and net asset value movements were provided to the BSP.
PAGE  44 2020 ANNUAL REPORT
Operational Risk Management
BPI  AMTC’s  Operational  Risk  Management  Department  monitors  our  operational  risk 
exposures  while  senior  management  oversight  is  provided  by  the  Risk  Management 
Committee.
We manage our operational risks by ensuring accurate and timely identification, assessment, 
monitoring, reporting and mitigation. Key risk indicators are in place to monitor risk profiles 
and trigger mitigating actions.
Loss events data collection provides information in identifying areas with control lapses and 
areas for improvement. An annual self-assessment is conducted to identify inherent and 
residual risks in processes and the effectiveness of controls in place.
The  Company  adopts  an  effective  and  sustainable  business  continuity  management 
program aligned with the strategy of BPI. Our business continuity document includes the 
Company’s plans to ensure that critical processes are recovered until operations normalize.
We continue to closely monitor established measurements and limits on risk indicators, and 
implement mitigating measures in view of increasing cyber-related risks and risks related to 
the COVID-19 pandemic, primarily on the health and safety of the Company’s employees and 
continuity of operations with the significant portion of the work force on work-from-home 
arrangements. The Company and its parent bank’s strategic initiatives on digitalization, 
improvements on IT infrastructure and cybersecurity technology, and availability of business 
recovery sites enabled the continued delivery of the Company’s products and services to its 
customers. The Company remains operational as it implemented split operations, activated 
alternate work sites and mobility areas to improve accessibility of the Company’s employees 
to office premises, and adjusted working hours and work-from-home arrangements. The 
Company also launched the mobility program for employees, and equipped them with 
adequate tools to allow work outside of Company premises.
For personnel safety and welfare, the Company fully complied with health and medical 
guidelines  from  the  Department  of  Health  (“DOH”)  and  Department  of  Labor  and 
Employment (“DOLE”). Additional precautionary measures continue to be implemented and 
include providing transportation for employees, enforcing virtual meetings, and limiting 
movements of personnel within and across its business offices. COVID-19 rapid testing for 
all employees and maintenance personnel were likewise carried out.
Amidst the COVID-19 pandemic, the Company and its parent bank, through its Facilities 
Services Group, provided several safety initiatives aligned with Inter-Agency Task Force 
on Emerging Infectious Diseases (“IATF”) guidelines which include the employee shuttle 
services, disinfection of premises, distribution of Personal Protective Equipment (“PPE”) 
such as face masks and hand sanitizers and conversion of idle workspaces for mobility or 
alternate sites.
2020 ANNUAL REPORT PAGE  45
b. Anti-Money Laundering Compliance
The prevention of financial crimes is a top priority of the Company, not only because they pose 
a significant threat to our reputation, but because they undermine the integrity of the global 
financial system. Hence, BPI AMTC’s Compliance extends its ambit beyond the Company, its 
policies, and its employees to ensure that our clients also act within the law and do not use us 
or our structures for illegal activities.
Our  Board  of  Directors  and  Management  support  firm-wide  and  BPI  group-wide 
efforts  towards  establishing  strong  anti-money  laundering  and  counter-terrorism 
financing (“AML/CTF”) assurance mechanisms and globally consistent procedures, as well as 
establishing a management structure that promotes accountability and transparency and 
upholds  checks  and  balances.
It is the ultimate responsibility of our Board of Directors to fully adhere with the applicable 
AML/CTF rules & regulations, ensures that Money Laundering (“ML”) and Terrorist Financing 
(“TF”) risks are effectively managed and that this forms part of the Company’s enterprise risk 
management system.
Our Management oversees the day-to-day management of the Company, ensures effective 
implementation of AML/CTF policies approved by the Board of Directors and alignment of 
activities with the strategic objectives, risk profile and corporate values set by the Board of 
Directors.
Our Anti-Money Laundering (“AML”) Compliance Unit is responsible for the management of 
the implementation of the Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing Prevention Program 
(“MTPP”)  which  we  observe  in  compliance  with  the  Anti-Money  Laundering  Law,  its 
implementing rules and regulations, and BSP’s AML/CTF prescribed rules and regulations, as 
well as BPI’s anti-money laundering program covering subsidiaries and affiliates.
PAGE  46 2020 ANNUAL REPORT
Our MTPP aims to implement sound anti-money laundering practices and combat terrorist 
financing and other financial crimes. It consists of conscientious customer due diligence 
and know-your-customer (“KYC”) processes; technology and automated tools to identify and 
detect financial transactions of a suspicious nature; and monitoring, periodic review, and 
timely-reporting of AML/CTF events to Management. This program also includes regular 
and effective AML/CTF training and awareness programs for all personnel; maintenance of 
customer data and transaction documents within prescribed timelines; and timely updates of 
policies and procedures in accordance with changes in regulations and AML/CTF typologies.
To  ensure  compliance  to  the  program,  our  AML  Compliance  Unit  conducts  periodic 
compliance checking which covers among others, evaluation of existing processes, policies 
and procedures including on-going monitoring of performance by staff and officers involved 
in ML and TF prevention, reporting channels, effectiveness of the electronic money laundering 
transaction monitoring system and record retention system through sample testing and 
review of audit or examination reports.
With increasing global AML initiatives and numerous new regulations, we recognize that 
our AML processes and controls are changing from a stand-alone function to an increasingly 
complex and overarching function cutting across legal, risk and operations. We constantly 
review our program to ensure adept compliance with the latest legislative and regulatory 
developments.
To  foster  awareness,  knowledge  and  understanding  of  AML  concepts,  principles  and 
requirements, all employees are required to attend training programs conducted by our AML 
Compliance Unit or through web-based e-Learning courses available with the BPI in-house 
training  academy.
2020 ANNUAL REPORT PAGE  47
VI. CORPORATE 
VI. GOVERNANCE
The  Board  of  Directors,  Management,  and  employees  of  the  Company,  together 
with  BPI  as  its  principal  shareholder,  believe  that  sound  and  effective  corporate 
governance is the cornerstone of BPI AMTC’s strength and long term existence. BPI 
AMTC subscribes to a philosophy of adhering to honesty, integrity, and professionalism 
in the conduct of its business, exercising prudence in arriving at decisions, enforcing 
internal discipline and a system of checks and balances in its operating processes, and 
providing transparency regarding basic management policies and practices, major 
business strategies and decisions, and its operating results. 
BPI AMTC’s practices are, thus, consistent with Sections 131-Q, 132-Q, 133-Q, 134-Q, 136-Q, 
137-Q, 118-T and other applicable provisions in the Manual of Regulations for Non-Bank 
Financial Institutions (“MORNBFI”) of the BSP, Securities and Exchange Commission 
(“SEC”) Memorandum Circular No. 6 s2009 “Revised Code of Corporate Governance” as 
amended by SEC Memorandum Circular No. 9 s2014 and SEC Memorandum Circular 
No. 24 s2019, and other relevant references.
The Board of Directors  and  Management have adopted a framework of policies, 
rules, systems and processes for the Company that governs the performance by the 
Board of Directors and Management of their respective duties and responsibilities 
to stockholders and other stakeholders which include, among others, customers, 
employees, suppliers, regulators, government and the community in which it operates. 
The Board of Directors and Management undertake every effort necessary to create 
the necessary awareness of these principles and practices within the organization in 
order to ensure proper internalization by every member of the organization.
PAGE  48 2020 ANNUAL REPORT
a. Board of Directors
The Board of Directors bears the primary responsibility of creating and enhancing the long term 
shareholder value of BPI AMTC and ensuring that this objective is achieved in all its business activities. 
It is responsible for making statutorily identified decisions and for conducting oversight of the business 
and affairs of BPI AMTC and its management.
It must ensure BPI AMTC’s ability to satisfy the needs of its customers, sustain its leadership and 
competitiveness, and uphold its reputation in order to maintain BPI AMTC’s long term success and 
viability as a business entity. Its mandate consists of setting the strategic business directions of 
BPI AMTC, appointing its senior executive officers, confirming its organizational structure, approving 
all major strategies and policies, overseeing all major risk-taking activities, monitoring the financial 
results, measuring and rewarding the performance of Management, and generating a reasonable 
investment return to shareholders. It shall also provide an independent check on Management.
It is the Board of Directors’ responsibility to foster the long-term success of the Company, and to 
sustain its competitiveness and profitability in a manner consistent with its corporate objectives and 
the best interests of its stockholders and other stakeholders.
The Board of Directors formulate the Company’s vision, mission, strategic objectives, policies and 
procedures that shall guide its activities, including the means to effectively monitor Management’s 
performance.
The corporate powers of BPI AMTC shall be exercised, its business conducted, and all its resources 
controlled through its Board of Directors. The powers of the Board of Directors as conferred by law are 
original and cannot be revoked by the stockholders. The Directors hold their office charged with the 
duty to exercise sound and objective judgment for the best interest of BPI AMTC.
Please see Appendix A for the biographies of our Board of Directors.
2020 ANNUAL REPORT PAGE  49
b. Chairman
In adherence to Sections 131-Q, 132-Q and 118-T of MORNBFI, the Board of Directors of BPI AMTC 
is headed by a competent and qualified Chairman.
The  Chairman  is  currently  an  Independent  Director.  The  Board  does  not  encourage 
CEO  duality.  The  Chairman,  who  has  not  served  as  Chief  Executive  Officer  (“CEO”) 
of BPI AMTC within the past three years, is separately appointed from the President and 
CEO (Sections 131-Q, 132-Q and 118-T of MORNBFI).  The Chairman and the President and CEO 
positions are currently held by two individuals who are not related to each other and have 
defined roles and responsibilities that are separate and distinct, as set in the Amended By-Laws 
and Corporate Governance Manual of BPI AMTC.
Under the leadership of the Chairman, the Board of Directors creates the framework within 
which  the  senior  management  team  of  BPI  AMTC,  headed  by  our  President,  steers  the 
business. As stated in the BPI AMTC Corporate Governance Manual, the Chairman guides the 
Board of Directors in its decision-making process and ensures that the Board of Directors 
operates effectively as a team. The Chairman also forges a very positive and constructive working 
relationship between the Board of Directors and Management. With the Chairman at the helm, 
the Board of Directors sets the Company’s strategy and risk appetite and approves capital and 
operating plans presented by Management for sustainable achievement of strategic objectives.
c. President and Chief Executive Officer
The President reports directly to, and is accountable to, the Board of Directors for the performance 
of the Company. As defined in the Corporate Governance Manual, the President is in charge of 
the over-all management of the business and affairs of BPI AMTC governed by the strategic 
direction and risk appetite approved by the Board of Directors. The President is accountable 
to the Board of Directors in championing the desired conduct and behavior, implementing 
strategies, and in promoting the long-term interest of BPI AMTC.
d. Board Charter
The charter of the Board of Directors articulates and sets forth with clarity the governance and 
oversight responsibilities exercised by the Directors and their roles and functions in BPI AMTC 
together with provisions on Board composition, Board committees and Board governance 
subject to the provisions of BPI AMTC’s Articles of Incorporation, By-Laws and applicable laws. 
The charter is not intended to limit, enlarge or change in a way the responsibilities of the Board 
as determined by such Articles of Incorporation, By-Laws and applicable laws.
PAGE  50 2020 ANNUAL REPORT
e. Composition and Qualifications
Board membership was reinvigorated in 2020 with the election of a new Non-Executive Director, 
Ms. Maria Theresa M. Javier, replacing Ms. Mercedita S. Nolledo. The members of the Board are 
all familiar with Philippine laws, rules and regulations, and best practices on trust business 
and uphold ethical and good governance standards. Members are all professionals with various 
expertise and experience in fields relevant to trust business, banking, finance, economics, and 
risk management. 
The composition of the Board of nine (9) Directors is deemed appropriate given the complexity 
of operations of the Company and the significant time demands placed in the Directors. 
The Board of Directors is now composed of four (4) Independent Directors, four (4) Non-Executive 
Directors and one (1) Executive Director who is the President and Chief Executive Officer of the 
Company. Non-Executive Directors, which include Independent Directors, comprise 89% of the 
Board, more than the requirement of the BSP of at least majority of the Board. Independent 
Directors comprise 44% of the Board of Directors, thus exceeding the requirement of the SEC 
and the BSP of at least 1/3 of the Board. This provides independent and objective judgment 
on significant corporate matters and ensures that key issues and strategies are objectively 
reviewed, constructively challenged, and thoroughly and rigorously examined. Independent 
Directors chair three (3) Board committees, namely the Risk Management Committee, Audit 
Committee, and Corporate Governance Committee.
2020 ANNUAL REPORT PAGE  51
Our Board of Directors enjoys the trust and respect of the local and international business 
community. They are established professionals who provide perspective, objectivity, practical 
wisdom, and sound judgment in their oversight, recommendations and evaluation of BPI 
AMTC’s trust and other fiduciary business as well as its investment management activities.
The annex to this annual report contains the comprehensive profiles of the Board of Directors 
which disclose, among other information, the age, qualifications, date of election, relevant 
experience and directorships both in the BPI Group as well as in other companies, listed or 
otherwise. 
All directors of BPI AMTC comply with all fit and proper qualifications and requirements of 
the BSP and SEC and remain qualified throughout the one-year term. This includes required 
working knowledge, experience or expertise, and competence relevant to the industry.
*Type of Director: Executive (“ED”), Non-Executive (“NED”), Independent (“ID”)
PAGE  52 2020 ANNUAL REPORT
f. Independence
A material relationship with the Company is a relationship that is reasonably expected to 
interfere with the exercise of a Director’s judgment and independence from the Management. 
The  Company    ensures  that  a  majority  of  qualified  non-executive  members  are  elected, 
to promote the independence of the Board from the views of Management. Non-executive 
members of the Board of Directors refer to those who are not part of the day-to-day management 
of trust operations and performs duties on various key committees.
BPI AMTC likewise meets both the minimum BSP regulatory and the SEC Corporate  Governance 
Code requirements for the number of Independent Directors in its Board, who must make up at 
least one-third and not less than two. 
The  Company  also  ensures  compliance  with  the  qualifications  and  requirements  for 
Independent Directors as defined in the MORNBFI. In this regard, the Company submits the 
required certifications of its Independent Directors annually to the BSP for confirmation of the 
election  or  appointment.
2020 ANNUAL REPORT PAGE  53
g. Diversity
Our leadership model ensures an appropriate balance of power, accountability, and independence 
in decision making. Diversity in terms of gender, age, cultural background, education, professional 
experience, engagement in sustainability and skills, knowledge, length of service, and other 
regulatory requirements is duly considered in the design and selection of the Board’s composition.
h. Security Ownership of Directors and Officers
Public trust in a company largely depends on the existence of an accurate disclosure regime that 
provides transparency in the beneficial ownership and control structures of the company. 
BPI AMTC understands that disclosure of such information is important in detecting and preventing 
tax evasion, corruption, money laundering, terrorist financing and other unlawful activities and 
guards against conflicts of interest in companies, which may have concentrated ownership and 
where there may be controlling beneficial owners with large voting blocks. 
None of the members of BPI AMTC’s Board of Directors and Management owns 2.0% or more of 
the outstanding capital stock of the Company.
PAGE  54 2020 ANNUAL REPORT
As of December 31, 2020, the following are known to BPI AMTC to be directly the record and/or 
beneficial owners of BPI AMTC voting common shares:
i. Duties and Responsibilities
The Board of Directors is likewise reponsible for overseeing reasonable and sustainable returns 
on shareholder capital by, among others, reviewing and approving the Company’s mission, 
vision, strategies and objectives; appointing senior executives and confirming organizational 
structures; approving enterprise-wide policies and procedures; monitoring business and financial 
performance; overseeing risk management framework and risk appetite, and fostering regulatory 
compliance.
2020 ANNUAL REPORT PAGE  55
j. Selection
Following BPI AMTC’s  Amended  By-Laws,  Manual on Corporate  Governance,  Board and  
Committee Charters, rules provided by the regulators (SEC and BSP) as well as the Corporation 
Code, all written nominations for Directors and Management are submitted to BPI Nomination 
Committee  (“NomCom”)  and  BPI  Personnel  and  Compensation  Committee  (“PerCom”), 
respectively. 
BPI AMTC’s Corporate Governance Committee assists in overseeing the nomination process for 
members of the Board of Directors, for Management and for positions appointed by the Board of 
Directors.
To  the  extent  applicable,  the  Directors  are  selected  from  a  broad  pool  of  qualified 
candidates. A sufficient number of qualified non-executive members are elected to promote the 
independence  of  the  Board  of  Directors  from  the  views  of  Management.
The election of Directors and the election or appointment of key officers (President/CEO, Treasurer, 
Head of Compliance, Risk Management and Internal Audit, Senior Vice President) of BPI AMTC, 
which includes the Chairman of the Board, must also be confirmed by the BSP.  Directors and 
elected or appointed key officers must submit required certifications and other documentary 
proof of qualifications for the confirmation of their election or appointment.
The  nomination  and  election  processes  and  their  effectiveness  are  reviewed  annually 
by  BPI  Nomination  Committee  and  BPI  Personnel  and  Compensation  Committee.
k. Term of Directors
Directors are to hold office for a term of one year immediately upon their election and until the 
next election when their successor/s shall have been elected and qualified in accordance with 
BPI AMTC’s By-Laws at the next annual stockholders meeting.
PAGE  56 2020 ANNUAL REPORT
2020 ANNUAL REPORT PAGE  57
l. Policy on Directorships
With a rigorous nomination process, close monitoring and reporting of Board and Committee 
meeting attendance, an annual performance evaluation which includes affirmative determination 
of time commitments and an annual review of Board Committee chairmanships and memberships, 
adequate safeguards against over boarding or over commitment are in place. Directors must 
notify the Board of their intention to accept a directorship in another company. In this  respect, 
the Board policy on directorships currently sets twenty-five (25) directorships as an acceptable 
upper limit for board service.
BPI AMTC Directors are bound by a Director’s Code of Conduct to take into account their individual 
circumstances and the nature, scale and complexity of BPI AMTC’s activities in showing full 
commitment to BPI AMTC – devoting the time, schedule and attention necessary to its business 
interests, to properly and effectively perform their duties and responsibilities and to avoid conflicts 
of interest – and affirm in writing annually.
A lower limit in the number of directorships would reduce the pool of interested and qualified 
director candidates and increase difficulty in finding and retaining the most effective Directors. 
BPI AMTC also benefits greatly from stewardship of experienced Directors who serve on other 
boards and provide guidance and independent perspective on multi-faceted issues, and complex, 
strategic concerns in asset management.
BPI AMTC also applies a limit of five (5) on directorships of Non-Executive Directors and Independent 
Directors in publicly-listed companies and within conglomerates (Section 132-Q of MORNBFI). 
Application of the policy of directorships shall not impinge on or violate a shareholder’s ownership 
rights and legal right to vote and be voted upon as Directors.
BPI AMTC also complies with the relevant provisions of the MORNBFI on interlocking directorships. 
The Board of Directors regularly reviews interlocking board memberships to determine whether 
any of these create real or possible conflicts of interest or impair the ability of the involved Directors 
to exercise independent judgment.
PAGE  58 2020 ANNUAL REPORT
m. Induction and Director Education
The Directors acquire appropriate skills upon appointment, and thereafter remain abreast of relevant 
new laws, regulations, and changing commercial risks through in-house training and external 
courses.
In 2020, all Directors attended and completed the following courses as part of their continuing 
training:
•  Corporate Governance Training, Risk Management and Sustainability Summit  conducted 
by Institute of Corporate Directors on  November 10, 2020.
•  Executive Session on Anti-Money Laundering and Financial Crime Compliance conducted 
by SGV-EY on September 30, 2020.
Directors are briefed on BPI AMTC’s background, organizational structure, and in compliance with 
Section 132-Q of MORNBFI, the general and specific duties and responsibilities of the Board of 
Directors. They also receive briefings on relevant policies and rules governing their roles as Directors. 
They are given an overview of the industry, regulatory environment, business of trust, strategic plans 
of the Company, its governance framework, i.e., Manual on Corporate Governance, Code of Business 
Conduct and Ethics, Board operations (schedules, procedures and processes), including support 
from the Corporate Secretary and Management.
Continuing education of Directors includes internal meetings with senior executives and operational 
or functional heads, dedicated briefings on specific areas of responsibility within the business and 
special presentations on current issues or regulatory initiatives as well as regulatory updates and 
developments during Board and Committee meetings with respect to Data Privacy, Cyber Risk and 
Cyber Security, the Anti-Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing Prevention Program, Foreign 
Account Tax Compliance Act, Securities Regulations Code, SEC memorandum circulars, and Bangko 
Sentral ng Pilipinas, among others.
Other internal courses, also available to Management, include seminars and online courses on 
anti-money laundering, business continuity management, conflict of interest, risk management 
overview, and information security awareness. Directors also regularly attend governance fora, 
conferences,  and  summits.
2020 ANNUAL REPORT PAGE  59
n. Remuneration
The Board of Directors determines a level of remuneration and/or benefits for Directors that shall 
be sufficient for their services and compensate them for attendance at meetings of the Board 
and Board Committees, and performance of numerous responsibilities and undertaking certain 
risks as a Director. The compensation which may be in various forms is fixed by way of a resolution 
of the Board of Directors.
The oversight of the remuneration and incentives policy of officers and Directors of BPI AMTC is 
being performed by the BPI PerCom and BPI NomCom, respectively. 
Board members receive per diems for each occasion of attendance at meetings of the Board or of 
a Board Committee. All fixed or variable remuneration paid to Directors may be given as approved 
by stockholders during the Annual Stockholders’ Meeting, upon recommendation of the PerCom. 
Other  than  the  usual  per  diem  arrangement  for  Board  and  Committee  meetings  and  the 
aforementioned compensation of Directors, there is no other standard arrangement as regards 
compensation of Directors, directly or indirectly, for any other service provided by the Directors for 
the last completed fiscal year. Directors with executive responsibilities within the BPI group are 
compensated as full-time officers of the Company, not as Non-Executive Directors.
PAGE  60 2020 ANNUAL REPORT
No  Director  participates  in  discussions  of  the  remuneration  scheme  for  himself  or  herself. 
The remuneration policy is reviewed annually to ensure that it remains competitive and consistent 
with the Company’s high-performance culture, objectives, and long-term outlook, risk assessment and 
strategies. This relationship between remuneration and performance, which aligns remuneration of the 
Board of Directors with the long-term interests of the Company, is in adherence to Recommendation 
2.4 of the SEC Corporate Governance Code for Publicly-Listed Companies.
In 2020, BPI AMTC’s Board of Directors, as a whole, received a total of Php 4.68 million as fees and 
other compensation for the services they rendered.
Remuneration for our most senior officers, as reflected in the ratio between fixed and variable 
components of their total compensation, changes according to performance, rank and function. 
BPI AMTC also ensures that Management remuneration and incentives reflect prudent risk-taking 
and effective control.
These principles of paying competitively and paying for performance applies equally to our Board 
and senior officers as it does to the rest of the Company’s employees and staff. Management and staff 
remuneration must reflect the interests of the shareholders and the Company, and is structured to 
encourage the long-term commitment of the employee as well as long-term outlook and plans of the 
Company. Factors considered include revenues, volumes, earnings, earnings per share (EPS), Return 
on Equity (ROE), Return on Assets (ROA), capital strength, risk containment, corporate governance, 
customer satisfaction, adherence to corporate values, contributions both to operating unit and 
company-wide achievement. 
We are also committed to making adjustments to remuneration to reflect the challenge of attracting, 
retaining and competitively rewarding key staff with the ability, experience, skills, values and behaviors 
to deliver company goals.
2020 ANNUAL REPORT PAGE  61
Apart from the aforementioned key performance indicators, the Company ensures that 
Management  remuneration  and  incentives  reflect  prudent  risk-taking  and  effective 
control. Salary reviews (covering fixed and variable compensation) are done annually to 
ensure market competitiveness of the officer’s total remuneration. Other remuneration 
policies include:
•  All salary programs are subject to the approval of PerCom and the Board.
•  An annual merit increase may be granted upon Management discretion based on 
officer’s performance.
•  Upon Management’s discretion, a performance bonus may be given in a year, 
based on the performance and contribution of the individual in the attainment 
of the over-all Company goals. This is subject to the endorsement of PerCom and 
approval of the Board.
•  The  Board,  through  PerCom,  has  established  long-term  incentive  programs, 
the Executive Stock Option Plan (“ESOP”) and Executive Stock Purchase Plan 
(“ESPP”), which give officers the opportunity to buy shares of stock in BPI at a 
discounted  price.
o. Meetings and Attendance
The Board of Directors conducts business through meetings of the Board and its Committees for 
the effective discharge of its obligations. Regular Board meetings are convened monthly, held 
every third Wednesday of the month. Special meetings may be called for as needed.
Items placed on the agenda of each meeting of the Board of Directors are those that have the 
most fundamental importance and broad policy implications for BPI AMTC. Directors are free to 
suggest items for inclusion in the agenda, and are free to raise at any meeting of the Board of 
Directors subjects that are not on the agenda for that meeting. At the Chairman’s discretion, any 
agenda items may also be referred for discussion in the respective Committees.
The Board of Directors approved in its meeting held last October 21, 2020, the creation of the 
Executive Committee.
The Chairman presides over meetings of the Board. Board and Committee meetings are conducted 
consistent with BPI AMTC’s By-Laws.
When exigencies prevent a Director from physically attending a Board or Board Committee 
meeting, facilities for telephone conferencing are made available. In instances when a Director 
is unable to attend meetings even through teleconferencing due to prior commitments or 
unavoidable events, the said Director provides input to the Chairman so that his views can be 
known and considered.
PAGE  62 2020 ANNUAL REPORT
Minutes  of  Board  and  Committee  meetings  are  prepared  with  due  regard  to  legal 
requirements. Key points and decisions are summarized. The Board of Directors generally 
acts by consensus rather than on an adversarial basis, so that abstentions and rare 
instances of formal dissent are duly recorded. Further, members of the Board of Directors 
take the initiative to have high-level discussions with Management on its proposals. 
The Chairman of the Board likewise ensures that there is a fair and honest exchange of 
ideas and opinions by and between the Directors and Management in meetings of the 
Board of Directors.
Discussions during meetings of the Board of Directors consider open and independent 
views. When necessary, the Board holds executive sessions to discuss highly sensitive 
matters.
Board reference materials are made available to the Directors in advance of the scheduled 
meeting.  As  an  innovation  to  board  governance,  all  materials  for  Board  and  Board 
Committee meetings are uploaded through a secure system onto individual tablet devices 
specifically provided to the Directors to ensure immediate receipt and quick access. 
The Board of Directors appreciates the high level of commitment required of a Director. 
As evident in the annual board self-assessment, each of the Directors has sufficient 
time to devote to the conduct of his/her Board and Committee responsibilities and has 
contributed meaningfully to BPI AMTC.
Board Meetings in 2020 were held on the following dates:
2020 ANNUAL REPORT PAGE  63
PAGE  64 2020 ANNUAL REPORT
The COVID-19 pandemic saw the Company’s quick adoption of virtual meeting platforms 
and  investment  in  the  necessary  equipment,  video  and  web  conferencing  software, 
including provision of training for Directors and establishment of virtual meeting protocols 
for both the Board and Management. 
These alternative means of communication for Board and Board Committee meetings 
followed BSP and SEC guidance on the conduct of meetings held remotely by electronic 
means. Likewise, rules and procedures relating to presence of a quorum, notices, agenda 
setting, voting, conflicts of interest, when meetings can be called and held, continued to 
follow rules and procedures for meetings held in person. 
All Directors in attendance at the meetings held remotely by electronic means are able 
to hear, participate and communicate ‘live’ in the discussions and decisions made at the 
meetings.
2020 ANNUAL REPORT PAGE  65
The following table shows the attendance record of the directors of BPI AMTC for 2020:
*Board and Committee member until June 16, 2020
** Board and Committee member effective October 21, 2020
*** The Board of Directors approved the creation of ExCom in its meeting held last October 2020, subject   
to regulatory approvals.
**** Committee member effective June 17, 2020
PAGE  66 2020 ANNUAL REPORT
p. Quorum
As provided under BPI AMTC’s By-Laws, a majority of the members of the Board of Directors shall 
constitute a quorum for the conduct of a meeting of the Board of Directors. Any meeting for the 
transaction of corporate business, and every decision of a majority of the quorum duly assembled 
as a Board shall be valid as a corporate act, unless otherwise provided in the By-Laws.
q. Access to Information
The Board has separate and independent access to the Corporate Secretary, who serves as adviser 
to the Directors on their responsibilities and obligations and oversees the adequate flow of 
information to the Board prior to meetings. 
To provide Directors with all the information and assistance necessary to prepare for meetings or 
obtain clarification for any relevant matters, this access to the Corporate Secretary is unhampered, 
unlimited and direct. Directors may simply request such information by phone, email, written 
communication or in person, from the Corporate Secretary who in turn will give them all information 
and assistance they will need to prepare for the meeting or clarification of any relevant matters.
Management also ensures adequate flow of information to the Board of Directors. This information 
may include the background or explanatory information relating to matters to be brought before 
the Board, copies of disclosure statements and related documents, budgets, forecasts and monthly 
internal financial statements.
All Directors also have unrestricted access to company records and information in addition to 
receipt of regular detailed financial and operational reports from Management.
2020 ANNUAL REPORT PAGE  67
r. Role of the Corporate Secretary
The Corporate Secretary, who is a senior, strategic-level corporate officer is not a Director and a 
separate individual from the Chief Compliance Officer. She plays a leading role in the Company’s 
corporate governance, and as such, attends corporate governance training annually. The Corporate 
Secretary’s functions are as follows:
•  Serves as an adviser to the Directors on their responsibilities and obligations;
•  Keeps the minutes of meetings of stockholders, the Board, and all other committees in a 
book or books kept for that purpose, and shall furnish copies thereof to the Chairman, the 
President and other members of the Board as appropriate;
•  Keeps in safe custody the seal of BPI AMTC and affixes it to any instrument requiring the 
same;
•  Has charge of the stock certificate book and such other books and papers as the Board 
may direct;
•  Attends to the giving and serving of notices of Board and shareholder meetings;
•  Be fully informed and be part of the scheduling process of other activities of the Board;
•  Prepares an annual schedule of Board meetings, including the regular agenda, and puts 
the Board on notice of such agenda at every meeting;
•  Oversees the adequate flow of information to the Board prior to meetings. Materials for 
approval or information shall be given to the members of the Board in advance prior to 
the date of the meeting to give them chance to study and ask questions if necessary, even 
before the meeting itself; and 
•  Ensures the fulfilment of disclosure requirements to the SEC.
Our Corporate Secretary is suitably trained and experienced in legal and company secretarial 
practices and is professionally qualified for these responsibilities. The present Corporate 
Secretary possesses the legal skills of a chief legal officer whose training is complemented 
by business, organizational, human relations and administrative work skills. Our Corporate 
Secretary is also the Corporate Secretary of the BPI and various BPI subsidiaries and affiliates.
See Appendix A for the full biography of our Corporate Secretary.
PAGE  68 2020 ANNUAL REPORT
s. Performance Evaluation and Self-Assessment
Board of Directors
The  Board of      Directors  annually conducts a self-assessment  to ascerta in the alignment of  leadership  
fundamentals  and issues, validate the Board’s appreciation of its roles and responsibilities and confirm 
that the Board possesses the right mix of background and competencies.
The Board of Directors, under the guidance of the Corporate Governance Committee, thoroughly 
reviews its performance, measured on the basis of what it delivers and how it delivers, how it meets 
its responsibilities to its stakeholders, and how it addresses issues that impact the Board’s ability to 
effectively fulfil its fiduciary duties.
Using a widely-advocated standard evaluation method of self-assessment and feedback review, 
performance is assessed across four levels: the Board as a body, Board Committees, individual Directors, 
and President. Key evaluation criteria are built on the Board’s terms of reference and Committee 
charters, and framed around broad leadership fundamentals and best practices.
The Corporate Governance Committee processes and tabulates the results of the self-assessments 
and communicates them to the Board. Areas for improvement are discussed by the Board, in order to 
agree on remedial actions. The Corporate Governance Committee may also develop recommendations 
and action plans for the Board, whenever necessary and desirable.
2020 ANNUAL REPORT PAGE  69
PAGE  70 2020 ANNUAL REPORT
Senior Management
BPI AMTC’s Corporate Governance Committee oversees the performance evaluation process 
within BPI AMTC as performed by PerCom which includes the annual review and approval of 
corporate goals, strategic objectives and standards to Management and key officers of the 
company. Performance is generally measured on the performance of the officer, a business unit, 
or the Company as a whole or using a combination of all as the officer’s responsibilities may 
dictate. 
The performance management framework considers goals or actual results of a given period’s 
business objectives and core competencies. It also looks into the behavior, technical competencies 
and soft skills exhibited by the officer during the period under review, as well as fitness and 
propriety. The performance of control function heads for audit, risk management and compliance 
are also evaluated by the Audit Committee.
The  framework  also  follows  a  performance  management  cycle:  Goal  Setting,  Performance 
Monitoring, Performance Appraisal, Performance Reinforcement and Performance Improvement.
The Board of Directors conducted its 2020 annual performance evaluation early in 2021. Directors  
assessed that the Board of Directors had performed its duties and responsibilities effectively for 
the past year and that there were no material issues with respect to its membership, governance 
and operations.
t. Succession Planning and Talent Management
The Board of Directors is committed to a process of orderly succession. It acknowledges that a 
succession plan for the Board and for its leadership positions is in the best interest of BPI AMTC and 
its stakeholders who value the continuity in leadership. Leadership changes are not only carefully 
considered and planned, but are also part of a comprehensive risk management strategy that is 
guided by the clear and transparent governance policies, processes and laws.
2020 ANNUAL REPORT PAGE  71
Board Succession
In this regard, composition of the BPI AMTC Board of Directors is regularly refreshed in a continuing 
cycle. BPI AMTC’s Corporate Governance Committee oversees the general Board succession plan 
framework prepared by the BPI NomCom to ensure that: (1) appropriate governance processes 
are in place and ongoing, for identifying, assessing and monitoring future needs of the Board; 
(2) there is continuity and transfer of knowledge in the Board so that it may effectively fulfil its 
roles and responsibilities to the Company; and (3) the Board is taking a prudent and structured 
approach to managing succession risk.
The NomCom facilitates the annual review and assessment of the structure, size and composition 
of the Board and Board-level Committees. The Committees take into consideration the current 
strategy and business of the Company, comparative benchmark and peer group analysis. They 
also determine if there is a reason to believe that one or more Director slots shall become vacant 
in the following term of the Board of Directors or within the next 12 months after the current 
year’s Annual Stockholders’ Meeting. In addition, the NomCom considers the long-term strategic 
goals and directions as well as requirements of the Company, BPI and other companies in the 
BPI Group, moving forward. 
BPI AMTC  Corporate  Governance Committee may also review  the Board’s  forecasted membership 
requirements over the next three to five years, based on factors such as directorship limits for 
publicly listed companies and registered issuers, retirement policy for Directors, and term limits 
for independent Directors. The Board, through NomCom, also considers candidate directors with 
respect to their skills, engagement and past or present work or board experience. 
Senior Management Succession
BPI AMTC’s  Corporate  Governance  Committee acknowledges the BPI Board’s oversight function 
and authority through BPI Personnel and Compensation Committee in the implementation 
of the BPI group-wide remuneration and requisite Human Resources policies and program. 
The BPI AMTC’s Corporate Governance Committee oversees the succession planning done by 
the PerCom which involves management of talent pipeline and assembly of required personnel 
capable of navigating such changes. 
The PerCom reviews BPI AMTC’s talent development process for proper management. Senior 
Management provides a report to this Committee on the results of its talent and performance 
review process for key management positions and other high-potential individuals. Aside from 
ensuring that there is a sufficient pool of qualified internal candidates to fill senior leadership 
positions, this review process identifies opportunities, performance gaps and proactive measures 
in the Company’s executive succession planning. 
The Committee may also review the Senior Management’s forecasted requirements over the 
next three to five years, based on factors such as retirement policy, required skills and experience. 
The Committee also considers candidates with respect to their qualifications, skills, engagement 
and past or present work or experience. As part of the same executive planning process, the 
Committee as a whole or a part thereof, in consultation with the Board of Directors and the 
President, evaluates and nominates potential successors to the President.
PAGE  72 2020 ANNUAL REPORT
Retirement Policy
The best interests of BPI AMTC are served by retention of Directors that make very meaningful 
contributions to the Board of Directors and the organization, regardless of age. It is the 
company’s strong view that with age often comes unmatched wisdom and experience, expert 
business judgment, invaluable industry and community relations and authority, and deeply 
ingrained appreciation of the principles of corporate governance.
BPIA  MTCb  elieves that imposing uniform and fixed limits onD  irector tenure is counter-productive 
as it may force the arbitrary retirement of valuable Directors.
Nevertheless, BPI AMTC has set a retirement age for Directors at 80 years old. In specific 
cases, the Board, in mutual agreement with the Director, may opt to postpose said Director’s 
retirement depending on the following conditions:
i.  Consistent  and  robust  application  of  more  dynamic  and  constructive  corporate 
governance  practices  such  as  the  annual  Board’s  performance  evaluation,  regular 
succession planning, an exhaustive nomination process, and annual Fit and Proper 
assessment  for  more  Board  refreshment.
ii. The Board shall also evaluate all facts and circumstances when considering a Director’s 
tenure in accordance with good governance practices, including (without limitation) to 
accommodate the transition of a new CEO or new Directors or to provide continuity to 
further strategic objectives or address external factors affecting BPI AMTC.
Term limits of Independent Directors are set at a maximum cumulative term of nine (9) years 
as prescribed in Section 131-Q of MORNBFI and SEC Memorandum Circular No. 9 Series of 2011 
and No. 4, Series of 2017. 
Retirement of Management is done with the requisite succession planning and in accordance 
with BPI AMTC’s policies and implementing guidelines of its retirement plan for all employees, 
BPI AMTC’s By-Laws, Labor Code and the Revised Corporation Code of the Philippines. Currently, 
the retirement age for employees of BPI AMTC is set at 60 years of age.
2020 ANNUAL REPORT PAGE  73
u. Internal Audit and Control
The BPI Internal Audit Division is an independent body that supports the BPI AMTC Audit 
Committee in fulfilling its oversight responsibilities by providing an objective assessment 
on the adequacy and effectiveness of the Company’s risk management, internal controls, 
and governance processes as designed and established by Management. Internal Audit also 
ensures that the Company’s operating and business units adhere to internal processes and 
procedures and to regulatory and legal requirements. The assessment of controls, systems, 
and processes of the Company is covered by the annual audit work plan, which is developed 
using the audit risk assessment model reviewed and approved by the Board through the 
BPI AMTC Audit Committee. 
Internal Audit reports directly to the Board through the BPI AMTC Audit Committee and 
collaborates with other assurance providers such as the risk management office, compliance 
office and external auditors. Through this system of comprehensive monitoring and review of 
risks and compliance in the institution, the Board ensures that the Company and all business 
units proactively manage the risk and compliance exposures impacting the business.
Internal Audit Charter
The internal audit function as empowered by the Internal Audit Charter includes free 
access to all records, properties, and personnel. In this respect, the Audit Committee 
reviews the internal audit function, including its independence and the authority of its 
reporting relationships. The Internal Audit Division continuously improves the capabilities 
of its auditors through continuous education on specialized areas of knowledge, auditing 
techniques, regulations, and trust products and services. The Internal Audit Charter is 
periodically reviewed and presented to the Audit Committee for approval.
The  BPI  AMTC  Audit  Committee  ensures  that  the  Internal  Audit  Division  undergoes 
an external quality assessment review to confirm that audit activities conform to the 
International Standards for the Professional Practice of Internal Auditing and Code of Ethics. 
The program includes periodic internal and external quality assessments and ongoing 
monitoring of the performance of the internal audit activity.  Internal assessments are 
conducted annually, while external quality assessments are conducted at least once every 
five years by a qualified independent validator. Internal Audit maintained its “generally 
conforms” ratings on both internal and external quality assessments, which indicate that 
its activities have continuously conformed to professional standards, code of ethics, and 
other internal standards.
PAGE  74 2020 ANNUAL REPORT
Chief Audit Executive
The Internal Audit Division is headed by a Chief Audit Executive (“CAE”) who is appointed 
by the Board of Directors of BPI. The CAE reports functionally to the Board through the 
Audit Committee and is the designated auditor for BPI and its subsidiaries. The CAE has 
unrestricted access to all functions, records, property, and personnel. Additionally, the BPI 
AMTC Audit Committee ensures that the CAE has access to the Board, on a confidential 
basis, and that the Internal Audit Division is independent of company Management, both 
by intent and actual practice.  
The CAE also meets with non-executive Board members annually, together with heads 
of compliance and risk management, and external auditor, other than in meetings of the 
audit, risk management, corporate governance, and related party transaction Committees, 
in the absence of Management.
Independent External Auditor
The BPI AMTC Audit Committee recommends to the Board of Directors the appointment 
of a BSP/SEC-accredited external auditor for the purpose of preparing or issuing an audit 
report or other related work. The appointment, re-appointment, and removal of the 
Company’s external auditor are subject to the approval and endorsement of the BPI AMTC 
Audit Committee, for subsequent confirmation and approval of the Board and, finally, the 
stockholders. The selection and engagement of the external auditor is done pursuant to 
the General Requirements of BSP Circular No. 1040, Revised Framework on the Selection 
of External Auditors dated May 20, 2019. 
The  BPI  AMTC  Audit  Committee  assesses  the  external  auditor’s  effectiveness,  independence, 
and objectivity, ensuring that key partners and quality control partners of the audit firm 
are rotated in accordance with the relevant provisions of the Code of Ethics for Professional 
Accountants in the Philippines as adopted by the Philippine Board of Accountancy. 
The Committee also reviews the external auditor’s annual plan, scope of work, and, in 
consultation with Management, approves the external auditor’s term of engagement 
and audit fees. The Committee also oversees the resolution of disagreements between 
Management and the external auditors in the event that these arise.
2020 ANNUAL REPORT PAGE  75
The BPI AMTC Audit Committee ensures suitability and effectiveness of the external 
auditor  through  the  following:
•  No external auditor can be engaged by the Company if he has any direct or 
material indirect financial interest in the Company, or if his independence 
is  considered  impaired  under  circumstances  specified  in  the  Code 
of  Professional  Ethics  for  Certified  Public  Accountants.  In  the  case  of 
partnership, this limitation shall apply to the partners, associates, and the 
auditor-in-charge  of  the  engagement.
•  The external auditor and the members of the audit team do not have/shall 
not have outstanding loans or any credit accommodation with BPI AMTC at 
the time of signing the engagement and during the engagement.
•  The external auditor and the members of the audit team adhere to the 
highest  standards  of  professional  conduct,  integrity,  and  objectivity.
The external auditor reviews and discusses the financial statements and reports, including 
results of operations, with the Audit Committee, Management and the Internal Auditor, 
and endorses the same to the Board for approval. 
v. Compliance
The Company views compliance to mean not only adherence to laws, regulations, and 
standards but, more importantly, the consistent conduct of the affairs of the Company 
within a culture of high integrity, conforming to ethical business practice, abiding by 
the principles of fair dealing, accountability, and transparency. This ensures that in all 
its areas of activity, the Company and its stakeholders are protected from business risks 
as comprehensively as possible. The Company values its reputation most and the fact 
that it is trusted by its shareholders, clients, employees, partners, and members of the 
communities it serves.
As the Company’s second line of defense, the compliance function has also evolved 
in recent years to adapt to the shift towards more technology-heavy strategies, as it 
seeks  to  deliver  the  compliance  risk  management  outcomes  required  in  an  era  of 
digital transformation. While remaining a key advisory function, it has embraced a 
more forward-thinking, risk-based, and stress-tested approach to continuously monitor, 
evaluate, and improve its ability to ensure compliance in a trust business landscape that 
is subject to disruption and rapid change.
PAGE  76 2020 ANNUAL REPORT
Oversight of the management of the Company’s business risk and implementation of its 
compliance function is the responsibility of the Board, through the Corporate Governance 
Committee and Audit Committee. At the Management level, the compliance function is 
carried out by the Compliance Department, led by the Chief Compliance Officer (“CCO”). 
Designated by the Chairman of the Board, the CCO is not a member of the Board and has 
the rank of at least a Vice President. The CCO’s qualifications are subject to the applicable 
provisions  of  the  Manual  of  Regulations  for  Non-Banks  and  Financial  Institutions, 
particularly considering Fit and Proper criteria such as integrity or probity, competence, 
education, diligence, and experience and training. The CCO annually attends training on 
corporate governance.
The Compliance Department oversees the implementation of the Company’s enterprise-
wide compliance programs. These programs take into account the size and complexity 
of the Company, the relevant rules and regulations that affect its operations, and the 
business risks that may arise due to non-compliance. 
By using regulatory and self-assessment compliance matrices, compliance measures are 
formulated to mitigate identified business risks and tested to ensure effectiveness.
The Compliance Office routinely provides advice to individual business units on applicable 
laws, directives, standards, and regulations as well as provides compliance support to the 
business units. It jointly develops guidance on operations and business processes in order 
to guard against potential compliance risk, and reviews and assists in interpretations of 
laws, implementing rules and regulations, standards and guidelines of the BSP, SEC, 
Anti- Money Laundering Council (“AMLC”), Insurance Commission (“IC”), National Privacy 
Commission (“NPC”), and other regulatory bodies for compliance, communicating them 
and verifying adherence.
The Compliance Department also helps achieve adherence to the Company’s internal 
confidentiality regulations (“Chinese Walls”); provides regular training and education 
for employees on the applicable regulations, rules, and internal standards; and leads the 
Company in compliance risk assessment, rules-based testing and reporting.
The Compliance Department is currently organized to cover Regulatory Compliance, 
Investment Compliance, Corporate Governance, Anti- Money Laundering Compliance, 
FATCA Compliance and the Data Privacy Office. Considering the rapid developments in the 
regulatory sphere, as well as the growing complexity of the Company’s products, services, 
and transactions, the Compliance Department evolves in its coverage of compliance 
practice areas to anticipate and meet future challenges. Enhancement of our compliance 
function’s scope and domain is redefined for new and emerging sources of compliance 
risk.
The  Compliance  Department  conducts  independent  compliance  testing  on  various 
regulations. Results of compliance testing are reported regularly to the Compliance and Risk 
Committee, Audit Committee and Board. Overall enforcement is through self-regulation 
within  the  business  units,  and  independent  testing  and  reviews  conducted  by  the 
Compliance Office and Internal Audit.
2020 ANNUAL REPORT PAGE  77
Results of these reviews are elevated to the Board’s Audit Committee and, with respect to 
governance issues, the Corporate Governance Committee.
The Compliance Department promotes adherence and awareness to laws, rules, and 
regulations by electronically posting information and documents in a compliance database 
that is accessible to all employees. Regular meetings are conducted by the Compliance 
Department with the business units to discuss the impact of new regulations, decide 
on the required compliance measures, and amend compliance matrices as necessary. 
Through continued liaison and dialogue with regulators, the Compliance Department 
ensures the prompt dissemination of new regulations and other developments affecting 
trust operations.
The Compliance Department covers adherence to all relevant and applicable Philippine 
trust laws and regulations. They are in charge of regulatory compliance management 
with respect to the BSP’s institutional compliance rating system, which comprehensively 
evaluates the effectiveness of a company’s compliance system in mitigating business risk. 
This also covers the compliance aspect of the Company’s corporate governance framework 
and requirements externally, with respect to the laws relevant and applicable to BPI AMTC 
as a trust corporation and the rules and regulations of the BSP, SEC, and internally, with 
respect to BPI AMTC’s Articles of Incorporation, Amended By-Laws, Manual on Corporate 
Governance, Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, and all corporate governance-related 
policies such as those on conflict of interest standards, insider trading, whistleblower, 
related party transactions and anti- bribery and anti-corruption.
The Compliance Department, through the Investment Compliance team, is also involved 
in the comprehensive investment restriction monitoring and administration. The team 
conducts compliance checks across all the stages of trade activities related to the company 
clients and trading partners and monitors positions against investment parameters and 
restrictions. In response to the increasingly complex regulations and client demands 
in terms of transparency and risk tolerance, the Compliance Department continues to 
work in order to implement best practices through the development and maintenance of 
investment compliance policies, guidelines and procedures.
Partnership-building with the regulators, external auditor, and industry organizations 
(Trust Officers Association of the Philippines, Association of Bank Compliance Officers 
and the Bankers Institute of the Philippines) is also essential in regulatory compliance 
management.
PAGE  78 2020 ANNUAL REPORT
Republic Act No. 10173, known as the Data Privacy Act of 2012, requires government and 
private sector entities to apply the principles of Transparency, Legitimate Purpose, and 
Proportionality in its processing of personal data so that the data is (1) only used in relevant 
and specifically stated ways, (2) not stored for longer than necessary, (3) kept safe and 
secure, (4) used only within the confines of the law, and (5) stored following people’s data 
protection rights. Cybersecurity and data privacy and protection have become corporate 
governance and risk management concerns. BPI AMTC has established a comprehensive 
Data Privacy Program utilizing a combination of policies, organizational structure, access 
controls, and technologies designed for risk reduction. 
The Company has a Data Privacy Office, headed by a Board-appointed Data Protection 
Officer    (DPO), a senior management officer. The key focus of the DPO is to oversee data 
privacy compliance and manage data protection risks for the organization, consistent with 
the Data Privacy Act rules and regulations, issuances by the NPC, and other applicable 
laws. To promote transparency and to comply in part with the Data Privacy Act, BPI AMTC 
has published online the Data Privacy Statement that discloses how BPI AMTC collects, 
protects, uses, and shares personal data across its operations.
The Company’s Data Privacy Statement may be read at www.bpiassetmanagement.com.
2020 ANNUAL REPORT PAGE  79
VII. COMPANY POLICIES  
VII. AND STANDARDS
a. Code of Business Conduct and Ethics
BPI AMTC has a Code of Business Conduct and Ethics (the “Code”) which 
provides as guide to employees of the Company in meeting ethical duties and 
responsibilities in compliance with the implemented rules and regulations 
of the industry. The codes serve as guidance so that the right decisions are 
made in the performance of their respective roles and responsibilities across 
various functions in the Company.
The Code also includes guidance on care for the environment, labor rights, 
customer service and protection, commitment to human rights, the right 
to privacy, anti-bribery and anti-corruption. The Code is a declaration of 
principles and, more so, a vital part of BPI AMTC’s risk management strategy. 
Through  the  Code,  BPI  AMTC  desires  to:  (1)  build  a  culture  of  integrity, 
accountability, and ethical behavior that encourages employees to abide 
by the Code and strive to protect the Company’s reputation; (2) establish a 
system for detection and reporting of known or suspected ethical wrongdoing 
or violations of the Code, and; (3) emphasize BPI AMTC’s commitment to 
compliance with regulatory guidelines, rules, and laws.
The Code is applicable to and mandatory for all employees at all levels of 
BPI AMTC. All employees are required to follow both the spirit and the letter 
of the Code, its policies, and procedures. Annually, all BPI AMTC employees 
are required to read, understand, acknowledge and comply with the Code, as 
well as the Manual of Corporate Governance. All others who work for, or on 
behalf of BPI AMTC, are also required to demonstrate the highest standards of 
professional business conduct. In general, this includes consultants, agents, 
contract or temporary workers, and business partners. 
Among  others,  BPI  AMTC’s  codes  of  conduct  and  policies  on  conflict  of 
interest, insider trading, whistleblower, related party transactions, and other 
guidelines are embodied in the Manual on Corporate Governance. BPI AMTC 
policies are also regularly announced via internal e-mail facility to ensure 
constant top-of-mind awareness of employees of the need to comply with 
these policies. Employees are provided copies of policies for annual affirmation 
and acknowledgement. Directors are also provided with hard copies as well 
as electronic copies of the Code for their annual affirmation.
PAGE  80 2020 ANNUAL REPORT
OUR CLIENTS
Values at Work: Customer Service, Teamwork, Concern for People
•  Building Client Relationships
•  Safeguarding Privacy and Security of Client Information
•  Promoting and Strengthening Consumer Protection
•  Managing of Investment Processes and Disclosures
OUR EMPLOYEES
Values at Work: Integrity, Excellence, Teamwork, Loyalty
•  Adhering to Company Rules and Workplace Policies
•  Creating Dignity and Unity in the Workplace
•  Contributing to Workplace Health & Safety
•  Following Limits of Authority
•  Avoiding Conflicts of Interest
•  Protecting Assets, Facilities and Properties of BPI AMTC and Others
•  Recognizing Privacy of Employee Information
OUR SHAREHOLDERS
Values at Work: Integrity, Excellence, Teamwork, Loyalty
•  Upholding BPI AMTC’s Reputation, Service Quality and Trust
•  Transparency, Liaison and Coordination with Regulators
•  Maintaining Company Records and Reporting Requirements
•  Supporting Investors and the Market
•  Encouraging and Assisting Whistleblowing
•  Handling Related Party Transactions
OUR COUNTRY
Values at Work: Integrity, Excellence, Teamwork, Concern for People
•  Compliance  with  KYC,  Anti-Money  Laundering  and  FATCA 
Regulations
•  Preventing Insider Trading
•  Enforcing Anti-Corruption and Anti-Bribery
•  Dealing with Suppliers and Business Partners
•  Caring for Sustainability and Communities
2020 ANNUAL REPORT PAGE  81
b. Conflict of Interest
The personal interest of Directors and employees of BPI AMTC should never prevail over 
the interest of the institution, its clients or business partners. They are required to be 
loyal to the organization so much so that they may not directly or indirectly derive any 
personal profit or advantage by reason of their position in the Company. BPI AMTC has in 
place standards on conflict of interest that elevate the interest of the Company above that 
of the personal interests of Directors, officers, and employees. These standards prohibit 
Directors and employees from using their position of authority or rank to directly or 
indirectly derive personal gain or advantage. 
Our standards on conflict of interest expect all Directors and employees to refrain from 
any conduct that could be viewed unfavorably by the Company’s clients, co-employees, 
competitors, suppliers, investors, regulators, or the public. The standards also require 
full cooperation and provision of complete and accurate information from employees 
during government, regulatory or internal enquiries, investigations, and audits. Directors 
are required to disclose any conflicts of interests such as cross-board memberships, 
cross-shareholdings with suppliers and other stakeholders, and related party issues. 
See Appendix A for the biographies of the members of the Board of Directors.
The standards also cover specific conflict-of-interest situations such as receipt of gifts 
from third parties, respect for trade secrets, use of non-public information, and use of 
company funds, assets, and information.
c. Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption
BPI AMTC has an Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption Policy that guides BPI AMTC, and its 
Directors, officers and employees in realizing their responsibilities and understanding 
the  consequences  of  bribery  and  corruption  in  workplace.  The  Company  puts  the 
highest premium on sound, responsible, and effective corporate governance and has 
zero tolerance for bribery, corruption or improper acts of any kind in fulfilling its role 
as a trusted institution providing trust and other fiduciary investments and investment 
management  services. 
Aligned with BPI AMTC’s commitment to act fairly and with integrity in all business 
dealings and relationships, the Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption Policy complements 
the  Company’s  financial  crime  policies  and  programs  such  as  the  MTPP  and 
Whistleblower Policy.
PAGE  82 2020 ANNUAL REPORT
d. Insider Trading
The Insider Trading Policy of BPI AMTC prohibits its covered persons or Directors, employees 
and other parties from participating in any trade of a security while in possession of material 
non-public information regarding said security for the client/s and for their own personal 
accounts. 
Covered  persons  are  strictly  prohibited  from  trading  during  periods  of  structured  and 
non-structured disclosure (trading blackout). This prohibition includes passing on material 
and non-public information relating to BPI AMTC or its clients to anybody who may buy or 
sell securities. A trading blackout prohibits trading once the covered person receives material 
information before a structured or unstructured disclosure. Trading can only be done after 
said disclosure.
Office bulletins are regularly issued by the Compliance Office before, during, and after trading 
blackout periods to ensure compliance with the Insider Trading Policy. 
The  Company  expects  every  Director,  officer,  and  employee,  including  related  covered 
persons, to comply with the Policy, and to use honesty and good judgment at all times when 
trading in the company’s securities.
Violation of the policy shall be subject to disciplinary action/s as stated in BPI HR’s Personnel 
Policies  on  Employee  Relations  and  as  may  be  determined  by  Management  or the 
Board of Directors of BPI AMTC which may include dismissal.
e. Whistleblowing
The Whistleblower Policy addresses the commitment of BPI AMTC to integrity and ethical 
behavior by helping to foster and maintain an environment where whistleblowers can act 
appropriately, without fear of retaliation. 
The policy is applicable to any employee of BPI AMTC and covers any wrongful act that 
adversely impacts BPI AMTC, its customers, shareholders, officers, employees, investors, or 
the public at large. BPI AMTC ensures that there is a process by which the communication of 
legitimate concerns about illegal, unethical or questionable practices are verified, investigated 
and addressed without fear of retaliation or reprisal.
The whistleblower may approach the Chief Risk and Compliance Officer who is the designated 
contact for the Company and the primary reporting line. Under extraordinary circumstances, 
the whistleblower may also course the complaint through other reporting lines, like the 
President or Board of Directors. 
Upon receipt of the whistleblowing report, the personnel or officer to whom the report was 
disclosed shall then immediately refer the matter and deliver all information and documents 
that may be transmitted to him/her to the designated officer, or the President, or Internal 
Audit, as applicable, who shall thereafter immediately initiate investigation.
2020 ANNUAL REPORT PAGE  83
The  Whistleblower  Policy  emphasizes  the  Company’s  commitment  to  non-retaliation.  It 
fosters and maintains an environment of utmost confidentiality where all whistleblowers 
may act appropriately without fear of reprisal, and be treated with utmost confidentiality. 
An individual who makes a protected disclosure shall not suffer harassment, retaliation, or 
adverse employment consequences. Any person who retaliates against any individual who 
makes a protected disclosure shall be subject to discipline, including termination.
In case the whistleblower believes he has been subjected to retaliation, he may seek redress 
or file a formal complaint to the three primary contacts for whistleblowing.
f. Related Party Transaction
In the normal course of business, BPI AMTC transacts with related parties which include 
its Directors, officers, stockholders and related interest, the Company and its parent bank 
and affiliates (including those under the Ayala group of companies), as well as other related 
parties defined in BPI AMTC’s internal policy.
These  transactions  involve  credit  and  non-credit  exposures  for  which  related  parties 
are perceived to have significant influence. As part of BPI AMTC’s efforts to ensure that 
transactions with related parties are normal trust activities and are done at arm’s length 
(particularly, on terms and conditions comparable to those offered to non-related parties or 
to similar transactions in the market), vetting is done either by the BPI’s Board-level Related 
Party Transaction Committee (“BPI RPTC”) or the BPI AMTC Management Vetting Committee 
(“BPI MVC”), depending on materiality, prior to implementation. Transactions with related 
parties whose individual and group exposures, existing or potential, amounting to equal or 
above the material threshold of Php 50 million are vetted by the BPI RPTC.  Other transactions 
below the material threshold are vetted by the BPI MVC.
The BPI RPTC is composed of three Directors, majority of whom are independent including 
its chairman, and two non-voting members from management of the BPI, the Chief Audit 
Executive and the Chief Compliance Officer, both of whom perform post-reviews to ensure 
proper implementation of related party transactions. On the other hand, the BPI AMTC MVC 
is composed of the BPI AMTC Division Heads.
BPI AMTC is committed to ensure strict compliance with laws, regulations and reporting 
requirements relating to related party transactions, by instituting rigorous vetting processes, 
establishing adequate controls and oversight mechanisms, and pursuing improvements such 
as its related party database to facilitate the timely and accurate related party classification 
of clients and counterparties.
PAGE  84 2020 ANNUAL REPORT
g. Dividend Policy
BPI AMTC’s dividend policy is to declare dividends to its common stockholders on a regular basis 
as may be determined by its Board of Directors, subject to retention of a portion of earnings to 
maintain or build up capital to provide for regulatory requirements, fund business growth and 
cover potential operational requirements.
In 2020, BPI AMTC declared and paid Php 1.5 billion in cash dividends.
h. Creating Social Value for Communities
BPI AMTC undertakes initiatives that help improve the lives of the people in the communities 
where we are, by embedding corporate social responsibility in our business and encouraging 
employee volunteerism. We also carry out Corporate Social Responsibility initiatives through 
BPI Foundation, BPI’s social development arm, promoting not only financial empowerment, but 
also education and entrepreneurship.
i. Data Privacy
BPI AMTC has strong Data Privacy Policy in place, which describes to whom the policy applies to, 
what personal data BPI AMTC collects and how such data is collected, how BPI AMTC may use 
personal data for core business and marketing purposes, how BPI AMTC may disclose and share 
such personal data, how such personal data is stored and retained, and how such data can be 
accessed or corrected. 
The  Data  Privacy  Policy  is  posted  on  the  Company   website  at  www.bpiassetmanagement.com 
and complies  with  the  requirements  of the Data Privacy Act and the National Privacy 
Commission.
j. Customer Experience 
BPI AMTC establishes a business environment that empowers financial consumers to make 
informed financial decisions, protect their interests and rights in all stages of their transactions 
with BPI AMTC, and provide them an avenue to express their grievances regarding BPI AMTC’s 
products and services. BPI AMTC creates a culture of fair and responsible treatment of customers 
to generate and nurture fruitful and harmonious business relationships with potential and 
existing clients. BPI AMTC’s consumer protection policies and procedures put in place to ensure 
consumer protection practices are embedded in the business operations.
BPI AMTC has Financial Consumer Assistance Program (“CAP”) that adheres to BSP Circular No. 
1048 or the Financial Consumer Protection Framework. It establishes the roles of key personnel 
responsible in ensuring consumer protection practices are properly observed. It also ensures 
that consumer protection is a collective responsibility of various units and divisions of BPI AMTC.
BPI AMTC designated a Customer Assistance Officer that is responsible for implementing, 
coordinating  and  ensuring  compliance  with  the  various  initiatives  and  activities  under 
BPI AMTC’s consumer assistance program and for reviewing materials that are presented to 
the customers and/or available through BPI AMTC’s digital channels.
2020 ANNUAL REPORT PAGE  85
The Customer Assistance Officer also coordinates with BPI’s Customer Experience Management 
Officer (“CXMO”), who institutionalizes guidelines that will help ensure that feedback from existing 
and potential clients are handled appropriately. The continuous information and education 
campaign on the Financial Consumer Protection Program is planned by the BPI’s CXMO to help 
propagate awareness. As part of the program, a Customer Feedback Database was created 
and now used to strengthen the role of the frontliners in addressing and reporting customer 
issues. The complaints data gathered is a vital tool in identifying areas of concern and process 
improvement. 
BPI AMTC also exercises consumer protection standards of conduct to guide employees in 
observing the internal policies related to consumer protection. BPI AMTC a) exercises full disclosure 
of key information and transparency by ensuring consumers have holistic understanding of the 
products and services; b) protects client information by keeping financial transactions confidential; 
c) treats financial consumers fairly, honestly and professionally; d) maintains effective recourse/
complaints handling process; and e) performs financial education and awareness to consumers. 
There are also related policies in place such as the BPI AMTC Financial Consumer Protection 
Program and Complaints Management and Reporting to properly equip the Company personnel 
in the handling of customer feedback.
As  part  of  our  CAP,  different  touch  points  or  channels  are  in  place  where  clients  can  file 
their feedback. These include available email and contact details of BPI AMTC, the Contact 
Center of BPI via phone, e-mail, and social media accounts, branches, and the business units. 
Our employees are guided by the internal BPI policies in handling complaints and CAP where 
client feedback, specifically complaints, are classified with corresponding turn-around-time 
which  are  responded  accordingly.
BPI AMTC monitors customer feedback concerning its products and services, determines root 
cause of significant issues, and implement appropriate actions to address these issues, ensuring 
that the most pressing and important issues raised by clients are resolved within the committed 
turnaround times. The compliance rate for complaint resolution to our internal turn-around time 
was 93%, up from 90% in 2019. As of year-end 2020, from the complaints received, 98% have been 
resolved. 
The status of complaints investigation and resolution is reported to the Compliance and Risk 
Committee (CRC) Meeting monthly in order to provide regular insights on how the business 
manages the inquiries and complaints received by the business. Recurring complaints are also 
discussed to determine the root causes of such complaints and devise possible solutions. 
BPI AMTC establishes and keeps updated the financial consumer protection governance structure 
that aims to establish a business environment that protects the interest of consumers and creates 
a culture of fair and responsible treatment of consumers through good governance exercised 
by the Board of Directors, and reinforced by the various functions that own, manage, oversee 
or provide independent assurance over consumer protection activities. The Board of Directors 
and Management are responsible for the development of the consumer protection strategy and 
establishment of an effective oversight over consumer protection programs
PAGE  86 2020 ANNUAL REPORT
VIII. BOARD, COMMITTEES, 
VIII. AND SENIOR MANAGEMENT
a. Board of Directors
The  Company’s  Board  of  Directors  oversees  the  proper  administration  and 
management  of  the  Company’s  trust  and  other  fiduciary  business  and  its 
investment management activities to ensure effective management of all risks 
inherent to the business. 
See Appendix A for the full biography of the Directors.
2020 ANNUAL REPORT PAGE  87
Antonio Jose U. Periquet Cezar P. Consing  Fernando Zobel de Ayala
Chairman of the Board Director Director
a. Board of Directors
Rebecca G. Fernando Maria Theresa M. Javier
Ignacio R. Bunye
Director Director
Independent Director
Maria Dolores B. Yuvienco Jesse O. Ang Sheila Marie U. Tan
Independent Director Independent Director President / Director
PAGE  88 2020 ANNUAL REPORT
b. Executive Committee*
The  Board  of  Directors  approved  the  creation  of  an  Executive  Committee  in  its  meeting 
held last October 2020.  The Executive Committee shall provide guidance and supervision 
to  the  Management  in  formulating  basic  strategies  for  achieving  business  targets  set  by 
the Board of Directors, undertaking or participating in strategic projects, and implementing 
significant transformation initiatives. The Executive Committee stands as a delegate of the 
Board of Directors to function as such between meetings of the Board of Directors, and is 
authorized to act, and shall act, on all matters within the competence of the Board of Directors, 
except with respect to matters that are specifically reserved to the Board of Directors by law 
and regulation, and subject to certain general and specific limits stated in the Corporation’s 
By-Laws or this Charter.
Composition:
Antonio Jose U. Periquet (Independent Director), Chairman
Cezar P. Consing
Maria Theresa M. Javier
Sheila Marie U. Tan
*Subject to regulatory approvals
c. Audit Committee
The Audit Committee monitors and evaluates the adequacy and effectiveness of the internal 
control  system,  including  financial  reporting  control  and  information  technology  security. 
The Commitee provides oversight over the financial reporting, systems of internal controls, risk 
management and governance process of the BPI AMTC; internal auditors and external auditors; 
monitoring of compliance with applicable laws, rules and regulations; and review conducted 
by the BSP.
Composition:
Ignacio R. Bunye (Independent Director), Chairman
Rebecca G. Fernando, Vice Chairman
Jesse O. Ang (Independent Director)
2020 ANNUAL REPORT PAGE  89
d. Risk Management Committee
The Risk Management Committee oversees and manages the risk exposures arising from BPI 
AMTC’s business activities, as well as monitors the level and management of BPI AMTC’s capital 
versus regulatory requirements.
The Committee nurtures a culture of risk management and implements and oversees its overall 
risk management program to assist the Board in the management of risks. The committee 
oversees the risk management program for BPI AMTC, monitors the risk exposures of BPI AMTC 
and its clients, the level and management of BPI AMTC’s capital and performs other functions 
as may be mandated by the Board relating to the management of BPI AMTC’s capital, risks 
covering credit, market, liquidity, operational and IT, reputational, strategic and other risks 
arising from its trust, other fiduciary business and investment management activities.
Amidst the COVID-19 pandemic occurring for the most part of 2020, RMC likewise supported 
the Board by overseeing and managing the Company’s exposures to financial and non-financial 
risks, assessed new and emerging risk issues, and regularly reviewed the Company’s risk appetite 
and limits, policies, methodologies, structures, and metrics.
Composition:
Jesse O. Ang (Independent Director), Chairman
Cezar P. Consing, Vice Chairman
Maria Dolores B. Yuvienco (Independent Director)
e. Corporate Governance Committee
The Corporate Governance Committee ensures the Board’s effectiveness and due observance 
of sound corporate governance principles and guidelines.
Composition:
Maria Dolores B. Yuvienco (Independent Director), Chairman
Ignacio R. Bunye (Independent Director),  Vice Chairman
Jesse O. Ang (Independent Director)
PAGE  90 2020 ANNUAL REPORT
f.  Senior Management Team
*
Sheila Marie U. Tan Smith L. Chua Yvette Mari V. De Peralta
President  Chief Investment Officer  Treasurer and Head of Clients
Segment Division
Ronald Bernard P. Bello
Maria Paz A. Garcia Kim O. Chua
 Head of Operations and
 Head of Risk Management  Head of Custody Business
 Technology & Project
and Compliance Division Division
Management
*Appointed as Treasurer effective  May 1, 2020
2020 ANNUAL REPORT PAGE  91
PAGE  92 2020 ANNUAL REPORT
IX. CORPORATE
IX. INFORMATION 
Table of Organization as of 31 December 2020
 BPI Audit
Commitee
Board of Directors
Internal Audit
Audit Committee
 Risk Management
Angela B. Maramag
Commitee
Corporate Secretary
 Corporate Governance
Committee
BPI AMTC
Sheila Marie U. Tan
President
2020 ANNUAL REPORT PAGE  93
BPI AMTC Investment Management Division
Sheila Marie U. Tan Smith L. Chua
President Chief Investment Officer
Clients Segment Division
Yvette Mari V. De Peralta Yvette Mari V. De Peralta
Treasurer Division Head
Strategic Planning and Marketing Division
Sheila Marie U. Tan
(Concurrent Divison Head)
AMTC Operations Division
Ronald Bernard P. Bello
Divison Head
Corporate Resources
Corporate Finance Legal and Tax Advisory
Valerie Mary Anne C. AblanChristiane B. Alonzo-Velasco
Department Head Department Head
Human Resources  Technology and Project
Management
Virginia C. Pascual Ronald Bernard P. Bello
Department Head Department Head
Custody Business Division
Kim O. Chua
Division Head
Risk Management  & Compliance Division
Maria Paz A. Garcia
Contact Information
Chief Risk & Compliance Officer
BPI Asset Management and Trust Corporation
6th and 7th Floors BPI Buendia Center
Sen. Gil J. Puyat Avenue, Makati City 1209
Tel: (632) 8580-2682
Email: bpi_asset_management@bpi.com.ph
www.bpiassetmanagement.com
PAGE  94 2020 ANNUAL REPORT
SIM QUIS INIS 
REHENESTIREPUDITIA
X. TRANSPARENCY 
IX.REPORTS 
BPI Asset 
Management and 
Trust Corporation 
Financial Statements 
As at and for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019 
 
Isla Lipana & Co.
 
Independent Auditor’s Report 
 
To the Board of Directors and Shareholder of 
BPI Asset Management and Trust Corporation 
7th Floor BPI Buendia Center, Sen. Gil J. Puyat Avenue,  
Makati City 
 
 
Report on the Audits of the Financial Statements 
 
Our Opinion 
 
In our opinion, the accompanying financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the 
financial position of BPI Asset Management and Trust Corporation (the “Company”) as at 
December 31, 2020 and 2019, and its financial performance and its cash flows for the years then 
ended in accordance with Philippine Financial Reporting Standards (PFRSs). 
 
What we have audited 
 
The financial statements of the Company comprise:  
 
•  the statements of financial position as at December 31, 2020 and 2019; 
•  the statements of total comprehensive income for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019; 
•  the statements of changes in equity for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019;  
•  the statements of cash flows for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019; and  
•  the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies. 
 
Basis for Opinion 
 
We conducted our audits in accordance with Philippine Standards on Auditing (PSAs). Our 
responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities for the 
Audit of the Financial Statements section of our report.  
 
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis 
for our opinion. 
 
Independence 
 
We are independent of the Company in accordance with the Code of Ethics for Professional 
Accountants in the Philippines (Code of Ethics), together with the ethical requirements that are 
relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the Philippines, and we have fulfilled our other 
ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements and Code of Ethics.  
 
 
   
       
    Isla Lipana & Co., 29th Floor, Philamlife Tower, 8767 Paseo de Roxas, 1226 Makati City, Philippines 
T: +63 (2) 8845 2728, F: +63 (2) 8845 2806, www.pwc.com/ph 
 
Isla Lipana & Co. is the Philippine member firm of the PwC network. PwC refers to the Philippine member firm, and may sometimes refer to the PwC network. Each member firm 
is a separate legal entity. Please see www.pwc.com/structure for further details. 
 
 
Isla Lipana & Co.
 
Independent Auditor’s Report 
To the Board of Directors and Shareholder of 
BPI Asset Management and Trust Corporation 
Page 2 
 
 
Responsibilities of Management and Those Charged with Governance for the 
Financial Statements 
 
Management is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of the financial statements in 
accordance with PFRSs, and for such internal control as management determines is necessary to 
enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due 
to fraud or error.  
 
In preparing the financial statements, management is responsible for assessing the Company’s ability 
to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using 
the going concern basis of accounting unless management either intends to liquidate the Company or 
to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so. 
 
Those charged with governance are responsible for overseeing the Company’s financial reporting 
process. 
 
Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements 
 
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole 
are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report 
that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee 
that an audit conducted in accordance with PSAs will always detect a material misstatement when it 
exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in 
the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken 
on the basis of these financial statements. 
 
   
 
 
Isla Lipana & Co.
 
Independent Auditor’s Report 
To the Board of Directors and Shareholder of 
BPI Asset Management and Trust Corporation 
Page 3 
 
 
As part of an audit in accordance with PSAs, we exercise professional judgment and maintain 
professional skepticism throughout the audit. We also: 
 
•  Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to 
fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit 
evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not 
detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, 
as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override 
of internal control. 
 
•  Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit 
procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an 
opinion on the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control. 
 
•  Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting 
estimates and related disclosures made by management. 
 
•  Conclude on the appropriateness of management’s use of the going concern basis of accounting 
and, based on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events 
or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the Company’s ability to continue as a going 
concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in 
our auditor’s report to the related disclosures in the financial statements or, if such disclosures are 
inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up 
to the date of our auditor’s report. However, future events or conditions may cause the Company 
to cease to continue as a going concern. 
 
•  Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the financial statements, including the 
disclosures, and whether the financial statements represent the underlying transactions and 
events in a manner that achieves fair presentation. 
 
We communicate with those charged with governance regarding, among other matters, the planned 
scope and timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in 
internal control that we identify during our audit. 
 
 
   
 
 
Isla Lipana & Co.
 
Independent Auditor’s Report 
To the Board of Directors and Shareholder of 
BPI Asset Management and Trust Corporation 
Page 4 
 
 
Report on the Supplementary Information Required by the Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas 
(BSP) and the Bureau of Internal Revenue (BIR) 
 
The supplementary information required under BSP Circular No. 1075 in Note 22 and Revenue 
Regulations No. 15-2010 in Note 23 to the financial statements is presented for the purposes of filing 
with the BSP and the BIR, respectively, and is not a required part of the basic financial statements. 
Such information is the responsibility of management of the Company. The information has been 
subjected to the auditing procedures applied in our audits of the basic financial statements. In our 
opinion, the information is fairly stated, in all material respects, in relation to the basic financial 
statements taken as a whole. 
 
Isla Lipana & Co. 
 
 
 
 
 
Ruth F. Blasco 
Partner 
CPA Cert. No. 112595 
P.T.R. No. 0018519, issued on January 5, 2021, Makati City 
SEC A.N. (individual) as general auditors 112595-SEC; Category A, valid to audit 2020 to 2024    
    financial statements  
SEC A.N. (firm) as general auditors 0142-SEC, Category A; valid to audit 2020 to 2024  
     financial statements 
TIN 235-725-236 
BIR A.N. 08-000745-133-2020, issued on June 5, 2020; effective until June 4, 2023 
BOA/PRC Reg. No. 0142, effective until January 21, 2023 
 
 
Makati City 
April 21, 2021 
 
 
 
 
BPI Asset Management and Trust Corporation 
 
Statements of Financial Position 
December 31, 2020 and 2019 
(All amounts in Philippine Peso) 
 
 
  Notes  2020  2019 
       
A S S E T S 
CURRENT ASSETS       
Cash and cash equivalents  2  1,561,588,721  2,441,420,393 
Financial assets at fair value through other 
comprehensive income  3  954,277,406  491,245,850 
Trust and other receivables, net  4  453,759,629  334,216,194 
Other assets  5    54,222,038  53,464,535 
Total current assets     3,023,847,794  3,320,346,972 
NON-CURRENT ASSETS       
Property and equipment, net  6  106,245,441  131,484,122 
Intangible asset, net  7  69,776,051  347,206,082 
Deferred tax assets, net  8    29,292,411   19,456,123 
Retirement benefit asset  10  -  10,696,654 
Total non-current assets      205,313,903  508,842,981 
Total assets     3,229,161,697  3,829,189,953 
       
L I A B I L I T I E S  A N D  E Q U I T Y  
CURRENT LIABILITIES       
Due to Parent Bank  17    85,582,945  70,686,535 
Lease liabilities  16    22,859,962  19,950,737 
Other liabilities  9    234,148,088   177,656,421 
Total current liabilities      342,590,995  268,293,693 
NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES       
Retirement benefit obligation  10    57,975,980  - 
Lease liabilities  16    57,556,610  80,416,572 
Total non-current liabilities      115,532,590    80,416,572 
Total liabilities      458,123,585   348,710,265 
EQUITY       
Share capital  11  600,000,000  600,000,000 
Additional paid-in capital  11  902,066,145  902,066,145 
Accumulated other comprehensive loss  8    (49,796,906)  (4,450,099) 
Reserve for trust business  19.3  283,415,585  199,243,131 
Surplus       1,035,353,288  1,783,620,511 
Total equity     2,771,038,112  3,480,479,688 
Total liabilities and equity     3,229,161,697  3,829,189,953 
 
 
(The notes on pages 1 to 37 are an integral part of these financial statements.) 
 
 
BPI Asset Management and Trust Corporation 
 
Statements of Total Comprehensive Income 
For the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019 
(All amounts in Philippine Peso) 
 
 
  Notes  2020  2019 
INCOME       
Trust income    2,474,207,837  2,159,754,607 
Commission income    153,212,735  159,063,729 
Interest income  2,3  30,150,291  58,370,788 
    2,657,570,863  2,377,189,124 
EXPENSES       
Commission expense    151,591,443  156,038,485 
Salaries and other employee benefits  13  367,449,396  360,358,678 
Intercompany expenses  17  216,821,240  395,454,138 
Taxes, licenses and regulatory fees  14  205,267,266  180,847,158 
Other operating expenses  15    518,397,712  511,510,521 
      1,459,527,057  1,604,208,980 
INCOME BEFORE INCOME TAX      1,198,043,806  772,980,144 
INCOME TAX EXPENSE  12    362,138,575  225,212,058 
NET INCOME FOR THE YEAR      835,905,231  547,768,086 
OTHER COMPREHENSIVE LOSS, NET OF TAX  8     
Item that will not be reclassified to profit or loss       
Remeasurement loss on retirement benefit plans      (43,555,079)  (13,886,855) 
Item that may be subsequently reclassified to profit 
or loss       
Remeasurement (loss) gain on financial assets at  
fair value through other comprehensive income      (1,791,728)  3,541,483 
      (45,346,807)  (10,345,372) 
TOTAL COMPREHENSIVE INCOME FOR THE YEAR    790,558,424  537,422,714 
 
 
         (The notes on pages 1 to 37 are an integral part of these financial statements.) 
 
 
BPI Asset Management and Trust Corporation 
 
Statements of Changes in Equity 
For the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019 
 (All amounts in Philippine Peso) 
 
 
Additional  Reserve for  Accumulated other 
  Share capital  paid-in capital  trust business  comprehensive 
(Note 11)  (Note 11)  (Note 19.3)  income (loss)  Surplus  Total 
Balances at January 1, 2019  600,000,000  902,066,145  145,497,196  5,895,273  1,289,598,360  2,943,056,974 
Other movements             
Transfer from surplus to reserve  -  -  53,745,935  -  (53,745,935)  - 
Total other movements  -  -  53,745,935  -  (53,745,935)  - 
Comprehensive income             
Net income for the year  -  -  -  -  547,768,086  547,768,086 
Other comprehensive loss  -  -  -  (10,345,372)  -  (10,345,372) 
Total comprehensive income (loss) for the 
year  -  -  -  (10,345,372)  547,768,087  537,422,714 
Balances at December 31, 2019  600,000,000  902,066,145  199,243,131  (4,450,099)  1,783,620,511  3,480,479,688 
Other movements             
Dividends (Note 17)  -  -  -  -  (1,500,000,000)  (1,500,000,000) 
Transfer from surplus to reserve  -  -  84,172,454  -  (84,172,454)  - 
Total other movements  -  -  84,172,454  -  (1,584,172,454)  (1,500,000,000) 
Comprehensive income             
Net income for the year  -  -  -  -      835,905,231  835,905,231 
Other comprehensive loss      -  (45,346,807)  -  (45,346,807) 
Total comprehensive income (loss) for 
the year  -  -  -  (45,346,807)    835,905,231    790,558,424 
Balances at December 31, 2020  600,000,000  902,066,145  283,415,585  (49,796,906)    1,035,353,288    2,771,038,112 
 
 
(The notes on pages 1 to 37 are an integral part of these financial statements.) 
 
 
BPI Asset Management and Trust Corporation 
 
Statements of Cash Flows 
For the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019 
(All amounts in Philippine Peso) 
 
 
  Notes  2020  2019 
CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES       
Income before income tax      1,198,043,806  772,980,144 
Adjustment for:       
Depreciation and amortization   15    307,539,702  303,663,153 
Retirement benefit expense  10    14,498,222  9,691,328 
Provision for probable losses  4    901,618  4,659,074 
Interest income  2,3    (30,150,291)  (58,370,788) 
Operating income before working capital changes    1,490,833,057  1,032,622,911 
Changes in working capital:       
(Increase) decrease in:       
Trust and other receivables      (122,439,493)  10,908,328 
Other assets      (931,670)  (51,282,226) 
Increase (decrease) in:       
Due to Parent Bank      14,896,410  (125,628,421) 
Other liabilities        18,946,547  19,147,066 
Cash from operations      1,401,304,851  885,767,658 
Interest received      32,144,731  24,831,662 
Payment of interest portion of lease liability  16    (6,767,320)  (6,336,245) 
Income taxes paid      (314,995,395)  (165,407,419)  
Retirement benefits paid      (8,047,132)  (13,146,856) 
Net cash from operating activities        1,103,639,735  725,708,800 
CASH FLOWS (USED IN) FROM INVESTING  
 
ACTIVITIES     
Purchase of investments at fair value through    
other comprehensive income      (965,591,167)  (994,349,123) 
Acquisition of property and equipment  6    (7,620,000)  (17,083,057) 
Proceeds from redemption of investments  3    500,000,000  860,000,000 
Proceeds from disposals of property and 
equipment  6    2,923,177  13,936,435 
Net cash used in investing activities      (470,287,990)  (137,495,745) 
CASH FLOWS USED IN FINANCING ACTIVITIES       
Dividends paid    (1,500,000,000)  - 
Payment of principal portion of lease liability  16    (13,183,417)  (14,010,171)  
Net cash used in financing activities       (1,513,183,417)  (14,010,171)  
NET (DECREASE) INCREASE IN CASH      (879,831,672)  574,202,884 
CASH        
      January 1    2,441,420,393  1,867,217,509 
      December 31  2    1,561,588,721  2,441,420,393 
 
 
(The notes on pages 1 to 37 are an integral part of these financial statements.) 
 
 
BPI Asset Management and Trust Corporation  
   
Notes to the Financial Statements  
As at and for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019 
(In the notes, all amounts are shown in Philippine Peso unless otherwise stated) 
 
 
1  General information 
 
The Monetary Board of the Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas (BSP) on its Resolution No. 1349, dated July 28, 2016, 
approved the request of Bank of the Philippine Islands (“BPI” or “Parent Bank”) to spin-off its trust 
department, Asset Management and Trust Group (BPI-AMTG), into a trust corporation. 
 
BPI Asset Management and Trust Corporation (the “Company”) was incorporated and registered with the 
Philippine Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) on October 6, 2016 primarily to carry and engage in the 
business of trust, other fiduciary business and investment management business which may legally be had or 
done by trust corporations organized under and in accordance with Republic Act No. 8791 (The General 
Banking Law of 2000) and its implementing regulations as it exists or may be amended and to do all other 
things incident thereto and necessary and proper in connection with said purposes within such territory, as 
may be determined by the Monetary Board of the BSP. The corresponding Certificate of Authority to Operate 
was issued by the BSP to the Company on December 29, 2016.  
 
At December 31, 2020, the total assets managed by the Company amount to P854 billion (2019 - P731 billion).  
 
The Company is a wholly owned subsidiary of BPI, a domestic commercial bank with an expanded banking 
license in the Philippines. 
 
The Company’s registered office address, which also serves as its principal place of business, is at 7th Floor BPI 
Buendia Center, Sen. Gil J. Puyat Avenue, Makati City. The Company has 255 regular employees as at 
December 31, 2020 (2019 - 272). 
 
Coronavirus pandemic 
 
On March 16, 2020, the Philippine Government declared the entire island of Luzon island under an 
Enhanced Community Quarantine (ECQ) due to the increasing coronavirus disease (COVID-19) cases in the 
country. The ECQ mandated the closure of non-essential businesses and strict home quarantine which 
resulted in the slowdown of the economy. Measures have been implemented to protect the health and safety 
of the Company’s employees, clients and partners, to support business continuity and to manage financial 
impact to a minimum. These measures have caused disruptions to businesses and economic activities, and 
its impact on businesses continue to evolve.  
 
While quarantine measures over highly urbanized cities in the National Capital Region (NCR) were relaxed 
following the proclamation of a modified enhanced community quarantine effective May 16, 2020, and 
subsequently, a general community quarantine (GCQ) effective June 1, 2020, operations across various 
industries remain below full capacity in these areas.  
   
Due to the transition to GCQ on June 1, 2020, Company’s operations have been back to 100%. At this stage, 
the Company deems it prudent to review its strategy given the acceleration in digital adoption by its clients 
and other considerations. 
   
 
 
 
 
Approval and authorization for issuance of financial statements 
 
These financial statements have been approved and authorized for issuance by the Company’s Board of 
Directors (BOD) on April 21, 2021. 
 
2  Cash and cash equivalents 
 
The account at December 31 consists of: 
 
  2020  2019 
Cash in banks  961,588,721  1,941,420,393 
Short-term deposits   600,000,000  500,000,000 
    1,561,588,721  2,441,420,393 
 
Cash in banks earn interest at prevailing bank deposit rates. Short-term deposits, which can be withdrawn 
anytime, carry effective interest rate of 1.75% in 2020 (2019 - 4.25%). 
 
Interest income earned from bank deposits and short-term deposits for the year ended December 31, 2020 
amounts to P13,479,064 (2019 - P29,494,630). 
 
3  Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income (FVOCI) 
 
The account at December 31 consists of: 
 
  2020  2019 
Philippine government treasury bills    427,150,407  491,245,850 
Philippine government treasury notes    527,126,999  - 
    954,277,406  491,245,850 
 
The government securities are all maturing within 12 months from the reporting date. 
 
The Company’s investments in government securities are held and classified at FVOCI to address regulatory 
requirements on basic security deposit for trust corporations and to address the Company’s liquidity 
requirements. In addition, these investments are not meant for trading purposes.  
 
For the year ended December 31, 2020, additions and disposals of financial asset at FVOCI amount to 
P952,823,495 (2019 - P967,910,742) and P500,000,000 (2019 - P860,000,000), respectively.  
 
The related interest income of the securities held amounts to P16,671,227 for the year ended  
December 31, 2020 (2019 - P28,876,158). 
 
   
(2) 
 
 
 
 
4  Trust and other receivables, net 
 
The account at December 31 consists of:   
 
  2020  2019 
Accrued trust income  422,887,863  296,895,968 
Other receivables  36,898,662  42,445,504 
  459,786,525  339,341,472 
Allowance for probable losses for other receivables  (6,026,896)  (5,125,278) 
  453,759,629  334,216,194 
 
Other receivables include amounts due from government agencies and employee advances. 
 
Movement in allowance for impairment of trade and other receivables for the years ended December 31 
follows: 
 
        2020  2019 
January 1  5,125,278  466,204 
Provision for probable losses for other receivables  901,618  4,659,074 
December 31  6,026,896  5,125,278 
 
5  Other assets 
 
The account at December 31 consists of: 
 
     2020  2019 
  Prepaid expenses    39,647,506  41,140,984 
  Security deposits  6,850,443  6,529,184 
  Miscellaneous assets    7,724,089  5,794,367 
    54,222,038  53,464,535 
 
Miscellaneous assets include supplies and receivables from the Bureau of Internal Revenue. 
 
6  Property and equipment, net 
 
The account at December 31 consists of: 
 
Furniture and  Transportation  Office 
2020  equipment  equipment  premises  Total 
Cost         
At January 1, 2020  1,995,557  38,101,261  120,802,664  160,899,482 
Additions  -  7,620,000  -  7,620,000 
Disposals  -  (6,148,000)  -  (6,148,000) 
      At December 31, 2020  1,995,557    39,573,261  120,802,664   162,371,482 
Accumulated depreciation         
At January 1, 2020  1,470,961  8,817,310  19,127,089  29,415,360 
Depreciation   276,748  5,672,390  24,160,533  30,109,671 
Disposals  -  (3,398,990)  -  (3,398,990) 
      At December 31, 2020  1,747,709  11,090,710  43,287,622  56,126,041 
  Net book value  247,848  28,482,551  77,515,042  106,245,441 
(3) 
 
 
 
 
 
Furniture and  Transportation  Office 
2019  equipment  equipment  premises  Total 
Cost         
At January 1, 2019  606,199  41,979,114  -  42,585,313 
Application of PFRS 16 on 
lease contract (Note 16)  -  -  120,802,664  120,802,664 
Additions  1,973,057  15,110,000  -  17,083,057 
Disposals  (583,699)  (18,987,853)  -  (19,571,552) 
      At December 31, 2019  1,995,557  38,101,261  120,802,664  160,899,482 
Accumulated depreciation         
At January 1, 2019  20,294  8,797,061  -  8,817,355 
Depreciation   1,450,667  5,655,366  19,127,089  26,233,122 
Disposals  -  (5,635,117)  -  (5,635,117) 
      At December 31, 2019  1,470,961  8,817,310  19,127,089  29,415,360 
  Net book value  524,596  29,283,951  101,675,575  131,484,122 
 
In 2020, the Company disposed of transportation equipment for P2,923,177 resulting in a gain on disposal 
amounting to P174,167.  
 
In 2019, proceeds from disposals of furniture and equipment and transportation equipment amount to their 
respective net book values. 
 
Office premises above pertains to right-of-use assets arising from the Company’s lease contracts (Note 16). 
 
7  Intangible asset, net 
 
The account at December 31 consists of: 
 
    2020  2019 
Cost       
At beginning of the year    902,066,145  902,066,145 
Additions    -  - 
      At end of the year    902,066,145  902,066,145 
Accumulated depreciation       
At beginning of the year    554,860,063  277,430,032 
Amortization     277,430,031  277,430,031 
      At end of the year    832,290,094  554,860,063 
  Net book value    69,776,051  347,206,082 
 
In 2011, the trust and investment management of ING Bank NV Manila was acquired by the Parent Bank. A 
premium was paid by the Parent Bank in recognition of the value of the contractual customer relationships, 
which is classified as an intangible asset. 
 
The Parent Bank valued the intangible asset using discounted cash flows earned from the retained client 
customers after the acquisition. After the acquisition, the intangible asset was estimated to have a useful life of 
10 years and thus, was amortized for 10 years. 
 
   
(4) 
 
 
 
 
In 2016, the Parent Bank spun-off its asset management business into a stand-alone trust corporation. As part of 
this, the Parent Bank intended to transfer the intangible asset to the books of the Company. The intangible asset was 
only transferred in the books of the Company in 2018 in consideration of an additional paid-in capital for Parent 
Bank (Note 11).  
 
The amortization of the intangible asset does not reduce the amount of the additional paid-in capital of the 
Company but forms part of other operating expenses under the statement of total comprehensive income. 
 
8  Deferred income taxes 
 
The account at December 31 consists of: 
 
   2020  2019 
Deferred income tax assets (liabilities) on:     
Remeasurement loss (gain) on defined benefit plan  16,675,336  (1,749,208) 
Unamortized past service cost  3,883,660  6,984,088 
Remeasurement loss on defined contribution plan  5,037,624  4,795,705 
Remeasurement of financial assets at FVOCI  2,664,128  1,896,244 
Provision for probable losses  1,775,441  1,504,956 
Provision for employee benefits  -  1,830,237 
Others  (743,778)  4,194,101 
Deferred income tax assets, net  29,292,411  19,456,123 
 
Others pertains to temporary differences due to stock option given to employees and due to the recognition of 
leases under PFRS 16. 
 
The movements in deferred income tax account at December 31 are summarized as follows: 
 
  2020  2019 
Beginning balance  19,456,123  9,215,000 
Amounts (charged) credited to profit or loss  (9,598,058)  2,771,835 
Amounts credited to other comprehensive income  19,434,346  7,469,288 
Ending balance  29,292,411  19,456,123 
 
The deferred tax credit recognized in other comprehensive income comprises the remeasurement on 
retirement benefit plans and remeasurement on FVOCI as follows: 
 
  2020  2019 
Remeasurement on defined benefit plan  (61,415,144)  (25,676,585) 
Remeasurement on defined contribution plan  (806,398)  6,544,398 
Changes in the effect of asset ceiling  -  (706,177) 
  (62,221,542)  (19,838,364) 
Deferred tax effect  18,666,463  5,951,509 
Remeasurement on retirement benefit plans, net  (43,555,079)  (13,886,855) 
 
  2020  2019 
Unrealized (loss) gain on remeasurement of FVOCI  (2,559,611)  5,059,262 
Deferred tax effect  767,883  (1,517,779) 
Remeasurement on FVOCI  (1,791,728)  3,541,483 
   
(5) 
 
 
 
 
9  Other liabilities 
 
The account at December 31 consists of: 
 
  2020  2019 
Accounts payable and accrued other expenses  23,937,888  26,552,274 
Taxes payable  144,559,514  101,229,227 
Salaries payable  16,641,279  34,013,693 
Miscellaneous liabilities    49,009,407  15,861,227 
Total    234,148,088  177,656,421 
 
Miscellaneous liabilities consist of fiduciary transactions relating to accrued benefit payments due to the 
beneficiary of the Company’s clients and related amounts for remittance on behalf of the individual trust 
funds and managed funds. 
 
10 Retirement benefit 
 
The Company’s employees participate in a non-contributory retirement benefit plans covering all qualified 
officers and employees. The description of the plans applicable to the Company follows: 
 
Defined benefit retirement plan 
 
Under the BPI unified plan which includes the Company, the normal retirement age is 60 years.  Normal 
retirement benefit consists of a lump sum benefit equivalent to 200% of the basic monthly salary of the 
employee at the time of his retirement for each year of service, if he has rendered at least 10 years of service, 
or to 150% of his basic monthly salary, if he has rendered less than 10 years of service. For voluntary 
retirement, the benefit is equivalent to 112.50% of the employee’s basic monthly salary for a minimum of 10 
years of service with the rate factor progressing to a maximum of 200% of basic monthly salary for service 
years of 25 or more. Death or disability benefit, on the other hand, shall be determined on the same basis as in 
voluntary retirement. 
 
Defined contribution retirement plan 
 
In 2016, the BPI Group implemented a defined contribution plan which is accounted for as a defined 
benefit plan with minimum guarantee. The defined benefit minimum guarantee is equivalent to a certain 
percentage of the monthly salary payable to an employee at normal retirement age with the required 
credited years of service based on the provisions of Republic Act (RA) No. 7641, The Philippine Retirement 
Pay Law. All non-unionized employees hired on or after the effective date are automatically under the new 
defined contribution plan. Employees hired prior to the effective date shall have the option to elect to 
become members of the new defined contribution plan.  
 
The net defined benefit cost and contributions to be paid by the Company are determined by an independent 
actuary.  
 
Plan assets are held in trusts, governed by local regulations and practice in the Philippines. 
 
 
(6) 
 
 
 
 
Following are the amounts recognized relating to the Company’s retirement plans based on the recent 
actuarial valuation reports: 
 
Defined benefit retirement plan 
 
(a) Pension (liability) asset as at December 31 recognized in the statement of financial position consists of: 
 
  2020  2019 
Present value of defined benefit obligation  (188,745,056)  (150,732,455) 
Fair value of plan assets   135,638,769  162,135,285 
(Deficit) surplus  (53,106,287)  11,402,830 
Effect of asset ceiling  -  (706,176) 
  (53,106,287)  10,696,654 
 
The movements in plan assets are summarized as follows: 
 
  2020  2019 
At January 1  162,135,285  121,035,686 
Benefit payments  (8,332,419)  (2,311,889) 
Interest income  9,029,082  10,591,808 
Contributions  6,673,076  6,685,521 
Remeasurement (loss) gain - return on plan assets  (33,866,255)  26,134,159 
At December 31  135,638,769  162,135,285 
 
The carrying value of plan assets as at December 31, 2020 is equivalent to its fair value of P135,638,769  
(2019 - P162,135,285). 
 
The plan assets at December 31 are comprised of the following: 
 
  2020  2019 
        Amount  %     Amount  % 
Debt securities  80,026,874  59  77,987,072  48 
Equity securities  55,611,895  41  61,222,284  38 
Others  -  -  22,925,929  14 
  135,638,769  100  162,135,285  100 
 
The plan assets of the unified retirement plan of the BPI Group include investment in BPI’s common shares 
with aggregate fair value of P390 million as at December 31, 2020 (2019 - P421 million). An officer of the 
Parent Bank exercises the voting rights over the plan’s investment in BPI’s common shares. The amount 
attributable to the Company is estimated to be P5.7 million in 2020 (2019 - P5.6 million). 
   
(7) 
 
 
 
 
The movements in the present value of defined benefit obligation are summarized as follows: 
 
    2020  2019 
At January 1    150,732,455  94,662,578 
Current service cost    8,207,972  5,707,561 
Benefit payments    (8,332,419)  (2,311,889) 
Interest expense    8,320,432  8,226,178 
Remeasurement loss - changes in financial assumptions    29,816,616  44,448,027 
At December 31    188,745,056  150,732,455 
 
The Company has no other transactions with the plan other than the contributions presented above for the 
years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019. 
 
(b) Expense recognized in the statement of total comprehensive income for the years ended December 31 
consists of: 
 
    2020  2019 
Current service cost    8,207,972  5,707,561 
Interest expense    8,320,432  8,226,178 
Interest income    (9,029,082)  (10,591,808) 
Interest on the effect of asset ceiling    38,981  496,380 
At December 31    7,538,303  3,838,311 
 
The principal assumptions used for the actuarial valuation of the defined benefit plan are as follows: 
 
    2020     2019 
Discount rate    3.85%  5.52% 
Salary increase rate    5.00%  8.69% 
 
Discount rate 
 
The discount rate is determined by reference to yields on long-term Philippine Treasury Bonds and adjusted 
to reflect the term similar to the estimated term of the benefit obligation as determined by the actuary as at 
the end of the reporting period as there is no deep market in high quality corporate bonds in the 
Philippines. 
 
Future salary rate increases 
 
This is the expected long-term average rate of salary increase taking into account inflation, seniority, 
promotion and other market factors. Salary increases comprise of the general inflationary increases plus a 
further increase for individual productivity, merit and promotion. The future salary increase rates are set by 
reference over the period over which benefits are expected to be paid. 
 
Demographic assumptions 
 
Assumptions regarding future mortality and disability experience are based on published statistics generally 
used for local actuarial valuation purposes. 
   
(8) 
 
 
 
 
The defined benefit plan typically exposes the Company to a number of risks such as investment risk, interest 
rate risk and salary risk. The most significant of which relate to investment and interest rate risk. The present 
value of the defined benefit obligation is determined by discounting the estimated future cash outflows using 
interest rates of government bonds that are denominated in the currency in which the benefits will be paid, 
and that have terms to maturity approximating the terms of the related pension liability. A decrease in 
government bond yields will increase the defined benefit obligation although this will also be partially offset 
by an increase in the value of the plan’s fixed income holdings. Hence, the present value of defined benefit 
obligation is directly affected by the discount rate to be applied by the Company. However, the Company 
believes that due to the long-term nature of the pension liability and the strength of the Company itself, the 
mix of debt and equity securities holdings of the plan is an appropriate element of the long-term strategy to 
manage the plan efficiently. 
 
The Company ensures that the investment positions are managed within an asset-liability matching 
framework that has been developed to achieve long-term investments that are in line with the obligations 
under the plan. The Company’s main objective is to match assets to the defined benefit obligation by 
investing primarily in long-term debt securities with maturities that match the benefit payments as they fall 
due. The asset-liability matching is being monitored on a regular basis and potential change in investment 
mix is being discussed with the trustee, as necessary to better ensure the appropriate asset-liability matching. 
 
The Company contributes to the plan depending on the suggested funding contribution as calculated by an 
independent actuary. The expected contribution to the plan for the year ending December 31, 2021 amounts 
to P14,990,566.  
 
The weighted average duration of the defined benefit obligation as at December 31, 2020 is 11.62 years  
(2019 - 10.98 years).  
 
The projected maturity analysis of retirement benefit payments as at December 31 follows: 
 
          2020  2019 
Less than a year    1,711,681  4,908,498 
Between 1 to 5 years    35,209,976  11,570,551 
Between 5 to 10 years    119,058,827  107,275,251 
Between 10 to 15 years    117,835,792  162,857,672 
Between 15 to 20 years    61,881,429  37,946,821 
Over 20 years    268,118,426  278,586,009 
 
The sensitivity of the defined benefit obligation to changes in the weighted principal assumptions follows:  
 
Impact on defined benefit obligation 
Change in  Increase in  Decrease in 
  assumption  assumption  assumption 
December 31, 2020       
Discount rate  0.5%  Decrease by 5.6%  Increase by 6.00% 
Salary increase rate  1.0%  Increase by 12.30%  Decrease by 10.70% 
December 31, 2019   
Discount rate  0.5%  Decrease by 5.30%  Increase by 5.70% 
Salary growth rate  1.0%  Increase by 11.80%  Decrease by 10.30% 
 
   
(9) 
 
 
 
 
The above sensitivity analyses are based on a change in an assumption while holding all other assumptions 
constant. In practice, this is unlikely to occur, and changes in some of the assumptions may be correlated.  
When calculating the sensitivity of the defined benefit obligation to significant actuarial assumptions, the same 
method (present value of the defined benefit obligation calculated with the projected unit credit method at 
the end of the reporting period) has been applied as when calculating the retirement liability recognized within 
the statement of financial position. 
 
Defined contribution retirement plan subject to the requirements of RA No. 7641 
 
    2020  2019 
Present value of defined benefit obligation under RA No. 7641  (63,713,412)  (42,154,343) 
Fair value of plan assets  58,843,719  63,446,528 
(Deficit) surplus  (4,869,693)  21,292,185 
Effect of asset ceiling  -  (21,292,185) 
  (4,869,693)  - 
 
The movements in the present value of the defined benefit obligation are as follows: 
 
    2020  2019 
At January 1    42,154,343  16,481,861 
Current service cost    7,148,500  3,286,333 
Benefit payments    (5,799,399)  (1,968,808) 
Interest expense    2,347,997  1,494,905 
Remeasurement loss - experience adjustments    17,861,971  22,860,052 
At December 31    63,713,412  42,154,343 
 
The movements in the fair value of plan assets are as follows: 
 
  2020  2019 
At January 1      63,446,528  42,935,231 
Interest income      3,722,553  4,027,545 
Benefit payments      (5,799,399)  (1,968,808) 
Contributions      10,735,276  9,830,731 
Remeasurement (loss) gain - return on plan assets      (13,261,239)  8,621,829 
 December 31      58,843,719  63,446,528 
 
Expense recognized in the statement of total comprehensive income for the years ended December 31 
consists of: 
 
    2020  2019 
Current service cost    7,148,500  3,286,333 
Interest expense    2,347,997  1,494,905 
Interest income    (3,722,553)  (4,027,545) 
Interest on the effect of asset ceiling    1,185,975  5,099,324 
At December 31    6,959,919  5,853,017 
 
   
(10) 
 
 
 
 
The principal assumptions used for the actuarial valuation of the defined contribution plan of the Company 
are as follows: 
 
        2020  2019 
Discount rate    3.95%  5.57% 
Salary increase rate    5.00%  5.00% 
 
The major categories of plan assets as a percentage of the fair value of total plan assets follow: 
 
         2020           2019 
  Amount  %  Amount  % 
Equity securities  28,833,422  49  34,933,658  55 
Debt securities  27,656,548  47  24,065,268  38 
Others  2,353,749  4  4,447,602  7 
  58,843,719  100  63,446,528  100 
 
The asset allocation of the pension plan is set and reviewed from time to time by the plan trustees taking into 
account the membership profile, the liquidity requirements of the plan and risk appetite of the plan sponsor.  
 
Contributions are determined on the plan provisions. The expected contribution of the Company for the year 
ending December 31, 2021 amounts to P10,489,027. 
   
The weighted average duration pertaining to the defined contribution plan as at December 31, 2020 is  
18.41 years (2019 - 17.48 years). 
 
11  Share capital 
 
Share capital 
 
Details of share capital as at December 31, 2020 and 2019 are as follows: 
 
      No. of Shares  Amount 
Authorized, P10 par value                   200,000,000  2,000,000,000 
Issued and outstanding                    60,000,000  600,000,000 
 
Subscribed and issued share capital was fully paid at the inception of the Company. 
 
Surplus 
 
Under the Corporation Code of the Philippines (the Code), stock corporations are prohibited from retaining 
surplus profits in excess of 100% of their paid-up capital, except when justified by any reasons mentioned in the 
Code. The accumulated surplus and paid-up capital of the Company as at December 31, 2019 amount to 
P1,783,620,511 and P1,502,066,145, respectively. The accumulated surplus is in excess of the paid up capital in 
2019. The said excess is in line with management’s plan to retain surplus to support its working capital 
requirements and planned business growth strategies as approved by its Board of Directors. In 2020, the 
Company declared and paid dividends to the Parent Company amounting to P1,500,000,000 (Note 17). 
 
   
(11) 
 
 
 
 
12  Income taxes 
 
Income tax expense for the years ended December 31 consists of: 
 
  2020  2019 
Current  352,540,517  227,983,893 
Deferred  9,598,058  (2,771,835) 
  362,138,575  225,212,058 
 
Current tax for the year ended December 31, 2020 includes final tax of P5,697,920 (2019 - P11,674,138). 
 
The Company has recognized deferred income tax asset, net amounting P29,292,411 (2019 - P19,456,123) 
from deductible temporary differences.  
 
The reconciliation between the income tax expense computed at the statutory income tax rate to the actual 
income tax expense shown in the statement of total comprehensive income for the years ended December 31 
follows: 
 
  2020  2019 
Income before income tax  1,198,043,806  772,980,144 
Income tax at statutory tax rate of 30%  359,413,142  231,894,043 
Adjustments to income tax resulting from tax effects of:     
Interest income already subjected to final tax  (9,045,087)  (17,511,236) 
Non-deductible expenses  1,398,192  3,052,829 
Others  10,372,328  7,776,422 
  362,138,575  225,212,058 
 
13  Salaries and other employee benefits 
 
Details of compensation and fringe benefits expense for the years ended December 31 follow: 
 
  Note  2020  2019 
Salaries and wages    346,107,579  344,529,208 
Retirement expense  10  14,498,222  9,691,328 
Other employee benefit expenses    6,843,595  6,138,142 
    367,449,396  360,358,678 
 
14  Taxes, licenses and regulatory fees 
 
Details of taxes, licenses and regulatory fees for the years ended December 31 follow: 
 
      2020  2019 
Gross receipts tax  132,863,246  118,864,161 
Examination fees  67,794,777  57,861,049 
Fringe benefits  3,900,501  2,914,135 
Other taxes and fees  708,742  1,207,813 
  205,267,266  180,847,158 
 
Other taxes and fees consist of local and municipal taxes, business permits and licenses, and annual 
registration fees. 
(12) 
 
 
 
 
15  Other operating expenses 
 
Details of other operating expenses for the years ended December 31 follow: 
 
  Notes  2020  2019 
Depreciation and amortization expenses  6,7  307,539,702  303,663,153 
Utilities expenses    132,214,154  160,985,409 
Transportation and travel    7,560,085  3,714,207 
Interest expense on lease liabilities  16  6,767,320  6,336,245 
Legal and professional fees    5,700,165  8,010,624 
Stationery and supplies    2,983,285  6,326,794 
Promotional and other selling expenses    1,829,081  3,737,432 
Rent expenses    33  2,093,398 
Miscellaneous expenses      53,803,887  16,643,259 
     518,397,712  511,510,521 
 
Miscellaneous expenses consist of loss on terminated technology project, bank charges, membership fees and 
dues and expenses incurred during staff meetings. 
    
16  Leases 
 
The Company leases office space with the Parent Bank. Rental contract is made for a fixed period of 5 years 
commencing on March 16, 2019 but subject to extension upon mutual agreement of both parties.  
 
Lease terms are negotiated either on a collective or individual basis and contain a wide range of different 
terms and conditions. The lease agreement does not impose any covenants, but leased asset cannot be used 
as security for borrowing purposes. 
 
The statement of financial position as at December 31, 2020 shows the following amounts relating to leases 
as at December 31: 
 
  Note  2020  2019 
Right-of-use assets       
Property and equipment - Office premises  6  77,515,042  101,675,575 
    77,515,042  101,675,575 
       
Lease liabilities       
Current      22,859,962  19,950,737 
Non-current      57,556,610  80,416,572 
    80,416,572  100,367,309 
 
   
(13) 
 
 
 
 
The lessee’s weighted average incremental borrowing rate applied to the lease liabilities in 2020 is 7.4%. 
 
Movement in lease liabilities is shown below:  
 
  2020  2019 
Balance as at January 1  100,367,309  - 
Additions  -  120,713,725 
Principal and interest payments  (19,950,737)  (20,346,416) 
Balance as at December 31  80,416,572  100,367,309 
 
The statement of total comprehensive income for the years ended December 31 shows the following amounts 
relating to leases: 
 
  2020  2019 
Depreciation expenses     
Property and equipment  24,160,533  19,127,089 
  24,160,533  19,127,089 
Interest expense  6,767,320  6,336,245 
Expense relating to short-term leases (included in Operating expenses)  33  2,019,840 
Expense relating to variable lease payments not included in lease 
liabilities (included in Operating expenses)  -  73,558 
  6,767,353  8,429,643 
 
The total cash outflow for leases subject to requirements of PFRS 16 as at December 31, 2020 is P19,950,737 
(2019 - P20,346,416). 
 
   
(14) 
 
17  Related party transactions 
In the normal course of business, the Company transacts with its Parent Bank. These transactions such as 
deposit arrangements and advances for operating expenses are made in the normal operating activities and 
have terms and conditions that are generally comparable to those offered to non-related parties and to similar 
transactions in the market. The table below also includes the relevant balances for the other related parties of 
the Company. 
Significant related party transactions and outstanding balances as at December 31 are summarized below: 
As at and for the year ended  Transactions for the  Outstanding balances 
December 31, 2020  year  Receivable/(Payable)  Terms and conditions 
Parent Bank 
Dividend payments  1,500,000,000  - Refer to Note (a) below
Advances made for Company’s    14,896,410    (85,582,945)  - Unsecured 
expenses  - Non-interest bearing
- Payable in cash at gross
amount on demand
Deposits, net  (893,312,050)  1,561,555,787  -  These are demand
Interest income on deposit  13,479,064  -    deposits bearing an
average annual interest
rate of 0.25%
Refundable security deposit  - 6,850,443   -  Refundable at the end of
the lease term 
- Unsecured
Retirement fund 
Contributions  17,408,352  - See Note 10
Other related parties 
Trust funds and managed funds -  Based on either of the 
Trust income  477,021,896  91,148,091  following fee structure: 
(a)Previous day NAV
(b)Average daily NAV
(c)0% Pooled fund
(d)Unit based fund (NAV)
(e)Fixed annual fee
The above varies per fund in 
accordance with the individual 
agreement.  
Entities under common control 
Commission expense  41,745,953  - Broker’s fees based on
transaction value or P500,
whichever is higher.
Other related parties 
Director’s remuneration  800,000  - Per diem of P50,000 for Board
Meeting and P25,000 for other
Committee Meeting.
Presented as part of Other
operating expenses.
Purchase of transportation  Based on subsidy limit per
equipment  4,560,000  -  officer’s rank.
(15) 
 
 
 
As at and for the year ended  Transactions for the  Outstanding balances 
December 31, 2019  year  Receivable/(Payable)  Terms and conditions 
Parent Bank       
Advances made for Company’s  (117,711,392)  (70,686,535)  - Unsecured 
expenses  - Non-interest bearing 
  - Payable in cash at gross 
amount on demand 
Deposits, net  544,709,113  2,441,388,773  - These are demand 
Interest income on deposit  29,494,630     -  deposits bearing an 
average annual interest 
rate of 0.25% 
Refundable security deposit  -  6,425,184  -  Refundable at the end of 
the lease term 
-  Unsecured 
Retirement fund       
Contributions  16,516,252  -  See Note 10 
Other related parties       
Trust funds and managed funds -      Based on the following fee 
Trust income  519,852,586  89,572,636  structure: 
(a) Previous day NAV 
(b) Average daily NAV 
(c) 0% Pooled Fund 
(d) Unit based fund (NAV) 
(e) Fixed annual fee.  
 
The above varies per fund in 
accordance with the individual 
agreement. 
Entities under common control       
Commission expense  39,627,086  -  Broker’s fees based on 
transaction value or P500, 
whichever is higher. 
 
Purchase of transportation      Based on subsidy limit per 
equipment  855,500  -  officer’s rank. 
Other related parties       
Director’s remuneration  360,000  -  Per diem of P30,000 for Board 
Meeting. Presented as part of 
Other operating expenses. 
 
Purchase of transportation      Based on subsidy limit per 
equipment  4,058,000  -  officer’s rank. 
 
(a) On April 22, 2020, the BOD approved the declaration of cash dividends of P25 per share equivalent to 
P1,500,000,000 from the unrestricted retained earnings of the Company to existing shareholder as of 
December 31, 2019. The cash dividends were paid on June 19, 2020.  
 
   
(16) 
 
 
 
 
18  Subsequent events 
 
On March 26, 2021, Republic Act (RA) No.11534, otherwise known as the Corporate Recovery and Tax 
Incentives for Enterprises Act (CREATE), was signed into law. Among the salient provisions of CREATE 
include changes to the Corporate Income Tax (CIT) rates as follows: 
 
1.  Reduction of corporate income tax (CIT) rate to 20% applicable to domestic corporations with total 
net taxable income not exceeding P5,000,000 and with total assets not exceeding P100 Million 
(excluding land on which the business entity's office, plant and equipment are situated); 
2.  Reduction of CIT rate to 25% shall be applicable to all other corporations subject to regular CIT; and, 
3.  Minimum Corporate Income Tax (MCIT) rate shall also be amended to 1%, instead of 2%, for the 
period beginning July 1, 2020 until June 30, 2023. 
 
As at December 31, 2020, the CREATE bill is still pending ratification by both the Philippine Congress and 
Senate, and consequently pending approval of the President of the Republic of the Philippines. As such, the 
Company has assessed that the proposed tax law is not enacted or substantively enacted as at                      
December 31, 2020. Therefore, for financial reporting purposes, the enactment of CREATE after the 
reporting date is deemed a non-adjusting subsequent event.  
 
Had the new CIT rates been applied on the December 31, 2020 financial statements of the Company, the 
newly enacted income tax rate would have resulted in decline in deferred tax assets, net, of P4,882,069, 
decline in taxes payable under other liabilities of P28,913,276, decline in income tax expense of 
P28,094,055, increase in net income of P28,094,055, and increase in other comprehensive loss of 
P4,062,848.  
 
19  Financial risk management 
 
The Company’s activities expose it to a variety of financial risks, primarily credit risk and liquidity risk. As 
risk taking is core to the business, an effective risk management process is critical in ensuring that a proper 
balance between risk and return is achieved. 
 
The risk management policies and procedures of the Company are designed to properly identify, measure, 
control, monitor and report the various risks arising from the conduct of its operations, proprietary investing 
activities, and fiduciary and investment management duties. These policies and procedures are expected to 
evolve as the Company’s business grows, as the market structure and regulations change, as new financial 
products are introduced in the market and as management practices are modified.   
 
Board oversight 
 
The Company recognizes that effective risk management is a top-down process that starts with the BOD. The 
BOD has the ultimate responsibility of providing oversight of the Company’ risk management process, which 
involves establishing strategic direction and providing risk tolerance standards for its operations and 
proprietary investing activities. It is responsible for ensuring that an effective risk management process and 
system are in place at all times and that risks taken are always within the defined parameters. The BOD, 
through the Risk Management Committee, shall also approve and regularly review risk management 
policies, procedures and limits to ensure that these remain consistent with the Company’s business and risk 
management objectives.         
 
Risk management process  
 
The risk management process of the Company has four elements, namely: (a) risk identification, (b) risk 
measurement, (c) risk management/control and (d) risk monitoring and reporting.   
(17) 
 
 
 
 
 
Risk identification involves recognizing and understanding the risks faced by the Company in the conduct of 
its operations, proprietary investing activities, and fiduciary and investment management duties.  It also 
involves determining the appetite and tolerance of the institution (as defined by the BOD through the Risk 
Management Committee) for such risks.   
 
Risk measurement involves applying measurement techniques or models to quantify identified risks.  After 
risks are identified and measured, risk control processes and limits in line with the risk tolerance standards 
of the Company are established. Actual risk exposures are then monitored and compared against these limits 
and results are communicated to the BOD and the Risk Management Committee through the generation of 
reports. 
 
Market risk  
 
Considering the components of the financial assets and liabilities as at December 31, 2020, the Company is 
not significantly exposed to market risk. 
 
In accordance with BSP regulations, the Company shall not engage in any proprietary trading and 
speculative investing activities. Proprietary assets owned by the Company shall be for the purpose of 
engaging in the trust business and investment management activities and for maintaining the minimum 
capital requirement and basic security deposit requirement. 
 
19.1  Credit risk 
 
Credit risk arises from cash and cash equivalents, financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive 
income, trust and other receivables, as well as credit exposure from refundable security deposit. The 
Company’s exposure arises from default of the counterparty, with a maximum exposure equal to the fair value 
of these financial assets. 
 
To minimize credit risk, the Company transacts only with counterparties with good credit standing. 
 
Cash and cash equivalents 
 
The Company’s cash and cash equivalents at December 31, 2020 amounting to P1,561,588,721___                 
(2019 - P2,441,420,393) are deposited with top universal banks in the Philippines and are assessed to be 
performing (Stage 1) (Note 2). Accordingly, management has assessed that credit risk is deemed minimal. 
 
Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income 
 
The Company’s financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income pertain to Philippine 
government treasury bills and are considered fully performing (Stage 1) (Note 3). These securities are rated 
“BBB+” with a “stable” outlook by Standard & Poor’s as at December 31, 2020 and 2019. Based on this credit 
rating, management has deemed that the expected credit loss (ECL) provision is insignificant for financial 
reporting purposes. 
 
Trust and other receivables 
 
The Company applies the simplified approach, as permitted by PFRS 9, in measuring expected credit losses 
which uses a lifetime expected loss allowance for trust and other receivables. 
  
   
(18) 
 
 
 
 
To measure the expected credit losses, trust and other receivables are grouped based on shared credit risk 
characteristics and the days past due. The expected loss rates are based on the payment profiles of 
receivables over a period of 24 months before December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively, and corresponding 
historical credit losses experienced within this period. The forward-looking information on macroeconomic 
factors are considered insignificant in calculating impairment of trust and other receivables. 
 
As at December 31, 2020, all of the trust and other receivables amounting to P453,759,629           
(2019 - P334,216,194) are considered current or fully performing. Likewise, there was no history of default 
or missed payment or write-offs during the observation period used for ECL measurement purposes. 
 
Refundable deposits 
 
As at December 31, 2020, deposits amounting to P6,850,443 (December 31, 2019 - P6,529,184) in 
connection with the lease of the Company’s office space are refundable at the end of the lease term (Note 17). 
 
None of the financial assets, that are considered fully performing as at December 31, 2020 and 2019, has 
been renegotiated. 
 
19.2  Liquidity risk 
 
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Company may not be able to generate sufficient resources to settle its 
obligations in full as they fall due or can only do so on terms that are materially disadvantageous. Working 
capital requirements are reviewed on a monthly basis through projection of cash flows from the Company’s 
operating, investing, and financing activities. 
 
The Company manages liquidity through reporting of liquidity risk exposures, monitoring compliance with 
liquidity risk policy and review of liquidity risk policy for pertinence and changing environment. 
 
All financial assets and liabilities of the Company are classified as current, i.e. they are expected to be 
realized within twelve months from the reporting date. 
 
19.3  Capital risk management 
 
The Company’s objectives when managing capital are to safeguard the Company’s ability to continue as a 
going concern, so that it can continue to provide returns for shareholder and benefits for other stakeholders 
and to maintain an optimal capital structure to reduce the cost of capital.  
 
The Company complies with the minimum paid-in capital of P300,000,000 required by Section 5 of Circular 
No. 710, Series of 2011 of the BSP upon approval to establish the trust corporation.  
 
As at December 31, 2020 and 2019, the total paid-in capital of the Company is P1,502,066,145. 
 
Total capital being managed by the Company is its total equity as shown in the statement of financial 
position. 
 
As at December 31, 2020, the Company’s equity amounts to P2,771,038,112 (2019 - P3,480,479,688).  
 
   
(19) 
 
 
 
 
The Company, being authorized to engage in trust and other fiduciary business, is also required under Section 
4413Q of the Memorandum of Regulations for Non-Bank Financial Institutions of BSP to appropriate before 
the declaration of dividends, at least 10% of its net profits realized out of its trust, investment management and 
other fiduciary business since the last preceding dividend declaration until the retained earnings shall amount 
to 20% of the authorized capital of the Company and no part of such retained earnings shall at any time be paid 
out in dividends but losses accruing in the course of its business may be charged against surplus. Accordingly, 
the Company appropriated an amount of P84,172,454 for the year ended December 31, 2020  
(2019 - P53,745,935) bringing the total reserves for trust business to P283,415,585  (2019 - P199,243,131). 
 
19.4  Fair value estimation of financial assets and liabilities 
 
Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly 
transaction between market participants at the measurement date. 
 
The Company ranks its financial instruments based on the hierarchy of valuation techniques required by  
PFRS 13, which is determined based on whether the inputs to those valuation techniques are observable or 
unobservable. Observable inputs reflect market data obtained from independent sources; unobservable 
inputs reflect the Company’s market assumptions.  These two types of inputs lead to the following fair value 
hierarchy: 
 
Level 1 – Quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. 
 
Level 2 – Inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, 
either directly (that is, as prices) or indirectly (that is, derived from prices). 
 
Level 3 – Inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data (unobservable inputs). 
 
This hierarchy requires the use of observable market data when available.  The Company considers relevant 
and observable market prices in its valuations where possible. 
 
The Company’s financial instruments are principally short-term in nature or have interest rates that 
periodically reset at market rates. Accordingly, the estimated fair value does not significantly differ from 
carrying value for each major category of the Company’s recorded financial assets and liabilities.  
 
The fair values of Philippine government treasury bills under financial assets at FVOCI are classified under 
Level 2 as at December 31, 2020 and 2019. 
 
20  Critical accounting estimates, assumptions and judgments 
 
The Company makes estimates, assumptions and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets and 
liabilities.  Estimates and judgments are continually evaluated and are based on historical experience and 
other factors, including expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the 
circumstances.  It is reasonably possible that the outcomes within the next financial year could differ from 
assumptions made at end of the reporting period and could result in adjustment to the carrying amount of 
affected assets or liabilities. 
 
20.1  Critical accounting judgments 
 
Recognition of deferred income tax assets (Note 8) 
 
The recognition of deferred income taxes depends on management’s assessment of the probability of 
available future taxable income against which the temporary difference can be applied. 
(20) 
 
 
 
 
 
The Company reviews at the end of each reporting period the carrying amounts of deferred tax assets.  The 
carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reduced to the extent that the related tax assets cannot be utilized 
due to insufficient taxable profit against which the deferred tax losses will be applied. The Company believes 
that sufficient taxable profit will be generated to allow all of the deferred income tax assets to be utilized. 
 
Classification of investment securities (Note 3) 
 
The Company follows the guidance of PFRS 9 in classifying financial assets at initial recognition whether it 
will be subsequently measured at fair value through other comprehensive income, at amortized cost, or at 
fair value through profit or loss. The Company determines the classification based on the contractual cash 
flow characteristics of the financial assets and on the business model it uses to manage these financial assets. 
The Company determines whether the contractual cash flows associated with the financial assets are solely 
payments of principal and interest on the principal amount outstanding. 
 
Determining the lease term (Note 16) 
 
Extension and termination options are included in the lease of the Company. This is used to maximize 
operational flexibility in terms of managing the assets used in the Company’s operations. The extension and 
termination options held are exercisable only by the Company and not by the respective lessor.  
 
In determining the lease term, management considers all facts and circumstances that create an economic 
incentive to exercise an extension option, or not exercise a termination option. Extension options (or periods 
after termination options) are only included in the lease term if the lease is reasonably certain to be extended 
(or not terminated). The Company considers the factors below as the most relevant in assessing the options: 
 
•  If there are significant penalties to terminate (or not extend), the Company is typically reasonably certain 
to extend (or not terminate).  
•  If any leasehold improvements are expected to have a significant remaining value, the Company is 
typically reasonably certain to extend (or not terminate).  
•  Otherwise, the Company considers other factors including historical lease durations and the costs and 
business disruption required to replace the leased asset. 
 
20.2  Critical accounting estimates 
 
Impairment of trust and other receivables (Note 4) 
 
Under PFRS 9, the measurement of the expected credit loss (ECL) allowance for financial assets measured at 
amortized cost and fair value through other comprehensive income is an area that requires the use of 
complex models and significant assumptions about future economic conditions and credit behavior (e.g. the 
likelihood of customers defaulting and the resulting losses). 
 
A number of significant judgements are also required in applying the accounting requirements for 
measuring ECL, such as: 
 
•  Determining criteria for significant increase in credit risk; 
•  Choosing appropriate models and assumptions for the measurement of ECL; 
•  Establishing the number and relative weightings of forward-looking scenarios for each type of product 
and the associated ECL; and 
•  Establishing groups of similar financial assets for the purposes of measuring ECL. 
 
(21) 
 
 
 
 
The Company measures ECL using probability of default, exposure at default and loss given default. 
Management consider both historical analysis and forward-looking information in determining any expected 
credit loss.  Management consider the probability of default to be close to zero as the counterparties have a 
strong capacity to meet their contractual obligation in the near term. As a result, no loss allowance has been 
recognized based on 12-month expected credit losses as any such impairment would be insignificant to the 
Company as at December 31, 2020.  
 
As at December 31, 2020, expected credit loss amounting to P6,026,896 (2019 - P5,125,278) is considered by 
management to be insignificant, hence, trust and other receivables amounting P459,786,525 
(2019 - P339,341,472) is deemed fully recoverable. 
 
Determining the incremental borrowing rate (Note 16) 
 
To determine the incremental borrowing rate: 
•  where possible, uses recent third-party financing received as a starting point, adjusted to reflect changes 
in financing conditions since third party financing was received; or 
•  uses a build-up approach that starts with a risk-free interest rate adjusted for credit risk for leases held 
which do not have recent third-party financing; and 
•  makes adjustments specific to the lease (e.g. term, currency and security). 
 
21  Summary of significant accounting policies 
 
The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of these financial statements are set out below. 
These policies have been consistently applied to both years presented, unless otherwise stated. 
 
21.1  Basis of preparation 
 
The financial statements of the Company have been prepared in accordance with Philippine Financial 
Reporting Standards (PFRSs).  The term PFRSs in general includes all applicable PFRSs, Philippine 
Accounting Standards (PAS) and interpretations of the Philippine Interpretations Committee (PIC), Standing 
Interpretations Committee (SIC) and International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee (IFRIC) 
which have been approved by the Financial Reporting Standards Council (FRSC) and adopted by the SEC. 
 
These financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention as modified by the 
revaluation of financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income. 
 
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with PFRSs requires the use of certain critical 
accounting estimates.  It also requires management to exercise its judgment in the process of applying the 
Company’s accounting policies.  The areas involving a higher degree of judgment or complexity, or areas 
where assumptions and estimates are significant to the financial statements are disclosed in Note 20.  
 
   
(22) 
 
 
 
 
Changes in accounting policies and disclosures 
 
(a)  New amendments to existing standards adopted by the Company 
 
The following new amendments to existing standards and revised Conceptual Framework have been adopted 
by the Company effective January 1, 2020: 
 
•  Amendments to PAS 1, Presentation of Financial Statements, and PAS 8, Accounting Policies, Changes 
in Accounting Estimates and Errors, Definition of Material 
 
The amendments clarify that the reference to obscuring information addresses situations in which the 
effect is similar to omitting or misstating that information, and that an entity assesses materiality in the 
context of the financial statements as a whole; and the meaning of ‘primary users of general purpose 
financial statements’ to whom those financial statements are directed, by defining them as ‘existing and 
potential investors, lenders and other creditors’ that must rely on general purpose financial statements for 
much of the financial information they need. 
 
The adoption of the above amendments did not have a material impact on the financial statements of the 
Company.  
 
•  Revised Conceptual Framework for Financial Reporting 
 
The revised Framework includes the following changes: 
  increasing the prominence of stewardship in the objective of financial reporting;  
  reinstating prudence as a component of neutrality;  
  defining a reporting entity, which may be a legal entity, or a portion of an entity;  
  revising the definitions of an asset and a liability;  
  removing the probability threshold for recognition and adding guidance on derecognition;  
  adding guidance on different measurement basis; and 
  stating that profit or loss is the primary performance indicator and that, in principle, income and 
expenses in other comprehensive income should be recycled where this enhances the relevance or 
faithful representation of the financial statements. 
 
No changes will be made to any of the current accounting standards. However, entities that rely on the 
Framework in determining their accounting policies for transactions, events or conditions that are not 
otherwise dealt with under the accounting standards will need to apply the revised Framework from 
January 1, 2020. These entities will need to consider whether their accounting policies are still 
appropriate under the revised Framework. 
 
The adoption of the revised Framework did not have a material impact on the financial statements of the 
Company. 
 
Amendments to PFRS 16, Leases, COVID-19 related Rent Concessions 
 
As a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, rent concessions have been granted to lessees. Such concessions 
might take a variety of forms, including payment holidays and deferral of lease payments. The 
amendment, effective June 1, 2020, provides lessees with an option to treat qualifying rent concessions in 
the same way as they would if they were not lease modifications. In many cases, this will result in 
accounting for the concessions as variable lease payments in the period in which they are granted. 
 
The adoption of the above amendments did not impact the financial statements of the Company since 
they were not granted any rent concessions.  
(23) 
 
 
 
 
 
Other standards, amendments to standards and interpretations which are effective for the financial year 
beginning on January 1, 2020 are considered not relevant or material to the Company’s financial statements. 
 
(b) New standards, amendments to standards and interpretations not yet effective and not yet adopted by 
the Company  
 
•  Amendments to PAS 1, Presentation of Financial Statements, and PAS 8, Accounting Policies, Change in 
Accounting Estimates and Errors, Classification of Liabilities as Current or Non-current 
 
The amendments clarifies that liabilities are classified as either current or non-current, depending on the 
rights that exist at the end of the reporting period. Classification is unaffected by the expectations of the 
Company or events after the reporting date. These could affect the classification of liabilities, particularly 
for companies previously considering management’s intention to determine classification and for some 
liabilities that can be converted into equity. 
 
•  Amendments to PAS 16, ‘Property, Plant and Equipment’ 
 
The amendment prohibits an entity from deducting from the cost of an item of property, plant and 
equipment any proceeds received from selling items produced while the entity is preparing the asset for 
its intended use. It also clarifies that an entity is ‘testing whether the asset is functioning properly’ when 
it assesses the technical and physical performance of the asset. 
 
•  Annual improvements to PFRS Standards 2018-2020 
 
The following improvements were finalized in May 2020: 
  PFRS 9 Financial Instruments, clarifies which fees should be included in the 10% test for 
derecognition of financial liabilities. 
  PFRS 16 Leases, amendment to remove the illustration of payments from the lessor relating to 
leasehold improvements, to remove any confusion about the treatment of lease incentives. 
 
The adoption of the above amendments is not expected to have a material impact on the financial statements 
of the Company.  
 
There are no other standards, amendments to standards or interpretations that are effective subsequent to 
December 31, 2020 and onwards that are considered relevant or would be expected to have a material 
impact on the Company’s financial statements. 
 
21.2  Cash and cash equivalents 
 
Cash includes deposits held at call with a bank.  These are carried in the statement of financial position at 
face amount or at nominal amount. Cash equivalents are short term, highly liquid investments that are 
readily convertible to known amounts of cash with original maturities of three months or less and are subject 
to an insignificant risk of change in value.  
 
21.3  Financial instruments  
 
Initial recognition and measurement 
  
Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognized when the entity becomes a party to the contractual 
provisions of the instrument. Regular way purchases and sales of financial assets are recognized on trade 
date, the date on which the Company commits to purchase or sell the asset. 
(24) 
 
 
 
 
  
At initial recognition, the Company measures a financial asset or financial liability at its fair value plus or 
minus, in the case of a financial asset or financial liability not at fair value through profit or loss, transaction 
costs that are incremental and directly attributable to the acquisition or issue of the financial asset or 
financial liability, such as fees and commissions. 
 
21.3.1  Classification and subsequent measurement of financial assets 
 
The Company classifies its financial assets in the following measurement categories: at fair value through 
profit or loss (FVTPL), fair value through other comprehensive income (FVOCI) and at amortized cost. 
 
The classification requirements for debt and equity instruments are described below: 
 
Debt instruments 
 
Debt instruments are those instruments that meet the definition of a financial liability from the issuer’s 
perspective, such as loans, government and corporate bonds and trade receivables purchased from clients in 
factoring arrangements without recourse. 
 
Classification and subsequent measurement of debt instruments depend on the Company’s business model 
for managing the asset and the cash flow characteristics of the asset. 
 
Based on these factors, the Company classifies its debt instruments into one of the following three 
measurement categories: 
 
•  Amortized cost 
 
Assets that are held for collection of contractual cash flows where those cash flows represent solely 
payments of principal and interest (SPPI), and that are not designated at FVTPL, are measured at 
amortized cost. The carrying amount of these assets is adjusted by any ECL allowance recognized and 
measured. Interest income from these financial assets is included in “Interest income” using the effective 
interest rate method. Amortized cost financial assets include cash and cash equivalents, trust and other 
receivables, and refundable deposits. 
 
•  FVOCI 
 
Financial assets that are held for collection of contractual cash flows and for selling the assets, where the 
assets’ cash flows represent solely payments of principal and interest, and that are not designated at 
FVTPL, are measured at FVOCI. Movements in the carrying amount are taken through other 
comprehensive income, except for the recognition of impairment gains or losses, interest revenue and 
foreign exchange gains and losses, if any, on the instrument’s amortized cost which are recognized in the 
statement of total comprehensive income. When the financial asset is derecognized, the cumulative gain 
or loss previously recognized in other comprehensive income is reclassified from equity to profit or loss. 
Interest income from these financial assets is included in “Interest income” using the effective interest 
rate method. 
 
The Company’s debt instruments amounting to P954,277,406 as at December 31, 2020  
(2019 - P491,245,850) are classified as financial assets at FVOCI. 
 
   
(25) 
 
 
 
 
•  FVTPL 
 
Assets that do not meet the criteria for amortized cost or FVOCI are measured at FVTPL. A gain or loss 
on a debt investment that is subsequently measured at FVTPL and is not part of a hedging relationship is 
recognized in profit or loss and presented in the statement of total comprehensive income within 
“Trading gain on securities” in the period in which it arises, unless it arises from debt instruments that 
were designated at fair value or which are not held for trading, in which case these are presented 
separately.  
 
The Company does not hold debt instruments at FVTPL as at December 31, 2020 and 2019. 
 
Business model: The business model reflects how the Company manages the assets in order to generate cash 
flows. That is, whether the Company’s objective is solely to collect the contractual cash flows from the assets 
or is to collect both the contractual cash flows and cash flows arising from the sale of assets. If neither of 
these is applicable, then the financial assets are classified as part of ‘other’ business model and measured at 
FVTPL. Factors considered by the Company in determining the business model for a group of assets include 
past experience on how the cash flows for these assets were collected, how the asset’s performance is 
evaluated and reported to key management personnel, how risks are assessed and managed and how 
managers are compensated.  
 
SPPI: Where the business model is to hold assets to collect contractual cash flows or to collect contractual 
cash flows and sell, the Company assesses whether the financial instruments’ cash flows represent solely 
payments of principal and interest (the ‘SPPI test’). In making this assessment, the Company considers 
whether the contractual cash flows are consistent with a basic lending arrangement i.e. interest includes only 
consideration for the time value of money, credit risk, other basic lending risks and a profit margin that is 
consistent with a basic lending arrangement. Where the contractual terms introduce exposure to risk or 
volatility that are inconsistent with a basic lending arrangement, the related financial asset is classified and 
measured at FVTPL. 
 
The Company reclassifies debt investments when and only when its business model for managing those 
assets changes. The reclassification takes place from the start of the first reporting period following the 
change. Such changes are expected to be very infrequent and none occurred during the period. 
 
Equity instruments 
 
Equity instruments are instruments that meet the definition of equity from the issuer’s perspective; that is, 
instruments that do not contain a contractual obligation to pay and that evidence a residual interest in the 
issuer’s net assets.  
 
The Company subsequently measures all equity investments at FVTPL, except where the Company’s 
management has elected, at initial recognition, to irrevocably designate an equity investment at FVOCI. The 
Company’s policy is to designate equity investments as FVOCI when those investments are held for purposes 
other than to generate investment returns. When this election is used, fair value gains and losses are 
recognized in other comprehensive income and are not subsequently reclassified to profit or loss, even on 
disposal. Impairment losses (and reversal of impairment losses) are not reported separately from other 
changes in fair value. Dividends, when representing a return on such investments, continue to be recognized 
in profit or loss as other income when the Company’s right to receive payments is established. Gains and 
losses on equity investments at FVTPL are included in other income in the statement of total comprehensive 
income. 
 
The Company does not hold any equity instruments as at December 31, 2020 and 2019. 
 
(26) 
 
 
 
 
21.3.2 Impairment of financial assets 
 
The Company assesses on a forward-looking basis the ECL associated with its debt instrument assets carried 
at fair value through other comprehensive income and amortized cost. The Company recognizes a loss 
allowance for such losses at each reporting date. The measurement of ECL reflects: 
 
•  An unbiased and probability-weighted amount that is determined by evaluating a range of possible 
outcomes; 
•  The time value of money; and 
•  Reasonable and supportable information that is available without undue cost or effort at the reporting 
date about past events, current conditions and forecasts of future economic conditions. 
 
Credit impaired financial assets  
 
Financial assets are assessed for credit impairment at each reporting date and more frequently when 
circumstances warrant further assessment. Evidence of credit-impairment may include indications that the 
debtor is experiencing significant financial difficulty, probability of bankruptcy or other financial 
reorganization, as well as measurable decrease in the estimated future cash flows evidenced by the adverse 
changes in the payments status of the debtor or economic conditions that correlate with defaults. An asset 
that is in Stage 3 will move back to Stage 2 when, as at reporting date, it is no longer considered to be  
credit-impaired. The asset will transfer back to Stage 1 when its credit risk at the reporting date is no longer 
considered to have increased significantly from initial recognition, and when there is sufficient evidence to 
support full collection of principal and interest due. Prior to the transfer to Stage 1, the asset should have 
exhibited both the quantitative and qualitative indicators of probable collection.  
 
When a financial asset has been identified as credit-impaired, expected credit losses are measured as the 
difference between the asset’s gross carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows 
discounted at the instrument’s original effective interest rate. 
 
When a financial asset is credit impaired, interest ceases to be recognized on the regular accrual basis, which 
accrues income based on gross carrying amount of the asset. Rather, interest income is calculated by 
applying the original effective interest rate to the amortized cost of the asset, which is the gross carrying 
amount less related allowance for impairment. Following impairment, interest income is recognized on the 
unwinding of the discount from the initial recognition of impairment. 
 
21.3.3 Derecognition 
 
Financial assets, or a portion thereof, are derecognized when the contractual rights to receive the cash flows 
from the assets have ceased, or when they have been transferred and either (i) the Company transfers 
substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership, or (ii) the Company neither transfers nor retains 
substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership and the Company has not retained control. Related gains 
and losses realized at the time of derecognition are recognized within Net gains (losses) on financial assets in 
the statement of total comprehensive income. 
 
21.4  Financial liabilities 
 
21.4.1 Classification and recognition  
 
The Company classifies its financial liabilities in the following categories: (a) at FVTPL and (b) financial 
liabilities at amortized cost.  As at December 31, 2020 and 2019, the Company has only financial liabilities 
classified as financial liabilities at amortized cost. 
 
(27) 
 
 
 
 
Financial liabilities at amortized cost pertain to issued financial instruments that are not classified or 
designated at fair value through profit or loss and contain contract obligations to deliver cash or another 
financial asset to the holder or to settle the obligation other than the exchange of a fixed amount of cash. 
Financial liabilities at amortized cost include due to Parent Bank, lease liabilities and other liabilities 
(excluding taxes payable) in the statement financial position. 
 
21.4.2 Subsequent measurement 
 
Financial liabilities are measured at amortized cost using the effective interest method. 
 
21.4.3 Derecognition  
 
Financial liabilities are derecognized when they have been redeemed or otherwise extinguished (i.e. when the 
obligation is discharged or is cancelled or expires). 
 
Offsetting of financial instruments 
 
Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount reported in the statement of financial position 
when there is a legally enforceable right to offset the recognized amounts and there is an intention to settle on a 
net basis, or realize the asset and settle the liability simultaneously. The legally enforceable right must not be 
contingent on future events and must be enforceable in the normal course of business and in the event of 
default, insolvency or bankruptcy of the Company or the counterparty. 
 
As at December 31, 2020 and 2019, no financial assets and liabilities have been offset. 
 
21.5  Property and equipment 
 
Property and equipment are stated at historical cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment loss, if any. 
Historical cost includes expenditure that is directly attributable to the acquisition of an asset which comprises 
its purchase price, import duties and any directly attributable costs of bringing the asset to its working 
condition and location for its intended use. 
 
Subsequent costs are included in the asset’s carrying amount or are recognized as a separate asset, as 
appropriate, only when it is probable that future economic benefits associated with the item will flow to the 
Company and the cost of the item can be measured reliably.  All other repairs and maintenance are charged to 
profit or loss during the financial year in which they are incurred.  
 
Depreciation is calculated using the straight-line method to allocate cost or residual values over the estimated 
useful lives of the assets as follows: 
 
Furniture and equipment  3 to 5 years 
Transportation equipment  5 years 
 
Major renovations are depreciated over the remaining useful life of the related asset.  The assets’ residual 
values and useful lives are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at each reporting date. Assets are reviewed for 
impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be 
recoverable. 
 
An asset’s carrying amount is written down immediately to its recoverable amount if the asset’s carrying 
amount is greater than its estimated recoverable amount.  The recoverable amount is the higher of an asset’s 
fair value less costs to sell or value in use. 
 
(28) 
 
 
 
 
An item of property and equipment is derecognized upon disposal or when no future economic benefits are 
expected to arise from the continued use of the asset.  Any gain or loss arising on derecognition of the asset 
(calculated as the difference between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the item) is 
included in profit or loss in the period the item is derecognized. 
 
21.6  Intangible asset 
 
Intangible asset from the acquisition of contractual customer relationships is capitalized on the basis of the 
carrying amount in the books of the Parent Bank as at date of transfer and is accounted for under the cost 
model. The measurement basis as at transfer date was in accordance with the applicable accounting 
standard for transfer of non-cash asset between parties under common interest. The cost of the asset is 
amortized on a straight-line basis over the remaining useful life as at date of transfer of 3.25 years. In 
addition, the intangible asset is subject to impairment testing, as the need arises.  
 
21.7  Prepaid expenses and other non-financial assets 
 
Prepaid expenses are recognized in the event that payment has been made in advance of when the service is 
actually rendered. Prepaid expenses are initially measured at nominal amounts which are equal to the 
amount of cash paid. Prepayments are derecognized through amortization over a period of time.  
 
Other non-financial assets consist of excess input value-added tax and creditable withholding tax payments 
which are recognized as assets to the extent that it is probable that the benefits will flow to the Company. 
These are derecognized when there is a legally enforceable right to apply the recognized amounts against the 
related income tax due as prescribed by applicable laws. 
 
21.8  Accrued expenses and other liabilities 
 
Accrued expenses and other liabilities are recognized in the period in which the related money, goods or 
services are received or when a legally enforceable claim against the Company is established. 
 
Accrued expenses and other liabilities are derecognized upon settlement, or when discharged, cancelled or 
expired. 
 
21.9  Impairment of non-financial assets 
 
Assets that have definite useful lives are subject to depreciation or amortization and are reviewed for 
impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be 
recoverable. An impairment loss is recognized for the amount by which the carrying amount of the asset 
exceeds its recoverable amount which is calculated at the higher of the asset’s fair value less cost to sell and 
value in use. For purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there 
are separately identifiable cash flows (cash-generating units).  Non-financial assets that suffered impairment 
are reviewed for possible reversal of impairment at each reporting date. 
 
21.10  Provisions and contingencies 
 
Provisions are recognized when: (a) the Company has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of 
past events; (b) it is more likely than not that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation; 
and (c) the amount has been reliably estimated.  Provisions are not recognized for future operating losses. 
 
(29) 
 
 
 
 
Where there are a number of similar obligations, the likelihood that an outflow will be required in settlement is 
determined by considering the class of obligations as a whole. A provision is recognized even if the likelihood of 
an outflow with respect to any one item included in the same class of obligations may be small. 
 
Provisions are measured at the present value of the expenditures expected to be required to settle the 
obligation using a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the 
risks specific to the obligation. The increase in provision due to the passage of time is recognized as interest 
expense. 
 
Provisions are derecognized when the obligation is settled, cancelled or has expired. 
 
Contingent liabilities are not recognized in the financial statements. These are disclosed unless the possibility 
of an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits is remote. Contingent assets are not recognized in the 
financial statements but disclosed when an inflow of economic benefits is probable. 
 
21.11  Share capital; Additional paid-in capital; Reserve for trust business 
 
Common shares are classified as share capital under equity. Incremental costs directly attributable to the 
issue of new shares are shown in equity as a deduction from the proceeds, net of tax.  
 
Proceeds or consideration in excess of par value of shares, if any, are credited to additional paid-in capital. 
 
Reserve for trust business represents the appropriation made by the Company in compliance with the BSP 
regulation. An institution authorized to engage in trust and other fiduciary business shall, before the 
declaration of dividends, carry to retained earnings appropriated for trust business at least ten percent (10%) of 
its net income realized out of its trust, investment management and other fiduciary business since the last 
preceding dividend declaration until the retained earnings appropriated shall amount to twenty percent (20%) 
of its authorized capital stock. 
 
21.12  Revenue recognition 
 
The Company recognizes revenue when (or as) the Company satisfies a performance obligation by 
transferring a promised good or service to a customer (i.e. an asset). An asset is transferred when (or as) the 
customer obtains control of that asset. 
 
The recognition of revenue can be either over time or at a point in time depending on when the performance 
obligation is satisfied.  
 
When control of a good or service is transferred over time, that is, when the customer simultaneously 
receives and consumes the benefits, the Company satisfies the performance obligation and recognizes 
revenue over time. Otherwise, revenue is recognized at the point in time of transfer of control of the good or 
service to the customer.  
 
Variable consideration is measured using either the expected value method or the most likely amount 
method depending on which method the Company expects to better predict the amount of consideration to 
which it will be entitled. This is the estimated amount of variable consideration, or the portion, if any, of that 
amount for which it is highly probable that a significant reversal in the amount of cumulative revenue 
recognized will not occur. Where there is a single performance obligation, the transaction price is allocated 
in its entirety to that performance obligation. Where there are multiple performance obligations, the 
transaction price is allocated to the performance obligation to which it relates based on stand-alone selling 
prices. 
 
(30) 
 
 
 
 
The Company recognizes revenue based on the rate/price specified in the service agreement and is only 
recognized to the extent that it is highly probable that a significant reversal will not occur.  
 
The Company does not expect to have any contracts where the period between the transfer of the promised 
goods or services to the customer and payment by the customer exceeds one year. As a consequence, the 
Company does not adjust any of the transaction prices for the time value of money. 
 
There are no warranties and other similar obligation and refunds agreed with customers. 
 
Trust income and commission income is recognized in the statement of total comprehensive income based 
on agreed terms and conditions. 
 
Interest income is recognized on a time proportion basis using the effective interest rate method, gross of 
applicable taxes. 
 
21.13  Expenses 
 
Expenses are recognized when incurred. 
 
21.14  Leases - Company as lessee 
 
Assets and liabilities arising from a lease are initially measured on a present value basis. The interest 
expense is recognized in profit or loss over the lease period so as to produce a constant periodic rate of 
interest on the remaining balance of the liability for each period. The right-of-use asset is depreciated over 
the lease term of five (5) years on a straight-line basis. 
 
i. Measurement of lease liabilities 
 
Lease liabilities include the net present value of the following lease payments: 
 
•  fixed payments (including in-substance fixed payments), less any lease incentives receivable 
•  variable lease payment that are based on an index or a rate 
•  amounts expected to be payable by the lessee under residual value guarantees 
•  the exercise price of a purchase option if the lessee is reasonably certain to exercise that option 
•  payments of penalties for terminating the lease, if the lease term reflects the lessee exercising that option 
 
Lease payments to be made under reasonably certain extension options are also included in the 
measurement of the liability. 
 
The lease payments are discounted using the interest rate implicit in the lease. If that rate cannot be readily 
determined, which is generally the case for the Company’s leases, the lessee’s incremental borrowing rate is 
used, being the rate that the lessee would have to pay to borrow the funds necessary to obtain an asset of 
similar value to the right-of-use asset in a similar economic environment with similar terms, security and 
conditions. 
 
To determine the incremental borrowing rate, the Company: 
 
•  uses a build-up approach that starts with a risk-free interest rate adjusted for credit risk for leases held 
for entities which do not have recent third party financing, and 
•  makes adjustments specific to the lease (i.e. term, currency and security). 
 
(31) 
 
 
 
 
Lease payments are allocated between principal and interest expense. The interest expense is charged to 
profit or loss over the lease period so as to produce a constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining 
balance of the liability for each period. 
 
ii. Measurement of right-of-use assets 
 
Right-of-use assets are measured at cost comprising the following: 
 
•  the amount of the initial measurement of lease liability, 
•  any lease payments made at or before the commencement date less any lease incentives received, 
•  any initial direct costs, and 
•  restoration costs. 
 
Right-of-use assets are depreciated over the lease term of five (5) years on a straight-line basis. If the 
Company is reasonably certain to exercise a purchase option, the right-of-use asset is depreciated over the 
underlying asset’s useful life. 
 
iii. Extension and termination options 
 
In determining the lease term, management considers all facts and circumstances that create an economic 
incentive to exercise an extension option, or not exercise a termination option. Extension options (or periods 
after termination options) are only included in the lease term if the lease is reasonably certain to be extended 
(or not terminated). The lease term is reassessed if an option is actually exercised (or not exercised) or the 
Company becomes obliged to exercise (or not exercise) it. The assessment of reasonable certainty is revised 
only if a significant event or a significant change in circumstances occurs, which affects this assessment, and 
that is within the control of the lessee.  
 
iv. Short-term leases and leases of low-value assets 
 
Payments associated with short-term leases and leases of low-value assets are recognized on a straight-line 
basis as an expense in profit or loss. Short-term leases are leases with a lease term of 12 months or less.  
Low-value assets comprise of IT and computer equipment. 
 
21.15  Income taxes 
 
Current income tax 
 
The tax expense for the period comprises current and deferred income tax.  Tax is recognized in profit or loss, 
except to the extent that it relates to items recognized in other comprehensive income or directly in equity. In 
this case, the tax is also recognized in other comprehensive income or directly in equity, respectively. 
 
The current income tax charge is calculated on the basis of the tax laws enacted or substantively enacted at the 
end of the reporting period.  
 
Management periodically evaluates positions taken in tax returns with respect to situations in which the 
applicable tax regulation is subject to interpretation. It establishes provisions where appropriate on the basis of 
amounts expected to be paid to the tax authorities. 
 
   
(32) 
 
 
 
 
Deferred income tax 
 
Deferred income tax is recognized using the liability method, on temporary differences arising between the 
tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the financial statements.  The deferred 
income tax is not accounted for if it arises from initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction, 
other than a business combination, that at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable 
profit nor loss.  Deferred income tax is determined using tax rates (and laws) that have been enacted or 
substantively enacted at the reporting date and are expected to apply when the related deferred income tax 
asset is realized or the deferred income tax liability is settled. 
 
Deferred income tax assets are recognized for all deductible temporary differences, carry-forward of unused 
tax losses (net operating loss carryover or NOLCO) and unused tax credits (excess minimum corporate 
income tax or MCIT) to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which 
the temporary differences, unused tax losses and unused tax credits can be utilized. The Company  
re-assesses at the end of each reporting period the need to recognize a previously unrecognized deferred 
income tax asset.  
 
Deferred income tax liabilities are recognized in full for all taxable temporary differences in full for all 
taxable temporary differences.  
 
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current 
tax assets against current tax liabilities and when the deferred income taxes assets and liabilities relate to 
income taxes levied by the same taxation authority on either the taxable entity or different taxable entities 
where there is an intention to settle the balances on a net basis. 
 
21.16  Employee benefits 
 
(a) Short-term benefits 
 
The Company recognizes a liability net of amount already paid and an expense for services rendered by 
employees during the accounting period. Short-term benefits given by the Company to its employees include 
salaries and wages, social security contributions, short-term compensated absences and bonuses, and  
non-monetary benefits.  
 
Short-term employee benefit obligations are measured on an undiscounted basis and recognized as expense 
when the related service is provided. 
 
(b) Defined benefit retirement plan 
 
A defined benefit plan is a pension plan that defines an amount of pension benefit that an employee will 
receive on retirement, usually dependent on one or more factors such as age, years of service and 
compensation. 
 
The amount recognized in the statement of financial position in respect of defined benefit pension plan is the 
present value of the defined benefit obligation at the reporting date less the fair value of plan assets.  The 
defined benefit obligation is calculated annually by independent actuary using the projected unit credit 
method.  The present value of the defined benefit obligation is determined by discounting the estimated 
future cash outflows using interest rates of government bonds that are denominated in the currency in which 
the benefits will be paid, and that have terms to maturity approximating the terms of the related pension 
liability. If the resulting difference is a pension asset, the asset ceiling is being observed. The asset ceiling is 
the present value of any economic benefits available in the form of refunds from the plan or reductions in 
future contributions to the plan. 
(33) 
 
 
 
 
 
Remeasurement gains and losses arising from experience adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions 
are charged or credited to equity in other comprehensive income in the period in which they arise.  
 
Past-service costs are recognized immediately in profit or loss. 
 
(c) Defined contribution retirement plan 
 
The Company also maintains a defined contribution plan that covers certain full-time employees. Under its 
defined contribution plan, the Company pays fixed contributions based on the employees’ monthly salaries. 
The Company, however, is covered under RA No. 7641, otherwise known as ‘The Philippine Retirement Pay 
Law’, which provides for its qualified employees a defined benefit minimum guarantee. The defined benefit 
minimum guarantee is equivalent to a certain percentage of the monthly salary payable to an employee at 
normal retirement age with the required credited years of service based on the provisions of RA No. 7641. 
Accordingly, the Company accounts for its retirement obligation under the higher of the defined benefit 
obligation relating to the minimum guarantee and the obligation arising from the defined contribution plan.  
 
For the defined benefit minimum guarantee plan, the liability is determined based on the present value of 
the excess of the projected defined benefit obligation over the projected defined contribution obligation at 
the end of the reporting period. The defined benefit obligation is calculated annually by a qualified 
independent actuary using the projected unit credit method. The Company determines the net interest 
income (expense) on the net defined benefit asset (liability) for the period by applying the discount rate used 
to measure the defined benefit obligation at the beginning of the annual period to the net defined benefit 
asset (liability) then, taking into account any changes in the net defined benefit asset (liability) during the 
period as a result of contributions and benefit payments. Net interest expense and other expenses related to 
the defined benefit plan are recognized in the statement of total comprehensive income. 
 
The defined contribution liability is measured at the fair value of the defined contribution assets upon which 
the defined contribution benefits depend, with an adjustment for margin on asset returns, if any, where this 
is reflected in the defined contribution benefits.  
 
Actuarial gains and losses arising from the remeasurements of the net defined contribution liability are 
recognized immediately in other comprehensive income. 
 
(d) Bonus plans 
 
The Company recognizes a liability and an expense for bonuses, based on a formula that takes into 
consideration the profit attributable to the Company’s shareholder after certain adjustments.  The Company 
recognizes a provision where contractually obliged or where there is a past practice that has created a 
constructive obligation. 
 
21.17  Foreign currency transactions and translation 
 
Functional and presentation currency 
 
Items included in the financial statements of the Company are measured using the currency of the primary 
economic environment in which the Company operates (the functional currency).  The financial statements are 
presented in Philippine Peso, which is the functional currency of the Company. 
 
   
(34) 
 
 
 
 
Transactions and balances 
 
Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency using the exchange rates prevailing at 
the dates of the transaction. Foreign exchange gains or losses resulting from the settlement of such 
transactions and from the translation at year-end exchange rates of monetary assets and liabilities 
denominated in foreign currencies are recognized in profit or loss. Non-monetary items measured at historical 
cost and denominated in a foreign currency are translated at exchange rate as at the date of initial recognition. 
 
21.18  Related party relationship and transactions 
 
Related party relationship exists when one party has the ability to control, directly, or indirectly through one or 
more intermediaries, the other party or exercises significant influence over the other party in making financial 
and operating decisions. Such relationship also exists between and/or among entities which are under 
common control with the reporting enterprise, or between and/or among the reporting enterprises and their 
key management personnel, directors, or shareholders. In considering each possible related party relationship, 
attention is directed to the substance of the relationship, and not merely the legal form. 
 
21.19  Events after the reporting date 
 
Post year-end events that provide additional information about the Company’s position at the reporting date 
(adjusting events) are reflected in the financial statements.  Post year-end events that are not adjusting 
events are disclosed in the notes to the financial statements when material. 
 
22 Supplementary information required by the BSP 
 
Below is the additional information required by Section 13 Subsection 4190T.4 of the Manual of Regulations 
for Non-Bank Financial Institutions.  The supplementary information is presented for BSP reporting 
purposes and is not required in the basic financial statements. 
 
(i)  Basic quantitative indicators of financial performance 
 
  2020  2019 
Return on average equity  26.74  17.14 
Return on average assets  23.69  15.45 
Percentage of trust fees to total assets under management  0.29  0.30 
 
The calculation above is based on the prescribed formulas under Annex C of Subsection 4190T.4. 
 
(ii)  Total outstanding investment, loans and other credit accommodations to Directors, Officers, all 
Stockholders and their Related Interests (DOSRI) 
 
Details of DOSRI balances: 
 
  2020  2019 
Bank of the Philippine Islands     
Deposits in banks  961,555,787  1,941,388,773 
Time deposits  600,000,000  500,000,000 
Refundable security deposit  6,850,443  6,529,184 
  1,568,406,230  2,447,917,957 
 
All balances with DOSRI are unsecured and are fully performing. 
(35) 
 
 
 
 
 
(iii)  Large exposures 
 
        2020  2019 
Bank of the Philippine Islands       
   Cash and cash equivalents    1,561,555,787  2,441,388,773 
   Refundable security deposit    6,850,443  6,529,184 
    1,568,406,230  2,447,917,957 
Philippine Government       
   Treasury bills    427,150,407  491,245,850 
   Treasury notes    527,126,999  - 
 
Large exposures refer to exposures to counterparty or a group of related counterparties equal or greater than 
five percent (5%) of the Company’s combined capital account. Combined capital accounts shall mean the 
total capital stock, retained earnings, and profit and loss summary, net of (a) unbooked allowance for 
probable losses (which includes allowance for credit losses and impairment losses) on the allowable 
proprietary assets and (b) such other capital adjustments as may be required by the BSP. 
 
(iv)  Nature and amount of contingencies  
 
There are no contingencies and commitments arising from off-balance sheet items as at December 31, 2020 
and 2019. 
 
(v)  Aggregate amount of secured liabilities and assets pledged as security 
 
The Company does not have assets pledged as security for secured liabilities as at December 31, 2020 and 
2019. 
 
23 Supplementary information required by the Bureau of Internal Revenue (BIR) 
 
Below is the additional information required by Revenue Regulations (RR) No. 15-2010. This information is 
presented for purposes of filing with the BIR and is not a required part of the basic financial statements. 
 
(i)  Documentary stamp tax 
 
There were no documentary stamp taxes paid for the year 2020. 
 
(ii)  Withholding taxes  
 
Withholding taxes paid/accrued and/or withheld for the year ended December 31, 2020 consist of: 
 
   Paid      Accrued   Amount 
Tax on compensation and benefits  68,503,409  5,951,926  74,455,335 
Expanded/creditable withholding taxes  42,779,907  7,175,006  49,954,913 
Final withholding taxes  10,088,606  439,543  10,528,149 
Fringe benefits tax  4,024,619  881,839  4,906,458 
Business taxes  5,943,635  602,050  6,545,685 
  131,340,176  15,050,364  146,390,540 
 
   
(36) 
 
 
 
 
(iii) All other local and national taxes 
 
All other local and national taxes paid for the year ended December 31, 2020 consist of: 
 
   Paid   Accrued   Amount 
Gross receipts tax  122,841,066  39,483,320  162,324,386 
City license  116,742  -  116,742 
Barangay clearance  2,200  -  2,200 
Mayor’s permit  5,000  -  5,000 
Municipal fees  10,500  -  10,500 
Others  9,040  -  9,040 
Total  122,984,548  39,483,320    162,467,868 
 
These local and national taxes are lodged under Taxes, licenses and regulatory fees in the statement of total 
comprehensive income. 
 
(iv) Tax assessments   
 
The Company does not have any deficiency tax assessments as at December 31, 2020. 
 
(v)  Tax cases 
 
The Company is not a party on any tax cases as at December 31, 2020. 
 
 
(37) 
 
PAGE  142 2020 ANNUAL REPORT
APPENDIX A
2020 ANNUAL REPORT PAGE  143
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
Antonio Jose U. Periquet
Filipino, 60 years old, Independent Director, has been an Independent Director of BPI 
AMTC since November 2016. He is currently the Chairman of BPI AMTC Board of Directors. 
He also serves as an Independent Director of BPI, BPI Capital Corporation and BPI Family 
Savings Bank, Inc.
Mr. Periquet is the Chairman of the Campden Hill Group, Inc. and Pacific Main Holdings 
and an Independent Director of Albizia ASEAN Tenggara Fund. He is a trustee of Lyceum 
University of the Philippines, a member of the finance committees of the Ateneo de 
Manila University and the Philippine Jesuit Provincial and a member of the Dean’s Global 
Advisory Council at the University of Virginia’s Darden School of Business.
Mr. Periquet graduated from the Ateneo de Manila University with an AB Economics 
degree in 1982. He also holds a Master of Science degree in Economics from Oxford 
University and an MBA from the University of Virginia.
Directorships  of  Mr.  Periquet  in  other  companies  with  shares  that  are  listed  in  the 
Philippine  Stock  Exchange  (“PSE-Listed  Company”)  are:
ABS-CBN Corporation – Independent Director
Ayala Corporation – Independent Director
DMCI Holdings, Inc. – Independent Director
Semirara Mining Corporation – Independent Director
Max’s Group of Companies – Independent Director
Philippine Seven Corporation – Independent Director
PAGE  144 2020 ANNUAL REPORT
Cezar P. Consing
Filipino, 61 years old, President and Chief Executive Officer of BPI and has served on BPI’s Board 
of Directors for 16 years. He became a member of BPI AMTC Board of Directors in November 2016. 
A Senior Managing Director of Ayala Corporation, BPI’s controlling shareholder, he represented 
J.P. Morgan & Co., then BPI’s second largest shareholder, on the BPI Board of Directors from 
1995-2000. He was an Independent Director of BPI from August 2004 to 2007 prior to rejoining 
the BPI Board in April 2010, then becoming its President and CEO in April 2013. Mr. Consing 
also serves as Chairman of BPI’s thrift bank, investment bank, UK bank, property and casualty 
insurance, leasing, and rental subsidiaries, and Vice Chairman of its Foundation. He is also a 
Director of BPI’s life insurance, asset management and micro finance subsidiaries. Mr. Consing 
serves as the Chairman of its Credit and Management Committees.
 
Mr. Consing serves as President and Director of Bancnet, Inc., and Director of LGU Guarantee 
Corporation,  industry  consortium  institutions  where  BPI  is  a  minority  shareholder.  Outside 
his  association  with  BPI,  Mr.  Consing  serves  on  the  Board  of  four  private  companies:  The 
Rohatyn  Group,  Sqreem  Technologies,  FILGIFTS.com  and  Endeavor  Philippines.  He  has  also 
served  as  an  Independent  Director  of  CIMB  Group  Holdings  (2006  -  2013)  and  First  Gen 
Corporation (2005 - 2013). He is also a Director of the US-Philippines Society and a trustee of the 
Manila Golf Club Foundation. Mr. Consing has been a member of the Trilateral Commission since 
2014.
Mr. Consing first worked for BPI under its corporate planning and corporate banking departments 
from 1980 to 1985. He then worked for J.P. Morgan & Co., based in Hong Kong and Singapore, from 
1985 to 2004, rising to head the firm’s investment banking business in Asia Pacific from 1997 to 
2004, with the last five years as President of J.P. Morgan Securities (Asia Pacific) Ltd. As a senior 
Managing Director of J.P. Morgan, Mr. Consing was a member of the firm’s global investment 
banking management committee and its Asia Pacific management committee. Mr. Consing was 
a partner at The Rohatyn Group from 2004 to 2013; head of its Hong Kong office and its private 
investing business in Asia; and was a Director of its real estate, and energy and infrastructure 
private equity investing subsidiaries.
Mr. Consing received an AB Economics degree (Accelerated Program), magna cum laude, from 
De La Salle University, Manila, in 1979. At university, he was a member of the student council, the 
student newspaper and the varsity track and field team. In recent years, he has served on the 
advisory committees of the university and its school of economics. Mr. Consing obtained an MA 
in Applied Economics from the University of Michigan, Ann Arbor in 1980.
Mr. Consing is also an Independent Director of Jollibee Foods Corporation.
2020 ANNUAL REPORT PAGE  145
Fernando Zobel de Ayala
Filipino, 61 years old, has been a Non-Executive Director of BPI AMTC since November 2016. He 
also serves as Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors of BPI and Chairman of the Board of 
Trustees of BPI Foundation, Inc.
Mr.  Zobel  is  the  Chairman  of  AC  International  Finance  Ltd.  and  AC  Energy  Holdings,  Inc.; 
Co-Chairman of Ayala Foundation, Inc.; and Director of LiveIt Investments, Ltd., Ayala International 
Holdings Limited, and Honda Cars Philippines, Inc.
Mr. Zobel also holds a seat on the Board of Georgetown University and INSEAD. He is a member 
of the World Presidents’ Organization and the Chief Executives Organization. He is a member of 
the Board of the Habitat for Humanity International and chairs the steering committee of its Asia 
Pacific Capital Campaign. He also serves on the Board of the Asia Society and is a member of the 
Asia Philanthropy Circle, a member of the Board of the Philippine National Museum and Pilipinas 
Shell Foundation.
He holds a liberal arts degree from Harvard College and a CIM from INSEAD, France.
Directorships in other PSE-Listed Companies are:
Ayala Corporation – Director and President and Chief Operating Officer
Globe Telecom, Inc. – Co-Vice Chairman of the Board
Integrated Micro-Electronics, Inc. – Director
Ayala Land, Inc. – Chairman of the Board
Manila Water Company, Inc. – Chairman of the Board
AC Energy Philippines, Inc. – Chairman of the Board
Pilipinas Shell Petroleum Corp. – Independent Director
PAGE  146 2020 ANNUAL REPORT
Rebecca G. Fernando
Filipino, 72 years old, Non-Executive Director, first served on the BPI Board of Directors from 
October 1995 to 2007 and from March 2009 onwards. Ms. Fernando is a member of the BPI AMTC 
Audit Committee. She is also a member of the Board of Directors of BPI, BPI Capital Corporation, 
and BPI Family Savings Bank, Inc.
Ms. Fernando is a Financial Consultant and Member of the Finance Board of of The Roman 
Catholic Archdiocese of Manila and of The Roman Catholic Diocese of Antipolo.
She graduated with a BSBA degree major in accounting from the University of the Philippines 
in 1970. She  obtained her MBA at the University of the Philippines and attended an Executive 
Program on Transnational Business at the Pacific Asian Management Institute at the University 
of Hawaii. She is a Certified Public Accountant. 
Ms. Fernando is not a director in any other publicly-listed company.
2020 ANNUAL REPORT PAGE  147
Maria Theresa Marcial Javier
Filipino, 50 years old, Non-Executive Director, has been a member of the Board of Directors of BPI 
AMTC since October 2020. Ms. Marcial is the Chief Finance Officer, Chief Sustainability Officer and 
Head of Strategy and Finance of BPI.  She is also a Director of BPI MS Insurance Corporation, BPI 
Europe Plc, AF Payments Inc, and BPI Global Payments Asia Pacific Philippines Inc. She is a fellow 
of Foundation for Economic Freedom, trustee and treasurer of World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF) 
Philippines, treasurer of BPI Foundation, and  sits on the Board of the Philippines Inter-Island 
Sailing Federation. 
She joined BPI in 1995 through the Bank Officers Development Program. She has 26 years of 
banking experience with expertise in strategic planning and finance, corporate banking, debt 
and equity capital markets, portfolio management, trust, and retail wealth management. Prior to 
the spin-off of BPI Asset Management and Trust Group (“BPI AMTG”) into BPI AMTC, she was the 
Senior Vice President and Trust Officer of the former for five (5) years. Prior to joining the banking 
industry, she worked for the National Economic and Development Authority and the Agricultural 
Policy Credit Council. 
Ms. Marcial obtained her Master’s Degree in Economics in 1995 from the University of the Philippines 
Diliman and BS Economics, cum laude, from the University of the Philippines Los Baños in 1990. 
She completed the Advanced Management Program at Harvard Business School in 2010 and the 
CFA Institute Investment Management Workshop also at Harvard Business School in 2006.
Ms. Marcial is not a director in any other publicly-listed company.
 
PAGE  148 2020 ANNUAL REPORT
Ignacio R. Bunye
Filipino, 76 years old, Independent Director, became a member of BPI AMTC Board of Directors 
in November 2016. He is also the Chairman of BPI AMTC’s Audit Committee and Vice Chairman 
of the Corporate Governance Committee. He also serves as an Independent Director of BPI, 
BPI Direct BanKo, Inc., A Savings Bank, and BPI Capital Corporation.
Mr. Bunye was a member of the Monetary Board of the Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas from 2008 
to 2014. He previously held the positions of Presidential Political Adviser in 2008, Presidential 
Spokesperson in 2003, and Press Secretary in 2002. He also worked in BPI’s Treasury and Corporate 
Finance departments from 1983 before he began his government service in the City of Muntinlupa 
(then a municipality) as officer-in-charge and mayor between 1986 and 1998.
During  his  twelve-year  stewardship  in  Muntinlupa,  Mr.  Bunye  founded  the  Muntinlupa 
Polytechnic College (now Pamantasan ng Lungsod ng Muntinlupa) and laid the foundation for the 
establishment of the Ospital ng Muntinlupa. In a concurrent capacity, he also served as Chairman 
of the Metropolitan Manila Authority (now Metropolitan Manila Development Authority) between 
1991 and 1992, and was a member of the House of Representatives representing Muntinlupa 
between 1998 and 2001. A former print and broadcast journalist, he now writes a regular weekly 
column for Manila Bulletin, Tempo, People’s Tonight, Sun Star, BusinessWeek Mindanao, Panay 
News and Filipino Reporter (in New York).
Mr. Bunye is a member of the Philippine Integrated Bar. He obtained his Bachelor of Arts degree 
and Bachelor of Laws degree from the Ateneo de Manila University in 1964 and 1969, respectively. 
He passed the Philippine Bar Examination in 1969. Significant awards and recognition received 
by Mr. Bunye include the Asian Institute of Management Honor and Prestige Award, the Bangko 
Sentral Service Excellence Medal, the Gran Olden de Isabela Catolica, and the Order of Lakandula. 
Mr. Bunye is also an Independent Director of International Container Terminal Services, Inc.
2020 ANNUAL REPORT PAGE  149
Maria Dolores B. Yuvienco
Filipino,  73  years  old,  Independent  Director,  became  a  member  of  the  Board  of  Directors 
of BPI AMTC on July 2019. She is a member of the Company’s Risk Management Committee and 
Chair of the Corporate Governance Committee. She is also a member of BPI Board of Directors.
In  April  2018,  Ms.  Yuvienco  was  elected  as  Independent  Director  of  First  Consolidated 
Bank  (Thrift  Bank),  and  was  chosen  to  chair  the  Nomination  and  Governance  Committee.
Ms. Yuvienco worked for 41 years with the Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas (formerly known as 
Central Bank of the Philippines) under various capacities until her compulsory retirement in 
March 2013 as Assistant Governor in the Supervision and Examination Sector. Her exposure at 
the BSP was largely in bank supervision where her responsibilities ranged from the crafting of 
policies/regulations on banking supervision to on-site examination and off-site monitoring of 
BSP-supervised entities. As a ranking official in the BSP, she had opportunities to meet and share 
ideas with her counterparts in other central banks in the region. Owing to her experience, she 
was tapped as a resource speaker in various training programs of the Southeast Asian Center for 
Banking in Kuala Lumpur.
Ms. Yuvienco graduated from St. Theresa’s College, Quezon City in 1967, with a degree of Bachelor 
of Science in Commerce, major in Accounting. She took up post graduate studies at the University 
of the Philippines Diliman. She is a Certified Public Accountant and a Career Executive Service 
Professional. 
Ms. Yuvienco is not a director in any other publicly-listed company.
PAGE  150 2020 ANNUAL REPORT
Jesse O. Ang
Filipino, 62 years old, Independent Director, became a member of the Board of Directors of 
BPI AMTC in June 2018. He is a member of Audit Committee and Chair of the Risk Management 
Committee. He is also a member of BPI Capital Corporation Board of Directors.
Mr. Ang spent 18 years with International Finance Corporation (IFC). He joined IFC in 2000 as Senior 
Investment Officer and he became the Resident Representative for its office in the Philippines in 
2007. He was the first Filipino to head the IFC Philippine Office. 
Mr. Ang received his Bachelor of Science in Industrial Engineering degree, summa cum laude, 
from the University of the Philippines in 1981. He also earned his Master’s degree in Business 
Administration from the Wharton Graduate School of Business in 1985. 
Ms. Ang is not a director in any other publicly-listed company.
2020 ANNUAL REPORT PAGE  151
Sheila Marie U. Tan
Filipino, 54 years old, was appointed President of BPI AMTC on July 1, 2018. Ms. Tan joined BPI AMTC 
in 2017 as Chief Operations Officer. 
Prior to joining BPI AMTC, Ms. Tan spent four (4) years with BPI Capital Corporation, the investment 
banking arm of BPI, where she was Managing Director and Head of Strategic Advisory. 
In the twenty (20) years prior to joining BPI Capital Corporation, Ms. Tan assumed various positions 
within the Ayala Group, including, Head of the Legal Affairs Division and Chief Legal Counsel at 
Ayala Land, Inc., Legal Counsel for various Ayala Land and Ayala Corporation subsidiaries and 
affiliates, Deputy Head of the Legal and Compliance Group at Ayala Corporation, Co-Managing 
Director at Ayala Group Legal, and also acted as Corporate Secretary and Assistant Corporate 
Secretary of Ayala Group companies. 
She began her career as an Associate at SyCip Salazar Hernandez & Gatmaitan, one of the largest 
law firms in the Philippines, with expertise in the fields of Banking and Finance, Capital Markets 
Special Projects, and Corporate Mergers and Acquisitions.
Ms. Tan was admitted as a member of the Philippine Bar in 1993. She obtained her Bachelor 
of Laws degree from the University of the Philippines Diliman in 1992. Moreover, she obtained 
her undergraduate degree from the same university, graduating cum laude with a Bachelor of 
Science degree in Economics in 1988.  
She  also  served  as  Vice  President  for  Taxes  and  Regulated  Products  of  the  Trust  Officers 
Association of the Philippines (“TOAP”) for 2019-2020. She has been elected as the TOAP President 
for 2020-2021. 
PAGE  152 2020 ANNUAL REPORT
Angela Pilar B. Maramag, Corporate Secretary
Filipino, 51 years old, was appointed Corporate Secretary on April 8, 2015 of BPI. She is also the 
Corporate Secretary or Deputy Corporate Secretary of various BPI subsidiaries and affiliates, 
including BPI AMTC, BPI Family Savings Bank, BPI Capital, BPI Forex, BPI/MS Insurance Corp., 
and BPI Century Tokyo Lease and Finance Corp.
Prior to joining BPI, Ms. Maramag was Senior Counsel at the Bank for International Settlements 
(BIS) in Basel, Switzerland, from 2001 to 2008, and Head of Finance and Administration at the 
BIS Representative Office in Hong Kong from 2008 to 2011. She was a Legal Officer at the United 
Nations Compensation Commission in Geneva, Switzerland, from 1998 to 2001.
Ms. Maramag was admitted to the Philippine Bar in 1995 and to the New York State Bar in 1998. 
She received her Master in Laws (LL.M.) from the University of Chicago in 1997, Juris Doctor (J.D.) 
in 1994 from Ateneo de Manila School of Law, and AB Honors Program in Economics in 1990 from 
Ateneo de Manila University.
2020 ANNUAL REPORT PAGE  153


CONTACT US
6th and 7th Floors BPI Buendia Center
Sen. Gil J. Puyat Avenue, Makati City 1209
(632) 8580-2682
bpi_asset_management@bpi.com.ph
www.bpiassetmanagement.com