

CONTENT 
01 02 03
Group CEO Message Sustainability Approach    Governance   
- About ARA - Board of Directors
- Sustainability Framework and Structure - Business Ethics and Compliance
- Stakeholder Engagement and Materiality - Enterprise Risk Management
- ESG in our Business - Engaging the Industry
       
04 05 06
Social    Environmental    Appendices  
- Growing with ARA - Environmental Stewardship
- Engaging our Staff - Energy and Emissions Management
- Giving back to our Communities - Water Resource Management
- Best-in-class Assets and Services - Waste Management
       
Group CEO Message           Sustainability Approach           Governance           Social           Environmental           Appendices
ARA GROUP CEO MESSAGE
COVID-19 has caused unprecedented  As we move into the next chapter of  We are proud of what ARA has achieved 
social and economic impacts globally.  ARA’s journey, we will continue to  over the past few years, and we have 
Dear all,
During these difﬁcult times, our top  expand our sustainability efforts across  ambitious plans going forward, with a 
priority is the safety and well-being of  our business units. For one, we will  clear sustainability purpose. We will 
I am pleased to introduce to you our  Logistics Trust installed 21,392 solar 
our staff, tenants and customers. We  complete a Property DNA-ESG project,  continue to build on our momentum as a 
ARA Sustainability Report 2019. panels which generate over 10,000 
extend our help to communities in need  which deepens our understanding of our  responsible fund manager and good 
MWh of renewable energy and reduce 4 
through the SME Help Fund, rental  buildings’ sustainability attributes and  corporate citizen. We must continue to 
Adopting an investor-operator  million kilograms of carbon dioxide 
We are proud of what  support to tenants, charity donations  benchmarks against our peers in the  manage our properties well during the 
philosophy, ARA has built a strong track  emissions yearly. On sustainable 
and volunteering activities.  industry. In line with Singapore’s aim to  current crisis and plan ahead for 
ARA has achieved over 
record in investing and managing assets  ﬁnancing, Suntec REIT secured a A$450 
be a smart nation, we will be  recovery，and emerge stronger. More 
the past few years, and 
around the world. Today, our business  million Green Loan Facility to ﬁnance or 
While ARA has a robust business model  implementing various Property  than ever, as a leading APAC real assets 
we have ambitious plans 
activities span across 28 countries and  reﬁnance eligible assets based on a 
designed to withstand market volatility,  Technology initiatives to achieve  fund manager with a global reach, we 
going forward, with a  we have diversiﬁed beyond the core  Green Finance Framework. The 
we remain very focused on reducing  sustainability and business objectives.  must Think Sustainable, Act Responsible. 
REITs and private funds platforms into  framework and loan require an 
clear sustainability  our operating cost and deploying our 
credit and infrastructure. This  independent assurance by the Climate 
capital prudently. With our invested IT  To stay ahead of the ever-changing ESG 
purpose. We will 
diversiﬁcation strengthens the resilience  Bond Initiative approved veriﬁer. 
resources, we are able to operate  landscape, we will continue to enhance 
continue to build on our 
of our business and broadens our  Focusing on tenants’ needs, we set up 
business as usual, without any  our internal policies and procedures on 
momentum as a 
sustainability purpose, in supporting our  end-of-trip facilities at 133 Mary Street 
disruption to serve our investors. We  sustainability principles and ESG factors. 
responsible fund  investors, employees and communities. and 177 Paciﬁc Highway ofﬁce buildings 
will do our best to protect jobs and I  We will also widen our engagement with 
to provide amenities for cyclists 
manager and good  have every conﬁdence in the resilience  various stakeholders to understand their 
We demonstrated our commitment to  travelling to work. These are some of 
and dedication of our staff, staying  views and promote our sustainability 
corporate citizen.
advancing sustainability within the  the highlights of our continuing efforts 
united to overcome this crisis. culture.
Group with many initiatives in 2019. On  on sustainability, amongst others. 
climate change mitigation, ARA LOGOS 
Sustainability Report 2019    |   1
Group CEO Message           Sustainability Approach           Governance           Social           Environmental           Appendices
COVID-19 has caused unprecedented  As we move into the next chapter of  We are proud of what ARA has achieved 
social and economic impacts globally.  ARA’s journey, we will continue to  over the past few years, and we have 
Dear all,
During these difﬁcult times, our top  expand our sustainability efforts across  ambitious plans going forward, with a 
priority is the safety and well-being of  our business units. For one, we will  clear sustainability purpose. We will 
I am pleased to introduce to you our  Logistics Trust installed 21,392 solar 
our staff, tenants and customers. We  complete a Property DNA-ESG project,  continue to build on our momentum as a 
ARA Sustainability Report 2019. panels which generate over 10,000 
extend our help to communities in need  which deepens our understanding of our  responsible fund manager and good 
MWh of renewable energy and reduce 4 
through the SME Help Fund, rental  buildings’ sustainability attributes and  corporate citizen. We must continue to 
Adopting an investor-operator  million kilograms of carbon dioxide 
support to tenants, charity donations  benchmarks against our peers in the  manage our properties well during the 
philosophy, ARA has built a strong track  emissions yearly. On sustainable 
and volunteering activities.  industry. In line with Singapore’s aim to  current crisis and plan ahead for 
record in investing and managing assets  ﬁnancing, Suntec REIT secured a A$450 
be a smart nation, we will be  recovery，and emerge stronger. More 
around the world. Today, our business  million Green Loan Facility to ﬁnance or 
While ARA has a robust business model  implementing various Property  than ever, as a leading APAC real assets 
activities span across 28 countries and  reﬁnance eligible assets based on a 
designed to withstand market volatility,  Technology initiatives to achieve  fund manager with a global reach, we 
we have diversiﬁed beyond the core  Green Finance Framework. The 
we remain very focused on reducing  sustainability and business objectives.  must Think Sustainable, Act Responsible. 
REITs and private funds platforms into  framework and loan require an 
our operating cost and deploying our 
credit and infrastructure. This  independent assurance by the Climate 
capital prudently. With our invested IT  To stay ahead of the ever-changing ESG 
diversiﬁcation strengthens the resilience  Bond Initiative approved veriﬁer. 
resources, we are able to operate  landscape, we will continue to enhance 
Lim Hwee Chiang John 
of our business and broadens our  Focusing on tenants’ needs, we set up 
business as usual, without any  our internal policies and procedures on 
Group Chief Executive Ofﬁcer
sustainability purpose, in supporting our  end-of-trip facilities at 133 Mary Street 
disruption to serve our investors. We  sustainability principles and ESG factors. 
investors, employees and communities. and 177 Paciﬁc Highway ofﬁce buildings 
will do our best to protect jobs and I  We will also widen our engagement with 
to provide amenities for cyclists 
have every conﬁdence in the resilience  various stakeholders to understand their 
We demonstrated our commitment to  travelling to work. These are some of 
and dedication of our staff, staying  views and promote our sustainability 
advancing sustainability within the  the highlights of our continuing efforts 
united to overcome this crisis. culture.
Group with many initiatives in 2019. On  on sustainability, amongst others. 
climate change mitigation, ARA LOGOS 
Sustainability Report 2019    |   2
Group CEO Message           Sustainability Approach           Governance           Social           Environmental           Appendices
ABOUT ARA
Sustainability Vision 
Vision and Mission
Corporate Profile
ARA Asset Management Limited ("ARA", "ARA Group" or the "Group") is a leading  ARA was established in 2002 based  To create and manage
APAC real assets fund manager with a global reach. With S$110 billion1  in gross  on the core values of Respect,  sustainable real assets.  
assets under management, ARA manages listed and unlisted real estate investment  Excellence, Integrity and Teamwork, 
trusts ("REITs"), private real estate equity and credit funds, and infrastructure funds  which lay the foundation of our 
in 28 countries.  As part of its investor-operator philosophy, ARA also operates a real  sustainability vision and mission. As 
Sustainability Mission 
estate management services division with local teams to manage its assets.  ARA evolves into a global real assets 
fund manager, we endeavor to follow 
To be a responsible real 
ARA’s multi-platform, multi-product global fund management business is supported  our sustainability vision and mission 
assets fund manager to our 
by dedicated local teams with in-depth knowledge and expertise. Built on a  which guide our business objectives  investors, employees and 
foundation of strong corporate governance and business integrity, ARA counts some  and strategies.  communities. Together, we 
create long-term value and 
of the world’s largest pension funds, sovereign wealth funds, ﬁnancial institutions, 
embrace sustainability in 
endowments and family ofﬁces as its investors.
our business and 
environment.
1 
   Includes assets under management by ARA Asset Management Limited and the Group of companies
    and its Associates as at 30 June 2020.
Sustainability Report 2019    |   3
Group CEO Message           Sustainability Approach           Governance           Social           Environmental           Appendices
ABOUT ARA
Headquartered in Over 18 years
Geographical Presence
Singapore of track record with strong
global network of partners
and investors
Leading APAC Real Assets Fund Manager with Global Reach
Adopting Professional Highly
Investor-Operator teams with committed
model  local expertise  to ESG 
Offices worldwide Presence in cities In total countries
9 > 100 28
Strong track record in:
Real Estate Investment Trusts Infrastructure
Private Real Estate Funds Country Desks
Real Estate Management Services Sustainability
Sustainability Report 2019    |   4
Group CEO Message           Sustainability Approach           Governance           Social           Environmental           Appendices
ABOUT ARA
Key Awards and Accolades
ARA has clinched numerous awards and accolades over the years in recognition of its sustainability efforts. 
Building and Construction  Singapore Corporate 
Best Real Estate Investor  Top 100 Best Employer  Excellence in  5 Star Global Real Estate 
Authority ("BCA") Green  Renewable Energy 
of the Year 2019 – Asia  Brands in Asia - 10th Asia’s  Workplace Well-Being  Sustainability Benchmark 
Mark Platinum and Gold  Company of the Year - 
ESG Real Estate Investor  Best Employer Brand  2019 (“GRESB”) ratings for our 
ratings for our properties  Frost & Sullivan 2020 
of the Year 2019 – Asia  Awards 2019 private funds, since 
in Singapore   Best Practices Awards 
participation
Prestigious US Green  NABERS energy and  5 Star Green Star  BOCHK Corporate  Asia’s Most Trusted  Champions for Family 
Building Council LEED  water ratings for our  Certiﬁcation for our  Environmental  Integrated Asset 2019
Gold award for our  properties in Australia property in Australia Leadership Awards Management Services 
hospitality property in  of the Year
United States 
Above is not an exhaustive list. For a full listing of ARA awards and accolades, please refer to https://www.ara-group.com/about-ara/awards-accolades.  
Sustainability Report 2019    |   5
Group CEO Message           Sustainability Approach           Governance           Social           Environmental           Appendices
ABOUT ARA
Our COVID-19 Responses
SME Help Fund Donations
The COVID-19 pandemic has affected 
everyone – economies, jobs, health 
ARA, together with The Straits Trading  ARA donated to various charities and 
and lives. Placing the safety and 
Company and JL Family Ofﬁce, launched a  organizations which help communities that 
well-being of our people as our top  S$5 million SME Help Fund. The goal is to  were affected. These include supporting 
help local small and medium enterprises tide  the “Masks for China” initiative by the Asia 
priority, we swiftly implemented 
over this period by providing cheaper,  Paciﬁc Real Estate Association， helping 
measures such as safe workplace 
quicker access to short-term funding. The  Traditional Chinese Medicine practitioners 
practices, tele-commuting and virtual  Tenant Support fund was further increased to S$8 million to  from the Academy of Chinese Medicine, 
help more companies.  caring for migrant workers in the built 
meetings. We ensured that all our 
Our tenants are going through a tough  environment sector and frontline 
properties comply or exceed local 
operating period during this pandemic. To help  healthcare workers through the REDAS 
requirements. Recognizing other  tenants, rental rebates and reliefs were  Solidarity Project Fund, contributing to the 
stakeholders in need, we extended  provided to them to support their business  Singapore Polytechnic Graduates’ Guild 
cashﬂows and protect jobs. Our property  Care Fund for students in need of ﬁnancial 
help to other individuals, companies 
management teams also helped tenants to  support， and making donations to the 
and communities which are adversely 
market their products online so that they can  Singapore Red Cross Society.
affected by COVID-19. With empathy  generate more sales. Voluntarism
and resilience, we will weather 
through these difﬁcult times and  ARA reached out to help communities by 
participating in initiatives to prepare 
emerge stronger together.
essentials such as masks and sanitizers for 
the needy. For example, Suntec Singapore 
Convention Centre sponsored over 2,000 
sqm of event space, where ARA volunteers 
helped to prepare 16,000 care packs for 
patients from the National Cancer Centre 
Singapore. In Hong Kong SAR, ARA staff 
prepared essentials into Caring Kits for the 
elderly in the Tin Shui Wai district.
Sustainability Report 2019    |   6
Group CEO Message           Sustainability Approach           Governance           Social           Environmental           Appendices
ABOUT ARA
Reporting Scope
This report outlines our global sustainability strategies and practices. Covering the 
period from 1 January 2019 to 31 December 20192, the report provides an overview 
of our performance against the identiﬁed material factors and sustainability 
initiatives which are planned for the year. This report has been prepared in 
accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (“GRI”) Standards – “Core” level 
and GRI’s Construction and Real Estate Sector supplements.
Our key business units are in scope for this report and data disclosed within the 
social and governance sections cover our ARA employees from the United States, 
United Kingdom, China, Hong Kong SAR, Korea, Australia, Japan, Singapore and 
Malaysia. The environmental section covers the real assets invested by our REITs 
and Private Funds, as set out in the appendices. Separately, our business units 
voluntarily participate in sustainability indices and assessments and publish their 
sustainability reports. Where available, historical data have been included in this 
report to provide trends and comparison.
2 
   The information presented in this report are stated as at 31 December 2019 or for the calendar year 2019,
     unless otherwise stated.
Sustainability Report 2019    |   7
Group CEO Message           Sustainability Approach           Governance           Social           Environmental           Appendices
SUSTAINABILITY FRAMEWORK AND STRUCTURE
We have established a Sustainability 
Framework with robust policies, of 
which some are described within this 
report. The Sustainability Framework 
covers three strategic pillars: 
Governance & Ethics, People & 
Community and Environmental 
Sustainability. These pillars lay out the 
foundation of our business strategies 
Governance & Ethics People & Community Environmental Sustainability 
towards sustainability and guide us to 
achieve our overall mission. 
We are committed to operate with  We are committed to provide a  We are committed to reduce the 
high ethical standards by  safe and healthy workplace, invest  impact of our operations on the 
With our commitment to the highest 
conducting business activities in  in training and develop our people  environment and do our part to 
standards of corporate governance, we  compliance with legal and  to help them reach their full  combat climate change
invest in our people who share our core  regulatory requirements, and our  potential
Codes of Ethics and Business 
values and together, we deliver 
We are committed to create 
Conduct 
sustainable performance and create 
positive impact on the communities 
positive impact to the community and  that we operate in
environment. As a real assets fund 
manager, we must continue to deliver 
long-term value to our stakeholders. 
Sustainability Report 2019    |   8
Group CEO Message           Sustainability Approach           Governance           Social           Environmental           Appendices
SUSTAINABILITY FRAMEWORK AND STRUCTURE
The ARA Sustainability Steering Committee (“SSC”) takes the lead in driving  The SSC is assisted by the Sustainability Taskforce (“ST”) which administers and 
sustainability strategies, business practices and performance targets. Based on a  implements the ARA Sustainability Policy. The ST comprises cross-functional team 
strategic roadmap, the SSC ensures that long-term value creation is achieved through  members from various business units, who are dedicated to sustainability 
integrating environmental, social and governance factors within the Group’s operations.  responsibilities, and report to the SSC on related matters.
The SSC reports to the ARA Board which provides overall guidance and advice on 
sustainability management.
Sustainability Steering Committee 
Tang Boon Kang Ng Beng Tiong John Lim Cheryl Seow Pauline Lim
Group Governance & Assistant Group CEO Assistant Group CEO Group Corporate Office
Group CEO 
Sustainability Senior Director  cum Group COO  cum Group CFO  Senior Director 
Sustainability Report 2019    |   9
Group CEO Message           Sustainability Approach           Governance           Social           Environmental           Appendices
STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT
AND MATERIALITY
Investors
With the evolving business environment, we 
believe that consistent and two-way open 
communications with our stakeholders allow 
Employees Tenants
us to better understand their perspectives. 
Thus, this enables us to better deliver our 
sustainability goals in alignment with theirs. 
SUSTAINABILITY
GOALS
Given the diversity of our stakeholders, we 
strive to reach out to them in different 
Our people are our biggest 
meaningful ways and raise greater 
asset. We value everyone 
awareness in our sustainability agenda.
Consumers Suppliers
regardless of gender, 
See Appendix A for the various ways of 
ethnicity, creed or age. Only a 
engagements with our stakeholders.
fair and inclusive culture can 
Community
drive us forward continually.
Ng Beng Tiong
Assistant Group CEO cum Group COO
(2nd from left in above picture)
Sustainability Report 2019    |  10
Group CEO Message           Sustainability Approach           Governance           Social           Environmental           Appendices
STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT
AND MATERIALITY
We focus on sustainability issues that are signiﬁcant and relevant to ARA and its  Following the four-step process, we have identiﬁed 8 material issues 
stakeholders. The materiality of such issues was assessed based on the importance  based on relevance to our business, likelihood and impact and inﬂuence 
to internal as well as external stakeholders, through online surveys and validation  to stakeholders’ decisions.
workshops. We follow a rigorous four-step process as summarized below:
Category Material Issues
Identification of issues 
Discussions with stakeholders' representatives to understand their concerns
1 Energy and Carbon Footprint
Benchmarking against industry peers' material factors
Environmental
2 Water Management
3 Environmental Compliance
Prioritization 
Shortlisted sustainability factors are prioritized through voting 
exercise with feedback from business units and stakeholders 
4 Employment Practices
Social
5 Talent Retention and Development
Validation  6 Quality of Assets and Services
Final assessment conducted to reﬁne the list of material sustainability factors
7 Economic Performance3
Governance
8 Corporate Governance
Review 
Material issues approved by Sustainability Steering Committee and 
reviewed periodically to ensure their continued relevance
3 
   This is covered in the relevant announcements in our website at www.ara-group.com.
Sustainability Report 2019    |  11
Group CEO Message           Sustainability Approach           Governance           Social           Environmental           Appendices
ESG IN OUR BUSINESS
Investment & Capital
As we pursue our sustainability  Product Development  Capital Raising  Management  Asset Management  Property Management 
objectives, we are mindful of 
Customized  Strategic  Investment,  Asset Management  In-house Property 
investors’ expectations to deliver 
products catering  partnerships with  portfolio  teams having  Management teams 
performance and integrate ESG 
to investors'  stakeholders,  management and  competencies  having operational 
factors into our business operations.  speciﬁc needs,  including Green  fund structuring  across various  expertise, with KPIs 
including ESG  Financing expertise markets and  linked to 
Throughout various stages of our 
requirements  sectors, with strong  sustainability 
real assets life cycle, we incorporate 
focus on ESG
sustainability considerations in our 
decision making, from deal 
origination to realization.
Due Diligence Investment Decisions Operations Decisions
Utilize ARA Sustainability Policy to  Propose to the investment committee  Carry out property mangement and 
guide due diligence scope and process with action plans to address key  asset enhancement initiatives with ESG 
ESG-related risks considerations 
Ensure compliance with ESG 
requirements and identify investment  Evaluate high investment grade  Report auditable ESG information to 
and ESG-related risks buildings using our Property DNA-ESG  senior management and external 
scorecard stakeholders
Sustainability Report 2019    |  12
Group CEO Message           Sustainability Approach           Governance           Social           Environmental           Appendices
Strategic Pillar: Governance & Ethics 01
Board Of Directors   
GOVERNANCE   
02
ARA is committed to ensuring that the highest standards of corporate governance 
Business Ethics And
are practiced throughout the Group. We strictly adhere to the corporate governance 
Compliance
principles and codes in all the countries where we operate. We ﬁrmly believe that 
strong governance and integrity are the foundations for ARA as a trusted and 
successful organization.
 
03
This section of the report describes our application of the corporate governance 
principles and codes which are underpinned by strong leadership of the Board, robust 
Enterprise Risk
internal controls and risk management systems and well-deﬁned policies and 
Management   
procedures. This is fundamental to achieving our goals in enhancing accountability to 
stakeholders, delivering shareholder value and driving long-term sustainable growth 
of the Group. 
04
Engaging The Industry
Sustainability Report 2019    |  13
Group CEO Message           Sustainability Approach           Governance           Social           Environmental           Appendices
AT A GLANCE
Board Of Directors Business Ethics And Compliance Engaging The Industry
R
ARA Board
    espect Number of
4 ARA E Associations 
    xcellence 31 
Level 3 - Assurance  Core
I
Internal External Values  ntegrity
- Internal Audit - External Audit T 
Memberships held
- Legal and Compliance - Regulators   eamwork
by management  
- Written assurance from management - Investors
 
s
- Other Stakeholders s
e
m
s ARA Sustainability Policy 
s e
e
Level 2 - Risk Management and Monitoring  t
c s Enterprise Risk Management
o y
Enterprise Risk  Fraud Prevention Control
r S
P Management and Detection Self-Assessment Environmental          Social         Governance      
4
Level 1 - Policies, Procedures and Controls  Categories of key risks
Governance Financial Compliance Operational
Compliance 
Core Values / Ethics and Employee Conduct
Management 
Strategic Operational
Checklists           Monitoring            Training
3 6
Cases of corruptions,
0
frauds, non-compliance,
Female Directors Male Directors litigations and lawsuits
0
Board diversity with wealth of experience  Cases of data breaches
Financial Compliance
Sustainability Report 2019    |  14
Group CEO Message           Sustainability Approach           Governance           Social           Environmental           Appendices
BOARD OF DIRECTORS 
ARA Board’s governance
objectives are as follows:
1 Providing leadership by 
setting the highest standards 
of corporate governance
Diversity on the Board
ARA Board of Directors (“ARA Board” or the “Board”) works with management 
2 Embracing diversity to 
and is responsible for the long-term success of the organization. The Board 
promote inclusion of different 
As a custodian of our 
reviews its size and composition from time to time to ensure a diverse mix of 
perspectives and avoid 
investors’ assets, integrity is 
international experience, expertise, gender, age and tenure to strengthen its  group-think
always ARA's top core value.  decision making. The current Board comprises nine members - three female and 
six male - who are business leaders in the ﬁelds of real estate, investing, ﬁnance, 
We must always exercise  3 Managing risks effectively 
banking and technology. With their collective industry knowledge, network and 
and seizing opportunities 
sound ethical judgements, 
experiences, the Board and the management team are committed to drive  within acceptable risk 
follow and uphold our 
sustainable growth for ARA and its stakeholders.  tolerance  
corporate governance 
Board Statement 
standards.
The Board firmly believes that sustainability is an integral part of ARA’s operations 
and is anchored across all levels of the organization with our commitment to Think 
Tang Boon Kang
Sustainable, Act Responsible. Under the strategic direction set by the Board, the 
Group Governance & Sustainability  Sustainability Steering Committee ensures that long-term value is achieved by 
Senior Director
integrating environmental, social and governance principles into our business.
Sustainability Report 2019    |  15
Group CEO Message           Sustainability Approach           Governance           Social           Environmental           Appendices
BUSINESS ETHICS
AND COMPLIANCE 
With utmost integrity, we have built a business  For instance, under the Code of Business Conduct, 
with strong ethical standards and comply with  a Deal Allocation Policy is established to review all 
laws and regulations. Our business principles  potential acquisitions to avoid, minimize or resolve 
and practices are embedded in our internal  any competing interest among business units with 
Codes of Ethics and Business Conduct that  overlapping investment mandates. Another 
apply to all employees. These codes cover areas  example is the strict adherence to share trading 
such as ethical behaviour, anti-bribery, insider  restrictions by all employees as we manage 
trading, conﬁdentiality and conﬂicts of interest,  multiple listed REITs.
amongst others. An induction program is 
arranged for new employees who are briefed on  Our business units are regulated by the relevant 
ARA’s core values and the various corporate  authorities in their respective country, including:  Because it takes years to build a 
policies in place. Employees are required to  Monetary Authority of Singapore and Singapore  reputation and mere minutes to 
complete declarations to acknowledge and  Exchange in Singapore; Securities and Futures 
wreck it, we’re always mindful of 
comply with our corporate policies on a periodic  Commission in Hong Kong SAR; Australian
doing the right thing, even if it 
basis. Securities and Investments Commission in
takes more time and effort.
Australia; Financial Conduct Authority in United
ARA maintains strict policies and procedures to  Kingdom; Ministry of Land, Infrastructure and
address any potential conﬂicts among the  Transport, and Financial Supervisory Service in
Mark Hwang
interests of our employees, business units,  Korea, amongst others. Refer to Appendix B for 
Head of Group Legal & Compliance
organization, investors and shareholders. details of the regulatory licenses. 
Sustainability Report 2019    |  16
Group CEO Message           Sustainability Approach           Governance           Social           Environmental           Appendices
BUSINESS ETHICS
AND COMPLIANCE 
Compliance Framework ARA Core Values
The ARA compliance regime is supported by a comprehensive framework which  Our Code of Ethics is founded on the ARA core values. These core values guide us in 
comprises compliance policies and checklists, monitoring of regulatory requirements and  the way we treat our stakeholders and how we conduct ourselves. We strive to 
structured training, amongst others. The ARA Compliance team works closely with  deliver outstanding performance while maintaining the highest ethical standards. 
external legal professionals and the compliance personnel of various business units on 
regulatory matters, and monitors changes to such requirements. There were no known  Respect Excellence
material breaches of regulations, including reprimands, ﬁnes and sanctions, for the year. 
We treat our colleagues  Our motto is to aim high. We 
and business partners  strive for Excellence not just in 
Checklist
with Respect and  ﬁnancial performance but in 
The Control Self-Assessment process involves a checklist which evaluates  consideration at all  every aspect. We do not cut 
the adequacy and effectiveness of internal controls in addressing  times. We trust and  corners and we always put our 
t
c
compliance risks. value the contributions  e Excellence clients' interest ﬁrst.
p
of each person. 
s
e
R
Monitoring T
e
Both the Group Legal & Compliance and Group Compliance work closely  a
m
together to monitor compliance in areas such as Capital Markets Services 
w
Integrity
Integrity
Licensing, Anti-Money Laundering, Code of Corporate Governance, Related  o Teamwork
r
k
Parties Transactions and Listing Rules’ requirements, amongst others.
We regard Integrity as a  We will constantly support one 
commitment to honor the trust  another and build an environment 
placed on us. It calls for us to be  that values Teamwork and creativity. 
Training on the latest regulatory developments
truthful at all times. We will abide  We inspire our people to perform to 
Directors, management and employees receive regular updates on regulatory 
by a strong code of ethics and  their maximum potential.
requirements from the ARA Compliance team.
uphold the highest standards of 
professional conduct. 
Sustainability Report 2019    |  17
Group CEO Message           Sustainability Approach           Governance           Social           Environmental           Appendices
BUSINESS ETHICS
AND COMPLIANCE 
ARA Sustainability Policy
Governance Social Environmental
The ARA Sustainability Policy is a 
comprehensive system of principles 
(cid:31) Diversity and Equal Opportunities (cid:31) Climate and Climate Change Adaptation
(cid:31) Board Diversity (cid:31) Whistle Blowing
and policies to guide our decision 
(cid:31) Employee Rights (cid:31) Property DNA-ESG
(cid:31) Governance Matrix (cid:31) Group Public Disclosure
making, and contains a set of 
(cid:31) Remuneration (cid:31) Environmental Management System 
(cid:31) Authorization Grid (cid:31) Cybersecurity
benchmarks and checklists to ensure  
(cid:31) Non-discrimination  (cid:31) Environmental Compliance
(cid:31) Code of Corporate Governance (cid:31) Investor Relations
best-in-class outcome in the area of 
(cid:31) No Harassment (cid:31) Pollution Prevention
(cid:31) Board Performance Evaluation (cid:31) Supplier Code of Conduct
sustainability. It encompasses 
(cid:31) Sweat Free Code of Conduct (cid:31) Biodiversity and Habitat
(cid:31) Code of Ethics (cid:31) Enterprise Risk Management 
environmental, social and governance  (cid:31) Performance and Career Development (cid:31) Material Sourcing and Sustainable 
(cid:31) Code of Business Conduct (cid:31) Fraud Risk Management 
Procurement
aspects to be followed by our  (cid:31) Health, Safety and Well-being
(cid:31) Group Compliance (cid:31) Crisis Management
(cid:31) Indoor Environmental Quality
employees. The ARA Sustainability  (cid:31) Drug-Free Workplace
(cid:31) Deal Allocation (cid:31) Outsourcing
(cid:31) Energy Consumption and Management
Policy is reviewed periodically and  (cid:31) Stakeholder Engagement
(cid:31) Anti-Bribery and Corruption (cid:31) Financial
(cid:31) Greenhouse Gas ("GHG") Emissions
reinforced, and any changes will be  (cid:31) Community Investment and Development
(cid:31) Conﬂicts of Interest (cid:31) Treasury  and Management
communicated to all employees. There  (cid:31) Related Parties Transactions (cid:31) Valuation  (cid:31) Quality of Assets & Services (cid:31) Waste Management 
were no incidences of non-compliance  (cid:31) Internal Code on Securities Dealing (cid:31) Cash Flow Management  (cid:31) Building Safety (cid:31) Water Consumption and Management 
with the ARA Sustainability Policy for  (cid:31) Anti-Money Laundering and (cid:31) Political Donations (cid:31) Communications
Counter Terrorism Financing
(cid:31) Personal Data Protection
the year. The following table illustrates  (cid:31) Staff Declarations
(cid:31) Reporting Suspicious Transactions 
(cid:31) Labor Management Relation
a non-exhaustive list of areas covered 
by the three ESG aspects. 
For further details, refer to Appendix C.
Sustainability Report 2019    |  18
Group CEO Message           Sustainability Approach           Governance           Social           Environmental           Appendices
BUSINESS ETHICS
Cybersecurity
AND COMPLIANCE  ARA recognizes the prevalent risk of 
cyber attacks and importance of our 
Information Technology ("IT") 
governance systems, which is part of 
Whistle Blowing Policy 
our Code of Business Conduct. While 
Our Whistle Blowing Policy is 
digitalization and connectivity are 
established to provide employees and  essential to our business, they could 
external parties a conﬁdential avenue to  expose ARA to potential IT threats, 
raise concerns about possible  which compromise the conﬁdentiality, 
improprieties without the fear of  integrity and availability of information 
systems. This could severely disrupt 
reprisal. Complaints can be made via 
Supply Chain Management
operations and pose serious risks to our 
email or the contact form on the ARA 
infrastructure, business and reputation. 
website, which will be routed to an  As part of compliance with our 
independent receiving ofﬁcer for  sustainability requirements, our 
Guided by our Cybersecurity Policy, we 
follow-up actions. The identity of the  suppliers are subject to a stringent 
have implemented various IT controls 
whistle-blower is protected while the  procurement process, which includes 
and processes such as ﬁrewalls, server 
Board determines whether further  adopting socially and environmentally 
encryption and restricted access rights. 
investigation is required by considering  responsible practices. We encourage 
These measures seek to prevent, detect 
the severity of issue raised and  our suppliers to adopt our core values 
and respond to threats concerning the 
credibility of the information provided.  and sustainability policies, where 
security and conﬁdentiality of data. In 
The Whistle Blowing Policy serves to  applicable. Performance of our suppliers 
addition, our Group IT has put in place 
maintain high standards of corporate  is evaluated annually and feedback for 
training workshops for employees on 
governance by providing a clearly  cybersecurity knowledge and sends  improvements are communicated. 
deﬁned process for addressing bona  regular communication to raise  Non-compliant suppliers risk having 
ﬁde complaints.  awareness of potential threats, such as  their contracts terminated and are 
phishing attacks and malware.  barred from providing future services. 
Sustainability Report 2019    |  19
Group CEO Message           Sustainability Approach           Governance           Social           Environmental           Appendices
ENTERPRISE RISK MANAGEMENT 
Risk Management and ERM Framework Risk Management Committee Risk Management
Internal Controls  Reporting Structure
The ERM Framework is administered 
Strategic
Risk management is an integral  by the Risk Management Committee 
ARA Board Level 
part of our business. The Board is  Long-term growth through  (“RMC”) which identiﬁes the key 
sound investment strategies, 
responsible for the Group’s risk  risks and sets out the appropriate  ARA Board
asset management and clear 
governance and determining the  mitigating actions and monitoring 
communications with 
risk tolerance and appetite of the  stakeholders mechanisms. The RMC reviews the  ARA Senior Management Level 
business. We have put in place an  risk proﬁles which highlight changes  Risk Management Committee: 
effective Enterprise Risk  Operational in the risk assessment, quantitative  Group CEO, Group COO,
Group CFO, Head of Legal & 
Management (“ERM”) Framework  and qualitative factors affecting the 
Day-to-day management of 
Compliance, Group Governance & 
which identiﬁes, monitors and  business operations (e.g.  inherent risk and effectiveness of 
Sustainability Senior Director
manages risks in our business.  people, processes and  mitigating controls to arrive at the 
systems)
This process of risk mitigation  residual risks. The ownership of 
Corporate Oversight Level 
categorizes key risks in terms of  these risks lies with the respective 
Group Governance & 
strategic, operational, ﬁnancial  Financial business unit CEOs with stewardship 
Sustainability Team
and compliance related risks.  Internal ﬁnancial  residing with the RMC and the 
management and controls
Board. Any material non-compliance 
Business Units Level 
or improvements are reported 
CEOs of Business Units
Compliance timely to the Board.  
Compliance with laws, 
regulations and license 
conditions to operate our 
businesses
Sustainability Report 2019    |  20
Group CEO Message           Sustainability Approach           Governance           Social           Environmental           Appendices
ENTERPRISE RISK MANAGEMENT 
Material ESG Issues ESG Risks Our Approach
Strategic Risks Market and Competition Our investment proposals are subject to a rigorous, disciplined and thorough process. We 
Given the geographical diversity of our business, we face signiﬁcant  assess the economic performance, sustainability and ESG-related risks of our assets. Asset 
Economic Performance competition across different markets in which we operate. Failure to  enhancement initiatives are carried out to ensure that our properties remain competitive and 
compete effectively in terms of price, market positioning and service levels  achieve sustainable growth. 
Quality of Assets and Services
could adversely affect our performance.
We seek to protect our environment through improving energy and water efﬁciencies, 
Environment: Energy and
Carbon Footprint, Water  Climate Change  implementing proper waste management in the properties we manage, reducing our 
consumption of natural resources and raising staff awareness on our commitment to combat 
Management We recognize climate change, including physical and transition risks, as 
climate change and support green causes. 
one of the key global risks that will impact our business in the long-term. 
Operational Risks
Human Capital We establish a human resource policy which includes remuneration, beneﬁts, personal 
People are our biggest asset. Attracting and retaining talent is  development and training opportunities. We promote equality, fairness, diversity and respect 
Employment Practices
crucial to the sustainability of our business and achieving  within an inclusive workplace to build an experienced and competent team to manage our 
performance.  business. ARA has a Group Insurance Policy which covers professional indemnity and 
Talent Retention and Development
directors’ and ofﬁcers’ liability, amongst others.
Quality of Assets and Services
Financial Risks Liquidity, Interest Rates, Credit Exposure and Foreign Exchange We ensure sufﬁcient and sustainable liquidity to meet our liabilities when due, under both 
The ability to meet short-term and long-term obligations and market  normal and stressed conditions in our cash-ﬂow projections. In addition, we hedge our 
Economic Performance ﬂuctuations arising from our business. ﬁnancial exposures to market ﬂuctuations and minimize losses.
Compliance Risks
Laws, Regulations and Compliance Guided by our core values and robust internal controls and sustainability policies, we 
We operate in many jurisdictions and are subject to various policies,  continue to observe the highest standards of corporate governance, accountability and 
Corporate Governance
statutory and regulatory requirements, including environmental  transparency in all aspects of our business. We closely monitor developments in the laws and 
obligations. regulations and regularly engage with local government authorities and agencies to provide 
Environmental Compliance
feedback on the changes. 
We strive to protect the environment and explore best-in-class sustainable practices in our 
operations. We believe in collaborating with our stakeholders to adopt environmentally 
responsible practices.
Sustainability Report 2019    |  21
Group CEO Message           Sustainability Approach           Governance           Social           Environmental           Appendices
ENGAGING THE
ARA’s Representative  Industry Body and Appointment
INDUSTRY 
Justin Chiu
ARA Group Chairman Hong Kong General Chamber 
of Commerce, Representative
To further ARA’s sustainability cause, 
our senior management holds key 
John Lim
appointments on various industry  ARA Group CEO
Singapore Chinese Chamber  Asia Paciﬁc Real Estate  Securities Investors  Consultative Committee to
of Commerce & Industry, Association (APREA),  Association (Singapore),  the Department of Real 
bodies. This allows us to have active 
Council Member             Chairman                                    P  a  t r  o  n                                          E  s  t a  te, Chairman         
engagement with the industry, provide 
feedback to authorities and share  Ng Beng Tiong
sustainability initiatives and ideas with  ARA Assistant Group CEO
Real Estate Developers'  Singapore Institute of  Business China, 
Group COO
our stakeholders. The following table  Association of Singapore,  Directors, Representative          R   e  p  r e  s  e  n  t a  t i v  e                   
Representative                                                                                           
shows some of the afﬁliations with 
industry bodies, amongst others. Chia Nam Toon
ARA Assistant Group CEO 
ARA Private Funds (Logistics Real  REIT Association of Singapore,
Estate) & Special Projects Treasurer
Tang Boon Kang
ARA Group Governance &
Sustainability Senior Director  Singapore Green Building  Global Real Estate Sustainability 
Council, Representative Benchmark (Real Estate Membership)           
David Kim
ARA Private Funds
Asian Association for Investors in Non-listed 
(APAC Real Estate) CEO
Real Estate Vehicles, Representative
Sustainability Report 2019    |  22
Group CEO Message           Sustainability Approach           Governance           Social           Environmental           Appendices
ENGAGING THE
INDUSTRY 
ARA’s Representative  Industry Body and Appointment
Anthony Kang
ARA Korea CEO
Korean Association of Real Estate Investment 
Trusts, Board Member and Vice Chairman
David Blight
ARA Australia CEO
Australian Institute of Company  Property Council of 
Directors, Representative Australia, Representative
Anthony Yip
Singapore Standards Council,  Singapore International 
APM Group Deputy Chairman 
Services Standards Committee,  Facility Management 
Co-Chairman                                          A   s  s o  c  i a  t i o   n  , Representative
Justina Chiu
Fortune REIT CEO 
APREA Hong Kong Chapter, Board Member
Mavis Wong
Prosperity REIT CEO Hong Kong Institute of Directors, 
Representative                                                            
Jin Lee
ARA US Hospitality Trust CEO
American Hotel & Lodging Association, 
Representative 
Arun Madhok
Suntec Singapore Convention & 
Singapore International Chamber of Commerce, 
Exhibition Centre CEO
Hospitality Services Committee, Representative                                                                                                                                                                
Sustainability Report 2019    |  23
Group CEO Message           Sustainability Approach           Governance           Social           Environmental           Appendices
Strategic Pillar: People & Community 01
Growing With ARA   
SOCIAL   
02
ARA is committed to providing our employees with an inclusive and diverse work 
Engaging Our Staff
environment and empowering them to learn and grow with the organization. We 
believe that social responsibility is part of our central tenet as it determines the 
harmonious and synergistic relationship between the company and its stakeholders, 
particularly the employees.
03
This section of the report describes our employees’ demographics, illustrates some of 
our social activities within the communities and shows how our properties can improve 
Giving Back To Our
the quality of life, comfort and connectivity for our occupiers. This is fundamental to 
achieving our goals of building a positive and socially sustainable workplace  Communities
environment.
04
Best-In-Class Assets   
And Services
Sustainability Report 2019    |  24
Group CEO Message           Sustainability Approach           Governance           Social           Environmental           Appendices
AT A GLANCE
Giving Back To Best-In-Class Assets
Growing With ARA  Engaging Our Staff 
Our Communities  And Services 
40
Global Staff Strength  Nationalities  Female Representation
Across The Group 
~1,200
21 Average Training
45% ARA and ARA -
Hours Per Employee Properties conducted
Lim Hoon Foundation
tenant satisfaction
31
Across 9 countries  S$4million
4 survey
Hours
ARA 2019 Donations
New Female Number Of Employees Voluntary
22
Hires In 2019  Who Have Taken Attrition Rate S$325K
>
Parental Leave
%
52% 51 maintained Workplace Benefitted Properties with AEI
compared Satisfaction Score
41Charity upgrades over the past
to 2018 
4.2 5.0
Organizations  3 years
Average Average Lost Employee Employees Number of CSR
3
Absentee Rate Day Rate  Discrimination & Participated in Events Organized
Workplace
Unlawful Labor
Employee Survey 
29
2% 0.2% 0 75% Properties with
cases
end-of-trip facilities
upgrade
Sustainability Report 2019    |  25
4 
   Inclusive of dollar-to-dollar matching from the Ministry of Education's Matching Grant.
Group CEO Message           Sustainability Approach           Governance           Social           Environmental           Appendices
GROWING WITH ARA
An Inclusive Workplace
ARA fosters an inclusive workplace that embraces ideas and views 
from our employees. We believe this enables innovative strategies 
and better decision making that provide us with a competitive 
advantage in today’s market. We create an environment where 
teamwork and collaboration across business units are vital to our 
business, where employees feel engaged working together. 
We attract, develop and retain the best-qualiﬁed employees by 
committing to fair pay practices which comply with local laws and 
Lim Hwee Chiang John
regulations. ARA also promotes a responsible sustainability culture by 
Group CEO
integrating ESG factors into the employees’ performance assessment.
As we adapt to the challenges posed by COVID-19, we place the 
ARA’s social objectives are as follows: 
safety and well-being of our employees as our top priority, ensuring 
that they have the necessary support. 
1 Being the employer of choice and advocate of diversity & inclusion
2 Contributing through community involvement and philanthropy
3 Achieving best-in-class assets and services
Sustainability Report 2019    |  26
Group CEO Message           Sustainability Approach           Governance           Social           Environmental           Appendices
GROWING WITH ARA
An Inclusive Workplace
Global Staff Strength Nationalities
2019 2019
Singapore 587 Singaporean 450
China 389 Chinese 438
Malaysia 131 Malaysian 194
Hong Kong SAR 35 Australian 28
Australia 23 Korean 19
Korea 20 American 8
United States 4 Others5 56
United Kingdom 3
Japan 1
Total 1,193 Total 1,193
5 
   Others comprises of British, French, German, Italian, Austrian, Hungarian, Romanian , Estonian, Canadian, Japanese,
     Filipinos, Indian, Indonesian, Vietnamese and Burmese.
Sustainability Report 2019    |  27
Group CEO Message           Sustainability Approach           Governance           Social           Environmental           Appendices
GROWING WITH ARA
A Diversified Culture
ARA believes that diversity in the workplace is an engine for the  employees. Our efforts in staff retention contributed to a 
company’s long-term growth and success. Aligned with our core  steady decline in new hire rate, while the turnover rate 
values of Respect, Excellence, Integrity and Teamwork, our  maintained constant.
belief in diversity would bring ideas and experiences to create a   
harmonious environment. Our goal is to foster a dynamic and diverse work culture to 
empower employees to succeed both personally and 
As an equal opportunity employer, the remuneration ratio of  professionally which would in turn, enable ARA to compete 
men and women is generally on par across various levels. More  in today’s complex and interconnected world. 
than half of our new hires during 2019 comprised female  The people are the best part 
about working in ARA. It has 
Gender Diversity Age Diversity Management Diversity been a joy interacting with 
various colleagues within the 
40% 43% 45% 20% 18% 18% 5% 6% 7%
organization. I feel fortunate to 
25% 30% 31% be able to work alongside several 
bosses over the past 14 years, all 
of whom have been kind, 
supportive and encouraging.
62% 66% 68%
Janice Phoon
Assistant Director,
Senior Management
> 50 Yrs Old
Group Administration
Middle Management
Female 30 - 50 Yrs Old
60% 57% 55% 18% 16% 14% 70% 64% 62% Senior Executive
Male < 30 Yrs Old & Below
2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019
Sustainability Report 2019    |  28
Group CEO Message           Sustainability Approach           Governance           Social           Environmental           Appendices
GROWING WITH ARA
A Learning Eco-System In ARA
Investing in employees’ professional development is vital to developing a 
sustainable competitive advantage for our business. Training & Development 
helps our employees with their career progression by equipping them with 
relevant skills and knowledge to improve performance, enhance employee 
engagement and retention, and increase employee empowerment.
At ARA, we support our employees’ career development by providing 
self-directed and structured training programs, via our learning eco-system. 
We believe in the ‘70-20-10’ learning model, where 70% of learning is 
acquired from experience through the integration of knowledge and skills 
application at workplace. The next 20% of learning stems from collaborative 
work with colleagues and the supervisor’s mentorship. The remaining 10% 
comes from structured platform of learning through seminars, forums, 
training workshops and online classes. 
Based on each employee’s Learning Needs Analysis, employees focus on 
their learning growth plan and track their training hours and progress 
through the Human Resources ("HR") Information System. Above all, we 
believe that employees are our biggest asset and investing in our human 
capital is pivotal to our sustainable business growth and success. 
Sustainability Report 2019    |  29
Group CEO Message           Sustainability Approach           Governance           Social           Environmental           Appendices
GROWING WITH ARA
A Learning Eco-System In ARA
Case Study
Average Training Hours Per Employment Category and Gender
DISC Profile - Are You A ‘Achiever, Coach, Evaluator Or Perfectionist?’
2017 2018 2019
ARA employees gathered at the Suntec Singapore Convention Centre for a day of 
Senior Management 32  30  29 
learning and self-discovery of personality and teams’ proﬁles. Employees were asked to 
draw their individual DISC graph and create a visual representation of ‘self’ and ‘others’  Middle Management 40  35  44 
within the team. The DISC proﬁle covers four styles, namely dominance, inﬂuence, 
Senior Executive & Below 21  23  25 
steadiness and conscientiousness. Employees proceeded to analyze the DISC proﬁles 
Male 26  27  32 
of team members, review and discuss how they can work towards being an effective 
Female 28 27 29
team and leverage on team synergies. The workshop ended with a fun Trafﬁc Jam 
activity, involving teams working together in a fast and coordinated manner. 
Sustainability Report 2019    |  30
Group CEO Message           Sustainability Approach           Governance           Social           Environmental           Appendices
GROWING WITH ARA
Case Study
Champion For Family
Bring Your Kids To Work Day
Besides fair pay and treatment, ARA provides comprehensive beneﬁts to attract 
ARA Singapore’s ﬁrst Bring Your 
and retain employees. These beneﬁts are introduced based on feedback gathered 
Kids to Work Day was a successful 
from employee surveys and focus on employees’ health and well-being:
event enjoyed by both the children 
1 Health benefits such as clinical consultation including specialist, and parents alike. Over 40 children 
dental and health check-up
got a glimpse into their parents' 
2 Insurance benefits such as personal accident and group hospital & surgical  work lives as they toured the ARA 
coverage
Singapore ofﬁce before enjoying 
some fun activities such as 
3 Leave benefits such as annual, medical, childcare and compassionate 
lantern-making and yummy snacks. 
4 Other benefits such as staggered working hours, season parking, mobile 
This activity, amongst others 
phone allowance, staff cafeteria, subsidized fitness center membership and 
planned during the year, is part of 
corporate membership to local attractions
ARA’s dedication towards 
Our employees enjoyed paternity and maternity beneﬁts to care for their 
“Champion For Family”.
young children. Upon their return to work, they remained in the same or 
comparable positions.
Parental Leave
2017 2018 2019
Paternity Leave 23 14 17
Maternity Leave 22 25 34
45 39 51
Sustainability Report 2019    |  31
Group CEO Message           Sustainability Approach           Governance           Social           Environmental           Appendices
Bond Over Breakfast Session Decoupage Activity ARA Family Day
ENGAGING OUR STAFF
Social Cohesion
Besides an inclusive and diverse workplace, ARA also believes that investing in social 
cohesion is key to fostering workplace productivity and a positive culture, where 
employees build the bonds of collegiate camaraderie.
Blood Donation Drive Kayaking Challenge Fun with Ropes
Our ofﬁce design and layout encourage social interaction and provide them with a 
conducive environment to promote exchange of ideas and innovations. The ARA ofﬁce 
is equipped with collaboration areas, meeting rooms, open concept workstations and 
phone booths. All employees are also provided with IT tools with instant messaging for 
ease of closer communication.
As an extension to our social cohesion within ARA, we strive to maintain a healthy  Rock with Music ARA Got Talent  Art Jamming
workplace dynamic and organize various activities which include:
1 Employee get-togethers such as annual dinner & dance, family day, team 
cohesion activities, bond over breakfast sessions and festive celebrations
2 Employee well-being such as annual health screening, weekly fruit snacks, 
healthy foods & drinks at the pantry and fitness activities (e.g. Zumba, runs 
and yoga)
Igloo Experience Lunch Talk - Aromatherapy Workshop
3 Lunch talks on topics such as mental & emotional well-being, health and  The Art of Living Naturally
nutritional meals
4 Health & safety awareness such as First Aid course and CPR know-how  
Sustainability Report 2019    |  32
Group CEO Message           Sustainability Approach           Governance           Social           Environmental           Appendices
ENGAGING OUR STAFF
Employee Engagement
Work hard, play hard. At ARA, employees' 
welfare is well taken care of. There are many 
ARA believes that employee communication is an essential tool to maintain strong 
health and well-being lunch talks, CSR 
working relationships among employees, build trust and increase work satisfaction. 
activities, team and cohesion events to create 
Effective employee communication encompasses connection, communication and 
a healthy and happy inclusive workplace.
interaction through various platforms to understand their views and gather feedback. 
Lim Jia Ying
Below are some examples of us reaching out to our employees:
Group Finance Analyst
Town Hall 
Meeting
Publications 
Lunch with 
(InsideARA, ARA 
Case Study
CEO for new  Surveys 
Training Connect, ARA 
joiners
SG Administration & IT,  (Workplace 
Excellence In Workplace Well-Being 2019
etc.) Survey, Employee 
Well-Being 
Business 
ARA is honored to receive the 
Survey, etc.)
Strategy 
Excellence in Workplace Well-Being 
Meeting
award at the HR Excellence Awards 
ceremony. The HR Excellence Awards 
is one of Asia’s most renowned and 
Adopting an open-door policy, employees can raise any concerns and request for a fair  respected HR awards that honor 
organizations with excellence in 
review on issues related to their employment. This includes harassment, grievance 
workplace well-being. The award 
handling and whistleblowing guidelines which protect our employees from retaliatory 
recognizes ARA’s efforts to provide a 
actions. 
conducive, collaborative and 
supportive environment for our 
employees so that they can focus on 
delivering their best for the company. 
Sustainability Report 2019    |  33
Group CEO Message           Sustainability Approach           Governance           Social           Environmental           Appendices
GIVING BACK TO Blood Donation Drive
The Purple Parade
Participated in a blood 
OUR COMMUNITIES Celebrated the abilities of 
donation drive in 
persons with special needs 
Metropolis Tower in 
at Suntec City in Singapore
Hong Kong SAR
ARA Cares - ‘Enriching Minds, Touching Hearts’
Sacred Heart
Shoreline Clean-Up Day
Mission Kitchen
Cleaned up a beach along 
Prepared and served 
the Ma On Shan shoreline in
nutritious meals to the 
As a responsible and empathetic corporate citizen, ARA 
Hong Kong SAR
homeless in Australia
believes in contributing to the economic and social 
development of communities. Besides charitable 
donations, we encourage our employees to volunteer their 
time in supporting a common cause. This enables us to 
Northern Power Ride Educational Tour
gain a sense of purpose and fulﬁllment, and to help 
Completed a two-day  Brought My First Skool 
improve the lives of others. Dedicating their time to the 
300km ride to raise  preschool children and 
volunteering work, our employees embrace kindness, 
charities for vulnerable  their parents on an 
patience and resilience which bring positivity to the  children and the homeless  educational tour of the 
in the United Kingdom Singapore Zoo
workplace. Examples of our interaction with the 
communities are as follow.
Farm Visit
Tree Planting Day
Hosted a visit to Our 
Planted trees as part of   Hands Farm for students 
countryside conservation  from low income families 
work in Hong Kong SAR in Hong Kong SAR
Sustainability Report 2019    |  34
Group CEO Message           Sustainability Approach           Governance           Social           Environmental           Appendices
GIVING BACK TO
Sponsorship
OUR COMMUNITIES
Lim Hoon Foundation
Bursary Awards
Education and Scholarships
ARA Group CEO Mr John Lim and his 
family ofﬁce gave out bursary awards to 
154 recipients from the Mountbatten 
and Jurong Spring Citizens’ Consultative 
Interning At ARA
Committee Communities. To-date, close 
to 970 bursaries are awarded to needy 
During my time with ARA, I was 
students to support and encourage their 
amazed by the efﬁciency of the team. 
all-rounded achievements. 
They worked extremely cohesively 
and through this stint, I understood 
the importance of teamwork and great 
leadership. On top of that, as I was 
lacking some experience in this ﬁeld, 
ARA, together with Lim Hoon Foundation, a private charitable trust named in honor of
my colleagues provided valuable 
Mr John Lim’s late father, has collectively made an endowed contribution of S$4 million (with 
guidance that was crucial to my 
one-to-one matching from the Ministry of Education’s Matching Grant) to establish the ARA 
Asset Management Scholarship and Lim Hoon Foundation Scholarship with the Singapore  learning. They even entrusted me with 
Management University (“SMU”). a wide variety of tasks so that I could 
have various hands-on experiences 
The scholarships are awarded yearly in perpetuity and are bond-free. The goal is to motivate 
which I truly appreciate.
students to achieve greater heights and build a better future for themselves and their families. 
We believe that this creates a social multiplier effect which uplifts the local communities. 
Leonard Tee, a 1st year student at SMU 
who joined ARA US Hospitality Trust on 
The scholarships are available to full-time undergraduate students, with ﬁnancial needs, from 
an internship and extended three months 
the Lee Kong Chian School of Business, the School of Accountancy, or the School of 
with a part-time position. 
Economics. In addition, the scholars are offered internship and job opportunities with ARA.
Sustainability Report 2019    |  35
Group CEO Message           Sustainability Approach           Governance           Social           Environmental           Appendices
BEST-IN-CLASS ASSETS
Case Study
AND SERVICES
Installation of End-of-Trip Facility At 300 Queen Street
ARA believes that high quality assets and property 
Understanding and 
management services improve the quality of life, 
addressing the needs of 
comfort and connectivity for our occupiers. This in  tenants and shoppers
turn attracts good tenants and high footfall, which 
generate higher investment returns. We focus on 
Knowledgeable in 
acquiring well-maintained assets in strategic 
tenders' specifications 
locations and improving the operational efﬁciency 
and design
of these properties. We are constantly investing in 
Property Technology initiatives to drive innovation 
and productivity in our property management 
Professionalism in 
operations and to transform our properties into 
property management 
smart buildings.  and procurement
High level of tenant satisfaction directly attributes 
to successful tenant retention, which generates  Control of cost, timing 
and delivery of products 
sustainable rental revenue for our properties. 
and services Our A-Grade ofﬁce asset, 300 Queen Street in Brisbane has received 1st place in the 
Tenants’ feedback is gathered from a variety of 
“Wellness” category at the 2019 Polytec Design Awards for its state-of-the-art 
channels such as surveys, face-to-face meetings and 
end-of-trip facilities. This project ensures that the facilities are being upgraded to 
site visits to understand their needs and concerns. 
Minimizing disruptions 
meet and exceed tenants’ expectations. This adds value to the cyclists’ experience 
We hold ourselves to the following principles to 
to business operations 
coming to work and promotes a healthy lifestyle for our occupiers. 
provide high quality solutions for our tenants: of tenants
Sustainability Report 2019    |  36
Group CEO Message           Sustainability Approach           Governance           Social           Environmental           Appendices
Strategic Pillar: Environmental Sustainability 01
Environmental
Stewardship   
ENVIRONMENTAL    02
Energy And Emissions
ARA is committed to minimizing our environmental impact as a real assets  Management
fund manager. We believe that effective management of our assets will lower 
our environmental footprint, help conserve natural resources and combat 
climate change.
03
This section of the report describes our environmental stewardship approach 
and efforts towards improving energy and water efﬁciencies and proper waste  Water Resource
management. Our concerted efforts have been recognized by industry peers  Management
through numerous environmental certiﬁcates and awards globally.
04
Waste Management   
Sustainability Report 2019    |  37
Group CEO Message           Sustainability Approach           Governance           Social           Environmental           Appendices
AT A GLANCE
Energy And Emissions
Environmental Stewardship Water Resource Management Waste Management
Management
Environmental GRESB Energy Consumption and Intensity Water Consumption
Certificates For  Participation For 339.6
GWh  1,368,711
m3 
46 6
18.0
kWh/sqft  4,983
11.3%
kg
Buildings  REITs/Funds    
compared to 2018
1.2%
 in energy of paper recycled
intensity compared to 2018
Sustainability Launched ARA GHG Emissions and Intensity Water Consumption Intensity
Reports Issued For  Property DNA 
162,825
0.1
tonnes CO e 
2 m3/sqft
10 5 8.6
Pillars  kgCO e/sqft 
11.3% 700
2
tonnes
  
REITs/Funds compared to 2018
1.3%
 
in GHG emissions of material waste recycled
intensity compared to 2018
Green Loans Renewable Energy Generated  Rainwater Harvested
Establishment Of 
Obtained 
Green Finance
5,683 4,648
A$450million MWh in 2019 m3 in 2019
Framework 10,772
tonnes
of non-hazardous waste
properly disposed
Sustainability Report 2019    |  38
Group CEO Message           Sustainability Approach           Governance           Social           Environmental           Appendices
ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP
Growing Focus On Climate Risk
Environmental
Key Highlights
Climate change poses a critical threat to all businesses and 
Stewardship Objectives
communities around the world. According to the National 
Aeronautics and Space Administration, 19 of the 20 warmest years 
Foster an environmentally Dialogue sessions with investors on sustainability 
have occurred since 2001, with the exception of 1998. Rising  philosophy and initiatives
friendly culture as part of
temperatures cause the most severe climate change impacts,  our stakeholders’ engagement Corporate memberships and participations in GRESB 
and Singapore Green Building Council
which include frequent and intense heat waves, rising sea levels 
and prolonged droughts. These catastrophes have a direct adverse  Environmental training for our employees
effect on our properties and the communities which we operate in.
Incorporate environmental Installed over 21,000 rooftop solar panels on our 
considerations in our assets logistics properties, which include the ALOG 
Buildings contribute approximately 40% of the global energy 
Commodity Hub, Pandan Logistics Hub and 
consumption and GHG emissions and 25% of water consumption 
ALOG Changi DistriCentre 1
worldwide. With this in mind, we are conscious of the 
environmental impact of our business operations. We are 
Improve energy, water and Reduction of 1.3% in GHG emissions intensity and 
committed to strengthening our resource management towards  waste management efficiencies 11.3% in water consumption intensity 
the conservation of natural resources and enhancing our 
operational efﬁciencies to create sustainable value for our assets. 
Comply with environmental No material ﬁnes or penalties imposed at our 
The following tables show ARA’s environmental stewardship 
properties
laws and regulations
objectives and climate-related risks.
Sustainability Report 2019    |  39
Group CEO Message           Sustainability Approach           Governance           Social           Environmental           Appendices
ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP
Growing Focus On Climate Risk
Type of Risk Description of Risk Mitigating Action
Climate events such as rising sea levels, ﬂoods, wildﬁres,  Detailed due diligence studies are undertaken to 
heatwaves and droughts may result in physical damage  identify potential environmental risks for our 
Physical Risk to our assets, increase in insurance premiums and higher  acquisitions
operational costs for heating and cooling needs
Business Continuity Plans are put in place and 
evacuation drills are performed regularly
Asset enhancement initiatives and technological 
upgrades are carried out to improve the assets, 
Depletion of natural resources will lead to higher  incorporate green features and optimize energy 
operational costs and water efﬁciencies
Transition Risk
Stricter regulations on building standards and 
Compliance with local building standards and 
introduction of carbon tax in countries where we 
environmental regulations
operate 
Diversify our energy sources, including the use of 
Increasing use of green ﬁnancing and leasing 
renewable energy
requirements for green features in the buildings
Sustainability Report 2019    |  40
Group CEO Message           Sustainability Approach           Governance           Social           Environmental           Appendices
ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP
ARA Property DNA  
Strategic Pillar
ESG
We embarked on the ARA Property DNA 
initiative to create real estate experiences  Focus Area
Physical, Financial, 
transforming space as a service and going 
Environmental, 
Focus Area
beyond brick and mortar to inspire and engage 
Strategic Pillar Mechanical & 
Environmental: Green building 
Asset Electrical, Security & 
our customers. The ARA Property DNA deﬁnes 
certiﬁcates, energy and water 
Amenities and 
the soul and substance of the properties we  efﬁciencies and waste management
Building Management
manage, and the initiative is pioneered by 
Social: Employees’ and tenants’ health 
cross-functional team members from across  and safety, employment practices and 
community engagements
regions. We analyze and streamline the essential 
standards and features an ARA property should  Governance: Policies and controls, risk 
Focus Area
Strategic Pillar management, cybersecurity and 
have across ﬁve key strategic pillars – Asset, 
Front-end Systems,     Energy efficiency optimization is 
Technology 
regulatory compliance
ESG, Technology, Customer Experience &  Back-end Systems, 
never a one-off upgrading 
Enterprise Systems, 
Engagement and Operations – allowing us to 
exercise. We have to continuously 
Analytics and Digital 
implement the best-in-class practices with  Loyalty Program
upkeep the systems through 
exceptional property management services.  
Strategic Pillar proper equipment maintenance 
Operations
Strategic Pillar
and keep a lookout for further 
Customer
Focus Area
The subsequent environmental sections cover 
Experience improvement by embracing 
Operations Control, 
the energy, water and waste information  Focus Area & Engagement 
Customer Services & Tenant  advancing property technology.
Customer Experience, 
Management, Management 
relating to our REITs and Private Funds business 
Community 
Control, Financial Control, 
units, which are included in the scope of this 
Engagements and  Procurement, IT, Leasing and  Lucas Tan
Marketing 
report (collectively referred as “Reporting  Marketing Communications
Engineering Manager
Communications
Entities”). See details in the Methodological 
Review in Appendix D.
Sustainability Report 2019    |  41
Group CEO Message           Sustainability Approach           Governance           Social           Environmental           Appendices
ENERGY AND EMISSIONS
MANAGEMENT
ARA’s energy usage is derived from a mix of direct and indirect 
sources. Direct energy source makes up approximately 3% and is 
produced by the burning of fuel on-site for operational purposes. This  1 2
provides energy for heating, cooking and use of backup generators at 
the properties. The rest of our energy usage is from indirect source, 
Upgraded heating, ventilation,  Redesigned lighting layouts 
which is produced by external electricity suppliers through the grid.
and air conditioning (“HVAC”)  and installation of 
systems energy-efficient lightings
With grid electricity being the main source of energy, such 
consumption by our properties will indirectly translate into carbon 
emissions into the environment. At ARA, we recognize the importance 
of reducing our carbon footprint through the efﬁcient use of energy 
and this reduces our operational cost to yield a higher investment 
return. While we do not have operational control over our tenants’ 
electricity consumption, considerable efforts have been deployed at 
the property-level to foster energy conservation, raise environmental 
awareness and enhance the green features of our buildings. Some of 
3 4
the key initiatives implemented are as follow.
Utilized motion sensors to turn  Provided green fit-out and 
off facilities and equipment  refurbishment assistance to 
when not in use tenants and recommended 
green suppliers 
Sustainability Report 2019    |  42
Group CEO Message           Sustainability Approach           Governance           Social           Environmental           Appendices
ENERGY AND EMISSIONS
MANAGEMENT
The graphs below illustrate our absolute energy consumption and intensity and their corresponding GHG emissions for our Reporting 
Entities. The increase in total energy consumption was due to the expansion of our business operations. However, we managed to 
reduce the energy intensity through various initiatives described within this report. Accordingly, our GHG emissions intensity also 
decreased during the year. 
Energy Consumption and Intensity GHG Emissions and Intensity
Two of our assets in Malaysia, namely 
)
Wh 400.0 25.0 ) 180,000 12.0 1 Mont Kiara and Ipoh Parade, 
e 9.6
nsumption (G 232300550000....0000 19.4 18.2 18.0 2150.0.0 Intensity (kEnergy Con s (tonnes CO2 11110468200000,,,,,000000000000000 8.7 8.6 1860..00.0  Intensity (kgGHG Em rAInelvcloeewsivtamendec nteht f erD oGemvree telhonep  ImnMveaelnastty mAsiuaetnnh to Traitxy . 
Co 150.0 10.0 Wsu on 152,247 155,213 156,717 COiss
Energy  10500..00 320.3 334.0 339.6 5.0 h/sqft)mption G Emissi 462000,,,000000000 42..00 2e/sqftions Tthheis o tpatxi malilzoawtiaonnc we owrakss  gcararrniteedd o fuotr  at 
tal  0.0 0.0 GH 0 6,073 5,108 6,108 0.0 )
o 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019
T the malls' chillers and energy 
management systems. 
Energy Consumption Energy Intensity Scope 1 Scope 2 GHG Emissions Intensity
2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019
Total Energy Consumption (GWh) 320.3  334.0  339.6  Scope 1 GHG Emissions (tonnes CO e) 6,073 5,108 6,108
2
Energy Consumption Intensity (kWh/sqft) 19.4 18.2 18.0 Scope 2 GHG Emissions (tonnes CO e) 152,247 155,213 156,717
2
GHG Emissions Intensity (kgCO e/sqft) 9.6  8.7 8.6
2
Sustainability Report 2019    |  43
Group CEO Message           Sustainability Approach           Governance           Social           Environmental           Appendices
ENERGY AND EMISSIONS
MANAGEMENT
Green Initiatives
Case Study
Green initiatives have been 
Suntec City incorporated to improve the ofﬁce 
towers’ energy and water efﬁciencies. 
Asset Enhancement Initiative The ﬁtting out materials used are 
Suntec City is an iconic integrated  environmentally friendly products 
commercial development in Singapore  certiﬁed by the Singapore Green 
comprising ﬁve ofﬁce towers, a  Building Council. Common areas have 
convention center and a retail mall. In  been retroﬁtted with energy-efﬁcient 
2019, our property management  LED lightings which reduce electricity 
company, APM, commenced on an  consumption by up to 40%. The light 
asset enhancement initiative at the  ﬁxtures in the washrooms operate via 
ofﬁce towers, which entails upgrading  motion sensors to conserve electricity. 
the main lobby halls, common  Water-efﬁcient labelled ﬁttings are 
corridors, security access systems and  installed with adjusted ﬂow rate to 
washrooms conﬁgurations.  save water. At the chiller plant, 
reconﬁgurations have been made to 
achieve a load efﬁciency exceeding 
that of the BCA GreenMark Platinum 
requirement.
Sustainability Report 2019    |  44
Group CEO Message           Sustainability Approach           Governance           Social           Environmental           Appendices
WATER RESOURCE
MANAGEMENT
Of all the water in existence on Earth, less than 1%6 is usable  The graph below illustrates the absolute water consumption 
by humans. Driven by rising populations and economic  and intensity for our Reporting Entities. Despite the expansion 
development, the demand for water continues to increase  of our business operations, we managed to decrease our overall 
globally, far exceeding available supplies. Doing our part for  water consumption and intensity through various initiatives 
water conservation, we strive to optimize our water  described within this report.
efﬁciencies and minimize wastage at our properties. We 
implemented various initiatives, which include the following: Water Consumption and Intensity
Case Study
1,800 0.120
) Harvesting Rainwater
3 0.104
m
1,600 0.098
1 Installed stormwater collection systems to store  0  0.093 0.100
0 1,400 IW
n
rainwater for non-potable uses  0 ta
n (’ 1,200 0.080 enster Rainwater harvesting is practiced across 
tio 1,000 0.060 ity Co
2 Maintained leak detection system for early warning of  ump 800   (mnsu several of our properties in Australia and 
water leakage and damage  s 600 0.040 /3m
n sp Hong Kong SAR. Rather than allowing 
o 400 qt
er C 200 1,398 1,542 1,369 0.020 ft)ion the rainwater to run off, our storage 
3 Upgraded washrooms with auto shut-off valve  t
a
W 0 0.000
systems and water-efficient labelled fittings 2017 2018 2019 tanks on the rooftops collect, ﬁlter and 
reuse the rainwater for greenery 
Water Consumption Water Consumption Intensity
4 Raised awareness on the importance of water 
irrigation and washing purposes. This 
conservation among employees, tenants and visitors
reduces our operational reliance on 
2017 2018 2019
non-potable water and helps in water 
Water Consumption (’000 m3) 1,398  1,542 1,369
conservation. 
  
Water Consumption Intensity (m3/sqft) 0.098 0.104 0.093
6 
   Extracted from National Geographic Resource Library.
Sustainability Report 2019    |  45
Group CEO Message           Sustainability Approach           Governance           Social           Environmental           Appendices
WASTE
MANAGEMENT
ARA adopts the 3R's of waste 
management – Reduce, Reuse and 
Recycle, which leads to responsible 
waste management practices. The goal 
Organized campaigns and  Increased placement of 
is to conserve natural resources, lessen 
placed posters to raise  recycle bins at 
the amount of waste going to landﬁlls  environmental awareness  strategic and high 
among our tenants and  traffic areas 
and incineration and reduce harm to the 
shoppers 
environment. At our properties, majority 
of the waste is generated by the tenants 
and shoppers. While we do not have 
direct control over their waste 
production, considerable efforts were 
deployed to encourage good waste 
management practices at our 
properties. Some implemented key 
initiatives include the following.
Purchased biodegradable  Disposed of hazardous 
products such as  and non-hazardous 
eco-friendly toiletries waste in accordance 
and stationeries  with local regulations
Sustainability Report 2019    |  46
Group CEO Message           Sustainability Approach           Governance           Social           Environmental           Appendices
APPENDICES 
The following appendices form  A B C
part of the ARA Sustainability 
Report and contain detailed 
Stakeholder Engagement Regulatory Licenses    Sustainability Policies   
information which should be 
read in conjunction with the 
various sections in the report. 
D E
Methodological Review    GRI Content Index  
Sustainability Report 2019    |  47
Group CEO Message           Sustainability Approach           Governance           Social           Environmental           Appendices
APPENDIX A: STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT
The following table illustrates the interests of our key stakeholders and methods of our engagement:
Stakeholders Interests of Stakeholders  Methods of Engagement
Investors Corporate governance Robust combination of face-to-face, written and broadcast communications, 
○ ○
Growth strategy and business outlook including investor meetings, roadshows, research papers and media exposure 
○
○ Financial and non-ﬁnancial performance ○ Regular ﬁnancial, investor and sustainability reports 
○ Sustainability efforts ○ Newsletters
Tenants ○ Rental rates ○ Tenant satisfaction surveys
○ Quality of assets and services ○ Site visits, enquiries and feedback channels
○ Shoppers’ trafﬁc and mall publicity ○ Marketing and promotional campaigns
○ Health and safety ○ Green ﬁt-out and refurbishment assistance
Green standards and features in buildings
○
Suppliers ○ Pricing and contractual terms  ○ Pre-qualiﬁcation assessment
○ Health and safety ○ Suppliers' performance evaluation
Safety brieﬁngs and declarations 
○
Community ○ Community development programs ○ Community work and volunteering activities
○ Business impacts on the environment and society ○ Sponsorships, scholarships and donations
Consumers ○ Diversity of retail mix ○ Customer service counters
○ Health and safety ○ Surveys and feedback channels
○ Quality of assets and services ○ Marketing and promotional campaigns
Social media platforms
○
Employees ○ Company performance  ○ Face-to-face, written and formal communications
○ Career development and training opportunities  ○ Employee satisfaction surveys and internal publications 
○ Employment practices, remuneration and beneﬁts ○ Training and development programs
○ Health, safety and wellness ○ Social cohesion activities
Workplace diversity
○
Sustainability Report 2019    |  48
Group CEO Message           Sustainability Approach           Governance           Social           Environmental           Appendices
APPENDIX B: REGULATORY LICENSES
The following table sets out the countries where our business units operate in, and the respective regulators and licenses:
Country Name of Regulator  Licenses
Singapore Monetary Authority of Singapore Capital Markets Services Licence – REIT, Fund Management, Dealing in Capital Markets 
○ ○
Products (Securities)
Exempt Financial Adviser - Advising on Investment Products (Securities)
○
○ Singapore Exchange ○ Listing Rules
○ Registry of Moneylenders, Ministry of Law ○ Moneylender Licence under the Moneylenders Act (Cap 188)
Hong Kong SAR ○ Securities and Futures Commission ○ Type 9 Licence (Asset Management)
Korea ○ Ministry of Land, Infrastructure and Transport ○ Asset Management Company under Real Estate Investment Company Act
○ Financial Supervisory Service ○ Professional Private Fund Investment Business under Capital Market Act
Australia ○ Australian Securities and Investments Commission ○ Australia Financial Services Licence
United Kingdom ○ Financial Conduct Authority (“FCA”) ○ FCA Licence
Sustainability Report 2019    |  49
Group CEO Message           Sustainability Approach           Governance           Social           Environmental           Appendices
APPENDIX C: SUSTAINABILITY POLICIES
The following table illustrates a list of Group-wide policies:
Governance Social Environmental
Board Diversity Group Compliance Diversity and Equal  Community Investment and  Environmental Management 
Opportunities Development System
Fraud Risk Management Reporting Suspicious Transactions                    
Sweat Free Code Quality of Assets Resilience to Catastrophes/ 
Code of Ethics Cybersecurity
of Conduct & Services Disaster
Anti-Bribery and Corruption Outsourcing
Employment Personal Data Protection Indoor Environmental Quality
Whistle Blowing Valuation
Performance and Career  No Harassment Water Consumption and 
Staff Declarations Shareholder Rights Development Management
Anti-Money Laundering and Counter Enterprise Risk Management Grievance procedure Modern slavery Material Sourcing and 
Sustainable Procurement
Terrorism Financing
Labor Management Relation Remuneration
Biodiversity and Habitat
Compliance with ESG laws and regulations Governance Matrix
Health, Safety and  Employee Engagement
Crisis Management Deal Allocation Well-being of Tenants,  Energy Consumption and 
Customers and Suppliers Management
Treasury Related Parties Transactions
Non-discrimination Stakeholder Engagement Pollution Prevention
Intellectual Property Rights Political Donations
Drug-Free Workplace Building Safety Climate and Climate Change 
Board Performance Evaluation Internal Code on Securities Dealing Adaptation
Employee Rights Communications
Code of Corporate Governance Group Public Disclosure ARA Property DNA-ESG
Training and Development
Code of Business Conduct Supplier Code of Conduct GHG Emissions and 
Management
Conﬂicts of Interest Financial
Waste Management
Investor Relations Cash Flow Management
Authorization Grid
Sustainability Report 2019    |  50
Group CEO Message           Sustainability Approach           Governance           Social           Environmental           Appendices
APPENDIX D: METHODOLOGICAL REVIEW
The following section illustrates the deﬁnition of key terms, scope and limitations within this report:
Sustainability Approach Governance
Material Issues Corruption
Material issues are those that an organization has prioritized for inclusion in the report based on  Corruption is an abuse of entrusted power for private gain, which can be instigated by 
relevance to the business. This prioritization exercise is carried out using the Stakeholder  individuals or organizations. Corruption includes practices such as bribery, facilitation payments, 
Inclusiveness and the Materiality principles. The Materiality principle identiﬁes material topics based  fraud, extortion, collusion, and money laundering. It also includes an offer or receipt of any gift, 
on the following two dimensions:   loan, fee, reward, or other advantage to or from any person as an inducement to do something 
   a) The signiﬁcance of the organization’s economic, environmental, and social impacts; and that is dishonest, illegal, or a breach of trust in the conduct of the enterprise’s business. 
   b) Their substantive inﬂuence on the assessments and decisions of stakeholders. 
Social
Employees Lost days and lost day rate  
Employees are deﬁned as individuals who are in an employment relationship with the ARA Group.  Lost days are measured in terms of the number of business days. A lost day occurs when the 
This includes all the contracted full-time staff under the REITs, Private Real Estate Funds,  employee is absent from work because of work-related injury or disease.
Infrastructure, Country Desks and Real Estate Management Services business units.
Lost day rate is the total lost days, relative to the total days scheduled to be worked by the 
employees in the reporting period, expressed as a percentage.
New hires and turnover
Employee movement within each year is recorded and year-end headcount is presented.
Training hours  
New hires are deﬁned as new employees that have joined the ARA Group during the year  Average training hours per employee is the total number of training hours recorded, relative to the 
(2019: 314; 2018: 322; 2017: 369). total number of employees, during the year.
Turnover is deﬁned as employees that have left the ARA Group voluntarily, or due to  Average training hours per female/male employee is the total number of training hours provided to 
dismissal, retirement or death in service during the year (2019: 266; 2018: 266; 2017: 316). female/male employees, relative to the total number of female/male employees, during the year.
Average training hours per employee category is the total number of training hours provided to each 
Absentee days and absentee rate 
category of employees, relative to the total number of employees in the category, during the year.
Absentee days are measured in terms of the number of business days. An absentee day 
occurs when the employee is absent from work because of any incapacity, not just as a result  Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health and safety impacts of products and services
of work-related injury or disease. It excludes permitted leave absences such as holidays,  Health and safety impacts of products and services are deﬁned as number of incidents of material 
study, parental and compassionate leave. non-compliance with regulations and/or voluntary codes which may result in a ﬁne, penalty or 
 
Absentee rate is the total absentee days lost, relative to the total days scheduled to be  warning (2019: 0 cases). 
worked by the employees in the reporting period, expressed as a percentage.
Sustainability Report 2019    |  51
Group CEO Message           Sustainability Approach           Governance           Social           Environmental           Appendices
APPENDIX D: METHODOLOGICAL REVIEW
Environmental
Consolidation Approach
The equity share approach, as outlined in the GHG Protocol Corporate Standard, is used to determine organizational boundaries for ARA Group’s environmental reporting based on the share of equity in 
each property. The equity share reﬂects economic interest, which is the extent of rights a company has to the risks and rewards ﬂowing from an operation. The respective ownership of each property for the 
reported environmental data is as follow:
Ownership 
Business Unit Property  Type of Property 
2017  2018  2019 
ARA China Investment  Dalian Roosevelt Plaza Retail 100% 100% 100%
○
Partners (“CIP”)
BEA Finance Tower Ofﬁce 55% 55% 55%
○
The Platinum Ofﬁce 100% 100% 100%
○
Peninsula Investment  Capital Square Ofﬁce 25% 25% 25%
○
Partners (“PIP”)
Century Link Ofﬁce Retail 3.29% 3.29% 3.29%
○ ○
320 Pitt Street Ofﬁce 20% 20% 20%
○
300 Queen Street Ofﬁce 100% 100% 100%
○
Southgate Complex7 Ofﬁce Retail 25% 50% 50%
○ ○
81 St Georges Terrace Ofﬁce 100% 100% 100%
○
Suntec REIT Suntec Ofﬁce Ofﬁce 59.11% 59.11% 59.11%
○
Suntec City Mall Retail 100% 100% 100%
○
Suntec Singapore Convention Centre Meeting, Incentive, Convention and Exhibition 60.80% 60.80% 60.80%
○
Marina Bay Financial Centre Ofﬁce 33.33% 33.33% 33.33%
○
One Rafﬂes Quay Ofﬁce 33.33% 33.33% 33.33%
○
177 Paciﬁc Highway Ofﬁce 100% 100% 100%
○
Sustainability Report 2019    |  52
 
Group CEO Message           Sustainability Approach           Governance           Social           Environmental           Appendices
APPENDIX D: METHODOLOGICAL REVIEW
Ownership 
Business Unit Property  Type of Property 
2017  2018  2019 
Suntec REIT Southgate Complex7 Ofﬁce Retail 25% 50% 50%
○ ○
ARA LOGOS Logistics Trust ALOG Cold Centre Logistics 100% 100% 100%
○
(“ALOG”)
Pandan Logistics Hub 100% 100% 100%
ALOG Changi DistriCentre 1 100% 100% 100%
ALOG Changi DistriCentre 2 100% 100% 100%
DHL Supply Chain Advanced Regional Centre 100% 100% 100%
ALOG Gul LogisCentre8 N.A. N.A. 100%
Hi-Speed Logistics Centre8 100% 100% N.A.
ALOG Commodity Hub8 N.A. 100% 100%
Prosperity REIT The Metropolis Tower Ofﬁce 100% 100% 100%
○
Prosperity Millennia Plaza 100% 100% 100%
9 Chong Yip Street 100% 100% 100%
Prosperity Place Commercial 100% 100% 100%
○
Trendy Centre ○ Ofﬁce ○ Industrial 100% 100% 100%
Prosperity Center Property Ofﬁce Industrial 100% 100% 100%
○ ○
New Treasure Centre Industrial 100% 100% 100%
○
Fortune REIT Fortune City One Retail 100% 100% 100%
○
Fortune Kingswood 100% 100% 100%
Ma On Shan Plaza 100% 100% 100%
Sustainability Report 2019    |  53
Group CEO Message           Sustainability Approach           Governance           Social           Environmental           Appendices
APPENDIX D: METHODOLOGICAL REVIEW
Ownership 
Business Unit Property  Type of Property 
2017  2018  2019 
Fortune REIT Metro Town Retail 100% 100% 100%
○
Fortune Metropolis 100% 100% 100%
Laguna Plaza 100% 100% 100%
Centre de Laguna 100% 100% 100%
Belvedere Square 100% 100% 100%
Waldorf Avenue 100% 100% 100%
Caribbean Square 100% 100% 100%
Jubilee Square 100% 100% 100%
Smartland 100% 100% 100%
Tsing Yi Square 100% 100% 100%
Hampton Loft 100% 100% 100%
Lido Avenue 100% 100% 100%
Rhine Avenue 100% 100% 100%
7
 While PIP and Suntec REIT increased their individual interest in Southgate Complex from 25% to 50% in May 2018, the 50% ownership was reﬂected in the reported environmental
   data for the whole year of 2018. 
8
 For ALOG Commodity Hub and ALOG Gul LogisCentre, environmental data was included only from April 2018 and April 2019 onwards respectively, following the conversion of these
   buildings from a master lease to a multi-tenancy lease structure. For Hi-Speed Logistics Centre, the environmental data is captured for the period up to its divestment in May 2018. 
Sustainability Report 2019    |  54
Group CEO Message           Sustainability Approach           Governance           Social           Environmental           Appendices
APPENDIX D: METHODOLOGICAL REVIEW
Energy consumption within the organization
Purchased electricity is a signiﬁcant form of energy that our properties consume. Other forms of energy consumed within the ARA Group include natural gas, gas, diesel oil and purchased heating. Energy 
consumption reported in the report is expressed in gigawatt hours (symbol: GWh), megawatt hours (symbol: MWh) or kilowatt hours (symbol: kWh). Total direct energy consumption is 10.2 GWh, 11.6 GWh 
and 6.8 GWh for 2019, 2018 and 2017 respectively. Total indirect energy consumption is 329.4 GWh, 322.4 GWh and 313.5 GWh for 2019, 2018 and 2017 respectively.
Energy intensity
The denominator metric selected to calculate energy intensity ratio is the square feet (symbol: sqft). The ratio is calculated by the total energy consumed by our Reporting Entities, relative to the total 
gross ﬂoor area of their properties. 
GHG emissions
This report discloses the Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions for our properties. The source of these emission factors are as follow: 
Scope 1 GHG emission factors used in 2019 were extracted from the 2006 IPCC Guidelines for National Greenhouse Gas Inventories, UK Government GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting, 2019 and 
○
Guidelines to Account for and Report on Greenhouse Gas Emissions and Removals for Buildings (Commercial, Residential or Institutional Purposes). 
○ Scope 2 GHG emission factors used in 2019 were extracted from the EMA Singapore Energy Statistics 2019, 2018 National Greenhouse and Energy Reporting (Australia), IEA Emission factors 2019, CLP 
Holdings Sustainability Report 2019 and HK Electric Investments Sustainability Report 2019. 
GHG emissions intensity
The denominator metric selected to calculate GHG emissions intensity ratio is the square feet (symbol: sqft). The ratio is calculated by the total GHG emissions relative to the total gross ﬂoor area of the properties.
Water consumption
Municipal water utilities are the only signiﬁcant source of water consumed at our properties and it is expressed in cubic metres (symbol: m3).
Water intensity
The denominator metric selected to calculate water intensity ratio is the square feet (symbol: sqft). The ratio is calculated by the volume of water consumed, relative to the total gross ﬂoor area of the properties.
Report assumptions
For 320 Pitt Street, 300 Queen Street and 81 St Georges Terrace, the gross ﬂoor area is estimated at 82.5% ﬂoor efﬁciency, based on the general market standard in Australia.
○
○ 30% of the ofﬁce tenant area from Southgate Complex amounting to 193,572 sqft engaged their private power retailers with a separate meter, and we do not have access to their electrical consumption data.
In addition, we do not have access to the utility data of our tenants in Hong Kong SAR. As such, these utility information have been excluded from this report.
○ Scope 3 emissions are indirect consequence of activities which occur from sources not owned or controlled by ARA, such as employee commuting, business travel and purchase of ofﬁce supplies. We do not 
report on Scope 3 emissions as the boundaries for such emissions are broad. 
Sustainability Report 2019    |  55
Group CEO Message           Sustainability Approach           Governance           Social           Environmental           Appendices
APPENDIX E: GRI CONTENT INDEX
General Standard Disclosures
GRI Ref. Page
Description  Cross-reference
Disclosures Number
General Disclosures
Organizational Profile
102-1 Name of the organization About ARA  3
102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services 3, 4
102-3  Location of headquarters 4
102-4  Location of operations
102-5  Ownership and legal form
102-6  Markets served 
102-7  Scale of the organization
102-8  Information on employees and other workers Growing with ARA 27
102-9  Supply Chain Business Ethics and Compliance 19
102-10  Signiﬁcant changes to the organization and its supply chain There were no signiﬁcant changes during the reporting year. N.A.
102-12  External initiatives Giving back to our Communities 34
102-13 Membership of associations Engaging the Industry 22
Strategy
102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker Group CEO Message 1
Sustainability Report 2019    |  56
Group CEO Message           Sustainability Approach           Governance           Social           Environmental           Appendices
APPENDIX E: GRI CONTENT INDEX
General Standard Disclosures
GRI Ref. Page
Description  Cross-reference
Disclosures Number
General Disclosures
Governance
102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior Business Ethics and Compliance 16
102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics 19
102-18  Governance structure Sustainability Framework and Structure 8, 9
102-19 Delegating authority
102-20 Executive-level responsibility for economic, environmental, and social topics 
102-25 Conﬂicts of interest Business Ethics and Compliance 16
102-26  Role of highest governance body in setting purposes, value and strategy Sustainability Framework and Structure 8, 9
102-29 Identifying and managing economic, environmental and social impacts
102-32 Highest governance body’s role in sustainability reporting
102-33 Communicating critical concerns
102-35 Remuneration policies Growing with ARA 28
102-36  Process for determining remuneration
Stakeholder Engagement
102-40  List of stakeholder groups Stakeholder Engagement and Materiality 10, 11
102-42  Identifying and selecting stakeholders
102-43  Approach to stakeholder engagement Stakeholder Engagement and Materiality
  Appendix A 48
Sustainability Report 2019    |  57
Group CEO Message           Sustainability Approach           Governance           Social           Environmental           Appendices
APPENDIX E: GRI CONTENT INDEX
General Standard Disclosures
GRI Ref. Page
Description  Cross-reference
Disclosures Number
Stakeholder Engagement
102-44  Key topics and concerns raised by stakeholders Stakeholder Engagement and Materiality 11
Appendix A 48
Reporting Practice
102-46  Deﬁning report content and topic Boundaries About ARA 7
102-47  List of material topics Stakeholder Engagement and Materiality 11
102-48  Restatements of information N.A. N.A.
102-49  Changes in reporting N.A. N.A.
102-50  Reporting period About ARA 7
102-51  Date of most recent previous report
102-52  Reporting cycle
102-53  Contact point for questions regarding the report  https://www.ara-group.com/terms-of-use/contact-us/contact-form N.A.
102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with GRI Standards About ARA 7
102-55 GRI content index Appendix E 56
102-56  External assurance External assurance has not been sought for this report. However, N.A.
we intend to explore this further as our reporting process matures
going forward.
Sustainability Report 2019    |  58
Group CEO Message           Sustainability Approach           Governance           Social           Environmental           Appendices
APPENDIX E: GRI CONTENT INDEX
Specific Standard Disclosures
GRI Ref. Page
Description  Cross-reference
Disclosures Number
Material Topic: Corporate Governance
Management Approach
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Enterprise Risk Management 20
103-2 The management approach and its components Business Ethics and Compliance 18
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach
Anti-Corruption
205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and procedures  Business Ethics and Compliance 18
205-3 Conﬁrmed incidents of corruptions and actions taken Governance – At A Glance 14
Socioeconomic Compliance
419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social and economic area Governance – At A Glance 14
Social – At A Glance
25
Material Topic: Energy and Carbon Footprint
Management Approach
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Energy and Emissions Management 42
103-2  The management approach and its components
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach
Energy
302-1  Energy consumption within the organization Energy and Emissions Management 43
302-3  Energy intensity
302-4 Reduction of energy consumption 
Sustainability Report 2019    |  59
Group CEO Message           Sustainability Approach           Governance           Social           Environmental           Appendices
APPENDIX E: GRI CONTENT INDEX
Specific Standard Disclosures
GRI Ref. Page
Description  Cross-reference
Disclosures Number
Material Topic: Energy and Carbon Footprint
Emissions
305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions Energy and Emissions Management 43
305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions
305-4 GHG emissions intensity 
305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions
Material Topic: Water Management
Management Approach
303-1 Interactions with water as a shared resource Water Resource Management 45
Water and Effluents
303-5 Water consumption Water Resource Management 45
Material Topic: Employment Practices 
Management Approach
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Growing with ARA 26
103-2  The management approach and its components
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach
Employment
401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover Appendix D 51
401-3 Parental leave  Growing with ARA 31
Sustainability Report 2019    |  60
Group CEO Message           Sustainability Approach           Governance           Social           Environmental           Appendices
APPENDIX E: GRI CONTENT INDEX
Specific Standard Disclosures
GRI Ref. Page
Description  Cross-reference
Disclosures Number
Material Topic: Employment Practices 
Occupational Health and Safety
403-9 Work-related injuries Social – At A Glance 25
Material Topic: Talent Retention and Development
Management Approach
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Growing with ARA 29
103-2 The management approach and its components
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach
Training and Education
404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee Social – At A Glance 25
  Growing with ARA 30
404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews  Growing with ARA 28
Material Topic: Environmental Compliance
Management Approach
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Environmental Stewardship 39
103-2 The management approach and its components
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach
Sustainability Report 2019    |  61
302-1 
302-3 
302-4
Group CEO Message           Sustainability Approach           Governance           Social           Environmental           Appendices
APPENDIX E: GRI CONTENT INDEX
Specific Standard Disclosures
GRI Ref. Page
Description  Cross-reference
Disclosures Number
Material Topic: Environmental Compliance
Environmental Compliance
307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations Environmental Stewardship 39
Material Topic: Quality of Assets and Services
Management Approach
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Best-In-Class Assets and Services 36
103-2 The management approach and its components 
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach
Customer Health and Safety
416-2  Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health and Appendix D 51 
safety impacts of products and services
Sustainability Report 2019    |  62