
SUSTAINABILITY 
REPORT 
2020
ABOUT  
THIS REPORT
Welcome to the Ashmore Group 2020 Sustainability Report.
The aim of this report is to provide a comprehensive  
overview of Ashmore’s approach to sustainability across 
Ashmore’s business activities. The report is intended for  
all Ashmore stakeholders but will be of particular  
interest to clients. 
This report should be read in conjunction with Ashmore’s 
Annual Report which is available on the Ashmore Group  
website at www.ashmoregroup.com
Ashmore Group plc | Sustainability Report 2020 2
Contents
Foreword from Ashmore Group plc CEO, Mark Coombs  4
1 About Ashmore Group 
Ashmore’s business  5
Ashmore’s approach to sustainability  6
2019/20 significant achievements  7
2 Corporate sustainability  8
Human resources  9
Governance   11
Environmental impact  12
Greenhouse gas emissions reporting  12
Carbon offsetting  15
3 Climate risks & opportunities 
Governance  17
Strategy  17
Risk management  18
Metrics and targets  18
4 Investment sustainability  19 
Responsible investing policy  20
Investment process  20
Responsible investing governance  21
Public markets strategies  21
Responsible investing solutions  21
Alternatives investments  22
Stewardship  23
Proxy voting  24
Industry engagements  24
Negative screening  24
5 Societal sustainability 
Human rights and modern slavery  25
Obsolete equipment  25
Ashmore investing in local communities  25
COVID-19  25
United Nations Global Compact  26
6 The Ashmore Foundation  27 
Social investing in Emerging Markets  28
Current partnerships  28
Emergencies funding  31
Impact first investing  32
Investing in the ecosystem  32 
Sustainable development goals  33
Ashmore Group plc | Sustainability Report 2020 3
FOREWORD
Ashmore Group plc CEO, Mark Coombs
As an Emerging Markets focused investment manager, Ashmore's 
success has always been dependent on understanding sustainability in 
the markets in which it operates and invests. The last year has seen an 
acceleration in our work across the different pillars that encompass 
sustainability. The COVID-19 pandemic has brought sustainability issues  
to the fore and we have made significant progress on a number of 
sustainability and ESG related fronts. 
Ashmore's investment teams have continued  Ashmore is proud to be a signatory to the 
to embed ESG into investment analysis. We  United Nations Global Compact (UNGC).  
have strengthened our stewardship processes  I am pleased to confirm that Ashmore reaffirms 
and I am pleased to be disclosing engagement  its commitment to the ten principles of the 
activities in this report. The investment teams  UNGC in the areas of human rights, labour,  
conducted a review of our approach to  the environment and anti-corruption. Our 
investing in companies involved in the  communications of progress is outlined in  
production and distribution of controversial  this report. 
weapons, resulting in our updated policy  
Ashmore's societal sustainability has focused 
being published in early 2020.
on our response to the COVID-19 pandemic. 
At the corporate level, Ashmore became a  Ashmore has made donations to support health 
supporter of the Task Force for Climate-related  systems in the UK as well as civil society 
Financial Disclosures (TCFD) and has  groups supporting those most severely 
committed to implementing the  impacted. These remain unprecedented times 
recommendations. This is an important and  and we will continue to assess how best we 
significant task, particularly given corporate  can support efforts in the UK and across the 
disclosure in the markets Ashmore operates   markets in which we operate. 
in. To set the direction, Ashmore published  
As we move forward in these uncertain times, 
a position paper on climate change setting out  
Ashmore will continue to evolve its approach  
its process for assessing climate-related risks 
to sustainability.
and opportunities. As part of our broader 
efforts, Ashmore has established a carbon 
offsetting initiative in collaboration with the 
Ashmore Foundation.
Mark Coombs
Chief Executive Officer
September 2020
Ashmore Group plc | Sustainability Report 2020 4
ABOUT  
ASHMORE GROUP
1
2
Ashmore’s business 
3
As a specialist Emerging Markets manager, Ashmore has been dedicated 
to Emerging Markets investing for more than 25 years. During this time,  
it has established a diversified range of eight headline investment themes 
with focused strategies under each theme. 
4
External debt Equities The Group’s products are available in a wide range of fund 
structures covering the full liquidity spectrum from  
Invests in debt instruments Invests in equity and  
issued by sovereigns and   equity-related instruments  daily-dealing pooled funds through to multi-year locked up 
quasi-sovereigns and   including global, regional,   structures. Ashmore provides investors with access to new 
denominated in foreign   country, small cap and frontier  5
investment strategies as Emerging Markets continue  
currencies. opportunities.
to evolve.
Local currency Alternatives
Ashmore’s eight headline investment themes capture the  
Invests in local currencies and  Invests in private equity,  broad range of investable and scalable investment opportunities 
local currency-denominated  healthcare, infrastructure,  
instruments issued by  special situations, distressed  available across the diverse Emerging Markets universe.  6
sovereigns, quasi-sovereigns   debt and real estate 
Three factors will drive longer-term growth in the Group’s 
and companies. opportunities.
assets under management: 
Corporate debt Multi-asset •  T he Emerging Markets will continue to develop and evolve, 
Invests in debt instruments  Specialised and efficient   with broader, deeper and more accessible capital markets 
issued by public and   asset allocation across the   contributing to the range and scale of investment  
private sector companies. full Emerging Markets 
opportunities. 
investment universe.
•  I nvestor allocations to Emerging Markets will increase  
from very underweight levels currently. 
Blended debt Overlay/liquidity
•  A  shmore will continue to innovate in order to provide  
Invests in external debt,   Separates the currency risk of 
access to new investment strategies.
local currency and corporate   an underlying asset class in 
debt assets, measured against  order to manage it effectively 
tailor-made blended indices.  and efficiently.
AuM classified by mandate AuM as invested AuM by investor type AuM by investor geography
2020 (%) 2020 (%) 2020 (%) 2020 (%)
n  External debt  20 n  External debt  38 n  Central banks  11 n  Americas  23
n  Local currency  23 n  Local currency  28 n  Sovereign wealth funds  7 n  Europe ex UK  28
n  Corporate debt  14 n  Corporate debt  17 n  Governments  16 n  UK  9
n  Blended debt  27 n  Equities  6 n  Pension plans  29 n  Middle East and Africa  17
n  Equities  5 n  Alternatives  2 n  Corporates/financial institutions  22 n  Asia Pacific  23
n  Alternatives  2 n  Overlay/liquidity  9 n  Funds/sub-advisers  3
n  Multi-asset  1 n  Intermediary retail  11
n  Overlay/liquidity  8 n  Foundations/endowments  1
Ashmore Group plc | Sustainability Report 2020 5
ABOUT  
ASHMORE GROUP
Ashmore’s approach to sustainability 
1
Sustainability has been at the heart of  It is essential that operations are managed in 
Ashmore’s philosophy since its establishment.  ways that most effectively ensure the 
As an Emerging Markets focused investment  continued wellbeing of the Group’s workforce. 
manager, understanding sustainability in the  Ashmore seeks to ensure that employees work 
markets that we operate in has been critical   in a positive environment, enabling personal  2
to our success. and professional growth and development.
The last year has been significant for Ashmore,  Ashmore seeks systematically to understand 
as we have sought to better understand  sustainability and aims to ensure its actions are 
sustainability, what it means to us as a global  appropriate, given the priorities and challenges 
actor, and how we ensure that we respond  faced across the breadth of its operations in   3
appropriately across the breadth of our  11 countries. 
operations to the priorities faced in all the 
Ashmore’s approach to sustainability and 
markets in which we operate.
Environment, Social and Governance (ESG)  
is that they should be integrated across the 
4
entire Company’s operations. The appointment  
Ashmore recognises the role it plays in deployment of capital and the impact  
of a Head of Sustainability and ESG Integration 
this can have on the sustainability of our planet and the societies we live in.  
in late 2018 has supported this approach.  
The impacts of climate change are most acutely felt by companies and  Having a resource dedicated to developing and 
communities in the markets in which we invest. promoting sustainability across the Company 
has enabled Ashmore to effectively integrate  5
ESG, ensuring accountability for sustainability 
Ashmore recognises the role it plays in  is held across a range of departments. 
deployment of capital and the impact this can 
Last year we refined our responsibilities into 
have on the sustainability of our planet and the 
three focused areas of sustainability: 
societies we live in. The impacts of climate  6
Corporate, Investment and Societal. While 
change are most acutely felt by companies and 
these pillars are not mutually exclusive, they 
communities in the markets in which we 
have provided a framework through which 
invest. If, as a global community, we are to 
Ashmore can continue to evolve and advance 
meet the objectives set out by the United 
its objectives. Over the last year Ashmore  
Nations in the Sustainable Development Goals 
has been able to institute a number of  
(SDGs), the Emerging Markets hold the 
key initiatives at the operational and  
opportunities for the greatest gains.
investment levels.
Furthermore, Ashmore is acutely aware of the 
challenges that global inequality and wealth 
disparity cause. The social investments made 
Ashmore’s approach to sustainability and 
by the Ashmore Foundation1 seek to empower 
and benefit communities at the extreme lower  Environment, Social and Governance (ESG)  
end of these disparities. is that they should be integrated across the 
entire Company’s operations. The appointment 
As a corporate citizen, Ashmore understands 
of a Head of Sustainability and ESG Integration 
the responsibility it has to all its stakeholders, 
including but not limited to staff, contractors,  in late 2018 has supported this approach.
third-party service providers, clients and the 
wider community. In recent months the 
COVID-19 pandemic and its impact has 
reinforced this belief. 
1  T he Ashmore Foundation is a company limited by guarantee, registered in England (6444943) and is a registered charity in England and Wales (1122351). 
The Ashmore Foundation is a separate and distinct legal entity from Ashmore Group plc.
Ashmore Group plc | Sustainability Report 2020 6
ABOUT  
ASHMORE GROUP
Sustainability governs our approach to investments, communities and the environment 1
Corporate Investment Societal
Incorporating transparency, Enabling clients to deploy capital   Social and impact-first investing  
fairness, accountability and integrity,  in line with responsible investing  locally in Emerging Markets  
2
into operations considerations communities
• Affiliations and membership • ESG factor analysis • Adherence to UK Modern Slavery Act
  • UNPRI (2013)   • A  ssessment criteria and  
•  Alignment/contribution to   3
  • UN Global Compact (2019) scoring process UN Sustainable Development Goals 
• Policies and processes disclosed   • ESG training for investment teams (SDGs)
  • External research/third-party data
  • ESG •  Local social initiatives
  • Proxy voting • ESG within the investment process   • L ondon Crisis at Christmas
  • Engagement   • Integrated approach   •  New York Cares 4
  • Climate change position paper   • C  onsistency across investment  
• Employee volunteering
themes
• Environmental impact/climate change   • O  ne paid volunteering day
  • Carbon offsetting initiative • Stewardship/collaborations
• The Ashmore Foundation*
  • Recycling and waste management   • Proxy voting and engagement
  • Continued energy efficiencies   • Climate Action 100+   • E merging Markets philanthropy 5
  • I mpact-first investing –  
• Constituent of FTSE4Good Index Series • Climate change concessionary loans
  • TCFD recommendations   •  Impact investments
• UK Stewardship Code compliant
  • Managing climate-related risks
• Equal opportunities and diversity
• Negative screening/exclusions 6
•  Employee wellbeing and     • Controversial weapons
health and safety   • ESG funds specific screens
• Corporate governance • ESG governance
2019/20 highlights
*  T he Ashmore Foundation is a company limited by guarantee, registered in England (6444943) and is a registered charity in England and Wales (1122351). 
The Ashmore Foundation is a separate and distinct legal entity from Ashmore Group plc.
2019/20 SIGNIFICANT ACHIEVEMENTS
Significant achievements over the past year in relation to sustainability and responsible investing:
• A  shmore launches its first dedicated ESG Equity product,  • Ashmore becomes a supporter of the TCFD
Ashmore SICAV Emerging Markets Equity ESG Fund
• A  shmore publishes its first position paper on  
• A  shmore subscribes to third-party ESG data provider  Climate Change setting out its approach to reporting 
Sustainalytics aligned the recommendations of the TCFD
• A  shmore publishes its Engagement policy in line with   • Ashmore signs up the to the Carbon Action 100+ initiative
the Shareholders Rights Directive II
• A  shmore establishes a carbon offsetting programme to 
• A   shmore broadens its approach to involvement in  offset its operational emissions
controversial weapons and publishes its first  
controversial weapons policy
Ashmore Group plc | Sustainability Report 2020 7
CORPORATE 
SUSTAINABILITY
1
2
Ashmore’s approach to corporate sustainability recognises the role it plays 
3
in wider society and is underpinned by values of transparency, fairness, 
accountability and integrity across the Group’s worldwide operations.
Ashmore Group worldwide
4
• Ashmore office
s Ashmore presence
n Emerging Markets invested
5
306
6
employees
11
offices worldwide
Stakeholder interests Last year the Board identified the following as the Company’s main stakeholder groups.  
For more information on how the board engaged and the outcome of those engagements,  
please refer to the Annual Report. 
Stakeholders Key Factors
Clients Delivering investment performance for a diversified client base is critical to Ashmore’s 
success as a specialist Emerging Markets asset manager
Shareholders The support of Ashmore’s shareholders, with an appropriately long-term investment 
horizon, is important to enable Ashmore to fulfil its strategic growth ambitions
Employees Ashmore’s 306 employees are its most important asset, and the Group’s priority is to 
attract, develop, manage and retain employees to deliver the Group’s potential
Society Ashmore recognises the impact its activities may have on wider society, and takes  
this responsibility seriously
Regulators Ashmore’s business comprises global operating hubs and independent local asset 
management platforms, operating under a number of different regulatory jurisdictions
Third-party service providers The efficiency and scalability of Ashmore’s operating platform relies in part on  
high-quality third-party service providers
Ashmore Group plc | Sustainability Report 2020 8
CORPORATE 
SUSTAINABILITY
The nature of Ashmore’s business as an investment manager and its consistent single operating 
1
platform mean that corporate sustainability can be considered and understood in a relatively small 
number of areas, listed below and explained in more detail on the following pages. In recognition 
of its approach to corporate sustainability, Ashmore is a constituent of the FTSE4Good and  
Dow Jones Sustainability equity indices.
Human resources In a people business such as asset management, employees are a firm’s most important asset.  2
Ashmore’s responsibilities to its 306 employees across 11 countries are well understood and 
reflected in its commitments to diversity, career development, health and safety, including 
workplace benefits, and a remuneration policy that delivers a long-term alignment of interests 
between employees, clients and shareholders.
3
Governance Ashmore’s Board of Directors maintains a distinctive culture across the firm, with a strong  
‘tone from the top’ that outlines clear expectations, standards and the importance of accountability 
to employees. In addition to the governance arrangements described in the Corporate Governance 
section and the Section 172 statement of the Annual Report, corporate sustainability is also 
underpinned by the following factors: 4
A commitment to upholding high ethical standards across the Group’s operations, and to 
minimising the risks associated with financial crime.
The Board has ultimate responsibility for risk management and control. This encompasses  
a wide range of principal and emerging risks, as described in the Annual Report, but importantly  
in the prevailing remote working environment it includes the Group’s assessment, monitoring   5
and control of cyber security-related risks.
Ashmore has operations in multiple regulatory and tax jurisdictions and manages its business  
in a responsible and transparent manner.
6
Environment Ashmore’s business is based primarily on intellectual capital so its direct impact on the environment 
is limited. However, the Group manages the environmental risks it faces responsibly, and described 
below are specific developments in the areas of GHG emissions, recycling and carbon offsetting.
Policy documents Human resources
Ashmore has a number of policies and other 
Ashmore employs 306 people in 11 countries 
documents that support its approach to 
worldwide and its employees have always 
corporate sustainability. These include 
been its most important asset, at the heart of 
documents that are for employee use, that are 
everything it does. The Group’s priority is to 
made available to the Group’s clients, and that 
attract, develop, manage and retain this talent 
are publicly available on the Group’s website, 
in order to achieve its strategic growth 
such as those listed below.
objectives and to create value for its 
• ESG policy stakeholders. The success of Ashmore’s 
• Climate change position paper approach to human resources and its support 
to corporate sustainability is reflected in the 
• Supplier Code of Conduct
low levels of unplanned staff turnover 
• Slavery & human trafficking statement (FY2019/20: 8.6%). 
• Conflicts of interest statement
Ashmore aims to have employee policies and 
• Complaints handling procedure procedures that reflect best practice within 
• UK Stewardship Code each of the countries where it has a presence, 
and Ashmore requires employees to act 
• UK tax strategy
ethically and to uphold clearly the standards 
• Hampton-Alexander review data expected by the Group’s clients. This means 
having policies and practices that make 
Ashmore an attractive place to work in respect 
of the day-to-day operating environment and 
culture, and also in respect of medium to 
long-term growth for employees, personally, 
professionally and financially.
Ashmore Group plc | Sustainability Report 2020 9
CORPORATE 
SUSTAINABILITY
Diversity performance management is an essential tool 
1
Diversity is integral to Ashmore’s culture and  in the effective management of its people and 
therefore it is committed to providing equal  business. The performance management cycle 
opportunities and to ensuring that its workforce  comprises setting objectives and an annual 
reflects, as far as is practicable, the diversity of  performance appraisal against those agreed 
the many communities in which it operates and  objectives. Output from this performance 
2
the 36 nationalities represented by its employees. process is used to assist with decisions on 
remuneration, career development and progression.
Diversity encompasses, amongst other things, 
experience, skills, tenure, age, geographical  Ashmore is committed to internal progression 
expertise, professional background, gender,  of its employees whenever this is possible, to 
ethnicity, disability and sexual orientation.  ensure that it retains the most talented people. 
3
The diverse and global nature of its business 
Ashmore’s culture is a meritocracy that values 
allows the Group to consider placing talented 
openness, fairness and transparency and 
individuals into different business and career 
therefore there is no discrimination because of 
opportunities within its worldwide office 
age, disability, gender reassignment, marriage 
network, in order to foster their development 
and civil partnership, pregnancy and maternity,  4
and to benefit clients. 
race (which includes colour, nationality and 
ethnic or national origins), religion or belief, sex or 
sexual orientation or any other irrelevant factor. Health and safety
Ashmore promotes high standards of health 
Ashmore recognises that the financial services  and safety at work and has a comprehensive 
sector has historically been a male dominated  health and safety policy that highlights the  5
industry. In attracting the best talent, Ashmore  Group’s commitment to ensuring employees 
36+ is particularly keen to promote gender diversity  are provided with a safe and healthy working 
and seeks to attract female employees.  environment.
Ashmore tracks gender diversity across all its 
For example, in London, Ashmore carries out 
Number of nationalities   offices globally and the Group’s gender balance  6
represented across   is currently 68% male and 32% female, and  regular risk assessments of premises and 
Ashmore Group   across senior management and their direct  provides staff with safety training including  
employees reports it is 82% male and 18% female. the provision of training to fire wardens and 
first aid representatives. Ashmore also engages 
Ashmore continues to provide data to the  external consultants to carry out regular  
Hampton-Alexander review, a summary of which  health and safety and fire assessments.
can be found below and on the Group’s website. 
There have been no reportable accidents in the 
Ashmore ranked 96 in the Alexander-Hampton 
financial year in the UK or overseas premises. 
rankings of FSTE 250 companies in 2020.
68%
Ashmore operates a zero tolerance policy 
Workplace benefits
towards harassment and bullying and has a 
Ashmore recognises the diverse needs of its 
Ashmore Group  formal policy that documents the organisation’s 
employees in managing the responsibilities of 
employees commitment to ensuring employees are 
their work and personal lives, and believes that 
treated with respect and dignity while at work. 
achieving an effective balance in these areas is 
beneficial to both Ashmore and the individual. 
Career development Employee health and wellbeing is vital to 
All employees are provided with a comprehensive  sustained performance at work, and Ashmore 
32%
induction on joining the business, providing   therefore operates a range of schemes to 
an introduction to the Company’s structure,  support employees' physical and mental 
Ashmore Group   culture, operations and practices. This includes  wellbeing. For example, in the UK, Ashmore 
employees all elements of compliance issues, an  operates an integrated healthcare approach 
understanding of the key business ethics  whereby its private medical health provider and 
operating within the Ashmore Group, and  occupational health clinics work hand in hand to 
up-to-date information on relevant regulations. promote wellness amongst employees. It also 
operates a mental health wellbeing scheme, 
Ashmore recognises that development is a 
and has a designated Mental Health First Aider.
career-long activity and so also supports any 
professional development or qualifications that  Similar healthcare arrangements are also offered 
will assist employees in maintaining and  at many of Ashmore’s international offices.
developing their levels of competence. As part 
of this, Ashmore believes that constructive 
Ashmore Group plc | Sustainability Report 2020 10
CORPORATE 
SUSTAINABILITY
Remuneration diligence requirements, identifying money 
1
Ashmore’s distinctive remuneration philosophy,  laundering, suspicious activity and financial crime.
described in detail in the Annual Report, is a 
Ashmore is also committed to ensuring that  
critical factor in delivering corporate 
the identity of its customers is verified before a 
sustainability. It underpins the Group’s culture 
business relationship commences and is ongoing 
and achieves a long-term alignment between 
throughout the course of the relationship. 2
employee remuneration and the interests of 
clients, shareholders and other stakeholders.
Cyber security risks
Ashmore recognises that individuals have 
Information security (including cyber security)  
different personal requirements dependent on 
is identified as a key principal risk to the 
the stage of their life or career. In response  
business which is subject to Ashmore’s  3
to this, it provides employees with a range of 
governance, policies and procedures and risk 
benefits, both non-financial and financial,  
assessment. Ashmore assesses, monitors  
in addition to basic salaries.
and controls data security risk, and ensures  
that there is adequate communication between 
Governance the key stakeholders, which include senior  4
management and IT, human resources, risk 
Ashmore’s Board of Directors maintains a  management and control, and legal and 
strong corporate culture employing high  compliance departments.
standards of integrity and fair dealing in the 
Ashmore has a layered security model, within 
conduct of the Company’s activities, compliance 
which multiple complementary technologies  5
with both the letter and the spirit of relevant 
and processes are employed. Ashmore staff 
laws and regulations and standards of good 
Ashmore’s Board of Directors  undertake mandatory training in matters of 
market practice in all jurisdictions where the 
maintains a strong corporate  Group’s business is carried out. Information Security (including cyber security). 
Ashmore routinely deploys security updates  
culture employing high 
to its systems and undertakes regular  6
standards of integrity and fair 
Ethical standards vulnerability testing of its networks and 
dealing in the conduct of the  The Board’s aim is to ensure that the Group is  systems using a specialist service provider.  
Company’s activities,  fit and proper to undertake its business, to  The Ashmore Audit and Risk Committee 
compliance with both the  safeguard the legitimate interests of Ashmore  receives an annual report on the Group’s cyber 
letter and the spirit of relevant  clients and protect Ashmore’s reputation. security arrangements, and the Group has a 
culture of continuous improvement that  
laws and regulations and  While there have been no whistleblowing reports 
means that improvements can and do occur 
standards of good market  this year, Ashmore considers it important that 
throughout the year.
practice in all jurisdictions  there is a clear and accessible process through 
which staff can raise such concerns. Therefore  Ashmore also affirms and/or attests with  
where the Group’s business  
it has procedures in place to enable employees  key partners on an annual basis that they have 
is carried out. 
to raise concerns confidentially regarding  not been susceptible to cyber security attacks 
behaviour or decisions that are perceived to be  and vendors have taken all reasonable steps  
unethical. This includes use of a third-party  to continuously monitor and protect themselves 
agency to provide staff with an independent  on cyber security weaknesses.
whistleblowing channel and the Senior 
Independent Director acts as the nominated 
Tax strategy
Board Director for whistle-blowing.
As a large, multi-national organisation with  
a diverse geographic footprint, Ashmore seeks 
Financial crime risks to create value for its shareholders and clients 
Ashmore is committed to minimising the risk  by managing its business in a commercial,  
that the firm is used for the purposes of  tax efficient and transparent manner, within  
financial crime, including money laundering,  the remit of applicable tax rules and bearing  
bribery and corruption, fraud and market abuse.  in mind the potential impact of its actions  
To achieve this aim, Ashmore has adopted a  on its brand and reputation. Ashmore aims to 
number of risk-based policies and procedures  comply with all relevant tax laws and fiscal 
for each area of financial crime, as described   obligations, including accurate calculation  
in the Risk management section of the Annual  and punctual settlement of tax liabilities and  
Report. Training is provided to all employees in  correct and timely lodging of relevant tax 
relation to anti-money laundering and countering  returns and other required documentation  
terrorist financing, including customer due  with relevant tax authorities. 
Ashmore Group plc | Sustainability Report 2020 11
CORPORATE 
SUSTAINABILITY
Environmental impact Greenhouse gas emissions reporting
1
Ashmore is an investment management  In line with the Companies Act 2006  
company whose business is based principally  (Strategic Report and Directors’ Reports) 
on intellectual capital and it does not own its  Regulations 2013, since 1 October 2013 all 
business premises. Therefore, the Group’s  companies listed on the main market of the 
direct impact on the environment is limited   London Stock Exchange have been required   2
and consequently there are relatively few  to report their greenhouse gas emissions  
environmental risks associated with the  (GHG emissions) in their annual report. In 
Group’s activities. Nevertheless, Ashmore has  addition, effective from 1 April 2019, Ashmore 
a responsibility to manage these risks as  Group PLC is also required to adhere to the 
effectively as possible. mandatory Streamlined Energy and Carbon 
3
Reporting regulation introduced by the  
The Group continues to promote energy 
UK government. 
efficiency and the avoidance of waste 
throughout its operations. Ashmore’s largest 
occupancy is at its headquarters at 61 Aldwych,  Operational control methodology
London where it has a single floor of  Ashmore Group has adopted the operational  4
approximately 19,000 square feet in a nine  control method of reporting. The emissions 
storey multi-tenanted building. Electricity usage  reported below are for the 10 offices around  
in London is separately monitored by floor,   the world where Ashmore Group exercised 
with energy efficient lighting installed.  direct operational control in the 2019/20 
financial year. These office emissions, as well 
Ashmore acknowledges that air travel is its  5
as emissions originating from their operations, 
biggest source of carbon emissions. Its 
are those which are considered material to 
business model inevitably requires that 
Ashmore Group.
investment professionals and other employees 
Ashmore acknowledges that  travel to countries for research and monitoring 
air travel is its biggest source  purposes. However, wherever possible  Emissions scopes 6
employees will avail the use of technology to  Mandatory GHG reporting requires emissions 
of carbon emissions. Its 
minimise air travel. The COVID-19 pandemic  associated with Scope 1 (direct emissions)  
business model inevitably 
restricted travel in the second half of the year,  and Scope 2 (indirect emissions from 
requires that investment  and this has had an impact on Ashmore’s total  purchased electricity, heating and cooling) to 
professionals and other  emissions for the year. Additionally, it has  be reported. Revisions to the GHG Protocol,  
employees travel to countries  enabled the use of video conferencing facilities,  to which this reporting exercise adheres, 
for research and monitoring  which will be of benefit to the Group in the  require organisations to calculate their Scope 2 
coming years. emissions both in terms of ‘market-based’ 
purposes. However, wherever 
emissions and ‘location-based’ emissions.  
possible employees will   Recycling programmes operate for appropriate 
This information is set out below.
avail the use of technology   disposable materials. The Company seeks to 
minimise the use of paper and wherever  It is not obligatory to report Scope 3 (indirect 
to minimise air travel. 
possible chooses paper stocks that have been  emissions from the inputs and outputs to  
sustainably sourced and are Forest Stewardship  the main business activity – i.e. supply chain  
Council® (FSC) or equivalently accredited. and consumer/end-user related emissions). 
However, for completeness, Ashmore Group 
Ashmore complied with the UK Government’s 
will continue to report on some Scope 3 
Energy Savings Opportunity Scheme (ESOS) 
emission categories in order to offer a wider 
before the deadline of 5 December 2019, by 
picture to stakeholders and investors.
commissioning a ‘display energy certificate’ 
assessment of the offices at 61 Aldwych, 
London.
Ashmore Group plc | Sustainability Report 2020 12
CORPORATE 
SUSTAINABILITY
Exclusions
1
Whilst every effort has been made to collect full and consistent data from all international 
offices, in some cases information was not available. The following approaches were therefore 
taken into account for this:
•  In those instances, where a full 12 months' data was not available, estimation techniques 
have been applied to estimate missing consumption periods. Where no country data was 
2
available for the current reporting year, previous years have been used to estimate 2019/20 
consumption based on headcount numbers.
•  A number of offices were only able to provide data for the whole building in which they 
reside. No sub-metered data was available for each tenant in these cases. In these 
instances, the share of the total floor area occupied by Ashmore Group was used to 
3
apportion the total consumption.
•  Missing, or anomalous, water data was estimated using an average consumption figure  
of 15m3 per full-time employee, as sourced from a UK-based water company. This figure is 
broadly consistent with the average ‘per employee’ consumption of those offices which 
were able to provide data. 
4
•  For those offices where the landlord utilities charge was the only possible source of data,  
energy and water consumption have been estimated using the average governmental utility 
prices for the respective countries.
•  Where offices were not able to provide any waste data for their buildings it was not deemed 
appropriate to estimate this, due to the uncertainties surrounding the varying nature of  5
building sizes, modes of working and cities’ waste disposal infrastructure, amongst other 
factors. It has also not been possible to make use of data supplied in litres, as the density  
of the waste is unknown. 
•  Ashmore Group recharges partner organisations for 50% of the flights which are booked for  
the UK, Singapore and Japan offices. In order to account for this, only half of all the flight  6
mileage booked by Ashmore Group for these offices is included in the GHG footprint. The 
same methodology is expected to be applied in subsequent years. The USA office recharge 
rate was confirmed to be 49%.
Methodology
All data has been collected and analysed in line with the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting 
and Reporting Standard2. UK Government 2020 emission factors3 have been applied for all 
calculations, except the international offices’ electricity consumption, for which the 
International Energy Agency’s 2019 emissions factors4 have been used. 
The data inputs and outputs have been reviewed by Ricardo Energy & Environment on behalf  
of Ashmore Group. 
2  h ttp://www.ghgprotocol.org/
3  A ll UK related emissions factors have been selected from the emissions conversion factors published annually by UK Government. 
https://www.gov.uk/government/collections/government-conversion-factors-for-company-reporting#conversion-factors-2020
4  A ll international electricity emissions factors were taken from the International Energy Agency’s statistics report 'CO2 Emissions from Fuel Combustion' (2019 Edition). Purchased under license. 
Ashmore Group plc | Sustainability Report 2020 13
CORPORATE 
SUSTAINABILITY
Ashmore’s consumption and emissions
1
The overall GHG emissions decreased by 31.9% compared to the last year. This is primarily due  
to the impact of the COVID-19 global pandemic which resulted in a reduction in office-based 
working and air travel. Analysis of the energy efficiency of the new offices demonstrates that more 
-31.9% energy efficient buildings are joining the portfolio, however the increase in full time employees 
overrides the potential emissions reductions.
2
Air travel emissions decreased by 46% due to the effects of COVID-19 resulting in a significant 
Reduction in Ashmore's  
reduction in air travel during March to June. This category, however, still remains the largest 
global greenhouse  
emissions compared   contributor to Ashmore Group’s emissions breakdown with 407 tCO2e (59%). 
to last year The second largest contributor to the GHG footprint, purchased electricity, has decreased 
significantly this year, due to new offices being more efficient and large reductions in the  3
electricity emission factors, and now accounts for 233 tCO2e or 34%. Waste, water and 
refrigerants (based on the available data) account for the lowest levels of emissions.
Ashmore’s emissions by scope
4
Scope  Source Tonnes   Absolute   Tonnes   Absolute  
  CO2e tCO2e   CO2e tCO2e  
2018/19 2018/19 2019/20 2019/20
Natural gas 34.69 35.14
Scope 1 34.69 35.14 5
Refrigerants 0.00 0.00
Electricity (location based) 223.54 223.54 200.10 200.10
Scope 2
Electricity (market based)5 223.80 223.80 233.35 233.35
6
Air travel 748.30 407.48
Scope 3 Water 3.93 754.71 3.78 421.25
Waste 2.48 9.99
Total (using market-based Scope 2 emissions) 1,013.19 689.73
Emissions have also been calculated using an ‘intensity metric’, which enables Ashmore Group  
to monitor how well it is controlling emissions on an annual basis, independent of fluctuations in 
the levels of its activity. As Ashmore Group is a ‘people’ business, the most suitable metric is 
‘emissions per full-time equivalent (FTE) employee’. Ashmore Group’s emissions per FTE are 
shown in the table below. Due to the overall increase in emissions, tonnes of CO2e emitted  
per FTE has also risen since last year6.
Emissions per full-time employee
Scope Tonnes CO2e/FTE 2018/19 Tonnes CO2e/FTE 2019/20
Scope 1 0.1 0.1
Scope 27 0.8 0.8
Scope 3 2.7 1.4
Total 3.6 2.4 
5  T his figure is based on a combination of market based and location based emission factors. Market based emissions factors were provided for one Ashmore office: Japan. This figure uses the market based emission factor for 
this office. The UK and Ireland offices uses residual mix figures as supply specific emissions factors could not be obtained. All other offices’ Scope 2 emissions are calculated using the location based factor. This figure is 
hereafter referred to as ‘market-based emissions’.
6  F TE 2018/19 = 284.5 employees; FTE 2019/20 = 291.5 employees.
7  U sing market-based emissions.
Ashmore Group plc | Sustainability Report 2020 14
CORPORATE 
SUSTAINABILITY
Emissions reduction  Carbon offsetting 
1
Ashmore Group has continued to undertake 
As part of the Company’s wider efforts to 
actions to improve the energy efficiency of  
develop and roll out its climate strategy, in 2019 
our sites. This includes:
Ashmore introduced a Carbon Offsetting 
•  The continued roll-out of LED lighting 
Initiative, to compensate for the CO2 emitted 
replacements where appropriate:
through its operational business activities.  2
•  Reviewing the weekend and out of hours  Ashmore recognises that investing in offsetting 
control of the plant to confirm nothing is   initiatives will not in itself cancel out Ashmore’s 
mistakenly left on with no demand; environmental impact. Offsetting needs to be 
•  Reviewing the boiler management settings  implemented within a broader set of activities 
and controls to ensure they are set  over the long term to reduce Ashmore’s  3
appropriately with regards to the outside  environmental impact and contribution to 
temperature. (including the 2018 boiler  climate change.
replacement);
Ashmore has committed to offset its 
•  Practising good ‘switch off’ practices at   emissions (Scopes 1-3) on an annual basis. This 
all times; report therefore relates to emissions reported  4
•  Reduction of air travel and development of  in the 2019 Annual Report. Emissions disclosed 
virtual meetings. in the current reporting year will be offset over 
the coming year. 
CO2 emissions at 61 Aldwych (London – 
Ashmore Group’s largest office) have  Ashmore has set its internal carbon price based 
decreased by 22.2% for the period April 2019   on the recommendation of the High Level  5
to March 2020 when compared to April 2018 to  Commission on Carbon Prices which estimates 
March 2019. 61 Aldwych has exceeded the   that carbon prices of between USD 40 and 
5% annual emissions reduction target.  USD 80 per tonne of carbon dioxide (tCO2) are 
Furthermore, the CO2 emissions last quarter  required by 2020 to cost-effectively reduce 
(January to March 2020) have decreased by  emissions in line with the temperature goals   6
29.7% against the same quarter in 2019.  of the Paris Agreement. Ashmore will review 
Overall, the building is performing adequately,  its internal carbon price on a regular basis  
with total energy consumption roughly  as global best practice evolves. 
equivalent to the REEB ‘Typical Practice’ 
Ashmore’s carbon offsetting initiative is 
benchmark for this type of building. The overall 
implemented in collaboration with the  
landlord electricity consumption in Q1 2020  
Ashmore Foundation. This approach has been 
has decreased by 20% when compared to  
taken because Ashmore believes that for such 
the same period in 2019.  
initiatives to deliver sustainable impact, they 
need to encompass both environmental and 
social indicators. Ashmore believes that the 
Ashmore Foundation, with its strong focus on 
social change, is able to identify and partner  
the most appropriate initiatives to deliver  
such objectives.8  
8  T his approach means that the Initiative is not verified by a third–party certification body. Ashmore will review the requirements for certification over the coming years.
Ashmore Group plc | Sustainability Report 2020 15
CORPORATE 
SUSTAINABILITY
1
2019/2020 Initiative 
IDEP Foundation
2
This year, the carbon offsetting initiative will be implemented by the Indonesian  
non-governmental organisation IDEP Foundation. Headquartered in Bali, IDEP Foundation 
develops and delivers programmes on community development through permaculture and 
disaster-risk management. IDEP have been engaged in agroforestry initiatives with 
3
communities living on the edge of forests and national parks, known as buffer zones,  
for several years.
Through this initiative, IDEP continues to expand their  4
multi-approach conservation work in forest buffer zones. 
The work comprises a mix of climate mitigation, 
community awareness, forest protection, renewable 
energy and food security. 
5
The specific objectives were to: 
• M   aximise use of 30 hectares of land around the  
West Bali National Park and protected forest areas  
for agroforestry
• I  ncrease protection and conservation of 330 hectares   6
of protected forest within the buffer zone of  
West Bali National Park
• I  ncrease communities’ skills and knowledge of climate 
change impact and agroforestry for sustainability
• E  stablish commitment between forest administrators, 
local government and communities
Targets
Environmental Social
•  3,000 indigenous tree saplings planted   •  400 school children with improved knowledge on 
(Teak, Mahogany, Acacia, Sengon) conservation and climate change
•  19.5 tonnes of CO absorbed through the planting of   •  40 low-income families with improved incomes
2
3,000 tree seedlings in 30 hectares of forest  
•  20 families able to produce post-harvest food from  
(first 12 months only)
kitchen gardens
•  330 hectares of natural forest conserved  
•  300 families trained in permaculture and agroforestry 
over the year
approaches and business management
•  3,118 tonnes CO absorbed through forest conservation  
2
(first 12 months only)
•  200 families identifying livelihoods alternative to  
timber activities
Ashmore, in partnership with the Ashmore Foundation, is proud to be supporting the IDEP Foundation team in their 
work with communities to reduce climate-related impacts and develop more sustainable ways of living.
Ashmore Group plc | Sustainability Report 2020 16
CLIMATE RISKS  
& OPPORTUNITIES
1
2
Ashmore supports the aims of the Financial Stability Board’s Task Force on Climate-related  
3
Financial Disclosures (TCFD), in seeking via voluntary disclosures to provide stakeholders with 
consistent and reliable information relating to climate change and its effects. This is an  
ongoing process that will evolve over time.
In accordance with the TCFD’s guidance, Ashmore considers climate-related risks and opportunities as they relate to both the   4
Group’s operations and its investment activities, and assesses its current activities and disclosures under the TCFD’s four  
thematic headings of Governance, Strategy, Risk management and Metrics and targets.
Governance Operational
5
The Board has ultimate responsibility for the Group’s strategy and through its corporate 
governance framework it aims to maintain full and effective control over appropriate strategic, 
financial, operational and compliance issues. This includes material climate-related issues.
The Board has delegated authority to the executive management who in turn have formed a 
number of specialised committees with terms of reference to carry out the functions delegated  
6
to them. One such specialised committee is the ESG Committee, which has overall responsibility 
for Ashmore’s sustainability and responsible investing framework across its corporate and 
investment activities, and has as one of its objectives to update the Board on ESG-related  
matters including those relating to climate.
Investment
Ashmore’s investment committees are ultimately responsible for the management of client 
portfolios. With the oversight of these committees, the Group has integrated the assessment  
of ESG risks and opportunities, including those related to climate, into its fixed income and 
equities investment processes.
Strategy Operational
Ashmore has limited direct exposure to material climate-related risks. Its GHG emissions, 
disclosed on pages 12 to 15, primarily relate to air travel and its offices and are relatively low given 
the asset management business model. Through the annual budget process and regular reporting 
of financial and other management information, the Board maintains oversight of the level of 
business travel and any changes in the office network.
As the regulatory environment evolves, Ashmore will seek to adhere to the TCFD’s principles and 
to satisfy the requirements of its regulators and other relevant bodies as they relate to the 
assessment, management and disclosure of climate-related risks and opportunities.
Investment
Ashmore’s investment teams engage with sovereign and corporate issuers on a range of topics, 
both directly and in collaboration with other stakeholders, which include climate-related matters.
Disclosure of climate-related data such as carbon emissions by Emerging Markets sovereign and 
corporate issuers is an evolving area and one in which Ashmore engages with those issuers. The 
Group is assessing the availability and use of carbon footprint data for client portfolios and relevant 
benchmarks within the relevant parts of its fixed income and equity investment themes. Ashmore 
will continue to review its ESG product offering in response to actual or potential client demand.
Ashmore Group plc | Sustainability Report 2020 17
CLIMATE RISKS  
& OPPORTUNITIES
Risk management Operational 1
Ashmore’s internal control framework provides an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and 
managing the Group’s emerging and principal risks. The principal risk framework includes climate 
risk and identifies associated controls and mitigants. Further detail is provided in the Risk 
management section of Ashmore’s Annual Report.
2
Investment
Investment committees assess climate risks as part of the ongoing analysis of ESG factors. 
Ashmore’s fundamental analysis is primarily based on proprietary research, including engagement 
with issuers to identify potential investment opportunities. Additionally, the investment 
committees use third-party data to assist in the ESG scoring process.
3
Metrics and targets Operational
As required by The Companies Act, Ashmore reports annually on its GHG emissions and the latest 
4
disclosures can be found on pages 12 to 15.
During the year, the Board examined ways to mitigate or to offset the Group’s carbon emissions. 
Recognising the importance of travel to its business model and the modest absolute levels of 
carbon emissions, it has provisionally decided to pursue a combined approach of seeking 
opportunities to reduce overall emissions levels with an offset strategy involving the Ashmore 
5
Foundation in order that any financial commitment can be used to support beneficial activities in 
the Emerging Markets. This approach demonstrates Ashmore’s cohesive approach to sustainability.
The impact of the COVID-19 pandemic meant that business travel was significantly curtailed or 
cancelled in the second half of the financial year, with a commensurate reduction in the Group’s 
GHG emissions.
6
Investment
Ashmore expects its analysis and reporting of climate-related risks and opportunities and 
associated metrics and targets for portfolio investments will evolve, particularly as Emerging 
Markets issuers increasingly adopt measures such as the TCFD recommendations. For example, 
reporting the carbon footprint of portfolios and benchmark indices requires further assessment 
due to the limitations of current issuer disclosure and the robustness of estimates currently 
available from third-party service providers.
Timeline: recent and upcoming climate-related regulatory developments
March 2020
FCA published climate disclosure proposal
May 2020
Consultation on EU’s Non-Financial Reporting Directive closed
October 2020
Consultation on FCA climate disclosure proposal closes
Late 2020
FCA to publish climate-related disclosure requirements aligned to TCFD recommendations
December 2022
EU to launch sustainability taxonomy
Ashmore Group plc | Sustainability Report 2020 18
INVESTMENT 
SUSTAINABILITY
1
2
Emerging Markets are commonly defined as any country considered by 
3
the World Bank as belonging to ‘low Income’ or ‘middle income’ 
categories. Under this definition, Emerging Markets countries constitute 
approximately 80% of the world’s population. As a leading Emerging 
Markets fund manager, Ashmore recognises the impact its investments 
4
can have on the communities and societies in which they are made.
The assessment of ESG risks and opportunities has become an increasing area of focus for both 
asset owners and investment managers. There is increasing recognition that ESG risks and  
issues can have a material effect on the market value of an issuer’s debt or equity. 
5
Ashmore appreciates that industry standards and norms in this area continue to development  
and that many investors are still evaluating the role that ESG will play in their strategies and 
portfolios. With over 25 years’ experience investing in Emerging Markets, Ashmore’s investment 
professionals have developed expertise in understanding broader non-financial metrics and 
indicators and their impact in generating financial returns they secure for clients.
6
Ashmore recognises that the impact of the investments will vary in breadth and depth across its 
investment themes. With client and industry focus on investment impact, Ashmore investment 
professionals continue to strengthen their impact analysis. Ashmore continues to use the 
spectrum of capital and investment approaches, below, as a framework for understanding impact 
and the relational link between Ashmore’s investments and the social and environmental impact  
of the socially-driven investments made through the Ashmore Foundation in countries where  
the Group has a presence.
Traditional  Responsible  Sustainable  Themed impact  Impact first  Philanthropy
investing investing investing investing investing
Financial returns driven
ESG risk management
Environmental and social impact driven
Limited or no   Negative screening  Negative and  Sectoral focus  Sectoral focus  Sectoral focus 
focus on ESG risks  based on ESG risks   positive screening  addressing social  addressing social  addressing social 
or opportunities   and/or personal  and financial returns  and environment  and environment  and environment 
in the underlying  values drive investment  challenges that  challenges that  challenges where  
investments selection generate commercial  require financial  a financial return 
growth return sacrifice cannot be generated
Financial returns  Financial returns  Financial returns  Financial and  Social and  Social and 
only and negative social/ and positive social/ positive social/ environmental and  environmental 
environmental  environmental  environmental  some financial  returns only
screens: assessment: returns: returns:
• Weapons • Waste reduction • Clean energy •  Social enterprises
• Alcohol • Gender equality • Healthcare • Trading charities
• Pornography • SRI funds • Microfinance • B-Corps
• Gambling
Ashmore Group plc | Sustainability Report 2020 19
INVESTMENT 
SUSTAINABILITY
Responsible investing policy Investment process
1
Ashmore’s philosophy is underpinned by a  Ashmore has explicitly integrated the analysis 
fiduciary responsibility to its clients. Central to  of ESG factors into its investment processes. 
Ashmore’s investment process is the ability   Responsibility for ESG analysis lies with the 
to deliver returns in line with clients’ objectives.  investment teams, and is undertaken alongside  
As an integral part of this, Ashmore is committed  the traditional economic and financial  2
to enabling clients to deploy their capital in a  assessment of an issuer.
manner that most appropriately meets their 
With 98 investment staff dedicated to 
responsible investing considerations. 
Emerging Markets, Ashmore has always relied 
Ashmore has developed a number of core  on its proprietary research and the approach to 
capabilities which are among its distinguishing  ESG analysis uses a similar process. Portfolio  3
features. These, combined with a rigorous  managers use a variety of external secondary 
analytical approach in the Group’s investment  data sources, which are complemented by 
processes, can contribute to long-term  research visits and meetings with issuers, 
sustainable returns.  which add depth of understanding, and 
substantiate the secondary data.  4
Ashmore’s ESG policy is available on its 
website and is reviewed on an annual basis.   In line with the process outlined above, in 
The policy applies to all public markets  assessing issuers portfolio managers review  
strategies and sets out minimum standards.  a range of environmental, social and 
The policy is based on current ESG norms   governance factors, including those shown  
and outlines ESG assessment and   in the graphic below.  5
engagement processes. Ashmore expects  
ESG scores for each issuer are challenged and 
its approach to evolve as access to robust  
reviewed during the relevant theme sub-
and reliable data increases. 
investment committee meetings, where they 
Ashmore’s ESG policy is available on its  are used to help make investment decisions. 
6
website. The ESG risk and opportunity is incorporated 
into an overall view of an issuer through 
financial estimates and/or the valuation 
Integrated approach •   ESG factor assessment fully integrated into Ashmore’s investment process
•   The portfolio manager undertaking the financial analysis carries out ESG assessment
•   Full incorporation of ESG risks and opportunities into decision-making provides a more 
comprehensive analysis of investments
Proprietary methodology •   Unified approach and scoring system by issuer in all global public markets strategies –  
sovereign, corporate debt and equities
•   Internal research (research trips and meetings with issuers) complemented by  
external data sources
•    Portfolio managers complete Enhanced Financial Analysis (PRI Academy CFA Certified)  
training to undertake ESG assessment
Investment decisions •    ESG score for each issuer reviewed and discussed at the relevant theme sub-IC  
as part of investment approval
•   ESG scores are reviewed annually at the respective theme sub-IC.  
Additional reviews triggered on an event-led basis
•    ESG risk/opportunity is incorporated through financial estimates and/or the valuation assessment
ESG governance •   Sustainability and ESG integration across the firm led by the Head of Sustainability  
and ESG Integration
•    Integration approach and scoring methodology overseen by ESG Committee,  
chaired by the CIO with representation from each investment committee
•   Any ESG scores not reviewed for over 12 months will be flagged at the relevant theme  
sub-investment committee
•   Stewardship and engagement processes monitored by the Head of Sustainability and  
ESG Integration
Ashmore Group plc | Sustainability Report 2020 20
INVESTMENT 
SUSTAINABILITY
ESG Assessment Factors assessment. ESG scores are reviewed at a  steward of clients’ capital. Portfolio managers 
1
minimum on an annual basis, but will also be  score all issuers using a consistent set of 
flagged for review on an event led basis.  questions and data points to inform their view of 
an issuer’s current performance in comparison 
Environment The ESG scores help the investment 
to ESG ‘best practice’ alongside an assessment 
committee get a more complete picture of  
Corporate of the forward-looking performance. Portfolio 
the investment risk, and identify the instances  2
managers explicitly record their views in a 
Global impact and GHG  where an improvement in ESG risk profile  
dedicated ESG scorecard. 
emissions, local impact and  may present new investment opportunities.
water and waste management, 
Practically, the ESG analysis of publicly listed 
incidents of environmental   
instruments takes the form of a scorecard that 
pollution, energy management,  Responsible investing governance
and use of green energy,  is completed and updated by the portfolio  3
policies and innovations to   Overall responsibility for Ashmore's  managers that are responsible for the coverage 
limit negative impact. Responsible Investing activities lies with the  of the specific issuer (more details on the score 
Board of Directors, which delegate day to day  card are provided below). All the scorecards 
Sovereign responsibility to an ESG committee chaired   have been harmonised across the investment 
Carbon emissions, clean   by the Chief Executive Officer (CEO). themes. When an issuer straddles different 
4
energy/climate adaption  themes (e.g. corporate debt and equities), 
The ESG committee meets formally on a 
strategies, natural disasters   portfolio manager’s work together to complete 
risk and preparedness,   quarterly basis, and has representation from  the analysis and review the scores.
resource use, and   across the organisation, in particular the 
environmental regulations. Investment Teams, Risk Management,  The investment thesis, including the ESG score, 
Operations, Investor Relations and Distribution.  for an issuer is reviewed, challenged and 
5
Ashmore's integrated approach to ESG  agreed at the relevant theme sub-investment 
Social
assessment means that reviews of all ESG  committee. The ESG risk/opportunity is 
Corporate investment related activities are undertaken   incorporated through financial estimates and/or 
by the Investment Committees and the  the valuation assessment. Taken in combination 
Employee diversity and 
relevant theme sub-Investment Committees.  with other macro and micro-economic risk drivers, 
inclusion, customer welfare,  6
human rights and community  The ESG Committee reviews and ensures the  investment time horizon, liquidity considerations 
relations, labour practices   maintenance and integrity of all responsible  and the investable universe, ESG risk assessment 
and health and safety,   investment/ESG processes and procedures. therefore has a direct impact on investment 
supply chain management,  decisions and portfolio construction.
materiality of philanthropy   
 
spend, and product quality   Public markets strategies
and safety. Responsible investing solutions
ESG risk analysis is explicitly integrated into  
In addition to the integration of ESG analysis 
Sovereign the bottom up research process across all  
across all its public markets strategies, 
fixed income and equity strategies. The  
Basic needs of population,  Ashmore has launched dedicated responsible 
process is fundamentally driven and the issuer 
societal stability, human  investing products. In February 2019, the 
development, economic  analysis encompasses a multitude of factors, 
Ashmore SICAV Total Return ESG Fund was 
freedom, labour rights,   including ESG.
launched. The fund seeks to maximise total 
and inequality.
Ashmore’s assessment of an issuer’s ability to  returns while explicitly integrating ESG 
manage ESG risks successfully is integral to  performance criteria into the strategy, and 
Governance the determination of fair value (equity) and   excluding specific industries as well as poor 
fair spread (credit). Both governments and  performers according to Ashmore’s proprietary 
Corporate
corporate management teams that can  assessment and scoring. 
Transparency and disclosure,  demonstrate strong ESG credentials are more 
governance structure, minority  likely to deliver better economic and financial  In April 2020, Ashmore added to the range with 
interests fair representation,  the Ashmore SICAV Emerging Markets Equity 
performance over time; for example by  
public listing and reporting,  ESG Fund, which applies the same philosophy 
growing faster, reducing the cost of capital and 
management accessibility,  and investment approach applied by the EM  
long-term incentive scheme  generally managing risks better compared to 
All Cap sub-investment committee, but excludes 
KPIs, and strategies to mitigate  their peers. Consequently, ESG factor analysis 
specific industries as well as poor ESG stock 
the impact of ESG risks. is integrated into the investment processes  
performers according to Ashmore’s proprietary 
in the same way as the assessment of 
Sovereign assessment and scoring. ESG practices are key 
macro-economic risk, financial performance 
components of a company’s sustainability and 
Progress to sustainability,  and credit metrics. 
growth potential. Consequently, the strategy 
institutional strength, rule of  
It acts as both a form of risk management and  target companies characterised by notably high 
law, democratic processes,  
and corruption. a source of alpha generation. Ashmore also  and sustainable returns on capital and strong 
considers it part of its fiduciary duty as a  predictable cash flow generation. 
Ashmore Group plc | Sustainability Report 2020 21
INVESTMENT 
SUSTAINABILITY
Alternatives investments
1
Ashmore’s alternatives theme covers a diverse range of real assets in private equity, healthcare, 
infrastructure, special situations, distressed debt, and real estate opportunities. As such, the 
approach to ESG integration is tailored to the context of each market. 
Ashmore considers relevant ESG issues, and the investee company’s own ESG practices,  
2
as part of its due diligence process on prospective alternatives investments. 
Ashmore’s approach is designed to provide superior risk-adjusted returns by mitigating potential 
risks and increasing asset value. Wherever possible, Ashmore uses proprietary ESG assessment 
frameworks, which align to internationally accepted standards, including the PRI and the 
International Finance Corporation (IFC) Performance Standards. Furthermore, Ashmore’s 
3
investment teams seek to ensure that its frameworks comply with local regulations  
and standards.
The due diligence process includes identifying the risk category of the proposed investment, 
analysing specific potential material risks and impacts in ESG areas, documenting best practices 
within the proposed investment, and evidencing the capacity to implement the required risk  4
mitigation measures considered relevant for portfolio investment. The process concludes with  
the selection of ESG investment terms, which, once agreed, are written into the  
investment covenants.
5
AshmoreAVENIDA AshmoreAVENIDA is a real estate company  AshmoreAVENIDA, incorporates ESG and 
acquired by Ashmore in 2018. In the Latin  impact factors into investment decisions  
American region, as is the case in most of the  and project management processes, as well  
world, the real estate sector generally employs  as encouraging employees, business partners, 
6
large numbers of people at the base of the  investors, and clients to tackle the those 
pyramid. Likewise, it is one of the main  challenges. It has developed a proprietary  
contributors to Greenhouse Gas (GHG)  ESG impact framework as part of its due 
emissions. Thus, there are potential benefits   diligence process for all portfolio projects.  
to be realised in terms of social and  In line with Ashmore’s overall approach to  
environmental contributions from the   ESG, the framework aligns with the United 
real estate industry. Nations Principles for Responsible Investing 
(PRI) and the IFC Performance Standards,  
and is integrated within in the general due 
ESG focus areas SDG alignment
diligence process conducted for all  
portfolio projects.
• Water and energy The framework has been designed to assess 
and mitigate materials risks at the project level, 
• Waste and recycling
as well as maximise positive impacts on the 
• W  orkers and occupation   environment and surrounding communities.
health and safety 
The ESG framework also assess ESG and 
• C  ommunity impact considerations throughout the lifecycle 
• U  rbanism of portfolio projects, use consistent best 
practice approaches across target markets, 
•  Biodiversity and protected  commit all third party development partners 
areas
through ESG covenants, and consider risk, 
•   Economic developmental   return and impact through a data oriented 
value methodology.
The framework has been designed to assure 
compliance with local regulations at one level, 
while in turn allowing the Fund to fill gaps  
with international best practice. 
Ashmore Group plc | Sustainability Report 2020 22
INVESTMENT 
SUSTAINABILITY
Andean   Launched by Ashmore Colombia in 2009, and headquartered in Bogota with an office in Peru, the 
1
Private Equity Fund Fund invests in infrastructure projects across the Andean region (Colombia, Peru, and selectively  
in Panama, Ecuador, Guatemala, Costa Rica and El Salvador). It has made successful investments 
in subsectors, such as transport, energy, health, education, telecom, and logistics.
The approach ESG is framed through Ashmore Group’s broader ESG policy, alongside the 
International Finance Corporation’s Performance Standards. Incorporation of ESG into the  2
investment process is central to the funds due diligence and Investment management processes. 
The due diligence process identifies, evaluates and quantifies ESG risks, which are then managed 
through a defined action plan. This is laid out in the ‘Environmental and Social Management 
System’ (ESMS) procedures.
In 2019, the Fund’s investment in the education company Redcol, was awarded the best for its  3
social and environmental impact by Colcapital. 
 
4
Stewardship
Ashmore seeks to be proactive and engage  A third of engagements and dialogues with 
with issuers, both government and corporate,  investee companies centred on the need for 
to determine how they can improve their   improved corporate disclosure of sustainability 
ESG outcomes. This is carried out as part of   issues. In particular, the need for greater  5
an ongoing dialogue with government officials   disclosure on environmental metrics related to 
and company management, and may involve  climate change, which also featured in our 
other key stakeholders.  engagements and dialogues on the 
environment. More recently, with the global 
This approach helps create a positive feedback 
spread of COVID-19, our dialogues with 
loop, whereby investors reward positive  6
companies have centred on understanding the 
performance with a lower cost of capital, and 
measures companies are taking to protect  
access to international capital markets, and 
Ashmore believes it to be  staff and adapt their operations.
penalise poor performance with the withdrawal 
beneficial to its investors to be  of capital. Over time, such incentives should  Across all alternatives investments, Ashmore 
active in promoting its brand  lead to behaviour changes among issuers in  seeks to engage those stakeholders affected 
locally by improving the  favour of more sustainable economic  by investment decisions as early on in the 
development and corporate management  project as possible. This approach enables 
livelihoods of the employees  
models. As more asset managers implement  investment teams to make the most effective 
in those companies where it 
similar investment processes, the changes   impact, while maintaining Ashmore’s 
has a significant stake. 
in behaviour should accelerate across   commitment to delivering superior risk-adjusted 
Emerging Markets issuers. returns. In many cases, Ashmore believes it to 
be beneficial to its investors to be active in 
In December 2019, in line with the 
promoting its brand locally by improving the 
Shareholders Rights Directive II, Ashmore 
livelihoods of the employees in those 
published its engagement policy. During the 
companies where it has a significant stake. 
reporting, our investment teams discussed 
ESG issues with over 80 companies through   
our public markets strategies. The chart below 
outlines the specific topics discussed.
n  Board and committees  11%
n  Business practices  14%
n  Disclosure  33%
n  Diversity  2%
n  Employee welfare  2%
n  Environment  21%
n  Minority protection  7%
n  Remuneration  10%
Ashmore Group plc | Sustainability Report 2020 23
INVESTMENT 
SUSTAINABILITY
Proxy voting 
1
In keeping with Ashmore’s policy on proxy voting, portfolio managers aim to vote on all proxies 
presented to them. Where they have concerns, they seek to engage with company  
management and other key stakeholders to address these.
Voting summary for the reporting year
2
Total shareholder meetings at which votes were cast 293
Number of resolutions voted 2586
Percentage voted with management recommendations 83%
Percentage voted against management recommendations 9% 3
Percentage of abstentions 7%
Percentage of votes withheld 1% 
 
Industry engagements 4
Ashmore believes that to continue to develop best practice, there is a need to engage,  
collaborate with and draw upon the expertise of peers.
Ashmore has been a signatory of the UN Principles of Responsible Investment (UNPRI) since 
2013. We seek to continuously improve our annual assessment score and deepen our   5
engagement in PRI initiatives. Our 2020 PRI scores can be found below.
Category 2018 2019 2020
Strategy and Governance A A A
6
Listed Equity – Incorporation  B B A
Listed Equity – Active ownership C B A
Fixed Income – Sovereign  B B A
Fixed Income – Corporate  B A A Signatory of
Property – B A
Infrastructure – A A 
In 2020, signed up to the Carbon Action 100+ investor initiative that seeks to ensure the world’s 
largest corporate greenhouse gas emitters take necessary action on climate change. Ashmore 
looks forward to participating in the initiative in the coming years. 
We continue to identify appropriate initiatives that will enable us to meet global best practice on 
those issues and themes that are important to us and our stakeholders, as well as wider industry 
initiatives that contribute to better investment practices and global growth and development.
 
Negative screening
Ashmore believes that investments which do not meet minimum standards should be excluded 
from client portfolios. Ashmore seeks to comply with applicable government authorities,  
and, at a geographical level, screens across all investment against the UN Security Council and  
EU/UK Sanctions and the US Office of Foreign Assets and Control lists. 
Ashmore is able to customise client portfolios to meet specific requirements for geographic, 
sector and stock specific restrictions, such as alcohol, animal/food products, armaments 
manufacturers or dealers, gambling, pornography, tobacco and coal.
Controversial weapons
Ashmore restricts investment in companies engaged in the manufacture, distribution and 
maintenance of controversial weapons. The scope and breadth of this restriction is outlined  
in Ashmore’s Controversial Weapons policy.
Ashmore Group plc | Sustainability Report 2020 24
SOCIETAL 
SUSTAINABILITY
1
2
Ashmore recognises that being a member of the global community  
3
brings with it responsibility to act in a manner that benefits wider society. 
This responsibility is particularly acute in the markets in which Ashmore 
operates. As such, Ashmore seeks to behave in a manner that positively 
impacts not only its investors but also its employees and the  
4
communities in which it invests.
Human rights and modern slavery  enabling employees to take one day annually  
to support charitable projects.
Ashmore supports the United Nations 
Universal Declaration of Human Rights.  Ashmore employees drive local volunteering  5
Ashmore has developed a Supplier Code of  initiatives and take part in a range of activities 
Conduct that applies to all suppliers that  to support disadvantaged communities in  
provide goods or services to Ashmore, and  their local vicinity. 
outlines the basic ethical requirements that 
Ashmore continues to make an annual 
suppliers must meet in order to do business 
donation to homeless charity Crisis, in support  6
with the Group, including affording employees 
Ashmore employees drive   the freedom to choose employment and not  of its Christmas card campaign, as well as  
an annual donation of foreign coins and 
local volunteering initiatives  using any form of forced, bonded or  
banknotes to the Alzheimer’s Society. 
and take part in a range of  involuntary labour (including child labour).
activities to support     
disadvantaged communities   Obsolete equipment COVID-19 
in their local vicinity. 
Ashmore provides obsolescent computers   The emergence and rapid spread of the 
to Computer Aid International. Computer Aid   COVID-19 pandemic saw unprecedented 
is a UK registered charity that aims to reduce  changes to every facet of our daily lives. In 
poverty through practical ICT solutions.  addition to prioritising the health, safety and 
Computer Aid sends these PCs to various  welfare of employees globally, Ashmore  
projects across Africa and South America   has sought to respond to societal pressures 
and furnishes Ashmore with details of where  that the pandemic has surfaced. 
they are used. Any units that are not usable  
In the UK, where Ashmore is headquartered 
are disposed of in an environmentally  
and home to almost half of its employees,  
friendly fashion.
a donation of £250,000 was made to NHS 
  Charities Together to support the work of the 
Ashmore investing in local   NHS, with a focus on frontline workers,  
communities patient care and community social services. 
Ashmore recognises the positive impact it can  Additionally, Ashmore committed to matching 
have on the communities where it operates  all employee donations made to charities 
and is committed to creating lasting benefits   supporting the COVID-19 relief effort. Based on 
in those locations where Ashmore has a  employee contributions, in the UK donations 
presence. Beyond support for the Ashmore  were made to NHS Charities Together, Children 
Foundation, employees across all offices and  in Need, and the Trussell Trust. In the US, 
subsidiaries are encouraged to engage with  donations were made to New York Presbyterian, 
and support local community projects. This  the Robin Hood Foundation, Jewish Support 
commitment is reflected in Ashmore’s policy  Services, and Homes with Hope.
Ashmore Group plc | Sustainability Report 2020 25
SOCIETAL 
SUSTAINABILITY
Ashmore India made donations to a number of  vulnerable communities. Furthermore, a 
1
local Mumbai hospitals, in response to appeals  number of investee companies have donated 
to support the procurement of COVID related  food (solidarity lunches and nutritional packages) 
medical equipment. This was supplemented by  and biosecurity kits (masks, alcohol wipes, 
personal donations from individual staff.  antibacterial gel) to the communities and 
authorities in their local areas.
Ashmore Colombia made a donation to  2
Colombia Cuida Colombia, which was used to  Ashmore wishes to thank all employees for  
support the Association of Food Banks of  the generous donations made to support  
Colombia, which seeks to improve the  those most in need at this time.
distribution of food, goods and services to 
  3
United Nations Global Compact
The UN Global Compact was launched in 2000 to harness the power of collective action in the 
promotion of responsible corporate citizenship. The UN Global Compact is a voluntary initiative  
that provides a framework for businesses committed to aligning their operations and strategies 
4
with the ten universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labour, the environment 
and anti-corruption. Ashmore became a signatory to the UN Global Compact in 2019. Ashmore's 
affirmation of its commitment in including in the CEO's foreword on page 4.
Communication on Progress
In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve  
5
the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and 
daily operations.
Area of focus Description of actions Measurement of progress
6
Human Rights •  Supporter of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights  There were no reports of incidents  
(see p.28) of bullying or harassment during  
•  Modern slavery and human trafficking statement   the year.
published on website There were no health and safety 
•  Commitment to ensuring employees are treated with  Incidents or breaches during  
respect and dignity while at work (see p.10) the year. 
•  Commitment to ensuring employees are provided with  
a safe and healthy working environment (see p.10)
Labour •  Gender diversity tracking across all offices.   Ashmore has appointed two  
Data submitted to the Hampton-Alexander review   female Non-Executive Directors  
(see p.10) and continues promote gender 
•  Supplier code of conduct to maintain a strong corporate  diversity across the organisation.
culture employing high standards of integrity and  
fair dealing published on website
•  Commitment to staff personal development through 
ongoing training (see p.9)
Environment •  Established initiative to offset all reported operational   Ashmore has taken measures to 
CO2 emissions (Scope 1-3) (see p.17) reduce emissions at its largest 
•  Supporter of the TCFD and disclosure aligned with   location, this includes the  
TCFD recommendations (see p.18) installation of LED lights and  
efficient temperature management 
•  Published position statement on climate change  
resulting in a 22% reduction in 
on website 
emissions.
Anti-corruption •  Policies and procedures covering each area of   Staff receive ongoing training on 
financial crime (see p.11) various aspects of financial crime.
•  Whistle-blower policies and procedures in place There have been no incidents 
reported during the year.
Ashmore Group plc | Sustainability Report 2020 26
1
2
The Foundation was established in 2008 and seeks to make a positive  
3
and sustainable difference to disadvantaged communities in the  
Emerging Markets in which Ashmore operates and invests. To achieve 
this objective, the Ashmore Foundation aims to develop long-term 
relationships with locally based non-government organisations (NGOs). 
4
The Ashmore Foundation  In September 2019, 33 Ashmore employees 
functions independently of  from Dublin, Jakarta, London, New York, 
Ashmore and is registered in  Singapore and Tokyo participated in the  
the United Kingdom as a  Ashmore ‘Triathlon’. Split into three teams,  
charity and company limited  they cycled, hiked/ran and canoed over   5
by guarantee. It is staffed by   168 kilometres in 12 hours raising over  
a full time Executive Director  USD 109,000 in support of the Foundation  
who is responsible for  and its charitable partners.
managing the Foundation’s 
affairs. The board of trustees  6
consists of seven Ashmore 
employees, including a plc 
Board member, Jennifer 
Bingham, as well as one 
independent trustee. In 
addition to the board of 
trustees, Ashmore 
employees are encouraged to engage directly 
in the governance of the Foundation through 
Above:
Team Asia having completed their   trusteeships and involvement in sub-committees.
Challenge at Siem Reap,  
Cambodia. Ashmore supports the Foundation’s charitable 
activities through the provision of pro-bono 
Top right:
Team Europe at the summit of   office space, administrative support and a 
Pen y Fan, Brecon Beacons,   matched funding commitment for employee 
Wales.
donations to the Ashmore Foundation. The 
Bottom right: Ashmore Foundation is supported solely by 
Team America at the start of their  
Ashmore and its employees globally. Crucially, 
Challenge in the Catskill Mountains,  
New York State. this support from employees extends beyond 
financial aid to active engagement with  
NGOs through mentoring and helping them 
expand their network of contacts.
Ashmore employees organise a range of 
events from wine tastings to cake bakes to 
raise funds for the Foundation. Employees 
organise challenge events in support of the 
Foundation and over the years have summited 
the UK’s three peaks, Mounts Toubkal and 
Kinabalu, cycled from London to Paris and 
walked the length of Hadrian’s Wall. 
Ashmore Group plc | Sustainability Report 2020 27
THE ASHMORE
FOUNDATION
Social investing in Emerging Markets
1
The Ashmore Foundation’s approach is  The Ashmore Foundation supports civil society 
underpinned by the belief that, while economic  through social investments, grant donations 
growth continues in the Emerging Markets,  and concessionary loans in those Emerging 
many communities, particularly those in rural  Markets countries in which Ashmore Group 
and isolated locations, remain locked out of this  invests and operates. The Foundation seeks to  2
prosperity. Social and economic inequalities  develop long-term partnerships with civil 
continue to increase and communities lack the  society organisations and does not accept 
skills and resources needed to participate fully  unsolicited applications, preferring to identify 
in economic development.  appropriate partnerships pro-actively. Civil 
society organisations typically receive between 
The Ashmore Foundation believes that with   3
USD 20,000 and USD 50,000 per year over a  
the right support, the most marginalised and 
two to three year period. 
disadvantaged communities can grow and 
prosper. The Foundation therefore focuses its  All proposals for new partnerships undergo  
social investment strategy on programmes   a rigorous assessment designed to review  
that aim to equip people with the skills and  not only the proposed activities, but the  4
resources they need to increase their livelihood  organisation as a whole – taking into 
opportunities, enabling them to meet their  consideration management, governance, 
basic needs while also supporting economic  strategy, resources and accountability. The level 
growth and beginning to address broader  and depth of due diligence is proportionate to 
societal inequalities. the size of the grant under consideration. 
5
 
Current Partnerships
Since its inception in 2008, the Ashmore Foundation has dispersed over USD 6.7m to   6
over 70 civil society organisations in 25 Emerging Markets countries. It has developed a 
number of longstanding strategic partnerships; below are examples of organisations that 
received support during the year.
Aangan Trust Studies have found that exclusionary practices cause children from socially and economically 
disadvantaged groups to drop out of school. Those who manage to remain in school experience 
Partnership established: 2013
discrimination and exploitation. Girls are at particular risk of dropping of formal education, 
Country: India
adolescence is particularly risky for girls, caught between family and community pressures. 
Through this partnership, Aangan seeks to address the safety of school aged children through 
the establishment of school safety hubs in 124 schools in West Bengal. These hubs will work 
at the intersection of the school and the community, working with staff, families, adolescents 
and government officials in a coordinated effort to ensure children’s safety both in the school 
and in the community, transiting between home and school. Aangan hope to extend the 
programme to over 400 schools over the course of the next three years.
Children Change   Twenty percent of all young people in the Colombian penal system are located in Bogotá.  
Colombia The vast majority are from the most marginalised neighbourhoods, lacking support networks 
and experiencing violence. There are no guidelines to help young people access follow up 
Partnership established: 2017
support after release. In practice, neither state institutions nor the centre operators offer this 
Country: Colombia
type of accompaniment.
This project implemented in partnership with their local partner, Tiempo de Juego, prepare  
the young people for a safe and fulfilling return into families and communities, to reduce the 
risks of violence, substance abuse and involvement in crime, and overall to reduce the 
likelihood of returning to the institutions. It will do this by improving access to services within 
institutions, and improving links to services available upon release. 
Ashmore Group plc | Sustainability Report 2020 28
THE ASHMORE
FOUNDATION
CRRECENT Established in 2004, the Child Research and Resource Centre (CRRECENT) develops and 
1
implements programmes that promote the rights of children and young people across Ghana. 
Partnership established: 2017
Since 2010, the organisation has been engaged in activities to improve the juvenile justice 
Country: Ghana
system. In partnership with the Prison Service of Ghana and Ghana’s Department of Social 
Welfare they have been implementing a rehabilitation and reintegration programme for children 
and young people as they are discharged from Juvenile Correctional Centres. 
2
Through this partnership, they will work with children and young people as they are discharged 
to help them reintegrate into mainstream society. They will support them to return to their 
families and communities where possible and help them to enrol into apprenticeship 
programmes or formal education. Through their schools programme they will also work with 
children at risk of entering the juvenile justice system.
3
Fair Trade USA Fair Trade is a market-based approach that connects producers, businesses and consumers to 
create shared value across the supply chain. Fair Trade USA’s goal is to advance income 
Partnership established: 2017
sustainability, well-being, empowerment and environmental stewardship in communities.  4
Country: Philippines
In the Philippines, 41 per cent of the 3.5 million coconut farmers live below the poverty line 
(average household earns USD 355 annually). Yet coconut products are one of the country’s  
top exports with growing consumer interest in coconut water, oil, and beauty products.  
Global demand is rising at over 10 per cent per annum while regional supply is increasing at  
2 per cent per annum.  5
Fair Trade USA began certifying coconut farmers in the Philippines in 2013, and to date have 
certified eight producer groups comprised of over 5,700. Through this partnership they will 
scale the programme to an additional producer group (over 1,000 farmers), support current 
farmers to maximise the impact of the programme, and increase sourcing commitments from 
6
processors, buyers, manufacturers and distributers.
Fundación   Communities, and young people in particular, in the regions south of Bogota have been on  
IED-VITAL the frontline of the armed conflict, as well as drug production and trafficking industry for years. 
They have been abandoned by the national government and lack infrastructure and access to 
Partnership established: 2016
public goods and services. This has resulted in high poverty levels and a disempowered 
Country: Colombia
population. The regions are rich in natural resources but without the necessary skills and 
opportunities, it is difficult for communities to tap into and capitalise on these resource to 
generate income. 
Through this partnership IED-VITAL works with 350 young people aged 16-24 years old, 
assessing skills and mapping current income activities. They work with young people to access 
formal accredited business skills training and support required to set up and grow their own 
businesses.
Fundación   Fundación las Golondrinas was established 25 years ago in Llanaditas, Medellin to improve the 
Las Golondrinas quality of life, development, and economic opportunity to support social transformation for 
communities. In Colombia, the conflict has resulted in the increased movement of people from 
Partnership established: 2017
rural to urban areas, seeking safety and opportunity. One such area is Villa Hermosa which lies 
Country: Colombia
in close proximity to downtown Medellin on a hillside. It has a population of 136,000 with 
almost 60 per cent of the population between 16 and 46 years old. 
Unemployment is one of the biggest issues; it currently stands at 12.2 per cent. Fundación  
Las Golondrinas have been working with the municipal authorities to address unemployment 
levels. They are establishing a centre for technical training and entrepreneurship to enable 
people to prepare enter the employment market. They will develop and deliver four skills 
training programmes, set up job placements with local companies and support students to  
set up and grow their own small businesses.
Ashmore Group plc | Sustainability Report 2020 29
THE ASHMORE
FOUNDATION
Lend a Hand India In rural India there is a significant disconnect between the education delivered and skills 
1
needed for the employment market. This programme aims to address this issue through the 
Partnership established: 2013
use of a three-year skills development programme designed for students aged 14-17 years. 
Country: India
The programme focuses on 40 skills covering four core areas of training. The programme 
results in improved school attendance and young people equipped with the right skills to get  
a job or set up their own business. Through this partnership LAHI will extend   2
the programme to include an internship placements, offering students the 
opportunity to get real life work experience. 
LAHI’s model not only challenges the rote method of learning applied across India 
but also imparts learners with broader comprehension and analytical abilities; it 
also provides rural young people with viable post-secondary career options, in turn  3
reducing the need for rural to urban migration. The skills that young people learn 
through the programme are also applied in the home and are often transferred to 
parents. LAHI’s approach is also helping to challenge entrenched gender 
stereotypes in rural communities.
4
Minga Perú Minga Perú work with communities in Peru’s Loreto region, spread across 37 million hectares 
in the Peruvian Amazon. Most of the region is remote with access limited to boats. Its isolation 
Partnership established: 2017
and lack of access to basic services has resulted in half the population living in extreme 
Country: Peru
poverty. A quarter of all children under five are malnourished and 70 per cent of the population  5
are unable to access adequate sanitation. Domestic violence, teen pregnancy, and gender-
based and sexual violence are widespread. 
In response, Minga Peru has developed and aired radio programmes addressing critical social 
issues. Through this partnership, Minga Peru will produce and broadcast 58 new programmes 
6
dealing with issues raised by listeners. They will run educational workshop and support 
communities to develop income-generating activities.
Nneka Youth   Nneka Youth Foundation seek to address the issue of educational attainment of children in 
Foundation Ghana. Young people face multiple issues and have few opportunities that result in them 
discontinuing formal education beyond primary school. Currently, a third of all students  
Partnership established: 2017
enrolled in junior high school dropout. 
Country: Ghana
Nneka works with young people to remove the obstacles that stop them from progressing, 
providing learning opportunities that build skills and resilience. They do this through the 
provision of educational and life-skills, building opportunities for young people who might be 
underserved, overlooked or otherwise at risk of falling behind in school. Nneka runs a series  
of programmes including summer camps, mentoring, teacher training, and financial literacy  
in Hohoe district. 
Salva Terra Salva Terra work to ensure food security and livelihood development for smallholder farmers  
and their families. They do this by providing farmers with technical knowledge and skills and 
Partnership established: 2017
raising environmental conservation awareness. The conflict in Colombia has played a key role in 
Country: Colombia
the levels of poverty and inequality. Rapid gains have been made in reducing poverty in urban 
areas. However, approximately 42 per cent of the rural population continue to live below the 
poverty line. 
Working through government education centres, Salva Terra provide rural families with 
improved knowledge and understanding of nutrition, crop production and entrepreneurship. 
They work with smallholder farmers to increase their yields and will connect them to markets 
enabling them to get a better price for their produce.
Ashmore Group plc | Sustainability Report 2020 30
THE ASHMORE
FOUNDATION
Visayan Forum Established in 1991, Visayan forum works to address modern day slavery and works with 
1
victims of human trafficking and sexual exploitation. In the Philippines, 60,000-100,000 children 
Partnership established: 2017
are involved in prostitution; 80 per cent of which are girls under 18 years old. The country has 
Country: Philippines
become a global hotspot for cybersex and online sexual exploitation of children and young 
women. There are approximately 2.1 million child labourers, 60 per cent of which work in 
hazardous conditions, suffering physical, sexual and psychological abuse. Trafficked from rural 
2
areas, they remain invisible, falling through government mechanisms. 
For the last 26 years, Visayan Forum has been at the forefront of action against human 
trafficking and child labour in the Philippines. Through partnerships with government, Visayan 
Forum has rescued and sheltered almost 20,000 survivors and at risk young girls. Support from 
the Ashmore Foundation will enable them to continue operations, rescuing survivors and 
3
providing them with comprehensive support as well as pursuing legal action against abusers 
and perpetrators.
Unltd Indonesia Unltd Indonesia’s mission is to develop a support system that enables social enterprises in  4
Indonesia to flourish. They provide financial and technical assistance to social enterprises 
Partnership established: 2015
across Indonesia. They do this through an incubation programme where they work with early 
Country: Indonesia
stage enterprises to help them to develop their business models, and put in places strategies 
and structures necessary to grow the organisation. Alongside this they provide the most 
promising organisations with short term loans for working capital. They also introduce social 
5
enterprises to potential investors and donors. Unltd Indonesia are also engaged in developing 
the social enterprise ecosystem across the country and the Southeast Asia region.
6
Emergencies Funding
In addition to the main partnership grants  In order to support communities and civil 
programme, the Ashmore Foundation supports  society partners, in April 2020, Trustees 
those communities in Emerging Markets  approved a ring fenced sum of USD 100,000  
countries that have been affected by natural  to support former and current grantees as  
disasters and humanitarian emergencies.  they are impacted and respond to COVID-19. 
Trustees will continue to assess the impact  
Since March 2020, the rapid spread of the 
of COVID-19 on plans for future periods. 
COVID-19 virus has significantly impacted the 
way people conduct their day to day lives.  
This is particularly the case for communities  
in Emerging Markets. Daily wage and migrant 
labourers have lost their livelihoods and 
disruptions to the supply chain mean that 
farmers have been unable to sell produce. 
Moreover, government restrictions have 
suspended or diverted the interventions of 
many of the Foundation’s civil society  
partners, severely impacting income. 
Ashmore Group plc | Sustainability Report 2020 31
THE ASHMORE
FOUNDATION
Impact first investing 
1
The Ashmore Foundation recognises that some social impact organisations will be generating 
revenue through their activities. To achieve their objectives these organisations often require 
working capital to grow and scale. In 2016, the Foundation began making programme related 
investments in organisations whose work aligns with its charitable objectives.
2
The Ashmore Foundation recognises that different types of capital deployed to a range of 
organisations along the investment spectrum can generate positive impact aligned to its 
charitable objectives. To this end the Foundation has sought to identify appropriate impact first 
investment opportunities within both the public and private markets to enable it to deploy  
as much of its resources as possible to generating positive societal outcomes for  
Emerging Markets communities.  3
Impact first   In 2016 the Foundation began making programme related investments in organisations whose 
investments work aligns with its charitable objectives. Information about Ashmore’s current impact first 
investments are listed below.  4
Root Capital Root Capital is a non-profit 501 (c)(3) registered organisation that seeks to improve the lives  
of rural farmers by connecting them with the formal economy. They supply agricultural 
Partnership established: 2016 5
businesses with financial capital and training to help them grow. These businesses purchase 
Country: Various Latin America  
crops such as coffee, cocoa, or grains from thousands of smallholder farmers. They then 
and Africa
connect members to formal markets and support them to improve their farming practices. 
6
CoSchool CoSchool SAS is a B-Corp operating in the education sector in Colombia. They seek to  
develop socio-emotional skills so that young people feel, think and act in a collective manner 
Partnership established: 2016
empowering them to achieve their personal goals and lead positive change in their 
Country: Colombia
communities. They design and deliver high quality education programmes based on innovation, 
social challenges and uniting different social backgrounds. The loan will enable CoSchool to 
scale their business.
Unltd Indonesia In addition to the grant awarded to Unltd Indonesia during the year, a repayable grant was 
issued to support a loan scheme, providing short term working capital loans for the most 
Partnership established: 2015
promising social enterprises that they incubate. The repayable grant will be returned to  
Country: Indonesia
The Ashmore Foundation at the end of the 12 month period.
Investing in the ecosystem
The Ashmore Foundation believes in the   In the coming years, The Ashmore Foundation 
power of social enterprises and impact driven  will continue to identify impact first investment 
organisation to drive social change. Since  opportunities that enable it to support impact 
inception, The Ashmore Foundation has  driven organisations to grow and sustain 
collaborated with enterprise incubators and  themselves while actively benefiting broader 
accelerator programmes that enable  societies in the Emerging Markets. The 
organisations to prove their model and  Ashmore Foundation will continue to draw 
accelerate growth. The Ashmore Foundation  upon the resources of Ashmore Group, and its 
currently partners with Unltd Indonesia to  depth of knowledge of the Emerging Markets 
support early stage social enterprises. to support the implementation of its impact 
first investing strategy. 
Ashmore Group plc | Sustainability Report 2020 32
THE ASHMORE
FOUNDATION
Sustainable Development Goals
1
To formalise its commitment to the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and 
their achievement by 2030, Ashmore became a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact in 
2019. Ashmore believes that its experience and engagement in the Emerging Markets enables it 
to contribute concretely to the achievement of a number of the goals. 
2
Ashmore recognises that global development and sustainability issues are complex and will 
require continued investment and collaboration if they are to be achieved. To this end, Ashmore 
will continue to develop our process for assessing how we can most effectively contribute to  
their achievement.
Set out below, are the ways in which Ashmore’s investments and social investments through the 
3
Ashmore Foundation over the last five years have contributed to the achievement of the SDGs.
Ashmore’s contribution to the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs)
4
•  USD 183k invested to provide over 1000 children  •   USD 100m investment in healthcare infrastructure 
and their families with improved nutrition and   in the United Arab Emirates and Saudi Arabia
food security
•   USD 10m investment in oncology and  
•  USD 500k to provide financial capital, training   diagnostics clinics in Morocco
to improve practices and access to formal   5
•   USD 33m invested in healthcare infrastructure  
markets to smallholder farmers across  
and facilities in Colombia
South America and sub-Saharan Africa
•  USD 164k to provide skills training for young   •  USD 135k invested to shelter over 100 young   6
people living in informal settlements in Colombia girls rescued from online sexual exploitation  
in the Philippines
•  USD 75m invested in education infrastructure  
in Saudi Arabia •  USD 151k invested in safeguarding for girls 
travelling to and from, and while at, school
•  USD 10m investment in largest school network  
in Colombia with aggregate student body  
of 6,000
•  USD 87.5k invested to support social   •   USD 149m invested in improving transportation 
entrepreneurs in Indonesia infrastructure across Colombia
•  USD 210k invested to improve technical and   •   USD 29m investment in the construction  
skills training and provide internship opportunities  of 136km power transmission lines in  
for school aged children in India northern Colombia
•  100 children and young people in Colombia  •  USD 63m investment in waste management 
supported to reclaim public spaces from gangs (reduction, recovery and recycling) in Saudi Arabia
•  19,277 low income housing units built  
in Colombia
Ashmore Group plc | Sustainability Report 2020 33