
A
s
h
m
o
r
e
 G
r
o
u
p
 p
lc
 A
n
n
u
a
l R EQUITIES
e
p
o
r
t
 a PEOPLE
n
d
 A
c
c
o INVESTED IN ASHMORE
u
n
t
s
 2
0
2 LOCAL
1
ESG
DIVERSITY
ANNUAL REPORT  
AND ACCOUNTS 2021
Contents 2021 highlights
Assets under   Adjusted EBITDA  
Strategic report
management (AuM) margin
Strategy 2
Business model 4
US$94.4bn 66%
Investment processes 6
Invested in equities 9
Culture 10 2020: US$83.6bn  2020: 68%
Invested in people 11 +13% YoY
Chief Executive’s review 12
KPIs 16
Invested locally 18 AuM outperforming   Profit before tax 
Market review 19 benchmarks (3 years)
Invested in diversity 24
Investment themes 25 57% £282.5m
Business review 28
Risk management 36
2020: 17% 2020: £221.5m 
Section 172 statement 42
+28% YoY
Climate risks and opportunities 46
Invested in ESG 50
Sustainability 51
Net revenue  Diluted EPS 
Governance
Board of Directors 67
Corporate governance report 69 £291.7m 34.2p
Audit and Risk Committee report 77
Nominations Committee report 81
2020: £330.5m  2020: 25.7p
Remuneration report 83
-12% YoY
Directors’ Remuneration policy 98 +33% YoY
Annual Report on Remuneration 105
Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities 116 Dividends per share 
Directors’ report 117
Financial statements
16.9p
Independent auditor’s report 124 For the online version of the Annual Report, 
Consolidated financial statements 131 other announcements and details of 
upcoming events, please visit the Investor 
Company financial statements 135 Relations section of the Ashmore Group plc  2020: 16.9p 
Notes to the financial statements 138 website at www.ashmoregroup.com
Five-year summary 179
More information 
Information for shareholders 180
Non-GAAP alternative performance 
measures are described on page 35.
Five-year comparatives for other alternative 
performance measures are included in the 
five-year summary on page 179.
Ashmore’s purpose, as a specialist Emerging Markets investment 
manager, is to deliver long-term investment outperformance for clients 
and generate value for shareholders through market cycles. In pursuing 
these objectives, Ashmore aims to ensure that its culture and working 
practices recognise its broader set of stakeholders.
Find more information on how Ashmore’s purpose aligns with and benefits its 
stakeholders in the Section 172 statement on page 42.
S
T
R
A
T
E
G
IC
 R
E
P
O
R
T
 
G
O
V
E
R
N
A
N
C
E
 
F
IN
EQUITIES A
N
C
IA
L
PEOPLE  S
T
A
T
E
M
INVESTED IN ASHMORE E
N
T
S
LOCAL
ESG
DIVERSITY
Ashmore’s specialist approach to investing allows it to take full advantage of the substantial long-term 
growth opportunities across the large and diverse Emerging Markets asset classes.
Invested   Invested   Invested  Invested   Invested  
in equities in people locally in diversity in ESG
page 9 page 11 page 18 page 24 page 50
Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021  1
STRATEGY
A STRATEGY FOR 
GROWTH 
Ashmore’s strategy is aligned with the significant growth opportunities available across  
the broad range of Emerging Markets asset classes. Consistent with the Group’s purpose, 
the three distinct phases are focused on growing and diversifying Ashmore’s business and 
creating value for clients and shareholders.
Establish Emerging Markets asset classes
1
Ashmore is recognised as an established specialist Emerging 
Markets manager, and is therefore well positioned to capture 
investors’ rising allocations
Diversify investment themes and  
2
developed world capital sources
Ashmore is diversifying its revenue mix to provide greater 
revenue stability through market cycles. There is particular focus 
on growing intermediary retail, equity and alternatives AuM
3 Mobilise Emerging Markets capital
Ashmore’s growth is enhanced through accessing rapidly  
growing pools of investable capital in Emerging Markets
2  Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021
S
T
R
A
T
E
G
IC
 R
E
P
O
R
T
 
G
O
V
E
R
N
A
N
C
E
 
F
Opportunity Progress in 2021 Potential sources of risk IN
A
N
C
IA
L
 S
T
– Developed world investors hold more  – As global markets recover from the  – Sentiment towards, and fundamental  A
T
than US$80 trillion of assets and are  COVID-19 pandemic, Ashmore’s  performance of, Emerging Markets E
M
profoundly underweight Emerging  clients are reverting to their long-term  – Long-term investment performance E
N
Markets: target allocations are less  trend of raising allocations to  T
S
than 10% compared with global  Emerging Markets
benchmark weights of approximately  – Approximately 80% of institutional net 
10% to 30% flows were from existing clients 
increasing allocations within existing 
mandates or broadening their 
Emerging Markets investments
– The Emerging Markets investment  – There is good momentum in  – Potential constraints on  
universe continues to grow and  Ashmore’s equities business, with  longer-term growth such  
diversify, and Ashmore strives to be at  AuM growth of 61% YoY and  as competition
the forefront of accessing new market  including net inflows of US$0.9 billion 
opportunities as they arise – Ashmore expanded its dedicated ESG 
– Diversifying revenue streams provides  fund range with the launch of 
greater stability through the cycle sovereign and corporate funds
– Risk aversion resulted in proportion of 
AuM sourced through intermediary 
retail channels dropping from 11% 
to 8%
– Industry AuM in Emerging Markets   – Local asset management operations  – Managing the development of  
is growing twice as fast as the  account for US$7.2 billion, 8% of the  local asset management platforms  
developed world Group’s total AuM in Emerging Markets
– This presents a significant growth  – More than a quarter (26%) of Group 
opportunity in local asset management  AuM is sourced from clients in the 
platforms, as well as cross-border  Emerging Markets
Emerging Markets opportunities over 
the longer term
See pages 19-27 for Ashmore’s   See pages 28-35 for Ashmore’s   See pages 36-41 for Ashmore’s  
market and investment themes review business review principal risks
Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021  3
BUSINESS MODEL
A DISTINCTIVE 
BUSINESS MODEL  
TO SUPPORT GROWTH
Ashmore’s business model supports its growth  Long-term value creation for shareholders
strategy and is designed to create value for the Group’s 
The delivery of investment performance for clients 
stakeholders through market cycles.
results in diversified AuM growth, which the business 
The model converts the structural growth opportunities  model translates efficiently into financial performance 
in Emerging Markets to deliver positive outcomes for  and long-term value creation for shareholders.
Ashmore’s clients, shareholders and employees as 
Resilience through market cycles
well as recognising Ashmore’s responsibilities to a 
The salient characteristics of the model have been 
broader set of stakeholders including society.
sustained through bull and bear markets, 
See pages 42 to 45 for Ashmore’s  demonstrating resilience and protecting shareholder 
Section 172 statement returns when confronted with more challenging market 
conditions. In particular:
Specialist, active management delivering  – The Group’s balance sheet is well-capitalised and 
long-term investment performance liquid with financial resources of more than £750 
million, which is more than £600 million in excess of 
Ashmore’s established investment processes have 
the Group’s Pillar II regulatory capital requirement 
delivered long-term investment outperformance for 
and includes around £450 million of cash. Ashmore 
clients over nearly three decades. This drives growth in 
has no debt. This not only provides resilience but 
AuM, revenues and profits over the longer term.
also enables continued investment, for example in 
See pages 6 to 9 for Ashmore’s investment processes the seed capital programme.
– The Remuneration Policy underpins a highly flexible 
Strong alignment of interests and significant  cost base that delivers a high operating margin and 
protects returns for shareholders through 
cost flexibility
market cycles.
The alignment of interests between employees,  
clients and shareholders is critical. This is primarily  See pages 28 to 35 for Ashmore’s business review
achieved by the team-based approach to investment 
management and a remuneration philosophy that 
places an emphasis on performance-related pay with a 
significant bias to long-dated equity awards and that 
delivers meaningful employee equity ownership. When 
combined with a low fixed operating cost model and 
continued cost discipline, this provides significant 
flexibility in the Group’s cost base to enable it to 
respond to changes in the revenue environment.
4  Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021
S
T
R
A
T
Structural growth opportunities E
G
IC
 R
E
P
High-return, diversified range   Powerful political, social and  Significant increase in investor  O
R
of Emerging Markets   economic convergence trends allocations to match global index  T 
asset classes weights
G
O
V
E
R
N
A
N
C
E
 
ca us FIN
pitAc oc AN
al progrtaive seed pecialist f CIAL STA
baSltarnocneg ,s hliqeeutid  mme   S m aAnc atigvee m e n t TEMENTS
oSpcaelraabtilneg    ESG integrated
platform
rFleexmiupblnheie lroastioopn hy Cost dis clienDti vbearsseified  
c
ip
lin
e
Distinctive business model characteristic s
Creating value through the cycle
Strong long-term investment  Consistent investment philosophy  Significant alpha delivered  
performance for clients followed since 1992 through market cycles
Interests aligned through  Variable remuneration biased  Employee equity ownership is 
employee equity ownership towards long-dated equity awards approximately 40%
Value for shareholders 66% adjusted   Strong cash  Progressive  
EBITDA margin generation dividend policy
Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021  5
INVESTMENT PROCESSES
A CONSISTENT 
INVESTMENT APPROACH 
Ashmore’s investing philosophy has been implemented  Proprietary research 78
consistently since the Group launched its first fund in  Ashmore’s long history of specialising in Emerging 
October 1992. There are defining characteristics that  Markets and its extensive network of relationships 
are applied across asset classes as well as specific  means that proprietary research is an important source 
Emerging Markets 
principles that recognise the key differences between,  of investment ideas. These insights are shared across 
countries 
for example, investing successfully in the fixed income  asset classes, but importantly there is no ‘house view’ 
represented 
and equity markets. that has to be followed by the investment teams when 
in portfolios
constructing portfolios. Additionally, Ashmore’s local 
Investment committees
office investment teams in countries such as Colombia, 
At the core of the philosophy in each asset class is a  6
Saudi Arabia, India and Indonesia also collaborate with 
committee-based approach to managing client 
the global investment committees and can provide 
portfolios. This provides a highly institutionalised, 
valuable ‘on the ground’ insights as well as benefiting 
team-based framework that seeks to reduce as far as 
from global macro views to assist in their own  Local platforms
possible the key man risk inherently present in active 
independent investment processes.
investment management, and results in a ‘no star’ 
culture in which no individual is single-handedly  Active management
responsible for investment decisions. In Emerging Markets, significant long-term alpha can 
be delivered through active management and the 
Inefficient asset classes
expression of high conviction ideas in portfolios. 
The Emerging Markets fixed income and equity asset 
The poor index representation of fixed income and 
classes are large and diversified, as described in the 
equity markets means that alpha can be generated 
Market review, but also inefficient. This manifests itself 
both through active risk against benchmark weights, 
in relatively low index representation and volatility in 
and through investing in off-benchmark securities. 
security prices that can be heavily influenced over short 
The latter does not necessarily mean instruments  
time periods by factors other than underlying 
are less liquid or have significantly different risk 
economic, political and company fundamentals. 
characteristics, it simply means that they do not 
Consequently, Ashmore actively manages portfolios to 
conform to the strict eligibility criteria of the benchmark 
exploit these inefficiencies and to generate long-term 
index provider.
outperformance for clients.
Ashmore’s Emerging Markets investments and worldwide network
Emerging Markets invested
Ashmore presence
6  Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021
S
T
R
A
T
E
G
IC
 R
E
P
O
R
Focus on liquidity T
 
Ashmore has a risk-aware culture and this is especially 
important in the assessment and management of 
Macro  
liquidity within portfolios. As such, the understanding  Proprietary  G
top-down O
of market liquidity has always been and remains central  research  V
to the investment processes, since the investment  ER
N
teams must decide on and record specific securities to  A
trade and seek to execute any portfolio changes  N
C
expeditiously. In addition to pre and post-trade  E 
compliance oversight, the investment committee 
F
reviews execution outcomes to ensure that they  IN
comply with the agreed decisions. A specialist,   A
N
active approach   C
TGoro suupp’sp ogrlto tbhael  ompaenraatginegm heunbt so fin m Naerkwe tY loiqrku,i dLitoyn, dthoen   to Emerging Markets IAL S
and Singapore provide round-the-clock trading capabilities  T
Bottom up:  A
and Ashmore has strong, well-established counterparty  Liquidity   - credit/value  TE
trading relationships formed over nearly three decades  obsessed - equity/quality  ME
of specialist investing in Emerging Markets. growth  NT
S
Importantly, given that the majority of Emerging 
Markets securities are issued, owned and traded 
locally, these relationships include local brokers as  
well as global investment banks. Hence, as liquidity  Active  
increasingly moves to local trading venues within the  management 
Emerging Markets, Ashmore’s portfolio managers are 
well positioned to source liquidity when executing 
committee decisions.
Global and local investment teams
Ashmore’s common investing philosophy underpins 
independent decisions taken by its various investment  Consistent delivery of long-term  99
committees. Fixed income and equity investment  outperformance
committees oversee the management of global client 
Ashmore launched its first fund, EMLIP, in October 1992 
portfolios, and local asset management platforms 
and consistent implementation of the philosophy  Investment 
invest in local and regional markets on behalf of 
described on these pages has successfully captured  professionals
domestic and global clients.
the benefits of Emerging Markets growth and managed 
There is collaboration and sharing of information  the portfolio through periods of market dislocation. 34
between the global and local investment teams. 
Since its inception, EMLIP has delivered annualised 
There is no ‘house view’ and each team makes its  
net returns of +12.8%, comfortably exceeding returns 
own independent investment decisions.
from its benchmark index (+9.7%). Global fixed 
ESG integration This illustrates not only the superior long-term returns  income team
Ashmore recognises that non-financial factors can play  available in Emerging Markets, but also the importance 
an important part in ensuring sustainable growth and in  of specialist, active asset management. 34
building a robust and comprehensive understanding of 
an issuer, whether corporate or sovereign. Therefore, 
as a specialist Emerging Markets manager, Ashmore has 
Global equity 
always considered environmental, social and governance 
team
factors in its investment analysis. Ashmore has ESG 
factors integrated into all of its investment processes, 
covering the fixed income, equity and alternatives  31
asset classes.
Similar to its credit and equity analysis, Ashmore uses 
a variety of proprietary and third-party tools and data  Local asset 
sets to assist in its understanding of ESG risks and  management 
opportunities, and how these are reflected in market  and alternatives 
prices and fair values of securities. teams
Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021  7
INVESTMENT PROCESS (CONTINUED)
Fixed income investment process
Ashmore’s fixed income investment committee 
oversees the management of global client portfolios  Fixed income  
Local 
within the external debt, local currency, corporate debt  Equity  IC
offices and 
and blended debt themes. IC Global macro and  
Alternatives
The committee comprises the Chairman, the Head of  asset allocation
Research, the relevant fixed income and multi-asset 
desk heads, and representatives from trading and 
risk management. Collaboration Collaboration
The committee meets weekly and follows an 
established process, to discuss and analyse the global 
macro environment, to update individual country and 
Investment teams 
company credit views, and to assess other relevant risk  Allocation
(sub ICs)
factors including those relating to ESG.
Alongside the relevant asset class investment teams, 
the committee oversees model portfolio construction 
and changes to portfolio holdings. It also assesses the  – External debt – Blended debt
relative risks/rewards across investment themes in 
– Local currency
order to determine the appropriate positioning of 
– Corporate debt
blended debt strategies.
Ashmore’s value-driven active management approach 
ESG integration
employs a combination of macro top-down views and 
rigorous bottom-up credit analysis with a focus on 
determining an issuer’s ability and willingness to pay.
Portfolio managers have geographic responsibilities 
that guide their research focus, which includes 
meetings with government officials, central banks, 
regulators, company management and other contacts  Equity  
within Ashmore’s established network. Fixed  IC Local 
Income  offices and 
While COVID-19 has temporarily restricted travel, the  Governance and 
IC Alternatives
breadth and depth of Ashmore’s relationships means  risk management
that the research process continues through virtual 
methods such as video conferences.
In all themes, scenario planning plays an important part  Collaboration Collaboration
in assessing what is priced in to a security, and therefore 
being able to identify cases where market prices have 
Investment teams 
diverged from underlying fundamentals.
(sub ICs)
The committee and its investment theme  
sub-committees have the flexibility to analyse,  
discuss and act upon market developments between 
the formal weekly meetings.
– All Cap – Active – Frontier – Multi-asset
The combination of inefficient asset classes and a 
specialist approach to value-based active management 
means that Ashmore’s fixed income investment  Shared research framework
process is able to deliver significant long-term 
outperformance for clients, albeit with the potential for 
shorter-term periods of underperformance typically  ESG integration
when markets have become dislocated and the 
greatest investment opportunities can 
present themselves.
8  Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021
S
T
   R
A
T
DS Ashmore’s equity investment process follows the same philosophy  EG
and committee-based approach to active portfolio management as  IC
 R
E
the fixed income process, yet is implemented independently. P
O
EE RT
 
I Comprehensive coverage Shared research framework
T G
O
T Ashmore’s equity strategies share common  There is a shared research framework that  V
E
underlying principles. This includes the belief that  ensures efficient and consistent analysis of  R
N
S Emerging and Frontier Markets are inefficient  opportunities, and insights are available from the  A
N
and provide strong potential for significant   fixed income and local office teams, although  C
I E
alpha generation through high conviction  importantly there is no prescribed house view.  
EU active management. ESG fully integrated FIN
Ashmore’s investment universes are  A
unconstrained by indices and liquidity  The research is fundamental and primarily  N
V assessment is integral to both portfolio  proprietary in nature, and includes the explicit  CIA
Q performance and risk management. Significant  integration of ESG factors into the bottom-up  L S
company analysis. Ashmore’s equity investment  T
and sustained portfolio returns can be generated  A
professionals typically have geographic research  T
by a combination of both fundamental ’top down’  E
N responsibilities and draw upon a variety of  M
and ’bottom up’ research and decision making. E
internal and external sources to generate  N
E T
Committee-based approach investment ideas. S
The global Emerging Markets equity strategies  Strong investment performance and 
I
are managed by sub-committees for All Cap 
  consistent flows
equity, Frontier Markets equity, Multi-asset and 
N Active equity, in the same way that the fixed  The equity investment teams have delivered 
strong outperformance across all strategies,  
income teams operate in investment theme 
with gross annualised alpha of between 0.7% 
sub-committees. Governance and oversight is 
and 9.1% over the past three years.
provided by the equity investment committee, 
I which comprises the Chairman, the senior  This has led to decent AuM growth through a 
portfolio managers responsible for the equity  combination of investment outperformance and, 
sub-themes, and representatives from trading  notwithstanding market volatility, net inflows to 
and risk management.  equity products for eight consecutive quarters.
Growth in equity AuM (US$bn)
Over the past three years, Ashmore has delivered equity AuM  AuM
growth of US$3.2bn, or 76%, through strong investment  Net ﬂows 
performance (+US$1.2bn) and net inflows (US$2.0bn)
AuM (US$bn) Net ﬂows (US$bn)
8.0
7.0
6.0
5.0
4.0 1.0
3.0
2.0 0.5
1.0
0.0 0.0
(0.5)
Q1’19 Q2’19 Q3’19 Q4’19 Q1’20 Q2’20 Q3’20 Q4’20 Q1’21 Q2’21 Q3’21 Q4’21
Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021  9
CULTURE
UNDERSTANDING 
ASHMORE’S TEAM-
BASED CULTURE
Ashmore has a distinctive team-based culture that has been preserved 
over the Group’s history, as it has grown from being a predominantly 
London-based firm with a relatively small number of employees 15 years ago, 
to having more than 300 employees in 11 offices worldwide today.
Defining and maintaining culture The firm’s investment committees oversee the  Ashmore’s 
management of client portfolios by investment teams,  Remuneration 
Culture is ultimately a reflection of common beliefs  
which operate with collective responsibility. There is a  Committee is 
and behaviours, and therefore is of utmost importance 
’no star’ fund manager culture, with no individual  guided by clear 
in a firm whose employees are one of its key assets. 
responsible for a discrete fund, which reduces key   principles of 
Ashmore’s distinctive team-based culture is evident 
man risk and instils appropriate behaviour with  discretion and 
across the firm and instilled and maintained by factors 
committee oversight. flexibility,  
such as the Group’s performance-based remuneration 
alignment with 
philosophy with an emphasis on long-term equity  This team-based approach is echoed across Ashmore’s 
stakeholders, 
ownership, a robust compliance and risk management  operations including distribution and support functions, 
consistency across 
framework, and a clear ’tone from the top’ imparted by  and its overseas offices. This results in a collegiate, 
the Group, and pay 
the Board of Directors and senior executives. collaborative, client-focused and mutually-supportive 
for long-term 
culture across the whole firm. The lack of individual 
Ashmore’s culture is appropriate for a specialist asset  performance 
profit centres or operational silos, together with a 
management firm operating in distinctive markets with 
culture of shared equity ownership for all Group  Find out more  
significant long-term growth potential. Importantly, the 
employees, means that Ashmore’s employees are  on page 83
culture aligns the interests of employees, clients, 
suitably incentivised to collaborate in order to achieve 
shareholders and other stakeholders over the longer 
appropriate outcomes for the business as a whole.
term; it supports and reinforces the principal features 
of the business model; and it underpins the 
Remuneration philosophy underpins 
achievement of the Group’s strategic objectives.
the culture
Ashmore has maintained its culture through many 
Ashmore has a single Remuneration Policy that means 
market cycles and significant growth in the firm’s 
Executive Directors are remunerated in substantially 
operations, including the establishment of global 
the same way as all other Group employees. This is an 
operating hubs and distribution offices in New York, 
important factor in preserving a common and 
Dublin, Singapore and Tokyo, and also the development 
appropriate culture across the firm.
of local asset management operations in Colombia, 
Peru, Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates,   The cap on salaries and capped annual variable 
India and Indonesia.  remuneration pool determined with reference to the 
firm’s profits means that employees’ remuneration is 
Importantly, while the local asset management 
intrinsically linked to the performance of the business 
businesses operate independently in terms of 
as a whole. A significant proportion of the variable pay 
investment decisions, they share a common team-based 
is in the form of restricted ordinary shares that vest 
culture with the Group’s global operations. The same 
after five years. This serves to encourage long-term 
remuneration philosophy is followed in each office  
decision making and provides a strong alignment of 
with significant employee ownership of equity in the 
interests between employees, clients, shareholders 
local businesses. 
and other stakeholders. Accordingly, approximately 40% 
of Ashmore’s shares are owned by current employees.
Efficient, team-based operations
Ashmore’s management structure is efficient with  
a relatively flat hierarchy that minimises bureaucracy 
and supports effective decision making with 
clear accountability. 
10  Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021
S
T
   R
A
T
DE Ashmore is committed to diversity, career development, health and  EG
safety, workplace benefits and a Remuneration Policy that delivers a  IC
 R
E
long-term alignment of interests with clients and shareholders. P
L O
E RT
 
P
High standards employees in maintaining and developing their 
T G
skills and competences. Furthermore, the  O
Ashmore’s long-term strategic success is  V
Group’s network of offices around the world  E
ultimately dependent on its more than 300  R
O allows it to consider providing individuals with  N
S employees and hence it aims to attract, develop,  A
different business and career opportunities.  N
manage and retain high-calibre people.  C
E
Recognising the diverse nature of its operations  Employees key to successful   
EE across 11 countries, Ashmore’s policies and  business model F
IN
procedures reflect best practice within each of  The professionalism and commitment of  A
these countries and the firm requires its  N
Ashmore’s employees was a major factor in the  C
VP employees to act ethically and to uphold clearly  firm’s ability to move swiftly and successfully   IAL
the standards expected by the Group’s  to a remote-working environment in early 2020,   S
T
stakeholders including its clients, regulators,  and to maintain the effectiveness of its business  A
T
N  shareholders and broader society. model throughout the current financial year.  EM
E
Long-term employee loyalty As vaccination programmes provide  N
N T
The effectiveness of Ashmore’s commitment   governments with the ability to ease social  S
to and ongoing investment in its employees   restrictions, Ashmore looks forward to reopening 
I is demonstrated by their loyalty to the firm.   its offices and to reinforcing the values that 
As a consequence of the team-based culture   provide its employees with the potential for 
I and performance-based and equity-focused  rewarding long-term career development. 
remuneration philosophy, Ashmore enjoys  See page 24 for more information on diversity
relatively low levels of unplanned staff turnover 
that have averaged below 10% for the past 
five years and fell to below 7% in FY2020/21. 
This means that nearly two-thirds of Ashmore’s 
staff have been with the firm for more than 
four years, and 20% joined the firm more than a 
decade ago.  Ashmore’s commitment to its 
employees is illustrated by 
Experienced and diverse workforce
consistently high retention rates. 
Ashmore’s employees are experienced, as the 
chart below shows. Ongoing career development 
is important and the firm supports professional 
development and qualifications that will support 
Employee age range Length of service 
18-24 – 1% < 1 year – 10%
25-34 – 25% 1-3 years – 28%
35-44 – 42% 4-6 years – 18%
45-54 – 24% 7-9 years – 24%
55-64 – 8% 10-12 years – 11%
13-15 years – 6%
16-18 years – 1%
19-21 years – 1%
37-39 years – 1%
Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021  11
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
DELIVERING STRONG 
PERFORMANCE
The Group’s established business model has operated as expected over the 
past 12 months and delivered strong investment performance, higher 
performance fees and a return to net inflows in the second half of the year. 
While there was strong growth in statutory profits, lower adjusted profits 
reflect the stage of the recovery cycle.
Strong investment performance The conservative financial model, with an emphasis on  79%
balance sheet strength and operating cost flexibility, 
Ashmore’s active management of client portfolios has 
has ensured stability in the operating platform, with 
delivered exceptionally strong performance across all 
uninterrupted operating processes, high levels of 
investment themes over the past 12 months, resulting  AuM outperforming over 
employee retention, strong profit growth, and 
in 96% of AuM outperforming benchmarks over one  five years
continued investment in the business to support the 
year. The longer-term track records are also robust with 
achievement of strategic objectives.
57% of AuM outperforming over three years and 79% 
US$10.8bn
over five years. – Well-capitalised, liquid balance sheet with over 
£750 million of financial resources and a Pillar II 
As anticipated, this represents a significant 
AuM growth over the past 
capital requirement of £156 million
improvement from a year ago, when the initial impact 
12 months
of the COVID-19 pandemic led to severe risk aversion  – Adjusted operating costs reduced by 2%
and market dislocations and consequently some  – Operating profitability maintained, with an adjusted 
underperformance (30 June 2020: 9% AuM  EBITDA margin of 66%
outperforming benchmarks over one year; 17% over  – Unplanned employee turnover of less than 7%
three years; and 74% over five years). Notwithstanding  – Profit before tax increased by 28% and diluted EPS 
that this cycle has its own distinctive features,  increased by 33% to 34.2 pence per share
Ashmore’s experienced investment teams ensured 
– On an adjusted basis, diluted EPS fell by 11% to 
that the investment processes followed a consistent 
23.3 pence per share
approach in identifying oversold assets, subsequently 
The strength of Ashmore’s team-based culture has 
adding risk to portfolios, and maintaining a diligent 
served it well over the past 18 months, a period during 
focus on liquidity. 
which remote working has been the norm for most of 
The pace and scale of the market recovery has to 
the Group’s employees, but the culture is ultimately 
some extent mirrored the sharp market drawdown in 
reinforced by employees working together in close-knit 
early 2020, but, as described in the Market review, the 
teams in an office environment. Therefore, as 
combination of a positive macro-economic outlook and 
governments around the world review and ease social 
attractive valuations across both fixed income and 
restrictions over the coming months, Ashmore hopes 
equity markets means that investors should expect 
to re-open its office network and steadily return to 
further outperformance by Emerging Markets assets. 
previously established operating practices. 
While the trajectory of the recovery is unlikely to be 
Undoubtedly, some of the working practices developed 
linear and there will inevitably be periods of price 
during the remote working period will persist, 
volatility, Ashmore will continue to exploit these market 
particularly the intelligent use of communications 
opportunities to add value to portfolios and underpin its 
technology that may allow for greater efficiency. 
successful long-term investment track records.
However, the Ashmore investment processes, 
distribution model and other functions will still place a 
Robust business model
heavy emphasis on establishing and developing 
With the notable exception of a period of remote 
long-term relationships and knowledge that is best 
working, discussed further below, Ashmore’s business 
achieved through physical meetings.
model has remained unchanged through this cycle  
and has continued to deliver significant benefits for  
its stakeholders, including clients, employees 
and shareholders. 
12  Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021
S
T
R
A
T
E
G
IC
 R
E
P
O
R
Continued growth in equities Therefore, while the 8% of AuM from intermediary  T
 
retail clients is broadly similar to a year ago, it is lower 
The equities business has good momentum, with AuM 
than the 15% reached before the impact of the 
growth of +61% or US$2.8 billion over the past 12 
months. Excellent investment performance has been  COVID-19 pandemic. In contrast, the institutional  G
O
delivered across all strategies over the past 12 months  business delivered net inflows of US$4.1 billion over  V
with absolute returns of 41% to 66%, and nearly 1,700  the year, largely as a consequence of typically direct  ER
N
basis points of outperformance in the All Cap strategy.  relationships with the investors, and the fact that,   A
on average, Ashmore’s institutional assets have been  N
This track record is delivering decent client flows, with  C
net inflows of US$0.9 billion over the past 12 months  managed by the firm for more than eight years and  E 
therefore the investors have more experience of 
and eight consecutive quarters of net inflows to the 
F
Group’s equity strategies. market cycles and the opportunities that they  IN
can present. A
N
Ashmore’s equity investment committee and the  C
teams it oversees operate independently of the fixed  Increasing importance of investment  IA
L
income investment process, providing diversification  grade credit  S
T
benefits, but there is collaboration and sharing of  A
The ongoing development of emerging countries  T
investment research and insights between the two  E
means that an increasing number of countries and  M
asset classes. For example, the equity teams have the  companies have achieved investment grade (IG) status.  EN
ability to draw upon long-standing, specialist expertise  For example, IG bonds now represent more than half  TS
in Emerging Markets macro-economic and political 
of the external debt and corporate debt benchmark 
analysis if required. 
indices (53% and 57%, respectively). While there will 
Continued growth in equity assets under management  inevitably be cyclical influences on issuers’ ratings, the 
is a strategic priority for Ashmore, consistent with its  growth in IG issuance is expected to continue and is a 
objective to diversify its business in order to provide  trend that is echoed in the demand by investors as 
multiple independent sources of fee income. With just  they recognise the attractive characteristics of the IG 
under 10% of Group AuM invested in equity strategies,  asset class such as lower volatility during periods of 
and no capacity constraints in terms of investment  risk aversion, stronger macro-economic fundamentals, 
capabilities, operational processes, or market size,  higher yields than developed world bonds, increasing 
there is significant growth opportunity in this business  diversification, no defaults and therefore good 
and over the medium term it should represent two to  risk-adjusted returns.
three times the current proportion of AuM.
Ashmore provides access to investment grade 
strategies across the four fixed income investment 
Strategic opportunity in intermediary retail
themes of external debt, local currency, corporate debt 
Similar to the strategic opportunity in equities, the 
and blended debt, and manages portfolios in both 
Group intends to increase the proportion of assets 
mutual fund and segregated account structures. 
managed for intermediary retail clients, to provide 
Investment performance is strong, for example the 
diversification alongside its institutional client base. 
corporate debt IG strategy has a gross annualised 
While there is no single type of intermediary client, in 
return of +9.3% over three years and has significantly 
the same way that institutional investors all vary in their 
outperformed its benchmark index return of +7.1%.
objectives and behaviour, it is observable that 
intermediary retail clients tend to be more sensitive to  Over the 12 months, Ashmore has continued to 
short-term market conditions and investment  experience good demand for investment grade 
performance, and therefore usually have shorter  strategies from both existing and new institutional 
holding periods than the typical institutional investor.  clients, and its strong investment performance 
Nonetheless, over time intermediary retail capital could  underpins the potential for further capital raising.
represent 20% to 30% of Ashmore’s assets under 
Local offices performing well
management, a significant increase from the current 
level of 8%. In addition to diversification of the client  The third phase of Ashmore’s strategy focuses on 
base, growth in intermediary retail assets also benefits  mobilising Emerging Markets capital, including 
the Group’s net management fee margin. managing assets locally for domestic institutional and 
intermediary retail clients in certain emerging countries. 
Over the past year, it is notable that Ashmore’s 
Ashmore currently has local asset management 
intermediary retail clients have been relatively slow to 
operations in Colombia, India, Indonesia, Peru, Saudi 
return to Emerging Markets. While there is a positive 
Arabia and the United Arab Emirates, and has a 
trend in terms of reducing net outflows over the 
financial investment in an onshore mutual fund 
period, cumulatively intermediary retail flows reduced 
business in China.
AuM by US$2.9 billion over the 12 months and 
investment performance added US$1.3 billion.
Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021  13
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW (CONTINUED)
Collectively, these businesses represent more than 
US$7 billion of assets and delivered AuM growth of 
+44% over the past 12 months. The platforms are 
Ashmore’s active management of client portfolios 
performing well and each has a highly scalable 
has delivered very strong performance across all 
operating model, replicating the Group’s disciplined 
approach to managing operating costs and a simple,  investment themes over the past 12 months.
common operating infrastructure. This means that as 
AuM grows, the profitability of these businesses is 
trending towards the Group’s level.
During the period there was particularly strong asset 
The consideration of ESG factors is integrated into all 
growth in India and Indonesia, significant new 
of Ashmore’s investment processes, covering fixed 
institutional client wins in Saudi Arabia, and in Colombia 
income, equity and alternatives strategies, and the 
the Group is marketing its third private equity fund and a 
Group has launched a range of dedicated ESG funds in 
regional real estate fund. Following its IPO in January 
the external debt, corporate debt, blended debt and 
2020, and consistent with its strategy to use technology 
equity themes. It has been a signatory to the UNPRI 
to access new distribution channels and improve access 
since 2013 and, to support the achievement of the UN 
to financial services, Ashmore Indonesia invested in BIB, 
Sustainable Development Goals, it is a signatory to the 
a local online distribution platform, in December 2020.
UN Global Compact.
Significantly, although the offices are designed 
Environment
primarily to raise and manage domestic capital, most of 
them also manage assets for the Group’s larger  From an operational perspective, the asset management 
institutional clients, where the investor wishes to take  business model does not have a significant direct impact 
single country or regional risk, have it managed by the  on the environment. For example, there are no long, 
local investment team, and within the Ashmore Group  complex supply chains with material environmental 
governance and risk management framework. considerations, the ‘product’ is investment performance, 
and the firm’s assets are predominantly people and 
The local businesses should continue to contribute to 
financial instruments including cash. However, travel 
Ashmore’s growth and profitability over the longer term 
and office occupancy is inherent in Ashmore’s business 
as each of the local management teams delivers on its 
model, both of which result in modest levels of 
strategic objectives and participates in the development 
greenhouse gas emissions. Ashmore has an objective to 
of an independent asset management industry in its 
achieve net zero emissions from its operations, and 
country. These platforms also help to diversify the 
while the ability to reduce materially the gross emissions 
Group’s revenues and profits through independent 
is limited, through The Ashmore Foundation1 the Group 
investment processes, uncorrelated investment returns 
seeks to offset its gross emissions each year by 
and different product structures and client bases. 
supporting environmentally and socially beneficial 
Ashmore will consider opportunities to expand the local 
projects in developing countries.
office network, through scaling up and diversifying the 
existing businesses, and by considering new markets  From an investment perspective, Ashmore joined two 
with attractive growth characteristics.  important industry initiatives during the period: the Net 
Zero Asset Managers Initiative and the Climate Action 
An integrated approach to sustainability 100+ industry group. Respectively, these will help the 
Sustainability, including the consideration of  Group define and manage a net zero plan, with an 
environmental, societal and governance (ESG) factors,  interim target to be set over the next 12 months, and 
has always been an important topic for companies and  will enable Ashmore to collaborate with other investors 
for investment managers, but issues such as the impact  to achieve environment-related outcomes with certain 
of climate change, employee diversity and remuneration  investee companies.
incentives are under increasing scrutiny from investors, 
Society
regulators, politicians and other stakeholders.
Ashmore wishes to be recognised as a responsible 
Ashmore has developed a comprehensive and  company that has a positive impact on society. 
consistent approach to sustainability across its  The definition of society is broad, but includes the Group’s 
operations and investment management activities.  clients, employees, shareholders and other stakeholders. 
The Board is ultimately responsible for ESG matters and  Of particular importance to Ashmore’s approach is The 
has delegated the day-to-day oversight and  Ashmore Foundation, which provides grants to projects 
management to a specialised ESG Committee.  that seek to make a positive and sustainable difference to 
This committee meets frequently and regularly, and has  disadvantaged communities in the developing countries 
representatives from across the firm, including the local  in which Ashmore operates and invests.
offices, ensuring that relevant ESG matters are brought 
to the attention of all concerned and that the approach  1. The Ashmore Foundation is a company limited by guarantee, 
registered in England (6444943) and is a registered charity in 
to sustainability is consistent across the Group.
England and Wales (1122351). The Ashmore Foundation is a 
separate and distinct legal entity from Ashmore Group plc.
14  Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021
S
T
R
A
T
E
G
IC
 R
E
P
O
R
To enhance the impact and sustainability of the  In aggregate, developing countries are emerging from  T
 
Foundation’s projects and to increase the overall scale  the COVID-19 pandemic in a stronger position than 
of the Group’s philanthropic activities, the Board  Developed Markets. Economic growth is higher,  
approved an annual charitable contribution equivalent  debt levels are manageable even after the recent   G
O
to 0.5% of the Group’s profit before tax excluding  fiscal stimulus, inflation is under control and hawkish  V
unrealised seed capital gains. This means that in  central banks should ensure that remains the case,   ER
N
respect of FY2020/21, the Group made a payment of  and valuations remain attractive and should support  A
£1.0 million to The Ashmore Foundation and other  continued capital flows. N
C
charitable activities. The main risk to a positive outlook for Emerging  E 
Governance Markets is a period of widespread investor risk  F
aversion, which history suggests would typically follow  IN
Ashmore is a UK company with a premium listing on  A
an unexpected event in the developed world rather  N
the London Stock Exchange and at all times seeks to  C
comply with, and to respect the spirit of, relevant laws  than an isolated development in one of the more than  IA
and regulations, with the objective of upholding robust  70 different emerging nations. While current US  L S
inflation suggests that there is a possibility of  T
standards of corporate governance. This means that for  A
significantly higher interest rates, this is mitigated by  T
its local offices, Ashmore will impose the higher of  E
the very high US government indebtedness and the  M
local or global standards in order to ensure that  E
potential for inflation to drift lower over the next 12 to  N
governance is appropriate. T
24 months as base effects roll off and deflationary  S
Employees and culture pressures increase. Furthermore, as explained in the 
Market review, the impact on Emerging Markets is 
For many Ashmore employees, the past year has been 
likely to be less severe than in the 2013 to 2016 cycle 
challenging with all of the Group’s offices remaining 
given the significant improvement in economic 
closed, or experiencing intermittent re-openings, in line 
conditions and the low absolute level of nominal and 
with local government guidance and laws. On behalf  
real US interest rates today. Indeed, a world in which 
of the Board, I would like to thank everyone for their 
there is decent growth, some inflation, and steadily 
hard work and unwavering commitment to delivering 
rising US rates from current levels is a good 
strong performance for our clients, for upholding  
environment for the performance of emerging 
high standards of professionalism and conduct  
countries and their capital markets.
while working remotely, and for helping to maintain 
Ashmore’s distinctive, team-based culture even in the  Therefore, the outlook for the economic and market 
absence of face-to-face contact.  performance of emerging countries is positive and 
arguably more favourable than it appeared a year ago. 
As vaccination programmes deliver tangible results, 
Valuations in Emerging Markets do not fully reflect this 
governments around the world can start to ease the 
outlook, and there is a clear opportunity for investors to 
social and economic restrictions that have characterised 
continue to increase allocations from underweight 
the past 18 months. This will enable Ashmore to return 
levels and to capture substantial absolute and relative 
to the office-based operating model that has served the 
value across the fixed income and equity asset classes.
firm well for the vast majority of its life, and to reinforce 
the social connectivity that inevitably has become  Against this market backdrop, Ashmore’s investment 
looser after a protracted period of remote working.  performance track records position the firm well for 
While the remote working environment has been  asset growth and the business model has successfully 
challenging, it has also highlighted how the innovative  managed another market down cycle and is demonstrating 
use of technology can play a meaningful role in the  the benefits of its consistent and conservative approach 
industry, and so Ashmore will keep its operating model  as conditions normalise. The past 18 months have had 
under review in order to ensure that it optimises   the specific challenges of remote working, but there is 
the culture of the firm, its effectiveness for clients,   now the real prospect of a return to more normal 
and overall productivity. working patterns over the course of the coming months. 
Therefore the firm looks to the current financial year and 
Outlook
beyond with confidence.
The recovery in economic performance is well-established 
across the Emerging Markets, with superior GDP 
growth to the developed world and a widening of the  Mark Coombs
growth premium expected over the next few years.  Chief Executive Officer
Importantly, after an initial lag, vaccination rates in the 
developing world have accelerated and are expected to  2 September 2021
match the levels achieved in developed countries by 
the end of 2021. This underpins the growth outlook as 
governments can ease restrictions and allow economies 
to reopen, leading to higher levels of domestic activity 
and international trade.
Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021  15
KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
MEASURING 
PERFORMANCE
Performance   Assets under management Investment performance
measure The movement between opening and  The proportion of relevant Group AuM that is 
closing AuM provides an indication of the  outperforming benchmarks on a gross basis, over one 
overall success of the business during the  year, three years and five years. The gross basis 
period, in terms of subscriptions,  reflects the largely institutional nature of the client 
redemptions and investment performance. base, typically with the ability to agree bespoke fee 
arrangements. Funds without a performance 
The average AuM level during the period, 
benchmark are excluded, specifically those in the 
along with the average margins achieved, 
Alternatives and Overlay/liquidity themes.
determines the level of management 
fee revenues.
Relevance to strategy  The Group’s strategy seeks to capitalise   The Group’s success is dependent on delivering 
and remuneration on the growth trends across Emerging  investment performance for clients, who typically look 
Markets. This is ultimately reflected in  at performance over the medium to long term.
AuM growth over time.
Five-year trend Assets under management Investment performance  
(outperforming over three years)
US$94.4bn 57%
2020: US$83.6bn 2020: 17%
2021 94.4 96
1
2020 83.6 02 57
2
2019 91.8 79
2018 73.9 9
0
2017 58.7 2 17
0
2
74
90
9
1 97
0
2
97
73
8
1 94
0
2
89
91
7
1 86
0
2
87
1 year 3 years 5 years
16  Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021
S
T
R
A
T
E
G
IC
 R
E
P
O
R
T
 
G
O
V
E
R
N
A
Adjusted EBITDA margin Diluted EPS Balance sheet strength N
C
The adjusted EBITDA margin measures  Profit attributable to equity holders of the  The Group maintains a strong balance  E 
operating profit excluding depreciation   parent divided by the weighted average of  sheet through the Emerging Markets cycle. 
F
and amortisation against net revenues.  all dilutive potential ordinary shares. This is measured by the total value of capital  IN
To provide a meaningful assessment   resources available to the Group, defined  A
N
of the Group’s operating performance,   as capital and reserves attributable to equity  C
IA
the measure excludes foreign exchange  holders of the parent less: goodwill and  L
translation and seed capital items. intangible assets, material holdings and   ST
A
foreseeable dividends. This is compared  T
E
with the consolidated regulatory capital  M
requirement (see note 21 to the financial  EN
statements), to provide a solvency ratio. TS
Delivering a high profit margin  The earnings per share reflect the overall  A strong balance sheet enables the Group 
demonstrates the Group’s efficient and  financial performance of the Group in the  to build a diversified client base, provides 
scalable global operating platform, enables  period, and represent an aspect of value  opportunities for investment to grow the 
investment in future growth opportunities,  creation for shareholders. business including the seeding of funds, 
supports cash generation to sustain a  and supports the Group’s dividend policy.
strong balance sheet, and provides for 
attractive returns to shareholders.
Adjusted EBITDA margin Diluted EPS Solvency ratio
66% 34.2p 391%
2020: 68% 2020: 25.7p 2020: 377%
2021 66 2021 34.2 1 156
2 391
2020 68 2020 25.7 20 765
2019 66 2019 25.0
147
2018 66 2018 21.3 20 377
0
2017 65 2017 23.7 2 703
0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 0 5 10 15 20 25 30 35
121
9
1 461
0
2 679
119
8
1 401
0
2 599
111
7
1 404
0
2 559
Capital requirement (£m)
Financial resources (£m)
Solvency ratio (%)
Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021  17
  
DY Arguably the most significant change in Emerging Markets investing 
over the past 30 years has been the creation of local currency 
markets, which offer diversity and resilience within the asset class. 
EL Ashmore’s strategy to mobilise local capital and to grow a network 
of local asset management platforms is aligned with this important 
structural capital markets development.
L
T
A Increasing scale and importance Importantly, the businesses are managed by 
S
employees from the local markets, thus creating 
The Emerging Markets investment universe is 
a culture that is respectful of local market norms 
US$71 trillion of which US$66 trillion is in local 
and sensitivities. Each business also reflects 
currency-denominated equities and bonds, with 
EC Ashmore’s distinctive remuneration philosophy 
new issuance biased towards these markets. 
with its bias towards performance-related pay 
The markets are predominantly owned by 
and long-term equity ownership. 
domestic investors, but there is increasing 
VO foreign participation as governments and central  From a governance perspective, Ashmore is 
banks liberalise their domestic capital markets.  typically the majority shareholder with Board 
These markets provide an increasing diversity of  representation and oversight of budgets. 
investment opportunities and greater economic  Frequent senior management meetings, 
N
resilience in the face of external shocks. dual-reporting lines to Group functions, a single 
L
shared operating infrastructure and the 
Diversification and growth
application of the higher of local and global 
I Ashmore accesses the growth opportunities   regulatory and compliance standards, provide a 
in these local markets through its broad equity  robust operating model. 
and fixed income strategies, but also through  
Ashmore’s local asset management platforms 
its network of local operations in Colombia,  
are highly scalable and contribute to the Group’s 
India, Indonesia, Peru, Saudi Arabia and the 
overall growth. In line with its strategic objective 
United Arab Emirates.
to mobilise Emerging Markets capital, Ashmore 
The local asset management platforms raise capital  actively seeks to enhance the diversification  
domestically and invest in the local private and  and growth profile of the existing businesses  
public markets. The investment processes are  as well as to pursue opportunities to expand 
run independently from, but interact frequently  the network.
and regularly with, the Group’s global investment 
committees, as described in the Investment 
processes section. The network therefore provides 
Ashmore with diversification in terms of investment 
strategies, risk/return profiles and clients. 
Significant local business  Local AuM (US$m,lhs) 
% of Group AuM (rhs) 
developments last year
– Total AuM growth of 44% in FY2020/21 to  8,000 8%
over US$7 billion
– Ashmore Indonesia invested in BIB, a digital  7,000 7%
distribution platform
– Significant new institutional client wins by  6,000 6%
Ashmore Saudi Arabia
– Marketing Latin America infrastructure and  5,000 5%
real estate funds 
4,000 4%
3,000 3%
2,000 2%
1,000 1%
0 0%
2019 2020 2021
18  Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021
MARKET REVIEW S
T
R
A
T
INVESTING IN  E
G
IC
 R
E
P
O
ATTRACTIVE MARKETS R
T
 
G
O
V
E
R
N
A
Strong market performance over the year N
C
Emerging Markets have performed strongly over the  Emerging Markets equities trade at significant forward  E 
past fiscal year, delivering positive absolute returns and  price/earnings ratio discount
F
mostly outperforming developed world counterparts.  IN
This is typical for the early transition phase of a cycle,  28 60% A
N
as asset prices move from oversold levels, in this case  26 CIA
immediately after the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic  50% L
in early 2020, and start to reflect more positive  24  ST
longer-term fundamentals including the ongoing  22 40% AT
E
tailwinds of superior economic growth and more  20 M
attractive valuations in Emerging Markets compared  EN
with Developed Markets.  18 30% TS
16
Broadly, markets have recovered to pre-pandemic 
20%
levels although valuations are typically cheaper, for  14
example, the sovereign external debt index trades at 
12
340 basis points over US Treasuries compared with  10%
below 300 basis points at the end of 2019. 10
Equity markets, as represented by the MSCI EM index,  8 0%
0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
rose by +41% over the 12 months, marginally  1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 2 2
0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2
outperforming the S&P 500 index (+39%), and 
delivered positive returns in every quarter of the year. 
MSCI World PER MSCI EM PER % difference (rhs)
Fixed income indices also performed well, with positive 
returns in three of the four quarters and declines in  
Source: MSCI, JP Morgan, Ashmore
the third quarter to March 2021 as global fixed income 
markets repriced for higher inflation expectations, 
particularly in the US. For the year overall, the main 
Emerging Markets fixed income indices increased  
by +7% to +9% over the 12 months, compared  
Variation in quarterly performance of Emerging  
with a negative return of -4% from the 10-year US 
Markets indices over the 12 months to 30 June 2021
Treasury bond and a -5% decline in the US dollar 
trade-weighted index.
1.7%
Economies, and therefore markets, around the world  Sep 20
8.7%
are today in a transition period, between the severe 
growth and societal shock experienced in early 2020, 
and the return to normal conditions that is predicted   6.8%
Dec 20
as vaccination programmes take effect and allow  19.3%
restrictions to ease. This transition period is 
experienced in every market cycle, and results in  -4.6%
elevated market volatility as a consequence of the  Mar 21
1.9%
inherent uncertainty being faced: the ‘bad’ conditions 
of last year are known, and the ‘better’ future 
3.3%
conditions are hoped for but are not certain. In this 
Jun 21
specific cycle, the recovery path of the pandemic is  3.5%
overlaid with the uncertainty associated with the 
impact of monetary and fiscal stimulus on inflation, 
growth, bond yields and policy rates, both in the  Blended debt Equity
short term and the longer term. 
Source: MSCI, JP Morgan, Ashmore
Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021  19
MARKET REVIEW (CONTINUED)
Near-term macro opportunities and risks
The progress of vaccination programmes is critical to 
EM GDP growth premium (%)
both developing and developed countries, because this 
will determine the pace of economic and social recovery. 
The developed world has so far led vaccination rates, 
but as these approach critical levels then these 
8
countries can make more vaccines available to other 
7
countries. Consequently, vaccination rates in large 
6
emerging countries have accelerated in recent months.
5
Importantly, Emerging Markets’ well-established GDP  4
growth premium has been maintained throughout the  3
pandemic period: in aggregate, emerging nations  2
experienced a shallower recession than the developed  1
world in 2020, and are forecast to deliver a faster  0
economic recovery in 2021 and 2022.  -1
-2
Many countries responded to the economic shock by 
-3
delivering fiscal expansion and monetary stimulus 
-4
through cuts to policy rates and, in developed 
-5
economies, even greater use of unconventional 
22001188 22001199 22002200 22002211ff 22002222ff 22002233ff 22002244ff 22002255ff 22002266ff
methods such as quantitative easing. A critical 
difference is that emerging countries typically have 
lower and more manageable debt/GDP ratios than 
Developed Markets Emerging Markets EM premium
developed countries, and were able to cut policy rates 
from a position of high real rates rather than low, or 
Source: IMF, Ashmore
even negative, real rates that prevail in the developed 
world. Indeed, even though US rates are likely to 
increase at some point over the next year or two, the 
pace of tightening is expected to be gradual and rates 
are likely to remain negative in real terms for the  Real bond yields (%)
foreseeable future. Therefore financial conditions, and 
risk appetite, will continue to be supportive for 
7 6
Emerging Markets.
Another consequence of the recent stimulus is higher 
5 5
inflation, and in the early part of calendar 2021 there 
was a repricing of inflation expectations in global rates 
markets. While inflation is likely to remain high in some  3 4
countries, like the United States, over the short term 
because of base effects and the recent rise in  1 3
commodity prices, the principal uncertainty is to what 
extent, and for how long, the current levels of inflation 
-1 2
will persist. It is possible that the rolling over of base 
effects, some deflationary impact from higher 
unemployment as government support schemes end,  -3 1
and central bank rate rises mean that inflation will start 
to abate over the next 12-18 months. -5 0
3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 2 2
0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2
Ex post US  Ex post Emerging Difference in ex post 
real yield Markets real yield real yields (right axis)
Source: Ashmore, Bloomberg, JP Morgan
20  Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021
S
T
R
A
T
E
G
IC
 R
E
P
O
R
Significantly, some central banks in emerging countries  As ever, the outlook for the US dollar is important  T
 
have already acted sensibly to anchor inflation  when considering the performance of Emerging 
expectations, and the impact of a more hawkish   Markets, from a fundamental perspective but also 
policy mix has supported currencies given the wider  because most investors measure returns in US dollar  G
O
interest rate differentials. Therefore, while inflation is   terms. While the fundamental picture is complex, and  V
a common theme and of potential concern to investors  will vary by country, the performance of the US dollar  ER
N
across both developed and developing countries, the  has implications for investor risk appetite generally   A
prevalence of inflation-targeting policy regimes and  and there is a strong long-term correlation between the  N
C
independent central banks across Emerging Markets,  US dollar and the relative performance of Emerging  E 
together with the returns offered by high real interest  Markets local asset prices. While there will inevitably 
F
rates, add to the attractions of the Emerging Markets  be periods of intermittent strength, the combination of  IN
asset classes.  high US current account and fiscal deficits, high foreign  A
N
investment in US assets, a less productive US economy  C
Notwithstanding the market’s focus on inflation and  IA
the Fed’s assessment of and reaction to the data,   athse t hpero gsopveecrtn omf ehnigth hears t ainxcerse atos eadd ditrse sshs ainree qouf adleitby t, and  L S
there is unlikely to be a material impact on Emerging  T
Markets from expectations of higher US interest rates  suggests that the currency will weaken over the  AT
E
such as was experienced in the 2013 to 2016 period.  medium term. This would be positive for Emerging  M
Markets, in terms of capital flows broadly and  E
The following significant differences in macro conditions  N
specifically for investment returns in local currency  T
between 2013 and now underpin this view: S
bonds, currencies, and equities.
– In 2013, the rise in nominal US Treasury yields was 
Finally, from a technical perspective there is the 
driven by the Fed’s indication that it would taper its 
prospect of a decent tailwind for Emerging Markets. 
quantitative easing programme, and the market 
The limited investment grade issuance and negative 
swiftly priced in rate increases even though they  
yields in the US market should encourage crossover 
did not occur for another 2½ years. In the absence  
investors to seek duration, yield and issuance volumes 
of higher inflation expectations, real yields also 
in Emerging Markets.
increased and so the tighter financial conditions  
had an adverse impact on Emerging Markets. Powerful structural growth drivers
– In 2021, the rise in nominal yields has been driven by 
When looking beyond the short-term factors described 
higher inflation expectations and so real yields have 
above, there are strong and varied drivers of growth 
risen only modestly, and remain negative across the 
and investment opportunities across the Emerging 
US Treasury curve. Therefore financial conditions are 
Markets. None of these has been impaired by the  
still supportive and are likely to remain so even as 
most recent pandemic-related cycle, and indeed in the 
the Fed increases its policy rate.
case of valuations there are even more attractive 
– Emerging countries have robust external accounts 
opportunities to access these growth themes today.
with, in aggregate, a current account surplus of  
more than 1% of GDP, compared with a 2% deficit  1. Large investment universe, dominated by 
in 2013.  local currency assets
– The valuations of Emerging Markets currencies are  The total Emerging Markets investment universe is 
close to historical lows in both real and nominal  approximately US$71 trillion, comprising US$34 trillion 
terms, whereas they were closer to fair value  in fixed income issuance and US$37 trillion of equity 
in 2013. market capitalisation. Importantly, the majority of 
– The recent rally in commodity prices has benefited  securities are denominated in local currencies, with 
the terms of trade and supports the creditworthiness  only US$5 trillion of the total representing hard 
of exporters, whereas prices were falling in 2013.  currency sovereign and corporate bonds.
If commodity prices remain around current levels 
then capital and current accounts should continue to 
benefit, which in turn will support Emerging 
Markets currencies.
Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021  21
MARKET REVIEW (CONTINUED)
2. Low index representation
Despite the size, growth and vast opportunity set of 
Benchmark indices remain a poor representation of the 
the Emerging Markets investment universe, it remains 
Emerging Markets investment opportunities
significantly under-represented in benchmark indices. 
For example, only 17% of bonds and 22% of equities 
are included in the main indices, although the  US$1.5trn US$3.2trn US$14.5trn US$14.9trn US$34.1trn US$37.0trn
89% 44% 17% 3% 17% 22%
representation is higher in the more established, but 
smaller, hard currency asset classes.
As index representation increases over time, for example 
as countries lower or remove capital controls to allow 
foreign investors to access their local bond markets, 
then this will provide a tailwind to investor allocations. 
An important development in the past year was the 
inclusion of China’s local currency government bonds 
in the JP Morgan benchmark index, which means that 
the country is now 10% of the index and represents 
around US$200 billion of securities.
In the meantime, the low level of indexation provides a 
substantial barrier to entry for passive substitutes and 
External  External  Local  Local  Fixed  Equities
means there is a sizeable opportunity for active  sovereign  corporate  sovereign  corporate  income
managers such as Ashmore to deliver alpha from  debt debt debt debt
investing in both benchmark and non-benchmark 
Index market value Non-index market value
securities. To provide some context, JP Morgan 
estimates that approximately 18% of the US$0.5 trillion 
of Emerging Markets fixed income mutual fund assets 
The local currency bond markets will continue to grow, 
are in exchange-traded funds, which can act as a  
as existing issuers’ economies and capital markets 
loose proxy for passive AuM. The figure is higher for 
develop further, and the pool of countries expands  
Emerging Markets equities at 35% of the US$1.5 trillion 
as hitherto hard currency-funded nations wean 
mutual fund sample, and both figures have increased 
themselves off external creditors and develop their 
over the past year (from 15% and 31%, respectively). 
domestic markets. Furthermore, of the approximately 
However, this illustrates that for mutual fund investors, 
155 developing countries in the world, only about  
there continues to be a strong preference for active 
half have issued debt in public markets and so there 
management to access the diversified risks and  
remains a long list of potential future issuers of both 
returns available across the Emerging Markets 
external and then local currency bonds.
investment universes.
4. Inefficient markets
3. Local currency funding
The combination of low index representation, 
Arguably the single most important structural capital 
underappreciation of the diversity and fundamental 
markets development in Emerging Markets over the 
strengths of emerging economies and capital markets, 
past few decades is the establishment of and growth in 
and typically low foreign investor participation in local 
local currency bond markets, which today represent 
markets can lead to significant inefficiencies in the 
more than 85% of all sovereign and corporate bonds 
Emerging Markets asset classes. Ashmore’s specialist, 
outstanding. The move from external funding to 
active management of client portfolios can exploit these 
domestic local currency funding is a natural one for  
inefficiencies to deliver long-term outperformance.
a country to take as it establishes domestic yield curves 
and supports the development of long-term institutional  5. Significance of Emerging Markets to the 
investors such as pension funds. It has important  world’s economy
positive implications for the country’s ability to withstand 
Although there are significant differences between the 
exogenous shocks, although to be successful it has to 
developing countries, taken as a whole they represent 
be accompanied by high-quality policy making.
a large and often increasing proportion of the world’s 
The impact of these different funding regimes has  economy and capital markets.
been seen over the past 18 months, with external 
– 84% of the world’s population lives in an emerging 
debt-funded countries facing greater constraints on 
country, and the demographics are typically more 
their ability to use fiscal and monetary stimulus, and an 
favourable than in developed countries.
increased reliance on creditors. In contrast, the local 
– Emerging Markets generate 58% of the world’s GDP, 
currency-funded nations have allowed currencies to 
and future growth potential is underpinned by relatively 
fluctuate, have been able to undertake fiscal expansion 
low GDP per capita levels; in aggregate, the GDP per 
with manageable debt/GDP ratios, and central banks 
capita of Emerging Markets is US$12,000, less than a 
were able to cut policy rates.
quarter of the level in developed nations (US$55,000).
22  Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021
S
T
R
A
T
E
G
IC
 R
E
P
O
R
– Emerging countries control foreign exchange  over the coming years and decades, and this will result  T
 
reserves of more than US$9 trillion, and representing  in Emerging Markets representing ever higher 
75% of the total world foreign exchange reserves. proportions of global benchmark indices.
– Bond issuance and equity market capitalisation in  G
6. Underweight allocations O
Emerging Markets represent 25% and 33%,  V
In the context of the Emerging Markets characteristics  E
respectively, of the world totals, providing for  R
described above, and the persistent upward pressure on  N
significant growth. A
index weights, developed world institutional and retail  N
– Emerging Markets represent between 13% (equity)  C
investors continue to have significantly underweight  E
and 28% (fixed income) of global benchmark indices   
allocations to the asset classes. For example, analysis 
and these weights are rising over time.
shows that the typical institutional investor has a target  F
IN
While some factors, such as the share of the world’s  Emerging Markets allocation of less than 10%, compared  A
population, are unlikely to change materially in the near  with the 13% to 28% weight in global benchmark indices.  NC
future, the case for superior GDP growth and rising  IA
Given the superior growth and attractive valuations,  L
GDP per capita is well established, and capital markets   S
this suggests that the investor will underperform  T
should continue to broaden, deepen and become more  A
compared with one that has at least a neutral  T
accessible. Overall, the influence of Emerging Markets  E
weighting to Emerging Markets through the cycle. M
on the world should therefore continue to increase  E
N
T
S
Significance of Emerging Markets to the world’s economy
Although there are significant differences between the developing countries, taken as a whole they represent a large and 
often increasing proportion of the world’s economy and capital markets.
84% 58% 75%
84% of the world’s  Emerging Markets generate 58%  Emerging countries control 
population lives in an  of the world’s GDP, and future  foreign exchange reserves  
emerging country, and the  growth potential is underpinned  of more than US$9 trillion,  
demographics are typically  by relatively low GDP per capita  and representing 75%  
more favourable than in  levels; in aggregate, the GDP   of the total world foreign 
developed countries. per capita of Emerging Markets  exchange reserves.
is US$12,000, less than a  
quarter of the level in developed 
nations (US$55,000).
While some factors, such as the 
share of the world’s population,  
25% 13%
are unlikely to change materially in  
the near future, the case for superior 
GDP growth and rising GDP per  
Bond issuance and equity  Emerging Markets represent  capita is well established, and capital 
market capitalisation in  between 13% (equity) and 28%  markets should continue to broaden, 
Emerging Markets represent  (fixed income) of global benchmark  deepen and become more accessible. 
25% and 33%, respectively,  indices and these weights are  Overall, the influence of Emerging 
of the world totals, providing  rising over time. Markets on the world should 
for significant growth. therefore continue to increase over 
the coming years and decades, and 
this will result in Emerging Markets 
representing ever higher proportions 
of global benchmark indices.
Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021  23
 
DY Diversity means many things to Ashmore, but the unifying thread is 
that the diverse characteristics of markets, clients, investment 
strategies and employees are all positive factors that help to 
ET underpin the Group’s long-term success.
TI Focus on employees With this context, Ashmore seeks to ensure that 
candidate pools are assembled wherever 
S Employee diversity can be considered through 
possible to include candidates of different 
many lenses, not just gender and ethnicity, but 
S also characteristics such as experience, skills,  gender, ethnic and social backgrounds.
tenure, age, disability and sexual orientation.   To ensure diversity characteristics are 
R The diverse nature of a firm can help to reduce  understood and, where necessary, acted upon, 
E the risks of ‘groupthink’ and promote an  Ashmore maintains a comprehensive view of  
appropriate culture that supports the  the profile of its employees, based on certain 
achievement of strategic objectives. factual data and those that are self-selected.  
E
The ’diversity dashboard’ is reported to the 
V Ashmore’s culture is a meritocracy that values 
Board, its Remuneration Committee and the 
openness, fairness and transparency and the 
Group’s Risk and Compliance Committee on a 
Group is committed to developing and retaining a 
V
frequent and regular basis. 
diverse workforce. One-third of Ashmore’s Board 
N
and its employees are female and, recognising  Further information relating to diversity is 
that the financial services sector has historically  provided in the Sustainability and Invested in 
I been a male-dominated industry, the firm is keen  people sections, and the Directors’ report. 
to promote gender diversity both within the 
I
D industry and its own employee base. 
However, Ashmore is a relatively small organisation 
of approximately 300 employees, with a highly 
successful remuneration philosophy that rewards  Ashmore is committed to 
 
performance and engenders long-term employee 
providing equal opportunities 
N loyalty. It does not have large-scale graduate 
and seeks to ensure that its 
recruitment or apprenticeship programmes. 
Hence, any desired changes in the profile of the  workforce reflects, as far as is 
employee base must occur over time as succession  practicable, the diversity of the 
I occurs, new roles arise, and replacements are 
many communities in which 
recruited based on merit and objective criteria 
it operates.
without any quotas set. 
Nationality and 
ethnicity 
Ashmore is proud to have a diverse 
workforce with employees from 38 
different countries. 
Nationality Ethnicity
 North America – 9%  Asian – 30%
 South America – 20%  Black – 2%
 Europe – 42%  Hispanic – 18%
 Asia Pacific – 23%   Middle Eastern /  
 Middle East – 5% North African – 6%
 Africa – 1%  Mixed race – 1%
 Other – 1%
 White – 35%
  No response – 8%
24  Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021
INVESTMENT THEMES S
T
R
A
T
DIVERSIFIED  E
G
IC
 R
E
P
O
OPPORTUNITIES R
T
 
G
O
V
E
R
N
A
External debt Local currency N
C
The external debt market was the first investable fixed  Government bonds issued in domestic currencies  E 
income asset class for foreign investors in Emerging  represent a large, growing and highly attractive asset 
F
Markets and, while it is now smaller in size than the  class with US$14.5 trillion of securities in issue.  IN
local currency government bond market, it remains a  Although the benchmark index currently fails to  A
N
sizeable asset class with US$1.5 trillion of bonds  adequately reflect the breadth and scale of the  C
IA
outstanding. Reflecting its established status, the  investment opportunity, with only 11% of those bonds  L
benchmark index includes 89% of those securities,  included in the index, it is steadily catching up with the   ST
A
issued by 74 countries and with 53% of the bonds  structural developments in the asset class. For example,  T
E
rated investment grade. during the year, China was included in the GBI-EM GD  M
Over the past 12 months, the index performed strongly  index at the maximum 10% weighting, meaning that  EN
and returned +7.5% as spreads continued to tighten  the index now has $200 billion of investable Chinese  TS
government bonds and includes 20 countries.
from the oversold levels of early 2020. High yield 
bonds outperformed with a return of +13.1%  The index returned +6.6% over the past 12 months, 
compared with +3.0% for investment grade assets.  with positive contributions from both bonds and 
Notwithstanding this strong performance over the year,  currency strength against the US dollar. The ability to 
valuations remain attractive with the index spread of  issue bonds in its own currency provides a country 
approximately 340bps being significantly wider than  with many advantages and means that there have 
before the pandemic (below 300bps) and offering a  been no defaults in the asset class, but it also means 
decent protective cushion should US Treasury bond  that other risks, notably inflation, have to be managed. 
yields come under pressure. Furthermore, the nominal  In this respect, an important development towards the 
index yield of 5% should be seen in the context of  end of the period was a number of central banks, 
US$13 trillion of sovereign bonds issued in Developed  including those in Turkey, Brazil, Russia, Mexico, 
Markets that trade with a negative nominal yield, and  Czech Republic and Hungary, raised interest rates as 
this figure increases to US$41 trillion, or 93% of  inflation returned to long-run trend levels. This reinforced 
sovereign debt in issue, when considering real yields. the credibility of policymaking in those countries,  
and provided support to currencies.
Ashmore’s broad external debt composite has 
outperformed its benchmark by more than 600bps over  The local currency index yield of 5% is notable, but the 
the past year with a return of +13.8%. Over the past  highly attractive relative value available in the asset 
three years, the composite has delivered annualised  class is illustrated by the real yield of approximately 1%, 
gross returns of +5.9% compared with +6.7% for  compared with -3% for equivalent five-year duration 
the benchmark. US Treasury bonds. As the structural challenges facing 
Developed Markets such as the US are expected to 
undermine the value of their currencies over the 
medium term, the total returns available from 
Emerging Markets bonds can include both attractive 
carry and meaningful foreign exchange gains against 
the US dollar.
Over the past year, Ashmore’s local currency bonds 
composite has outperformed the benchmark by nearly 
300bps with a return of +9.3%, and over three years it 
has generated annualised gross returns of +4.4%, 
outperforming the benchmark return of +4.1%.
Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021  25
INVESTMENT THEMES (CONTINUED)
Corporate debt Blended debt
The Emerging Markets corporate debt universe  Blended debt strategies provide broad access to the 
comprises both hard currency, typically US dollar  broad Emerging Markets fixed income universe, with 
denominated, bonds and local currency securities,   active management able to exploit the significant 
with outstanding issuance of US$3.2 trillion and  variances in the annual returns of the constituent 
US$4.9 trillion respectively. The diversification and  external debt, local currency and corporate debt asset 
quality of the asset class is illustrated by comparing   classes. For example, over the past nearly two 
the benchmark CEMBI BD index with the US high  decades, the average difference in annual returns 
yield market: between the best and worst performing fixed income 
asset classes has been more than 1,000bps and the 
– the CEMBI default rate over past 12 months is 3.6%, 
minimum difference has been 450bps. An active 
significantly lower than the US HY default rate  
management approach to blended debt provides 
of 6.2%. The long-run average default rate for 
investors with the fullest range of potential fixed 
Emerging Markets corporate debt is also lower at 
income investment opportunities, with approximately 
4.1%, compared with 4.4% for the US market;
US$34 trillion of bonds issued by sovereigns and 
– the index comprises 59 countries and 806 issuers;
corporates, in both hard currencies (typically US dollars) 
– more than 56% of bonds are investment grade 
and local currencies, and across more than 70 different 
rated; and
emerging countries. 
– the HY part of the index yields nearly 6%, and there 
An allocation to blended debt can meet the 
is a meaningful pick-up in spread over US HY bonds 
requirements of the first-time investor in Emerging 
for equivalent-rated credits.
Markets, enabling a deeper understanding of the 
As well as the attractive fundamental characteristics  underlying asset classes to be developed over time. It 
described above, relatively short duration, high yielding  also suits the more experienced investor that is able to 
corporate bonds offer some protection against rising  define bespoke investment objectives and a blended 
US rates. This has been demonstrated over the past  benchmark against which investment performance can 
year with very strong index returns of +8.7% and  be measured.
+13.5% for the HY component. Towards the end of 
Reflecting the strong performance of the underlying 
the period, the commodity-exposed parts of the asset 
asset classes, over the past 12 months, the standard 
class benefited from the rally in most major commodity 
blended debt benchmark index, comprising 50% 
prices. The demand for investment grade debt is also 
external debt (EMBI GD), 25% local currency  
increasing, given the diversification, yield and issuance 
bonds (GBI-EM GD) and 25% EMFX (ELMI+), 
trends that are all favourable compared with the 
returned +7.1%.
US market.
Ashmore’s broad blended debt composite returned 
Over the past year, Ashmore’s broad corporate debt 
+13.0% over the past 12 months and has 
composite has performed well and, with a return of 
outperformed the standard benchmark index by nearly 
+15.2%, has outperformed the benchmark by 650bps. 
600bps. Over the past three years, it has generated a 
Over the past three years, the composite has delivered 
gross annualised return of +5.0%, in line with the 
a gross annualised return of +7.8%, compared with 
performance of the standard benchmark index.
+7.5% for the benchmark index.
26  Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021
S
T
R
A
T
E
G
IC
 R
E
P
O
R
Equities T
 
The emerging equity markets are highly diversified and, 
like their fixed income counterparts, have inefficiencies  Following a strong year for Emerging Markets, the 
that can be exploited by active management. The  G
outlook is favourable and the potential investment  O
prospects for investment returns are underpinned by  V
Emerging Markets’ superior economic growth, ongoing  returns available are highly attractive. ER
N
reforms and attractive absolute and relative valuations. A
N
C
Emerging Markets E
 
The MSCI EM index delivered an impressive return of 
+40.9% over the past year, with Asia outperforming  The vaccination rate across emerging nations has  FIN
Eastern Europe and Latin America as social and  accelerated in recent months as developed countries  A
N
economic recovery from COVID-19 followed a   reach critical vaccination levels and there are more  C
IA
broadly similar geographic pattern to the onset of  doses available for the rest of the world. The broadening  L
the pandemic.  of this growth impulse, combined with some inflation   ST
and still very loose monetary conditions, means that  A
Ashmore’s All Cap equity strategy has delivered  there is a positive outlook for the Emerging Markets  TEM
excellent performance over the past year with a  
equity asset classes, and even more so given the still  E
return of +57.6%, and over three years it has produced  N
substantial price/earnings discounts that prevail relative  T
gross annualised returns of +20.4%, significantly  S
to Developed Markets.
outperforming the MSCI EM index return of +11.3%. 
The Active equity strategy performed broadly in line  Outlook
with the MSCI EM index over the past 12 months 
Following a strong year for Emerging Markets,  
(+41.2%) and has outperformed over three years with 
the outlook is favourable and the potential investment 
gross annualised returns of +12.3%.
returns available are highly attractive, whether 
Small cap considered in absolute terms or relative to Developed 
Markets. The second half of 2021 is expected to  
Strong performance is also reflected in the small cap 
see a catch-up in COVID-19 vaccination rates across 
part of the Emerging Markets equity universe, with a 
Emerging Markets, which underpins expectations of 
very strong index return of +63.8% over the past year 
faster economic growth, and in excess of that forecast 
and Ashmore’s Global small cap strategy outperformed 
for developed countries.
with a return of +65.9%. Over three years, the strategy 
has returned +16.8% on a gross annualised basis,  Uncertainty over US inflation will remain a source of 
outperforming the benchmark return of +12.3%. market volatility, but the fundamental strength of 
emerging economies and prevailing valuations should 
Frontier Markets
ensure that expectations of higher US interest rates do 
The MSCI FM index performed strongly over the year 
not lead to another ‘taper tantrum’. When the Fed does 
and returned +31.3%. Ashmore’s Frontier Markets 
raise rates, it will be from such a low level that real 
strategy outperformed this benchmark with a return of 
rates are likely to remain extremely supportive for 
+43.5%, and has also outperformed over three years 
some time to come. Inflation in Emerging Markets has 
with gross annualised returns of +6.8% compared with 
increased, but this is largely due to base effects and it 
+6.1% for the benchmark index.
has returned to its long-run trend rate. Central banks 
While active managers can find alpha opportunities  have already turned hawkish and started increasing 
outside of the main benchmark indices, it is a positive  rates, and the higher differential in real yields is positive 
development that the equity benchmarks continue to  for those countries’ currencies versus the US dollar.
evolve and become more representative of the 
After the strong returns delivered over the past year, 
Emerging Markets opportunity. For example, in recent 
the combination of high carry, better growth 
years MSCI has enhanced the representation of its 
momentum than developed countries and attractive 
main Emerging Markets equity index by including 
valuations presents a very supportive backdrop for 
Saudi Arabia and China.
continued performance by Emerging Markets assets.
Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021  27
BUSINESS REVIEW
DELIVERING  
DIVERSIFIED PROFITS
Ashmore delivered strong earnings growth with profit  Gross subscriptions of US$17.6 billion were lower than 
before tax and diluted EPS 28% and 33% higher,  in the prior year and represented 21% of opening AuM 
respectively, than in the prior year, as a result of  (FY2019/20: US$24.3 billion, 26%). The lower activity 
mark-to-market gains on the Group’s seed capital  levels reflect a period when investors were considering 
investments. While average AuM was flat and operating  the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on economies 
costs were reduced, a lower management fee margin  and markets across the world, meaning that they 
driven by mix effects meant that, on an adjusted basis,  typically resisted making significant changes to 
EBITDA fell by 12% and diluted EPS declined by 11%.  portfolio allocations, and contrasts with the strong 
The Group’s balance sheet remains well-capitalised  subscriptions experienced for most of the prior year.
and highly liquid.
There was broad-based demand across asset classes 
in the period, including new client mandates in external 
Assets under management
debt, blended debt, equities and overlay / liquidity. 
AuM increased by 13% over the year to US$94.4 billion 
Approximately 80% of gross institutional flows came 
through investment performance of US$9.6 billion  
from existing clients, including significant flows in local 
and net inflows of US$1.2 billion. Reflecting the  
currency, corporate debt, including investment grade 
lower opening AuM level following the initial market 
strategies, blended debt and overlay / liquidity.
reaction to the COVID-19 pandemic, average assets 
under management were broadly unchanged at 
US$90.0 billion (FY2019/20: US$89.6 billion).
Summary non-GAAP financial performance
The table below reclassifies items relating to seed capital and the translation of non-Sterling balance sheet positions to aid comprehension 
of the Group’s operating performance. Excluding these items also provides a more meaningful comparison with the prior year. For the 
purposes of presenting ‘Adjusted’ profits, personnel expenses have been adjusted for the variable compensation on foreign exchange 
translation gains and losses.
Reclassification of
   FY2020/21  Seed capital- Foreign exchange  FY2020/21  FY2019/20 
£m Reported related items translation Adjusted Adjusted
Management fees net of distribution costs 270.9 – – 270.9 315.5
Performance fees 11.9 – – 11.9 3.9
Other revenue 4.6 – – 4.6 4.1
Foreign exchange 4.3 – 4.9 9.2 1.5 
Net revenue 291.7 – 4.9 296.6 325.0 
Investment securities 123.5 (123.5) – – –
Third-party interests (52.6) 52.6 – – –
Personnel expenses (80.3) – (1.1) (81.4) (81.5)
Other expenses excluding depreciation & amortisation (21.2) 1.7 – (19.5) (21.0)
EBITDA 261.1 (69.2) 3.8 195.7 222.5
EBITDA margin 91% – – 66% 68%
Depreciation & amortisation (2.8) – – (2.8) (3.4)
Operating profit 258.3 (69.2) 3.8 192.9 219.1 
Net finance income/expense 23.9 (23.3) – 0.6 5.8 
Associates & joint ventures 0.3 – – 0.3 (0.2)
Profit before tax  282.5 (92.5) 3.8 193.8 224.7 
Diluted EPS (p) 34.2 (11.4) 0.5 23.3 26.1
28  Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021
S
T
R
A
T
E
G
IC
 R
E
P
O
R
Gross redemptions were also lower at US$16.4 billion,  Segregated accounts including white-labelled   T
 
or 20% of opening AuM (FY2019/20: US$24.4 billion,  funds represent 79% of AuM (30 June 2020: 75%). 
27%), a level more consistent with the longer-term  The slight increase reflects good levels of institutional 
pattern following heightened client redemptions at the  activity from both new and existing clients, and net  G
O
end of the prior financial year. The redemptions reflect  redemptions from the Group’s mutual funds. V
the typical range of client allocation decisions including  Ashmore’s main mutual fund platforms are in Europe and  ER
N
profit taking after strong market performance and shifts  the US. The European SICAV range comprises 29 funds  A
in asset allocation and model portfolios. N
with AuM of US$10.1 billion (30 June 2020: 30 funds,  C
E
Overall, institutional clients delivered a net inflow of  US$12.1 billion) and the US 40-Act platform manages   
US$4.1 billion, and there was a net outflow of US$2.9  US$2.3 billion in 12 funds (30 June 2020: 10 funds,  F
billion from intermediary retail clients, to give a total net  US$2.4 billion). There was strong investment  IN
A
inflow of US$1.2 billion compared with a small net  performance across all strategies, and the decline in AuM  N
C
outflow of US$0.1 billion in the prior year. over the period is primarily due to net redemptions from  IA
Investor profile local currency, short duration and blended debt strategies. L S
T
A
Ashmore’s client base is well diversified by client type  AuM as invested T
E
and domicile. Over the period there was an increase in  The charts on page 30 show AuM ‘as invested’ by  M
E
the proportion of AuM from government-related  underlying investment theme, which adjusts from the  N
T
institutions and small reductions in the proportions of  ‘by mandate’ presentation to take account of the  S
AuM sourced from pension funds and intermediary  allocation into the underlying asset classes of the 
retail clients. In total, 26% of the Group’s AuM has  multi-asset and blended debt themes, and of crossover 
been sourced from clients domiciled in Emerging  investment from within certain external debt funds.
Markets (30 June 2020: 26%).
The Group’s AuM by geography of investment remains 
diversified with 37% invested in Latin America, 25% in 
Asia Pacific, 19% in the Middle East and Africa, and 
19% in Eastern Europe.
AuM movements by investment theme
The AuM by theme as classified by mandate is shown in the table below. 
AuM  Gross   Gross   AuM 
30 June 2020  Performance   subscriptions   redemptions   Net flows   30 June 2021 
Theme US$bn US$bn US$bn US$bn US$bn US$bn
External debt 17.1 1.6 1.9 (2.4) (0.5) 18.2
Local currency 18.7 1.9 2.4 (3.4) (1.0) 19.6
Corporate debt 10.6 1.6 2.1 (3.0) (0.9) 11.3
Blended debt 23.3 2.7 2.4 (5.0) (2.6) 23.4
Equities 4.6 1.9 2.6 (1.7) 0.9 7.4
Alternatives 1.4 – 0.2 (0.2) – 1.4
Multi-asset 0.3 – – – – 0.3
Overlay/liquidity 7.6 (0.1) 6.0 (0.7) 5.3 12.8
Total 83.6 9.6 17.6 (16.4) 1.2 94.4
Fee income and net management fee margin by investment theme
The table below summarises net management fee income after distribution costs, performance fee income, and average net management 
fee margin by investment theme.
Net management   Net management   Performance Performance  Net management  Net management  
fees  fees  fees  fees  fee margin fee margin 
FY2020/21  FY2019/20  FY2020/21  FY2019/20  FY2020/21  FY2019/20 
Theme £m £m £m £m bps bps
External debt 51.9 59.4 1.8 2.5  39 41 
Local currency 50.7 60.2 1.8 – 35 38 
Corporate debt 34.6 51.3 4.2 0.4 41 50 
Blended debt 82.7 94.6  2.6 0.9 47 49 
Equities 26.5 23.0  – – 60 66 
Alternatives 12.3 15.4  0.7 0.1 132 139 
Multi-asset 2.3 3.0  0.8 – 114 100 
Overlay/liquidity 9.9 8.6  – – 15 15 
Total 270.9 315.5  11.9 3.9 41 45
Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021  29
BUSINESS REVIEW (CONTINUED)
Ashmore’s diverse investment themes and clients
2020 (%) 2021 (%)
AuM classified by mandate
External debt  20 External debt  19 
Local currency  23 Local currency  21 
Corporate debt  14 Corporate debt  12 
Blended debt  27 Blended debt  25 
Equities  5 Equities  8 
Alternatives  2 Alternatives  1 
Multi-asset  1 Multi-asset  1 
Overlay/liquidity  8 Overlay/liquidity  13 
AuM as invested
External debt  38 External debt  32
Local currency  28 Local currency  26
Corporate debt  17 Corporate debt  19
Equities  6 Equities  8
Alternatives  2 Alternatives  1
Overlay/liquidity  9 Overlay/liquidity  14
AuM by investor type
Central banks  11 Central banks  11
Sovereign wealth funds  7 Sovereign wealth funds  21
Governments  16 Governments  7
Pension plans  29 Pension plans  26
Corporates/ﬁnancial  Corporates/ﬁnancial 
institutions  22 institutions  22
Funds/sub-advisers  3 Funds/sub-advisers  4
Intermediary retail  11 Intermediary retail  8
Foundations/endowments 1 Foundations/endowments 1
AuM by investor geography
Americas  23 Americas  20 
Europe ex UK  28 Europe ex UK  28 
UK  9 UK  7 
Middle East and Africa  17 Middle East and Africa  17 
Asia Paciﬁc  23 Asia Paciﬁc  28 
30  Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021
S
T
R
A
T
E
G
IC
 R
E
P
O
R
Revenues Other revenue includes transaction and project  T
 
management fees and at £4.6 million was at a similar 
Net revenue fell by 12% to £291.7 million as a result of 
level to the prior year (FY2019/20: £4.1 million).
lower net management fee income partially offset by 
higher performance fees. On an adjusted basis,  Operating costs GO
excluding foreign exchange translation effects,  V
Total operating costs of £104.3 million include  E
net revenue declined by 9% to £296.6 million. R
£1.7 million of expenses incurred by seeded funds that  N
A
Net revenue are required to be consolidated, as disclosed in note 20.  N
C
FY2020/21   FY2019/20   On an adjusted basis, excluding the impact of seed  E
  £m £m  
capital and the variable compensation accrual on 
Net management fees 270.9 315.5 
foreign exchange translation gains, operating costs  F
Performance fees 11.9 3.9 IN
were reduced by 2% to £103.7 million (FY2019/20:  A
Other revenue 4.6 4.1  N
£105.9 million). At constant FY2019/20 average  C
FX: hedges 9.2 1.5 exchange rates, adjusted operating costs were flat  IA
Adjusted net revenue 296.6 325.0 compared with the prior year period. L S
FX: balance sheet translation (4.9) 5.5 TA
Operating costs T
Net revenue 291.7 330.5  E
FY2020/21   FY2019/20   M
  £m £m E
Management fee income, net of distribution costs,  N
Fixed staff costs (26.7) (27.6) 
T
declined by 14% to £270.9 million, reflecting flat  S
Other operating costs (19.5) (21.0)
average AuM of US$90.0 billion, a stronger average 
Depreciation & amortisation (2.8) (3.4) 
GBP:USD rate of 1.3472 (FY2019/20: 1.2637) and a 
Operating costs before VC (49.0) (52.0)
4bps decline in the average net management fee 
Variable compensation (53.6) (55.0)
margin to 41bps. At constant FY2019/20 average 
VC accrual on FX gains/losses (1.1) 1.1
exchange rates, net management fees fell by 8%.
Adjusted operating costs (103.7) (105.9)
Approximately half of the decline in the net management 
Consolidated funds costs (1.7) (2.2)
fee margin compared with the prior year is explained 
Add back VC accrual on FX 
by theme and client mix effects. The overall impact of 
gains/losses 1.1 (1.1)
investment theme mix changes, for example the increase 
Total operating costs (104.3) (109.2) 
in overlay / liquidity AuM and lower average AuM in 
blended debt together with a positive contribution from 
Adjusted operating costs before variable compensation 
the growth in equities and locally-managed AuM, 
were reduced by 6% to £49.0 million (FY2019/20: 
reduced the margin by one basis point. Net outflows 
£52.0 million), and were 2% lower at constant 
from intermediary retail clients and other mutual fund 
FY2019/20 average exchange rates.
net redemptions had a 1.5 basis points effect.
The Group’s headcount rose slightly over the year to 
Flows into new and existing large institutional mandates 
310 employees, of which 298 are involved in investment 
reduced the margin by less than 0.5 basis point and the 
management-related activities (30 June 2020: 306 and 
remaining movement of approximately one basis point 
291, respectively). The average headcount was flat 
is attributable to competition and other factors. 
compared with the prior year. The Group’s fixed  
Strong relative performance in several large institutional  staff costs of £26.7 million fell by 3% as a result of 
mandates combined with fees recognised on the  stronger Sterling.
successful realisation of assets in the alternatives 
Other operating costs, excluding consolidated fund 
theme delivered performance fees of £11.9 million, 
expenses and depreciation and amortisation, were 
higher than in the prior year (FY2019/20: £3.9 million).
reduced by 7% to £19.5 million, primarily as a result of 
At 30 June 2021, 13% of the Group’s AuM was eligible  significantly lower travel-related expenses and reduced 
to earn performance fees (30 June 2020: 13%), of  office expenses while the majority of employees  
which a substantial proportion is subject to rebate  were working remotely. The current year includes a 
agreements. As at 31 August 2021, there are no  £1.0 million charitable contribution equivalent to 0.5% 
material realised performance fees and the Group  of profit before tax excluding unrealised seed capital 
continues to expect its net revenues to comprise  gains, as described in the Chief Executive’s review 
primarily net management fee income.  (FY2019/20: £0.4 million charitable donations).
Translation of the Group’s non-Sterling assets and  The accrual for variable compensation of £53.6 million 
liabilities, excluding seed capital, resulted in an  is 3% lower than in the prior year and represents 
unrealised foreign exchange loss of £4.9 million  22.0% of EBVCIT excluding the charitable contribution 
reflecting a higher GBP:USD dollar rate at the   (FY2019/20: £55.0 million, 19.5%), reflecting the 
period end. The net realised and unrealised gain   balance of strong investment performance versus the 
on the Group’s foreign exchange hedges was  lower adjusted profits compared with the prior year.
£9.2 million. Therefore, the total foreign exchange  
The combined depreciation and amortisation charges 
gain recognised in revenues was £4.3 million 
for the period were £2.8 million. 
(FY2019/20: £7.0 million gain).
Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021  31
BUSINESS REVIEW (CONTINUED)
Adjusted EBITDA
Adjusted EBITDA fell by 12% from £222.5 million to  Year end headcount
£195.7 million as a result of the 9% fall in adjusted 
2021: 310
net revenue that was partially offset by the 2% 
reduction in adjusted operating costs. The adjusted 
EBITDA margin was 66%.
1 113 197
2
Finance income 20 99 211
Net finance income of £23.9 million (FY2019/20: 
0 112 194
£12.0 million) includes items relating to seed capital  202 98 208
investments, which are described in more detail below. 
Excluding these items, net interest income for the  9 117 190
1
period was £0.6 million (FY2019/20: £5.8 million),   0
2 95 212
with the reduction due to lower interest rates.
8 73 180
Seed capital 1
0
2 83 170
The table below summarises the principal IFRS line items 
to assist in the understanding of the impact of the Group’s  7 63 189
1
seed capital programme on the consolidated statement  20 77 175
of comprehensive income. The seed capital investments 
generated a total gain of £92.5 million in the period 
(FY2019/20: £7.6 million loss) including a realised   Global Support
gain of £8.5 million. This comprises a £72.5 million  Local Investment professionals
mark-to-market gain in respect of consolidated funds, 
including £3.3 million of finance income, and a 
£20.0 million gain in respect of unconsolidated funds 
that is reported in finance income. Taxation
Financial impact of seed capital investments The majority of the Group’s profit is subject to UK 
taxation. Of the total current tax charge for the year of 
FY2020/21   FY2019/20  
  £m £m £41.3 million (FY2019/20: £38.7 million), £24.4 million 
Consolidated funds (note 20):   relates to UK corporation tax (FY2019/20: £24.7 million).
Gains/(losses) on investment 
The Group’s effective tax rate for the financial year is 
securities 123.5 (19.1)
14.4% (FY2019/20: 16.6%), which is lower than the 
Change in third-party interests 
prevailing UK corporation tax rate of 19.0%. This reflects 
in consolidated funds (52.6) 7.5
the impact of the Group’s share price on the allowable 
Operating costs (1.7) (2.2)
value of share-based remuneration provided to 
Finance income 3.3 4.8  employees, the impact of non-taxable unrealised seed 
Sub-total: consolidated funds 72.5 (9.0)  capital gains, the geographic mix of the Group’s profit 
    in the period and the impact on the Group’s deferred 
Unconsolidated funds (note 8):   tax balances of the planned rise in the UK corporation 
Market return 25.3 1.6  tax rate to 25% in 2023. Note 12 to the financial 
Foreign exchange (5.3) (0.2)  statements provides a reconciliation of this difference 
Sub-total: unconsolidated funds 20.0 1.4  compared with the UK corporation tax rate.
    Earnings per share
Total seed capital profit/
Basic earnings per share for the period increased by 
(loss) 92.5 (7.6)
33% to 36.4 pence (FY2019/20: 27.4 pence) and 
– realised 8.5 4.0  diluted earnings per share increased by 33% to 
– unrealised 84.0 (11.6) 34.2 pence (FY2019/20: 25.7 pence).
Profit before tax On an adjusted basis, excluding the effects of seed 
capital items, foreign exchange translation and relevant 
Statutory profit before tax of £282.5 million was 28% 
tax, diluted earnings per share fell by 11% to 23.3 pence 
higher than the prior year (FY2019/20: £221.5 million) 
(FY2019/20: 26.1 pence). In FY2019/20, the post-tax 
as a result of the strong mark-to-market gains delivered 
impact of seed capital items and foreign exchange 
by the Group’s seed capital programme.
translation was -0.9 pence per share and +0.5 pence 
per share, respectively. The weighted average share 
count for adjusted diluted earnings per share is shown 
in note 13.
32  Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021
S
T
R
A
T
E
G
IC
 R
E
P
O
R
Balance sheet Seed capital investments T
 
Ashmore’s policy is to maintain a strong balance sheet  The Group’s actively managed seed capital programme 
through market cycles in order to meet regulatory  supports growth in third-party AuM with more than 
capital requirements, to support the commercial  US$10 billion of AuM in funds that have been seeded,  G
O
demands of current and prospective investors,   representing 11% of total Group AuM. V
E
and to fund strategic development opportunities   R
During the year, the Group made new seed investments  N
across the business. A
of £134.6 million and realised £106.0 million from  N
C
As at 30 June 2021, total equity attributable to  previous investments. The consequent net investment  E
 
shareholders of the parent was £911.6 million   of £28.6 million together with market-to-market gains 
(30 June 2020: £856.4 million). Capital resources  of £69.8 million means the market value of the Group’s  F
IN
available to the Group totalled £765.1 million as at   seed capital investments increased from £238.4 million  A
N
30 June 2021, equivalent to 107 pence per share,   as at 30 June 2020 to £336.8 million as at 30 June 2021.  C
and significantly exceeded the Group’s regulatory  Additionally, Ashmore has seed capital commitments  IA
L
capital requirement of £155.9 million, equivalent to   of £8.9 million to funds in the alternatives theme that   S
T
22 pence per share. The Group has no debt. were undrawn at the period end, giving a total  A
T
committed value for the Group’s seed capital  E
Cash M
programme of approximately £345 million. E
Ashmore’s business model consistently delivers a high  N
conversion rate of operating profits to cash. Based on  As at 30 June 2021, the original cost of the Group’s  TS
current seed capital investments was £255.2 million, 
operating profit of £258.3 million for the period 
representing 31% of Group net tangible equity. 
(FY2019/20: £209.7 million), the Group generated 
Approximately two-thirds of the Group’s seed capital  
£213.5 million of cash from operations (FY2019/20: 
is held in funds with better than one-month dealing 
£254.9 million). The operating cash flows after 
frequency, such as SICAV or US 40-Act mutual funds.
excluding consolidated funds represent 109% of the 
adjusted EBITDA for the period of £195.7 million  The increase in market value over the period reflects 
(FY2019/20: 116%). the strong market recovery and investment 
performance delivered by Ashmore’s liquid strategies 
Cash and cash equivalents by currency
(approximately £35 million impact on profit before tax), 
30 June 2021   30 June 2020  
  £m £m together with the consequent increase in valuations 
Sterling 76.0 66.0  applied to assets held by funds in the alternatives 
US dollar 351.5 391.1 theme (approximately £48 million impact on profit 
Other 28.6 43.8  before tax).
Total 456.1 500.9  The new investments support distribution initiatives in 
Latin America, add scale to equity funds to enhance 
Cash generated in the period was used to pay 
access to intermediary retail investors, and provide 
corporation tax, to distribute ordinary dividends to 
capital for new investment grade and dedicated  
shareholders, to purchase shares into the Employee 
ESG funds to establish investment track records.  
Benefit Trust (EBT) and to make seed capital investments. 
The redemptions were as a result of successful 
The decline in cash held compared with the prior year 
realisations and subsequent return of capital  
end is the result of the impact of stronger Sterling on  
in the alternatives theme and client flows into 
the translation of foreign currency holdings, particularly 
equity strategies.
US dollar balances.
Seed capital market value by currency
30 June 2021   30 June 2020  
  £m £m
US dollar 297.6 213.7 
Colombian peso 16.2 13.9
Other 23.0 10.8 
Total market value 336.8 238.4 
Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021  33
BUSINESS REVIEW (CONTINUED)
Foreign exchange Regulatory capital
The majority of the Group’s fee income is received in  FY2020/21   FY2019/20  
  £m £m
US dollars and it is the Group’s policy for the Foreign 
Total equity 932.7 879.0 
Exchange Management Committee to hedge up  
Less deductions:
to two-thirds of the notional value of budgeted  
Investments in associates (0.9) (0.6)
foreign currency-denominated net management fees. 
Foreseeable dividends (85.7) (85.5)
Foreign currency assets and liabilities, including cash, 
Intangibles & goodwill (81.0) (90.4) 
are marked to market at the period end exchange rate 
with movements reported in either revenues or other  Capital resources 765.1 702.5
comprehensive income (OCI).    
Pillar II capital requirement 155.9 147.3 
Stronger Sterling over the period reduced net 
management fees by 6%, reduced operating costs by  The Group has total capital resources of £765.1 million 
2%, and resulted in translation losses of £4.9 million on  as at 30 June 2021, equivalent to 107 pence per share, 
the Group’s foreign currency assets and liabilities and  giving a solvency ratio of 391% and excess regulatory 
£5.3 million on the Group’s unconsolidated seed capital  capital of £609.2 million above the Pillar II requirement. 
investments. Active management of the Group’s  Therefore, the Board is satisfied that the Group is 
foreign currency exposures delivered a gain of  adequately capitalised.
£9.2 million reported in revenues.
Dividend
Included in OCI is a foreign exchange loss of 
£74.9 million (FY2019/20: £12.8 million gain) reflecting  The Board intends to pay a progressive ordinary 
the translation of non-Sterling assets and liabilities at  dividend over time, taking into consideration factors 
the balance sheet date, and primarily comprising the  such as the prospects for the Group’s earnings, 
impact on cash and cash equivalents (£40.5 million),  demands on the Group’s financial resources, and the 
seed capital investments (£22.7 million) and goodwill  markets in which the Group operates.
(£9.0 million). Consistent with this approach and recognising the 
Goodwill and intangible assets strong statutory profit growth, driven by largely 
unrealised seed capital gains, and the lower adjusted 
At 30 June 2021, goodwill and intangible assets on the 
profits, the Directors have recommended a final 
Group’s balance sheet totalled £80.5 million (30 June 
dividend of 12.1 pence per share for the year ending 
2020: £89.7 million). The movement in the period is the 
30 June 2021 (FY2019/20: 12.1 pence), which if approved 
result of an amortisation charge of £0.2 million 
by shareholders will be paid on 10 December 2021 to 
(FY2019/20: £0.2 million) and a foreign exchange 
all shareholders on the register on 5 November 2021. 
revaluation loss in reserves of £9.0 million (FY2019/20: 
Total dividends paid and recommended for the year of 
£2.6 million gain).
16.9 pence (FY2019/20: 16.9 pence) are covered 2.0x 
Shares held by Employee Benefit Trust (EBT) by diluted earnings per share.
The Group’s EBT purchases and holds shares  
in anticipation of the vesting of share awards.  
Tom Shippey
At 30 June 2021, the EBT owned 52,345,869  
Group Finance Director
ordinary shares (30 June 2020: 56,477,466 ordinary 
shares), representing 7.3% of the Group’s issued  
2 September 2021
share capital (30 June 2020: 7.9%).
Regulatory capital
Ashmore Group plc is subject to consolidated 
regulatory capital requirements, whereby the Board  
is required to assess the degree of risk across the 
Group’s business, and the Group is required to hold 
sufficient capital against these risks.
The table below summarises the Group’s financial 
resources and Pillar II regulatory capital requirement 
determined by the Board through the Internal Capital 
Adequacy Assessment Process (ICAAP). The increase 
in the requirement is primarily the result of a higher 
market risk charge resulting from the increase in the 
market value of the Group’s seed capital investments.
34  Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021
S
T
R
A
T
E
G
IC
 R
E
P
O
R
Alternative performance measures EBITDA T
 
Ashmore discloses non-GAAP financial alternative  The standard definition of earnings before interest,  
performance measures (APMs) in order to assist  tax, depreciation and amortisation is operating profit 
shareholders’ understanding of the operational  before depreciation and amortisation. It provides a view  G
O
performance of the Group during the accounting   of the operating performance of the business before  V
E
period and to make comparisons with prior periods. certain non-cash items, financing income and charges,  R
N
and taxation. A
The calculation of APMs is consistent with the financial  N
C
year ending 30 June 2020 and unless otherwise stated  Reconciliation sources: Financial statements; note 11 E
 
reconciliations to statutory IFRS results are provided in 
Adjusted net revenue, adjusted operating costs 
the Business review. Historical reconciliations of APMs  F
and adjusted EBITDA IN
to statutory IFRS results can be found in the respective  A
interim financial reports and annual reports and accounts. Adjusted figures exclude items relating to foreign  NC
exchange translation and seed capital. This provides   IA
Net revenue L
a better understanding of the Group’s operational   S
As shown on the face of the consolidated statement of  performance excluding the mark-to-market volatility   TA
comprehensive income, net revenue is total revenue  of foreign exchange translation and seed  TE
M
less distribution costs and including foreign exchange.  capital investments.
E
This provides a comprehensive view of the revenues  N
Reconciliation sources: Financial statements; notes 7,  T
recognised by the Group in the period. S
10, 11 & 20
Reconciliation sources: Consolidated statement of 
Adjusted EBITDA margin
comprehensive income
The ratio of adjusted EBITDA to adjusted net revenue, 
Net management fee margin
both of which are defined above. This is an appropriate 
The net management fee margin is defined as the ratio  measure of the Group’s operational efficiency and its 
of management fees less distribution costs to average  ability to generate returns for shareholders.
assets under management for the period and is a 
Reconciliation sources: Financial statements; notes 7, 
commonly used industry performance measure.
10, 11 & 20
Reconciliation sources: Consolidated statement of 
Adjusted diluted EPS
comprehensive income; average AuM
Diluted earnings per share excluding items relating  
Variable compensation ratio
to foreign exchange translation and seed capital,  
The charge for employee variable compensation as a  as described above, and the related tax impact.
proportion of earnings before variable compensation, 
Reconciliation sources: Consolidated statement of total 
interest and tax (EBVCIT). The linking of variable annual 
comprehensive income, note 13
pay awards to the Group’s profitability is one of the 
principal methods by which the Group controls its  Conversion of operating profits to cash
operating costs. The charge for variable compensation  This compares adjusted EBITDA to cash generated 
is a component of personnel expenses and comprises  from operations, which excludes consolidated funds to 
share-based payments and performance-related  enable a better understanding of the Group’s operating 
cash bonuses. performance, and is a measure of the effectiveness of 
EBVCIT is defined as operating profit excluding the charge  the Group’s operations at converting profits to cash. 
for variable compensation and seed capital-related items.  Excluding consolidated funds also ensures consistency 
The latter comprises gains/losses on investment securities;  between the adjusted EBITDA and cash flow.
change in third-party interests in consolidated funds;  Reconciliation sources: Consolidated cash flow 
and other expenses in respect of consolidated funds. statement; note 20 d)
Reconciliation sources: Consolidated statement of 
comprehensive income; notes 9 & 11
Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021  35
RISK MANAGEMENT
EFFECTIVE  
RISK MANAGEMENT
Ashmore’s strong risk management culture and internal control framework support 
the identification, evaluation and management of the Group’s principal and 
emerging risks.
The Group’s three-phase  The Group executes its  The Board has ultimate and  The Board is responsible for  
strategy is designed to deliver  strategy using a distinctive  ongoing responsibility for the  risk management, although it 
long-term growth to shareholders  business model, and identifies,  Group’s strategy. It formally  has delegated authority to carry 
through cycles by capitalising  evaluates and manages the  reviews the strategy at least  out day-to-day functions to 
on the powerful economic,  principal risks inherent in this  annually and receives updates  Executive Directors and 
political and social convergence  business model. at each Board meeting. specialised committees,  
trends evident across the  such as the Group Risk and 
Emerging Markets. Compliance Committee.
Read about Ashmore’s  Read about Ashmore’s business  Read Ashmore’s Corporate  Read about Ashmore’s 
strategy on pages 2-3 model on pages 4-5 governance report on  principal and emerging risks  
pages 69-76 on pages 39-41
Risk management structure
The Board and its committees, including the Audit and Risk Committee, 
ASHMORE GROUP  
are ultimately responsible for the Group’s risk management and internal control 
PLC BOARD systems, and for reviewing their effectiveness
Maintains a sound risk management and internal control environment and 
GROUP RISK AND 
assesses the impact of the Group’s activities on its regulatory and 
COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE
operational exposures
Head of Risk Management and Control
CHAIRMAN
– Chief Executive Officer – Group General Counsel – Group Head of Finance
MEMBERS – Group Finance Director – Group Head of Middle  – Group Head of 
– Group Head of  Office & IT Distribution
Compliance – Group Head of Human  – Head of Internal Audit
Resources
36  Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021
S
T
R
A
T
Risk management and internal control systems E
G
IC
In accordance with provision 29 of the Code, the Board is  Three lines of defence  R
ultimately responsible for the Group’s risk management and  E
internal control systems and for reviewing their effectiveness.  The Group has three lines of defence against unintended  PO
outcomes arising from the risks it faces. R
Such systems and their review are designed to manage rather   T
 
than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives,  
and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance  1 First: Risk ownership
against material misstatement or loss. G
This rests with line managers, whether they are   O
V
Within the Group’s over-arching corporate governance framework,  in portfolio management, distribution or support  E
R
through which the Board aims to maintain full and effective control  functions. The senior management team takes   N
A
over appropriate strategic, financial, operational and compliance  the lead role with respect to implementing   N
C
issues, an internal control framework has been established,   and maintaining appropriate controls across  E
 
against which the Group is able to assess the effectiveness of   the business.
its risk management and internal control systems.  F
IN
The Group’s system of internal control is integrated into the  2 Second: Risk control A
N
Group’s strategy and business model and embedded within its  This is provided by Group Risk Management and   C
IA
routine business processes and operations, and a strong control  Control, including the Group’s principal risk matrix,   L
culture is combined with clear management responsibility and  and Group Compliance, including the compliance   ST
accountability for individual controls.  monitoring programme. AT
E
The internal control framework provides an ongoing process for  M
identifying, evaluating and managing the Group’s emerging risks  3 Third: Independent assurance EN
T
and principal risks, and has been in place for the year under review  Group Internal Audit is the third line of defence and  S
and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts.  provides independent assurance over agreed risk 
The process is regularly reviewed by the Group’s Audit and Risk  management, internal control and governance 
Committee (ARC) and accords with the guidance in the document  processes as well as recommendations to improve 
’Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control and Related  the effectiveness of these processes.
Financial and Business Reporting’ (the Guidance) published by the 
Financial Reporting Council in 2014.
The Executive Directors oversee the key risks and controls and the 
risk management process on a day-to-day basis, and there is an  The ARC and/or Board receives regular compliance, risk and internal 
organisational structure with clearly defined lines of responsibility  audit reports while the Board receives regular financial and other 
and delegation of authority. management information related to the control of expenditure 
The Group’s Risk and Compliance Committee (RCC), which meets  against budget and the making of investments, and for monitoring 
monthly, is responsible for maintaining a sound risk management  the Group’s business and its performance.
and internal control environment and for assessing the impact of the  The main features of the Group’s risk management and internal 
Group’s ongoing activities on its regulatory and operational exposures.  control systems are as follows:
The RCC is chaired by the Head of Risk Management and Control, 
Policies
and the other members are the Chief Executive, the Group Finance 
– core values and policies together comprising the Group’s 
Director, the Group Head of Compliance, the Group Head of 
high-level principles and controls, with which all staff are 
Finance, the Group Head of Middle Office and IT, the Group 
expected to comply;
General Counsel, the Group Head of Distribution, the Head of 
– manuals of policies and procedures, applicable to all business 
Internal Audit, and the Group Head of Human Resources. 
units, with procedures for reporting weaknesses and for 
Responsibility for risk identification is shared among these senior 
monitoring corrective action;
management personnel, with each individual being responsible for 
day-to-day control of risk in their business area. – a code of business conduct, with procedures for reporting 
compliance therewith; and
There are established policies and procedures to enable the ARC 
– a defined operational framework and organisational structure 
and ultimately the Board, through its regular meetings, to monitor 
with appropriate delegation of authority and segregation of duties 
the effectiveness of the risk management and internal control 
and accountability, that have regard to acceptable levels of risk.
systems, which cover all principal identified internal and external 
strategic, operational, financial, compliance and other risks,  Processes
including the Group’s ability to comply with all applicable laws, 
– a planning framework that incorporates a Board approved 
regulations and clients’ requirements.
strategy, with objectives;
– the Financial Conduct Authority’s (FCA) Senior Managers and 
Certification Regime, which requires allocation of specific 
responsibilities to individuals and the documentation of this 
through a management responsibilities map and the job 
descriptions of the individuals;
Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021  37
RISK MANAGEMENT (CONTINUED)
– a risk appetite framework developed by engaging key  – the Operating Committee reviews the Group’s financial and 
stakeholders at the functional, business and executive levels of  operating performance to focus on delivery of the Group’s key 
the organisation and accordingly, the Group’s risk appetite  strategic objectives;
statement (and its associated components) is regularly reviewed  – detailed investment reports are prepared and discussed at each 
and updated in line with the evolving strategy, business model,  of the sub-committee meetings of the Group’s investment 
financial capacity, business opportunities, regulatory constraints  committees, which take place weekly, monthly or quarterly 
and other internal and external factors; depending on investment theme, with follow up actions agreed 
– a Risk and Compliance Committee, which as noted above is  and implemented within a strict operational framework;
responsible for internal control and for assessing the impact of  – the Group’s Pricing and Oversight Committee (POC) supervises 
Ashmore’s ongoing activities on the firm’s regulatory and  the effectiveness of pricing policies for all investments held in 
operational exposures;  Ashmore sponsored funds where a reliable pricing source is 
– a matrix of principal and emerging risks identifies key strategic  available. This includes the responsibility to ensure that 
and business, client, treasury, investment and operational risks,  appointed third-party pricing agents carry out the agreed pricing 
and considers the likelihood of those risks crystallising and the  policy faithfully and manage the pricing sources appropriately;
resultant impact. The inherent risk within each business activity  – the Group’s Pricing Methodology and Valuation Committee 
is identified, with the adequacy and mitigating effect of existing  (PMVC) has oversight of the valuation methodologies used for 
processes being assessed to determine a current residual risk  clients’ fund investments that cannot be readily externally priced. 
level for each such activity. On the basis that further mitigants  It meets monthly to review the current valuation methodology 
and/or controls may be employed over time, a target residual risk  for each of these investments and to propose an updated 
for each activity after one to two years is defined and progress to  valuation methodology where appropriate;
target is formally tracked as appropriate; – the Group Compliance function, whose responsibilities and 
– key risk indicator (KRI) statistics are reported to and analysed by  processes include: ensuring that the Group at all times meets its 
the RCC. The KRIs indicate trends in the Group’s risk profile,  regulatory obligations; integrated regulatory compliance 
assist in the reduction of errors and potential financial losses and  procedures and best practices within the Group; ongoing 
seek to prevent exposure by dealing with a potential risk  compliance monitoring programme covering all the relevant 
situation before an event occurs; areas of the Group’s operations; and identifying any breach of 
– an established Media and Reputation Management Policy  compliance with applicable financial services regulation, which 
focusing on understanding the information that is currently  includes real-time investment restrictions monitoring of client 
publicly available on the Group, the Board and its senior client  mandate requirements. Results of the compliance monitoring 
facing staff, especially that which could create negative  programme are reported to the RCC in support of the overall risk 
reputational issues; management and internal control framework;
– the Board reviews and approves an annual budget, which is  – financial controls to ensure accurate accounting for transactions, 
subject to update through a forecasting process; appropriate authorisation limits to contain exposures, and reliability 
of data processing and integrity of information generated;
Longer-term viability statement
In accordance with the provisions 30 and  of the principal risks are presented to the  to the COVID-19 pandemic such as 
31 of the UK Corporate Governance Code,  Group’s Audit and Risk Committee  prolonged remote working, and ineffective 
the Directors have assessed the current  quarterly. The Group’s Risk Appetite  third-party services. Consequently, the 
position and prospects of the Group over  Statement is considered as part of the  Board regularly assesses the amount of 
a three-year period to June 2024, which is  ICAAP and the Board receives regular  capital that the Group is required to hold 
consistent with the planning horizon under  management reporting against each risk  to cover its principal risks, including the 
the Group’s Internal Capital Adequacy  to allow it to assess the effectiveness of  amounts required under a range of 
Assessment Process (ICAAP). A robust  the controls in place.  adverse planning scenarios. 
assessment of the principal and emerging 
Regular information is reviewed by the  The Directors have a reasonable 
risks implicit in the business model has 
Board in respect of the risks, prospects  expectation that the Group will be able to 
been made, alongside the controls and 
and financial planning of the Group, which  continue in operation, meet its liabilities as 
mitigants in operation within the Group, 
includes a three-year detailed financial  they fall due and maintain sufficient 
and is presented in more detail on pages 
forecast alongside severe but plausible  regulatory capital over the next three 
39 to 41. Consideration of the risks arising 
scenario-based downside stress-testing.  years, as the Group is currently highly 
from the COVID-19 pandemic has been 
The stress tests include the impact of  profitable, generates healthy cash flow 
included within this assessment. 
negative investment performance, failure  and the strong and liquid balance sheet is 
The Group’s strategy and prospects are  to comply with regulations, breach of  sufficient to withstand the financial impact 
reviewed regularly by the Board and  client mandate guidelines or restrictions, a  of the range of adverse planning scenarios 
qualitative and quantitative assessments  substantial decline in AuM, factors relating  modelled as part of the ICAAP. 
38  Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021
S
T
R
A
T
E
G
IC
 R
E
P
O
R
– the Group’s Finance function is responsible for the preparation   – the external auditors are engaged to express an opinion   T
 
of the financial statements and is managed by appropriately  on the annual financial statements and the condensed set  
qualified accountants. Review is undertaken by numerous   of financial statements in the half-yearly financial report  
parties including the Executive Directors and includes challenge  and also to independently and objectively review the   G
O
by the Board. The Finance function works in conjunction with   approach of management to reporting operating results   V
the Group’s auditors and other external advisers to ensure  and financial resources; ER
N
compliance with applicable accounting and reporting standards,  – the Board, through the ARC, also receives half-yearly updates  A
prevailing regulations and industry best practice; from the Group’s external auditors, which include any control  NC
E
– Board members receive monthly management information  matters that have come to their attention; and  
including accounts and other relevant reports, which highlight  – the Internal Audit function undertakes a programme of reviews 
F
actual financial performance against budget/forecast and the  of systems, processes and procedures as agreed with the ARC,  IN
A
prior year period; reporting the results together with its advice and  N
C
– there are well-defined procedures and thresholds governing the  recommendations, and assisting in the presentation of its  IA
appraisal and approval of corporate investments, including seeding  findings to the ARC. L
 S
of funds and purchase of own shares, with detailed investment  T
Confirmation A
and divestment approval procedures, incorporating appropriate  T
E
levels of authority and regular post-investment reviews; Through the ARC, the Board has conducted an annual review and  M
assessment of the effectiveness of the risk management and  E
– oversight and management of the Group’s foreign currency cash  N
internal control systems, and has identified no significant failings or  T
flows and balance sheet exposures are the responsibility of the  S
weaknesses during this review. In conducting this review, the Board 
Foreign Exchange and Liquidity Management Committee, which 
and/or ARC has considered the periodic reports on compliance and 
determines the appropriate level of hedging, and ensures 
risk matters, including reports provided by the Internal Audit function, 
liquidity requirements are met;
and the annual report on risk management and internal control 
– the Group has secure information and communication systems 
processes from the Group’s RCC. These reports were received 
capable of capturing relevant and up to date information by 
throughout the year up to the latest practicable date prior to the 
relevant personnel, with oversight and direction provided by the 
approval of the Annual Report and Accounts. The Board is satisfied 
Group’s IT Steering Group, which implements the IT strategy, 
that appropriate planned actions continue to be effective in 
and establishment and oversight of all IT projects;
improving controls as the Group develops, and its overall 
– the Product Committee has responsibility for the development of 
assessment of the control framework continues to be satisfactory.
new products, the consideration of material changes to existing 
funds, and the restructuring and closure of funds and products,  Ashmore has equity interests in certain entities that operate risk 
which forms an important part of the Group’s business in  management and internal control systems that are not dealt with 
responding to clients’ needs, changes in the financial markets  as part of the Group for the purposes of this statement. These are:
and treating customers fairly; – Taiping Fund Management Company;
– the ESG Committee has oversight of Ashmore’s responsible  – VTB-Ashmore Capital Holdings Limited;
investing framework and focuses on the implementation of all  – AA Development Capital Investment Managers (Mauritius) LLC;
elements of this framework across Ashmore’s corporate 
– Actual Holding Corp SA; and
strategy and investment management activity;
– PT Buka Investasi Bersama.
– the Global Investment Performance Standards (GIPS) Committee 
acts as the primary decision making body within the Group in  For these entities, the Group has in place appropriate 
relation to any changes to the existing set of composites, and  oversight arrangements.
approving the creation of new composites; and Principal and emerging risks, controls and mitigants
– the Research Oversight Committee (ROC) addresses 
Ashmore considers a number of risks and has described in the 
governance, oversight and ongoing reviews of third-party 
table on pages 40 to 41 those that it has assessed as being most 
research procured by Ashmore.
significant in this period, together with examples of associated 
Verification controls and mitigants. Reputational and conduct risks are common 
to most aspects of the strategy and business model.
– Internal Audit has ongoing responsibility for reviewing the 
assurance map and providing an independent assessment of  The Group considers the assessment and management of 
assurance on an annual basis. The assurance map documents  emerging risks alongside principal risks within its internal control 
the interaction from a Group perspective of the first, second and  framework, examples of which are:
third lines of defence with regard to the controls and mitigants of 
– the impact of passive funds on the asset management industry;
those principal risks assessed as high risk;
– global political uncertainty;
– annual control reports are reviewed independently by the 
– high level of new regulatory obligations for the industry;
Group’s external auditors pursuant to the International Standards 
– ESG focus on social matters including diversity and inclusion; and
on Assurance Engagements 3402 (ISAE 3402);
– the transition from an extended period of remote working back 
to an office-based business model.
Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021  39
RISK MANAGEMENT (CONTINUED)
Principal risks and associated controls and mitigants
Description of principal risks Examples of associated controls and mitigants
Strategic and business risks (Responsibility: Ashmore Group plc Board)
– Long-term downturn in Emerging Markets  – Group strategy is reviewed and approved by a Board with relevant industry experience
fundamentals/technicals/sentiment, and impact  – Diversification of investment capabilities and products
of broader industry changes – Ashmore has a strong balance sheet with no debt
– The Board reviews diversity data on an annual basis
– Market capacity issues and increased  – Experienced Emerging Markets investment professionals, with deep market 
competition constrain growth knowledge, participate in investment committees
– Periodic investment theme capacity reviews
– Barriers to entry remain high, e.g. demonstration of long-term investment 
track record
– Failure to understand and plan for the potential  – Oversight by ESG Committee, which has overall responsibility for Ashmore’s 
impact of investor sentiment and regulatory  sustainability and responsible investing framework across its corporate and 
changes relating to sustainability and  investment activities
climate change  – Head of Sustainability and ESG Integration provides updates to the Board
– Dedicated ESG funds 
– Sustainability risks, including those relating to  – ESG Committee has oversight of risks, and Head of Sustainability and ESG 
climate, have implications for individuals,  Integration updates the Board regularly
businesses and investors – Dedicated ESG funds with minimum scoring thresholds
Client risks (Responsibility: Product Committee and Group Risk and Compliance Committee)
– Inappropriate marketing strategy and/or  – Frequent and regular Product Committee meetings review product suitability 
ineffective management of existing and  and appropriateness
potential fund investors and distributors,  – Experienced distribution team with appropriate geographic coverage
including impact of net outflows and fee  – Investor education to ensure understanding of Ashmore investment themes 
margin pressure and products
– Inadequate client oversight including alignment  – Monitoring of client-related issues including a formal complaints handling process
of interests – Compliance and legal oversight to ensure clear and fair terms of business and 
disclosures, and appropriate client communications and financial promotions
– Global distribution team appropriately structured for institutional and intermediary 
retail clients
Treasury risks (Responsibility: Chief Executive Officer and Group Finance Director)
– Inaccurate financial projections and hedging of  – Defined risk appetite, and risk appetite measures updated quarterly
future cash flows and balance sheet – Group foreign exchange (FX) hedging policy and FX and Liquidity 
Management Committee
Investment risks (Responsibility: Group Investment Committees)
– Downturn in long-term performance – Consistent investment philosophy over more than 28 years and numerous 
market cycles, with dedicated Emerging Markets focus including country visits 
and network of local offices
– Manager non-performance including i) ineffective  – Funds in the same investment theme are managed by consistent investment 
ESG integration and similar portfolios being  management teams, and allocations approved by investment committees
managed inconsistently; and ii) neglect of duty,  – Comprehensive policies in place to cover, for example, conflicts,  
market abuse best execution, market abuse and client order handling
– Tools to manage liquidity issues as a result of redemptions including restrictions 
on illiquid exposures and ability to use in specie redemptions
– Insufficient number of trading counterparties – Group Trading counterparty policy and sufficient counterparties to provide access 
to liquidity. Extensive trading relationships developed over the firm’s history of 
focusing on Emerging Markets investing
40  Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021
S
T
R
A
T
E
G
IC
 R
E
P
O
R
T
Description of principal risks Examples of associated controls and mitigants  
Operational risks (Responsibility: Group Risk and Compliance Committee)
G
– Inadequate security of information including cyber security  – Information security and data protection policies, subject to annual  O
V
and data protection review including cyber security review E
R
N
– Inadequate business continuity planning (BCP) – Established BCP process with periodic updates to Group RCC A
N
C
– Inaccurate or invalid data including manual processes/reporting – Dedicated teams responsible for Transaction Processing,  E
 
Fund Administration, and Pricing and Data Management
– Pricing Oversight and Pricing Methodology and Valuation  FIN
Committees, with PMVC valuations subject to external audit A
N
– Annual ISAE 3402 process and report C
IA
– Failure of IT infrastructure, including inability to support  – Appropriate IT policies with annual review cycle L S
business growth – IT systems and environmental monitoring T
A
– Group IT platform incorporates local offices T
E
M
– Legal action, fraud or breach of contract perpetrated against  – Independent Internal Audit function that considers risk of fraud in  E
N
the Group, its funds or investments each audit T
S
– Financial crime policy covering the Group and its service providers
– Whistleblowing policy including independent reporting line, 
and Board sponsor (the Senior Independent Director and 
ARC Chairman)
– Due diligence on all new, and regular reviews of existing, 
service providers
– Insurance policies with appropriate cover to ensure appropriate 
client litigation cover
– Insufficient resources, including loss of key staff, inability to  – Committee-based investment management reduces key man risk
attract staff, and an extended period of remote working,  – Appropriate Remuneration Policy with emphasis on performance-
which hampers growth or the Group’s ability to execute  related pay and long-dated deferral of equity awards
its strategy – Regular reviews of resource requirements and updates provided to 
the Board
– Annual Culture and Conduct report to the Board
– Lack of understanding and compliance with global and local  – Regulatory Development Working Group and compliance monitoring 
regulatory requirements, as well as conflicts of interest and  programme, which covers financial crime risks such as money 
not treating customers fairly, and financial crime, which  laundering and bribery
includes money laundering, bribery and corruption, leading to  – Compliance policies covering global and local offices, for example 
high level publicity or regulatory sanction global conflicts of interest and inducements policies
– Conduct risk and organisational culture indicators are considered  
on a monthly basis by the Group RCC and on an annual basis  
by the Board
– Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process (ICAAP) with 
ongoing engagement with the Board
– Mandatory compliance training for all employees
– Inadequate tax oversight or advice – Dedicated in-house tax specialist and Group Tax policy covering all 
Group entities with external advice sought as appropriate
– Inadequate oversight of Ashmore overseas offices – Group Finance Director has oversight responsibility for overseas 
offices, and RCC has oversight of the operating model with annual 
reviews. Senior staff take local board/advisory positions
– Dual reporting lines into local management and Group department 
heads, with adherence to Group policies
– Local RCCs held and Group RCC receives updates
– Internal Audit reviews, and annual governance reviews reported 
to RCC
Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021  41
SECTION 172 STATEMENT
STAKEHOLDER 
ENGAGEMENT ALIGNED TO  
ASHMORE’S PURPOSE
Engaging with shareholders
Section 172(1) Statement and Statement  
Key factors
of Engagement with Employees and  
The support of Ashmore’s shareholders, with an appropriately 
Other Stakeholders
long-term investment horizon, is important to enable Ashmore to 
In accordance with the Companies Act 2006 (the Act)  fulfil its strategic growth ambitions.
(as amended by the Companies (Miscellaneous Reporting) 
What did we consider?
Regulations 2018), the Directors provide this statement 
describing how they have had regard to the matters set out  Shareholder engagement addressed important areas including 
in section 172(1) of the Act, when performing their duty to  Directors’ remuneration and shareholder votes against the 
promote the success of the Company. Further details on  Remuneration policy (see page 69). 
key actions in this regard are also contained within the  The Company reviewed the list of shareholders with unclaimed 
Corporate governance report on pages 69 to 82 and the  dividends and considered the method for delivering shareholder 
Directors’ report on pages 117 to 123. In accordance with  communications. 
the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups 
How did we engage?
(Accounts and Reports) Regulations 2008 (as amended by 
the Companies (Miscellaneous Reporting) Regulations 2018)  Investor relations activity continued during the working from home 
the sections below describe how the Directors have  environment and involved Executive and Non-executive Directors. 
engaged (both directly and indirectly) with, and had regard to  An Emerging Markets briefing was also provided by Ashmore’s 
the interests of, key stakeholders. Head of Research and Deputy Head of Research. 
Ashmore seeks to build direct relationships with shareholders and 
potential investors by managing the majority of roadshows and 
Engaging with clients
other interactions in-house.
Key factors
The Company has undertaken a process to locate shareholders 
Delivering long-term investment performance for a diversified client 
who have failed to cash their dividends and repatriate the funds 
base is critical to Ashmore’s success as a specialist asset manager.
to them. 
What did we consider?
Ashmore also sent a letter requesting shareholders consent to 
Ashmore engages in frequent and regular contact with institutional  electronic communications, in particular the delivery of annual 
and intermediary clients, including through the use of research and  reports and AGM notices. 
thought-leadership pieces.
What were the outcomes?
The Board considered the need for heightened activity in response 
Ashmore has a stable, primarily institutional, shareholder base that 
to the global markets shock arising from the COVID-19 pandemic. 
understands the Group’s long-term strategy and business model.
Intermediary retail clients were expected to be more sensitive to 
market conditions. In response to shareholder feedback, enhanced disclosure was 
provided in relation to remuneration philosophy and its links to 
How did we engage?
longer-term strategy and Ashmore’s culture. 
Ashmore’s distribution teams have developed direct, long-term 
There is a comprehensive shareholder and target investor 
relationships with institutional and intermediary clients and there is 
engagement programme, with more than 220 investor  
ongoing engagement. 
meetings held during the year (see page 43 for the  
Clients receive frequent and regular reports on investment  Investor relations calendar).
performance and portfolio positioning.
The Company has reduced the number of shareholders with 
What were the outcomes? unclaimed dividends and repatriated the funds to them.
Diversification and long-standing relationships (for institutional  The Company will be able to make use of electronic 
clients, more than eight years on average) ensures a balanced  communications for the delivery of annual reports  
response to market conditions. and AGM notices.
Institutional flows continued to be biased towards existing clients 
who increased their Emerging Markets allocations, consistent with 
Phase 1 of Ashmore’s strategy.
42  Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021
S
T
R
A
T
E
G
IC
 R
E
P
O
R
Engaging with employees T
 
Investor relations calendar Key factors
Ashmore considers its 310 employees to be an 
G
important asset and the Group’s priority is to attract,  O
July V
Q1 develop and retain employees in order to deliver the  E
– AuM statement Group’s potential whilst taking into account the best  RN
A
September interests of its employees. N
C
E
– Full year results and annual report published What did we consider?  
– Investor roadshow The Board discussed workforce engagement,   F
– Barclays Global Financial Services conference including with the Non-executive Director responsible  IN
A
– BAML Financials conference for workforce engagement, given the constraints of   N
C
the COVID-19 pandemic and the working from home  IA
Q2 October environment. The Board considered the timing for  L S
– AuM statement resuming teams of employees meeting the Board in   T
A
– Corporate governance roadshow a two-way, informal discussion and agreed these  T
E
– Annual General Meeting sessions will resume as soon as the working  M
E
environment is normalised. N
November T
S
As the COVID-19 pandemic continued to spread 
– CEO investor roadshow
globally, the Board monitored and supported the 
– UBS Pan European conference
ongoing implementation of the Group’s Business 
December Continuity Plan (BCP) and the interests of its 
employees in the remote working environment.
– Numis North America conference
– Berenberg European conference How did we engage?
– FRC Risk reporting project Ashmore has a strong culture, supported by a lean 
January organisational structure, a distinctive remuneration 
Q3
philosophy and a clear ‘tone from the top’.
– AuM statement
The Board has met teams of employees on a rotational 
– Peel Hunt ESG conference
basis at every Board meeting and plans to continue this 
– Investor targeting review
process following the return to the office. The CEO has 
February continued to provide regular briefings to all employees 
– Interim results and report published including via global video conferences and a quarterly 
newsletter during the COVID-19 pandemic.
– Investor roadshow
The Board reviews a ‘culture dashboard’ annually,  
March
with input from the Group Heads of Human Resources 
– Morgan Stanley European Financials conference
and Compliance.
– Berenberg UK conference
What were the outcomes?
Q4 April
The Board has appointed one of its Non-executive 
– AuM statement Directors as the Director responsible for 
– Annual UNPRI submission workforce engagement.
– UK investor roadshow
During the COVID-19 pandemic the Group’s BCP  
– US investor roadshow was successfully implemented, supported by 
May Ashmore’s team-based culture and its employees’ 
continuing focus on delivering value to clients and 
– Emerging Markets briefings for shareholders and  
other stakeholders.
sell-side analysts with Head of Research and Deputy Head 
of Research
– Goldman Sachs European Small & Midcap conference
– UBS European Small & Midcap conference
– Citi Diversified Financials roadshow
June
– Goldman Sachs European Financials conference
– FRC Risk reporting project
Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021  43
SECTION 172 STATEMENT (CONTINUED)
STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT ALIGNED TO ASHMORE’S PURPOSE (CONTINUED)
Engaging with society Engaging with regulators
Key factors Key factors
Ashmore recognises the impact its activities may have on wider  Ashmore’s business comprises global operating hubs and 
society, and takes this responsibility seriously. independent local asset management platforms, operating in a 
number of different regulatory jurisdictions.
What did we consider?
What did we consider?
Ashmore considered the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on 
fellow citizens, the need to reduce the spread of infection globally  Consistent with the majority of the industry, different areas of 
and how it could provide assistance to support the community.  Ashmore’s business were impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic.
The Head of Sustainability and ESG Integration has responsibility  Ashmore engaged regularly with its regulators on a variety of topics 
for oversight and coordination of all ESG activities across the Group. across all business areas to support its high standards of business 
conduct (see case study discussion on page 45). 
There were initiatives to mitigate the Group’s CO emissions and 
2
the environmental benefits stemming from this, and the Group  How did we engage?
considered how to strengthen this in the coming financial year.
The Group regularly provides feedback on regulatory discussion 
How did we engage? and consultation papers where the business believes it is able to 
contribute to relevant regulatory initiatives.
The Ashmore Foundation engages with stakeholders in an effort  
to make a positive and sustainable difference to disadvantaged  The Group’s Regulatory Development Working Group ensures the 
communities in the Emerging Markets in which Ashmore operates  business is kept abreast of the implications of developing and 
and invests. impending regulation and will engage with regulators if needed 
or requested.
Ashmore is a signatory to the UNPRI and UN Global Compact  
and supports the Sustainable Development Goals agenda.  What were the outcomes?
During the year, Ashmore became a signatory to the Net Zero 
Ashmore values its relationships with all regulatory bodies  
Asset Managers Initiative and Climate Action 100+, and is  
and favours positive engagements when such opportunities 
actively collaborating with other investors on engagements  
are presented.
relating to climate issues. Ashmore is also a constituent of the 
FTSE4Good index. As at 30 June 2021 no enforcement actions were in progress against 
Ashmore entities by any financial services regulators globally.
Ashmore engages with its suppliers to foster its relationships,  
and pursuant to the Modern Slavery Act 2015 the Board approves  
a Slavery and Human Trafficking Statement each year.
What were the outcomes?
The Ashmore Foundation made specific grants to assist 
organisations in Emerging Markets in relation to the 
COVID-19 pandemic.
The Board approved a policy to donate 0.5% of profit before tax 
excluding unrealised seed capital gains to charitable causes.
Ashmore enhanced its dedicated ESG capabilities with the launch 
of two further ESG strategies, in external debt and corporate debt, 
and an ESG segregated account, alongside the existing blended 
debt and equity strategies.
Ashmore furthered its preparations in relation to the Task Force on 
Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) in line with industry 
practice and requirements and further information is included 
on page 46. 
The Group continued its innovative approach to mitigating carbon 
through The Ashmore Foundation, with the objectives of 
supporting societal development in Emerging Markets, and agreed 
to fully offset the Group’s CO emissions for FY2021/22.
2
44  Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021
S
T
R
A
T
E
G
IC
 R
E
P
O
R
Engaging with third-party service providers What were the outcomes? T
 
Key factors The Group benefits from a stable supplier base globally with 
mutually beneficial relationships. 
The efficiency and scalability of Ashmore’s operating platform 
G
relies in part on high-quality third-party service providers. The quality and strength of Ashmore’s third-party supplier  O
V
relationships was illustrated by the uninterruption of normal service  E
What did we consider? R
through the continuation of remote working as a consequence of  N
The Group’s main supplier relationships were substantially  the COVID-19 pandemic. AN
unchanged during the year. C
E
 
How did we engage?
F
Ashmore maintained regular contact with all key suppliers  IN
A
throughout the COVID-19 pandemic to support its relationships and  N
ensure that the vendors were able to maintain ‘business as usual’  CIA
in line with the agreed service standards and offering. L
 S
Ashmore conducted due diligence on all new third-party service  TA
T
providers, and reviewed its relationships with existing providers. E
M
The Group’s Supplier Code of Conduct outlines the minimum  E
N
ethical standards that must be met in order to do business with  T
S
the Group.
Section 172 Case study The FRC did not have any questions or queries that they wished 
to raise with the Company but did make suggestions where they 
During the year the Group experienced a higher level of 
considered users of the accounts could benefit from added 
regulatory interaction than in previous years. 
disclosures (see page 78).
What did we decide to do?
What were the outcomes?
At Ashmore’s head office, a regular programme of discussions 
Ashmore’s head office provided information to the regulator  
took place which examined the operational resilience of the 
on key areas including Ashmore’s investment management 
business in light of developments such as invoking the business 
operations and risk management processes given the 
continuity plan and staff working from home. The Board 
extraordinary levels of market volatility at times, management  
understood that there was a need to keep regulators fully 
of client relationships, client investment activity, flows and 
appraised of governance and operational matters of importance, 
redemptions, and the firm’s financial resilience. Ashmore’s 
which supports the Company’s reputation for high standards of 
international offices engaged with local regulatory authorities in 
business conduct. This process has continued in 2021 as our 
varying levels of details on similar topics.
regulators required.
Ashmore benchmarked its operations and practices to the 
Who did we engage with?
priorities and expectations of regulatory authorities in abnormal 
Ashmore engaged with regulators in a number of jurisdictions, 
market conditions, whilst also ensuring that its actions were 
including regulators with whom long term relationships were 
taking into account the likely long-term consequences of its 
already well established and newer regulatory relationships in 
response during the COVID-19 pandemic. The Group’s 
Colombia and Ireland.
governance and oversight procedures ensured that the effective 
During the year the Financial Reporting Council (FRC) (which  operation of internal controls was kept under review.
regulates auditors, accountants and actuaries, and sets the UK’s 
Ashmore’s cash management practices, including stress testing, 
Corporate Governance and Stewardship Codes) conducted a 
appeared consistent with regulatory objectives for resilience in the 
review of Ashmore’s 2020 accounts and the Company engaged 
event of market disruption. Overall, the Board considers that the 
with the FRC on their views.
Group successfully met the main regulatory challenges presented 
How did we take account of their views? by an unexpected and extreme test of market conditions which 
was in the interests of the Company’s stakeholders.
Across the Group, a number of regulatory surveys and 
questionnaires were completed at regulators’ requests in  The Audit and Risk Committee discussed the FRC suggestions for 
addition to the discussions held, which helped to strengthen  improved disclosure and the Company has taken the suggestions 
the relationships. into account in the preparation of the FY2020/21 accounts.
Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021  45
TASK FORCE ON CLIMATE-RELATED FINANCIAL DISCLOSURES
CLIMATE RISKS  
& OPPORTUNITIES
Ashmore supports the aims of the Financial Stability Board’s Task Force on 
Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) to provide stakeholders with 
consistent and reliable information relating to climate change and its effects, 
and considers climate-related risks and opportunities as they relate to both 
the Group’s operations and its investment activities.
Progress in FY2020/21
ESG scoring and integration has  Client reporting includes carbon  Ashmore became a signatory to 
been extended to all investment  intensity metrics for selected  the Net Zero Asset Managers 
processes, and therefore covers  instruments where the data is  Initiative. It also joined the Climate 
Ashmore’s full range of Emerging  available, and Ashmore continues  Action 100+ initiative, through 
Markets investment themes and  to work with industry bodies as well  which it is participating in a 
its network of global and local  as issuers to enhance the availability  collaborative engagement with an 
investment platforms. of data and related disclosures. Emerging Markets issuer.
The Ashmore Group plc Board  Ashmore implemented the 
approved a carbon offsetting  requirements of the EU 
initiative, which, through The  Sustainable Finance Disclosure 
Ashmore Foundation, will seek to  Regulation (SFDR), including 
offset fully the Group’s emissions  revising the remuneration policy  
by supporting projects in  of its Dublin-based management 
developing countries with  company to incorporate  
environmental and social benefits. climate-related factors.
Given this progress, Ashmore is on track to comply with  The following pages present Ashmore’s disclosures in 
the FCA’s requirements for premium-listed companies to  relation to the TCFD framework. For clarity, the disclosures 
comply with the TCFD recommendations in 2022.  are split between the firm’s own activities (‘operational’) and 
its investment activities on behalf of its clients (‘investment’).
Separately, the FCA is consulting on climate-related 
disclosures for asset management firms, with a proposed 
implementation date in 2023. 
46  Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021
S
T
R
A
T
E
G
IC
 R
E
P
O
R
1. Governance The ESG Committee is kept informed of climate-related  T
 
issues and the Head of Sustainability and ESG 
Operational
Integration, or a delegate, updates the Board at least 
The Board has ultimate responsibility for the Group’s 
annually. Additionally, ESG Committee members  G
strategy and through its corporate governance  O
provide the Board, its Audit and Risk Committee,   V
framework (see page 74) it aims to maintain full and  and the Group’s Risk and Compliance Committee   ER
effective control over appropriate strategic, financial,  N
with multiple points of contact throughout the year.  A
operational and compliance requirements. This includes  The processes described in the Risk management  N
C
material climate-related issues, although it is important  section (see pages 36 to 41) incorporate senior  E 
to note that operational climate risk is not particularly 
management’s assessment and management of 
material to an asset management business and  F
climate-related risks faced by the firm. IN
primarily relates to the firm’s greenhouse gas  A
Furthermore, the Board undertakes an annual review   N
emissions arising from travel and office use. C
of Group strategy, which includes a discussion of  IA
The Board has delegated authority to the executive  sustainability matters. For example, in 2020 the ESG  L S
management who in turn have formed a number of  Committee agreed that Ashmore should publicly  T
A
specialised committees with terms of reference to  support the TCFD and the Board consequently  T
E
carry out the functions delegated to them. One such  discussed the required disclosures in the context of an  M
specialised committee is the ESG Committee, which is  independent review by third parties of Ashmore’s ESG  EN
chaired by the Group Chief Executive Officer and has  disclosures, the implications of climate risks and  TS
representatives from across Ashmore’s investment, 
opportunities for the Group’s strategy and business 
distribution, risk, legal, operations and other support 
model, and the interaction with other industry initiatives 
functions, to ensure that sustainability topics are 
and regulatory requirements. 
appropriately understood and discussed by all relevant 
areas of the firm.  Investment
Ashmore’s investment committees are ultimately 
responsible for the management of client portfolios. 
With the oversight of these committees, the Group  
has integrated the assessment of ESG risks and 
opportunities, including those relating to climate,  
into all of its investment processes, including both 
global and local investment platforms and all 
investment themes.
Overseeing climate-related issues
PLC BOARD OF 
DIRECTORS
PLC EXECUTIVE 
DIRECTORS
PLC AUDIT AND  
ESG COMMITTEE
RISK COMMITTEE
Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021  47
TASK FORCE ON CLIMATE-RELATED FINANCIAL DISCLOSURES (CONTINUED)
2. Strategy The Group will make an annual contribution to 
The Ashmore Foundation representing the value of the 
As the regulatory environment evolves, Ashmore will 
publicly-disclosed emissions for the prior financial year, 
seek to adhere to the TCFD’s principles and to satisfy 
using a market-derived carbon price. The Ashmore 
the requirements of its regulators and other relevant 
Foundation will then identify and research environmental 
bodies as they relate to the assessment, management 
project(s) that offer natural or synthetic climate 
and disclosure of climate-related risks and opportunities. 
solutions to offset fully Ashmore’s emissions, based on 
For example, Ashmore continues to examine ways in 
conservation, restoration, improved land management 
which climate-related scenario analysis can be used to 
or similar approaches. In this manner, the Group will 
augment the Board’s review and challenge of the 
not only offset its emissions and achieve net zero 
Group’s strategy.
status, but will also enable The Ashmore Foundation  
Operational to contribute meaningfully to environmental and social 
Ashmore has limited direct exposure to material  projects in the developing countries in which Ashmore 
operational climate-related risks. Its GHG emissions  invests and operates.
primarily relate to air travel and its offices and are 
Investment
relatively low given the asset management business 
The Group currently provides carbon intensity metrics 
model. The Board maintains oversight of the level of 
for selected fund holdings where the data is available 
business travel and any changes in office network 
and Ashmore continues to work with industry bodies 
through the annual budget process and regular reporting 
as well as with sovereign and corporate issuers to 
of financial and other management information. 
enhance carbon metrics and related disclosures. 
That notwithstanding, it is important that Ashmore 
plays its part and contributes to worldwide climate  Ashmore’s investment teams engage with sovereign 
initiatives including the Paris Agreement. As described  and corporate issuers on a range of topics, both directly 
below, this objective is supported by several initiatives  and in collaboration with other stakeholders. For example, 
including carbon offsetting and membership of   disclosure of climate-related data is one such topic 
industry bodies such as the Net Zero Asset Managers  given carbon emissions by Emerging Markets 
Initiative (NZAMI). sovereign and corporate issuers is an evolving area.
Beyond the temporary reduction achieved as a result   During the year, Ashmore became a signatory to the 
of remote working and travel restrictions during the  Climate Action 100+ initiative and began participating  
COVID-19 pandemic, the ability to reduce the Group’s  in its first collaborative engagement. It also joined the 
gross emissions is limited given available technology  Net Zero Asset Managers Initiative and intends to 
and the fact that Ashmore leases its offices and in  publish its interim target during the course of the 
many instances is allocated a share of total building  2021/22 financial year. Ashmore also published its 
emissions based on footprint. However, Ashmore  ‘Seven policy proposals to meet the Paris Agreement 
intends to achieve net zero status for its operational  objectives’ paper, which explicitly considers the differences 
emissions through a thoughtful, socially responsible  between emerging and developed economies.
and measurable approach to carbon offsetting achieved 
via The Ashmore Foundation.
Ashmore’s commitment to the Net Zero Asset Manager Initiative (NZAMI)
This year, Ashmore became a signatory to the Net  Since its launch in December 2020, NZAMI has 
Zero Asset Managers Initiative, an international  gathered 128 signatories which represent 
group of asset managers committed to supporting  US$43 trillion in assets under management.
the goal of net zero greenhouse gas emissions by 
2050 or sooner; and to supporting investing aligned 
with net zero emissions by 2050.
48  Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021
S
T
R
A
T
E
G
IC
 R
E
P
O
R
3. Risks and opportunities 4. Metrics and targets T
 
The ESG Committee receives frequent and regular  Operational
updates on legal and regulatory developments relating 
As required by the Companies Act, Ashmore reports 
to sustainability issues including climate risk, and  G
annually on its GHG emissions. The latest disclosures  O
covering both operational and investment activities.  V
can be found in the Directors’ report on page 117. E
This enables the Committee to address actual or  R
N
potential risks and also to consider opportunities,  As described above, the Group’s GHG emissions are  A
N
whether from an investment, marketing or  relatively modest and while its ability to reduce its  C
E
operational viewpoint. gross GHG emissions is limited, where possible   
Ashmore will seek to ensure that landlords contribute 
Operational to improved GHG performance over time, for example  FIN
Ashmore’s internal control framework, described in  by planning to increase the use of renewable energy  A
N
detail on pages 36 to 41, provides an ongoing process  sources, undertaking sustainable recycling programmes,  C
IA
for identifying, evaluating and managing the Group’s  and obtaining certificates that demonstrate the delivery  L
 S
emerging and principal risks. The principal risk framework  of meaningful sustainability initiatives. T
A
includes climate risk and identifies associated controls  Ashmore will achieve net zero carbon status in respect  TE
and mitigants and is subject to regular review by the  M
of its operational emissions, and will do so in a 
Board’s Audit and Risk Committee. thoughtful and socially responsible manner through  EN
T
Investment The Ashmore Foundation. This year, the Board approved  S
an annual contribution to charitable causes of 0.5% of 
The consideration of ESG factors, including climate 
the Group’s profit before tax excluding unrealised seed 
risks, is integrated into all of Ashmore’s investment 
capital gains, a proportion of which will be granted to 
processes covering the fixed income, equities and 
projects in the Emerging Markets that will deliver a 
alternatives asset classes. Importantly, the Group does 
measurable offset to the Group’s reported emissions. 
not consider ESG risks and opportunities in a silo, 
rather the investment committee in each asset class  During the year, Ashmore implemented the 
oversees ESG analysis in a cohesive manner alongside  requirements of the Sustainable Finance Disclosure 
fundamental macro-economic, financial performance  Regulation (SFDR) as it applies to funds managed by 
and credit analysis for sovereign and corporate issuers.  the Group’s subsidiary based in Dublin. Specifically,  
The analysis is based primarily on proprietary research,  in relation to Article 5 of SFDR, the Dublin management 
including engagement with issuers to identify potential  company has updated its remuneration policy to 
investment opportunities. Additionally, the investment  incorporate the consideration of sustainability risks into 
committees use third-party data to assist in the ESG  its remuneration process, a summary of which is 
scoring process. available on the Ashmore website. 
Ashmore’s commitment to engaging with industry bodies  Investment
and Emerging Markets issuers on climate-related 
Ashmore expects its analysis and reporting of  
topics in order to identify and manage risks and 
climate-related risks and opportunities and associated 
opportunities is also reflected in its joining the  
metrics and targets for portfolio investments will 
Climate Action 100+ initiative and NZAMI.
evolve, particularly as Emerging Markets issuers 
increasingly adopt measures such as the TCFD 
recommendations. For example, reporting the carbon 
intensity of portfolios and benchmark indices for 
selected funds is now available and the Group 
continues to engage with third parties and issuers  
to broaden coverage.
By becoming a signatory to NZAMI, Ashmore has 
committed to publish an interim target during 2022, 
and can collaborate with other signatories, particularly 
those with an Emerging Markets focus, to develop an 
appropriate approach to contributing to the 
achievement of net zero by 2050.
The implementation of SFDR requirements as well as 
carbon reporting for selected portfolios during the year 
also represent material developments towards 
establishing further metrics and targets and, more 
generally, the Group will also continue to work closely 
with industry bodies and issuers to help those parties 
to address broader data requirements.
Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021  49
 
DG Ashmore is a premium-listed UK company and has nearly three 
decades’ experience of specialist investing in Emerging Markets, 
where 80% of the world’s population lives. Ashmore recognises the 
E impact it can have when investing its clients’ capital and therefore 
S
has a comprehensive approach to understanding and managing 
ESG risks and opportunities. 
T
E
S Governance Establishing dedicated ESG 
  The Board has overall responsibility for  track records
N Ashmore’s approach to ESG, and delegates this  Ashmore’s broad or unconstrained strategies 
E on a day-to-day basis to the ESG Committee,  take ESG factors into consideration when 
which is chaired by the CEO and has broad  assessing fair value for a security, but over the 
representation from across the firm. This ensures  past two years it has also launched a range of 
that ESG considerations are addressed efficiently  four dedicated ESG strategies in the external 
VI
and consistently. debt, corporate debt, blended debt and equities 
themes. These have minimum ESG score 
ESG integration
thresholds for securities to be included in 
N Ashmore has always recognised the importance  portfolios. Additionally, institutional mandates 
of ESG factors when investing in Emerging  may specify exclusions or other ESG guidelines.
Markets and the potential sources of alpha they 
Therefore Ashmore can address the full range of 
can provide. This is formally reflected in the 
I potential demand for ESG strategies, from those 
integration of ESG factors into all of Ashmore’s 
clients that have investment performance as the 
investment processes across the fixed income, 
primary objective, but knowing that it has been 
equity and alternatives asset classes.
delivered ’with a purpose’, to those that may be 
Importantly, responsibility for ESG analysis is  willing to forgo some element of financial return 
retained within the investment teams, so fund  in order to ensure that the portfolio has 
managers have a comprehensive and consistent  prescribed E, S or G characteristics.
view of an issuer from a macro-economic and 
financial performance perspective, and from an 
ESG perspective. Ashmore’s ESG analysis is 
primarily proprietary in nature, but supported by 
the use of third-party data. 
Active management & responsible investment  100%
In order to effect positive change over time,  Consistent with its active management 
Ashmore actively engages with sovereign  approach, Ashmore aims to vote all proxies 
and corporate issuers on a wide range of  presented for its equity investments.  of Ashmore’s AuM is managed  
ESG topics. By integrating ESG factors into  In FY2020/21, Ashmore cast votes at   with ESG factors integrated into the 
all its investment processes, and making  421 meetings and either voted against,  investment process
fund managers responsible for ESG analysis  abstained or withheld votes for 19% of 
278
alongside macro-economic, financial  Board resolutions.
performance and credit analysis, Ashmore 
An active approach to responsible investing 
forms a single comprehensive view of an 
helps deliver positive outcomes, rewarding 
issuer that provides for an efficient and 
issuers with a lower cost of capital and  separate issuer engagements on 
effective engagement process.
access to a broader range of investors.  ESG matters in FY2020/21
Ashmore recognises the increasing 
importance of ESG topics to asset owners 
and investors, and participates in a number 
of initiatives to promote collaborative issuer 
engagement, such as UNPRI and Climate 
Action 100+.
50  Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021
SUSTAINABILITY S
T
R
A
T
SUSTAINABILITY  E
G
IC
 R
E
P
O
R
CRITICAL TO SUCCESS  T
 
G
O
V
E
R
N
A
As an Emerging Markets focused investment manager,   N
C
Ashmore’s success has always been dependent on understanding  E 
sustainability in the markets in which it operates and invests. 
F
IN
A
N
C
IA
L
Ashmore recognises the role it plays in the deployment  – Inequality and wealth disparity can present   S
T
of its clients’ capital and the impact this can have on  significant challenges, and the social investments  A
T
sustainability of the environment and broader society.  made by The Ashmore Foundation empower  E
M
As such, the Group has integrated sustainability and  communities at the extreme end of these disparities. E
N
the understanding and consideration of environmental,  Ashmore’s broad and encompassing approach to  T
S
social and governance (ESG) factors across its 
sustainability is centred on three pillars, shown below, 
operations, with oversight by the Head of Sustainability 
covering the breadth of its corporate operations, 
and ESG Integration and Board accountability ensured 
investment activities, and the social impact investing 
through the Group’s specialised ESG Committee which 
by The Ashmore Foundation. These pillars are not 
has overall responsibility for Ashmore’s sustainability 
mutually exclusive and they provide a framework to 
and responsible investing framework across its 
enable Ashmore to define and pursue its sustainability 
operational and investment activities. 
objectives. The following pages describe in more detail 
Ashmore’s responsibility to ensure sustainability  some of the factors relevant to each pillar.
extends to all its stakeholders and includes managing 
Ashmore’s commitment to ensuring sustainability in its 
its operations in ways that effectively ensure the health 
activities extends to support for and membership of 
and well-being of its employees and its distinctive 
global and industry-specific initiatives, such as the UN 
culture means that Ashmore ensures that its 
Principles for Responsible Investment, the UN Global 
employees work in a constructive environment, 
Compact, the TCFD recommendations, Climate Action 
enabling personal and professional development.
100+ and NZAMI. Ashmore will continue to develop its 
Understanding and achieving sustainability can take  approach to sustainability in line with regulatory 
many forms, but in the context of the United Nations’  requirements and in so doing contribute to the 
Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), described  evolution of industry practice. 
below, arguably the greatest impact and change can be 
achieved in the Emerging Markets. Two areas are 
particularly relevant to emerging countries:
– Environmental challenges, and specifically the 
effects of climate change, can be acutely felt by 
companies and communities in which Ashmore 
operates and invests. Ashmore’s investment 
processes consider environmental factors in portfolio 
construction, and the Group is a supporter of global 
and industry-specific initiatives such as the TCFD 
recommendations and alignment with the Paris 
Agreement, including net zero initiatives. Ashmore 
has joined the NZAMI and recognises the challenges 
faced by emerging economies and the social and 
other environmental trade-offs which can have a 
greater effect on emerging economies compared 
with developed economies. 
Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021  51
SUSTAINABILITY (CONTINUED)
Sustainability governs our approach to investments, communities and the environment 
1. CORPORATE  2. INVESTMENT 3. SOCIETAL
Incorporating transparency, fairness,  Enabling clients to deploy capital in line  Social and impact-first investing 
accountability and integrity into  with responsible investing  locally in Emerging Markets 
operations considerations communities
– Affiliations and membership – ESG factor analysis – Adherence to UK Modern Slavery Act
– UNPRI (2013) – Assessment criteria and scoring process – Alignment/contribution to UN SDGs
– UN Global Compact (2019) – ESG training for investment teams – Local social initiatives
– Policies and processes disclosed – External research/third-party data – London Crisis at Christmas
– ESG – ESG within the investment process – Employee volunteering
– Proxy voting – Integrated approach – One paid volunteering day
– Engagement – Consistency across investment themes – The Ashmore Foundation
– Climate change position paper – Stewardship/collaborations – Emerging Markets philanthropy
– Environmental impact/climate change – Proxy voting and engagement – Impact-first investing – 
– Carbon offsetting initiative – Climate Action 100+ concessionary loans
– Recycling and waste management – Climate change – Impact investments 
– Continued energy efficiencies
– Net Zero Asset Managers Initiative
– TCFD recommendations & managing 
– TCFD recommendations & managing 
climate-related risks
climate-related risks
– Constituent of FTSE4Good 
– Firmwide negative  
Index Series
screening/exclusions
– Equal opportunities and diversity
– Controversial weapons
– Employee well-being and health 
and safety – Pornography
– Corporate governance – Additional ESG funds specific screens: 
fossil fuels; tobacco, defence; gambling
– ESG governance 
The Group’s ESG Committee has continued to develop and refine its approach in relation to sustainability and responsible investing  
and over the past year Ashmore has made significant progress on a number of key initiatives at the operational and investment levels.
FY2020/21 highlights 
Below are notable achievements over the past year in relation to  – The common ESG scoring framework for sovereign and 
sustainability and responsible investing: corporate issuers was rolled out across all local offices and 
investment themes.
– Launched two dedicated ESG strategies in external debt and 
corporate debt, to sit alongside the existing equity and blended  – Ashmore has again made progress in relation to the 
debt strategies. Ashmore Indonesia also launched an equity  TCFD recommendations.
ESG segregated mandate. – Implementation of the Sustainable Financial Development Regulation.
– Ashmore expanded its Sustainalytics subscription to include  – Ashmore published its ‘Seven policy proposals to meet the Paris 
carbon intensity metrics for selected portfolios and asset classes. Agreement objectives’ paper, which explicitly considers the 
– Ashmore updated its Engagement Policy to include  differences between emerging and developed economies. 
sovereign engagements. – Ashmore refined its carbon offsetting programme regarding the 
– Ashmore increased the number of stewardship engagements  offset of operational emissions.
with issuers. – Ashmore signed up to the Net Zero Asset Managers Initiative. 
52  Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021
S
T
R
A
T
E
G
1. CORPORATE   IC R
E
P
O
SUSTAINABILITY  R
T
 
G
O
V
Ashmore’s approach to corporate sustainability recognises the role it plays  E
R
in wider society and is underpinned by values of transparency, fairness,  N
A
N
accountability and integrity across the Group’s worldwide operations.  C
E
 
F
IN
The nature of Ashmore’s business as an investment manager and  Environment  A
N
its consistent single operating platform means that corporate  Ashmore’s business is based primarily on intellectual capital so its  C
sustainability can be considered and understood in a relatively small  direct impact on the environment is limited. However, the Group  IA
L
number of areas, listed below and explained in more detail on the  manages the environmental risks it faces responsibly, and   S
T
following pages. In recognition of its approach to corporate  described below are specific developments in the areas of GHG  A
T
sustainability, Ashmore is a constituent of the FTSE4Good equity  emissions, recycling and carbon offsetting.  E
M
index and has a ‘AA’ ESG rating from MSCI.  E
Policy documents N
T
Human resources  Ashmore has a number of policies and other documents that  S
In a business such as asset management, employees are a critical  support its approach to corporate sustainability. These include 
asset. Ashmore’s responsibilities to its 310 employees across  documents that are for employee use, that are made available to 
11 countries are well understood and reflected in its commitments  the Group’s clients, and that are publicly available on the Group’s 
to diversity, career development, health and safety, including  website, such as those listed below:
workplace benefits, and a remuneration policy that delivers a 
– ESG Policy;
long-term alignment of interests between employees, clients 
– Climate change position paper;
and shareholders. 
– Supplier Code of Conduct;
Governance 
– Slavery & human trafficking statement;
Ashmore’s Board of Directors maintains a distinctive culture across 
– Conflicts of interest statement;
the firm, with a strong ‘tone from the top’ that outlines clear 
– Complaints handling procedure;
expectations, standards and the importance of accountability to 
– UK Stewardship Code;
employees. In addition to the governance arrangements described 
in the Corporate governance section and the Section 172  – UK tax strategy; and
statement, corporate sustainability is also underpinned by the  – Hampton-Alexander review data.
following factors:
Human resources
– A commitment to upholding high ethical standards across the 
The Group’s priority is to attract, develop, manage and retain 
Group’s operations, and to minimising the risks associated with 
employees in order to achieve its strategic growth objectives and 
financial crime.
to create value for its stakeholders. The success of Ashmore’s 
– The Board has ultimate responsibility for risk management and 
approach to human resources and its support to corporate 
control. This encompasses a wide range of principal and 
sustainability is reflected in the low levels of unplanned staff 
emerging risks, and importantly in the prevailing remote working 
turnover (FY2020/21: 6.6%). 
environment it includes the Group’s assessment, monitoring and 
control of cyber security-related risks.
– Ashmore has operations in multiple regulatory and tax 
jurisdictions and manages its business in a responsible and 
transparent manner. 
Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021  53
SUSTAINABILITY (CONTINUED)
Ashmore aims to have employee policies and procedures that  Ashmore supports professional development or qualifications that 
reflect best practice within each of the countries where it has a  will assist employees in maintaining and developing their levels of 
presence, and Ashmore requires employees to act ethically and to  competence. As part of this, Ashmore believes that constructive 
uphold the standards expected by the Group’s clients. This means  performance management is an essential tool in the effective 
having policies and practices that make Ashmore an attractive  management of its people and business. The performance 
place to work in respect of the day-to-day operating environment  management cycle comprises setting objectives and an annual 
and culture, and also in respect of medium to long-term growth for  performance appraisal against those agreed objectives. 
employees, personally, professionally and financially. Output from this performance process is used to assist with 
decisions on remuneration, career development and progression.
Diversity
Ashmore is committed to providing equal opportunities and seeks  Ashmore is committed to internal progression of its employees 
to ensure that its workforce reflects, as far as is practicable, the  whenever this is possible, to ensure that it retains the most 
diversity of the many communities in which it operates.  talented people. The diverse and global nature of its business 
allows the Group to consider placing talented individuals into 
Diversity of thought is critical to Ashmore’s success. This means 
different business and career opportunities within its worldwide 
attracting and developing a diverse team. At Ashmore, diversity is 
office network, in order to foster their development and to 
integral to the culture of the Group and encompasses, amongst 
benefit clients.
other things, experience, skills, tenure, age, geographical expertise, 
professional background, gender, ethnicity, disability and  Health and safety
sexual orientation. Ashmore promotes high standards of health and safety at work and 
has a comprehensive health and safety policy that highlights the 
Ashmore will not discriminate because of age, disability, gender 
Group’s commitment to ensuring employees are provided with a 
reassignment, marriage and civil partnership, pregnancy and 
safe and healthy working environment. For example, in London, 
maternity, race (which includes colour, nationality and ethnic or 
Ashmore carries out regular risk assessments of premises and 
national origins), religion or belief, sex or sexual orientation or any 
provides staff with safety training including the provision of training 
other irrelevant factor, and has built a culture that values 
to fire wardens and first aid representatives. Ashmore also 
meritocracy, openness, fairness, honesty and transparency.
engages external consultants to carry out regular health and safety 
Ashmore recognises that the financial services sector has  and fire assessments. Similar arrangements are also made in other 
historically been a male dominated industry. In attracting the best  Ashmore offices.
talent, Ashmore is particularly keen to promote gender diversity 
There were no reportable accidents in the financial year in the UK 
and seeks to attract female employees. Ashmore tracks gender 
or overseas premises.
diversity across all its offices globally and the Group’s gender 
balance is currently 200 (66%) male, 100 (33%) female with  Workplace benefits
three (1%) employees preferring not to respond. Across senior  Ashmore recognises the diverse needs of its employees in 
management and their direct reports it is 82% male and  managing the responsibilities of their work and personal lives, and 
18% female. believes that achieving an effective balance in these areas is 
beneficial to both Ashmore and the individual. Employee health and 
Ashmore provides data to the Hampton-Alexander review. 
well-being is vital to their sustained performance at work, and 
This information can also be found on the Group’s website.
Ashmore therefore operates a range of schemes to support 
Ashmore operates a zero tolerance policy towards harassment and 
employees’ physical well-being. In London, Ashmore operates a 
bullying and has a formal policy that documents the organisation’s 
mental health well-being scheme, and has a designated Mental 
commitment to ensuring employees are treated with respect and 
Health First Aider.
dignity while at work.
In the UK, Ashmore also operates an integrated healthcare 
Recruitment and career development approach whereby its private medical health provider and 
Ashmore believes that its unique business model and culture lead  occupational health clinics work hand in hand to promote wellness 
existing employees to recommend Ashmore as an employer and in  amongst employees. Similar healthcare arrangements are also 
so doing enables the Group to attract the most talented candidates.  offered by Ashmore’s international offices.
All employees are provided with a comprehensive induction on 
Remuneration
joining the business, providing an introduction to the Company’s 
Ashmore’s distinctive remuneration philosophy, described in detail 
structure, culture, operations and practices. This includes all 
in the Remuneration report, is a critical factor in delivering 
elements of compliance issues, an understanding of the  
corporate sustainability. It underpins the Group’s culture and 
key business ethics operating within the Ashmore Group,  
achieves a long-term alignment between employee remuneration 
and up-to-date information on relevant regulations.
and the interests of clients, shareholders and other stakeholders.
Ashmore recognises that individuals have different personal 
requirements dependent on the stage of their life or career. In 
response to this, it provides employees with a range of benefits, 
both non-financial and financial, in addition to basic salaries.
54  Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021
S
T
R
A
T
E
G
IC
 R
E
P
O
R
Governance The Group has comprehensive and, necessarily, confidential  T
 
Information Security and Data Protection policies that are reviewed 
Ashmore’s Board of Directors maintains a strong corporate culture 
at least annually and apply to all employees and offices. These 
employing high standards of integrity and fair dealing in the 
conduct of the Company’s activities, compliance with both the  policies also apply to all third parties that process Ashmore Group  G
O
letter and the spirit of relevant regulations and standards of good  plc’s personal data. V
E
market practice in all jurisdictions where the Group’s business is  The Board is ultimately responsible for the Group’s risk  R
N
carried out. management and internal control systems and for reviewing their  A
N
effectiveness. Principal and emerging risks, and associated controls  C
Ethical standards E
and mitigants, relating to information security and data protection   
The Board’s aim is to ensure that the Group is fit and proper to 
undertake its business, to safeguard the legitimate interests of  are considered within this framework. FIN
Ashmore clients and protect Ashmore’s reputation. The following sections provide a summary of the principles and  A
N
processes in place to manage data protection and information security. C
While there have been no whistleblowing reports this year,  IA
Ashmore considers it important that there is a clear and accessible  Data protection L
 S
process through which staff can raise such concerns. Therefore it  Ashmore processes (i.e. collects, uses and destroys) personal data  T
A
has procedures in place to enable employees to raise concerns  in accordance with applicable privacy laws, including the General  T
E
confidentially regarding behaviour or decisions that are perceived to  Data Protection Regulations (GDPR) in the United Kingdom and the  M
E
be unethical. This includes use of a third-party agency to provide  European Union.  N
T
staff with an independent whistleblowing channel and the  S
The firm’s Data Protection Policy establishes a set of principles, 
Senior Independent Director acts as the nominated Board Director 
listed below, to govern how the firm uses personal data. 
for whistleblowing.
– Lawfulness, Fairness and Transparency: Personal data shall be 
Financial crime risks
processed lawfully, fairly and in a transparent manner in relation 
Ashmore is committed to minimising the risk that the firm is used 
to individuals.
for the purposes of financial crime, including money laundering, 
– Purpose Limitation: Personal data shall be collected for specified, 
bribery and corruption, fraud and market abuse. To achieve this 
explicit and legitimate purposes and not further used or 
aim, Ashmore has adopted a number of risk-based policies and 
otherwise processed in a manner that is incompatible with 
procedures for each area of financial crime, as described in the Risk 
those purposes.
management section of the Annual Report. Training is provided to 
– Data Minimisation: Personal data shall be adequate, relevant and 
all employees in relation to anti-money laundering and countering 
limited to what is necessary in relation to the purposes for which 
terrorist financing, including customer due diligence requirements, 
they are processed.
identifying money laundering, suspicious activity and financial crime.
– Accuracy: Personal data shall be accurate and, where necessary, 
Ashmore is also committed to ensuring that the identity of its 
kept up to date; every reasonable step must be taken to ensure 
customers is verified before a business relationship commences 
that personal data that are inaccurate, having regard to the 
and is ongoing throughout the course of the relationship.
purposes for which they are processed, are erased or rectified 
Information security & data protection without delay.
Ashmore’s client base comprises institutions, such as pension  – Storage Limitation: Personal data shall be kept in a form  
funds and central banks, and intermediaries that provide access to  which permits identification of individuals for no longer than  
retail investors. Consequently, the firm does not handle substantial  is necessary for the purposes for which the personal data 
quantities of sensitive personal data, and that data which is  are processed.
gathered and held relates primarily to its employees.  – Respect for Individuals: Personal data shall be processed in 
accordance with individuals’ legal rights.
– Integrity and Confidentiality: Personal data shall be processed in 
a manner that ensures appropriate security of the personal data, 
including protection against unauthorised or unlawful processing 
and against accidental loss, destruction or damage, using the 
appropriate technical or organisational measures.
– Safe Transfer: Personal data shall not be transferred abroad 
without adequate safeguards being put in place in accordance 
with the law.
Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021  55
SUSTAINABILITY (CONTINUED)
In accordance with relevant laws and regulations Ashmore  Sustainability Indices
respects and aims to comply with individuals’ rights as they relate  The FTSE4Good Index series is designed to measure 
to their data. For example, the Data Protection Policy recognises  the performance of companies demonstrating 
the following rights under GDPR legislation: strong ESG practices. Ashmore has been  
a constituent of the FTSE4Good Index  
– to ask whether the firm holds personal data and/or to receive a 
since 2014.
copy of that data; 
– to restrict or object to processing of personal data; Environmental impact
– to prevent processing for direct marketing purposes;
As a company whose business is based fundamentally on 
– to object to decisions being taken by automated means; intellectual capital and which does not own its business premises, 
– in certain circumstances, to have inaccurate personal data  Ashmore’s direct impact on the environment is limited and there 
rectified, blocked, erased or destroyed; and are few environmental risks associated with the Group’s activities. 
– to claim compensation for damages caused by a breach of  Nevertheless, Ashmore has a responsibility to manage these risks 
the GDPR. as effectively as possible.
Furthermore, in accordance with GDPR, Ashmore commits to  The Group continues to promote energy efficiency and the 
keeping the use of legally-defined special category personal data,  avoidance of waste throughout its operations. Ashmore’s largest 
such as that relating to an individual’s ethnic origin, to a minimum  occupancy is at its headquarters at 61 Aldwych, London where it 
and to restrict its availability only to those people who need to  has a single floor of approximately 19,000 square feet in a nine storey 
know it. multi-tenanted building. Electricity usage in London is separately 
monitored by floor, with energy efficient lighting installed. 
The firm maintains a register that describes its processing of 
personal data in accordance with the relevant legal requirements. Ashmore acknowledges that, in normal times, air travel has been 
its biggest source of carbon emissions. In such times, investment 
Information security & cyber security
professionals and other employees would be required to travel to 
Information security (including cyber security) is identified as   countries for research and oversight purposes. However, wherever 
a key principal risk to the business which is subject to Ashmore’s  possible employees will use technology to minimise air travel. 
governance, policies and procedures and risk assessment.  The COVID-19 pandemic restricted travel during the year and this 
Ashmore assesses, monitors and controls data security risk,   had a positive impact on Ashmore’s total emissions for the year. 
and ensures that there is adequate communication between   Additionally, it accelerated the integration of video conferencing 
the key stakeholders, which include senior management and IT,  facilities, which will be of benefit to the Group in the coming years.
human resources, risk management and control, and legal and 
Recycling programmes operate for appropriate disposable materials. 
compliance departments.
The Company seeks to minimise the use of paper and wherever 
Ashmore has a layered security model, within which multiple  possible chooses paper materials that have been sustainably sourced 
complementary technologies and processes are employed.  and are Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) or equivalently accredited.
Ashmore staff undertake mandatory training in matters of 
Ashmore also complies with the UK Government’s Energy Savings 
Information Security (including cyber security). Ashmore routinely 
Opportunity Scheme (ESOS). 
deploys security updates to its systems and undertakes regular 
vulnerability testing of its networks and systems using a specialist 
service provider. The Board’s Audit and Risk Committee receives 
an annual report on the Group’s cyber security arrangements, and 
the Group has a culture of continuous improvement that means 
that improvements can and do occur throughout the year.
Ashmore undertakes appropriate pre-contract due diligence for 
new suppliers that includes information security considerations. 
Ashmore also maintains appropriate oversight of cyber security 
arrangements for all key partners, ensuring there is additional 
monitoring and protection regarding their cyber security. 
56  Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021
S
T
R
A
T
E
G
IC
 R
E
P
O
R
Mandatory greenhouse gas emissions reporting and  Historically, farmers used diesel-powered pumps to draw the water  T
 
SECR requirements from the wells. These are costly to run, both financially, eating up 
about 25% of annual income, and in terms of the local 
In line with the Companies Act 2006 (Strategic Report and 
environmental pollution. A diesel pump will emit 7.4 tonnes CO  G
Directors’ Reports) Regulations 2013, since 1 October 2013 all  2 O
companies listed on the main market of the London Stock  and cost over US$3,600 to irrigate six hectares annually. V
E
Exchange have been required to report their greenhouse gas  In 2018, PROGRESO piloted a scheme aimed at reducing pollution  RN
emissions (GHG emissions) in their annual report. In addition,  and lowering the cost of production by replacing diesel-powered  A
N
effective from 1 April 2019, Ashmore Group plc is also required to  water pumps with solar-powered pumps. This resulted in improved  C
E
adhere to the mandatory Streamlined Energy and Carbon Reporting  income for farmers, food security and a reduction in air pollution   
regulation introduced by the UK Government. and in turn the project will: F
IN
Ashmore Group plc is one of an estimated 900 organisations  1. Improve producer livelihoods and annual incomes by eliminating  A
N
required to report their Scope 1 and 2 emissions as part of  the costs and travel associated with purchasing diesel. C
mandatory GHG reporting and SECR. Ashmore Group has   2. Reduce pollution and CO2 emissions through installing   IAL
provided a summary of this information in its Directors’ report. solar-powered pumps to access underground aquifers for use   S
T
in irrigation. A
Carbon offsetting TE
3. Create employment by training a young local maintenance engineer. M
As part of the Company’s wider efforts to develop its climate  E
4. Generate further awareness about the benefits of the   N
strategy, Ashmore had previously introduced a Carbon Mitigating  T
solar-power pumps among producers, producer cooperatives  S
Initiative with The Ashmore Foundation to compensate for the CO 
2 and local government.
emitted through its operational business activities and in 2021 
5. Create a savings scheme for ongoing maintenance and a 
extended this such that the Foundation is required to offset the 
sustainable longer-term project.
Group’s emissions through its operational business activities.  
6. Generate interest in financing the scheme from other  
In so doing, Ashmore has committed to offset its emissions 
funders / government.
(Scopes 1 – 3) on an annual basis. Ashmore also recognises that 
any carbon offsetting initiative needs to be implemented within a  The Ashmore Foundation is proud to support the PROGRESO  
broader set of activities over the long term to reduce the impact in  team in its work with communities to reduce climate-related 
relation to climate change. impacts and develop more sustainable ways of living.
Ashmore’s carbon offsetting initiative has been approved by  
the Board and is implemented via The Ashmore Foundation.  
This approach has been taken because Ashmore believes that  
for such initiatives to deliver sustainable impact, they need to 
encompass both environmental and social indicators. Ashmore 
believes that The Ashmore Foundation, with its strong focus on 
social change, is able to identify and partner with the most 
appropriate initiatives to deliver such objectives.
Ashmore has set its internal carbon price at €50.20, using the last 
three months (to the end of June 2021) rolling average market 
price of the first carbon futures contract traded on the European 
Energy Exchange. Ashmore will continue to review its internal 
carbon price methodology as global best practice evolves.
FY2020/21 initiative
This year, the carbon offsetting initiative was implemented  
through The Ashmore Foundation making a grant to the Peruvian 
non-governmental organisation La Asociación de la Gestión Rural 
Económica y Social (PROGRESO). PROGRESO works to improve 
the economic situation and livelihoods of producers in the Piura 
region of northern Peru. The organisation helps farmers access 
markets and improve value chains for crops, whilst focusing on 
nutritional food security, health and education for families. It focuses 
on sustainable agriculture and climate change and seeks to improve 
the quality of life for rural producers by empowering communities. 
PROGRESO has been working with communities in the region for 
27 years to help them reduce costs, increase yields, establish 
kitchen gardens and increase access to local and global markets.
Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021  57
SUSTAINABILITY (CONTINUED)
INVESTMENT  
2.
SUSTAINABILITY 
As a specialist Emerging Markets asset manager, Ashmore recognises the impact its 
investments can have on the communities and societies in which they are made. 
Emerging Markets are commonly defined as any country  Ashmore takes an active approach in relation to the evolution of 
considered by the World Bank as belonging to ‘low income’   industry standards and norms in this area and works with its 
or ‘middle income’ categories. Under this definition, Emerging  investors to align the role of ESG in their strategies and portfolios. 
Markets countries constitute approximately 80% of the world’s  With over 25 years’ experience investing in Emerging Markets, 
population. As a leading Emerging Markets fund manager,  Ashmore’s investment professionals have developed expertise in 
Ashmore recognises the impact its investments can have   understanding broader non-financial metrics and indicators and 
on the communities and societies in which they are made.  their impact in generating financial returns for clients. 
The assessment of ESG risks and opportunities is an area of focus 
for both asset owners and investment managers as these can 
potentially have a material effect on the market value of an issuer’s 
debt or equity. 
Traditional  Responsible  Sustainable  Themed  Impact First  Philanthropy
Investing Investing Investing Impact  Investing
Investing
Financial Returns driven
ESG Risk Management
Environmental and Social Impact Driven
Limited or no  Negative  Negative and  Sectoral focus  Sectoral focus  Sectoral focus 
focus on ESG  screening based  positive  addressing social  addressing social  addressing social 
risks or  on ESG risks and/ screening and  and environment  and environment  and environment 
opportunities in  or personal  financial returns  challenges that  challenges that  challenges where 
the underlying  values drive investment  generates  requires financial  a financial return 
investments selection commercial  return sacrifice cannot be 
growth generated
Financial returns  Financial  Financial  Financial and  Social and  Social and 
only returns and  returns and  positive social/ environmental  environmental 
negative social/ positive social/ environmental  and some  returns only
environmental  environmental  returns: financial returns:
screens: assessment:
– Clean energy – Social 
– Tobacco – Waste  – Healthcare enterprises
– Gambling reduction – Microfinance – Trading 
– Fossil fuels – Gender  charities
– Defence equality – B-Corps
– SRI funds
– Pornography
Source: Ashmore. Adapted from Bridges Ventures (2012). 
58  Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021
S
T
R
A
T
Ashmore recognises that its impact will vary in breadth and depth  Investment process EG
across investment themes. With client and industry focus on ESG,  IC
Ashmore’s investment professionals have continued to strengthen  Aitss hinmveosretm heasn te pxrpolicceitslys einst.e Rgerastpeodn tshibei laitnya floysr iEs SoGf  EaSnGal yfsaicst olierss  iwntioth    RE
P
their ESG analysis. Ashmore continues to use the spectrum of  the investment teams, and is undertaken alongside the traditional  O
capital and investment approaches, above, as a framework for  economic and financial assessment of an issuer.  RT
 
understanding impact and the relational link between Ashmore’s 
investments and the social and environmental impact of the  With 99 investment staff dedicated to Emerging Markets, Ashmore 
socially-driven investments made through The Ashmore Foundation  has always relied on its proprietary research and the approach to  G
in countries where the Group has a presence. ESG analysis uses a similar process. Portfolio managers review a  O
V
range of environmental, social and governance factors when  E
R
Responsible investing policy assessing an issuer and use a variety of external secondary data  N
A
Ashmore’s philosophy is underpinned by a fiduciary responsibility  sources, which are complemented by research visits and meetings  N
C
to its clients. Central to Ashmore’s investment process is the ability  with issuers. These add depth of understanding and substantiate  E
 
to deliver returns in line with clients’ objectives. As an integral part  the secondary data. 
of this, Ashmore is committed to enabling clients to deploy their  ESG scores for each issuer are reviewed during the relevant theme  FIN
capital in a manner that most appropriately meets their responsible  sub-investment committee meetings, where they are used to  A
N
investing considerations.  inform investment decisions. The ESG risk and opportunity is  C
IA
Ashmore has developed a number of core capabilities which   incorporated into an overall view of an issuer through financial  L
are among its distinguishing features. These, combined with a  estimates and/or the valuation assessment. ESG scores are   ST
rigorous analytical approach in the Group’s investment processes,  reviewed at least annually and are also flagged for review on an  AT
E
can contribute to long-term sustainable returns.  event-led basis. M
E
N
Ashmore’s ESG Policy is available on its website and is reviewed on  T
S
an annual basis. The policy applies to all public markets strategies 
and sets out minimum standards. The policy is based on ESG norms 
and outlines ESG assessment and engagement processes. 
– ESG factor assessment fully integrated into Ashmore’s investment process
INTEGRATED  – The portfolio manager undertaking the financial analysis carries out ESG assessment
APPROACH  – Full incorporation of ESG risks and opportunities into decision-making provides a more 
comprehensive analysis of investments 
– Unified approach and scoring system by issuer in all public markets strategies – sovereign, 
corporate debt and equities
PROPRIETARY 
– Internal research (research trips and meetings with issuers) complemented by external data sources
METHODOLOGY
– Portfolio managers complete Enhanced Financial Analysis (PRI Academy CFA Certified) training to 
undertake ESG assessment
– ESG score for each issuer reviewed and discussed at the relevant theme sub-IC as part of 
investment approval
INVESTMENT 
– ESG scores are reviewed at least annually at the respective theme sub-IC. Additional reviews 
DECISIONS
triggered on an event-led basis
– ESG risk/opportunity is incorporated through financial estimates and/or the valuation assessment 
– Integration approach and scoring methodology approved by the ESG Committee, chaired by the 
CEO with representation from each investment committee 
– Sustainability and ESG integration process across the firm led by the Head of Sustainability and 
ESG Integration and overseen by the Head of Risk Management and Control
ESG GOVERNANCE
– Any ESG scores not reviewed for over 12 months are flagged at the relevant theme sub-
investment committee and at the ESG Committee
– Stewardship and engagement processes monitored by the Head of Sustainability and ESG 
Integration and reported to the ESG Committee 
Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021  59
SUSTAINABILITY (CONTINUED)
Governance ESG analysis acts as both a form of risk management and a source 
of alpha generation. Ashmore also considers it to be part of its 
Responsibility for Ashmore’s sustainability activities lies with the 
fiduciary duty as a steward of clients’ capital. Portfolio managers 
Board, which delegates to an ESG Committee chaired by the 
score all issuers using a consistent set of questions and data  
Chief Executive Officer (CEO).
points to inform their view of an issuer’s current performance in 
The ESG Committee meets formally at least quarterly and has  comparison to ESG ‘industry practice’ alongside an assessment of 
representation from across the organisation, in particular the  the forward-looking performance. 
investment teams, risk management, operations, investor relations, 
Practically, the ESG analysis of publicly traded instruments takes 
distribution and legal. Ashmore’s integrated approach to ESG 
the form of a scorecard that is completed and updated by the 
assessment means that reviews of all ESG investment related 
portfolio manager/s responsible for the coverage of the specific 
activities are undertaken by the investment committees and the 
issuer. All the scorecards have been harmonised across the 
relevant theme sub-investment committees. The ESG Committee 
investment themes. When an issuer straddles different themes 
reviews and ensures the maintenance and integrity of all 
(e.g. corporate debt and equities), portfolio managers work 
responsible investment/ESG processes and procedures.
together to complete the analysis and review of the scores.
Public markets strategies
The investment thesis, including the ESG score, for an issuer  
ESG risk analysis is explicitly integrated into the bottom up  is reviewed, discussed and agreed at the relevant theme  
research process across all fixed income and equity strategies.  sub-investment committee. The ESG risk/opportunity is incorporated 
The process is fundamentally driven and the issuer analysis  through financial estimates and/or the valuation assessment. 
encompasses a multitude of factors, including ESG. Taken in combination with other macro and micro-economic risk 
drivers, investment time horizon, liquidity considerations and the 
Ashmore’s assessment of an issuer’s ability to manage ESG risks 
investable universe, ESG risk assessment therefore has a direct 
successfully is integral to the determination of fair value (equity) 
impact on investment decisions and portfolio construction. 
and fair spread (credit). Sovereign and corporate management 
teams that can demonstrate strong ESG credentials are more likely 
to deliver better economic and financial performance over time; 
for example by growing faster, reducing the cost of capital  
and generally managing risks better compared to their peers. 
Consequently, ESG factor analysis is integrated into the investment 
processes in the same way as the assessment of macro-economic 
risk, financial performance and credit metrics. 
Examples of ESG criteria
Environment
Corporate Sovereign
Global impact and GHG emissions, local impact and water and  Carbon emissions, clean energy/climate adaption 
waste management, incidents of environmental pollution,  strategies, natural disasters risk and preparedness, 
energy management, and use of green energy, policies and  resource use, and environmental regulations
innovations to limit negative impact
Social 
Corporate Sovereign
Employee diversity and inclusion, customer welfare, human  Basic needs of population, societal stability, human 
rights and community relations, labour practices and health  development, economic freedom, labour rights, 
and safety, supply chain management, materiality of  and inequality
philanthropy spend, and product quality and safety
Governance
Corporate Sovereign
Transparency and disclosure, governance structure, minority  Progress to sustainability, institutional strength, rule of law, 
interests fair representation, public listing and reporting,  democratic processes, and corruption
management accessibility, long-term incentive scheme KPIs, 
and strategies to mitigate the impact of ESG risks
60  Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021
S
T
R
A
T
E
G
IC
 R
E
P
O
R
Responsible investing solutions Stewardship T
 
In addition to the integration of ESG analysis across all investment  Ashmore seeks to engage with issuers, both at sovereign and 
themes, Ashmore has launched dedicated ESG products covering  corporate levels, on how they can improve their ESG outcomes. 
external debt, corporate debt, blended debt and equity strategies.  This is carried out as part of an ongoing dialogue with government  G
O
Additionally, Ashmore Indonesia manages an ESG equity  officials and company management and may involve other  V
E
segregated mandate. key stakeholders. R
N
A
Alternatives investments This approach helps create a positive feedback loop, whereby  N
C
investors reward positive performance with a lower cost of capital,  E
Ashmore’s alternatives theme covers a diverse range of real assets   
and access to international capital markets, and penalise poor 
in private equity, healthcare, infrastructure, special situations, 
performance with withdrawal of capital. Over time, such incentives  F
distressed debt, and real estate opportunities. As such, the approach  IN
should lead to behaviour changes among issuers in favour of more  A
to ESG integration is tailored to the context of each market.  N
sustainable economic development and corporate management  C
Notwithstanding, the ESG scoring of these issuers is also  models. As more asset managers implement similar investment  IA
L
conducted using the same proprietary ESG scoring methodology  processes, the changes in behaviour should accelerate across   S
T
described above. Ashmore also considers relevant ESG issues, and  Emerging Markets issuers. A
T
the investee company’s own ESG practices, as part of its due  E
In line with the Shareholders Rights Directive II, Ashmore has  M
diligence process on prospective alternatives investments.  E
published its engagement policy. During the reporting period,  N
In so doing, Ashmore’s approach is designed to provide superior  Ashmore’s investment teams discussed ESG issues with  TS
risk-adjusted returns by mitigating potential risks and increasing  278 engagements. The chart below outlines the specific 
asset value. Wherever possible, Ashmore also incorporates ESG  topics discussed.
assessment frameworks, which align to internationally accepted 
standards, including the PRI and the International Finance  Board of committees  8%
Corporation (IFC) Performance Standards. Furthermore, Ashmore’s  Disclosure  32%
investment teams seek to ensure that its frameworks comply with  Diversity  1%
local regulations and standards. Employee welfare  3%
Environment  17%
The due diligence process includes identifying the risk category of 
Governance  1%
the proposed investment, analysing specific potential material risks  Minority protection  5%
and impacts in ESG areas, documenting best practices within the  Policies and business  26%
proposed investment, and evidencing the capacity to implement  practices
Remuneration  4%
the required risk mitigation measures considered relevant for 
Social welfare  3%
portfolio investment. The process concludes with the selection of 
ESG investment terms, which, once agreed, are typically written 
Almost one-third of engagements and dialogues with investee 
into the investment covenants.
companies centred on the need for improved corporate disclosure 
of sustainability issues. In particular, the need for greater disclosure 
on environmental metrics related to climate change, which also 
featured in the engagements and dialogues on the environment. 
Across all alternatives investments, Ashmore seeks to engage 
those stakeholders impacted by investment decisions as early on 
in the project as practically possible. This approach enables 
investment teams to deliver the most appropriate impact, while 
maintaining Ashmore’s objective to generate superior risk-adjusted 
returns. In many cases, Ashmore believes it to be beneficial to its 
investors to be active in promoting its brand locally by improving 
the livelihoods of the employees in those companies where it has a 
significant stake.
Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021  61
SUSTAINABILITY (CONTINUED)
Proxy voting Negative screening
In keeping with Ashmore’s policy on proxy voting, equity portfolio  Ashmore believes that investments that do not meet minimum 
managers aim to vote on all proxies presented to them.  standards should be excluded from client portfolios. Ashmore 
Where they have concerns, they seek to engage with company  seeks to comply with applicable government authorities, and, at a 
management and other key stakeholders to address these.  geographical level, screens all investments against the UN Security 
The voting summary for the reporting year is summarised below. Council and EU/UK Sanctions and the US Office of Foreign Assets 
and Control lists.
Total shareholder meetings at which votes were cast 421
Ashmore is able to customise client portfolios to meet specific 
Number of resolutions voted 3,858
requirements for geographic, sector and stock specific restrictions, 
Percentage voted with management recommendations 82%
such as alcohol, animal/food products, armaments manufacturers 
Percentage voted against management recommendations 9%
or dealers, gambling, pornography, tobacco and fossil fuels, 
Percentage of abstentions 8%
including coal.
Percentage of votes withheld 1%
Controversial weapons
Industry engagements
Ashmore restricts investment in companies engaged in the 
Ashmore has been a proud signatory of the UN Principles of  manufacture, distribution and maintenance of controversial 
Responsible Investment (UNPRI) since 2013 and seeks to  weapons. The scope and breadth of this restriction is outlined in 
continuously improve its annual assessment score and deepen its  Ashmore’s Controversial Weapons policy.
engagement in PRI initiatives. For example, Ashmore has worked 
closely with the UNPRI during the period prior to becoming a 
signatory of NZAMI. The Group’s current 2020 PRI scores are 
shown below.
Category 2018 2019 2020
Strategy and Governance A A A
Listed Equity – Incorporation B B A
Listed Equity – Active Ownership C B A
Fixed Income – Sovereign B B A
Fixed Income – Corporate B A A
Property – B A
Infrastructure – A A
Ashmore is also a signatory to the Climate Action 100+ investor 
initiative that seeks to ensure the world’s largest corporate 
greenhouse gas emitters take necessary action on climate change. 
In this regard Ashmore is actively collaborating with other investors 
in an engagement with an investee company. 
As noted above, in 2021, Ashmore also joined the NZAMI and in 
accordance with NZAMI guidance, will set interim carbon 
emissions targets during 2022.
Through such initiatives, Ashmore will engage and collaborate with, 
and draw upon the expertise of, its peers in order to continue to 
develop best practice.
62  Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021
S
T
R
A
T
E
G
3. SOCIETAL   IC R
E
P
O
SUSTAINABILITY  R
T
 
G
O
V
Ashmore recognises that being a member of the global community brings  E
R
with it responsibility to act in a manner that benefits wider society.  N
A
N
C
E
 
This responsibility is particularly acute in the markets in which  United Nations Global Compact
F
Ashmore operates. As such Ashmore seeks to behave in a manner  IN
that positively impacts not only its investors but also employees  The United Nations Global Compact (UNGC)   AN
and the communities in which it invests. was launched in 2000 to harness the power of  C
IA
collective action in the promotion of responsible  L
Human rights and modern slavery corporate citizenship. The Compact is a   S
T
Ashmore supports the United Nations Universal Declaration of  framework for businesses that are committed to  AT
E
Human Rights. Ashmore has developed a Supplier Code of  aligning their operations and strategies with the  M
Conduct that applies to all suppliers that provide goods or services  10 universally accepted principles in the areas of  EN
to Ashmore, and outlines the basic ethical requirements that  human rights, labour, the environment and anti-corruption.  TS
suppliers must meet in order to do business with the Group,  Ashmore is a signatory to the UNGC and is proud to reaffirm its 
including affording employees the freedom to choose employment  support of the principles. Ashmore’s 2021 Communications on 
and not using any form of forced, bonded or involuntary labour  Progress (COP) is outlined in its 2021 Sustainability report.
(including child labour).
Obsolete equipment
Ashmore provides obsolescent computers to Computer Aid,  
a UK registered charity that provides developing countries with 
access to technology that can support education and improve lives. 
Computer Aid sends the equipment to various projects across the 
Emerging Markets and provides Ashmore with details of where 
they are used. Any units that are not usable are disposed of in an 
environmentally friendly manner. 
Ashmore investing in local communities
Ashmore recognises the positive impact it can have on the 
communities where it operates and is committed to creating 
lasting benefits in those locations where the Group has a presence. 
Beyond support for The Ashmore Foundation, employees across  
all offices are encouraged to engage with and support local 
community projects. This commitment is reflected in Ashmore’s 
policy enabling employees to take one day annually to support 
charitable projects.
Ashmore employees drive local volunteering initiatives and take 
part in a range of activities to support disadvantaged communities 
in their local vicinity. Ashmore continues to make an annual 
donation to homeless charity Crisis, in support of its Christmas 
card campaign.
Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021  63
SUSTAINABILITY (CONTINUED)
The Ashmore Foundation was established in 2008 and seeks to  
make a positive and sustainable difference to disadvantaged 
communities in the Emerging Markets in which Ashmore 
operates and invests.
To achieve this objective, The Ashmore Foundation aims to 
develop long-term relationships with locally based non-government 
organisations (NGOs). Since its inception in 2008, The Ashmore 
Foundation has dispersed over US$6.9 million to 71 civil society 
organisations in 26 Emerging Market countries.
The Ashmore Foundation functions independently of Ashmore 
and is registered in the United Kingdom as a charity and 
company limited by guarantee. It is staffed by an Executive 
Director who is responsible for managing the Foundation’s 
affairs. The Ashmore Foundation board of trustees consists of 
10 Ashmore employees, one Ashmore Group plc Non-executive 
Director and one independent trustee. In addition to the board of 
trustees, Ashmore employees are encouraged to engage 
directly in the governance of the Foundation through 
involvement in sub-committees.
Ashmore supports The Ashmore Foundation’s charitable 
activities through the provision of pro-bono office space, 
administrative support and a matched funding commitment  
for employee donations to the Foundation. The Ashmore 
Foundation is supported solely by Ashmore and its employees 
globally. Crucially, this support from employees extends beyond 
financial aid to active engagement with NGOs through 
mentoring and helping them expand their network of contacts.
Ashmore employees organise a range of events from wine 
tastings to cake bakes to raise funds for the Foundation. 
Employees organise challenge events in support of the 
Foundation and over the years have summited the UK’s three 
peaks, Mounts Toubkal and Kinabalu, cycled from London to 
Paris and walked the length of Hadrian’s Wall.
64  Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021
S
T
R
A
T
E
G
IC
 R
E
P
O
R
Social investing in Emerging Markets Supporting emergencies T
 
The Ashmore Foundation’s approach is underpinned by the belief  Since March 2020, the rapid spread of the COVID-19 pandemic has 
that, while economic growth continues in the Emerging Markets,  significantly impacted the way people conduct their day to day lives. 
many communities, particularly those in rural and isolated locations,  This is particularly the case for communities in Emerging Markets.  G
O
remain locked out of this prosperity. Social and economic  Daily wage and migrant labourers have lost their livelihoods and  V
E
inequalities continue to increase and communities lack the skills  disruptions to the supply chain mean that farmers have been unable  R
N
and resources needed to participate fully in economic development. to sell produce. Moreover, government restrictions have suspended  A
N
or diverted the interventions of many of the Foundation’s civil  C
The Ashmore Foundation believes that with the right support,   E
society partners, severely impacting income.  
the most marginalised and disadvantaged communities can  
grow and prosper. The Foundation therefore focuses its social  In order to support communities and civil society partners,   F
IN
investment strategy on programmes that aim to equip people with  in April 2020, trustees approved a ring-fenced sum of US$100,000  A
N
the skills and resources they need to increase their livelihood  to support former and current grantees as they are impacted and  C
opportunities, enabling them to meet their basic needs while also  respond to the COVID-19 pandemic. This has been deployed to 10  IA
L
supporting economic growth and beginning to address broader  organisations across Colombia, Ecuador, India, Indonesia, Peru and   S
T
societal inequalities. the Philippines between May 2020 and May 2021. The trustees  A
T
have approved a further US$100,000 for the coming financial year  E
Impact First Investing M
given the continuing impact of the COVID-19 pandemic.  E
N
The Ashmore Foundation recognises that some social impact  T
S
organisations will be generating revenue through their activities. 
To achieve their objectives these organisations often require 
working capital to grow and scale. The Ashmore Foundation may 
make programme related investments in organisations whose 
work aligns with its charitable objectives from time to time.
Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021  65
SUSTAINABILITY (CONTINUED)
ASHMORE’S CONTRIBUTION TO  
THE SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS
To formalise its commitment to the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and their achievement by 2030, Ashmore became 
a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact in 2019. Ashmore believes that its experience and engagement in the Emerging Markets 
enables it to contribute to the achievement of a number of the goals.
Set out below are the ways in which Ashmore’s investments and social investments through The Ashmore Foundation over the past 
five years have contributed to the achievement of the SDGs.
Ashmore recognises that global development and sustainability issues are complex and will require continued investment and collaboration 
if they are to be achieved. To this end, Ashmore will continue to refine its process for assessing how it can most effectively contribute to 
their achievement.
Foundation plc / fund investments plc / fund investments plc / fund investments
– US$183,000 invested to  – US$200 million investment in  – US$76 million investment in  – US$4 million invested in 
provide over 1,000 children  healthcare infrastructure in  education infrastructure in  projects to provide housing 
and their families with  the United Arab Emirates and  Saudi Arabia to women heads of 
improved nutrition and food  Saudi Arabia – US$21 million investment in  household
security in Colombia – US$10 million investment in  largest school network in 
oncology and diagnostics  Colombia with 15 education 
clinics in Morocco facilities served and aggregate 
student body of 6,100
Foundation
– US$60,000 invested to 
contribute to the acceleration 
of India’s development 
through education and skills 
development
Foundation plc / fund investments plc / fund investments plc / fund investments
– US$37,500 invested to  – US$149 million investment in  – 34,732 low-income housing  – US$22 million investment in 
provide financial and  improving transportation  units e-battery factory in China
technical assistance to social  infrastructure across Colombia  – US$83 million invested in  – Energy savings of 28% in 
enterprises across Indonesia – US$15.6 million invested in  low-income housing operational phase of real 
electric bus fleets for Bogotá – US$77 million invested   estate projects
– US$29 million investment in  in sustainable/certified   – Water savings of 33% in 
the construction of 136 km  green assets operational phase of real 
of power transmission lines  estate projects
in northern Colombia Foundation
– US$40.6 million investment 
– US$62,000 invested to 
in power generation plants to 
improve the quality of life of 
ensure the reliability and 
low-income, rural and 
coverage of the electricity 
vulnerable populations in a 
supply in Colombia and Peru
sustainable way in Colombia
– US$101,000 invested to 
strengthen children protection 
systems across India
– US$100,000 invested to 
work with marginalised and 
isolated communities in the 
Amazon region
Pages 1 to 66 constitute the Strategic report which was approved by the Board on 2 September 2021 and signed on its behalf by:
Mark Coombs
Chief Executive Officer
2 September 2021
66  Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021
BOARD OF DIRECTORS S
T
R
A
T
COMMITTED TO   E
G
IC
 R
E
P
O
ROBUST STANDARDS  R
T
 
OF GOVERNANCE G
O
V
E
R
N
A
N
C
E
 
Mark Coombs Tom Shippey David Bennett FIN
A
Chief Executive Officer (Age 61) Group Finance Director (Age 47) Non-executive Chairman (Age 59) N
C
Appointed to the Board: December 1998. Appointed to the Board: November 2013. Appointed to the Board: October 2014   IA
L
Skills, experience and contribution: Skills, experience and contribution: and as Chairman: October 2018   S
T
Mark Coombs founded the business   Tom Shippey is a chartered accountant  (Independent on appointment). AT
E
which became Ashmore in 1992 and,   with extensive experience in investment  Skills, experience and contribution: M
as Chief Executive, has overseen its  management, mergers and acquisitions,  David Bennett has a wealth of leadership  E
N
successful growth for more than 20 years. capital raising and financial and  experience in the financial services sector,  T
S
regulatory reporting. especially in banking and investment 
Other roles past and present:
management, having held roles as 
He was appointed a Director on the  Other roles past and present:
Chairman, CEO and CFO.
incorporation of the Company and has  He was appointed to the Board as Group 
served as its Chief Executive Officer since  Finance Director in November 2013. Prior  Other roles past and present:
then. He held a number of positions at  to joining Ashmore in 2007, he worked   He previously served as a Director of 
Australia and New Zealand Banking Group  for UBS Investment Bank, including  Alliance and Leicester plc between 2001 
(ANZ) and led Ashmore’s buyout from   advising on the Ashmore IPO in 2006.   and 2008, serving as Group Finance Director 
ANZ in early 1999. He is Co-Chair of EMTA,  Tom qualified as a Chartered Accountant  and then Group Chief Executive until its sale 
the trade association for Emerging  with PricewaterhouseCoopers in 1999 and  to Santander in 2008. He has also held a 
Markets, having been on the Board since  is a Fellow of the ICAEW. He has a BSc in  number of executive positions in Abbey 
1993. Mark has an MA in Law from  International Business and German from  National plc, Cheltenham & Gloucester plc, 
Cambridge University. Aston University. Lloyds TSB Group and the National Bank of 
New Zealand. David is currently Chairman of 
Virgin Money UK plc and a Non-executive 
Director of PayPal (Europe) SARL et Cie, 
S.C.A and the Department for Work  
and Pensions. He has also served as a 
Key to membership of committees Non-executive Director of easyJet plc 
between 2005 and 2014 and as a  
A – Audit and Risk
Non-executive Director and Chairman of 
N – Nominations Together Personal Finance Limited between 
R – Remuneration 2010 and 2019. David holds an MA in 
Economics from Cambridge University.
(A bold letter denotes the Chair)
Committee membership: N, R
Board and committee attendance
The table below sets out the number of scheduled meetings of the Board and its committees and individual attendance by the Directors.
Board   N: Nominations Committee  A: Audit and Risk Committee  R: Remuneration Committee 
 Meeting attendance between 1 July 2020 and 30 June 2021 Attended Attended  Attended  Attended 
Mark Coombs 6/6 – – –
Tom Shippey 6/6 – – –
Dame Anne Pringle* 6/6 2/2 4/4 Chair 5/5
David Bennett 6/6 Chair 2/2 – 5/5
Clive Adamson 6/6 2/2 Chair 4/4 5/5
Jennifer Bingham 6/6 2/2 4/4 5/5
Helen Beck** 1/6 – – –
Members of executive management are invited to attend Board committee meetings as required but do not attend as members of 
those committees.
* Dame Anne Pringle retired as a Director and Chair of the Remuneration Committee on 30 June 2021.
** Helen Beck was appointed a Director on 1 June 2021 and became Chair of the Remuneration Committee on 1 July 2021.
Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021  67
BOARD OF DIRECTORS (CONTINUED)
COMMITTED TO ROBUST STANDARDS OF GOVERNANCE (CONTINUED)
Clive Adamson Jennifer Bingham Helen Beck
Senior Independent Director (Age 65) Independent Non-executive Director  Independent Non-executive Director 
Appointed to the Board: October 2015. (Age 69) (Age 59)
Appointed to the Board: June 2018. Appointed to the Board: June 2021.
Skills, experience and contribution:
Clive Adamson has enjoyed a 44 year  Skills, experience and contribution: Skills, experience and contribution:
career in financial services spanning  Jennifer Bingham has in-depth experience  Helen Beck is a commercial international 
executive roles in banking and regulation  in investment oversight of the investment  advisor with significant experience in 
and, more recently, board roles across  portfolios of family offices and charitable  advising boards on remuneration and 
wholesale and retail banking, insurance and  foundations and in her previous executive  Human Resources. She has a strong 
asset management.  role in the emerging market fund  executive track record in building and 
management business. growing client centric businesses with 
Other roles past and present:
extensive Financial Service experience 
He spent 20 years in wholesale banking  Other roles past and present:
across a broad range of asset management 
initially with Citigroup and then with Bank  She is an accountant and between 1992 
firms and banks.
of America where he held a number of  and 2003 she was a senior executive of 
senior positions including Regional Head of  Brunswick Capital Management Limited,  Other roles past and present:
the UK and Northern Europe. He then  an investment manager specialising in the  She was formerly a Partner and Head of 
moved into regulation as an adviser at the  Russian equity market. During this period  Financial service remuneration practice 
Bank of England before being appointed   she variously held the offices of Chief  with Deloitte LLP specialising in reward 
as Director of Major UK Groups at the  Executive, Chief Operating and Chief  structures for Board members, senior 
newly formed Financial Services Authority,  Financial Officer of the firm. Since 2003  executive members and staff below board 
a position he held during the financial crisis.  Jennifer has held finance, administration  level for FTSE 100 and 250 companies. 
Clive then moved to the Financial Conduct  and investment oversight roles with  Prior to joining Deloitte, Helen held a 
Authority on its formation where he was  investment company PCHB Limited   number of senior executive appointments 
Director of Supervision and an Executive  (part of the Cundill group of companies)  in Human Resources, Remuneration and 
Member of the Board. After 17 years in  and as Trustee and Chair of the  Consultancy, including Standard Bank as 
financial regulation, Clive has been a  Peter Cundill Foundation. Global Head of Reward and Benefits, 
Non-executive Director of Virgin Money plc  McLagan Partners as Managing Director 
Committee membership: A, N, R
and currently is a Non-executive Director of  and as Head of HR for Fidelity Asia-Hong 
JP Morgan Securities plc and the Chair of  Kong. She is a Non-executive Director of 
JP Morgan Europe Ltd which houses the  Funding Circle Holdings plc, a Governor of 
new Chase UK digital banking business,  University of Bedfordshire and member of 
and a Non-executive Director and Chair of  the remuneration committee, Independent 
the Board Risk Committee of M&G plc.  member of the remuneration committee 
He is also a Senior Adviser at McKinsey &  for the British Olympic Association and 
Company. Clive holds an MA in Economics  Governor of the John Whitgift Foundation, 
from Cambridge University. including being chair of the salaries 
committee. She holds a BA in Social 
Committee membership: A, N, R
Administration, is a Member of the 
Institute of Personnel Development and 
holds a Post Graduate Diploma in 
Personnel Management. 
Committee membership: A, N, R
68  Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT AND INTRODUCTION TO CORPORATE GOVERNANCE S
T
R
A
T
COMMITMENT TO  E
G
IC
 R
E
P
O
ROBUST GOVERNANCE  R
T
 
G
O
V
E
R
N
A
Dear Shareholder, Engagement with stakeholders  N
C
As I write this letter to you we are emerging from a  Ashmore’s stakeholders, and how the Board engages  E 
turbulent period that has been dominated principally by  with them, are described in the Section 172 statement 
F
the COVID-19 pandemic, however, in the UK at least,  on pages 42 to 45. While direct in person engagement  IN
the vaccination programme has heralded a planned  has not been possible this year we have nevertheless  A
N
return to the office-working environment in the  continued to engage with our stakeholders by  C
IA
near future. telephone and video conference. L
 S
I would like to take this opportunity to thank Ashmore’s  Last year we held the triennial vote on our  T
A
staff for the speed and efficiency that they were able  Remuneration policy, which shareholders approved.  T
E
to successfully and seamlessly transition to a “working  As the vote of shareholders against the Remuneration  M
E
from home” environment and I am confident the same  policy was 30.84% the Company accordingly  N
T
resilient approach will be evident when the firm returns  announced that it would continue its dialogue with  S
back to the office. The hard work and commitment of  shareholders in order to understand their views.
our staff have enabled the business to operate 
Dame Anne Pringle, in her capacity as Chair of the 
uninterrupted during this time. The application of 
Remuneration Committee, together with members of 
sophisticated technology within the business combined 
the executive management team, engaged with 
with Ashmore’s tried and tested business continuity 
shareholders on the policy vote and a number of other 
planning have played a significant role in this process 
remuneration related matters with the objective of 
and the Board has continued to meet in a virtual 
gaining a better understanding of shareholder views on 
environment in accordance with its pre-planned 
this important area. 
schedule for the year. I am pleased to report that the 
Whilst the extensive engagement we have undertaken 
Group did not furlough any of its staff nor did it request 
with our shareholders has improved the levels of 
COVID-19 related Government support during 
broad-based support for Ashmore’s Group-wide 
this period.
Remuneration policy, nevertheless certain corporate 
Governance and Company purpose governance teams continue to remain opposed to 
The efficiency and effectiveness of Ashmore’s  specific elements of that policy. Therefore we will 
governance structure plays a vital role in the execution  continue to engage with all our major shareholders  
and delivery of the Group’s strategy. On page 76 is a  on all aspects of our remuneration arrangements. 
summary of the Board’s activities during the year,  More information on the rationale underlying the 
including the Board’s role in setting the strategy and  remuneration arrangements that have served our 
keeping it under review. The Delegated authorities and  Company so successfully over the years can be found 
Schedule of matters reserved to the Board are  in the statement from the Chair of the Remuneration 
reviewed every year, which serves to ensure that   Committee on page 83. 
key decisions are considered by the Board. Once again 
The Chief Executive separately held a number of virtual 
this year, we reviewed the culture of the Group by 
meetings with shareholders on business related topics 
reference to a dashboard of metrics. We also approved 
as did the Group Finance Director, the Head of Investor 
a statement of the Company’s purpose, and a 
Relations and members of the executive team.  
description is at the start of this report.
These engagement activities are reported to the  
Board as part of a standing agenda item. An Investor 
relations calendar including shareholder engagement 
appears on page 43.
Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021  69
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT AND INTRODUCTION TO CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (CONTINUED)
COMMITMENT TO ROBUST GOVERNANCE (CONTINUED)
Over the past few years the Board had engaged directly 
with the workforce, with teams of employees being 
invited into the Boardroom at the end of scheduled 
The hard work and commitment of our staff has 
meetings on a rotational basis. This format has enabled 
enabled the business to operate uninterrupted 
the Directors to engage directly with employees in a 
two-way informal discussion with no agenda or scripted  during this time.
questions and it has provided the Board with valuable 
insights into the culture of the business. The COVID-19 
restrictions have placed limitations on our ability to 
Compliance and regulation are high on the Board’s 
continue with these face to face sessions over the last 
agenda, as they are across the business, and the Board 
12 months but it is intended that they resume as soon 
remains alert to changes in governance expectations 
as the working environment is normalised. The Board 
across the institutional investor community. 
also intends to visit the Singapore and Jakarta offices 
and gain a first hand account of the local businesses and  Another outcome of the evaluation process  
culture. Once completed, the Board will consider its’  was recognising that the Board has a culture of 
benefits and whether trips of this nature should be a  self-improvement which permeates the business.  
more regular event. The Non-executive Directors have undertaken a 
number of detailed reviews with executive 
Jennifer Bingham was appointed last year as the 
management on particular subjects to further  
Non-executive Director responsible for workforce 
educate them on specific areas of the business. 
engagement. This is one of the three methods for 
achieving workforce engagement specified by  While the Board has operated efficiently and effectively 
the Code.  in its virtual state, it is now looking forward to a return 
to physical meetings. The Board has valued the cycle 
The Board also has responsibility for oversight of the 
of in-person management presentations and the 
Group’s whistleblowing arrangements and the Senior 
informal meet the team sessions. Following the return 
Independent Director, Clive Adamson, acts as the 
to the office it is intended that further face-to-face 
nominated Director with responsibility for 
training sessions will take place on a number of other 
whistleblowing. An outside agency is retained to 
topics that will be beneficial and which will continue 
provide an independent channel through which staff 
the culture of training and self-improvement.
can raise concerns. It remains important that all 
employees are aware of, and have access to these  The Nominations Committee has discussed succession 
arrangements, in case they are ever needed.  planning for both the Board and senior management, 
The annual reminder of these arrangements,  and is satisfied that the plans in place are suitable  
which included a copy of the policy, was sent   and can be relied upon in the event of any  
to all staff in July 2021. unexpected developments.
Board evaluation The Board believes that, following the completion of 
the Board evaluation, the performance of the 
The triennial, independently facilitated, Board 
Chairman, Directors and Board committees continues 
evaluation took place this year and was conducted by 
to be effective and they continue to make an important 
Korn Ferry. It is clear from the outcomes of the 
contribution to the Company’s long-term sustainable 
evaluation process that the Board plays a critical 
success as a result of their commitment to their roles 
function in providing oversight and ensuring good 
and their wide-ranging skills. The Company considers 
governance within the organisation. To this end, 
each of the Independent Non-executive Directors will 
the Board continues to ensure that the appropriate 
continue to be an effective Director.
governance structures are in place, that risk and 
compliance management is robust, that the risk  Details of what each Director contributes to the  
appetite is clearly defined, and that the regulatory  Board are provided in the Directors’ profiles on  
environment surrounding Ashmore is understood.  pages 67 to 68 and the Board is recommending the 
re-election of all Directors at this year’s AGM.
The Non-executive Directors were also unanimously  
of the view that Ashmore’s remuneration structure  Rewarding our people
benefits the Company and that it is fully aligned with 
Ashmore has a single Remuneration policy which 
the financial, investment and other performance 
applies to its workforce and Executive Directors alike 
metrics, and the culture within the Company. 
with some additional restrictions for Directors. 
More information on how Ashmore invests in and 
rewards its people is provided in the Remuneration 
report on page 83.
70  Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021
S
T
R
A
T
E
G
IC
 R
E
P
O
R
Diversity Wider society  T
 
In order to achieve its strategy the Group needs to  Interest in ESG has gained greater ascendency and 
attract and develop a diverse workforce. Ashmore has  momentum as society’s expectations on matters such 
met the target set by Lord Davies for gender diversity  as ethical investing have developed across the globe.  G
O
on the Board and the gender diversity of our  Many of Ashmore’s stakeholders (shareholders,  V
E
employees and senior management is reported on  employees and clients alike) are promoting higher  R
N
page 54. Ashmore is an organisation which spans  standards in this area and Ashmore continues to be  A
N
multiple cultures and ethnicities, but we need to  mindful of the impact of its activities in the countries in  C
E
continue to take active steps to improve our diversity.  which it operates and invests, and seeks continuous   
Last year we reported on the changes to the  improvement in this area. Our Section 172 statement 
F
Nominations Committee’s terms of reference, aimed  on pages 42 to 45 sets out how we have taken  IN
A
at achieving diversity in senior management  account of our stakeholders, and the Sustainability  N
C
appointments. The Board discusses diversity at least  report on pages 51 to 66 describes the good work that  IA
annually and this is described further in the Directors’  has been done this year by The Ashmore Foundation  L
 S
report on page 117. We believe we are already an inclusive  and the offsetting of our carbon emissions. A more  T
A
employer, but we continue to seek opportunities to  extensive review of Ashmore’s activities in ESG can be  T
E
improve our ethnic and gender diversity. found on page 50.  M
E
N
Board changes and time commitments Dividend T
S
Dame Anne Pringle retired from the Board on 30 June  The Board is recommending a final dividend of 12.10 
2021 following more than eight years of diligent service  pence per share, to give total dividends per share for 
with our Company. On behalf of the Board I would like  the year of 16.90 pence, and reflecting the balance 
to thank her for her contribution and wish her well for  between the strong statutory profit growth, driven  
the future. We also welcomed Helen Beck to the  by unrealised seed capital gains, and the lower 
Board on 1 June 2021 and she has taken over Anne’s  adjusted profits. 
former role as Chair of the Remuneration Committee 
following regulatory approval from the FCA. Helen’s 
extensive experience as a Remuneration and HR  David Bennett
specialist has enabled her to step into this role with  Chairman
effect from 1 July 2021, and her biography describing 
2 September 2021
her experience is set out on page 68. She also joined 
the Audit and Risk and Nominations Committees 
effective 1 July 2021. Any potential conflict and/or  2018 UK Corporate Governance Code 
additional time commitment was declared to the   Compliance Statement:
Board and approval given at the time of appointment. 
We have complied with the Code during the year and 
All appointments are disclosed to and considered  
we have described how we have applied each of the 
by the Board in the context of the overall time 
Principles of the Code on pages 72 to 73.
commitments of the relevant Director (bearing in  
mind any roles that had also been relinquished) and 
whether such commitments impinge on their duties to 
Ashmore. During the year Clive Adamson extended his 
time commitments to JP Morgan Europe Limited and I 
became a Non- executive Director for the Department 
of Work and Pensions. Details of all the Directors’ 
other commitments are provided on pages 67 to 68. 
Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021  71
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
APPLYING THE PRINCIPLES OF 
THE GOVERNANCE CODE 
The UK Corporate Governance Code 2018 (the ‘Code’) applied to the 
Company’s financial year ended 30 June 2021. The Company confirms that 
it applied the principles and complied with all the provisions of the Code. 
Using the alphabetical references which appear against each of the 
principles of the Code, the Company explains below how it has applied 
them. (The Code is available at: www.frc.org.uk)
A. The Board provides effective and entrepreneurial  E. At Ashmore it is fundamental that all policy and 
leadership for the Group. It is mindful of its   practice in relation to the Group’s employees is 
role to promote long-term sustainable success.  conducive to promoting the long-term sustainable 
The success of the Board in delivering shareholder  success of the business and is consistent with the 
value is illustrated on pages 16 to 17, but the  Group’s culture and values. The Senior Independent 
challenge is to ensure that this success continues  Director assumes the role of whistleblowing 
and is sustainable. Pages 42 to 45 and page 76 of  champion. Further details are set out in the 
this report include examples of matters considered  Chairman’s statement on page 69.
by the Board during the year and the factors that  F. The Chairman leads the Board and is responsible for 
were considered when making those decisions.  its overall effectiveness. He was independent upon 
The Sustainability report at page 51 describes the  appointment. As described in his statement on page 
Group’s approach to being a responsible business  69, the Chairman recognises the importance of a 
and how we assess our impact on wider society. cohesive and open Board culture, a constructive 
B. The Board keeps under review the Company’s  relationship with the executives and Board 
purpose, values and strategy and makes sure that  proceedings that are based on clear, accurate and 
these elements and the culture of Ashmore remain  timely information flows.
aligned. The Board recognises that the culture is  G. The Board has entrusted the Nominations 
determined by those who lead the business.  Committee with responsibility for ensuring that 
At page 76 is a summary of the Board’s activity  through the combination of Executive and Non-
during the year, including how it reviews strategy  executive Directors (all of whom are independent) 
and culture. there continues to be the right balance of skills and 
C. The most important decisions for the Group rest  experience on the Board with no one individual or 
with the Board and it is the Board’s role to ensure  group of individuals dominating decision-making. 
that the necessary resources are in place for the  As described in the Committee’s report on page 81 
Group to achieve its strategy and deliver long term  the composition of the Board and its structure are 
performance. The Risk management report on  reviewed bi-annually. The division of responsibilities 
pages 36 to 41 and the Audit and Risk Committee  between the Chairman, the Chief Executive and the 
report at page 77 describe the framework of  Senior Independent Director was approved by the 
controls which allow risks to be evaluated  Board during the year and is described on page 75. 
and managed. A schedule of matters reserved to the Board 
D. The Board recognises that effective engagement  ensures that there is a clear division of 
with shareholders and stakeholders is key to  responsibilities between the Board and the 
ensuring the Group’s long-term sustainable  executives and this is reviewed and if appropriate 
success. The ways in which it has engaged with,  updated, annually.
and encouraged participation from shareholders   H. The time commitment expected of the  
and stakeholders alike during the year are described  Non-executive Directors is set out in their 
in the Chairman’s statement on page 69 and   appointment letters and they are required to  
the Company’s Section 172 statement on  seek approval for any significant new commitments 
page 42 respectively. in advance. The Board approved new commitments 
during the year and details are set out in  
the Chairman’s statement on page 71.  
72  Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021
S
T
R
A
T
E
G
IC
 R
E
P
O
R
None of these were judged to impinge upon the  M. The Audit and Risk Committee monitors the  T
 
time commitment of the relevant Directors to the  independence and effectiveness of the Internal 
Board. The Directors’ other commitments are listed  Audit function and external auditors and has 
at pages 67 to 68 and their attendance at meetings  oversight of the Group’s financial reporting.  G
O
on page 67. Further information on how the Board  Further details are set out in the Audit and Risk  V
operates, provides challenge and holds the  Committee report on page 77. ER
N
executives to account is provided in the sections on  N. The Board is responsible for ensuring that the  A
the ‘Corporate Governance Framework’, the ‘Roles  Group’s annual and interim reporting are a fair,  NC
of the Board’ and ‘Board activity during the year’ on  balanced and understandable assessment of the  E 
pages 74 to 76. Company’s position and prospects. There is a 
F
I.  The Chairman and the Group Company Secretary  robust process in place for ensuring that this is the  IN
A
have a regular dialogue and meet together in  case and it is described on page 78. N
advance of each scheduled meeting to discuss the  O. The Board is ultimately responsible for aligning the  CIA
agenda, the timings and the information and the  risk appetite of the Group with its long-term  L
 S
presentations, which will be given to the Board.  strategic objectives, whilst taking account of the  T
A
Other Directors are asked to give their feedback on  principal and emerging risks it faces. Risk is  T
E
these aspects, including as part of the annual Board  managed through Ashmore’s internal control  M
E
evaluation. The Board’s committees are also given  framework which is described on pages 36 to 41.  N
support as well as the time and resources needed  The Audit and Risk Committee has oversight of the  TS
to ensure that they function effectively and again  effectiveness of internal controls and for developing 
this is considered as part of the annual evaluation.  proposals in respect of overall risk appetite and 
Further information on the functioning of the  tolerance as well as metrics to monitor the Group’s 
committees is provided in their respective reports  risk management performance. Further details are 
on pages 77, 81 and 83. set out in the Audit and Risk Committee report on 
J. The process for making Board appointments is led  page 77.
by the Nominations Committee which makes  P. The Group is committed to a Remuneration policy 
recommendations to the Board. The Nominations  which is substantially the same for all Group 
Committee is also responsible for succession  employees and aimed at promoting the long-term 
planning for both the Board and senior management  and sustainable success of the Company. The 
and reviewed both during the year. The work of the  Remuneration report on pages 83 to 115 provides 
Nominations Committee is described on page 81  further details. The Remuneration policy can be 
which addresses how the Committee seeks to  found on pages 98 to 104. 
promote diversity. Q. Ashmore has a formal and transparent procedure for 
K. In reviewing the composition and tenure of the  developing the Remuneration policy, and no 
Board, the Nominations Committee will consider  Director is involved in deciding their own 
the skills, experience and knowledge of any  remuneration. Further details are set out in the 
candidate by comparison to those of the existing  Remuneration report on page 83.
Board members taking account of the need to  R. The Remuneration Committee is comprised entirely 
replace skills of any Director leaving the Board.  of Independent Non-executive Directors to ensure 
In addition, the Chairman will ensure that there is  independent judgement with regard to 
provision of ongoing training to existing Board  remuneration outcomes. The Committee considers 
members and suitable induction training for new  remuneration of Directors and senior managers on 
Directors. Further details of training provided during  an annual basis and determines outcomes by 
the year are set out in the summary of Board activity  assessing executive performance against 
on page 76. performance criteria. Further details are set out in 
L. An independently facilitated Board evaluation was  the Remuneration report on page 83.
carried out in FY2020/21 with the last external 
evaluation having taken place in FY2017/18 based 
on a three-year cycle. This included an evaluation of 
the Chairman’s performance with input from the 
Executive Directors and the findings were then 
discussed. Further information on this year’s Board 
review and review of the Chairman’s performance is 
provided on page 70.
Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021  73
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (CONTINUED)
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 
FRAMEWORK
plc Remuneration Committee
Determines compensation for Code 
Staff and reviews compensation for 
Control Staff
plc Board of Directors
Responsible for overall strategy, management and control
plc Audit and Risk Committee
Separate detailed terms of reference 
in line with corporate governance 
best practice
plc Executive Directors  Auditors
Specialised Committees
External:
Responsible for overseeing business, investments  
and internal controls Independent assurance via audit of 
Group Financial Statements and audit 
– Investment Committees – Operating Committee
of internal control procedures under 
– Pricing Methodology and   – Risk and Compliance Committee
ISAE 3402 and SSAE 18
Valuation Committee – Pricing Oversight Committee
– Product Committee – Foreign Exchange and Liquidity 
– Global Investment Performance  Management Committee
Standards Committee – IT Steering Group Internally resourced:
– Awards Committee – Best Execution Committee
Independent assurance via audit 
– Disclosure Committee – Environmental, Social and 
directed at specific departmental 
– Research Oversight Committee Governance (ESG) Committee
control procedures
Senior Management
Responsible for day to day management
74  Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021
S
T
R
A
T
ROLES OF  E
G
IC
 R
E
P
O
R
THE BOARD T
 
G
O
V
E
R
N
A
N
Executive roles Non-executive roles C
E
 
F
IN
A
Chief Executive Chairman N
C
Responsible for managing and leading   Responsible for leading the Board and its   IA
L
the business and its employees overall effectiveness  S
T
A
Chair of the fixed income, equities, healthcare and  Building an effective and diverse Board   T
E
special situations investment committees with complementary skills which is   M
E
Developing an effective relationship   progressively refreshed N
T
with the Chairman and the Board Facilitating and encouraging an   S
effective contribution from all Board members
Leading the business towards  
achievement of the strategy Ensuring the Board has clear, accurate  
and timely information
Maintaining an effective dialogue  
with shareholders and stakeholders Facilitating an annual evaluation of the Board, 
its committees and individual Directors
Making business decisions (within the frame-work 
of the Board’s delegated authorities)
Senior Independent Director
A sounding board for the Chairman  
and an intermediary for the other Directors  
Group Finance Director and shareholders
Managing the Group’s capital,  
Facilitating an annual review of the performance  
cash flow and liquidity
of the Chairman 
Responsible for the Group’s  
financial reporting and leading the  
annual budget process
Maintaining an effective dialogue   Independent Non-executive Directors
with shareholders and analysts on the   Providing oversight of, but not managing, 
performance of the Company the business
Responsible for corporate development,   Providing effective independent oversight  
including mergers and acquisitions and challenge of the executive management
Managing the Group’s subsidiaries  Scrutinising the performance of  
executive management
The Company Secretary is responsible for advising the Board on all governance matters.  
(The appointment or removal of the Company Secretary is a matter for the whole Board.)
Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021  75
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (CONTINUED)
BOARD ACTIVITY 
DURING THE YEAR
In addition to its regular business, specific topics considered by the Board at its meetings 
this year, included:
The standing items on the agenda at each Board 
meeting include:
September 2020 – Annual Review on the Effectiveness of Risk 
Management and Internal Control Systems – Declaration of Directors’ potential conflicts of 
– Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment  interest and any significant additional time 
Process (ICAAP) Report  commitments
– ESG presentation – Reports from Chairs of committees
– Ashmore India presentation – Monthly management report
– Distribution presentation – Investor relations and communications
– Strategy update
October 2020 – Operations and IT presentation Post-meeting:
– The Ashmore Foundation presentation – Teams meet the Board
– Annual General Meeting arrangements, 
– Non-executive Directors’ private sessions
results of proxy voting and governance 
agency reports – Board evaluation
Board training:
December 2020 – Annual review of Culture, Conduct and  – FCA Senior Managers and Certification Regime
Diversity
– Cyber security
– Group strategy review
– Ongoing quarterly on-line training modules
– Annual review of delegated authorities and 
matters reserved to the Board  Deep dive presentations for Non-executive Directors:
– Modern Slavery Act statement
– Market risk review
– Chief Risk Officer review
– Principal risk review
– Tax presentation 
– Pricing and Valuation Methodology Committee 
February 2021 – Review of Seed Capital Policy – Risk and Compliance Committee
– Review of Foreign Exchange and Risk 
Management Framework Policy
– Update of ICAAP
– Ashmore Colombia presentation
April 2021 – Equity presentation
– Compliance officer report
– External facilitation for Board evaluation 
arrangements
– Renewal of the Group and Funds’ insurances
June 2021 – 2021/22 Budget
– Local Currency presentation
– ESG presentation
76  Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021
AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE REPORT S
T
R
A
T
TO PROVIDE OVERSIGHT E
G
IC
 R
E
P
O
R
AND CHALLENGE T
 
G
O
V
E
R
N
A
The terms of reference for the Committee include the  N
C
following provisions: E
 
– monitoring and challenging the integrity of the financial 
F
I am pleased to present the report on the activities of  statements of the Company, any formal announcements relating  IN
to the Company’s financial statements or performance and any  A
the Audit and Risk Committee for the financial year  N
significant financial reporting issues and judgements contained  C
ended 30 June 2021. The Committee remains central  IA
in them; L
to the oversight of the Group’s financial reporting,    S
risk management, control and assurance processes  – reviewing the contents of the Annual Report and Accounts and  TA
and internal and external audit. advising the Board on whether, taken as a whole, they are fair,  TE
balanced and understandable and provide the information  M
Clive Adamson necessary for shareholders to assess the Company’s  EN
Chair performance, business model and strategy; TS
– developing proposals in respect of overall risk appetite and 
Activities and membership tolerance as well as metrics to monitor the Group’s risk 
The Committee held four scheduled meetings during the  management performance;
year and its activities are described on page 78. During the  – reviewing the effectiveness of the Group’s internal control and 
year under review the following Non-executive Directors  risk management systems;
served on the Committee, the membership of which was  – overseeing and challenging the day-to-day risk management and 
compliant with the Code: oversight arrangements of the executive;
– Clive Adamson (Chair) – overseeing and challenging the design and execution of stress 
and scenario testing;
– Jennifer Bingham
– providing assurance to the Board to allow the Directors to 
– Dame Anne Pringle
confirm that they have carried out a robust assessment of the 
Dame Anne Pringle retired on 30 June 2021 and was  emerging and principal risks facing the Company;
succeeded by Helen Beck as a member of the Committee 
– considering and approving the remit of the compliance, Internal 
on 1 July 2021. 
Audit and risk management functions and ensuring that they 
have adequate independence;
– monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the activities of 
With regard to the Committee’s 
the Internal Audit function and the Company’s overall 
membership, the Board is satisfied that for 
risk management and control systems;
the year under review and going forward,   – reviewing and assessing the Internal Audit plan;
I have recent and relevant financial  – reviewing the external auditor’s plan for the audit of the Group’s 
experience and the Committee as a   financial statements, reviewing and monitoring their 
independence and objectivity and approving the terms of 
whole has competence relevant to the  
engagement and proposed fees for the audit;
sector in which the Company operates.
– reviewing and monitoring the effectiveness of the external 
audit process;
– negotiating and approving the auditors’ remuneration, whether 
fees are for audit or non-audit services;
– making recommendations to the Board for a resolution to be  
put to shareholders to approve the reappointment of the 
external auditor;
– reviewing the Company’s systems and controls for detecting 
fraud and the prevention of bribery; and
– reviewing the Committee’s terms of reference, carrying out an 
annual performance evaluation exercise and reporting to the 
Board on how it has discharged its responsibilities.
Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021  77
AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE REPORT (CONTINUED)
TO PROVIDE OVERSIGHT AND CHALLENGE (CONTINUED)
In assessing the various key matters relative to its terms of  Financial statements
reference and to satisfy itself that the sources of assurance and 
The Committee reviewed the 2021 Annual Report, the interim 
information the Committee has used to carry out its role to review, 
results and reports from the external auditor, KPMG LLP,  
monitor and provide assurance or recommendations to the Board 
on the outcome of its reviews and audits in the FY2020/21.
are sufficient and objective, the Committee has adopted an 
integrated assurance approach. This approach relies not only on the  Significant accounting matters
work of the external auditor, but also management assurances 
During the year the Committee considered key accounting issues, 
received from various reports including from the Group Finance 
matters and judgements in relation to the Group’s financial 
Director, Group Head of Risk Management and Control, Group 
statements and disclosures specifically relating to:
Head of Compliance and also via the existing Ashmore governance 
framework such as specialised internal management committees.  Level 3 seed capital investments
Other independent assurance is received from the Compliance  Ashmore holds level 3 investments as a result of the Group’s 
Monitoring Programme and Internal Audit and from the externally  seeding programme. The valuation of these investments is 
audited ISAE 3402 report on the control environment. The Group  judgemental and may involve a high level of estimate uncertainty. 
Finance Director, Group Head of Risk Management, Head of  The methodology adopted to value the investments and the 
Internal Audit and Group Head of Compliance are invited to attend  sensitivity analysis around the valuation are discussed in note 19. 
the relevant sessions of each pre-scheduled meeting of  The key judgement and estimates involved are discussed in 
the Committee.  note 31. 
For each of the half year and annual financial statements, a review   The method of accounting for level 3 assets can be found in note 4.
is undertaken by a panel comprising the Group Finance Director,  
Other accounting matters
the Head of Group Finance, the Head of Investor Relations and the 
Group Company Secretary to ensure that the reporting is ‘fair,  During the year, the Committee received communications from 
balanced and understandable’ and this is taken into account by the  management and from the external auditor on other accounting 
Committee in advising the Board as to whether these criteria have  matters. The Committee has also reviewed the adoption of the 
been met.  going concern basis in preparing the interim and year end 
consolidated accounts and considered the longer-term viability 
Meetings statement for the Group, which is described in more detail on 
During the year the format for meetings of the Committee was  page 38.
changed, being divided into two sessions, the first addressing risk  During the year the Financial Reporting Council (FRC) conducted a 
management and compliance reporting and the second addressing  review of Ashmore’s 2020 accounts which was based solely on 
financial and auditing reporting. This new format is relatively early in  the FY2019/20 accounts. The FRC did not benefit from detailed 
its evolution but has improved the efficiency of meetings and  knowledge of the Group’s business or an understanding of the 
ensures that management team members’ time is optimised.  underlying transactions entered into. It was, however, conducted 
The key personnel are in attendance throughout the meeting and  by staff of the FRC who have an understanding of the relevant legal 
the Committee will assess whether this change is one which  and accounting framework. The FRC did not have any questions or 
should be continued, particularly when the meetings become  queries that they wished to raise with the Company but did make a 
in-person again.  number of small suggestions where they considered users of the 
The Committee considered a range of topics including product  accounts could benefit from added disclosures. The Audit and  
governance, balance sheet risks and risk appetite metrics,  Risk Committee discussed the FRC’s additional disclosures and 
subsidiary and funds reporting and governance, cyber security and  they have been taken into account in the preparation of the 
GDPR. The Committee received reports from the Group Head of  FY2020/21 accounts.
Compliance, the Head of Internal Audit and the Group Head of Risk 
UK Corporate Governance Code
Management and Control, including in relation to the Annual 
Review of Risk Management and Internal Control Systems. The  A separate Corporate governance report is included on pages 69 to 
number of Committee meetings and their attendance by the  76 which includes explanation of how the Group has applied each 
Directors are set out in the table on page 62. The Committee met  of the principles of the 2018 UK Corporate Governance Code.
four times during the year under review. Scheduled meetings of 
External auditor
the Committee take place on the day prior to a Board meeting to 
maximise the efficiency of interaction with the Board. The Chair,  For FY2020/21 Thomas Brown was the KPMG audit partner, having 
reports to the Board on the business of any Committee meetings,  first assumed responsibility for the audit of the Group in FY2016/17. 
as part of a separate agenda item at the next following Board  The FRC’s Ethical Standards for Auditors require that for a listed entity, 
meeting. All Non-executive Directors are invited to attend meetings  the auditor rotate the audit partners every five years. Accordingly a 
of the Committee. new KPMG audit partner will be appointed for FY2021/22.
The Chair of the Committee also holds one-to-one meetings, prior  The external auditor attends the relevant sessions of all meetings 
to each Committee meeting, with the Head of Internal Audit, the  of the Committee. It is the responsibility of the Committee to 
Group Head of Risk Management and Control, the Group Head of  monitor the performance, objectivity and independence of the 
Compliance, the Group Finance Director and the external auditor. external auditor. The Committee discusses and agrees the scope 
of the audit plan for the full year and the review plan for the interim 
statement with the auditor.
78  Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021
S
T
R
A
T
E
G
IC
 R
E
P
O
R
The external auditor provides reports at each Committee meeting  The Code requires disclosure of the length of tenure of the current  T
 
on topics such as the control environment, key accounting matters  audit firm and when a tender was last conducted, as well as 
and mandatory communications. advance notice of any re-tendering plans. KPMG LLP (and its prior 
entity KPMG Audit plc) have acted as the auditor to the Company  G
External auditor independence O
since the IPO in October 2006 and the lead audit partner rotates  V
The Committee has agreed the types of permitted and non-permitted  every five years to assure independence. The Committee  ER
N
non-audit services and those which require explicit prior approval.  undertook a comprehensive tender process in March 2016 for the  A
All contracts for non-audit services in excess of £25,000 must   audit in relation to the year ending 30 June 2017 and has no plans  N
C
be notified to and approved by the Chair of the Committee.  to re-tender the audit at the present time. E 
KPMG announced in November 2018 that they would cease to 
At the end of each Committee meeting, the Non-executive  F
provide permissible non-audit services to their FTSE 350 audit clients  Directors meet with the external and internal auditors without the  IN
(including the Company), unless the services in question are closely  A
Executive Directors present so as to provide a forum to raise any  N
related to audit, which the majority of the services provided by  C
matters of concern in confidence. IA
KPMG to the Group are.  L
In order to assess the effectiveness of the external audit process,   S
During FY2020/21 the value of non-audit services provided by  T
the Committee asked detailed questions of key members of  A
KPMG LLP amounted to £0.2 million (FY2019/20: £0.1 million).  T
management. Based on this review the Committee concurred with  E
Non-audit services as a proportion of total fees paid to the auditor  M
management’s view that there had been appropriate focus and  E
were approximately 22% (FY2019/20: 17%). The overall quantum  N
challenge of the primary areas of audit risk and assessed the quality  T
of non-audit services is not considered to be significant given that  S
of the audit to be satisfactory. The Committee receives reports from 
Ashmore operates within a highly regulated market and that a 
the auditors on current and pending legal and regulatory actions 
significant proportion of the non-audit services provided relate to 
being brought against KPMG. The Committee is satisfied with the 
the following matters:
work of KPMG LLP and that it continues to remain objective and 
– reporting on the half-year financial statements; independent. The Committee has therefore recommended to the 
– providing regular mandatory assurance reports in relation   Board that a resolution be put to shareholders for the reappointment 
to client assets to the FCA (as the regulator of Ashmore  of the auditor, and its remuneration and terms of engagement, at the 
Investment Management Limited and Ashmore Investment  Annual General Meeting of the Company.
Advisors Limited); and
Internal controls and risk management systems
– reporting on the internal control systems applicable to Ashmore’s 
offices in London, Dublin and Singapore as required under the  The Group Head of Risk Management and Control attends each 
international standard ISAE 3402, pursuant to investment  meeting of the Committee and provides reports to each. These 
management industry standards. reports have addressed a number of risk-related topics and have 
demonstrated how the output of the different Investment, Risk and 
The assurance provided by the Group’s external auditor on the 
Compliance and Pricing and Valuation Methodology Committees’ 
items listed above is considered by the Committee to be strictly 
discussions throughout the period have been effective in 
necessary in the interests of the business and, by their nature, 
highlighting, tracking and contributing towards managing key 
these services could not easily be provided by a separate 
market, liquidity, credit, counterparty and operational risks. 
professional auditing firm.
In particular, in relation to operational risk, the Committee has also 
During the year there were no circumstances where KPMG LLP  reviewed and discussed the Group’s Principal Risk Matrix which 
was engaged to provide services which might have led to a conflict  continues to serve as an effective tool to highlight and monitor the 
of interests. In addition to KPMG’s own policy on non-audit  principal risks facing the Group and its continued evolution, and 
services the UK audit legislation restricts the non-audit services  reflects changes in the business profile of the Group and the 
which can be provided by the auditor. In compliance with this  corresponding impact on internal controls and related processes.
requirement, Deloitte provide independent tax advice services to 
The Committee also received an annual report on, and conducted a 
the Group.
review and evaluation of, the system of internal controls and risk 
The UK audit legislation also imposes a fee cap of 70% of the  management operated within the Company pursuant to the 
average statutory audit fees paid in the last three consecutive  Financial Reporting Council guidance, ‘Guidance on Risk 
years. This cap did not restrict KPMG from continuing to undertake  Management, Internal Control and Related Financial and Business 
assurance, verification and reporting work in other required areas  Reporting’, prior to final review by the Board.
described above such as to the FCA and ISAE 3402.
A detailed description of the risk management framework and the 
The Committee is mindful of the various legal and regulatory  manner in which risks are identified and managed is set out on 
requirements for rotation and tendering of the external audit  pages 36 to 41.
including the EU Audit Regulation 537/14, now implemented  
in the UK through the Statutory Auditors and Third Country 
Auditors regulations 2016 (SI 2016/649) (UK audit legislation), the 
Competition and Markets Authority Order and the UK Corporate 
Governance Code. Mandatory audit firm rotation is required after 
20 years and a re-tender must be conducted at least every 10 years. 
Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021  79
AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE REPORT (CONTINUED)
TO PROVIDE OVERSIGHT AND CHALLENGE (CONTINUED)
Internal audit Information security
The Head of Internal Audit has regular meetings with the Chair   Information security (including cyber security) is identified as  
of the Committee and attends all meetings of the Committee to  a key principal risk to the business which is subject to Ashmore’s 
present reports on the Internal Audit findings and on the proposed  governance, policies and procedures and risk assessment.  
programme of reviews. The Committee continues to monitor the  The Committee receives annual updates from the Ashmore IT 
Internal Audit plan on an ongoing basis to ensure that it remains  Department on potential cyber security threats and how Ashmore 
relevant to the needs of the business and to ensure that it can be  would respond to a significant event. During the year the Board, 
adapted or changed if a particular focus area necessitates this. including all of the Committee members, also attended a separate 
bespoke training session on cyber security from the Head of 
During the year, the Committee received presentations from 
IT Infrastructure.
Internal Audit on a number of topics including the Internal Audit 
plan for the year and the outcomes of any internal audits conducted  Funds’ audits
during the period under review. The Committee also received 
The Committee met with and received reports from the 
presentations from Internal Audit on the implementation of the 
independent auditors of Ashmore’s SICAV, US, Guernsey and 
assurance framework in the year and the results of the assurance 
Cayman funds on the conduct of those audits and outcomes 
review over the effectiveness of the controls and mitigants in  
from them.
place for the principal risks. Based on the work described, and  
in accordance with the requirements of the Chartered Institute   Audit and Risk Committee effectiveness
of Internal Auditors’ revised Financial Services Code guidance, 
An externally facilitated evaluation was conducted by Korn Ferry 
Internal Audit has provided the Committee with its assessment of 
which included a review of the effectiveness of the Committee as 
the overall effectiveness of Ashmore’s governance and risk and 
well as the individual Directors. Following this evaluation the Board 
control framework and its conclusions with regard to Ashmore’s 
has concluded that the Committee is working effectively.
adherence to its risk appetite framework.
Internal Audit provides annual confirmations to the Committee  
on four areas: internal independence, Internal Audit‘s ongoing  Clive Adamson
conformance with relevant professional standards, any potential  Chair of the Audit and Risk Committee
conflicts of interest and the ongoing suitability of the Internal  
Audit terms of reference. In addition, the Financial Services Code  2 September 2021
recommends that committees should obtain an independent and 
objective external assessment of the Internal Audit function at  
least every five years, and that this assessment should explicitly 
include whether Internal Audit conforms with the Financial Services 
Code guidance.
After due consideration, and in accordance with the Financial 
Services Code guidance, the Committee remains satisfied that the 
quality, experience and expertise of the Internal Audit function are 
appropriate for the business and that it has adequate resources to 
fulfil its remit.
Compliance
In order to ensure a co-ordinated reporting process with the Risk 
Management and Internal Audit functions, the Group Head of 
Compliance is invited to attend and present to the Committee. 
Reports will include details of the Group’s relations with regulators; 
the Compliance monitoring programme; material breaches, 
errors and complaints; and retail conduct risk, anti-money 
laundering controls and sanctions compliance. The Committee  
also approve the Compliance monitoring plan and reviews the 
Group’s procedures for ensuring compliance with regulatory 
reporting requirements.
80  Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021
NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE REPORT S
T
R
A
T
TO ENSURE A FAIR E
G
IC
 R
E
P
O
R
AND BALANCED BOARD T
 
G
O
V
E
R
N
A
The ongoing responsibilities of the Committee include the following: N
C
E
– reviewing the structure, size and composition (including the skills,   
knowledge and experience) of the Board and its committees; and
F
There were no changes to the membership of the  – reviewing annually the time required from each Non-executive  IN
A
Nominations Committee (the Committee) this year.  Director, using performance evaluation to assess whether the  N
C
The Company’s 2020/21 financial year was a year in  Non-executive Director is giving sufficient commitment to the role. IA
L
which the Board and committee structure put in place  The Committee’s terms of reference also include a number of   S
in the 2018 financial year continued to operate  provisions which were added specifically to ensure compliance with  TA
effectively for the benefit of the Group. the 2018 UK Corporate Governance Code. These include provisions  TE
M
During the year, the Committee discussed succession  for the Committee to: EN
planning for both the Board and the senior  i. ensure candidates are not ‘overboarded’ and have sufficient time  TS
management. The Committee was able to satisfy itself  available to discharge their duties;
that the plans in place were suitable and could be relied  ii. consider candidates on merit and against objective criteria and 
upon in the event of any unexpected developments.  within this context promote diversity of gender, social and ethnic 
backgrounds, cognitive and personal strengths;
Dame Anne Pringle retired from the Board on  
iii. make arrangements for existing Directors to seek Board approval 
30 June 2021 and Helen Beck, who joined the Board 
in advance of taking on any significant new commitment with the 
on 1 June 2021, joined the Committee on 1 July 2021.
reasons for approval being explained in the Annual Report;
David Bennett iv. make recommendations to the Board concerning the diversity 
Chairman policy of the Group, ensuring that candidate pools for Board or 
senior management appointments (whilst being assembled on 
Activities merit) wherever possible include candidates of different gender, 
During the year under review the Committee, which met  ethnic and social backgrounds; and
twice, comprised the following Non-executive Directors  v. ensure that, in normal circumstances, a Chair of the Board shall 
and was fully compliant with the Code: not serve for longer than nine years from the date on which they 
were first appointed to the Board.
– David Bennett (Chair)
– Clive Adamson In making recommendations to the Board concerning the  
diversity policy, the Committee takes account of the need for  
– Jennifer Bingham
a ‘diverse pipeline’ for succession to both Board and senior 
– Dame Anne Pringle
management positions whilst accepting that with a workforce of 
Dame Anne Pringle retired on 30 June 2021 and was  only 310 employees globally, it is unrealistic to expect a ‘diverse 
succeeded by Helen Beck as a member of the Committee  pipeline’ to be available from within the organisation for every senior 
on 1 July 2021. management vacancy. To counterbalance this, the terms of 
reference of the Committee provide that it will focus on diversity 
within candidate pools. The Group’s policy on diversity is described 
in the Directors’ report on page 117.
Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021  81
NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE REPORT (CONTINUED)
TO ENSURE A FAIR AND BALANCED BOARD (CONTINUED)
The Committee considers the appointment and replacement of 
Directors subject to the rules set out in the Articles of Association. 
In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code the 
Committee will consider the balance of skills, experience, 
independence and knowledge on the Board in filling any vacancies. 
The Committee may engage an independent search consultant 
with no connection to the Ashmore Group to find appropriate 
candidates for the Board with the requisite skills, and in doing so 
will take account of relevant guidelines and legislation relating to 
the appointment of individuals to boards (including but not limited 
to the Equality Act 2010 and guidance from the Equality and 
Human Rights Commission). The Committee may also consider 
candidates introduced to the Company from other sources. 
The Committee has not set any measurable objectives for diversity 
(including gender diversity) in making Board appointments, 
but meets the target set by the Davies report of 33% female 
representation on the Board. Details of the gender balance of the 
senior management and the workforce as a whole are provided 
on page 54.
The members of the Committee have the appropriate balance of 
skills, experience, independence and knowledge of the Company 
to enable them to discharge their respective duties and 
responsibilities effectively.
The number of Committee meetings and their attendance by the 
Directors are set out in the table on page 67.
An externally facilitated evaluation was conducted by Korn Ferry 
which included a review of the effectiveness of the Committee as 
well as the individual Directors. Following this evaluation the Board 
has concluded that the Committee is working effectively.
David Bennett
Chair of the Nominations Committee
2 September 2021
82  Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021
REMUNERATION REPORT  S
T
R
A
T
REMUNERATION  E
G
IC
 R
E
P
O
COMMITTEE   R
T
 
G
O
V
E
R
N
A
Introduction  The Remuneration policy has been designed with our team-based  N
C
approach in mind and is a material driver of culture and employee  E
As Chair of the Remuneration Committee, and on behalf of the   
retention, with its focus both on the long-term alignment of  
Board, I am pleased to introduce our Directors’ Remuneration 
F
report for the year ended 30 June 2021.  the interests of employees, clients and shareholders, and a  IN
proportionality of reward outcome, where the link between reward,  A
N
This is my first report as Chair of the Committee having joined the  strategy execution and long-term performance is very clear, and  C
Ashmore Group plc Board on 1 June 2021 and having succeeded  where poor performance outcomes are not rewarded. This has  IAL
Dame Anne Pringle as Chair with effect from 1 July 2021. I would  been demonstrated in the period since Ashmore listed, where the   S
T
like to thank Dame Anne Pringle for her work as a member of the  CEO was paid no annual bonus in 2009, 2014 or last year in 2020.  A
T
Remuneration Committee, which she joined in October 2013, for  Over the same period there has been significant variability in the  EM
her time as Chair, a role she held since October 2018, for her time  percentage of profits which have been paid to the employees   E
N
during this period of hand over and her insights into the activities   in aggregate, as the total sum available for annual variable  T
S
of the Committee throughout the year. All other Remuneration  remuneration is capped each year; this has ranged between 14% 
Committee members have served on the Committee for a number  and 22.5% of EBVCIT, again demonstrating a strong emphasis on 
of years.  the Remuneration Committee exercising its judgement to reward 
Post AGM feedback and next steps  performance or otherwise.  
At the Company’s Annual General Meeting (AGM), held on  The current Remuneration policy ensures that between 40% and 
16 October 2020, all resolutions were passed and there was an  77% of the variable pay of Executive Directors is deferred for five 
increase in shareholder support for the Remuneration report in  years into Ashmore Group plc shares. With a low basic salary and 
comparison to the 2019 AGM. However, the vote of shareholders  no separate LTIP, this also results in a very high proportion of total 
against the Remuneration policy was 30.84% and the Company  remuneration being deferred into shares, and also being subject to 
announced that it would continue its dialogue with shareholders in  malus and clawback policies. 
order to understand their views. 
Ashmore’s team-based approach to investment management is 
Following the AGM, the Company continued to communicate with  mirrored across all areas of the business, with a collegiate, 
its shareholders, including those who voted against the  collaborative, pragmatic, client-focused and mutually supportive 
Remuneration policy, and I would like to thank shareholders for  culture being the result. It has been critical to the firm’s success 
their ongoing feedback on behalf of the Remuneration Committee.   that this approach has been maintained through market cycles,  
with continuity of personnel in the investment management teams, 
The Remuneration Committee has discussed the views expressed 
distribution and support functions, all of whom are remunerated 
by investors and there continues to be broad based support for 
through a similar pay structure. 
Ashmore’s flexible and equity-orientated Group-wide Remuneration 
policy, although certain shareholder corporate governance and  The policy therefore allows the Remuneration Committee to vary the 
proxy adviser teams remain opposed to specific elements of the  awards made to senior managers and Executive Directors in order 
Remuneration policy which, when looked at in isolation, do not  to reflect the performance of both the business and the individual in 
conform to generic executive remuneration guidelines.   any given period. 
The importance of remuneration in shaping a  This approach supports the Group’s strategy and provides significant 
resilient culture  cost flexibility in a cyclical business, thus aligning the interests of 
clients, shareholders and employees through market cycles, and 
One key element of Ashmore’s remuneration structure is that it has 
which in combination with ongoing performance conditions, seeks 
been designed to apply to all Ashmore Group employees, not just 
to support and encourage long-term decision making.  
the Executive Directors, which is a material factor in defining and 
shaping both the Remuneration policy and Ashmore’s resilient   
culture as an organisation.  
Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2021    83 
Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021  83
REMUNERATION REPORT (CONTINUED) 
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE (CONTINUED) 
Performance assessment and bonus awards for  UK Investment Firm Prudential Regime (IFPR) 
FY2020/21 
Ashmore’s UK regulated business will be subject to IFPR when  
As has been noted elsewhere in the report, Ashmore’s established  it is introduced on 1 January 2022. The Executive Directors and 
business model has operated as expected over FY2020/21 and  other senior employees whose remuneration is determined by  
delivered strong investment performance with 96% of AuM  the Remuneration Committee will be subject to the MIFIDPRU 
outperforming benchmarks over one year, higher performance fees  Remuneration Code for the performance period commencing 
and a return to net inflows in the second half of the year. While  1 July 2022. Ashmore engaged with the FCA in response to  
there was strong growth in statutory profits, lower adjusted profits  their consultation paper which related to remuneration matters. 
reflect the state of the recovery cycle.  As stated earlier, Ashmore believes remuneration is a subject 
which is material to the culture of the organisation as a whole, 
There were no major changes to the Executive Directors’ 
given the Remuneration policy at Ashmore has been designed to 
remuneration as this was the first application of the policy approved 
consistently apply to all Ashmore Group employees, not just 
at the October 2020 AGM. 
Executive Directors and senior managers.  
As can be seen in more detail later in the report on page 97, the 
Looking forwards 
outcome of the Committee’s deliberations in a year demonstrating 
exceptionally strong fund performance and a return to AuM growth,  Once the impact of the final IFPR rules on the Directors’ 
but in which adjusted profits were reduced relative to FY2019/20,  Remuneration policy, approved by shareholders at the 16 October 
was to award a bonus to the CEO of £1,500,000.   2020 AGM, is clear, the Remuneration Committee will actively 
seek to engage with shareholders on any planned changes to the 
The GFD demonstrated strong personal performance, but in a 
Remuneration policy. The Committee will also continue to monitor 
business with reduced profitability the Committee determined  
other developments in remuneration. 
that his bonus should be reduced by 6% relative to FY 2019/20 
to £850,000.   This year’s report is split into four sections to enable ready access 
to information which may be of specific interest to shareholders:  
The Committee determined that in order to appropriately  
recognise the significant improvement in investment performance  1.  An ‘at a glance’ summary, detailing this year’s remuneration 
it increased the percentage of EBVCIT made available for variable  outcomes for the CEO and GFD;  
compensation, setting it at 22% (FY2019/20: 19.5%), whilst 
2.  The Remuneration Committee’s assessment of the Executive 
recognising that in absolute terms this equates to a total sum 
Directors’ performance for FY2020/21, including the key 
which is 3% lower than in FY2019/20 reflecting the lower 
metrics behind that assessment; 
adjusted profits.  
3.  The Directors’ Remuneration policy, which was approved  
The Remuneration Committee considered the performance  
by shareholders at the October 2020 AGM for three years; and 
of the Executive Directors in the round, taking into account their 
performance criteria, and determined that the bonus awards for the  4.  The Annual Report on Remuneration, which explains how the 
Executive Directors are fair and justified and therefore no further  current Remuneration policy has been applied during the year 
discretion has been applied or any malus or clawback.   and which will be subject to an advisory vote at the Annual 
General Meeting on 15 October 2021. 
Remuneration Structure for FY2021/22 
Together with my colleagues on the Remuneration Committee 
Environmental, social and governance 
I would welcome your support for the 2021 Annual Report 
Ashmore has been active in ESG initiatives for a number of years  on Remuneration. 
and has a well established Foundation, whose activities are detailed 
 
on pages 64 to 65 of this report. The Committee has considered 
the actions taken during FY2020/21 in relation to ESG when  Helen Beck 
determining variable remuneration levels, detailed within this  Chair of the Remuneration Committee 
report, and will build on this aspect of performance measurement 
in the coming period.  2 September 2021 
 
84    Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2021 
84  Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021
REMUNERATION REPORT (CONTINUED)    S
T
R
A
T
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE (CONTINUED)    E
G
IC
 R
E
P
O
R
Performance assessment and bonus awards for  UK Investment Firm Prudential Regime (IFPR)                T 
FY2020/21  Ashmore’s UK regulated business will be subject to IFPR when     Activities of the Remuneration Committee      Terms of reference    
As has been noted elsewhere in the report, Ashmore’s established  it is introduced on 1 January 2022. The Executive Directors and  During FY2020/21, the Remuneration  The terms of reference for the  G
business model has operated as expected over FY2020/21 and  other senior employees whose remuneration is determined by   O
Committee comprised the following  Remuneration Committee include:   V
delivered strong investment performance with 96% of AuM  the Remuneration Committee will be subject to the MIFIDPRU  E
outperforming benchmarks over one year, higher performance fees  Remuneration Code for the performance period commencing  Non-executive Directors and was fully  RN
A
and a return to net inflows in the second half of the year. While  1 July 2022. Ashmore engaged with the FCA in response to   compliant with the Code:  – reviewing the ongoing appropriateness and relevance of  N
there was strong growth in statutory profits, lower adjusted profits  their consultation paper which related to remuneration matters.  the Remuneration policy;  CE
 
reflect the state of the recovery cycle.  As stated earlier, Ashmore believes remuneration is a subject  – reviewing the design of all incentive and share incentive 
– Dame Anne Pringle  
which is material to the culture of the organisation as a whole,  plans for approval by the Board and shareholders;   F
There were no major changes to the Executive Directors’  – Clive Adamson   IN
raet mthuen Oercattoiobne ra s2 0th2i0s  AwGaMs t.h e first application of the policy approved  gcoivnesnis ttheen tRlye ampupnlye rtaot iaolln A psohlimcyo raet  AGsrohumpo erem hpalosy beeeesn,  ndoets jiugsnte d to  – David Bennett  – tehnes uCroinmg ptahnayt  mareem prboevrisd eodf  twheit he xaepcpurotipveria mtea innacgeenmtiveenst  toof   ANC
Executive Directors and senior managers.   – Jennifer Bingham   encourage enhanced performance and that remuneration  IA
L
As can be seen in more detail later in the report on page 97, the  Looking forwards  The members of the Remuneration Committee have the  incentives are compatible with the Company’s risk policies   S
outcome of the Committee’s deliberations in a year demonstrating  appropriate balance of skills, experience, independence and  and systems;   TA
ebxuct einp twiohniaclhly a sdtjruosntge dfu pnrdo fpitesr fwoermrea rnecdeu acnedd  are rleattuivren  ttoo  FAYu2M01 g9r/o2w0,t h,  ORenmceu tnheera imtiopna pcto loicf yt,h aep fpinroavl IeFdP bRy r suhleasr eohno tldheer Ds iaret cthtoer s1’6  October  knowledge of the Company to enable them to discharge   – making recommendations to the Board as to the  TEM
their respective duties and responsibilities effectively, and  Company’s framework or policy for the remuneration of  E
was to award a bonus to the CEO of £1,500,000.   2020 AGM, is clear, the Remuneration Committee will actively  N
met five times during the year. The Directors’ attendance at  the Chairman, the Executive Directors and the Company  T
seek to engage with shareholders on any planned changes to the  S
The GFD demonstrated strong personal performance, but in a  the Remuneration Committee meetings is set out in the table  Secretary and to determine their total individual 
Remuneration policy. The Committee will also continue to monitor 
business with reduced profitability the Committee determined   on page 67. Helen Beck attended one meeting during  remuneration packages including bonuses, incentive 
other developments in remuneration. 
that his bonus should be reduced by 6% relative to FY 2019/20  FY2020/21 as an observer, after her appointment to the  payments and share options or other share awards;  
to £850,000.   This year’s report is split into four sections to enable ready access  Board on 1 June 2021.  – ensuring that a significant proportion of Executive 
to information which may be of specific interest to shareholders:  
The Committee determined that in order to appropriately   Regulatory considerations for FY2020/21  Directors’ remuneration is structured so as to link rewards 
recognise the significant improvement in investment performance  1.  An ‘at a glance’ summary, detailing this year’s remuneration  to corporate and individual performance and that 
For remuneration relating to FY2020/21, the Remuneration 
it increased the percentage of EBVCIT made available for variable  outcomes for the CEO and GFD;   performance conditions are stretching and designed to 
Committee has again ensured that pay will be delivered to 
compensation, setting it at 22% (FY2019/20: 19.5%), whilst  promote the long-term success of the Company; and 
2.  The Remuneration Committee’s assessment of the Executive  Executive Directors and other employees categorised by the 
recognising that in absolute terms this equates to a total sum  – ensuring that contractual terms on termination, and any 
Directors’ performance for FY2020/21, including the key  FCA as Identified Staff, consistent with the requirements of 
which is 3% lower than in FY2019/20 reflecting the lower  payments made, are fair to the individual and the 
metrics behind that assessment;  the Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive. This has 
adjusted profits.   Company, that failure is not rewarded and that the  
meant that Executive Directors and other relevant employees 
3.  The Directors’ Remuneration policy, which was approved   duty to mitigate loss is fully recognised. 
The Remuneration Committee considered the performance   will receive a proportion of their cash bonus delivered as a 
by shareholders at the October 2020 AGM for three years; and 
of the Executive Directors in the round, taking into account their  further award of restricted shares which are retained and 
performance criteria, and determined that the bonus awards for the  4.  The Annual Report on Remuneration, which explains how the  restricted from sale for a six-month period, rather than as 
Executive Directors are fair and justified and therefore no further  current Remuneration policy has been applied during the year  cash. Further details of this can be found in the Annual 
discretion has been applied or any malus or clawback.   and which will be subject to an advisory vote at the Annual  Report on Remuneration on page 105. Throughout the period 
General Meeting on 15 October 2021.  regular regulatory updates were provided to the Committee. 
Remuneration Structure for FY2021/22 
Together with my colleagues on the Remuneration Committee  Ashmore’s UK employee headcount remains significantly 
Environmental, social and governance 
I would welcome your support for the 2021 Annual Report  under 250, and as a result of this, Ashmore is not required to 
Ashmore has been active in ESG initiatives for a number of years  on Remuneration.  include a CEO pay ratio calculation as part of the 
and has a well established Foundation, whose activities are detailed  remuneration report. 
 
on pages 64 to 65 of this report. The Committee has considered 
Consideration of malus and clawback 
the actions taken during FY2020/21 in relation to ESG when  Helen Beck 
for FY2020/21 
determining variable remuneration levels, detailed within this  Chair of the Remuneration Committee 
report, and will build on this aspect of performance measurement  A malus and clawback principle applies to variable 
in the coming period.  2 September 2021  remuneration awarded to senior staff including Executive 
Directors, enabling the Remuneration Committee to recoup 
 
variable remuneration under certain circumstances. Malus and 
clawback can be applied to both the cash and share-based 
elements of variable remuneration, via the reduction or 
cancellation of any outstanding unvested deferred share 
awards regardless of the year to which they relate, or via the 
repayment of amounts to the Company. The Remuneration 
Committee considered there were no events or circumstances
that would have made it appropriate to recoup remuneration 
during FY2020/21.   
             
 
84    Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2021  Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2021    85 
Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021  85
REMUNERATION REPORT (CONTINUED) 
ASHMORE’S APPROACH  
TO REMUNERATION 
The Remuneration Committee is guided by  …with a comprehensive approach to 
a clear set of remuneration principles…  determining variable pay outcomes… 
These principles assist the Committee in determining its policy  The Remuneration Committee determines annual 
  and practices, and are in compliance with Provision 40 of the  bonus awards based on a balanced scorecard of 
UK Corporate Governance Code.    factors at both the Group and individual level, 
and applies discretion rather than a formulaic 
1. Discretion and flexibility 
approach in order to deliver outcomes which 
Variable remuneration is not formulaic or capped at an 
individual level, albeit there is a cap at an aggregate level, and  reflect the best value for shareholders. 
as such the Remuneration Committee has complete discretion  Factors considered include: 
to ensure that awards reflect business and individual 
performance, thus the behavioural risk arising from target  – Group financial performance; 
based incentive plans is not present.  – The overall bonus pool available in the period; 
Malus and clawback may be applied by the Remuneration  – Input from the Group Head Compliance and the Group Head 
Committee to all elements of variable remuneration.   of Risk Management and Control regarding organisational 
and individual performance in these areas over the year; 
  The Remuneration Committee is able to apply an ex-ante risk 
– Progress in relation to the Group’s strategic objectives; 
adjustment to the bonus pool to reflect any concerns arising.   
– Annual appraisals or short-term performance measures  
2. Alignment with stakeholders  for each individual, assessing their overall achievements, 
Base salaries are capped and set at the lower end of market  impact and contribution through the performance year; 
levels to ensure fixed costs are tightly controlled.  – Absolute and relative investment performance for each 
On an annual basis the bonus pool is derived solely from  investment theme over one, three and five years; 
profits made in the year and has been capped at 25% of  – Movement in assets under management; 
earnings before variable compensation, interest and tax,  – Movement in management fee margins; 
ensuring predictability of overall outcomes.   – FX, treasury and seed capital management outcomes; 
Up to 77% of variable remuneration is delivered in Ashmore  – Cost management; 
Group plc shares, restricted and deferred for five years.   – Subsidiary, local asset management and  
joint venture development; 
A significant proportion of Executive Directors’ variable 
remuneration will only vest subject to the achievement of  – Employee turnover, retention of key employees,  
  stretching performance targets, closely aligned with the  recruitment and succession planning; 
Group’s key performance indicators.     – Culture and Conduct Risk indicators; 
– Compliance with relevant regulatory and corporate 
3. Consistency across the Group 
governance requirements; 
The clear and simple Remuneration policy applies to all 
– Environmental, social and governance matters; 
Ashmore Group plc employees, including Executive Directors, 
– Management of the impact of in-year events; 
which is a material factor in defining and shaping both the 
Remuneration policy and Ashmore’s culture as an organisation. – Quality, accuracy and timeliness of financial reporting; and 
– Whether any instances have occurred that may warrant  
  Executive Directors receive the same level of pension 
the application of malus or clawback to previously  
contributions as other employees.   
granted awards. 
4. Pay for long-term performance   
The Remuneration Committee considers the performance of 
Executive Directors and senior managers over the long term, taking 
account of progress over a multi-year period and annual performance 
in the context of the business and progress made towards both its 
strategic objectives and its key performance indicators. 
  Vesting of awards, which are subject to performance 
conditions, is subject to a five-year performance period.       
   
86    Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2021 
86  Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021
REMUNERATION REPORT (CONTINUED)    S
T
R
A
T
ASHMORE’S APPROACH     E
G
IC
 R
E
P
O
TO REMUNERATION  R
T
 
G
O
V
E
R
N
A
The Remuneration Committee is guided by  …with a comprehensive approach to  …underpinned by consistent key performance  …delivering a strong equity   N
C
E
a clear set of remuneration principles…  determining variable pay outcomes…  indicators and strategic priorities…  ownership culture   
F
IN
These principles assist the Committee in determining its policy  The Remuneration Committee determines annual  Vesting of restricted share awards is contingent  To align with, encourage and maintain Ashmore’s  A
N
  and practices, and are in compliance with Provision 40 of the  bonus awards based on a balanced scorecard of  on meeting stringent long-term performance  equity ownership culture, employees and  C
UK Corporate Governance Code.    factors at both the Group and individual level,  conditions, clearly aligned with the achievement  Executive Directors may elect to reduce their  IAL
1. Discretion and flexibility  and applies discretion rather than a formulaic  of the Group’s strategic objectives and key  annual cash bonus by up to 50%, and in exchange   ST
A
Variable remuneration is not formulaic or capped at an  approach in order to deliver outcomes which  performance indicators, leading to a  receive an equivalent value of restricted shares,  T
E
individual level, albeit there is a cap at an aggregate level, and  reflect the best value for shareholders.  proportionality of reward outcomes.  which are in turn matched with a further award of  M
E
as such the Remuneration Committee has complete discretion  Factors considered include:  restricted shares.  N
T
to ensure that awards reflect business and individual      S
performance, thus the behavioural risk arising from target  – Group financial performance;        The remuneration model generates strong retention  
based incentive plans is not present.  – The overall bonus pool available in the period;  of employees, who are able to build up a meaningful 
AuM development 
Malus and clawback may be applied by the Remuneration  – Input from the Group Head Compliance and the Group Head  shareholding in the firm over time, thus aligning them  
Committee to all elements of variable remuneration.   of Risk Management and Control regarding organisational    Compound increase in AuM (US$bn)    with the long-term interests of our clients, shareholders  
and individual performance in these areas over the year;  and their colleagues, while also complying with relevant 
  The Remuneration Committee is able to apply an ex-ante risk    remuneration regulations and encouraging behaviours 
– Progress in relation to the Group’s strategic objectives; 
adjustment to the bonus pool to reflect any concerns arising.    2021 94.4 consistent with Ashmore’s culture and strategy.  
– Annual appraisals or short-term performance measures  
2020 83.6
2. Alignment with stakeholders  for each individual, assessing their overall achievements,      The five-year deferral and cliff vesting of share awards also 
Base salaries are capped and set at the lower end of market  impact and contribution through the performance year;  2019 91.8 provides a smoothing of income over time which again aids 
levels to ensure fixed costs are tightly controlled.  – Absolute and relative investment performance for each  2018 73.9 retention of employees through market cycles.  
On an annual basis the bonus pool is derived solely from  investment theme over one, three and five years;  2017 58.7
profits made in the year and has been capped at 25% of  – Movement in assets under management;      0 20 40 60 80 100   40%  
earnings before variable compensation, interest and tax,  – Movement in management fee margins;       
ensuring predictability of overall outcomes.   – FX, treasury and seed capital management outcomes;  Investment performance 
Up to 77% of variable remuneration is delivered in Ashmore  – Cost management; 
  % of AuM outperforming benchmarks   
Group plc shares, restricted and deferred for five years.   – Subsidiary, local asset management and  
Approximately 40% of outstanding shares  
joint venture development; 
A significant proportion of Executive Directors’ variable  are either owned directly or as restricted  
remuneration will only vest subject to the achievement of  – Employee turnover, retention of key employees,     5 years 79%   share awards by employees, who average  
  stretching performance targets, closely aligned with the  recruitment and succession planning;  3 years 57% over seven years of service 
Group’s key performance indicators.     – Culture and Conduct Risk indicators; 
 
– Compliance with relevant regulatory and corporate 
3. Consistency across the Group       
governance requirements; 
The clear and simple Remuneration policy applies to all       
– Environmental, social and governance matters; 
Ashmore Group plc employees, including Executive Directors, 
– Management of the impact of in-year events;  Profitability 
which is a material factor in defining and shaping both the 
Remuneration policy and Ashmore’s culture as an organisation. – Quality, accuracy and timeliness of financial reporting; and  Diluted EPS performance relative to  
– Whether any instances have occurred that may warrant     Emerging Markets Indices   
  Executive Directors receive the same level of pension 
the application of malus or clawback to previously  
contributions as other employees.   
granted awards. 
2021 23.0
4. Pay for long-term performance   
2020 3.0
The Remuneration Committee considers the performance of 
Executive Directors and senior managers over the long term, taking    2019 10.5  
account of progress over a multi-year period and annual performance  2018 (9.6)
in the context of the business and progress made towards both its 
2017 23.6
strategic objectives and its key performance indicators. 
-10 -5 0 5 10 15 20 25
  Vesting of awards, which are subject to performance 
   
conditions, is subject to a five-year performance period.       
             
 
86    Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2021  Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2021    87 
Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021  87
REMUNERATION REPORT (CONTINUED) 
REMUNERATION  
AT A GLANCE  
for the year ending 30 June 2021 
 
   The Chief Executive’s remuneration outcomes      The Group Finance Director’s   
The Chief Executive has voluntarily elected to defer   remuneration outcomes 
for five years the maximum 50% of his cash bonus into an  The Group Finance Director has voluntarily elected to defer  
equivalent value of restricted shares, and as a result will  for five years the maximum 50% of his cash bonus into an 
receive a matching restricted share award. In addition the  equivalent value of restricted shares, and as a result will 
Chief Executive has elected to waive ten percent of his bonus,  receive a matching restricted share award.  
other than the element which is delivered in a prescribed form 
The Group Finance Director’s annual bonus comprising cash 
to comply with the AIFMD remuneration code, to a charity or 
and restricted share awards at grant value for FY2020/21 is 
charities nominated by himself. 
£1,105,000 (FY2019/20 £1,170,000).  
The Chief Executive’s annual bonus comprising cash and 
The total sum ultimately to be received by the Group Finance 
restricted share awards at grant value for FY2020/21 is 
Director will be dependent on achievement relative to the 
£1,950,000 (£0 FY2019/20).  
performance conditions, which means that up to £297,500 of 
The total sum ultimately to be received by the Chief Executive  this sum may not be paid out when the share awards vest 
will be dependent on achievement relative to the performance  in 2026.  
conditions, which means that up to £525,000 of this sum may 
Shares awarded to the Group Finance Director in 2015 reached 
not be paid out when the share awards vest in 2026.  
their vesting date during FY2020/21. A proportion of these 
Shares awarded to the Chief Executive in 2015 reached their  awards were subject to performance conditions, based on 
vesting date during FY2020/21. A proportion of these awards  investment performance, increasing AuM, profitability and 
were subject to performance conditions, based on investment  relative TSR and partially vested once these conditions had 
performance, increasing AuM, profitability and relative TSR and  been applied. In addition, the Group Finance Director received 
partially vested once these conditions had been applied. In  £68,614 in dividend equivalents which were rolled up and paid 
addition, the Chief Executive received £205,842 in dividend  to the extent the underlying awards vested. 
equivalents which were rolled up and paid to the extent the 
underlying awards vested. 
       
Salary  5% Salary  8%
Annual cash bonus  19% Annual cash bonus  20.3%
Annual bonus deferred Annual bonus deferred
into equity  41% into equity  46.7%
Annual bonus deferred Annual bonus deferred
into equity, with additional into equity, with additional
performance conditions  26% performance conditions 24.7%
Annual bonus waived
to charity   9%
 
As has been the case in previous years, base salaries for Executive Directors have remained unchanged at £100,000, a level significantly 
below fixed pay levels for equivalent positions at peer organisations, consistent with the Company’s management of its fixed cost base and 
strong belief in pay for performance through variable remuneration. 
 
   
88    Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2021 
88  Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021
REMUNERATION REPORT (CONTINUED)    S
T
R
A
T
REMUNERATION   E
G
IC
 R
E
P
O
AT A GLANCE   R
T
 
for the year ending 30 June 2021  G
O
V
          E
R
N
  A
N
C
   The Chief Executive’s remuneration outcomes      The Group Finance Director’s      Chief Executive Officer – variable remuneration    Impact of Remuneration policy on shareholder    E
 
The Chief Executive has voluntarily elected to defer   remuneration outcomes  outcomes over time   returns across market cycles2  
F
for five years the maximum 50% of his cash bonus into an  The Group Finance Director has voluntarily elected to defer   The chart below shows variable remuneration awarded to the  The chart below shows the share of annual revenues between  IN
equivalent value of restricted shares, and as a result will  for five years the maximum 50% of his cash bonus into an  CEO each year between 2009 and 2021. As can be seen, the  shareholders, in the form of ordinary dividends and retained  AN
receive a matching restricted share award. In addition the  equivalent value of restricted shares, and as a result will  Remuneration Committee exercises its discretion in setting the  earnings, salaries, bonus and taxation. As revenues have  CIA
Chief Executive has elected to waive ten percent of his bonus,  receive a matching restricted share award.   annual level of award at an appropriate level based on the CEO’s  fluctuated through the market cycle, the Remuneration policy has  L
other than the element which is delivered in a prescribed form  performance and the performance of the business each year;   provided significant cost flexibility and therefore protected   ST
The Group Finance Director’s annual bonus comprising cash  A
to comply with the AIFMD remuneration code, to a charity or  and as such, the variation in award level is reflective of the range  returns to shareholders.  T
and restricted share awards at grant value for FY2020/21 is  E
charities nominated by himself.  of annual outcomes. In addition, as a result of the stretching  M
£1,105,000 (FY2019/20 £1,170,000).     E
The Chief Executive’s annual bonus comprising cash and  performance conditions measured over the five-year deferral  N
restricted share awards at grant value for FY2020/21 is  The total sum ultimately to be received by the Group Finance  period of restricted awards, the amount eventually received by  TS
£1,950,000 (£0 FY2019/20).   Director will be dependent on achievement relative to the  the CEO when awards vest can vary significantly from the 
performance conditions, which means that up to £297,500 of  Corhigiienaf l Eaxweacrdu atmivoeu Ontf.1ﬁ cer – Remuneration outcomes  Impact of Remuneration policy on shareholder 
The total sum ultimately to be received by the Chief Executive  this sum may not be paid out when the share awards vest  over time returns across market cycles2
will be dependent on achievement relative to the performance  in 2026.     £m    
conditions, which means that up to £525,000 of this sum may  12 100%
not be paid out when the share awards vest in 2026.   Shares awarded to the Group Finance Director in 2015 reached  10 90%
their vesting date during FY2020/21. A proportion of these  80%
Shares awarded to the Chief Executive in 2015 reached their  awards were subject to performance conditions, based on  8 70%
vesting date during FY2020/21. A proportion of these awards  investment performance, increasing AuM, profitability and  60%
6 50%
were subject to performance conditions, based on investment  relative TSR and partially vested once these conditions had  40%
performance, increasing AuM, profitability and relative TSR and  been applied. In addition, the Group Finance Director received  4 30%
partially vested once these conditions had been applied. In  £68,614 in dividend equivalents which were rolled up and paid  2 20%
addition, the Chief Executive received £205,842 in dividend  to the extent the underlying awards vested.  10%
0 0%
equivalents which were rolled up and paid to the extent the 
underlying awards vested.  2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2009 2010 2011 2012 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021
        Bonus awarded Bonus accepted Bonus received Retained earnings Dividends Taxation
Bonus awarded – includes cash paid in the year and restricted, bonus and matching  Bonus (pre tax) Salary (pre tax)
shares at grant value
Bonus received – includes cash paid in the year and the vesting value of any shares 
ﬁve years later
Bonus accepted – shows the ﬁnal amount accepted by the CEO after any waivers 
to charity or for the general beneﬁt of staff
1. This chart includes data on shares awarded between 2010 and 2015 which vested between 2015 and 2020. No cash bonus or shares were awarded in 2009, 2014 or 2020 to reflect business 
performance and the Remuneration Committee’s application of strict discretion. The chart will be updated in future years to show the vesting outcomes for shares awarded from 2016 onwards. 
2. Dividends includes the estimated cost of the proposed final dividend for FY2020/21. 
 
 
 
As has been the case in previous years, base salaries for Executive Directors have remained unchanged at £100,000, a level significantly 
below fixed pay levels for equivalent positions at peer organisations, consistent with the Company’s management of its fixed cost base and 
strong belief in pay for performance through variable remuneration. 
 
   
88    Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2021  Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2021    89 
Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021  89
REMUNERATION REPORT (CONTINUED) 
REMUNERATION AT A GLANCE (CONTINUED) 
Performance assessment of Executive Directors for the year ending 30 June 2021 
Factors the Remuneration Committee considers at a Group level 
  Group financial performance, including that reported results are a fair reflection of underlying performance and the   
Company’s liquidity and overall financial position 
  Quantitative or qualitative:   Quantitative   
  Financial or Non-Financial:   Financial   
  During FY2020/21 adjusted net revenues declined by 9% to £296.6 million (FY2019/20: £325.0 million) and adjusted EBITDA fell by   
12% to £195.7 million (FY2019/20: £222.5 million), as although over the 12-month period AuM recovered by 13%, average AuM was 
broadly flat, combined with a reduction in average management fee margin of 4bps. Continued focus on cost management meant that 
the adjusted EBITDA margin was 66%. Diluted EPS increased by 33% to 34.2p. The Group’s strong and liquid balance sheet was 
maintained with capital resources of £765.1 million and excess regulatory capital of £609.2 million. 
The Remuneration Committee is satisfied the Group has been profitable over the period and has sufficient funds available to pay staff 
bonuses without any negative impact to the Company’s liquidity and overall financial position. 
 
  The overall bonus pool available in the period, including within that the sum required to fund bonuses for staff other than the  
Executive Directors and senior management, is at an appropriate level to ensure retention and an appropriate level of reward
  Quantitative or qualitative:   Quantitative   
  Financial or Non-Financial:   Financial   
  The Awards Committee, which is chaired by the Chief Executive Officer and which receives significant input from the Human   
Resources team and line managers, proposes to the Remuneration Committee a total sum to be made available for annual bonuses. 
The aggregate sum is reached through a thorough process which includes: 
– All employees taking part in an annual appraisal and performance review process during which their individual performance is 
assessed by line managers, and reviewed by relevant senior management. 
– The Human Resources team performing a detailed annual benchmarking exercise, reviewing data from a number of external 
providers to determine current market ranges for individual roles, including for the Executive Directors. This takes into account 
Ashmore’s overarching pay model within which basic salaries are capped, and so greater attention is paid to total compensation 
levels than base salaries as employee remuneration levels increase. 
– Line managers, in conjunction with Human Resources, reviewing individual employees in the context of their personal performance, 
benchmarking data points and business performance and proposing bonus sums to the Awards Committee. 
The Human Resources team aggregates bonus proposals in order to determine total proposed spend.  
For those employees whose variable remuneration is determined by the Remuneration Committee, detailed proposals and supporting 
information, including copies of the employees’ annual appraisals, is provided to the Remuneration Committee to assist in its 
determination of both individual bonuses and the total bonus pool required.  
Once the Remuneration Committee determines the overall bonus pool, individual bonuses for Executive Directors and senior  
managers are then determined by the Remuneration Committee to ensure that the total amount proposed fits within the total sum 
available for distribution. 
Ashmore delivered strong investment performance in FY2020/21, however has lower adjusted profits than in FY2019/20. In order to 
appropriately recognise the significant improvement in investment performance the Committee has increased the percentage of 
EBVCIT made available for variable compensation, setting it at 22% (FY2019/20: 19.5%), whilst recognising that in absolute terms this 
equates to a total sum which is 3% lower than in FY2019/20 reflecting the lower adjusted profits.  
The Remuneration Committee has considered and determined variable remuneration outcomes for the senior management team and 
Executive Directors, and has reviewed and approved remuneration proposals for all Control Function employees (Risk, Compliance and Audit). 
In considering the sums required for these groups, the Remuneration Committee has also discussed remuneration outcomes for all 
other employees within the management team and has satisfied itself that there remains sufficient funding to retain and reward 
employees appropriately within the agreed 22% bonus pool. 
   
90    Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2021 
90  Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021
REMUNERATION REPORT (CONTINUED)    S
T
R
A
T
REMUNERATION AT A GLANCE (CONTINUED)    E
G
IC
 R
E
P
O
R
Performance assessment of Executive Directors for the year ending 30 June 2021  T 
  Group earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT)   
Factors the Remuneration Committee considers at a Group level 
  Quantitative or qualitative:   Quantitative   
G
  Group financial performance, including that reported results are a fair reflection of underlying performance and the      Financial or Non-Financial:   Financial    OV
E
Company’s liquidity and overall financial position      R
2019/20: £209.7m  N
  Quantitative or qualitative:   Quantitative    AN
2020/21: £258.3m  C
  Financial or Non-Financial:   Financial    E
 
  During FY2020/21 adjusted net revenues declined by 9% to £296.6 million (FY2019/20: £325.0 million) and adjusted EBITDA fell by     
F
12% to £195.7 million (FY2019/20: £222.5 million), as although over the 12-month period AuM recovered by 13%, average AuM was  IN
broadly flat, combined with a reduction in average management fee margin of 4bps. Continued focus on cost management meant that    Movement in management fee margins    AN
C
the adjusted EBITDA margin was 66%. Diluted EPS increased by 33% to 34.2p. The Group’s strong and liquid balance sheet was    Quantitative or qualitative:   Quantitative    IA
maintained with capital resources of £765.1 million and excess regulatory capital of £609.2 million.  L
  Financial or Non-Financial:   Financial     S
T
The Remuneration Committee is satisfied the Group has been profitable over the period and has sufficient funds available to pay staff  A
    T
bonuses without any negative impact to the Company’s liquidity and overall financial position.  2019/20: 45bps  E
M
E
2020/21: 41bps  N
  T
S
Approximately half of the decline in the net management fee margin compared with the prior year is explained by theme and client mix 
  The overall bonus pool available in the period, including within that the sum required to fund bonuses for staff other than the   effects. The overall impact of investment theme mix changes, for example the increase in overlay / liquidity AuM and lower average 
Executive Directors and senior management, is at an appropriate level to ensure retention and an appropriate level of reward AuM in blended debt together with a positive contribution from the growth in equities and locally-managed AuM, reduced the margin 
by one basis point. Net outflows from intermediary retail clients and other mutual fund net redemptions had a 1.5 basis points effect. 
  Quantitative or qualitative:   Quantitative   
Flows into new and existing large institutional mandates reduced the margin by less than 0.5 basis point and the remaining movement 
  Financial or Non-Financial:   Financial   
of approximately one basis point is attributable to competition and other factors. 
  The Awards Committee, which is chaired by the Chief Executive Officer and which receives significant input from the Human   
Resources team and line managers, proposes to the Remuneration Committee a total sum to be made available for annual bonuses. 
 
The aggregate sum is reached through a thorough process which includes: 
  FX, treasury and seed capital management outcomes   
– All employees taking part in an annual appraisal and performance review process during which their individual performance is 
assessed by line managers, and reviewed by relevant senior management.    Quantitative or qualitative:   Quantitative   
– The Human Resources team performing a detailed annual benchmarking exercise, reviewing data from a number of external 
  Financial or Non-Financial:   Financial   
providers to determine current market ranges for individual roles, including for the Executive Directors. This takes into account 
Ashmore’s overarching pay model within which basic salaries are capped, and so greater attention is paid to total compensation     
During FY2020/21, the Group made new seed investments of £134.6 million and successfully redeemed £106.0 million of previous 
levels than base salaries as employee remuneration levels increase. 
investments. The consequent net redemption of £28.6 million together with unrealised mark-to-market gains of £69.8 million mean the 
– Line managers, in conjunction with Human Resources, reviewing individual employees in the context of their personal performance,  market value of the Group’s seed capital investments increased from £238.4 million to £336.8 million. Ashmore has also committed 
benchmarking data points and business performance and proposing bonus sums to the Awards Committee.  £8.9 million of seed capital to funds in the alternatives theme that were undrawn at the year end, giving a total committed value  
The Human Resources team aggregates bonus proposals in order to determine total proposed spend.   for the seed capital programme of £345.7 million. The seed capital investments generated total gains of £92.5 million in the period 
including realised gains of £8.5 million. This comprises £72.5 million mark-to-market gains in respect of consolidated funds and 
For those employees whose variable remuneration is determined by the Remuneration Committee, detailed proposals and supporting 
£20.0 million gains in respect of unconsolidated funds that are reported in finance income. (FY2019/20: £7.6 million loss in the year 
information, including copies of the employees’ annual appraisals, is provided to the Remuneration Committee to assist in its 
including realised gains of £4.0 million. This comprises £9.0 million in respect of consolidated funds and £1.4m in gains in respect of 
determination of both individual bonuses and the total bonus pool required.  
unconsolidated funds that are reported in finance income). 
Once the Remuneration Committee determines the overall bonus pool, individual bonuses for Executive Directors and senior  
Revenues include a £4.3 million foreign exchange gain, delivered through active management of the Group’s Sterling and foreign 
managers are then determined by the Remuneration Committee to ensure that the total amount proposed fits within the total sum 
currency balances. 
available for distribution. 
Ashmore delivered strong investment performance in FY2020/21, however has lower adjusted profits than in FY2019/20. In order to   
appropriately recognise the significant improvement in investment performance the Committee has increased the percentage of 
   
EBVCIT made available for variable compensation, setting it at 22% (FY2019/20: 19.5%), whilst recognising that in absolute terms this 
equates to a total sum which is 3% lower than in FY2019/20 reflecting the lower adjusted profits.  
The Remuneration Committee has considered and determined variable remuneration outcomes for the senior management team and 
Executive Directors, and has reviewed and approved remuneration proposals for all Control Function employees (Risk, Compliance and Audit). 
In considering the sums required for these groups, the Remuneration Committee has also discussed remuneration outcomes for all 
other employees within the management team and has satisfied itself that there remains sufficient funding to retain and reward 
employees appropriately within the agreed 22% bonus pool. 
   
90    Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2021  Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2021    91 
Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021  91
REMUNERATION REPORT (CONTINUED) 
REMUNERATION AT A GLANCE (CONTINUED) 
Factors the Remuneration Committee considers as indicators of in-year performance 
  Cost management   
  Quantitative or qualitative:   Quantitative   
  Financial or Non-Financial:   Financial   
   
Total operating costs of £104.3 million include £1.7 million of expenses incurred by seeded funds that are required to be consolidated, 
as disclosed in note 20. On an adjusted basis, excluding the impact of seed capital and the variable compensation accrual on foreign 
exchange translation gains, operating costs were reduced by 6% to £103.7 million (FY2019/20: £105.9 million). At constant exchange 
rates, adjusted operating costs declined by 2% compared with FY2019/20. Adjusted operating costs before variable compensation 
were 6% lower at £49.0 million (FY2019/20: £52.0 million). 
 
  Absolute and relative investment performance for each of the principal investment themes over one, three and five years   
  Quantitative or qualitative:   Quantitative   
  Financial or Non-Financial:   Financial   
   
Absolute performance by theme 
% AuM outperformance within each theme as at 30 June 2021 
 By AuM    1 year   By AuM    3 year   By AuM    5 year   
  External debt    92%   External debt  36%   External debt  67%  
  Local currency     100%   Local currency   99%   Local currency   99%  
  Corporate debt    100%   Corporate debt  67%   Corporate debt  79%  
  Blended debt    98%   Blended debt  25%   Blended debt  75%  
  Equities    82%   Equities  86%   Equities  52%  
  Multi-asset    95%   Multi-asset  0%   Multi-asset  100%  
  Overall    96%   Overall  57%   Overall  79%  
   
The majority of the Group’s AuM is outperforming relative to benchmarks with 96% of AuM outperforming over one year and 57% 
over three years. 79% of assets are outperforming benchmarks over five years. 
Relative performance by theme (quartiles) 
    1 year  3 year  5 year   
       
  External debt  Q1  Q4 Q3  
  Local currency  Q1  Q2 Q1  
  Corporate debt  Q1  Q3 Q1  
  Blended debt  Q1  Q4 Q3  
  Frontier Markets equity  Q4  Q2 Q3  
  All Cap Emerging Markets equity  Q1  Q1 Q1  
  Active equity  Q1  Q1 -  
  Multi-asset   There is no relevant Multi-asset peer group  
Investment performance relative to peers is top quartile in all fixed income and the largest equity themes over one year. Local currency 
and corporate debt performance is top quartile over five years. All cap equity is top quartile over one, three and five years, active equity 
is top quartile over one and three years. One year relative performance in frontier equity, and three and five year relative performance in 
  external and blended debt is below expectations.    
 
   
92    Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2021 
92  Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021
REMUNERATION REPORT (CONTINUED)    S
T
R
A
T
REMUNERATION AT A GLANCE (CONTINUED)    E
G
IC
 R
E
P
O
  R
Factors the Remuneration Committee considers as indicators of in-year performance  T
 
  Movement in assets under management for each of the principal investment themes   
  Cost management      Quantitative or qualitative:   Quantitative   
G
  Quantitative or qualitative:   Quantitative      Financial or Non-Financial:   Financial    OV
E
  Financial or Non-Financial:   Financial      Opening AuM at 30 June 2020 was US$83.6bn    RN
A
    N
Total operating costs of £104.3 million include £1.7 million of expenses incurred by seeded funds that are required to be consolidated,  Year end AuM was US$94.4bn  C
E
as disclosed in note 20. On an adjusted basis, excluding the impact of seed capital and the variable compensation accrual on foreign  AuM  Gross AuM  
exchange translation gains, operating costs were reduced by 6% to £103.7 million (FY2019/20: £105.9 million). At constant exchange  30 June 2020  Performance subscriptions Gross redemptions  Net flows 30 June 2021
rates, adjusted operating costs declined by 2% compared with FY2019/20. Adjusted operating costs before variable compensation      US$bn  US$bn  US$bn  US$bn  US$bn    US$bn    FIN
  External debt  17.1  1.6 1.9 (2.4)  (0.5) 18.2   A
were 6% lower at £49.0 million (FY2019/20: £52.0 million).  N
  Local currency  18.7  1.9 2.4 (3.4)  (1.0) 19.6   C
IA
    Corporate debt  10.6  1.6 2.1 (3.0)  (0.9) 11.3   L S
  Blended debt  23.3  2.7 2.4 (5.0)  (2.6) 23.4   TA
  Absolute and relative investment performance for each of the principal investment themes over one, three and five years    T
  Equities  4.6  1.9 2.6 (1.7)  0.9 7.4   E
M
  Quantitative or qualitative:   Quantitative      Multi-asset  0.3  – – –  – 0.3   E
N
  Financial or Non-Financial:   Financial      Alternatives  1.4   – 0.2 (0.2)  – 1.4   TS
      Overlay/liquidity  7.6  (0.1) 6.0 (0.7)  5.3 12.8  
Absolute performance by theme 
  Total  83.6  9.6 17.6 (16.4)  1.2 94.4  
% AuM outperformance within each theme as at 30 June 2021 
   
Investment performance during the period drove 88% of the US$10.8 billion AuM increase, assisted by net flows of US$1.2 billion. 
 By AuM    1 year   By AuM    3 year   By AuM    5 year   
  External debt    92%   External debt  36%   External debt  67%  
 
  Local currency     100%   Local currency   99%   Local currency   99%  
       
  Corporate debt    100%   Corporate debt  67%   Corporate debt  79%     Progress in relation to the Company’s strategic objectives   
  Blended debt    98%   Blended debt  25%   Blended debt  75%  
  Quantitative or qualitative:   Qualitative and Quantitative   
  Equities    82%   Equities  86%   Equities  52%  
  Financial or Non-Financial:   Financial and Non-Financial   
  Multi-asset    95%   Multi-asset  0%   Multi-asset  100%  
   
  Overall    96%   Overall  57%   Overall  79%   Phase 1: Establish Emerging Markets asset class 
    Ashmore’s clients reverted to the long-term trend of raising allocations to Emerging Markets during the period. Approximately 80% of 
The majority of the Group’s AuM is outperforming relative to benchmarks with 96% of AuM outperforming over one year and 57% 
institutional net flows were from existing clients increasing allocations within existing mandates or broadening their Emerging Markets 
over three years. 79% of assets are outperforming benchmarks over five years. 
investments. 
Relative performance by theme (quartiles) 
Phase 2: Diversify investment themes and developed world capital sources 
    1 year  3 year  5 year   
Ashmore’s equities business performed well in FY2020/21, with AuM growth of 61% YoY including net inflows of US$0.9 billion. 
       
Ashmore expanded its dedicated ESG fund range with the launch of sovereign and corporate funds. 
  External debt  Q1  Q4 Q3  
  Local currency  Q1  Q2 Q1   Risk aversion resulted in the proportion of AuM sourced through intermediary retail channels dropping from 11% to 8%. 
  Corporate debt  Q1  Q3 Q1   Phase 3: Mobilise Emerging Markets capital 
  Blended debt  Q1  Q4 Q3   Local asset management operations manage US$7.2 billion, 8% of the Group’s total AuM (FY2019/20: US$5 billion, and 6%). 
  Frontier Markets equity  Q4  Q2 Q3  
More than a quarter (26%) of Group AuM is sourced from clients in the Emerging Markets. 
  All Cap Emerging Markets equity  Q1  Q1 Q1  
Overall progress towards these three strategic goals has improved through FY2020/21, as a result of strong investment performance 
  Active equity  Q1  Q1 -   and the return of the Group to net inflows. 
  Multi-asset   There is no relevant Multi-asset peer group  
        
Investment performance relative to peers is top quartile in all fixed income and the largest equity themes over one year. Local currency   
and corporate debt performance is top quartile over five years. All cap equity is top quartile over one, three and five years, active equity   
is top quartile over one and three years. One year relative performance in frontier equity, and three and five year relative performance in 
   
  external and blended debt is below expectations.    
 
   
92    Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2021  Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2021    93 
Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021  93
REMUNERATION REPORT (CONTINUED) 
REMUNERATION AT A GLANCE (CONTINUED) 
  Subsidiary, local asset management and joint venture development   
  Quantitative or qualitative:   Qualitative and Quantitative   
  Financial or Non-Financial:   Financial and Non-Financial   
   
The portfolio of local market businesses is now delivering good growth and all operations are profitable. Aggregate AuM of subsidiaries 
is US$7.2 billion, 8% of the Group’s total AuM. Ashmore Indonesia and Ashmore Saudi Arabia have developed particularly well during 
this period, with AuM managed locally increasing by 51% and 55% respectively.  
 
  Environmental, social and governance matters   
  Quantitative or qualitative:   Qualitative and Quantitative   
  Financial or Non-Financial:   Financial and Non Financial   
   
During the FY2020/21, Ashmore became a signatory to the Net Zero Asset Managers Initiative, joined the Climate Action 100+ 
initiative, and is currently participating in a collaborative engagement with an Emerging Markets issuer. The Board approved a carbon 
offsetting initiative, which through The Ashmore Foundation will seek to offset fully the Group’s emissions by supporting projects in 
developing countries with environmental and social benefits. Also during the year, the Board approved an annual charitable contribution 
equivalent to 0.5% of the Group’s profit before tax excluding unrealised seed capital gains. This means that in respect of FY2020/21, 
the Group will make a payment of £1.0 million to The Ashmore Foundation and other charitable activities. The Group completed data 
collection and commenced regular reporting to the Board and to one of its monthly specialist committees in regards to diversity and 
inclusion matters, with further initiatives underway to support the development of the pipeline of under-represented groups into the 
workplace. Details of the Board’s engagement with Ashmore’s broad range of stakeholders can be found in the Section 172 statement 
on pages 42 to 45. 
 
  Employee turnover, retention of key employees, recruitment and succession planning   
  Quantitative or qualitative:   Quantitative   
  Financial or Non-Financial:   Non-Financial   
   
The Group’s permanent average headcount was stable over FY2020/21 at 301 employees of which 295 are involved in investment-
management related activities (FY2019/20 averages: 301 and 292, respectively), demonstrating strong cost control.  
Employee turnover reduced during FY2020/21, with unplanned turnover for the Group excluding the subsidiaries at 3.7% (FY2019/20: 
6.0%) and at 6.6% including the subsidiaries (FY2019/20: 8.6%); the increase including subsidiaries reflects the different nature of the 
employment environments the subsidiaries operate in. 
All key employees were retained during the period. Succession plans are in place for all key positions. 
The Group has been successful in its recruitment activities, and has been able to hire experienced and appropriately qualified staff 
where and when required. 
The Finance, Corporate Development, Investor Relations, Company Secretarial (for the period to 30 April 2021) and Facilities 
departments, managed by the Group Finance Director, have been managed effectively throughout the period, with a well managed 
response to the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic. 
The Remuneration Committee is satisfied that the Group is managed effectively and adequately resourced. 
 
 
   
94    Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2021 
94  Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021
REMUNERATION REPORT (CONTINUED)    S
T
R
A
T
REMUNERATION AT A GLANCE (CONTINUED)    E
G
IC
 R
E
P
O
R
T
 
  Subsidiary, local asset management and joint venture development      Culture and Conduct Risk indicators   
  Quantitative or qualitative:   Qualitative and Quantitative      Quantitative or qualitative:   Quantitative   
G
  Financial or Non-Financial:   Financial and Non-Financial      Financial or Non-Financial:   Non-Financial    O
V
E
        R
The portfolio of local market businesses is now delivering good growth and all operations are profitable. Aggregate AuM of subsidiaries  The Remuneration Committee reviews a dashboard of indicators on an annual basis which seek to measure and monitor aspects of  N
A
is US$7.2 billion, 8% of the Group’s total AuM. Ashmore Indonesia and Ashmore Saudi Arabia have developed particularly well during  organisational culture. During FY2020/21 24 indicators were reported on under the headings of ‘tone from the top’, incentive structures  N
C
this period, with AuM managed locally increasing by 51% and 55% respectively.   and remuneration, effectiveness of management and governance and individual accountability. There were no matters of concern  E
 
arising during FY2020/21 that would warrant the Remuneration Committee questioning the management of the Group or indicating  
  poor organisational culture or conduct risks.   F
IN
A
  Environmental, social and governance matters    N
  C
  Quantitative or qualitative:   Qualitative and Quantitative    IAL
  Compliance with relevant regulatory and corporate governance requirements     S
  Financial or Non-Financial:   Financial and Non Financial    T
A
  Quantitative or qualitative:   Qualitative and Quantitative    T
    E
During the FY2020/21, Ashmore became a signatory to the Net Zero Asset Managers Initiative, joined the Climate Action 100+  M
  Financial or Non-Financial:   Non-Financial    E
initiative, and is currently participating in a collaborative engagement with an Emerging Markets issuer. The Board approved a carbon  N
offsetting initiative, which through The Ashmore Foundation will seek to offset fully the Group’s emissions by supporting projects in    The Group has in place an effective governance framework and has sufficiently independent and adequately resourced control    TS
developing countries with environmental and social benefits. Also during the year, the Board approved an annual charitable contribution  functions, which have operated effectively over FY2020/21. The Remuneration Committee is satisfied that all relevant regulatory and 
equivalent to 0.5% of the Group’s profit before tax excluding unrealised seed capital gains. This means that in respect of FY2020/21,  corporate governance requirements have been met appropriately.  
the Group will make a payment of £1.0 million to The Ashmore Foundation and other charitable activities. The Group completed data 
collection and commenced regular reporting to the Board and to one of its monthly specialist committees in regards to diversity and 
 
inclusion matters, with further initiatives underway to support the development of the pipeline of under-represented groups into the 
workplace. Details of the Board’s engagement with Ashmore’s broad range of stakeholders can be found in the Section 172 statement    Quality, accuracy and timeliness of financial reporting   
on pages 42 to 45. 
  Quantitative or qualitative:   Quantitative   
    Financial or Non-Financial:   Financial   
  Employee turnover, retention of key employees, recruitment and succession planning      The financial reporting delivered to the Board and its committees and to senior management has continued to be appropriate   
  Quantitative or qualitative:   Quantitative    and accurate. 
  Financial or Non-Financial:   Non-Financial   
 
   
The Group’s permanent average headcount was stable over FY2020/21 at 301 employees of which 295 are involved in investment-
  Management of the impact of in-year events   
management related activities (FY2019/20 averages: 301 and 292, respectively), demonstrating strong cost control.  
  Quantitative or qualitative:   Qualitative and Quantitative   
Employee turnover reduced during FY2020/21, with unplanned turnover for the Group excluding the subsidiaries at 3.7% (FY2019/20: 
6.0%) and at 6.6% including the subsidiaries (FY2019/20: 8.6%); the increase including subsidiaries reflects the different nature of the    Financial or Non-Financial:   Financial and Non-Financial   
employment environments the subsidiaries operate in. 
   
The Remuneration Committee members are confident, through their interactions with members of the management team and  
All key employees were retained during the period. Succession plans are in place for all key positions. 
through the regular reporting received, that the Group has reacted appropriately to events arising through the year. During the  
The Group has been successful in its recruitment activities, and has been able to hire experienced and appropriately qualified staff  period the most material operational event was the continued impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the business. 
where and when required. 
The Chief Executive and Group Finance Director have managed and overseen the continuation of effective working from home, and in 
The Finance, Corporate Development, Investor Relations, Company Secretarial (for the period to 30 April 2021) and Facilities  some locations have managed the partial return to office based working. To date the process has worked well and business operations 
departments, managed by the Group Finance Director, have been managed effectively throughout the period, with a well managed  have continued with no disruption, and with all investment, distribution, support and governance activities continuing unchanged. 
response to the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic.  The Remuneration Committee is satisfied that the management team responded in an appropriate and timely manner, and delivered an 
effective outcome for the Group. 
The Remuneration Committee is satisfied that the Group is managed effectively and adequately resourced. 
 
 
   
   
   
94    Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2021  Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2021    95 
Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021  95
REMUNERATION REPORT (CONTINUED) 
REMUNERATION AT A GLANCE (CONTINUED) 
  Input from the Group Head of Compliance and the Head of Risk Management and Control regarding organisational   
performance in these areas over the year, in order that the Remuneration Committee may consider any ex-ante bonus 
pool adjustments 
  Quantitative or qualitative:   Qualitative and Quantitative   
  Financial or Non-Financial:   Non-Financial   
   
The Remuneration Committee received a report, provided to the Board’s Audit and Risk Committee, detailing the measures undertaken 
by the Company in regard to ensuring that all compliance and risk management processes have been adhered to, and highlighting any 
issues that the Group Head of Compliance and Head of Risk Management and Control felt should be brought to the attention of the 
Remuneration Committee.  
There have been no matters of concern during the period that would warrant the Remuneration Committee considering reducing the 
potential bonus pool available for staff awards for FY2020/21. 
 
  Whether any instances have occurred which may warrant the application of malus or clawback to previously granted awards  
  Quantitative or qualitative:   Qualitative and Quantitative   
  Financial or Non-Financial:   Financial and Non-Financial   
   
Having reviewed all of the information provided to it, the Remuneration Committee has determined that there is no cause to apply 
malus or clawback to any previously granted awards. 
 
   
96    Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2021 
96  Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021
REMUNERATION REPORT (CONTINUED)    S
T
R
A
T
REMUNERATION AT A GLANCE (CONTINUED)    E
G
IC
 R
E
P
O
R
The Remuneration Committee considered the qualitative and quantitative inputs provided to it by the management team across the   T 
  Input from the Group Head of Compliance and the Head of Risk Management and Control regarding organisational    range of areas detailed above and, to assist shareholders in understanding their decision making, summarises its assessment of 
performance in these areas over the year, in order that the Remuneration Committee may consider any ex-ante bonus  performance as follows: 
pool adjustments  G
Chief Executive Officer    Group Finance Director  O
  Quantitative or qualitative:   Qualitative and Quantitative    The CEO’s short-term performance is assessed on:    The GFD’s short-term performance measures are based on:   VE
R
  Financial or Non-Financial:   Non-Financial    – 75% on financial performance measures including effectively  – 30% on his management of the Finance, Corporate Development  NA
managing investment performance to deliver consistent growth  and Investor Relations departments;   N
    C
The Remuneration Committee received a report, provided to the Board’s Audit and Risk Committee, detailing the measures undertaken  relative to each investment theme, maintaining and increasing  – 30% on his management of subsidiary business activities outside  E 
by the Company in regard to ensuring that all compliance and risk management processes have been adhered to, and highlighting any  AuM and maintaining and increasing EBIT; and   the UK, including joint ventures, focused on business growth and 
issues that the Group Head of Compliance and Head of Risk Management and Control felt should be brought to the attention of the  F
– 25% on non-financial management performance, including  development of profitability and scale, integration of offices and  IN
Remuneration Committee.   management of matters relating to ESG, strategy development  effectiveness of joint venture relationships;   AN
There have been no matters of concern during the period that would warrant the Remuneration Committee considering reducing the  and implementation, recruitment, staff turnover and succession  – 30% on contribution to the development and implementation of  CIA
potential bonus pool available for staff awards for FY2020/21.  planning and regulatory and compliance adherence.  strategic goals and increasing value for shareholders;   L
 S
The financial measures represent the greater proportion of the areas  – 5% on investor relations and communication, broadening the  TA
  considered by the Remuneration Committee in determining annual  shareholder base and communicating effectively with external  TE
remuneration, in order that there is a clear alignment of annual  parties, the Board and all other relevant stakeholders;  M
  Whether any instances have occurred which may warrant the application of malus or clawback to previously granted awards   incentives with the Group’s key performance indicators and the  – 5% on his management of the Company Secretarial and  EN
T
  Quantitative or qualitative:   Qualitative and Quantitative    delivery over time of value for shareholders.   Facilities departments.  S
  Financial or Non-Financial:   Financial and Non-Financial    In the Remuneration Committee’s assessment, the CEO has played  In the Remuneration Committee’s assessment, the GFD has 
a significant role in overseeing the exceptionally strong investment  performed well in FY2020/21, managing across a broad scope of 
   
Having reviewed all of the information provided to it, the Remuneration Committee has determined that there is no cause to apply  performance delivered during FY2020/21, which in turn has  activities and continuing his leading role in managing Ashmore’s 
malus or clawback to any previously granted awards.  supported a return to growth in AuM.  response to the COVID-19 pandemic. 
Profitability has lagged however, due to broadly flat average AuM in  The departments he is responsible for have continued to be run 
 
FY2020/21 and a decrease in management fee margins.   effectively, with stable, high quality teams in place and delivering 
   
timely and effective outputs. The subsidiary businesses have 
The Remuneration Committee’s assessment of the CEO’s 
continued to develop in scale and in contribution to Group profitability. 
achievements relative to the balanced scorecard of non-financial 
performance measures, confirmed to it that the business remains  Management of cash resources, FX and tax efficiency have  
well run and effectively managed through a challenging period,  been beneficial for the Group during the period, especially during a 
including an ongoing and disciplined focus on controlling operating  period of sterling strengthening relative to the US dollar. In addition, 
costs and a clear focus on the importance of maintaining  ongoing control of operating costs has supported profitability. 
organisational culture. 
Despite positive personal performance from the GFD, the 
In FY2019/20 the Remuneration Committee exercised its discretion  Committee recognises that the business has reduced in adjusted 
to reduce the CEO’s award to zero, to reflect business performance  profitability over the period, and as a result variable remuneration in 
at the time. The Committee has determined that for FY2020/21 it is  aggregate must reduce across the business. 
appropriate to reward the significant contributions of the CEO with 
The Remuneration Committee has considered these inputs and the 
an annual bonus, but recognise that although there is a short term 
business’ profitability, and has determined that the GFD will be 
improvement in the financial performance measures which 
awarded an annual bonus of £850,000 for his performance 
comprise the majority of his performance assessment, it is early in 
during FY2020/21.  
the recovery process and overall adjusted profitability has still not 
returned to the desired levels.  
The Remuneration Committee has considered these inputs and has 
determined that the CEO will be awarded an annual bonus of 
£1,500,000 for his performance during FY2020/21.  
 
 
96    Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2021  Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2021    97 
Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021  97
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION POLICY  
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION POLICY 
 
This section of the Remuneration report has been prepared in  Consistent Company-wide approach 
accordance with Part 4 of The Large and Medium-sized Companies 
The Company applies a consistent remuneration philosophy for 
and Groups (Accounts and Reports) (Amendment) Regulations 
employees at all levels.  
2013. It sets out the Remuneration policy for the Company. 
The cap on base salary means that Executive Directors’ base 
The policy has been developed taking into account the principles  
salaries are set at a similar level to other senior investment and 
of the UK Corporate Governance Code 2018 and shareholders’ 
professional employees in the Company, and the base salary  
executive remuneration guidelines. The current policy was 
range from lowest to highest in the Company is considerably 
approved by a binding shareholder vote in October 2020, and is 
narrower than the market norm. All employees are eligible for 
expected to apply for three years. 
a performance-related annual bonus, and the principle of bonus 
Policy overview 
deferral into Company shares or equivalent applies to annual 
The Remuneration Committee determines, and agrees with the  bonuses for all employees who have at least one full year’s service. 
Board, the Company’s policy on the remuneration of the Board  Employees other than Executive Directors may elect to receive 
Chairman, Executive Directors and senior managers including  up to the first £50,000 (or local currency equivalent) of their annual 
employees designated as Code or Identified Staff under the FCA’s  bonus delivered as 90% cash and 10% as restricted shares, rather 
Remuneration Codes. The Remuneration Committee’s terms of  than in the Company’s usual proportions of 60% cash and 40% 
reference are available on the Company’s website.  restricted shares. Rates of pension contribution and fringe benefit 
provisions are consistent between executives and other employees 
In determining the Remuneration policy, the Remuneration 
within each country where the Company operates.  
Committee takes into account the following:  
The Company does not operate formal employee consultation  
– the need to encourage and promote the long-term success of 
on remuneration. However, employees are able to provide  
the Company; 
direct feedback on the Company’s Remuneration policy to their  
– the need to attract, retain and motivate talented Executive 
line managers, the Human Resources team, the designated  
Directors and senior management;  
Non-executive Director for workforce engagement or to the  
– consistency with the remuneration principles applied to Ashmore  Board directly through our regular process of teams meeting  
employees as a whole; 
the Board.  
– external comparisons to examine current market trends and 
The CEO presents the Company’s detailed financial results, 
practices and equivalent roles in similar companies taking into 
including the financial and economic factors affecting the 
account their size, business complexity, international scope and 
performance of the business, to all employees as part of both 
relative performance; and 
interim and full year results announcements. There follows a 
– the requirements of the Remuneration Codes of the UK financial 
detailed Q&A session with employees covering the results,  
services regulator. 
the firm’s strategy, market conditions and other topics of interest. 
How the views of shareholders are taken into account 
The Remuneration Committee monitors the effectiveness of  
The Remuneration Committee regularly compares the Company’s  the Company’s Remuneration policy in recruiting, retaining, 
Remuneration policy with shareholder guidelines, and takes  developing, engaging and motivating employees, and receives 
account of the results of shareholder votes on remuneration.  reports from the Chief Executive Officer on how the Company’s 
remuneration policies are viewed by employees and whether they 
If material changes to the Remuneration policy are contemplated, 
are meeting business needs. 
the Remuneration Committee Chair consults with major 
shareholders about these in advance.   The Remuneration Committee does not seek to apply fixed ratios 
between the total remuneration levels of different roles in 
Details of votes cast to approve the Directors’ Remuneration policy 
the Company, as this would prevent it from recruiting and retaining 
and last year’s Annual Report on Remuneration are provided in the 
the necessary talent in a highly competitive employment market. 
Annual Report on Remuneration section of this report. 
However, the base salary multiple between the highest and lowest 
During the period, the Chairman of the Board, the Chair of  
paid UK-based employees in the Company is less than 4.5x. 
the Remuneration Committee and other senior Company 
 
representatives engaged with shareholders and proxy voting 
agencies, both in writing and through formal meetings,  
in order to provide information and solicit comments and  
feedback on the Company’s remuneration practices and  
outcomes, and have considered these discussions as part  
of their decision-making process.  
98    Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2021 
98  Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION POLICY     S
T
R
A
T
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION POLICY  EG
IC
 R
E
P
O
  R
This section of the Remuneration report has been prepared in  Consistent Company-wide approach  Figure 1  T 
accordance with Part 4 of The Large and Medium-sized Companies  The Company applies a consistent remuneration philosophy for  Remuneration policy (the Policy) for Executive Directors 
and Groups (Accounts and Reports) (Amendment) Regulations 
employees at all levels.  
2013. It sets out the Remuneration policy for the Company.  Policy table  G
O
The policy has been developed taking into account the principles   The cap on base salary means that Executive Directors’ base  The table below summarises the key aspects of the Company’s Remuneration policy for Executive Directors which is effective from  V
of the UK Corporate Governance Code 2018 and shareholders’  salaries are set at a similar level to other senior investment and  16 October 2020.  ER
N
executive remuneration guidelines. The current policy was  professional employees in the Company, and the base salary   A
range from lowest to highest in the Company is considerably  N
approved by a binding shareholder vote in October 2020, and is  Base salary (Fixed pay)  C
expected to apply for three years.  narrower than the market norm. All employees are eligible for  E 
a performance-related annual bonus, and the principle of bonus 
Policy overview  Purpose and link to short and long-term strategy  Operation, performance measures and periods,  F
deferral into Company shares or equivalent applies to annual  IN
deferral and clawback  
The Remuneration Committee determines, and agrees with the  bonuses for all employees who have at least one full year’s service.  Provides a level of fixed remuneration sufficient to permit a zero  A
N
Board, the Company’s policy on the remuneration of the Board  Employees other than Executive Directors may elect to receive  bonus payment, should that be appropriate. The cap on base  Base salaries are capped.  C
Chairman, Executive Directors and senior managers including  up to the first £50,000 (or local currency equivalent) of their annual  salary helps to contain fixed costs.  Maximum opportunity  IAL
employees designated as Code or Identified Staff under the FCA’s  bonus delivered as 90% cash and 10% as restricted shares, rather   ST
Remuneration Codes. The Remuneration Committee’s terms of  than in the Company’s usual proportions of 60% cash and 40%  The current cap is £120,000.   AT
E
reference are available on the Company’s website.  restricted shares. Rates of pension contribution and fringe benefit  The cap is reviewed periodically; the Policy permits the cap to be  M
In determining the Remuneration policy, the Remuneration  provisions are consistent between executives and other employees  changed if this is deemed necessary to meet business, legislative  EN
Committee takes into account the following:   within each country where the Company operates.   or regulatory requirements.  TS
The Company does not operate formal employee consultation  
– the need to encourage and promote the long-term success of 
on remuneration. However, employees are able to provide  
the Company; 
direct feedback on the Company’s Remuneration policy to their   Fringe benefits (Fixed pay) 
– the need to attract, retain and motivate talented Executive 
line managers, the Human Resources team, the designated  
Directors and senior management;  
Non-executive Director for workforce engagement or to the   Purpose and link to short and long-term strategy  Operation, performance measures and periods, 
– consistency with the remuneration principles applied to Ashmore  Board directly through our regular process of teams meeting   deferral and clawback 
Provide cost-effective benefits, to support health and wellbeing. 
employees as a whole; 
the Board.  
The Company currently provides benefits such as medical 
– external comparisons to examine current market trends and 
The CEO presents the Company’s detailed financial results,  insurance and life insurance. In the event of relocation of an 
practices and equivalent roles in similar companies taking into 
including the financial and economic factors affecting the  executive, the Company could consider appropriate relocation 
account their size, business complexity, international scope and 
performance of the business, to all employees as part of both  assistance. Specific benefits provision may be subject to minor 
relative performance; and 
interim and full year results announcements. There follows a  change from time to time, within the Policy. 
– the requirements of the Remuneration Codes of the UK financial 
detailed Q&A session with employees covering the results,  
services regulator.  Maximum opportunity 
the firm’s strategy, market conditions and other topics of interest. 
How the views of shareholders are taken into account  Fringe benefits are not subject to a specific cap, but represent 
The Remuneration Committee monitors the effectiveness of  
only a small percentage of total remuneration. 
The Remuneration Committee regularly compares the Company’s  the Company’s Remuneration policy in recruiting, retaining, 
Remuneration policy with shareholder guidelines, and takes  developing, engaging and motivating employees, and receives 
account of the results of shareholder votes on remuneration.  reports from the Chief Executive Officer on how the Company’s 
Pension (Fixed pay) 
remuneration policies are viewed by employees and whether they 
If material changes to the Remuneration policy are contemplated, 
are meeting business needs. 
the Remuneration Committee Chair consults with major 
Purpose and link to short and long-term strategy  Operation, performance measures and periods, 
shareholders about these in advance.   The Remuneration Committee does not seek to apply fixed ratios 
deferral and clawback 
between the total remuneration levels of different roles in  Provides a basic level of Company contribution, which individuals 
Details of votes cast to approve the Directors’ Remuneration policy 
the Company, as this would prevent it from recruiting and retaining  can supplement with their own contribution.  Company contributions are made, normally on a defined 
and last year’s Annual Report on Remuneration are provided in the 
the necessary talent in a highly competitive employment market.  contribution basis, either to a pension plan or in the form of an 
Annual Report on Remuneration section of this report. 
However, the base salary multiple between the highest and lowest  equivalent cash allowance. 
During the period, the Chairman of the Board, the Chair of  
paid UK-based employees in the Company is less than 4.5x.  Maximum opportunity 
the Remuneration Committee and other senior Company 
representatives engaged with shareholders and proxy voting    The current level of Company contribution is 9% of base salary, 
agencies, both in writing and through formal meetings,   with a further matching contribution of up to 1% of base salary, 
in order to provide information and solicit comments and   should the Executive Director make a personal contribution of an 
feedback on the Company’s remuneration practices and   equivalent amount. The contribution level for Executive Directors 
outcomes, and have considered these discussions as part   is aligned with the general workforce, and is reviewed periodically; 
of their decision-making process.   the Policy permits the Company-wide contribution rate to be 
amended if necessary to reflect trends in market practice and 
changes to pensions legislation. 
98    Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2021  Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2021    99 
Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021  99
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION POLICY (CONTINUED) 
 
Variable compensation (Discretionary) 
Purpose and link to short and long-term strategy    3. Restricted matching shares awarded on the 
Rewards performance and ensures interests of Executive  voluntarily commuted cash bonus (from 1 above) 
Directors are closely aligned with other shareholders.  Matching is provided on the voluntarily commuted cash bonus, 
Operation, performance measures   subject to the same performance conditions on half of the 
matching award as that described in 2 above. The maximum 
and periods, deferral and clawback 
match used to date on any award made under the current 
Executive Directors are considered each year for a discretionary  Policy was one-for-one; the Policy permits the matching level to 
variable pay award depending on personal and Company  be changed for future awards but not to exceed three-for-one. 
performance, by applying a range of performance indicators 
Dividends or dividend equivalents on deferred restricted bonus 
such as growth in AuM, investment performance, profits, and 
share (or phantom equivalent) awards and on the portion of 
strategic and operational achievements. The variable pay award 
restricted share and restricted matching share awards that are 
comprises a cash bonus (part of which may be voluntarily 
not subject to a performance condition vesting after five years 
deferred into restricted shares) and a long-term incentive in the 
will be paid out in line with the Company’s dividend payment 
form of both a restricted share award and a restricted matching 
schedule. Dividends or dividend equivalents on the portion  
share award on any voluntarily deferred cash bonus. 
of restricted and restricted matching share (or phantom 
1. Cash bonus (60% of total award)  equivalent) awards which are subject to a performance 
The Executive Director may voluntarily commute up to half of  condition will be accrued and paid out at the time the award 
the cash bonus in return for the same value in a restricted bonus  vests and to the extent of vesting. For any awards made  
share award (or phantom equivalent) deferred for five years.   to an Executive Director prior to his or her appointment as a 
The deferred shares are eligible for restricted matching shares  Executive Director, the dividend or dividend equivalent 
(or phantom equivalent) vesting after five years subject to  payments are made on share awards in full, under previous 
conditions (see 3 below).  commitments made to participants. 
Long-term incentives under the Company Executive  The Remuneration policy permits the award of deferred 
Omnibus Incentive Plan (Omnibus Plan)   remuneration in alternative forms such as share options, 
although none have been granted in recent years, and to vary 
2. Restricted shares award (40% of total award) 
the percentage split of award between cash and share awards 
There is no separate long-term incentive plan, rather 40% of   to meet business, legislative or regulatory requirements. 
the Executive Director’s annual bonus is compulsorily deferred  Awards will be delivered in the appropriate combination of  
into Company shares (or phantom equivalent) for a period of five  cash and shares, in line with prevailing regulatory requirements. 
years and does not qualify for matching. Half of this deferred  The combination of cash and instruments will be determined 
portion is subject to additional performance conditions on  each year by the Remuneration Committee. 
vesting. The Policy permits the Remuneration Committee to set 
The Remuneration Committee also retains discretion,  
suitable performance conditions each year for each award type. 
if required by regulation, to include a minimum retention  
The performance condition for the most recent awards was a 
period for incentive awards in addition to or as partial 
combination of: 
replacement for a deferral period (usually with a combined 
– 33% investment outperformance; relative to the relevant  deferral / retention period of at least five years). 
benchmarks over three and five years.  
– 33% growth in AuM; a compound increase in AuM over the 
five-year performance period, and 
– 33% profitability; Ashmore’s diluted earnings per share (EPS) 
performance relative to a comparator index over the five-year 
performance period. 
These performance conditions have been chosen to closely align 
the remuneration outcomes for the Executive Directors with the 
performance of the business relative to its KPIs. Targets are set 
that are appropriately challenging relative to relevant internal and 
external benchmarks. The maximum level of vesting for 
achieving threshold performance relative to these performance 
conditions is 25%. Where required by regulation, the amount of 
variable pay which is deferred will be increased to ensure 
compliance with regulatory deferral levels for all variable pay. 
   
100    Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2021 
100  Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION POLICY (CONTINUED)    S
T
R
A
T
  E
G
IC
 R
E
P
O
R
Variable compensation (Discretionary)    T 
Purpose and link to short and long-term strategy    3. Restricted matching shares awarded on the  Maximum opportunity    The Remuneration Committee may, in its discretion, determine 
Rewards performance and ensures interests of Executive  voluntarily commuted cash bonus (from 1 above)  The aggregate variable compensation pool for all employees,  at any time prior to the sixth anniversary of the date of grant or  GO
such longer period as the Remuneration Committee  V
Directors are closely aligned with other shareholders.  Matching is provided on the voluntarily commuted cash bonus,  including Executive Directors, is capped, currently at 25% of  E
determines is required by any applicable law or regulation to:  R
Operation, performance measures   subject to the same performance conditions on half of the  earnings before variable compensation, interest and tax  NA
matching award as that described in 2 above. The maximum  (EBVCIT). The Policy permits the Remuneration Committee to  – reduce or extinguish the number of shares to which an  N
and periods, deferral and clawback  C
match used to date on any award made under the current  vary this cap if necessary to meet business needs.   award relates;  E
 
Executive Directors are considered each year for a discretionary  Policy was one-for-one; the Policy permits the matching level to  The Policy is to cap the aggregate sum available for variable  – cancel an award; 
variable pay award depending on personal and Company  be changed for future awards but not to exceed three-for-one.  compensation rather than to cap individual variable  – impose further conditions on an award;  FIN
psuecrfho rams agnrocwe,t bhy i na pApulMyin, gin av erasntmgee notf  ppeerrffoorrmmaannccee,  ipnrdoicfiatsto, rasn d  Dividends or dividend equivalents on deferred restricted bonus  compensation awards.   – impose further restrictions on the shares subject to an award;  AN
C
strategic and operational achievements. The variable pay award  share (or phantom equivalent) awards and on the portion of  The high proportion of variable compensation deferral,   – require a participant to make a cash payment to the Company  IA
comprises a cash bonus (part of which may be voluntarily  restricted share and restricted matching share awards that are  with vesting after five years and subject in part to ongoing  in respect of some or all of the shares or cash delivered to  L S
deferred into restricted shares) and a long-term incentive in the  not subject to a performance condition vesting after five years  performance conditions, encourages a prudent approach to risk  him under the award and the basis on which the amount of  TA
form of both a restricted share award and a restricted matching  will be paid out in line with the Company’s dividend payment  management, in support of the Company’s risk and compliance  cash or shares is calculated including whether and if so to  TE
share award on any voluntarily deferred cash bonus.  schedule. Dividends or dividend equivalents on the portion   controls. Most importantly, though, the remuneration structure  what extent to take account of any tax or social security  ME
of restricted and restricted matching share (or phantom  is designed to support and fit with the long-term strategy of the  liability applicable to the award; and/or  N
1. Cash bonus (60% of total award)  equivalent) awards which are subject to a performance  business. The Group operates in a growth sector which  – require a participant to transfer for nil consideration some or  TS
The Executive Director may voluntarily commute up to half of  condition will be accrued and paid out at the time the award  experiences market cycles and this aspect of the Remuneration  all of the shares delivered to him under the award. 
the cash bonus in return for the same value in a restricted bonus  vests and to the extent of vesting. For any awards made   policy plays a key role in providing flexibility in variable costs,  Personal shareholding 
share award (or phantom equivalent) deferred for five years.   to an Executive Director prior to his or her appointment as a  enabling key staff retention during times of market stress, 
The deferred shares are eligible for restricted matching shares  Executive Director, the dividend or dividend equivalent  and thereby aligns the interests of clients, shareholders and  Existing Executive Directors are usually required to build up and 
(or phantom equivalent) vesting after five years subject to  payments are made on share awards in full, under previous  employees including Executive Directors through such cycles.  then maintain a shareholding equivalent to 200% of salary over 
conditions (see 3 below).  commitments made to participants.  the three-year period from October 2017, and from the first 
Malus and clawback 
five-year vesting date for newly appointed Executive Directors. 
Long-term incentives under the Company Executive  The Remuneration policy permits the award of deferred 
In addition to the performance condition described above,   The minimum number of shares to be held by existing 
Omnibus Incentive Plan (Omnibus Plan)   remuneration in alternative forms such as share options, 
the Remuneration Committee has the discretion to apply malus  Executive Directors is based on the closing price of Ashmore 
although none have been granted in recent years, and to vary 
2. Restricted shares award (40% of total award)  and clawback provisions to all elements of variable  Group plc shares on 30 June 2020, which was £4.172. 
the percentage split of award between cash and share awards 
There is no separate long-term incentive plan, rather 40% of   to meet business, legislative or regulatory requirements.  remuneration, including to unvested equity awards made in prior  Post-employment shareholding 
periods. The Remuneration Committee may choose to exercise 
the Executive Director’s annual bonus is compulsorily deferred  Awards will be delivered in the appropriate combination of   Executive Directors are usually required to maintain a 
this discretion for a number of reasons, for example: 
into Company shares (or phantom equivalent) for a period of five  cash and shares, in line with prevailing regulatory requirements.  shareholding of 200% of salary for two years post termination 
years and does not qualify for matching. Half of this deferred  The combination of cash and instruments will be determined  – a material misstatement of the Company’s or any other Group  of their employment. The minimum number of shares to be 
portion is subject to additional performance conditions on  each year by the Remuneration Committee.  company’s financial results;  held is based on the market price of Ashmore Group plc shares 
vesting. The Policy permits the Remuneration Committee to set  The Remuneration Committee also retains discretion,   – an error in assessing a performance condition applicable to an  on the year end date of 30 June prior to their termination date. 
suitable performance conditions each year for each award type.  if required by regulation, to include a minimum retention   award or in the information or assumptions on which the  The Committee retains discretion to waive this guideline if it is 
The performance condition for the most recent awards was a  period for incentive awards in addition to or as partial  award was granted or vests;  not considered appropriate in the specific circumstances. 
combination of: 
replacement for a deferral period (usually with a combined  – a material failure of risk management by the Company,  
– 33% investment outperformance; relative to the relevant  deferral / retention period of at least five years).  any other Group company or a relevant business unit; 
benchmarks over three and five years.   – serious reputational damage to the Company, any other Group 
– 33% growth in AuM; a compound increase in AuM over the  company or a relevant business unit;  
five-year performance period, and  – misconduct on the part of the participant; or 
– 33% profitability; Ashmore’s diluted earnings per share (EPS)  – any other circumstances which the Remuneration Committee 
performance relative to a comparator index over the five-year  in its discretion considers to be similar in their nature or effect. 
performance period. 
These performance conditions have been chosen to closely align 
the remuneration outcomes for the Executive Directors with the 
performance of the business relative to its KPIs. Targets are set 
that are appropriately challenging relative to relevant internal and 
external benchmarks. The maximum level of vesting for 
achieving threshold performance relative to these performance 
conditions is 25%. Where required by regulation, the amount of 
variable pay which is deferred will be increased to ensure 
compliance with regulatory deferral levels for all variable pay. 
   
100    Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2021  Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2021    101 
Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021  101
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION POLICY (CONTINUED) 
 
Differences in Remuneration policy for Executive Directors  Service contracts and loss of office payment policy 
compared with other employees 
Service contracts normally continue until the Executive Director’s 
The Remuneration policy for the Executive Directors is generally  agreed retirement date or such other date as the parties agree.  
consistent with that for employees across the Company as a 
The service contracts contain provisions for early termination.  
whole. However, there are some differences which the 
Remuneration Committee believes are necessary to reflect the  Notice periods are limited to 12 months by either party. Service 
different responsibilities of employees across the Company.  agreements contain no contractual entitlement to receive variable 
Below Executive Director level, while the same five-year deferral  pay; participation in these arrangements is at the Remuneration 
policy applies, share awards are not subject to additional  Committee’s discretion. The Executive Directors’ service contracts 
performance conditions. Employees other than Executive Directors  are available for inspection at the Company’s registered office 
may elect to receive up to the first £50,000 (or local currency  during normal business hours. 
equivalent) of their annual bonus delivered as 90% cash and 10%  If the employment of an Executive Director is terminated without 
as restricted shares, rather than in the Company’s usual proportions  giving the period of notice required under the contract, the 
of 60% cash and 40% restricted shares.  Executive Director would be entitled to claim recompense for up to 
External Non-executive Director positions  one year’s remuneration subject to consideration of the obligation 
to mitigate the loss. Such recompense is expected to be limited to 
Executive Directors are permitted to serve as Non-executive 
base salary due for any unexpired notice period, and any amount 
Directors of other companies where there is no competition with 
assessed by the Remuneration Committee as representing the 
the Company’s business activities and where these duties do not 
value of other contractual benefits and pension which would have 
interfere with the individual’s ability to perform his or her duties  
been received during the period. In the event of a change of control 
for the Company. Tom Shippey holds one unpaid external 
of the Company, there is no enhancement to these terms. 
appointment with a charitable organisation unconnected to  
the asset management industry. Mark Coombs is Co-Chair of  In summary, the contractual provisions are as follows: 
EMTA, the trade association for Emerging Markets, having been on  Provision    Detailed terms 
the Board since 1993. Other than as noted above, the Executive 
Notice period    12 months 
Directors do not presently hold any external directorships with any 
non-Ashmore-related companies.  Termination payment in the  Base salary plus value of benefits 
event of termination by the  (including pension) paid monthly and 
Where an outside appointment is accepted in furtherance  
Company without due notice  subject to mitigation 
of the Company’s business, any fees received are remitted to  
the Company.   Change of control    Same terms as above on termination
If the appointment is not connected to the Company’s business, 
Any outstanding share-based entitlements granted to an Executive 
the Executive Director is entitled to retain any fees received. 
Director under the Company’s share plans will be determined 
Approach to remuneration for new Executive  based on the relevant plan rules.  
Director appointments 
An Executive Director’s service contract may be terminated without 
The remuneration package for an externally recruited new 
notice and without any further payment or compensation, except 
Executive Director would be set in accordance with the terms and 
for sums accrued up to the date of termination, on the occurrence 
maximum levels of the Company’s approved Remuneration policy 
of certain events such as gross misconduct. 
in force at the time of appointment.  
The Committee reserves the right to make any other payments in 
In addition, the Remuneration Committee may offer additional  
connection with a Director’s cessation of office or employment 
cash and/or share-based elements to take account of any 
where the payments are made in good faith in discharge of an 
remuneration relinquished when leaving the former employer, 
existing legal obligation (or by way of damages for breach of such 
when it considers these to be in the best interests of the Company 
an obligation) or by way of a compromise or settlement of any 
(and therefore shareholders). In considering any such payments, 
claim arising in connection with the cessation of a Director’s office 
the Committee would take account of the nature, vesting dates  
or employment. Any such payments may include but are not 
and any performance requirements attached to the relinquished 
limited to paying any fees for outplacement assistance and/or the 
remuneration. The Committee may determine to make any such 
Director’s legal and/or professional advice fees in connection with 
recruitment related awards outside the variable pay pool cap. For an 
cessation of office or employment and/or retirement gifts. 
internal appointment, any variable pay element awarded in respect 
   
of the prior role may be allowed to be paid out according to its 
terms, adjusted if necessary, to take into account the appointment. 
For external and internal appointments, the Company may meet 
certain relocation expenses as appropriate including but not limited 
to assistance with housing, immigration, taxes and travel. 
102    Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2021 
102  Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION POLICY (CONTINUED)    S
T
R
A
T
  E
G
IC
 R
E
P
O
R
Differences in Remuneration policy for Executive Directors  Service contracts and loss of office payment policy  Incentive plan discretions  Non-executive Directors  T 
compared with other employees 
Service contracts normally continue until the Executive Director’s  The Remuneration Committee will operate the current share plans  Non-executive Directors are engaged under letters of appointment 
The Remuneration policy for the Executive Directors is generally  agreed retirement date or such other date as the parties agree.   in accordance with their respective rules and the Policy set out  and do not have contracts of service. They are appointed for an 
G
consistent with that for employees across the Company as a  above, and in accordance with the Listing Rules and relevant  initial three-year period, subject to annual shareholder re-election.  O
The service contracts contain provisions for early termination.   V
whole. However, there are some differences which the  legislation or regulation. As is consistent with market practice,   Their continued engagement is subject to the requirements of the  E
Remuneration Committee believes are necessary to reflect the  Notice periods are limited to 12 months by either party. Service  the Remuneration Committee retains discretion over a number   Company’s Articles relating to the retirement of Directors by  RN
different responsibilities of employees across the Company.  agreements contain no contractual entitlement to receive variable  of areas relating to operating and administrating these plans.   rotation. The letters of appointment are available for inspection at  AN
Below Executive Director level, while the same five-year deferral  pay; participation in these arrangements is at the Remuneration  These include (but are not limited to) the following:  the Company’s registered office during normal business hours.  CE
policy applies, share awards are not subject to additional  Committee’s discretion. The Executive Directors’ service contracts   
– Who participates in the plans;  Compliance with the Remuneration Codes 
performance conditions. Employees other than Executive Directors  are available for inspection at the Company’s registered office  F
may elect to receive up to the first £50,000 (or local currency  during normal business hours.  – The timing of the grant of an award and/or payment;  The Remuneration Committee regularly reviews its Remuneration  INA
equivalent) of their annual bonus delivered as 90% cash and 10%  If the employment of an Executive Director is terminated without  – The size of an award and/or a payment within the plan limits  Policy’s compliance with the principles of the Remuneration Codes  NC
as restricted shares, rather than in the Company’s usual proportions  giving the period of notice required under the contract, the  approved by shareholders;  of the UK financial services regulator, as applicable to Ashmore.  IA
of 60% cash and 40% restricted shares.  Executive Director would be entitled to claim recompense for up to  – The choice of (and adjustment of) performance measures and  The Remuneration Policy is designed to be consistent with the  L S
targets in accordance with the Policy set out above and the rules   T
External Non-executive Director positions  one year’s remuneration subject to consideration of the obligation  of each plan (including the treatment of delisted companies for  prudent management of risk, and the sustained, long-term  AT
to mitigate the loss. Such recompense is expected to be limited to  performance of the Company.  E
Executive Directors are permitted to serve as Non-executive  the purpose of the TSR comparator group);  M
base salary due for any unexpired notice period, and any amount  E
Directors of other companies where there is no competition with  assessed by the Remuneration Committee as representing the  – Discretion relating to the measurement of performance in the  Reward scenarios  NT
the Company’s business activities and where these duties do not  value of other contractual benefits and pension which would have  event of a change of control or reconstruction;  The Remuneration Policy results in the majority of the remuneration  S
interfere with the individual’s ability to perform his or her duties   been received during the period. In the event of a change of control  – Determination of a good leaver (in addition to any specified  received by the Executive Directors being dependent on 
for the Company. Tom Shippey holds one unpaid external  of the Company, there is no enhancement to these terms.  categories) for incentive plan purposes, based on the rules of  performance, and being deferred for five years into 
appointment with a charitable organisation unconnected to   each plan and the appropriate treatment under the plan rules;   restricted shares.  
the asset management industry. Mark Coombs is Co-Chair of  In summary, the contractual provisions are as follows: 
– Adjustments required in order to comply with any new regulatory  As noted earlier, the Policy is not to cap individual awards, but rather 
EMTA, the trade association for Emerging Markets, having been on  Provision    Detailed terms  requirements which the Company is compelled to adhere to; and  the aggregate pool. As such, it is not possible to demonstrate 
the Board since 1993. Other than as noted above, the Executive 
Notice period    12 months  – Adjustments required in certain circumstances (e.g. rights issues,  maximum remuneration levels. In lieu of this, the minimum (fixed) 
Directors do not presently hold any external directorships with any 
corporate restructuring, special dividends and on a change  remuneration is illustrated in Figure 2, which provides an indication 
non-Ashmore-related companies.  Termination payment in the  Base salary plus value of benefits 
of control).  of the potential range of total remuneration using the highest and 
event of termination by the  (including pension) paid monthly and 
Where an outside appointment is accepted in furtherance   lowest variable pay awards in a rolling five-year period. The variable 
Company without due notice  subject to mitigation  Any use of the above discretions would, where relevant, be 
of the Company’s business, any fees received are remitted to   pay awards are shown assuming full vesting five years later of the 
explained in the Annual Report on Remuneration. As appropriate, 
the Company.   Change of control    Same terms as above on termination long-term incentive components based on achievement relative to 
it might also be the subject of consultation with the Company’s 
If the appointment is not connected to the Company’s business,  major shareholders.  the performance conditions, both at the grant price and also with 
the Executive Director is entitled to retain any fees received.  Any outstanding share-based entitlements granted to an Executive  50% share price growth. 
Director under the Company’s share plans will be determined  The Committee may make minor amendments to this Policy 
Approach to remuneration for new Executive  based on the relevant plan rules.   (for regulatory, exchange control, tax or administrative purposes    
Director appointments  or to take account of a change in legislation) without obtaining   
An Executive Director’s service contract may be terminated without 
shareholder approval for that amendment. 
The remuneration package for an externally recruited new 
notice and without any further payment or compensation, except 
Executive Director would be set in accordance with the terms and  for sums accrued up to the date of termination, on the occurrence  Legacy arrangements 
maximum levels of the Company’s approved Remuneration policy 
of certain events such as gross misconduct.  For the avoidance of doubt, this Policy includes authority for the 
in force at the time of appointment.  
The Committee reserves the right to make any other payments in  Company to honour any commitments entered into with current or 
In addition, the Remuneration Committee may offer additional   connection with a Director’s cessation of office or employment  former Directors that have been disclosed to shareholders in 
cash and/or share-based elements to take account of any  where the payments are made in good faith in discharge of an  previous Remuneration reports. Details of any payments to former 
remuneration relinquished when leaving the former employer,  existing legal obligation (or by way of damages for breach of such  Directors will be set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration as 
when it considers these to be in the best interests of the Company  an obligation) or by way of a compromise or settlement of any  they arise. 
(and therefore shareholders). In considering any such payments, 
claim arising in connection with the cessation of a Director’s office    
the Committee would take account of the nature, vesting dates  
or employment. Any such payments may include but are not 
and any performance requirements attached to the relinquished 
limited to paying any fees for outplacement assistance and/or the 
remuneration. The Committee may determine to make any such 
Director’s legal and/or professional advice fees in connection with 
recruitment related awards outside the variable pay pool cap. For an 
cessation of office or employment and/or retirement gifts. 
internal appointment, any variable pay element awarded in respect 
   
of the prior role may be allowed to be paid out according to its 
terms, adjusted if necessary, to take into account the appointment. 
For external and internal appointments, the Company may meet 
certain relocation expenses as appropriate including but not limited 
to assistance with housing, immigration, taxes and travel. 
102    Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2021  Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2021    103 
Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021  103
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION POLICY (CONTINUED) 
 
Figure 2 
Executive Director total remuneration at different levels of performance (£’000) 
CEO CFO
£5,862
£6,000
£5,000
55%
£4,000
£3,000
£2,000 25% £1,762
£1,257
50%
£1,000 8% 8% 17% 0.5% 9% 41% 7% 0.5%
1% 21%
£110 6% £116 6% 0£.55,%861.9 £112 2% 41% 1% 21% 0.5%
86% 86% 2% 89% 9% 7%
£0 Fixed/Minimum Lowest pay  Highest pay  Fixed/Minimum Lowest pay  Highest pay 
received in ﬁve year  received in ﬁve year  received in ﬁve year  received in ﬁve year 
rolling period rolling period rolling period rolling period
Base salary Beneﬁts Pension Cash bonus Share bonus (face value using share price at grant)
LTI: restricted shares and matching awards (face value using share price at grant) Additional value created should LTI increase in value by 50%
 
Figure 3 
– Fees policy for the Board Chairman and other Non-executive Directors 
Element  Purpose and link to strategy    Operation    Maximum 
– Board   – To pay an all-inclusive   – The Board Chairman is paid a single     – The overall fees payable to Non-executive 
Chairman fee  basic fee that takes   fee for all his responsibilities. The level   Directors will remain within the limit 
account of the role  of the fee is reviewed periodically by the  stated in the Articles of Association, 
and responsibilities  Committee, with reference to market  currently £750,000 
levels in comparably sized FTSE  – The current level of fees is disclosed in 
companies, and a recommendation is   the Annual Report on Remuneration 
then made to the Board (without the 
Chairman being present) 
– The Board Chairman may also be paid 
expenses in relation to the performance  
  of his role 
– Non-executive  – To pay an all-inclusive   – The Non-executive Directors are paid a    – The overall fees payable to Non-executive 
Director fees  basic fee that takes   single inclusive basic fee. There are no  Directors will remain within the limit 
account of the role  supplements for Committee  stated in the Articles of Association, 
and responsibilities  Chairmanships or memberships; the fee  currently £750,000 
levels are reviewed periodically by the  – The current level of fees is disclosed in 
Chairman and Executive Directors  the Annual Report on Remuneration 
– The Non-executive Directors may also be 
paid expenses in relation to the 
  performance of their roles 
There is no proposed change to the fees policy for the Board Chairman and Non-executive Directors for FY 2021/22. 
104    Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2021 
104  Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION POLICY (CONTINUED)  ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION  S
T
R
A
T
  ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION  EG
IC
 R
E
P
O
R
Figure 2  T 
This part of the report has been prepared in accordance with Part 3 of The Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups 
(Accounts and Reports) (Amendment) Regulations 2013 and 9.8.6R of the Listing Rules.  
G
Figure 4   O
V
Remuneration for the year ending 30 June 2021 – audited information   E
R
N
The table below sets out the remuneration received by the Directors in the year ending 30 June 2021.  A
N
    Executive Directors   Non-executive Directors  C
E
Mark  Tom  Clive  Helen  David   Jennifer  Dame Anne   
Coombs  Shippey Adamson Beck  Bennett  Bingham Pringle DCMG
    1, 4, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12   1, 7, 9, 10, 11, 12    11  11, 13  11  11  11, 14  F
2021  100,000  100,000  85,000  5,000  150,000  60,000  75,000 INA
Salary and fees  2020  100,000  100,000  85,000  –  150,000  60,000  75,000 NC
2021  901 2,253  – –  –  – – IA
Taxable benefits  2020  7,203 2,258  – –  1,597  – – L S
T
2021  9,000 10,000 – –  –   – – A
Pensions  TE
2020  9,000 10,000 – –  –   – – M
2021  394,200 247,350 – –  –   – – EN
Cash bonus  T
2020  – 259,200 – –  –   – – S
2021  407,700 255,000 – –  –   – –
Voluntarily deferred share bonus5 
2020  – 270,000 – –  –   – –
2021  439,800 305,150 – –  –   – –
Mandatorily deferred share bonus6 
2020  – 325,800 – –  –   – –
2021  1,241,700 807,500 – –  –   – –
Total bonus 
2020  – 855,000 – –  –   – –
2021  1,108,587  365,748  – –  –   – –
Long-term incentives vesting2, 3 
2020  – 369,311 – –  –   – –
Total for year ending 30 June 202112  2021  2,460,188 1,285,501 85,000  5,000  150,000  60,000  75,000
Total for year ending 30 June 2020  2020  116,203 1,336,569 85,000 –  151,597   60,000 75,000
  2021  109,901 112,253 85,000  5,000  150,000  60,000  75,000
Total Fixed Remuneration  
2020  116,627 112,258 85,000 –  151,597   60,000 75,000
Figure 3 
2021  2,350,287 1,173,248 – –  –   – –
Total Variable Remuneration 
– Fees policy for the Board Chairman and other Non-executive Directors  2020  – 1,224,311 – –  –   – –
Element  Purpose and link to strategy    Operation    Maximum  1. Benefits for both Executive Directors include membership of the Company medical scheme. 
– Board   – To pay an all-inclusive   – The Board Chairman is paid a single     – The overall fees payable to Non-executive  2. Long-term incentives vesting relates to share awards with performance conditions where the performance period has ended in the relevant financial year plus the value of any dividend equivalents. 
Chairman fee  basic fee that takes   fee for all his responsibilities. The level   Directors will remain within the limit  3. The figure of £1,108,587 shown as the value of Mark Coombs’ 2021 Long-term incentives vesting reflects £304,251 of share price appreciation over the period between grant and vest. 
The figure of £365,748 shown as the value of Tom Shippey’s 2021 Long-term incentives vesting reflects £97,637 of share price appreciation over the period between grant and vest. 
account of the role  of the fee is reviewed periodically by the  stated in the Articles of Association, 
The figure of £369,311 shown as the value of Tom Shippey’s 2020 Long-term incentives vesting includes £114,920 of share price appreciation over the period between grant and vest.  
and responsibilities  Committee, with reference to market  currently £750,000 
4. In respect of the year ending 30 June 2021, Mark Coombs chose to waive 10% of any element of his potential non-AIF related variable remuneration award in return for the Remuneration 
levels in comparably sized FTSE  – The current level of fees is disclosed in  Committee considering and approving a contribution to charity or charities nominated by himself in the form of phantom share awards; the numbers in the table above exclude any waived 
variable remuneration. Had he not waived these amounts, Mark Coombs’ total bonus in respect of the year ending 30 June 2021 prior to any voluntary deferral of cash in favour of an 
companies, and a recommendation is   the Annual Report on Remuneration  equivalent amount of bonus share or phantom bonus share awards would have been £1,200,000. 
then made to the Board (without the  5. Mark Coombs and Tom Shippey may voluntarily defer up to 50% of their cash bonus in favour of an equivalent amount of bonus share or phantom bonus share awards and an equivalent 
Chairman being present)  value in matching share or phantom matching share awards. All share or phantom share awards will be reported in the Directors’ share and phantom share award tables in the year of grant. 
Tom Shippey chose to commute 50% of his cash bonus in 2020 for an equivalent value in bonus share awards. Both Mark Coombs and Tom Shippey chose to commute 50% of their cash 
– The Board Chairman may also be paid  bonus in 2021 for an equivalent value in bonus share awards. Bonus shares are deferred for five years with no service condition attached. 
expenses in relation to the performance   6. From the year ending 30 June 2015 onward, additional performance conditions are applied to 50% of any restricted or matching share award. The amounts shown in the row labelled 
mandatorily deferred share bonus represent the 50% of restricted and matching share awards that do not have additional performance conditions attached, and also include the amounts 
  of his role  detailed in note 7 below relating to compliance with the Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive (AIFMD). These amounts represent the cash value of shares awarded at grant, 
which will vest after five years subject to continued employment, and in the case of shares related to AIFMD, after a retention period. 
– Non-executive  – To pay an all-inclusive   – The Non-executive Directors are paid a    – The overall fees payable to Non-executive 
7. In order to comply with the AIFMD Mark Coombs and Tom Shippey received a proportion of their bonus, which would have otherwise been delivered in cash, as an additional award of restricted 
Director fees  basic fee that takes   single inclusive basic fee. There are no  Directors will remain within the limit  shares which will vest after a retention period. In 2021, the value of this award for Mark Coombs was £13,500 (FY2019/20: £0), and for Tom Shippey was £7,650 (FY2019/20: £10,800). 
account of the role  supplements for Committee  stated in the Articles of Association,  8. In respect of prior year deferred share awards which have been waived to charity, any dividend equivalents associated with the amounts waived are paid directly to the nominated charities. 
and responsibilities  Chairmanships or memberships; the fee  currently £750,000  The figures shown exclude the amounts waived. 
levels are reviewed periodically by the  – The current level of fees is disclosed in  9. Dividends or dividend equivalents were paid relating to voluntarily and mandatorily deferred share or phantom share awards in the period.  
Chairman and Executive Directors  the Annual Report on Remuneration  10. Mark Coombs receives cash in lieu of a pension contribution. Tom Shippey’s pension contribution includes an employee contribution via salary sacrifice; in 2021 this was £500 (2020: £500). 
11. Total short-term benefits for key management personnel, including salary and fees, taxable benefits and cash bonuses, as reported in note 28 of the financial statements is £1,219,704 in 
– The Non-executive Directors may also be  FY2020/21. In addition the total cost of equity-settled awards for the Executive Directors charged to the statement of comprehensive income, as reported in note 28 of the financial 
paid expenses in relation to the  statements is £2,543,797 in FY2020/21. 
  performance of their roles  12. The Committee exercised its discretion to determine the CEO and GFD’s variable remuneration based on various factors. The discretion has not been exercised as a result of share price 
appreciation or depreciation for annual incentives and LTIPs. 
There is no proposed change to the fees policy for the Board Chairman and Non-executive Directors for FY 2021/22.  13. Helen Beck was appointed to the Board on 1 June 2021. 
  14. Dame Anne Pringle retired from the Board on 1 July 2021, no payments for loss of office were made.   
104    Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2021  Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2021    105 
Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021  105
ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION (CONTINUED) 
 
For additional information, Figure 5 shows the history of financial results for the last five years. 
Figure 5 
Five-year summary of financial results  
  2021  2020  2019  2018  2017 
AuM US$ billion (at period end)  94.4 83.6 91.8  73.9 58.7
Operating profit £ million  258.3 209.7 202.8  176.5 166.8
Payments to past directors 
No payments were made to past directors during FY2020/21. 
Figure 6  
Long-term incentive awards made during the year ended 30 June 2021 – audited information 
No. of   Date  Share award  Face value Face value  Performance period 
Name1  Type of award  shares  of award  price3 (£)  (£)  (% of salary)  end date 
Tom Shippey2  Restricted shares  99,976  18 September 2020 £3.6009  £360,004  360%  17 September 2025
Tom Shippey2  Matching shares  74,982  18 September 2020 £3.6009  £270,003  270%  17 September 2025
1. In respect of the year ended 30 June 2020, no cash bonus or share award was made to Mark Coombs, reflecting overall business performance during the period and the Remuneration Committee’s 
strict application of its discretion. 
2. Executives may voluntarily defer their cash bonus into shares in order to receive an equivalent level of matching shares and are also required under the AIFMD rules to defer a portion of their cash 
bonus for six months. These awards are not subject to any performance conditions; full details can be found in Figure 9. 
3. Based on the average Ashmore Group plc closing share price for the five business days prior to the grant date.  
Long-term incentive awards made during the year ended 30 June 2021 – performance conditions 
Figure 6 provides details of the long-term incentive awards that were made during FY2020/21. These represent the restricted and matching 
share awards, 50% of which are subject to additional performance conditions, and will vest on the fifth anniversary of the award date, to the 
extent that the performance conditions are met. The remaining 50% are subject to continued employment. 
The performance conditions for the most recent awards were a combination of: 
– 33.3% investment outperformance, relative to the relevant benchmarks over three and five years,  
– 33.3% growth in assets under management, demonstrated through a compound increase in AuM over the five-year performance period, 
and 
– 33.3% profitability, demonstrated through Ashmore's diluted earnings per share (EPS) performance relative to a comparator index over 
the five-year performance period. 
The performance conditions’ vesting scale and the TSR peer group, which relates to share awards made until September 2017, are shown 
in Figures 7 and 10 respectively.  
   
106    Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2021 
106  Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021
ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION (CONTINUED)    S
T
R
A
T
  E
G
IC
 R
E
P
O
R
For additional information, Figure 5 shows the history of financial results for the last five years.  Figure 7   T 
Figure 5  Performance conditions’ vesting scale 
Five-year summary of financial results   Performance condition  Performance  % of award vesting  G
O
  2021  2020  2019  2018  2017  TSR  Below median of peer group  Zero  VE
Median  25%  R
AuM US$ billion (at period end)  94.4 83.6 91.8  73.9 58.7 N
Operating profit £ million  258.3 209.7 202.8  176.5 166.8 Between median and upper quartile  Straight-line proportionate vesting  AN
C
Upper quartile  100%  E
 
Payments to past directors  Investment outperformance  Below 50% of assets outperforming the benchmarks  Zero 
F
No payments were made to past directors during FY2020/21.  over three and five years  IN
A
50% of assets outperforming the benchmarks over  25%  N
Figure 6   three and five years  CIA
Long-term incentive awards made during the year ended 30 June 2021 – audited information  Between 50% and 75% of assets outperforming the  Straight-line proportionate vesting   L S
benchmarks over three and five years  T
A
T
No. of   Date  Share award  Face value Face value  Performance period  75% or above of assets outperforming the  100%   EM
Name1  Type of award  shares  of award  price3 (£)  (£)  (% of salary)  end date  benchmarks over three and five years  E
N
Tom Shippey2  Restricted shares  99,976  18 September 2020 £3.6009  £360,004  360%  17 September 2025 Growth in assets under management  Below 5% compound increase in AuM over the   Zero  T
S
Tom Shippey2  Matching shares  74,982  18 September 2020 £3.6009  £270,003  270%  17 September 2025 five-year performance period 
5% compound increase in AuM over the five-year  25% 
1. In respect of the year ended 30 June 2020, no cash bonus or share award was made to Mark Coombs, reflecting overall business performance during the period and the Remuneration Committee’s 
strict application of its discretion.  performance period 
2. Executives may voluntarily defer their cash bonus into shares in order to receive an equivalent level of matching shares and are also required under the AIFMD rules to defer a portion of their cash  Between 5% and 10% compound increase in AuM  Straight-line proportionate vesting  
bonus for six months. These awards are not subject to any performance conditions; full details can be found in Figure 9. 
over the five-year performance period 
3. Based on the average Ashmore Group plc closing share price for the five business days prior to the grant date.  
Long-term incentive awards made during the year ended 30 June 2021 – performance conditions  10% or above compound increase in AuM over the   100%  
five-year performance period 
Figure 6 provides details of the long-term incentive awards that were made during FY2020/21. These represent the restricted and matching 
Profitability – Ashmore’s diluted EPS  Below the benchmark return  Zero 
share awards, 50% of which are subject to additional performance conditions, and will vest on the fifth anniversary of the award date, to the 
extent that the performance conditions are met. The remaining 50% are subject to continued employment.  performance relative to a combination of  At the benchmark return  25% 
Emerging Market indices representative 
The performance conditions for the most recent awards were a combination of:  of the markets in which Ashmore invests,  Between the benchmark return and 10%  Straight-line proportionate vesting 
outperformance 
– 33.3% investment outperformance, relative to the relevant benchmarks over three and five years,   determined by the Remuneration 
Committee and based on the underlying  At or above 10% outperformance relative to the  100%  
– 33.3% growth in assets under management, demonstrated through a compound increase in AuM over the five-year performance period, 
structure of the business.  benchmark return 
and 
– 33.3% profitability, demonstrated through Ashmore's diluted earnings per share (EPS) performance relative to a comparator index over 
the five-year performance period.  Figure 8  
The performance conditions’ vesting scale and the TSR peer group, which relates to share awards made until September 2017, are shown  TSR peer group 
in Figures 7 and 10 respectively.   Company  Country of listing    Company  Country of listing 
    Affiliated Managers  USA    Invesco  USA 
Alliance Bernstein  USA    Janus Henderson Investors (added in  USA & Australia 
May 2017) 
BlackRock  USA    Jupiter Fund Management  UK 
CI Financial   Canada    Man Group  UK 
Federated Hermes  USA    Schroders  UK 
Franklin Resources  USA    SEI Investments  USA 
GAM Holding (2015, 2016 and 2017  Switzerland    T Rowe Price  USA 
awards only) 
The Remuneration Committee decided to remove relative total shareholder return (TSR) as a vesting condition from July 2018 onwards, 
based upon its observations over the past decade and combined with external advice, that there are no other listed asset managers 
dedicated to managing investments in Emerging Markets and therefore whose share price is influenced by particular external macro-
economic factors in the same way as Ashmore’s. The TSR peer group therefore relates only to awards granted in 2016 and 2017. 
Companies who have delisted during the performance period have been removed from the comparator group. 
   
106    Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2021  Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2021    107 
Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021  107
ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION (CONTINUED)  
 
Performance and vesting outcome for the CEO’s 2015 long-term incentive awards which vested during FY2020/21 
During FY2020/21, shares awarded to Mark Coombs in 2015 reached their vesting date. On the vesting date, all bonus shares and half of 
the restricted and matching shares vested. Performance conditions were applied to the vesting of half of the restricted and matching shares 
awarded. Each performance condition was equally weighted at 25%. The performance outcomes, relative to the performance conditions 
vesting scale shown in Figure 7, are shown in Figure 9. TSR performance condition calculations were provided by Deloitte.  
Figure 9  
Vesting outcome for CEO 2015 long-term incentive awards subject to performance conditions 
Vesting  Restricted and matching shares awarded subject 
Performance measure assessment    percentage  to performance conditions  Shares vesting  Shares lapsing 
 
Investment  50% of AuM were outperforming over 3    25%  Restricted shares  61,784   15,446  46,338 
performance  & 5 years    Matching shares  46,338   11,584  34,753 
Increasing AuM  The compound annual growth in AuM    57%  Restricted shares  61,784   35,217  26,567 
over the five-year period, from US$58.9    Matching shares  46,338   26,413  19,925 
billion to US$83.6 billion, was between 
5% and 10%. Actual was 7.3%. 
Profitability  On a compound basis, Ashmore    46%  Restricted shares  61,784   28,421  33,363 
increased its diluted EPS by    Matching shares  46,338   21,315  25,022 
approximately 6% per annum over the 
five-year period, exceeding the 3% 
compound return from the benchmark 
index. Actual EPS growth was 5.9% vs 
benchmark growth of 3.1%. 
TSR  The Company’s TSR was 91.4%, which    100%  Restricted shares  61,784   61,784  – 
ranked Ashmore at 2.15 relative to the    Matching shares  46,338   46,338  – 
TSR peer group of 15 companies; the 
upper quartile rank which would have 
resulted in 100% vesting was 4.5 or a 
TSR of 17.3%. Therefore 100% of the 
restricted and matching share 
awards vested. 
Totals       432,486   246,517  185,969 
 
   
108    Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2021 
108  Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021
ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION (CONTINUED)     S
T
R
A
T
  E
G
IC
 R
E
P
O
R
Performance and vesting outcome for the CEO’s 2015 long-term incentive awards which vested during FY2020/21  Performance and vesting outcome for the Group Financial Director’s 2015 long-term incentive awards which  T
 
vested during FY2020/21 
During FY2020/21, shares awarded to Mark Coombs in 2015 reached their vesting date. On the vesting date, all bonus shares and half of 
the restricted and matching shares vested. Performance conditions were applied to the vesting of half of the restricted and matching shares  During FY2020/21, shares awarded to Tom Shippey in 2015 reached their vesting date. On the vesting date, all bonus shares and half of the 
G
awarded. Each performance condition was equally weighted at 25%. The performance outcomes, relative to the performance conditions  restricted and matching shares vested. Performance conditions were applied to the vesting of half of the restricted and matching shares  O
V
vesting scale shown in Figure 7, are shown in Figure 9. TSR performance condition calculations were provided by Deloitte.   awarded. Each performance condition was equally weighted at 25%. The performance outcomes, relative to the performance conditions  E
R
vesting scale shown in Figure 7, are shown in Figure 10. TSR performance condition calculations were provided by Deloitte.   N
A
Figure 9   N
Figure 10   C
Vesting outcome for CEO 2015 long-term incentive awards subject to performance conditions  Vesting outcome for the Group Finance Director’s 2015 long-term incentive awards subject to  E 
Vesting  Restricted and matching shares awarded subject  performance conditions  F
 Performance measure assessment    percentage  to performance conditions  Shares vesting  Shares lapsing  IN
Investment  50% of AuM were outperforming over 3    25%  Restricted shares  61,784   15,446  46,338  Performance measure assessment    Vpeerscteinngt age  Rtoe psetrricfotermd aanncde m caotncdhiitniogn ssh ares awarded subject  Shares vesting  Shares lapsing  AN
performance  & 5 years    Matching shares  46,338   11,584  34,753   Investment  50% of AuM were outperforming over 3    25%  Restricted shares  20,595  5,149  15,446  CIA
L
Increasing AuM  The compound annual growth in AuM    57%  Restricted shares  61,784   35,217  26,567  performance  & 5 years    Matching shares  15,446  3,862  11,585   S
T
over the five-year period, from US$58.9    Matching shares  46,338   26,413  19,925  Increasing AuM  The compound annual growth in AuM    57%  Restricted shares  20,595  11,739  8,856  AT
billion to US$83.6 billion, was between  E
over the five-year period, from US$58.9    Matching shares  15,446  8,804  6,642  M
5% and 10%. Actual was 7.3%.  billion to US$83.6 billion, was between  EN
Profitability  On a compound basis, Ashmore    46%  Restricted shares  61,784   28,421  33,363  5% and 10%. Actual was 7.3%.  TS
increased its diluted EPS by    Matching shares  46,338   21,315  25,022  Profitability  On a compound basis, Ashmore    46%  Restricted shares  20,595  9,473  11,121 
approximately 6% per annum over the 
increased its diluted EPS by    Matching shares  15,446  7,105  8,341 
five-year period, exceeding the 3% 
approximately 6% per annum over the 
compound return from the benchmark 
five-year period, exceeding the 3% 
index. Actual EPS growth was 5.9% vs 
compound return from the benchmark 
benchmark growth of 3.1%. 
index. Actual EPS growth was 5.9% vs 
TSR  The Company’s TSR was 91.4%, which    100%  Restricted shares  61,784   61,784  –  benchmark growth of 3.1%. 
ranked Ashmore at 2.15 relative to the    Matching shares  46,338   46,338  –  TSR  The Company’s TSR was 91.4%, which    100%  Restricted shares  20,595  20,595  – 
TSR peer group of 15 companies; the 
ranked Ashmore at 2.15 relative to the    Matching shares  15,446  15,446  – 
upper quartile rank which would have 
TSR peer group of 15 companies; the 
resulted in 100% vesting was 4.5 or a 
upper quartile rank which would have 
TSR of 17.3%. Therefore 100% of the 
resulted in 100% vesting was 4.5 or a 
restricted and matching share 
TSR of 17.3%. Therefore 100% of the 
awards vested. 
restricted and matching share 
Totals       432,486   246,517  185,969  awards vested. 
 
Totals        144,162   82,172  61,990 
       
108    Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2021  Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2021    109 
Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021  109
ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION (CONTINUED)  
 
Figure 11 
Outstanding share awards  
The table below sets out details of Executive Directors’ outstanding share awards.  
Type of   Number of  Granted  Lapsed  Number of 
 Omnibus   Share award  shares at  during  Vested during  during  shares at  Performance 
Executive   award   Date of award  price  30 June 2020  year  year  year  30 June 2021  period  Vesting/release date 
Mark 
Coombs  RS   22 September 2015  £2.4278  494,271 – 388,003 106,268 – 5 years 21 September 2020
  RBS   22 September 2015  £2.4278  370,703 – 370,703 – – 5 years 21 September 2020
  RMS   22 September 2015  £2.4278  370,703 – 291,002 79,701 – 5 years 21 September 2020
  RS1  16 September 2016  £3.3955  161,330 – – – 161,330 5 years 15 September 2021
  RBS1  16 September 2016  £3.3955  120,999 – – – 120,999 5 years 15 September 2021
  RMS1  16 September 2016  £3.3955  121,000 – – – 121,000 5 years 15 September 2021
  RS1  14 September 2017  £3.2353  449,542 – – – 449,542 5 years 13 September 2022
  RBS1  14 September 2017  £3.2353  337,156 – – – 337,156 5 years 13 September 2022
  RMS1  14 September 2017  £3.2353  337,156 – – – 337,156 5 years 13 September 2022
  RS1  14 September 2018  £3.3269  218,342 – – – 218,342 5 years 13 September 2023
  RBS1  14 September 2018  £3.3269  163,757 – – – 163,757 5 years 13 September 2023
  RMS1  14 September 2018  £3.3269  163,757 – – – 163,757 5 years 13 September 2023
  RS1  13 September 2019  £4.3833  248,580 – – – 248,580 5 years 12 September 2024
  RBS1  13 September 2019  £4.3833  186,435 – – – 186,435 5 years 12 September 2024
  RMS1  13 September 2019  £4.3833  186,435 – – – 186,435 5 years 12 September 2024
Total        3,930,166 0 1,049,708 185,969 2,694,489  
1. In respect of the years ending 30 June 2016, 30 June 2017, 30 June 2018 and 30 June 2019 Mark Coombs chose to waive 10% of his potential non-AIF related variable remuneration award in 
return for the Remuneration Committee considering and approving a contribution to a charity or charities nominated by himself. The 'Number of shares at 30 June 2020', 'Granted during year' and 
'Number of shares at 30 June 2021' figures are shown excluding the amounts waived. On the vesting/release date, any shares waived to charity will vest to them to the extent that any relevant 
performance conditions have been satisfied. 
 
  KEY            
  RS – Restricted shares    RBS – Restricted bonus shares    RMS – Restricted matching shares   
   
110    Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2021 
110  Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021
ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION (CONTINUED)     S
T
R
A
T
  E
G
IC
 R
E
P
O
R
Figure 11  Figure 11 continued  T 
Outstanding share awards   Outstanding share awards  
The table below sets out details of Executive Directors’ outstanding share awards.   G
Type of   Number of  Granted  Lapsed  Number of  O
V
Omnibus   Share award  shares at  during Vested during  during  shares at   Performance  E
Type of   Number of  Granted  Lapsed  Number of  Executive  award   Date of award  price  30 June 2020   year  year  year  30 June 2021  period  Vesting/release date  R
 Omnibus   Share award  shares at  during  Vested during  during  shares at  Performance  N
Tom  A
Executive   award   Date of award  price  30 June 2020  year  year  year  30 June 2021  period  Vesting/release date  N
Shippey  RS   22 September 2015  £2.4278 164,757 – 129,334 35,423 –  5 years 21 September 2020 C
Mark  E
Coombs  RS   22 September 2015  £2.4278  494,271 – 388,003 106,268 – 5 years 21 September 2020   RBS   22 September 2015  £2.4278 123,568 – 123,568 – –  5 years 21 September 2020  
  RBS   22 September 2015  £2.4278  370,703 – 370,703 – – 5 years 21 September 2020   RMS   22 September 2015  £2.4278 123,568 – 97,001 26,567 –  5 years 21 September 2020 FIN
  RMS   22 September 2015  £2.4278  370,703 – 291,002 79,701 – 5 years 21 September 2020   RS   16 September 2016  £3.3955 88,353 – – – 88,353  5 years 15 September 2021 A
N
  RS1  16 September 2016  £3.3955  161,330 – – – 161,330 5 years 15 September 2021   RBS   16 September 2016  £3.3955 66,265 – – – 66,265  5 years 15 September 2021 CIA
  RBS1  16 September 2016  £3.3955  120,999 – – – 120,999 5 years 15 September 2021   RMS   16 September 2016  £3.3955 66,265 – – – 66,265  5 years 15 September 2021 L S
  RMS1  16 September 2016  £3.3955  121,000 – – – 121,000 5 years 15 September 2021   RS   14 September 2017  £3.2353 117,455 – – – 117,455  5 years 13 September 2022 TA
T
  RS1  14 September 2017  £3.2353  449,542 – – – 449,542 5 years 13 September 2022   RBS   14 September 2017  £3.2353 88,091 – – – 88,091  5 years 13 September 2022 E
M
  RBS1  14 September 2017  £3.2353  337,156 – – – 337,156 5 years 13 September 2022   RMS   14 September 2017  £3.2353 88,091 – – – 88,091  5 years 13 September 2022 E
N
  RMS1  14 September 2017  £3.2353  337,156 – – – 337,156 5 years 13 September 2022   RS   14 September 2018  £3.3269 105,204 – – – 105,204  5 years 13 September 2023 TS
  RS1  14 September 2018  £3.3269  218,342 – – – 218,342 5 years 13 September 2023   RBS   14 September 2018  £3.3269 22,544 – – – 22,544  5 years 13 September 2023
  RBS1  14 September 2018  £3.3269  163,757 – – – 163,757 5 years 13 September 2023   RMS   14 September 2018  £3.3269 22,544 – – – 22,544  5 years 13 September 2023
  RMS1  14 September 2018  £3.3269  163,757 – – – 163,757 5 years 13 September 2023   RS   13 September 2019  £4.3833 91,256 – – – 91,256  5 years 12 September 2024
  RS1  13 September 2019  £4.3833  248,580 – – – 248,580 5 years 12 September 2024   RBS   13 September 2019  £4.3833 68,442 – – – 68,442  5 years 12 September 2024
  RBS1  13 September 2019  £4.3833  186,435 – – – 186,435 5 years 12 September 2024   RMS   13 September 2019  £4.3833 68,442 – – – 68,442  5 years 12 September 2024
  RMS1  13 September 2019  £4.3833  186,435 – – – 186,435 5 years 12 September 2024   RS2  18 September 2020  £4.3833 – 3,000 3,000 – –  6 months 18 March 2021
Total        3,930,166 0 1,049,708 185,969 2,694,489     RS   18 September 2020  £4.3833 – 99,976 – – 99,976  5 years 17 September 2025
  RBS   18 September 2020  £4.3833 – 74,982 – – 74,982  5 years 17 September 2025
1. In respect of the years ending 30 June 2016, 30 June 2017, 30 June 2018 and 30 June 2019 Mark Coombs chose to waive 10% of his potential non-AIF related variable remuneration award in 
return for the Remuneration Committee considering and approving a contribution to a charity or charities nominated by himself. The 'Number of shares at 30 June 2020', 'Granted during year' and    RMS   18 September 2020  £4.3833 – 74,982 – – 74,982  5 years 17 September 2025
'Number of shares at 30 June 2021' figures are shown excluding the amounts waived. On the vesting/release date, any shares waived to charity will vest to them to the extent that any relevant 
performance conditions have been satisfied.  Total      1,304,845 252,940 352,903 61,990 1,142,892 
 
2. In order to comply with the Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive remuneration principles in regard to the delivery of remuneration in retained instruments,  
a proportion of Mark Coombs’ and Tom Shippey’s cash bonuses relating to the year ending 30 June 2020 were delivered in the form of restricted shares, subject to a six-month retention period, 
  KEY             rather than being delivered in cash. These shares vested in full on the date shown and were not subject to any additional performance conditions. 
 
  RS – Restricted shares    RBS – Restricted bonus shares    RMS – Restricted matching shares   
  KEY            
   
  RS – Restricted shares    RBS – Restricted bonus shares     RMS – Restricted matching shares    
The Company’s obligations under its employee share plans can be met by newly issued shares in the Company, or shares purchased in the 
market by the trustees of the Employee Benefit Trust (EBT). As detailed in the Business review, the EBT continues to make market 
purchases of shares to satisfy awards.  
The overall limits on new issuance operated under the existing share plans were established on the listing of the Company in 2006. 
Under these agreed limits, the number of shares which may be issued in aggregate under employee share plans of the Company over any 
ten-year period following the date of the Company’s Admission in 2006 is limited to 15% of the Company’s issued share capital. It is 
expected that all of the awards made to date will be satisfied by the acquisition of shares in the market, thus none of the Company’s 
obligations under its employee share plans have been met by newly issued shares. As at 30 June 2021, the Company had 5.88% of the 
Company’s issued share capital outstanding under employee share plans to its staff. 
Defined benefit pension entitlements  
None of the Directors has any entitlements under Company defined benefit pension plans.  
   
110    Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2021  Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2021    111 
Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021  111
ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION (CONTINUED)  
 
Directors’ shareholding and share interests 
Details of the Directors’ interests in shares are shown in the table below. The Directors’ Remuneration policy, approved by binding 
shareholder vote at the 16 October 2020 AGM, includes a formal requirement for Executive Directors to build an unrestricted, post vesting 
shareholding equivalent to 200% of salary, to be built up over the three-year period following the approval of the Remuneration policy 
approved by shareholders in 2017 or from the first five-year vesting date for newly appointed Executive Directors. 
The closing price of Ashmore Group plc shares on 30 June 2020 was £4.172 which means that by 20 October 2020 both Mark Coombs and 
Tom Shippey were required to hold at least 47,939 unrestricted shares to meet the shareholding requirement. 
Both Mark Coombs and Tom Shippey have met the shareholding requirement. 
Under the Directors’ Remuneration policy Executive Directors are usually required to maintain a shareholding of 200% of salary for two 
years post termination of their employment. The minimum number of shares to be held is based on the market price of Ashmore Group plc 
shares on the year end date of 30 June prior to their termination date. The Committee retains discretion to waive this guideline if it is not 
considered appropriate in the specific circumstances. 
Figure 12  
Share interests of Directors and connected persons at 30 June 2021 – audited information  
  Outstanding restricted and  Outstanding voluntarily deferred  
  Beneficially owned   matching share awards1  bonus share awards2  Total interest in shares3 
Executive Directors   
Mark Coombs   220,997,181 1,886,142  808,347   223,691,670 
Tom Shippey  49,529 822,568  320,324   1,192,421 
   
Non-executive Directors   
Clive Adamson  2,131 –  –   2,131 
Helen Beck  0 –  –   0 
David Bennett  11,619 –  –   11,619 
Jennifer Bingham  0 –  –   0 
Dame Anne Pringle DCMG  4,461 –  –   4,461 
1. Half of the restricted shares and matching shares awarded in 2016, 2017, 2018, 2019 and 2020 are subject to performance conditions. 
2. Voluntarily deferred bonus shares are not subject to performance conditions. 
3. Save as described above, there have been no changes in the shareholdings of the Directors between 30 June and 2 September 2021. The Directors are permitted to hold their shares as collateral for 
loans with the express permission of the Board.  
   
112    Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2021 
112  Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021
ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION (CONTINUED)     S
T
R
A
T
  E
G
IC
 R
E
P
O
R
Directors’ shareholding and share interests  Figure 13   T 
Details of the Directors’ interests in shares are shown in the table below. The Directors’ Remuneration policy, approved by binding  Percentage change in the remuneration of the Executive Directors and the fees of Non-executive Directors relative 
shareholder vote at the 16 October 2020 AGM, includes a formal requirement for Executive Directors to build an unrestricted, post vesting  to the remuneration of a relevant comparator employee 
G
shareholding equivalent to 200% of salary, to be built up over the three-year period following the approval of the Remuneration policy  O
2020 to 2021  2019 to 2020   2018 to 2019   2017 to 2018  2016 to 2017  V
approved by shareholders in 2017 or from the first five-year vesting date for newly appointed Executive Directors.    % change  % change  % change  % change  % change  E
R
The closing price of Ashmore Group plc shares on 30 June 2020 was £4.172 which means that by 20 October 2020 both Mark Coombs and  Mark Coombs base salary  0% 0%  0%  0% 0% NA
Tom Shippey were required to hold at least 47,939 unrestricted shares to meet the shareholding requirement.  Tom Shippey base salary  0% 0%  0%  0% 0% N
C
E
Both Mark Coombs and Tom Shippey have met the shareholding requirement.  Clive Adamson fees2  0% 4%  22%  13% 29%  
Under the Directors’ Remuneration policy Executive Directors are usually required to maintain a shareholding of 200% of salary for two  Helen Beck fees3  0%     F
IN
years post termination of their employment. The minimum number of shares to be held is based on the market price of Ashmore Group plc  David Bennett fees4  0% 15%  63%  7% 7% A
N
shares on the year end date of 30 June prior to their termination date. The Committee retains discretion to waive this guideline if it is not  Jennifer Bingham fees  0% 0%    C
considered appropriate in the specific circumstances.  IA
Simon Fraser fees5      (50%) 10% L
 S
Figure 12   Peter Gibbs fees6    (69%)  0% 38% T
A
Share interests of Directors and connected persons at 30 June 2021 – audited information   Nick Land fees7      (75%) TE
M
  Outstanding restricted and  Outstanding voluntarily deferred   Dame Anne Pringle DCMG fees8  0% 6%  18%  0% 0% E
N
  Beneficially owned   matching share awards1  bonus share awards2  Total interest in shares3  Relevant comparator employee’s base salary  1% 1%  3%  0% 0% T
S
Executive Directors   
Mark Coombs taxable benefits  (87%) (6%)  (8%)  (1%) 0%
Mark Coombs   220,997,181 1,886,142  808,347   223,691,670 
Tom Shippey taxable benefits  0% (6%)  (4%)  8% 10%
Tom Shippey  49,529 822,568  320,324   1,192,421 
David Bennett taxable benefits9  (100%) (39%)  103%  46% (46%)
   
Relevant comparator employee’s taxable benefits  0% 0%  (5%)  (9%) 10%
Non-executive Directors   
Mark Coombs annual bonus10  N/A (100%)  50%  (50%) 167%
Clive Adamson  2,131 –  –   2,131 
Tom Shippey annual bonus  (6%) (10%)  14%  (8%) 27%
Helen Beck  0 –  –   0 
Relevant comparator employees’ annual bonus  4% (12%)  10%  5% 22%
David Bennett  11,619 –  –   11,619 
1. Non-executive Directors do not receive a bonus. 
Jennifer Bingham  0 –  –   0 
2. Clive Adamson joined the Board on 22/10/15 and chaired the Remuneration Committee from 31/12/17 until 19/10/18; he became the Senior Independent Director and Audit and Risk Committee 
Dame Anne Pringle DCMG  4,461 –  –   4,461  chair on 19/10/18. 
3. Helen Beck joined the Board on 01/06/21. 
1. Half of the restricted shares and matching shares awarded in 2016, 2017, 2018, 2019 and 2020 are subject to performance conditions. 
4. David Bennett joined the Board on 30/10/14 and chaired the Audit and Risk Committee from 22/10/15 until 19/10/18; he acted as Senior Independent Director from 31/12/17 until 19/10/18 and was 
2. Voluntarily deferred bonus shares are not subject to performance conditions.  appointed as Chairman on 19/10/18. 
3. Save as described above, there have been no changes in the shareholdings of the Directors between 30 June and 2 September 2021. The Directors are permitted to hold their shares as collateral for  5. Simon Fraser left the Board on 31/12/17, and chaired the Remuneration Committee from 30/10/13 until 31/12/17; he acted as Senior Independent Director from 22/10/15 until 31/12/17. 
loans with the express permission of the Board.   The percentage decrease in fees shown in the 2017 to 2018 % change column is as a result of Simon only working for part of the year. 
    6. Peter Gibbs joined the Board on 29/04/15 and left the Board on 19/10/18; the percentage increase shown in the 2015 to 2016 % change column is as a result of Peter having been in post for only 
part of the 2015 year and for the full year in 2016. The percentage decrease in fees shown in the 2018 to 2019 % change column is as a result of Peter only working for part of the year. 
7. Nick Land left the Board on 21/10/16; he ceased to act as Senior Independent Director effective from 22/10/15.  
8. Dame Anne Pringle began to chair the Remuneration Committee on 19/10/18 and left the Board on 30/06/21. 
9. David Bennett’s taxable benefits relate to transportation costs and the associated income tax and national insurance costs in relation to his role. 
10. Mark Coombs did not receive a bonus in 2020. 
Figure 13 compares the percentage change from 2016 to 2021 in remuneration elements for the Chief Executive, the Group Finance 
Director and the Non-executive Directors with the average year-on-year change across relevant comparator employees as a whole. 
Relevant comparator employees’ are all full-time employees and part-time employees on a full-time equivalent basis of Ashmore Group who 
have been employed throughout the full performance year. Figures do not include amounts of cash waived to charity. 
   
112    Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2021  Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2021    113 
Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021  113
ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION (CONTINUED)  
 
Performance chart  
Figure 14 shows the Company’s TSR performance (with dividends reinvested) against the performance of the FTSE 250 and FTSE 100 for 
the period since 30 June 2011. These indices have been chosen as they represent companies of a broadly similar market capitalisation to 
Ashmore. Each point at a financial year end is calculated using an average total shareholder return value over the month of June (i.e. 1 June 
to 30 June inclusive). As the chart indicates, £100 invested in Ashmore on 30 June 2010 was worth £163 ten years later, compared with 
£179 for the same investment in the FTSE 100 index, and £251 for the same investment in the FTSE 250 index. 
Figure 14 
Total shareholder return – value of hypothetical £100 holding 
£
300
£251
250
d)
ase 200 £179
b
e
£) (r 150 £163
e (
u
al 100
V
50
0
30 June 11 30 June 12 30 June 13 30 June 14 30 June 15 30 June 16 30 June 17 30 June 18 30 June 19 30 June 20 30 June 21
Ashmore Group FTSE 250 Index FTSE 100 Index
This graph shows the value, by 30 June 2021, of £100 invested in Ashmore Group on 30 June 2011, compared with the value of £100 invested in the FTSE 100 and FTSE 250 Indices on the same date.
Source: FactSet
 
Figure 15 shows the total remuneration figure for the Chief Executive Officer during each of the financial years shown in the TSR chart. 
The total remuneration figure includes the annual bonus and share awards, which vested based on performance in those years. As there is 
no cap on the maximum individual bonus award, a percentage of maximum annual bonus is not shown. 
Figure 15  
Chief Executive  
Performance-related  Percentage of restricted
Annual   restricted and matching  and matching phantom
Year ended 30 June  Salary  Benefits  Pension  bonus   phantom shares vested1  shares vested  Total 
2021  £100,000  £901  £9,000 £1,241,700 £1,108,587  57.00% £2,460,188
2020  £100,000  £7,203  £9,000 – –  – £116,203
2019  £100,000  £7,627  £9,000 £2,491,200 £997,173  30.23% £3,605,000
2018  £100,000  £8,293  £9,000 £1,261,277 –  – £1,378,570
2017  £100,000  £8,404  £9,000 £3,071,748 £95,574  – £3,284,726
2016   £100,000    £8,400    £9,000   £1,083,458   £284,932  –  £1,485,790 
2015   £100,000    £8,388    £8,000   £2,415,000   £462,159  –  £2,993,547 
2014   £100,000    £8,934    £7,000   –   £452,386  –  £568,320 
2013   £100,000    £9,330    £7,000   £2,430,000   £421,668  –  £2,967,998 
2012   £100,000    £9,322    £7,000   £1,620,000   £323,677  –  £2,059,999 
1. Performance-related restricted and matching or phantom share equivalent awards vested during the years ending 30 June 2019 and 30 June 2021 plus the value of any dividend equivalents. 
The sums shown in earlier years relate to dividends or dividend equivalents paid on share or phantom share awards.  
Figure 16 
Relative importance of spend on pay 
2020 to 2021
Metric  2021  2020  % change 
Remuneration paid to or receivable by all employees of the Group (i.e. accounting cost)   £80.3m  £82.6m (3%)
Average headcount  301  301 0%
Distributions to shareholders (dividends and/or share buybacks)   £118.3m  £120.0m (1%)
114    Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2021 
114  Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021
ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION (CONTINUED)     S
T
R
A
T
  E
G
IC
 R
E
P
O
R
Performance chart   Statement on implementation of the Remuneration policy in the year commencing 1 July 2021  T
 
Figure 14 shows the Company’s TSR performance (with dividends reinvested) against the performance of the FTSE 250 and FTSE 100 for  The Remuneration Committee intends to continue to apply broadly the same metrics and weightings to annual variable remuneration in the year 
the period since 30 June 2011. These indices have been chosen as they represent companies of a broadly similar market capitalisation to  ending 30 June 2022 as have been applied in the current period. The Committee also intends to apply the same three performance conditions to any 
G
Ashmore. Each point at a financial year end is calculated using an average total shareholder return value over the month of June (i.e. 1 June  long-term incentives awards made with the same weightings as used in FY2020/21, these being in relation to investment outperformance, growth  O
V
to 30 June inclusive). As the chart indicates, £100 invested in Ashmore on 30 June 2010 was worth £163 ten years later, compared with  in assets under management and profitability. The Committee does not intend to increase basic salaries for the Executive Directors, or the fees for  E
R
£179 for the same investment in the FTSE 100 index, and £251 for the same investment in the FTSE 250 index.  the Board Chairman and Non-executive Directors for FY 2021/22.  N
A
Figure 14  Membership of the Remuneration Committee  N
C
E
Total shareholder return – value of hypothetical £100 holding  The members of the Remuneration Committee are listed in the table below. All of these are independent Non-executive Directors, as defined   
under the Corporate Governance Code, with the exception of the Company Chairman who was independent on his appointment.  
F
IN
Remuneration Committee attendance  A
N
Percentage of meetings attended out of potential maximum  C
IA
Dame Anne Pringle DCMG  100% L
 S
Clive Adamson  100% T
A
T
David Bennett  100% E
M
Jennifer Bingham  100% E
N
Helen Beck1  100% TS
1. Helen Beck attended one meeting during the period as an observer, after her appointment to the Board on 1 June 2021. 
The Company’s CEO attends the meetings by invitation and assists the Remuneration Committee in its decision-making, except when  
his personal remuneration is discussed. No Directors are involved in deciding their own remuneration. The Company Secretary acts as 
Secretary to the Remuneration Committee. Other executives may be invited to attend as the Remuneration Committee requests. 
External advisers 
The Remuneration Committee received independent advice from Deloitte throughout the period from 8 July 2020 to 30 June 2021. 
 
Deloitte abides by the Remuneration Consultants’ Code of Conduct, which requires it to provide objective and impartial advice. 
Figure 15 shows the total remuneration figure for the Chief Executive Officer during each of the financial years shown in the TSR chart. 
Deloitte’s fees for the year ending 30 June 2021 were £43,650 and were charged on a time and materials basis. Deloitte also provides  
The total remuneration figure includes the annual bonus and share awards, which vested based on performance in those years. As there is 
other tax, employee mobility and share plan administration related services to the Company.  
no cap on the maximum individual bonus award, a percentage of maximum annual bonus is not shown. 
Figure 17 
Figure 15  
Statement of shareholder voting 
Chief Executive  
At the 2020 AGM, the Directors’ Remuneration report received the following votes from shareholders:  
Performance-related  Percentage of restricted
Annual   restricted and matching  and matching phantom 2020 AGM resolution to approve the Directors’ Remuneration  % of 
Year ended 30 June  Salary  Benefits  Pension  bonus   phantom shares vested1  shares vested  Total  Remuneration report  report for the year ended 30 June 2020  votes cast 
2021  £100,000  £901  £9,000 £1,241,700 £1,108,587  57.00% £2,460,188 Votes cast in favour  538,465,590 90.09%
2020  £100,000  £7,203  £9,000 – –  – £116,203 Votes cast against  59,225,066 9.91%
2019  £100,000  £7,627  £9,000 £2,491,200 £997,173  30.23% £3,605,000 Total votes cast  597,690,656 100.00%
2018  £100,000  £8,293  £9,000 £1,261,277 –  – £1,378,570 Abstentions  4,605 N/A
2017  £100,000  £8,404  £9,000 £3,071,748 £95,574  – £3,284,726
At the 2020 AGM, the Directors’ Remuneration policy received the following votes from shareholders:  
2016   £100,000    £8,400    £9,000   £1,083,458   £284,932  –  £1,485,790 
2020 AGM resolution to approve the Directors’ Remuneration  % of 
2015   £100,000    £8,388    £8,000   £2,415,000   £462,159  –  £2,993,547  Remuneration policy  policy for the year ended 30 June 2021, 2022 and 2023  votes cast 
2014   £100,000    £8,934    £7,000   –   £452,386  –  £568,320  Votes cast in favour  386,652,049 69.16%
2013   £100,000    £9,330    £7,000   £2,430,000   £421,668  –  £2,967,998  Votes cast against  172,385,927 30.84%
2012   £100,000    £9,322    £7,000   £1,620,000   £323,677  –  £2,059,999  Total votes cast  559,037,976 100.00%
Abstentions  38,657,285 N/A
1. Performance-related restricted and matching or phantom share equivalent awards vested during the years ending 30 June 2019 and 30 June 2021 plus the value of any dividend equivalents. 
The sums shown in earlier years relate to dividends or dividend equivalents paid on share or phantom share awards.  
Figure 16  Approval 
Relative importance of spend on pay  This Directors’ Remuneration report including both the proposed Directors’ Remuneration policy and the Annual Report on Remuneration 
2020 to 2021 has been approved by the Board of Directors. 
Metric  2021  2020  % change 
Signed on behalf of the Board of Directors. 
Remuneration paid to or receivable by all employees of the Group (i.e. accounting cost)   £80.3m  £82.6m (3%)
Helen Beck 
Average headcount  301  301 0%
Chair of the Remuneration Committee 
Distributions to shareholders (dividends and/or share buybacks)   £118.3m  £120.0m (1%)
2 September 2021 
114    Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2021  Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2021    115 
Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021  115
STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES
The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and  Under applicable law and regulations, the directors are also 
the Group and parent Company financial statements in accordance  responsible for preparing a Strategic report, Directors’ report, 
with applicable law and regulations.  Directors’ Remuneration report and Corporate governance 
statement that complies with that law and those regulations. 
Company law requires the directors to prepare Group and parent 
company financial statements for each financial year. Under that  The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of 
law they are required to prepare the Group financial statements in  the corporate and financial information included on the Company’s 
accordance with international accounting standards in conformity  website. Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and 
with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and applicable  dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in 
law and have elected to prepare the parent Company financial  other jurisdictions. 
statements on the same basis. In addition the Group financial 
Responsibility statement of the Directors in respect 
statements are required under the UK Disclosure Guidance and 
of the annual financial report
Transparency Rules to be prepared in accordance with International 
Financial Reporting Standards adopted pursuant to Regulation (EC)  We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: 
No 1606/2002, as it applies in the European Union.
– the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the 
Under company law the directors must not approve the financial  applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view 
statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair  of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the 
view of the state of affairs of the Group and parent Company and  Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation 
of the Group’s profit or loss for that period. In preparing each of the  taken as a whole; and 
Group and parent Company financial statements, the directors are  – the Strategic report and Directors’ report includes a fair review of 
required to:  the development and performance of the business and the 
– select suitable accounting policies and then apply  position of the Company and the undertakings included in the 
them consistently;  consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the 
principal risks and uncertainties that they face. 
– make judgements and estimates that are reasonable, relevant 
and reliable;  We consider the annual report and accounts, taken as a whole, 
– state whether they have been prepared in accordance with  is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information 
international accounting standards in conformity with the  necessary for shareholders to assess the Group’s position and 
requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the  performance, business model and strategy.
group financial statements, International Financial Reporting 
Standards adopted pursuant to Regulation (EC) No 1606/2002, 
as it applies in the European Union;  David Bennett
Chairman
– assess the Group and parent Company’s ability to continue as a 
going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going 
2 September 2021
concern; and 
– use the going concern basis of accounting unless they either 
intend to liquidate the Group or the parent Company or to cease 
operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so. 
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting 
records that are sufficient to show and explain the parent 
Company’s transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at 
any time the financial position of the parent Company and enable 
them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the 
Companies Act 2006. They are responsible for such internal control 
as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of 
financial statements that are free from material misstatement, 
whether due to fraud or error, and have general responsibility for 
taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the 
assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and 
other irregularities. 
116  Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021
DIRECTORS’ REPORT S
T
R
A
T
E
G
IC
 R
E
P
O
R
The Directors present their Annual Report and  That Director is not taken into account in determining the Directors  T
 
financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2021. or the number of Directors who are to retire by rotation at that 
meeting. Notwithstanding these provisions, the Board has adopted 
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with 
provision 18 of the 2018 Code and all Directors will retire and seek  G
International Financial Reporting Standards adopted pursuant to  O
Regulation (EC) No 1606/2002, as it applies in the European Union. re-election at each Annual General Meeting. The Listing Rules  V
require that the election/re-election of independent directors is by a  ER
N
Principal activity and business review majority of votes cast by independent shareholders as well as by a  A
majority of votes cast by all shareholders.  N
The principal activity of the Group is the provision of investment  C
E
management services. The Company is required to set out in this  The Board confirms that the Company and Mark Coombs entered   
report a fair review of the business of the Group during the financial  into a relationship agreement on 1 July 2014 as required under UK  F
year ended 30 June 2021 and of the position of the Group at the  Listing Rule 9.2.2ADR(1); and that: (i) the Company has complied  IN
A
end of that financial year and a description of the principal risks and  with the independence provisions included in that agreement; (ii)  N
C
uncertainties facing the Group (referred to as the Business review).  so far as the Company is aware, Mark Coombs has complied with  IA
The information that fulfils the requirements of the Business  the independence provisions included in that agreement; and (iii) so  L S
review, along with an indication of the likely future developments in  far as the Company is aware, Mark Coombs has complied with the  T
A
the business, can be found in the financial highlights on the inside  procurement obligation included in that agreement pursuant to UK  T
E
front cover, the Chief Executive Officer’s review on pages 12 to 15,  Listing Rule 9.2.2BR(2)(a), in each case during the financial year  M
E
the Business review on pages 28 to 35 and the Corporate  ended on 30 June 2021.  N
T
governance report on pages 69 to 76. S
Diversity
The Group’s approach to financial risk management and the 
The Nominations Committee and the Board recognise the 
principal operating risks facing the business, including price risk, 
importance of diversity and believe that this is a wider issue than 
credit risk, liquidity risk and cash flow risk and a description of the 
solely gender. The Committee will make recommendations to the 
Group risk management policy are detailed on pages 36 to 41.
Board concerning the diversity policy of the Group, ensuring that 
Results and dividends candidate pools for Board or senior management appointments 
(whilst being assembled on merit and objective criteria) wherever 
The results of the Group for the year are set out in the consolidated 
possible include candidates of different gender, ethnic and social 
statement of comprehensive income on page 131.
backgrounds. The Nominations Committee, in assessing the 
The Directors recommend a final dividend of 12.10 pence per share  suitability of a prospective Director, will consider whether the 
(FY2019/20: 12.10 pence) which, together with the interim dividend  candidate is ‘overboarded’ and has sufficient time available to 
of 4.80 pence per share (FY2019/20: 4.80 pence) already declared,  discharge their duties and the overall balance of skills, experience 
makes a total for the year ended 30 June 2021 of 16.90 pence per  and knowledge on the Board. The Board currently consists of two 
share (FY2019/20: 16.90 pence). Details of the interim dividend  Executive and four Non-executive Directors, of whom two are 
payment are set out in note 14 to the financial statements. female. The Nominations Committee from time to time engages 
Subject to approval at the Annual General Meeting, the final  the services of an external search consultant for the purpose of 
dividend will be paid on 10 December 2021 to shareholders on   seeking new candidates for Board membership, conditional upon 
the register on 5 November 2021 (the ex-dividend date being  such consultant having no connection to the Company.
4 November 2021). It is Ashmore’s policy to attract and retain a diverse workforce. 
Whilst there are no quotas set in respect of gender, age, 
Related party transactions
educational or professional background, Ashmore is committed to 
Details of related party transactions are set out in note 28 to the  providing equal opportunities and seeks to ensure that its 
financial statements.  workforce reflects, as far as is practicable, the diversity of the many 
communities in which it operates. As at 30 June 2021 Ashmore 
Post-balance sheet events
employed 38 different nationalities throughout the organisation. 
Details of post balance sheet events are provided in note 32 to the  Details of the gender balance across the Group and in relation to 
financial statements. senior management and their direct reports are provided on page 
54. It is the Group’s policy to give appropriate consideration to 
Directors
applications from persons with disabilities, having regard to their 
The members of the Board together with their biographical details  particular aptitudes and abilities. For the purposes of training, 
are shown on pages 67 to 68. Helen Beck was appointed as a  career development and progression (including those who become 
Director on 1 June 2021. All other members of the Board served as  disabled during the course of their employment) all are treated on 
Directors throughout the year. equal terms with other employees.
Details of the service contracts of the current Directors are 
Insurance and indemnification of Directors
described on page 123.
Directors’ and officers’ liability insurance is maintained by the 
Under the Articles, the minimum number of Directors is two and 
Company for all Directors. To the extent permissible by law, the 
the maximum is nine. Directors may be appointed by the Company 
Articles of Association also permit the Company to indemnify 
by ordinary resolution or by the Board. A Director appointed by the 
Directors and former Directors against any liability incurred whilst 
Board must offer himself/herself for election at the next Annual 
serving in such capacity.
General Meeting of the Company following their appointment. 
Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021  117
DIRECTORS’ REPORT (CONTINUED)
Directors’ conflicts of interest
The Companies Act 2006 imposes upon Directors a statutory duty to avoid unauthorised conflicts of interest with the Company. 
The Company’s Articles of Association enable Directors to approve conflicts of interest and also include other conflict of interest provisions. 
The Company has implemented processes to identify potential and actual conflicts of interest. Such conflicts are then considered for 
approval by the Board, subject, where necessary, to appropriate conditions.
Save as disclosed on page 67, Executive Directors do not presently hold any external appointments with any non-Ashmore-related companies.
Directors’ share interests
The interests of Directors in the Company’s shares are shown on page 112 within the Annual report on remuneration.
Significant agreements with provisions applicable to a change in control of the Company
Save as described, there are no agreements in place applicable to a change in control of the Company.
Resolution 17 in the Notice of Annual General Meeting will seek approval from shareholders to a waiver of the provisions of Rule 9 of the 
Takeover Code in respect of the obligation that could arise for Mark Coombs to make a mandatory offer for the Company in the event that 
the Company exercises the authority to make market purchases of its own shares. Further details will be contained in the separate 
Notice of AGM.
Substantial shareholdings
The Company has been notified of the following significant interests in accordance with the Financial Conduct Authority’s (FCA) Disclosure 
and Transparency Rules (other than those of the Directors which are disclosed separately on page 112) in the Company’s ordinary shares of 
0.01 pence each as set out in the table below. 
Substantial shareholdings1 (as disclosed to the Company in accordance with DTR 5)
Number of voting   Number of voting  
rights disclosed as at   Percentage rights disclosed as at   Percentage
  30 June 2021 interests3 2 September 2021 interests3
Overseas Pensions and Benefits Limited (formerly Carey Pensions and 
Benefits Limited) as Trustees of the Ashmore 2004 Employee Benefit Trust2 50,648,181 7.10 50,648,181 7.10
Standard Life Aberdeen plc 54,815,884 7.69 54,815,884 7.69
Schroders plc 34,470,970 4.85 34,470,970 4.85
Allianz Global Investors GmbH 32,695,220 4.58 32,695,220 4.58
1. The shareholding of Mark Coombs, a Director and substantial shareholder, is disclosed separately on page 110.
2. In addition to the interests in the Company’s ordinary shares referred to above, each Executive Director and employee of the Group has an interest in the Company’s 
ordinary shares held by Overseas Pensions and Benefits Limited (formerly Carey Pensions and Benefits Limited) under the terms of the Ashmore 2004 Employee 
Benefit Trust (EBT). The voting rights disclosed for the EBT in this table reflect the last notification made to the Company in accordance with DTR 5. The actual number 
of shares held by the EBT as at 30 June 2021 is disclosed in note 23 to the financial statements.
3. Percentage interests are based upon 712,740,804 shares in issue (2020: 712,740,804).
118  Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021
S
T
R
A
T
E
G
IC
 R
E
P
O
R
Relations with shareholders Share capital T
 
The Company places great importance on communication with its  The Company has a single class of share capital, ordinary shares  
investors and aims to keep shareholders informed by means of  of 0.01 pence, each of which rank pari passu in respect of 
regular communication with institutional shareholders, analysts and  participation and voting rights. The shares are in registered form.  G
O
the financial press throughout the year. During the year the  The issued share capital of the Company at 30 June 2021 was  V
E
Chairman of the Board and the Chair of the Remuneration  712,740,804 shares. There were no shares held in Treasury. R
N
Committee engaged with the Company’s major shareholders in  A
Details of the structure of and changes in share capital are set out  N
relation to remuneration and corporate governance.  C
in note 22 to the financial statements. E
 
Annual and interim reports and quarterly assets under management 
Restrictions on voting rights
updates are widely distributed to other parties who may have an  F
IN
interest in the Group’s performance. These documents are also  A member shall not be entitled to vote at any general meeting or  A
N
made available on the Company’s website where formal regulatory  class meeting in respect of any share held by him if any call or  C
information service announcements are posted. The Chief  other sum then payable by him in respect of that share remains  IA
L
Executive Officer and Group Finance Director report to the Board  unpaid or if a member has been served with a restriction notice   S
T
on investor relations and on specific discussions with major  (as defined in the Articles of Association) after failure to provide the  A
T
shareholders and the Board receives copies of research published  Company with information concerning interests in those shares  E
M
on the Company.  required to be provided under the Companies Act. Votes may be  E
N
The Company will be issuing a separate circular and notice of  exercised in person or by proxy. The Articles of Association  TS
currently provide a deadline for submission of proxy forms of 48 
meeting in respect of this year’s AGM. This will include details of 
hours before the meeting.
any special arrangements that may be required as a result of the 
COVID-19 pandemic. The Group will announce via a regulatory  Purchase of own shares
information service the number of votes cast on resolutions at the 
In the year under review, the Company did not purchase any  
Annual General Meeting.
of its own shares for Treasury and the EBT purchased 6,386,334 
The Senior Independent Director is available to shareholders if they  shares worth £23.3 m. The Company is, until the date of the next 
have concerns which contact through the normal channels of  Annual General Meeting, generally and unconditionally authorised 
Chairman, Chief Executive Officer or Group Finance Director has  to buy back up to 35,637,040 of its own issued shares. The 
failed to resolve or for which such contact is inappropriate.  Company is seeking a renewal of the share buyback authority at 
The Company continues to offer major shareholders the  the 2021 Annual General Meeting.
opportunity to meet any or all of the Chairman, the Senior 
Independent Director and any new Directors. Power to issue and allot shares
The Directors are generally and unconditionally authorised to allot 
unissued shares in the Company up to a maximum nominal 
amount of £23,758.03 (and £47,516.05 in connection with an offer 
by way of a rights issue).
A further authority has been granted to the Directors to allot the 
Company’s shares for cash, up to a maximum nominal amount of 
£23,758.03, without regard to the pre-emption provisions of the 
Companies Act. No such shares have been issued or allotted under 
these authorities, nor is there any current intention to do so, other 
than to satisfy outstanding obligations under the employee share 
schemes where necessary.
These authorities are valid until the date of the next Annual General 
Meeting. A resolution for the renewal of such authorities will be 
proposed at the 2021 Annual General Meeting.
Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021  119
DIRECTORS’ REPORT (CONTINUED)
Employees Emission scopes1
Details of the Company’s employment practices (including the  Mandatory GHG reporting requires emissions associated with 
employment of persons with disabilities) can be found in the  Scope 1 (direct emissions) and Scope 2 (indirect emissions from 
Sustainability section on pages 51 to 66. purchased electricity, heating and cooling) to be reported. Revisions 
to the GHG Protocol2, to which this reporting exercise adheres, 
Overseas Pensions and Benefits Limited (formerly Carey Pensions 
require organisations to calculate their Scope 2 emissions both in 
and Benefits Limited) as trustee of the Ashmore 2004 Employee 
terms of ‘market-based’ emissions and ‘location-based’ emissions. 
Benefit Trust has discretion as to the exercise of voting rights over 
This information is set out below.
shares which it holds in respect of unallocated shares, namely 
those shares in which no employee beneficial interests exist. It is not obligatory to report Scope 3 (indirect emissions from the 
inputs and outputs to the main business activity – i.e. supply chain and 
Corporate governance
consumer/end-user related emissions). However, for completeness, 
The Company is governed according to the applicable provisions of  the Group will continue to report on some Scope 3 emission 
company law and by the Company’s Articles. As a listed company,  categories in order to offer a wider picture to stakeholders 
the Company must also comply with the Listing Rules and the  and clients.
Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules issued by the United 
Exclusions & estimation
Kingdom Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). Listed companies are 
expected to comply as far as possible with the Financial Reporting  Whilst every effort has been made to collect full and consistent 
Council’s UK Corporate Governance Code, and to state how its  data from all 10 offices, in some cases information was not 
principles have been applied. There is a report from the Chairman  available. The following approaches were therefore taken to 
on Corporate Governance on pages 69 to 71 and a description of  account for this:
how the Company has complied with each of the Principles of the 
– In those instances where a full 12 month’s data was not 
Code on pages 72 to 73. The Company complied throughout the 
available, estimation techniques have been applied to estimate 
accounting period under review with all the relevant provisions set 
missing consumption periods. Where no country data was 
out in the Code.
available for the current reporting year, previous years have  
Mandatory greenhouse gas emissions reporting and  been used to estimate FY2020/21 consumption based on 
headcount numbers.
SECR requirements 
– A number of offices were only able to provide data for the whole 
In line with the Companies Act 2006 (Strategic Report and 
building in which they reside and no sub-metered data was 
Directors’ Reports) Regulations 2013, since 1 October 2013  
available for each tenant. In these instances, the share of the 
all companies listed on the main market of the London Stock 
total floor area occupied by the office was used to apportion the 
Exchange have been required to report their greenhouse gas 
total consumption.
emissions (GHG emissions) in their annual report. In addition, 
– Missing, or anomalous, water data was estimated using an 
effective from 1 April 2019, the Company adheres to the 
average consumption figure of 15m3 per full-time employee,  
mandatory Streamlined Energy and Carbon Reporting regulation 
as sourced from a UK-based water company. This figure  
introduced by the UK government.
is broadly consistent with the average ‘per employee’ 
Operational control methodology consumption of those offices which were able to provide data. 
– For those offices where the landlord utilities charge was the only 
The Group has adopted the operational control method of 
possible source of data, energy and water consumption have 
reporting. The emissions reported below are for the 10 offices 
been estimated using the average governmental utility prices for 
around the world where the Group exercised direct operational 
the respective countries.
control in FY2020/21. These office emissions, as well as emissions 
originating from their operations, are those which are considered  – Where offices were not able to provide any waste data for their 
material to the Group. The Group has a policy of carbon offsetting  buildings it was not deemed appropriate to estimate this, due to 
and further details are provided on page 48. the uncertainties surrounding the varying nature of building sizes, 
modes of working and cities’ waste disposal infrastructure, 
amongst other factors. It has also not been possible to make use 
of data supplied in litres, as the density of the waste is unknown.
1. Ashmore’s Scope 1 emissions relate to gas combustion and refrigerant usage. 
Ashmore’s Scope 2 emissions relate to purchased electricity. 
Ashmore’s Scope 3 emissions relate to water usage, air travel and office waste.
2. www.ghgprotocol.org/files/ghgp/Scope%202%20Guidance_Final.pdf.
120  Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021
S
T
R
A
T
E
G
IC
 R
E
P
O
R
Methodology Emissions by scope5 T
 
All data has been collected and analysed in line with the GHG 
Tonnes CO2e (2019/20) Tonnes CO2e (2020/21)
Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard1 produced  UK &  UK & 
by the World Business Council for Sustainable Development  Offshore Global Offshore Global G
O
(WBCSD) and the World Resources Institute (WRI). UK  Scope 1 35.08 0.06 41.32 1.70 V
E
Government 2021 emission factors2 have been applied for all  Scope 2   R
N
calculations, except the international offices’ electricity  (market-based) 84.03 149.32 48.57 106.08 A
N
consumption, for which the International Energy Agency’s 2020  Scope 2   C
E
emissions factors3 have been used.  (location-based) 51.42 148.68 32.64 105.79  
Scope 3 167.37 253.88 6.38 22.93
The data inputs and outputs have been reviewed by Ricardo  F
TOTAL (using  IN
Energy & Environment. A
market-based  N
C
Consumption and emissions Scope 2 emissions) 286.48 403.25 96.27 130.71 IA
L
The overall GHG emissions decreased by 61.7% compared to the   S
Emissions by source6 T
last year. This is primarily due to the impact of the COVID-19  A
T
pandemic which resulted in a reduction in office-based working and  E
M
air travel.  Air travel emissions decreased by 94.8% and purchased  E
N
electricity is now the largest contributor to the Group’s emissions  Natural gas  19% T
S
breakdown with 154.65 tCO2e (68%). The second largest  Electricity  68.1%
contributor to the GHG footprint, natural gas, has increased slightly  Air travel  9.3%
this year and now accounts for 43.02 tCO2e or 19%. Waste, water  Water  0.2%
and refrigerants (based on the available data) account for the  Waste  3.4%
lowest levels of emissions.
Emissions by source4
2019/20 2020/21
Emissions   UK &  UK & 
Scope by Source Offshore Global Offshore Global
Emissions have also been calculated using an ‘intensity metric’, 
Scope 1 Natural gas 
which enables the Group to monitor how well it is controlling 
(kWh) 190,782 313 225,590 9,286
emissions on an annual basis, independent of fluctuations in the 
Refrigerants 
levels of its activity. The Group’s emissions per full-time equivalent 
(kg) – – – –
(FTE) are shown in the table below. Due to the overall decrease in 
Scope 2 Electricity 
emissions, tonnes of COe emitted per FTE has also decreased 
(kWh) 220,574 289,534 153,714 222,850 2
since last year.
Scope 3 Air travel (km) 792,391 1,707,141 11,184 116,086
Water (m3) 949 2,639 596 602 Emissions per full-time employee7
Waste (kg) 17,601 8,953 7,946 18,985
Tonnes CO2e/FTE (2019/20) Tonnes CO2e/FTE (2020/21)
UK &   UK & 
Offshore Global Offshore Global
Scope 1 + 2 0.88 0.97 0.66 0.70
Scope 1, 2 + 3 2.11 2.61 0.71 0.85
1  http://www.ghgprotocol.org/.
2  All UK related emissions factors have been selected from the emissions conversion factors published annually by UK Government.: https://www.gov.uk/government/
publications/greenhouse-gas-reporting-conversion-factors-2021.
3  All international electricity emissions factors were taken from the International Energy Agency’s statistics report “CO Emissions from Fuel Combustion” (2020 
2
Edition). Purchased under license.
4  Using market-based emissions.
5  Using market-based emissions.
6  Using market-based emissions.
7  FTE 2019/20 = 291.5 employees; FTE 2020/21 = 290 employees.
Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021  121
DIRECTORS’ REPORT (CONTINUED)
Energy efficiency action taken Auditors and the disclosure of information 
The Group has continued to undertake actions to improve the  to auditors
energy efficiency of its sites. This includes: The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this 
Directors’ report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there 
– The continued roll-out of LED lighting replacements 
is no relevant audit information of which the Company’s auditors 
where appropriate;
are unaware, and each Director has taken all the steps that they 
– Reviewing the weekend and out of hours control of the plant to 
ought to have taken as Directors to make himself or herself aware 
confirm nothing is mistakenly left on with no demand;
of any relevant audit information and to establish that the 
– Ensuring the boiler management settings and controls are set 
Company’s auditors are aware of that information.
appropriately with regards to the outside temperature;
Resolutions will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting to 
– Practising good “switch off” practices at all times;
reappoint KPMG LLP as auditor and to authorise the Audit and Risk 
– Significantly reducing air travel and developing virtual meetings 
Committee to agree their remuneration. Note 11 to the financial 
due to the global pandemic; and
statements sets out details of the auditor’s remuneration.
– One George Street (Singapore) is awarded Green Mark 
Gold+ building.  2021 Annual General Meeting
CO emissions at 61 Aldwych (London – Ashmore’s largest office)  Details of the Annual General Meeting (AGM) will be given in the 
2
have decreased significantly for the period 1 July 2020 to 30 June  separate circular and Notice of Meeting. 
2021 when compared to 1 July 2019 to 30 June 2020. 61 Aldwych 
Going concern
has exceeded the 5% annual emissions reduction target. 
The Company and Group have considerable financial resources and 
Charitable and political contributions
the Directors believe that both are well placed to manage their 
During the year, the Group made charitable donations of  business risks successfully. 
£1.0 million (FY2019/2020: £0.4 million). The work of The Ashmore 
Further information regarding the Group’s business activities, 
Foundation is described in the Sustainability section of this report 
together with the factors likely to affect its future development, 
on pages 51 to 66. It is the Group’s policy not to make 
performance and position, are set out on pages 28 to 35.
contributions for political purposes.
After making enquiries, the Directors are satisfied that the 
Creditor payment policy Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue to 
The Group’s policy and practice in the UK are to follow its suppliers’  operate for the next 12 months from the date of this report and 
terms of payment and to make payment in accordance with those  confirm that the Company and the Group are going concerns. 
terms subject to receipt of satisfactory invoicing. Unless otherwise  For this reason they continue to adopt the going concern basis in 
agreed, payments to creditors are made within 30 days of receipt  preparing these financial statements.
of an invoice. At 30 June 2021, the amount owed to the Group’s 
Companies Act 2006
trade creditors in the UK represented approximately 13 days’ 
average purchases from suppliers (FY2019/20: 17 days). This Directors’ report on pages 117 to 123 inclusive has been 
drawn up and presented in accordance with and in reliance on 
Tax strategy English company law and the liabilities of the Directors in 
As a large, multi-national organisation with a diverse geographic  connection with that report shall be subject to the limitations  
footprint, Ashmore seeks to create value for its shareholders and  and restrictions provided by such law.
clients by managing its business in a commercial, tax efficient and  References in this Directors’ report to the financial highlights,  
transparent manner, within the remit of applicable tax rules and  the Business review, the Corporate governance report and the 
bearing in mind the potential impact of its actions on its brand and  Remuneration report are deemed to be included by reference in  
reputation. Ashmore aims to comply with all relevant tax laws and  this Directors’ report.
fiscal obligations, including accurate calculation and punctual 
settlement of tax liabilities and correct and timely lodging of 
relevant tax returns and other required documentation with 
relevant tax authorities.
122  Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021
S
T
R
A
T
E
G
IC
 R
E
P
O
R
The summary below provides details of the Directors’ service agreements/letters of appointment: T
 
Directors’ service contracts Date appointed Director Contract commencement date Notice period Expiry/review date
Executive Directors        
Mark Coombs 3 December 1998 21 September 2006 1 year Rolling  G
O
Tom Shippey 25 November 2013  25 November 2013 1 year Rolling V
E
Non-executive Directors         R
N
David Bennett – Chairman 30 October 2014 30 October 2014 1 month 30 October 2023 A
N
Clive Adamson 22 October 2015 22 October 2015 1 month 22 October 2021 C
E
 
Jennifer Bingham 29 June 2018 29 June 2018 1 month 29 June 2024
Helen Beck 1 June 2021 1 June 2021 1 month 1 June 2024 F
IN
A
Approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by: N
C
IA
L
 S
Alexandra Autrey T
A
Group Company Secretary T
E
M
2 September 2021 E
N
T
S
Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021  123
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF ASHMORE GROUP PLC ONLY 
Year ended 30 June 2021 
Our opinion is unmodified  Basis for opinion 
We have audited the financial statements of Ashmore Group plc   We conducted our audit in accordance with International  
(the Company) for the year ended 30 June 2021 which comprise the  Standards on Auditing (UK) (ISAs (UK)) and applicable law.  
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income, Consolidated  Our responsibilities are described below. We believe that the  
balance sheet, Consolidated statement of changes in equity,  audit evidence we have obtained is a sufficient and appropriate 
Consolidated cash flow statement, Company balance sheet,  basis for our opinion. Our audit opinion is consistent with our  
Company statement of changes in equity, Company cash flow  report to the Audit and Risk Committee.  
statement, and the related notes, including the accounting policies 
We were first appointed as auditor of the Company (then Ashmore 
in notes 1 to 4. 
Group Limited) by the Directors following its incorporation on 
30 November 1998. Subsequent to the Company’s conversion into 
In our opinion: 
a public limited company and the public listing of its shares on the 
– the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the 
London Stock Exchange on 3 October 2006, we were reappointed 
Group’s and of the parent Company’s affairs as at 30 June 2021 
as auditor of Ashmore Group plc by the Directors on 31 October 
and of the Group’s profit for the year then ended; 
2007. The period of total uninterrupted engagement is 22 years 
– the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in 
ended 30 June 2021 (14 years since the Company’s public listing). 
accordance with international accounting standards in conformity 
We have fulfilled our ethical responsibilities under, and we remain 
with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006;  
independent of the Group in accordance with, UK ethical 
– the parent Company financial statements have been properly  requirements including the FRC Ethical Standard as applied to  
prepared in accordance with international accounting standards in  listed public interest entities.  
conformity with the requirements of, and as applied in 
accordance with the provisions of, the Companies Act 2006; and   No non-audit services prohibited by that standard were provided. 
– the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with  Overview   
the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the  Materiality:   £13.6m (2020: £11.0m)
Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation to the  Group financial  5% (2020: 5%) of Group profit 
extent applicable.  statements as a whole  before tax
Coverage  97% (2020: 98%) of Group profit 
before tax
 
Key audit matters    vs 2020
Recurring risks  Valuation of level 3 seed  ◄ ► 
capital investments  
  Recoverability of parent  ◄ ► 
Company’s loan to subsidiaries 
 
124  Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021 
124  Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021
 
S
T
R
A
T
E
G
IC
 R
E
P
O
R
Key audit matters: our assessment of risks of material misstatement  T
 
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements 
and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement (whether or not due to fraud) identified by us, including those 
which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy; the allocation of resources in the audit; and directing the efforts of the  G
O
engagement team. We summarise below the key audit matters, in decreasing order of audit significance, in arriving at our audit opinion  V
E
above, together with our key audit procedures to address those matters and our findings from those procedures in order that the  R
N
Company’s members as a body may better understand the process by which we arrived at our audit opinion. These matters were  A
N
addressed, and our findings are based on procedures undertaken, in the context of, and solely for the purpose of, our audit of the financial  C
E
statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and consequently are incidental to that opinion, and we do not provide a   
separate opinion on these matters.  
F
IN
    The risk    Our response  A
N
Valuation of level 3  Subjective valuation  Our procedures included:  C
investments   Approximately 7% of the Group’s  Control design  IAL
£78.2 million;  total assets (by value) are held in  – We obtained an understanding of the Group’s processes    ST
(2020: £77.4 million)  investments valued using valuation  for determining the fair value of level 3 investments.  A
T
techniques that utilise inputs that are  We documented and assessed the design and implementation  EM
Refer to page 78 (Audit 
unobservable in the market   of the investment valuation processes and controls.  E
and Risk Committee  N
report), page 143  (i.e. level 3 investments), and therefore  Historical comparisons  TS
these valuations include a level of 
(accounting policy) and  – For investments priced based on net assets valuation technique 
subjectivity due to judgement used in 
page 162 (financial  we obtained and reviewed the latest audited financial 
determining the underlying assumptions 
disclosures).  statements for any exceptions, and compared the audited NAV 
and appropriate valuation. 
to the unaudited NAV as at the same date to assess the 
Where the funds are consolidated   reliability of the unaudited NAV.  
(by virtue of the Group having a controlling 
Methodology choice 
interest in the fund under IFRS 10),  
– In the context of observed industry best practice and the 
the level 3 investments comprise  
provisions of the Internal Private Equity and Venture Capital 
the underlying unquoted investment 
Valuation Guidelines, we challenged the appropriateness of the 
securities within the consolidated funds 
valuation basis selected. 
(unquoted securities).  
Our valuations experience 
Where the funds are not consolidated, the 
With assistance from our valuation specialists: 
level 3 investments represent the Group’s 
proportionate share of the net asset  – We challenged key judgments affecting the unquoted securities 
values in the funds (unquoted funds).  valuations such as marketability adjustment, discount rates and 
All the level 3 investments are measured  the choice of benchmark for earnings multiples. We compared 
at fair value, which is established in  key underlying financial data inputs to external sources such as 
accordance with the International Private  financial information of comparable businesses, the investee 
Equity and Venture Capital Valuation  company audited accounts and management information  
Guidelines by using measurements of  as applicable. 
value such as price of recent orderly  – We challenged the assumptions around sustainability of 
transactions, earnings multiples,  earnings based on our knowledge of the investee company  
discounted cash flow and net asset  and the industry. Our work included consideration of events 
value (NAV).  (including both market and entity specific factors) which 
The effect of these matters is that,   occurred subsequent to the year end up until the date of this 
as part of our risk assessment, we  audit report. 
determined that the valuation of level 3  Comparing valuations 
investments has a high degree of  – For unquoted funds, we obtained and agreed the latest  
estimation uncertainty, with a potential  reported NAV from the fund manager and/or the fund 
range of reasonable outcomes greater  administrator and agreed the NAV attributable to Ashmore  
than our materiality for the financial  to the reported valuation. 
statements as a whole. The financial 
 
statements (note 19) disclose the 
 
sensitivities estimated by the Group.   
   
    Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021  125 
Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021  125
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF ASHMORE GROUP PLC ONLY (CONTINUED) 
Year ended 30 June 2021 
    The risk    Our response 
Valuation of level 3        Assessing transparency 
investments (continued)  – We considered the appropriateness of the disclosure made in respect 
of level 3 investments against the relevant accounting standards and 
the effect of changing one or more inputs to reasonably possible 
alternative valuation assumptions. 
– We performed the tests above over the valuation rather than seeking 
to rely on the Group's controls because the nature of the balance is 
such that we would expect to obtain audit evidence primarily through 
the detailed procedures described. 
Our findings 
– We found the valuation of level 3 investments to be balanced 
(2020: balanced) with proportionate (2020: proportionate) disclosure 
of the related assumptions and sensitivities. 
Recoverability of   Low risk, high value  Our procedures included: 
parent Company’s   The carrying amount of the   Test of details 
loan to subsidiaries  parent Company’s loans due from  – We assessed the parent Company’s loan with reference to the 
£507.7 million;  subsidiaries represents 76% (2020:  subsidiary’s audited balance sheet, to identify whether the subsidiary 
(2020: £464.8 million)  70%) of the Company’s total assets  had a positive net asset value, and therefore coverage of the debt 
Refer to page 142  and is comprised of a loan to one  owed, as well as assessing whether the subsidiary had historically 
(accounting policy)  subsidiary. The recoverability of the  been profit-making. 
and page 159  loan is not at high risk of significant  Assessing subsidiary audits: 
(financial disclosures).  misstatement or subject to  – We considered the results of the work we performed on the 
significant judgement. However, due 
subsidiary audit on those net assets, including assessing the ability of 
to its materiality in the context of the 
the subsidiary to obtain liquid funds and, therefore, the ability of the 
parent Company financial statements, 
subsidiary to fund the repayment of the receivable. 
this is considered to be the area that 
– We performed the tests above rather than seeking to rely on any of 
had the greatest effect on our overall 
the Company's controls because the nature of the balance is such 
parent Company audit. 
that we would expect to obtain audit evidence through the detailed 
procedures described.  
Our findings 
– We found the parent Company’s estimated recoverable amount of 
    the loan to be balanced (2020: balanced). 
 
 
   
126  Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021 
126  Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021
 
S
T
  R
A
T
E
G
IC
 R
E
P
O
R
Our application of materiality and an overview    Group proﬁt before tax Group materiality T 
of the scope of our audit  £282.5m (2020 £221.5m) £13.6m (2020: £11.0m)
 
Materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole was set    
at £13.6 million (2020: £11.0 million), determined with reference   £13.6m G
Whole ﬁnancial statements  O
to a benchmark of Group profit before tax, of which it represents  materiality (2020: £11.0m) V
E
5% (2020: 5%).   £10.2m R
Whole ﬁnancial statements  N
A
Materiality for the parent Company financial statements as a whole  performance materiality  N
(2020: £8.2m) C
was set at £6.6 million (2020: £7.7 million), determined with  E
£8.0m  
reference to a benchmark of Company total assets, of which it  Range of materiality at 5
represents 1% (2020: 1%).  c(2o0m20p:o £n7e.7nmts  (t£o8 £.02m.0 mto) £2.0m) FIN
A
In line with our audit methodology, our procedures on individual  £0.68m N
C
account balances and disclosures were performed to a lower  Misstatements reported to  IA
threshold, performance materiality, so as to reduce to an  t(2h0e2 a0u:d £it0 c.5o5mmm)ittee  L S
acceptable level the risk that individually immaterial misstatements  T
A
in individual account balances add up to a material amount across  Group proﬁt before tax Group materiality T
E
the financial statements as a whole.  M
E
N
Performance materiality was set at 75% (2020: 75%) of materiality  Group net revenue Group proﬁt before tax T
S
for the financial statements as a whole, which equates to 
£10.2 million (2020: £8.2 million) for the Group and £4.9 million   
3 3
(2020: £5.7 million) for the parent Company. We applied this 
percentage in our determination of performance materiality  3 4
because we did not identify any factors indicating an elevated 
level of risk. 
97% 97%
We agreed to report to the Group Audit and Risk Committee any 
(2020: 99%) (2020: 98%)
corrected or uncorrected identified misstatements exceeding  
£0.68 million (2020: £0.55 million), in addition to other identified 
misstatements that warranted reporting on qualitative grounds. 
96 94
Of the Group’s 28 (2020: 28) reporting components, we subjected  94 94
four (2020: four) to full scope audits for Group reporting purposes 
and one (2020: one) to specified risk-focused audit procedures.  
The latter was not individually financially significant enough to 
Group total assets Group net assets
require a full scope audit for Group purposes, but did present 
specific individual risks that needed to be addressed. 
 
1 2
The components within the scope of our work accounted for the 
percentages illustrated opposite. For the residual components,  2 2
we performed analysis at an aggregated Group level to re-examine 
our assessment that there were no significant risks of material 
98% 100%
misstatement within the components. 
(2020: 98%) (2020: 100%)
The Group team instructed component auditors as to the significant 
areas to be covered, including the relevant risks detailed above  
and the information to be reported back. The Group team approved 
96 98
the component materialities, which ranged from £2.0 million to 
97 98
£8.0 million (2020: £2.0 million to £7.7 million), having regard to the 
mix of size and risk profile of the Group across the components. 
The work on one of the five components (2020: one of the five 
Full scope for group audit purposes 2021
components) was performed by component auditors and the rest, 
Speciﬁed risk-focused audit procedures 2021
including the audit of the parent Company, was performed by the 
Full scope for group audit purposes 2020
Group team. 
Speciﬁed risk-focused audit procedures 2020
Residual components
 
    Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021  127 
Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021  127
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF ASHMORE GROUP PLC ONLY (CONTINUED) 
Year ended 30 June 2021 
Going concern  Fraud and breaches of laws and regulations – ability 
The Directors have prepared the financial statements on the going  to detect  
concern basis as they do not intend to liquidate the Company   Identifying and responding to risks of material 
or the Group or to cease their operations, and as such they have  misstatement due to fraud 
concluded that the Company’s and the Group’s financial position  To identify risks of material misstatement due to fraud (fraud risks) 
means that this is realistic. They have also concluded that there   we assessed events or conditions that could indicate an incentive 
are no material uncertainties that could have cast significant doubt  or pressure to commit fraud or provide an opportunity to commit 
over their ability to continue as a going concern for at least a year  fraud. Our risk assessment procedures included: 
from the date of approval of the financial statements (the going 
concern period).  – Enquiring of Directors and inspection of policy documentation as 
to the Company’s high-level policies and procedures to prevent 
We used our knowledge of the Group, its industry, and the general  and detect fraud, as well as whether they have knowledge of any 
economic environment to identify the inherent risks to its business  actual, suspected or alleged fraud. 
model and analysed how those risks might affect the Group’s 
– Reading Audit and Risk Committee meeting minutes. 
financial resources or ability to continue operations over the  
– Using analytical procedures to identify any unusual or 
going concern period. The risk that we considered most likely to 
unexpected relationships. 
adversely affect the Group’s available financial resources over  
this period was Assets under Management outflows.  – Considering remuneration incentive schemes and performance 
targets for management such as the Group’s share-based 
We considered whether these risks could plausibly affect the  incentive scheme. 
liquidity in the going concern period by assessing the degree of 
We communicated identified fraud risks throughout the audit team 
downside assumption that, individually and collectively, could result 
and remained alert to any indications of fraud throughout the audit. 
in a liquidity issue, taking into account the Group’s current and 
This included communication from the Group component audit 
projected cash. We also assessed the completeness of the going 
teams of relevant fraud risks identified at the Group level and 
concern disclosure. 
request to component audit teams to report to the Group audit 
Our conclusions based on this work:  team any instances of fraud that could give rise to a material 
misstatement at Group. 
– we consider that the Directors’ use of the going concern basis 
of accounting in the preparation of the financial statements  As required by auditing standards, and taking into account our 
is appropriate;  overall knowledge of the control environment, we perform 
– we have not identified, and concur with the Directors’  procedures to address the risk of management override of controls, 
assessment that there is not, a material uncertainty related to  in particular the risk that management may be in a position to make 
events or conditions that, individually or collectively, may cast  inappropriate accounting entries. On this audit we do not believe 
significant doubt on the Group’s or Company's ability to continue  there is a fraud risk related to revenue recognition because the 
as a going concern for the going concern period;  calculation of the revenue is non-judgmental and straightforward, 
– we have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to  with limited opportunity for manipulation. 
the Directors’ statement in note 2 to the financial statements on 
We did not identify any additional fraud risks. 
the use of the going concern basis of accounting with no material 
uncertainties that may cast significant doubt over the Group and  We also performed procedures including identifying journal entries 
Company’s use of that basis for the going concern period and we  to test based on risk criteria and comparing the identified entries to 
found the going concern disclosure in note 2 to be acceptable; and  supporting documentation. These included all post-closing journals.  
– the related statement under the Listing Rules set out on page 38  Identifying and responding to risks of material 
is materially consistent with the financial statements and our  misstatement due to non-compliance with laws 
audit knowledge.  and regulations 
However, as we cannot predict all future events or conditions and  We identified areas of laws and regulations that could reasonably 
as subsequent events may result in outcomes that are inconsistent  be expected to have a material effect on the financial statements 
with judgements that were reasonable at the time they were  from our general commercial and sector experience, and through 
made, the above conclusions are not a guarantee that the Group or  discussion with the Directors and other management (as required 
the Company will continue in operation.  by auditing standards), and from inspection of the Company’s 
regulatory and legal correspondence and discussed with the 
Directors and other management the policies and procedures 
regarding compliance with laws and regulations.  
As the Group is regulated, our assessment of risks involved gaining 
an understanding of the control environment including the entity’s 
procedures for complying with regulatory requirements. 
We communicated identified laws and regulations throughout our 
team and remained alert to any indications of non-compliance 
throughout the audit.  
128  Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021 
128  Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021
 
S
T
  R
A
T
E
G
IC
 R
E
P
O
R
The potential effect of these laws and regulations on the financial  Strategic report and Directors’ report  T 
statements varies considerably.  Based solely on our work on the other information: 
Firstly, the Company is subject to laws and regulations that directly  – we have not identified material misstatements in the Strategic  G
affect the financial statements including financial reporting  report and the Directors’ report;  O
V
legislation (including related companies legislation), distributable  – in our opinion the information given in those reports for the  ER
profits legislation, taxation legislation, and financial services  financial year is consistent with the financial statements; and  NA
legislation and we assessed the extent of compliance with these  N
– in our opinion those reports have been prepared in accordance  C
laws and regulations as part of our procedures on the related  E
with the Companies Act 2006.   
financial statement items.  
Directors’ Remuneration report  F
Secondly, the Company is subject to many other laws and regulations  IN
In our opinion the part of the Directors’ Remuneration report to be  A
where the consequences of non-compliance could have a material  N
audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the  C
effect on amounts or disclosures in the financial statements, for  Companies Act 2006.  IA
instance through the imposition of fines or litigation or the loss of  L
 S
the Company’s authority to operate. We identified the following  Disclosures of principal and emerging risks and   T
A
areas as those most likely to have such an effect: health and safety,  longer-term viability   T
E
anti-bribery, employment law, regulatory capital and liquidity and  We are required to perform procedures to identify whether there is  M
E
certain aspects of company legislation and financial services  a material inconsistency between the Directors’ disclosures in  N
T
legislation recognising the financial and regulated nature of the  respect of principal and emerging risks and the longer-term viability  S
Company’s activities and its legal form. Auditing standards limit   statement, and the financial statements and our audit knowledge.  
the required audit procedures to identify non-compliance with  
Based on those procedures, we have nothing material to add or 
these laws and regulations to enquiry of the Directors and  
draw attention to in relation to: 
other management and inspection of regulatory and legal 
correspondence, if any. Therefore if a breach of operational  – the Directors’ confirmation within the longer-term viability 
regulations is not disclosed to us or evident from relevant  statement on page 38 that they have carried out a robust 
correspondence, an audit will not detect that breach.  assessment of the emerging and principal risks facing the Group, 
including those that would threaten its business model, future 
Context of the ability of the audit to detect fraud or 
performance, solvency and liquidity;  
breaches of law or regulation 
Owing to the inherent limitations of an audit, there is an unavoidable  – the principal and emerging risks disclosures describing these 
risk that we may not have detected some material misstatements  risks and how emerging risks are identified, and explaining how 
in the financial statements, even though we have properly planned  they are being managed and mitigated; and  
and performed our audit in accordance with auditing standards.  – the Directors’ explanation in the longer-term viability statement 
For example, the further removed non-compliance with laws and  of how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over 
regulations is from the events and transactions reflected in the  what period they have done so and why they considered that 
financial statements, the less likely the inherently limited  period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they 
procedures required by auditing standards would identify it.   have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to 
continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over 
In addition, as with any audit, there remained a higher risk of  
the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures 
non-detection of fraud, as these may involve collusion, forgery, 
drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions. 
intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of 
internal controls. Our audit procedures are designed to detect  We are also required to review the longer-term viability statement, 
material misstatement. We are not responsible for preventing   set out on page 38 under the Listing Rules. Based on the above 
non-compliance or fraud and cannot be expected to detect   procedures, we have concluded that the above disclosures are 
non-compliance with all laws and regulations.  materially consistent with the financial statements and our 
audit knowledge. 
We have nothing to report on the other information 
Our work is limited to assessing these matters in the context of  
in the Annual Report 
only the knowledge acquired during our financial statements audit.  
The Directors are responsible for the other information presented in the 
As we cannot predict all future events or conditions and as 
Annual Report together with the financial statements. Our opinion on 
subsequent events may result in outcomes that are inconsistent 
the financial statements does not cover the other information and, 
with judgements that were reasonable at the time they were 
accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion or, except as explicitly 
made, the absence of anything to report on these statements is not 
stated below, any form of assurance conclusion thereon. 
a guarantee as to the Group’s and Company’s longer-term viability. 
Our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, 
   
consider whether, based on our financial statements audit work,  
the information therein is materially misstated or inconsistent with 
the financial statements or our audit knowledge. Based solely on 
that work we have not identified material misstatements in the 
other information. 
    Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021  129 
Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021  129
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF ASHMORE GROUP PLC ONLY (CONTINUED) 
Year ended 30 June 2021 
Corporate governance disclosures   Respective responsibilities 
We are required to perform procedures to identify whether there is  Directors’ responsibilities 
a material inconsistency between the Directors’ corporate  As explained more fully in their statement set out on page 116, 
governance disclosures and the financial statements and our  the Directors are responsible for: the preparation of the financial 
audit knowledge.  statements including being satisfied that they give a true and fair 
view; such internal control as they determine is necessary to 
Based on those procedures, we have concluded that each of the 
enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from 
following is materially consistent with the financial statements and 
material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error; assessing 
our audit knowledge: 
the Group and parent Company’s ability to continue as a going 
– the Directors’ statement that they consider that the Annual  concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern; 
Report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced  and using the going concern basis of accounting unless they either 
and understandable, and provides the information necessary for  intend to liquidate the Group or the parent Company or to cease 
shareholders to assess the Group’s position and performance,  operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so. 
business model and strategy; 
Auditor’s responsibilities 
– the section of the Annual Report describing the work of the Audit 
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether 
and Risk Committee, including the significant issues that the 
the financial statements as a whole are free from material 
Audit and Risk Committee considered in relation to the financial 
misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue our 
statements, and how these issues were addressed; and 
opinion in an auditor’s report. Reasonable assurance is a high level 
– the section of the Annual Report that describes the review of the 
of assurance, but does not guarantee that an audit conducted in 
effectiveness of the Group’s risk management and internal 
accordance with ISAs (UK) will always detect a material 
control systems. 
misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud, 
We are required to review the part of the Corporate Governance  other irregularities or error and are considered material if, 
Statement relating to the Group’s compliance with the provisions of  individually or in aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to 
the UK Corporate Governance Code specified by the Listing Rules  influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of the 
for our review. We have nothing to report in this respect.  financial statements.  
A fuller description of our responsibilities is provided on the FRC’s 
We have nothing to report on the other matters  
website at www.frc.org.uk/auditorsresponsibilities.  
on which we are required to report by exception 
Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report to you if,  The purpose of our audit work and to whom we owe 
in our opinion:  our responsibilities 
– adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent  This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, 
Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been  in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 
received from branches not visited by us; or  and the terms of our engagement by the Company. Our audit work 
has been undertaken so that we might state to the Company’s 
– the parent Company financial statements and the part of the 
members those matters we are required to state to them in an 
Directors’ Remuneration report to be audited are not in 
auditor’s report, and the further matters we are required to state to 
agreement with the accounting records and returns; or 
them in accordance with the terms agreed with the Company, and 
– certain disclosures of Directors’ remuneration specified by law 
for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do 
are not made; or 
not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the 
– we have not received all the information and explanations we 
Company and the Company’s members, as a body, for our audit 
require for our audit. 
work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed. 
We have nothing to report in these respects. 
 
Thomas Brown (Senior Statutory Auditor) 
for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor 
Chartered Accountants 
15 Canada Square  
London E14 5GL 
2 September 2021 
 
130  Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021 
130  Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME  S
T
R
For the year ended 30 June 2021  A
T
E
G
IC
 R
E
P
O
R
2021 2020 T
 
  Notes  £m £m
Management fees    276.4  330.0 
Performance fees    11.9  3.9  G
O
Other revenue    4.6  4.1  VE
R
Total revenue    292.9  338.0  N
A
Distribution costs    (5.5) (14.5) N
C
Foreign exchange  7  4.3  7.0  E 
Net revenue    291.7  330.5 
F
    IN
A
N
Gains/(losses) on investment securities   20  123.5  (19.1) C
Change in third-party interests in consolidated funds  20  (52.6) 7.5  IA
L
Personnel expenses  9  (80.3) (82.6)  S
T
A
Other expenses   11  (24.0) (26.6) T
E
Operating profit    258.3  209.7 M
E
N
    T
S
Finance income  8  23.9  12.0
Share of gains/(losses) from associates  26  0.3  (0.2)
Profit before tax     282.5  221.5
   
Tax expense  12  (40.7) (36.8)
Profit for the year    241.8 184.7 
   
Other comprehensive income/(loss), net of related tax effect   
Items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss:   
Foreign currency translation differences arising on foreign operations     (74.9) 12.8 
Cash flow hedge intrinsic value gains/(losses)    1.2  (0.1)
Other comprehensive income/(loss), net of tax    (73.7) 12.7
Total comprehensive income for the year    168.1  197.4
   
Profit attributable to:   
Equity holders of the parent    240.1  182.1 
Non-controlling interests    1.7  2.6 
Profit for the year    241.8 184.7 
   
Total comprehensive income attributable to:   
Equity holders of the parent    167.5 194.7
Non-controlling interests    0.6  2.7 
Total comprehensive income for the year    168.1 197.4
   
Earnings per share    
Basic  13  36.40p 27.35p
Diluted  13  34.23p 25.68p
The notes on pages 138 to 178 form an integral part of these financial statements. 
 
    Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021  131 
Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021  131
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET  
As at 30 June 2021 
2021  2020
Notes  £m £m
Assets   
Non-current assets   
Goodwill and intangible assets  15  80.5  89.7 
Property, plant and equipment  16  11.2  11.7 
Investment in associates  26  0.9  0.6 
Non-current financial assets measured at fair value  20  34.0  28.0 
Deferred acquisition costs    0.5  0.7 
Deferred tax assets  18  34.8  30.6 
    161.9  161.3 
Current assets   
Investment securities   20  318.1  234.5 
Financial assets measured at fair value  20  41.0 11.6
Trade and other receivables  17  83.4 96.2
Derivative financial instruments  21  1.3  –
Cash and cash equivalents    456.1  500.9 
    899.9 843.2 
   
Financial assets held for sale  20  46.2  43.1 
Total assets    1,108.0 1,047.6 
   
Equity and liabilities   
Capital and reserves – attributable to equity holders of the parent    
Issued capital  22  0.1  0.1 
Share premium     15.6  15.6 
Retained earnings    941.0  813.2
Foreign exchange reserve    (46.2) 27.6 
Cash flow hedging reserve    1.1  (0.1)
    911.6 856.4 
Non-controlling interests  30  21.1  22.6 
Total equity     932.7 879.0
Liabilities   
Non-current liabilities   
Lease liabilities  16  7.3  8.2 
Deferred tax liabilities  18  10.5 6.9 
    17.8 15.1 
Current liabilities   
Current tax    – 8.5 
Lease liabilities  16  2.5 2.0 
Derivative financial instruments  21  – 1.7 
Third-party interests in consolidated funds  20  105.7 86.1 
Trade and other payables  24  45.5 50.7 
    153.7 149.0
Financial liabilities held for sale  20  3.8 4.5
Total liabilities    175.3 168.6
Total equity and liabilities    1,108.0 1,047.6
The notes on pages 138 to 178 form an integral part of these financial statements. 
Approved by the Board on 2 September 2021 and signed on its behalf by: 
 
Mark Coombs        Tom Shippey 
Chief Executive Officer      Group Finance Director 
132  Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021 
132  Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY  S
T
R
For the year ended 30 June 2021  A
T
E
G
IC
 R
E
P
O
R
  Attributable to equity holders of the parent  T 
Foreign  Cash flow  Non-
Issued  Share  Retained  exchange  hedging  controlling  Total 
capital  premium earnings reserve   reserve   Total  interests  equity
G
£m  £m £m £m  £m  £m  £m  £m O
V
Balance at 1 July 2019  0.1 15.6  812.4  14.9   –  843.0  10.9  853.9 E
R
      N
A
N
Profit for the year  – – 182.1 –  –  182.1 2.6 184.7 C
E
Other comprehensive income/(loss):       
Foreign currency translation differences arising on  – – – 12.7  –  12.7 0.1 12.8 F
foreign operations  IN
A
Cash flow hedge intrinsic value losses  – – – –  (0.1)  (0.1) – (0.1) N
C
Total comprehensive income/(loss)  – – 182.1 12.7  (0.1)  194.7 2.7 197.4 IA
L
Transactions with owners:       S
T
A
Purchase of own shares  – – (89.5) –  –  (89.5) – (89.5) T
E
Share-based payments   – – 28.6 –  –  28.6 – 28.6 M
E
Acquisition of subsidiary with non-controlling interest  – – (0.4) –  –  (0.4) 11.7 11.3 N
T
S
Dividends to equity holders  – – (120.0) –  –  (120.0) – (120.0)
Dividends to non-controlling interests  – – – –  –  – (2.7) (2.7)
Total contributions and distributions  – – (181.3) –  –  (181.3) 9.0 (172.3)
Balance at 30 June 2020  0.1  15.6  813.2  27.6   (0.1)  856.4 22.6  879.0
     
Profit for the year  – – 240.1 –  –  240.1 1.7  241.8
Other comprehensive income/(loss):     
Foreign currency translation differences arising on  – – – (73.8)  –  (73.8) (1.1) (74.9)
foreign operations 
Cash flow hedge intrinsic value gains  – – – –  1.2  1.2 – 1.2
Total comprehensive income/(loss)  – – 240.1 (73.8)  1.2  167.5 0.6  168.1 
Transactions with owners:     
Purchase of own shares  – – (23.3) –  –  (23.3) – (23.3)
Share-based payments  – – 29.3 –  –  29.3 – 29.3
Increase in non-controlling interests  – – – –  –  – 0.8 0.8
Dividends to equity holders  – – (118.3) –  –  (118.3) – (118.3)
Dividends to non-controlling interests  – – – –  –  – (2.9) (2.9)
Total contributions and distributions  – – (112.3) –  –  (112.3) (2.1) (114.4)
Balance at 30 June 2021  0.1 15.6  941.0  (46.2)  1.1  911.6  21.1  932.7
The notes on pages 138 to 178 form an integral part of these financial statements.  
 
    Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021  133 
Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021  133
CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENT 
For the year ended 30 June 2021 
2021  2020
  £m £m
Operating activities 
Profit for the year   241.8   184.7 
Adjustments for non-cash items: 
Depreciation and amortisation   2.8   3.4 
Accrual for variable compensation   33.4   33.9 
Unrealised foreign exchange gains   (4.3)  (7.0)
Finance income   (23.9)  (12.0)
Net (gains)/losses on investment securities   (70.9)  11.6 
Tax expense   40.7   36.8 
Other non-cash items    (0.3)  (0.8)
Cash generated from operations before working capital changes  219.3  250.6 
Changes in working capital: 
Decrease in trade and other receivables   2.4   9.1 
Decrease/(increase) in derivative financial instruments   (3.0)  0.6 
Decrease in trade and other payables   (5.2)  (5.4)
Cash generated from operations   213.5   254.9
Taxes paid   (64.3)  (52.1)
Net cash generated from operating activities   149.2   202.8 
   
Investing activities 
Interest and investment income received  3.2  14.7 
Proceeds on disposal of associates  –  0.6 
Purchase of non-current financial assets measured at fair value   (8.1) (3.6)
Purchase of financial assets held for sale   (42.2) (43.6)
Purchase of financial assets measured at fair value   (14.4) –
Purchase of investment securities   (33.3) (9.1)
Sale of non-current financial assets measured at fair value   2.6  2.5
Sale of financial assets held for sale   7.2  8.4
Sale of financial assets measured at fair value   58.4  25.1
Net cash on initial consolidation of seed capital investments   (5.2) (0.4)
Purchase of property, plant and equipment   (0.7) (1.0)
Net cash used in investing activities   (32.5) (6.4)
   
Financing activities 
Dividends paid to equity holders   (118.3) (120.0)
Dividends paid to non-controlling interests   (2.9) (2.7)
Third-party subscriptions into consolidated funds   54.9  50.0
Third-party redemptions from consolidated funds   (0.6) (29.6)
Distributions paid by consolidated funds   (28.8) (1.9)
Contribution by non-controlling interests   0.5  11.3
Payment of lease liabilities   (2.1) (2.3)
Interest paid   (0.4) (0.5)
Purchase of own shares   (23.3) (89.5)
Net cash used in financing activities   (121.0) (185.2)
   
Net (decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents  (4.3) 11.2
   
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year   500.9  477.2
Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents    (40.5) 12.5
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year   456.1  500.9
   
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year comprise: 
Cash at bank and in hand    51.4  68.5
Daily dealing liquidity funds   333.5  368.0
Deposits   71.2  64.4
   456.1  500.9
The notes on pages 138 to 178 form an integral part of these financial statements.
134  Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021 
134  Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021
COMPANY BALANCE SHEET   S
T
R
As at 30 June 2021  A
T
E
G
IC
 R
E
P
O
R
2021 2020 T
 
  Notes  £m £m
Assets   
Non-current assets    G
O
Goodwill  15  4.1  4.1  VE
R
Property, plant and equipment  16  6.8  6.8  N
A
Investment in subsidiaries  25  19.9  19.9  N
C
Deferred acquisition costs    0.5  0.7  E 
Deferred tax assets   18  25.1 20.6 
F
    56.4  52.1  IN
A
N
Current assets    C
Trade and other receivables  17  521.8  518.2 IA
L
Derivative financial instruments  21  1.3  –  S
T
A
Cash and cash equivalents    86.1  91.8  T
E
    609.2 610.0 M
E
N
Total assets    665.6 662.1 T
S
   
Equity and liabilities   
Capital and reserves   
Issued capital  22  0.1  0.1 
Share premium     15.6  15.6 
Retained earnings    540.6 583.5 
Cash flow hedging reserve    1.1  (0.1)
Total equity attributable to equity holders of the Company    557.4 599.1
   
Liabilities   
Non-current liabilities   
Lease liability  16  4.4 4.8
   
Current liabilities   
Lease liability  16  1.3 1.1
Derivative financial instruments  21  – 1.7
Trade and other payables  24  102.5 55.4
    108.2 63.0
Total equity and liabilities    665.6 662.1
The Company has taken the exemption under section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 not to present its profit and loss account and related 
notes. The Company’s profit for the year ended 30 June 2021 was £69.4 million (30 June 2020: £120.7 million). 
The notes on pages 138 to 178 form an integral part of these financial statements. 
Approved by the Board on 2 September 2021 and signed on its behalf by: 
 
Mark Coombs        Tom Shippey 
Chief Executive Officer      Group Finance Director 
 
    Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021  135 
Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021  135
COMPANY STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY  
For the year ended 30 June 2021 
Total equity 
Cash flow  attributable to 
Issued  Share  Retained  hedging  equity holders 
capital  premium earnings  reserve of the parent 
£m  £m  £m  £m £m
Balance at 30 June 2019  0.1 15.6 632.6  – 648.3
   
Profit for the year  – – 120.7  – 120.7
Cash flow hedge intrinsic value losses  – – –  (0.1) (0.1)
Purchase of own shares  – – (89.5)  – (89.5)
Share-based payments  – – 39.7  – 39.7
Dividends to equity holders  – – (120.0)  – (120.0)
Balance at 30 June 2020  0.1 15.6 583.5  (0.1) 599.1
 
Profit for the year  – – 69.4  – 69.4 
Cash flow hedge intrinsic value gains  – – –  1.2 1.2
Purchase of own shares  – – (23.3)  – (23.3)
Share-based payments  – – 29.3  – 29.3
Dividends to equity holders  – – (118.3)  – (118.3)
Balance at 30 June 2021  0.1 15.6 540.6  1.1 557.4
The notes on pages 138 to 178 form an integral part of these financial statements. 
 
136  Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021 
136  Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021
COMPANY CASH FLOW STATEMENT  S
T
R
For the year ended 30 June 2021  A
T
E
G
IC
 R
E
P
O
R
2021 2020 T
 
  £m £m
Operating activities 
Profit for the year  69.4 120.7  G
O
Adjustments for:  VE
R
Depreciation and amortisation  1.4  1.5  N
A
Accrual for variable compensation  25.2  21.7  N
C
Unrealised foreign exchange losses/(gains)  35.6  (13.9) E 
Finance income  –  (0.8)
F
Tax expense  (16.5) (3.0) IN
A
Dividends received from subsidiaries  (110.1) (122.0) N
C
Cash generated from operations before working capital changes  5.0 4.2 IA
L
Changes in working capital:   S
T
A
Decrease in trade and other receivables  6.9 22.4 T
E
Decrease/(increase) in derivative financial instruments  (3.0) 1.0  M
E
Increase in trade and other payables  97.4 17.2  N
T
S
Cash generated from operations  106.3  44.8 
Taxes paid  (38.2) (38.4)
Net cash generated from operating activities  68.1  6.4
 
Investing activities 
Interest received  0.3 1.4
Loans advanced to subsidiaries  (110.2) (111.8)
Loans repaid by subsidiaries  67.3  135.1 
Dividends received from subsidiaries  110.1  122.0 
Purchase of property, plant and equipment  (0.6)  (0.9)
Net cash generated from investing activities  66.9  145.8 
 
Financing activities 
Dividends paid  (118.3) (120.0)
Payment of lease liability  (1.1) (1.0)
Interest paid  (0.2) (0.3)
Purchase of own shares  (23.3) (89.5)
Net cash used in financing activities  (142.9) (210.8)
 
Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents  (7.9) (58.6)
 
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year  91.8  150.3
Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents   2.2  0.1
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year  86.1  91.8
 
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year comprise: 
Cash at bank and in hand  17.0  16.9
Daily dealing liquidity funds  14.6  31.9
Deposits  54.5  43.0
  86.1  91.8
The notes on pages 138 to 178 form an integral part of these financial statements. 
 
    Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021  137 
Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021  137
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   
1)  General information  3)  New Standards and Interpretations not 
Ashmore Group plc (the Company) is a public limited company  yet adopted 
listed on the London Stock Exchange and incorporated and  There were no Standards or Interpretations that were in  
domiciled in the United Kingdom. The consolidated financial  issue and required to be adopted by the Group as at the date of 
statements of the Company and its subsidiaries (together the  authorisation of these consolidated financial statements. No other 
Group) for the year ended 30 June 2021 were authorised for issue  Standards or Interpretations have been issued that are expected to 
by the Board of Directors on 2 September 2021. The principal  have a material impact on the Group’s financial statements.  
activity of the Group is described in the Directors’ report on 
4)  Significant accounting policies 
page 117. 
The following principal accounting policies have been applied 
2)  Basis of preparation  consistently where applicable to all years presented in dealing  
The Group and Company financial statements for the year ended  with items considered material in relation to the Group and 
30 June 2021 have been prepared in accordance with International  Company financial statements, unless otherwise stated. 
Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) adopted pursuant to 
Regulation (EC) No 1606/2002 as it applies in the European Union  Basis of consolidation  
and in accordance with international accounting standards in  The consolidated financial statements of the Group comprise  
conformity with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.   the financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries, 
associates and joint ventures. This includes an Employee Benefit 
The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis 
Trust (EBT) established for the employee share-based awards and 
under the historical cost convention, except for the measurement 
consolidated investment funds. 
at fair value of derivative financial instruments and financial assets 
and liabilities that are held at fair value through profit or loss.  Interests in subsidiaries 
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption in section   Subsidiaries are entities, including investment funds, over which 
408 of the Companies Act 2006 that allows it not to present its  the Group has control as defined by IFRS 10. The Group has  
individual statement of comprehensive income and related notes.   control if it is exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from  
its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those 
The preparation of financial statements requires management to 
returns through its power over the entity. The financial statements 
make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the 
of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements 
application of policies and reported amounts of assets and liabilities, 
from the date on which control commences until the date when 
income and expenses. The estimates and associated assumptions 
control ceases. The Group reassesses whether or not it controls an 
are based on historical experience and various other factors that are 
entity if facts and circumstances indicate that there are changes to 
believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of 
one or more of the elements of control. 
which form the basis of making the judgements about carrying 
values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from  The profit or loss and each component of other comprehensive 
other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates.  income are attributed to the equity holders of the Company and to 
Further information about key assumptions and other key sources   any non-controlling interests. Based on their nature, the interests of 
of estimation and areas of judgement are set out in note 31.   third parties in consolidated funds are classified as liabilities and 
appear as ‘Third-party interests in consolidated funds’ on the 
Going concern  Group’s balance sheet. Associates and joint ventures are presented 
The Board of Directors has considered the resilience of the Group,  as single-line items in the statement of comprehensive income  
taking into account its current financial position, and the principal  and balance sheet. Intercompany transactions and balances are 
and emerging risks facing the business in the context of the current  eliminated on consolidation. Consistent accounting policies have 
economic outlook. The Board reviewed cash flow forecasts for a  been applied across the Group in the preparation of the 
period of 12 months from the date of approval of these financial  consolidated financial statements as at 30 June 2021. 
statements which indicate that the Group will have sufficient funds 
A change in the ownership interest of a consolidated entity that 
to meet its liabilities as they fall due for that period. The Board 
does not result in a loss of control by the Group is accounted  
applied stressed scenarios, including severe but plausible downside 
for as an equity transaction. If the Group loses control over a 
assumptions, and the impact on assets under management, 
consolidated entity, it derecognises the related assets, goodwill, 
profitability of the Group and known commitments. While there  
liabilities, non-controlling interest and other components of equity, 
are wider market uncertainties that may impact the Group, the 
and any gain or loss is recognised in consolidated comprehensive 
stressed scenarios, which assumed a significant reduction in 
income. Any investment retained is recognised at its fair value at 
revenue for the entire forecast period, show that the Group and 
the date of loss of control. 
Company would continue to operate profitably and meet their 
liabilities as they fall due for a period of at least 12 months    
from the date of approval of the annual financial statements.  
   
The financial statements have therefore been prepared on a  
going concern basis. 
 
138  Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021 
138  Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021
 
S
T
R
A
T
E
G
IC
 R
E
P
O
R
Interests in associates and joint arrangements  If the Group concludes that it acts as a principal, it is deemed to  T 
Associates are partly owned entities over which the Group has  have control and, therefore, will consolidate a fund as if it were a 
significant influence but no control. Joint ventures are entities  subsidiary. If the Group concludes that it does not have control over 
through which the Group and other parties undertake an economic  the fund, the Group recognises and measures its interest in the  G
O
activity which is subject to joint control.  fund as a financial asset.  V
E
R
Investments in associates and interests in joint ventures are  Interests in unconsolidated structured entities  NA
measured using the equity method of accounting. Under this  N
The Group classifies the following investment funds as  C
method, the investments are initially recognised at cost, including  E
unconsolidated structured entities:   
attributable goodwill, and are adjusted thereafter for the post-
acquisition changes in the Group’s share of net assets. The Group’s  – Segregated mandates and pooled funds managed where the  FIN
share of post-acquisition profit or loss is recognised in the  Group does not hold any direct interest. In this case, the Group  A
N
statement of comprehensive income. Where the Group’s financial  considers that its aggregate economic exposure is insignificant  C
year is not coterminous with those of its associates or joint  and, in relation to segregated mandates, the third-party investor  IA
L
ventures, unaudited interim financial information is used after  has the practical ability to remove the Group from acting as fund   S
T
appropriate adjustments have been made.  manager, without cause. As a result, the Group concludes that  A
T
it acts as an agent for third-party investors.  E
M
Interests in consolidated structured entities  – Pooled funds managed by the Group where the Group holds a  E
N
The Group acts as fund manager to investment funds that are  direct interest, for example seed capital investments, and the  T
S
considered to be structured entities. Structured entities are entities  Group’s aggregate economic exposure in the fund relative to 
that have been designed so that voting or similar rights are not the  third-party investors is less than the threshold established by the 
dominant factor in deciding which party has control: for example,  Group for determining agent versus principal classification. As a 
when any voting rights relate to administrative tasks only and   result, the Group concludes that it is an agent for third-party 
the relevant activities of the entity are directed by means of  investors and, therefore, will account for its beneficial interest in 
contractual arrangements. The Group’s assets under management  the fund as a financial asset.  
are managed within structured entities. These structured  
The disclosure of the AuM in respect of consolidated and 
entities typically consist of unitised vehicles such as Société 
unconsolidated structured entities is provided in note 27. 
d’Investissement à Capital Variable (SICAVs), limited partnerships, 
unit trusts and open-ended and closed-ended vehicles which      
entitle third-party investors to a percentage of the vehicle’s net 
asset value. 
The Group has interests in structured entities as a result of the 
management of assets on behalf of its clients. Where the Group 
holds a direct interest in a closed-ended fund, private equity fund or 
open-ended pooled fund such as a SICAV, the interest is accounted 
for either as a consolidated structured entity or as a financial asset, 
depending on whether the Group has control over the fund or not. 
Control is determined in accordance with IFRS 10, based on an 
assessment of the level of power and aggregate economic interest 
that the Group has over the fund, relative to third-party investors. 
Power is normally conveyed to the Group through the existence of 
an investment management agreement and/or other contractual 
arrangements. Aggregate economic interest is a measure of the 
Group’s exposure to variable returns in the fund through a 
combination of direct interest, expected share of performance fees, 
expected management fees, fair value gains or losses, and 
distributions receivable from the fund.  
The Group concludes that it acts as a principal when the power it 
has over the fund is deemed to be exercised for self-benefit, 
considering the level of aggregate economic exposure in the fund 
and the assessed strength of third-party investors’ kick-out rights. 
The Group concludes that it acts as an agent when the power it has 
over the fund is deemed to be exercised for the benefit of third-
party investors.  
 
    Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021  139 
Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021  139
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) 
4)  Significant accounting policies continued   Business combinations 
Foreign currency   Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition 
The Group’s financial statements are presented in Pounds Sterling  method as at the acquisition date. The acquisition date is the date 
(Sterling), which is also the Company’s functional and presentation  on which the acquirer effectively obtains control of the acquiree. 
currency. Items included in the financial statements of each of the 
The consideration transferred for the acquisition is generally 
Group’s entities are measured using the functional currency, which 
measured at the acquisition date fair value, as are the identifiable 
is the currency that prevails in the primary economic environment 
net assets acquired, liabilities incurred (including any asset or  
in which the entity operates. 
liability resulting from a contingent consideration arrangement)  
and equity instruments issued by the Group in exchange for control 
Foreign currency transactions  
of the acquiree. 
Transactions in foreign currencies are translated into the respective 
functional currencies of the Group entities at the spot exchange  Acquisition-related costs are expensed as incurred, except if they 
rates at the date of the transactions.   are related to the issue of debt or equity securities. 
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies   Contingent consideration is classified either as equity or a financial 
at the balance sheet date are translated into the functional currency  liability. Amounts classified as a financial liability are subsequently 
at the spot exchange rate at that date. Non-monetary assets and  remeasured to fair value with changes in fair value recognised  
liabilities that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign  in profit or loss. If the contingent consideration is classified as  
currency are translated using the exchange rate at the date of  equity, it will not be remeasured and settlement is accounted  
the transaction.   for within equity. 
Foreign currency differences arising on translation are generally  If the business combination is achieved in stages, the acquisition 
recognised in comprehensive income, except for qualifying cash  date carrying value of the acquirer’s previously held equity interest 
flow hedges to the extent that the hedge is effective, in which case  in the acquiree is remeasured to fair value at the acquisition date. 
foreign currency differences arising are recognised in other  Any gains or losses arising from such remeasurement are 
comprehensive income.  recognised in profit or loss. 
Foreign operations   Goodwill 
The assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including goodwill  The cost of a business combination in excess of the fair value of 
and fair value adjustments arising on consolidation, are translated  net identifiable assets or liabilities acquired, including intangible 
into Sterling at the spot exchange rates at the balance sheet date.   assets identified, is recognised as goodwill and stated at cost less 
The revenues and expenses of foreign operations are translated  any accumulated impairment losses. Goodwill has an indefinite 
into Sterling at rates approximating to the foreign exchange rates  useful life, is not subject to amortisation and is tested annually for 
ruling at the dates of the transactions.   impairment or when there is an indication of impairment. 
Foreign currency differences are recognised in other 
Intangible assets 
comprehensive income, and accumulated in the foreign currency 
The cost of intangible assets, such as management contracts  
translation reserve, except to the extent that the translation 
and brand names, acquired as part of a business combination  
difference is allocated to non-controlling interests.  
is their fair value as at the date of acquisition. The fair value at the 
When a foreign operation is disposed of such that control is lost,  date of acquisition is calculated using the discounted cash flow 
the cumulative amount in the foreign currency translation reserve  methodology and represents the valuation of the profits expected  
related to that foreign operation is reclassified to comprehensive  to be earned from the management contracts and brand name in 
income as part of the gain or loss on disposal. If the Group  place at the date of acquisition.  
disposes of only part of its interest in a subsidiary that includes a 
Following initial recognition, intangible assets are carried at cost 
foreign operation while retaining control, the relevant proportion of 
less any accumulated amortisation and impairment losses. 
the cumulative amount is reattributed to non-controlling interests. 
Intangible assets with finite life are amortised on a systematic basis 
If the settlement of a monetary item receivable from or payable to a  over their useful lives. The useful life of an intangible asset which 
foreign operation is neither planned nor likely in the foreseeable  has arisen from contractual or other legal rights does not exceed 
future, foreign currency differences arising on the item form part  the period of the contractual or other legal rights. 
of the net investment in the foreign operation and are recognised 
Non-controlling interests (NCI) 
in other comprehensive income, and accumulated in the foreign 
currency translation reserve within equity.  The Group recognises NCI in an acquired entity either at fair value  
or at the NCI’s proportionate share of the acquired entity’s net 
identifiable assets. This decision is made on an acquisition-by-
acquisition basis. Changes to the Group’s interest in a subsidiary 
that do not result in a loss of control are accounted for as 
equity transactions.  
   
140  Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021 
140  Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021
 
S
T
R
A
T
E
G
IC
 R
E
P
O
R
Property, plant and equipment  Financial instruments  T
 
Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated  Recognition and initial measurement 
depreciation and impairment losses. Cost is determined on the  Financial instruments are recognised when the Group becomes 
basis of the direct and indirect costs that are directly attributable.  party to the contractual provisions of an instrument, initially at fair  GO
Property, plant and equipment are depreciated using the straight- value plus transaction costs except for financial assets classified at  V
E
line method over the estimated useful lives, assessed to be  fair value through profit or loss. Purchases or sales of financial  RN
five years for office equipment and four years for IT equipment.  assets are recognised on the trade date, being the date that the  A
N
The residual values and useful lives of assets are reviewed at  Group commits to purchase or sell the asset.   C
E
least annually.   
Financial assets are derecognised when the rights to receive  
The Group’s property, plant and equipment include right-of use  cash flows from the investments have expired or been transferred  FIN
assets recognised on operating lease arrangements in accordance  or when the Group has transferred substantially all risks and  A
N
with IFRS 16 Leases.  rewards of ownership. Financial liabilities are derecognised   C
IA
when the obligation under the liability has been discharged,  L
Leases   cancelled or expires.   S
T
The Group’s lease arrangements primarily consist of operating  A
T
leases relating to office space. Obligations and rights under  Subsequent measurement  E
M
operating lease agreements are recognised and classified within  The subsequent measurement of financial instruments depends   E
N
property, plant and equipment on the Group’s consolidated  on their classification in accordance with IFRS 9 Financial  T
S
statement of financial position in accordance with IFRS 16.  Instruments and IFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale and 
Discontinued Operations. 
The Group initially records a lease liability reflecting the present 
value of the future contractual cash flows to be made over the  Under IFRS 9, the Group classifies its financial assets into  
lease term, discounted using the rate implicit in the lease, being the  two measurement categories: amortised cost and FVTPL.  
rate that the lessee would have to pay to borrow the funds  The classification of financial assets under IFRS 9 is generally  
necessary to obtain an asset of similar value to the right-of-use  based on the business model in which a financial asset is managed 
asset in a similar economic environment with similar terms,  and its contractual cash flow characteristics. A financial asset is 
security and conditions. Where this rate is not readily available,  measured at amortised cost if it meets both of the following 
the Group applies the incremental borrowing rate applicable for  conditions and is not designated as at FVTPL: 
each lease arrangement. A right-of-use asset is also recorded at the 
– it is held within a business model whose objective is to hold 
value of the lease liability plus any directly related costs and 
assets to collect contractual cash flows; and 
estimated dilapidation expenses and is presented within property, 
plant and equipment. Interest is accrued on the lease liability using  – its contractual terms give rise on specified dates to cash flows 
the effective interest rate method to give a constant rate of return  that are solely payments of principal and interest on the principal 
over the life of the lease whilst the balance is reduced as lease  amount outstanding.  
payments are made. The right-of-use asset is depreciated over the  All financial assets not classified as measured at amortised cost are 
life of the lease as the benefit of the lease is consumed.  measured at FVTPL. The Group classifies its financial liabilities at 
After the commencement date, the Group reassesses the lease  amortised cost or derivative liabilities measured at FVTPL.  
term if there is a significant event or change in circumstances that  Amortised cost is the amount determined based on moving the 
is within its control and affects the likelihood that it will exercise (or  initial amount recognised for the financial instrument to the maturity 
not exercise) a term extension option.   value on a systematic basis using a fixed interest rate (effective 
The cost of short-term (less than 12 months) leases is expensed on  interest rate), taking account of repayment dates and initial 
a straight-line basis over the lease term.  premiums or discounts. 
   
Deferred acquisition costs 
Costs that are directly attributable to securing an investment 
management contract are deferred if they can be identified 
separately and measured reliably and it is probable that they will be 
recovered. Deferred acquisition costs represent the incremental 
costs incurred by the Group to acquire an investment management 
contract, typically on a closed-ended fund. The Group amortises the 
deferred acquisition asset recognised on a systematic basis, in line 
with the revenue generated from providing the investment 
management services over the life of the fund. 
 
    Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021  141 
Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021  141
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) 
4)  Significant accounting policies continued  (ii)  Financial assets measured at fair value 
Financial assets  The Group classifies readily realisable interests in newly seeded 
The Group classifies its financial assets into the following  funds as financial assets measured at FVTPL with fair value 
categories: investment securities at FVTPL, financial assets held for  changes being directly recognised through the consolidated 
sale, financial assets at FVTPL and financial assets measured at  statement of comprehensive income. Fair value is measured based 
amortised cost.  on the proportionate net asset value in the fund. 
The Group may, from time to time, invest seed capital in funds  (iii) Derivatives 
where a subsidiary is the investment manager or an adviser.   Derivatives include foreign exchange forward contracts and options 
Where the holding in such investments is deemed to represent   used by the Group to manage its foreign currency exposures and 
a controlling stake and is acquired exclusively with a view to  those held in consolidated funds. Derivatives are initially recognised 
subsequent disposal through sale or dilution, these seed capital  at fair value on the date on which a derivative contract is entered 
investments are recognised as financial assets held for sale in  into and subsequently remeasured at fair value. Transaction costs 
accordance with IFRS 5. The Group recognises 100% of the  are recognised immediately in the statement of comprehensive 
investment in the fund as a ‘financial asset held for sale’ and the  income. All derivatives are carried as financial assets when the  
interest held by other parties as a ‘financial liability held for sale’.  fair value is positive and as financial liabilities when the fair value 
Where control is not deemed to exist, and the assets are readily  is negative. 
realisable, they are recognised as financial assets measured at 
Any gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of 
FVTPL in accordance with IFRS 9. Where the assets are not readily 
derivatives are taken directly in comprehensive income, except for 
realisable, they are recognised as non-current financial assets 
the effective portion of cash flow hedges, which is recognised in 
measured at FVTPL. If a seed capital investment remains under the 
other comprehensive income. 
control of the Group for more than one year from the original 
investment date, the underlying fund is consolidated line by line. 
Financial assets measured at amortised cost 
Investment securities at FVTPL  (i)  Trade and other receivables  
Investment securities represent securities, other than derivatives,  Trade and other receivables are initially recorded at fair value plus 
held by consolidated funds. These securities are measured at fair  transaction costs. The fair value on acquisition is normally the cost. 
value with gains and losses recognised through the consolidated  Subsequent to initial recognition these assets are measured at 
statement of comprehensive income.  amortised cost less impairment loss allowances. Impairment losses 
are recognised in the statement of comprehensive income for 
Financial assets held for sale (HFS)  expected credit losses, and changes in those expected credit 
Financial assets held for sale are measured at the lower of their  losses over the life of the instrument. Loss allowances are 
carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell except where  calculated based on lifetime expected credit losses at each 
measurement and remeasurement is outside the scope of IFRS 5.  reporting date. 
Where investments that have initially been recognised as financial 
(ii)  Cash and cash equivalents 
assets held for sale, because the Group has been deemed to hold a 
Cash represents cash at bank and in hand, and cash equivalents 
controlling stake, are subsequently disposed of or diluted such that 
comprise short-term deposits and investments in money market 
the Group’s holding is no longer deemed a controlling stake, the 
instruments that are redeemable on demand or with an original 
investment will subsequently be classified as a financial asset 
maturity of three months or less. The carrying amount of these 
measured at FVTPL in accordance with IFRS 9. 
assets approximates their fair value. 
Financial assets at FVTPL      
Financial assets at FVTPL include certain readily realisable interests 
in seeded funds, non-current financial assets measured at fair value 
and derivatives. From the date the financial asset is recognised, all 
subsequent changes in fair value, foreign exchange differences, 
interest and dividends are reflected in the consolidated statement  
of comprehensive income and presented in finance income 
or expense. 
(i)  Non-current financial assets measured at fair value 
Non-current financial assets include closed-end funds that are 
measured at FVTPL. They are held at fair value with changes in fair 
value being recognised through the consolidated statement of 
comprehensive income. 
142  Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021 
142  Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021
 
S
T
R
A
T
E
G
IC
 R
E
P
O
R
Financial liabilities  Where instruments are not listed on any stock exchange or not  T 
The Group classifies its financial liabilities into the following  traded on any regulated markets, valuation techniques are used  
categories: financial liabilities held for sale, financial liabilities at  by valuation specialists. These techniques include the market 
FVTPL and financial liabilities at amortised cost.  approach, the income approach or the cost approach. The use of  G
O
the market approach generally consists of using comparable market  V
E
Financial liabilities held for sale  transactions or using techniques based on market observable  R
N
Financial liabilities held for sale represent interests held by other parties  inputs, while the use of the income approach generally consists   A
N
in funds in which the Group recognises 100% of the investment in  of the net present value of estimated future cash flows, adjusted   C
E
the fund as a financial asset held for sale. These liabilities are  as deemed appropriate for liquidity, credit, market and/or other   
carried at fair value with gains or losses recognised in the  risk factors.  
F
statement of comprehensive income within finance income  IN
Investments in funds are valued on the basis of the last available  A
or expense.  N
net asset value of the units or shares of such funds.  C
IA
Financial liabilities at FVTPL  The fair value of the derivatives is their quoted market price at the  L
 S
Financial liabilities at FVTPL include derivative financial instruments  balance sheet date.   T
A
and third-party interests in consolidated funds. They are carried at  T
E
fair value with gains or losses recognised in the consolidated  Hedge accounting  M
E
statement of comprehensive income within finance income  The Group applies the general hedge accounting model in IFRS 9.  N
T
or expense.   This requires the Group to ensure that hedge accounting  S
relationships are aligned with its risk management objectives and 
Financial liabilities at amortised cost  strategy and to apply a more qualitative and forward-looking 
Other financial liabilities including trade and other payables are  approach to assessing hedge effectiveness. 
subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective 
The Group uses forward and option contracts to hedge the 
interest rate method. Interest expense is recognised as it is 
variability in cash flows arising from changes in foreign exchange 
incurred using the effective interest method, which allocates 
rates relating to management fee revenues. The Group designates 
interest at a constant rate of return over the expected life of the 
only the change in fair value of the spot element of the forward and 
financial instrument based on the estimated future cash flows.  
option contracts in cash flow hedging relationships. The effective 
Fair value of financial instruments  portion of changes in fair value of hedging instruments is 
accumulated in a cash flow hedge reserve as a separate 
Fair value is defined as the price that would be received to sell an 
component of equity. 
asset or paid to transfer a liability (i.e. the ‘exit price’) in an orderly 
transaction between market participants at the measurement date.  The Group applies cash flow hedge accounting when the 
In determining fair value, the Group uses various valuation  transaction meets the specified hedge accounting criteria. 
approaches and establishes a hierarchy for inputs used in  To qualify, the following conditions must be met: 
measuring fair value that maximises the use of relevant observable 
inputs and minimises the use of unobservable inputs by requiring  – formal documentation of the relationship between the hedging 
instrument(s) and hedged item(s) must exist at inception; 
that the most observable inputs be used when available. 
Observable inputs are inputs that market participants would use in  – the hedged cash flows must be highly probable and must 
pricing the asset or liability developed based on market data  present an exposure to variations in cash flows that could 
obtained from sources independent of the Group.   ultimately affect comprehensive income; 
– the effectiveness of the hedge can be reliably measured; and 
Unobservable inputs are inputs that reflect the Group’s judgements 
about the assumptions other market participants would use in  – the hedge must be highly effective, with effectiveness assessed 
pricing the asset or liability, developed based on the best  on an ongoing basis. 
information available in the circumstances.  For qualifying cash flow hedges, the change in fair value of the 
Securities listed on a recognised stock exchange, or dealt on any  effective hedging instrument is initially recognised in other 
other regulated market that operates regularly, is recognised and  comprehensive income and is released to comprehensive income 
open to the public, are valued at the last known available closing bid  in the same period during which the relevant financial asset or 
price. If a security is traded on several actively traded and organised  liability affects the Group’s results.  
financial markets, the valuation is made on the basis of the last  Where the hedge is highly effective overall, any ineffective portion  
known bid price on the main market on which the securities are  of the hedge is immediately recognised in comprehensive income. 
traded. In the case of securities for which trading on an actively  Where the instrument ceases to be highly effective as a hedge, or  
traded and organised financial market is not significant, but which  is sold, terminated or exercised, hedge accounting is discontinued. 
are bought and sold on a secondary market with regulated trading 
among security dealers (with the effect that the price is set on a   
market basis), the valuation may be based on this secondary market.      
    Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021  143 
Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021  143
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) 
4)  Significant accounting policies continued  The Group’s trade receivables comprise balances due from 
Derecognition of financial assets and liabilities  management fees, performance fees, expense recoveries from 
The Group derecognises a financial asset only when the contractual  funds managed, and are generally short term and do not contain 
rights to the cash flows from the asset expire, or when it transfers  financing components. Factors considered in determining whether 
the financial asset and substantially all the risk and rewards of  a default has taken place include how many days past the due date 
ownership of the asset. The Group derecognises a financial   a payment is, deterioration in the credit quality of a counterparty, 
liability when the Group’s obligations are discharged, cancelled or  and knowledge of specific events that could influence a 
they expire.  counterparty’s ability to pay. The Group assesses lifetime expected 
credit losses based on historical observed default rates, adjusted  
Impairment of financial assets  by forward-looking estimates regarding the economic conditions 
Under IFRS 9, impairment losses on the Group’s financial assets at  within the next year. Externally derived credit ratings have been 
amortised cost are measured using an expected credit loss (ECL)  identified as representing the best available determinant of 
model. Under this model, the Group is required to account for  counterparty credit risk for cash balances and credit risk is deemed 
expected credit losses, and changes in those expected credit  to have increased significantly if the credit rating has significantly 
losses over the life of the instrument. The amount of expected  deteriorated at the reporting date relative to the credit rating at the 
credit losses is updated at each reporting date to reflect changes in  date of initial recognition.  
credit risk since initial recognition and, consequently, more timely 
Impairment of non-financial assets 
information is provided about expected credit losses. A three stage 
For all other assets other than goodwill, an impairment test  
model is used for calculating expected credit losses, which requires 
is performed annually or whenever events or changes in 
financial assets to be assessed as: 
circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be 
– Performing (stage 1) financial assets where there has been no  recoverable. An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by 
significant increase in credit risk since original recognition; or  which the asset’s carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount. 
– Under-performing (stage 2) financial assets where there has  The recoverable amount is the higher of an asset’s fair value less 
been a significant increase in credit risk since initial recognition,  costs of disposal and value in use. For the purposes of assessing 
but no default event; or  impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which  
– Non-performing (stage 3) financial assets that are in default.  there are separately identifiable cash inflows which are largely 
independent of the cash inflows from other assets or groups  
Expected credit losses for stage 1 financial assets are calculated 
of assets (cash-generating units). Non-financial assets, other  
based on possible default events within the 12 months after the 
than goodwill, that have suffered an impairment are reviewed  
reporting date. Expected credit losses for stage 2 and 3 financial 
for possible reversal of the impairment at the end of each 
assets are calculated based on lifetime expected credit losses that 
reporting period. 
result from all possible default events over the expected life of a 
financial instrument. The Group applies the simplified approach to  Goodwill 
calculate expected credit losses for financial assets measured at  Goodwill is tested for impairment annually or whenever there is an 
amortised cost. Under this approach, financial assets are not  indication that the carrying amount may not be recoverable based 
categorised into three stages and expected credit losses are  on management’s judgements regarding the future prospects of 
calculated based on the life of the instrument.   the business, estimates of future cash flows and discount rates. 
When assessing the appropriateness of the carrying value of 
Assets measured at amortised cost 
goodwill at year end, the recoverable amount is considered  
The Group measures loss allowances at an amount equal to  
to be the greater of fair value less costs to sell or value in use. 
lifetime expected credit losses. Expected credit loss allowances  
The pre-tax discount rate applied is based on the Group’s weighted 
for financial assets measured at amortised cost are deducted from 
average cost of capital after making allowances for any specific risks. 
the gross carrying amount of the assets. The Group’s financial 
assets subject to impairment assessment under the ECL model  The business of the Group is managed as a single unit, with asset 
comprise cash deposits held with banks and trade receivables.   allocations, research and other such operational practices reflecting 
In assessing the impairment of financial assets under the  the commonality of approach across all fund themes. Therefore, for 
ECL model, the Group assesses whether the risk of default has  the purpose of testing goodwill for impairment, the Group is 
increased significantly since initial recognition, by considering   considered to have one cash-generating unit to which all goodwill is 
both quantitative and qualitative information, and the analysis is  allocated and, as a result, no further split of goodwill into smaller 
based on the Group’s historical experience of credit default,  cash-generating units is possible and the impairment review is 
including forward-looking information.  conducted for the Group as a whole. 
An impairment loss in respect of goodwill cannot be reversed. 
   
144  Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021 
144  Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021
 
S
T
R
A
T
E
G
IC
 R
E
P
O
R
Net revenue  Other revenue  T
 
Net revenue is total revenue less distribution costs and including  Other revenue principally comprises fees for other services,  
foreign exchange. The Group’s total revenue includes management  which are typically driven by the volume of transactions, along with 
fees, performance fees and other revenue. The primary revenue  revenues that vary in accordance with the volume of fund project  G
O
source for the Group is fee income received or receivable for the  development activities. Other revenue includes transaction,  V
E
provision of investment management services.   structuring and administration fees, project management fees,   R
N
and reimbursement by funds of costs incurred by the Group.  A
The Group recognises revenue in accordance with the principles of  N
This revenue is recognised as the relevant service is provided   C
IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers.   E
and it is probable that the fee will be collected.   
The core principle of IFRS 15 is that revenue is recognised to 
F
reflect the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in  Distribution costs  IN
A
an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity  Distribution costs are costs of sales payable to external  N
C
expects to be entitled to in exchange for those goods or services.  intermediaries for marketing and investor servicing. Distribution  IA
The Group applies the IFRS 15 five-step model for recognising  costs vary based on fund assets managed and the associated  L S
revenue, which consists of identifying the contract with the  management fee revenue, and are expensed over the period in  T
A
customer; identifying the relevant performance obligations;  which the service is provided.  T
E
determining the amount of consideration to be received under   M
the contract; allocating the consideration to each performance  Employee benefits  EN
T
obligation; and earning the revenue as the performance obligations  Obligations for contributions to defined contribution pension plans  S
are satisfied.  are recognised as an expense in the statement of comprehensive 
income when payable in accordance with the scheme particulars. 
The Group’s principal revenue recognition policies are 
summarised below:  Share-based payments  
The Group issues share awards to its employees under share-based 
Management fees  compensation plans.  
Management fees are presented net of rebates, and are calculated 
For equity-settled awards, the fair value of the amounts payable to 
as a percentage of net fund assets managed in accordance with 
employees is recognised as an expense with a corresponding 
individual management agreements. Management fees are 
increase in equity over the vesting period after adjusting for the 
calculated and recognised on a monthly basis in accordance with 
estimated number of shares that are expected to vest. The fair 
the terms of the management fee agreements. Management fees 
value is measured at the grant date using an appropriate valuation 
are typically collected on a monthly or quarterly basis.  
model, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which 
the instruments were granted. At each balance sheet date prior to 
Performance fees 
vesting, the cumulative expense representing the extent to which 
Performance fees are presented net of rebates, and are calculated 
the vesting period has expired and management’s best estimate of 
as a percentage of the appreciation in the net asset value of a fund 
the awards that are ultimately expected to vest is calculated. The 
above a defined hurdle. Performance fees are earned from some 
movement in cumulative expense is recognised in the statement of 
arrangements when contractually agreed performance levels are 
comprehensive income with a corresponding entry within equity. 
exceeded within specified performance measurement periods, 
typically over one year. The fees are recognised when they can   For cash-settled awards, the fair value of the amounts payable to 
be reliably estimated and/or crystallised, and there is deemed   employees is recognised as an expense with a corresponding 
to be a low probability of a significant reversal in future periods.  liability on the Group’s balance sheet. The fair value is measured 
This is usually at the end of the performance period or upon early  using an appropriate valuation model, taking into account the 
redemption by a fund investor. Once crystallised, performance fees  estimated number of awards that are expected to vest and the 
typically cannot be clawed-back.  terms and conditions upon which the instruments were granted. 
During the vesting period, the liability recognised represents the 
Rebates 
portion of the vesting period that has expired at the balance sheet 
Rebates relate to repayments of management and performance  date multiplied by the fair value of the awards at that date. 
fees charged subject to a rebate agreement, typically with  Movements in the liability are recognised in the statement of 
institutional investors, and are calculated based on an agreed  comprehensive income. 
percentage of net fund assets managed and recognised as the 
   
service is received. Where rebate agreements exist, management 
and performance fees are presented on a net basis in the 
consolidated statement of comprehensive income. 
    Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021  145 
Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021  145
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) 
4)  Significant accounting policies continued  Dividends 
Finance income and expense  Dividends are recognised when shareholders’ rights to receive 
Finance income includes interest receivable on the Group’s cash  payments have been established. 
and cash equivalents, and both realised and unrealised gains on 
Equity shares 
financial assets at FVTPL.  
The Company’s ordinary shares of 0.01 pence each are classified as 
Finance expense includes both realised and unrealised losses on  equity instruments. Ordinary shares issued by the Company are 
financial assets at FVTPL. Interest expense on lease liabilities is  recorded at the fair value of the consideration received or the 
presented within finance expense.  market price at the day of issue. Direct issue costs, net of tax, are 
deducted from equity through share premium. When share capital 
Taxation  
is repurchased, the amount of consideration paid, including directly 
Tax expense for the year comprises current and deferred tax.  
attributable costs, is recognised as a change in equity. 
Tax is recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive 
income except to the extent that it relates to items recognised  Own shares 
directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in equity.  Own shares are held by the Employee Benefit Trust (EBT).  
The holding of the EBT comprises own shares that have not  
Current tax 
vested unconditionally to employees of the Group. In both the 
Current tax comprises the expected tax payable or receivable on 
Group and Company, own shares are recorded at cost and are 
the taxable income or loss for the year, and any adjustment to the 
deducted from retained earnings.  
tax payable or receivable in respect of previous years. It is 
measured using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the  Segmental information 
balance sheet date in the countries where the Group operates.  Key management information, including revenues, margins, 
Current tax also includes withholding tax arising from dividends.   investment performance, distribution costs and AuM flows, which 
is relevant to the operation of the Group, is reported to and 
Deferred tax 
reviewed by the Board on the basis of the investment management 
Deferred tax is recognised using the balance sheet liability method, 
business as a whole. Hence, the Group’s management considers 
in respect of temporary differences between the carrying amounts 
that the Group’s services and its operations are not run on a 
of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the 
discrete geographic basis and comprise one business segment 
amounts used for taxation purposes. The following differences are 
(being provision of investment management services).  
not provided for:  
Company-only accounting policies 
– goodwill not deductible for tax purposes and  
In addition to the above accounting policies, the following 
– differences relating to investments in subsidiaries to the extent 
specifically relates to the Company:  
that they will probably not reverse in the foreseeable future.  
The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected  Investment in subsidiaries  
manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of  Investments by the Company in subsidiaries are stated at cost less, 
assets and liabilities, using tax rates enacted or substantively  where appropriate, provisions for impairment.  
enacted at the reporting date. 
 
Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is 
probable that future taxable profits will be available against which 
the assets can be utilised. Deferred tax assets are reviewed at each 
reporting date and are reduced to the extent that it is no longer 
probable that the related tax benefit will be realised. 
Deferred tax is measured at the tax rates that are expected to be 
applied to temporary differences when they reverse, using tax rates 
enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date. 
 
146  Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021 
146  Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021
 
S
T
R
A
T
E
G
IC
 R
E
P
O
R
5)  Segmental information  T
 
The Group’s operations are reported to and reviewed by the Board on the basis of the investment management business as a whole, 
hence the Group is treated as a single segment. The key management information considered is adjusted EBITDA which is £195.7 million 
for the year as reconciled on page 28 (FY2019/20: adjusted EBITDA of £222.5 million was derived by adjusting operating profit by  G
O
£3.4 million of depreciation and amortisation expense, £7.6 million of income related to seed capital and £4.4 million of foreign exchange  V
E
gains). The disclosures below are supplementary, and provide the location of the Group’s non-current assets at year end other than financial  R
N
assets and deferred tax assets. Disclosures relating to revenue by location are in note 6.  A
N
C
E
Analysis of non-current assets by geography    
2021  2020
F
  £m £m IN
United Kingdom and Ireland  24.8 26.4 AN
C
United States   65.1 72.4 IA
L
Other   3.2 3.9  S
T
Total non-current assets  93.1 102.7 A
T
E
M
6)  Revenue  E
N
Management fees are accrued throughout the year in line with prevailing levels of assets under management and performance fees are  T
S
recognised when they can be estimated reliably and it is probable that they will crystallise. The Group is not considered to be reliant on any 
single source of revenue. During the year, none of the Group’s funds (FY2019/20: none) provided more than 10% of total revenue in the 
year respectively when considering management fees and performance fees on a combined basis. 
Analysis of revenue by geography 
2021  2020
  £m £m
United Kingdom and Ireland  229.9 287.0
United States  26.8 24.3
Other  36.2 26.7
Total revenue  292.9  338.0 
7)  Foreign exchange 
The foreign exchange rates which had a material impact on the Group’s results are the US dollar, the Euro, the Indonesian rupiah and the 
Colombian peso. 
Average rate  Average rate 
Closing rate  Closing rate   year ended  year ended 
as at 30 June  as at 30 June   30 June  30 June
£1  2021  2020  2021  2020
US dollar  1.3815  1.2356  1.3472 1.2637
Euro  1.1649   1.1001   1.1315  1.1331 
Indonesian rupiah  20,031  17,651  19,389 18,134
Colombian peso  5,158  4,620  4,968 4,468
Foreign exchange gains and losses are shown below. 
2021  2020
  £m £m
Net realised and unrealised hedging gains  9.2  1.5
Translation gains/(losses) on non-Sterling denominated monetary assets and liabilities  (4.9) 5.5
Total foreign exchange gains  4.3  7.0
 
   
    Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021  147 
Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021  147
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) 
8)  Finance income 
2021  2020
  £m £m
Interest and investment income  4.3  11.1
Net realised gains on seed capital investments measured at fair value  8.5  4.0
Net unrealised gains/(losses) on seed capital investments measured at fair value  11.5  (2.6)
Interest expense on lease liabilities (note 16)  (0.4) (0.5)
Total finance income  23.9  12.0
Included within interest and investment income are gains of £3.3 million (FY 2019/20: £4.8 million gains) from investment securities on 
consolidated funds (note 20d).  
Included within net realised and unrealised gains on seed capital investments measured at fair value are £10.8 million gains (FY2019/20: 
£2.8 million gains) in relation to financial assets held for sale (note 20a), £8.2 million gains (FY2019/20: £0.8 million losses) on financial assets 
measured at FVTPL (note 20b) and £2.2 million gains (FY2019/20: £4.5 million losses) on non-current financial assets measured at fair value 
(note 20c).  
9)  Personnel expenses 
Personnel expenses during the year comprised the following: 
2021  2020
  £m £m
Wages and salaries   21.4   22.2 
Performance-related cash bonuses   20.2   21.1 
Share-based payments   33.4   33.9 
Social security costs   1.8   1.9 
Pension costs   1.8   1.9 
Other costs   1.7   1.6 
Total personnel expenses   80.3   82.6 
Number of employees 
At 30 June 2021, the number of investment management employees of the Group (including Executive Directors) during the year was 
as follows: 
Average for  Average for 
the year  the year  
ended  ended   At  At 
30 June 2021 30 June 2020  30 June 2021 30 June 2020
Number Number  Number Number
Total investment management employees  295 292  298 291
Directors’ remuneration 
Disclosures of Directors’ remuneration during the year as required by the Companies Act 2006 are included in the Remuneration report  
on pages 83 to 115. 
There are retirement benefits accruing to two Executive Directors under a defined contribution scheme (FY2019/20: two).  
10) Share-based payments 
The cost related to share-based payments recognised by the Group in the statement of comprehensive income is shown below:  
2021  2020
Group  £m £m
Omnibus Plan  33.3 33.5
Phantom Bonus Plan  0.1  0.4
Total share-based payments expense  33.4  33.9
The total expense recognised for the year in respect of equity-settled share-based payment awards was £29.9 million (FY2019/20: 
£28.9 million), of which £2.5 million (FY2019/20: £2.0 million) relates to share awards granted to key management personnel. 
   
148  Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021 
148  Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021
 
S
T
R
A
T
E
G
IC
 R
E
P
O
R
The Executive Omnibus Incentive Plan (Omnibus Plan)  T
 
The Omnibus Plan was introduced prior to the Company listing in October 2006 and provides for the grant of share awards, market value 
options, premium cost options, discounted options, linked options, phantoms and/or nil-cost options to employees. The Omnibus Plan will  
also allow bonuses to be deferred in the form of share awards with or without matching shares. Awards granted under the Omnibus Plan  G
O
typically vest after five years from date of grant, with the exception of bonus awards which vest after the shorter of five years from date of  V
E
grant or on the date of termination of employment. Awards under the Omnibus Plan are accounted for as equity-settled, with the exception  R
N
of phantoms which are classified as cash-settled.   A
N
C
The combined cash and equity-settled payments below represent the share-based payments relating to the Omnibus Plan.  E
 
Total expense by year awards were granted (excluding national insurance)  F
IN
Group and Company   2021 2020 A
Year of grant  £m £m N
C
2015  –  3.3  IA
L
2016   2.6   2.7   S
T
2017   3.7   3.7  A
T
E
2018   3.8   3.8  M
E
2019   4.4   4.8  N
T
2020   3.9   10.9  S
2021   11.5  –
Total Omnibus share-based payments expense reported in comprehensive income   29.9   29.2 
Awards outstanding under the Omnibus Plan were as follows: 
i)  Equity-settled awards 
2021   2021   2020  2020
Number of  Weighted  Number of   Weighted 
shares subject  average  shares subject  average 
Group and Company  to awards  share price  to awards share price
Restricted share awards     
At the beginning of the year  22,073,338   £3.27   21,233,773  £3.04 
Granted  4,189,112   £3.62   4,026,981  £4.39 
Vested  (5,945,594)  £2.47   (3,063,448) £3.16 
Forfeited  (319,463)  £3.12   (123,968) £3.04 
Awards outstanding at year end  19,997,393   £3.58   22,073,338  £3.27 
     
Bonus share awards     
At the beginning of the year  10,693,287   £3.32   9,705,156  £3.07 
Granted  2,261,160   £3.61   2,060,811  £4.38 
Vested  (2,336,799)  £2.43   (1,072,680) £3.09 
Forfeited  –  –  – –
Awards outstanding at year end  10,617,648   £3.58   10,693,287 £3.32
     
Matching share awards     
At the beginning of the year  10,750,311   £3.33   9,730,005  £3.08 
Granted  2,273,623   £3.61   2,092,986  £4.38 
Vested  (2,230,531)  £2.43   (1,072,680) £3.09 
Forfeited  (106,268)  £2.43   – –
Awards outstanding at year end  10,687,135   £3.58   10,750,311  £3.33 
Total  41,302,176   £3.58   43,516,936  £3.30 
   
    Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021  149 
Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021  149
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) 
10) Share-based payments continued 
ii)  Cash-settled awards 
2021  2021  2020  2020
Number of  Weighted  Number of   Weighted 
shares subject  average  shares subject  average 
Group and Company  to awards share price  to awards share price
Restricted share awards   
At the beginning of the year  141,297  £3.45   119,514  £3.18 
Granted  778  £3.60   31,345  £4.38 
Vested  (19,836) £2.43   (9,062) £3.09 
Forfeited  – –  (500) £4.38 
Awards outstanding at year end  122,239  £3.53   141,297  £3.45 
   
Bonus share awards   
At the beginning of the year  86,944  £3.47   68,054  £3.21 
Granted  – –  18,890  £4.38 
Vested  (6,179) £2.43   – –
Forfeited  – –  – –
Awards outstanding at year end  80,765  £3.55   86,944 £3.47
   
Matching share awards   
At the beginning of the year  86,944  £3.47   68,054  £3.21 
Granted  – –  18,890  £4.38 
Vested  (6,179) £2.43   – –
Forfeited  – –  – –
Awards outstanding at year end  80,765  £3.55   86,944  £3.47 
Total  283,769  £3.54   315,185  £3.46 
   
150  Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021 
150  Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021
 
S
T
R
A
T
E
G
IC
 R
E
P
O
R
iii)  Total awards  T
 
2021  2021   2020 2020
 Number of  Weighted   Number of   Weighted 
shares subject  average  shares subject  average 
G
Group and Company  to awards  share price  to awards share price O
V
Restricted share awards      E
R
At the beginning of the year  22,214,635   £3.27   21,353,287  £3.04  N
A
N
Granted  4,189,890   £3.62   4,058,326  £4.39  C
E
Vested  (5,965,430)  £2.47   (3,072,510) £3.16   
Forfeited  (319,463)  £3.12   (124,468) £3.05  F
IN
Awards outstanding at year end  20,119,632   £3.58   22,214,635  £3.27  A
N
      C
IA
Bonus share awards      L
 S
At the beginning of the year  10,780,231   £3.33   9,773,210  £3.07  T
A
Granted  2,261,160   £3.61   2,079,701  £4.38  TE
M
Vested  (2,342,978)  £2.43   (1,072,680) £3.09  E
N
Forfeited  –  –  – – T
S
Awards outstanding at year end  10,698,413   £3.58   10,780,231  £3.33 
     
Matching share awards     
At the beginning of the year  10,837,255   £3.33   9,798,059  £3.08 
Granted  2,273,623   £3.61   2,111,876  £4.38 
Vested  (2,236,710)  £2.43   (1,072,680) £3.09 
Forfeited  (106,268)  £2.43   – –
Awards outstanding at year end  10,767,900   £3.58   10,837,255  £3.33 
Total  41,585,945   £3.58   43,832,121  £3.30 
The weighted average fair value of awards granted to employees under the Omnibus Plan during the year was £3.62 (FY2019/20: £4.38), 
calculated based on the average Ashmore Group plc closing share price for the five business days prior to grant. For Executive Directors, the 
fair value of awards also takes into account the performance conditions set out in the Remuneration report.  
Where the grant of restricted and matching share awards is linked to the annual bonus process, the fair value of the awards is spread over a 
period including the current financial year and the subsequent five years to their vesting date when the grantee becomes unconditionally 
entitled to the underlying shares. The fair value of the remaining awards is spread over the period from the date of grant to the vesting date. 
The liability arising from cash-settled awards under the Omnibus Plan at the end of the year and reported within trade and other payables on 
the Group consolidated balance sheet is £0.8 million (30 June 2020: £0.8 million) of which £nil (30 June 2020: £nil) relates to vested awards. 
    Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021  151 
Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021  151
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) 
11) Other expenses 
Other expenses consist of the following: 
2021  2020 
  £m £m
Travel   0.1 1.7
Professional fees  4.8 4.9
Information technology and communications  7.0 6.8
Amortisation of intangible assets (note 15)  0.2 0.2
Operating leases  0.3 0.1
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment (note 16)  2.6 3.2
Premises-related costs  1.0 1.2
Insurance  0.8 0.6
Research costs  0.5 0.5
Auditor’s remuneration (see below)  0.8 0.6
Consolidated funds  1.6 2.2
Other expenses   4.3 4.6
  24.0 26.6
Operating leases expense relates to short-term leases where the Group has applied the optional exemption contained within IFRS 16, 
which permits the cost of short-term leases (less than 12 months) to be expensed on a straight-line basis over the lease term. 
Auditor’s remuneration 
2021 2020
  £m £m
Fees for statutory audit services: 
– Fees payable to the Company’s auditor for the audit of the Group’s accounts  0.2 0.2
– Fees payable to the Company’s auditor and its associates for the audit of the Company’s subsidiaries 
pursuant to legislation  0.4 0.3
 
Fees for non-audit services: 
– Other non-audit services  0.2 0.1
  0.8 0.6
152  Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021 
152  Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021
 
S
T
R
A
T
E
G
IC
 R
E
P
O
R
12) Taxation  T
 
Analysis of tax charge for the year: 
2021 2020
G
  £m £m O
V
Current tax  E
R
UK corporation tax on profits for the year  24.4 24.7 N
A
N
Overseas corporation tax charge  17.3 16.8 C
E
Adjustments in respect of prior years  (0.4) (2.8)  
  41.3 38.7 F
IN
Deferred tax   A
N
Origination and reversal of temporary differences (see note 18)  1.8 (1.2) C
IA
Effect on deferred tax balance of changes in corporation tax rates  (2.4) (0.7) L
 S
Tax expense  40.7 36.8 T
A
T
E
Factors affecting tax charge for the year  M
E
2021 2020 N
  £m £m TS
Profit before tax  282.5 221.5
 
Profit on ordinary activities multiplied by the UK tax rate of 19% (FY2019/20: 19%)  53.7 42.1
 
Effects of: 
Non-deductible expenses  0.3 0.5
Deduction in respect of vested shares/exercised options (Part 12, Corporation Tax Act 2009)  (3.4) (1.2)
Different rate of taxes on overseas profits  (3.8) (4.2)
Non-taxable income1  (4.1) (0.1)
Effect on deferred tax balances from changes in corporation tax rates  (2.4) –
Derecognition of deferred tax assets  0.4 2.9
Other items  – 0.3
Adjustments in respect of prior years  – (3.5)
Tax expense  40.7 36.8
1. Non-taxable income comprises investment income in certain jurisdictions in which the Group operates for which there are local tax exemptions.  
An increase in the main rate of UK corporation tax from 19% to 25% with effect from 1 April 2023 was enacted in the Finance Act 2021. 
This rate increase has been taken into account in the calculation of the Group’s UK deferred tax assets and liabilities as at 30 June 2021,  
to the extent that they are expected to reverse after the rate increase comes into effect. 
    Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021  153 
Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021  153
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) 
13) Earnings per share 
Basic earnings per share at 30 June 2021 of 36.40 pence (30 June 2020: 27.35 pence) is calculated by dividing the profit after tax for the 
financial year attributable to equity holders of the parent of £240.1 million (FY2019/20: £182.1 million) by the weighted average number of 
ordinary shares in issue during the year, excluding own shares. 
Diluted earnings per share is calculated based on basic earnings per share adjusted for all dilutive potential ordinary shares. There is  
no difference between the profit for the year attributable to equity holders of the parent used in the basic and diluted earnings per 
share calculations. 
Reconciliation of the weighted average number of shares used in calculating basic and diluted earnings per share is shown below. 
2021  2020 
Number of  Number of 
ordinary  ordinary 
  shares shares
Weighted average number of ordinary shares used in the calculation of basic earnings per share   659,341,111 666,019,404
Effect of dilutive potential ordinary shares – share awards   41,926,476 43,241,702
Weighted average number of ordinary shares used in the calculation of diluted earnings per share  701,267,587 709,261,106
14) Dividends 
Dividends paid in the year 
2021 2020
Company  £m £m
Final dividend for FY2019/20 – 12.10p (FY2018/19: 12.10p)  84.7 86.0
Interim dividend for FY2020/21 – 4.80p (FY2019/20: 4.80p)  33.6 34.0
  118.3 120.0
In addition, the Group paid £2.9 million (FY2019/20: £2.7 million) of dividends to non-controlling interests. 
Dividends declared/proposed in respect of the year 
2021 2020
Company  pence pence
Interim dividend per share paid   4.80 4.80
Final dividend per share proposed   12.10 12.10
  16.90 16.90
On 2 September 2021, the Board proposed a final dividend of 12.10 pence per share for the year ended 30 June 2021. This has not been 
recognised as a liability of the Group at the year end as it has not yet been approved by shareholders. Based on the number of shares 
in issue at the year end that qualify to receive a dividend, the total amount payable would be £85.7 million. 
 
   
154  Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021 
154  Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021
 
S
T
R
A
T
E
G
IC
 R
E
P
O
R
15) Goodwill and intangible assets  T
 
Fund 
management 
intangible 
G
Goodwill  assets Total O
Group  £m  £m £m V
E
Cost (at original exchange rate)    R
N
A
At 30 June 2021 and 2020  70.4  0.9 71.3 N
C
    E
 
Accumulated amortisation and impairment   
F
At 30 June 2019  –   (0.1)  (0.1) IN
A
Amortisation charge for the year   –  (0.2) (0.2) N
C
At 30 June 2020  –  (0.3) (0.3) IA
L
Amortisation charge for the year   –  (0.2) (0.2)  S
T
A
At 30 June 2021  –  (0.5) (0.5) T
E
    M
E
Net book value    N
T
S
At 30 June 2019  86.5  0.8 87.3
Accumulated amortisation for the year  –  (0.2) (0.2)
Foreign exchange revaluation through reserves*  2.6  – 2.6
At 30 June 2020  89.1  0.6 89.7
Accumulated amortisation for the year  –  (0.2) (0.2)
Foreign exchange revaluation through reserves*  (9.0)  – (9.0)
At 30 June 2021  80.1  0.4 80.5
* Foreign exchange revaluation through reserves is a result of the retranslation of US dollar-denominated intangibles and goodwill. 
Goodwill
Company   £m
Cost 
At the beginning and end of the year  4.1
Net carrying amount at 30 June 2021 and 2020  4.1
   
    Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021  155 
Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021  155
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) 
15) Goodwill and intangible assets continued 
Goodwill 
The Group’s goodwill balance relates to the acquisition of subsidiaries. The Company’s goodwill balance relates to the acquisition of the 
business from ANZ in 1999. 
Goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated to the cash-generating units that are expected to benefit from that business 
combination. It is the Group’s judgement that the lowest level of cash-generating unit used to determine impairment is the investment 
management segment level. The Group has assessed that it consists of a single cash-generating unit for the purposes of monitoring and 
assessing goodwill for impairment. This reflects the Group’s global operating model, based on a single operating platform, into which 
acquired businesses are fully integrated and from which acquisition-related synergies are expected to be realised. Based on this model,  
the Group’s investment management activities are considered as a single cash-generating unit, for which key management regularly receive 
and review internal financial information.  
An annual impairment review of goodwill was undertaken for the year ending 30 June 2021, and no factors indicating potential impairment 
of goodwill were noted. Goodwill is tested for impairment annually or whenever there is an indication that the carrying amount may not be 
recoverable based on management’s judgements regarding the future prospects of the business, market capitalisation, macro-economic 
and market considerations. The key assumption used to determine the recoverable amount is based on a fair value calculation using the 
Company’s market share price. 
Based on the calculation as at 30 June 2021 using a market share price of £3.85, the recoverable amount was in excess of the carrying 
value of goodwill and no impairment was implied. In addition, the sensitivity of the recoverable amount to a 10% change in the Company’s 
market share price will not lead to any impairment. Therefore, no impairment loss has been recognised in the current or preceding years.  
Fund management intangible assets  
Intangible assets as at 30 June 2021 comprise fund management contracts and a contractually agreed share of carried interest recognised 
by the Group on the acquisition of Ashmore Avenida (Real Estate) Investments LLP in July 2018. An annual impairment review was 
undertaken for the year ending 30 June 2021 and no factors were identified suggesting that fund management contracts intangible assets 
were impaired. The remaining amortisation period for fund management contracts is four years. 
   
156  Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021 
156  Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021
 
S
T
R
A
T
E
G
IC
 R
E
P
O
R
16) Property, plant and equipment   T
 
The Group’s property, plant and equipment include right-of-use assets recognised on operating lease arrangements as follows: 
Group Company
G
  £m £m O
V
Property, plant and equipment owned by the Group  1.8 1.3 E
R
Right-of-use assets  9.4 5.5 N
A
N
Net book value at 30 June 2021  11.2 6.8 C
E
 
The movement in property, plant and equipment is provided below: 
F
2021  2020 IN
Fixtures,  Fixtures, A
N
fittings and  fittings and  C
equipment equipment IA
Group  £m £m L
 S
Cost  T
A
At the beginning of the year  20.8 7.7 TE
M
Right-of-use assets recognition and remeasurement  1.4 12.6 E
N
Additions  0.7 1.0 T
S
Disposals  – (0.3)
Foreign exchange revaluation  (1.0) (0.2)
At the end of the year  21.9 20.8
 
Accumulated depreciation 
At the beginning of the year  9.1 6.2
Right-of-use assets recognition and remeasurement  (0.8) –
Disposals  – (0.3)
Depreciation charge for the year   2.9 3.2
Foreign exchange revaluation  (0.5) –
At the end of the year  10.7 9.1
Net book value at 30 June  11.2 11.7
 
2021  2020 
Fixtures,  Fixtures,
fittings and  fittings and 
equipment equipment
Company  £m £m
Cost 
At the beginning of the year  12.0 4.2
Right-of-use assets recognition and remeasurement  0.9 6.9
Additions  0.6 0.9
At the end of the year  13.5 12.0
 
Accumulated depreciation 
At the beginning of the year  5.2 3.7
Depreciation charge for year  1.5 1.5
At the end of the year  6.7 5.2
Net book value at 30 June  6.8 6.8
   
    Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021  157 
Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021  157
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) 
16) Property, plant and equipment continued 
Lease arrangements 
The Group leases office space in various countries and enters into operating lease agreements on office premises for lease periods of three 
to eight years. Lease terms are negotiated on an individual basis and contain varying terms and conditions depending on location. The lease 
agreements do not impose any covenants other than the security interests in the leased assets that are held by the lessor. The Group 
calculates the lease liabilities using the lessee’s incremental borrowing rates that resulted in a weighted average incremental borrowing rate 
of 4.5% (FY2019/20: 4.8%). 
The carrying value of right-of-use assets, lease liabilities and the movement during the year are set out below. 
  Group  Company
Right-of-use  Lease  Right-of-use 
assets liabilities  asset Lease liability
  £m £m  £m £m
At 1 July 2019  12.6 12.8  6.9 6.9
Lease payments  – (2.8)  – (1.3)
Interest expense (note 8)  – 0.5  – 0.3
Depreciation charge  (2.5) –  (1.2) –
Foreign exchange revaluation through reserves  (0.2) (0.3)  – –
At 30 June 2020  9.9 10.2  5.7 5.9
Additions and remeasurement of lease obligations  2.2 2.2  0.9 0.9
Lease payments   – (2.5)  – (1.3)
Interest expense (note 8)  – 0.4  – 0.2
Depreciation charge  (2.2) –  (1.1) –
Foreign exchange revaluation through reserves  (0.5) (0.5)  – –
At 30 June 2021  9.4 9.8  5.5 5.7
The contractual maturities on the minimum lease payments under lease liabilities are provided below:  
  Group  Company
30 June 2021 30 June 2020  30 June 2021 30 June 2020
Maturity analysis – contractual undiscounted cash flows  £m £m  £m £m
Within 1 year  2.5 2.6  1.3 1.3
Between 1 and 5 years  8.1 8.2  5.0 5.2
Later than 5 years  0.5 1.1  – –
Total undiscounted lease liabilities  11.1 11.9  6.3 6.5
   
Lease liabilities are presented in the balance sheet as follows:   
Current  2.5 2.0  1.3 1.1
Non-current  7.3 8.2  4.4 4.8
Total lease liabilities  9.8 10.2  5.7 5.9
   
Amounts recognised under financing activities in the cash flow statement:   
Payment of lease liabilities  2.1 2.3  1.1 1.0
Interest paid  0.4 0.5  0.2 0.3
Total cash outflow for leases  2.5 2.8  1.3 1.3
   
158  Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021 
158  Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021
 
S
T
R
A
T
E
G
IC
 R
E
P
O
R
17) Trade and other receivables  T
 
Group   Company
2021  2020  2021 2020
£m  £m  £m £m G
O
Current      V
E
Trade debtors  77.9  90.5  1.2 1.6 R
N
Prepayments   3.2  3.9  1.9 1.4 A
N
Loans due from subsidiaries  –  –  507.7 464.8 C
E
Amounts due from subsidiaries  –  –  9.1 50.3  
Other receivables  2.3  1.8  1.9 0.1
F
Total trade and other receivables  83.4  96.2  521.8 518.2 IN
A
N
Group trade debtors include accrued management and performance fees in respect of investment management services provided up to  C
30 June 2021. Management fees are received in cash when the funds’ net asset values are determined, typically every month or every  IA
L
quarter. Performance fees are accrued when crystallised, and amounted to £0.5 million as at 30 June 2021 (30 June 2020: £0.1 million).    S
T
The majority of fees are deducted from the net asset values of the respective funds by independent administrators and therefore, the credit  A
T
risk of fee receivables is minimal. As at 30 June 2021, no balances are past due and the assessed provision for expected credit losses was  E
M
immaterial (30 June 2020: no balances are past due and the assessed provision for expected credit losses was immaterial).   E
N
T
Loans due from subsidiaries for the Company include an intercompany loan related to seed capital investments held by subsidiaries.  S
Amounts due from subsidiaries represent trading balances that are short term in nature and regularly settled during the year. The majority of 
the intercompany loans are held with subsidiaries that hold seed capital investments and cash invested in daily-traded investment funds. 
Under the IFRS 9 expected credit loss model, credit risk is assessed by determining the borrower’s capacity to meet contractual cash flow 
obligations, taking into account the available net assets to repay the intercompany loan in future periods. Expected credit losses on 
intercompany loans are estimated based on the assumption that repayment of the loan is demanded at the reporting date. If the borrower 
has sufficient accessible highly liquid assets in order to repay the loan if demanded at the reporting date, the expected credit loss has been 
assessed to be immaterial. As at 30 June 2021, no balances are past due and the assessed provision for expected credit losses was 
immaterial (30 June 2020: no balances are past due and the assessed provision for expected credit losses was immaterial).  
18) Deferred taxation 
Deferred tax assets and liabilities recognised by the Group and Company at year end are attributable to the following: 
2021  2020
Other  Other 
temporary  Share-based  temporary  Share-based 
differences payments Total  differences  payments Total
Group   £m £m £m  £m  £m £m
Deferred tax assets  7.6  27.2  34.8   7.7   22.9  30.6 
Deferred tax liabilities  (10.5)  – (10.5)  (6.9)   – (6.9)
  (2.9) 27.2  24.3   0.8   22.9  23.7 
             
2021  2020
Other  Other 
temporary  Share-based  temporary  Share-based 
differences payments Total  differences  payments Total
Company   £m £m £m  £m  £m £m
Deferred tax assets   – 25.1  25.1   0.1   20.5  20.6 
   
    Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021  159 
Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021  159
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) 
18) Deferred taxation continued 
Movement of deferred tax balances 
The movement in the deferred tax balances between the balance sheet dates has been reflected in the statement of comprehensive 
income as follows: 
Other 
temporary  Share-based 
differences  payments Total
Group  £m  £m £m
At 30 June 2019  3.6   18.2  21.8
Credited/(charged) to the consolidated statement of comprehensive income   (2.8)  4.7   1.9 
At 30 June 2020  0.8   22.9 23.7 
Credited/(charged) to the consolidated statement of comprehensive income   (3.7)  4.3  0.6 
At 30 June 2021  (2.9)  27.2  24.3 
       
Other 
temporary  Share-based 
differences  payments Total
Company  £m  £m £m
At 30 June 2019  0.3   16.3 16.6
Credited/(charged) to the statement of comprehensive income   (0.2)  4.2   4.0
At 30 June 2020  0.1   20.5  20.6 
Credited/(charged) to the statement of comprehensive income   (0.1)  4.6  4.5 
At 30 June 2021   –  25.1 25.1
Refer to note 12 for details on changes to the UK corporation tax rate which have been reflected in the Group’s deferred tax position.  
19) Fair value of financial instruments 
The Group has an established control framework with respect to the measurement of fair values. This framework includes committees that 
have overall responsibility for all significant fair value measurements. Each committee regularly reviews significant inputs and valuation 
adjustments. If third-party information is used to measure fair value, the committee assesses and documents the evidence obtained from 
the third parties to support such valuations. There are no material differences between the carrying amounts of financial assets and liabilities 
and their fair values at the balance sheet date. 
Fair value hierarchy 
The Group measures fair values using the following fair value levels that reflect the significance of inputs used in making the 
measurements, based on the degree to which the fair value is observable: 
– Level 1: Valuation is based upon a quoted market price in an active market for an identical instrument. This fair value measure relates  
to the valuation of quoted and exchange traded equity and debt securities.  
– Level 2: Valuation techniques are based upon observable inputs, either directly (i.e. as prices) or indirectly (i.e. derived from prices).  
This fair value measure relates to the valuation of quoted equity securities in inactive markets or in interests in unlisted funds whose  
net asset values are referenced to the fair values of the listed or exchange traded securities held by those funds. Valuation techniques 
may include using a broker quote in an inactive market or an evaluated price based on a compilation of primarily observable market 
information utilising information readily available via external sources.  
– Level 3: Fair value measurements are derived from valuation techniques that include inputs not based on observable market data.  
For financial instruments that are recognised at fair value on a recurring basis, the Group determines whether transfers have occurred 
between levels in the hierarchy by reassessing categorisation (based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value 
measurement as a whole) at the end of the financial year. 
   
160  Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021 
160  Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021
 
S
T
R
A
T
E
G
IC
 R
E
P
O
R
The fair value hierarchy of financial instruments which are carried at fair value at year end is summarised below:  T 
  2021 2020
Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Level 1  Level 2 Level 3 Total
G
  £m £m £m £m £m  £m £m £m O
V
Financial assets     E
R
Investment securities   209.0 66.7 42.4 318.1  125.1    60.6   48.8   234.5  N
A
Financial assets held for sale   – 46.2  – 46.2  –    43.1   –   43.1 N
C
E
Financial assets measured at FVTPL  – 39.2 1.8 41.0  –    10.9   0.7   11.6   
Derivative financial instruments  – 1.3 – 1.3 –   –  –  –  F
IN
Non-current financial assets at fair value   –  – 34.0 34.0  –    0.1   27.9   28.0 
A
N
  209.0 153.4 78.2 440.6 125.1  114.7 77.4 317.2 C
IA
Financial liabilities     L
 S
Third-party interests in consolidated funds  73.7 15.1 16.9 105.7  65.1    10.6   10.4   86.1  T
A
Financial liabilities held for sale   – 3.8  – 3.8 –  4.5 – 4.5 TE
M
Derivative financial instruments   –  –  –  – –    1.7   –   1.7  E
N
  73.7 18.9 16.9 109.5  65.1   16.8 10.4 92.3 T
S
Transfers between levels 
The Group recognises transfers into and transfers out of fair value hierarchy levels at each reporting period based on assessments of price 
inputs used in the valuation of financial assets. There were no transfers between level 1, level 2 and level 3 of the fair value hierarchy during 
the year. 
Fair value measurements using significant unobservable inputs (level 3) 
The following table presents the changes in level 3 items for the years ended 30 June 2021 and 2020: 
Third-party 
Financial   Non-current  interests in 
Investment  assets measured  financial assets at  consolidated 
securities at FVTPL   fair value funds
£m £m  £m £m
At 30 June 2019  72.5 1.6   31.6  23.8
Additions  11.7 –  3.7  3.9
Disposals  (26.7) (0.1)  (2.6) (9.8)
Unrealised losses recognised in finance income  (6.1) (0.8)  (4.7) (7.5)
Unrealised losses recognised in reserves  (2.6) –  (0.1) –
At 30 June 2020  48.8  0.7   27.9  10.4 
Additions  57.2  1.1   8.1  28.6 
Disposals  (73.8) (0.4)  (2.5) (26.9)
Unrealised gains/(losses) recognised in finance income  11.9  0.4   2.2  4.8 
Unrealised gains/(losses) recognised in reserves  (1.7) –  (1.7) –
At 30 June 2021  42.4  1.8   34.0  16.9 
   
    Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021  161 
Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021  161
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) 
19) Fair value of financial instruments continued 
Valuation of level 3 financial assets recognised at fair value on a recurring basis using valuation techniques 
Investments valued using valuation techniques include financial investments which, by their nature, do not have an externally quoted price 
based on regular trades, and financial investments for which markets are no longer active as a result of market conditions, e.g. market 
illiquidity. The valuation techniques used include comparison to recent arm’s length transactions, market approach making reference to other 
instruments that are substantially the same, discounted cash flow analysis, enterprise valuation and net assets approach. These techniques 
may include a number of assumptions relating to variables such as interest rate and price earnings multiples. Changes in assumptions 
relating to these variables could positively or negatively impact the reported fair value of these instruments. When determining the inputs 
into the valuation techniques used, priority is given to publicly available prices from independent sources when available, but overall the 
source of pricing is chosen with the objective of arriving at a fair value measurement that reflects the price at which an orderly transaction 
would take place between market participants on the measurement date. 
The fair value estimates are made at a specific point in time, based upon available market information and judgements about the financial 
instruments, including estimates of the timing and amount of expected future cash flows. Such estimates could include a marketability 
adjustment to reflect illiquidity and/or non-transferability that could result from offering for sale at one time the Group’s entire holdings of a 
particular financial instrument. Further details on the estimates and judgements applied by the Group are provided in note 31.  
The following tables show the valuation techniques and the significant unobservable inputs used to estimate the fair value of level 3 
investments as at 30 June 2021 and 2020, and the associated sensitivity to changes in unobservable inputs to a reasonable alternative. 
2021 Change in 
Fair value  Significant   Range of  Sensitivity  fair value
Asset class and valuation technique  £m unobservable inputs  estimates   factor  £m
Unquoted securities        
EBITDA multiple  5x-15x   +/- 1x  +/- 1.5
Market multiple and discount  23.7
Marketability adjustment  5%-95%   +/- 5%  -/+ 2.91
Marketability adjustment  20%-60%   +/- 5%  -/+ 1.5
Discounted cash flow  13.4
Discount rate  10%-20%   +/- 5%  -/+ 2.9
Unquoted funds       
Net assets approach  41.1 NAV2  1x   +/- 5%  +/- 1.9
Total level 3 investments  78.2      
 
2020 Change in 
Fair value  Significant   Range of  Sensitivity  fair value
Asset class and valuation technique  £m unobservable inputs  estimates   factor  £m
Unquoted securities        
EBITDA multiple  10x-20x   +/- 1x  +/- 1.4
Market multiple and discount  14.0
Marketability adjustment  10%-30%   +/- 5%  -/+ 0.9
Market multiple  5x-10x   +/- 1x  +/- 2.4
Market multiple, discounted cash flows 
34.6 Marketability adjustment  10%-30%   +/- 5%  -/+ 4.4
and discount 
Discount rate  10%-20%   +/- 5%  -/+ 4.0
Unquoted funds       
Net assets approach  28.8 NAV2  1x   +/- 5%  +/- 1.4
Total level 3 investments  77.4      
1. Includes sensitivities in relation to two unlisted investment securities held by the Group through a consolidated fund as at the balance sheet date to take account of 
significant uncertainties relating to regulatory and shareholder approvals concerning the listing of these investments. Further details are provided in the subsequent 
events note 32.  
2. NAV priced assets include seed capital investments whose value is determined by the fund administrator using unobservable inputs. The significant unobservable inputs 
applied include EBITDA, market multiples and discount rates as described under note 31.  
The sensitivity demonstrates the effect of a change in one unobservable input while other assumptions remain unchanged. There may be a 
correlation between the unobservable inputs and other factors that have not been considered. It should also be noted that some of the 
sensitivities are non-linear, therefore, larger or smaller impacts should not be interpolated or extrapolated from these results. 
   
162  Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021 
162  Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021
 
S
T
R
A
T
E
G
IC
 R
E
P
O
R
Financial instruments not measured at fair value  T
 
Financial assets and liabilities that are not measured at fair value include cash and cash equivalents, trade and other receivables, and trade 
and other payables. The carrying value of financial assets and financial liabilities not measured at fair value is considered a reasonable 
approximation of fair value as at 30 June 2021 and 2020.  G
O
V
E
20) Seed capital investments  R
N
The Group considers itself a sponsor of an investment fund when it facilitates the establishment of a fund in which the Group is the   A
N
investment manager. The Group ordinarily provides seed capital in order to provide initial scale and facilitate marketing of the funds to   C
E
third-party investors. Aggregate interests held by the Group include seed capital, management fees and performance fees. The Group   
generates management and performance fee income from managing the assets on behalf of third-party investors.  
F
IN
The movements of seed capital investments and related items during the year are as follows:  A
N
C
Investment  IA
Financial  securities  Other   Third-party   Non-current  L
Financial  assets  (relating to  (relating to   interests in  financial assets   S
assets measured at  consolidated  consolidated   consolidated   measured at  T
A
held for sale fair value funds)1  funds)2  funds  fair value3 Total T
Group  £m £m £m  £m   £m   £m £m E
M
Carrying amount at 30 June 2019   44.7  16.0   278.7  13.8    (107.0)   31.6   277.8  E
N
T
Reclassification:      S
HFS investments to consolidated funds   (35.7)  –   44.2   –    (8.5)   –   – 
Consolidated funds to FVTPL   –   41.4   (77.1)  –    35.7    –   – 
Additions  43.6  – 8.0  –   (3.9)  3.7  51.4 
Disposals  (16.2) (43.5) (33.9) –   11.6   (2.6) (84.6)
Fair value movement  2.2 (2.3) 14.6 (2.0)  (14.0)  (4.7) (6.2)
Carrying amount at 30 June 2020   38.6   11.6   234.5   11.8    (86.1)   28.0   238.4 
Reclassification:     
HFS investments to consolidated funds  (44.1) –  53.8  –   (9.7)  –  – 
Consolidated funds to FVTPL  –  49.9  (112.0) –   62.1   –  – 
Additions  42.2  14.4  130.3  –   (57.9)  5.6  134.6 
Disposals  –  (41.4) (101.2) –   39.2   (2.6) (106.0)
Fair value movement  5.7  6.5  112.7  (2.2)  (53.3)  0.4  69.8 
Carrying amount at 30 June 2021  42.4  41.0  318.1  9.6   (105.7)  31.4 336.8 
1. Investment securities in consolidated funds are measured at FVTPL  
2. Relates to cash and other assets in consolidated funds that are not investment securities, see note 20(d).  
3. Excludes £2.6 million of other non-current financial assets measured at fair value that are not classified as seed capital.  
   
    Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021  163 
Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021  163
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) 
20) Seed capital investments continued 
a) Financial assets and liabilities held for sale 
Where Group companies invest seed capital into funds operated and controlled by the Group and the Group is actively seeking to reduce its 
investment and it is considered highly probable that it will relinquish control within a year, the interests in the funds are treated as held for 
sale and are recognised as financial assets and liabilities held for sale. During the year, seven funds (FY2019/20: six) were seeded in this 
manner, met the above criteria, and consequently the assets and liabilities of these funds were initially classified as held for sale.  
The financial assets and liabilities held for sale at 30 June 2021 were as follows: 
2021 2020
  £m £m
Financial assets held for sale  46.2  43.1 
Financial liabilities held for sale  (3.8)  (4.5)
Financial assets held for sale  42.4  38.6 
Investments cease to be classified as held for sale when they are no longer controlled by the Group. A loss of control may happen through  
sale of the investment and/or dilution of the Group’s holding. When investments cease to be classified as held for sale, they are classified  
as financial assets at FVTPL. No such fund was transferred to the FVTPL category during the year (FY2019/20: none).  
If the fund remains under the control of the Group for more than one year from the original investment date, it will cease to be classified  
as held for sale, and will be consolidated line by line after it is assessed that the Group controls the investment fund in accordance with  
the requirements of IFRS 10. During the year, five such funds (FY2019/20: three) with an aggregate carrying amount of £44.1 million 
(FY2019/20: £35.7 million) were transferred from held for sale to consolidated funds category. There was no impact on net assets  
or comprehensive income as a result of the transfer.  
Included within finance income are gains of £10.8 million (FY2019/20: gains of £2.8 million) in relation to financial assets held for sale. 
As the Group considers itself to have one segment (refer to note 4), no additional segmental disclosure of held for sale financial assets or 
liabilities is applicable.  
b) Financial assets measured at fair value through profit or loss 
FVTPL investments at 30 June 2021 comprise shares held in debt and equity funds as follows: 
2021 2020
  £m £m
Equity funds  33.7 3.2
Debt funds  7.3 8.4
Financial assets measured at fair value  41.0 11.6
Included within finance income are gains of £8.2 million (FY2019/20: losses of £0.8 million) on the Group’s financial assets measured 
at FVTPL. 
c) Non-current financial assets measured at fair value 
Non-current financial asset investments relate to the Group’s holding in closed-end funds and are measured at FVTPL. Fair value is assessed 
by taking account of the extent to which potential dilution of gains or losses may arise as a result of additional investors subscribing to the  
fund where the final close of a fund has not occurred. 
2021 2020
  £m £m
Real estate funds  1.8  3.5 
Infrastructure funds  20.2  17.5 
Other funds  9.4  7.0 
Non-current financial assets measured at fair value  31.4  28.0 
Included within finance income are gains of £2.2 million (FY2019/20: losses of £4.5 million) on the Group’s non-current financial assets 
measured at fair value. 
   
164  Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021 
164  Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021
 
S
T
R
A
T
E
G
IC
 R
E
P
O
R
d) Consolidated funds  T
 
The Group has consolidated 14 investment funds as at 30 June 2021 (30 June 2020: 12 investment funds), over which the Group is 
deemed to have control (refer to note 25). Consolidated funds represent seed capital investments where the Group has held its position  
for a period greater than one year and its interest represents a controlling stake in the fund in accordance with IFRS 10. Consolidated fund  G
O
assets and liabilities are presented line by line after intercompany eliminations. The table below sets out an analysis of the carrying amounts  V
E
of interests held by the Group in consolidated investment funds.   R
N
A
2021 2020 N
  £m £m CE
 
Investment securities1  318.1  234.5 
Cash and cash equivalents  10.4  10.8  FIN
Other2   (0.8)  1.0  A
N
C
Third-party interests in consolidated funds  (105.7)  (86.1) IA
L
Consolidated seed capital investments  222.0  160.2   S
T
1. Investment securities represent trading securities held by consolidated investment funds and are measured at FVTPL. Note 25 provides a list of the consolidated funds  A
T
by asset class, and further detailed information at the security level is available in the individual fund financial statements.   E
M
2. Other includes trade receivables, trade payables and accruals.   E
N
The maximum exposure to loss is the carrying amount of the assets held. The Group has not provided financial support or otherwise agreed   TS
to be responsible for supporting any consolidated or unconsolidated funds financially. 
Included within the consolidated statement of comprehensive income are net gains of £72.5 million (FY2019/20: £9.0 million losses) relating 
to the Group’s share of the results of the individual statements of comprehensive income for each of the consolidated funds, as follows: 
2021 2020
  £m £m
Interest and dividend income  3.3  4.8 
Gains/(losses) on investment securities   123.5  (19.1)
Change in third-party interests in consolidated funds  (52.6)  7.5 
Other expenses  (1.7)  (2.2)
Net gains/(losses) on consolidated funds  72.5  (9.0)
Included in the Group’s cash generated from operations is £0.4 million (FY2019/20: £3.0 million cash utilised in operations) relating to 
consolidated funds. 
As of 30 June 2021, the Group’s consolidated funds were domiciled in Guernsey, Luxembourg, Saudi Arabia and the United States. 
   
    Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021  165 
Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021  165
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) 
21) Financial instrument risk management 
Group 
The Group is subject to strategic and business, client, investment, treasury and operational risks throughout its business as discussed in the 
Risk management section. This note discusses the Group’s exposure to and management of the following principal risks which arise from 
the financial instruments it uses: credit risk, liquidity risk, interest rate risk, foreign exchange risk and price risk. Where the Group holds units  
in investment funds, classified either as financial assets held for sale, FVTPL or non-current financial assets, the related financial instrument 
risk disclosures in the note below categorise exposures based on the Group’s direct interest in those funds without looking through to the 
nature of underlying securities. 
Risk management is the ultimate responsibility of the Board, as noted in the Risk management section on pages 36 to 41. 
Capital management 
It is the Group’s policy that all entities within the Group have sufficient capital to meet regulatory and working capital requirements and  
it conducts regular reviews of its capital requirements relative to its capital resources. 
As the Group is regulated by the United Kingdom Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), it is required to maintain appropriate capital and 
perform regular calculations of capital requirements. This includes development of an Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process 
(ICAAP), based upon the FCA’s methodologies under the Capital Requirements Directive. The Group’s Pillar III disclosures can be found  
on the Group’s website at www.ashmoregroup.com. These disclosures indicate that the Group had excess capital of £609.2 million as at 
30 June 2021 (30 June 2020: excess capital of £555.2 million) over the level of capital required under a Pillar II assessment. The objective  
of the assessment is to check that the Group has adequate capital to manage identified risks and the process includes conducting stress 
tests to identify capital and liquidity requirements under different future scenarios including a potential downturn.  
Credit risk 
The Group has exposure to credit risk from its normal activities where the risk is that a counterparty will be unable to pay in full amounts  
when due.  
Exposure to credit risk is monitored on an ongoing basis by senior management and the Group’s Risk Management and Control function.  
The Group has a counterparty and cash management policy in place which, in addition to other controls, restricts exposure to any single 
counterparty by setting exposure limits and requiring approval and diversification of counterparty banks and other financial institutions.  
The Group’s maximum exposure to credit risk is represented by the carrying value of its financial assets measured at amortised cost. 
The table below lists financial assets subject to credit risk. 
2021 2020
Notes  £m £m
Trade and other receivables  17  83.4 96.2
Cash and cash equivalents    456.1 500.9
Total    539.5 597.1
The Group’s cash and cash equivalents, comprising short-term deposits with banks and liquidity funds, are predominantly held with 
counterparties with credit ratings ranging from A+ to AAAm as at 30 June 2021 (30 June 2020: A to AAAm). As at 30 June 2021, the Group 
held £333.5 million (30 June 2020: £368.0 million) in the Ashmore Global Liquidity Fund. 
All trade and other receivables are considered to be fully recoverable and none were overdue at year end (30 June 2020: none). They include  
fee debtors that arise principally within the Group’s investment management business. They are monitored regularly and, historically,  
default levels have been insignificant. There is no significant concentration of credit risk in respect of fees owing from clients. 
   
166  Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021 
166  Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021
 
S
T
R
A
T
E
G
IC
 R
E
P
O
R
Liquidity risk  T
 
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will encounter difficulty in meeting obligations associated with its financial liabilities that are settled 
by delivering cash or other financial assets.  
G
In order to manage liquidity risk, there is a Group Liquidity Policy to ensure that there is sufficient access to funds to cover all forecast  O
V
committed requirements for the next 12 months.   E
R
N
The maturity profile of the Group’s contractual undiscounted financial liabilities is as follows:  A
N
C
E
At 30 June 2021   
 More than 
F
Within 1 year  1-5 years  5 years Total IN
£m  £m  £m £m A
N
Current trade and other payables  45.5  –  – 45.5 C
IA
  45.5  –  – 45.5 L
 S
T
A
At 30 June 2020  T
E
 More than  M
Within 1 year  1-5 years  5 years Total E
N
£m  £m  £m £m T
S
Derivative financial liabilities  1.7  –  – 1.7
Current trade and other payables  50.7  –  – 50.7
  52.4  –  – 52.4
Interest rate risk 
Interest rate risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of financial instruments will fluctuate because of changes in market  
interest rates. 
The principal interest rate risk is the risk that the Group will sustain a reduction in interest income through adverse movements in interest  
rates. This relates to deposits with banks and liquidity funds held in the ordinary course of business. The Group has a cash management 
policy which monitors cash levels and returns within set parameters on a continuing basis. 
Bank and similar deposits held at year end are shown on the consolidated balance sheet as cash and cash equivalents. The effective 
interest earned on bank and similar deposits during the year is given in the table below: 
Effective interest rates applicable to bank deposits 
2021 2020
  % %
Deposits with banks and liquidity funds  0.23 1.31
At 30 June 2021, if interest rates over the year had been 50 basis points higher/lower with all other variables held constant, profit before tax  
for the year would have been £2.3 million higher/lower (FY2019/20: £2.4 million higher/lower), mainly as a result of higher/lower interest on  
cash balances. An assumption that the fair value of assets and liabilities will not be affected by a change in interest rates was used in the 
model to calculate the effect on profit before tax. 
In addition, the Group is indirectly exposed to interest rate risk where the Group holds seed capital investments in funds that invest in  
debt securities. 
   
    Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021  167 
Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021  167
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) 
21) Financial instrument risk management continued 
Group 
Foreign exchange risk 
Foreign exchange risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of financial instruments will fluctuate because of changes in foreign 
exchange rates. 
The Group’s revenue is almost entirely denominated in US dollars, while the majority of the Group’s costs are denominated in Sterling. 
Consequently, the Group has an exposure to movements in the GBP:USD exchange rate. In addition, the Group operates globally, which  
means that it may enter into contracts and other arrangements denominated in local currencies in various countries. The Group also holds  
a number of seed capital investments denominated mainly in US dollars, Colombian pesos and Indonesian rupiah. 
The Group’s policy is to hedge a proportion of the Group’s revenue by using a combination of forward foreign exchange contracts and 
options for a period of up to two years forward. The Group also sells US dollars at spot rates when opportunities arise.  
The table below shows the Group’s sensitivity to a 1% exchange movement in the US dollar, Colombian peso, Indonesian rupiah and the 
Euro, net of hedging activities. 
2021  2020
Impact on  Impact on 
profit Impact on  profit Impact on 
before tax equity  before tax equity
Foreign currency sensitivity test  £m £m  £m £m
US dollar +/- 1%  0.4 5.3   1.3   5.3 
Colombian peso +/- 1%  0.1 0.1   0.1   0.1 
Indonesian rupiah +/- 1%  – 0.1  – 0.1
Euro +/- 1%  0.1 0.1   0.1   0.1 
Price risk 
Price risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of financial instruments will fluctuate because of market changes. 
Seed capital 
The Group is exposed to the risk of changes in market prices in respect of seed capital investments. Such price risk is borne by the Group 
directly through interests in financial assets measured at fair value or indirectly either through line-by-line consolidation of underlying financial 
performance and positions held in certain funds. Details of seed capital investments held are given in note 20. 
The Group has procedures defined by the Board governing the appraisal, approval and monitoring of seed capital investments. 
At 30 June 2021, a 5% movement in the fair value of these investments would have a £16.8 million (FY2019/20: £11.9 million) impact  
on net assets and profit before tax.  
Management and performance fees 
The Group is also indirectly exposed to price risk in connection with the Group’s management fees, which are based on a percentage of 
value of AuM, and fees based on performance. Movements in market prices, exchange and interest rates could cause the AuM to fluctuate, 
which in turn could affect fees earned. Performance fee revenues could also be reduced depending upon market conditions. 
Management and performance fees are diversified across a range of investment themes and are not measurably correlated to any single 
market index in Emerging Markets. In addition, the policy of having funds with year ends staged throughout the financial year has meant 
that in periods of steep market decline, some performance fees have still been recorded. The profitability impact is likely to be less than this, 
as cost mitigation actions would apply, including the reduction of the variable compensation paid to employees.  
Using the year end AuM level of US$94.4 billion and applying the year’s average net management fee rate of 41bps, a 5% movement  
in AuM would have a US$19.4 million impact, equivalent to £14.0 million using year end exchange rate of 1.3815, on management fee 
revenues (FY2019/20: US$83.6 billion and applying the year’s average net management fee rate of 45bps, a 5% movement in AuM would 
have a US$18.7 million impact, equivalent to £15.2 million using year end exchange rate of 1.2356, on management fee revenues). 
Hedging activities 
The Group uses forward and option contracts to hedge its exposure to foreign currency risk. These hedges, which have been assessed as 
effective cash flow hedges as at 30 June 2021, protect a proportion of the Group’s revenue cash flows from foreign exchange movements.  
The cumulative fair value of the outstanding foreign exchange hedges asset at 30 June 2021 was £1.3 million (30 June 2020: £1.7 million 
foreign exchange hedges liability) and is included within the Group’s derivative financial instrument assets.   
168  Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021 
168  Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021
 
S
T
R
A
T
E
G
IC
 R
E
P
O
R
The notional and fair values of foreign exchange hedging instruments were as follows:  T 
2021  2020
Fair value  Fair value 
G
Notional  assets/  Notional  assets/ O
amount  (liabilities)   amount (liabilities)  V
US$m  £m  US$m £m ER
N
Cash flow hedges      A
N
Foreign exchange nil-cost option collars  100.0  1.3  120.0 (1.7) C
E
 
  100.0  1.3  120.0  (1.7)
F
The maturity profile of the Group’s outstanding hedges is shown below.  IN
A
N
2021 2020 C
Notional amount of option collars maturing:  US$m US$m IA
L
Within 6 months  40.0 60.0  S
T
Between 6 and 12 months  40.0 50.0 A
T
Later than 12 months  20.0 10.0 EM
E
  100.0 120.0  N
T
S
When hedges are assessed as effective, intrinsic value gains and losses are initially recognised in other comprehensive income and later 
reclassified to comprehensive income as the corresponding hedged cash flows crystallise. Time value in relation to the Group’s hedges is 
excluded from being part of the hedging item and, as a result, the net unrealised loss related to the time value of the hedges is recognised 
in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year. 
An intrinsic gain of £1.2 million (FY2019/20: £0.1 million loss) on the Group’s hedges has been recognised through other comprehensive  
income and £1.8 million intrinsic value gain (FY2019/20: £0.1 million intrinsic value gain) was reclassified from equity to the statement of 
comprehensive income in the year.  
Included within the net realised and unrealised hedging gain of £9.2 million (note 7) recognised at 30 June 2021 (£1.5 million gain at 
30 June 2020) are: 
– a £1.8 million gain in respect of foreign exchange hedges covering net management fee income for the financial year ending 30 June 2021 
(FY2019/20: £0.9 million loss); and 
– a £7.4 million gain in respect of crystallised foreign exchange contracts (FY2019/20: £2.4 million gain). 
Company 
The risk management processes of the Company, including those relating to the specific risk exposures covered below, are aligned with  
those of the Group as a whole unless stated otherwise.  
In addition, the risk definitions that apply to the Group are also relevant for the Company.  
Credit risk 
The Company’s maximum exposure to credit risk is represented by the carrying value of its financial assets. The table below lists financial 
assets subject to credit risk. 
2021 2020
    £m £m
Cash and cash equivalents    86.1 91.8
Trade and other receivables    521.8 518.2
Total    607.9 610.0
The Company’s cash and cash equivalents comprise short-term deposits held with banks and liquidity funds which have credit ratings 
ranging from A to AAAm as at 30 June 2021 (30 June 2020: A to AAAm). 
All trade and other receivables are considered to be fully recoverable and none were overdue at year end (30 June 2020: none).  
Liquidity risk 
The contractual undiscounted cash flows relating to the Company’s financial liabilities all fall due within one year.  
Details on other commitments are provided in note 29.   
    Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021  169 
Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021  169
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) 
21) Financial instrument risk management continued 
Company 
Interest rate risk 
The principal interest rate risk for the Company is that it could sustain a reduction in interest revenue from bank deposits held in the ordinary 
course of business through adverse movements in interest rates.  
Bank and similar deposits held at year end are shown on the Company’s balance sheet as cash and cash equivalents. The effective interest 
earned on bank and similar deposits during the year is given in the table below: 
Effective interest rates applicable to bank deposits 
2021 2020
  % %
Deposits with banks and liquidity funds  0.28 0.66
At 30 June 2021, if interest rates over the year had been 50 basis points higher/lower with all other variables held constant, post-tax profit 
for the year would have been £0.4 million higher/lower (FY2019/20: £0.6 million higher/lower), mainly as a result of higher/lower interest on 
cash balances. An assumption that the fair value of assets and liabilities will not be affected by a change in interest rates was used in the 
model to calculate the effect on post-tax profits. 
Foreign exchange risk  
The Company is exposed primarily to foreign exchange risk in respect of US dollar cash balances and US dollar-denominated intercompany 
balances. However, such risk is not hedged by the Company. 
At 30 June 2021, if the US dollar had strengthened/weakened by 1% against Sterling with all other variables held constant, profit before tax  
for the year would have increased/decreased by £4.9 million (FY2019/20: increased/decreased by £4.8 million). 
22) Share capital  
Authorised share capital 
2021   2020
2021  Nominal   2020   Nominal 
Number of  value  Number  value
Group and Company   shares £’000  of shares £’000
Ordinary shares of 0.01p each   900,000,000 90  900,000,000 90
Issued share capital – allotted and fully paid 
2021   2020 
2021 Nominal  2020  Nominal
Number of  value  Number  value
Group and Company  shares £’000  of shares £’000
Ordinary shares of 0.01p each  712,740,804 71  712,740,804 71
All the above ordinary shares represent equity of the Company and rank pari passu in respect of participation and voting rights.  
At 30 June 2021, there were equity-settled share awards issued under the Omnibus Plan totalling 41,302,176 (30 June 2020: 43,516,936) 
shares that have release dates ranging from September 2021 to May 2026. Further details are provided in note 10. 
23) Own shares 
The Trustees of The Ashmore 2004 Employee Benefit Trust (EBT) acquire and hold shares in Ashmore Group plc with a view to facilitating 
the vesting of share awards. As at 30 June 2021, the EBT owned 52,345,869 (30 June 2020: 56,477,466) ordinary shares of 0.01p with a 
nominal value of £5,235 (30 June 2020: £5,648) and shareholders’ funds are reduced by £179.8 million (30 June 2020: £192.7 million) 
in this respect. The EBT is periodically funded by the Company for these purposes. 
   
170  Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021 
170  Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021
 
S
T
R
A
T
E
G
IC
 R
E
P
O
R
24) Trade and other payables  T
 
Group  Group  Company Company
2021   2020  2021 2020
£m  £m  £m £m
G
Current      O
V
E
Trade payables  19.3  20.1  2.8 2.5 R
N
Accruals and provisions  26.2  30.6  16.6 20.4 A
N
Amounts due to subsidiaries  –  –  83.1  32.5  C
E
 
Total trade and other payables  45.5  50.7  102.5 55.4
F
IN
25) Interests in subsidiaries   A
N
Operating subsidiaries held by the Company  C
IA
There were no movements in investments in subsidiaries held by the Company during the year.  L
 S
2021 2020 T
A
Company  £m £m T
E
Cost  M
E
At 30 June 2021 and 2020  19.9 19.9 N
T
S
In the opinion of the Directors, the following subsidiary undertakings principally affected the Group’s results or financial position at 
30 June 2021. A full list of the Group’s subsidiaries and all related undertakings is disclosed in note 33. 
Country of 
incorporation/ 
formation and  % of equity 
principal place  shares held 
Name  of operation by the Group
Ashmore Investments (UK) Limited  England 100.00
Ashmore Investment Management Limited  England 100.00
Ashmore Investment Advisors Limited  England 100.00
Ashmore Management Company Colombia SAS  Colombia 61.20
Ashmore CAF-AM Management Company SAS  Colombia 53.66
Ashmore Avenida (Real Estate) Investments LLP  Colombia 56.00
Ashmore Management Company Limited  Guernsey 100.00
PT Ashmore Asset Management Indonesia Tbk  Indonesia 60.04
Ashmore Investment Management (Ireland) Limited  Ireland 100.00
Ashmore Japan Co. Limited  Japan 100.00
AA Development Capital Investment Managers (Mauritius) LLC   Mauritius 55.00
Ashmore Investments Saudi Arabia  Saudi Arabia 100.00
Ashmore Investment Management (Singapore) Pte. Ltd.  Singapore 100.00
Ashmore Investment Management (US) Corporation  USA 100.00
Ashmore Investment Advisors (US) Corporation  USA 100.00
 
   
    Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021  171 
Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021  171
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) 
25) Interests in subsidiaries continued  
Consolidated funds 
The Group consolidated the following 14 investment funds as at 30 June 2021 over which the Group is deemed to have control: 
Country of  % of net 
incorporation/  asset value 
principal place of  held by the 
Name  Type of fund  operation Group
Ashmore Emerging Markets Debt and Currency Fund Limited  Alternatives  Guernsey 57.88
Ashmore SICAV Emerging Markets IG Short Duration Fund  Corporate debt  Luxembourg 45.86
Ashmore SICAV Emerging Markets Equity Fund  Equity  Luxembourg 68.56
Ashmore SICAV Emerging Markets Equity ESG Fund  Equity  Luxembourg 99.88
Ashmore SICAV Emerging Markets Indonesian Equity Fund  Equity  Luxembourg 100.00
Ashmore SICAV Emerging Markets Global Small-Cap Equity Fund  Equity  Luxembourg 39.00
Ashmore SICAV Emerging Markets IG Total Return Fund  Blended debt  Luxembourg 100.00
Ashmore SICAV Emerging Markets Total Return ESG Fund  Blended debt  Luxembourg 99.99
Ashmore SICAV Emerging Markets Volatility-Managed Local Currency Bond Fund  Local currency  Luxembourg 100.00
Ashmore SICAV Emerging Markets China Bond Fund  Local currency  Luxembourg 60.07
Ashmore Saudi Equity Fund  Equity  Saudi Arabia 100.00
Ashmore Emerging Markets Active Equity Feeder Fund  Equity  USA 100.00
Ashmore Emerging Markets Equity ESG Fund  Equity  USA 100.00
Ashmore Emerging Markets Short Duration Select Fund  Equity  USA 100.00
26) Interests in associates  
The Group held interests in the following associates as at 30 June 2021 that are unlisted: 
Country of incorporation/ % of equity 
formation and principal  shares held by 
Name  Type Nature of business place of operation the Group
Ashmore Investment Management India LLP  Associate Investment management India 30.00%
Taiping Fund Management Company  Associate Investment management China 8.50%
The movement in the carrying value of investments in associates for the year is provided below: 
2021 2020
Associates   £m £m
At the beginning of the year  0.6 1.8
Disposals  – (1.1)
Share of profit/(loss)  0.3 (0.2)
Foreign exchange revaluation  – 0.1
At the end of the year  0.9 0.6
The summarised aggregate financial information is shown below.  
2021 2020
Associates   £m £m
Total assets  30.1 24.1
Total liabilities  (21.0) (17.9)
Net assets  9.1 6.2
Group’s share of net assets  0.8 0.6
Revenue for the year  16.8 8.9
Profit/(loss) for the year  3.6 (2.3)
Group’s share of profit/(loss) for the year  0.3 (0.2)
The carrying value of the investments in associates represents the cost of acquisition subsequently adjusted for share of profit or loss  
and other comprehensive income or loss. No permanent impairment is believed to exist relating to the associates as at 30 June 2021. 
The Group had no undrawn capital commitments (30 June 2020: £nil) to investment funds managed by the associates. 
172  Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021 
172  Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021
 
S
T
R
A
T
E
G
IC
 R
E
P
O
R
27) Interests in structured entities  T
 
The Group has interests in structured entities as a result of the management of assets on behalf of its clients. Where the Group holds a 
direct interest in a closed-ended fund, private equity fund or open-ended pooled fund such as a SICAV, the interest is accounted for either as 
a consolidated structured entity or as a financial asset, depending on whether the Group has control over the fund or not.   G
O
V
The Group’s interest in structured entities is reflected in the Group’s AuM. The Group is exposed to movements in AuM of structured  E
R
entities through the potential loss of fee income as a result of client withdrawals. Outflows from funds are dependent on market sentiment,  N
A
asset performance and investor considerations. Further information on these risks can be found in the Strategic report.   N
C
E
Considering the potential for changes in AuM of structured entities, management has determined that the Group’s unconsolidated   
structured entities include segregated mandates and pooled funds vehicles. Disclosure of the Group’s exposure to unconsolidated 
F
structured entities has been made on this basis.  IN
A
N
The reconciliation of AuM reported by the Group within unconsolidated structured entities is shown below.   C
IA
AuM wLitehsisn:  uncoAnusMo lwidiattheind  L ST
consolidated  structured  A
Total AuM   funds entities TE
US$bn  US$bn US$bn M
E
30 June 2020  83.6  0.3 83.3 N
T
S
30 June 2021  94.4  0.5 93.9
Included in the Group’s consolidated management fees of £276.4 million (FY2019/20: £330.0 million) are management fees amounting to 
£275.8 million (FY2019/20: £328.3 million) earned from unconsolidated structured entities. 
The table below shows the carrying values of the Group’s interests in unconsolidated structured entities, recognised in the Group balance 
sheet, which are equal to the Group’s maximum exposure to loss from those interests. 
2021 2020
  £m £m
Management fees receivable   55.6  55.7
Trade and other receivables   0.6  26.6
Seed capital investments*   114.9  78.2
Total exposure   171.1  160.5
* Comprise financial assets held for sale, financial assets measured at fair value and non-current financial assets measured at fair value (refer to note 20).  
The main risk the Group faces from its beneficial interests in unconsolidated structured entities arises from a potential decrease in the fair 
value of seed capital investments. The Group’s beneficial interests in seed capital investments are disclosed in note 20. Note 21 includes 
further information on the Group’s exposure to market risk arising from seed capital investments.  
28) Related party transactions 
Related parties of the Group include key management personnel, close family members of key management personnel, subsidiaries, 
associates, joint ventures, Ashmore funds, the EBT and The Ashmore Foundation.  
Key management personnel – Group and Company 
The compensation paid to or payable to key management personnel is shown below: 
2021 2020
  £m £m
Short-term benefits  1.3 0.8
Defined contribution pension costs  – –
Share-based payment benefits (note 10)  2.5 2.0
  3.8 2.8
Short-term benefits include salary and fees, benefits and cash bonus. 
Share-based payment benefits represent the cost of equity-settled awards charged to the statement of comprehensive income. 
Details of the remuneration of Directors are given in the Remuneration report on pages 83 to 115. 
During the year, there were no other transactions entered into with key management personnel (FY2019/20: none). Aggregate key 
management personnel interests in consolidated funds at 30 June 2021 were £80.2 million (30 June 2020: £33.9 million).
    Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021  173 
Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021  173
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) 
28) Related party transactions continued 
Transactions with subsidiaries – Company 
Details of transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries are shown below: 
2021 2020
  £m £m
Transactions during the year 
Management fees  80.7 78.4
Net dividends  110.1 122.0
Loans repaid by/(advanced to) subsidiaries  (42.9) 23.3
Amounts receivable or payable to subsidiaries are disclosed in notes 17 and 24 respectively. 
Transactions with Ashmore funds – Group 
During the year, the Group received £124.7 million of gross management fees and performance fees (FY2019/20: £174.9 million) from the  
106 funds (FY2019/20: 109 funds) it manages and which are classified as related parties. As at 30 June 2021, the Group had receivables due  
from funds of £8.1 million (30 June 2020: £35.0 million) that are classified as related parties. 
Transactions with the EBT – Group and Company 
The EBT has been provided with a loan facility to allow it to acquire Ashmore shares in order to satisfy outstanding unvested share awards.  
The EBT is included within the results of the Group and the Company. As at 30 June 2021, the loan outstanding was £160.0 million 
(30 June 2020: £167.0 million).  
Transactions with The Ashmore Foundation – Group and Company 
The Ashmore Foundation is a related party to the Group. The Foundation was set up to provide financial grants to worthwhile causes within  
the Emerging Markets countries in which Ashmore invests and/or operates with a view to giving back to the countries and communities.  
The Group donated £1.0 million to the Foundation during the year (FY2019/20: £0.1 million). 
29) Commitments 
The Group has undrawn investment commitments relating to seed capital investments as follows: 
2021 2020
Group  £m £m
Ashmore Andean Fund II, LP  0.1 0.3
Ashmore Avenida Colombia Real Estate Fund I (Cayman) LP  0.1 0.1
Ashmore I – CAF Colombian Infrastructure Senior Debt Fund   6.3 11.6
Ashmore KCH HealthCare Fund II  2.4 –
Ashmore Special Opportunities Fund LP  – 8.0
Total undrawn investment commitments  8.9 20.0
Company 
The Company has undrawn loan commitments to other Group entities totalling £203.6 million (30 June 2020: £297.8 million) to support their 
investment activities but has no investment commitments of its own (30 June 2020: none). 
   
174  Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021 
174  Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021
 
S
T
R
A
T
E
G
IC
 R
E
P
O
R
30) Non-controlling interests  T
 
The Group’s material NCI as at 30 June 2021 was held in PT Ashmore Asset Management Indonesia Tbk (Ashmore Indonesia). Set out 
below is summarised financial information and the amounts disclosed are before intercompany eliminations. 
G
40% NCI interest   O
V
  Ashmore Indonesia  E
R
2021 2020 N
Summarised balance sheet  £m £m A
N
Total assets  19.6 22.0 C
E
 
Total liabilities  (4.0) (5.0)
F
Net assets  15.6 17.0 IN
A
Accumulated NCI  13.0 13.4 N
C
  IA
L
Summarised statement of comprehensive income   S
T
Net revenue  10.2 9.7 A
T
E
Profit for the period  5.0 5.1 M
E
Other comprehensive income/(loss)  (2.0) 0.4 N
T
Total comprehensive income  3.0 5.5 S
Profit allocated to NCI  1.2 1.9
Dividends paid to NCI  1.7 0.7
 
Summarised cash flows 
Cash flows from operating activities  3.6 3.8
Cash flows from investing activities  (3.1) 0.5
Cash flows from financing activities  (4.4) 8.9
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents  (3.9) 13.2
   
    Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021  175 
Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021  175
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) 
31) Significant accounting estimates and judgements 
The preparation of the financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires the use of certain accounting estimates, and management  
to exercise its judgement in the process of applying the Group’s accounting policies. The key assumptions concerning the future and  
other key sources of estimation uncertainty at the reporting date that may have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the 
carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year relate to the valuation of unquoted investment securities using 
unobservable inputs. 
Valuation of unquoted investments 
In determining the fair value of seed capital investments, the Group makes estimates to determine the inputs used in valuation techniques. 
The degree of estimation involved depends on the individual financial instrument and is reflected in the fair value hierarchy. The fair value 
hierarchy also reflects the extent of judgements used in the valuation. Judgement may include determining the accounting classification, 
the appropriate valuation approach to use as well as determining appropriate assumptions. For level 3 investments, the judgement applied 
by the Group gives rise to an estimate of fair value.  
As at 30 June 2021, approximately 7% of the Group’s total assets by value are level 3 investments, whose fair value has been estimated 
using valuation techniques incorporating inputs that are not based on observable market data. The Group’s level 3 investments comprise 
unquoted securities held in consolidated funds and interests in unconsolidated funds. The securities may include all asset types but are 
frequently special situations investments, typically incorporating distressed, illiquid or private investments. The methodology and models 
used to determine fair value are created in accordance with International Private Equity and Venture Capital Valuation Guidelines. Due to the 
high level of judgement involved, the Group has a separate Pricing Methodology and Valuation Committee (PMVC) to review the valuation 
methodologies, inputs and assumptions used to value individual investments. Smaller investments may be valued directly by the PMVC but 
material investments are valued by an independent third-party valuation specialist. Such valuations are subject to review and approval by the 
PMVC, whose activities are included in the Risk management section on pages 36 to 41. 
Valuation techniques used include the market approach, the income approach or the net assets approach depending on the availability of 
reliable information. The market approach consists of using comparable transactions and applying either EBITDA (earnings before interest, 
tax, depreciation and amortisation) multiples or market multiples (based on comparable public company information). The use of the income 
approach consists of using the net present value derived from discounting estimated future cash flows using the weighted average cost of 
capital, adjusted as deemed appropriate for liquidity, credit, market and other risk factors. The net assets approach is based on the net asset 
value (NAV) for the level 3 fund investments determined as at year end. 
The significant unobservable inputs used in valuation techniques are EBITDA and market multiples for the market approach, discount rate 
for the income approach and NAV for the net assets approach. A marketability adjustment is applied for certain level 3 investment securities 
to reflect illiquidity and/or non-transferability that could result from offering for sale at one time the Group’s entire holdings of a particular 
financial instrument. The valuation of these investments is considered a significant source of estimation uncertainty as in aggregate the 
range of possible outcomes in respect to the unobservable inputs could have a material impact on the valuation. Further details on the 
valuation methodologies applied by the Group in the valuation of level 3 investments as at 30 June 2021 are provided in note 19, including 
details of the significant unobservable inputs and the associated sensitivities to changes in unobservable inputs to a reasonable alternative. 
32) Post-balance sheet events 
Subsequent to 30 June 2021, two unlisted investment securities held by the Group through a consolidated fund, with a combined carrying 
value of £8.4 million as at the balance sheet date, were listed on stock exchanges. As at 31 August 2021, the balance sheet values in 
respect of these holdings totalled £65.2 million. The Directors do not believe these to be adjusting events due to uncertainties existing 
at year end. 
33) Subsidiaries and related undertakings 
The following is a full list of the Ashmore Group plc subsidiaries and related undertakings as at 30 June 2021, along with the registered 
address and the percentage of equity owned by the Group. Related undertakings comprise significant holdings in associated undertakings, 
joint ventures and Ashmore sponsored public funds in which the Group owns greater than 20% interest. 
% voting 
Name  Classification interest Registered address and place of incorporation
Ashmore Investments (UK) Limited  Subsidiary 100.00 61 Aldwych, London WC2B 4AE United 
Ashmore Investment Management Limited  Subsidiary 100.00 Kingdom
Ashmore Investment Advisors Limited  Subsidiary 100.00
Aldwych Administration Services Limited  Subsidiary 100.00
Ashmore Asset Management Limited  Subsidiary 100.00
Ashmore Avenida (Real Estate) Investments LLP  Subsidiary 56.00
Ashmore Investment Management (Ireland) Limited  Subsidiary 100.00 32 Molesworth Street, Dublin 2, D02 Y512
   
176  Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021 
176  Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021
 
S
T
R
A
T
E
G
IC
 R
E
P
O
R
% voting  T
 
Name  Classification interest Registered address and place of incorporation
Ashmore Investment Management (US) Corporation  Subsidiary 100.00 475 Fifth Avenue, 15th Floor
Ashmore Investment Advisors (US) Corporation  Subsidiary 100.00 New York, 10017 G
O
Ashmore Equities Investment Management (US) LLC (in liquidation)  Subsidiary 100.00 USA VE
R
Avenida Partners LLC  Subsidiary 100.00 N
A
Avenida CREF I Manager Cayman LLC  Subsidiary 100.00 N
C
Avenida CREF I Manager LLC  Subsidiary 100.00 E 
Avenida A2 Partners LLC  Subsidiary 100.00
F
Avenida Colombia Member LLC  Subsidiary 83.30 IN
A
Avenida CREF II Partners LLC  Subsidiary 100.00 N
C
Avenida CREF II GP LLC  Subsidiary 100.00 IA
L
MCA Partners LLC (in liquidation)  Subsidiary 100.00  S
T
A
Avenida REF Holding SA  Subsidiary 100.00 Yamandu 1321, 11500  T
E
Avenida CREF II Manager SRL  Subsidiary 99.00 Montevideo M
E
Avenida CREF Partners SRL  Subsidiary 99.00 Uruguay N
T
S
Avenida CREF II GP SRL  Subsidiary 85.00
Ashmore Investment Management (Singapore) Pte. Ltd.  Subsidiary 100.00 1 George Street, #15-04, Singapore 049145
PT Ashmore Asset Management Indonesia Tbk  Subsidiary 60.04 Pacific Century Place, 18th Floor, 
SCBD Lot 10, Jl. Jenderal. Sudirman Kav.
52-53 Jakarta 12190, Indonesia 
Ashmore Management Company Colombia SAS  Subsidiary 61.20 Carrera 7 No. 75 -66,
Ashmore-CAF-AM Management Company SAS  Subsidiary 53.66 Office 701 & 702 
Ashmore Holdings Colombia S.A.S.  Subsidiary 100.00 Bogotá, Colombia
Ashmore Investment Advisors Colombia S.A. Sociedad Fiduciaria  Subsidiary  100.00
Ashmore Management Backup Company S.A.S  Subsidiary  100.00
Avenida Colombia Management Company SAS  Subsidiary  100.00
Ashmore Peru SAC (in liquidation)   Subsidiary 99.00 Av. de la Floresta No. 497, Quinto Piso, 
San Borja, Lima, Perú 
Ashmore Japan Co. Limited  Subsidiary 100.00 11F, Shin Marunouchi Building 1-5-1 
Marunouchi Chiyoda-ku
Tokyo Japan 100-6511
Ashmore Investments (Colombia) SL  Subsidiary 100.00 c/ Hermosilla 11, 4ºA, 28001 Madrid, Spain
Ashmore Management (DIFC ) Limited  Subsidiary 100.00 Office 105, Gate Village 03, Level 1 Dubai 
International Financial Centre Dubai, UAE
Ashmore Investment Advisors (India) Private Limited (in liquidation)  Subsidiary 99.82 507A Kakad Chambers, Dr Annie Besant 
Road, Worli Mumbai 400 018, India 
Ashmore Investment Saudi Arabia  Subsidiary 100.00 3rd Floor Tower B, Olaya Towers
Ashmore Saudi Equity Fund  Consolidated  100.00 Olaya Main Street 
fund Riyadh, Saudi Arabia
Ashmore AISA Cayman Limited  Subsidiary 100.00 Ugland House, Grand Cayman, 
Ashmore Emerging Markets Holdings LLC  Subsidiary 100.00 KY1-1104, Cayman Islands
Ashmore Emerging Markets Acquisition Corp 1  Subsidiary 100.00
AA Development Capital Investment Managers (Mauritius) LLC  Subsidiary 55.00 Les Cascades Building
Ashmore Investments (Holdings) Limited  Subsidiary 100.00 33 Edith Cavell Street, Port Louis
Mauritius
   
    Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021  177 
Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021  177
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) 
33) Subsidiaries and related undertakings continued 
% voting  Registered address and place of 
Name  Classification interest incorporation
Ashmore Management Company Limited  Subsidiary 100.00 Trafalgar Court
Ashmore Global Special Situations Fund 3 (GP) Limited  Subsidiary 100.00 Les Banques
St Peter Port
Ashmore Global Special Situations Fund 4 (GP) Limited  Subsidiary 100.00
GY1 3QL
Ashmore Global Special Situations Fund 5 (GP) Limited  Subsidiary 100.00
Guernsey
Ashmore Emerging Markets Debt and Currency Fund Limited  Consolidated fund 57.88
Ashmore SICAV Emerging Markets Middle East Equity Fund  HFS investment  89.26 10, rue du Chateau d’Eau
Ashmore SICAV Emerging Markets Sovereign Debt ESG Fund  HFS investment  100.00 L-3364 Leudelange
Grand-Duchy of Luxembourg
Ashmore SICAV Emerging Markets Corporate Debt ESG Fund  HFS investment  100.00
Ashmore SICAV Emerging Markets China Bond Fund  Consolidated fund 60.07
Ashmore SICAV Emerging Markets Equity Fund  Consolidated fund  68.56
Ashmore SICAV Emerging Markets Global Small-Cap Equity Fund  Consolidated fund 39.00
Ashmore SICAV Emerging Markets IG Total Return Fund  Consolidated fund 100.00
Ashmore SICAV Emerging Markets Total Return ESG Fund  Consolidated fund 99.99
Ashmore SICAV Emerging Markets Indonesian Equity Fund  Consolidated fund 100.00
Ashmore SICAV Emerging Markets Equity ESG Fund  Consolidated fund 99.88
Ashmore SICAV Emerging Markets IG Short Duration Fund  Consolidated fund 45.86
Ashmore SICAV Emerging Markets Volatility-Managed LCBF  Consolidated fund 100.00
Ashmore SICAV Emerging Markets Multi-Asset Fund  Significant holding 23.07
Ashmore Emerging Markets Corporate Debt ESG Fund  HFS investment  100.00 50 South LaSalle Street
Ashmore Emerging Markets Investment Grade Income Fund  HFS investment  100.00 Chicago, Illinois 60603
Ashmore Emerging Markets Local Currency Bond Fund   HFS investment  43.34
Ashmore Emerging Markets Active Equity Feeder Fund   Consolidated fund 100.00
Ashmore Emerging Markets Equity ESG Fund  Consolidated fund 100.00
Ashmore Emerging Markets Short Duration Select Fund   Consolidated fund 100.00
Ashmore Emerging Markets Equity Fund  Significant holding 23.81
Ashmore Investment Management India LLP  Associate 30.00 507A Kakad Chambers, Dr Annie 
Besant Road Worli, 
Mumbai 400 018, India
Taiping Fund Management Company  Associate 8.50 Unit 101, Building No.5, 135 Handan 
Road, Shanghai, China
Cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statements 
It is possible that this document could or may contain forward-looking statements that are based on current expectations or beliefs, as well  
as assumptions about future events. These forward-looking statements can be identified by the fact that they do not relate only to historical  
or current facts. Forward-looking statements often use words such as anticipate, target, expect, estimate, intend, plan, goal, believe, will, 
may, should, would, could or other words of similar meaning.  
Undue reliance should not be placed on any such statements because, by their very nature, they are subject to known and unknown risks 
and uncertainties and can be affected by other factors that could cause actual results, and the Group’s plans and objectives, to differ 
materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements. There are several factors that could cause actual results to 
differ materially from those expressed or implied in forward-looking statements. Among the factors that could cause actual results to differ 
materially from those described in the forward-looking statements are changes in global, political, economic, business, competitive, market 
and regulatory forces, future exchange and interest rates, changes in tax rates and future business combinations or dispositions. The Group 
undertakes no obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statement contained within this document, regardless of whether those 
statements are affected as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. 
 
178  Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021 
178  Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021
FIVE-YEAR SUMMARY  S
T
R
A
T
E
G
IC
 R
E
P
O
R
T
2021 2020  2019  2018 2017  
£m £m  £m  £m £m
Management fees   276.4   330.0    307.6    259.7 226.2
G
Performance fees   11.9   3.9    2.8    21.9 28.3 O
V
Other revenue   4.6   4.1    5.9    4.1 2.7 E
R
Total revenue   292.9   338.0    316.3    285.7 257.2 N
A
N
Distribution costs   (5.5)  (14.5)   (13.3)   (9.2) (4.6) C
E
Foreign exchange   4.3   7.0    11.3    (0.2) 5.0  
Net revenue   291.7   330.5    314.3    276.3 257.6 F
IN
Gain/(loss) on investment securities    123.5   (19.1)   0.5    3.0 22.4 A
N
Change in third-party interests in consolidated funds   (52.6)  7.5    3.8    (2.4) (12.5) C
IA
      L
 S
Personnel expenses   (26.7)  (27.6)   (26.5)   (24.2) (24.8) T
A
Variable compensation    (53.6)  (55.0)   (57.7)   (48.6) (43.0) T
E
M
Other operating expenses   (24.0)  (26.6)   (31.6)   (27.6) (32.9)
E
N
Total operating expenses   (104.3)  (109.2)   (115.8)   (100.4) (100.7) T
S
Operating profit   258.3   209.7   202.8    176.5 166.8
Finance income  23.9  12.0    17.4    15.2 38.6
Share of profits/(losses) from associates and joint ventures  0.3  (0.2)   (0.3)   (0.4) 0.8
Profit before tax  282.5  221.5    219.9    191.3 206.2
Tax expense   (40.7)  (36.8)   (38.4)   (37.8) (36.7)
Profit for the year   241.8   184.7    181.5    153.5 169.5
     
EPS (basic)  36.4p 27.4p  26.6p  22.6p 25.1p
Dividend per share   16.9p 16.9p  16.7p  16.7p 16.7p
     
Other operating data (unaudited)     
AuM at year end (US$bn)   94.4   83.6    91.8   73.9 58.7
Average AuM (US$bn)   90.0   89.6    80.5   69.2 54.8
Average GBP:USD exchange rate for the year   1.35   1.26    1.30   1.35 1.28
Period end GBP:USD exchange rate for the year   1.38   1.24    1.27   1.32 1.29
 
    Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2021  179 
Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021  179
INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS
Ashmore Group plc Registrar
Registered in England and Wales.  Equiniti Registrars 
Company No. 3675683 Aspect House 
Spencer Road 
Registered office
West Sussex 
61 Aldwych  BN99 6DA
London WC2B 4AE 
UK shareholder helpline: 0371 384 2812. Lines are open  
Tel: +44 (0) 20 3077 6000 
8.30am to 5.30pm, Monday to Friday.
Fax: +44 (0) 20 3077 6001
International shareholder helpline: +44 121 415 7047.
Principal UK trading subsidiary
Further information about the Registrar is available on its website 
Ashmore Investment Management Limited www.equiniti.com.
Registered in England and Wales, Company No. 3344281. Up-to-date information about current holdings on the register is 
Business address and registered office as above. also available at www.shareview.co.uk.
Further information on Ashmore Group plc can be found   Shareholders will need their reference number (account number) 
on the Company’s website: www.ashmoregroup.com. and postcode to view information on their own holding.
Financial calendar Share price information
First quarter AuM statement
Share price information can be found at www.ashmoregroup.com 
14 October 2021
or through your broker.
Annual General Meeting
15 October 2021 Share dealing
Ex-dividend date Shares may be sold through a stockbroker or share dealing service. 
4 November 2021 There are a variety of services available. The Registrar offers a 
Record date secure, free and easy-to-use internet-based share dealing service 
5 November 2021 known as Shareview Dealing.
Final dividend payment date
You can log on at www.shareview.co.uk/dealing to access this 
10 December 2021 service, or contact the helpline on 0345 603 7037 to deal 
Second quarter AuM statement by telephone.
January 2022
You may also use the Shareview service to access and manage 
Announcement of unaudited interim results for the six months 
your share investments and view balance movements, indicative 
ending 31 December 2021
share prices, information on recent dividends, portfolio valuation 
February 2022
and general information for shareholders.
Third quarter AuM statement 
Shareholders must register at www.shareview.co.uk, entering  
April 2022
the shareholder reference on the share certificate and other 
Fourth quarter AuM statement 
personal details.
July 2022
Having selected a personal PIN, a user ID will be issued by 
Announcement of results for the year ending 30 June 2022
the Registrar.
September 2022
Electronic copies of the 2021 Annual Report and 
Accounts and other publications
Copies of the 2021 Annual Report and financial statements, the 
Notice of Annual General Meeting, other corporate publications, 
press releases and announcements are available on the Company’s 
website at www.ashmoregroup.com.
180  Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021
S
T
R
A
T
E
G
IC
 R
E
P
O
R
Sharegift Transferring Ashmore Group plc shares T
 
Shareholders with only a small number of shares whose value  Transferring some or all of your shares to someone else (for example 
makes them uneconomic to sell may wish to consider donating   your partner or a member of your family) requires completion of a 
to charity through Sharegift, an independent charity share  share transfer form, which is available from Equiniti Registrars.   G
O
donation scheme. The form should be fully completed and returned with your share  V
E
certificate representing at least the number of shares being  R
For further information, please contact either the Registrar or see  N
transferred. The Registrar will then process the transfer and issue a  A
the Sharegift website at www.sharegift.org. N
balance share certificate to you if applicable. The Registrar will be  C
E
Frequent shareholder enquiries able to help you with any questions you may have.  
Enquiries and notifications concerning dividends, share certificates  Lost share certificate(s) FIN
or transfers and address changes should be sent to the Registrar;  A
Shareholders who lose their share certificate(s) or have their  N
the Company’s governance reports, corporate governance  C
guidelines and the terms of reference of the Board committees can  certificate(s) stolen should inform Equiniti Registrars immediately   IA
be found on the Company’s website at www.ashmoregroup.com. by calling the shareholder helpline on 0371 384 2812 (lines are  L S
open 8.30am to 5.30pm, Monday to Friday). T
A
Notifying the Company of a change of address T
International shareholder helpline: +44 121 415 7047. E
M
You should notify Equiniti Registrars in writing. E
Disability helpline N
If you hold shares in joint names, the notification to change   TS
For shareholders with hearing difficulties, a special text phone 
address must be signed by the first-named shareholder. You may 
number is available: 0371 384 2255.
choose to do this online, by logging on to www.shareview.co.uk. 
You will need your shareholder reference number to access this 
service – this can be found on your share certificate or from a 
dividend counterfoil.
You will be asked to select your own PIN and a user ID will be 
posted to you.
Notifying the Company of a change of name
You should notify Equiniti Registrars in writing of your new name 
and previous name. You should attach a copy of your marriage 
certificate or your change of name deed, together with your share 
certificates and any un-cashed dividend cheques in your old name, 
so that the Registrar can reissue them.
Dividend payments directly into bank or building 
society accounts
We recommend that all dividend payments are made directly into  
a bank or building society account. Dividends are paid via BACS, 
providing tighter security and access to funds more quickly. 
To apply for a dividend mandate form, contact the Registrar,  
or you can find one by logging on to www.shareview.co.uk  
(under Frequently Asked Questions) or by calling the helpline  
on 0371 384 2812 (lines are open 8.30am to 5.30pm,  
Monday to Friday).
International shareholder helpline: +44 121 415 7047.
Ashmore Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021  181
A
s
h
m
o
r
e
 G
r
o
u
p
 p
lc
 A
n
n
u
a
l R
e
p
o
r
t
 a
n
d
 A
c
c
o
u
n
t
s
 2
0
2
1
Ashmore Group plc 
61 Aldwych 
London WC2B 4AE 
United Kingdom
www.ashmoregroup.com
This report is printed on Essential Velvet, and manufactured  
at a mill that is FSC® accredited and certified to the ISO 14001 
Environmental Standard. 
Printed by Principal Colour. Principal Colour are ISO 14001 certified, 
Alcohol Free and FSC® Chain of Custody certified.
Designed and produced by Black Sun Plc.