
Navigator Global Investments Limited    (ASX:NGI) 
ASX Appendix 4E
For the year ended 30 June 2019 
Results for announcement to the market 
(all comparisons to the year ended 30 June 2018)  Amounts in USD’000 
30 June 2019 
Revenue from ordinary activities  Up  28%  To  114,867 
Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation and impairment  Up  10%  to  37,652 
Profit from ordinary activities after tax attributable to members  Up  306%1 to  26,843 
Net profit for the period attributable to members  Up  306%1 to  26,843 
1     Reflects the impact of the US Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, (‘HR1’) that was passed into law on 22 December 2017.  One of the key 
provisions of HR1 was to reduce the US Federal tax rate from 35% to 21% from 1 January 2018.  The application of this change in tax 
rate resulted in a reduction in the carrying value of the Group’s deferred tax assets by $35.5 million during the year ended 30 June 2018, 
with a corresponding increase to income tax expense in the income statement for this amount during the same period. 
Dividends  Amount per ordinary  Franked  Conduit 
share  %  foreign 
income % 
Final 2018 dividend per share (paid 31 August 2018)  USD 9.0 cents  0%  100% 
Interim 2019 dividend per share (paid 8 March 2019)  USD 8.0 cents  0%  100% 
The directors have determined an unfranked final dividend of United States (US) 9.0 cents  Ex-dividend date:     14 August 2019 
per share (with 100% conduit foreign income credits).  The dividend dates are:  Record date:    15 August 2019 
Payment date:  30 August 2019 
NGI dividends are determined in US dollars. However, shareholders will receive their dividend in Australian dollars. Currency conversion will 
be based on the closing foreign exchange rate on the record date of 15 August 2019.  
Dividend Policy 
The Company has set a policy of paying a dividend of 70% to 80% of the earnings before interest, depreciation, amortisation, impairment 
expense and tax (EBITDA). Dividends will by unfranked, however may have conduit foreign income credits attached. 
The payment of dividends will be subject to corporate, legal and regulatory considerations. 
The above policy allows the NGI Group to retain a portion of cash generated from operating activities, and to therefore have funds available 
to make additional investments into the Lighthouse Funds where such investments further the overall operating interests of the Group, or to 
act on external investment and/or acquisition opportunities as and when they may arise.  
A dividend reinvestment plan does not operate in respect to dividends of the Company. 
Net tangible assets  30 June 2019  30 June 2018 
Per ordinary share  USD 40.63 cents  USD 35.79 cents 
Additional Appendix 4E requirements can be found in the Directors’ Report and the 30 June 2019 Financial Report and accompanying notes. 
This report is based on the 30 June 2019 Financial Report (which includes consolidated financial statements audited by Ernst & Young). 
Navigator Global Investments Limited 
and its controlled entities 
ACN 101 585 737 
Annual Report 
30 June 2019 
Annual Report 2018 | From the Chairman  1 
Navigator Global Investments Limited 
ACN 101 585 737 
Principal Office 
Level 9, 39 Sherwood Road 
Toowong   QLD   4066 
+61 7 3218 6200
www.navigatorglobal.com.au 
Registered Office 
Level 21 
10 Eagle Street 
Brisbane   QLD   4000 
Shareholder information and inquiries 
All inquiries and correspondence regarding shareholdings should be directed 
to the share registry provider: 
Link Market Services Limited 
Level 12 
680 George Street 
Sydney   NSW   2000 
Locked Bag A14 
Sydney South   NSW   1235 
1300 554 474 
+61 2 8280 7111
www.linkmarketservices.com.au
Table of contents 
5  2019 Snapshot 
6  From the Chairman & CEO 
12  Operating & financial review 
22  Directors’ report 
38  Lead auditor’s independence declaration 
39  Financial statements 
82  Directors’ declaration 
83  Independent auditor’s report 
89
  Shareholder information 
Unless otherwise indicated, the numbers in this financial report have been presented in 
US Dollars (USD) 
Innovative Investment Solutions 
A different approach 
A passion to be better 
 
2019 Snapshot 
 
 
 
 
   der  6.7 
     sets unement  $US 14.2 bn  ↓ 15%    1 14.2 
sg 5
  aa 9.
  g an
  nm
si
  o
  Cl
 
  FY17 FY18 FY19
 
 
  e 
  u
n
  e 4
  ev 05.
  e r 1
    nt fe $US 105.4 m  ↑ 40%  71.2 75.5
e
  m
  e
g
  a
  n
a
  M
  FY17 FY18 FY19
 
 
 
  7
  2 7.
   A  .8 34. 3
  TD $US 37.7 m  ↑ 10%  29
  I
B
 
E
 
 
 
 
  FY17 FY18 FY19
 
 
   
e
  r
   sha 0  7.0
  r  0  6. 1
  pe 4. 1
  s  1
  d 17.0 US cents  ↑ 6% 
n
  e
  d
  vi
di
 
 
al FY17 FY18 FY19
t
o
T
Annual Report 2019 | 2019 Snapshot    5 
From the Chairman 
& CEO 
From the 
Chairman 
& CEO 
This past year has seen big changes for the Navigator Global Investments Limited Group (‘the Group’), and with change, there are 
always opportunities and challenges. 
The financial year started with a peak in our assets under management (‘AUM’) of $16.7 billion, the result of an excellent year of  
asset raising by the Lighthouse team in the 2018 financial year as well as the transition of $5.4 billion of client relationships from the 
Mesirow Advanced Strategies (‘MAS’) transaction, which is discussed further below. 
As discussed during last year’s results presentation, we did not expect to maintain that peak of AUM in this financial year.  We took 
pains to point out that it was unlikely that we would retain all of the assets which transitioned.  This proved to be true, and unfortunately 
was further compounded by some very difficult global markets during the December 2018 quarter which we believe prompted 
redemptions to occur faster than anticipated. 
Despite the reduction in AUM from the peak over the past 12 months, we encourage our shareholders to take a broader focus than just 
that headline number.  We have definitely experienced some positives over the year as well, not least of which is delivering a record 
FY19 EBITDA of $37.7 million. 
We remain focused on executing on both our investment and business strategy.  As an asset management firm with more than 20 years 
of experience, we know that underlying the short-term fluctuations in markets are long term business and credit cycles.  It takes 
discipline to stay true to your process and not be distracted by noise.  We also know that remaining keenly focused on creating value for 
our clients will be the way we continue to build a successful, long-term business. 
Acquisition of client relationships from Mesirow Advanced Strategies 
In early March 2018, the Group entered into an agreement to acquire substantially all of the client assets of MAS, the multi-manager 
hedge fund division of Mesirow Financial (‘Mesirow’).  The transaction closed on 1 July 2018 with the transition of $5.4 billion of assets 
under management to Lighthouse on that date. 
Twelve months on from transition date, we continue to manage 58% of the AUM transitioned, or $3.1 billion.  The transaction was 
negotiated and closed in a relatively short timeframe, and as such we appreciated that there would be some uncertainty as to the exact 
number of clients and assets that we would retain post-transition.  Redemption activity for the MAS business had picked up prior to the 
transaction, and we anticipated that this would continue post-transaction before stabilising.  However, it is fair to say the size and speed 
of redemption activity was more than we expected. 
While the transaction was successful from an AUM perspective, as a board we are focused on more than just the headline AUM.  We 
remain satisfied that the MAS transaction has been and will continue to be positive for the Group.  The transaction has been accretive to 
EBITDA in the first 12 months, and we expect this to continue as the client relationships settle and we scale the ongoing operating costs 
relevant to the remaining clients accordingly.  The earnout calculation for the first 12 months ending 30 June 2019 has not been formally 
agreed with the vendor as at the date of this report.  However, the Group estimates that any earnout amount payable for this period will 
be nominal or nil. 
The terms of the transaction were unusual, whereby any purchase consideration that may be paid in the future will be determined under 
earnout payment terms over seven years, calculated as an agreed percentage of EBITDA generated by the transitioned assets above a 
floor amount below which no payment would be made.  We believe this structure has ensured that the Group has both protection from 
the risks associated with the post-transition redemption activity, and ensured we are compensated for the considerable time and effort 
involved in an asset transition of this scale. 
We anticipate a stabilisation of MAS customised clients over the next 12 months. This view is based on the best information currently 
available to us.  As always, we caution that it is difficult to predict future outcomes, so our expectations may prove to be better or worse 
based on actual future events. 
Annual Report 2019 | From the Chairman & CEO 
7 
From the 
Chairman 
& CEO 
Corporate governance 
Strong governance and a culture which values ethics and integrity are a key priority for the Navigator board. 
Our core values 
As a business, we are very aware that people are the heart of everything we do. 
That’s why our core values are centered around how we want employees to behave with our clients, our managers and with each other.   
These values have been the guiding force within our Lighthouse business since the beginning, and the Navigator board formally adopted 
these values in May 2019 to ensure that we articulate them externally as well as internally: 
Ethics & Integrity  Teamwork  Professionalism 
Do the right thing at all times  Work together and use all of the  Treat all people (internally and 
and in all circumstances,  resources of the firm to make  externally) with respect and 
whether or not anyone is  decisions that will maximise  dignity 
watching value
Client Loyalty  Continuous Improvement 
& Excellence 
Do more than is expected by the 
client All employees are responsible for 
proactively achieving regular, 
incremental improvements
Corporate responsibility and sustainability 
Going hand-in-hand with our core values and focus on people is how our organisation meets its broader responsibilities as a global corporate 
citizen.  A key objective for the 2020 financial year will be publishing a Corporate Sustainability and Responsibility Report to set out how our 
Group currently meets our environmental, social and governance responsibilities.  Even more importantly, we will outline the projects and 
initiatives we will be implementing in the short and medium term to make a positive impact on the planet, on our people and on the local 
societies our business forms a part of. 
Board composition 
We consider that the stability in the membership of our board over the past 5 years has been important to the efficient functioning of the Group.  
While our board is relatively small with only five directors, given the singular focus of our strategy and operations on alternative investment 
management, and the diverse global locations of the various directors, we believe that a board of this size is the right fit for the Navigator Group. 
While stability is valuable, change is also a positive force.  During the 2020 financial year the board has approved a key objective to appoint a 
female director in a positive step to achieving gender diversity at a board level. 
  Annual Report 2019 | From the Chairman & CEO 
8 
From the 
Chairman 
& CEO 
Major initiatives 
Aside from our day to day investment management activities for our clients, we’ve also focused on several key 
projects and initiatives during the year: 
Integration of MAS assets into existing operations 
Our goal with our new clients from MAS is to integrate them into our existing processes and systems at 
Lighthouse.  This has been a large undertaking, and we estimated that this would take 12 to 18 months. 
Integration of the investment management teams and processes has occurred smoothly, and for the past 
six months we have been satisfied that the investment team is functioning as a cohesive unit, with the 
combined knowledge benefiting all of our clients. 
We continue to make progress on the migration of the historical MAS data, and the adaption of consistent 
client reporting formats and procedures.  This has been a complicated undertaking as MAS operated on a 
different technology backbone.  As such, we have moved cautiously particularly in relation to the data 
migration to ensure clients receive the same, if not higher, level of service.   
Overall, we have been pleased with the level of integration achieved over the past 12 months, and 
acknowledge the contribution of the team to the integration process whilst continuing to meet their on-
going responsibilities to clients. 
Continued investment in the platform 
A key initiative which we have launched in earnest towards the end of this financial year is the development of 
additional tools for our manager platform.  Our goal is to replace a number of existing off-the-shelf products 
with more customised tools for use by our portfolio managers that provides improved scalability, workflow 
transparency and better information security than our existing arrangements.  
The creation of the proprietary platform requires the use of specialist consultants as well as dedicated internal 
information technology staff.  We have expensed $1.5 million on consultants during the 2019 financial year, 
and expect a similar level of spend in the coming financial year to see the system completed. 
Whilst this is a big investment of time and resources for our business, we see this as the next evolution in our 
systems technology to give us a competitive edge. 
Platform services business 
We have continued to develop our presence as a potential provider in the Platform Services space.  This 
represents an evolution of our current service model to offer our existing managed account platform to 
clients for their customised use. 
We believe the competitive advantage of our platform is that it has been developed with our proprietary 
knowledge of managing multi-manager hedge fund portfolios for more than 20 years.  We have built it and 
continually evolved it for our own use. 
We believe the functionality of the platform, with powerful reporting tools which assists investment 
analysis and risk management needs, can make a tangible difference to an investor’s investment process 
when combined with the experience and expertise we have developed over these last two decades. 
We are pleased with progress made to date with this new business line, with a dedicated team having 
completed a significant amount of prospecting activity as they refine how we position and price our 
service. 
  Annual Report 2019 | From the Chairman & CEO 
9 
From the 
Chairman 
& CEO 
Investment performance 
The investment performance of our strategies was most definitely a year of two halves.  
The significant volatility and market dislocation experienced in the December 2018 quarter led to negative investment results 
across our portfolios, particularly in the global long/short space, although not nearly as bad as experienced in the markets. 
Investment performance saw improvement in the second half of the financial year. Our hedge fund strategies broadly performed  
well throughout the half, generating positive returns in upwardly trending markets, while protecting capital in periods of market stress like 
experienced in May 2019. 
Current global markets present some very interesting challenges.  Institutional investors appear to be wrestling with the two, seemingly 
contradictory, paths that the equity and fixed income markets are taking.  Fixed income markets appear to indicate fears of a global economic 
slowdown, while equity markets reach for all time highs.  If Central Bankers are successful in promoting economic growth, bond market duration, 
let alone the trillions in negative yielding assets, will prove problematic.  If they are unsuccessful or only modestly successful, equity investors 
may find valuations troublesome.  In this odd, late cycle environment, we hold that diversification outside of traditional asset classes makes 
sense. 
Our approach remains consistent: we seek to invest in differentiated strategies by partnering with specialised investment talent.  We are focused 
on terms and structures that create alignment with our investors’ goals and allow for flexibility to both find new and interesting opportunities and 
to manage risk in times of crisis.  We believe hedge funds that are focused on idiosyncratic returns with discipline around hedging and liquidity 
are well positioned to serve investors ably over the intermediate to long term. 
Global distribution 
We continue to see opportunities for new and increased mandates across the globe, and particularly pleasing was a large mandate win in 
February 2019 from the Middle East.  We maintain our focus on global distribution opportunities, and continue to work on building new 
relationships, while deepening existing ones.  In the shorter term, we continue to see good opportunities in Asia, particularly Japan and the 
Middle East as our most promising markets. 
FY19 operating performance 
The Operating and Financial Review on pages 12 to 21 sets out detailed information on the Group’s activities for the 2019 financial year.  We 
take this opportunity to highlight a few key points: 
 The investment management operating activities of the Group earned a record EBITDA of $37.7 million for the 2019 financial year, up
10% on 2018.  Management fee revenue growth came primarily from the Customised Solutions business.
 Operating expenses (after the offset of revenue from the provision of office space and services and excluding reimbursement of fund
operating expenses) were higher by $19.4 million compared to 2018.  This reflects the significant increase in scale to our operations
across all major expense areas from the 1 July transition of MAS client relationships, as well as costs relating specifically to MAS
transition activities.
 The largest component of this relates to employee costs, and reflects the fact that we have grown our staff numbers to 139 people as
at 30 June 2019.  We have also continued to spend to make ongoing enhancements to investment processes and technology
platforms across the business.
5 year historical performance 
The Board considers EBITDA to be the most relevant measure of the Company’s overall financial performance.  Given the nature of our 
operations, and taking into account timing differences arising from trade receivables and payables, EBTIDA is largely consistent with the cash 
flows generated by operating activities.  EBITDA for 2019 grew 10% on the prior year, and the Board is pleased that Navigator has also 
delivered an increase in the dividend paid to shareholders: 
2015  2016  2017  2018  2019 
EBITDA (USD 000’s)  28,8392  29,4901  29,848  34,212  37,652 
Cash flows from operating activities (USD 000’s)  28,193  30,125  30,088  32,921  22,565 
Dividends per share for the financial year (US cents)  10.5  12.0  14.0  16.0  17.0 
Dividend amount for the financial year (USD 000’s)  16,847  19,752  22,648  26,058  27,335 
Dividend payout as a % of EBITDA  58%  67%  76%  76%  73% 
Closing share price (dollars)  AUD 2.07  AUD 2.29  AUD 2.40  AUD 5.34  AUD 3.94 
Change in share price (dollars)  ↑ AUD 1.02  ↑ AUD 0.22  ↑ AUD 0.11  ↑ AUD 2.94  ↓ AUD 1.40 
1  Underlying earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation from continuing operations.   
2  Underlying earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation from continuing operations, adjusted for the loss on settlement and conversion of convertible notes.  
  Annual Report 2019 | From the Chairman & CEO 
10 
From the 
Chairman 
& CEO 
Dividends 
The Directors have determined an 
unfranked dividend of 9.0 cents per share 
(with 100% conduit foreign income 
credits) payable 30 August 2019.  Added  0 
to the interim dividend of 8.0 cents per  0  9.
share, this brings the total for the year to  9.
17.0 US cents per share, which is a 6%  8.0 
increase on the prior year.  0 
The FY2019 combined interim and final  5  7. Final
dividends equates to a payout ratio of  5.
73% of EBITDA.  0  Interim
0  8.
The Directors are satisfied that the current  0  7.
capital management policy of paying a  0  0  6.
dividend of between 70-80% of EBITDA  5. 5.
continues to strike the right balance 
between rewarding shareholders and 
ensuring the Group can retains sufficient 
FY15 FY16 FY17 FY18 FY19
resources to take advantage of any 
growth opportunities which may arise. 
Outlook 
As always at Navigator, we see the best way forward is to keep an unwavering focus – which is to deliver on our investment objectives for 
clients and to maintain a high quality of service.  It also means to continue to find ways to enhance our processes, systems and products so that 
we differentiate ourselves from our competitors.  
We will continue to promote our managed account platform, as we believe it provides a better model for investing in hedge funds.  Our 
approach, infrastructure, and risk management system together provide us a structural advantage that is rare in the alternative asset 
management sector. This belief has allowed us to build differentiated alternative asset portfolios with exclusive exposure, and it spurs our 
evolution. 
We believe hedge funds, and more specifically portfolios focused on alpha-oriented managers with limited market and factor exposures, prove 
their worth across a range of potential market outcomes. Our focus is to improve the efficiency by which our portfolios seek their objectives by 
proactively finding the best mix of talent globally; improving access to research, data, and analysis; and reducing overall costs. We are focused 
on those objectives across the firm and believe our managed account platform and risk analytics provides an excellent toolkit to achieve them. 
We see many trends which indicate that markets are likely to continue to be unpredictable in the short term, but in our view, it is better to pay 
more attention to broader phenomena such as business and credit cycles rather than headlines.  While the timing and scale of those cycles can 
prove difficult to predict, they are indeed a regular part of the investment landscape, and keeping to our asset allocation risk discipline is the best 
way to navigate our way through. 
We would like to extend the Board’s appreciation to all of our employees across the Group for their efforts over the past year.  As a business 
centered around meeting our client’s investment needs, we appreciate the contributions that they make individually and collectively to providing 
our clients with the best possible levels of investment expertise and service.  The Lighthouse name continues to represent a reputation for 
quality and integrity in the marketplace.   
Michael Shepherd  Sean McGould 
Chairman   Chief Executive Officer 
  Annual Report 2019 | From the Chairman & CEO 
11 
From the 
Chairman 
& CEO 
Operating &  
financial review 
Operating & 
financial 
review 
We deliver innovative investment solutions centred around 
alternative investments to a range of clients around the world 
Navigator Global Investments Limited (‘NGI’) is the ultimate parent entity of Lighthouse Investment Partners, LLC (‘Lighthouse’). 
Lighthouse is a global investment management firm which offers hedge fund solutions to investors who are looking to diversify their asset 
mix and realise growth with a lower correlation to traditional equity and fixed income allocations. 
Lighthouse believes the most effective way to achieve diversification from traditional markets is through exposure to intelligently designed 
and actively managed portfolios of hedge fund strategies.  Lighthouse’s overall objective is to create and deliver innovative investment 
solutions that compound investor capital. 
As at 30 June 2019, Lighthouse is managing $14.2 billion of assets. 
Lighthouse has an investor base that spans North America, Europe, the Asia-Pacific and the Middle East.  It includes high net worth 
individuals, family offices, endowments, foundations, trusts, investment banks, benefit plans, pension funds, healthcare and insurance 
companies. 
As a global business with a global client base, Lighthouse has offices in New York, Chicago, Palm Beach Gardens, London, Hong Kong 
and Tokyo.   
US$14.2 bn 23+ 139 42 1000+
Total AUM  Year track record  Total employees  Investment professionals  Investors worldwide 
Annual Report 2019 | Operating & financial review 
13 
Operating & 
financial 
review 
The global asset management industry is a highly competitive space.  Our focus is on the alternatives sector, and 
more specifically multi-manager hedge funds solutions. 
Our purpose is to protect and grow our investors’ assets, and we seek to achieve this through diversification from traditional 
markets with exposure to intelligently and actively managed portfolios of hedge fund strategies. 
Our success depends on three key factors 
  We earn revenue from managing    The revenue we earn on our AUM    Our success relies on attracting and 
M s e
assets on behalf of our clients  depends on the management and  retaining talented employees. 
e l
U (which we refer to as "Assets Under  t performance fees we are entitled to  p
A Management" or "AUM").  a charge for our services.  o It is our employees who use their 
r e skills and knowledge to enable us to 
We seek to attract and retain AUM  e  Our commingled investment  P provide quality investment products 
e
by offering quality investment  products pay us management and  and services, to innovate to meet 
F
products and services, and  performance fees based on  changing investor needs and to 
delivering competitive performance  disclosed rates, whilst our  respond to compliance 
and features.    institutional clients can negotiate  requirements in what is a highly 
fees with us.  regulated industry.   
Our ability to do this can also be 
impacted by external factors such  We operate in a highly competitive  To attract, motivate and retain 
as global markets and investor  market, and there is pressure from  quality employees NGI needs to 
sentiment.  investors to negotiate lower fee  offer competitive compensation and 
rates across the global investment  incentive packages. 
management industry. 
Assets under management 
Commingled funds  Customised solutions 
Lighthouse manages a number of multi-strategy and strategy- Customised solutions offers investors who are able to commit to a 
focused funds.  The funds utilise Lighthouse's proprietary  significant investment size the ability to access the benefits of the 
managed accounts which own and control the assets and  managed account structure in their own customised portfolio.  
liabilities, and authorise external fund managers to trade the 
Lighthouse is able to work closely with large strategic investors to 
assets within certain guidelines. 
customise their alternative investment exposure and meet specific 
The two largest strategies for the commingled funds are:  needs across middle office, risk monitoring and investment 
advisory services.  Investors can choose some or all of the 
 Diversified – which is a multi-strategy, absolute return 
available services depending on their own requirements, and fees 
strategy with low correlation and beta to traditional 
are structured accordingly. 
markets.
 Global Long/Short – which is a global long/short equity  Lighthouse has a number of sizeable strategic clients, and 
believes that customised client solutions will represent a significant 
fund seeking equity-like returns with lower volatility than 
area of growth in the future. 
traditional global equity investments.
Lighthouse managed accounts program 
Both our commingled funds and customised solutions clients utilise our proprietary managed accounts program.  Entrepreneurial and 
innovative, Lighthouse has since its inception employed proprietary managed accounts. We believe this has allowed us to build truly 
differentiated alternative asset portfolios with idiosyncratic exposures, and it spurs our continuing evolution. 
Lighthouse invests in portfolios of actively managed hedge funds that seek to diversify traditional market exposures. Our objective is to create 
and deliver innovative investment solutions that safely compound investor capital. 
Each managed account is typically owned by at least one Lighthouse fund and is managed by a Lighthouse entity. Hedge fund managers are 
authorised by Lighthouse to trade the assets within each managed account in accordance with defined investment guidelines and parameters. 
Lighthouse investors can place their assets in commingled funds or in customised solutions. We typically structure all our hedge fund allocations 
within our proprietary managed account framework.
Annual Report 2019 | Operating & financial review 
14 
Operating & 
financial 
review 
As at 30 June 2019 the Group had AUM of $14.2 billion.  Whilst our goal is to integrate the MAS client relationships  
acquired into our existing operations, for this transitional year we have provided a breakdown of our AUM across Commingled 
Funds and Customised Solutions clients for both the legacy Lighthouse assets and the MAS assets: 
Our opening AUM as at 1 July 2018 of $16.7 billion was a  From a Lighthouse perspective, the Lighthouse Customised 
milestone for the Group.  It reflected both an excellent year of  Solutions funds saw growth from net inflows of $350 million for the 
asset raising by the Lighthouse business over the previous  year, however the Lighthouse Commingled funds experienced net 
financial year, as well as the significant boost of transitioning $5.4  redemptions of $670 million.  The majority of these redemptions 
billion of client relationships from MAS.   were from the Lighthouse Global Long/Short Funds.  As global 
equity markets have continued to advance higher, it has created 
With our expectation that we would not retain all of the transitioned 
challenging conditions for hedged equity approaches.  We have 
assets, the $2.5 billion reduction to AUM over the 12 months to  
seen this type of market environment before and it is important that 
30 June 2019 should be viewed with this in mind.  
we continue to follow our stated investment process. 
Net fund flows for the year 
Investment performance impact 
The driver for the reduction in AUM for the year was net outflows, 
After a difficult first half of the financial year in terms of investment 
with a higher than normal level of outflows experienced across 
performance across the Group’s portfolios, investment returns 
both Lighthouse and MAS, resulting in a combined $2.6 billion of 
improved in the second half, off-setting the $680 million reduction 
net outflows.  Given the significant volatility of markets across the 
in AUM from performance in the first half to settle at a $50 million 
year, and in particular the impacts this had on investment returns 
increase to AUM for the full year. 
in the December 2018 quarter, it is not unexpected that we would 
see redemptions for the year higher than our historical levels. 
The majority of the decrease in AUM was driven by anticipated  .
redemptions from the transitioned MAS relationships, which totaled 
$2.3 billion across the year. The size of redemptions was 
approximately $1.1 billion for both Commingled funds and 
Customised Solutions client.  As a result, 12 months after the 
transition of the assets we continue to manage a little under half of 
the AUM from the MAS Commingled funds, and two thirds of the 
MAS Customised Client AUM.  We anticipate a stabilisation of 
MAS customised clients over the next 12 months.  This view is 
based on the best information currently available to us, but as 
always may prove to be better or worse based on actual future 
events. 
Annual Report 2019 | Operating & financial review 
15 
Operating & 
financial 
review 
Fee rates  People 
Fees are a key consideration for investors, and there is pressure to  Employees by department 
reduce fees across the broader asset management industry.  We 
engage with clients and potential clients to ensure that fees are  The Group has 139 employees across the following functional 
structured to provide an alignment of interests.  divisions as at 30 June 2019 (2018: 90): 
We have created share classes in our Commingled Funds which 
have a lower management fee rate and include a performance fee  Investment 42
so as to provide more optionality for investors to select a fee  nt
structure which best suits their requirements.  me Distribution 30
Fee arrangements for Customised Solutions clients are negotiated  part Operations 24
individually.  Whilst most arrangements involve only a  de
management fee, some clients also have a performance fee  by  Legal & Compliance 16
component as part of their fee structure.  es 
e HR & Administration 8
y
Management fees  mplo Technology 15
The average management fee for the 2019 financial year was  E
0.68% per annum (2018: 0.73% per annum).  Corporate 4
This management fee rate represents the blended net 
management fee rate across all AUM.  While there a number of 
factors which impact the average management fee rate across 
With the acquisition of the MAS client relationships on 1 July 2018, 
periods, a key driver is the change in the relative proportion of 
the Group also welcomed 56 former MAS staff on that date.  
AUM invested in Customised Solutions versus Commingled funds. 
These staff were employed across all functional divisions of 
Customised Solutions generally have a lower management fee, so 
Lighthouse, although the highest increases to staff numbers were 
as the proportion of total AUM which is invested by Customised 
to Investments, Distributions and Operations.   
Solutions clients increases, there is a reduction in the average fee 
rate.  There was also an increase in staff numbers in the Technology 
division to ensure that there are sufficient resources to manage the 
ee %pa  01..8000%% 0.80% 0.73% 0.68% 6700%% as aCustom twmraeanlnl saaitgsio etndo   ofaofc chcuoissut onortni c poalatlh tMfeorAr mLSi  gcahlnitedhn otthu desae dt atee vtcoeh lLonipogmlhotgehyno tui nosifte iaa s tipyvsreotsep mrfioesrt ,at haryse   
management f 00..4600%% 23450000%%%%  % of Total AUised Solutions trading system. 
e  0.20% M A
g 10%  U
vera 0.00% 53% 60% 66% 0% M 
A
FY17 FY18 FY19
In previous financial reports, the Group provided both: 
 “gross” average fee rates which were calculated using gross 
management fee revenue without a reduction for fee rebates or 
distribution expense; and
 “net” average fee rates, which were calculated on management fee
revenue less both fee rebates and distribution expense.
The Group has adopted a policy of recognising fee rebates directly against 
management fee revenue, and the above “average management fee” rates 
are calculated based on management fee revenue (net of fee rebates) 
without a reduction for distribution expense. 
Performance fees 
The difficult markets over the past year, particularly in the 
December 2018 quarter, have resulted in the Group earning 
performance fee income for the 2019 year of $1.1m, down $6.5m 
or 85% on the prior year.  
Performance fees are variable in nature, and it is difficult to 
forecast how much, if any, performance fee revenue will be earned 
by the Group in future periods. 
Annual Report 2019 | Operating & financial review 
16 
Operating & 
financial 
review 
Summary of the Navigator Group FY19 result 
EBITDA up 10% 
Consolidated US$’000 
2019  2018  % change 
Management fee revenue  105,392  75,518  40% 
Performance fee revenue  1,135  7,680  (85%) 
Revenue from reimbursement of fund operating expenses  6,319  4,678  35% 
Revenue from provision of office space and services  1,905  1,694  12% 
Other income  116  - 100%
Total revenue  114,867  89,570  28%
Employee expense  (48,573)  (35,477)  (37%) 
Professional and consulting expense  (6,800)  (3,567)  (91%) 
Reimbursable fund operating expenses  (6,319)  (4,678)  (35%) 
Occupancy expense  (3,959)  (3,067)  (29%) 
Information and technology expense  (3,631)  (1,743)  (108%) 
Distribution expense  (3,401)  (3,413)  0% 
Other operating expenses1  (4,561)  (4,055)  (12%) 
Total expenses1  (77,244)  (56,000)  (38%) 
Result from operating activities1  37,623  33,570  12% 
Net finance income, excluding interest  29  1,020  (97%) 
Share of loss of equity accounted investee  - (378) 100% 
Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation and 
37,652  34,212  10% 
impairment losses (EBITDA) 
Net interest income  126  216  (42%) 
Depreciation and amortisation  (1,474)  (979) (51%)
Impairment losses  - (1,873) 100%
Profit before income tax  36,304  31,576  15% 
Income tax expense2  (9,461)  (44,632)  79% 
Net profit / (loss) after income tax  26,843  (13,056)  306% 
Basic EPS (cents per share)  16.55  (8.05)  306% 
1    Excludes net finance income / (costs) including interest, depreciation, amortisation, impairment losses and share of loss of equity accounted investee.  These 
items have been excluded so as to present the expenses and result arising from the Group’s core operating activities. 
2    For 30 June 2018, $35.5 million of the income tax expense relates to the restatement of the Group’s deferred tax assets due to the reduction in the US Federal 
income tax rate from 35% to 21%. Page 53 includes further information in relation to the income tax expense impact of this reduction. 
The above presentation of the Group’s results is a non-IFRS measure and is intended to show the Group’s performance before the impact of 
expense items such as depreciation, amortisation and impairment losses, and non-operating items such as net interest income. Net profit before 
and after income tax reconciles to the income statement on page 41.
Annual Report 2019 | Operating & financial review 
17 
Operating & 
financial 
review 
Revenue 
Management fee revenue 
Revenue from provision of office space and services 
Management fee revenue was $105.4 million for the year, an 
increase of 40% on the prior year.   The Group provides office space and services to a number of 
external parties at its New York and London offices.  This revenue 
The key driver of the increase in management fees was the  is a direct recharge of occupancy and professional fees incurred 
increase in average total AUM.  This was due to a combination of  by the Group. 
the $5.4 billion of MAS assets which transitioned on 1 July 2018 
($3.1 billion as at 30 June 2019), as well as the deferred effects of 
Lighthouse’s record 2018 financial year where they achieved $1.3 
Operating expenses 
billion of net inflows into Lighthouse products.  Both of these 
factors combined to result in a 51% increase in average AUM for 
Operating expenses increased by $21.2 million compared to the 
the 2019 financial year as compared to the prior year. 
prior year, reflecting the significant increase in the scale of our 
As foreshadowed in last year’s Annual Report, we have seen a  business with the transition of the MAS client relationships. 
decrease in the overall average management fee rate, which was 
0.68% per annum for this year (2018: 0.73% per annum).  A key  Employee expense 
driver for this is the continually increasing proportion of total AUM 
which represents Customised Solutions.  In addition, the lower rate  There was a $13.1 million (37%) increase in employee expense for 
also reflects the full year impact of the January 2018 restructure of  the Group as compared to the prior period.   
arrangements with a long-term distribution partner which 
The key driver for the increase is the significant increase to Group 
eliminated the distribution expense associated with this 
headcount for the financial year: 
arrangement with the transfer of relevant assets to lower fee 
classes.     the addition of an average headcount of 50 staff for the year
for staff who commenced employment with the Group as part
Performance fee revenue  of the transition of the MAS client relationships.
The Group earns performance fees on selected Commingled   a further increase in average headcount of 8 employees for
Funds and Customised Solutions portfolios.  The fees represent an  the year to 94 staff (2018: 86).
agreed share of investment outperformance of a fund or portfolio 
over a defined benchmark and/or high watermark and may be  The total bonus pool paid to staff is determined by reference to 
subject to hurdles.  EBITDA earned and performance fee revenue earned. 
Performance fee revenue for the year was $1.1 million, a decrease 
Professional & consulting fees 
of $6.5 million on the previous financial year.  The reduction in 
performance fees is consistent with the lower investment  The Group utilises a number of expert consultants across its 
performance achieved this year across the portfolios.  In addition,  business, in particular to provide specialist assistance and support 
high watermarks for fees function so that a new performance fee is  in technology, legal, platform operations and investment process.  
only earned in a fund’s NAV per share exceeds its previous high  Professional and consulting fees vary depending on the specific 
point.  Given the extent of the negative performance in the  projects and operating needs in each period. 
December 2018 quarter, most funds which may earn performance 
fees have not reached the previous high watermark NAV per share  Professional fees for the year are $6.8 million, a $3.2 million 
as at 30 June 2019.  increase compared to the prior year.  Particular areas which 
contributed to the increased expense include: 
Approximately 62% of the performance fees have been earned 
from Commingled Funds.  Share classes have been introduced to   $0.9 million of consulting spend in relation to the integration of
some Commingled Funds which have a fee structure that has a  MAS client relationships into Lighthouse operations which
lower management fee, but allows Lighthouse to earn a  transitioned from 1 July 2018;
performance fee. 
 $0.9 million of additional consulting spend in relation to risk
management systems and risk analysis.  A total of $1.6
Revenue from reimbursement of fund operating expenses 
million was incurred for the financial year for these projects;
The Group has applied AASB 15 Revenue from Contracts with  and
Customers from 1 July 2018.  The major change arising from this 
 $1.5 million spend in relation to development of a new
application is how the reimbursement for certain fund operating 
proprietary trading platform.
expenses is accounted for. 
We expect an equivalent level of spending in relation to the risk 
The Group is entitled to reimbursement for fund expenses that it 
management systems and proprietary trading platform to be 
has paid on behalf of the funds.  While the funds generally pay 
incurred in the 2020 financial year. 
their own operating expenses directly, there are some expenses, 
such as financial data services, software and technology 
expenses, where it is more practical for the Group to incur and pay  Occupancy expense 
the expense and then be reimbursed by the relevant fund(s). 
The Group took occupancy of new office premises in New York in 
The reimbursement is recognised as revenue, and there is a  August 2017 and new office premises in Chicago in December 
corresponding off-setting expense.  As the revenue and expense  2018, and this has been a key driver of the $0.9 million increase 
directly off-set, there is no net impact on EBITDA or net profit after  occupancy costs for the year. 
tax. 
Revenue from reimbursement of fund operating expenses and 
reimbursable fund operating expenses incurred for the year were 
both $6.3 million (2018: $4.7 million). 
Annual Report 2019 | Operating & financial review 
18 
Operating & 
financial 
review 
Information and technology expenses 
There has been a $1.9 million or 108% increase in information and 
technology expenses.   
$1.4 million of the increase relates to additional technology 
expenses incurred for the transition of MAS data, systems and 
staff.  Whilst most of these costs are a transition expense, a 
portion will be on-going. 
Managing our information technology needs, particularly in relation 
to the escalation of cyber threats, is a growing cost of the 
business.  A portion of the remaining $0.5 million of the increase 
relates to changes for upgrading of datacentre services and other 
improvements to technology for cyber security and business 
continuity arrangements. 
Distribution expense 
Distribution expense relates to third party distribution 
arrangements, whereby ongoing payments are made to third 
parties in relation to clients they have introduced and who continue 
to be invested in Group portfolios.  Distribution expense does not 
include rebates on management fees paid to clients, as these are 
off-set directly against management fee revenue. 
The distribution expense for this financial year was $3.4 million 
(2018: $3.4 million).  While the amount of the expense was 
unchanged from the prior year, it represents 3.2% of revenue, as 
compared to 4.5% in the prior year.  This reduction is largely due 
to: 
 the reduction in Commingled fund AUM over the year; and
 the full year impact of the restructure of arrangements with a
third-party distribution partner which occurred in January
2018.  Under the restructure distribution payments ceased in
relation to relevant investor assets which were reallocated to
different share classes within the Commingled Funds with a
lower management fee.
Income tax expense 
The Group recognises an accounting tax expense in its income 
statement at an effective tax rate of 26.1% (2018: 29.0%). The 
effective tax rate reflects a combination of the United States 
federal tax rate of 21%, individual United States state-based taxes, 
as well as the effect of other permanent and temporary tax 
adjustments. 
The Group has significant tax losses available to off-set its tax 
liabilities, and hence there is no tax payable in relation to this 
accounting tax expense other than in relation to some relatively 
nominal United States state-based taxes. 
For 30 June 2018, $35.5 million of the income tax expense relates 
to the restatement of the Group’s deferred tax assets due to the 
reduction in the US Federal income tax rate from 35% to 21%. 
Page 53 includes further information in relation to the income tax 
expense impact of this reduction in the prior year. 
Annual Report 2019 | Operating & financial review 
19 
Operating & 
financial 
review 
Financial position remains solid 
Consolidated US$’000 
2019  2018 
Assets 
Cash  29,029  38,212 
Receivables  19,423  14,628 
Investments  17,953  16,459 
Intangible assets  95,656  95,078 
Recognised deferred tax assets  52,584  61,878 
Liabilities  6,738  16,271 
Net tangible assets per share  40.63  35.79 
Sources and uses of cash  Investments 
The Group primarily used cash generated from operating activities  The Group holds two key types of investments: investment in 
during the year to 30 June 2019 to pay dividends to shareholders:  Lighthouse funds and investment in external entities.  
 + $22.6 million generated from operating activities  The Group may hold investments in Lighthouse funds for a
number of reasons, such as to meet regulatory commitments,
 -  $27.5 million paid to shareholders as dividends to meet the contractual requirement of a customised client
mandate, or to seed a new product which will be offered to
 -  $1.6 million net paid for investments in unquoted securities
external investors in the future. During the period, the Group’s
of entities managed by Lighthouse
holdings in Lighthouse funds increased by $1.8 million to
 -  $1.5 million paid for leasehold improvements and $12.7 million.
acquisition of equipment  The Group also invests in a number of external entities. The
investments are each relatively small and strategic in nature
 -  $1.1 million paid for transaction costs associated
and may provide interesting synergistic opportunities for
with the MAS transaction
Lighthouse. The Directors consider that these investments
During the year ended 30 June 2019 the Group changed the  offer valuable insights into evolving market practices and
bonus cycle for US employees from being determined on a  technologies within the financial services sector.  The
calendar year basis to being determined on a financial year basis.   combined fair value of these investments as at 30 June 2019
To effect the change, employees received an additional bonus  is $5.3 million (30 June 2018: $5.6 million).
payment in June 2019 in relation to their performance for the 6 
months ended on that date.  This contributed to the reduction in  Intangible assets 
cash generated in operating activities for the year, as it includes 18 
months’ worth of bonus payments.  When the Company acquired Lighthouse in January 2008, it 
recognised $499.5 million of goodwill in relation to the transaction.  
An impairment loss of $405.7 million was recognised against the 
Receivables 
goodwill balance in the 2009 financial year.  The Company has 
Receivables relates mainly to management and performance fees  continued to carry a written-down goodwill balance of $93.8 million 
which payment has not yet been received as at 30 June 2019.   since that time. 
The increase in this balance compared to the prior year is mainly 
due to the higher AUM managed by the Group as at 30 June 2019 
compared to the prior year balance date. 
Annual Report 2019 | Operating & financial review 
20 
Operating & 
financial 
review 
MAS Transaction 
The Group acquired the rights to manage $5.4 billion of assets on 
behalf of clients from MAS on 1 July 2018.  As substantially all of 
the fair value of the assets acquired in the transaction related to 
the intangible client relationships, the transaction has been 
accounted for as an asset acquisition. 
  Consideration payable for the transaction is contingent on 
agreed earnout calculations over seven years.   
-  The earnout calculation for the first 12 months ending 30 
June 2019 has not been agreed with the vendor as at 
the date of the date of this report.  However, the Group 
estimates that any earnout amount payable for this 
period will be nominal or nil. 
-  There is inherent uncertainty in being able to reasonably 
estimate the contingent consideration, however, based 
on the earnout calculation for the first year and our 
assessment of the likelihood of potential earnout 
payments over the remaining six years, the Group has 
not recognised any liability for future contingent 
consideration as at 30 June 2019. 
  Intangible client relationships of $1.1 million were recognised 
in the statement of financial position on 1 July 2018. The 
written down value of these assets at 30 June 2019 was $0.9 
million.  
  The client relationships will be amortised on a straight-line 
basis over 7 years. 
Deferred tax assets 
The Group’s balance sheet includes a deferred tax asset of $52.6 
million which is comprised of carried forward tax losses and 
deductible temporary differences relating to the US tax 
consolidated group. 
$62.6 million of deferred tax assets relating to carried forward tax 
losses and deductible temporary differences of the Australian 
tax consolidated group remain unrecognised on the balance sheet 
as the Australian corporate entity is not expected to utilise 
these assets in the foreseeable future. 
It is not expected that the Group will be in a tax payable position 
for a number of years other than in relation to some relatively 
nominal US state-based taxes.  
Liabilities 
The Group’s liabilities as at 30 June 2019 comprise trade and 
other payables, and provisions for employee benefits.  The Group 
does not have any loans or borrowings as at reporting date. 
The Group’s provision for short-term incentives has decreased 
$11.2 million since 30 June 2018 due to a change in the timing of 
the bonus payment from a calendar year ending 31 December to a 
financial year ending 30 June. 
On 27 July 2018 the Group entered into a $15 million line of credit 
arrangement.  The facility has been put in place to provide the 
Group with access to funding if considered necessary.  This 
arrangement is undrawn as at 30 June 2019. 
 
 
    Annual Report 2019 | Operating & financial review 
 
21 
Directors’ report 
Directors’ 
report 
 
 
 
The Directors present their report together with the financial statements  
of the Group comprising Navigator Global Investments Limited  
(‘Navigator’ or ‘the Company’) and its subsidiaries for the year ended  
30 June 2019 and the auditor’s report thereon. 
 
The Directors of the Company at  
any time during or since the end of  
the financial year are: 
   
Michael Shepherd, AO  Fernando (Andy) Esteban 
   
Chairman and Independent Non- Independent Non-Executive Director 
Executive Director 
 
 
 
Appointed 16 December 2009  Appointed 18 June 2008 
Chairman of the Remuneration and  Chairman of the Audit and Risk 
Nominations Committee  Committee 
Member of the Audit and Risk  Member of the Remuneration and 
Committee  Nominations Committee 
   
Michael has extensive experience in  Andy holds a Bachelor of Business 
financial markets and the financial  majoring in Accounting, is a CPA and a 
services industry having held a range of  Member of the Australian Institute of 
senior positions including Vice Chairman  Company Directors.  
of ASX Limited, and directorships of 
He has over 35 years’ experience in the 
several of ASX’s subsidiaries including 
financial services industry, of which 21 
Australian Clearing House Pty Ltd. 
years were with Perpetual Trustees 
Currently, Michael is Chairman of the  Australia Ltd. In 1999 he established FP 
Shepherd Foundation, an independent  Esteban and Associates, a private 
director of Investsmart Group Limited, and  business specialising in implementing and 
is an independent Compliance Committee  monitoring risk management and 
Member for UBS Global Asset  compliance frameworks in the financial 
Management (Australia) Limited. Michael  services industry.  
is also a Senior Fellow (SF Fin), Life 
He has provided consulting services to a 
Member and past President of the 
number of domestic and global 
Financial Services Institute of Australasia 
organisations in Australia and South East 
and a Member of the Australian Institute of 
Asia.  From July 2005 until June 2008 he 
Company Directors. 
was an independent director of Credit 
Suisse Asset Management (Australia) Ltd. 
 
    Annual Report 2019 | Directors’ Report 
 
23 
Directors’ 
report 
Andrew Bluhm  Randall Yanker  Sean McGould 
Non-Executive Director  Independent Non-Executive Director  Executive Director and  
Chief Executive Officer 
Appointed 17 October 2012  Appointed 14 October 2014  Appointed 3 January 2008 
Member of the Audit and Risk  Member of the Remuneration and 
Committee  Nominations Committee 
Andrew is the founder and principal of  Randall has extensive experience in the  Sean is the co-founder of Lighthouse and 
Chicago-based DSC Advisors, LP (DSC),  investment management industry, and in  has served as its Chief Executive Officer, 
which is the investment manager of  particular hedge funds.  He co-founded  President and Co-Chief Investment Officer 
Delaware Street Capital Master Fund,  Alternative Asset Managers, L.P. (‘AAM’)  since inception.  
LP.  Delaware Street Capital Master Fund,  in 2004, which is a private investment firm 
He supports the investment team in the 
LP holds a substantial shareholding in  with primary focus on making strategic 
manager search, selection and review 
NGI.  investments in the asset management 
process and is the Chairman of the 
sector.   
DSC invests in a wide array of companies  Investment Committee. Sean has been 
and industries seeking to identify and  Prior to AAM, Randall was responsible for  overseeing all aspects of the portfolios 
acquire undervalued securities and sell- establishing multi-billion dollar global  since August 1996. 
short overvalued securities.    alternative investment and hedge fund 
For more than 20 years, Sean has been 
platforms as CEO of Lehman Brothers 
Prior to forming DSC, he was a founder  investing in various alternative investment 
Alternative Investment Management, and 
and Principal of Walton Street Capital,  strategies. Prior to founding Lighthouse, 
before that as a Managing Director of 
LLC, and prior thereto worked as a Vice  Sean was the director of the Outside 
Swiss Bank Corp.   
President at JMB Realty Corporation and  Trader Investment Program at Trout 
as an Associate at Goldman Sachs.  He is a graduate of Harvard College  Trading Management Company and was 
(1983) with a degree in Economics, and  responsible for the allocation of the fund’s 
serves on the board and is a Trustee of  assets to external alternative asset 
The New School University, a Trustee of  strategies. Prior to Trout, Sean worked for 
SEI Advisors’ Inner Circle Fund III, and  Price Waterhouse and passed the 
Advisory Board member of HF2 Financial  Certified Public Accountant examination. 
Management. 
Annual Report 2019 | Directors’ Report 
24 
Directors’ 
report 
Board and Committee meetings  Corporate governance 
The agenda for meetings is prepared by the Company Secretary in  The Group recognises the value of good corporate 
consultation with the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and is  governance.  The board believes that effective  
set to ensure adequate coverage of strategic, operational, financial  governance processes and procedures add to the  
and governance matters.   performance of the Group and engenders the confidence 
of the investment community. 
Board papers are circulated in advance of the meetings. Senior 
executives are invited to attend board meetings, however the  The Company has adopted Listing Rule 4.10.3 which allows 
directors may have closed sessions without executive involvement  companies to publish their corporate governance statement on 
during meetings at their discretion.  their website rather than in their annual report. The directors have 
reviewed the statement, and a copy of the statement, along with 
Board meetings  any related disclosures, is available at: 
http://www.navigatorglobal.com.au/site/about/corporate-
The number of meetings of the Company’s board of directors  governance 
during the year ended 30 June 2019, and the number of meetings 
attended by each director were: 
Held  Attended  Principal activities 
Michael Shepherd  9  9  The principal activity of the Group during the course of the financial 
year was the provision of investment management products and 
Fernando Esteban  9  9  services to investors globally through wholly-owned subsidiary 
Lighthouse Investment Partners, LLC. 
Andy Bluhm  9  8 
Randall Yanker  9  8 
Operating and financial review 
Sean McGould  9  9 
Information on the operations and financial position of the Group 
and its business strategies and prospects is included in this annual 
Audit and Risk Committee meetings  financial report on pages 12 to 21. 
The number of meetings the Audit and Risk Committee held during 
the year ended 30 June 2019, and the number of meetings 
attended by each Committee Member were:  Dividends 
The directors have determined an unfranked dividend of United 
Held  Attended 
States (US) 9.0 cents per share (with 100% conduit foreign income 
Michael Shepherd  3  3  credits).  The dividend will be paid on 30 August 2019. 
Fernando Esteban  3  3  The aggregate amount of the proposed dividend will be paid out of 
the balance of the parent entity profits reserve as at 30 June 2019. 
Andy Bluhm  3  3 
Declared and paid  Cents  Total 
during the year  per  amount  Date of payment 
ended 30 June 2019  share  US$’000 
Remuneration and Nominations Committee meetings 
Final 2018 ordinary  9.0  14,710  31 August 2018 
The number of meetings the Remuneration and Nomination 
Interim 2019 ordinary  8.0  12,741  8 March 2019 
Committee held during the year ended 30 June 2019, and the 
number of meetings attended by each Committee Member were:  Total amount  27,451 
Held  Attended 
Michael Shepherd  3  3  Together with the unfranked interim dividend of USD 8.0 cents per 
share paid to shareholders on 8 March 2019, the total dividend to 
Fernando Esteban  3  3  be paid in relation to the financial year ended 30 June 2019 will be 
USD 17.0 cents per share. 
Randall Yanker  3  3 
Company secretary 
Ms Amber Stoney BCom (Hons) CA holds the position of company 
secretary. Amber has held this position for most of her tenure at 
NGI, specifically for the periods 15 March 2007 to 20 November 
2008, 18 July 2011 to 9 May 2016 and from 27 June 2016.  Amber 
also holds the position of Chief Financial Officer of NGI.  Prior to 
joining the Company in 2003, Amber was a senior manager at 
KPMG, specialising in the funds management industry. 
Annual Report 2019 | Directors’ Report 
25 
Directors’ 
report 
Significant changes in state of affairs 
In the opinion of the directors there were no significant changes in 
the state of affairs of the Group that occurred during the financial 
year not otherwise disclosed in this financial report.  
Likely developments and expected results 
Further information on likely developments in the operations of the 
Group and the expected results of operations have been included 
in this annual financial report on pages 12 to 21. 
Events subsequent to end of financial year 
There has not arisen in the interval between the end of the 
reporting period and the date of this report, any other item, 
transaction or event of a material nature, likely to affect 
significantly the operations of the Group, the results of those 
operations, or the state of affairs of the Group, in future financial 
years.  
Directors’ interests 
The relevant interest of each director in the shares 
issued by the Company at the date of this report is 
as follows: 
Director  Ordinary  Notes 
shares 
Michael  125,000  125,000 shares are held 
Shepherd  indirectly by Tidala Pty Ltd 
as Trustee for the Shepherd 
Provident Fund 
Fernando  27,000  27,000 shares are held 
Esteban  indirectly by FJE 
Superannuation Fund 
Andy  13,101,982  13,101,982 shares are held 
Bluhm  indirectly by Delaware 
Street Capital Master Fund, 
LP (DSC). Mr Bluhm is the 
founder and principal of 
DSC Advisors, LP, which is 
the investment manager of 
DSC 
Sean  19,438,083  19,436,083 shares are held 
McGould  indirectly by SGM Holdings, 
LLC 
Annual Report 2019 | Directors’ Report 
26 
Directors’ 
report 
Remuneration report (audited) 
 
   
 
   
This Remuneration     
Report for the  Contents   
Company and its  28 
Overview of remuneration policy and structure 
controlled entities for  Relationship between remuneration policy and company performance  31 
32 
the year ended   Variable compensation for the 2019 financial year 
33 
30 June 2019 forms  Non-executive director remuneration 
34 
Key management personnel remuneration disclosures 
part of the Directors’ 
 
Report and is audited 
 
in accordance with 
 
section 300A of the 
Reporting in United States dollars 
Corporations Act 2001. 
In this report the remuneration and benefits reported have been presented in US dollars 
(‘USD’). This is consistent with the functional and presentation currency of the Group.  
Where compensation for Australian-based employees is paid in Australian dollars, it is 
converted to USD for reporting purposes based on either specific transaction exchange 
rates, or the average exchange rate for the payment period as appropriate. The Australian 
dollar based compensation paid during the year ended 30 June 2019 was converted to 
USD at an average exchange rate of AUD/USD 0.7131 (2018: AUD/USD 0.7734). 
The Remuneration Report outlines the remuneration arrangements for the Group’s key management personnel. Key management personnel 
are those persons who, directly or indirectly, have authority and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the activities of the Group. 
The key management personnel during the year ended 30 June 2019 were: 
Name    Term  
Non-Executive Directors   
Michael Shepherd  Chairman and Non-Executive Director   Full year 
Fernando Esteban  Non-Executive Director  Full year 
Andy Bluhm  Non-Executive Director  Full year 
Randall Yanker  Non-Executive Director  Full year 
Executive Director     
Sean McGould  Group Chief Executive Officer and   Full year 
President & Co-Chief Investment Officer, Lighthouse Investment Partners, LLC 
Executives     
Kelly Perkins  Co-Chief Investment Officer, Lighthouse Investment Partners, LLC  Full year 
Scott Perkins  Executive Managing Director, Lighthouse Investment Partners, LLC  Full year 
Rob Swan  Chief Operating Officer, Lighthouse Investment Partners, LLC  Full year 
Amber Stoney  Chief Financial Officer and Company Secretary, Navigator Global Investments Limited  Full year 
    Annual Report 2019 | Directors’ Report 
 
27 
Directors’ 
report 
Remuneration report (audited) 
Overview of remuneration policy and approach 
The overall objectives of the Group’s remuneration policies are to: 
 embed a culture that promotes the Group’s core values
 support the business strategy of the Group by attracting, retaining and rewarding quality staff
 encourage appropriate performance and results to uphold client and shareholder interests
 properly reflect each individual’s duties and responsibilities
When setting the Group’s approach to remuneration, the Board keeps three key factors front-of-mind: 
Operations are based in the US 
Navigator is an Australian company listed on the Australian Securities Exchange, however the Group’s operations are predominantly based in the 
United States.  To be effective in attracting and retaining high quality staff, remuneration arrangements must therefore be aligned to the 
expectations of people who are employed in the United States alternative asset management industry. 
These remuneration arrangements may diverge from arrangements which would be considered industry practice within Australia.  The quantum 
and proportion of variable remuneration to total remuneration packages is one such area. 
Variable remuneration is a major component 
The remuneration arrangements in place for Lighthouse are structured around setting a relatively low fixed remuneration 
amount, and having the opportunity to earn variable remuneration as a major component of overall remuneration.  This is 
particularly true for our United States based senior management.  The Board believes this provides a dynamic basis to be 
able to adjust the Group’s total remuneration expense, and is also consistent with United States industry practice. 
This approach to remuneration has been in place at Lighthouse since prior to its acquisition in January 2008.  The Lighthouse 
senior executives have each earned a $250,000 base salary since that time, and this has not been increased in over 11 
years.  In addition, select Lighthouse senior executives have had bonus entitlements specified in their employment contracts 
since Lighthouse joined the Navigator Group, and these contractual arrangements remain in place (see page 35 for additional 
details). 
Simplicity 
A simple, direct metric for setting annual variable remuneration provides an incentive structure that is 
easily understandable to both staff and shareholders.  An increase in operating results therefore 
translates into both an increase in the available bonus pool for Lighthouse staff and a higher dividend 
payment for shareholders. 
This simplicity also extends to the Board exercising its discretion in setting the total amount of variable 
compensation, as well as the CEO being able to exercise discretion in allocating bonuses to individuals 
based on their performance and contribution.  Whilst individual results are important, we also encourage 
a culture which is able to reward effort, ethical behaviour and commitment outside of formulaic metrics. 
The Board is satisfied that the current arrangements are consistent with alternative asset management 
industry practice in the United States, and allow employees to focus on achieving results for clients, 
which is ultimately in the long-term interests of shareholders. 
During the financial year, the Remuneration and Nominations Committee engaged United States-based remuneration consultant, Focus 
Consulting Group, Inc (‘Focus’) to review the existing remuneration arrangements against industry practice in the United States.  Focus reported 
to the full Board in May 2019, with the key takeaway that, on the whole, the existing approach and methodology for variable compensation is in 
line with industry norms.  The engagement conducted by Focus was a benchmarking exercise, and did not include any remuneration 
recommendations in relation to any of the key management personnel of the Group. 
Annual Report 2019 | Directors’ Report 
28 
Directors’ 
report 
Remuneration report (audited) 
 
Remuneration structure 
The remuneration of staff across the Group, including our senior executives, is comprised of two key components: 
 
 
 
 
Fixed Variable
 
 
   
Fixed  Variable 
Fixed remuneration is comprised of:  Variable remuneration is comprised of participation in a cash bonus 
pool.  
  base salary; and 
While the Group does not currently have any equity compensation 
  employer contributions to superannuation and retirement plans 
arrangements in place, should these be enacted, variable 
and health care benefits. 
remuneration would also include participation in such arrangements 
Fixed remuneration is generally determined by reference to  for select employees. 
benchmark information where available, and having regard to 
The existing variable remuneration arrangements are short-term in 
responsibilities, performance, qualifications and experience.   
nature, and are designed to motivate staff to create value for both: 
For senior Lighthouse employees, fixed remuneration is also 
  our clients, thorough investment returns and a high level of 
determined in accordance with the general principle that fixed 
client service; and 
remuneration is the smaller component of their overall 
compensation package.  As such, these employees receive a base    the Company's shareholders 
salary of $250,000, and this has remained unchanged for over 11 
The performance of individual staff members, including senior 
years. 
executives, is conducted at least annually, after which the award of 
Fixed remuneration is reviewed at least annually, or on promotion,  variable remuneration is considered.   
to ensure that it is competitive and reasonable. There are no 
The Board: 
guaranteed increases to the fixed remuneration amount. 
  approves the overall size of the variable remuneration pool, 
The amount of fixed remuneration is not dependent on the 
satisfaction of a performance condition, or the performance of the    approves an award to the CEO, 
Group or business unit, the Company's share price, or dividends    confirms any contractual obligations regarding variable 
paid by the Company. 
remuneration have been complied with; and  
    delegates authority to the CEO to exercise his discretion to 
  make variable remuneration allocations to individual staff. 
For the 2019 financial year, the proportion of fixed remuneration as compared to performance linked remuneration across the Group was as 
follows: 
Fixed Remuneration  Variable Remuneration
 
Chief Executive Officer 22% 78%
 
Chief Financial Officer 91% 9%
         Other executive key
19% 81%
management personnel
 
All other staff 59% 41%
 
Further detail regarding the methodology for determining the 2019 financial year variable remuneration pool is contained on page 32. 
    Annual Report 2019 | Directors’ Report 
 
29 
Directors’ 
report 
Remuneration report (audited) 
Long term incentive arrangements 
The Group does not currently have any equity incentive schemes or 
other long-term incentive arrangements in place. 
At the November 2018 Annual General Meeting, shareholders 
voted to approve the grant of up to 540,000 performance rights to 
CEO, Sean McGould on the terms and conditions as set out in the 
Notice of Meeting.  At the request of Mr McGould, the formal grant 
of those performance rights has been deferred, and as such as at 
30 June 2019 there are no performance rights on issue. 
The Board acknowledges that an equity incentive scheme is a 
common component of corporate remuneration structures, and is 
giving further consideration to the implementation of equity 
incentive arrangements for senior employees. 
Other benefits 
Lighthouse employees are entitled to additional benefits that may 
include educational assistance, adoption assistance and health 
care benefits.  
Lighthouse employees are also able to make investments into 
Lighthouse managed funds without incurring a management fee.  
There is no incremental cost incurred by the Group in providing fee-
free investment management services via the Lighthouse funds to 
employees.  Having employees invest their own assets into 
Lighthouse managed funds is viewed positively by clients and 
potential clients as it demonstrates an alignment of interest between 
the Lighthouse employee and future investment results for clients.  
Nil fee arrangements for employees is common practice in the 
United States asset management industry. 
Annual Report 2019 | Directors’ Report 
30 
Directors’ 
report 
Remuneration report (audited) 
Relationship between remuneration policy and company performance 
In implementing the remuneration policy and structure, the Board has had regard to what it considers to be the key measure 
of the profitability of the Company:  
EBITDA - earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation, and impairment losses from continuing operations. 
As an asset management business, the Group’s EBITDA is largely consistent with the cash flow which it generates from its operating activities, 
and which is available to pay dividends to shareholders.  It is for this reason that NGI’s dividend policy has been set as a pay-out ratio based on 
EBITDA. 
The following table shows how cash bonuses paid to key management personnel compares to EBITDA and cash flows from operating activities 
over the past 5 years: 
US$’000 
2019  2018  2017  2016  2015 
EBITDA  37,652  34,212  29,848  29,4901  28,8392 
Cash flows from operating activities  22,5653  32,921  30,088  30,125  28,193 
Dividends paid during the financial year  27,451  24,390  21,023  17,222  15,965 
Closing share price (AUD dollars)  3.94  5.34  2.40  2.29  2.07 
Change in share price (AUD dollars)  (1.40)  2.94  0.11  0.22  1.02 
Key management personnel: 
Bonus  4,6714  3,967  3,293  3,858  3,185 
Bonus as a % of EBITDA  12%  12%  11%  13%  11% 
Bonus as a % of dividends paid during the financial year  17%  16%  16%  22%  20% 
1 Underlying earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation from continuing operations. 
2 Underlying earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation from continuing operations, adjusted for the loss on settlement and conversion of convertible notes. 
3 Reflects the change in US employee bonus cycle from calendar years to financial years (see page 32). 
4 Includes cash bonus amounts for the 12 months to 31 December 2018 and 6 months to 30 June 2019 for Sean McGould and Scott Perkins (see page 34 for additional detail).  
Distribution of revenue between shareholders and employees: 
The following charts shows how total revenue recognised in 2019 and 2018 has been distributed between shareholders (as dividends), 
employee remuneration, other operating expenses and capital management: 
2019  2018 
Capital  Capital 
Management Management
9% 10%
Employee  Employee 
Dividend remuneration remuneration
24% 39% Dividend 38%
27% $89.6m
$114.9m 
Other operating  Other operating 
expenses expenses
28% 25%
Annual Report 2019 | Directors’ Report 
31 
Directors’ 
report 
Remuneration report (audited) 
Variable compensation for the 2019 financial year 
The Board has established a simple, direct methodology for balancing how we reward staff and deliver value to shareholders 
through company financial performance. The two metrics which are used to create annual variable remuneration pools are: 
Company performance metric  Basis of variable remuneration 
Lighthouse EBITDA  30% allocated to Lighthouse general 
Lighthouse general pool  (excluding performance fees, before bonuses  bonus pool 
and adjusted for other specified items) 
50% allocated to Lighthouse incentive fee 
Lighthouse incentive fee pool  Performance fees  bonus pool 
The Board retains the discretion to vary the final amounts approved after calculation based on the above pools, to ensure that they can also factor 
in extenuating circumstances, such as exceptional results in asset raising or investment results, or a negative change in macro-economic 
conditions. 
During 2019, this discretion was exercised in two ways: 
 as part of the total remuneration arrangements for the new staff who transitioned with the MAS client relationships.  As part of the transaction
negotiations, it was agreed that for the first 12 months Lighthouse would honour the previous remuneration arrangements provided to these
staff by Mesirow Financial Services, Inc.
 to reward key staff who had undertaken additional responsibilities and workload as part of the integration of MAS clients and processes into
Lighthouse operations.
Change in timing of bonus cycle 
Since its acquisition in 2008, the Lighthouse bonus cycle has been based on calendar years, and accordingly bonuses were generally paid in 
December of each year. 
With the significant increase in staff from MAS, it was determined that it would be appropriate to have the bonus cycle coincide with 12 months of 
operations under the new combined business structure, and accordingly the annual bonus cycle is now based on financial years. 
To effect the change, bonuses for Lighthouse staff have been determined and paid for the six months to 30 June 2019.  On a go-forward basis, 
Lighthouse bonuses will be paid in June of each year.  This change does not impact the bonus expense recognised in the income statement. 
Lighthouse general pool  Incentive fee pool 
All Lighthouse staff are eligible to participate in the Lighthouse  Senior members of the Lighthouse investment team are  
general bonus pool, the amount of which is calculated as 30% of  eligible to participate in a bonus pool determined as 50% of 
Lighthouse’s EBITDA (before the bonus pools and excluding  performance fee revenue earned by the Lighthouse business from 
performance fee revenue and adjusted for other specified items).  its Commingled Funds and Customised Solutions portfolios. 
 Allocation of the Lighthouse general bonus pool to staff (other This pool is allocated at the discretion of the CEO based on his 
than as noted below) is determined by the CEO in accordance assessment of the contribution of each eligible staff member to the 
with remuneration structure and guidelines established by the creation of the performance fee revenue.  These staff members 
Remuneration and Nominations Committee. may still also receive an allocation from the general bonus pool. 
 No individual bonus can be greater than 10% of the 
Corporate bonus pool 
Lighthouse general bonus pool without board approval.
 A bonus for the CEO is determined and approved by the board A discretionary bonus pool of $50,000 has been allocated for staff 
who directly contribute to the operation of the listed parent 
based on an assessment of his performance.  This bonus
company, namely staff involved in finance and company secretarial 
amount forms part of the overall Lighthouse general bonus
functions in Australia.  The Remuneration and Nominations 
pool.
Committee recommends a bonus amount for the Chief Financial 
 In accordance with their service agreements, Kelly Perkins Officer, which is allocated from the Corporate bonus pool. 
and Rob Swan are entitled to semi-annual compensation
calculated as 1.25% and 1.00% respectively of the gross
revenue of Lighthouse. This is paid on a semi-annual basis,
and forms part of the Lighthouse general bonus pool.
Annual Report 2019 | Directors’ Report 
32 
Directors’ 
report 
Remuneration report (audited) 
CEO remuneration arrangements 
Mr McGould performs two key roles for the Group.  He is both:  At the November 2018 Annual General Meeting, share-       
holders voted to approve the grant of up to 540,000      
 Chief Executive Officer of the Group; and performance rights to CEO, Sean McGould on the terms and 
 Co-Chief Investment Officer of Lighthouse. conditions as set out in the Notice of Meeting.  At the request of 
Mr McGould, the formal grant of those performance rights has 
The Board considers that Mr McGould’s remuneration needs to  been deferred, and as such as at 30 June 2019 there are no 
encompass both of these roles, and that it should also be  performance rights on issue. 
structured so that it is consistent with remuneration principles 
which operate in the United States alternative asset management 
Non-executive director remuneration 
industry.  In particular, this means that Mr McGould’s remuneration 
is substantially weighted towards variable remuneration.  Non-executive directors may receive director fees.  The 
Company’s policy is to remunerate non-executive directors at 
Mr McGould has a base salary of $250,000, which has remained 
market rates for comparable companies having regard to the time 
unchanged since the Company acquired the Lighthouse business 
commitments and responsibilities assumed. The aggregate of non-
in 2008.  Mr McGould is also entitled to receive health care 
executive director fees is capped at a maximum of $750,000 per 
benefits and retirement benefits. 
annum (including superannuation), as approved by shareholders 
The Board has not set specific key performance indicators (KPIs)  at the AGM held on 20 November 2014. 
for the CEO.  Instead, the Board awards Mr McGould a 
discretionary bonus amount, taking into account the following  Fees paid to non-executive directors are USD, and for the 2019 
factors:  financial year were as follows: 
 investment results achieved for clients; USD 150,000 per annum 
Chairman 
(plus superannuation) 
 achievement of board-approved budgets and targets, strategic
goals, capital and business restructuring and development of USD   80,000 per annum
Non-executive directors 
(plus superannuation) 
new business opportunities;
 growth in AUM, through both net investment flows and Actual remuneration for non-executive directors for the financial 
investment performance of Lighthouse portfolios; and year ended 30 June 2019 was $331,850 (2018: $331,850).   
 Group financial results and dividends paid to shareholders. A Bluhm has elected not to receive remuneration from the 
Company for his role as a non-executive director. 
Given Mr McGould’s low base salary, his variable remuneration is 
not capped as a % of base salary, as is commonly the case in  Non-executive directors’ fees cover all main board activities and 
Australia.  Instead, the CEO’s bonus is capped at a maximum of  membership of any committee. Executive and non-executive 
10% of the Lighthouse general bonus pool.  In practice, this means  directors may be reimbursed for reasonable expenses properly 
that Mr McGould’s variable remuneration is constrained by the  incurred in their role as a director. Non-executive directors are not 
profitability of the Group’s operating business unit.    entitled to participate in executive remuneration schemes, may not 
receive performance-linked equity or bonus payments, and are not 
Mr McGould received a bonus of $850,000 in December 2018 to 
provided with retirement benefits other than statutory 
reward his performance for the 2018 calendar year, and a bonus of 
superannuation entitlements.  Non-executive directors are not 
$225,000 for the six months to 30 June 2019.  His achievements 
entitled to any benefits or payments on retirement from office. 
during that 18 month period included: 
 the negotiation and close of the MAS transaction which has Change in non-executive directors’ fees from 1 July 2019 
significantly increased Group AUM and EBITDA;
Directors’ fees have remained unchanged since 2014.  Following a 
 net flows of $720 million to the Lighthouse legacy products for review of publicly available information on non-executive director 
the 2018 calendar year; and fees for ASX listed entities, the board (with the relevant director 
abstaining) approved the following fees be applicable from 1 July 
 investment performance which delivered $6.4 million of 2019: 
performance fee revenue.
USD 170,000 per annum 
Overall, the Board considers that Mr McGould’s        Chairman 
(plus superannuation) 
efforts and performance continue to be outstanding in       
the face of challenging global market conditions, he continually  USD 100,000 per annum
Non-executive directors 
demonstrates his commitment to creating value and wealth for our  (plus superannuation) 
clients and shareholders, and he leads by example in providing a 
positive workplace environment for all of our staff.  He is further 
commended for delivering a record EBITDA of $37.7 million for the 
2019 financial year. 
Annual Report 2019 | Directors’ Report 
33 
Directors’ 
report 
Remuneration report (audited) 
Key management personnel remuneration disclosures 
Directors’ and executive officers’ remuneration 
The following remuneration was paid to key management personnel: 
Post- Other long-
Benefit Category  Short-term  Total 
employment  term 
Cash salary &  Cash bonus  Other1  Pension &   Long service 
fees  superannuation  leave 
$  $  $  $  $  $ 
Non-Executive Directors 
Michael Shepherd   2019  150,000  -  -  14,250  -  164,250 
2018  150,000  -  -  14,250  -  164,250 
Fernando Esteban  2019  80,000  -  -  7,600  -  87,600 
2018  80,000  -  -  7,600  -  87,600 
Randall Yanker  2019  80,000  -  -  -  -  80,000 
2018  80,000  -  -  -  -  80,000 
Executive Director 
Sean McGould1  2019  250,000  1,075,0002  20,557  25,800  -  1,371,357 
2018  250,000  850,000  19,533  7,500  -  1,127,033 
Executives 
Kelly Perkins  2019  250,000  1,225,000  20,557  -  -  1,495,557 
2018  250,000  1,175,000  19,533  16,500  -  1,461,033 
Scott Perkins  2019  250,000  1,475,0003  20,557  16,800  -  1,762,357 
2018  250,000  1,000,000  19,533  16,500  -  1,286,033 
Rob Swan  2019  250,000  875,000  20,557  16,800  -  1,162,357 
2018  250,000  920,000  19,533  16,500  -  1,206,033 
Amber Stoney  2019  204,109  21,039  - 14,715  3,215  243,078 
2018  208,488  22,173  - 15,569  3,616  249,846 
Total  2019  1,514,109  4,671,039  82,228  95,965  3,215  6,366,556 
2018  1,518,488  3,967,173  78,132  94,419  3,616  5,661,828 
1  Other short-term fixed remuneration amounts relate to health care benefits paid on behalf of Lighthouse staff. 
2  Due to the change in bonus cycle to coincide with financial years rather than calendar years (refer page 32 for details), the Cash bonus amount for Sean 
McGould includes $850,000 paid for the 12 months to 31 December 2018 and $225,000 paid for the 6 months to 30 June 2019. 
3  Due to the change in bonus cycle to coincide with financial years rather than calendar years (refer page 32 for details), the Cash bonus amount for Scott Perkins 
includes $1,000,000 paid for the 12 months to 31 December 2018 and $475,000 paid for the 6 months to 30 June 2019. 
Annual Report 2019 | Directors’ Report 
34 
Directors’ 
report 
Remuneration report (audited) 
 
Analysis of cash bonuses included in remuneration 
Details of the vesting profile of the short-term incentive cash bonuses awarded as remuneration to key management personnel of the         
Group in the current reporting period are detailed below: 
Proportion of 
  Included in  remuneration which is  % Vested in year  % Forfeited in year 
remuneration  performance based 
Sean McGould1  $1,075,000  78%  100% 1  0% 
Kelly Perkins2  $1,225,000  82%  100% 2  0% 
Scott Perkins3  $1,475,000  84%  100% 3  0% 
Rob Swan2  $875,000  75%  100% 2  0% 
Amber Stoney4  $21,03 9  9%   10 0%   4  0%  
   
1  Due to the change in bonus cycle to coincide with financial years rather than calendar years (refer page 32 for details), the Cash bonus amount for Sean 
McGould includes $850,000 paid for the 12 months to 31 December 2018 and $225,000 paid for the 6 months to 30 June 2019. 
2  As per their service agreements, Kelly Perkins and Rob Swan are entitled to semi-annual compensation calculated as 1.25% and 1.00% respectively of the 
gross revenue of Lighthouse Investment Partners, LLC. No amounts vest in future financial years in respect of the financial year ended 30 June 2019.  These 
arrangements have been in place since the acquisition of Lighthouse in 2008. 
3  Due to the change in bonus cycle to coincide with financial years rather than calendar years (refer page 32 for details), the Cash bonus amount for Scott Perkins 
includes $1,000,000 paid for the 12 months to 31 December 2018 and $475,000 paid for the 6 months to 30 June 2019. 
4  The short-term incentive plan for Amber Stoney is discretionary and no amounts vest in future financial years in respect of the financial year ended 30 June 
2019.  Per her revised remuneration arrangements effective from 1 July 2016, Ms Stoney’s short-term incentive cash bonus is capped at 10% of her combined 
annual base salary and superannuation. 
   
 
Contractual arrangements 
After such termination other than for Good Cause Termination, a 
The Group has entered into service agreements with each 
payment of $1,000,000 multiplied by the number of days since the 
member of key management personnel, excluding non-executive 
fiscal year ending before termination divided by 365 will be made 
directors. These agreements specify the duties and obligations to 
in lieu of any unpaid bonus. 
be fulfilled. 
Sean McGould and Scott Perkins are entitled to participate in 
Refer to pages 33 and 34 for details regarding the appointment 
incentive plans, including equity-based plans. 
and remuneration of non-executive directors. 
Kelly Perkins and Rob Swan, in addition to their base salary, are 
Lighthouse senior executives 
entitled to semi-annual compensation calculated as 1.25% and 
Sean McGould, Scott Perkins, Kelly Perkins and Rob Swan  1.00% respectively of the gross revenue of Lighthouse Investment 
entered into service agreements commencing on 7 March 2011.  Partners, LLC for the relevant six-month period and are entitled to 
The agreements were for an initial term of four years and  participate in equity-based plans.  
thereafter automatically extend for a one-year term unless either 
Navigator Global Investments senior executives 
the Group or the employee gives not less than sixty days’ notice of 
their intention not to extend the agreement.  Amber Stoney is engaged pursuant to an executive services 
agreement.  Ms Stoney’s working hours are 25 hours per week for 
The Group may terminate the agreement at any time for gross 
a base salary of A$300,000 per annum inclusive of 
negligence or willful misconduct (‘Good Cause Termination’). In 
superannuation, and a cap to any short-term incentive bonus of 
these circumstances there is no entitlement to a termination 
10% of this amount. 
payment. 
The Group may terminate Ms Stoney’s executive services 
The Group may terminate the agreement for any reason other than 
agreement at any time, without notice for a number of reasons 
gross negligence or willful misconduct at any time by giving not 
including bankruptcy, gross negligence or willful and serious 
less than sixty days’ notice.  
misconduct.  In these circumstances there is no entitlement to a 
The employee may terminate the agreement at any time if the  termination payment. Ms Stoney may terminate the agreement at 
Group fails to comply in any material respect with the terms of the  any time by giving 6 months’ notice and the Group may terminate 
agreement, there is a material reduction in the compensation  the agreement at any time by giving 6 months’ notice or payment 
opportunities or there is a material and unconsented change to  in lieu.
responsibilities. 
The employee may terminate the agreement and their employment 
at any time for any reason other than those noted above by giving 
not less than sixty days’ notice.  
    Annual Report 2019 | Directors’ Report 
 
35 
Directors’ 
report 
Remuneration report (audited) 
Analysis of performance rights over equity instruments granted as remuneration 
As at 30 June 2019 and 30 June 2018 there were no outstanding performance rights granted to any key management person of the Group. 
At the November 2018 Annual General Meeting, shareholders voted to approve the grant of up to 540,000 performance rights to CEO, Sean 
McGould on the terms and conditions as set out in the Notice of Meeting.  At the request of Mr McGould, the formal grant of those performance 
rights has been deferred, and as such as at 30 June 2019 there are no performance rights on issue. 
Additional information 
Movement in shares 
The movement during the reporting period in the number of shares in the Company held, directly, indirectly or beneficially, by key management 
personnel, including their related parties, is as follows: 
Balance  Balance 
Purchases  Sales 
1 July 2018  30 June 2019 
Directors 
Michael Shepherd1  125,000  -  -  125,000 
Fernando Esteban2  27,000  -  -  27,000 
Andy Bluhm3  26,101,982  -  (13,000,000)  13,101,982 
Sean McGould4  19,438,083  -  -  19,438,083 
Executives 
Scott Perkins  2,936,512  -  -  2,936,512 
Kelly Perkins  2,405,624  -  -  2,405,624 
Rob Swan  2,936,512  -  -  2,936,512 
Amber Stoney5  180,374  -  -  180,374 
1  125,000 shares are held indirectly by Tidala Pty Ltd as Trustee for the Shepherd Provident Fund. 
2  27,000 shares are held indirectly by FJE Superannuation Fund. 
3  13,101,982 shares are held indirectly by Delaware Street Capital Master Fund, LP (DSC). Mr Bluhm is the founder and principal of DSC Advisors, LP, which is 
the investment manager of DSC. 
4  19,436,083 shares are held indirectly by SGM Holdings, LLC. 
5  162,396 shares are held indirectly by AJ Stoney Family Trust. 
Other transaction with key management personnel 
There were no other transactions with key management personnel during the year. 
Annual Report 2019 | Directors’ Report 
36 
Directors’ 
report 
Indemnification and insurance  Rounding of amounts 
The Company has a Deed of Indemnity, Insurance and Access in  In accordance with ASIC Corporations (Rounding in 
place with each of the Directors (‘the Deeds’).  Pursuant to the  Financial/Directors’ Reports) Instrument 2016/191  
Deeds, the Company indemnifies each Director to the extent  dated 24 March 2016, amounts in the financial report and 
permitted by law for losses and liabilities incurred by the Director  directors’ report have been rounded off to the nearest  
as an officer of the Company or of a subsidiary.  This indemnity  thousand dollars, unless otherwise stated. 
remains in force for a period of 7 years from the date the Director 
ceases to hold office as a director of the Company.  
In addition, the Company will advance reasonable costs incurred 
or expected to be incurred by the Director in defending relevant 
proceedings on terms determined by the Board.  No such 
advances were made during the financial year. 
This report is made in accordance with a resolution of directors: 
During the year, the Group paid insurance premiums to insure the 
Directors and Officers of the Company. The terms of the contract 
prohibit the disclosure of the premiums paid. 
Auditor 
Ernst & Young is the auditor of the Group in accordance with 
section 327 of the Corporations Act 2001. 
Michael Shepherd, AO 
Non-audit services 
Chairman  and Non-Executive Director 
There were no non-audit services provided by the entity’s auditors 
during the financial year. 
Details of remuneration paid to auditors is presented in Note 21 of 
the financial statements. 
Indemnification 
To the extent permitted by law, the Company has agreed to 
indemnify its auditors, Ernst & Young Australia, as part of the 
terms of its audit engagement agreement against claims by third  F P (Andy) Esteban 
parties arising from the audit (for an unspecified amount).  Non-Executive Director 
No payment has been made to indemnify Ernst & Young Australia 
during or since the end of the financial year. 
Sydney, 8 August 2019 
Auditor’s independence declaration 
The lead auditor’s independence declaration as required under 
section 307C of the Corporations Act 2001 is set out on page 38 
and forms part of the directors’ report for the financial year ended 
30 June 2019. 
Environmental regulation 
The Group is not subject to any particular or significant 
environmental regulation under any Australian Commonwealth, 
State or Territory legislation. 
Annual Report 2019 | Directors’ Report 
37 
Ernst & Young  Tel: +61 7 3011 3333 
111 Eagle Street  Fax: +61 7 3011 3100 
Brisbane  QLD  4000 Australia  ey.com/au 
GPO Box 7878 Brisbane  QLD  4001 
Auditor’s Independence Declaration to the Directors of Navigator Global 
Investments Limited 
As lead auditor for the audit of Navigator Global Investments Limited for the financial year ended 30 
June 2019, I declare to the best of my knowledge and belief, there have been: 
a) no contraventions of the auditor independence requirements of the Corporations Act 2001 in
relation to the audit; and
b) no contraventions of any applicable code of professional conduct in relation to the audit.
This declaration is in respect of Navigator Global Investments Limited and the entities it controlled during 
the financial year. 
Ernst & Young 
Rebecca Burrows 
Partner 
8 August 2019 
A member firm of Ernst & Young Global Limited 
38  L iability limited by a scheme approved under Professional Standards Legislation 
Financial statements 
Financial 
statements 
41  Income statement 
42  Statement of comprehensive income 
43  Statement of financial position 
44  Statement of changes in equity 
45  Statement of cash flows 
46  Notes to the financial statements 
 
Operating assets and 
Results for the year  Capital and risk 
liabilities 
1. Operating segments 9. Trade and other receivables 15. Capital management
2. Revenue 10. Investments recognised at fair 16. Capital and reserves
3. Expenses value 17. Financial risk management
4. Finance income and costs 11. Plant and equipment
5. Cash 12. Intangible assets
6. Income tax 13. Trade and other payables
7. Dividends 14. Employee benefits
8. Earnings per share
Group structure  Other disclosures  Basis of preparation 
18. Group entities 20. Related parties 25. Corporate information
19. Parent entity disclosures 21. Auditors’ remuneration 26. Statement of compliance
22. Commitments 27. Basis of measurement
23. Contingent liabilities 28. Functional and presentation
24. Subsequent events currency
29. Other accounting policies
82  Directors’ declaration  83  Independent auditor’s report 
  Annual Report 2019 | Financial Statements 
40 
Financial 
 
statements
 
Income statement 
For the year ended 30 June 2019 
 
    Consolidated US$’000 
2019  2018 
  Note 
(Restated) 
       
Management fee revenue  2  105,392  75,518 
Performance fee revenue  2  1,135  7,680 
Revenue from reimbursement of fund operating expenses  2  6,319  4,678 
Revenue from provision of office space and services  2  1,905  1,694 
Other income  2  116  - 
Total revenue    114,867  89,570 
       
Operating expenses  3(a)  (78,718)  (56,979) 
Results from operating activities     36,149  32,591 
       
Finance income  4(a)  347  1,306 
Finance costs  4(a)  (192)  (70) 
Share of loss of equity accounted investee    -  (378) 
Impairment losses  3(b)  -  (1,873) 
Profit before income tax    36,304  31,576 
       
Income tax expense  6  (9,461)  (44,632) 
Profit / (loss) for the period    26,843  (13,056) 
       
Attributable to equity holders of the parent    26,843  (13,056) 
       
Earnings per share    Consolidated US cents 
    2019  2018 
Basic earnings per share  8  16.55  (8.05) 
Diluted earnings per share  8  16.55  (8.05) 
 
The accompanying notes form part of these consolidated financial statements 
    Annual Report 2019 | Financial Statements 
41 
Financial 
statements
Statement of comprehensive income 
For the year ended 30 June 2019 
Consolidated US$’000 
Note  2019  2018 
Profit / (loss) attributable to equity holders of the parent  26,843  (13,056) 
Other comprehensive income 
Other comprehensive income not to be reclassified to profit or loss in 
subsequent periods: 
Change in fair value of financial assets at fair value through other 
4(b)  (350)  633 
comprehensive income 
Income tax on financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive 
4(b)  94  153 
income 
Other comprehensive income for the year  (256)  786 
Total comprehensive income / (loss) for the year, net of tax  26,587  (12,270) 
Attributable to equity holders of the parent  26,587  (12,270) 
The accompanying notes form part of these consolidated financial statements 
  Annual Report 2019 | Financial Statements 
42 
Financial 
statements
Statement of financial position 
As at 30 June 2019 
Consolidated US$’000 
2019  2018 
Note 
Assets 
Cash   5(a)  29,029  38,212 
Trade and other receivables  9  19,423  14,628 
Current tax assets  6(b)  -  2 
Total current assets  48,452  52,842 
Investments recognised at fair value  10  17,953  16,459 
Plant and equipment  11  4,791  2,688 
Deferred tax assets  6(c)  52,584  61,878 
Intangible assets  12  95,656  95,078 
Other non-current assets  1,422  2,310 
Total non-current assets  172,406  178,413 
Total assets  220,858  231,255 
Liabilities 
Trade and other payables  13  3,343  3,326 
Employee benefits  14  600  11,785 
Current tax liabilities  6(b)  6  - 
Total current liabilities  3,949  15,111 
Trade and other payables  13  2,687  1,052 
Employee benefits  14  102  108 
Total non-current liabilities  2,789  1,160 
Total liabilities  6,738  16,271 
Net assets  214,120  214,984 
Equity 
Share capital  16  257,355  257,355 
Reserves  16(b)  33,119  31,368 
Accumulated losses  (76,354)  (73,739) 
Total equity attributable to equity holders of the Company  214,120  214,984 
The accompanying notes form part of these consolidated financial statements 
  Annual Report 2019 | Financial Statements 
43 
Financial 
statements
Statement of changes in equity 
For the year ended 30 June 2019 
Consolidated US$’000 
Amounts attributable to equity holders of the parent 
Fair Value 
Share  Reserve  Parent 
Based  (financial  Entity  Accum-
Share  Payments  assets at  Translation  Profits  ulated 
Note  Capital  Reserve  FVOCI)  Reserve  Reserve  Losses  Total Equity 
Balance at 1 July 2017  257,355  13,326  1,495  850  13,279  (34,661)  251,644 
Net loss for the year  -  -  -  -  - (13,056) (13,056) 
Transfer to parent entity profits 
19  -  -  -  -  26,022  (26,022) - 
reserve1 
Other comprehensive income  -  -  -  -  -  -  - 
Net change in fair value of 
financial assets at fair value 
4(b)  -  -  633  -  -  -  633 
through other comprehensive 
income 
Income tax on other 
4(b)  -  -  153  -  -  -  153 
comprehensive income 
Total other comprehensive 
-  -  786  -  -  -  786 
income, net of tax 
Total comprehensive income 
-  -  786  - 26,022 (39,078)  (12,270) 
for the year, net of tax 
Dividends to equity holders  7  -  -  -  -  (24,390)  - (24,390)
Balance at 30 June and 1 July 
257,355  13,326  2,281  850  14,911  (73,739)  214,984 
2018 
Net profit for the year  -  -  -  -  - 26,843 26,843 
Transfer to parent entity profits 
19  -  -  -  -  29,458  (29,458) - 
reserve1 
Other comprehensive income 
Net change in fair value of 
financial assets at fair value 
4(b)  -  -  (350)  -  -  -  (350) 
through other comprehensive 
income 
Income tax on other 
4(b)  -  -  94  -  -  -  94 
comprehensive income 
Total other comprehensive 
-  -  (256)  -  -  -  (256) 
income, net of tax 
Total comprehensive income 
-  -  (256)  - 29,458 (2,615)  26,587 
for the year, net of tax 
Dividends to equity holders  7  -  -  -  -  (27,451)  - (27,451)
Balance at 30 June 2019  257,355  13,326  2,025  850  16,918  (76,354)  214,120 
1 Relates to the net profit of the parent entity (Navigator Global Investments Limited). 
The accompanying notes form part of these consolidated financial statements
  Annual Report 2019 | Financial Statements 
44 
Financial 
statements
Statement of cash flows 
For the year ended 30 June 2019 
Consolidated US$’000 
Note  2019  2018 
(Restated) 
Cash flows from operating activities 
Cash receipts from operating activities  110,002  85,965 
Cash paid to suppliers and employees  (87,492)  (53,208) 
Cash generated from operations  22,510  32,757 
Interest received  119  216 
Income taxes paid  (64)  (52) 
Net cash from operating activities  5(b)  22,565  32,921 
Cash flows from investing activities 
Acquisition of plant and equipment  (1,506)  (1,924) 
Proceeds from disposal of investments  277  4 
Acquisition of investments  (1,900)  (416) 
Transaction costs associated with MAS transaction  (1,088)  - 
Distributions from investments received  -  38 
(Acquisition) / redemption of other non-current assets  (50)  349 
Net cash used in investing activities  (4,267)  (1,949) 
Cash flows from financing activities 
Loan to associate  - (1,666)
Dividends paid to equity holders  (27,451)  (24,390)
Net cash used in financing activities  (27,451)  (26,056) 
Net (decrease) / increase in cash  (9,153)  4,916 
Cash balance at 1 July  38,212  33,153 
Effect of exchange rate fluctuations on cash balances held in foreign currencies  (30)  143 
Cash balance as at 30 June  5(a)  29,029  38,212 
The accompanying notes form part of these consolidated financial statements
  Annual Report 2019 | Financial Statements 
45 
Financial 
statements
Notes to the financial statements 
For the year ended 30 June 2019 
Results for the Year 
This section of the notes to the financial statements focuses on the results and performance of the Navigator Global Investments Limited 
Group. On the following pages you will find disclosures explaining the Group’s results for the year, segment information, taxation and 
earnings per share. 
Where an accounting policy or key estimate is specific to a single note, the policy or estimate is described in the note to which it relates. 
Operating segments 
As at 30 June 2019, the Group had one reportable segment, being  The CEO is responsible for day-to-day operations and the 
the US based Lighthouse Group, which operates as a global  implementation of business strategy.  Internal management reports 
absolute return funds manager for investment vehicles.   are provided to the CEO on a monthly basis to monitor the 
Corporate includes assets and liabilities and corporate expenses  operating results of its business for the purpose of making 
relating to the corporate parent entity, Navigator Global  decisions about resource allocation and performance assessment. 
Investments Limited, and balances that are eliminated on  Business unit performance is evaluated based on the financial 
consolidation of the Group and are not considered to be operating  information as set out below, as well as other key metrics such as 
segments.   Assets under Management and the average management fee rate. 
No operating segments have been aggregated to form the above 
reportable operating segments.  
Lighthouse US$’000  Corporate US$’000  Consolidated US$’000 
2018  2018 
2019  2019  2018  2019 
(Restated)  (Restated) 
Operating revenue  106,386  82,933  141  265  106,527  83,198 
Other revenue  8,340  6,372  -  -  8,340  6,372 
Total revenue from contracts with 
114,726  89,305  141  265  114,867  89,570 
customers 
Operating expenses (excluding depreciation 
(76,353)  (55,230)  (891) (770) (77,244)  (56,000) 
and amortisation) 
Result from operating activities  38,373  34,075  (750) (505) 37,623  33,570 
Net finance income / (costs) (excluding 
53  879  (24) 141 29  1,020 
interest) 
Share of loss of equity accounted investee  - (378) -  -  -  (378) 
Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, 
38,426  34,576  (774) (364) 37,652  34,212 
amortisation and impairment losses 
Interest revenue  83  204  43  12  126  216 
Depreciation and amortisation  (1,470)  (974) (4) (5) (1,474) (979) 
Impairment loss  - (1,873) - -  -  (1,873) 
Reportable segment profit / (loss) before 
37,039  31,933  (735) (357) 36,304  31,576 
income tax 
Income tax expense  (9,461)  (44,632)  -  -  (9,461)  (44,632) 
Reportable segment profit / (loss) after 
27,578  (12,699)  (735) (357) 26,843  (13,056) 
income tax 
Segment assets  202,416  214,817  18,442  16,438  220,858  231,255 
Segment liabilities  (6,461)  (15,980)  (277) (291) (6,738)  (16,271) 
Net assets  195,955  198,837  18,165  16,147  214,120  214,984 
  Annual Report 2019 | Financial Statements 
46 
Financial 
statements
Notes to the financial statements 
For the year ended 30 June 2019 
Revenue 
Consolidated US$’000 
2019  2018 
Management fees from commingled funds  62,435  51,451 
Management fees from customised solutions clients  42,957  24,067 
Performance fees  1,135  7,680 
Operating revenue  106,527  83,198 
Revenue from reimbursement of fund operating expenses  6,319  4,678 
Revenue from provision of office space and services  1,905  1,694 
Other income  116  - 
Other revenue  8,340  6,372 
Total revenue from contracts with customers  114,867  89,570 
Management fees 
Performance fees 
Management fees are received from customers for providing: 
Performance fees may be received from some commingled fund 
 investment management / advice and related services to share classes and some customised solutions clients. 
commingled funds; and
The amount of the performance fee is calculated in accordance 
 investment management / advice and / or managed account with the terms of the applicable contract with the customer.  The 
services to customised solutions clients. entitlement to performance fees for any given performance period 
is dependent on the customer’s portfolio achieving a positive 
Management fee revenue is based on a percentage of the  performance, and in some cases in outperforming an agreed 
customer’s portfolio value and is calculated in accordance with the  hurdle.  Performance fees are generally also subject to a high 
applicable document or agreement which creates the contractual  watermark arrangement which ensures that fees are not earned 
relationship with the customer.  The management fee is a single  more than once on the same performance. 
fee which covers all of the individual components which make up 
the management service.  Management fee revenue is variable in  The Group satisfies its obligations to provide services in exchange 
nature as it is based on a percentage of the customer’s portfolio  for the performance fee revenue on a continuous basis, however 
the right to receive the revenue is constrained by achieving the 
value. 
required performance hurdles and/or high watermark.  As such, 
The Group’s obligation to provide management services to  performance fee revenue is only recognised to the extent that it is 
customers is satisfied as and when the customer receives and  probable that a significant reversal of the revenue will not occur.  
consumes the services on a continuous basis.  The Group  Due to the uncertainty associated with the estimate of performance 
recognises revenue for the services performed at the end of each  fees prior to the end of the performance period, this revenue is not 
month.  recognised in the income statement until the entitlement to receive 
the fee becomes certain, which is at the end of the relevant 
performance period.  At all times prior to this, there is a high 
probability of any revenue recognised being reversed. 
Performance periods for performance fee arrangements range 
from between 1 month to 1 year.  
  Annual Report 2019 | Financial Statements 
47 
Financial 
statements
Notes to the financial statements 
For the year ended 30 June 2019 
Revenue (continued) 
Major revenue source 
Revenue from reimbursement of fund operating 
expenses  15% (2018: 22%) of the Group’s operating revenue relates to 
management fees and performance fees earned on the Lighthouse 
The Group is entitled to reimbursement for fund expenses that it 
Diversified commingled funds. 
has paid on behalf of the funds.  While the funds generally pay 
their own operating expenses directly, there are some expenses,  14% (2018: 26%) of the Group’s operating revenue relates to 
such as financial data services, software and technology  management fees and performance fees earned on the Lighthouse 
expenses, where it is more practical for the Group to incur and pay  Global Long/Short commingled funds. 
the expense and then be reimbursed by the funds.   
The Group’s largest individual client represents 8% of operating 
The Group enters into contracts for the relevant good or service  revenue (2018: 9%). 
directly with the third parties service providers, and hence the 
Group controls the good or service until it subsequently directs the  The Group’s three largest individual clients combined represent 
good or service to be transferred to the fund.   16% of operating revenue (2018: 19%). 
As the Group controls the good or service before it is transferred, 
the Group is not acting in a capacity as agent for the fund.  The 
Group is required to recognise both: 
 the expense incurred under the contract with the third-party
service providers (see note 3a) to receive the good or service;
and
 the revenue to which it expects to be entitled from the fund in
exchange for transferring the good or service.
The revenue and expense in relation to these reimbursed costs 
directly off-set as the Group does not add a margin to the original 
cost of the good or service transferred to the fund. 
Revenue from the provision of office space and 
services 
The Group has a number of agreements with external parties to 
license office space at its New York and London offices. As part of 
these agreements, licensees are charged license fees and service 
charges on a monthly basis. 
The Group has two obligations in relation to these agreements: 
 to provide office space to licensees, including services in
connection with licensees’ use and occupancy of the office
space; and
 to provide other on-going business services.
The Group’s obligation to provide office space services and its 
obligation to provide business services to licensees are satisfied 
as and when the customer receives and consumes the services on 
a continuous basis.  The Group recognises revenue as the amount 
to which it has a right to invoice for the period. 
The Group is entitled to: 
 a license fee and an occupancy-related service charge as per
the terms of the applicable contract with each licensee as it
satisfies its obligations to provide office space and related
services; and
 a service charge as per the terms of the applicable contract
with each licensee as it satisfies its obligations to provide
business services.
  Annual Report 2019 | Financial Statements 
48 
Financial 
statements
Notes to the financial statements 
For the year ended 30 June 2019 
Expenses 
a) Other operating expenses
Consolidated US$’000 
2018 
2019 
(Restated) 
Employee expense  (48,573)  (35,477) 
Professional and consulting expenses  (6,800)  (3,567) 
Information and technology expense  (3,631)  (1,743) 
Reimbursable fund operating expenses  (6,319)  (4,678) 
Occupancy expense  (3,959)  (3,067) 
Distribution expense  (3,401)  (3,413) 
Travel expense  (1,719)  (1,475) 
Depreciation   (975)  (634) 
Amortisation of intangible assets  (499)  (345) 
Other expenses  (2,842)  (2,580) 
Total expenses  (78,718)  (56,979) 
Employee expense  Reimbursable fund operating expenses 
The largest operating expense is employee expense. Employee  The Group is entitled to reimbursement for fund expenses that it 
expense includes salaries and wages, together with the cost of  has paid on behalf of the funds.  While the funds generally pay 
other benefits provided to employees such as contributions to  their own operating expenses directly, there are some expenses, 
superannuation and retirement plans, health care benefits,  such as financial data services, software and technology 
educational assistance and cash bonuses. It also includes  expenses, where it is more practical for the Group to incur and pay 
regulatory costs such as payroll tax.   the expense and then be reimbursed by the funds.   
Employee expense for the year ended 30 June 2019 includes  A corresponding amount of revenue from reimbursement of fund 
contributions to defined contribution superannuation and pension  operating expenses has also been recognised for the year (see 
plans of $1,527 thousand (2018: $875 thousand).   note 2). 
A defined contribution plan is a post-employment benefit plan  Distribution expense 
under which the Group pays fixed contributions to a separate entity 
Distribution expenses are paid to external intermediaries for 
and will have no legal or constructive obligation to pay further 
marketing and investor servicing, largely in relation to commingled 
amounts.  Obligations for contributions to defined contribution 
funds.  Distribution expenses are variable in line with AUM and the 
plans are recognised as an employee benefit expense in profit or 
associated management fee revenue.  This expense is recognised 
loss in the periods during which services are rendered by 
on an accrual basis.  
employees. 
  Annual Report 2019 | Financial Statements 
49 
Financial 
statements
Notes to the financial statements 
For the year ended 30 June 2019 
Expenses (continued) 
b) Impairment losses
Consolidated US$’000 
2019  2018 
Impairment of investment in equity accounted investee  -  (122) 
Impairment of unsecured loan to equity accounted investee  -  (1,751) 
Total impairment loss   -  (1,873) 
The Group had a 40% interest in a US based limited partnership  $1,873 thousand in relation to the value of its equity interest in the 
which it transferred to the remaining partner in September 2018.   partnership and an unsecured loan advanced to the partnership. 
The Group recognised impairment losses in the prior year of 
Finance income and costs 
a) Recognised directly in profit or loss
Consolidated US$’000 
2019  2018 
Finance income 
Interest income on bank deposits  126  216 
Net foreign exchange gain  -  92 
Net change in fair value of financial assets at fair value through profit or loss  221  960 
Distribution income from financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income  -  38 
Total finance income  347  1,306 
Finance costs 
Bank charges  (126)  (70) 
Net foreign exchange loss  (66)  - 
Total finance costs  (192)  (70) 
Net finance costs recognised in profit or loss  155  1,236 
Interest income is recognised in profit or loss as it accrues.  Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are carried in 
the statement of financial position at fair value, with changes in fair 
Distribution income is recognised on the date that the Group’s right 
value reported in the profit or loss on a net basis as either finance 
to receive payment is established. 
income or finance costs depending on whether the fair value 
Foreign currency gains and losses are reported on a net basis as  movements result in a net gain or net loss position for the reporting 
either finance income or finance costs depending on whether  period. 
foreign currency movements result in a net gain or net loss 
position for the reporting period. 
  Annual Report 2019 | Financial Statements 
50 
Financial 
statements
Notes to the financial statements 
For the year ended 30 June 2019 
Finance income and costs (continued) 
b) Recognised directly in other comprehensive income
Consolidated US$’000 
2019  2018 
Change in fair value of financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income  (350)  633 
Income tax expense recognised directly in equity  94  153 
Finance income attributable to equity holders recognised directly in equity  (256)  786 
Recognised in:  
Fair value reserve  (256)  786 
Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive are   Upon sale or derecognition of these investments, any gain or loss 
carried in the statement of financial position at fair value, with  will be transferred to retained earnings.  
changes in fair value reported in other comprehensive income and 
presented in the fair value reserve in equity (refer note 10). 
Cash 
a) Cash
Consolidated US$’000 
2019  2018 
Cash at bank  12,429  38,212 
Term deposits less than 90 days  16,600  - 
29,029  38,212 
At balance date, AUD deposits earn interest of 1.05% (2018:  The carrying amount of these assets is a reasonable 
1.30%); USD deposits earn interest between 0% and 2.15% (2018:  approximation of fair value. The Group’s exposure to interest rate 
between 0% and 1.499%).   and foreign currency risk on cash is disclosed in note 17.  
  Annual Report 2019 | Financial Statements 
51 
Financial 
statements
Notes to the financial statements 
For the year ended 30 June 2019 
Cash (continued) 
b) Reconciliation of cash flows from operating activities
Consolidated US$’000 
Cash flows from operating activities  Note  2019  2018 
Profit / (loss) for the period  26,843  (13,056) 
Adjustments for: 
Depreciation expense  3(a)  975  634 
Amortisation of intangible assets  3(a)  499  345 
Impairment losses  3(b)  -  1,873 
Share of loss of equity accounted investee  -  378 
Distributions from financial asset at fair value through other comprehensive income  4(a)  -  (38) 
Net foreign exchange (gain) / loss  4(a)  66  (92) 
Fair value gain on financial assets at fair value through profit or loss  4(a)  (221)  (960) 
Income tax expense, less income tax paid  9,397  44,580 
Operating cash flow before changes in working capital and provisions  37,559  33,664 
Decrease in receivables  (4,872)  (3,605) 
(Increase) / decrease in other current assets  24  (198) 
Increase / (decrease) in payables  1,027  (282) 
Increase in deferred rent expense  9  331 
(Decrease) / increase in employee benefits  (11,182)  3,011 
Net cash from operating activities  22,565  32,921 
  Annual Report 2019 | Financial Statements 
52 
Financial 
statements
Notes to the financial statements 
For the year ended 30 June 2019 
Income tax 
The Company is the only Australian resident tax-paying entity  blended rate for the prior year. The application of this lower 
within the Group. Non-Australian entities within the Group are part  blended corporate tax rate reduced income tax expense for the 
of a US consolidated tax group.   year ended 30 June 2018 by $2,113 thousand, resulting in an 
effective tax rate for the year ended 30 June 2018 of 29.0%. 
Income tax expense comprises current and deferred tax and is 
recognised in profit or loss, except to the extent that it relates to  In addition, the Group recognised an income tax expense of 
items recognised directly in equity or in other comprehensive  $35,480 thousand for the year ended 30 June 2018 related to the 
income.  adjustment in the carrying value of existing deferred tax assets to 
reflect the new corporate tax rate. 
As at 31 December 2017 the Group revised its estimated annual 
effective rate to reflect a change in the US federal statutory  The effective tax rate for the year ended 30 June 2019 is 26.1%, 
corporate rate from 35% to 21% effective from 1 January 2018.  reflecting the full annual impact of the drop in the US federal 
The rate change was administratively effective at the beginning of  statutory corporate rate to 21% and US state corporate taxes.
the financial year ended 30 June 2018, resulting in the use of a 
a) Reconciliation of effective tax rate
Consolidated US$’000 
2019  2018 
Profit before income tax  36,304  31,576 
Income tax using the Company’s domestic tax rate of 30% (2018: 30%)  (10,891)  (9,473) 
Effect of tax rates in foreign jurisdictions  2,064  (470) 
Non-deductible / non-assessable amounts included in accounting profit  (247)  133 
Amounts not included in accounting profit  (146)  89 
Current year tax losses for which no deferred tax asset is initially recognised  141  (344) 
Changes in estimates related to prior years  (382)  913 
Effect of change in US tax rate on deferred tax assets  -  (35,480) 
Total income tax expense reported in profit or loss  (9,461)  (44,632) 
b) Current tax assets and liabilities
Consolidated US$’000 
2019  2018 
Current tax assets  -  2 
Current tax liabilities  (6)  - 
Current tax assets and liabilities represent the amount of income 
taxes receivable or payable to the relevant tax authority, using 
rates current at reporting date.  
  Annual Report 2019 | Financial Statements 
53 
Financial 
statements
Notes to the financial statements 
For the year ended 30 June 2019 
Income tax (continued) 
c) Deferred tax assets
Deferred tax is recognised in respect of temporary differences  In determining the amount of current and deferred tax, the Group 
between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial  takes into account the impact of uncertain tax positions and 
reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes.  whether additional taxes and interest may be due. This 
Deferred tax is not recognised for temporary differences related to  assessment relies on estimates and assumptions and may involve 
investments in wholly-owned subsidiaries to the extent that it is  interpretations of tax law and judgements about future events. New 
probable that they will not reverse in the foreseeable future.  information may become available that causes the Group to 
Deferred tax is measured at the tax rates that are expected to be  change its judgement regarding the calculation of tax balances, 
applied to temporary differences when they reverse, based on the  and such changes will impact the profit or loss in the period that 
laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by reporting  such a determination is made.  
date.  A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is 
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset if there is a legally  probable that future taxable profits will be available against which 
enforceable right to offset, and they relate to income taxes levied  the asset can be utilised. Deferred tax assets are reduced to the 
by the same tax authority on a tax consolidated group of entities. extent that it is no longer probable that the related tax benefit will 
be realised. 
The carrying value of both recognised and unrecognised deferred 
tax assets are reassessed at each reporting date.
Deferred tax assets – US Group 
Deferred tax assets have been recognised in respect of the following items: 
Consolidated US$’000 
2019  2018 
Carried forward tax losses  30,647  27,582 
Goodwill and intangible assets  20,635  30,400 
Employee benefits  20  2,597 
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss  (269)  217 
Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income  (658)  (754) 
Other items  2,209  1,836 
52,584  61,878 
As at 30 June 2019 it is considered more likely than not that the  Carried forward tax losses relating to the US Group which existed 
US Group’s carried forward tax losses and deductible temporary  prior to 1 January 2018 have a life of 20 years, and will expire 
differences will be fully recovered.  This position is supported by  during the period from 2029 to 2038.  Any tax losses incurred after 
the current profitability of the US Group which is expected to  1 January 2018 will have an indefinite life. 
continue into the future.  
  Annual Report 2019 | Financial Statements 
54 
Financial 
statements
Notes to the financial statements 
For the year ended 30 June 2019 
Income tax (continued) 
c) Deferred tax assets (continued)
Deferred tax assets – Australian Group
Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of the following items: 
Consolidated US$’000 
2019  2018 
Deductible temporary differences  59,262  62,456 
Tax losses  3,370  3,704 
62,632  66,160 
Unrecognised deferred tax assets relating to the Australian Group  $59,262 thousand (30 June 2018: $62,456 thousand) of the 
consist of deductible temporary differences (including impairment  deductible temporary differences not recognised relate to an 
losses recognised in previous financial years), and carried forward  impairment write-down taken during the year ended 30 June 2009 
operating tax losses.  on the carrying value of the Lighthouse Group. The movement in 
this balance relates to foreign currency movements only. The 
As at 30 June 2019, it is not probable that the Australian Group will 
realisation of this tax asset is subject to the application of relevant 
produce sufficient taxable profits against which these deferred tax 
tax legislation and the structure of any future business transactions 
assets can be utilised and therefore the deferred tax assets remain 
in relation to the Lighthouse Group, if and when any such 
unrecognised.
transaction was to occur.  
Tax losses relating to the Australian Group and deductible 
temporary differences do not expire under current tax legislation.
  Annual Report 2019 | Financial Statements 
55 
Financial 
statements
Notes to the financial statements 
For the year ended 30 June 2019 
Dividends 
a) Dividends paid
The following dividends were paid by the Company: 
Consolidated US$’000 
2019  2018 
Interim ordinary dividend for the year ended 30 June 2019 of USD 8.0 cents  12,741  - 
Final ordinary dividend for the year ended 30 June 2018 of USD 9.0 cents   14,710  - 
Interim ordinary dividend for the year ended 30 June 2018 of USD 7.0 cents  - 11,348
Final ordinary dividend for the year ended 30 June 2017 of USD 8.0 cents   - 13,042
27,451  24,390 
The Directors have determined a final unfranked dividend of 9.0  The aggregate amount of the proposed dividend will be paid out of 
cents per share (with 100% conduit foreign income credits).  The  the balance of the parent entity profits reserve as at 30 June 2019. 
dividend will be paid on 30 August 2019. 
The dividends were not determined or provided for as at 30 June 
2019, and there are no income tax consequences. 
b) Dividend franking account
Consolidated US$’000 
2019  2018 
Amount of franking credits available to shareholders of Navigator Global Investments Limited 
722  761 
for subsequent financial years 
Dividends paid and declared during the 2019 financial year have 
been unfranked. The movement in the franking account balance 
relates to foreign currency movements only. 
  Annual Report 2019 | Financial Statements 
56 
Financial 
 
statements
 
Notes to the financial statements 
For the year ended 30 June 2019 
 
  Earnings per share 
  Consolidated US$’000 
  2019  2018 
Basic earnings per share  16.55  (8.05) 
Diluted earnings per share  16.55  (8.05) 
 
Reconciliation of earnings used in calculating earnings per share 
Basic and diluted earnings per share 
  Consolidated US$’000 
  2019  2018 
Profit / (loss) attributable to ordinary equity holders of the Company used in 
26,843  (13,056) 
calculating basic and diluted earnings per share 
 
Weighted average number of shares used in calculating basic and diluted earnings per share 
  ’000 shares 
    2019  2018 
Issued ordinary shares at 1 July  16  162,148  162,148 
Weighted average number of ordinary shares used in calculating basic, 
  162,148  162,148 
diluted and underlying earnings per share 
 
The Company did not have any potential ordinary shares 
outstanding at balance date.  The weighted average number of 
shares used in calculating basic and diluted earnings per share are 
therefore the same. 
 
    Annual Report 2019 | Financial Statements 
57 
Financial 
 
statements
 
Notes to the financial statements 
For the year ended 30 June 2019 
 
Operating assets and liabilities 
This section of the notes to the financial statements provides information on the operating assets and liabilities of the Navigator Global 
Investments Limited Group, including explanations of the Group’s key assets used to generate operating results and the corresponding 
liabilities. Information on other assets and liabilities can be found in the following sections: 
  Section 1 – Cash; Deferred tax assets 
  Section 3 – Capital and reserves 
Where an accounting policy or key estimate is specific to a single note, the policy or estimate is described in the note to which it relates. 
 
  Trade and other receivables 
  Consolidated US$’000 
  2019  2018 
Trade receivables from contracts with customers  18,733  13,800 
Other receivables and prepayments  690  828 
  19,423  14,628 
Trade receivables from contracts with customers  Other receivables and prepayments 
Trade receivables due from contracts with customers comprise  Other receivables and prepayments relate to items such as 
management service fees, performance fees, recoverable costs,  prepaid expenses (principally in relation to insurance policies), 
licence fees, outgoings and other operating expenses on-charged  short-term deposits, interest receivable on cash deposits, and 
under agreements with external parties to licence office space.   pending redemptions from investments in Group managed 
products. 
Trade receivables are non-interest bearing and are generally on  
30 to 90 day terms. Trade receivables are initially recognised at  The carrying amount of these assets is a reasonable 
fair value, being the amount to which the Group has the right to  approximation of fair value. The Group’s exposure to credit risk, 
invoice for the period for the services or recoverable costs  currency risk and impairment losses related to trade and other 
provided.    receivables is disclosed in note 17. 
Due to the short-term nature of the Group’s trade receivables and   
the historically low default rate on payment by customers, there is 
 
no credit allowance against trade receivables as at 30 June 2019 
or 30 June 2018.  In determining this credit allowance, the Group 
has considered forward looking factors specific to the receivables 
and the economic environment. 
    Annual Report 2019 | Financial Statements 
58 
Financial 
 
statements
 
Notes to the financial statements 
For the year ended 30 June 2019 
 
  Investments recognised at fair value 
  Consolidated US$’000 
  2019  2018 
Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income  5,288  5,638 
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss  12,665  10,821 
  17,953  16,459 
Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income
Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income   
comprise non-controlling equity holdings in unquoted securities of 
US based companies over which the Group does not have 
significant influence. 
The Group has elected to account for these investments at fair 
value with changes to fair value recognised through other 
comprehensive income in the fair value reserve.  Upon sale or 
derecognition of these investments, any gain or loss will be 
transferred to retained earnings.  
Note 17 provides details on the methods used to determine fair 
value for measurement and disclosure purposes.
 
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 
These assets have been classified as fair value through profit or 
loss upon initial recognition with changes in fair value recognised 
in profit or loss. Note 17 provides details on the methods used to 
determine fair value for measurement and disclosure purposes. 
 
    Annual Report 2019 | Financial Statements 
59 
Financial 
statements
Notes to the financial statements 
For the year ended 30 June 2019 
Plant and equipment 
Consolidated US$’000 
Computer 
Furniture &  Leasehold 
equipment &  Total 
equipment  improvements 
software 
Cost 
Balance at 1 July 2017  1,261  2,550  1,194  5,005 
Additions  586  914  668  2,168 
Disposals  -  (5)  (282)  (287) 
Balance at 30 June and 1 July 2018  1,847  3,459  1,580  6,886 
Additions  695  848  1,572  3,115 
Disposals  -  (41)  -  (41) 
Balance at 30 June 2019  2,542  4,266  3,152  9,960 
Depreciation 
Balance at 1 July 2017  (958)  (2,215)  (674)  (3,847) 
Depreciation for the year  (110)  (367)  (157)  (634) 
Disposals  -  -  283  283 
Balance at 30 June and 1 July 2018  (1,068)  (2,582)  (548)  (4,198) 
Depreciation for the year  (150)  (568)  (257)  (975) 
Disposals  -  4  -  4 
Balance at 30 June 2019  (1,218)  (3,146)  (805)  (5,169) 
Carrying amounts 
At 1 July 2017  303  335  520  1,158 
At 30 June and 1 July 2018  779  877  1,032  2,688 
As at 30 June 2019  1,324  1,121  2,347  4,791 
Recognition and measurement  Depreciation 
Items of plant and equipment are measured at cost less  Depreciation is recognised in the profit or loss on a straight-line 
accumulated depreciation and impairment.    basis over the estimated useful life of the asset as follows: 
Cost includes expenditures that are directly attributable to the  Leasehold improvements:   Lease term 
acquisition of the asset.  Purchased software that is integral to the 
Computer software and equipment:  2-3 years
functionality of the related equipment is capitalised as part of that 
equipment.  Ongoing repairs and maintenance is expensed as  Furniture and equipment:   5-20 years
incurred. 
The residual value, the useful life and the depreciation method 
An item of plant and equipment is derecognised upon disposal or 
when no further future economic benefits are expected from its  applied to an asset are reassessed at least annually.  The carrying 
use. Gains and losses on disposal of an item are determined by  value of plant and equipment is reviewed for impairment when 
comparing the proceeds from disposal with the carrying amount,  events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value 
and are recognised in profit and loss.  may not be recoverable.
  Annual Report 2019 | Financial Statements 
60 
Financial 
 
statements
 
Notes to the financial statements 
For the year ended 30 June 2019 
 
  Intangible assets 
Consolidated US$’000 
 
Client 
  Goodwill  Trademarks  Software  Total 
relationships 
 
Cost         
Balance at 1 July 2017  499,519  1,900  2,050  -  503,469 
Balance at 30 June and 1 July 2018  499,519  1,900  2,050  -  503,469 
Additions  -  -  -  1,077  1,077 
Balance at 30 June 2019  499,519  1,900  2,050  1,077  504,546 
           
Amortisation and impairment losses           
Balance at 1 July 2017  (405,718)  (903)  (1,425)  -  (408,046) 
Amortisation for the year  -  (95)  (250)  -  (345) 
Balance at 30 June and 1 July 2018  (405,718)  (998)  (1,675)  -  (408,391) 
Amortisation for the year  -  (95)  (250)  (154)  (499) 
Balance at 30 June 2019  (405,718)  (1,093)  (1,925)  (154)  (408,890) 
           
Carrying amounts           
At 1 July 2017  93,801  997  625  -  95,423 
At 30 June and 1 July 2018  93,801  902  375  -  95,078 
At 30 June 2019  93,801  807  125  923  95,656 
 
Intangible assets   
Goodwill  Client relationships 
Goodwill that arises upon the acquisition of subsidiaries is included  The Group’s United States subsidiary, Lighthouse Investment 
in intangible assets. For the Group’s accounting policy relating to  Partners, LLC (Lighthouse) acquired the rights to manage $5.4 
the measurement of goodwill at initial recognition, see note 29.  billion of assets on behalf of clients from Mesirow Advanced 
Strategies (MAS) on 1 July 2018.  The transaction was completed 
Following initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any 
in accordance with a formal agreement with MAS whereby 
accumulated impairment losses 
Lighthouse acquired the contractual rights to act as investment 
Other intangible assets  manager of these assets, along with some de minimus intellectual 
property, tangible property and prepayments. Lighthouse also 
Other intangible assets acquired by the Group, which have finite 
made employment offers to 56 of the MAS staff, and these staff 
lives, are measured at cost less accumulated amortisation and 
commenced as Lighthouse employees on 1 July 2018. 
accumulated impairment losses. 
 
    Annual Report 2019 | Financial Statements 
61 
Financial 
 
statements
 
Notes to the financial statements 
For the year ended 30 June 2019 
 
12.  Intangible assets (continued)
Client relationships (continued)    As the transaction is accounted for as an asset acquisition, no 
goodwill or bargain from a purchase has been recognised.  
Purchase consideration 
Intangible client relationships of $1,077 thousand were recognised 
The key terms of the purchase consideration are: 
in the statement of financial position on 1 July 2018.  The client 
  The purchase consideration is a contingent consideration  relationships will be amortised on a straight-line basis over 7 
arrangement. The contingent consideration that may be paid  years. 
in the future will be determined under earnout payment terms 
Amortisation 
over seven years, calculated as an agreed percentage of 
EBITDA generated by the transitioned assets above a floor  Except for goodwill, intangible assets are amortised on a straight-
amount:  line basis in profit or loss over their estimated useful lives, from the 
date that they are available for use.  The estimated useful lives for 
-  The earnout calculation for the first 12 months ending 30 
the current and comparative periods are as follows: 
June 2019 has not been agreed with the vendor as at 
the date of this report.  However, the Group estimates  Trademarks        20 years 
that any earnout amount payable for this period will be  Client relationships      7 years 
nominal or nil.  Capitalised software development costs  5 years 
-  There is inherent uncertainty in being able to reasonably  Amortisation methods, useful lives and residual values are 
estimate the contingent consideration. Based on the  reviewed at each reporting date and adjusted if appropriate. 
earnout calculation for the first year and our assessment 
Impairment testing of intangible assets 
that it is unlikely there will be future earnout payments 
over the remaining six years of the earnout period, the 
The carrying amounts of the Group’s intangible assets which have 
Group has not recognised any liability for future  an indefinite life are reviewed at least annually, or when an 
contingent consideration as at 30 June 2019.  impairment indicator exists.  
  Under the agreement, there was no upfront consideration at  The carrying amount of the Group’s other intangible assets are 
acquisition date, other than $343 thousand paid for  reviewed when an impairment indicator exists. 
transferred prepaid operating expenses.  The Group also 
An impairment loss is recognised if the carrying amount of an 
incurred $1,088 thousand of transaction costs. 
asset or its related cash-generating unit (CGU) exceeds its 
  The transaction did not require an issue of equity by the  estimated recoverable amount. 
Group or for the Group to obtain debt funding. 
The recoverable amount of an asset or CGU is the greater of its 
Accounting treatment  value in use and its fair value less costs to sell. In assessing value 
in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their 
The Group engaged Grant Thornton, LLP (US) to determine the  present value using a discount rate that reflects current market 
fair value of assets acquired in the transaction.  Based on these  assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to 
valuations, the Group has assessed that substantially all of the fair  the asset or CGU. For the purpose of impairment testing, assets 
value of the assets acquired in the transaction relate to the  are grouped together into the smallest group of assets that 
intangible client relationships.  The Group has early adopted  generates cash inflows from continuing use that are largely 
recent changes to AASB 3 Business combinations. Under these  independent of the cash inflows of other assets or CGU. 
amendments to the standard, as the fair value of all the acquired 
Impairment losses are recognised in profit or loss. An impairment 
assets and liabilities is concentrated in a group of similar assets, 
loss recognised in respect of a CGU is allocated first to reduce the 
namely the intangible client relationships, the Group has 
carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the CGU and then to 
determined that the transaction should be accounted for as an 
reduce the carrying amount of the other assets in the CGU on a 
asset acquisition rather than a business combination. 
pro-rata basis. 
  The total purchase price for the transaction is $1,431 
An impairment loss in respect of goodwill is not reversed. In 
thousand. 
respect of other assets, an impairment loss is reversed only to the 
  Prepaid operating expenses assumed under the transaction  extent that the asset's carrying amount does not exceed the 
carrying amount that would have been determined, net of 
are recognised at their fair value of $343 thousand, whilst the 
depreciation and amortisation, if no impairment loss had been 
remaining assets are recognised at their relative fair value as 
recognised. 
a proportion of the remaining purchase price. 
    Annual Report 2019 | Financial Statements 
62 
Financial 
statements
Notes to the financial statements 
For the year ended 30 June 2019 
12. Intangible assets (continued)
Impairment testing as at 30 June 
Cash generating units 
For the purpose of impairment testing, intangible assets are  Key assumptions used in the calculation are discount rates, 
allocated to either the Lighthouse cash generating unit (Lighthouse  terminal value growth rates, and the EBITDA growth rate: 
CGU) or the MAS cash generating unit (MAS CGU). 
Key assumption  2019  2018 
Lighthouse CGU 
Discount rate  15.6%  15.6% 
Consolidated US$’000  Terminal value growth rate  3.7%  3.7% 
Carrying Amount 
Forecast EBITDA growth rate 
7%  6% 
2019  2018  (average next 5 years) 
Goodwill  93,801  93,801 
The discount rate is a post-tax measure calculated based on US 
Trademarks  807  902  risk factors as well as other risk factors specific to the industry and 
operational nature of the business, including an assumed debt 
Software  125  375  leveraging of 10% (2018: 10%) at a market interest rate of 4.72% 
(2018: 4.72%). 
94,733  95,078 
The terminal growth rate is based on the forecast long-term growth 
rate for Open-End Investment Funds in the United States. 
The carrying value of the CGU tested at 30 June 2019 includes  A reasonably possible change in these assumptions would not 
$4,775 thousand of directly attributable plant and equipment  result in an implied impairment of this CGU. 
(2018: $2,675 thousand).    
MAS CGU 
Impairment testing carried out on the Lighthouse CGU as at 30 
June 2018 and 30 June 2019 did not result in the recognition of  Consolidated US$’000 
any impairment losses.  Carrying Amount 
The recoverable amount of the CGU was determined based on a  2019  2018 
value-in-use calculation. 
Client relationships  923  - 
The calculation utilises five years of cash flow projections. The first 
three years of these projections are based on financial forecasts  923  - 
approved by the board of directors, which are then extrapolated 
over an additional two years.  
There were no material indicators of impairment of the MAS CGU 
Revenue for the additional two years is extrapolated using an 
as at 30 June 2019. 
industry long term growth rate. Investment management costs and 
operating expenses are extrapolated based on ratios consistent 
with the third year of the approved financial forecasts 
  Annual Report 2019 | Financial Statements 
63 
Financial 
statements
Notes to the financial statements 
For the year ended 30 June 2019 
Trade and other payables 
Consolidated US$’000 
2019  2018 
Current 
Trade creditors  160  75 
Deferred rent liability  108  122 
Other creditors and accruals  3,075  3,129 
3,343  3,326 
Non-current 
Deferred rent liability  2,637  1,052 
Other long-term liabilities  50  - 
2,687  1,052 
Trade creditors are non-interest bearing and normally settle on  Other creditors and accruals relate to items such as accrued 
30 to 90 day terms.  distribution costs, accrued operating expenses, and product costs 
and expenses. 
Deferred rent relates to operating leases for office space. 
Payments made under operating leases are charged to profit or  The carrying amount of these liabilities is a reasonable 
loss on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease.  Lease  approximation of fair value. The Group’s exposure to currency and 
incentives received are recognised as an integral part of the total  liquidity risk related to trade and other payables is disclosed in 
lease expense, over the term of the lease. Current deferred rent  note 17.
represents the amount to be recognised within 12 months of 
reporting date. Non-current deferred rent represents the amount to 
be recognised more than 12 months from reporting date. 
  Annual Report 2019 | Financial Statements 
64 
Financial 
 
statements
 
Notes to the financial statements 
For the year ended 30 June 2019 
 
  Employee benefits 
  Consolidated US$’000 
  2019  2018 
Current     
Short-term incentives  470  11,680 
Liability for annual leave  130  105 
  600  11,785 
Non-current     
Liability for long service leave  102  108 
 
Short-term benefits  Long-term benefits 
Short-term employee benefit obligations are expensed as the  The Group’s obligation in relation to long-term employee benefits 
related service is provided. A liability is recognised for the amount  is the amount of future benefits that employees have earned in 
expected to be paid under short-term cash bonus or profit-sharing  return for their service in the current and prior periods. That benefit 
plans if the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation to  is discounted to determine its present value. The discount rate 
pay this amount as a result of past service provided by the  used is the relevant corporate bond rate at reporting date. 
employee, and the obligation can be measured reliably. These 
liabilities are not discounted. 
During the year ended 30 June 2019, the Group changed the 
bonus cycle for US employees from being determined on a 
calendar year basis to being determined on a financial year basis.  
To effect the change, employees received an additional bonus 
payment in June 2019 in relation to their performance for the 6 
months ended on that date.  This change is reflected in the 
reduction to the current liability for short-term incentives. 
    Annual Report 2019 | Financial Statements 
65 
Financial 
statements
Notes to the financial statements 
For the year ended 30 June 2019 
Capital and risk 
This section of the notes to the financial statements provides information on how Navigator Global Investments Limited manages its capital and 
financial risk. On the following pages you will find disclosures explaining the Group’s: 
• capital management, including structure, policies, and related accounts balances; and
• exposure to financial risks, including market risks, credit risk, liquidity risk, and the risk arising from financial instruments.
Where an accounting policy or key estimate is specific to a single note, the policy or estimate is described in the note to which it relates. 
Capital management 
Capital management of the Group focuses on aiming to ensure:  Line of Credit 
 that the Group continues as a going concern;
The Group has in place a $15 million Line of Credit with an expiry 
 there is sufficient cash flow to meet operating
date of 27 July 2020.  The facility is secured by a charge over 
requirements;
certain of the Group’s assets.  This Line of Credit has not been 
 flexibility is maintained for future business expansion;
drawn during the year ended 30 June 2019 and remains undrawn 
and
at the date of this report. 
 that the payment of dividends is supported in
accordance with the Group’s dividend policy.
As at 30 June 2019 and 30 June 2018, the Company’s capital  Regulatory Capital Requirements 
comprises ordinary shares on issue. 
In accordance with the requirements of the Central Bank of 
Ireland, wholly-owned subsidiary LHP Ireland Fund Management 
Limited must maintain a prescribed capital amount, determined as 
a base requirement of 125 thousand Euros plus .02% of excess 
over 250 million Euros in assets under management, plus an 
additional .01% of the assets under management for potential 
liability risk.  This requirement was complied with throughout the 
year.
Capital and reserves 
a) Ordinary shares on issue
Shares ‘000 
2019  2018 
Ordinary shares on issue as at 30 June  162,148  162,148 
Ordinary shares are classified as equity. Incremental costs directly 
attributable to the issue of ordinary shares and share options are 
recognised as a deduction from equity, net of any tax effects. The 
Company does not have authorised capital or par value in respect 
of issued shares. All ordinary shares rank equally with regard to 
the Company’s residual assets. Ordinary shares have the right to 
receive dividends as declared and are entitled to one vote per 
share at general meetings of the Company. 
  Annual Report 2019 | Financial Statements 
66 
Financial 
statements
Notes to the financial statements 
For the year ended 30 June 2019 
16. Capital and reserves (continued)
b) Nature and purpose of reserves
Consolidated US$’000 
2019  2018 
Parent entity profits reserve  16,918  14,911 
Translation reserve  850  850 
Fair value reserve  2,025  2,281 
Share-based payments reserve  13,326  13,326 
33,119  31,368 
The fair value reserve comprises of the increase in the fair value of 
The parent entity profits reserve comprises the balance of 
financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income 
accumulated profit for the Company not yet distributed as 
above their original purchase value.   
dividends and represents profits available for distribution to 
shareholders as dividends in future years.   The share-based payments reserve records share based 
payments associated with historical performance rights and share 
The translation reserve is used to record foreign currency 
options.
differences arising from the translation of the financial statements 
of operations which have a functional currency that is different to 
the Group’s presentation currency. 
  Financial risk management 
Classes of financial instruments 
Definitions 
During the years ended 30 June 2018 and 2019, the Group held the following non-derivative financial assets and liabilities: 
Classification  Description  Note 
Financial assets at amortised  The carrying amount of these assets is a reasonable approximation of fair value 
cost 
 Cash 5 
 Trade and other receivables 9 
Other financial liabilities at  The carrying amount of these assets is a reasonable approximation of fair value 
amortised cost 
 Trade and other payables 13 
Financial assets at fair value   Investments in unquoted securities of Group managed entities 10 
through profit or loss 
Financial assets at fair value   Non-controlling equity holdings in US based companies over which the Group 10 
through other comprehensive  does not have significant influence.  Fair value movements in these assets are
income  recognised through other comprehensive income.
  Annual Report 2019 | Financial Statements 
67 
Financial 
 
statements
 
Notes to the financial statements 
For the year ended 30 June 2019 
 
17.  Financial risk management (continued)
Derecognition of financial instruments  Offset of financial instruments 
The Group derecognises a financial asset when the contractual  Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount 
rights to the cash flows from the asset expire, or it transfers the  reported in the statement of financial position if there is a currently 
rights to receive the contractual cash flows on the financial asset in  enforceable legal right to offset the recognised amounts and there 
a transaction in which control, or substantially all the risks and  is an intention to either to settle on a net basis or to realise the 
rewards of ownership are transferred.   asset and settle the liability simultaneously. 
The Group derecognises a financial liability when its obligations 
under the liability is discharged or cancelled or expire. 
Fair value of financial instruments  
Fair value hierarchy 
The Group classifies fair value measurements using a fair value hierarchy that reflects the subjectivity of the inputs used in making the 
measurements.  The different levels of fair value hierarchy are: 
  Level 1: quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities 
  Level 2:  inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly (i.e. as prices) or 
indirectly (i.e. derived from prices) 
  Level 3:  inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data. 
Fair value measurements 
The following table shows the fair values of financial assets and their levels in the fair value hierarchy.  
  Note  Level 1  Level 2  Level 3  Total 
    30 June 2018 
Financial assets at fair value through other 
         
comprehensive income 
Investment in unquoted securities of 
10   -  -  5,638  5,638 
externally managed entities 
Financial assets at fair value through profit 
         
or loss 
Investments in unquoted securities of Group 
10  -  10,821  -  10,821 
managed entities 
    30 June 2019 
Financial assets at fair value through other 
         
comprehensive income 
Investment in unquoted securities of 
10  -  -  5,288  5,288 
externally managed entities 
Financial assets at fair value through profit 
  -  -  -  - 
or loss 
Investments in unquoted securities of Group 
10  -  12,665  -  12,665 
managed entities 
 
There were no transfers between levels during the financial years ended 30 June 2019 or 30 June 2018. 
    Annual Report 2019 | Financial Statements 
68 
Financial 
 
statements
 
Notes to the financial statements 
For the year ended 30 June 2019 
 
17.  Financial risk management (continued) 
Valuation techniques used to derive level 2 and level 3 fair values
The fair value of financial instruments that are not in an active  Boutique asset manager 
market are determined using valuation techniques.  These 
The fair value of this investment has been determined with 
valuation techniques maximise the use of observable market data 
reference to publicly available current industry valuation data. 
where it is available.  If the significant inputs required to fair value 
an instrument are observable, the instrument is included in level 2.   The carrying amount has been based on an enterprise value 
If one or more of the significant inputs is not based on observable  calculated as 3.3% of AUM, with a 20% liquidity/marketability 
market data, the instrument is included in level 3, as is the case for  discount to take into account the unlisted nature of this investment. 
unlisted equity securities. 
A 10% increase (decrease) in the AUM multiple would result in an 
Specific valuation techniques used to value level 2 and level 3  increase (decrease) in fair value of $380 thousand. 
financial instruments include: 
A 5% change in the liquidity/marketability discount would result in 
Share in unquoted securities of Group managed entities   an increase/(decrease) in fair value of $237 thousand. 
The Group holds investments in Group managed entities.  Each  Text analytics platform provider 
investment entity has an external administrator who is responsible 
for determining the fair value of the underlying investments of each  The fair value of this investment is based on the transaction price 
entity and using this to calculate the net asset value per share at  per share of additional capital issued by the entity as part of a 
which any investor in the entity can redeem their investment  Series B capital raising which was completed in March 2019. 
holding (‘the exit price’).  The fair value of these investments as at  A 10% increase (decrease) in the transaction price would result in 
30 June 2019 and 30 June 2018 is the exit price as calculated and 
an increase (decrease) in fair value of $148 thousand. 
provided by the external administrator of the investment entities.  
All significant inputs required to fair value the investments are  Operator of an online marketplace for alternative investments 
therefore observable. 
Due to significant uncertainty as to the on-going viability of this 
Unquoted securities of externally managed entities  investment, the board has impaired the carrying value of this 
investment to nil. 
The shares held in other externally managed entities are unquoted 
and are considered level 3 as the inputs to the fair value are not 
based on observable market prices. 
Movement in Level 3 assets 
The following table presents the change in Level 3 assets for the financial years ended 30 June 2019 and 30 June 2018: 
   
Investment in 
  Note 
unquoted securities 
Opening balance 30 June 2017    5,005 
Increase in fair value through other comprehensive income    633 
Closing balance 30 June 2018  10  5,638 
Decrease in fair value through other comprehensive income    (350) 
Closing balance 30 June 2019  10  5,288 
There were no transfers in or out of Level 3 during the financial year ended 30 June 2019.
    Annual Report 2019 | Financial Statements 
69 
Financial 
 
statements
 
Notes to the financial statements 
For the year ended 30 June 2019 
 
17.  Financial risk management (continued)
Financial Risk Management  Interest rate risk 
As at 30 June 2019, the Group’s exposure to interest rate risk 
The Group has direct and indirect exposure to credit risk, liquidity 
relates primarily to the Group’s cash and term deposits which 
risk and market risk (including currency risk, interest rate risk and 
mature in less than 90 days. 
equity price risk) arising from its activities. 
A change in interest rates at reporting date would not have 
These risks can impact the Group’s net profit and total equity value 
impacted the carrying value of the Group's variable rate deposits, 
through: 
and would therefore not have impacted the Group's equity or profit 
  fluctuations in the value of the Group’s investments and other  or loss. 
financial assets and liabilities; 
Currency risk 
  the effect of market risks on the Group’s Assets Under 
Management (AUM), which can impact management and  The Group is exposed to currency risk on revenue, expenses, 
performance fees; and  receivables and payables that are denominated in a currency other 
than the respective functional currencies of the Group entities. The 
  the amount of interest earned on the Group’s cash balances.  following significant exchange rates applied during the year: 
 
Credit risk 
  2019  2018 
Credit risk is the risk of financial loss to the Group if a customer or 
counterparty to a financial instrument fails to meet its contractual  AUD/USD: Average rate  0.7156  0.7753 
obligations, and arises principally from the Group’s cash deposits 
AUD/USD: 30 June spot rate  0.7013  0.7391 
and receivables. The carrying amount of these financial assets 
represents the Group’s maximum credit risk exposure.  
At reporting date, the Group’s direct exposure to currency risk 
Cash and lease guarantee deposits  
relates to: 
Cash and lease guarantee deposits held in Australia are held with 
  AUD denominated balances recognised by Navigator Global 
bank counterparties which are rated A-1+ (Standard & Poor’s). 
Investments Limited which has a functional currency of USD. 
Cash and lease guarantee deposits held in the United States are  Due to Navigator Global Investments Limited’s position as the 
held in deposit accounts which are rated A-2 (Standard & Poor’s).  parent entity of the Australian listed group, it retains a number 
of working capital balances denominated in AUD which 
Trade and other receivables 
include cash, current receivables, current trade and other 
At reporting date, 79% of the Group's trade and other receivables  payables and employee benefits.   
related to amounts receivable from products managed by the 
Group (2018: 87%).     AUD denominated balances recognised by the Lighthouse 
Group which has a functional currency of USD. These 
As at reporting date, the Group did not have any receivables which  balances comprise of trade receivables due from a third party 
were past due. Due to the short-term nature of the Group’s trade  for management and performance fees on funds for which 
receivables, the fact that the majority relate to Group managed  Lighthouse performs investment services.  
products, and the historically low default rates, the application of 
the expected credit loss model has not resulted in the recording of  The following table summarises the sensitivity of the balance of 
a material credit allowance as at 30 June 2019 or 30 June 2018.   financial instruments held at reporting date to movement in the 
In determining this credit allowance, the Group has considered  AUD/USD exchange rate, with all other variables held constant. 
forward looking factors specific to the receivables and the    
economic environment. 
  Consolidated US$’000 
Market risk  
  2019  2018 
Market risk is the risk that changes in market prices, such as 
AUD/USD:  appreciation of 10%, 
interest rates, foreign exchange rates and equity prices will affect  61  51 
net of tax 
the Group’s income or the value of its holdings of financial 
instruments.  AUD/USD:  depreciation of 10%, 
(61)  (51) 
net of tax 
 
    Annual Report 2019 | Financial Statements 
70 
Financial 
 
statements
 
Notes to the financial statements 
For the year ended 30 June 2019 
 
17.  Financial risk management (continued)
Price risk 
 
The Group is exposed to price risk in relation to the value of its  Management fees 
investments, and indirectly through the impacts on management 
The Group earns management fees as a percentage of the assets 
and performance fees earned from the fluctuations in the value of 
it manages on behalf of its funds and clients.  Management fees 
the AUM in the investment products it manages due to market 
will be impacted by changes in the value of these assets from 
price movements. 
movements in the individual prices of the underlying securities held 
 
as well as the fluctuations in exchange rates for assets which are 
Investments 
not denominated in USD. 
The Group’s investments comprise:   
The following table summarises the sensitivity of management 
  financial assets at fair value through profit or loss, which are 
fees to a change in AUM due to movements in market prices: 
comprised of investments in the unquoted securities of 
investment funds    Consolidated US$’000 
  financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive    2019  2018 
income which are comprised of investments in the unquoted 
Profit or loss (decrease) / 
securities of US based companies.  increase     
The following table summarises the sensitivity of the fair value  Fair value + 5%, net of tax  3,896  2,550 
(after tax) of these assets to movements in market prices: 
Fair value  - 5%, net of tax  (3,896)  (2,550) 
  Consolidated US$’000 
The impact of any change to management fees due to changes in 
  2019  2018 
AUM from inflows and outflows of assets by clients due to changes 
Profit or loss (decrease) /  in market prices has not been estimated. 
   
increase 
Performance fees 
Fair value + 5%, net of tax  468  384 
The Group earns performance fees from some of its funds and 
Fair value  - 5%, net of tax  (468)  (384)  clients.  The Group’s entitlement to performance fees varies 
between the relevant funds and clients, and generally is dependent 
Equity (decrease) / increase      on the relevant fund or client portfolio outperforming a high 
Fair value + 5%, net of tax  195  200  watermark and in some cases a benchmark hurdle over a 
performance period.  Given the nature of performance fees, the 
Fair value  - 5%, net of tax  (195)  (200)  Group is subject to the risk that in any given financial year it may 
  earn no performance fees. 
 
    Annual Report 2019 | Financial Statements 
71 
Financial 
statements
Notes to the financial statements 
For the year ended 30 June 2019 
17. Financial risk management (continued)
Liquidity risk 
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will encounter difficulty in  The Group maintains 12 month rolling forecasts, which assist it in 
meeting the obligations associated with its financial liabilities that  monitoring cash flow requirements. The Group ensures that it has 
are settled by delivering cash or another financial asset. The  sufficient cash on demand to meet operational requirements. The 
Group’s approach to managing liquidity is to ensure, as far as  Group also has access to a $15 million line of credit (refer Note 
possible, that it has sufficient resources available to meet its  15).  This approach excludes the potential impact of extreme 
liabilities when due, under both normal and stressed conditions,  circumstances which cannot be predicted. 
without incurring unacceptable losses or risking damage to the 
Group’s reputation. 
The following are the contractual maturities of non-derivative financial liabilities as at balance date: 
Consolidated US$’000 
Cont-
Carrying  6 months  6-12 More than 
Note  ractual  1-2 years 2-5 years
value  or less  months  5 years 
cash flows 
30 June 2019 
Trade and other payables - 
13  3,235  (3,235)  (3,235)  -  -  -  - 
current 
Trade and other payables – 
13  50  (50)  -  -  -  (50)  - 
non-current 
3,285  (3,285)  (3,235)  -  -  (50)  - 
30 June 2018 
Trade and other payables – 
13  3,204  (3,204)  (3,204)  -  -  -  - 
current 
Trade and other payables 
It is not expected that the cash flows included in the maturity 
analysis for these liabilities could occur significantly earlier, or at 
significantly different amounts. 
  Annual Report 2019 | Financial Statements 
72 
Financial 
 
statements
 
Notes to the financial statements 
For the year ended 30 June 2019 
 
Group structure 
This section of the notes to the financial statements outlines how the Navigator Global Investments Limited’s group structure affects the financial 
position and performance of the Group as a whole. On the following pages you will find disclosures explaining the Group’s composition and key 
parent entity disclosures. 
Where an accounting policy or key estimate is specific to a single note, the policy or estimate is described in the note to which it relates. 
  Group entities 
The Group’s consolidated financial statements include the financial statements of Navigator Global Investments Limited and its subsidiaries: 
Name  Country of incorporation  % Equity interest 
    2019  2018 
HFA Lighthouse Holdings Corp  United States  100  100 
HFA Lighthouse Corp  United States  100  100 
LHP Investments, LLC  United States  100  100 
Lighthouse Investment Partners, LLC  United States  100  100 
Lighthouse Partners NY, LLC  United States  100  100 
Lighthouse Partners UK, LLC  United States  100  100 
North Rock Capital Management LLC  United States  100  100 
Lighthouse Partners Limited (HK)  Hong Kong  100  100 
LHP Ireland Fund Management Limited  Ireland  100  100 
LDO 906 Limited  Cayman Islands  100  100 
MSW Director Services Limited1  Cayman Islands  100  - 
1  This entity was acquired as part of the transfer of client relationships in the MAS transaction on 1 July 2018. 
 
Basis of consolidation   
The consolidated financial statements are those of the Group,  Business combinations 
comprising Navigator Global Investments Limited and all entities 
The purchase method of accounting is used to account for all 
that Navigator Global Investments Limited controlled during the 
business combinations regardless of whether equity instruments or 
period and at reporting date. 
other assets are acquired. Cost is measured as the fair value of 
Control is achieved when the Group is exposed, or has rights, to  the assets given, shares issued, or liabilities incurred or assumed 
variable returns from its involvement in the investee and has the  at the date of exchange.  
power to affect those returns through its power over the investee.  
Consolidation of a subsidiary begins when the Group obtains 
control over the subsidiary and ceases when the Group loses 
control of the subsidiary. The assets, liabilities, income and 
expenses of a subsidiary are included in the consolidated financial 
statements from the date the Group gains control, until the date 
the Group ceases to control the subsidiary.  
All intra-group assets and liabilities, equity, income, expenses and 
cash flows relating to transactions between members of the Group 
are eliminated in full on consolidation.  
    Annual Report 2019 | Financial Statements 
73 
Financial 
statements
Notes to the financial statements 
For the year ended 30 June 2019 
Parent entity disclosures 
As at, and throughout the financial year ended 30 June 2019, the parent company of the Group was Navigator Global Investments Limited. 
Company US$’000 
2019  2018 
Result of the parent entity 
Profit for the year  29,458  26,022 
Total comprehensive income for the year  29,458  26,022 
Financial position of the parent at year end 
Current assets  18,812  16,821 
Total assets  285,825  283,833 
Current liabilities  (175)  (183) 
Total liabilities  (277)  (292) 
Net assets  285,548  283,541 
Total equity of the parent comprising of 
Share capital  257,355  257,355 
Retained earnings  2,397  2,397 
Parent entity profits reserve  16,918  14,911 
Translation reserve  5,070  5,070 
Share based payments reserve  3,808  3,808 
Total equity  285,548  283,541 
  Annual Report 2019 | Financial Statements 
74 
Financial 
 
statements
 
Notes to the financial statements 
For the year ended 30 June 2019 
 
Other disclosures 
This section includes information that the Directors do not consider to be significant in understanding the financial performance and position of 
the Group, but must be disclosed to comply with the Accounting Standards, the Corporations Act 2001 or the Corporations Regulations. 
  Related parties 
Key management personnel remuneration 
The key management personnel remuneration included in ‘employee expense’ (see note 3) is as follows: 
  Consolidated US$ 
  2019  2018 
Short-term employee benefits   6,267,376  5,563,793 
Long-term employee benefits  3,215  3,616 
Post-employment benefits  95,965  94,419 
  6,366,556  5,661,828 
Individual directors’ and executives’  For the years ended 30 June 2019 and 30 June 2018, the Group 
has not recorded a credit allowance relating to amounts owed by 
remuneration disclosure 
related parties. Additional information regarding the Group’s 
assessment of credit risk in relation to related party receivables 
Apart from the details disclosed in this note, no director has 
and investments is disclosed in note 17. 
entered into a material contract with the Group since the end of the 
previous financial year and there were no material contracts 
Equity accounted investee 
involving directors' interests existing at year-end. 
The Group held a 40% interest in a US based limited partnership 
Other related party transactions 
(Casement Capital Management LP) which it transferred to the 
remaining partner in September 2018. As at 30 June 2018, the 
Revenue from group managed products 
directors had assessed the carrying amount of the investment at 
During the financial year Group entities recognised management  $Nil.  
fees, performance fees and fund reimbursement revenue received 
Other 
or receivable of $103,048,954 (2018 restated: $87,875,803) from 
investment products for which group entities act as general  There have been no guarantees provided or received for any 
partner, investment manager or platform service provider.  related party receivables. 
Amounts receivable from these products at 30 June 2019 were 
$15,426,885 (2018: $12,660,017).   
Investment in products 
As at 30 June 2019, Group entities hold $12,665,544 of 
investments in products for which they act as investment manager 
or platform service provider (2018: $10,821,366). Refer note 10 for 
additional detail.  
During the financial year, the Group recognised distributions from 
its investments in these products of $nil (2018: $nil). 
 
 
 
    Annual Report 2019 | Financial Statements 
75 
Financial 
 
statements
 
Notes to the financial statements 
For the year ended 30 June 2019 
 
  Auditors’ remuneration 
  Consolidated US$ 
  2019  2018 
Audit and review services     
EY: Audit and review of financial reports  309,056  245,864 
Audit firms other than EY: Audit and review of financial reports  24,216  66,139 
  333,272  312,003 
Services other than statutory audit     
Audit firms other than EY:  Taxation and other advisory services  35,243  19,903 
  35,243  19,903 
  Commitments  
Operating lease commitments   
Group as lessee  Group as lessor 
The Group has entered into operating leases on office equipment  The Group has entered into an operating sub-lease for one of its 
and premises. These leases have a remaining life of between 2  office premises. The lease has a remaining life of 4 years.  
months and 10 years.  
Future minimum lease payments receivable under this sub-lease 
Future minimum lease payments payable under non-cancellable  as at 30 June are as follows: 
operating leases as at 30 June are as follows: 
  Consolidated US$’000 
  Consolidated US$’000 
  2019  2018 
  2019  2018 
Within one year  201  - 
Within one year  2,635  2,155 
After one year but not more than 
495  - 
After one year but not more than  five years 
9,478  7,712 
five years 
More than five years  -  - 
More than five years  8,658  8,067 
  20,771  17,934    696  - 
 
 
Capital Commitments 
In July 2019, the Group entered into commitments to purchase 
computer equipment totaling $1,925 thousand.  The equipment will 
be utilised in the development of the Group’s proprietary trading 
platform. 
    Annual Report 2019 | Financial Statements 
76 
Financial 
statements
Notes to the financial statements 
For the year ended 30 June 2019 
  Contingent liabilities  
Investment fund related obligations  Sale of Australian business 
The Company’s subsidiary Lighthouse Investment Partners, LLC  The Share Sale Agreement for the sale of Certitude Global 
acts as the Investment Manager for certain private investment  Investments Limited completed on 30 April 2015 included a 
funds under Delaware Law, Cayman Islands Law and Irish  number of representations to, and warranties and indemnities for 
Law.  Due to its role as Investment Manager the subsidiary may be  the benefit of, the purchaser.  These representations, warranties 
subject to contingent liabilities as a result of its obligations to the  and indemnities relate to potential losses arising from the conduct 
funds.  The directors of Lighthouse Investment Partners, LLC  of the Certitude business as a responsible entity whilst a member 
consider that all obligations have been met to 30 June 2019.  of the Group.  As part of the sale, the Company has purchased a 
professional indemnity and directors and officer insurance policy 
which provides run-off cover for a period of 7 years from the date 
of the sale.
  Subsequent events 
Events occurring after reporting period  transaction or event of a material nature, likely to affect 
significantly the operations of the Group, the results of those 
There has not arisen in the interval between the end of the  operations, or the state of affairs of the Group, in future financial 
reporting period and the date of this report, any other item,  years. 
  Annual Report 2019 | Financial Statements 
77 
Financial 
statements
Notes to the financial statements 
For the year ended 30 June 2019 
Basis of preparation 
This section sets out the basis upon which the Group’s financial statements are prepared as a whole. Specific accounting policies are described 
in their respective notes to the financial statements. This section also shows information on new accounting standards, amendments and 
interpretations, and whether they are effective for the current or later years. We explain how these changes are expected to impact the financial 
position and performance of the Group. 
Basis of measurement 
Corporate information 
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a 
The financial report of Navigator Global Investments Limited (the 
going concern basis. The consolidated financial statements have 
‘Company’) for the year ended 30 June 2019 was approved by the 
been prepared on a historical cost basis except for the following 
board of directors on the 8th day of August 2019. 
items: 
The consolidated financial statements of the Company as at and 
Measurement 
for the year ended 30 June 2019 comprise the Company and its  Items 
basis 
subsidiaries (the ‘Group’) (see note 18).   
Financial instruments at fair value 
The Company is a for profit company limited by shares  Fair value 
through profit or loss 
incorporated in Australia and is listed on the Australian Securities 
Exchange. The registered office of the Company is Level 21, 10  Financial instruments at fair value 
Fair value 
Eagle Street, Brisbane QLD 4000.  through other comprehensive income 
The methods used to measure fair value are discussed further in 
Statement of compliance  note 17. 
The consolidated financial statements are general purpose 
financial statements which have been prepared in accordance with 
the requirements of the Corporations Act 2001, Australian 
Accounting Standards (AASB) and other authoritative 
pronouncements of the Australian Accounting Standards Board.  
The consolidated financial statements also comply with the 
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as issued by 
the International Accounting Standards Board.  
During the period, disclosures reflect changes to the comparative 
period to conform to the current period’s presentation. 
Details of the Group’s accounting policies, including changes 
during the year, are included in note 29 as well as within the 
individual notes to the financial statements.  
  Annual Report 2019 | Financial Statements 
78 
Financial 
statements
Notes to the financial statements 
For the year ended 30 June 2019 
Functional and presentation  Changes in accounting policies 
currency 
New and amended standards 
The Group has adopted all of the new and revised Standards and 
The consolidated financial statements are presented in US dollars 
Interpretations issued by the Australian Accounting Standards 
(‘USD’), which is the Company’s functional currency.  
Board (the AASB) that are relevant to its operations and effective 
The amounts contained in this financial report have been rounded  for the current reporting period: 
to the nearest thousand dollars in accordance with the ASIC 
Corporations (Rounding in Financial/Directors’ Reports) Instrument  AASB 9 Financial instruments 
2016/191 dated 24 March 2016, unless otherwise stated. 
AASB 9 brings together three aspects of accounting for financial 
Translation of foreign currency  instruments: classification and measurement, impairment and 
hedge accounting. The Group has applied AASB 9 retrospectively, 
Transactions in foreign currencies are translated to the respective  with an initial application date of 1 July 2018 and adjusting the 
functional currency of Group entities at rates of exchange ruling on  comparative information for the period beginning 1 July 2017. The 
the date of those transactions. Foreign exchange gains and losses  adoption of AASB 9 did not have a material impact on the 
resulting from the settlement of such transactions, and from the  disclosures or the amounts recognised in the Group's financial 
translation at the year-end exchange rate of monetary assets and  statements. 
liabilities denominated in foreign currencies, are recognised in 
profit or loss.  a) Classification and measurement
The Group continues to measure all financial assets currently held 
at fair value.  
  Other accounting policies 
Trade receivables (which are held to collect contractual cash flows 
and give rise to cash flows representing solely payments of 
Assumptions and estimation uncertainties 
principal and interest) continue to be classified as amortised cost. 
The Group analysed the contractual cash flow characteristics of 
Information about assumptions and estimation uncertainties that 
these instruments and concluded that they meet the criteria for 
have a significant risk of resulting in a material adjustment within 
amortised cost measurement under AASB 9. Therefore, 
the next financial year are included in the following notes: 
reclassification of these instruments is not required.  
 note 6 - recognition of deferred tax assets: availability of
The investments in unquoted securities of externally managed 
future taxable profit against which carried forward tax losses
entities were previously held as available for sale, and accordingly 
can be used;
fair value gains and losses for these assets were recorded in other 
 note 12 - impairment test: key assumptions underlying comprehensive income (OCI).  The Board has made an election to 
continue to present fair value changes in OCI for these 
recoverable amounts of intangible assets;
investments.  As such, the application of AASB 9 has not resulted 
 notes 10 and 17 - fair value measurement of investments; in a material impact on the amounts recognised in the Group’s 
financial statements.  However, under this election, the fair value 
and
reserve associated with these investments is now prohibited from 
 note 12 - purchase consideration for client relationships being recycled to the profit and loss on disposal, but can be 
acquired. transferred within equity. 
Measurement of fair values  b) Impairment
AASB 9 requires the Group to record expected credit losses on its 
A number of the Group’s accounting policies and disclosures 
receivables on either a 12-month or lifetime basis. As the Group’s 
require the determination of fair value. The methods used to 
trade receivables are short-term in nature and do not contain a 
determine fair values for measurement and / or disclosure 
significant financing component, the Group has elected to apply 
purposes are included in the following notes:  
the simplified approach and assess lifetime expected losses on all 
 notes 10 and 17 - investments in financial assets at fair value trade receivables. 
through profit or loss;
For all other financial instruments in-scope of the impairment 
 notes 10 and 17 - investment in financial assets at fair value requirements of AASB 9, the Group assesses expected credit 
losses on a forward-looking basis and the impairment methodology 
through other comprehensive income; and
applied will depend on whether there has been a significant 
 note 12 - relative fair value of assets acquired through the increase in credit risk. 
MAS transaction.
  Annual Report 2019 | Financial Statements 
79 
Financial 
 
statements
 
Notes to the financial statements 
For the year ended 30 June 2019 
 
 
29.  Other accounting policies  Under the principal versus agency considerations in AASB 15, the 
(continued)  Group now recognises the fund expense reimbursements it incurs 
on a gross basis. Reimbursements received from funds are 
classified as ‘Revenue from reimbursement of fund operating 
Due to the short-term nature of the Group’s trade receivables, the 
expenses’, and payments made on behalf of funds are classified 
fact that the majority relate to Group managed products, and the 
as ‘Reimbursable fund operating expenses’. The prior period 
historically low default rates, the application of the expected credit 
income statement and cashflow have restated to reflect this 
loss model has not resulted in the recording of a material credit 
change.  
allowance. 
The impact of this change for the year to 30 June 2019 is an 
c)  Hedge accounting 
increase to both revenue and expense of $6,319 thousand (30 
The Group does not currently have any existing hedge  June 2018: $4,678 thousand). This change does not have a net 
relationships. As such, there was no impact.  impact on the Group’s income statement or statement of financial 
  position. 
c)  Agreements for the provision of office space and services 
AASB 15 Revenue from contracts with customers 
The Group has a number of agreements with external parties to 
AASB 15 establishes a comprehensive five-step model to account 
license desk / office space at their New York and London offices. 
for revenue arising from contracts with customers. Under AASB 
As part of these agreements, licensees are charged license fees 
15, revenue is recognised at an amount that reflects the 
and service charges on a monthly basis. 
consideration to which an entity expects to be entitled in exchange 
for transferring goods or services to a customer. The standard has  The Agreements represent contracts with a customer under AASB 
been applied by the Group for the reporting period commencing 1  15.  The revenue from these agreements is now described as 
July 2018 using the full retrospective method (no practical  ‘Revenue from provision of office space and services’ (previously 
expedients have been applied).  The nature and effect of the  termed of ‘Rent, outgoings and other operating expenses on-
changes as a result of adoption of the new accounting standard  charged to sublease tenants’). The amounts are unchanged. 
are described below. 
a)  Revenue from the provision of services 
AASB 3 Business Combinations 
The consideration received by the Group for the provision of 
services is in the form of management fees, and in the case of  AASB 2018-6 Amendments to Australian Accounting Standards – 
some customers, performance fees. Historically, management fees  Definition of a Business amended AASB 3 to include an election to 
have been recognised in the income statement as services have  use a concentration test. This is a simplified assessment that 
been provided. Performance fees have been recognised only  results in an asset acquisition if substantially all of the fair value of 
when the entitlement to receive the fee has become certain, which  the gross assets is concentrated in a single identifiable asset or a 
is at the end of the relevant performance period.  group of similar identifiable assets. This election is made on a 
transaction by transaction basis.  
The adoption of AASB 15 has not resulted in a change in timing or 
The amendments to AASB 3 are effective for annual reporting 
amount of revenue recognised in relation to either management 
periods beginning on or after 1 January 2020 and apply 
fees or performance fees. This is because of the uncertainty 
prospectively. The Group has early applied the amendments from 
associated with the estimate of performance fees, which is not 
1 July 2018 as permitted by the standard. See Note 12 for further 
included in the transaction price until the final performance has 
details. 
been determined at the end of the relevant performance period. At 
all times prior to this, there is a high probability of any revenue 
   
recognised being reversed. All relevant performance periods are 
12 months or less.  
b)  Reimbursement of fund operating expenses 
The Group is entitled to reimbursement for fund expenses that it 
has paid on behalf of the funds.  While the funds generally pay 
their own operating expenses directly, there are some expenses, 
such as financial data services and software and technology 
expenses, where it is more practical for the Group to incur and pay 
the expense and then be reimbursed by the fund.  These 
reimbursements have historically been recognised on a net basis 
in the income statement.
    Annual Report 2019 | Financial Statements 
80 
Financial 
statements
Notes to the financial statements 
For the year ended 30 June 2019 
29. Other accounting policies
(continued)
Accounting standards and interpretations issued but 
not yet effective  Statement of financial position impact US$’000 
The following Australian accounting standards and interpretations 
Recognise a lease liability  (18,012) 
that are relevant to the Group’s operations have been issued but 
are not yet effective and have not been adopted by the Group for  Recognise a Right-of-use asset  14,102 
the year ended 30 June 2019. 
Recognise a finance lease receivable  385 
AASB 16 Leases 
Derecognise existing lease incentives/allowances  2,745 
AASB 16 removes the classification of leases as either operating 
or finance leases for a lessee and introduces a single approach to  Recognise the tax effect of the balance sheet  191 
accounting for leases requiring the lessee to recognise an asset  movements to deferred tax assets 
and liability in relation to the lease.  The standard becomes 
Recognise the cumulative effect of initially  589 
mandatory for the Group from 1 July 2019. 
applying the standard as an adjustment to retained 
The Group has a number of leases for office premises and  earnings 
equipment, and adoption of this standard is expected to result in 
Other Standards 
the following impacts to the Group’s consolidated financial 
statements:  The following additional new or amended standards have not yet 
been adopted and are not expected to have a significant impact on 
 recording additional assets and liabilities in its balance sheet;
the Group’s consolidated financial statements: 
 removing lease payments as an operating expense and
 AASB 2017-6 Amendments to Australian Accounting
replacing this amount with a depreciation and finance cost
Standards – Prepayment Features with Negative
expense in the income statement; and
Compensation
 a reclassification in the cash flow statement for payments
 AASB 2017-7 Amendments to Australian Accounting
relating to leases from operating cash outflows to financing
Standards – Long-term Interests in Associates and Joint
cash outflows.
Ventures
The Group has assessed its existing contracts for use of office 
 AASB 2018-1 Amendments to Australian Accounting
premises and ongoing use of assets and equipment. All of the 
Standards – Annual Improvements 2015-2017 Cycle
contracts meet the lease criteria in AASB 16 and are identified as 
containing a lease. After applying practical expedients (short-term   AASB 2018-2 Amendments to Australian Accounting
and low value exemptions), four leases for office premises remain  Standards – Plan Amendment, Curtailment or Settlement
which require a change in accounting under the new requirements. 
 AASB Interpretation 23 Uncertainty over Income Tax
The Group has selected a modified retrospective transition  Treatment
approach with the Right-of-use asset measured as if AASB 16 had 
 AASB 17 Insurance Contracts
always been applied, but using the transition discount rate rather 
than the discount rate at inception.    AASB 2014-10 Sale or Contribution of Assets between an
Investor and its Associate or Joint Venture (Amendments to
Upon adoption of the standard on 1 July 2019, the Group expects 
IFRS 10 and IAS 28)
to recognised the following changes in the statement of financial 
position in relation to these leases: 
  Annual Report 2019 | Financial Statements 
81 
Directors’ 
declaration 
Directors’ declaration 
In the opinion of the directors of Navigator Global Investments Limited (the ‘Company’): 
(a) the consolidated financial statements and notes that are set out on pages 40 to 81, and the Remuneration report on pages 27 to 36 of
the Directors' report, are in accordance with the Corporations Act 2001, including:
(i) giving a true and fair view of the Group’s financial position as at 30 June 2019 and of its performance for the financial year ended
on that date; and
(ii) complying with Australian Accounting Standards and the Corporations Regulations 2001; and
(b) there are reasonable grounds to believe that the Company will be able to pay its debts as and when they become due and payable.
2. The directors have been given the declarations required by Section 295A of the Corporations Act 2001 from the Chief Executive Officer and
Chief Financial Officer for the financial year ended 30 June 2019.
3. The directors draw attention to note 26 to the consolidated financial statements, which includes a statement of compliance with International
Financial Reporting Standards.
Signed in accordance with a resolution of the directors. 
Michael Shepherd, AO  F P (Andy) Esteban 
Chairman and Non-Executive Director  Non-Executive Director 
Sydney, 8 August 2019 
Annual Report 2019 | Directors’ Declaration 
82 
Ernst & Young  Tel: +61 7 3011 3333 
111 Eagle Street  Fax: +61 7 3011 3100 
Brisbane  QLD  4000 Australia  ey.com/au 
GPO Box 7878 Brisbane  QLD  4001 
Independent Auditor's Report to the Members of Navigator Global 
Investments Limited 
Report on the Audit of the Financial Report 
Opinion 
We have audited the financial report of Navigator Global Investments Limited (the Company) and its 
subsidiaries (collectively the Group), which comprises the statement of financial position as at 30 June 
2019, the income statement, statement of comprehensive income, statement of changes in equity and 
statement of cash flows for the year then ended, notes to the financial statements, including a summary 
of significant accounting policies, and the directors' declaration. 
In our opinion, the accompanying financial report of the Group is in accordance with the Corporations 
Act 2001, including: 
a) giving a true and fair view of the consolidated financial position of the Group as at 30 June 2019
and of its consolidated financial performance for the year ended on that date; and
b) complying with Australian Accounting Standards and the Corporations Regulations 2001.
Basis for Opinion 
We conducted our audit in accordance with Australian Auditing Standards. Our responsibilities under 
those standards are further described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial 
Report section of our report. We are independent of the  Group in accordance with the auditor 
independence  requirements  of  the  Corporations  Act  2001  and  the  ethical  requirements  of  the 
Accounting Professional and Ethical Standards Board’s APES 110 Code of Ethics for Professional 
Accountants (the Code) that are relevant to our audit of the financial report in Australia. We have also 
fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with the Code.  
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for 
our opinion. 
Key Audit Matters 
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in 
our audit of the financial report of the current year. These matters were addressed in the context of our 
audit of the financial report as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, but we do not provide a 
separate opinion on these matters. For each matter below, our description of how our audit addressed 
the matter is provided in that context. 
We have fulfilled the responsibilities described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the 
Financial Report section of our report, including in relation to these matters. Accordingly, our audit 
included the performance of procedures designed to respond to our assessment of the risks of material 
misstatement of the financial report. The results of our audit procedures, including the procedures 
performed to address the matters below, provide the basis for our audit opinion on the accompanying 
financial report. 
A  member firm of Ernst & Young Global Limited 
83 
L iability limited by a scheme approved under Professional Standards Legislation 
Recoverability of deferred tax assets 
Refer to Note 6 of the financial report 
Why significant  How our audit addressed the key audit matter 
Deferred tax assets represent 24% of total  Our audit procedures included the following: 
assets.  Assessing their recoverability was 
• Assessed the mathematical accuracy of the
subject to significant judgements made by  Group’s deferred tax asset utilisation model;
the Group in forecasting future taxable 
• Agreed the amount of unused tax losses
profits and determining the availability and 
carried forward as deferred tax assets to
expected timing of utilising the deferred tax 
prior period lodged income tax returns;
assets against future taxable income in 
• Evaluated the company’s assumptions and
accordance with tax laws in each applicable 
estimates in relation to the likelihood of
jurisdiction. 
generating sufficient future taxable income
based on most recent Board approved
These judgements included those 
forecasts, prepared by the Group,
concerning the ability of the US based 
principally by performing sensitivity
Lighthouse Group to earn sufficient future 
analyses and evaluating and testing the key
taxable profits to utilise deferred tax 
assumptions used to determine the amounts
assets, which include prior period tax 
recognised;
losses, prior to the tax losses expiring.  
• Ensured the assumptions and estimates
used were consistent with the criteria used
for testing the recoverability of the
Lighthouse cash generating unit;
• Assessed the historical accuracy of the
Group’s previous future taxable profit
forecasts by comparing to actual
performance;
• Assessing the Group’s determination of
availability and expected timing of
utilisation of deferred tax assets for
consistency with tax laws in each applicable
jurisdiction; and
• Assessed the adequacy of the related
disclosures in the financial report.
84  A  member firm of Ernst & Young Global Limited 
L iability limited by a scheme approved under Professional Standards Legislation 
Recoverability of the Lighthouse cash generating unit 
Refer to Note 12 of the financial report 
Why significant  How our audit addressed the key audit matter 
The recoverability of the Lighthouse cash  Our audit procedures included the following: 
generating unit (“CGU”) was a key audit 
• Assessed the mathematical accuracy of the
matter due to the value of goodwill  CGU’s value in use model;
allocated to the CGU relative to total assets 
• Evaluated the company’s assumptions and
and the degree of judgement involved in 
estimates in relation to the forecast cash
determining the value in use of the GGU.  
flows based on most recent Board approved
forecasts, prepared by the Group,
The model used by the Group to determine 
principally by performing sensitivity analysis
value in use is subject to significant 
and evaluating and testing the key
judgement due to the assumptions and 
assumptions used to determine the value in
estimations utilised in forecasting the 
use;
future cash flows of the CGU. 
• Ensured the assumptions and estimates
were consistent with the criteria used for
testing recoverability of deferred tax assets;
• Assessed the historical accuracy of the
Group’s previous future cash flow forecasts
by comparing forecasts to actual
performance;
• Involved our valuation specialists in the
assessment of key assumptions utilised in
the value in use model. Where applicable,
we corroborated key assumptions with
external information;
• Performed sensitivity analysis by varying
key assumptions and assessing the impact
on the recoverability of goodwill; and
• Assessed the adequacy of the related
disclosures in the financial report.
Information Other than the Financial Report and Auditor’s Report Thereon 
The  directors  are  responsible  for  the  other  information.  The  other  information  comprises  the 
information included in the Company’s 2019 Annual Report, but does not include the financial report 
and our auditor’s report thereon. 
Our opinion on the financial report does not cover the other information and accordingly we do not 
express any form of assurance conclusion thereon, with the exception of the Remuneration Report and 
our related assurance opinion. 
In connection with our audit of the financial report, our responsibility is to read the other information 
and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial 
report or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.  
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this 
other information, we are required to report that fact. We have nothing to report in this regard. 
85  A  member firm of Ernst & Young Global Limited 
L iability limited by a scheme approved under Professional Standards Legislation 
Responsibilities of the Directors for the Financial Report 
The directors of the Company are responsible for the preparation of the financial report that gives a 
true and fair view in accordance with Australian Accounting Standards and the Corporations Act 2001 
and for such internal control as the directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of the 
financial report that gives a true and fair view and is free from material misstatement, whether due to 
fraud or error. 
In preparing the financial report, the directors are responsible for assessing the Group’s ability to 
continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters relating to going concern and using the 
going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the Group or to cease 
operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so. 
Auditor's Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Report 
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial report as a whole is free 
from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes 
our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit 
conducted  in  accordance  with  the  Australian  Auditing  Standards  will  always  detect  a  material 
misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material 
if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic 
decisions of users taken on the basis of this financial report. 
As part of an audit in accordance with the Australian Auditing Standards, we exercise professional 
judgement and maintain professional scepticism throughout the audit. We also: 
• Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial report, whether due to
fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit
evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not
detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error,
as  fraud  may  involve  collusion,  forgery,  intentional  omissions,  misrepresentations,  or  the
override of internal control.
• Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit
procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an
opinion on the effectiveness of the Group’s internal control.
• Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting
estimates and related disclosures made by the directors.
• Conclude on the appropriateness of the directors’ use of the going concern basis of accounting
and, based on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to
events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the Group’s ability to continue as a going
concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in
our auditor’s report to the related disclosures in the financial report or, if such disclosures are
inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up
to the date of our auditor’s report. However, future events or conditions may cause the Group to
cease to continue as a going concern.
• Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the financial report, including the
disclosures, and whether the financial report represents the underlying transactions and events
in a manner that achieves fair presentation.
86  A  member firm of Ernst & Young Global Limited 
L iability limited by a scheme approved under Professional Standards Legislation 
• Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial information of the entities or
business activities within the Group to express an opinion on the financial report. We are
responsible for the direction, supervision and performance of the Group audit. We remain solely
responsible for our audit opinion.
We communicate with the directors regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of 
the audit and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we 
identify during our audit. 
We also provide the directors with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements 
regarding independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may 
reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and where applicable, related safeguards. 
From the matters communicated to the directors, we determine those matters that were of most 
significance in the audit of the financial report of the current year and are therefore the key audit 
matters. We describe these matters in our auditor’s report unless law or regulation precludes public 
disclosure about the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a matter 
should not be communicated in our report because the adverse consequences of doing so would 
reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest benefits of such communication. 
87  A  member firm of Ernst & Young Global Limited 
L iability limited by a scheme approved under Professional Standards Legislation 
Report on the Audit of the Remuneration Report 
Opinion on the Remuneration Report 
We have audited the Remuneration Report included in the directors' report for the year ended 30 June 
2019. 
In our opinion, the Remuneration Report of Navigator Global Investments Limited for the year ended 30 
June 2019, complies with section 300A of the Corporations Act 2001. 
Responsibilities 
The directors of the Company are responsible for the preparation and presentation of the Remuneration 
Report in accordance with section 300A of the Corporations Act 2001. Our responsibility is to express 
an opinion on the Remuneration Report, based on our audit conducted in accordance with Australian 
Auditing Standards. 
Ernst & Young 
Rebecca Burrows 
Partner 
Brisbane 
8 August 2019 
88  A  member firm of Ernst & Young Global Limited 
L iability limited by a scheme approved under Professional Standards Legislation 
Shareholder information 
Shareholder information 
As at 5 August 2019 
Additional information required by the Australian Securities Exchange Limited Listing Rules is set out below. 
Substantial shareholdings (not less than 5%) 
The following parties have a substantial relevant interest in ordinary shares of Navigator Global Investments Limited: 
Category  Number of ordinary  % 
shares 
Sean McGould, his controlled entities and associates  19,438,083  11.99% 
Delaware Street Capital Master Fund, LP  13,101,982  8.08% 
IOOF Holdings Limited  11,147,302  6.88% 
Twenty largest shareholders 
Number of ordinary  Percentage of 
Name 
shares held  capital held 
Citicorp Nominees Pty Limited  50,069,500  30.88% 
HSBC Custody Nominees (Australia) Limited  36,351,320  22.42% 
J P Morgan Nominees Australia Pty Limited  23,595,611  14.55% 
National Nominees Limited  8,908,247  5.49% 
BNP Paribas Noms Pty Ltd  5,158,756  3.18% 
BNP Paribas Nominees Pty Ltd  4,677,984  2.89% 
CS Third Nominees Pty Limited  1,460,920  0.90% 
Warbont Nominees Pty Ltd  1,184,876  0.73% 
BNP Paribas Nominees Pty Ltd  1,084,360  0.67% 
UBS Nominees Pty Ltd  1,029,176  0.63% 
Mr Shay Shimon Hazan-Shaked  900,000  0.56% 
Winchester Global Trust Company Limited  742,719  0.46% 
Australian Executor Trustees Limited  730,396  0.45% 
Bond Street Custodians Limited  650,000  0.40% 
Mr Ethan J Baron  593,862  0.37% 
CS Fourth Nominees Pty Limited  526,489  0.32% 
Mr Mark Sheffield Hancock & Brig Ian Denis Westwood  484,835  0.30% 
eCapital Nominees Pty Limited  458,018  0.28% 
BNP Paribas Nominees Pty Ltd Hub24 Custodial Serv Ltd Drp  426,291  0.26% 
Mr Shay Shimon Hazan-Shaked  400,000  0.25% 
Annual Report 2019 | Shareholder Information 
90 
Shareholder information 
As at 5 August 2019 
Distribution of shareholdings 
Number of holders  Number of ordinary 
Range  % of holders  % of share 
of ordinary shares  shares 
1-1,000 607  23.22%  293,686  0.18% 
1,001-5,000  1,088  41.62%  3,034,125  1.87% 
5,001-10,000  431  16.49%  3,275,057  2.02% 
10,001-50,000  401  15.34%  8,584,601  5.29% 
50,001 – 100,000  43  1.64%  3,138,052  1.94% 
100,001 and over  44  1.68%  143,822,376  88.70% 
Total  2,614  100.00%  162,147,897  100.00% 
The number of shareholders holding less than a marketable parcel of ordinary shares is 135. 
Voting rights  On-market buy-back 
There is no current on-market buy-back. 
Ordinary Shares 
The Company has 162,147,897 fully paid ordinary shares on 
issue. 
Unquoted equity securities 
The fully paid ordinary shareholders of the Company are entitled to 
vote at any meeting of the members of the Company and their  There are no unquoted equity securities. 
voting rights are: 
 on a show of hands – one vote per shareholder; and
 on a poll – one vote per fully paid ordinary shares.
Annual Report 2019 | Shareholder Information 
91 
