
     
November 2021 
 
 
Responsible Investing 
AXA IM ESG Standards Policy 
 
 
As stewards of our clients’ assets, our primary goal is to help them preserve and grow their 
wealth. An important part of achieving this is by investing responsibly. We believe that 
responsible investment (RI) can not only deliver sustainable, long-term value for clients but 
that it can also make a positive impact on society.  
As a responsible investor, at AXA Investment Managers (“AXA IM”) we want to manage ESG risks and 
opportunities when investing on behalf of our clients. We have identified certain sectors, products and services, 
in which we will not invest in, above a certain threshold due to ESG-related risk factors. These standards reflect 
our convictions as a responsible investor and apply to our ESG and Responsible Investment open ended funds1. 
They are also available to institutional clients on an opt-in basis. They complement the Responsible Investment 
sectorial policies which are applied across AXA IM (incl. climate risks policy, controversial weapons policy, 
ecosystem protection and deforestation policy etc.) and are one dimension of our ESG integration approach2.  
 
AXA IM’s ESG standards help us to manage ESG and sustainability tail-risks, and mitigate the negative impacts 
our investments might have on sustainability factors. They focus on material issues such as certain aspects 
affecting health, human rights and social capital, while also considering severe controversies as well as low ESG 
quality.  
 
As described in more detail below the ESG standards exclude the Tobacco sector, White Phosphorus weapons 
producers and companies in violation of international norms and standards such as the United Nations Global 
 
1 These include ESG integrated, Sustainable and Impact investing open-ended funds. Those open-ended funds are categorised 
as products which promote ESG characteristics (“Article 8”) or which have sustainable investment as their objective (“Article 
9”) according to the Regulation (EU) 2019/2088 on sustainability-related disclosures in the financial services sector (“SFDR”). 
Detail on our RI categories is available on AXA IM website. 
2 Detail of AXA IM ESG integration approach, and RI sectorial policies is available in our RI policy.  
    1 
     
November 2021 
 
Compact Principles or the OECD guidelines for Multinational Enterprises, as well as companies which are 
involved in severe ESG-related incidents. We also minimize our exposure to ESG Low Quality issuers. Finally, we 
also refrain from investing in instruments issued by countries where specific categories of serious violations of 
Human Rights are observed which are described in more details below. 
 
•  Tobacco 
The negative impact of tobacco is well documented and as a result many investors are divesting from the sector. 
The World Health Organisation (WHO) Framework Convention on Tobacco Control - the first international treaty 
negotiated by the group - went live in 2005 and today has 182 Parties accounting for more than 90% of the 
world’s population. The aim of the initiative was to take on and tackle issues such as trade liberalisation, direct 
foreign investment, tobacco advertising, sponsorship and illicit trade in tobacco products. WHO observed that 
the industry is in conflict with United Nations’ principles due to the fact that it uses child labor to produce 
tobacco. In 2018, the head of the secretariat of the World Health Organization’s Framework Convention on 
Tobacco Control, referring to International Labor Organization estimates, stated that about 1.3 million children 
a year were working in tobacco fields in 2011. The numbers are rising with a shift in tobacco growing from some 
of the better-off countries to some of the poorer. It declined between 2000 and 2013 in Turkey, Brazil and the 
United States, but increased in others, such as Argentina, India and Zimbabwe3.  
 
The organization calls the tobacco epidemic “one of the biggest public health threats the world has ever faced”, 
as it kills more than 8m people every year, and circa 10% of these deaths are the result of passive smoking (WHO, 
2020). Given the ongoing and indeed growing pressure the industry faces, we believe that ultimately the 
regulatory and profitability risks regarding tobacco companies remain under-represented.  
 
•  White phosphorus weapons producers 
White phosphorus, derived from the chemical element phosphorus, can be used as munition in incendiary 
weapons. Such munitions can burn in the open air for a prolonged period and when used in populated areas, 
cause horrific injuries, burning deep into the muscle and bone.  
 
White phosphorus weapons are covered by Protocol III of the Convention on Certain Conventional Weapons 
(CCW)4 when the “weapons [are] primarily designed to set fire to objects or to cause burn injury to persons. It 
is prohibited in all circumstances to make the civilian population as such, individual civilians or civilian objects 
the object of attack by incendiary weapons”.  
 
However, white phosphorus can also be used in other weapon devices, such as illuminants, tracers, smoke or 
signaling systems, all of which are notably not covered by Protocol III, where it is considered that such munitions 
“which may have incidental incendiary effects” are excluded from incendiary weapons. Recently these types of 
weapons have been used more frequently in populated areas e.g. Syria and Yemen.  
 
•  Violations of International norms and standards  
We avoid investing in companies which cause, contribute or are linked to violations of international norms and 
standards in a material manner, focusing in particular on UN’s Global Compact Principles, International Labor 
Organization’s (ILO) Conventions, OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises and the UN Guiding Principles 
on Business and Human Rights (UNGPs). Those standards notably focus on Human Rights, Society, Labor and 
Environment. We believe this helps us to avoid reputational damage and to proactively manage related financial 
risks.   
 
•  Severe controversies 
We avoid investing in companies involved in incidents and events that pose a severe business or  
reputation risk to a company due to the impact on stakeholders or the environment.  
 
3 The Guardian June 25, 2018 
4 It entered into force on 2 December 1983 
    2 
     
November 2021 
 
 
•  Low ESG quality 
To manage ESG risks, and promote best practices, we avoid investing in companies with a poor ESG performance. 
We limit exposure to companies with an ESG Score below 1.43 (on a scale of 0 to 10) in our Responsible 
Investment open funds. 
 
•  Countries with severe human rights violations5 
We avoid investing in debt instruments issued by countries where the worst forms of human right violations are 
observed. While we do consider democracy as the best regime to preserve human rights, our intention is not to 
make a value judgement on the different type of regimes. Therefore, our screen focuses on civil liberties – relying 
on the Freedom House ranking, modern slavery – relying on the Walk Free Foundation Global Slavery index, and 
child labor relying on Unesco data, with the aim of preventing investments in those countries where the worst 
practices are observed.  
   
 
5 As defined by various screens.  
    3 
     
November 2021 
 
Excluded Companies / Countries 
 
Sector / Area  Exclusion criteria  Approach  Sources 
Tobacco  -  Companies involved in the production  Affiliates of excluded 
of tobacco (revenue generated by  companies may also be  We may rely on 
production of tobacco >0%)  excluded in particular if they external providers 
  act as securities issuance  to prepare an initial 
White  -  Companies involved in the  entity for or act in a similar  list of issuers in 
Phosphorus  development, production, maintenance sector as the related  scope. 
Weapons  or sale of white phosphorus weapons  excluded company.   
Producers      The lists are then 
Severe  -  Companies exposed to severe  The exclusion lists are  reviewed 
controversies  controversies   updated at least on a yearly  qualitatively and 
  basis unless a specific event  discussed within 
Violations of  -  Companies assessed as being “non- requires an intermediate  our RI governance 
International  compliant” with the UNGC, OECD  revision6.  committees on a 
norms and  guidelines for MNE, ILO Conventions or   regular basis, at 
standards  UNGP for Business and Human Rights.    least annually.  
 
AXA IM may 
consider exceptions 
Low ESG Quality -  Companies with a low ESG score (<1.43, 
to these exclusion 
ESG scores between 0 and 10) 
rules based on a 
 
qualitative analysis 
demonstrating that 
the risks are 
mitigated in an 
Countries with  -  Countries in the bottom quintile of the    efficient manner.  
severe human  Civil Liberties index from Freedom   
rights violations  House  An engagement can 
-  Countries in the bottom quartile of the  be initiated with the 
Modern Slavery index from the Walk  issuer in these 
Free Foundation  cases7.   
-  Countries in the bottom quartile of the   
Child Labor index of Unesco 
Sources: Sustainalytics, ISS Ethix, MSCI, Freedom House, Walk Free Foundation, Unesco.  
 
   
 
6 Examples given: major newsflow. The list is not systematically updated following corporate actions. 
7 Progress of Engagement activities is monitored by the same RI governance committee. 
    4 
     
November 2021 
 
Scope  
 
Instruments 
Our ESG Standards Policy covers all single name financial instruments issued by the excluded entities, or those 
which are offering exposure to those entities.  
 
Portfolios 
 
The ESG Standards Policy applies in principle to all Responsible Investment open funds under AXA IM’s 
management89. The policy also applies to dedicated funds and third-party mandates, when the client has 
formally opted-in.  
 
The policy does not apply to non-Responsible Investment open ended funds.  
 
Implementation  
 
These ESG standards are implemented on a best-effort basis, taking into account local regulation and both a 
client’s as well as fund’s best interest, therefore a transition period may be observed during their initial 
implementation for the funds / mandates in scope, and following periodic revisions of the exclusion-lists. 
In very limited circumstances some funds or mandates may be allowed to continue to hold some targeted 
investments where complete disinvestment would clash with other key objectives of the portfolio10. 
 
 
The exclusion-lists are prepared using information from external data providers, and although a qualitative 
review is performed, AXA IM is therefore not responsible for the accuracy of this data.  
 
 
8 Open funds in scope reference “AXA IM ESG standards” in their prospectus and / or are part of our Sustainable and Impact 
investing fund ranges. Those open-ended funds are categorised as products which promote ESG characteristics (“Article 8”) 
or which have sustainable investment as their objective (“Article 9”) according to the Regulation (EU) 2019/2088 on 
sustainability-related disclosures in the financial services sector (“SFDR”). Detail of the RI categories of each fund is available 
on demand.   
9 In the case of fund of funds applying the ESG Standards, at least 90% of underlying funds apply the standards. 
10 Such tolerance could be applied, for example in relation to strategies with Accounting objectives, or for concentrated 
strategies with appropriate validation from oversight functions.  
    5 