
Consolidated   2018
Non-Financial Statement
AN ONGOING 
COMMITMENT
#UNIMPEGNOCHECONTINUA
ONLINE VERSION
www.unimpegnochecontinua.it
For more information please write to
sostenibilita@bancobpm.it
BANCO BPM:  
AN ONGOING 
COMMITMENT
Dear readers,
We have concluded our second year of trading  corporate sector, strengthening business units, such 
as Banco BPM and, looking at the journey we’ve  as the foreign division, required by our exporting 
taken, our performance so far has encouraged us  companies and making available the resources 
to continue in our chosen direction. required to implement initiatives that can bring 
value to our customers. Our two banks devoted to 
From our beginnings as the union of two banks, we  private banking and investment banking represent 
have grown into a robust and integrated business  the completion of our business model based on 
and are privileged to operate in one of the most  quality of service, yet with the proximity that only 
significant areas in Italy for economic activity and  regional banks can offer.
entrepreneurial initiatives.
Being Banco BPM is more than simply doing our 
Current economic and political events, along with  jobs well and aiming for efficiency and results: we 
technological and social developments, demand  believe in the people and culture that make up our 
new  approaches  and  time  frames,  posing  business. We want to act as a point of reference 
challenge to be met by transforming our business  in the region through our branches, and we strive 
in every context. to make a concrete and positive contribution to the 
sustainable development of our country.
We  have  created  a  more  modern  bank, 
implementing  a  change  of  pace  not  only  in  In this document we report our journey aimed at 
terms of the corporate organisation and structure,  responding to market demands and those of our 
but  whose  effects  also  resound  through  the  community.
commercial network and the role of branches in the 
community. We have shifted the decision-making  Banco  BPM,  an  ongoing  commitment  to  the 
process back to the regions and implemented the  market and the region.
Carlo Fratta Pasini Giuseppe Castagna
Chairman Chief Executive Officer
CONTENTS
S
01
T
N
BANCO BPM  
GROUP
E
T
Mission and Identity ...............................................8
N
Group Profile ......................................................10
Organisational and Governance Model ..................11
Important information ............................................13 O
Risk Management ................................................14
Economic value generated and distributed ...............15 C
Recognitions in 2018...........................................16
02
REFERENCE CONTEXT  
AND MATERIAL TOPICS
Reference context ................................................20 Materiality analysis and scope of the decree ............22
03 04
CUSTOMERS AND  PEOPLE
THE REGION
Relations with customers and the region .....26 Personnel development, engagement  
and welfare..........................................48
Support for savings  
and informed decisions ..........................35 Group reorganisation  
and industrial relations ............................56
Business internationalisation  
and development ..................................39
Digital innovation, data protection  
and privacy ..........................................43
Consolidated Non-Financial Statement 5
07
METHOD AND 
FRAMEWORK
Reading guide and note on methodology ............84
Reconciliation table ..........................................87
GRI content index ............................................88
Independent Auditors’ Report .............................91
05 06
COMMUNITY AND  INTEGRITY
ENVIRONMENT
Contribution to the community ..................60 Business integrity  
and contribution to lawfulness in Italy.........76
Environmental mitigation .........................67 Supplier relations ...................................80
01
THE BANCO 
BPM GROUP
Mission and Identity ........................................................................8
Group Profile ................................................................................10
Organisational and Governance Model ..........................................11
Important information ....................................................................13
Risk Management ..........................................................................14
Economic value generated and distributed ......................................15
Certifications achieved in 2018 ......................................................16
Who we are, our organisation, how we manage 
risks and what we achieved in 2018 in terms of 
financial results and certifications achieved.
MISSION AND IDENTITY
MISSION AND IDENTITY
The  mission  of  Banco  BPM  encapsulates  the  interests  of  our  stakeholders: 
shareholders, customers, partners and the reference community, expressing - in 
line with the history and traditions of our two founding Groups - our commitment 
to supporting the region and placing people first.
Working and innovating to provide customers, people and businesses 
with the best possible services, operating correctly and transparently and 
contributing to the development of our country and of sustainable value 
over time.
Growing with commitment and responsibility, maintaining financial 
stability and profitability to meet our commitment to our stakeholders.
Optimising our personnel whose work and commitment contribute to the 
realisation of Group objectives.
Continuing, as per tradition, to support initiatives aimed at promoting 
social and environmental development in our reference regions.
The mission of Banco BPM reflects the Group's identity: a bank that aims to grow and develop while remaining 
closely linked and attentive to the region, supporting people, businesses and non-profit organisations.
Consolidated Non-Financial Statement 9
To development and promote its identity, the Group has developed projects and initiatives where feedback, 
dialogue and engagementhave been fundamental drivers.
EVENTS IN BRANCH  
ROAD SHOW
AND FOR BUSINESSES
Nine Road Show events in the main offices  
Placing the focus back on branches through 
of the Group to promote Banco BPM and listen  
community initiatives and conferences on financial 
to the needs and concerns of the region,  
and economic topics that involve customers, 
involving around 3,500 colleagues and 3,000 
colleagues and students, and ad hoc events for 
business clients.
local entrepreneurs.
DISTINCTIVE LEADERSHIP
SCHOOLS PROJECT
A training programme aimed at senior 
The many social responsibility initiatives are 
management to promote a leadership model 
complemented by improvement measures aimed 
based on dialogue and proximity, involving 300 
at inner-city schools, selected thanks to the 
colleagues selected to play an active role in the 
collaboration with local institutions in order to 
transformation and promoting the distinctive traits 
identify the most pressing needs.
of Banco BPM within the Group and beyond.
Similarly, the Group's communications plan has been designed to promote the image of a local and robust bank 
able to support families and businesses and adapt to their changing needs. To promote the importance of dialogue 
and people, the advertising campaigns launched by Banco BPM were supported by customer testimonials and 
used simple and direct language.
LA MIA 
BANCA
MI AIUTA 
A VENDERE 
IN DANIMARCA.
YOULOUNGE
è il servizio esclusivo 
di Banco BPM che aiuta 
le imprese a sviluppare 
nuove opportunità 
in tutto il mondo.
The Banco BPM logo, with the stylised bridge 
over the name, expresses the coming-together 
LA MIA 
BANCA of two businesses, whose decision to merge 
FCrliaenntcee dsic aB,a nimwcop rBewPnMdiwt rdica.el .b20a09n.cobpmspa.com/prodotto/youlounge/ FINAT DTUIGRIATA LE. was driven by the pursuit of a common goal: 
Mi chiamo Claudio, 
seo gnroa zuine  dae Bnatinstcao  BPM  to create a bank able to offer innovative 
invio e ricevo fatture 
Mfilieaslis adgi gBiaon pcoub BbPlMici tae rsiou l csoitno  fibnaanlcitoàb pprmom.ito, zailolan asleez.i oPenre  lTer acsopnadrieznioznai. contrattuali ed economiche si rimanda ai Fogli Informativi disponibili presso le  La banca di Francesca. dNcdliiiig ceukinnt ateael  i t gcuinarta rtsotnia cdi,ule  prs ebuozapczhpnaico .a r.to  services to customers with strong roots in the 
region, develop and consolidate dialogue 
with customers and local communities, and 
promote a customer-focused approach.
Claudio, dentista. Cliente di Banco BPM dal 2004.
Dsaarlà 1 °o bgbelnignaatioor i2a0.1 S9c olapr if adit tpuiùr asuz iyoonuei nevleotitcreo.niti.ca 
Mdisepsosangibgiliio p pruebssboli cleit aFriliioa clio dne fil nBaalintàco p rBoPmMo zei oanl asleeg. Pueern cteo ninddiziriioznzio c ohntttpra:/t/tuwawli ewd.b eacnocnoobmpimchsep cao.cnosmul/tamree dil isait/oI nwfowrmw.ayzoiuoinniv_oPiucbe.bitl iec iltea Irniefo_rYmoauIznivooniic Peu.pbdbflicitarie  La banca di Claudio.
GROUP PROFILE
GROUP PROFILE
The Banco BPM Group operates in the credit and financial brokering sector. 
Its main companies are:
   
   
Corporate and Retail banking
Private banking
Corporate and Investment banking
Consumer credit
Business services and support
This Statement, in line with the Consolidated Financial  •  the reorganisation of the investment and private 
Statements, refers to all fully consolidated companies  banking  activities  was  concluded  with  the 
except for the exclusions specified in the Note on  concentration  of  private  banking  activities  in 
methodology.1 Banca Aletti and investment activities in Banca 
Akros.
In the course of 2018 and the first months of 2019 
corporate transactions were carried out aimed at  •  the reorganisation of the consumer credit sector 
simplifying and improving the Group's structure  was launched, due to conclude in 2019 and 
and organisation. In particular: involving the sale of Profamily to Agos-Ducato, 
pending the finalisation of a demerger of the non-
•  Banca  Popolare  di  Milano  Spa,  Società  captive assets of Profamily to a newly established 
Gestione Servizi BP Soc. Consortile p.az. and  company  that  will  remain  wholly  owned  by 
BP Property Management Soc. Consortile a.r.l.  Banco BPM.
were incorporated into Banco BPM Spa;
1  In the course of 2018 the bancassurance division was restructured. This reorganisation affected companies consolidated with the equity method; as such these activities are not discussed in 
the Non-Financial Statement. For further details, please refer to the section that explains the significant events that occurred during the period in the Report on Operations.
Consolidated Non-Financial Statement 11
ORGANISATIONAL AND 
GOVERNANCE MODEL
Banco BPM has adopted a traditional governance 
model composed of:
•  Shareholders’ meeting: responsible for appointing the Board of 
Directors and the Board of Statutory Auditors and determining the 
remuneration; convened at least once a year and resolves on the 
approval of the annual Financial Statements and the allocation and  € 7.1billion
distribution of profits.
SHARE CAPITAL
•  Board of Directors: performs the duties of strategic supervision and 
management. in 1.5 billion ordinary shares
•  Board of Statutory Auditors: oversees auditing activities, monitoring, 
inter alia, the observance of legislation and the adequacy of the 
organisational and administrative/reporting structure.
BOARD OF  
SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING
STATUTORY AUDITORS
ADVISORY COMMITTEES
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
Executive Committee
Internal Control and Risks Committee*
Remuneration Committee
Appointments Committee
AUDIT Related Parties Committee
Charitable Donations Committee
*Jurisdiction over sustainability issues
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER
upon which other departments are directly based, such as Credit, Compliance, 
Risks, NPL, Legal & Regulatory Affairs, Communication and Investor Relations
GENERAL MANAGER
JOINT GENERAL MANAGER JOINT GENERAL MANAGER
with supervisory responsibility over the 
with supervisory responsibility over the  with supervisory responsibility over the 
departments of the Parent Company 
departments of the Parent Company  regional departments and divisions 
and Group Companies in the fields 
and Group Companies in the fields of  of the Parent Company and Group 
of Administration, Finance, Asset 
Organisation, Human Resources, Real  Companies in the field of Commercial 
management, Private banking and 
Estate, Operations and ICT banking
Investment banking
ORGANISATIONAL AND GOVERNANCE MODEL
COMPOSITION OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND COMMITTEES OF BANCO BPM
BANCO BPM  INTERNAL  RELATED  CHARITABLE 
EXECUTIVE  REMUNERATION  APPOINTMENTS 
BOARD OF  CONTROL AND  PARTIES  DONATIONS 
COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE
DIRECTORS RISKS COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE
No. of Directors 19 6 4 4 4 4 8
Of which executive 6 6 0 0 0 0 2
Of which non-executive 13 0 4 4 4 4 6
Of which independent 
pursuant to Art. 20.1.6 
11 0 4 3 4 4 5
of the Articles of 
Association2
Of which women 7 0 2 3 1 3 2
Of which men 12 6 2 1 3 1 6
Of which < 30 years 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
Of which 30-50 years 4 0 0 2 2 0 0
Of which > 50 years 15 6 4 2 2 4 8
COMPOSITION OF THE BOARD OF STATUTORY  2 Article 20.1.6 of the Articles of Association of Banco BPM contains a definition of 
independence which, on the one hand, considers the provisions of Article 148, 
AUDITORS OF BANCO BPM
paragraph 3 of the Consolidated Law on Finance and the recommendations contained 
STANDING AUDITORS in the Corporate Governance Code of Borsa Italiana and, on the other, fulfils the 
requirement to enable the straightforward certification of relevant situations (relating 
No. of Auditors 5 to decree of relationship, economic or professional relationships, etc.). Said statutory 
provision also makes reference to a board resolution regarding the identification of 
Of which women 2
the quantitative and/or qualitative criteria used to determine the relevance of certain 
Of which men 3 relationships in which the requirement of independence is deemed not to exist. The 
resolution was adopted by the Board of Directors at the meeting of 01 January 2017.
Of which < 30 years 0
Of which 30-50 years 0
Of which > 50 years 5
SKILLS AND EXPERIENCE OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF BANCO BPM
To determine the members of the Board of Directors, a broad and diverse skill set is required to ensure a balanced 
combination of profiles and experience. The members of the Board of Directors, who must normally be no older 
than 75, must be able to perform the role, according to the provisions of Articles of Association and the legislation in 
force pro tempore and, in particular, must possess the prerequisites of professionalism, integrity and independence, 
and respect the criteria of competence, fairness and time commitment and the specific limits regarding multiple 
roles, as provided for by the Article of Association3 and the legislation in force pro tempore.
DIRECTORS DIVIDED BY EXPERTISE
7/19 Risk management
14/19 Entrepreneurial and organisational management
18/19 Business administration and control within the financial sector
12/19 Corporate
8/19 Regulation of financial assets
13/19 Global dynamics of the economic and financial system
6/19 Experience in university activities
11/19 Experience in professional activities
5/19 Management experience in public administrations or 
independent authorities
3 For more details please refer to the Report on Corporate Governance available at the following link: https://www.bancobpm.it/corporate-governance/documenti-societari/
Consolidated Non-Financial Statement 13
IMPORTANT INFORMATION
Banco BPM is one of the leading banking groups in Italy and operates in most 
areas of the country, with a strong presence in the wealthiest regions and a 
high degree of capital strength.
It operates in the various fields of the credit brokering and 
financial sector with a client base composed mainly of private 
NUMBER OF BRANCHES  
customers and SMEs.
AND MARKET SHARE
APPROX. APPROX.
3.8 22,200
10
5 1.3% 9
6.0% 1.3%
MILLION CUSTOMERS EMPLOYEES 663
13.0% 212
8.5%
of which private individuals 87% of which women 45%
209
of which businesses and professionals 12% f which men 55%
10.1% 184
of which non-profit organisations1% 6.9%
88
12.4%
APPROX. APPROX. 168 1
8.5% 0.1%
365 1,700
 thousand4 1.64%
1
SHAREHOLDERS SUPPLIERS 0.2%
99
5
of which 130 institutional  of which 98% in Italy 4.6% 4.5%
investors holding more than  of which 63% with certifications
1/3 of share capital of which 26% technology suppliers 43 36
3.3% 2 3.1%
0.9%
1
0.2%
Customer deposits represent the main source of funding of the 
1
Group and are used mainly to support people and the real  0.2%
economy.
> 10% 61
Group assets Group liabilities 4.7%
5 - 10%
2 - 5%
35% 30%
0 - 2%
65% 70% 1,8045 BRANCHES 
TOTAL
Financial assets  Financial liabilities 
and other assets ad other liabilities
7% NATIONAL MARKET 
Credit to private individuals,  Customer 
SHARE
businesses and non-profit  deposits
organisations
5 Total branches refers to the network of Banco BPM branches (including 13 Azimut 
Capital strength
branches) as well as Banca Aletti, Banca Akros and WeBank branches.
12.06% 8.875%
4 Data that considers approximately 240,000 shareholder depositors of Banco BPM as at 31/12/2018 
CET1 ratio phased-in   CET1 ratio phased-in  
effective minimum fixed by ECB and approximately 125,000 shareholder depositors of other brokers as at 02 January 2017, the date of the 
share exchange associated with the merger of Banco Popolare and Banco Popolare di Milano.
RISK MANAGEMENT
RISK MANAGEMENT
Risk advice, management and control, which are essential to ensuring the 
sustainability of the Group's activities, are entrusted, for all Group companies, 
to the Parent Company which guarantees extensive coverage6.
Each year the Group prepares the Risk Appetite 
Framework (RAF), the tool used to define the 
Group's  risk  appetite,  the  maximum  level  of  Internal processes 
and remuneration 
risk that can be assumed in line with business  Internal 
policies
Control 
strategies,  objectives  and  models  and  which 
System
influences  all  major  internal  processes  (see 
figure), playing an extremely important role in 
safe and prudent business management. Recovery 
RISK
Plan
APPETITE
A structured and dynamic approach (the Risk 
Identification process) that involves all corporate  FRAMEWORK Business 
Model
bodies and senior management of the Group 
is applied to identify all of the potential risks 
Assessment 
and risk factors and, consequently, the internal  of capital 
adequacy and 
measurement  models  (for  quantifiable  risks), 
cash availability Strategic 
organisational measures, processes and internal  Plan and 
Budget
mitigation procedures.
The  non-financial  risks  associated  with  the 
relevant topics and the relative management 
models and policies adopted are discussed in 
each chapter.
One transversal risk that applies to all of the topics discussed in this document and that concerns the entire 
stakeholder community is undoubtedly reputational risk7, measured by a specific model that, by monitoring 
qualitative and quantitative parameters, is able to identify a possible deterioration of reputation in five specific 
areas:
RESPECT FOR THE GROUP'S 
MISSION AND ETHICS
PERCEPTION OF FINANCIAL 
LITIGATION/SANCTIONS
MARKETS
REGULATORY AFFAIRS IT/SERVICES
CORPORATE 
REPUTATION
6 For a detailed overview of the risk management system, refer to the relevant section of the Consolidated Financial Statements - Section E of the Notes.
7 Actual or prospective risk of a reduction of profits or capital resulting from a negative perception of the Bank's image by customers, institutional counterparties, Bank shareholders, investors 
or supervisory bodies
Consolidated Non-Financial Statement 15
ECONOMIC VALUE  
GENERATED AND DISTRIBUTED
The economic value generated is distributed among the majority shareholders 
with interests in the Group.
STATEMENT OF CONSOLIDATED ECONOMIC VALUE (figures in € /000) 2018 2017 Change %
Interest margin 2,292,562 1,975,122 16
Net commission (net of external network fees) 1,843,212 1,958,240 -6
Dividends and similar income 51,956 53,909 -4
Net income (loss) from financial assets and liabilities 8,056 (49,469) /
Net adjustments on loans (1,915,477) (1,520,957) /
Other operating income / expenses 700,803 3,498,186 N.S.
Profits/(losses) on disposal of shareholdings 170,703 / /
Profits/(losses) on disposal of investments 2,655 13,070 -80
After tax profit/(loss) on asset disposal groups held for sale 936 762,262 -100
TOTAL GENERATED ECONOMIC VALUE 3,155,406 6,690,363 /
TOTAL DISTRIBUTED ECONOMIC VALUE 2,921,335 2,554,230 /
TOTAL RETAINED ECONOMIC VALUE 234,071 4,136,133 /
10%
59%
The  generated  economic  value  in  2018  was 
distributed to employees, collaborators and suppliers, 
while less than 0.1% (not shown on the graph) was 
allocated to shareholders of subsidiaries, communities 
and the environment.
31%
In 2018 the Group allocated a share of added value 
of approximately € 293 million to the central and 
local public administration, mainly in the form of 
Employees and collaborators
indirect taxes.
Suppliers
Public Administration
Both the economic value generated and retained in 2018 are markedly lower to the previous year as in 2017 the 
merger difference (badwill) was accounted for in the item “operating income / expenses”.
Retained economic value for € 234 million, along with other positive income items, such as the contribution of 
investment in affiliated businesses, was completely adsorbed by risk provisions, fees and amortisations which 
determined a negative balance. The consolidated income statement of the Banco BPM Group closed with a loss 
of approximately € 59 million.
CERTIFICATIONS ACHIEVED IN 2018
RECOGNITIONS IN 2018
JUNE OCTOBER
MILANO FINANZA GLOBAL  AIFIn DIGITAL PAYMENTS –  AIFIn “SUSTAINABILITY 
AWARDS INNOVATION AWARD AWARD”
XVII edition Special commendation to Banco  Honourable mention for the 
MF INNOVAZIONE award to  BPM for the project Il futuro della  project Avis e Banco BPM: 
YouCard Business, the innovative  customer experience: quando  una partnership di valore [Avis 
prepaid debit card issued by  digitale e voce si incontrano [The  and Banco BPM: A worthy 
Banco BPM. future of the customer experience:  partnership] in recognition of 
When voice meets digital]. the long-standing and ever 
broader partnership.
POSITIVE BUSINESS AWARD BEST EQUITY MANAGERS
V edition Benchmark Italia
POSITIVE TEAM award for the Brand  Banca Aletti was included in the list 
Ambassador project for the capacity  of excellence 2018/2019 following 
to create value for the Group through  a detailed analysis of its investment 
colleagues themselves, promoting the  services compared with other leading 
creation of a shared identity and culture. players in the sector, conducted by the 
Istituto Tedesco di Qualità e Finanza.
Consolidated Non-Financial Statement 17
NOVEMBER DECEMBER
FINANCE COMMUNITY AWARDS JP Morgan Chase 2018 ELITE QUALITY 
Banco BPM was named Team of the  RECOGNITION AWARD, USD Clearing
Year - Corporate Lending for its high  Banco BPM was awarded this important 
level of professionalism able to conquer  recognition for its high quality of service 
increasingly broader sections of the  to clients in the international payments 
market, including through innovative  sector, achieving awards for excellence 
transactions. in transactions in USD.
OSCAR DI BILANCIO ITALIAN CERTIFICATE AWARDS
At the major awards for financial  Two prestigious awards for Banca Akros, 
corporate reporting, promoted  Investment Bank of the Group:
by FERPI – Federazione Relazioni  Miglior certificato a capitale protetto [Best equity 
Pubbliche Italiana, the Consolidated  protection certificate] for the Borsa Protetta con 
Non-Financial Statement 2017 was  Cedola su SMI - Swiss Market Index.
a finalist in the following categories:  Miglior certificato a capitale protetto 
“Financial businesses” and “Innovation  condizionato [Best qualified equity protection 
in reporting”. certificate] for the Autocallable Coupon Premium 
on the Eurostoxx 50.
02
REFERENCE 
CONTEXT AND 
MATERIAL TOPICS
Reference context ..........................................................................20
Materiality analysis and scope of the decree ...................................22
The material topics of the Group consider  
a context that includes sustainability aspects 
such as climate change and the most 
significant social issues.
REFERENCE CONTEXT
REFERENCE CONTEXT
GLOBALLY
2015 2018
The United Nations General Assembly identifies  The  United Nations Climate Change Conference 
economic,  social  and  environmental  goals  is held in Poland, establishing the criteria and limits 
(Sustainable  Development  Goals  -  SDGs)  to  be  for CO  emissions and the measures to be adopted 
2
achieved by 2030, with the aim of directing the  in order to implement the resolutions made in Paris 
current development model towards sustainability1.  in  2015.  A  total  of  196  countries  attended  the 
These goals are highly innovative, extending beyond  conference in Katowice, including the United States. 
the concept of sustainability as a purely environmental  The decisions will not come into effect until 2020, 
and  philanthropic  issue  and  consolidating  an  despite  calls  by  the  Intergovernmental  Panel  on 
integrated vision of the various scales of development  Climate Change on the urgent need to limit the rise in 
and  the  importance  of  involving  all  members  of  global temperature to below 1.5°C.
society.
They were signed by the governments of the 193 UN 
Member States, including Italy, with the undertaking 
to report the results achieved.
1 For more information visit https://www.un.org/sustainabledevelopment/sustainable-development-goals/
Consolidated Non-Financial Statement 21
IN EUROPE
2014
The European Council and Parliament adopt Directive 
2014/95/EU  concerning  the  disclosure  of  non-
financial and diversity information by certain large 
undertakings and groups.
2018
The European Commission publishes the Action Plan 
for financing sustainable growth, which aims to 
redirect capital flows toward sustainable investments, 
manage the financial risks caused by environmental 
and social factors and promote transparency and 
long-term vision in economic and financial activities.
IN ITALY
2015 2018
The  PISA  (Programme  for  International  Student  ISTAT publishes the first report on the achievement of 
Assessment)  survey  is  published,  showing  that  the goals in Italy along with a trend analysis.
approximately 20% of students in Italy (compared 
to the average of 22% in the countries and OECD  The critical areas identified for Italy included high 
economies participating in the survey) are not able to  unemployment rates particularly among young people 
achieve the minimum level of financial literacy and  and a high NEET (Not in Education, Employment or 
only 6% achieve a high level. Training) ratio, and low investments in research and 
development by businesses. However, these factors 
2016 were accompanied by an increase in knowledge 
workers.
Italian Legislative Decree no. 254/16 transposes the 
Conversely, Italy performed well in the fields of health 
European Directive on the disclosure of non-financial 
and welfare, as well as energy, the environment 
and diversity information.
and the region thanks to a significant contribution of 
renewable energy sources.
MATERIALITY ANALYSIS AND SCOPE OF THE DECREE
MATERIALITY ANALYSIS  
AND SCOPE OF THE DECREE
The  identification  of  material  topics,  in  line  with  the  provisions  of  Italian 
Legislative Decree no. 254/2016, was carried out through interviews with 
department managers at Banco BPM and the main Group Companies, the 
analysis of the reference context and the sustainability requirements of the 
Bank's major investors.
The material topics2 in the graph have been positioned according to their impact on different stakeholder categories 
and the scope of the decree; moreover, alongside each topic is the sustainability goal identified by the UN and to 
which Banco BPM aims to contribute.
Human rights,, although covered by Italian Legislative Decree no. 254/2016, are not included among the 
material topics of the Banco BPM Group as the Group operates almost exclusively in Italy, a country that performs 
highly in this regard.
However, the Group recognises the importance of respecting personal dignity as a central element in its activities. 
In this regard, as well as ensuring compliance with the principles of human rights, the Code of Ethics also states 
that all conduct must be inspired by the respect of every single person without distinction or discrimination, applying 
this commitment to relations with employees, customers and suppliers.
With regard to the “Environment”, Italian Legislative Decree no. 254/2016 also envisages the disclosure of water 
consumption; however, this topic is not relevant to the Group in relation to the operations and business strategy 
sector.
2 Compared to 2017, the materiality analysis for 2018 describes topics concerning employees and customers in more detail.
Consolidated Non-Financial Statement 23
The material topics included in the 2017-2019 Industrial Plan correspond to the topics of most relevance to the 
Group and its stakeholders.
TOPICS INCLUDED 
IN THE BUSINESS PLAN 
RELATIONS WITH CUSTOMERS 
2017-2019
AND THE REGION
S SUPPORT FOR SAVINGS AND 
R
E INFORMED DECISIONS
M
O
T BUSINESS INTERNATIONALISATION 
S
U AND DEVELOPMENT
C
DIGITAL INNOVATION, DATA 
PROTECTION AND PRIVACY
PERSONNEL DEVELOPMENT, 
ENGAGEMENT AND WELFARE
S
E GROUP REORGANISATION AND 
E
Y INDUSTRIAL RELATIONS
O
L
P
S M
R E
E
D
L
O
H
CONTRIBUTION  BUSINESS INTEGRITY AND  ENVIRONMENTAL 
E
TO THE COMMUNITY CONTRIBUTION TO LAWFULNESS IN ITALY MITIGATION
K
A
T Y
S T
I
N
U
M
M
O
C
SUPPLIER RELATIONS
S
R
E
I
L
P
P
U
S
COMPANY CORRUPTION PERSONNEL ENVIRONMENT
SCOPE OF THE DECREE
03
CUSTOMERS 
AND THE 
REGION
RELATIONS WITH CUSTOMERS AND THE REGION .........................26
SUPPORT FOR SAVINGS AND INFORMED DECISIONS .......................35
BUSINESS INTERNATIONALISATION AND DEVELOPMENT ................39
DIGITAL INNOVATION, DATA PROTECTION AND PRIVACY ................43
 CUSTOMER RELATIONS
RELATIONS WITH CUSTOMERS 
AND THE REGION
Our relationship with our customers and the region is our most important 
asset and one that we want to protect and develop. For this reason, we have 
activated all necessary levers in terms of organisation, products and services, 
credit management and customer relations in order to establish long-lasting 
relationships founded on trust.
COMMERCIAL MODEL
organisation of support channels and activities to ensure regional proximity and 
high and efficient levels of service, synergy, and physical and digital security.
FINANCIAL AND NON-FINANCIAL SERVICES
RELATIONSHIP
products and services to meet different needs, evaluated on the basis of structured 
activities to promote dialogue and initiatives designed to perceive the interests 
and requirements of each region.
SUSTAINABLE CREDIT  MANAGEMENT
the combination of risk management, the achievement of corporate objectives and 
the implementation of possible measures to support people and firms in difficulty.
The Group customer relations policy is formalised in the Code of Ethics, which establishes that:
“In relations with customers, Group employees are required to act in accordance with the criteria of proactiveness, 
courtesy, transparency, collaboration and willingness to listen, providing adequate, complete and timely 
information in order to establish a reciprocal and mutually beneficial long-lasting relationship. Any customer 
complaints are handled with sensitivity and are considered as opportunities for improvement to overcome conflicts 
and develop trust and customer satisfaction”.
Consolidated Non-Financial Statement 27
WHO ARE OUR CUSTOMERS?
3.3 470,000 31,000
MILLION PHYSICAL  BUSINESSES AND  NON-PROFIT 
ENTITIES PROFESSIONALS ORGANISATIONS
• over 50% have been   • over 15% operate   • associations, social cooperatives 
customers for more than 10 years in the manufacturing sector and public or religious 
• almost 29% regularly use   • almost 60% regularly use  institutions, (-4,2% compared 
the online channel   the online channel to 20171), businesses that 
(+4% vs 2017) • approximately 90% have  contribute to the generation  
• approximately 10% only use the  a turnover of up to   of social value in Italy
online channel (+4% vs 2017) € 2.5 million. • over 50% are associations
• 1 in 3 have banked with the 
Group for at least 10 years
Most of our clients are located in some of the most dynamic regions in Italy: 37% in Lombardy, 12% in Veneto, 
10% in Piedmont and 9% in Emilia Romagna. As regards private individuals, 50% are women, 7% are foreign 
nationals and 6% are under 25. In terms of business clients, over 380,0002 operate principally in manufacturing, 
a particularly dynamic sector in 2018 thanks to exports, trade (another particularly lively sector in terms of retail 
trade and logistics) and services.
CUSTOMERS BY LOCATION (IN %) NON-PROFIT CUSTOMERS (NO.)
8%
75% 16000
17%
8000
4000
2000
North Associations Religious organisations
Central Institutions Other
South and islands Social cooperatives
1 The 4.2% decrease on the previous year can be attributed to the elimination of duplications caused by shared clients of the BPM network and Banco BPM.
2 Compared to 2017, a positive difference of 27% can be seen, which also takes into account the figures of small business operators included the “businesses” item in 2018.
 CUSTOMER RELATIONS
COMMERCIAL MODEL
In 2018, the new commercial model came into effect which, thanks to the centralisation of support services and 
the reorganisation of areas, regional departments and specialist centres, has contributed to improving commercial 
efficacy and national coverage.
BRANCHES
Over 1,700 branches available to all customers, divided into 45 areas (these branches oversee the achievement 
of objectives, commercial development and customer relations initiatives, approve loans up to pre-established 
limits), subdivided into 8 regional departments (these oversee, within their respective areas, the following fields: 
commercial, credit, HR and control).
SPECIALIST CENTRES
18 business  1 centre  1 central  1 centre with  Banca  Banca 
centres for businesses with  department dedicated advisors Akros Aletti
(turnover >€75 billion) turnovers of >€1 billion
offers specialist  to  offers businesses a  network of 55 
divided into 5 markets  with the power to  support to the network  institutional  range of corporate  branches and over 
that cover 5 regions  make credit decisions  of non-profit  clients and investment  200 private bankers 
and manage support,  within assigned limits customers banking services for clients with major 
development and  assets
commercial 
coordination 
activities
DIGITAL
All clients have access to the digital channels through online banking or mobile apps.
As regards the network of branches, the creation of regional departments, in turn subdivided into areas, has 
streamlined the decision-making process, improving response times and enabling commercial policies to be more 
responsive to local needs.
The creation of specialist centres has enabled the centralisation of skills and resources in order to focus on quality 
of service and economies of scope. The reorganisation of the multichannel commercial model was complemented 
by the rationalisation and reorganisation of the physical network of branches (with around 500 branches closed 
in 2018), necessary both due to branch duplications and to confront the social evolution characterised by the 
increased use of digital channels.
Consolidated Non-Financial Statement 29
FINANCIAL AND NON-FINANCIAL SERVICES
The creation and development of the relationship is carried out through various methods spanning from the range 
of products and services to listening to customer feedback in order to improve the commercial activities and gain 
a better understanding of the interests and needs of the region.
PRINCIPLE COMMERCIAL INITIATIVES IN 2018
Possibility of finding out the maximum loan available before identifying the property to be 
purchased.
Campaigns to promote and identify insurance demand in order to provide information 
on the real need for products and the insurance requirements to be fulfilled by ad hoc 
People products.
Campaign on the use of agreed credit and credit facilities devoted to onerous tax and 
administrative obligations (e.g. payment of F24, 13th month bonus, etc.).
Development of innovative products for cash collection.
Insurance solutions for SMEs aimed at protecting assets (protection of production 
equipment, legal disputes, protecting of going concerns and partners, etc.).
Businesses
Commercial agreements with industry associations (e.g. Federlegno for loans on wood 
engineering works).
Renewal of commercial agreements with strategic partners for the development of non-
profit organisations, such as the agreements with the Catholic Ecclesiastical Bodies and 
the ACLI, the network of social cooperatives CGM Finance and COESI Services, and 
the Italian Federation of Preschools.
Continuation of the commercialisation of the ad hoc “Incontro” range with products and 
Voluntary Sector services to meet the specific needs of the Voluntary Sector (e.g. 5.x1000 advances 
and the performance of “transactions with recourse” in partnership with Prefectures, 
social cooperative services, etc.).
The range of products and services includes specific solutions for customers with particular needs, including:
•  for children, the BRUCOCONTO savings account (up to 12 years) and the LET’S BANK current account (12 
- 17 years);
•  for customers on low incomes and without specific requirements, the BASIC ACCOUNT and, for new retired 
customers, the LIBRETTO ACCOUNT.
EQUITY CROWDFUNDING
The Group also operates in the field of equity  opens the necessary accounts to facilitate the 
crowdfunding, an online fundraising method  crowdfunding and, when the target amount 
that  enables  multiple  investors  to  finance  is reached, transfers the amount to the current 
innovative start-ups and SMEs in exchange for  account of the beneficiary or otherwise returns 
shares. the funds raised to the investors.
Following  anti-money  laundering  checks  on  In 2018 over 80% of fundraising ventures were 
the businesses and persons involved, the Bank  successful.
 CUSTOMER RELATIONS
Furthermore, in partnership with other specialist operators, the Group is studying solutions for corporate welfare, 
energy efficiency services and proposals to promote and implement digital solutions, particularly for artisan 
professionals and small businesses.
In the understanding that customer relations extend beyond the mere range of products or services and in line with 
the Group's corporate identity, initiatives have been launched to transform branches and offices into a point of 
reference, with the possibility to implement initiatives and arrange meetings to meet the needs of the local community.
NON-FINANCIAL SERVICES
Types of activity Main stakeholders involved
Young people Adults Local businesses
Financial education   Meetings and dialogue about  Events with important talks on 
in schools financial and economic literacy highly specialist topics
Career guidance   Planning and control    Meetings about relations with 
for students of family spending financial institutions
Leasing of spaces for training 
ECONOMY, FINANCE AND  activities, team building, events, 
THE WORLD OF WORK etc.
Meetings to raise awareness of social and economic scenarios
Book presentations, meetings with authors,  
sports personalities, singers and bloggers
CULTURE
Prevention, awareness  
and control of main diseases
HEALTH  
AND WELL-BEING
Use of the network  
and IT services
IT TRAINING
Consolidated Non-Financial Statement 31
Customer feedback, delivered through customer satisfaction surveys and a careful complaints management system, 
represents an essential tool for monitoring and improving customer relations. In both fields, also considering the measures 
to integrate technology and overcome technological challenges, the results demonstrate both successes and challenges.
The customer satisfaction survey in 2018 involved 135,000 customers, individuals, businesses and professionals 
and used TRIM, a numerical index from 0 to 100 that considers the customer experience in branch and online, and 
highlights any critical situations. Since 2018, with a view to greater transparency, improvement and openness, the 
results of the surveys have been published on the company intranet.
CUSTOMER SATISFACTION
The interviews conducted generally confirmed the 
levels of satisfaction recorded in the previous year. 
In particular, with regard to customer relations, the 
results for 2018 were in line with the high level 
of service shown by the in-branch experiences of  0 100
potential customers (mystery shoppers), with results 
above the market average in nearly all of the 
aspects surveyed (entrance and welcome; image 
and  décor;  relationship  and  active  dialogue; 
commercial advice).
* Average between the level of satisfaction of private individuals and of 
businesses
The number of complaints received fell by 6% at Group level compared to 2017, with improvements in the 
number of complaints accepted or partially accepted. Performance fell in terms of average times taken to handle 
complaints; these nonetheless respected the deadlines provided for by law.
The most significant topics included computer scams caused by malware and the length of time required to close 
current accounts.
Complaints  do  not  include  those  received  from 
COMPLAINTS - BANCO  Change
customers  in  relation  to  the  disclosure  activities  2018 2017
BPM GROUP3 (%)
of  the  specialist  company  Intermarket  Diamond 
Complaints received (in no.) 7,861 8,346 - 6
Business S.p.A. for customers interested in purchasing 
 of which relating to banking 
diamonds, which took place before the merger that  7,017 7,494 - 6
services
led to the establishment of Banco BPM.
- of which relating to investment 
732 741 - 1
products
These include 12,183 complaints in 2018 (of which 
- of which relating to insurance 
8,851 have been processed and 2,972 are being  112 111 +1
products
handled) and 764 in previous years (of which 415 
Complaints processed 7,882 8,438 - 7
had been processed at the end of 2017). In response 
- accepted 2,418 2,693 - 10
to these complaints, the senior management of Banco 
- partially accepted 1,870 1,984 - 6
BPM launched rigorous audits, in collaboration with 
- rejected 3,534 3,761 - 6
the Authorities, making discontinuity decisions and 
Processing times (average no. of days)
allocating the relevant provisions. In this regard the 
Bank will continue to adopt all necessary measures  - for banking services 19 17 + 12
with a view to supporting the customers involved4 and  - for investment products 29 19 + 53
maintaining relations with the same. - for insurance products 25 18 + 39
3 The number of complaints processed is different from the number of complaints received as the former also includes complaints received in 2017 and processed in 2018.
4 As indicated in the paragraph “Significant Events During the Financial Year” of the Group's Report on Operations, as at 31 January 2019 the total number of these complaints was 13,300. 
For more information, refer to the section “Significant Events During the Financial Year” of the Group’s Report on Operations.
 CUSTOMER RELATIONS
SUSTAINABLE CREDIT MANAGEMENT
The Group supports people and businesses through  Since  2018  services  to  non-profit organisations 
the granting of loans. At the end of 2018, total loans  have also been significant, with a specialist range 
amounted to € 101 billion5 and represented over  of  products  and  services,  a  dedicated  corporate 
60% of the Group's assets. department and, above all, loans which at the end of 
the year amounted to over € 819 million (of which 
In particular, the stock of loans to businesses is almost  approximately  560  million  related  exclusively  to 
€ 58 billion, one third of which is concentrated in the  voluntary and religious organisations).
manufacturing sector.
When granting loans to businesses their repayment 
capacity  is  evaluated,  considering  actual  and 
BUSINESS LOANS  
prospective economic performance and the relevant 
BY MACRO-SECTOR
sector, as well as non-financial information such as 
management, transparency, quality and innovation, 
12%
33%
image, reputation and supplier relations.
Furthermore, any possible issues that may negatively 
18%
impact the Group's reputation are considered in the 
case of particularly significant transactions (so-called 
“significant transactions”). Financial transactions in the 
defence industry are approved directly by the Board 
of Directors, even in the cases of amounts ordinarily 
19%
below this level of approval.
18%
With regard to private individuals, in 2018 the stock 
of loans was almost € 27 billion (-1.3% compared 
Manufacturing Services
to 2017), almost 90% of which regard residential 
Trade Other
mortgages  which,  beginning  in  2018,  customers 
have been able to apply for prior to selecting the  Real Estate
property, finding out the amount that the Bank intends 
to lend on the basis of their income.
5 Loan data refers to performing loans.
Consolidated Non-Financial Statement 33
As well as ordinary loans, the Group also operates in the subsidised loans sector (through public subsidies or funds 
obtained at discounted rates), aimed at reducing risk and facilitating access to credit.
NUMBER OF  NUMBER OF 
TYPE   TRANSACTIONS  TRANSACTIONS  LOAN STOCK AT  LOAN STOCK AT 
OF MEASURE AT YEAR-END  AT YEAR-END  YEAR-END 2018 YEAR-END 2017
2018 2017
Loans subsidised by  
15,071 12,136 € 2.9 billion € 2.4 billion
PUBLIC GUARANTEES
Loans subsidised by  
15,853 23,527 € 0.8 billion € 0.9 billion
CONFIDI guarantees
Loans granted with the use of 
11,919 12,131 € 2.1 billion € 2.2 billion
SPECIAL FUNDS
Loans subsidised by 
CONTRIBUTIONS TO  4,947 4,722 € 0.5 billion € 0.5 billion
INTEREST ACCOUNTS
TOTAL 47,790 52,516 € 6.3 billion € 6 billion
As regards private individuals and businesses, for  the sale of loans without recourse (approximately € 
borrowers who are undergoing periods of difficulty  11 billion) and management and recovery activities 
yet present otherwise positive economic prospects,  conducted through mediation activities.
the Group assesses the implementation of forbearance 
measures that enable borrowers to benefit from a  Moreover,  partnerships  with  the  Anti-usury 
reduction/deferral of the commitments assumed (e.g.  Foundations continued with the granting of guarantees 
suspension of payments for a certain period, extension  for bank loans (generally no greater than € 30,000) 
of the amortisation period and refinancing to enable  typically  designed  to  support  the  customer's  cash 
the recovery and development of assets). availability  needs  (e.g.  payment  of  utility  bills, 
rent arrears, tax bills, etc.). At year-end 2018 eight 
At year-end 2018, the total value of these measures  agreements  with  Anti-usury  Foundations  were  in 
was  almost  €  7  billion,  with  84%  referring  to  place6, with 150 transactions completed for a total of 
businesses. 496 guaranteed transactions and € 6.9 million.
As regards non-performing loans, the Group undertakes  Banco  BPM  has  also  supported  individuals  and 
to seek win-win solutions with its customers in difficulty,  businesses  affected  by  disastrous  events,  granting 
avoiding  the  instigation  of  legal  proceedings  for  mortgages at discounted rates to SMEs affected by 
the  enforcement  of  loan  guarantees.  At  Group  the collapse of “Ponte Morandi” in Genoa on 14 
level, the stock of non-performing loans fell from  August 2018 and offering preferential rates on loans 
approximately € 25 billion at year-end 2017 to  to the communities affected by the earthquake in 
around € 12 billion at year-end 2018, thanks to  central Italy in 2016.
6 Fondazione Adventum Onlus, Fondazione Beato G. Tovini, Associazione Baccarato Antiusura Onlus – ASBAC, Ambulatorio Antiusura Onlus, Adiconsum, Fondazione Salus Populi Romani, 
Fondazione San Giuseppe Moscati, Fondazione Wanda Vecchi Onlus.
 CUSTOMER RELATIONS
MAIN RISKS MANAGEMENT METHODS/POLICIES ADOPTED
Assessment of creditworthiness and the risks of the loan granting process, and the clear 
distinction of the roles of loan proposer and decision-maker.
State-of-the-art credit risk assessment model and measurement metrics.
CREDIT AND OVER-
INDEBTEDNESS
Verification of the customer's capacity to repay the debt.
Monitoring of credit and mediation initiatives to enable customers in temporary financial 
difficulty to meet their commitments.
Rules of conduct set forth in the Code of Ethics and internal regulations relating to the 
ERRORS PERFORMED  conduct of personnel towards internal and external counterparties and in commercial 
BY COMMERCIAL  operations.
PERSONNEL AND 
OPERATING RISKS Definition, within the new network model, of new specific roles of regional departments 
and branches as an integral part of the control process to monitor operating risks.
Transparent disclosure and financial literacy initiatives to share essential information and 
POSSIBLE  knowledge; pursuit of win-win solutions able to bring value to the Bank and the customer.
DETERIORATION/
ALTERATION 
Branches closures take place according to economic criteria and the local scenario, but 
OF CUSTOMER 
RELATIONS are accompanied by initiatives aimed at pursuing customer relations through the digital 
channel.
Consolidated Non-Financial Statement 35
SUPPORT FOR SAVINGS AND 
INFORMED DECISIONS
The protection and optimisation of savings and the promotion of financial 
literacy are activities with a profound social impact. In fact, Italy has one of the 
least financially literate cultures in Europe yet is characterised by high levels of 
wealth and a high propensity to save.
As stated in the Code of Ethics, “the products and  proposal of the best investment solutions to advanced 
services offered to customers must respond to their  consultancy and the promotion of financial literacy.
actual needs. The use of elusive practices or methods 
aimed at influencing their judgement or behaviour is  In  particular,  the  adjustment  of  processes  and 
not permitted. Customers must be given clear and  procedures to MIFID II and the financial consultancy 
comprehensive  information  on  the  products  and  model based on the adequacy of the portfolio to 
services offered and the relative conditions applied,  the customer profile was extended to all distribution 
in  order  to  facilitate  understanding  and  promote  networks.  At  year-end  2018,  the  percentage 
of  customer  portfolios  with  active  advanced 
sound decisions”.
consultancy contracts appropriate to the risk profile 
To provide a high quality of service to all customers of  at Group level was 88%, representing a significant 
the Group, a division has been created within Banca  improvement on the start of the year.
Aletti, which specialises in private banking, to support 
private branches and the network as a whole, in order  The development of new financial products begins 
to guarantee the provision of advanced consultancy  with the analysis of customer needs, the periodic 
services for each different customer category based  review of the product range and the market scenario. 
on their individual needs. Following commercialisation, the Group monitors the 
products on offer, verifying that they remain aligned 
In 2018 the activities carried out in view of the entry  with the interests, goals and characteristics of the 
into force of MIFID II were supported by initiatives to  customers to whom they are directed.
create a service model ranging from the selection and 
SSUUPPPPOORRTT  FFOORR  SSAAVVIINNGGSS  AANNDD  IINNFFOORRMMEEDD  DDEECCIISSIIOONNSS
ADVANCED FINANCIAL CONSULTANCY
ACTIVITIES ASSOCIATED WITH MIFID II OTHER ACTIVITIES
Notice on products and services of 
third parties offered by the Group.
Transparency ex ante about  
FINANCIAL CONSULTANCY MODEL  SCREENING OF THE BEST FINANCIAL 
costs and fees.
BASED ON AN ANALYSIS OF THE  SOLUTIONS THROUGH AN INTERNAL 
ADEQUACY   SCORING MODEL.
Customer profiling based on  OF PORTFOLIOS.
risk tolerance, experience and 
knowledge and investment 
liquidity.
Skills reinforcement for network 
financial advisors*.
INVESTMENT STRATEGIES APPROVED   NEW INVESTMENT OPPORTUNITIES 
Incentives schemes for distributors  BY THE ASSET ALLOCATION  APPROVED BY THE NEW PRODUCTS  
based on service quality. COMMITTEE. AND MARKETS COMMITTEE.
Reinforcement of controls on 
financial transactions.
CONTINUOUS MONITORING   DEVELOPMENT OF REGIONAL  
OF THE EFFECTIVENESS OF THE  ADVISORY SERVICES TO SUPPORT  
SELECTED PRODUCTS AND THE  THE COMMERCIAL NETWORK.
ADVICE PROVIDED.
MEETINGS THE CUSTOMERS AND  CONTINUOUS TRAINING ON 
THE NETWORK REGARDING THE  ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL 
OPPORTUNITIES AND RISKS OF  MATTERS AND TO MAINTAIN 
EMERGING MACRO-ECONOMIC  COMPLIANCE WITH MIFID II  
SCENARIOS AND MARKETS. BY ADVISORS.
*This topic is discussed in more depth in the Personnel 
Development, Engagement and Welfare chapter.
Consolidated Non-Financial Statement 37
With regard to investment opportunities offered to  These initiatives were carried out directly by Banca 
customers,  particular  attention  has  been  given  by  Aletti specialists and complemented those delivered in 
both the Bank and the market to financial products  branches and schools. Banco BPM chose to develop 
managed according to ESG (environmental, social  these initiatives following the results of the survey, 
and  governance)  criteria  that  can  direct  savings  conducted in 2017 in collaboration with IPSOS, on 
towards activities that generate positive impacts for  the financial and economic topics most relevant to 
society as well as profit opportunities. customers.
At  year  end  2018,  equity  managed  with  ESG  In the course of 2018 a series of initiatives were 
products, which amounted to over € 1.2 billion, had  carried out, including in-branch workshops open 
doubled compared to the previous year, thanks  to customers and the community, and events in 
partly to the broader range of products on offer.  schools  in  collaboration  with  the  Foundation  for 
As well as the SRI funds of Etica Sgr and Eurizon  financial literacy and savings, the popular science 
Sgr, solutions were offered such as the insurance  company Taxi 1729 and the Genovese Belatramo 
policies of Vera Financial, with the underlying SRI  Theatre Company.
and  the  Luxembourgian  SICAV  GIS  Cedola  Risk 
Control products, with controlled volatility investments 
associated with the ECPI Global Megatrend index, 
the latter with the aim of encouraging customers to 
make socially responsible investments while managing 
and mitigating the risks.
In the course of the year, know-how, aimed at the 
continuous  improvement  of  consultancy  services, 
was pursued as a common factor among network 
staff and customers through events on economic and 
financial topics.
2,000
PEOPLE INVOLVED
in the survey on the most significant economic 
and financial topics.
SURVEY ON  
20
RELEVANT TOPICS
WORKSHOPS IN BRANCH
in 18 cities, involving 900 people.
SHARING   REGIONAL   10
KNOW-HOW INITIATIVES
EVENTS IN SCHOOLS
attended by over 2,500 students.
SUPPORT FOR SAVINGS AND INFORMED DECISIONS
MAIN RISKS MANAGEMENT METHODS/POLICIES ADOPTED
Rejection of the product model for a holistic service 
SUSTAINABILITY OF THE CONSULTANCY MODEL
model for all customers
POOR FINANCIAL KNOWLEDGE Financial literacy initiatives for employees and customers
Evaluation of effective needs, objectives and risk 
MISSELLING OF FINANCIAL PRODUCTS appetite of customers before the proposal and sale of 
financial products
Consolidated Non-Financial Statement 39
BUSINESS INTERNATIONALISATION 
AND DEVELOPMENT
The growth of Italian businesses is a highly relevant theme for the country and, 
at the same time, represents an important business opportunity for a banking 
group such as Banco BPM.
The Group has positioned itself as a reference partner for businesses, particularly mid-caps7, supporting their 
growth in Italy and abroad. Thanks to the close collaboration between Banca Akros and the Bank's Corporate 
Division, the Group is able to support businesses with a comprehensive and integrated service.
Development through   Development through  
bank loans capital markets
IDENTIFICATION  Diverse range of traditional commercial  Network of relations to offer investment 
OF DEVELOPMENT  banking and non-financial products and  banking services to medium and large 
OPPORTUNITIES services and solutions for international markets. businesses.
Extraordinary financial transactions, 
particularly for SMEs, such as Stock Market 
Analysis of trends, sector dynamics and  trading, capital increases, public purchase 
financial business structures. offers, SPAC, bond issues, buybacks, private 
FINANCIAL SOLUTIONS  placements, syndication, M&A, spin-offs and 
FOR DEVELOPMENT  Range of loans and structured finance  securitisations.
AND EXTRAORDINARY  solutions with certified operators and 
ACTIVITIES institutions (private equity funds, real estate  Structure and distribution of instruments to 
agents, etc.). hedge and manage financial risk.
Brokerage activities, equity research and 
corporate brokering.
Range of international products and 
ACTIVITIES WITH  Structure and distribution of instruments to 
services, innovative trade finance activities, 
OTHER COUNTRIES hedge and manage currency risk.
partnerships with foreign banks.
Communities to seize business opportunities in Italy and abroad.
CULTURE  
OF GROWTH Management and financial training tools and programmes aimed at stimulating innovation and 
business development.
7 Mid-caps traded on the stock exchange.
BUSINESS INTERNATIONALISATION AND DEVELOPMENT
To  support  businesses  in  the  development  of  This type of loan referred to:
international activities, Banco BPM has evolved its 
service model from a physical presence in leading  •  short term transactions (up to 15 months) such 
cities around the world to a digital platform which, by  as the purchase of raw/semi-processed materials 
connecting to leading banks in the respective countries,  and other costs necessary for exported goods 
ensures a high level of service and opportunities to  and/or services;
develop business relations at sustainable costs while 
•  medium to long term transactions such as the 
constantly monitoring risks. This platform has enabled 
purchase of capital goods, feasibility studies for 
the extension of the range of services offered to 
the opening of branches abroad, takeovers of 
businesses, combining access to international markets 
foreign companies, the expansion of production 
with traditional lending solutions.
factories and other development activities through 
At Group level, at year-end 2018 total business  the financing of property, plant and equipment 
loans amounted to approximately €588 billion,  (e.g. purchase, requalification and renewal of 
a slight increase compared to 2017 (+1.4%) and  equipment and plants) and intangible assets (e.g. 
higher than the 57% represented by customer loans  promotional activities, research and development, 
and the 36% represented by Group assets. specialist consultancy services, trademarks and 
patents, etc.) of business customers.
The lending strategies of the Group aim to identify 
the sectors with the most attractive development  The  development  of  Italian  exports  supported  by 
prospects and, at the same time, low levels of risk.  the  Group  has  been  particularly  dynamic  in  less 
The sectors identified in 2018 were manufacturing  developed regions and countries such as India and 
(export-led),  retail  trade  and  logistics  (led  by  the  North Africa, with an annual growth of over 50%.
positive trend of e-commence), as well as agriculture, 
Particular attention has been given to the training 
supported  by  all  branches  of  “Made  in  Italy” 
offered to staff who engage with businesses and 
products. The Real Estate sector was again evaluated 
involved all organisational levels, focusing on the 
as critical, both due to the prospects of the system and 
development of management and customer relations 
its significant presence in the Bank's credit portfolios.
skills as well as optimising technical expertise.
As  regards  medium  to  large  businesses  (with 
Another contribution to the growth of business clients 
turnovers over € 75 million), in 2018 new loans 
was presented by the opportunity to participate in 
for approximately € 10 billion were granted (+30% 
the business community, with business opportunities 
on 2017), of which 60% referred to transactions 
in Italy and abroad and management and financial 
regarding extraordinary finance projects.
training programmes aimed at stimulating innovation 
These included loans for infrastructure works carried  and business growth.
out  through  project  financing  of  €  440  million, 
and  loans  dedicated  to  international  business 
development amounting to around € 800 million.
8 Considering performing loans granted to non-financial companies.
Consolidated Non-Financial Statement 41
PARTIES ENGAGED BY 
DESCRIPTION TARGETS BENEFITS FOR THE BUSINESS
BANCO BPM
Promote the products  As a member of the “Trade 
and services of business  The Banco BPM  Club Alliance”, a network of 
YOULOUNGE
clients; develop business  community has 251  13 International Banks, the 
opportunities in the field  business customers, of  business is able to identify 
BANCO BPM'S INTERNATIONAL 
of imports and exports;  which 225 are Retail  the purchase and sale 
BUSINESS COMMUNITY FOR 
establish commercial  clients and 26 are  requirements of all members of 
BUSINESS CUSTOMERS
partnerships with leading  Corporate clients. the community belonging to the 
global banks. individual participating Banks.
Provide constantly updated 
information on foreign countries 
in relation to imports/exports, 
the political and governmental 
Provide business customers  A total of 1,248 
YOUWORLD framework, customs and tax 
with information on  businesses use the 
regulations, and contractual 
international trade, organised  portal, composed of 
BANCO BPM’S ONLINE PORTAL  obligations, as well as 
by country and type of  1,172 retail clients and 
FOR INTERNATIONAL TRADE guidelines for trading in the 
product or service. 76 corporate clients.
chosen country and contact 
details of local financial 
institutions, potential suppliers  
or foreign buyers.
Manage the exchange of 
digital documents between 
the Bank and the customer, 
Simplify and optimise the 
YOUTRADE FINANCE through guided and constantly 
relationship between the  420 contracts 
monitored procedures able 
Bank and business customers  signed with business 
THE BANCO BPM ELECTRONIC  to ensure maximum security 
operating on international  customers.
GOODS TRADING PLATFORM (e.g. use of digital signatures), 
markets.
reducing delays and monitoring 
the progress of the customer’s 
actions.
The adoption of the “lean” 
approach promotes the 
LEAN THINKING rationalisation of resources 
Stimulate innovation in  Sample of business 
and company processes 
business organisation and  customers who have 
PARTNERSHIP WITH THE  through experimentation and 
management through the  adopted the “lean” 
“ICRIOS” OBSERVATORY OF  the progressive streamlining of 
promotion of the “lean”  approach in various 
BOCCONI UNIVERSITY ON “LEAN  business dynamics, not only in 
management approach. sectors of activity.
THINKING” terms of production, with the 
relative improvement of certain 
financial processes.
Offer businesses access to 
ELITE an international network; 
47 business customers  provide financial skills on the 
Support business customers 
A TWO-YEAR TRAINING  with important  availability of various funding 
by providing the financial 
PROGRAMME (2017-2019) FOR  development prospects  sources through a dedicated 
skills necessary to 
BUSINESSES IN PARTNERSHIP  and projects, including  training programme; promote 
realise their growth and 
WITH BORSA ITALIANA AND IN  listing on the stock  partnerships through the 
development projects.
COLLABORATION WITH BANCA  exchange. creation of useful contracts 
AKROS. between companies and 
investors.
Data at 31 December 2018
BUSINESS INTERNATIONALISATION AND DEVELOPMENT
MAIN RISKS MANAGEMENT METHODS/POLICIES ADOPTED
Origination activities directed towards current or 
FAILURE TO DEVELOP THE ENTREPRENEURIAL  prospective customers, basic analysis of non-listed 
NETWORK IMPACTS NEGATIVELY ON THE  businesses to identify any business opportunities.
NATIONAL ECONOMY AND THE BANKING 
SYSTEM. Integrated offer of specific solutions for each business need 
thanks to major national and international partnerships.
POSSIBLE FAILURE OF SUPPORTED OPERATIONS,  Constant and transparent dialogue with business 
WITH CONSEQUENT HARM FOR THE GROUP AND  customers, offer of services and financial instruments in line 
ITS CUSTOMERS.
with customer requirements and accurate risk analysis.
Support of transactions with leading banks in the 
RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH OPERATIONS IN 
respective counties able to monitor risks and opportunities 
FOREIGN COUNTRIES
at local level.
Consolidated Non-Financial Statement 43
DIGITAL INNOVATION, DATA 
PROTECTION AND PRIVACY
Digital transformation is a challenge that tests the ability of banks to work 
effectively and competitively in the coming years.
In 2017 Banco BPM launched the “Digital Omnichannel Transformation” (DOT) project, liaising with stakeholders 
from the planning phase through to the launch and testing phase. Feedback, a high level of internal and external 
engagement and the promotion of a digital culture have supported the launch of various services in 2018, which 
have also been subject to tests, satisfaction surveys and training activities.
SHARING
Sharing of ideas and projects to develop digital agility through 
workshops and expert testimonials
TESTS IN THE LAUNCH PHASE SURVEYS AND FEEDBACK
Testing and launch of services, training  Customer surveys, brochures and 
and promotion of the digital culture, user  employees specialising in digital 
feedback and continuous dialogue solutions, advanced services, 
Work team of   multichannel model and non-financial 
300 colleagues from   services
40 corporate departments.
DOT
SELECTION
Selection of services and features to be launched, project 
management and launch of work groups
DDIIGGIITTAALL  IINNNNOOVVAATTIIOONN,,  DDAATTAA  PPRROOTTEECCTTIIOONN  AANNDD  PPRRIIVVAACCYY
MAIN SERVICES 2018 TRAINING
ISSUED
OVER
•  Fully digital advance invoices
8,000
•  YouLounge digital community to promote business 
internationalisation
Employees involved
•  Technological and training activities at Contact 
Centres to construct new ad hoc multichannel 
solutions (data driven) at Group level
•  Pairing of Nexi credit cards and smartphone 
payments OVER
82,000
•  Improvement and expansion of the Virtual Assistant 
service integrated in the Internet Banking portal
Hours of training  
•  Webank App with voice-activated interface for  to develop digital skills
information and features in beta mode
•  Residential mortgage calculator
FOCUS ON:
•  Digital transformation and 
multichannel functionality for banks
LAUNCHED •  Range of Banco BPM  
digital services
•  Integration of YouInvoice electronic invoicing  •  Customer journey  
system and internet banking and customer experience
•  Integration of internet banking with leading  •  New digital skill  
management software and dynamic culture
Data and information can reveal a great deal about  The  development  of  digital  technology  within  the 
our lives and it is essential to safeguard it: the right  Group has been supported by a careful control of 
to privacy, recognised as a human right, concerns  IT security and data protection, in line with the new 
personal information and dignity, and has to contend  General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR). Internal 
with increasing pervasive and invasive technology  initiatives  in  this  context  have  aimed  to  combine 
and devices. and align the right to security and privacy with the 
introduction of innovative solutions.
Consolidated Non-Financial Statement 45
In 2018, employee training and awareness-raising  During the year, no cyber security breaches such to 
initiatives played an important role in this regard, as did  cause significant harm to the Group's IT systems were 
the technological protection measures, procedures  identified; however, cases of IT fraud were detected, 
and cyber intelligence tools implemented to protect  often associated with the installation and activation of 
customer  security  (fraud  prevention),  ensure  the  malware on customers’ computer systems, generating 
integrity of IT systems (protection against cybercrime  potential losses which were nonetheless covered by 
and hackers), protect data and information against  the economic intervention of the Group.
theft or unlawful use, ensure the effective operation 
of customer services, particularly in terms of mobile  As regards privacy complaints, one report and one 
technologies, and strengthen the Group's resilience  complaint were submitted, in reference to which the 
with particular focus on the organisational departments  Data Protection Authority has not yet announced its 
of Group Companies that manage critical assets. verdict, and one appeal that was ruled in favour of 
the Bank.
AGREEMENT BETWEEN BANCO BPM AND POSTAL POLICE TO PREVENT 
AND COMBAT CYBERCRIME
Following the agreement signed with the State Police, activities regarding the sharing of procedures 
for interventions and the exchange of information in order to prevent cyber attacks are continuing 
effectively. This enables the Police to access information useful to its inquiries in a timely manner and 
offers the Bank access to a centralised database.
MAIN RISKS MANAGEMENT METHODS/POLICIES ADOPTED
Launch of a project aimed at developing the relationship with customers, 
seizing digitalisation opportunities to promote the ease and effectiveness of the 
FAILURE TO SEIZE 
commercial relationship.
OPPORTUNITIES OFFERED  
BY DIGITALISATION
When streamlining the number of branches, digital technology enables customer 
relations to be maintained in an optimum manner.
Promoting the digital culture at all levels, developing skills, tools and work 
ABSENCE OF DIGITAL SKILLS 
methods to facilitate the journey of transformation and the engagement of human 
WITHIN THE GROUP
capital.
Investments and measures to protect digital identities and personal data, prevent 
PROTECTION OF IT SECURITY, 
fraud and cybercrime, particularly on apps and mobile devices, and guarantee 
DATA AND PRIVACY.
operational continuity in all circumstances.
The digitalisation of documents and procedures helps to reduce human error and 
OPERATIONAL RISK
potential losses of information.
04
PEOPLE
PERSONNEL DEVELOPMENT, ENGAGEMENT AND WELFARE ........48
GROUP REORGANISATION AND INDUSTRIAL RELATIONS .............56
PERSONNEL DEVELOPMENT, ENGAGEMENT AND WELFARE 
PERSONNEL DEVELOPMENT, 
ENGAGEMENT AND WELFARE
The optimisation of human capital and the involvement of staff in corporate 
reorganisation decisions characterise the approach taken by the Group to 
safeguard the level and quality of employment and work.
As stated in the Code of Ethics, “the respect of the identity and dignity of every employee is essential to the 
development of a working environment based on mutual trust and loyalty. A positive working climate is promoted, 
prizing individuality and interpersonal relations and promoting a strong sense of belonging and team spirit.”.
Investment in training, the creation and diffusion of a shared identity and the initiatives dedicated to employee 
welfare are essential to enhancing human capital and creating and consolidating long-lasting relationships.
TRAINING AND ENHANCEMENT
Continuous investments in training to confront future challenges and 
optimise human capital.
ENGAGEMENT AND CORPORATE CULTURE
PEOPLE
Diffusion and reinforcement of the corporate culture to bring about 
change.
WELFARE
Attention towards its employees continues to represent one of the 
Group's key characteristics.
Consolidated Non-Financial Statement 49
WHO ARE OUR EMPLOYEES GROUP EMPLOYEES 2018 2017
TOTAL EMPLOYEES (NO.) 22,247 23,263
At  year-end  2018  the  Group  PARTNERSHIPS AND INTERNSHIPS 8 9
employed over 22,000 employees,  Employees by contract type (no.)
almost all of which on permanent  Permanent 22,126 23,126
Temporary 2 5
contracts  and  with  working 
Apprenticeship 119 132
relationships lasting for over 20 years 
Permanent contracts (%)
on  average.  Almost  two  in  three 
Women 44.7 44.4
employees work in the commercial  Men 55.3 55.6
network and focus exclusively on the  Apprenticeships (%)
business sector. Women 50.4 50.0
Men 49.6 50.0
Temporary contracts (%)
Women  represent  approximately  Women 0 20.0
Men 100 80.0
half of the company workforce and 
Part-time employees (no.)
young people under 30 account for 
Women 3,242 3,108
3% at Group level. Of all employees, 
Men 182 167
15.4%  have  part-time  contracts  Full-time employees (no.)
(+4.5% compared to 2017). Women 6,705 7.144
Men 12,118 12,707
COMPOSITION  Professional  COMPOSITION BY  Professional 
BPRYO AFGESE SAIONNDA L  anadr eoaths er  Managers Executives PLERVOEFLE ASSNIOD NGAENL DER  anadr eoaths er  Managers Executives
LEVEL (%) employees (%) employees
< 30 years 4.6 / /
Women 54.4 30.5 9.2
30-50 years 61.0 39.7 18.8
Men 45.6 69.5 90.8
> 50 years 34.4 60.3 81.2
TOTAL 100 100 100 TOTAL 100.0 100.0 100.0
The  workforce  composition  by  age,  gender  and 
professional  level  is  substantially  unchanged  GEOGRAPHIC DISTRIBUTION  
compared to 2017. Around 4 in 10 employees are  OF EMPLOYEES*
educated to degree level or above, with a higher rate 
25%
44%
among women (39%) than men (37%).
Lombardy Emilia Romagna
9%
Veneto The rest of Italy and abroad
Piedmont
* The graphic refers to total employees subdivided by the main regions in which the  10%
Group operates. All employees are employed on permanent contracts or apprenticeships  12%
apart from two employees in Veneto who are employed on temporary contracts.
PERSONNEL DEVELOPMENT, ENGAGEMENT AND WELFARE 
As  regards  contract  categories,  there  is  a  higher  COMPOSITION BY GENDER AND 
Women Men
female presence in the professional categories. PROFESSIONAL LEVEL (%)
Executives 0.3 2.3
Managers 25.9 47.7
Professional areas and other employees 73.8 50.0
Total 100 100
In line with the Business Plan, in 2018 over 1,000 people left the Group, 85% due to the Solidarity Fund and 
voluntary departures.
At the same time, the rationalisation of the branch network, which involved 1,700 people, enabled most vacant 
positions to be covered while the demand for specialist figures was covered through the hiring of new resources.
HIRES   DEPARTURES   HIRES   DEPARTURES  
BANCO BPM GROUP
2018 2018 2017 2017
TOTAL (NO.) 50 1,066 161 1,506
Breakdown by gender (%)
Women 22.0 37.3 49.7 62.7
Men 78.0 62.7 50.3 37.3
TOTAL 100 100 100 100
Divided by age (%)
Under 30 years 32.0 1.9 81.4 1.9
30 to 50 years 50.0 9.5 13.7 9.5
over 50 years 18.0 88.6 4.9 88.6
TOTAL 100 100 100 100
Breakdown by location (in %)
Northern Italy 90.0 82.5 76.4 83.5
Central Italy 6.0 13.2 14.9 10.9
Southern Italy and islands 2.0 3.9 87.7 5.6
Abroad 2.0 0.4 / /
TOTAL 100 100 100 100
In 2018 the recruitment rate was 0.2% (0.3% for men and 0.1% for women), while the departure rate was 4.8% 
(5.6% for men and 3.6% for women).
Consolidated Non-Financial Statement 51
TRAINING AND ENHANCEMENT
Employee training1 is a vital investment to effectively support the reorganisation of the Group and the business, and 
represents a prerequisite for the growth and optimisation of human capital.
TRAINING 2018 - FOCUS AND TOPICS
SHARED CORPORATE   CHANGES TO WORK,  
AND MANAGERIAL VISION NEW ROLES AND DIGITAL CULTURE
Leadership approach in teams and  Sharing of integration logic between 
between departments different service networks and developing 
role-specific skills
Useful skills to reinforce the new corporate 
identity and execution ability Distinctive skills to support change
Culture of inclusion in concrete  Digital culture and capacity for innovation
management decisions
ADVANCED FINANCIAL 
CAPITALISATION  
CONSULTANCY, ASSESSMENT OF 
OF INTELLECTUAL EQUITY
CREDITWORTHINESS AND RISK 
AND CONTROL SKILLS
Integrate businesses and the ability to  Promote employability, focusing on 
manage risks and controls across various  programmes aimed at attracting and 
networks retaining young candidates
Certify resources operating in financial  Enhance the knowledge base by 
consultancy sector in line with Directive  sharing experiences and promoting 
MIFID II intergenerational exchange
Assess company creditworthiness to improve 
the quality of loans and risk monitoring
In 2018 each Group employee received an average of 45 hours of training, with a total of 1,000,000 hours 
provided (of which approximately half were delivered in lecture halls).
In 2018 men received more training than women, contrary to the situation in 2017 (approximately 38 hours for 
men and 41 hours for women).
AVERAGE HOURS OF TRAINING BY GENDER AND PROFESSIONAL LEVEL 2018 Men  Women  GROUP
Executives 25 21 25
Managers 51 48 50
Professional areas and other employees 42 43 43
TOTAL 46 44 45
1Data on training does not include the companies Arena Broker S.r.l., Sagim S.r.l., Società Agricola, and Terme Ioniche S.r.l.
PERSONNEL DEVELOPMENT, ENGAGEMENT AND WELFARE 
As the average number of hours of training for the  TRAINING BY TYPE
different  professional  level  remained  substantially 
unchanged  (43  in  2018  and  42  in  2017),  in  6%
10%
2018  particular  attention  was  given  to  training 
people with certain roles and responsibilities (through 
courses devoted to shared action and managerial 
vision, MIFID II, the culture of loyalty and inclusion), 
30%
contributing to the increase in the number of hours of 
training for Managers (50 hours in 2018 compared 
with 35 in 2017) and Executives (25 hours in 2018 
compared with 15 in 2017).
Obligatory training, which in 2018 included MIFID  54%
II  training,  represented  over  half  of  all  training 
provided (compared to 38% in 2017). Furthermore, 
in the course of the year the Group dedicated over 
Managerial Obligatory
105,000 hours to interpersonal skills (an increase of 
60,000 on 2017). Technical - professional Interpersonal - skills development
The training activities unite the achievement of company objectives and the personal professional development of 
employees, who are regularly assessed in terms of quality, working practices and results.
In 2018 over 21,500 people were assessed at Group level, equating to around 97% of the total workforce2 
(95% in 2017).
The appraisal represents an important opportunity for dialogue between the employee under assessment and their 
manager, and is the first step towards gaining access to the incentives scheme.
The National Collective Labour Agreement and the second level bargaining adopted within the Group provide the 
possibility for department managers to set terms and conditions and to disburse variable pay to collaborators who 
have distinguished themselves in the achievement of company objectives. On average at Group level, the variable 
component affects approximately 4% of total pay3.
In relation to remuneration by gender, there is no significant gender pay gap between men and women operating in 
professional and executive roles; however, in the management sector, the significant gap revealed in 2017 persists.
RATIO BETWEEN REMUNERATION FOR MEN/WOMEN (EXCLUDING PART-TIME) 2018  2017
Executives 0.74 0.77
Managers 0.93 0.92
Professional areas and other employees 1 1
2 Percentage of employees assessed during the year: Executives: 96%; Managers 99%; Professional Areas/Other Employees 96%; Women 95%; Men 98%.
3 Considering the ratio between average remuneration and average salary.
Consolidated Non-Financial Statement 53
ENGAGEMENT AND CORPORATE CULTURE
In 2018 engagement and staff enhancement continued to be key areas of focus to build and share the new 
corporate culture and to increase the effectiveness of the Group's reorganisation.
In this regard, Banco BPM engaged 300 employees with different professional skills as Brand Ambassadors, in 
order to generate new ideas, promote initiatives linked to identity among other colleagues and regions, and to 
support activities carried out in branch.
The intranet and internal events continue to prove useful tools to promote awareness about the initiatives, objectives 
and strategies adopted by the Group and contribute to the development of the company’s identity and culture.
VOLONTARIAMO
COMPANY INTRANET
LUNCH WITH THE CEO VIEWS:
*
T
N
• of main content: over 4.2 million vs 
E
M
3.6 million in 2017
E
G
A JINGLE BANK • of the carousel: over 741,000 vs over 
G
N 592,000 in 2017
E ROAD SHOW
F  MAIN TOPICS DISCUSSED:
O
 
L • Company performance
E
V
LE • Group initiatives
• Best practices and projects relating to 
well-being, solidarity and culture
NUMBER OF PEOPLE INVOLVED
*The level of engagement also considers intensity of engagement (in terms of average time devoted to the initiative)
In 2018, the following events were particularly significant:
•  the “Road Show”, a tour that involved around 3,500 employees in the main cities in which Banco BPM 
operates, aimed at presenting the Group's new position, the results of the Financial Statements, the Group's 
commercial objectives, the Business Plan and regional projects;
•  the engagement events, including team-building events, organised at management level;
•  the “Lunch with Castagna”, an informal lunch with small groups of colleagues and the CEO (60 employees 
in total) to promote dialogue and direct feedback;
•  creative and collaborative events such as “Jingle Bank” (a Christmas event aimed at employees’ children) and 
“Volontariamo” (volunteer days carried out during working hours).
The Intranet also enables the Group to promote good practices for everyday life (e.g. healthy eating), and 
initiatives and topics relating to solidarity (e.g. volunteering, blood donation) and culture (e.g. exhibitions, shows, 
conferences and events hosted by sponsors), etc.
PERSONNEL DEVELOPMENT, ENGAGEMENT AND WELFARE 
WELFARE
The quality of the relationship between a company and its employees depends on the ability to offer services and 
benefits able to generate value for employees and their families. The Group offers employees access to a structured 
welfare system that considers the following areas:
HEALTH Supplementary Health Insurance for current employees, workers who have been 
made redundant and retired workers, as well as their dependent family members.
W@W Project to promote health and well-being through training and awareness-
raising initiatives focused on healthy lifestyles.
Psychological support to employees, offered on request (100 cases in 2018 for 
difficulties relating to personal and/or working life) or in response to traumatic 
events (50 post-robbery sessions in 2018 4) as well as to persons with disabilities 
(80 cases during the year).
Company gym at the Milan office open to employees.
FUTURE PEACE  
OF MIND
Optional pension fund with a contribution paid by the Group.
Personal and professional liability insurance and critical illness policies.
REWARDS 
AND BENEFITS Company bonus  to  non-executive  employees  linked  to  positive  performance, 
delivered through a figurative monetary amount that can be used to purchase goods 
and services in certain fields (education, mobility, free time, support, etc.).
Banking and insurance services at favourable conditions
FAMILY AND   Work-life balance initiatives such as part-time work (adopted by 3,400 employees 
FREE TIME
in 2018), smart working (used by 250 employees in 2018 for two days a week), 
partially paid leave of absence and parental support programmes.
Company crèche in Milan and Lodi.
CRAL (company recreation groups) that offer members and their relatives access to 
goods and services at favourable rate as well as cultural, theatrical, artistic, sporting 
and tourism activities.
Social integration activities in the region.
Summer schools for children between 6 and 16.
Protection of employee health and safety through the monitoring, management and prevention of work-related 
risks. In 2018 check-ups were provided to over 2,000 at-risk employees working at screen terminals and during 
night-time hours; these controls were accompanied by training activities that involved over 6,300 employees over 
almost 36,000 hours of training.
4 In 2018 there were 18 episodes of theft, down on the 23 recorded in 2017.
Consolidated Non-Financial Statement 55
As regards injuries, in 2018 improvements were seen both in terms of number of cases (265, over two thirds of 
which occurred during transit, compared to 295 in 2017) and injury rates (7.59 in 2018 compared with 8.02 
in 2017), and the impact on working activities (the severity index, with a value of 0.09 in 2018, was lower than 
the 0.22 recorded in 2017), with notably fewer incidents involving women and the relative number of working 
days lost. During the year there was one fatality during transit involving a man from Lombardy. With regard to the 
geographic distribution of injuries, there were no significant changes to the data recorded in 2017.
INJURIES MEN WOMEN TOTAL OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY MEN WOMEN TOTAL
of which at work (no.)5 41 45 86 Injury rate 6.44 9.14 7.59
(frequency rate)6
of which in transit (no.) 89 90 179 Severity rate7 0.06 0.13 0.09
of which in Northern Italy (%) 76.9 76.3 76.6
6 number of injuries/workable hours x 1,000,000
of which in Central Italy (%) 16.9 14.8 15.8 7 days lost due to injury/total workable hours x 1,000
of which in Southern Italy  
5.4 8.9 7.2
and islands (%)
of which abroad (%) 0.8 / 0.4
5 The data on occupational health and safety does not include the companies Arena 
Broker S.r.l., Banca Aletti & C. (Suisse) S.A., Sagim S.r.l. Società Agricola, Tecmarket 
Servizi S.p.A. and Terme Ioniche S.r.l.
In the course of the year, professional illnesses were recognised among four Group employees: three cases 
referred to physical conditions and one to psychological conditions caused by the activities performed.
The absenteeism rate due to illness was slightly worse in 2018 (3.7% vs 3.3% in 2017).
WORKING DAYS LOST MEN WOMEN TOTAL
due to injuries at work 1,215 1,864 3,079
due to injuries in transit 2,658 2,343 5,001
due to occupational illnesses 19 109 128
MAIN RISKS MANAGEMENT METHODS/POLICIES ADOPTED
UNSUITABLE PROFESSIONAL 
Correct selection, training and optimisation of employees, competitive pay and 
PROFILES AND LOSS OF KEY 
welfare package, employee engagement initiatives.
RESOURCES
Organisational measures, psychological support, controls and ad hoc 
regulations.
HEALTH AND SAFETY Technological investments to optimise the level of physical safety in branches.
(PHYSICAL AND 
PSYCHOLOGICAL) Medical check-ups for at-risk employees.
Training initiatives aimed at raising awareness about diet, exercise and personal 
responsibility in relation to specific risks.
GROUP REORGANISATION AND INDUSTRIAL RELATIONS
GROUP REORGANISATION  
AND INDUSTRIAL RELATIONS
The integration and reorganisation of the Group's activities aimed to simplify 
the corporate structure and reduce costs and redundancies.
This project has been carried out while safeguarding employment rates, providing a sustainable employee 
management model through constant dialogue with trade unions.
REORGANISATION OF  CHANGE MANAGEMENT 
GROUP ACTIVITIES AND EMPLOYABILITY
2017 2017
Integration of IT systems. Training to support change of roles and skills 
REORGANISATION
Reorganisation of the asset management  and to develop key skills.
system. Management of workers made redundant 
Launch of new commercial model. through the Solidarity Fund.
Project to ensure alignment of Group  Launch of flexible working hours and 
companies with the organisational model  financial rewards (Corporate Bonus).
outlined by the Parent Company.
2018
2018 Assess to the Fondo Paritetico 
Complete implementation of the new  Interprofessionale to fund training activities.
commercial model. Resolution on company bonus, welfare 
Incorporation of BPM and start of  benefits and initiatives for employees and 
incorporation of SGS and BP Property  relatives.
Management. Stipulation of commercial policies and 
Network rationalisation and regional  organisation of work to respect customers 
reorganisation of BPM branches. and workers.
Transfer of the Custodian Bank business unit. Creation of consolidated guidelines at Group 
level for Workers’ Safety Representatives.
Repositioning of core activities of Banca Aletti 
and Banca Akros.
Consolidated Non-Financial Statement 57
In 2018 the new commercial model came into effect, involving over 10,000 colleagues, around 30% of 
which had taken on new professional roles9, accompanied by the closure - due to redundancies and financial 
inefficiencies, of over 500 branches.
The private and investment banking activities were also restructured in order to create specialist centres of 
excellence at Banca Aletti and Banca Akros respectively. Thanks to significant investments in training activities, this 
offered certain colleagues the possibility to embark on alternative career paths and to develop new expertise and 
professional skills.
Organisational changes impact employees in their working and personal lives and, therefore, were accompanied 
by constant dialogue with trade unions, with a view to seeking solutions aimed at reconciling the needs of the 
company with the professional and personal goals of its employees.
MAIN RISKS MANAGEMENT METHODS/POLICIES ADOPTED
CONFLICTS BETWEEN SOCIAL 
Continuous dialogue and negotiation with Trade Unions
PARTNERS
INADEQUATE  Review of commercial model, streamlining of corporate structure and better 
ORGANISATIONAL MODEL utilisation of employees
OBSTACLES TO  The organisational measures were accompanied by dialogue with Trade Unions 
ORGANISATIONAL CHANGE and support and training initiatives for affected employees.
9 For more information refer to the Personnel Development, Engagement and Welfare chapter.
05
COMMUNITY 
AND 
ENVIRONMENT
CONTRIBUTION TO THE COMMUNITY ..........................................60
ENVIRONMENTAL MITIGATION ....................................................67
CONTRIBUTION TO THE COMMUNITY
CONTRIBUTION  
TO THE COMMUNITY
For Banco BPM, supporting the social fabric of the regions in which it operates 
is a key commitment that is pursued through various types of initiative such as 
financial support, the sharing of resources and direct association.
This commitment is also stated in the Articles of Association; Article 5.2 provides for the possibility of devolving 
a share - no greater than 2.5% of net profit - to aid, charitable causes and initiatives in the public interest in the 
regions where the Group is most present, allocating to each of these, directly or through national foundations, a 
certain share.
FINANCIAL SUPPORT
NON-PROFIT 
by Group companies to social initiatives.
ORGANISATIONS, 
SCHOOLS AND 
SHARING
UNIVERSITIES, PUBLIC 
of resources, skills and artistic assets.
AND RELIGIOUS 
ASSOCIATION
INSTITUTIONS
to non-profit organisations.
FINANCIAL SUPPORT
In 2018 the Group allocated approximately € 2.8 million to the community through donations and sponsorships 
to support social initiatives, of which approximately € 700,000 was allocated to Foundations1.
The target sectors were chosen considering the Group's core values, the merit of the proposed initiatives and the 
social needs that would be supported by the contribution and, in the last year in particular, focused on culture, 
training and research, solidarity, health, sport, regional projects and the environment.
1 This capital describes the community initiatives promoted by the Banco BPM Group. Activities carried out by Foundations, which do not fall within the scope of the Consolidated Non-Financial 
Statement, are described in a separate page at the end of the chapter.
Consolidated Non-Financial Statement 61
4%
3%
1%
35% CONTRIBUTION TO THE COMMUNITY
Culture
16%
Training and research
Solidarity
Health
Sport
Regional projects and the environment
41%
To avoid possible risks relating to reputation, corruption  Special attention was given to initiatives to promote 
and conflicts of interest, as well as to monitor the  traditions, including those of religious origins, such 
efficacy of the supported projects, the Charitable  as Verona Minor Hierusalem, co-founded by Banco 
Donations  Committee  and  the  Sponsorships  BPM and one of the most important artistic and 
Committee were established and are responsible for  historic pilgrimage routes, the Festival Biblico della 
assessing and approving the proposed practices. Curia Vescovili in Vicenza, and the “Tocatì Verona 
- Festival internazionale dei giochi di strada” street 
In 2018 the Group once again  game festival.
reaffirmed  its  commitment  to 
cultural  development  and  As regards training and research 
supported  some  134  initiatives.  initiatives, critically important topics 
These ranged from the long-standing partnership with  for  young  people  and  Italy  as  a 
the theatre industry (Estate Teatrale Veronese and  whole and which accounted for over 
Fondazione Atlantide Teatro Stabile di Verona for  40% of all donations and sponsorships offered by the 
training activities, Globe Theatre di Villa Borghese in  Group, in 2018 various projects were supported 
Roma,  the  winter  season  at  Teatro  Ponchielli  di  which offer careers advice and training to young 
Cremona, Teatro Creberg di Bergamo, Teatro Stabile  Italians and foreign nationals  who are excluded 
di Genova, Spazio No’hma Teresa Pomodoro in  from training and employment programmes, with the 
Milano)  to  events  to  promote  literature,  painting,  aim of providing training in sectors with the greatest 
philosophy and cinema such as “La Milanesiana”, the  employment  opportunities.  These  included  the 
“Hemingway Days” in Genoa, the “Festival della  “Botteghe di quartiere” project organised by Amici di 
Bellezza” in Verona, the Festival della Letteratura in  Edoardo association in Milan and a partnership with 
Mantua and the “Gita al faro” literature festival in  the  Municipality  of  Milan  that  in  2018  enabled 
Ventotene, the “Strane Coppie” events in Naples,  almost 60 young people to receive specialist training 
Rome  and  Milan,  and  the  charity  film  marathon  as mechanics, bakers, pastry chefs, baristas and jobs 
“Fuoricinema” in Milan. in the fishing industry. In order to provide guidance to 
students the Group supported the “Itinera” initiative in 
Furthermore, the Group continued its support for the  Verona, while in Bergamo the Cartolandia initiative 
leading philharmonic orchestras such as La Verdi  was chosen, aimed at preparing children and young 
in Milan, the Fondazione Arena in Verona for its  people for adult life through play, the development of 
Philharmonic Theatre season and the “Gioacchino  manual skills and advice from teachers and educators.
Rossini” Choral Association in Modena.
CONTRIBUTION TO THE COMMUNITY
There was no shortage of support for schools and 
universities, with donations to the Catholic University  In the health sector the Group's initiatives 
of Milan for research carried out by the Observatory  focused mainly on the purchase of medical 
into  Italy’s  public  accounts  and  the  allocation  of  equipment  and  providing  support  to 
over  90  scholarships  to  well-deserving  students,  healthcare providers, including in sectors not covered 
partly in collaboration with the Fondazione Famiglia  by the public health service. Of particular note were 
Legnanese,  the  Fondazione  per  l’Educazione  the contributions to buy equipment for the Buzzi and 
Finanziaria e al Risparmio, the Fondazione Intercultura  Santa Maria Nuova hospitals in Milan and Reggio 
Onlus in Siena and the Brain Research Foundation in  Emilia respectively, for Associazione A.L.I.Ce. Verona 
Verona. Onlus that offers rehabilitation for patients who have 
suffered strokes, and Croce Azzurra Molisana to 
Reaffiming its interest in providing training to young  enable to purchase of a defibrillator.
people,  in  2018  the  Group  launched  “Schools 
project”,  working  in  partnership  with  12  Italian  With  regard  to  sport,  the  Group 
municipalities to help to provide adequate school  supported associations which organise 
equipment in public institutions, with particular focus  major social responsibility projects aimed 
on the areas of Emilia Romagna and Tuscany in the  at  promoting  sport  and  its  values  among  young 
wake of the recent earthquakes. people and the importance of physical activity for 
people with disabilities.
Finally, the Group's profound commitment to research 
was confirmed by its support for the Italian Cancer  Regional  and  environmental 
Research Association (Associazione Italiana Ricerca  projects were pursued in particular 
sul Cancro - AIRC). through the collaboration with F.A.I. 
-  the  Italian  Environment  Agency  devoted  to 
A  total  of  118  solidarity  initiatives  protecting and enhancing Italy’s historic, artistic and 
were  carried  out,  including  support  scenic heritage, and the Community Projects, aimed 
provided  to  Banco  Alimentare  at responding to appeals by specific organisations 
Lombardia; Associazione Tudisco in relation to La  and providing a tangible contribution in a range of 
Casa  di  Andrea  (Rome),  which  provides  contexts, such as the installation of equipment for 
accommodation to relatives of paediatric patients  people with disabilities on the beaches of Santa 
hospitalised away from home; Casa Don Colmegna  Margherita Ligure, the provision of new benches at 
(Milan), which accommodates young people with  Molazzana  primary  school  (Lucca),  and  the 
mental illnesses; Amici per la Vita Onlus (Modena),  resurfacing of the youth sports field in the Municipality 
which carries out voluntary work at home for the  of Piegaio in the Apuan Alps.
seriously  ill;  Associazione  Abio  Italia  Onlus,  an 
association with over 5,000 volunteers operating in 
paediatric  departments  across  Italy;  Associazione 
Aism,  dedicated  to  people  affected  by  Multiple 
Sclerosis; the Centro Ausiliario for young offenders in 
Milan; and the Bed & Breakfast Protetto project, 
which helps young Italians and foreign nationals to 
complete their academic studies and look for work 
with the support of a multidisciplinary team.
Consolidated Non-Financial Statement 63
SHARING OF RESOURCES, SKILLS  In view of the Group's awareness of the importance 
of promoting financial and economic literacy among 
AND ARTISTIC ASSETS
young people, events were organised in schools in 
The financial support provided through donations and  partnership with Feduf, involving over 2,500 young 
sponsorships is flanked by the sharing of expertise,  people and collaborating with the popular science 
knowledge,  buildings  and  cultural  resources  with  company  Taxi1729  and  the  Genovese  Beltramo 
worthy organisations and initiatives. Theatre Company.
In this context, in 2018 the Group’s commitment to  An  ad  hoc  programme  was  designed  and 
young people in particular was consolidated through  implemented directly by Banco BPM employees at 
initiatives  aimed  at  promoting  the  acquisition  of  the Galdus school, an institution that for over 20 
knowledge and skills. In particular: years has worked in the outskirts of Milan to train and 
provide careers’ advice to order to educate young 
•  support for training projects devoted to JECatt  people about finance and money management.
–  Junior  Enterprise  of  the  Catholic  University 
–  as  well  as  organisational  support  and  the  The Group's commitment to promote financial and 
organisation of the annual Junior Enterprise event  economic literacy was extended to 18 cities through 
which in 2018 focused on change management  20 workshops held in branch and open to the 
and actively involved Group managers; entire community, with the participation of almost 
1,000 people.
•  financial  training  for  disadvantaged  young 
people in partnership with the Municipality of  This focus on the community was also shared with 
Milan and aimed at providing the tools and skills  Group employees through:
necessary to find employment in a short space 
of time;
•   
•  participation in the Career Day at the Universities 
“Volontariamo”,  a  corporate  volunteering 
of Verona, Florence, Novara and Cosenza and 
initiative that involved around 300 employees 
launch  of  internships  and  work  experience 
during working hours;
programmes;
•  blood donation in branch with Avis, resulting in 
•  teaching  and  business  experiences  for 
the collection of over 100 bags of blood at the 
undergraduates looking to enter the world of 
Milan and Rome branches;
work;
•  food  donations  in  collaboration  with  Banco 
•  “Progetto  Talenti”  in  collaboration  with  the 
Alimentare, with the collection of almost 6,000 
Catholic University of Milan to create personalised 
kg of food.
training  programmes  within  businesses  for 
deserving students.
CONTRIBUTION TO THE COMMUNITY
The Group also boasts a rich collection of works of art and significant property assets, which are shared with 
communities as part of exhibitions, events and conferences hosted or occasionally organised by the Group at 
company offices:
ARTISTIC ASSETS
• 19,500 works of art in the Group's art collection, with an estimated value 
of € 61.7 million
• 34 works of art loaned free of charge to 20 exhibitions
• 22 restored paintings
REAL ESTATE ASSETS
• 9 events with over 1,000 attendees at the splendid Palazzo Altieri in 
Rome
• Over 6,000 participants in the “Invito a Palazzo” initiative at the Milan, 
Verona, Bergamo, Novara and Rome offices
• Almost 15,000 visitors to exhibitions, visits and initiatives organised at the 
BPL Arte Foundation in Lodi, Palazzo Bellini in Novara, Palazzo Scarpa in 
Verona, Palazzo Creberg in Bergamo and Palazzo Carandini in Modena
• Around 3,500 visitors to Palazzo Doria De Ferrari during the Rolli Days in 
Genoa
CONFERENCES
• 269 conferences organised by third parties at Group offices, over 86% 
were free to attend
• 56 conferences co-designed and co-organised by the Group
Consolidated Non-Financial Statement 65
ASSOCIATION WITH NON-PROFIT ORGANISATIONS
The Banco BPM Group is associated with various organisations that work towards the creation of shared value. 
In particular, in 2018, over € 1 million was devoted to memberships to voluntary and non-industry associations. 
Some of these operate in the financial sector (e.g. AIR - Associazione Italiana Investor Relations and Assochange 
- Associazione Italiana Change Management), culture, the dissemination of ideas and the promotion of corporate 
social responsibility.
These include: FEDUF Fondazione per l’Educazione Finanziaria e al Risparmio which, founded on the initiative of 
the Italian Banking Association, promotes financial literacy in the broadest sense of the term.
VALORE D, a business cooperative that promotes diversity, talent and female leadership with activities developed 
through action plans focused on corporate welfare, inclusion of diversity policies, inclusive and fair leadership and 
governance models, and training programmes to overcome gender stereotypes.
Fondazione Artistica POLDI PEZZOLI Onlus, the non-profit organisation that has managed the museum and 
masterpieces of the Poldi Pezzoli collection since 1881. Its charter provides for the study, research, conservation 
and restoration of works of art, the enrichment of the collection through new acquisitions and donations, public 
education and information, and the promotion and optimisation of the institution, including through exhibitions of 
classic and modern art.
ASPEN INSTITUTE Italia, an independent and international association founded in the United States in 1950 to 
promote dialogue, understanding and human values in a complex and constantly evolving geopolitical context. 
Since its foundation in 1984 the Italian branch has been characterised by a strong transatlantic influence which 
is resonates today.
Fondazione CUOA, a management school that offers training and development programmes focused on the culture 
of entrepreneurship and management, as well as acting as an incubator for ideas and professional contacts, where 
people and businesses can find and pursue mutual development opportunities.
MAIN RISKS MANAGEMENT METHODS/POLICIES ADOPTED
Monitoring of the validity of the initiative and the members of the management 
REPUTATION  bodies of the applicant institutions.
AND UNRELIABLE 
COUNTERPARTIES Exclusion of certain types of applicants and initiatives operating in contentious 
contexts.
Monitoring of related parties through specific centralised procedures.
CONFLICTS OF INTEREST  Prohibition of cash payments and natural persons as beneficiaries.
AND CORRUPTION
Regulation in force to implement the provisions of the Anti-money laundering and 
Anti-corruption Regulations.
CCOONNTTRRIIBBUUTTIIOONN  TTOO  TTHHEE  CCOOMMMMUUNNIITTYY
STATUTORY FOUNDATIONS, REGIONS AND ACTIVITIES
FONDAZIONE BANCA POPOLARE DI LODI
Lodi, Cremona (1), Pavia, Mantua, Liguria di Levante, Piacenza and Parma regions
FONDAZIONE BANCA POPOLARE DI NOVARA
for the Piedmont, Valle d’Aosta and Liguria di Ponente regions
FONDAZIONE CREDITO BERGAMASCO
for the Bergamo, Brescia, Como and Lecco regions
FONDAZIONE DI CULTO S. GEMINIANO E S. PROSPERO
for the Modena, Reggio Emilia and Carpi regions
In 2018, the Foundations supported numerous 
initiatives, focusing in particular on culture  
and solidarity.
1)According to its Charter, Fondazione BPL devolves one eighth of its share to Fondazione BP Cremona and Associazione Popolare Crema for the region
INITIATIVES  
9%
IMPLEMENTED BY THE  
3% 38% FOUNDATIONS BY CATEGORY
Culture
7%
Training and research
Solidarity
Health
Sport
30%
Heritage
13%
Consolidated Non-Financial Statement 67
ENVIRONMENTAL  
MITIGATION
The Banco BPM Group aims to help safeguard the environment by reducing 
the impact of its activities, including through an internal process aimed at 
standardising  procurement  processes  and  procedures,  and  supporting 
customers in the selection of green solutions.
In particular, the Group focuses on:
ENERGY MANAGEMENT AND CONSUMPTION
CORPORATE MOBILITY
ENVIRONMENTAL  FOCUS ON CONSUMABLES,  
WASTE DISPOSAL AND RECYCLING
MITIGATION*
COMMERCIAL INITIATIVES TO PROTECT THE ENVIRONMENT
PREVENTION OF ENVIRONMENTAL CRIMES
ENERGY MANAGEMENT AND CONSUMPTION
As part of its approach founded on the principles of environmental sustainability,, the Group applies an 
Energy Management aimed the continuous monitoring of consumption, conduct benchmarking analyses and the 
implementation of improvements in around 1,700 branches and 60 offices and sites.
Again, in 2018 electricity consumed within the Group was almost entirely generated from certified renewable 
sources, avoiding the emission of around 43,212 tonnes of CO  equivalents.
2
In particular, Banco BPM consolidated its relationship with electricity providers able to certify the quality of their 
energy portfolio with the Renewable Energy Guarantees Origin (GO).
* The environmental data (electricity consumption and greenhouse gas emissions) does not include the companies Arena Broker S.r.l., Banca Aletti & C. (Suisse) S.A., Sagim S.r.l. Società 
Agricola and Terme Ioniche S.r.l.
ENVIRONMENTAL MITIGATION
The consumption of electricity from non-renewable sources refers to investment properties, whose supply in 2018 
could not be regulated in a centralised manner. The significant increase (33%) refers to a residual share which will 
eventually be eliminated, whose value is in any case of little impact overall.
Change  
TOTAL ENERGY CONSUMPTION IN GJ 2018 2017
2018/2017
Electricity from renewable sources 490,824 534,512 -9%
Energy from solar panels 526 536 -2%
District heating systems 19,269 14,725 24%
Total energy from renewable sources 510,619 549,772 -8%
Natural gas for heating 186,974 192,764 -3%
Fuel oil for heating 3,245 8,448 -160%
Diesel (mixed + business use) + petrol for company cars 38,520 44,077 -14%
Electricity from non-renewable sources 1,375 927 33%
Energy for office heating from non-renewable sources 90,618 100,775 -11%
Total energy from non-renewable sources 320,732 346,991 -8%
Total energy consumed 831,352 896,763 -8%
Overall the reduction in energy consumption compared to the previous year (approximately 8%) was principally the 
result of the extensive corporate rationalisation and branch closure operation following the merger and the energy 
efficiency measures implemented.
The significant decrease in the item “Fuel oil for heating” (-160%) was mainly due to the decommission, where 
possible, of old diesel boilers, while the reduction in diesel and petrol consumption was predominantly attributable 
to the optimisation of the company fleet as described below.
The efficiency plan for 2018 envisaged the implementation of plant redevelopment works including:
•   the replacement of 25 traditional boilers with more modern condenser boilers;
•  the installation of 63 high-efficiency air conditioning/heating units;
•  approval by the Italian Energy Service Operator (GSE) of ten fifteen-year Conto Termico incentives, equating 
to an overall financial saving over the period of € 113,000;
•  500 white certificates issued in previous years and delivered in 2018;
•  remote management of air conditioning systems in 90 branches with a reduction in energy use and on-site 
maintenance;
Consolidated Non-Financial Statement 69
•  contracts assigned for the performance of the next 17 energy diagnostic analyses, pursuant to Italian Legislative 
Decree no. 102/14, in line with the ABI Enea guidelines.
•  preparation of calls for tenders to replace the lighting systems in 150 branches (Central/South area) in 2019 
through the use of indirect LED lights, reducing consumption by 70%.
Furthermore, the EDIFICIOA3-Fase2 project at the Bezzi office 
in Milan was awarded the LEED PLATINUM certification 
for buildings built or redeveloped according to ecologically 
sustainable criteria, aimed at saving energy and water and 
reducing CO  emissions.
2
DIRECT GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS (SCOPE 1)   Change  
2018 2017
FROM NON-RENEWABLE SOURCES (T CO2 EQ.) 2018/2017
Natural gas emissions from heating systems 10,851 11,089 -2%
Diesel (mixed + business use) + petrol emissions 2,864 3,278 -14%
Fuel oil emissions from heating systems 241 626 -160%
Total emissions (Scope 1) 13,956 14,993 -7%
With regard to indirect emissions, acquired electricity is calculated using the “Location-based” method, which 
considers the quantitative total of acquired electricity from renewable and non-renewable resources, and the 
“Market-based” method, which considers the quantity of electricity certified by Guarantees of Origin with an 
emissions factor of zero.
INDIRECT GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS (SCOPE 2)   Change  
2018 2017
FROM NON-RENEWABLE SOURCES (T CO2 EQ.) 2018/2017
Emissions from acquired electricity - Location-based 1 43,212 N/A 3
Emissions from acquired electricity - Market-based 2 123 N/A 3
Emissions from office heating systems 5,259 5,849 -11%
Total emissions (Scope 2) Location-based 48,471 N/A 3
Total emissions (Scope 2) Market-based 5,382 N/A 3
1 Location-based calculation method: this method considers the total quantity of purchased electricity generated by renewable and non-renewable sources (this figure could not be compared 
with data from the previous year as the method was introduced for the Non-Financial Statement 2018).
2 Market-based calculation method: this method considers the quantity of electricity covered by “Guarantees of Origin” which has an emissions factor of zero.
3 This method was introduced in 2018 and as such the data cannot be compared with the previous year.
ENVIRONMENTAL MITIGATION
CORPORATE MOBILITY
The management of the company fleet is based on precise selection criteria and principles of use aimed at 
promoting environmentally friendly practices through:
a system that processes employee requests by encouraging car pooling (20,000 
passengers in 2018);
the replacement of the company fleet (approximately 50% of the fleet is due to be 
renewed, replacing around 400 Euro 4 and 5 vehicles with Euro 6 vehicles);
the development of a mobile app aimed at streamlining the vehicle reservation and car 
pooling system and accelerating the resolution of problems and the management of 
emergencies.
in addition, the, video-conference system was improved with a greater number of rooms and workstations 
equipped, facilitating the management of meetings and reducing transit times. In particular, in the course of the 
year, over 27,000 connections were activated, involving 210,000 colleagues.
Thanks to advanced IT systems, the Group is currently optimising the remote training facilities with a view to 
intensifying these activities in the future.
Consolidated Non-Financial Statement 71
FOCUS ON CONSUMABLES, WASTE DISPOSAL AND RECYCLING
The Group's commitment towards environmental mitigation is also pursued through its focus on the use of 
predominantly recycled materials. In particular, over the past year the Group's mitigation measures included:
the majority of A3 and A4 paper used is certified by the FSC (Forest Stewardship 
Council) and PEFC (Programme for the Endorsement of Forest Certification), which 
guarantee that the paper has been sourced from responsibly managed forests;
all A4 sheets used internally use recycled paper;
migration from the distribution of paper copies of internal reports  
to electronic versions;
use of electronic versions of headed paper  
to reduce oversupply;
use of ink and toner refills.
As regards waste, at the end of the year the process to source a single supplier at Group level for provide 
waste collection and disposal services was finalised, aimed at optimising and streamlining improvement and 
monitoring measures.
Nonetheless, in 2018 all local regulations on the subject of waste, including special and hazardous waste, were 
observed.
Furthermore, initiatives were launched to promote the circular economy, such as:
•  the recovery, through automatic, environmentally friendly compactors at the staff canteens in Milan, of 
8,390 kg of plastic to be used to produce other goods;
•  continuation of the Youecobox initiative, enabling the collection of 157,000 security devices and credit cards 
no longer used by customers and beginning the recycling process. Electronic obsolescence is one of the most 
complex problems to be managed and, in response to this, the programme is expected to be rolled out to all 
branches of the Group.
ENVIRONMENTAL MITIGATION
COMMERCIAL INITIATIVES TO PROTECT THE ENVIRONMENT
In 2018 several specific initiatives were launched, including:
MUTUO BIOEDILIZIA - GREEN BUILDING MORTGAGE
the first of its kind in Italy, developed in collaboration with FederlegnoArredo, 
aimed at providing mortgages for non-residential buildings constructed 
according to “green building” criteria in line with the Sistema Affidabilità 
Legno Edilizia quality protocol.
ENERGY EFFICIENCY LOAN FOR BUILDINGS  
IN THE MUNICIPALITY OF MILAN
issued at favourable rates for apartment buildings that carry out renovations and 
redevelopment works to improve energy efficiency, subject to the approval of the 
Municipality of Milan.
PARTICIPATION IN THE EUROPEAN ENERGY EFFICIENT 
MORTGAGES ACTION PLAN
to create a mortgage standardised at European level, with the aim of 
encouraging energy efficiency measures, redevelop buildings and promote the 
purchase of highly efficiency assets through favourable financial conditions.
The attention afforded to environmental topics when assessing credit risk is also of note. The environmental 
information of borrowing businesses is collected through the qualitative section of the credit rating questionnaire. In 
particular, the business’ approach to the assessment of specific environmental/ecological/regulatory risk factors is 
monitored to determine the relevance of the impact on the business itself and any actions implemented to prevent 
and/or mitigate any risks associated with its activities (e.g. appointment of an environmental officer, occupational 
health and safety training, etc.).
The questionnaires are consulted when considering the application and are available to the decision-maker. These 
are completed on an annual basis regardless of whether any new credit lines are granted.
Consolidated Non-Financial Statement 73
PREVENTION  OF  CRIMES  COMMITTED  IN  VIOLATION  OF  ENVIRONMENTAL 
PROTECTION LEGISLATION
At year-end 2018 the Group owned approximately 6,000 investment properties (garages, land, apartments, 
buildings, warehouses, etc.), principally acquired through debt recovery and defaulted leasing contracts.
The following properties are subject to the following management activities:
•  identification of the responsibilities and activities of each party involved;
•  mitigation of management risks through constant monitoring;
•  administrative management;
•  guarantee of direct sale or sale by specialised agencies.
Responsibilities and activities are assigned and implemented in line with the laws and regulations in force, adopting, 
for all companies responsible for the management of such properties, the 231 Model which, in the case of the 
acquisition or recent establishment of said companies, is customised within a few months.
MAIN RISKS MANAGEMENT METHODS/POLICIES ADOPTED
Supply from renewable sources
USE OF NON-RENEWABLE 
NATURAL RESOURCES, ENERGY  Energy efficiency initiatives and monitoring of energy consumption
INEFFICIENCY AND FAILURE  
Use of recycled materials
TO RECYCLE
Separated waste collection and recovery
ENVIRONMENTAL SECURITY OF 
Monitoring of real estate conditions and maintenance measures
INVESTMENT PROPERTIES
MISSED COMMERCIAL 
OPPORTUNITIES PRESENTED BY  Launch and design of products and services for the green economy
THE GREEN ECONOMY
06
INTEGRITY
BUSINESS INTEGRITY AND CONTRIBUTION  
TO LAWFULNESS IN ITALY ............................................................76
SUPPLIER RELATIONS ....................................................................80
BUSINESS INTEGRITY AND CONTRIBUTION TO LAWFULNESS IN ITALY
BUSINESS INTEGRITY 
AND CONTRIBUTION TO 
LAWFULNESS IN ITALY
All corporate activities within the Group are characterised by sound and correct 
principles of conduct that apply to all relations with stakeholders and to the 
community and the environment.
Furthermore, as part of the financial system the Bank plays an important role in the prevention of corruption 
and the fight against money laundering, both of which are major problems that limit the development and growth 
of society.
The Bank has taken a clear stance on these issues, as expressed in the Organisational, Management and 
Control Model pursuant to Italian Legislative Decree no. 231/01 which refines the general principles that must be 
adopted to reduce the risk of unlawful behaviour. The Code of Ethics is an integral part of this model and defines 
the principles upon which the Group bases its activities.
This enables the Group to help the national system to function correctly and promotes the development of a 
corporate model based on compliance with regulations and the respect for human rights.
Consolidated Non-Financial Statement 77
KEY PRINCIPLES OF THE CODE OF ETHICS MAIN REGULATIONS1
Correctness and honesty: respect  •  Organisational,  Management  and  Control 
for laws, internal regulations and  Model pursuant to Italian Legislative Decree 
the principles of professional ethics no. 231/01 and the Code of Ethics
•  Regulation and Procedure to govern Related 
Party transactions
Impartiality: prohibition, in 
both internal and external  •  Regulation,  Procedures  and  Policies  to 
relations, to adopt any form of  manage  at-risk  activities  and  conflicts  of 
discrimination based on nationality,  interest in relation to Connected Persons
gender, age, physical or mental 
disability, sexual orientation,  •  Anti-corruption Regulation
political opinions, membership 
•  Anti-money Laundering Regulation
of trade unions, philosophical 
opinions or religious beliefs
•  Market Abuse Regulation
Professionalism, optimisation 
and protection of resources:  1 For more information, the relevant company documents are available for 
download at: http://www.bancobpm.it/corporate-governance/documenti-
demand and promotion of the 
societari/
utmost professionalism among 
directors, trade unions, employees 
and collaborators; recruitment 
according to objective criteria and 
equal opportunities; prevention 
and penalisation of discriminatory 
behaviour; physical and mental 
health and safety of persons 
operating within the Group
Transparency and 
completeness: timely, truthful 
and comprehensible financial 
and non-financial disclosure
Environmental protection: 
focus on the environmental 
impact of its activities
BUSINESS INTEGRITY AND CONTRIBUTION TO LAWFULNESS IN ITALY
As many of the regulations set forth in the Organisational, Management and Control Model pursuant to Italian 
Legislative Decree no. 231/01 refer to the contexts provided for by Italian Legislative Decree no. 254/2016 and 
refer to Sustainability (see table below), the Group's activities are based on an approach that aims to safeguard 
relations with stakeholders and the community.
CORRELATION OF THE 231 ORGANISATIONAL MODEL  
AND THE SCOPE OF LEGISLATIVE DECREE NO. 254/2016
TOPICS
Sustainability
ENVIRONMENT COMPANY PERSONNEL HUMAN RIGHTS ANTI-CORRUPTION
Cybercrime, crimes 
against industry and  Crimes relating  Crimes against 
Environmental  Crimes associated 
commerce, and all  to occupational  the Public 
crimes with Human Rights
provisions of the Code  health and safety Administration
of Ethics
231 MODEL
Preventive measures
The respect for human rights forms part of correct business conduct. The Code of Ethics states 
that the Group is committed to respecting human rights, job protection, and the fight against 
corruption, organised crime and terrorism. Any behaviour by employees in the performance of 
their professional roles defined as a criminal act in breach of regulations shall be considered as 
a violation of the Code of Ethics.
All companies of the Banco BPM Group are obliged to adopt the regulations, including the organisational measures 
adopted at Group level, adapting them to the specific nature of the activity performed.
The Model also includes regulations not required by said legislation, which have been adopted voluntarily by the 
Group, as they refer to certain particularly sensitive aspects relevant to the activities carried out, such as regulations 
governing anti-corruption, anti-money laundering, the fight against the financing of terrorism and conflicts of interest.
Every individual person is responsible for adopting correct conduct, while the task of supervising this process 
is assigned, with increasing levels of responsibility, to the managers of the individual departments, the audit 
departments and the strategic supervision and control bodies. This system plays an important role as it promotes 
a culture characterised by correctness, the awareness of risks, lawfulness and company values.
In view of the increasing need to migrate from a control system implemented merely as a formal obligation to a 
system where correct management is an integral part of “good business”, various training programmes have 
been launched for all staff levels, aimed at raising awareness about the importance of the internal control systems 
as a key driver in the achievement of performance and corporate compliance objectives necessary to safeguard 
costs, capital absorption and bank reputation.
Consolidated Non-Financial Statement 79
Furthermore, for the new roles of Regional Division Audit Manager and Branch Audit Representative, an additional 
ad hoc training programme has been developed to build on the specific skills needs to monitor and guarantee the 
control system.
ANTI-CORRUPTION ANTI MONEY LAUNDERING
Approximately 97,000 hours of training delivered,  Approximately 67,000 hours of training delivered, 
involving approximately 16,700 employees involving over 7,500 employees
Zero dismissals relating to cases of corruption Automatic controls when entering/modifying data 
in the register prior to commencing continuous 
relationships, and continuous checks
The control of the efficacy and observance of the 
Organisational,  Management  and  Control  Model 
of  each  Group  Company  which  has  adopted  WHISTLEBLOWING SYSTEMS
the  231/01  model  is  the  responsibility  of  the 
relative  Supervisory  Body.  All  reports  relative  to 
Supervisory Body 231/01: in 2018 a total of 
the  commission  of  crimes  and/or  events  and/or 
four reports were submitted, only one of which 
behaviour in breach of the adopted organisational 
fell under the jurisdiction of the Supervisory 
model must be submitted to said body.
Body and for which further information was 
Another channel available to report any non-compliant  requested.
conduct  is  the  Whistleblowing  System  which 
Internal Whistleblowing System: in 2018 one 
enables any employee to report acts or events that 
report was submitted; subsequent inquiries did 
may constitute a breach of the regulations governing 
not find any irregular conduct.
banking activities, guaranteeing the anonymity and 
protection of the persons involved.
MAIN RISKS MANAGEMENT METHODS/POLICIES ADOPTED
Organisational measures to monitor external legislation and update/adapt 
internal regulations
NON-COMPLIANCE WITH 
LEGAL AND REGULATORY 
Organisational measures to monitor the correct application of legislation
PROVISIONS
Personnel training and information
Organisational measures to update the regulations and monitoring of the correct 
NON-COMPLIANCE WITH 
application of regulations
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 
REGULATIONS
Personnel training and information
SUPPLIER RELATIONS
SUPPLIER RELATIONS
Suppliers are selected from a pool of companies and professionals exhibiting 
the  prerequisites  of  integrity,  professionalism,  competence  and  reputation. 
In no way does the Group enter into or maintain procurement agreements 
with parties involved in unlawful activities or that directly or indirectly exploit 
people, prevent human development or infringe human rights.
To ensure the uniformity of policies, criteria and procurement methods among Group Companies, a Supplier 
Register has been drawn up, useful not only as a database but as a management, evaluation and monitoring tool.
SELECTION COMPETITIVE CALLS FOR TENDERS
APPLICATION subject to the  suppliers included on the 
REGISTRATION 
Register are invited to tender 
of businesses and  prerequisites of integrity,  TO THE SUPPLIER 
to ensure the identification of 
professionals professionalism, expertise  REGISTER
the service with the most 
and reputation
price-quality ratio.
New suppliers can contact the Banco BPM Group through the Group website, individual applications or by 
notifying the departments seeking new suppliers or the individual buyers.
As well as submitting general, organisational and financial data, candidates must declare to have acknowledged 
the Organisational, Management and Control Model and the Code of Ethics and undertake to conduct themselves 
in line with the principles and rules contained in said documents. In this regard, to mitigate possible risks connected 
with the supply chain various checks are carried out before adding a new supplier to the Register and throughout 
the commercial relationship.
Consolidated Non-Financial Statement 81
On the Supplier Register, information regarding  In 2018 the total number 
quality and environmental certifications held by  of suppliers at Group level 
suppliers  is  monitored,  enabling  the  Group  to  was 1,689, almost all of 
make decisions on the parties with whom it intends  which (99%) were located 
to collaborate on the basis of their social and  in Italy. Total turnover was 
environmental approach. approximately € 690 million, 
slightly less than the € 693 
million in the previous year.
TOTAL TURNOVER   TOTAL SUPPLIERS  
BY CATEGORY BY CATEGORY
(Data in %) (Data in %)
2018 2017 2018 2017
SERVICES 36% 37% SERVICES 44% 38%
REAL ESTATE 19% 18% REAL ESTATE 30% 35%
TECHNOLOGY 45% 45% TECHNOLOGY 26% 27%
TOTAL 100% 100% TOTAL 100% 100%
MAIN RISKS MANAGEMENT METHODS/POLICIES ADOPTED
Monitoring of contracts
Systematic anti-money laundering controls
COMPLIANCE
Checks regarding legislative obligations in terms of occupational health and 
safety
EMPLOYMENT LAW Monitoring of excessive financial dependence
Monitoring of the prerequisites of integrity, professionalism, expertise and 
reputation
Checks of quality and environmental certifications
UNRELIABLE COUNTERPARTY
Monitoring of the level of professional development
Monitoring of economic and financial stability
Acquisition of consolidated document on pension contributions
07
METHOD AND 
FRAMEWORK
Reading guide and note on methodology ........................................84
Reclassification table .....................................................................87
GRI content index ..........................................................................88
Independent Auditors’ Report .........................................................91

READING GUIDE AND NOTE ON METHODOLOGY
READING GUIDE AND NOTE 
ON METHODOLOGY
READING GUIDE
The Consolidated Non-Financial Statement of the Banco BPM Group (the “Statement”), produced in line with 
Articles 3 and 4 of Italian Legislative Decree no. 254/2016 and according to the GRI Sustainability Reporting 
Standards, contains information on environmental and social topics, personnel, respect for human rights and the 
fight against corruption. It is used to provide a better understanding of the activities carried out by the Group, its 
performances, its results and the impact generated by these factors.
The Group continues its journey in the belief that it is essential to adopt policies and strategies to manage the 
various non-financial contexts identified as priorities for the Group, as well as sharing its results with stakeholders. 
The Statement has been produced by focusing on the non-financial information deemed relevant in the light of 
the materiality analysis and which reflects the social, environmental and economic impacts that may influence the 
decisions of stakeholders.
The Statement is divided into three main sections. The first section describes the Group's identity, its organisation, its 
approach to risk management and the main results and recognitions achieved in 2018. This section also provides 
the reference context and describes the process adopted to determine the significant themes for the Group. The 
second section, which constitutes the bulk of the Document, is divided into chapters on the various areas of 
social and environmental impact such as customers and the region, employees, the community, the environment 
and integrity. In particular, for each non-financial topic the policies adopted, the main risks and the relative 
organisational and management methods applied are described. Finally, the third section focuses on methodology 
and the principle criteria used to produce the Statement.
The coordination and management for the preparation of this Statement was supervised by the Communications 
Department, in collaboration with other company departments.
NOTE ON METHODOLOGY
Reporting standards
The Consolidated Non-Financial Statement of the Banco BPM Group (the “Group”), produced in line with Articles 
3 and 4 of Italian Legislative Decree no. 254/2016 (the “Decree”), contains information on environmental 
and social topics, staff, respect for human rights and the fight against corruption. It is used to provide a better 
understanding of the activities carried out by the Group, its performance, its results and the impact generated by 
these factors. This Statement is published on an annual basis (the Consolidated Non-Financial Statement 2017 was 
published in March 2018) and is produced pursuant to the Decree and the “Sustainability Reporting Standards” 
defined in 2016 by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), hereinafter the “GRI Standards”, and the “Financial 
Services Sector Supplements”. The level of compliance with the GRI Standards declared by the Banco BPM Group 
is line with the “In accordance - core” option. To enable the reader to better reconcile the information provided in 
this document, the GRI Content Index is provided on pages 88-90.
Consolidated Non-Financial Statement 85
This Statement reflects the principle of materiality, as provided by the GRI Standards: the topics covered in the 
Statement are those that, subsequent to the materiality analysis described on pages 22-23 of this document, were 
considered relevant and such to reflect the social and environmental impacts of the Group's activities or to influence 
the decisions of its stakeholders.
Reporting boundary
The qualitative and quantitative data and information contained in this Statement refer to the Group's performance 
in the year ending 31 December 2018. This Statement includes the data of Banco BPM S.p.A. and all fully 
consolidated companies, except for SPVs, companies in liquidation as at 31/12 and the company First Servicing 
Spa, which was newly established in 2018.
These exclusions are not relevant for the purposes of understanding the Group's activities, its performance, its results 
and the impact generated by these aspects. Statutory Foundations are also excluded from the reporting boundary.
The reporting boundary is consistent with the content described above, with the exception of certain data, where 
specific limitations are specifically described within the text and refer to situations in line with the Reporting 
Standards.
The economic and financial data described in the Statement derives from the Annual Financial Report of the Banco 
BPM Group at 31 December 2018.
With reference to the preparation of the information used to determine economic value generated and distributed, 
the Italian Banking Association (ABI) guidelines were considered, proposing the reclassification of the income 
statement according to Italian banking legislation. This table provides additional information to the data required 
by the Decree.
With reference to greenhouse gas emissions data, the following emissions factors are considered, as suggested 
by the ABI Guidelines:
•  Italian Greenhouse Gas Inventory 1990 - 2016 - National Inventory Report 2018 Annex 6 National Emission 
Factors - Istituto Superiore per la Protezione e la Ricerca Ambientale (ISPRA);
•  Common Reporting Format – National Inventory Report 2018 – Istituto Superiore per la Protezione e la Ricerca 
Ambientale (ISPRA);
•  Italian Greenhouse Gas Inventory 1990 – 2016 – National Inventory Report 2018 Annex 2: Energy 
Consumption for Power Generation – Istituto Superiore per la Protezione e la Ricerca Ambientale (ISPRA);
•  Italian Greenhouse Gas Inventory 1990 – 2015 – National Inventory Report 2016 Annex 6 National 
Emission Factors – Istituto Superiore per la Protezione e la Ricerca Ambientale (ISPRA);
•  “Climate Change 2013: The Physical Science Basis”. Contribution of Working Group I to the Fifth Assessment 
Report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change.
NOTE ON METHODOLOGY
Reporting process
In 2018 the Banco BPM Group adopted a structured procedure for the preparation of the Statement which, 
defined by internal regulations, identified the departments involved and the principles, roles and responsibilities for 
the reporting of the non-financial data contained in this Document. As such, the preparation of the Statement was 
based on a structured reporting process that envisaged:
•  the definition of the deadlines and the content to be included in the Statement;
•  the collection and control of information and the preparation and approval of the Statement, through the 
involvement of all company departments/divisions responsible for the relevant contexts and the relative 
non-financial information and data provided. Their input was requested during the collection, analysis and 
consolidation of data, with the responsibility of checking and approving the data contained in the Statement in 
line with their own jurisdiction. In particular, the data and information included in this Statement are collected 
through data collection forms designed to fulfil the requirements of Italian Legislative Decree no. 254/2016 
and the GRI Standards. The data included in this Statement refers to measurable values. The use of estimates, 
where necessary, is duly indicated in the Document;
•  the approval of the Statement by the Board of Directors;
•  verification of compliance carried out by the independent auditors of Banco BPM Group, PricewaterhouseCoopers 
SpA; report attached;
•  the publication of the Statement on the Group's website with a view to its transparent disclosure to all 
stakeholders.
Reporting principles
The process to define the content of the Statement is based on the principles provided for by the GRI Standards: 
materiality, stakeholder inclusiveness, sustainability context, completeness, comparability, accuracy, timeliness, 
clarity, reliability and balance.
Consolidated Non-Financial Statement 87
RECONCILIATION TABLE
INTERNAL  EXTERNAL 
MATERIAL TOPIC DEFINITION AND RELEVANCE (2018) GRI Standard Disclosure
IMPACTS IMPACTS
This refers to the set of rules, tools and initiatives 
Business integrity  that regulate sound corporate management, 
GRI 205:   Banco BPM  All 
and contribution to  as well as the management model adopted to 
Anti-corruption 2016 Group stakeholders
lawfulness in Italy prevent and combat corruption and the offences 
identified in Italian Legislative Decree no. 254
GRI 401:  
Development, engagement and optimisation 
Personnel  Employment 2016
of employees through training activities, 
development,  GRI 403: Occupational  Banco BPM 
professional opportunities, actions and initiatives  Personnel
engagement and  Health and Safety 2016 Group
aimed at increasing the professional, individual 
welfare GRI 404: Training and 
and personal well-being of employees.
Education 2016
Support for the social fabric through social 
GRI 201: Economic 
sponsorships, charitable donations, provision 
Contribution to the  Performance 2016 Banco BPM 
of corporate assets, volunteer activities and  Community
community GRI 203: Indirect Economic  Group
other initiatives aimed at promoting community 
Impacts 2016
development.
With regard to direct impacts, all actions 
aimed at reducing the consumption of resources 
used in company activities as well as the main 
GRI 302: Energy 2016
Environmental  toxic emissions are considered. For indirect  Banco BPM 
GRI 305: Emissions 2016 Community
mitigation impacts, loans to fund initiatives and projects to  Group
GRI 301: Materials 2016
promote energy efficiency and the evaluation 
of environmental risk in the credit process are 
considered.
Selection of Suppliers from a pool of companies 
and professionals exhibiting the prerequisites  GRI 204: Procurement  Banco BPM 
Supplier relations Suppliers
of integrity, professionalism, competence and  practices 2016 Group
reputation.
Support for the local economy, quality of 
Relations with  Product portfolio (GRI G4)
service, feedback and transparency are key  Banco BPM 
customers and the  GRI 413: Local  Customers
requirements for a fulfilling and long-lasting  Group
region Communities 2016
relationship.
On this subject (which is not 
Business development is a priority for Italy and  directly associated with an 
Business  represents an important business opportunity  aspect of the GRI Standard 
Banco BPM 
internationalisation  for the Group, which is aiming to become  guidelines), Banco BPM has  Customers
Group
and development a reference partner for Italian mid-caps by  described its management 
supporting growth in Italy and abroad. approach and the relative 
indicators adopted.
This refers to the ability to protect and optimise 
Support for savings  the savings of customers and businesses through  Marketing and labelling  Banco BPM 
Customers
and informed decisions an advanced consultancy model and the  (GRI G4) Group
implementation of financial literacy initiatives
Innovation is considered an important driver 
of sustainability in relation to the ability of 
businesses to adapt to new requirements and 
Digital innovation, data  GRI 418:   Banco BPM 
social or cultural changes and to adopt new  Customers
protection and privacy Customer Privacy 2016 Group
technologies to improve service efficiency and 
effectiveness while protecting the customer data 
used by the Group.
Initiatives aimed at the reorganisation of the 
Group are necessary to recover efficiencies, 
improve the decision-making process and create 
GRI 402:
Group reorganisation  a more sustainable business model able to  Banco BPM 
Labor/Management  Personnel
and industrial relations adapt promptly to technological developments  Group
Relations 2016
and change. This process must necessarily be 
accompanied by continuous dialogue with 
trade unions.
GRI CONTENT INDEX
GRI CONTENT INDEX
GENERAL   “PAGE NUMBER”
DESCRIPTION OF DISCLOSURE OMISSIONS
STANDARDS (OR DIRECT REFERENCE)”
ORGANISATIONAL PROFILE
102-1 Name of the organization “Cover”
102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services 10, 28-30
102-3 Location of headquarters Inside back cover
102-4 Location of operations 13
102-5 Ownership and legal form 11-12
102-6 Markets served 13
102-7 Scale of the organization 11-13, 15
102-8 Information on employees and other workers 49
102-9 Supply chain 80-81
Significant changes to the organization  
102-10 3, 84-86, 56-57
and its supply chain
14, 34, 38, 42, 44, 55, 57, 
102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach
65, 73, 79, 81
102-12 External initiatives 22-23
102-13 Membership of associations 16-17, 65
STRATEGY
102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 3
14, 34, 38, 42, 44, 55, 57, 
102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities
65, 73, 79, 81
ETHICS AND INTEGRITY
102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behaviour 8, 76-77
102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics 79
GOVERNANCE
102-18 Governance structure 11-12
Composition of the highest governance body  
102-22 12
and its committees
STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT
102-40 List of stakeholder groups 8, 15, 30, 53
All employees are covered by 
collective bargaining agreements 
102-41 Collective bargaining agreements
depending on the reference 
company.
102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 30-31, 53
102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 30-31, 53
102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 30-31, 53
REPORTING CRITERIA
102-45 Key topics and concerns raised 84-86
102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries 22-23
102-47 List of material topics 23
102-48 Restatements of information 84-86
102-49 Changes in reporting 84-86
Consolidated Non-Financial Statement 89
GENERAL   “PAGE NUMBER”
DESCRIPTION OF DISCLOSURE OMISSIONS
STANDARDS (OR DIRECT REFERENCE)”
102-50 Reporting period 84-86
102-51 Date of most recent report 84-86
102-52 Reporting cycle 84-86
102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report Back cover
Claims of reporting in accordance  
102-54 84-86
with the GRI Standards
102-55 GRI content index 88
102-56 External assurance 91
GRI 200: Economic standards
GRI 201: Economic Performance 2016
103-1; 103-2; 103-3 The management approach and its components 15, reclassification table
201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 15
GRI 203: Indirect Economic Impacts 2016
103-1; 103-2; 103-3 The management approach and its components 60-66, reclassification table
203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported 61, 66
GRI 204: Procurement practices 2016
103-1; 103-2; 103-3 The management approach and its components 80-81, reclassification table
204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers 81
GRI 205: Anti-corruption 2016
103-1; 103-2; 103-3 The management approach and its components 76-78, reclassification table
Data about anti-
Communication and training about anti-corruption  corruption policies 
205-2 79
policies and procedures and procedures is 
not available.
205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 79
GRI 300: Environmental standards
GRI 301: Materials 2016
103-1; 103-2; 103-3 The management approach and its components
In 2018 data on 
materials used 
was not available 
301-1 Materials used by weight or volume
due to IT 
maintenance and 
reorganisation.
GRI 302: Energy 2016
103-1; 103-2; 103-3 The management approach and its components 67-68, reclassification table
302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 68
GRI 305: Emissions 2016
103-1; 103-2; 103-3 The management approach and its components 67-68, reclassification table
305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 69
305-2 Indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 69
GRI 400: Social standards
GRI 401: Employment 2016
103-1; 103-2; 103-3 The management approach and its components 48.50, reclassification table
401-1 New hires and employee turnover 50
Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not 
401-2 54
provided to temporary or part-time employees
GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety 2016
103-1; 103-2; 103-3 The management approach and its components 48, 55, reclassification table
GRI CONTENT INDEX
GENERAL   “PAGE NUMBER”
DESCRIPTION OF DISCLOSURE OMISSIONS
STANDARDS (OR DIRECT REFERENCE)”
Data for external 
Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational 
partners was not 
403-2 diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of  55
available has not 
work-related fatalities by region and gender
been included.
GRI 404: Training and Education 2016
103-1; 103-2; 103-3 The management approach and its components 48, 51-52, reclassification table
404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee 51-52
Percentage of employees receiving regular performance 
404-3 52
and career development reviews
GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity 2016
103-1; 103-2; 103-3 The management approach and its components 48
405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 12, 49
405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men 52
GRI 418: Customer Privacy 2016
103-1; 103-2; 103-3 The management approach and its components 43-45, reclassification table
Substantiated complaints regarding concerning breaches 
418-1 45
of customer privacy and losses of customer data
Topics not covered by GRI Aspects
Business internationalisation and development
103-1; 103-2; 103-3 The management approach and its components 39-42, reclassification table
Indicator of specific Sector Supplement - G4 - PRODUCT PORTFOLIO
103-1; 103-2; 103-3 The management approach and its components 26-30, reclassification table
G4-FS6 Customer portfolio 27, 32
Products and services to designed  
G4-FS7 29-30, 32-33
to deliver specific social goals
Indicator of specific Sector Supplement - G4 - LOCAL COMMUNITIES
103-1; 103-2; 103-3 The management approach and its components 26, 29-30, reclassification table
Initiatives to improve access to financial services  
G4-FS14 29
for disadvantaged people
Indicator of specific Sector Supplement - G4 - MARKETING AND LABELLING
103-1; 103-2; 103-3 The management approach and its components 35-37, reclassification table
Initiatives to enhance financial literacy  
G4-FS16 30, 37
by type of beneficiary
Consolidated Non-Financial Statement 91
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ 
REPORT
 
 
 
 
 
BANCO BPM SPA 
 
 
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT ON THE  
CONSOLIDATED NON FINANCIAL STATEMENT  
PURSUANT TO ARTICLE 3, PARAGRAPH 10, OF  
LEGISLATIVE DECREE NO. 254/2016 AND ARTICLE 5  
OF CONSOB REGULATION NO. 20267 OF JANUARY 2018 
YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 
 
 
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT
Independent auditor’s report on the consolidated non-
financial statement
pursuant to article 3, paragraph 10, of Legislative Decree No. 254/2016 and article 5 of 
CONSOB Regulation No. 20267 of January 2018
To the Board of Directors of Banco BPM SpA 
 
 
 
Pursuant to article 3, paragraph 10, of Legislative Decree No. 254 of 30 December 2016 (the 
“Decree”) and article 5 of CONSOB Regulation No. 20267/2018, we have performed a limited 
assurance engagement on the consolidated non-financial statement of Banco BPM SpA and its 
subsidiaries (hereafter the “Group”) for the year ended 31 December 2018 prepared in accordance 
with article 4 of the Decree and approved by the Board of Directors on 12 March 2019 (hereafter 
the “NFS”). 
 
 
Responsibility of Management and those charged with Governance for the NFS
Directors are responsible for the preparation of the NFS in accordance with article 3 and 4 of the 
Decree and with the “GRI-Sustainability Reporting Standards” defined in 2016, hereafter the 
“GRI Standards”, identified as the reporting standards. 
 
Directors are responsible, in the terms prescribed by law, for such internal control as 
management determines is necessary to enable the preparation of a NFS that is free from material 
misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. 
 
Directors are responsible for identifying the content of the NFS, within the matters mentioned in 
article 3, paragraph 1, of the Decree, considering the activities and characteristics of the Group 
and to the extent necessary to ensure an understanding of the Group’s activities, its performance, 
its results and related impacts. 
 
Directors are responsible for defining the business and organisational model of the Group and, 
with reference to the matters identified and reported in the NFS, for the policies adopted by the 
Group and for the identification and management of risks generated and/or faced by the Group. 
 
The Board of Statutory Auditors is responsible for overseeing, in the terms prescribed by law, 
compliance with the Decree. 
 
   
 
 
Consolidated Non-Financial Statement 93
Auditor’s Independence and Quality Control
We are independent in accordance with the principles of ethics and independence set out in the
Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants published by the International Ethics Standards 
Board for Accountants, which are based on the fundamental principles of integrity, objectivity, 
competence and professional diligence, confidentiality and professional behaviour. Our audit firm 
adopts International Standard on Quality Control 1 (ISQC Italy 1) and, accordingly, maintains an 
overall quality control system which includes processes and procedures for compliance with 
ethical and professional principles and with applicable laws and regulations. 
 
 
Auditor’s responsibilities
We are responsible for expressing a conclusion, on the basis of the work performed, regarding the 
compliance of the NFS with the Decree and with the GRI Standards. We conducted our 
engagement in accordance with “International Standard on Assurance Engagements ISAE 3000 
(Revised) – Assurance Engagements Other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial 
Information” (hereafter “ISAE 3000 Revised”), issued by the International Auditing and 
Assurance Standards Board (IAASB) for limited assurance engagements. The standard requires 
that we plan and apply procedures in order to obtain limited assurance that the NFS is free of 
material misstatement. The procedures performed in a limited assurance engagement are less in 
scope than those performed in a reasonable assurance engagement in accordance with ISAE 3000 
Revised (“reasonable assurance engagement”) and, therefore, do not provide us with a sufficient 
level of assurance that we have become aware of all significant facts and circumstances that might 
be identified in a reasonable assurance engagement. 
The procedures performed on the NFS were based on our professional judgement and consisted 
in interviews, primarily with company personnel responsible for the preparation of the 
information presented in the NFS, analysis of documents, recalculations and other procedures 
designed to obtain evidence considered useful. 
 
In particular, we performed the following procedures: 
1.  analysis of the relevant matters reported in the NFS relating to the activities and 
characteristics of the Group, in order to assess the reasonableness of the selection process 
used, in accordance with article 3 of the Decree and the with the reporting standards 
adopted; 
2.  analysis and assessment of the criteria used to identify the consolidation area, in order to 
assess their compliance with the Decree; 
3.  comparison of the financial information reported in the NFS with those reported in the 
Group’s Consolidated Financial Statements; 
4.  understanding of the following matters: 
−  business and organisational model of the Group, with reference to the management 
of the matters specified by article 3 of the Decree; 
−  policies adopted by the Group with reference to the matters specified in article 3 of 
the Decree, actual results and related key performance indicators; 
−  main risks, generated and/or faced by the Group, with reference to the matters 
specified in article 3 of the Decree. 
With reference to those matters, we compared the information obtained with the 
information presented in the NFS and carried out the procedures described under point 5 
a) below; 
   
2 of 3 
 
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT
5.  understanding of the processes underlying the preparation, collection and management of 
the significant qualitative and quantitative information included in the NFS. In particular, 
we held meetings and interviews with the management of Banco BPM SpA and we 
performed limited analysis of documentary evidence, to gather information about the 
processes and procedures for the collection, consolidation, processing and submission of 
the non-financial information to the function responsible for the preparation of the NFS. 
 
Moreover, for material information, considering the activities and characteristics of the 
Group: 
-  at holding level, 
a)  with reference to the qualitative information included in the NFS, and in 
particular to the business model, the policies adopted and the main risks, we 
carried out interviews and acquired supporting documentation to verify their 
consistency with available  evidence; 
b)  with reference to quantitative information, we performed analytical procedures as 
well as limited tests, in order to assess, on a sample basis, the accuracy of 
consolidation of the information; 
-  for the following companies, Banco BPM SpA, Banca Akros SpA, Banca Popolare 
di Milano SpA (merged into Banco BPM SpA during the year), BP Property 
Management Soc. Consortile a r.l., Bipielle Real Estate SpA, which were selected 
on the basis of their activities and their contribution to the performance 
indicators at a consolidated level, we carried out meetings and interviews during 
which we gathered supporting documentation regarding the correct application of 
the procedures and calculation methods used for the key performance indicators. 
 
 
Conclusions
Based on the work performed, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the 
NFS of Banco BPM Group as of 31 December 2018 has not been prepared, in all material respects, 
in compliance with articles 3 and 4 of the Decree and with the GRI Standards. 
 
 
Milan, 15 March 2019 
 
PricewaterhouseCoopers SpA 
 
 
Signed by 
 
 
Pierfrancesco Anglani  Paolo Bersani 
(Partner)  (Authorised Signatory)
                           
 
 
 
This report has been translated from the Italian original solely for the convenience of 
international readers. We have not performed any controls on the NFS 2018 translation.
3 of 3 
Banco BPM S.p.A.
Piazza F. Meda, 4
Milan
RECYCLED
Made from
recycled material
www.fsc.org FSC C000000
