
2020 Annual Report
Moving forward  
together.
Our commitment to you.
Our purpose
WWee  hheellpp  mmoorree     aanndd  
mmoorree  ppeeooppllee  ee   xxppeerriieennccee  
fifinnaanncciiaall  wweellll--bbeeiinngg
How we live it
We help millions of  We make investing  We advance  We contribute to 
people invest to build  easier and more  sustainable investing  a more resilient 
savings that serve them  affordable because our conviction  economy that benefits 
throughout their lives is it delivers better  more people
Investing is out of reach for too many people, so 
BlackRock is helping to make investing easier and 
outcomes for investors
People deserve financial security across their   more affordable for all savers. Our more than   We invest our clients’ money in companies of 
lifetime. That means meeting expenses today,   1,100 iShares exchange-traded funds (ETFs) simplify  all types and sizes, in every region of the world. 
saving enough for important goals like retirement   investing by making it more convenient for people to  BlackRock understands that climate risk is  These investments provide capital for companies 
and being prepared for all of life’s moments in  access market opportunities anywhere in the world.  investment risk that all of our clients face. To help  to grow and create jobs, which, in turn, enables 
between. At BlackRock, the assets we manage on  And we have demonstrated our commitment to  manage it, we have put sustainability at the center  economies and societies to prosper. We use our 
behalf of our clients — who are pension plans that  making investing more affordable for more investors.  of our investment approach. We offer more than  voice as shareholders to urge companies to focus 
serve workers from all industries, individuals through  In the past five years, iShares has helped save  200 environmental, social and governance (ESG)  on important issues that will also impact the 
financial advisors, nonprofit organizations and  investors over $400 million through reductions   strategies to help investors meet their goals, from   value of their investments, like climate change, 
academic institutions, insurance companies and  in fund fees.¹  screening out specific sectors to proactively  the fair treatment of workers and equality. We are 
governments — represent the futures of millions of  supporting positive sustainable outcomes. We also  also working through the BlackRock Foundation to 
people across the world. This is why we work with  offer tools and technology to aid investors in better  expand financial security for low income groups who 
such a deep sense of passion and responsibility  understanding how climate change may impact their  face barriers to economic participation and may be 
each and every day.  investments over time.  vulnerable to disruption from climate change.
¹ Cumulative cost-savings figure is calculated by taking the difference between the previous fund expense ratio and the new fund expense ratio 
from 2015 through 2020, multiplied by the fund assets under management at the time of the fund reduction. Methodology does not account for 
compounding savings over time.
BlackRock Annual Report 2020 3
Delivering for clients
We support millions of 
people around the world
Building a global 
100+
investment platform 
countries where we serve 
clients1
with clients at the  35 million  Delivering value for all  that meet clients’ specific needs. 
stakeholders is critical  It is why we built our Aladdin 
U.S. retirement savers invest 
technology and risk management 
to BlackRock’s long-
in our products through their 
system: to help clients understand 
center
defined contribution plans1,2 term success, but our 
and manage risk, operate more 
clients — who entrust 
efficiently and make more 
us to manage assets on  informed investment decisions. 
We support clients when 
their behalf — are the  It is why we pioneered the target-
they need it most
reason BlackRock exists.  date fund, an all-in-one portfolio 
that automatically adjusts for 
We have a responsibility 
different stages of an investor’s 
100+ million  to put their best interest 
life. And it is why we use our 
at the center of every 
people use our indexing  voice as shareholders to urge 
capabilities globally1 decision we make. companies to focus on important 
issues — like climate change, the 
150,000  Our clients include people of all 
fair treatment of workers and 
backgrounds saving for their 
equality — to better protect the 
wealth management  futures. They are pensions, who 
long-term value of our clients’ 
professionals empowered by  manage the retirement savings of 
investments.
Aladdin technology1 teachers, nurses, factory workers 
and small business owners. They  We continue to innovate ahead 
are educational and nonprofit  of clients’ evolving needs. For 
We use our voice to  
organizations, who work to  example, in 2020 we introduced 
advocate on clients’ behalf
educate students in pursuit of  Aladdin Climate to better assess 
solving social challenges. And  climate risks in investment 
they are insurance companies  portfolios and launched LifePath 
1,939 
and governments, who support  Paycheck to provide millions of 
engagements with  people during life’s most difficult  American workers with simplified 
companies on environmental  moments and build hospitals,  access to lifetime income 
topics such as climate risk  schools and roads to improve their  throughout their retirement. 
and the transition to a low- communities. By investing on our  We innovate every day because 
carbon economy1,3 clients’ behalf, we help more and  challenging the status quo and 
more people experience financial  finding new solutions enhances 
160,769 
well-being throughout their lives. returns, convenience, value and 
management and  BlackRock has spent the last  transparency for our clients 
shareholder proposals  33 years helping to provide  and helps them achieve their  
voted1,3 better financial futures for our  long-term goals.
clients. We offer an extensive set 
of investment strategies, across 
1 Source: BlackRock
active and index, asset classes, 
2 As of November 1, 2020.
geographies and exposures, so 
3 BlackRock Investment Stewardship  that we can develop solutions 
data reflects the period from January 1,  
2020 to December 31, 2020.
4 BlackRock Annual Report 2020 BlackRock Annual Report 2020 5
Delivering for clients
Helping clients 
achieve their  
 
long – term goals
Spotlight: Building resilience with renewable power
BlackRock is unwavering in our  270  30 million  sources — both of which are  These big numbers have  to boosting local service-
commitment to working with  necessary for long-term financial  meaningful on-the-ground  related employment. Today, 
clients to help them reach their  projects homes well-being.  impacts. For example, BlackRock  the town continues to benefit 
goals over the long term. One  invested in the construction  from the management of these 
Our robust portfolio of renewable 
example of this commitment in  of two solar power projects in  green projects — from ongoing 
energy projects gives clients 
action is our renewable power  BBllaacckkRRoocckk  hhaass  iinnvveesstteedd  iinn  oovveerr   OOuurr  wwiinndd  aanndd  ssoollaarr  iinnvveessttmmeennttss   Queensland, Australia, in an area  sponsorship of community events 
access to the opportunity 
platform. BlackRock’s Real Assets  227700  wwiinndd  aanndd  ssoollaarr  iinnffrraassttrruuccttuurree   pprroodduuccee  eennoouugghh  cclleeaann  eenneerrggyy  ttoo   long known for coal mining, but  to supplying a printing facility for 
presented by the global transition 
team manages one of the largest  pprroojjeeccttss  aarroouunndd  tthhee  wwoorrlldd*¹ ppoowweerr  oovveerr  3300  mmiilllliioonn  hhoommeess  ffoorr   which had recently begun to  an internet access center.
oonnee  yyeeaarr¹* to a net-zero economy. BlackRock 
renewable power platforms in the  transition to renewable energy. 
has invested on their behalf in over  Capturing the growth opportunity 
world, and across our strategies,  The 240-megawatt portfolio was 
270 wind and solar infrastructure  in renewable projects such as 
we have over $11 billion of  slated to generate enough clean 
36 million  20,000   projects around the world.¹  these helps our clients build 
invested and committed capital.  energy to power around 85,000 
Collectively these investments  portfolios for the future — not 
Renewables have continued to  homes in the region annually.
cars jobs produce enough clean energy  only for the next five years but for 
grow as more of our clients look to 
to power over 30 million homes  The project was based in a  the next century. They also serve 
alternative sources of return and 
for one year, leading to carbon  small rural town of about 1,200  a large universe of stakeholders 
sustainable investments to add 
OOuurr  rreenneewwaabbllee  ppoowweerr  pprroojjeeccttss   TThheessee  iinnvveessttmmeennttss  hhaavvee   emissions reductions equivalent  people. Over the nearly two-year  by adding resilience to local 
resilience to their portfolios. At the  wwiillll  rreedduuccee  ccaarrbboonn  eemmiissssiioonnss   ssuuppppoorrtteedd  aapppprrooxxiimmaatteellyy     to removing 36 million cars  construction period, BlackRock’s  economies and the environment.
same time, renewables are playing  eeqquuiivvaalleenntt  ttoo  rreemmoovviinngg  3366  mmiilllliioonn   2200,,000000  jjoobbss¹*
from the road and providing  investment led to the creation  
a key role in helping to solve the  ccaarrss  ffrroomm  tthhee  rrooaadd*¹
approximately 20,000 jobs.¹  of 550 building jobs, in addition  
global climate crisis and the shift 
from fossil fuels to cleaner energy 
¹ Source: BlackRock. Metrics estimated over the lifetime of BlackRock’s renewable power assets 
and funds. Employment figures are estimated using Political Economy Research Institute,  ¹ Source: BlackRock. Metrics estimated over the lifetime of BlackRock’s renewable power assets and funds. Employment figures are estimated using 
University of Massachusetts Amherst, Green Growth, “A U.S. Program for Controlling Climate  Political Economy Research Institute, University of Massachusetts Amherst, Green Growth, “A U.S. Program for Controlling Climate Change and 
Change and Expanding Job Opportunities.” Expanding Job Opportunities.”
6 BlackRock Annual Report 2020 BlackRock Annual Report 2020 7
Helping families navigate a crisis
The stresses of working from home during 
COVID-19 hit families particularly hard,  
Inspiring employees
as parents have juggled their day jobs with 
childcare, eldercare and finding time for 
selfcare. And while all working parents are 
Investing in  
feeling these pressures, research shows that 
women are disproportionately carrying this 
increased burden and millions of women are 
our business by  leaving the workforce as a result. 
BlackRock recognizes the strain on 
employee caregivers and we are leveraging 
investing in our  both grassroots efforts and institutional 
expertise to support families financially, 
logistically and emotionally. For example, our 
people global Benefits team extended the number 
of back-up care days where available and 
offered mental health workshops, one-on-
one counseling and tools to support selfcare, 
manage stress and avoid burnout.
BlackRock’s strong  in a remote environment. Being 
performance over  a student is core to who we are  These and other solutions were shaped in 
time is because of the  at BlackRock and our capacity  collaboration with Families at BlackRock (FAB), 
to learn helps us deliver the best  an employee network with 16 chapters and 
investments we make in 
of BlackRock to our clients, each  2,000-plus members in 30 countries. At the 
our talented employees. 
other and ourselves.  pandemic’s outset, FAB initiated a “Kids Chat,” 
Our employees are the foundation  Most importantly, BlackRock  where parents could crowd-source ideas and 
of our client-centric culture. They  is committed to improving and  resources on issues like schooling, services 
help deliver performance and  maintaining a diverse, inclusive  for children with disabilities and talking about 
innovation, serve our communities  and equitable culture. It is central  race. The Benefits team converted these tips 
and ultimately drive returns for  to our success and is what  into a searchable database that was shared 
our shareholders. Our ability  enables all 16,500 of BlackRock’s  across the chat rooms to make these insights 
to continue delivering for all  employees to drive our purpose  more readily accessible.
stakeholders hinges on our ability  of helping more and more people  In September 2020, when it became clear 
to attract, develop and retain  experience financial well-being.  that a return to normal was still far off, the 
dedicated and talented people who  Our goal is to build, develop and  firm launched an innovative mentoring 
are inspired by our purpose and  retain a diverse talent pipeline,  program that pairs new parents with more 
take emotional ownership of the  while fostering a culture where  experienced colleagues. It’s yet another way 
work they do each and every day.  every employee feels comfortable,  BlackRock is helping employees thrive in 
BlackRock’s growth over time  confident and empowered to make  an unimaginable year.
an impact. We believe that diverse 
means we can continuously 
groups make better decisions, 
enhance the programs and 
which in turn leads to better 
resources we provide employees 
outcomes for our clients. While  91%  6.3
to support their well-being 
we still have work to do, in 2020, 
and ongoing development.  of employees   years average 
we advanced our commitment 
For example, throughout  are proud to work   employee tenure  
to diversity, equity and inclusion 
the COVID-19 pandemic, we  at BlackRock1 at BlackRock2
in three key areas: 1) talent and 
increased the benefits we offer our 
employees by providing services  culture; 2) our role as a fiduciary  50%  52% 
on behalf of our clients and 
such as company-paid COVID-19 
3) public policy and social impact  of our 2020 U.S.  of BlackRock 
diagnostic and antibody testing 
in the communities where we  hires identify as  employees are 
and free on-demand physical, 
operate. A respectful culture that  a racial or ethnic  involved in an 
mental and emotional healthcare 
values diversity in all its forms  minority3 employee or  
programs. We also expanded the 
not only encourages employees  impact network4
content available on BlackRock 
to question our assumptions and 
Academies, our platform for  ¹ Source: BlackRock’s Employee Opinion Survey conducted 
providing best-in-class resources  consider the unique perspectives  in September 2020.
and courses to our employees, so  that each of us brings, but also  ² Source: BlackRock. According to the Bureau of Labor  
serves the BlackRock purpose of  Statistics, the median number of years that wage and 
that they can continue learning  salary workers had been with their current employer was 
and growing their careers even  helping more and more people  4.1 years in January 2020.
experience financial well-being. ³ Source: BlackRock 
⁴ Source: BlackRock. As of March 30, 2021.
8 BlackRock Annual Report 2020 BlackRock Annual Report 2020 9
Helping communities
Committed to a  Supporting an inclusive and 
sustainable economic recovery
BlackRock is committed to 
more prosperous   helping those in the most 
vulnerable communities build 
financial stability so they can 
realize a better future. One 
and equitable 
way we do this is by fostering 
equitable access to skill-building 
and job training — a need that has 
world for more  grown more acute as a result of 
the COVID-19 crisis.
The numbers are stark: 
people
255 million jobs eliminated 
globally by the pandemic, 
75 million unemployed young 
people and more than 375 million 
workers who will lack the skills 
Living our purpose  we operate. The remaining  $589 million
needed for jobs in 2030.2
includes making a positive  commitment will be fulfilled in 
contribution to our existing 
impact in our communities  2021 and is aimed at long- To help address this gap, 
Donor Advised Fund and a 
term recovery for households  The BlackRock Foundation 
through our actions, our   and communities.1  has committed $13 million  newly established BlackRock 
investments and our  Foundation to support our  
people.  • We donated $9 million in funds  to Generation, a nonprofit  future philanthropic efforts1
organization that transitions 
to match $8 million in employee 
Through The BlackRock  giving, benefiting over 3,700  people around the world into 
Foundation and The BlackRock  organizations that employees  life-changing careers that may  $50 million
Charitable Trust, our Donor  either volunteered with or  otherwise be inaccessible. The 
Advised Fund, we seek to advance  donated to in 2020.1  funds will support more than  commitment to establish 
more inclusive and sustainable  50,000 job seekers in the U.S.,  BlackRock’s Emergency Savings 
economies through evidence- BlackRock is also contributing to a  U.K., Italy, India, France and  Initiative, which works to increase 
based mission-aligned grants,  stronger, more resilient economy  Spain, as well as infrastructure   access to and usage of proven 
community-based investments,  through our investments and  to scale the program globally. savings strategies and tools 
humanitarian and disaster relief  in how we serve our clients. Our  for low-to-moderate income 
BlackRock’s contributions 
efforts and employee engagement  clients’ investments support  households in the U.S.2
go beyond financial. We are 
businesses small and large, 
and volunteerism. 
leveraging our client and vendor 
finance infrastructure projects 
• We partner with 28 organizations  that connect and power cities  networks to match Generation  $50 million
worldwide that offer job  and make a positive social or  graduates with employers, using 
readiness programs and access  environmental impact in the world.  our expertise to help Generation  donated to COVID-19 relief efforts 
to proven savings strategies  For example, we are developing  scope future high-potential  and other charitable organizations 
and tools. For example, in  and launching products focused  career paths, and facilitating  in 2020 
Germany we partner with  on racial equity and social justice  volunteer opportunities for our 
CodeDoor, a nonprofit that  across our active and index  own employees in communities 
enables underserved youth  businesses. We also maintain a  across the world. $10 million 
and adults to gain in-demand  dedicated Diverse Broker Program  commitment aimed at bringing 
technical and coding skills to  aimed at increasing connectivity  visibility and increased resources 
launch upwardly mobile careers.1  and engagement with minority,  to support the upward mobility of 
• In March 2020, we committed  women and disabled-veteran  Black and Latinx communities3
owned firms while helping them 
$50 million to COVID-19 
grow their businesses. And in 
relief efforts. More than half 
2020, we traded $295 billion of 
of this commitment has been 
securities with diverse brokers 
deployed across 60 food 
in the U.S.1 We are committed to 
relief, community support, 
delivering innovative strategies 
and frontline response 
and serving our clients in a way 
organizations serving the  1 Commitment made in February 2020.
1 Source: BlackRock 
that meets their needs, supports 
hardest-hit communities in  2 Commitment made in February 2019. 
healthy economies and delivers  2 Source: Generation; International Labour 
18 of the countries where  Organization 3 Commitment made in June 2020.
value for society. 
10 BlackRock Annual Report 2020 BlackRock Annual Report 2020 11
  
Returns for shareholders
Aligning  
strategy and  
purpose to drive 
performance
By helping clients  Standards Board and Task Force  4 million 
achieve their long-term  on Climate-related Financial 
shares of BlackRock’s 
Disclosures reports and we will 
goals, inspiring our 
stock are held directly by 
continue to work to meet the same 
employees and supporting  pension funds on behalf 
standards of transparency that we 
communities, we are better  of employees saving for 
ask of the companies our clients 
positioned to generate  are invested in. retirement1
long-term, durable profits 
We believe the stability of 
for our shareholders and 
our financial results and our  2 million
have a positive impact on  commitment to investing in our 
shares of BlackRock’s 
society.  business positions us to generate 
stock are held by 
value for shareholders, better  
Similar to our clients, many of our  sustainability-focused 
help millions of people invest to 
shareholders are people saving  funds2
build savings, make investing 
for retirement, buying homes and 
easier and more affordable, 
starting businesses. Living our 
advance sustainable investing  
purpose includes consistently  $3.8 billion
and contribute to a more  
growing our business and 
resilient economy. returned to shareholders 
delivering long-term returns so 
after investing for growth 
our shareholders can meet their 
in 20203
own goals.
It also includes being transparent 
to all our stakeholders and  $391 billion
providing information that holds 
in net new assets that 
us accountable to ourselves 
clients entrusted to 
and others. In addition to 
BlackRock in 20203
financial disclosure, BlackRock 
is committed to providing 
meaningful sustainability 
394%
disclosure because we believe 
that effective disclosure can  total return of BlackRock’s 
lead to real change in how our  stock over the past 
own company is managed for  10 years4
the benefit of all stakeholders. In 
2020, we published our inaugural 
¹ Source: Form 13F filings; Q4 Inc. 
Sustainability Accounting 
² Source: Form 13F filings; Q4 Inc. 
Methodology for identifying  
sustainability-focused funds 
defined by BlackRock; Q4 Inc.
³ Source: BlackRock 
⁴ Data is reflective of 1/1/2011–
12/31/2020. Past performance is 
not indicative of future results.
12 BlackRock Annual Report 2020 BlackRock Annual Report 2020 13
That is why we are increasingly using our voice and  In this remote work environment, technology has made 
our insights to advocate on behalf of clients for  it easier to connect with people in places around the 
more sustainable and inclusive economies. We’re  world — a convenience that will no doubt remain longer 
asking ourselves: how can we contribute to an  term and reduce the need for some of the travel we all 
effective transition to the net zero economy? How  used to do. But I miss the personal connections and 
can we bring the voices of smaller and individual  unexpected ideas that come from meeting face-to-
shareholders to the companies they invest in? How  face and sharing a meal together. It’s often through 
can we help more people benefit from the long-term  a less structured conversation than one can have on 
growth of capital markets?  a video call that we learn most about each other and 
experience intangibles, like culture, that are hard to see 
through a screen. These in-person conversations we 
have with all stakeholders are often the most fruitful in 
providing us with insights to better serve them. 
BlackRock can help 
It’s through my conversations over the past year 
more and more people  that I’ve heard from people who feel even further 
away from being prepared with enough savings for 
experience financial  retirement. Embedded in BlackRock’s purpose is a 
responsibility to help people not be left behind. That’s 
well-being only if we  why we are working to educate, empower and prepare 
people with the investment solutions, technology 
contribute to solutions  and mindset required to invest for the long term. It 
is why we continuously push ourselves to evolve our 
for some of the most 
business. And it’s why our Social Impact programs 
partner with organizations that are confronting 
To our  pressing issues our  structural barriers to financial resilience and 
economic mobility.
society faces today.
shareholders, It’s the driving force behind our strategy in iShares, 
where we are making it easier and more affordable 
for more people to participate in the growth of capital 
markets through ETFs. It’s why we are investing 
This starts with serving all our stakeholders;  in technology, to help people construct portfolios 
BlackRock exists because of them and we focused  that are more resilient across market cycles and 
When I sit down to write this letter every spring,   on meeting their needs through the pandemic. The  throughout their lives. It’s why sustainable investing, 
I reflect on the year that’s passed, and it often feels  platform we’ve built over three decades enabled us  including managing climate risk and promoting 
like a distant memory. By nature, I focus on what lies  to help clients navigate the turbulent markets and  equity, is at the center of how we help clients invest. 
ahead. But right now, it’s not so easy to draw that  heightened risk that characterized the early part of  And it’s why BlackRock is at the forefront of creating 
distinction between years. More than 13 months after  the pandemic. We prioritized providing resources  new solutions to address the retirement crisis. 
COVID-19 became a global health crisis, we are still  to keep our employees and their families safe and 
Investing in our business isn’t only about developing 
confronting its impacts daily and have yet to return  healthy. We served our communities’ urgent needs by 
products and solutions or enhancing our operations. 
to normalcy. For billions of people around the world,  contributing to organizations delivering food security 
Just as important is putting time, money and effort 
the pandemic has brought on hardships — physically,  and supporting frontline workers. We provided 
into our culture and our people. 
emotionally, mentally and financially.  greater transparency and more information to 
shareholders, so they could better understand how we 
In the wake of the financial crisis more than 10 
More than ever before, I think about what  were adjusting our operations and how our business 
years ago, for example, challenging economic and 
BlackRock stands for, who we serve and where we  was performing. By staying true to our purpose and 
market conditions created a difficult backdrop for 
are making an impact in the world. The events of  serving all our stakeholders, 2020 included some of 
companies globally, ourselves included. But our 
this past year have only further strengthened our  the proudest moments in BlackRock’s 33-year history.
unwavering commitment to serving clients and 
sense of responsibility to help millions of people 
meeting their needs over the long term guided  
invest to build savings, make investing easier and  What I look forward to most in a post-pandemic world 
our investments during this critical time, as it  
more affordable, advance sustainable investing  is meeting in person with our clients again. Our entire 
has throughout our history. 
and contribute to a more resilient economy.  business is built on listening to the people we serve 
and understanding their needs. There is no substitute 
Since our acquisition of Barclays Global Investors 
I am an optimist. And while there are still immediate  for meeting in person to hear about the challenges 
in 2009, clients in more than 100 countries have 
and pressing matters such as economic relief  and opportunities they face in trying to meet the 
entrusted BlackRock with $1.7 trillion of net new 
and vaccination rollout to address, the events of  needs of their own clients: pension beneficiaries in the 
assets. Our assets under management have grown 
2020 have brought to the forefront heightened  United Kingdom retiring after long careers in public 
from $3.3 trillion to $8.7 trillion. As we have grown, we 
conversations, and more important, actions by  service; families in the United States saving to buy 
have prioritized using our increased scale to benefit 
governments and companies on issues such  their first homes; and countries like Mexico, Norway 
our clients, through lower fees and trading costs and 
as climate change, racial equity and economic  and Japan looking to build new hospitals, schools and 
better investment sourcing. We consistently invested 
inequality. Major asset managers and financial  infrastructure. Helping our clients is what gives me, 
in our talented employees through development 
institutions, including BlackRock, can make a  and the employees of BlackRock, our sense of purpose. 
programs and benefits that supported both their 
significant impact in these areas and accelerate 
positive long-term developments. 
14 BlackRock Annual Report 2020 BlackRock Annual Report 2020 15
 
Ability to meet client needs resonated in our 2020 results1 BlackRock’s success in 2020 meant we were able  culture we all aspire to and ensuring everyone can 
to do more to support our communities when they  experience BlackRock at its best. That is why we are 
needed it most. We committed to donating $50 million  taking a number of actions internally to promote an 
to COVID-19 relief efforts, and to date, we have  environment of respect and inclusivity and making 
Diverse  Record client  deployed more than half of this commitment to 60  enhancements to our processes for investigating 
demand food relief, community support and frontline response  employee complaints. At the same time, we have 
investment 
11%
organizations serving the hardest-hit areas across  retained an external law firm to conduct a review of 
platform  for active equity, sustainable, cash  18 countries. BlackRock is also helping people in  recent reports of employee-workplace matters and to 
and alternative investment strategies
Revenue   vulnerable communities build financial stability  provide recommendations on how we might further 
+ growth through job readiness programs and access to saving  enhance our processes and procedures. 
strategies and tools. By supporting organizations 
$391 billion such as Generation, which trains job seekers across  BlackRock must have a supportive, welcoming, 
Unified   14 countries with the skills necessary to access stable  inclusive and equitable work environment. This 
employment in high-demand sectors, BlackRock is  includes drawing on the expertise of people with 
technology
of net new assets advancing our purpose of helping more and more  varied backgrounds and perspectives.
13%
people experience financial well-being. 
+
Operating income  
>$1 billion growth The importance of  
Robust risk  our culture  Just as we ask of other 
management of net inflows in each of 19 countries 
and 104 different products  As I think about how far BlackRock has come in  companies, we have 
+ serving our clients and delivering for shareholders 
a long-term strategy 
since becoming a public company, culture has 
19%
been critical to creating value.
$1.1 billion
aimed at improving 
Global 
EPS   Through most of the past year, more than 90% of 
connectivity in technology services revenue growth BlackRock employees worked from their homes.  diversity, equity and 
During these times, I realized the strength of our 
inclusion (DEI) at 
culture, how it binds us together and how it propels 
us forward. It’s reflected in: our employees’ deep 
BlackRock.
sense of responsibility to help more and more 
people experience financial well-being; BlackRock’s 
growth and the growth of BlackRock. We created   and long history of connecting a global and growing  investment in our employees, their families and 
more than 7,500 jobs for new employees to join us.   organization on one technology platform enabled  communities; and in our commitment to running 
We invested in our culture and in defining our  us to adapt quickly as the world shifted to working  our business sustainably for the benefit of all 
purpose, which unify us and serve as our constant  remotely. This helped us to not miss a beat in serving  stakeholders.  Our goal is to build, develop and retain a diverse talent 
north star, guiding all of our long-term decisions. We  our clients when they most needed our help. And that 
pipeline while fostering a culture where everyone 
invested in our communities through partnerships  in turn resonated in our 2020 results.  We never take our culture for granted. It’s why we invest 
feels seen, heard and empowered to thrive. Our 
with impact-driven organizations. We continuously  so heavily and consistently in cultivating it and are 
strategy includes: mitigating bias in our hiring and 
enhanced our disclosures to increase transparency  More than any year before, 2020 highlighted the  relentless at ensuring that it is lived each day. Working 
talent management practices; providing professional 
and accountability between BlackRock and our  benefits of our unified Aladdin platform. Aladdin  from home makes it difficult, however, to nurture our 
development, sponsorship and executive coaching 
stakeholders. As a result of our continued investments  enabled us to rebuild BlackRock beyond its walls and  culture in the same way we’re able to in person. We 
opportunities; raising awareness of DEI matters; 
in all our stakeholders, our stock delivered nearly  deliver operational resilience, advice and solutions for  have employees, including more than 400 graduate 
and resetting behavioral expectations across the 
400% total return for our shareholders over the past  our clients. Aladdin also enabled more than 250 third- program analysts, who have never set foot in our 
organization. In order to execute on our strategy, DEI 
decade, exceeding peers and broader markets.2 party Aladdin clients — asset managers, asset owners,  offices nor met their colleagues face-to-face. I firmly 
needs to be owned by everyone at BlackRock and we 
banks and insurance clients — to operate seamlessly  believe the culture we want can’t be built or maintained 
must hold each other accountable. 
Our purpose, strategy and responsibility to  during this time. remotely over the long term and I am looking forward 
society are all interconnected. By investing in  to having more people return to the office. To truly drive change, we must embed DEI into 
BlackRock for the long term, we are able to better  Our strong 2020 performance was possible because 
everything we do. Advancing a more equitable and 
serve our clients, strengthen our culture, inspire   of the dedication and tireless effort of our 16,500  BlackRock’s high-performance culture is what enables 
inclusive environment begins by examining our own 
and reward our employees and help advance   employees. Throughout the past year, we have kept the  us to stay ahead of clients’ needs. It challenges us to 
culture and talent practices, but we cannot be content 
our communities, which ultimately drives our   health and safety of our employees and their families  be forward-thinkers, problem solvers and innovators. 
to stop there. Our global strategy aims to advance 
ability to deliver long-term durable profits for   as the top priority. We committed to our employees,  A high-performance culture also requires diversity, 
DEI holistically. We are focused on racial equity and 
our shareholders.  including those whose jobs were dependent on people  empathy, equity, respect and inclusion. 
social justice in our investment and stewardship 
being in the office, that we would not eliminate any 
activities, and we’re using our voice to advocate for 
BlackRock’s 2020 results roles as a result of the pandemic in 2020. We also  I know our culture is not perfect. It depends on the 
public policy changes that promote social justice. We 
implemented efforts to support employees, including  contribution of 16,500 individuals. And in some 
are also enhancing connectivity and engagement 
company-paid COVID-19 diagnostic and antibody  cases, certain employees have not upheld BlackRock’s 
While we did not design our operating model with  with minority businesses that support our client 
testing, and free on-demand physical, mental and  standards. I have made it clear to employees that 
this pandemic or an almost entirely virtual work  investment activities, including by increasing our 
emotional healthcare programs.  we want to know when that happens, and those 
environment in mind, the strength of our culture  partnerships with diverse brokers, asset managers 
individuals don’t have a place at BlackRock. Rooting 
and vendors. We cannot help more and more people 
out misconduct — and ensuring an environment 
experience financial well-being without advancing 
that doesn’t allow it — is critical to building the 
1 Operating income and EPS growth figures are as adjusted. See BlackRock’s 2020 10-K for an explanation of the use of non-GAAP financial   equity and social justice. 
measures and a reconciliation to GAAP. 
2 Data is reflective of 1/1/2011–12/31/2020. Past performance is not indicative of future results.
16 BlackRock Annual Report 2020 BlackRock Annual Report 2020 17
Our long-term strategy is  Making Investing Easier and More  To drive the next leg of growth for iShares, we are  markets, while also providing greater scale and 
investing in new product innovation in areas like  efficiency for clients. We are investing to bring Aladdin 
guided by our purpose Affordable for More People 
Fixed Income and Sustainable ETFs, offering value  onto the cloud, partnering with leading providers like 
Our mission to help people save for the future starts  and quality across all our products and helping more  Snowflake, to make it easier for investors to analyze 
BlackRock’s culture and purpose are centered around  with making it easier and more affordable for people  people use iShares ETFs in more ways. the exponential amount of data available to them 
our clients’ needs, and that is what guides our long- to be invested in the capital markets.  and accelerate the pace of innovation in Aladdin. 
term strategy for growth. We built the industry’s most  An Ability to Generate Differentiated  And we are investing in rapidly growing spaces like 
comprehensive investment platform across active and  Our more than 1,100 iShares ETFs make it simpler  sustainability — both organically and through minority 
Returns When Clients Need It Most 
index, asset classes, geographies and exposures, all  for anyone to access market opportunities anywhere  investments such as Clarity AI — to position Aladdin for 
unified by one culture and one technology platform  in the world. In Brazil, for example, we launched the  The COVID-19 pandemic and the subsequent  the future of asset management.
so we can focus on clients and support them with  country’s first locally-listed ETF, making it easier for  monetary and fiscal policy actions from governments 
solutions no matter their objective or risk preference.  Brazilians to access global markets through a single  and central banks across the world has had a  At the heart of Aladdin is a data processing and risk 
BlackRock’s ability to be a whole portfolio partner for  investment at a low cost. In Germany, more than one  profound impact on investment portfolios. With  management platform. As risks change over time, we 
clients has proven to be critical, as more institutional  million people contribute monthly to ETF savings  equity markets near record highs and interest rates  are constantly monitoring the impact on companies 
and wealth clients are turning to us for help to build  plans composed of iShares ETFs. These plans allow  globally near historic lows, more and more investors  and as a result, on our clients’ portfolios. We see a 
more resilient portfolios.  regular investments for just one or two euros, meaning  are adjusting their portfolio allocations in search of  very real example of this related to climate change 
people can start investing earlier and in a way that  alpha to help them achieve their objectives.  and the risks and opportunities it presents. Climate 
BlackRock’s strategy for future growth, which   works best for them. And our iShares Fixed Income  risk, and other risks related to a company’s long-
our Global Executive Committee carefully reviews  ETFs once again proved their resilience, making it  BlackRock has evolved our platform over time to  term sustainability, is investment risk. And over the 
with our Board of Directors each year, is aligned  easier for anyone to buy and sell bundles of bonds  better position ourselves to deliver more durable  last several years, there has been a proliferation of 
with our purpose and centers on helping clients  while sidestepping a legacy marketplace that remains  alpha across public and private markets and help  data related to the impacts of climate change on 
navigate their most complex challenges as the  fragmented and comparatively difficult to access.  more people reach their goals. That’s why we are  businesses and society. We launched Aladdin Climate 
investment landscape and the world change  investing heavily in areas such as investment  to extend our capabilities to help BlackRock and our 
around them. By accelerating growth in iShares,  By giving individuals access to an entire market  sourcing, data analytics and technology, while  Aladdin clients better understand the impacts of 
illiquid alternatives and technology, keeping alpha  through a single investment, wealth managers an  leveraging our global scale and reach.  both physical risk and transition risk associated with 
at the heart of BlackRock and being a global leader  opportunity to customize portfolios in a more efficient  climate change on their portfolios. 
in sustainable investing, BlackRock is uniquely  and scalable way, and institutions the ability to allocate  Private markets in particular are becoming a critical 
positioned to provide whole portfolio solutions  capital, adjust positions and manage risk more simply,  component for alpha. More and more clients I speak   Through Aladdin Climate, we are building tools and 
for clients. This is leading to deeper and more  iShares ETFs are unlocking tens of millions of new  with are looking to increase their allocations to illiquid  analytics to track investment portfolios’ trajectories 
comprehensive relationships with more clients and   investors who are using this technology to help them  alternatives for the yield and uncorrelated returns  toward net zero emissions, quantifying the impact 
we believe will enable us to continue to deliver on   achieve their goals. This has driven the growth of our   they offer, and we believe there is no manager better  of climate change on strategies ranging from cash 
our 5% organic base fee growth target.3  iShares assets under management from $500 billion in  positioned to partner with clients than BlackRock. We  management to illiquid alternatives, and helping 
2009 to $2.7 trillion today.  are investing in product innovation, such as our Long  catalyze increasingly robust and standardized climate 
Term Private Capital strategy, that seeks to better  data and metrics so more investors can understand, 
3 Target is based on estimates and assumptions. There is no guarantee that it will be achieved.  align incentives and meets client needs for longer  report and act on climate change. 
duration solutions. We are advancing sustainable 
strategies, including through our global renewable  Advancing Sustainable Investing to 
Our Strategy for Long-Term Growth power platform, which help clients capture investment 
Drive Better Outcomes for Investors 
opportunities presented by the transition to a net zero 
emissions economy. And we are investing in technology,  BlackRock’s commitment to sustainability is 
such as eFront, to give clients greater transparency  embedded across our business because our deeply 
and an integrated view of their whole portfolio so they  held investment conviction is that integrating 
Drive growth engines can better understand what is happening across their  sustainability can help investors build more resilient 
public and private investments. portfolios and achieve better long-term, risk-adjusted 
returns. That is why we have made sustainability 
iShares Aladdin Private Markets Making Investing Clearer and More  integral to the way we manage risk, generate alpha, 
build portfolios and pursue investment stewardship. 
Informed with Aladdin 
As the pandemic took hold, we saw investors of 
Last year, I wrote that the biggest change for asset 
Become the  managers will be how technology is used. In the  all types and sizes choose to tilt their investments 
Lead as   Keep active at 
toward sustainability-focused companies in greater 
global leader  future, asset managers will have to be as good at using 
whole portfolio   the heart of  magnitude than ever before. Investors in mutual funds 
technology as anything else they do — and as good at 
in sustainable 
and ETFs invested more than $360 billion globally 
advisor BlackRock it as any tech firm. This became even more apparent 
investing in sustainable assets in 2020, more than double 
during the pandemic as coronavirus worries injected 
the amount invested in 2019.4 BlackRock captured 
severe bouts of extreme market volatility into the 
a leading $68 billion of net new assets across our 
financial ecosystem. In this rapidly changing market 
sustainable investment strategies. 
environment, Aladdin delivered operational resilience 
and risk analysis that enabled BlackRock and the 
Earlier this year, I asked all companies BlackRock is 
Aladdin community to adapt. 
invested in on behalf of our clients to disclose a plan 
for how their business model will be compatible with 
By creating a whole portfolio ecosystem with 
5% a net zero economy, because every company will be 
Target Growth straight-through processing, we are making Aladdin 
profoundly affected. 
the language of portfolios across public and private 
4  Source: Simfund, Morningstar, Broadridge and BlackRock. Data as of December 31, 2020.
18 BlackRock Annual Report 2020 BlackRock Annual Report 2020 19
BlackRock’s net zero  Within the corporate world, the focus today is primarily  2020 Sustainability Actions
on public companies — and understandably so. 
commitment centers on  BlackRock has been a major advocate of enhancing 
public companies’ disclosure of sustainability data. 
•  100% of active and advisory strategies ESG- •  Added 1,200 sustainability metrics to Aladdin 
helping clients prepare  This will benefit both investors and broader society. But 
integrated, covering $2.9 trillion in AUM to enable clients to understand ESG and 
we cannot overlook the role of private companies as 
their portfolios for a  well. If large private companies are not held to the same  •  Introduced 100 new sustainable solutions in  physical climate risks
level of scrutiny as public companies, we will create  2020 to provide investors with more choice •  Intensified engagement and transparency 
net zero world, and our  an unintended incentive to shift carbon-intensive  through investment stewardship
assets to markets with less transparency and, often,  •  Launched Aladdin Climate, setting a new 
ambition is to have net  less regulation. This might make public companies  standard for assessing environmental risks 
look better but will do nothing to advance us toward  across asset classes in investment portfolios
zero emissions across 
a net zero economy by 2050. By contrast, global 
implementation of carbon pricing mechanisms is an  
all our assets under  2021 Sustainability Commitments
essential tool for reducing demand for fossil fuels.
management by 2050.
I believe that private markets will play an indispensable 
role in the net zero transition. Many of the investments  •  Incorporating climate considerations into our  climate risk (including flagging holdings for 
needed, such as renewable power infrastructure,  capital markets assumptions, which underpins  potential exit)
are best financed through private structures. In  portfolio construction at BlackRock
•  Launching investment products with explicit 
addition, the decarbonization technologies needed to 
•  Publishing a temperature alignment metric  temperature alignment goals, including 
In line with this ambition, I’m proud that BlackRock  achieve net zero are highly experimental and demand 
for our public equity and bond funds, where  products aligned to a net zero pathway
announced recently that we joined the Net Zero Asset  investors, often private entities, with a high tolerance 
sufficient data is available 
Managers Initiative. for risk and a long investment timeline. •  Using stewardship to encourage the companies 
•  Implementing a “heightened-scrutiny model”  that our clients are invested in to both mitigate 
We are committed to making our ambition a  I strongly believe we also need a comprehensive  in our active portfolios as a framework for  climate risk and consider the opportunities 
reality and we are evolving our business to embed  disclosure regime that covers not only public  managing holdings that pose significant   presented by the net zero transition
the management of climate-related risks and  companies, but large private companies as well. In   
opportunities across our strategy and operations.   many areas, such as carbon disclosure, I believe that 
As we outlined in our 2021 sustainability  voluntary disclosure can be best and companies 
commitments, we are: advocating for companies  shouldn’t wait for government-mandated disclosure.  known for a long time that millions of people are  Investing in growing markets, 
to transition their own business models; offering  However, climate risk is both such a significant  approaching retirement with inadequate savings. 
our clients more choice to reallocate their capital;  investment risk and massive societal risk that I  In the U.S., nearly 50% of households over 55 years  like China, to help more and 
helping clients realize the substantial investment  believe we need a globally-consistent sustainability  old have no retirement savings.5 In Latin America,  more people experience 
opportunities that will come from the climate  reporting framework. The business ministry in the U.K.  many existing retirement systems are unable to 
transition; and investing in better data, tools and  and the SEC in the U.S. are already moving forward  accommodate the growing wealth creation and rising  financial well-being
technology to measure and assess the impact on  on enhanced disclosure, which I support. Global  income levels that are bringing millions of people into 
portfolios of climate and other sustainability factors.  consistency is critical, and I urge regulators across the  the middle class. And in several countries across East  Our focus on investing for the long term and living 
globe to work together on this front.
and Southeast Asia, an aging population is posing a  our purpose is also reflected in the way we approach 
The importance of   significant challenge for their retirement systems. growing markets. The Chinese market represents a 
A consistent set of reporting standards will promote 
significant opportunity to help meet the long-term 
government policy —   access to consistent, high-quality and material public 
A year like 2020 puts people even further behind.   goals of investors in China and internationally. It 
information that will enable both asset owners and 
including mandatory  The loss of millions of jobs as a result of the  also provides us an opportunity to help address the 
asset managers to make more informed decisions 
pandemic is causing real pain for families today,  challenge of retirement for millions of people in China.
disclosure — in advancing  about how to achieve durable long-term returns. 
with many individuals now thinking they’re going to 
Crucially, to ease companies’ concerns as they adopt 
toward net zero  have to continue to work in some capacity during  Many of our global clients are looking to BlackRock 
these disclosures for the first time, governments should 
retirement. And for too many people, retirement  to help them invest in this market for the return 
pair any mandate with temporary legal protections to 
planning is deprioritized because of imminent needs.  opportunities and portfolio diversification that 
Achieving a net zero economy will require both  shield companies from liability, as long as they make a 
Chinese assets offer. Although China represents the 
technological innovation and planning over decades.  best effort at representing material risks. BlackRock is committed to building more intuitive,  second-largest economy and capital market in the 
Much of the conversation is currently focused on 
resilient retirement solutions so that more people can  world, Chinese equity and bond markets are only 3% 
public companies and their role in that transition. They  The silent crisis of retirement  save for retirement. We are working with governments  owned by foreign investors.6 
have an important role to play. Government, however, 
and the private sector across dozens of countries to 
must play the leadership role in addressing this crisis:  and what BlackRock is doing 
provide our retirement system expertise, insights,  We are also committed to helping more people in 
setting standards, creating the right incentives, putting 
to help millions of people  products and services. With more than half of our  China meet their long-term goals, such as retirement. 
a price on carbon and investing in the technology and 
assets linked to retirement, BlackRock’s commitment  China has a high savings rate, but most of that money 
infrastructure required for the energy transition. Every  build savings 
to addressing the silent retirement crisis across the  is currently in bank accounts, where it is generating 
level of government working in partnership with the 
world is instrumental to our future success as an  only a small amount of interest. For China to address 
private sector is required to ensure a just transition  To build a more just and equitable society for more 
organization and central to fulfilling our purpose.  its retirement challenge, these assets must be put to 
that protects people’s livelihoods, vulnerable  people, we also need to address the retirement crisis. 
work in products that can offer greater returns. 
communities and developing nations.  While challenges vary country by country, we’ve 
5 Source: U.S. Government Accountability Office. https://www.gao.gov/assets/gao-19-442r.pdf
6 Source: BlackRock. https://www.blackrock.com/us/individual/insights/investing-in-china
20 BlackRock Annual Report 2020 BlackRock Annual Report 2020 21
As China’s capital markets continue to open to foreign  issues that we advocate for: policies that increase  Total return since  Just as BlackRock is a fiduciary to our clients, helping 
firms, BlackRock has taken meaningful actions to  financial market transparency, protect investors and  them invest for the future, I recognize many of  
BlackRock’s IPO
expand our onshore presence and respond to the needs  facilitate responsible growth of capital markets.  you are investing in BlackRock to achieve your own 
of our clients. We are in the final stages of receiving  long-term goals and I want to thank you for your 
regulatory approvals to set up a wholly-owned fund  Effective disclosure drives accountability and can lead  7,539% continued support. 
management company and an asset management  to real change in how companies are managed for the 
joint venture with China Construction Bank and  benefit of all stakeholders. We are at the beginning  By investing in and operating our business for the 
Temasek. As BlackRock deepens its partnerships and  of a major shift in the way companies provide data  benefit of all stakeholders, BlackRock has been able 
grows its presence in China, I am optimistic that we  and disclosures and BlackRock intends to meet the  to deliver durable, long-term profitability for you — our 
869%
can help create a better future for more people.  same standards of transparency that our stewardship  341% shareholders. Since our company went public in 1999, 
team asks of others and to lead by example. It is  our stock has delivered over 7,500% in total return 
Commitment to lead by  why we released our first Task Force on Climate- Oct 1, 1999 Dec 31, 2020 and we will continue leveraging our scale, globally 
related Financial Disclosures (TCFD)-aligned and  diverse investment platform and capabilities in 
example: Importance of  Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB)- BlackRock technology and portfolio construction to differentiate 
transparency to drive  aligned reports in 2020. It is why we released the  SNL U.S. Asset Manager ourselves as we look ahead.⁷ 
EEO-1 data on the racial, ethnic and gender diversity 
S&P 500
accountability  of our workforce. It is also why we are expanding our  We will continue to live by our purpose so we can: 
Scope 3 emissions reporting to include the aggregate  Source: S&P Global. The performance graph is not necessarily   help millions of people invest to build savings; make 
When BlackRock went public over 20 years ago, we  emissions attributable to the investment portfolios  indicative of future investment performance. Please refer to the   investing easier and more affordable; advance 
understood that with access to more capital came  we manage on our clients’ behalf, where data permits,  oImf tphoer tSaNnLt  NUo.Ste. As ssseectt iMona noang pear gIned 2e5x .for information on constituents   sustainable investing; and contribute to a more 
greater responsibility. Being a public company  and will be announcing an interim target on the  resilient economy. 
brought a new type of transparency and discipline  proportion of our assets that will be aligned to net zero 
And we will be guided by our culture and a set of newly 
to our firm, with constant feedback from the market  by 2030. As the sustainability landscape evolves, we 
enriched principles that reflect who we are today and 
on where we were succeeding and where we needed  will continue to refine and expand our disclosures to  make diversity in gender, race, ethnicity, age, career 
in the future:
to improve. At the time — in 1999 — that meant  help all stakeholders assess our efforts on material  experience and nationality, as well as diversity of 
reporting quarterly and annual financial results and  environmental, social and governance matters.  mind, a priority when considering director candidates.  We are a fiduciary to our clients. Their interests 
telling the market who we were, because few people 
come first. 
knew us. Now, more than 20 years later, the external  In every aspect of our work, we are cognizant that  In March of this year, our Board voted unanimously 
demand from all stakeholders for more transparency  whether we are working with asset management or  to nominate Hans Vestberg, Chairman and CEO of  We are One BlackRock. We work collaboratively to 
is growing exponentially. And it’s no longer just about  Aladdin clients, counterparties, regulators, employees,  Verizon, for election at our annual meeting. Hans  create the best outcomes for our clients, our firm and 
financial metrics.  communities or shareholders, we must always act  brings a tremendous amount of senior leadership and  the communities where we operate.
in a way that will earn and maintain the trust and  international experience, as well as deep knowledge 
BlackRock’s shareholders want more information to  respect of those we interact with. That begins with  of technology and sustainability. I believe the Board  We are passionate about performance. We are 
assess material sustainability risks and opportunities.  acting in a transparent and accountable way, and we  and BlackRock will benefit greatly from his wisdom as  relentless about finding better ways to serve clients 
They want to know: How does BlackRock instill  take this approach with all our stakeholders. we expand in key markets in Europe, use technology  and improve our firm. 
and maintain its culture? What is BlackRock doing  to continue transforming our business and further 
to advance racial and gender equity within our  Guided by our Board   embed sustainability into our investment processes  We take emotional ownership. The people we serve 
own organization and beyond our walls? What is  and corporate practices.  entrust us to help them prepare for the future. Our 
of Directors 
BlackRock’s strategy for achieving net zero carbon  culture is defined by the deep sense of responsibility 
emissions by 2050?  At the same time, we are incredibly fortunate to have  we feel to our clients and to each other.
Much of BlackRock’s success can be attributed to our 
had Mathis Cabiallavetta, who will be retiring from 
Clients increasingly want more transparency on  engaged Board of Directors who act as stewards on  our Board this year, as a valued director of BlackRock.  We are committed to a better future. We are long-
their investments. They want to know what they’re  behalf of our shareholders in overseeing BlackRock’s  Mathis has given the Board invaluable guidance  term thinkers, focused on helping people build a 
holding, from the underlying stocks and bonds in their  management and operations, evaluating risk and  and leadership over his time with us. His global and  better tomorrow. And we always strive to serve more 
portfolio to the carbon emissions of that portfolio.  opportunities for our business and challenging our  financial expertise and knowledge of European  people, and to find new and innovative ways to help 
BlackRock has invested in making carbon emissions  management team. The Board regularly reviews the  financial markets has been critical as we have grown  them achieve financial well-being.
data and ESG scores available for our iShares ETFs  pillars that underpin BlackRock’s ability to generate  in the EMEA region and as a firm globally. His passion 
and mutual funds globally, and we are working to raise  long-term value and our directors have played an  and dedication to BlackRock will be missed by the  Sincerely,
the bar for transparency across the industry in pursuit  integral role in helping us navigate our business  entire Board and by the BlackRock leadership team. 
of helping clients and meeting their needs.  through the pandemic. 
We will continue to evolve our Board over time to reflect 
We recognize that as our company has grown, there  A key component of preparing the firm for the future is  the breadth of our global business and to guide us as 
is increasing interest from all stakeholders in our  preparing the next generation of leaders. While I have  we move forward in an ever-changing environment. 
stewardship efforts and we committed to providing  no intention of leaving BlackRock anytime soon, I have 
more transparency on our work. For example, in 2020  worked diligently with the Board over the past decade  Moving forward together:   Laurence D. Fink 
we published 57 vote bulletins, which explain our  on building a strong bench of talent that represents  Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
vote decisions, and the engagement and analysis  the breadth of our business. We continue to move our  Our commitment to you
underpinning them, on certain high-profile proposals  senior leaders into new roles that provide them with 
at company shareholder meetings. This is five times  the diversity of experience, global perspective and  Each year, I have the privilege of writing to you about 
more than in the previous three years combined.  One BlackRock mindset that will allow them to lead  BlackRock’s outlook and plans for the future. And 
BlackRock to new heights long after Rob Kapito and   each year, I am more excited about the pace of change 
As a leading asset manager, we also embrace a  I have moved on. and size of opportunities that we are seeing. 
broader set of responsibilities to improve markets  
and the investment landscape for all investors  The diverse backgrounds of our individual directors 
through our public policy efforts. We always strive  also play a significant role in their ability to oversee 
for open dialogue and transparency on the important  our business from a variety of perspectives. We  7  Data is reflective of 10/1/1999–12/31/2020. Past performance is not indicative of future results.
22 BlackRock Annual Report 2020 BlackRock Annual Report 2020 23
Global Executive   Board of  
Committee Directors
Laurence D. Fink Robert S. Kapito Sandy Boss Laurence D. Fink Bader M. Alsaad Mathis Cabiallavetta
Chairman and Chief   President Global Head of Investment  Chairman and Chief Executive  Chairman of the Board and  Former Vice Chairman of the Board 
Executive Officer Stewardship Officer, BlackRock, Inc. Director General, Arab Fund for  of Directors, Swiss Re
Economic & Social Development
Stephen Cohen  Edwin N. Conway Frank Cooper III
Head of Europe, Middle East   Global Head of BlackRock  Chief Marketing Officer Pamela Daley Jessica Einhorn William E. Ford
and Africa Alternative Investors Former Senior Vice President of  Former Dean, Paul H. Nitze  Chairman and Chief Executive 
Corporate Business Development,  School of Advanced International  Officer, General Atlantic
General Electric Company Studies (SAIS) at The Johns 
Hopkins University
Robert W. Fairbairn Robert L. Goldstein Ben Golub, PhD
Vice Chairman Chief Operating Officer & Global  Chief Risk Officer
Head of BlackRock Solutions Fabrizio Freda Murry S. Gerber Margaret L. Johnson
President and Chief Executive  Lead Independent Director;  Chief Executive Officer,  
Officer, The Estée Lauder  Former Chairman and Chief  Magic Leap, Inc.
Companies Inc. Executive Officer, EQT Corporation
Philipp Hildebrand J. Richard Kushel Rachel Lord
Vice Chairman Head of the Portfolio Management  Chair and Head of Asia Pacific
Group
Robert S. Kapito Cheryl Mills Gordon M. Nixon
President, BlackRock, Inc. Chief Executive Officer,   Former President and  
BlackIvy Group Chief Executive Officer,  
Mark S. McCombe Christopher J. Meade Manish Mehta Royal Bank of Canada
Chief Client Officer General Counsel and Chief   Global Head of Human Resources
Legal Officer
Charles H. Robbins Marco Antonio   Susan L. Wagner
Chairman and Chief Executive  Slim Domit Former Vice Chairman,  
Sudhir Nair Salim Ramji Gary S. Shedlin Officer, Cisco Systems, Inc. Chairman of the Board of  BlackRock, Inc.
Global Head of the Aladdin  Global Head of iShares and Index  Chief Financial Officer Directors, Grupo Financiero 
Business Investments Inbursa
Mark Wilson
Martin Small Derek Stein Mark K. Wiedman Co-Chairman and Chief Executive 
Head of U.S. Wealth Advisory Global Head of Technology   Head of International and of  Officer, Abacai
& Operations Corporate Strategy
24 BlackRock Annual Report 2020 BlackRock Annual Report 2020 25
Financial  Important 
Highlights Notes
Please review the Important Notes on page 25 for information on  Opinions Corporation; Artisan Partners  at that time. The performance data 
certain non-GAAP figures shown through page 24, as well as for source  Asset Management Inc.; Ashford  shown reflects information for all 
Opinions expressed through  
information on other data points on pages 2 through 24. Inc.; Associated Capital Group  actively and passively managed 
page 24 are those of BlackRock, 
Inc.; BlackRock, Inc.; Blackstone  equity and fixed income accounts, 
Inc. as of March 2021 and are 
Group Inc.; BrightSphere  including U.S. registered investment 
subject to change. Investment 
Investment Group Inc.; Carlyle  companies, European-domiciled 
(in millions)
2020 2019 2018 involves risk including the loss  Group Inc.; Cohen & Steers  retail funds and separate accounts 
of principal. The companies 
Inc.; Diamond Hill Investment  for which performance data is 
mentioned in this document are 
Total AUM (end of period)   $  8,676,680  $ 7,429,633  $  5,975,818  Group; Federated Hermes Inc.;  available, including performance 
not meant to be a recommendation 
Fifth Street Asset Management  data for high net worth accounts 
to buy or sell any security.
Inc.; Franklin Resources Inc.;  available as of November 30, 2020. 
Revenue  16,205 14,539 14,198 GAMCO Investors Inc.; Great  The performance data does not 
BlackRock data 
Elm Group; Hamilton Lane Inc.;  include accounts terminated prior to 
Operating income, as adjusted 6,284 5,551 5,531 points Hennessy Advisors Inc.; Invesco  December 31, 2020 and accounts 
Ltd.; Janus Henderson Group  for which data has not yet been 
All data through page 24 reflects  Plc.; KKR & Co; Manning & Napier  verified. If such accounts had been 
Operating margin, as adjusted 44.9% 43.7% 44.3% as-adjusted full-year 2020 results  Inc.; Medley Management Inc.;  included, the performance data 
or is as of December 31, 2020,  Pzena Investment Management  provided may have substantially 
unless otherwise noted. 2020  Inc.; Safeguard Scientifics Inc.;  differed from that shown.
Net income attributable to BLK, GAAP 4,932 4,476 4,305
organic growth is defined as full- Sculptor Capital Management Inc.; 
year 2020 net flows divided by  SEI Investments Co.; Silvercrest  Performance comparisons shown are 
Net income attributable to BLK, as adjusted 5,237 4,484 4,361 assets under management (AUM)  Asset Management Group; T. Rowe  gross-of-fees for institutional and 
for the entire firm, a particular  Price Group Inc.; The Gabelli  high net worth separate accounts, 
segment or particular product  Equity Trust; U.S. Global Investors  and net-of-fees for retail funds. The 
Diluted weighted-average common shares 154.8 157.5 161.9 as of December 31, 2019. Long- Inc.; Victory Capital Holdings Inc.;  performance tracking shown for 
term product offerings include  Virtus Investment Partners Inc.;  index accounts is based on gross-
active and passive strategies  Waddell & Reed Financial Inc.;  of-fees performance and includes 
  across equity, fixed income,  Westwood Holdings Group Inc.;  all institutional accounts and all 
Per share multi-asset and alternatives, and  WisdomTree Investments Inc. iShares funds globally using an 
exclude AUM and flows from the  index strategy. AUM information 
cash management and advisory  GAAP and as-  is based on AUM available as of 
Diluted earnings, GAAP   $  31.85  $  28.43  $  26.58 businesses. December 31, 2020 for each account 
adjusted results or fund in the asset class shown 
Industry data  without adjustment for overlapping 
Diluted earnings, as adjusted 33.82 28.48 26.93 See pages 40–41 of our 2020  management of the same account 
points 10-K for an explanation of the use 
or fund. Fund performance reflects 
of non-GAAP financial measures 
the reinvestment of dividends and 
Dividends declared 14.52 13.20 12.02 All data is as of December 31,  and a reconciliation to GAAP.
distributions. 
2020 unless otherwise noted. 
Performance  Performance shown is derived from 
As of December 31, 2020, the 
applicable benchmarks or peer 
SNL U.S. Asset Manager Index  notes
median information, as selected by 
included: Affiliated Managers 
Group Inc.; AllianceBernstein  Past performance is not indicative of  BlackRock, Inc. Peer medians are 
Holding L.P.; Ameriprise Financial  future results. Except as specified,  based in part on data either from 
Inc.; Apollo Global Management  the performance information shown  Lipper, Inc. or Morningstar, Inc. for 
Inc.; Ares Management  is as of December 31, 2020 and is  each included product.
based on preliminary data available 
26 BlackRock Annual Report 2020 BlackRock Annual Report 2020 27
PART I
Item 1. Business Managementseekstodelivervalueforstockholdersover
timeby,amongotherthings,capitalizingonBlackRock’s
differentiatedcompetitiveposition,including:
OVERVIEW
•theCompany’sfocusonstrongperformanceproviding
BlackRock,Inc.(together,withitssubsidiaries,unlessthe alphaforactiveproductsandlimitedornotracking
BlackRock, Inc. contextotherwiseindicates,“BlackRock”orthe errorforindexproducts;
“Company”)isaleadingpubliclytradedinvestment
•theCompany’sglobalreachandcommitmenttobest
managementfirmwith$8.68trillionofassetsunder
practicesaroundtheworld,withapproximately50%of
management(“AUM”)atDecember31,2020.With
employeesoutsidetheUnitedStatesservingclients
approximately16,500employeesinmorethan30
locallyandsupportinglocalinvestmentcapabilities.
Form 10-K countrieswhoserveclientsinover100countriesacross
Approximately40%oftotalAUMismanagedforclients
theglobe,BlackRockprovidesabroadrangeofinvestment
domiciledoutsidetheUnitedStates;
managementandtechnologyservicestoinstitutionaland
retailclientsworldwide. •theCompany’sbreadthofinvestmentstrategies,
includingmarket-capweightedindex,factors,
Table of Contents BlackRock’sdiverseplatformofalpha-seekingactive, systematicactive,traditionalfundamentalactive,high
indexandcashmanagementinvestmentstrategiesacross convictionalphaandilliquidalternativeproduct
assetclassesenablestheCompanytotailorinvestment offerings,whichenhanceitsabilitytotailorwhole-
outcomesandassetallocationsolutionsforclients. portfolioinvestmentsolutionstoaddressspecificclient
Productofferingsincludesingle-andmulti-asset needs;
portfoliosinvestinginequities,fixedincome,alternatives
•theCompany’sdifferentiatedclientrelationshipsand
andmoneymarketinstruments.Productsareoffered
fiduciaryfocus,whichenableeffectivepositioning
directlyandthroughintermediariesinavarietyofvehicles,
towardchangingclientneedsandmacrotrends
includingopen-endandclosed-endmutualfunds,
iShares®exchange-tradedfunds(“ETFs”),separate includingthesecularshifttoindexinvestingandETFs,
afocusonincomeandretirement,increasingdemand
accounts,collectivetrustfundsandotherpooled
forsustainableinvestmentstrategiesandbarbelling
investmentvehicles.BlackRockalsoofferstechnology
PART I PART III services,includingtheinvestmentandriskmanagement usingindex,activeandilliquidalternativesproducts;
technologyplatform,Aladdin®,AladdinWealth,eFront, and
  1  Item 1  Business  66  Item 10  D  irectors, Executive Officers and 
Corporate Governance CachematrixandFutureAdvisor,aswellasadvisory •theCompany’slongstandingcommitmentto
 20  Item 1A  Risk Factors servicesandsolutionstoabroadbaseofinstitutionaland innovation,technologyservicesandthecontinued
 66  Item 11  Executive Compensation wealthmanagementclients.TheCompanyishighly developmentof,andincreasedinterestin,BlackRock
 34  Item 1B  Unresolved Staff Comments
regulatedandmanagesitsclients’assetsasafiduciary. technologyproductsandsolutions,includingAladdin,
 34  Item 2  Properties  66  Item 12  S  ecurity Ownership of Certain Beneficial  TheCompanydoesnotengageinproprietarytrading AladdinWealth,eFront,Cachematrix,and
Owners and Management and Related  activitiesthatcouldconflictwiththeinterestsofitsclients. FutureAdvisor.Thiscommitmentisfurtherextendedby
 34  Item 3  Legal Proceedings Stockholder Matters
minorityinvestmentsindistributiontechnologies
BlackRockservesadiversemixofinstitutionalandretail
includingEnvestnet,ScalableCapital,iCapital,Acorns
 34  Item 4  Mine Safety Disclosures  66  Item 13  C  ertain Relationships and Related  clientsacrosstheglobe.Clientsincludetax-exempt
andEmbark.InJanuary2021,BlackRockalso
Transactions, and Director  institutions,suchasdefinedbenefitanddefined
announcedaminorityinvestmentinClarityAI,a
Independence contributionpensionplans,charities,foundationsand
PART II sustainabilityanalyticsanddatascienceplatform.
endowments;officialinstitutions,suchascentralbanks,
 66  Item 14  P  rincipal Accountant Fees  
 35  Item 5  M  arket for Registrant’s Common Equity,  sovereignwealthfunds,supranationalsandother BlackRockoperatesinaglobalmarketplaceimpactedby
Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer  and Services governmententities;taxableinstitutions,including changingmarketdynamicsandeconomicuncertainty,
Purchases of Equity Securities insurancecompanies,financialinstitutions,corporations factorsthatcansignificantlyaffectearningsand
PART IV andthird-partyfundsponsors,andretailintermediaries. stockholderreturnsinanygivenperiod.
 35  Item 6  Removed and Reserved 
 66  Item 15  E  xhibits and Financial Statement  BlackRockmaintainsasignificantglobalsalesand TheCompany’sabilitytoincreaserevenue,earningsand
 36  Item 7  M  anagement’s Discussion and Analysis  Schedules marketingpresencethatisfocusedonestablishingand stockholdervalueovertimeispredicatedonitsabilityto
of Financial Condition and Results of  maintainingretailandinstitutionalinvestment generatenewbusiness,includingbusinessinAladdinand
Operations  70    Signatures managementandtechnologyservicerelationshipsby othertechnologyproductsandservices.Newbusiness
marketingitsservicestoinvestorsdirectlyandthrough effortsdependonBlackRock’sabilitytoachieveclients’
 62  Item 7A  Q  uantitative and Qualitative Disclosures 
third-partydistributionrelationships,includingfinancial investmentobjectives,inamannerconsistentwiththeir
about Market Risk
professionalsandpensionconsultants. riskpreferences,todeliverexcellentclientserviceandto
 63  Item 8  F  inancial Statements and Supplemental  innovateintechnologytoserveclients’evolvingneeds.All
BlackRockisanindependent,publiclytradedcompany,
Data oftheseeffortsrequirethecommitmentandcontributions
withnosinglemajorityshareholderandover85%ofits
ofBlackRockemployees.Accordingly,theabilitytoattract,
BoardofDirectorsconsistingofindependentdirectors.
 63  Item 9  C  hanges in and Disagreements with  developandretaintalentedprofessionalsiscriticaltothe
Accountants on Accounting and  Company’slong-termsuccess.
Financial Disclosure
 63  Item 9A  Controls and Procedures
 66  Item 9B  Other Information
28 BlackRock Annual Report 2020 1 BlackRock Annual Report 2020 29
FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS ComponentchangesinAUMbyproducttypeforthefiveyearsendedDecember31,2020arepresentedbelow.
(inmillions,exceptpersharedata) 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 Acquisitions
December31, Netinflows and Market December31, 5-Year
GAAP: (inmillions) 2015 (outflows) dispositions(1) change FXimpact 2020 CAGR(2)
Totalrevenue $16,205 $14,539 $14,198 $13,600 $12,261
Equity $2,423,772 $ 274,083 $ 2,590 $1,677,581 $41,780 $4,419,806 13%
Operatingincome $ 5,695 $ 5,551 $ 5,457 $ 5,254 $ 4,565
Fixedincome 1,422,368 799,393 18,539 399,477 34,711 2,674,488 13%
Operatingmargin 35.1% 38.2% 38.4% 38.6% 37.2%
Multi-asset 376,336 73,572 683 196,244 11,898 658,733 12%
Nonoperatingincome(expense)(1) $ 475 $ 186 $ (76) $ (32) $ (108)
Alternatives 112,839 80,090 8,267 31,762 2,084 235,042 16%
NetincomeattributabletoBlackRock,Inc. $ 4,932 $ 4,476 $ 4,305 $ 4,952 $ 3,168
Long-term 4,335,315 1,227,138 30,079 2,305,064 90,473 7,988,069 13%
Dilutedearningspercommonshare $ 31.85 $ 28.43 $ 26.58 $ 30.12 $ 19.02
Cashmanagement 299,884 273,890 81,321 6,253 4,904 666,252 17%
Advisory 10,213 11,622 — 157 367 22,359 17%
(inmillions,exceptpersharedata) 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016
Total $4,645,412 $1,512,650 $111,400 $2,311,474 $95,744 $8,676,680 13%
Asadjusted(2):
(1) AmountsincludeAUMacquiredintheBofA®GlobalCapitalManagementtransactioninApril2016,AUMacquiredintheacquisitionoftheequityinfrastructurefranchiseofFirstReserve(“First
Operatingincome $ 6,284 $ 5,551 $ 5,531 $ 5,269 $ 4,669
ReserveTransaction”)inJune2017,netAUMfromtheacquisitionsofTennenbaumCapitalPartnersinAugust2018(“TCPTransaction”)andtheassetmanagementbusinessofCitibanamexin
Operatingmargin 44.9% 43.7% 44.3% 44.1% 43.8% September2018(“CitibanamexTransaction”),AUMreclassificationsandnetdispositionsrelatedtothetransferofBlackRock’sUKDefinedContributionAdministrationandPlatformbusinessto
Nonoperatingincome(expense)(1) $ 353 $ 186 $ (76) $ (32) $ (108) AegonN.V.inJuly2018(“AegonTransaction”),andnetAUMdispositionsrelatedtothesaleofBlackRock’sminorityinterestinDSPBlackRockInvestmentManagersPvt.Ltd.totheDSPGroup
inAugust2018(“DSPTransaction”).
NetincomeattributabletoBlackRock,Inc.(3) $ 5,237 $ 4,484 $ 4,361 $ 3,698 $ 3,210
Dilutedearningspercommonshare(3) $ 33.82 $ 28.48 $ 26.93 $ 22.49 $ 19.27 (2) PercentagerepresentsCAGRoverafive-yearperiod(December31,2015–December31,2020).
(1) Netofnetincome(loss)attributabletononcontrollinginterests(redeemableandnonredeemable). AUMrepresentsthebroadrangeoffinancialassets outsourcing,advisoryandothertechnologyservices,to
managedforclientsonadiscretionarybasispursuantto institutionalinvestorsandwealthmanagement
(2) BlackRockreportsitsfinancialresultsinaccordancewithaccountingprinciplesgenerallyacceptedintheUnitedStates(“GAAP”);however,managementbelievesevaluatingtheCompany’s
investmentmanagementandtrustagreementsthatare intermediaries.Revenuefortheseservicesmaybebased
ongoingoperatingresultsmaybeenhancedifinvestorshaveadditionalnon-GAAPfinancialmeasures.
expectedtocontinueforatleast12months.Ingeneral, onseveralcriteriaincludingvalueofpositions,numberof
SeeItem7,Management’sDiscussionandAnalysisofFinancialConditionandResultsofOperations—Non-GAAPFinancialMeasures,forfurtherinformationonnon-GAAPfinancialmeasures
reportedAUMreflectsthevaluationmethodologythat users,implementationgo-lives,softwaresolutiondelivery
andforasadjusteditemsfor2020and2019.
correspondstothebasisusedfordeterminingrevenue andsupport,andhostingservices.
In2018and2016,arestructuringcharge,primarilycomprisedofseveranceandacceleratedamortizationexpenseofpreviouslygrantedcompensationawards,hasbeenexcludedtoprovide (forexample,netassetvalue).ReportedAUMdoesnot
moremeaningfulanalysisofBlackRock’songoingoperationsandtoensurecomparabilityamongperiodspresented.In2018,2017and2016,theportionofcompensationexpenseassociated AtDecember31,2020,totalAUMwas$8.68trillion,
includeassetsforwhichBlackRockprovidesrisk
withcertainlong-termincentiveplansfundedthroughsharedistributionstoparticipantsofBlackRockstockheldbyPNChasbeenexcludedbecauseitultimatelydidnotimpactBlackRock’s representingaCAGRof13%overthelastfiveyears.AUM
managementorotherformsofnondiscretionaryadvice,or
bookvalue.
growthduringtheperiodwasachievedthroughthe
assetsthattheCompanyisretainedtomanageonashort-
(3) NetincomeattributabletoBlackRock,Inc.,asadjusted,anddilutedearningspercommonshare,asadjustedexcludetheafter-taximpactoftheitemsreferredtoaboveandexcludetheeffecton combinationofnetmarketvaluationgains,netinflows
term,temporarybasis.
deferredincometaxexpenseresultingfromcertainincometaxmatters.In2017,$1.2billionofnettaxbenefitrelatedtoThe2017TaxCutsandJobsActwasexcludedfromnetincome andacquisitions,includingBofAGlobalCapital
attributabletoBlackRock,Inc.,asadjusted,anddilutedearningspercommonshare,asadjusted.
Investmentmanagementfeesaretypicallyearnedasa Management,whichadded$80.6billionofAUMin2016,
percentageofAUM.BlackRockalsoearnsperformance theFirstReserveTransaction,whichadded$3.3billionof
feesoncertainportfoliosrelativetoanagreed-upon AUMin2017andthenetAUMimpactfromtheTCP
ASSETS UNDER MANAGEMENT
benchmarkorreturnhurdle.Onsomeproducts,the Transaction,theCitibanamexTransaction,theAegon
TheCompany’sAUMbyproducttypefortheyears2016through2020ispresentedbelow. Companyalsomayearnsecuritieslendingrevenue.In TransactionandtheDSPTransaction,whichadded
addition,BlackRockoffersitsproprietaryAladdin $27.5billionofAUMin2018.OurAUMmixencompasses
December31, investmentsystemaswellasriskmanagement, abroadlydiversifiedproductrange,asdescribedbelow.
5-Year
(inmillions) 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 CAGR(1) TheCompanyconsidersthecategorizationofitsAUMbyclienttype,producttype,investmentstyle,andclientregion
Equity $4,419,806 $3,820,329 $3,035,825 $3,371,641 $2,657,176 13% usefultounderstandingitsbusiness.ThefollowingdiscussionoftheCompany’sAUMwillbeorganizedasfollows:
Fixedincome 2,674,488 2,315,392 1,884,417 1,855,465 1,572,365 13%
ClientType ProductType InvestmentStyle ClientRegion
Multi-asset 658,733 568,121 461,884 480,278 395,007 12%
Alternatives 235,042 178,072 143,358 129,347 116,938 16% •Retail •Equity •Active •Americas
•iSharesETFs •FixedIncome •IndexandiSharesETFs •Europe,theMiddleEastandAfrica(“EMEA”)
Long-term 7,988,069 6,881,914 5,525,484 5,836,731 4,741,486 13%
•Institutional •Multi-asset •Asia-Pacific
Cashmanagement 666,252 545,949 448,565 449,949 403,584 17%
•Alternatives
Advisory 22,359 1,770 1,769 1,515 2,782 17%
•CashManagement
Total $8,676,680 $7,429,633 $5,975,818 $6,288,195 $5,147,852 13%
(1) PercentagerepresentsCAGRoverafive-yearperiod(December31,2015–December31,2020).
CLIENT TYPE foundationsandendowments;officialinstitutions,suchas
centralbanks,sovereignwealthfunds,supranationalsand
BlackRockservesadiversemixofinstitutionalandretail othergovernmententities;taxableinstitutions,including
clientsacrosstheglobe,witharegionallyfocused insurancecompanies,financialinstitutions,corporations
businessmodel.BlackRockleveragesthebenefitsofscale andthird-partyfundsponsors,andretailintermediaries.
acrossglobalinvestment,riskandtechnologyplatforms
whileatthesametimeusinglocaldistributionpresenceto iSharesETFsareagrowingcomponentofboth
deliversolutionsforclients.Furthermore,ourstructure institutionalandretailclientportfolios.However,as
facilitatesstrongteamworkgloballyacrossbothfunctions iSharesETFsaretradedonexchanges,complete
andregionsinordertoenhanceourabilitytoleverage transparencyontheultimateend-clientisunavailable.
bestpracticestoserveourclientsandcontinuetodevelop Therefore,iSharesETFsarepresentedasaseparateclient
ourtalent. typebelow,withinvestmentsiniSharesETFsby
institutionsandretailclientsexcludedfromfiguresand
Clientsincludetax-exemptinstitutions,suchasdefined discussionsintheirrespectivesections.
benefitanddefinedcontributionpensionplans,charities,
30 BlackRock Annual Report 2020 2 3 BlackRock Annual Report 2020 31
AUMbyinvestmentstyleandclienttypeatDecember31,2020ispresentedbelow. iSharesETFs
iSharesistheleadingETFproviderintheworldwith$2.7trillionofAUMatDecember31,2020,andgeneratednetinflows
(inmillions) Retail iSharesETFs Institutional Total of$184.9billionin2020.iSharesfixedincomenetinflowsof$88.9billionwerediversifiedacrossexposures,ledbyflows
Active $726,424 $ — $1,524,462 $2,250,886 intoUSinvestmentgradecorporate,coreandhighyieldbondfunds.TheresilienceandperformanceofiSharesfixed
incomeETFsinperiodsofmarketdisruptionduringtheyeardroveincreasedconfidenceamonginvestorsthatETFsare
Non-ETFIndex 119,493 — 2,948,683 3,068,176
valuabletoolsforliquidity,pricetransparencyandmarketexposure,leadingtostronginflowsthroughout2020.iShares
iSharesETFs — 2,669,007 — 2,669,007
equitynetinflowsof$76.3billionweredrivenbyflowsintosustainableandcoreequityETFs.iSharesSustainableETFs
Long-term 845,917 2,669,007 4,473,145 7,988,069
sawnetinflowsof$43.8billionin2020,primarilyintoequities,withAUMtriplingtonearly$80billion.iSharesmulti-asset
Cashmanagement 11,702 — 654,550 666,252 andalternativeETFscontributedacombined$19.7billionofnetinflows,primarilyintocommoditiesfunds.
Advisory — — 22,359 22,359
iSharesETFsrepresented33%oflong-termAUMatDecember31,2020and40%oflong-termbasefeesfor2020.
Total $857,619 $2,669,007 $5,150,054 $8,676,680
ComponentchangesiniSharesETFsAUMfor2020arepresentedbelow.
Retail
December31, Netinflows Market FX December31,
BlackRockservesretailinvestorsgloballythroughawide advisory,administrationfeesandsecuritieslending
(inmillions) 2019 (outflows) change impact 2020
arrayofvehiclesacrosstheinvestmentspectrum, revenue(collectively“basefees”)for2020.
includingseparateaccounts,open-endandclosed-end Equity $1,632,972 $ 76,307 $186,918 $ 8,904 $1,905,101
iSharesETFshaveasignificantretailcomponentbutis
funds,unittrustsandprivateinvestmentfunds.Retail Fixedincome 565,790 88,894 28,009 7,340 690,033
shownseparatelybelow.WiththeexclusionofiShares
investorsareservedprincipallythroughintermediaries, Multi-asset 5,210 646 388 24 6,268
ETFs,retailAUMispredominantlycomprisedofactive
includingbroker-dealers,banks,trustcompanies, Alternatives(1) 36,093 19,038 12,331 143 67,605
mutualfunds.Mutualfundstotaled$694.9billion,or
insurancecompaniesandindependentfinancialadvisors.
Total $2,240,065 $184,885 $227,646 $16,411 $2,669,007
82%,ofretaillong-termAUMatyear-end,withthe
Technologysolutions,digitaldistributiontoolsandashift
remainderinvestedinprivateinvestmentfundsand
towardportfolioconstructionareincreasingthenumber (1) AmountsincludecommodityiSharesETFs.
separatelymanagedaccounts.86%ofretaillong-term
offinancialadvisorsandend-retailclientsusing
AUMisinvestedinactiveproducts. OurbroadiSharesETFproductrangeoffersinvestorsa foradiverserangeoffixedincome,sustainable,core
BlackRockproducts.
precise,transparentandefficientwaytogainexposureto equityandcommoditiesETFs.
Retailrepresented11%oflong-termAUMat afullrangeofassetclassesandglobalmarketsthathave
•InternationaliSharesETF1AUMended2020at
December31,2020and31%oflong-terminvestment beendifficultformanyinvestorstoaccess,aswellasthe
$678.8billionwithnetinflowsof$70.1billion,similarly
liquidityrequiredtomakeadjustmentstotheirexposures
Componentchangesinretaillong-termAUMfor2020arepresentedbelow. quicklyandcost-efficiently. reflectingstrongflowsintofixedincome,sustainable
andcoreequityETFs.
•USiSharesETF1AUMended2020at$2.0trillionwith
December31, Netinflows Market FX December31,
(inmillions) 2019 (outflows) change impact 2020 $114.8billionofnetinflowsdrivenbystrongdemand
Equity $252,413 $39,341 $42,545 $4,135 $338,434 1 RegionaliSharesETFamountsbasedonjurisdictionofproduct,notunderlyingclient.
Fixedincome 305,265 22,784 9,725 2,694 340,468
Multi-asset 120,439 (481) 12,262 404 132,624 Institutional
Alternatives 25,180 7,912 929 370 34,391 BlackRockservesinstitutionalinvestorsonsixcontinentsinsub-categoriesincluding:pensions,endowmentsand
Total $703,297 $69,556 $65,461 $7,603 $845,917 foundations,officialinstitutions,andfinancialinstitutions;institutionalAUMisdiversifiedacrossproductandregion.
Theretailclientbaseisdiversifiedgeographically,with networthadvisors.BycombiningAperiowith Componentchangesininstitutionallong-termAUMfor2020arepresentedbelow.
66%oflong-termAUMmanagedforinvestorsbasedin BlackRock’sexistingSMAfranchisetheCompany
theAmericas,29%inEMEAand5%inAsia-Pacificat planstoexpandthebreadthofpersonalization December31, Netinflows Market FX December31,
year-end2020. capabilitiesavailabletowealthmanagersfrom (inmillions) 2019 (outflows) change impact 2020
BlackRockviatax-managedstrategiesacrossfactors, Active:
•USretaillong-termnetinflowsof$24.6billionwere
broadmarketindexing,andinvestorEnvironmental, Equity $ 141,118 $ 1,890 $ 24,045 $ 2,469 $ 169,522
ledbyfixedincomenetinflowsof$10.1billion.Fixed
Social,andGovernancepreferencesacrossallasset
incomenetinflowswerediversifiedacrossexposures Fixedincome 651,368 6,598 49,712 8,591 716,269
classes.ThetransactionclosedinFebruaryof2021
andproducts,withstrongflowsintohighyield,total Multi-asset 434,233 13,639 52,365 11,005 511,242
andAperiowilloperateaspartofBlackRock’sUS
returnandcorebondofferings.Equitynetinflowsof Alternatives 111,951 9,497 3,861 2,120 127,429
WealthAdvisorybusiness.
$7.5billionwereledbyflowsintohigh-performing Activesubtotal 1,338,670 31,624 129,983 24,185 1,524,462
technology,healthsciencesandUSgrowthequities •Internationalretaillong-termnetinflowsof Index:
franchises.Alternativesnetinflowsof$4.2billion $45.0billionwereledbyequitynetinflowsof Equity 1,793,826 (68,543) 254,475 26,991 2,006,749
weredrivenbyflowsintotheBlackRockAlternative $31.9billion,reflectingstrongflowsintoindexequity
Fixedincome 792,969 39,685 67,623 27,441 927,718
CapitalStrategiesandGlobalEventDrivenfunds. mutualfunds,andhigh-performingtechnologyand
Multi-asset 8,239 (591) 749 202 8,599
Multi-assetnetinflowsof$2.8billionincludedthe healthsciencesactiveequityfranchises.Fixed
Alternatives 4,848 732 (50) 87 5,617
successfulcloseofthe$2.2billionBlackRockCapital incomenetinflowsof$12.6billionweredrivenby
Indexsubtotal 2,599,882 (28,717) 322,797 54,721 2,948,683
AllocationTrust. flowsintoindexfixedincomemutualfundsandAsian
bondstrategies.Alternativesnetinflowsof$3.7billion Total $3,938,552 $ 2,907 $452,780 $78,906 $4,473,145
Inthefourthquarterof2020,BlackRockannounced
reflecteddemandforEuropeanAbsoluteAlphaand
theacquisitionofAperio,apioneerincustomizing
GlobalEventDrivenfunds.Multi-assetnetoutflowsof
tax-optimizedindexequityseparatelymanaged
$3.2billionwereprimarilyduetooutflowsfromworld
accounts(“SMA”),toenhanceourwealthplatform
allocationstrategies.
andprovidewhole-portfoliosolutionstoultra-high
32 BlackRock Annual Report 2020 4 5 BlackRock Annual Report 2020 33
InstitutionalactiveAUMended2020at$1.5trillion, TheCompany’sinstitutionalclientsconsistofthe CLIENT TYPE AND PRODUCT TYPE
reflecting$31.6billionofnetinflows,positiveacrossall following:
ComponentchangesinAUMbyclienttypeandproducttypefor2020arepresentedbelow.
assetclasses.Multi-assetstrategiessawcontinued
•Pensions,FoundationsandEndowments.BlackRock
growth,withnetinflowsof$13.6billionreflectingongoing
isamongtheworld’slargestmanagersofpension December31, Netinflows Market FX December31,
demandforsolutionsofferingsandtheLifePath®target-
planassetswith$3.0trillion,or66%,oflong-term (inmillions) 2019 (outflows) change impact 2020
datesuite.
institutionalAUMmanagedfordefinedbenefit, Retail:
Alternativesnetinflowsof$9.5billionwereledbyinflows definedcontributionandotherpensionplansfor Equity $ 252,413 $ 39,341 $ 42,545 $ 4,135 $ 338,434
intoinfrastructure,privateequityandprivatecredit. corporations,governmentsandunionsat Fixedincome 305,265 22,784 9,725 2,694 340,468
Excludingreturnofcapitalandinvestmentof$7.5billion, December31,2020.Themarketlandscapecontinues Multi-asset 120,439 (481) 12,262 404 132,624
alternativesnetinflowswere$17.0billion.Inaddition, toshiftfromdefinedbenefittodefinedcontribution,
Alternatives 25,180 7,912 929 370 34,391
2020wasanotherstrongfundraisingyearforilliquid andourdefinedcontributionchannelrepresented
Retailsubtotal 703,297 69,556 65,461 7,603 845,917
alternatives,andatyear-end2020BlackRockhad $1.2trillionoftotalpensionAUM.BlackRockremains
iSharesETFs:
approximately$24billionofnon-fee-earningcommitted wellpositionedtocapitalizeontheon-goingevolution
capitaltodeployforinstitutionalclients,whichisnot ofthedefinedcontributionmarketanddemandfor Equity 1,632,972 76,307 186,918 8,904 1,905,101
includedinAUM. outcome-orientedinvestments.Anadditional Fixedincome 565,790 88,894 28,009 7,340 690,033
$76.9billion,or2%,oflong-terminstitutionalAUM Multi-asset 5,210 646 388 24 6,268
Institutionalactiverepresented19%oflong-termAUM wasmanagedforothertax-exemptinvestors, Alternatives 36,093 19,038 12,331 143 67,605
and20%oflong-termbasefeesfor2020. includingcharities,foundationsandendowments. iSharesETFssubtotal 2,240,065 184,885 227,646 16,411 2,669,007
Institutional:
InstitutionalindexAUMtotaled$2.9trillionat •OfficialInstitutions.BlackRockmanaged
Active:
December31,2020,reflecting$28.7billionofnet $275.4billion,or6%,oflong-terminstitutionalAUM
Equity 141,118 1,890 24,045 2,469 169,522
outflows.Equitynetoutflowsof$68.5billionpartially forofficialinstitutions,includingcentralbanks,
Fixedincome 651,368 6,598 49,712 8,591 716,269
resultedfromclientsrebalancingportfoliosafter sovereignwealthfunds,supranationals,multilateral
Multi-asset 434,233 13,639 52,365 11,005 511,242
significantequitymarketgains,ortacticallyshifting entitiesandgovernmentministriesandagenciesat
assetstofixedincomeandcash.Fixedincomenetinflows year-end2020.Theseclientsoftenrequirespecialized Alternatives 111,951 9,497 3,861 2,120 127,429
of$39.7billionweredrivenbydemandforliability-driven investmentadvice,theuseofcustomized Activesubtotal 1,338,670 31,624 129,983 24,185 1,524,462
investmentsolutions. benchmarksandtrainingsupport. Index:
Equity 1,793,826 (68,543) 254,475 26,991 2,006,749
Institutionalindexrepresented37%oflong-termAUM •FinancialandOtherInstitutions.BlackRockisatop Fixedincome 792,969 39,685 67,623 27,441 927,718
and9%oflong-termbasefeesfor2020. independentmanagerofassetsforinsurance Multi-asset 8,239 (591) 749 202 8,599
companies,whichaccountedfor$450.3billion,or
Alternatives 4,848 732 (50) 87 5,617
10%,oflong-terminstitutionalAUMatyear-end
2020.Assetsmanagedforothertaxableinstitutions, Indexsubtotal 2,599,882 (28,717) 322,797 54,721 2,948,683
includingcorporations,banksandthird-partyfund Institutionalsubtotal 3,938,552 2,907 452,780 78,906 4,473,145
sponsorsforwhichtheCompanyprovides Long-term 6,881,914 257,348 745,887 102,920 7,988,069
sub-advisoryservices,totaled$696.6billion,or16%, Cashmanagement 545,949 113,349 (63) 7,017 666,252
oflong-terminstitutionalAUMatyear-end. Advisory 1,770 20,141 445 3 22,359
Total $7,429,633 $390,838 $746,269 $109,940 $8,676,680
Long-termproductofferingsincludealpha-seekingactive of$57.5billion.Recordactiveequitynetinflowswere
andindexstrategies.Ouralpha-seekingactivestrategies drivenbyflowsintohigh-performingtechnology,health
seektoearnattractivereturnsinexcessofamarket sciencesandUSgrowthfundamentalequitiesfranchises,
benchmarkorperformancehurdlewhilemaintainingan aswellasflowsintoquantitativestrategies.
appropriateriskprofileandleveragefundamentalresearch
BlackRock’seffectivefeeratesfluctuateduetochangesin
andquantitativemodelstodriveportfolioconstruction.In
AUMmix.ApproximatelyhalfofBlackRock’sequityAUMis
contrast,indexstrategiesseektocloselytrackthereturnsof
tiedtointernationalmarkets,includingemergingmarkets,
acorrespondingindex,generallybyinvestingin
whichtendtohavehigherfeeratesthanUSequity
substantiallythesameunderlyingsecuritieswithintheindex
strategies.Accordingly,fluctuationsininternationalequity
orinasubsetofthosesecuritiesselectedtoapproximatea
markets,whichmaynotconsistentlymoveintandemwith
similarriskandreturnprofileoftheindex.Indexstrategies
includebothournon-ETFindexproductsandiSharesETFs. USmarkets,haveagreaterimpactonBlackRock’sequity
revenuesandeffectivefeerate.
Althoughmanyclientsusebothalpha-seekingactiveand
Equityrepresented55%oflong-termAUMand50%of
indexstrategies,theapplicationofthesestrategiesmay
long-termbasefeesfor2020.
differ.Forexample,clientsmayuseindexproductstogain
exposuretoamarketorassetclassormayusea
combinationofindexstrategiestotargetactivereturns.In FixedIncome
addition,institutionalnon-ETFindexassignmentstendtobe
FixedincomeAUMended2020at$2.7trillion,reflectingnet
verylarge(multi-billiondollars)andtypicallyreflectlowfee
inflowsof$158.0billion.iSharesETFsnetinflowsof
rates.Netflowsininstitutionalindexproductsgenerally
$89.0billionwereledbyflowsintoUSinvestmentgrade
haveasmallimpactonBlackRock’srevenuesandearnings.
corporate,coreandhighyieldbondfunds.Non-ETFindex
netinflowsof$42.1billionweredrivenbydemandfor
Equity liability-driveninvestmentsolutionsandindexmutualfunds.
Activenetinflowsof$26.9billionreflectedstrongflowsin
Year-end2020equityAUMtotaled$4.4trillion,reflecting
highyield,Asian,totalreturnandcorebondofferings.
netinflowsof$49.0billion.Netinflowsincluded$76.3
billionand$30.2billionintoiSharesETFsandactive,
Fixedincomerepresented34%oflong-termAUMand
respectively,partiallyoffsetbynon-ETFindexnetoutflows
30%oflong-termbasefeesfor2020.
34 BlackRock Annual Report 2020 6 7 BlackRock Annual Report 2020 35
Multi-Asset solutionsmightincludeacombinationoflong-only ComponentchangesinalternativesAUMfor2020arepresentedinthetablebelow.
portfoliosandalternativeinvestmentsaswellastactical
BlackRockmanagesavarietyofmulti-assetbalanced
fundsandbespokemandatesforadiversifiedclientbase assetallocationoverlays. Memo:
returnof Memo:
thatleveragesourbroadinvestmentexpertiseinglobal
Multi-assetrepresented8%oflong-termAUMand10% December31, Netinflows Market FX December31, capital/ committed
equities,bonds,currenciesandcommodities,andour oflong-termbasefeesfor2020. (inmillions) 2019 (outflows) change impact 2020 investment(1) capital(2)
extensiveriskmanagementcapabilities.Investment
Illiquidalternatives:
Componentchangesinmulti-assetAUMfor2020arepresentedbelow. Alternativesolutions $ 3,980 $ 179 $ 72 $ 37 $ 4,268 $ (623) $ 3,919
Privateequityandopportunistic:
December31, Netinflows Market FX December31, Privateequitysolutions 14,374 2,644 (171) 98 16,945 (2,960) 4,975
(inmillions) 2019 (outflows) change impact 2020 Opportunisticandcreditstrategies 11,109 1,750 47 144 13,050 (1,727) 4,965
Targetdate/risk $277,078 $21,261 $39,143 $ 1,236 $338,718 LongTermPrivateCapital 2,430 1,029 — — 3,459 — —
Assetallocationandbalanced 185,454 (9,578) 12,693 2,632 191,201 Privateequityandopportunisticsubtotal 27,913 5,423 (124) 242 33,454 (4,687) 9,940
Fiduciary 105,589 1,530 13,928 7,767 128,814 Realassets:
Total $568,121 $13,213 $65,764 $11,635 $658,733 Realestate 24,430 691 (1,140) 469 24,450 (696) 1,029
Infrastructure 19,026 4,590 (320) 302 23,598 (1,849) 9,066
Multi-assetnetinflowsreflectedongoinginstitutional customizedservicesrequirestrongpartnershipwith Realassetssubtotal 43,456 5,281 (1,460) 771 48,048 (2,545) 10,095
demandforoursolutions-basedadvicewith$13.0billion theclients’investmentstaffandtrusteesinorderto
Totalilliquidalternatives 75,349 10,883 (1,512) 1,050 85,770 (7,855) 23,954
ofnetinflowscomingfrominstitutionalclients.Defined tailorinvestmentstrategiestomeetclient-specific
Liquidalternatives:
contributionplansofinstitutionalclientsremaineda riskbudgetsandreturnobjectives.
Directhedgefundstrategies 36,234 5,734 4,570 1,275 47,813 — —
significantdriverofflowsandcontributed$14.8billionto
institutionalmulti-assetnetinflowsin2020,primarilyinto Alternatives Hedgefundsolutions 22,814 811 1,725 55 25,405 (415) 431
targetdateandtargetriskproductofferings. TotalLiquidalternatives 59,048 6,545 6,295 1,330 73,218 (415) 431
BlackRockalternativesfocusonsourcingandmanaging
Currencyandcommodities 43,675 19,751 12,288 340 76,054 — —
TheCompany’smulti-assetstrategiesincludethe high-alphainvestmentswithlowercorrelationtopublic
Total $178,072 $37,179 $17,071 $2,720 $235,042 $(8,270) $24,385
following: marketsanddevelopingaholisticapproachtoaddress
clientneedsinalternativesinvesting.Ouralternatives (1) Returnofcapital/investmentisincludedinoutflows.
•Targetdateandtargetriskproductsgeneratednet
productsfallintothreemaincategories—1)illiquid
inflowsof$21.3billion.Institutionalinvestors (2) Amountrepresentsclientassetsthatareuninvestedcommitments,whicharecurrentlynon-feepayingandarenotincludedinAUM.Thesecommitmentsareexpectedtogeneratefeesandwill
alternatives,2)liquidalternatives,and3)currencyand
becountedinAUMandflowsasthecapitalisdeployedovertime.
represented90%oftargetdateandtargetriskAUM,
commodities.Illiquidalternativesincludeofferingsin
withdefinedcontributionplansrepresenting84%of
alternativesolutions,privateequity,opportunisticand
AUM.Flowsweredrivenbydefinedcontribution IlliquidAlternatives Currencyandcommoditiesproductshad$19.8billionof
credit,realestateandinfrastructure.Liquidalternatives
investmentsinourLifePathofferings.LifePath netinflows,primarilydrivenbyiSharesETFs.iSharesETFs
includeofferingsindirecthedgefundsandhedgefund TheCompany’silliquidalternativesstrategiesincludethe
productsutilizeaproprietaryactiveassetallocation commoditiesproductsrepresented$67.6billionofAUM
solutions(fundsoffunds). following:
overlaymodelthatseekstobalanceriskandreturn andarenoteligibleforperformancefees.
overaninvestmenthorizonbasedontheinvestor’s In2020,liquidandilliquidalternativesgenerateda •AlternativeSolutionsrepresentshighlycustomized
expectedretirementtiming.Underlyinginvestments combined$17.4billionofnetinflows,or$25.7billion portfoliosofalternativeinvestments.In2020, CashManagement
areprimarilyindexproducts. excludingreturnofcapital/investmentof$8.3billion.The alternativesolutionsportfolioshad$4.3billionin
CashmanagementAUMtotaled$666.3billionat
largestcontributorstoreturnofcapital/investmentwere AUM.
•Assetallocationandbalancedproductsrepresented December31,2020,reflectingarecord$113.3billionof
privateequitysolutions,infrastructureandopportunistic
29%ofmulti-assetAUMatyear-end.These •PrivateEquityandOpportunisticincludedAUMof netinflows.Cashmanagementproductsincludetaxable
andcreditstrategies.Netinflowsweredrivenbydirect
strategiescombineequity,fixedincomeand $16.9billioninprivateequitysolutions,$13.0billion andtax-exemptmoneymarketfunds,shortterm
hedgefunds,infrastructure,privateequityand
alternativecomponentsforinvestorsseekinga inopportunisticandcreditofferings,and$3.5billion investmentfundsandcustomizedseparateaccounts.
opportunisticandcreditstrategies.Atyear-end,BlackRock
tailoredsolutionrelativetoaspecificbenchmarkand inLongTermPrivateCapital(“LTPC”).Netinflowsof PortfoliosaredenominatedinUSdollars,Canadian
hadapproximately$24billionofnon-feepaying,
withinariskbudget.Incertaincases,thesestrategies $5.4billionintoprivateequityandopportunistic dollars,Australiandollars,Euros,SwissFrancs,New
unfunded,uninvestedcommitments,whichareexpected
seektominimizedownsideriskthrough strategiesincluded$2.6billionofnetinflowsinto TaiwanDollarsorBritishpounds.Stronggrowthincash
tobedeployedinfutureyears;thesecommitmentsarenot
diversification,derivativesstrategiesandtactical privateequitysolutions,$1.8billionofnetinflowsinto managementreflectsBlackRock’ssuccessinleveraging
includedinAUMorflowsuntiltheyarefee-paying.
assetallocationdecisions.Flagshipproductsinclude opportunisticandcreditofferingsand$1.0billionof scaleforclientsanddeliveringinnovativedigital
Currencyandcommoditiessaw$19.8billionofnet
ourGlobalAllocationandMulti-AssetIncomefund netinflowsintoLTPC. distributionandriskmanagementsolutions.
inflows,primarilyintocommoditiesiSharesETFs.
families.ThiscategoryalsoincludesFutureAdvisor,a
•RealAssets,whichincludesinfrastructureandreal
BlackRockiscurrentlyvoluntarilywaivingaportionofits
digitalwealthmanagementplatformthatprovides BlackRockbelievesthatasalternativesbecomemore estate,totaled$48.0billioninAUM,reflectingnet
managementfeesoncertainmoneymarketfundsto
financialinstitutionswithtechnology-enabled conventionalandinvestorsadapttheirassetallocation inflowsof$5.3billion,ledbyinfrastructure
ensurethattheymaintainaminimumlevelofdailynet
investmentadvisorycapabilitiestomanagetheir strategies,investorswillfurtherincreasetheiruseof deployments.
investmentincome.During2020,thesewaiversresulted
clients’investments. alternativeinvestmentstocomplementcoreholdings.
inareductionofmanagementfeesofapproximately
•Fiduciarymanagementservicesarecomplex BlackRock’shighlydiversifiedalternativesfranchiseiswell LiquidAlternatives $35million,whichwaspartiallyoffsetbyareductionof
positionedtocontinuetomeetgrowingdemandfromboth
mandatesinwhichpensionplansponsorsor BlackRock’sdistributionandservicingcostspaidto
institutionalandretailinvestors. TheCompany’sliquidalternativesproducts’netinflowsof
endowmentsandfoundationsretainBlackRockto financialintermediaries.BlackRockhasprovidedvoluntary
$6.5billionreflectednetinflowsof$5.7billionand
assumeresponsibilityforsomeorallaspectsof Alternativesrepresented3%oflong-termAUMand10% $0.8billionfromdirecthedgefundsandhedgefund yieldsupportwaiversinpriorperiodsandmayincreaseor
investmentmanagement,oftenwithBlackRockacting oflong-termbasefeesfor2020. solutions,respectively.DirecthedgefundAUMincludesa decreasethelevelofyieldsupportwaiversinfuture
asoutsourcedchiefinvestmentofficer.These periods.FormoreinformationseeNote2,Significant
varietyofsingle-andmulti-strategyofferings.
AccountingPolicies,inthenotestotheconsolidated
financialstatementsincludedinPartII,Item8ofthis
CurrencyandCommodities
filing.
TheCompany’scurrencyandcommoditiesproducts
includearangeofactiveandindexproducts.
36 BlackRock Annual Report 2020 8 9 BlackRock Annual Report 2020 37
CLIENT REGION Theperformancedatadoesnotincludeaccounts multi-assetrisksolutions.Aladdinassignmentsare
terminatedpriortoDecember31,2020andaccountsfor typicallylong-termcontractsthatproviderecurring
OurfootprintsintheAmericas,EMEAandAsia-Pacificregionsreflectstrongrelationshipswithintermediariesandan
whichdatahasnotyetbeenverified.Ifsuchaccountshad revenue.
establishedabilitytodeliverourglobalinvestmentexpertiseinfundsandotherproductstailoredtolocalregulationsand
beenincluded,theperformancedataprovidedmayhave
requirements. Atyear-end,BlackRocktechnologyservicesclients
substantiallydifferedfromthatshown.
includedbanks,insurancecompanies,officialinstitutions,
AUMbyproducttypeandclientregionatDecember31,2020ispresentedbelow.
Performancecomparisonsshownaregross-of-feesfor pensionfunds,assetmanagers,assetservicers,retail
institutionalandhighnetworthseparateaccounts,and distributorsandotherinvestorsacrossNorthAmerica,
(inmillions) Americas EMEA Asia-Pacific Total net-of-feesforretailfunds.Theperformancetracking SouthAmerica,Europe,AsiaandAustralia.
Equity $3,068,910 $1,089,684 $261,212 $4,419,806 shownforindexaccountsisbasedongross-of-fees
Inaddition,BlackRockhasmademinorityinvestmentsin
Fixedincome 1,491,874 866,455 316,159 2,674,488 performanceandincludesallinstitutionalaccountsand
thedigitaldistributioncompaniesEnvestnet,Scalable
alliSharesfundsgloballyusinganindexstrategy.AUM
Multi-asset 451,374 182,119 25,240 658,733
Capital,iCapital,AcornsandEmbark.InJanuary2021,
informationisbasedonAUMavailableasofDecember31,
Alternatives 125,271 80,114 29,657 235,042
BlackRockalsoannouncedaminorityinvestmentin
2020foreachaccountorfundintheassetclassshown
Long-term 5,137,429 2,218,372 632,268 7,988,069 ClarityAI,asustainabilityanalyticsanddatascience
withoutadjustmentforoverlappingmanagementofthe
Cashmanagement 484,751 172,191 9,310 666,252 sameaccountorfund.Fundperformancereflectsthe platform.BlackRockrecordsitsshareofincomerelatedto
Advisory 22,359 — — 22,359 reinvestmentofdividendsanddistributions. minorityinvestmentsaccountedforundertheequity
methodinotherrevenueandrecordsgainsandlosses
Total $5,644,539 $2,390,563 $641,578 $8,676,680
Performanceshownisderivedfromapplicablebenchmarks relatedtochangesinvalueofotherminorityinvestments
orpeermedianinformation,asselectedbyBlackRock,Inc. innonoperatingincome(expense).
ComponentchangesinAUMbyclientregionfor2020arepresentedbelow.
PeermediansarebasedinpartondataeitherfromLipper,
Inc.orMorningstar,Inc.foreachincludedproduct.
December31, Netinflows December31,
SECURITIES LENDING
(inmillions) 2019 (outflows) Marketchange FXimpact 2020
Americas $4,910,954 $196,608 $535,633 $ 1,344 $5,644,539 TECHNOLOGY SERVICES Securitieslendingismanagedbyadedicatedteam,
EMEA 2,001,917 128,581 173,104 86,961 2,390,563 supportedbyquantitativeanalysis,proprietarytechnology
Asia-Pacific 516,762 65,650 37,531 21,635 641,578 BlackRockoffersinvestmentmanagementtechnology anddisciplinedriskmanagement.BlackRockreceives
systems,riskmanagementservices,wealthmanagement bothcash(primarilyforUSdomiciledportfolios)and
Total $7,429,633 $390,839 $746,268 $109,940 $8,676,680
anddigitaldistributiontoolsonafeebasis.Aladdinisour noncashcollateralundersecuritieslendingarrangements.
proprietarytechnologyplatform,whichservesasthe Thecashmanagementteaminveststhecashreceivedas
Americas INVESTMENT PERFORMANCE investmentandriskmanagementsystemforboth collateralforsecuritiesonloaninotherportfolios.Feesfor
Netinflowsof$196.6billionreflectednetinflowsintofixed BlackRockandagrowingnumberofinstitutionalinvestors securitieslendingforUSdomiciledportfolioscanbe
Investmentperformanceacrossactiveandindexproducts
income,cash,equity,alternatives,advisoryandmulti- aroundtheworld.BlackRockoffersriskreporting structuredasashareofearnings,orasamanagementfee
asofDecember31,2020wasasfollows:
assetof$88.2billion,$80.4billion,$22.5billion, capabilitiesviaAladdinRisk,aswellasinvestment basedonapercentageofthevalueofthecashcollateral
$20.4billionand$13.3billion,respectively.Equitynet accountingcapabilities.AladdinProviderisatoolusedby orboth.Thevalueofthesecuritiesonloanandthe
One-year Three-year Five-year
outflowsof$28.2billionwereprimarilyduetolow-fee BlackRock’scustodialpartners,connectingthemtothe revenueearnedarecapturedinthecorrespondingasset
period period period
institutionalindexoutflows.Advisorynetinflowswere platformtoaddoperationalefficiency.In2020,BlackRock classbeingmanaged.Thevalueofthecollateralisnot
primarilylinkedtoassetpurchasesmanagedbyour Fixedincome: launchedAladdinClimate,asoftwareapplicationoffering includedinAUM.
FinancialMarketsAdvisorygroup.Revenuelinkedtothese ActivelymanagedAUMabove investorsmeasuresofboththephysicalriskofclimate
assignmentsisprimarilyreflectedinthe“Advisoryand benchmarkorpeermedian changeandthetransitionrisktoalow-carboneconomy Outstandingloanbalancesendedtheyearat
otherrevenue”lineitemoftheIncomeStatement.During Taxable 86% 87% 88% onportfolioswithclimate-adjustedsecurityvaluations approximately$352billion,upfrom$290billionat
theyear,BlackRockservedclientsthroughofficesin35 Tax-exempt 36% 56% 78% andriskmetrics.In2019,BlackRockacquiredeFront,a year-end2019.Continuedassetgatheringinlending
productsandstrongmarketperformanceresultedin
statesintheUnitedStatesaswellasCanada,Mexico, IndexAUMwithinorabove leadingend-to-endalternativeinvestmentmanagement
Brazil,Colombia,ChileandtheDominicanRepublic. applicabletolerance 87% 96% 95% softwareandsolutionsprovidertoenableclientsto higherbalancescomparedto2019.Onaverage,relativeto
2019,intrinsiclendingspreadswerelower,whileaverage
Equity: manageportfoliosandriskacrosspublicandprivateasset
TheAmericasrepresented65%oftotalAUMand66%of ActivelymanagedAUMabove classesonasingleplatform.ThroughourCachematrix cashreinvestmentspreadsincreased.Cashreinvestment
totalbasefeesfor2020. benchmarkorpeermedian platform,BlackRockisalsoaleadingprovideroffinancial spreadsincreasedsignificantlyinthesecondquarter,
Fundamental 78% 85% 85% technologywhichsimplifiesthecashmanagement primarilyasaresultofcutstotheFederalFundsTarget
ratebandinMarchandmarketdislocationsduringthe
EMEA Systematic 61% 46% 88% processforbanksandtheircorporateclientsina
period.
IndexAUMwithinorabove streamlined,open-architectureplatform.
EMEAnetinflowsof$128.6billionwereledbyequity,cash
applicabletolerance 92% 98% 99%
andalternativesnetinflowsof$81.3billion,$32.2billion BlackRockoffersanumberofwealthmanagement BlackRockemploysaconservativeinvestmentstylefor
and$11.5billion,respectively.Offeringsincludefund PerformanceNotes.Pastperformanceisnotindicativeof technologytoolsofferingdigitaladvice,portfolio cashandsecuritieslendingcollateralthatemphasizes
familiesintheUnitedKingdom,theNetherlands, futureresults.Exceptasspecified,theperformance constructioncapabilitiesandriskanalyticsforretail quality,liquidityandinterestrateriskmanagement.
LuxembourgandDublinandiSharesETFslistedonstock informationshownisasofDecember31,2020andis distributors.ThesetoolsincludeAladdinWealth,which Disciplinedriskmanagement,includingarigorouscredit
exchangesthroughoutEurope,aswellasseparate basedonpreliminarydataavailableatthattime.The provideswealthmanagementfirmsandtheirfinancial surveillanceprocess,isanintegralpartoftheinvestment
accountsandpooledinvestmentproducts. performancedatashownreflectsinformationforall professionalswithinstitutional-qualitybusiness process.BlackRock’sCashManagementCredit
Committeehasestablishedrisklimits,suchasaggregate
EMEArepresented28%oftotalAUMandbasefeesfor activelyandpassivelymanagedequityandfixedincome management,portfolioconstruction,modelingandrisk issuerexposurelimitsandmaturitylimits,acrossmanyof
2020. accounts,includingUSregisteredinvestmentcompanies, analyticscapabilities,andFutureAdvisor,adigitalwealth theproductsBlackRockmanages,includingoverallofits
European-domiciledretailfundsandseparateaccounts managementplatformthatprovidesfinancialinstitutions
cashmanagementproducts.Intheordinarycourseofour
forwhichperformancedataisavailable,including withtechnology-enabledinvestmentadvisorycapabilities
Asia-Pacific performancedataforhighnetworthaccountsavailableas tomanagetheirclients’investments. business,theremaybeinstanceswhenaportfoliomay
exceedaninternalrisklimitorwhenaninternalrisklimit
Asia-Pacificnetinflowsof$65.7billionwereprimarilydueto ofNovember30,2020.
Technologyservicesrevenueof$1.1billionwasup17% maybechanged.Nosuchinstances,individuallyorinthe
fixedincomenetinflowsof$68.5billion.ClientsintheAsia-
year-over-year,reflectingtheimpactoftheeFront aggregate,havebeenmaterialtotheCompany.Tothe
PacificregionareservedthroughofficesinJapan,Australia,
acquisitionandcontinuedgrowthinAladdin.Aladdin, extentthatdailyevaluationandreportingoftheprofileof
HongKong,Singapore,Taiwan,Korea,China,andIndia.
whichrepresentedthemajorityoftechnologyservices theportfoliosidentifythatalimithasbeenexceeded,the
Asia-Pacificrepresented7%oftotalAUMand6%oftotal revenuefortheyear,continuestobenefitfromtrends relevantportfoliowillbeadjusted.Totheextentaportfolio
basefeesfor2020. favoringglobalinvestmentplatformconsolidationand managerwouldliketoobtainatemporarywaiverofarisk
38 BlackRock Annual Report 2020 10 11 BlackRock Annual Report 2020 39
limit,theportfoliomanagermustobtainapprovalfromthe throughitshiring,retention,promotionanddevelopment EmployeeEngagement initiativestosupportemployees.TheCompanyprioritized
creditresearchteam,whichisindependentfromthecash practices.Aspartofitslong-termcommitment,BlackRock communicationaboutthetelemedicineanddigitalhealth
BlackRockprioritizescontinuousdialoguewithits
managementportfoliomanagers.Whilearisklimitmaybe hasinstitutedamulti-yearDEIstrategythatitbelievesis resourcesitmakesavailable,includingmental,emotional
employeesabouttheirexperiencesatthefirminorderto
waivedtemporarily,suchwaiversareinfrequent. actionable,measurableanddesignedtoapplyacrossthe andphysicalhealthofferings.Inaddition,BlackRock
understandemployeeexpectationsandassessthe
manycountriesinwhichthefirmoperates.TheCompany extendedcross-borderhealthcarecoverageandsupport
efficacyofitshumancapitalmanagementpractices.The
hasaligneditsDEIstrategywiththefirm’sbusiness toemployeesandtheirdependentstemporarilyworking,
Companyusesseveralemployeefeedbackmechanisms,
RISK & QUANTITATIVE ANALYSIS prioritiesandlong-termobjectivesandexpectsthatitwill oronFTO,outsideoftheirhomecountryasaresultofthe
including:(i)employeeopinionsurveys;(ii)interactive
evolveasthefirmlearnsandadaptstoachangingmacro pandemic.
Acrossallassetclasses,inadditiontotheeffortsofthe townhallsandcommunications;and(iii)thesponsorship
environment.
portfoliomanagementteams,theRisk&Quantitative ofemployee,professionalandsocialimpactnetworks.
Analysis(“RQA”)groupatBlackRockdrawsonextensive AkeygoalofBlackRock’sDEIstrategyisdevelopinga Theseemployeeengagementmechanismsprovide Training,InnovationandDevelopment
analyticalsystemsandproprietaryandthird-partydatato diversetalentpipelinethroughongoinginvestmentin BlackRockwithactionablefeedbackforeachteamandfor BlackRockiscommittedtoinnovation,learningand
identify,measureandmanageawiderangeofrisks.RQA recruiting,retentionandengagement.Inconnectionwith BlackRockasawhole.BlackRock’semployee,professional reinventioninallareasofitsbusinessandbelievesthat
providesriskmanagementadviceandindependentrisk thisgoal,theCompanyhas:(1)expandedpartnerships andsocialimpactnetworksalsoprovideadditionalforums developingthecapabilitiesofitsemployeesisintegralto
oversightoftheinvestmentmanagementprocesses, withexternalorganizationsanddevelopedstrategiesto andopportunitiesforemployeeswithdiversebackgrounds deliveringlong-termvalue.Tothatend,theCompany’s
identifiesandhelpsmanagecounterpartyandenterprise increasethediversityofitsapplicantpool; toconnectwithoneanotherandshapethefirm’sculture. humancapitalmanagementpracticesaredesignedto
risks,coordinatesstandardsforfirmwideinvestment (2)strengthenedtalentacquisitionandmanagement Morerecently,thesenetworksplayedanactiverolein provideopportunitiesforemployeestolearn,innovateand
performancemeasurementanddeterminesrisk processesinanefforttoeliminatebias;and BlackRock’sresponsetoCOVID-19,includingby enhancetheirskillsetsateverystageoftheircareer.These
management-relatedanalyticalandinformation (3)implementedleadershipdevelopment,sponsorship institutingprogramstocombatisolationandmoredeeply opportunities,whichincludethefirm’scomprehensive
requirements.Whereappropriate,RQAwillworkwith andcoachinginitiativestoengageanddevelopdiverse understandtheemployeeexperienceduringthe onlinesuiteofinteractiveresourcesandcourses
portfoliomanagersanddeveloperstofacilitatethe talent.AnotherfocusofBlackRock’sDEIstrategyisto pandemic.Thenetworks,whichcontinuetogrowin (BlackRockAcademies),playanimportantroleinengaging
developmentorimprovementofriskmodelsandanalytics. cultivateaninclusiveworkenvironmentinwhich number,aresponsoredbyseniorleadersanddesignedby BlackRock’semployees.
employees,foremployees.
employeesfeelconnectedtoBlackRock’scultureand
Inaddition,BlackRockbelievesthatdevelopingstrong
supportedinpursuitoftheirgoals.Tothisend,BlackRock
COMPETITION hascommittedtoraisingawarenessofracialequityissues Compensation,WellnessandBenefits leadersisadriverofthefirm’ssuccess.Selectemployees
areinvitedtoparticipateinleadershipprogramstohelp
andresettingbehavioralexpectationsforemployees,as
BlackRockcompeteswithinvestmentmanagementfirms, BlackRockiscommittedtoresponsiblebusinesspractices acceleratetheirgrowth,whichincludeexecutivecoaching,
wellastoholdingfirmleadersandmanagersaccountable
mutualfundcomplexes,insurancecompanies,banks, andbelievesthatinvestinginthephysical,emotional, in-personandvirtuallearning,andseniormanagement
forcontinuedprogressagainstthefirm’sgoals.
brokeragefirmsandotherfinancialinstitutionsthatoffer mentalandfinancialwell-beingofitsemployeesisa sponsorship.
productsthataresimilarto,oralternativesto,those criticalcomponentofthefirm’shumancapital
BlackRockviewstransparencyandaccountabilityasa
offeredbyBlackRock.Inordertogrowitsbusiness, managementstrategy.Tothatend,theCompanydesigns
criticalpartofitsDEIstrategy,includingasameansto
BlackRockmustbeabletocompeteeffectivelyforAUM. inform,measureandimproveitshumancapital itscompensationandbenefitspracticesto:(i)attractand REGULATION
Keycompetitivefactorsincludeinvestmentperformance retainemployees;(ii)alignemployeeincentivesandrisk
managementpractices.Tothatend,in2020thefirm
trackrecords,theefficientdeliveryofbetaforindex takingwiththatofthefirm’sandtheinterestsofits VirtuallyallaspectsofBlackRock’sbusinessaresubjectto
publisheditsfirstSASB-aligneddisclosure,which
products,investmentstyleanddiscipline,price,client clients;and(iii)supportemployeesacrossmanyaspects variouslawsandregulationsaroundtheworld,someof
includesinformationregardingworkforcediversitythat
serviceandbrandnamerecognition.Historically,the oftheirlives.TheCompanyhasastrong whicharesummarizedbelow.Theselawsandregulations
BlackRockplanstoupdateannually.During2020,italso
Companyhascompetedprincipallyonthebasisofits pay-for-performancecultureandanannualcompensation areprimarilyintendedtoprotectinvestmentadvisory
setgoalsforincreasingtheoverallworkplace
long-terminvestmentperformancetrackrecord,its processthattakesintoconsiderationfirmwideresults, clients,investorsinregisteredandunregistered
representationofBlackandLatinxemployeesand
investmentprocess,itsriskmanagementandanalytic individualbusinessresultsandemployeeperformance,as investmentcompanies,andtrustandotherfiduciary
growingthenumberoffemale,andUSBlackandLatinx,
capabilitiesandthequalityofitsclientservice. wellasmarketbenchmarks.BlackRockalsooffersawide clientsofBlackRockInstitutionalTrustCompany,N.A.
leaders(Directorandabove).
rangeofbenefitsthatitregularlyreviewsinaccordance (“BTC”).Undertheselawsandregulations,agenciesthat
withindustrybestpracticesandthelocalrequirementsof regulateinvestmentadvisers,investmentfundsandtrust
HUMAN CAPITAL BoardOversightofHumanCapitalManagement itsoffices,includingretirementsavingsplans,aFlexible banksandotherindividualsandentitieshavebroad
BlackRock’sBoardofDirectors(the“Board”)playsan TimeOff(“FTO”)policyandflexibleworkingarrangements, administrativepowers,includingthepowertolimit,restrict
Withapproximately16,500employeesinmorethan30 importantroleintheoversightofhumancapital andparentalleaveandfamilysupportbenefits,including orprohibittheregulatedentityorpersonfromcarryingon
countries,BlackRockprovidesabroadrangeof managementatBlackRockanddevotesonefullBoard fertilitybenefits,adoptionandsurrogacyassistance,and businessifitfailstocomplywithsuchlawsand
investmentandtechnologyservicestoinstitutionaland meetingannuallytoanin-depthreviewofBlackRock’s backupelderandchildcarebenefits.TheCompany regulations.Possiblesanctionsforsignificantcompliance
retailclientsinmorethan100countriesacrosstheglobe. culture,talentdevelopment,retentionandrecruiting providescomprehensivehealthcareandmental-health failuresincludethesuspensionofindividualemployees,
Asanassetmanager,BlackRock’slong-termsustainability initiatives,DEIstrategy,leadershipandsuccession benefitstoeligibleemployees,includingmedical,dental limitationsonengagingincertainlinesofbusinessfor
dependsonitspeopleandhowitmanagesitsworkforce. planningandemployeefeedback.Moreover,year-end andvisioncoverage,healthsavingsandspending specifiedperiodsoftime,revocationofinvestmentadviser
businessassessments,whichincludeareviewofthe accounts,counselingservices,anemployeeassistance andotherregistrationsorbankcharters,censuresand
CultureandPrinciples progressthatisbeingmadeagainstthefirm’sDEIgoals, programandaccesstotelemedicineservices. finesbothforindividualsandBlackRock.
BlackRockbelievesthatdevelopingastrongcorporate influenceindividualcompensationoutcomesthatare
BlackRockprioritizesprotectingtherightsofitsworkforce Therulesgoverningtheregulationoffinancialinstitutions
cultureisanimportantcomponentofitshumancapital reviewedandapprovedbytheBoard’sManagement
andtheequitabletreatmentofitsemployees.The andtheirholdingcompaniesandsubsidiariesarevery
managementpracticesandcriticaltothefirm’slong-term DevelopmentandCompensationCommittee.
Companyhasimplementedpoliciesrelatedtoharassment detailedandtechnical.Accordingly,thediscussionbelow
success.BlackRock’scultureisunderpinnedbyfivecore
SuccessionplanningforBlackRock’sChiefExecutive preventionandcompliancewithequalemployment isgeneralinnature,doesnotpurporttobecompleteand
principlesthatunifyitsworkforce:(1)Weareafiduciaryto
Officerandotherseniorexecutivesisakeypartofthe opportunityandovertimeregulations.BlackRockisalso iscurrentonlyasofthedateofthisreport.
ourclients;(2)WeareOneBlackRock;(3)Weare
Board’sannualreviewofhumancapitalmanagement committedtoprovidingasafeandhealthyworking
passionateaboutperformance;(4)Wetakeemotional
issues.Aspartofthisreview,theBoardfocuseson environmentforitsworkforce.Todothis,itdesignsglobal
ownership;and(5)Wearecommittedtoabetterfuture. whetherBlackRockhastherightpeopleinplaceto programs,includingenvironmentalandoccupational GLOBAL REGULATORY REFORM
executetheCompany’slong-termstrategicplans,andon healthandsafetyprograms,tomeetorexceedlocal
BlackRock’sbusinessmaybeimpactedbynumerous
Diversity,EquityandInclusion(“DEI”) BlackRock’sabilitytoidentify,attract,developandretain requirements.Moreover,BlackRockencouragesallofits
regulatoryreforminitiativesoccurringaroundtheworld.
BlackRockbelievesadiverseworkforceandanequitable futureseniorexecutives.Animportantelementofthe employeestoraiseissuesofconcernandassures Anysuchinitiative,oranynewlawsorregulationsor
andinclusiveworkingenvironmentarekeyfactorsin successionplanningacrosstheorganizationisa employeesthattheymaydosowithoutfearofretaliation. changesto,orintheenforcementof,existinglawsor
achievingbetteroutcomesacrossalllevelsofitsbusiness. commitmenttobuildingleadershipfromwithinand regulations,couldmateriallyandadverselyimpactthe
TheCOVID-19pandemichasfurtherhighlightedthe
BlackRockhasmadealong-termcommitmentto increasingdiversityinleadershiproles. scopeorprofitabilityofBlackRock’sbusinessactivities,
importanceofkeepingemployeessafeandhealthyand,
cultivatingdiversityinitsworkforceandleadershipteam, leadtobusinessdisruptions,requireBlackRocktoalterits
followingitsonset,BlackRockimplementedseveral
40 BlackRock Annual Report 2020 12 13 BlackRock Annual Report 2020 41
businessoroperatingactivitiesandexposeBlackRockto authorities.IntheUS,legislationatboththefederaland implementnewcompliancemonitoringproceduresto netassetvaluepershare.Therulesadditionallyprovide
additionalcosts(includingcomplianceandlegalcosts)as statelevelhasbeenpreviouslyproposedtoenacta addresstheenhancedlevelofoversighttowhichitandits fortoolsforinstitutionalandretailmoneymarketfunds’
wellasreputationalharm.BlackRock’sprofitabilityalso financialtransactiontax(“FTT”)onstocks,bondsanda clientswillbesubject.Theserulesimposerequirements boardsdesignedtoaddressmarketshocks,includingthe
couldbemateriallyandadverselyaffectedbymodification broadrangeoffinancialinstrumentsandderivative suchasmandatorycentralclearingofcertainswaps abilitytoimposeliquidityfeesandredemptiongates
oftherulesandregulationsthatimpactthebusinessand transactions.IntheEuropeanUnion(“EU”),certain transactions,requiringexecutionofcertainswaps undercertaincircumstances.
financialcommunitiesingeneral,includingchangesto MemberStateshavealsoenactedsimilarFTTsandthe transactionsonorthroughregisteredelectronictrading
Inaddition,followingmarketliquidityissuesthatarosein
thelawsgoverningbanking,taxation,antitrustregulation EuropeanCommission(“EC”)hasproposedlegislationto venues(asopposedtooverthephoneorotherexecution
March2020inconnectionwiththespreadofthe
andelectroniccommerce. harmonizethesetaxesandprovidefortheadoptionof methods),reportingtransactionstocentraldata
COVID-19pandemic,regulatoryauthoritiesarefocused
EU-levellegislationapplicabletosome(butnotall)EU repositories,mandatingcertaindocumentationstandards,
ontheneedforfurtherregulationforcertainmoney
SystemicallyImportantFinancialInstitution(“SIFI”)Review MemberStates.Ifenactedasproposed,FTTscouldhave requiringthepostingandcollectionofinitialand/or
marketfunds.InDecember2020,thePresident’sWorking
anadverseeffectonBlackRock’sfinancialresultsand variationmarginforbilateralswaptransactionsand
TheFinancialStabilityOversightCouncil(“FSOC”)hasthe GrouponFinancialMarketsissuedareportoutliningten
clients’performanceresults. subjectingcertaintypesoflistedand/orover-the-counter
authoritytodesignatenonbankfinancialinstitutionsas potentialpolicymeasuresforconsiderationtoimprovethe
transactionstopositionlimitorpositionreporting
SIFIsintheUnitedStatesundertheDodd-FrankWall Theapplicationoftaxregulationsinvolvesnumerous resiliencyofmoneymarketfundsandthebroadershort-
requirements.
StreetReformandConsumerProtectionActof2010 uncertaintiesand,inthenormalcourseofbusiness,US termfundingmarkets.Althoughitremainstooearlyto
(“Dodd-Frank”).InJuly2014,theFSOCpivotedfromits andnon-UStaxauthoritiesmayreviewandchallengetax IntheUS,certaininterestrateswapsandcertainindex accuratelypredicttheforthcomingregulatory
previousentity-specificapproachtodesignationand positionsadoptedbyBlackRock.Thesechallengesmay creditdefaultswapsaresubjecttoDodd-Frankcentral environment,includingwithrespecttoregulationof
indicatedthatitwouldfocusonaproductsandactivities- resultinadjustmentsto,orimpactthetimingoramount clearingandtradingvenueexecutionrequirements,with moneymarketfunds,certainofthesereforms,ifever
basedapproachtodesignationinconnectionwith of,taxableincome,deductionsorothertaxallocations, additionalproductsandassetclassespotentially adopted,couldsignificantlyimpactmoneymarketfunds
addressingpotentialrisksinthefinancialsystemrelated whichmayadverselyaffectBlackRock’seffectivetaxrate becomingsubjecttotheserequirementsinthefuture.In andthemoneymarketfundindustry.
toassetmanagement.InDecember2019,theFSOC andoverallfinancialcondition.Similarly,theCompany theEU,centralclearingandtradingvenuerequirements
re-affirmedthisapproachwhenitvotedtochangeits managesassetsinproductsandaccountsthathave forcertainswaptransactionshavebecomeeffectivefor StandardsofConductRulemaking
methodologyforassessingfinancialstabilitytoaproducts investmentobjectiveswhichmayconformtotaxpositions certaintypesofBlackRockfundsandaccounts.On
InJune2019,theSECadoptedapackageofrulemakings
andactivities-basedapproach.Thisreducestheriskof adoptedbyBlackRockortospecifictaxrules.Totheextent March1,2017,mostderivativestransactionsthatarenot
andinterpretationsaddressinginvestmentadviserand
entity-leveldesignation,howeveritremainstooearlyto therearechangesintaxlaworpolicy,orregulatory centrallycleared,includingnon-deliverableforeign
broker-dealerstandardsofconduct.Thepackageincludes
predictthedirectionoftheforthcomingregulatory challengestotaxpositionsadoptedbyBlackRock,the exchangeforwardtransactionsandcurrencyoption
newrulesrequiringregisteredadvisersandregistered
environmentandtheFSOCretainstheauthorityto valueorattractivenessofsuchinvestmentsmaybe transactions,becamesubjecttorequirementsintheUS,
broker-dealerstoprovidearelationshipsummarytoretail
designateanentityifanactivities-basedapproachdoes diminishedandBlackRockmaysufferfinancialor EUandnumerousotherjurisdictionstopostorcollect
investors,anewruleestablishingastandardofconduct
notadequatelyaddresspotentialrisks.Intheeventthat reputationalharm. mark-to-marketmarginpayments.ForcertainBlackRock
forbroker-dealerswhenmakingrecommendationsto
BlackRockisdesignatedasaSIFI,itcouldbecomesubject fundsandaccounts,initialmarginrequirementsmay
retailcustomersandtwonewinterpretationsunderthe
toenhancedregulatoryrequirementsanddirect RegulationofSwapsandDerivatives applyinthefutureinadditiontosuchmark-to-market InvestmentAdvisersActof1940(the“AdvisersAct”).
supervisionbytheBoardofGovernorsoftheFederal marginpayments.Theserulesandregulationshavethe
Theserulemakingsandinterpretationscouldincrease
TheSecuritiesandExchangeCommission(“SEC”),Federal
Reserve(the“FederalReserve”). potentialtoincreasethecomplexityandcostoftrading
BlackRock’sdisclosureobligations,impactdistribution
Reserve,theInternalRevenueServiceandtheCommodity
non-clearedderivativesforBlackRock’sclients,andmay
arrangementsbetweenBlackRockanditsdistribution
FuturesTradingCommission(“CFTC”)eachcontinueto
FederalTradeCommissionProposal produceregulatoryinconsistenciesinglobalderivatives partners,createcomplianceandoperationalchallenges
reviewpracticesandregulationsrelatingtotheuseof
tradingrulesandincreaseBlackRock’soperationaland
InSeptember2020,theFederalTradeCommission(“FTC”) futures,swapsandotherderivatives.Suchreviewscould forBlackRock’sdistributionpartnersandlimitBlackRock’s
legalrisks.
releasedaNoticeofProposedRulemakingproposing resultinregulationsthatrestrictorlimittheuseofsuch abilitytoprovidecertainotherservicestoitsclients.
updatestopremergernotificationrulesenactedunderthe productsbyfundsoraccounts.Ifadopted,anysuch
RegulationofExchange-TradedFunds
Hart-Scott-RodinoAntitrustImprovementsActof1976 limitationsorrestrictionscouldrequireBlackRockto SecuritiesandExchangeCommissionRulemakingsforUS
(“HSR”)thatrequirepartiestocertaintransactionsto changecertainbusinesspracticesorimplementnew Aspartofafocusonfinancialstabilityissuesanddueto RegisteredFundsandInvestmentAdvisers
providetheFTCandtheAntitrustDivisionofthe complianceprocesses,whichcouldresultinadditional thesignificantgrowthofthisproductclassoverthelast
BlackRock’sbusinessmayalsobeimpactedbySEC
DepartmentofJusticepriornoticeandobserveawaiting costsand/orrestrictions. fewyears,regulatorsgloballyareexaminingthe regulatoryinitiatives.TheSECanditsstaffrecentlyhave
periodbeforeconsummationofsuchtransactions.The implicationsofanincreasedpresenceofETFsinthe engagedinvariousinitiativesandreviewsthatseekto
proposalswould:(i)requirethatinvestorsaggregate InOctober2020,theSECadoptednewregulations markets,includingthoserelatedtotransparency,liquidity improveandmodernizetheregulatorystructuregoverning
holdingsinanissueracrossallassociatedfundswhen governingtheuseofderivativesbyregisteredinvestment andstructuralresiliency.BlackRockandothersponsorsof theassetmanagementindustry,andregistered
assessingHSRfilingandexemptionthresholdsand companies(“RICs”),includingmutualfunds(otherthan ETFsareworkingwithmarketparticipantsandregulators investmentcompaniesinparticular.Theseeffortsrelate
(ii)createanewexemptionforacquisitionsresultingin moneymarketfunds),ETFsandclosed-endfunds,aswell toaddresscertainoftheseissuesbuttherecanbeno to,amongotherthings,embeddedleveragethroughthe
aggregateholdingsofupto10%ofanissuer,whichwould asbusinessdevelopmentcompanies.RICswillberequired assurancethatstructuralorregulatoryreformswillbe useofderivativesandothertradingpractices,
beunavailabletoinvestorsholdinginterestsofmorethan toimplementandcomplywiththenewrulebythethird implementedinamannerfavorabletoBlackRock,oratall. cybersecurity,liquidity,enhancedregulatoryandpublic
1%incompetingfirms.Ifenactedasdrafted,theproposal quarterof2022.Onceimplemented,therulewill,among Dependingontheoutcomeofthisrenewedregulatory reportingrequirementsandtheevaluationofsystemic
requiringaggregationacrossassociatedfundscould, otherthings,imposelimitsontheamountofderivatives analysis,oranyassociatedstructuralreforms,ETF risks.Overthepastyear,theSEChasadoptedrulesthat
absentexemptionsforindex-fundsorcertaintypesof transactionsaRICcanenterinto,eliminatethecurrent productsmaybecomesubjecttoincreasedregulatory includeamongotherthings:(i)anewregulatory
registeredfunds,substantiallyincreaseBlackRock’s assetsegregationcomplianceframeworkandintroduce scrutinyorrestrictions,whichmayrequireBlackRockto frameworkforfundoffundsstructures;and(ii)updated
pre-mergernotificationobligations,whichmaybecostly, newcompliancerequirementsforfunds,includingthe incuradditionalcomplianceandreportingexpensesand eligibilityrequirementsforsubmittingshareholder
impairfunds’abilitytotradefreely,requirethe establishmentofcomprehensiveriskmanagement adverselyaffecttheCompany’sbusiness. proposalsundertheSecuritiesExchangeActof1934,as
implementationofmonitoringtoolsandintroduce programs.TherulemayimpactcertainRICs’usageof amended(the“ExchangeAct”).Theserules,andany
additionalcomplianceburdensforbothBlackRockand derivativesandinvestmentstrategy. RegulationofMoneyMarketFunds additionalrulesorregulatoryinitiativesresultingfromthe
thecompaniesinwhichitinvests.Ininstanceswhere SEC’sefforts,mayincreaseBlackRock’sregulatory
JurisdictionsoutsidetheUSinwhichBlackRockoperates InOctober2016,ruleswereimplementedtoreformthe
makingapre-mergernotificationmaynotbepracticable, compliancerequirementsaswellasdisclosure
haveadoptedandimplemented,orareintheprocessof regulatorystructuregoverningUSmoneymarketfundsto
theproposedchangesmayservetolimitthesizeof requirements,whichcouldbecostlyandmayimpede
considering,adoptingorimplementing,morepervasive addressperceivedsystemicrisksofmoneymarketfunds.
BlackRock’saggregatepositionincertainissuers. BlackRock’sgrowth.
regulationofmanyelementsofthefinancialservices Therulesrequireinstitutionalprimeandinstitutional
industry,whichcouldfurtherimpactBlackRockandthe municipalmoneymarketfundstoemployafloatingnet
Taxation broadermarkets.Forexample,variousglobalrulesand assetvaluepersharemethodofpricing,whichallowsthe FinancialCrimesEnforcementNetworkProposed
BlackRock’sbusinessesmaybedirectlyorindirectly regulationsapplicabletotheuseoffinancialproductsby dailysharepricesofthesefundstofluctuatealongwith RulemakingforRegisteredInvestmentAdvisers
affectedbytaxlegislationandregulation,orthe funds,accountsandcounterpartiesthathavebeen changesinthemarket-basedvalueoffundassets.Retail In2015,theFinancialCrimeEnforcementNetwork
modificationofexistingtaxlaws,byUSornon-UStax adoptedorproposedwillrequireBlackRocktobuildand moneymarketfundscontinueoperatingwithaconstant (“FinCEN”)issuedaNoticeofProposedRulemaking
42 BlackRock Annual Report 2020 14 15 BlackRock Annual Report 2020 43
(“ProposedRule”)thatwouldextendtoanumberof OutsourcingandThird-PartyRelationships,which EUMarketAccess requiretheintegrationofsustainabilityconsiderations
BlackRock’ssubsidiaries,whichareregisteredorrequired exploresdirectsupervisionoftechnologyserviceproviders intotheinvestmentandriskmanagementprocessesof
TheECandcertainEUMemberStateshaverecently
toberegisteredasinvestmentadviserswiththeSEC tofinancialservicesfirms,inadditiontodetailing assetmanagersandotherinstitutionalinvestors.Rules
advancedamorerestrictiveapproachtotheneedforathird
undertheAdvisersAct,therequirementtoestablish concernsaroundthepotentialforsystemicriskinthe arisingfromthereformproposalswilltakeeffectinMarch
country(i.e.non-EUcountry)toobtain“equivalence,”which
writtenrisk-basedanti-moneylaunderingprogramsand provisionofsuchservices. 2021.RegulatorsinAsiahavebeensimilarlyfocusedon
istheprocessbywhichthelegal,regulatory,and/or
reportsuspiciousactivitytoFinCENundertheBank sustainabilityreforminitiatives.InDecember2020,the
supervisorysysteminnon-EUMemberStatesisrecognised
SecrecyActof1970(the“BankSecrecyAct”).The ReformofInvestmentMarkets bytheECascomparablyeffectivetothatintheEU,thereby MonetaryAuthorityofSingaporefinalizeditsGuidelines
ProposedRulewouldincludeinvestmentadviserswithin onEnvironmentalRiskManagementfortheasset
BlackRockissubjecttonumerousregulatoryreform allowingfirmsestablishedinsuchnon-EUMemberStatesa
theBankSecrecyAct’sdefinitionof“financialinstitutions”, managementindustry.Theguidelinessetforthenhanced
initiativesthatmayaffecttheCompany’sprovisionof degreeofaccesstotheEUsinglemarketinfinancial
whichwouldrequirethemtocomplywiththeBank environmentalriskassessment,monitoringandoversight
investmentservicesglobally.InEurope,theMarketsin services.Inaddition,in2019,theECcommencedareviewof
SecrecyActreportingandrecordkeepingrequirements.If practicesthatcertainfundsregisteredorlicensedin
FinancialInstrumentsDirective(“MiFID”)governingthe theAlternativeInvestmentFundManagersDirective
adoptedinitscurrentform,theProposedRulewould Singaporewillberequiredtoimplementoveran18-month
provisionofinvestmentserviceshasbeenrevisedandis (“AIFMD”)toassess,amongotherthings,theconditionsfor
exposeBlackRocktoadditionalcompliancecosts. transitionperiod.TheHongKongSecuritiesandFutures
accompaniedbyanassociatedRegulation(togetherwith delegatingportfoliomanagementmandatestothird
Commissionproposedsimilarenhancementsto
certainsecondaryregulation,“MiFIDII”).TheRegulation’s countries,theeffectivenessofregulationonthirdcountry
BritishExitfromtheEU requirementsgenerallyapplyconsistentlyacrosstheEU. fundmarketingpassportsandthecontinuationofnational sustainabilityriskmanagementpracticesanddisclosure
requirementsforfundsinaConsultationPaperitissuedin
OnDecember31,2020,theUnitedKingdom(“UK”)leftthe TheMiFIDIIreforms,whichcameintoforceinJanuary privateplacementregimes.Totheextentthereviewresults
October2020.
EU,andtheUKandEUrevertedtobeingdistinct 2018,weresubstantive,materiallychangingmarket informallegislationthatlimitsthescopeofexisting
regulatory,legalandcustomsterritories.Althoughan transparencyrequirements,enhancingprotections permittedactivitiesandEUmarketaccessrightsforasset
“EU-UKTradeandCooperationAgreement”wasagreedto affordedtoinvestors,andincreasingoperational managementfirmswithnon-EUoperations,orextends SecuritiesFinancingTransactionRegulation(“SFTR”)
inconnectionwiththeUK’sdeparturefromtheEU,itdoes complexityfortheCompany.Forthcomingproposalsto morestringentrulestotheDirectiveonUndertakingsfor InNovember2015,theEUintroducedaregulationonthe
notincludeanysubstantiveprovisionswithrespectto reviewtheoperationofMiFIDIIandtodevelopanewEU CollectiveInvestmentinTransferableSecurities(“UCITS”), reportingandtransparencyofsecuritiesfinancing
financialservices.Asaresult,fromJanuary1,2021,cross- RetailInvestmentStrategymayaffecttheEuropean BlackRock’sabilitytooffercollectiveinvestmentfundsand transactionsandtotalreturnswaps.TheSFTRaimsto
borderfinancialservicestradebetweentheUKandtheEU marketstructureandimpactBlackRock’sabilitytooperate certaininvestmentservicestoEU-basedclientsmaybe improvethetransparencysurroundingsecurities
willbegovernedbytheirrespectivefinancialservices inEuropeanmarkets.ThebroadnatureoftheMiFIDII adverselyaffected. financingtransactionsandtotalreturnswapsby,among
regulationsandmarketaccessregimes.BlackRockhas meansfuturereformscouldalsoaffectproduct otherthings,requiringreportingofsecuritiesfinancing
implementedanumberofstepstoprepareforthis development,clientservicinganddistributionmodels. SeniorManagersandCertificationRegime(“SMCR”) transactionstoatraderepositoryandrequiringdisclosure
outcome.Thesesteps,whichareandhavebeentime SimilarreformshavebeenintroducedinSwitzerlandand oftheuseofsecuritiesfinancingtransactionsandtotal
IntheUK,theFCAextendedtheSMCRtoallfinancial
consumingandcostlyandmayaddcomplexityto Australia. returnswapstoinvestors.During2020,additional
servicesfirmsinDecember2019.Theregimeimposes
BlackRock’sfutureEuropeanoperations,includeeffecting obligationsbecameeffectiveundertheSFTRthatrequire
greateraccountabilityandresponsibilityacrossthesenior
organizational,governanceandoperationalchanges, MacroprudentialPoliciesforAssetManagers managementofUKfinancialservicesfirmsbymaking BlackRocktosubmitadditionaltransactionreportswith
applyingforandreceivingadditionallicensesand substantivedetailsoftradingactivitytoauthorities.
Certainpolicymakerscontinuetoraiselong-standing individualsinimpactedfirmsmoreaccountablefor
permissionsintheEU,andengaginginclient CompliancewiththeSFTRmaysubjectBlackRockto
concernsaboutliquidityandleveragerisksintheasset conductandcompetence.SMCRimpactsnearlyallstaffof
communications.Inaddition,dependingonhowthe additionalexpensesandcouldleadtomodificationsin
managementindustryandwidermarket-basedfinance theCompanyintheUK,andrequiresextensive
futurerelationshipbetweentheUKandtheEUdevelops, BlackRock’ssecuritiesfinancingtransactionactivities.
sector.TheCOVID-19pandemichasheightenedconcerns documentationtosupportseniormanagersandevidence
BlackRockmayexperiencefurtherorganizationaland
andpromptedabroadreviewofexistingfinancialmarket thedischargeoftheirresponsibilities.
operationalchallengesandincuradditionalcostsin CentralSecuritiesDepositoryRegulation(“CSDR”)
regulationsbyinternationalstandardsettersand
connectionwithitsEuropeanoperations,particularlywith
regulatorsacrosstheAmericas,EuropeandAsia, UKAssetManagementMarketStudy AsettlementdisciplineregimeintroducedbytheCSDRwill
regardstodelegationandoutsourcing,whichmayimpede
includinganassessmentoftheadequacyofcertain becomeeffectiveinFebruary2022.Theregimeincludes
theCompany’sgrowthorimpactitsfinancialperformance. TheFCAhasadoptedrequirementsforUKfundmanagers
structuralcomponentsofcurrentmarketsinmitigating measurestoaddresssettlementfailuresincludingrules
toassesswhethertheretailcollectiveinvestmentsthey
risks.Intheeventthateitherthelonger-standing fortradeallocationandconfirmationprocessing,along
UKOverseasFundsRegime manageoffer“value”toinvestors.In2020,theCompany
concernsorrecentbroadreviewresultinregulatoryor withcashpenaltiesforfailedtransactionsandmandatory
initiatedtheprovisionofanannualassessmentbased
Aspartofitspost-EUmembershipregulatoryreview,the policyaction,macroprudentialtoolsmaybegintoapplyto buy-inrequirements.Totheextentleftunchangedbya
uponvariousfactorsincludingcost,performanceand
FinancialConductAuthority(“FCA”)isreviewingthe open-endedinvestmentfundsbroadly.BlackRockmay reviewthatisscheduledtotakeplaceduring2021,the
comparableservices.If“value”hasnotbeenprovidedto
requirementsitwillimposeonEU-domiciledfundsoffered alsoberequiredtomakechangestostructuralfeaturesof regimewillrequireBlackRocktointroduceoperational
consumers,theCompanywillneedtoaddressany
intotheUK.Anynewrequirementscouldintroducecost certainopen-endedinvestmentfunds.Eithereventuality mechanismstofacilitatethemandatorybuy-inof
identifieddeficiencies.TheFCAalsorequestedthatthe
andcomplexitytoBlackRock’scross-borderbusiness couldlimitBlackRock’sabilitytoofferproductstocertain securitiesininstanceswherethesellerfailstodeliver
UK’sCompetitionandMarketsAuthority(“CMA”)assess
model. clientsand/orresultinclientsalteringtheirinvestment securitiesinatimelymannerwhich,ifnotcompliedwith,
theinvestmentconsultantandfiduciarymarkets.The
strategiesorallocationsinamannerthatisadverseto maysubjectBlackRocktopenalty.
CMA’sfinalreportidentifiedanumberofcompetition
EnhancedRegulatoryScrutinyofTechnologyService BlackRock. issuesinsuchmarketsandtheUKregulatoryregimewas
ProviderstoFinancialServicesFirms revisedin2020tointroducemandatorytenderingof CessationofLIBOR
Therehasbeengrowingregulatoryscrutinyoftechnology RevisedCapitalRequirementsforInvestmentFirms investmentconsultancyandfiduciarymanagement TheFCA,whichregulatestheadministratoroftheLondon
serviceprovidersonwhichfinancialservicesfirmsare InDecember2017,theECpublishedaproposalforanew services,andnewstandardsofdisclosureoffeesand InterbankOfferedRate(LIBOR)hasannouncedthatitwill
reliant,includingtheDigitalOperationalResilienceAct DirectiveandRegulationonprudentialrequirementsfor performance.TheCMA’sremediescouldhaveasignificant nolongercompelpanelbankstosubmitratesforLIBOR
(“DORA”),whichwasproposedbytheECinSeptember MiFIDinvestmentfirms.TheproposalpassedtheEU impactontheCompany’sabilitytoenterintofiduciaryand afteryear-end2021.Asaresult,sterlingLIBORand
2020andfocusesondirectregulationofprovidersand legislativeprocessandthefinaltextsoftheRegulation investmentmanagementmandateswithUKpensionfund certainotherindiceswhichareutilizedasbenchmarks
usersoftechnology-anddataservices.Ifenactedas andDirectivewerepublishedinDecember2019.Thenew clients. maynolongerbepublished.Thedisappearance,or
proposed,DORAmay,amongotherthings:(i)introduce legislativepackage,whichcomesintoeffectin2021,will changeinthemannerofadministration,ofthese
additionalgovernance,riskmanagement,incident resultinchangestotheamountofregulatorycapital SustainabilityRegulation benchmarkscouldresultinadverseconsequencestothe
reporting,testingandinformationsharingrequirements BlackRockisrequiredtoholdintheEUandhowsuch returnon,valueofandmarketforanyBlackRock
In2018,ECintroducedanumberofregulatoryproposals
toanumberofBlackRock’sEuropeanentitiesandcertain capitaliscalculated,aswellasintroducerevised investmentsininstrumentsandsecuritieslinkedtosuch
tounderpinsustainableinvestmentproducts;require
Aladdinclients;and(ii)subjectAladdintobroadadditional disclosureobligationsforlargeinvestmentfirms.TheUK benchmarks.BlackRockmayalsofaceoperational
disclosureofsustainability-relatedinformationbymarket
oversight.Separately,inNovember2020,theFinancial isalsoproposingtheadoptionofcomparablerules,which challengesadoptingsuccessorbenchmarks.
participants,investmentsproducts,andissuers;and
StabilityBoard(“FSB”)releasedaConsultationon willapplytoUK-basedinvestmentfirmsfrom2022.
RegulatoryandSupervisoryIssuesRelatingto
44 BlackRock Annual Report 2020 16 17 BlackRock Annual Report 2020 45
EXISTING US REGULATION—OVERVIEW interpretationorenforcementofexistingrulesand EXISTING INTERNATIONAL REGULATION— regulationwhichimplementstheConsolidatedLife
regulationsimposedbyvariousregulatorsinthisarea. OVERVIEW DirectiveandInsuranceDistributionDirective.Inaddition,
BlackRockandcertainofitsUSsubsidiariesarecurrently relevantentitiesmustcomplywithrevisedobligationson
subjecttoextensiveregulation,primarilyatthefederal CertainBlackRocksubsidiariesaresubjecttothe BlackRock’sinternationaloperationsaresubjecttothe capitalresourcesforbanksandcertaininvestmentfirms.
level,bytheSEC,theDepartmentofLabor(“DoL”),the EmployeeRetirementIncomeSecurityActof1974,as lawsandregulationsofanumberofinternational Theseincluderequirementsoncapital,aswellasmatters
FederalReserve,theOfficeoftheComptrollerofthe amended(“ERISA”),andtoregulationspromulgated jurisdictions,aswellasoversightbynumerousregulatory ofgovernanceandremuneration.RelevantBlackRock
Currency(“OCC”),theFinancialIndustryRegulatory thereunderbytheDoL,insofarastheyactasa“fiduciary” agenciesandbodiesinthosejurisdictions.Insome entitiesmustalsocomplywiththerequirementsofthe
Authority(“FINRA”),theNationalFuturesAssociation underERISAwithrespecttobenefitplanclientsthatare instances,theseoperationsarealsoaffectedbyUSlaws UCITSDirectiveandtheAIFMD,asimplementedinthe
(“NFA”),theFTC,theDepartmentofJustice,theCFTCand subjecttoERISA.ERISAandapplicableprovisionsofthe andregulationsthathaveextra-territorialapplication. relevantEUjurisdictionsorintheUK,whichimpose
otherfederalgovernmentagenciesandregulatorybodies. InternalRevenueCodeimposecertaindutiesonpersons obligationsontheauthorizationandcapital,conductof
whoarefiduciariesunderERISA,prohibitcertain Belowisasummaryofcertaininternationalregulatory
business,organization,transparencyandmarketingof
CertainofBlackRock’sUSsubsidiariesarealsosubjectto transactionsinvolvingERISAplanclientsandimpose standardstowhichBlackRockissubject.Itisnotmeantto
retailandalternativeinvestmentfundsrespectivelythat
variousanti-terroristfinancing,privacy,anti-money excisetaxesforviolationsoftheseprohibitions,mandate becomprehensiveasthereareparallellegaland
aresoldin,ormarketedto,theEU.Theobligations
launderingandeconomicsanctionslawsandregulations certainrequiredperiodicreportinganddisclosuresand regulatoryarrangementsinforceinmanyjurisdictions
introducedthroughtheseregulationsanddirectiveswill
establishedbyvariousagencies.Inaddition,theAdvisers requirecertainBlackRockentitiestocarrybondsinsuring whereBlackRock’ssubsidiariesconductbusiness.
affectcertainofBlackRock’sEuropeanoperations.
Actimposesnumerousobligationsonregistered againstlossescausedbyfraudordishonesty.ERISAalso
investmentadviserssuchasBlackRock,includingrecord- imposesadditionalcompliance,reportingandoperational Ofnoteamongthevariousotherinternationalregulations CompliancewiththeUCITSDirectivesandtheAIFMDmay
keeping,operationalandmarketingrequirements, requirementsonBlackRockthatotherwisearenot towhichBlackRockissubject,aretheextensiveand subjectBlackRocktoadditionalexpensesassociatedwith
disclosureobligationsandprohibitionsonfraudulent applicabletoclientsthatarenotsubjecttoERISA. complexregulatoryreportingrequirementsthat depositaryoversightandotherorganizational
requirements.
activities.StatelevelregulationthroughAttorneys necessitatethemonitoringandreportingofissuer
General,InsuranceCommissionersandotherstatelevel BlackRockhassevensubsidiariesthatareregisteredas exposurelevels(thresholds)acrosstheholdingsof BlackRock’sEuropean-regulatedsubsidiariesarealso
agenciesalsoappliestocertainBlackRockactivities. commoditypooloperatorsand/orcommoditytrading managedfundsandaccountsandthoseoftheCompany. subjecttotheEuropeanMarketInfrastructureRegulation
advisorswiththeCFTCandaremembersoftheNFA.The
(ortheUKequivalentregulationinthecaseofBlackRock’s
TheInvestmentCompanyActof1940(the“Investment CFTCandNFAeachadministeracomparableregulatory
EuropeanRegulation UK-regulatedsubsidiaries),anEUregulationgoverning
CompanyAct”)imposesstringentgovernance, systemcoveringfuturescontractsandvariousother
compliance,operational,disclosureandrelated financialinstruments,includingswapsasaresultofDodd- TheFCAcurrentlyregulatescertainBlackRock derivatives,centralcounterpartiesandtraderepositories,
obligationsonregisteredinvestmentcompaniesandtheir Frank,inwhichcertainBlackRockclientsmayinvest.In subsidiariesintheUK.Itisalsoresponsibleforthe whichrequires(i)thecentralclearingofcertain
investmentadvisersanddistributors,suchasBlackRock addition,twoofBlackRock’ssubsidiariesareregisteredwith conductofbusinessregulationoftheUKbranchesof over-the-counter(“OTC”)derivatives;(ii)theapplicationof
anditsaffiliates.TheSECisauthorizedtoinstitute theSECasbroker-dealersandaremember-firmsofFINRA. certainofBlackRock’sUSsubsidiaries.Inaddition,the risk-mitigationtechniquestonon-centrallyclearedOTC
proceedingsandimposesanctionsforviolationsofthe Eachbroker-dealerhasamembershipagreementwith PrudentialRegulationAuthority(“PRA”)regulatesone derivatives(includingtheexchangeofcollateralwith
AdvisersActandtheInvestmentCompanyAct,ranging FINRAthatlimitsthescopeofsuchbroker-dealer’s BlackRockUKinsurancesubsidiary.Authorizationbythe certaincounterparties);and(iii)thereportingofall
fromfinesandcensuretoterminationofaninvestment permittedactivities.Oneofthebroker-dealersisalsoa FCAand(whererelevant)thePRAisrequiredtoconduct derivativecontractstoanEuropeanSecuritiesand
adviser’sregistration.Investmentadvisersalsoaresubject memberoftheMSRBandissubjecttoMSRBrules. certainfinancialservices-relatedbusinessintheUKunder MarketsAuthority(“ESMA”)registeredorrecognized
tocertainstatesecuritieslawsandregulations. theFinancialServicesandMarketsAct2000(the“FSMA”). derivativestraderepository(oraUKauthorizedtrade
Non-compliancewiththeAdvisersAct,theInvestment InJuly2020,BlackRock’sbusinessactivityinCaliforniathat TheFCA’srulesadoptedundertheFSMAgovernthe repositoryinthecaseoftheUKversionofEMIR).
CompanyActorotherfederalandstatesecuritieslawsand involvestheprocessingofpersonalinformationbecame majorityofafirm’scapitalresourcesrequirements,senior TheEUhasseenanincreaseinCommonSupervisory
regulationscouldresultininvestigations,sanctions, subjecttotheCaliforniaConsumerPrivacyAct(“CCPA”), managementarrangements,conductofbusiness ActionsbyESMAtocoordinatesupervisoryactionby
disgorgement,finesandreputationaldamage. whichprovidesforenhancedconsumerprotectionsfor requirements,interactionwithclients,andsystemsand nationalEUregulators,mostnotablyinareassuchas
Californiaresidents.TheCCPAimposesobligationson controls,whereastherulesofthePRAfocussolelyonthe
BlackRock’stradingandinvestmentactivitiesforclient BlackRockforthehandling,disclosureanddeletionof prudentialrequirementsthatapplytoBlackRock’s productgovernance,liquiditymanagementandfundcosts
accountsareregulatedundertheExchangeAct,aswellas personalinformationforCaliforniaresidents.Anyfailureby UK-basedinsurancesubsidiary.TheFCAsupervises andcharges.BlackRock’sEuropeanoperationsmaybe
therulesofvarioussecuritiesexchangesandself-regulatory BlackRocktocomplywiththeCCPAmayresultinfines, BlackRock’sUK-regulatedsubsidiariesthrougha affectedtotheextentthisinitiativeresultsinformal
heightenedregulatoryscrutinyand/orreputationalharm. legislationoraction.
organizations,includinglawsgoverningtradingoninside combinationofproactiveengagement,event-drivenand
information,marketmanipulationandabroadnumberof reactivesupervisionandtheme-basedreviewsinorderto EUMemberStatesandmanyothernon-USjurisdictions
technicalrequirements(e.g.,shortsalelimits,volume USBankingRegulation monitorBlackRock’scompliancewithregulatory haveadoptedstatutesand/orregulationsconcerning
limitationsandreportingobligations)andmarketregulation OneofBlackRock’ssubsidiaries,BTC,isorganizedasa requirements.BreachesoftheFCA’srulesmayresultina privacyanddataprotectionandrequiringnotificationof
policies.Violationofanyoftheselawsandregulationscould nationally-charteredlimitedpurposetrustcompanythat widerangeofdisciplinaryactionsagainstBlackRock’s databreaches.Forexample,inMay2018,theEUData
resultinfinesorsanctions,aswellasrestrictionson doesnotacceptdepositsormakecommercialloans. UK-regulatedsubsidiariesand/oritsemployees. ProtectionDirectivewasreplacedbyamoreextensive
BlackRock’sactivitiesanddamagetoitsreputation. Accordingly,BTCisexaminedandsupervisedbytheOCC GeneralDataProtectionRegulation(“GDPR”).Inaddition,
Furthermore,Dodd-FrankrequiresoneofBlackRock’s andissubjecttovariousbankinglawsandregulations Inaddition,BlackRockhasregulatedentitiesinFrance, theUKincorporatedGDPRintoanequivalentUKlaw(“UK
subsidiaries,BTC,toregisterasamunicipaladvisor(asthat enforcedbytheOCC,suchaslawsandregulations Germany,Ireland,Jersey,Luxembourg,theNetherlands GDPR”)thatbecameeffectivewhenitlefttheEUon
termisdefinedintheExchangeAct)withtheSECand governingcapitaladequacy,fiduciaryactivities,conflicts andSwitzerland.Eachoftheseentitiesisrequiredto January1,2021.GDPRandUKGDPR,aswellasother
MunicipalSecuritiesRulemakingBoard(“MSRB”).Therules ofinterest,self-dealing,andthepreventionoffinancial complywithregulatoryrulesinthecountryinwhichithas statutesand/orregulationsconcerningdataprivacyand
subjectBTCtoadditionalregulationbytheSECandMSRB. crime,includingmoneylaundering.BTCisalsoamember beenestablished,includingthebranchesofthe security,increasecomplianceobligations,affect
NetherlandsentitywhichoperateacrosstheEU.
oftheFederalReserveSystemandissubjecttovarious BlackRock’scollection,processingandretentionof
BlackRockmanagesavarietyofprivatepoolsofcapital,
FederalReserveregulationsapplicabletomember personaldataandreportingofdatabreaches,andprovide
includinghedgefunds,fundsofhedgefunds,privateequity BlackRock’sEU-subsidiariesandbranchesmustcomply
institutions,suchasregulationsrestrictingtransactions forincreasedpenaltiesfornon-compliance.
funds,collateralizeddebtobligations,collateralizedloan withthepan-Europeanregulatoryregimeestablishedby
withaffiliates.Manyoftheselawsandregulationsare
obligations,realestatefunds,collectivetrustfunds, MiFIDanditsaccompanyingRegulation.BlackRock’s
meantfortheprotectionofBTCand/orBTC’scustomers
managedfuturesfundsandhybridfunds.Congress, UK-regulatedsubsidiariesmustcomplywiththeUK RegulationintheAsia-PacificRegion
ratherthanBlackRock,itsaffiliatesorstockholders.
regulators,taxauthoritiesandotherscontinuetoexplore,on versionofMiFIDII,whichregulatestheprovisionof InJapan,aBlackRocksubsidiaryissubjecttothe
theirownandinresponsetodemandsfromtheinvestment investmentservicesandactivitiesintheUK.MiFIDII,and FinancialInstrumentsandExchangeAct(“FIEA”)andthe
communityandthepublic,increasedregulationrelatedto USRegulationofSecuritiesFinancingTransactions theUKequivalentofMiFIDII,setsoutdetailed ActonInvestmentTrustsandInvestmentCorporations.
privatepoolsofcapital,includingchangeswithrespectto Inits2014AnnualReport,FSOCidentifiedsecuritieslending requirementsgoverningtheorganizationandconductof Theselawsareadministeredandenforcedbythe
investoreligibility,certainlimitationsontradingactivities, indemnificationbyassetmanagerswhoactaslending businessofinvestmentfirmsandregulatedmarkets.The JapaneseFinancialServicesAgency(“JFSA”),which
record-keepingandreporting,thescopeofanti-fraud agentsasapotentialsystemicriskthatrequiredfurther legislationalsoincludespre-andpost-tradetransparency establishesstandardsforcompliance,includingcapital
protections,safekeepingofclientassetsandavarietyof reviewandmonitoring.TheFederalReserveisalso requirementsforequityandnon-equitymarketsand adequacyandfinancialsoundnessrequirements,
othermatters.BlackRockmaybemateriallyandadversely consideringwhethertoimposespecificmarginorminimum extensivetransactionreportingrequirements.Certain customerprotectionrequirementsandconductof
affectedbynewlegislation,rule-makingorchangesinthe haircutrequirementsforsecuritiesfinancingtransactions. BlackRockUKsubsidiariesmustalsocomplywiththeUK businessrules.TheJFSAisempoweredtoconduct
46 BlackRock Annual Report 2020 18 19 BlackRock Annual Report 2020 47
administrativeproceedingsthatcanresultincensure, orfurnishedtotheSEC.TheCompanyalsomakes Changesininterestorforeignexchangeratesand/or IncreasedcompetitionmaycauseBlackRock’sAUM,
fines,ceaseanddesistordersorthesuspensionor availableonitswebsitethechartersfortheAudit divergentbetamaycauseBlackRock’sAUMandbase revenueandearningstodecline.
revocationofregistrationsandlicensesgrantedunderthe Committee,ManagementDevelopmentand feestofluctuateandintroducevolatilitytothe
Theinvestmentmanagementindustryishighly
FIEA.ThisJapanesesubsidiaryalsoholdsalicenseforreal CompensationCommittee,NominatingandGovernance Company’snetincomeandoperatingcashflows.
competitiveandBlackRockcompetesbasedonanumber
estatebrokerageactivitieswhichsubjectsittothe CommitteeandRiskCommitteeoftheBoardofDirectors,
Inrecentyears,therehavebeenprolongedperiodsof offactorsincluding:investmentperformance,its
regulationssetforthintheRealEstateBrokerageAct. itsCodeofBusinessConductandEthics,itsCodeof
historicallylowinterestrates,interspersedwithperiodsin technologyandportfolioconstructionofferings,thelevel
EthicsforChiefExecutiveandSeniorFinancialOfficers
whichcertaincentralbanksgloballybeganincreasing offeescharged,thequalityandbreadthofservicesand
InAustralia,BlackRock’ssubsidiariesaresubjectto anditsCorporateGovernanceGuidelines.Further,
rates.BlackRock’sbusinessisdirectlyandindirectly productsprovided,namerecognitionandreputation,and
variousAustralianfederalandstatelaws,andcertain BlackRockwillprovide,withoutcharge,uponwritten
affectedbychangesinglobalinterestrates.Similarly,due itsabilitytodevelopnewinvestmentstrategiesand
subsidiariesareregulatedbytheAustralianSecuritiesand request,acopyoftheCompany’sAnnualReportsonForm
totheglobalnatureofBlackRock’soperations,aportionof productstomeetthechangingneedsofinvestors.In
InvestmentsCommission(“ASIC”).ASICregulates 10-K,QuarterlyReportsonForm10-Q,CurrentReportson
itsbusinessisconductedincurrenciesotherthantheUS addition,overthepastseveralyearstherehasbeen
companiesandfinancialservicesactivitiesinAustralia Form8-K,proxystatementsandallamendmentstothose
dollar.AnyfailurebyBlackRocktomanagemovementsin significantconsolidationintheassetmanagementand
andisresponsibleforpromotinginvestor,creditorand filingsaswellasthecommitteecharters,itsCodeof
foreignexchangeratesrelativetotheUSdollarorits financialservicesindustriesasinvestorsincreasinglyseek
consumerprotection. BusinessConductandEthics,itsCodeofEthicsforChief
exposuretointerestratesmaycauseBlackRock’sAUMto outfirmsthathavethecapacitytodeliverbroadmulti-
ExecutiveandSeniorFinancialOfficersanditsCorporate
TheactivitiesofcertainBlackRocksubsidiariesinHong fluctuateandintroducevolatilitytotheCompany’sbase assetinvestmentcapabilitiesandtechnologicalexpertise,
GovernanceGuidelines.Requestsforcopiesshouldbe
KongaresubjecttotheSecuritiesandFuturesOrdinance fees,netincomeandoperatingcashflows. includinginamannerthatisresponsivetoevermore
addressedtoInvestorRelations,BlackRock,Inc.,55East
(“SFO”),whichgovernsthesecuritiesandfuturesmarkets localizedneeds.Thisconsolidation,togetherwiththe
andregulates,amongothers,offersofinvestmentstothe 52ndStreet,NewYork,NewYork10055.Reports,proxy Inaddition,betadivergencebetweenequitymarkets, introductionofnewtechnologies,aswellasregulatory
publicandprovidesforthelicensingofintermediaries. statementsandotherinformationregardingissuersthat wherecertainmarketsperformdifferentlythanothers, changes,continuestoalterthecompetitivelandscapefor
TheSFOisadministeredbytheSecuritiesandFutures fileelectronicallywiththeSEC,includingBlackRock’s mayleadtoanincreaseintheproportionofBlackRock investmentmanagers,whichmayleadtoadditionalfee
Commission(“SFC”).TheSFCisalsoempoweredto filings,arealsoavailabletothepublicfromtheSEC’s AUMweightedtowardlowerfeeequityproducts,resulting compressionorrequireBlackRocktoinvestmoreto
establishstandardsforcomplianceaswellascodesand websiteathttp://www.sec.gov. inadeclineinBlackRock’seffectivefeerate.Divergent modifyoradaptitsproductofferingstoattractandretain
guidelines.TherelevantBlackRocksubsidiariesandthe marketfactorsmayalsoerodethecorrelationbetweenthe customersandremaincompetitivewiththeproducts,
employeesconductinganyoftheregulatedactivities Item 1A. Risk Factors growthratesofAUMandbasefees. servicesandgeographicdiversityofferedbyother
specifiedintheSFOarerequiredtobelicensedwiththe financialinstitutions,technologycompanies,trading,
SFC,andaresubjecttotherules,codesandguidelines Asaglobalinvestmentmanagementfirm,riskisan BlackRock’sinvestmentadvisorycontractsmaybe advisoryorassetmanagementfirms.Increased
issuedbytheSFC.BlackRock’soperationsinTaiwanare inherentpartofBlackRock’sbusiness.Globalmarkets,by terminatedormaynotberenewedbyclientsorfund competitiononthebasisofanyofthesefactors,including
regulatedbytheTaiwanFinancialSupervisory theirnature,arepronetouncertaintyandsubject boardsonfavorabletermsandtheliquidationofcertain competitionleadingtofeereductionsonexistingornew
Commission,whichisresponsibleforregulatingsecurities participantstoavarietyofrisks.WhileBlackRockdevotes fundsmaybeacceleratedattheoptionofinvestors. business,maycausetheCompany’sAUM,revenueand
markets(includingtheTaiwanStockExchangeandthe significantresourcesacrossallofitsoperationsto earningstodecline.
BlackRockderivesasubstantialportionofitsrevenuefrom
identify,measure,monitor,manageandanalyzemarket,
TaiwanFuturesExchange),thebankingindustryandthe
providinginvestmentadvisoryservices.Theadvisoryor
operating,legal,compliance,reputational,fiduciaryand
insurancesector. managementcontractsBlackRockhasenteredintowithits FailuretomaintainAladdin’scompetitivepositionina
investmentrisks,BlackRock’sbusiness,financial
clients,includingtheagreementsthatgovernmanyof dynamicmarketcouldleadtoalossofclientsandcould
BlackRockhasobtainedtheapprovalfromtheChina condition,operatingresultsandnonoperatingresults
BlackRock’sinvestmentfunds,provideinvestorsor,in impedeBlackRock’sproductivityandgrowth.
SecuritiesRegulatoryCommissionforsettingupaFund couldbemateriallyadverselyaffectedandtheCompany’s
ManagementCompany(“FMC”)andapprovalfromthe stockpricecoulddeclineasaresultofanyoftheserisks somecases,theindependentdirectorsofapplicable Thesophisticatedriskanalytics,portfoliomanagement,
ChinaBankingandInsuranceRegulatoryCommissionfor anduncertainties,includingtheonesdiscussedbelow. investmentfunds,withsignificantlatitudetoterminate tradeexecutionandinvestmentoperationsthatBlackRock
settingupaWealthManagementJointVentureCompany suchcontracts,withdrawfundsorliquidatefundsby providesviaitstechnologyplatformtosupportinvestment
(“WMC”)withTemasekHoldings(Pte)LtdandChina MARKET AND COMPETITION RISKS simplemajorityvotewithlimitednoticeorpenalty,orto advisoryandAladdinclientsareimportantelementsof
ConstructionBankCorpinChina.BlackRockispreparing Changesinthevaluelevelsofequity,debt,realassets, removeBlackRockasafund’sinvestmentadvisor(or BlackRock’scompetitivesuccess.Aladdin’scompetitive
forthenextstagesoftheregulatorylicenseapplications commodities,foreignexchangeorotherassetmarkets, equivalent).BlackRockalsomanagesitsUSmutualfunds, positionisbasedinpartonitsabilitytocombinerisk
processpriortobeingissuedwithfinalregulatory aswellastheimpactofglobaltradepoliciesandtariffs, closed-endandexchange-tradedfundsunder analyticswithportfoliomanagement,tradingand
approvalsandthelaunchofitsfirstinvestmentproducts maycauseassetsundermanagement(“AUM”),revenue managementcontractsthatmustberenewedand operationstoolsonasingleplatform.Increased
forboththeFMCandWMC. andearningstodecline. approvedannuallybythefunds’respectiveboardsof competitionfromriskanalyticsandinvestment
directors,amajorityofwhomareindependentfromthe managementtechnologyproviders,includingasaresult
OtherfinancialregulatorsoverseeBlackRocksubsidiaries, BlackRock’sinvestmentmanagementrevenueisprimarily Company.BlackRock’sfeearrangementsunderanyofits ofgrowingindustryconsolidationgivingriseto
branchesandrepresentativeofficesacrosstheAsia- comprisedoffeesbasedonapercentageofthevalueof advisoryormanagementcontractsmaybereduced competitorswithincreasinglysophisticatedand
Pacificregion,includinginSingaporeandSouthKorea. AUMand,insomecases,performancefeeswhichare (includingatthebehestofafund’sboardofdirectors).In comprehensiveproductofferings,orashiftinclient
Regulatorsinallofthesejurisdictionshaveauthoritywith normallyexpressedasapercentageofreturnstothe addition,ifanumberofBlackRock’sclientsterminatetheir demandawaytostandaloneorinternallydeveloped
respecttofinancialservicesincluding,amongother client.Numerousfactors,includingpricemovementsin contracts,orotherwiseremoveBlackRockfromitsadvisory solutions,whetherduetopricecompetition,perceived
things,theauthoritytogrant,suspendorcancelrequired theequity,debtorcurrencymarkets,orinthepriceofreal roles,liquidatefundsorfailtorenewmanagement clientmarketshare,platformflexibilityormarket-basedor
licensesorregistrations.Inaddition,theseregulatorsmay assets,commoditiesoralternativeinvestmentsinwhich contractsonfavorableterms,thefeesorcarriedinterest regulatoryfactors,mayweakenAladdin’scompetitive
subjectcertainBlackRocksubsidiariestonetcapital BlackRockinvests,aswellastheimpactofglobaltrade BlackRockearnscouldbereduced,whichmaycause positionandmaycausetheCompany’srevenueand
requirements. policiesandtariffs,couldcause: BlackRock’sAUM,revenueandearningstodecline. earningstodecline.Inaddition,totheextentthatAladdin
•thevalueofAUM,orthereturnsBlackRockrealizeson competitorsareabletoinnovatemoreeffectivelythan
AUM,todecrease; BlackRockorleveragedeliverymodelsthatprovideclients
Thefailureornegativeperformanceofproductsoffered
AVAILABLE INFORMATION •thewithdrawaloffundsfromBlackRock’sproductsin bycompetitorsmaycauseAUMinsimilarBlackRock fastertimetomarket,lowercostsortheabilitytomore
BlackRockfilesannual,quarterlyandcurrentreports, favorofproductsofferedbycompetitors; productstodeclineirrespectiveofBlackRock’s seamlesslycombineorbundlewithotherserviceofferings,
BlackRockmayloseexistingclientsorfailtocapture
proxystatementsandallamendmentstothesereports •therebalancingorreallocatingofassetsinto performance.
futuremarketshare,whichmayimpedeitsproductivity
andotherinformationwiththeSEC.BlackRockmakes BlackRockproductsthatyieldlowerfees; Manycompetitorsoffersimilarproductstothoseofferedby
andgrowth.Moreover,althoughBlackRocktakesstepsto
availablefree-of-charge,onorthroughitswebsiteat •animpairmenttothevalueofintangibleassetsand BlackRockandthefailureornegativeperformanceof safeguardagainstinfringementsofitsintellectual
http://www.blackrock.com,theCompany’sAnnualReports goodwill;or competitors’productscouldleadtoalossofconfidencein property,therecanbenoassurancethattheCompanywill
onForm10-K,QuarterlyReportsonForm10-Q,Current similarBlackRockproducts,irrespectiveoftheperformance
•adecreaseinthevalueofseedorco-investment beabletoeffectivelyprotectandenforceitsintellectual
ReportsonForm8-K,proxystatementsandall ofsuchproducts.Anylossofconfidenceinaproducttype
capital. propertyrightsinAladdin.
amendmentstothosefilings,assoonasreasonably couldleadtowithdrawals,redemptionsandliquidityissues
practicableaftersuchmaterialiselectronicallyfiledwith Theoccurrenceofanyoftheseeventsmaycausethe insuchproducts,whichmaycausetheCompany’sAUM,
Company’sAUM,revenueandearningstodecline. revenueandearningstodecline.
48 BlackRock Annual Report 2020 20 21 BlackRock Annual Report 2020 49
BlackRockmaybeunabletodevelopnewproductsand indemnificationwas$270billion.IntheCompany’s RISKS RELATED TO INVESTMENT RISKS RELATED TO THE COVID-19 PANDEMIC
servicesandthedevelopmentofnewproductsand capacityaslendingagent,cashandsecuritiestotaling PERFORMANCE
TheCOVID-19pandemicmayadverselyaffect
servicesmayexposeBlackRocktoreputationalharm, $289billionwasheldascollateralforindemnified
Poorinvestmentperformancecouldleadtothelossof BlackRock’sbusiness,operationsandfinancialcondition
additionalcostsoroperationalrisk. securitiesonloanatDecember31,2020.Significant
clientsandmaycauseAUM,revenueandearningsto whichmaycauseitsAUM,revenueandearningsto
borrowerdefaultsoccurringsimultaneouslywithrapid
BlackRock’sfinancialperformancedepends,inpart,onits decline. decline.
declinesinthevalueofcollateralpledgedand/or
abilitytoreacttochangesintheassetmanagement
increasesinthevalueofthesecuritiesloanedmaycreate TheCompany’smanagementbelievesthatinvestment TheCOVID-19pandemichascausedandiscausing
industry,respondtoevolvingclientdemandsanddevelop,
collateralshortfalls,whichcouldresultinmaterial performance,includingtheefficientdeliveryofbeta,isone significantharmtotheglobaleconomyandmayadversely
marketandmanagenewinvestmentproductsand
liabilitiesundertheseindemnitiesandmaycausethe ofthemostimportantfactorsforthegrowthandretention affectBlackRock’sbusiness,includingitsoperationsand
services.Conversely,thedevelopmentandintroductionof
Company’srevenueandearningstodecline. ofAUM.Poorinvestmentperformancerelativeto financialcondition,andmaycausetheCompany’sAUM,
newproductsandservices,includingthecreationof
applicableportfoliobenchmarks,aggregatefeelevelsor revenueandearningstodecline.TheCOVID-19pandemic
productswithafocusonenvironmental,socialand
competitorsmaycauseAUM,revenueandearningsto continuestoresultingovernmentalauthoritiestaking
governancematters,requirescontinuedinnovativeeffort BlackRock’sdecisiontoprovidesupporttoparticular
declineasaresultof: numerousmeasurestocontainthespreadandimpactof
onthepartofBlackRockandmayrequiresignificanttime productsfromtimetotime,ortheinabilitytoprovide
COVID-19,suchastravelbansandrestrictions,
andresourcesaswellasongoingsupportandinvestment. support,maycauseAUM,revenueandearningsto •clientwithdrawalsinfavorofbetterperforming
quarantines,shelterinplaceorders,andlimitationson
Substantialriskanduncertaintiesareassociatedwiththe decline. productsofferedbycompetitors;
businessactivity,includingclosures.Thesemeasuresmay
introductionofnewproductsandservices,includingthe Whilenotlegallymandated,BlackRockmay,atitsoption, •clientshiftstoproductsthatchargelowerfees; continueto,amongotherthings,severelyrestrictglobal
implementationofnewandappropriateoperational fromtimetotimechoosetosupportinvestmentproducts •thediminishingabilitytoattractadditionalfunds economicactivity,whichcandisruptsupplychains,lower
controlsandprocedures,shiftingclientandmarket throughcapitalorcreditsupportforcommercialorother fromexistingandnewclients; assetvaluations,significantlyincreaseunemployment
preferences,theintroductionofcompetingproductsor reasons.AnydecisionbyBlackRocktosupportproducts andunderemploymentlevels,decreaseliquidityin
servicesandcompliancewithregulatoryrequirements. mayutilizecapitalandliquiditythatwouldotherwisebe •reduced,minimalornoperformancefees; marketsforcertainsecuritiesandcausesignificant
TherecanbenoassurancethatBlackRockwillbeableto availableforothercorporatepurposes.BlackRock’sability •animpairmenttothevalueofintangibleassetsand volatilityanddisruptioninthefinancialmarkets.
innovateeffectivelyinordertodevelopnewproductsor tosupportcertainproductsmayberestrictedby goodwill;or
servicesthataddresstheneedsofitsclientsonthe regulationorbytheCompany’sfailuretohaveormake Towardstheendofthefirstquarterof2020thepandemic
•adecreaseinthevaluationsofseedand
timescaletheyrequire.Anyfailuretodevelopnew availablesufficientcapitalorliquidity.Moreover,inherent begantoimpactBlackRock’sbusiness.Whileglobal
co-investmentcapital.
productsandservices,orsuccessfullymanageassociated constraintsarisingfromthebusinessmodelsofcertain marketshavesignificantlyrecoveredsincethen,the
operationalrisks,couldharmBlackRock’sreputationand assetmanagers,includingBlackRock,mayduringperiods effectsofthepandemicareongoing,andsuchimpactmay
exposetheCompanytoadditionalcosts,whichmaycause ofmarketvolatilityresultinBlackRockhavingfewer Performancefeesmayincreasevolatilityofbothrevenue continueinfuturequartersifconditionspersistorworsen.
itsAUM,revenueandearningstodecline. optionsforaccessingliquiditythanassetmanagerswith andearnings. Shouldcurrenteconomicconditionspersistordeteriorate,
alternatebusinessmodels,whichmayadverselyimpactits AportionofBlackRock’srevenueisderivedfrom theremaybeanongoingadverseeffectonBlackRock’s
Changesinthevalueofseedandco-investmentsthat abilitytosupportcertainproducts.Anydecisionby performancefeesoninvestmentadvisoryassignments. business,includingitsoperationsandfinancialcondition,
BlackRockownscouldaffectitsincomeandcould BlackRocktosupportparticularproducts,ortheinability Performancefeesrepresented$1.1billion,or7%,oftotal asaresultof,amongotherthings:
increasethevolatilityofitsearnings. toprovidesuchsupport,mayresultinlosses,whichmay revenuefortheyearendedDecember31,2020.Generally, •reducedAUM,resultinginlowerbasefees,aswellasa
AtDecember31,2020,BlackRock’sneteconomic causeAUM,revenueandearningstodecline. theCompanyisentitledtoaperformancefeeonlyifthe reductioninthevalueofBlackRock’sinvestment
investmentexposureofapproximately$2.9billioninits agreementunderwhichitismanagingtheassetsprovides portfolio,includingitscoinvestmentsandseed
investments(seeItem7,Management’sDiscussionand Increasedgeopoliticalunrestandothereventsoutsideof foroneandifreturnsontherelatedportfolioexceed investmentsinsponsoredinvestmentfunds;
agreed-uponperiodicorcumulativereturntargets.If
AnalysisofFinancialConditionandResultsofOperations- BlackRock’scontrolcouldadverselyaffecttheglobal •loweralphagenerationwhichmayadverselyaffect
thesetargetsarenotexceeded,aperformancefeeforthat
Investments)primarilyresultedfromco-investmentsand economyorspecificinternational,regionalanddomestic futureorganicgrowthandBlackRock’sabilityto
periodwillnotbeearnedand,iftargetsarebasedon
seedinvestmentsinitssponsoredinvestmentfunds. markets,whichmaycauseBlackRock’sAUM,revenue generateperformancefees;
cumulativereturns,theCompanymaynotearn
Movementsintheequity,debtorcurrencymarkets,orin andearningstodecline.
performancefeesinfutureperiods.Thevolatilityofthe •reducedclientandprospectiveclientdemandfor
thepriceofrealassets,commoditiesorotheralternative Geopoliticalrisks,includingthosearisingfromtrade Company’sfuturerevenueandearningsmayalsobe BlackRockproductsandservicesand/orchanging
investments,couldlowerthevalueoftheseinvestmentsas tensionand/ortheimpositionoftradetariffs,European affectedduetoilliquidalternativesbecomingan clientriskpreferenceswhichmayadverselyaffect
wellasotherminorityinvestments,increasethevolatility fragmentation,unrestintheMiddleEastandterrorist increasingcomponentoftheoverallcompositionofthe futureorganicgrowth;
ofBlackRock’searningsandcauseearningstodecline. activity,aswellasactsofcivilorinternationalhostility,are
Company’sperformancefeegeneratingassets.In
•adeclineintechnologyrevenuegrowthasaresultof
increasing.Similarly,othereventsoutsideofBlackRock’s
particular,asBlackRocktakesonmoreadvisory
extendedsalescyclesandlongerimplementation
BlackRockindemnifiescertainsecuritieslendingclients control,includingnaturaldisasters,pandemics(suchas assignmentsforilliquidinvestments,performancefees
periodsasclientsworkremotely;
forspecifiedlossesasaresultofaborrowerdefault. theCOVID-19pandemic)orhealthcrisesmayarisefrom willgenerallyberecognizedoversubstantiallylonger
timetotimeandbeaccompaniedbygovernmental •negativeimpactofthepandemiconBlackRock’s
BlackRockprovidesborrowerdefaultindemnificationto multi-yearperiodsthanthoseassociatedwithmoreliquid
actionsthatmayincreaseinternationaltension.Anysuch clients,andkeyvendors(suchaspricingproviders),
certainofitssecuritieslendingclients.Intheeventofa products.
events,andresponsesthereto,maycausesignificant marketparticipantsandotherthird-partieswith
borrowerdefault,BlackRockwouldusethecollateral
volatilityanddeclinesintheglobalmarkets,disruptionsto whomitdoesbusiness;
pledgedbytheborrowertorepurchasesecuritiesouton Failuretoidentifyerrorsinthequantitativemodels
commerce(includingtoeconomicactivity,traveland
loaninordertoreplacetheminaclient’saccount. BlackRockutilizestomanageitsbusinesscould •thenegativeoperationaleffectsofanextended
supplychains),lossoflifeandpropertydamage,andmay
Borrowerdefaultindemnificationislimitedtotheshortfall adverselyaffectproductperformanceandclient remoteworkingenvironment,includingstrainon
adverselyaffecttheglobaleconomyorcapitalmarkets,as
thatoccursintheeventthecollateralavailableatthetime relationships. Aladdinand/orBlackRock’sotherinternaland
wellastheCompany’sproducts,clients,vendorsand
oftheborrower’sdefaultisinsufficienttorepurchase externaltechnologyresourcesleveragedatthefirm,
employees,whichmaycauseBlackRock’sAUM,revenue BlackRockemploysvariousquantitativemodelstosupport
thosesecuritiesoutonloan.BlackRockrequiresall aswellasthepotentialforheightenedoperational
andearningstodecline.BlackRock’sexposureto itsinvestmentprocesses,includingthoserelatedtorisk
borrowerstomarktomarkettheirpledgedcollateraldaily risks,suchascybersecurityandfraudrisks;
geopoliticalrisksmaybeheightenedtotheextentsuch assessment,portfoliomanagement,tradingandhedging
tolevelsinexcessofthevalueofthesecuritiesoutonloan
risksariseincountriesinwhichBlackRockcurrently activitiesandproductvaluations.Anyerrorsinthe •thepossibilitythatprolongedperiodsawayfrom
tomitigatethelikelihoodoftheindemnitybeingtriggered.
operatesorisseekingtoexpanditspresence. underlyingmodelsormodelassumptions,aswellasany physicalofficelocationsanddailyin-person
Wherethecollateralisintheformofcash,theindemnities
failureofBlackRock’sgovernance,approval,testingand interactionswithcolleaguesmaycausemembersof
BlackRockprovidesdonotguarantee,assumeor
validationstandardsinrespectofsuchmodelsormodel BlackRock’sworkforcetobecomedisconnectedwith
otherwiseinsuretheinvestmentperformanceorreturnof
assumptions,couldhaveunanticipatedandadverse corporatecultureandpolicies,whichmayincrease
anycashcollateralvehicleintowhichthatcashcollateral
consequencesonBlackRock’sbusinessandreputation. operationalissuesarisingfromhumanerrorand/or
isinvested.Theamountofsecuritiesonloanasof
individualattemptstocircumventcontrolsdueto
December31,2020andsubjecttothistypeof
distractions,fatigueoralackofoversight;and
50 BlackRock Annual Report 2020 22 23 BlackRock Annual Report 2020 51
•thedisruptiontoBlackRock’sworkforceduetoillness includingaphishingscam,businessemailcompromise, Anyinformationsecurityincidentorcyber-attackagainst regulatoryscrutiny.Forexample,thechangingpolitical
andhealthconcerns,potentiallimitationsofits malware,ordenial-of-serviceorransomwareattack,oran BlackRockorthirdpartieswithwhomitisconnected, andregulatoryenvironmentincertainjurisdictionsin
remoteworkenvironment(includingany internallycausedincident,suchasfailuretocontrol includinganyinterception,mishandlingormisuseof whichAladdinclientsarebasedhasrequiredBlackRockto
complicationsassociatedwithhiringandonboarding accesstosensitivesystems,couldmateriallyinterrupt personal,confidentialorproprietaryinformation,could opennewdatacentersinthosejurisdictionsinorderto
newemployeesremotely),andgovernment-imposed businessoperationsorcausedisclosureormodificationof resultinmaterialfinancialloss,lossofcompetitive hostclientdataintheclient’shomelocation.Operating
restrictions,lawsandregulations. sensitiveorconfidentialclientorcompetitiveinformation. position,regulatoryfinesand/orsanctions,breachof newdatacentersinforeignjurisdictionsmayexpose
Moreover,developmentsinBlackRock’suseofprocess clientcontracts,reputationalharmorlegalliability,which, BlackRocktoincreasedoperationalcomplexity,aswellas
TheaggregateextenttowhichCOVID-19,andtherelated automation,aswellastheincreaseduseofremoteaccess inturn,maycauseBlackRock’sAUM,revenueand additionalregulatoryrisksassociatedwiththecompliance
globaleconomiccrisis,affectBlackRock’sbusiness, byemployeesandmobileandcloudtechnologies,could earningstodecline. requirementsofsuchjurisdictions.
resultsofoperationsandfinancialcondition,willdepend heightentheseandotheroperationalrisks,ascertain
onfuturedevelopmentsthatarehighlyuncertainand aspectsofthesecurityofsuchtechnologiesmaybe
Failureorunavailabilityofthird-partydependenciesmay Failuretomaintainadequatecorporateandcontingent
cannotbepredicted,includingthescopeanddurationof complex,unpredictableorbeyondBlackRock’scontrol.
adverselyaffectAladdinoperations,whichcouldcause liquiditymaycauseBlackRock’sAUM,liquidityand
thepandemicandanyrecoveryperiod,futureactions BlackRock’sgrowingexposuretothepublicInternet,as
reputationalharm,leadtoalossofclientsandimpede earningstodecline,aswellasharmitsprospectsfor
takenbygovernmentalauthorities,centralbanksand wellasrelianceonmobileorcloudtechnologyorany
BlackRock’sproductivityandgrowth. growth.
otherthirdparties(includingnewfinancialregulationand failurebymobiletechnologyandcloudserviceproviders
otherregulatoryreform)inresponsetothepandemic,and toadequatelysafeguardtheirsystemsandpreventcyber- BlackRockmustmaintaineffectiveinfrastructure, BlackRock’sabilitytomeetanticipatedcashneeds
theeffectsonBlackRock’sproducts,clients,vendorsand attacks,coulddisruptBlackRock’soperationsandresultin includingarobustandsecuretechnologicalframework,in dependsuponanumberoffactors,includingits
employeesandmayexacerbatetheotherrisksdescribed misappropriation,corruptionorlossofpersonal, ordertomaximizethebenefitoftheAladdinplatform.Inso creditworthinessandabilitytogenerateoperatingcash
herein. confidentialorproprietaryinformation.Inaddition,there doing,itreliesinpartoncertainthird-partyservice flows.Inaddition,whileBlackRock,Inc.isnotsubjectto
isariskthatencryptionandotherprotectivemeasures providers.Forexample,Aladdin’sdataarchitecture regulatorycapitalorliquidityrequirements,certainofits
maybecircumvented,particularlytotheextentthatnew dependsonthird-partyprovidersoftechnologysolutions, subsidiariesaresubjecttoregulatorycapitalandliquidity
TECHNOLOGY AND OPERATIONAL RISKS
computingtechnologiesincreasethespeedand includingtheabilityofsuchpartiestoscaleandperform frameworksaswellascertainotherprudential
Afailurein,ordisruptionto,BlackRock’soperational computingpoweravailable. inresponsetoAladdin’sgrowth.Inaddition,theanalytical requirementsandstandards,whichrequirethemto
systemsorinfrastructure,includingbusinesscontinuity capabilitiesofAladdindependontheabilityofanumber maintaincertainlevelsofcapitalandliquidity.Failureto
plans,couldadverselyaffectoperations,damagethe Therehavebeenanumberofrecenthighlypublicized ofthirdpartiestoprovidedataandotherinformationas maintainadequateliquiditycouldleadtounanticipated
Company’sreputationandcauseBlackRock’sAUM, casesinvolvingfinancialservicesandconsumer-based inputsintoAladdin’sanalyticalcalculations.Although costsandforceBlackRocktoreviseexistingstrategicand
revenueandearningstodecline. companiesreportingtheunauthorizeddisclosureofclient BlackRockhasimplementedinternalcontrolsand businessinitiatives.BlackRock’saccesstoequityanddebt
orcustomerinformationandtheunauthorizedtransferof procedures,andmaintainsarobustvendormanagement marketsanditsabilitytoissuepublicorprivatedebt,or
BlackRock’sinfrastructure,includingitstechnological
customerfunds,aswellascyber-attacksinvolvingthe programdesignedtoperformdiligenceandmonitorthird securelinesofcreditorcommercialpaperback-uplines,
capacity,datacentersandofficespace,isvitaltothe
dissemination,theftanddestructionofcorporate partiesthatsupporttheAladdinplatform,therecanbeno onreasonabletermsmaybelimitedbyadversemarket
competitivenessofitsbusiness.Moreover,asignificant
informationorotherassets,asaresultoffailuretofollow assurancethatthesemeasureswillproveeffective.Any conditions,areductioninitslong-orshort-termcredit
portionofBlackRock’scriticalbusinessoperationsare
proceduresbyemployeesorcontractorsorasaresultof failurebythirdpartiestomaintaininfrastructurethatis ratings,orchangesingovernmentregulations,including
concentratedinalimitednumberofgeographicareas,
actionsbythirdparties,includingnationstateactorsand commensuratewithAladdin’ssizeandgrowth,orprovide taxandinterestrates.Failuretoobtainfundsand/or
includingSanFrancisco,NewYork,London,Budapest,
terroristorganizations.BlackRockhasbeenthetargetof thedataorinformationrequiredtosupportitsvarying financing,oranyadversechangetothecostofobtaining
AtlantaandGurgaon.Thefailuretomaintainan
attemptedcyber-attacks,aswellastheco-optingofits capabilities,couldcompromiseAladdin’sresilience,result suchfundsand/orfinancing,maycauseBlackRock’s
infrastructurecommensuratewiththesizeandscopeof
brand,andmustmonitoranddevelopitssystemsto inoperationaldifficulties,causereputationalharmand AUM,liquidityandearningstodecline,curtailits
BlackRock’sbusiness,ortheoccurrenceofabusiness
protectitstechnologyinfrastructureanddatafrom adverselyimpactBlackRock’sabilitytoprovideservicesto operationsandlimitorimpedeitsprospectsforgrowth.
outageoreventoutsideBlackRock’scontrol,includinga
misappropriationorcorruption,asthefailuretodoso itsinvestmentadvisoryandAladdinclients.
majorearthquake,hurricane,fire,terroristact,pandemic
coulddisruptBlackRock’soperationsandcausefinancial
(suchastheCOVID-19pandemic),healthcrisisorother OperatingrisksassociatedwithBlackRock’ssecurities
losses.AlthoughBlackRockhasimplementedpoliciesand
catastrophicevent,ortheactionsofindividualsorgroups ContinuingenhancementstoAladdin’scapabilities,as lendingprogrammayresultinclientlosses.
controls,andtakesprotectivemeasuresinvolving
seekingtodisruptBlackRock’soperationsinanylocation significantexpense,tostrengthenitscomputersystems, wellastheexpansionoftheAladdinplatformintonew BlackRocklendssecuritiestobanksandbroker-dealerson
atwhichBlackRockmaintainsamajorpresence,could processes,software,technologyassetsandnetworksto marketsandgeographies,haveledtosignificantgrowth behalfofcertainofitsclients.Inthesesecuritieslending
materiallyimpactoperations,resultindisruptiontothe preventandaddresspotentialdatabreaches,inadvertent inAladdin’sprocessingscale,whichmayexpose transactions,theborrowerisrequiredtoprovideand
businessorimpedeitsgrowth. disclosures,increasinglysophisticatedcyber-attacksand BlackRocktoreputationalharm,increasedregulatory maintaincollateralatoraboveregulatoryminimums.
scrutinyandheightenedoperational,datamanagement,
cyber-relatedfraud,therecanbenoassurancethatanyof Securitiesonloanaremarkedtomarketdailytodetermine
Inaddition,despiteBlackRock’seffortstoensurebusiness cyber-andinformation-securityrisks.
thesemeasuresproveeffective.Moreover,duetothe iftheborrowerisrequiredtopledgeadditionalcollateral.
continuity,ifitfailstokeepbusinesscontinuityplans
complexityandinterconnectednessofBlackRock’s TheoperationofBlackRock’sAladdinplatformroutinely BlackRockmustmanagethisprocessandischargedwith
up-to-dateorifsuchplans,includingsecureback-up
systems,theprocessofupgradingorpatchingthe involvesupdatingexistingcapabilities,configuration mitigatingtheassociatedoperationalrisks.Thefailureof
facilitiesandsystemsandtheavailabilityofback-up
Company’sprotectivemeasurescoulditselfcreatearisk changemanagement,developing,testingandrollingout BlackRock’scontrolstomitigatesuchoperationalrisks
employees,areimproperlyimplementedordeployed
ofsecurityissuesorsystemdisruptionsfortheCompany, newfunctionalitiesandexpandingcoverageintonew couldresultinfinanciallossesfortheCompany’sclients
duringadisruption,theCompany’sabilitytooperatecould
aswellasforclientswhorelyupon,orhaveexposureto, marketsandgeographies,includinginconnectionwith thatparticipateinitssecuritieslendingprograms
beadverselyimpactedwhichmaycauseAUM,revenue
BlackRock’ssystems. inorganictransactionsortoaddressclientorregulatory (separatefromtherisksofcollateralinvestments),and
andearningstodeclineorimpacttheCompany’sabilityto
requirements.Theseupdatesandexpansioninitiatives, BlackRockmaybeheldliableforanyfailuretomanage
complywithregulatoryobligationsleadingtoreputational
Inaddition,duetoBlackRock’sinterconnectivitywith whichhaveledtosignificantgrowthinAladdin’s suchrisks.
harm,regulatoryfinesand/orsanctions.
third-partyvendors,advisors,centralagents,exchanges, processingscale,frequentlyoccuronacceleratedtime
clearinghousesandotherfinancialinstitutions, framesandmayexposeBlackRocktoadditionalcyber-
InorganictransactionsmayharmtheCompany’s
Acyber-attackorafailuretoimplementeffective BlackRockmaybeadverselyaffectedifanyofthemis andinformation-securityrisks,aswellasincreased
competitiveorfinancialpositioniftheyarenot
informationandcybersecuritypolicies,proceduresand subjecttoasuccessfulcyber-attackorotherinformation execution,operationalanddatamanagementrisks.If
successful.
capabilitiescoulddisruptoperationsandleadtofinancial securityevent,includingthosearisingduetotheuseof BlackRockisunabletomanagethepaceof,orprovidethe
lossesandreputationalharm,whichmaycause mobiletechnologyorathird-partycloudenvironment. operationalresiliencyandstabilityfor,theexpansionof BlackRockemploysavarietyoforganicandinorganic
BlackRock’sAUM,revenueandearningstodecline. BlackRockalsoroutinelytransmitsandreceivespersonal, Aladdinandassociatedgrowthofitsprocessingscale, strategiesintendedtoenhanceearnings,increaseproduct
BlackRockisdependentontheeffectivenessofthe confidentialorproprietaryinformationbyemailandother BlackRockmayexperienceclientattrition,reduced offerings,deliverwhole-portfoliosolutions,accessnew
informationandcybersecuritypolicies,proceduresand electronicmeans.TheCompanycollaborateswithclients, business,reputationalharmorregulatoryfinesand/or clients,leverageadvancesintechnologyandexpandinto
capabilitiesitmaintainstoprotectitscomputerand vendorsandotherthirdpartiestodevelopsecure sanctions,whichmaycauseBlackRock’sAUM,revenue newgeographies.Inorganicstrategieshaveincluded
telecommunicationssystemsandthedatathatresideson transmissioncapabilitiesandprotectagainstcyber- andearningstodecline. hiringsmaller-sizedinvestmentteams,makingminority
attacks.However,BlackRockcannotensurethatitorsuch investmentsinearly-tomid-stagetechnologicaland
oristransmittedthroughthem.Anexternallycaused
thirdpartieshaveallappropriatecontrolsinplaceto Inaddition,thehighlyregulatedbusinessactivitiesof otherventures,enteringintostrategicjointventuresand
informationsecurityincident,suchasacyber-attack
protecttheconfidentialityofsuchinformation. manyAladdinclientsmayexposeBlackRocktoheightened acquiringinvestmentmanagementandtechnology
52 BlackRock Annual Report 2020 24 25 BlackRock Annual Report 2020 53
businesses.Inorganictransactionsinvolveanumberof investmentsorprojectstoadequatelyperformtheir RISKS RELATED TO HUMAN CAPITAL Thefailuretorecruitandretainemployeesanddevelop
financial,accounting,tax,regulatory,geographicaland contractualdutiesoroperateinaccordancewith andimplementeffectiveexecutivesuccessioncouldlead
Thepotentialforhumanerrorinconnectionwith
operationalchallengesanduncertainties,includingin applicablelaws; tothelossofclientsandmaycauseAUM,revenueand
BlackRock’soperationalsystemscoulddisrupt
somecasestheassumptionofpre-existingliabilities, earningstodecline.
•exposuretostringentandcomplexforeign,federal, operations,causelosses,leadtoregulatoryfinesor
whichmustbemanagedinorderforBlackRocktorealize
stateandlocallaws,ordinancesandregulations, damagetheCompany’sreputationandmaycause BlackRock’ssuccessislargelydependentonthetalents
thebenefitofsuchtransactions.Thesuccessof
includingthoserelatedtofinancialcrime,permits, BlackRock’sAUM,revenueandearningstodecline. andeffortsofitshighlyskilledworkforceandthe
BlackRock’sinorganicstrategyalsodependsinlargepart
governmentcontracting,conservation,exploration Company’sabilitytoplanforthefuturelong-termgrowth
onitsabilitytointegratetheworkforce,operations, ManyofBlackRock’soperationsarehighlycomplexand
andproduction,tenancy,occupationalhealthand ofthebusinessbyidentifyinganddevelopingthose
strategies,technologiesandothercomponentsofatarget aredependentontheCompany’sabilitytoprocessand
safety,foreigninvestmentandenvironmental employeeswhocanultimatelytransitionintokeyroles
businessfollowingthecompletionofanacquisition. monitoralargenumberoftransactions,manyofwhich
protection; withinBlackRock.Theglobalmarketforqualifiedfund
BlackRockmayberequiredtocommitsignificant occuracrossnumerousmarketsandcurrenciesathigh
managers,investmentanalysts,technologyandrisk
managementtime,aswellascreatenew,orgrowexisting, •environmentalhazards,suchasnaturalgasleaks, volumesandfrequencies.AlthoughBlackRockexpends
specialistsandotherprofessionalsiscompetitive,and
operationalandsupportfunctions,tofacilitatethe productandwastespills,pipelineandtankruptures, considerableresourcesonsystemiccontrols,supervision,
factorsthataffectBlackRock’sabilitytoattractandretain
integrationofacquiredbusinesses,managecombined andunauthorizeddischargesofproducts,wastesand technologyandtraininginanefforttoensurethatsuch
suchemployeesincludetheCompany’sreputationand
futuregrowthandmaintainacohesivecorporateculture. otherpollutants; transactionsdonotviolateclientguidelinesand
workplaceculture,theimmigrationpoliciesinthe
TherecanbenoassurancethatBlackRockwillbeableto •changestothesupplyanddemandforproperties applicablerulesandregulationsoradverselyaffect jurisdictionsinwhichBlackRockhasoffices,the
successfullyintegrateacquiredbusinesses,retain and/ortenanciesorfluctuationsinthepriceof clients,counterpartiesortheCompany,BlackRock’s compensationandbenefitsitprovides,andits
associatedtalent,scalesupportfunctionsorrealizeother commodities; operationsaredependentonitsemployees.From commitmenttoeffectivelymanagingexecutive
intendedbenefitsofitsinorganicstrategy.Moreover,the time-to-time,employeesmakemistakesthatarenot
•thefinancialresourcesoftenants;and succession,includingthedevelopmentandtrainingof
challengesassociatedwithBlackRock’sinorganicstrategy alwaysimmediatelydetectedbysystems,controls,policies
qualifiedindividuals.
maybeheightenedwheninorganictransactionsarein •contingentliabilitiesondispositionofassets. andproceduresintendedtopreventanddetectsuch
newgeographiclocations,involvenewmarkets,products errors.Thesecanincludecalculationerrors,errorsin Inaddition,apercentageofthedeferredcompensation
orbusinesslinesoraredeliveredviatechnologythat TheaboverisksmayexposeBlackRock’sfundsand softwareimplementationordevelopment,failuretoensure thatBlackRockpaystoitsemployeesistiedtothe
differsfromthatemployedbyBlackRock.Inaddition,in accountstoadditionalexpensesandliabilities,including datasecurity,followprocesses,patchsystemsorreport Company’sshareprice.Assuch,ifBlackRock’sshareprice
thecaseofminorityinvestmentsandjointventures, costsassociatedwithdelaysorremediationcosts,and issues,orerrorsinjudgment.Humanerrors,evenif weretodecrease,theretentionvalueofsuchdeferred
BlackRockmaybesubjecttorisksduetoreputational increasedlegalorregulatorycosts,allofwhichcould promptlydiscoveredandremediated,maydisrupt compensationwoulddecrease.Therecanbenoassurance
harm,liabilityorlossresultingfrom,orrelatingto impactthereturnsearnedbyBlackRock’sclients.These operationsorresultinregulatoryfinesand/orsanctions, thattheCompanywillcontinuetobesuccessfulinits
operatingsystems,riskmanagementcontrols,and riskscouldalsoresultindirectliabilityforBlackRockby breachofclientcontracts,reputationalharmorlegal effortstorecruitandretainemployeesandeffectively
employeesthatareoutsideofBlackRock’scontrol.Any exposingBlackRocktolosses,regulatorysanctionor liability,which,inturn,maycauseBlackRock’sAUM, manageexecutivesuccession.IfBlackRockisunableto
failuretoidentifyandmitigatetherisksassociatedwith litigation,includingclaimsforcompensatoryorpunitive revenueandearningstodecline. offercompetitivecompensationorotherwiseattractand
damages.Similarly,marketconditionsmaychangeduring
acquisitions,jointventuresorminorityinvestments retaintalentedindividuals,orifitfailstoeffectively
thecourseofdevelopmentsorprojectsinwhich
throughduediligence,indemnificationprovisionsand/or Fraud,thecircumventionofcontrolsortheviolationof manageexecutivesuccession,theCompany’sabilityto
BlackRockinveststhatmakesuchdevelopmentorproject
operationalexpertise,ortomanagetheintegrationof riskmanagementandworkplacepoliciescouldhavean competeeffectivelyandretainitsexistingclientsmaybe
lessattractivethanatthetimeitwascommencedand
acquisitionseffectively,couldhaveanadverseeffecton adverseeffectonBlackRock’sreputation,whichmay materiallyimpacted.
potentiallyharmtheinvestmentreturnsofBlackRock’s
BlackRock’sreputationorcauseitsAUM,revenueand causetheCompany’sAUM,revenueandearningsto
clients.Theoccurrenceofanysucheventsmayexpose
earningstodecline,whichmayharmtheCompany’s decline.
BlackRocktoreputationalharm,divertmanagement’s RISKS RELATED TO KEY THIRD-PARTY
competitivepositionintheinvestmentmanagement
attentionawayfromBlackRock’sotherbusinessactivities BlackRockseekstofosterapositiveworkplaceculture,has RELATIONSHIPS
industry.
orcauseitsAUM,revenueandearningstodecline. adoptedacomprehensiveriskmanagementprocessand Theimpairmentorfailureofthirdpartiesmaynegatively
continuestoenhancevariouscontrols,procedures,
impacttheperformanceofproductsandaccountsthat
Clientinvestmentsinrealassets,suchasrealestate, policiesandsystemstomonitorandmanagerisks.
OperatingininternationalmarketsincreasesBlackRock’s BlackRockmanages,whichmaycauseBlackRock’sAUM,
infrastructureandenergyassets,mayexposeBlackRock Notwithstandingthesemeasures,BlackRockcannot
operational,political,regulatoryandotherrisks. revenueandearningstodecline.
anditsfundsandaccountstoneworincreasedrisksand ensurethatitsworkplacecultureorsuchcontrols,
liabilities,aswellasreputationalharm. AsaresultofBlackRock’sextensiveinternational procedures,policiesandsystemswillsuccessfullyidentify BlackRock’sinvestmentmanagementactivitiesexposethe
BlackRockmakesinvestmentsonbehalfofitsclientsin operations,theCompanyfacesassociatedoperational, andmanageinternalandexternalrisksandBlackRock productsandaccountsitmanagesforitsclientstomany
realassets,includingrealestate,infrastructureand regulatory,reputational,politicalandforeignexchange employeeshaveinthepastengagedinimproperconduct. differentindustriesandcounterparties,including
energyassets,thatmayexposeBlackRockanditsfunds raterisks,manyofwhichareoutsideoftheCompany’s Inaddition,BlackRockissubjecttotheriskthatits distributors,brokersanddealers,commercialand
andaccountstoincreasedrisksandliabilitiesthatare control.OperatingoutsidetheUnitedStates(“US”)may employees,contractorsorotherthirdpartiesmayinthe investmentbanks,clearingorganizations,mutualand
inherentintheownershipandmanagementofsuch alsoexposeBlackRocktoincreasedcompliancerisks,as futuredeliberatelyorrecklesslyseektocircumvent hedgefunds,andotherinstitutionalclients.Transactions
assets.Thesemayinclude: wellashighercompliancecoststocomplywithUSand establishedcontrolstocommitfraud,payorsolicitbribes withcounterpartiesexposeBlackRock’sclientstocredit
non-USanti-corruption,anti-moneylaunderingand orotherwiseactinwaysthatareinconsistentwiththe riskintheeventtheapplicablecounterpartydefaults.
•constructionrisks,includingasaresultofforce sanctionslawsandregulations.Similarly,certain Company’scontrols,policies,procedures,workplace AlthoughBlackRockmaintainsarobustvendor
majeure,labordisputesorworkstoppages,shortages jurisdictionsinwhichBlackRockoperatesmaynothave cultureorprinciples.Thisriskmaybeheightenedas managementprogramandregularlyassessesrisksposed
ofmaterialorinterruptionstotheavailabilityof comparablelevelsofprotectionforcorporateassets,such BlackRockexpandsintonewmarketsandincreasesthe byitscounterparties,suchcounterpartiesmaybesubject
necessaryequipment; asintellectualproperty,andclientinformationand breadthofitsbusinessofferings,bothofwhichintroduce tosuddenswingsinthefinancialandcreditmarketsthat
•accidents,pandemics(suchastheCOVID-19 records,astheUS.Asaresult,theremayalsobe additionalcomplexitytoitsriskmanagementprogram. mayimpairtheirabilitytoperformortheymayfailtomeet
pandemic),healthcrisesorcatastrophicevents,such heightenedinformationsecurityorprivacyrisksinthose Persistentattemptstocircumventpoliciesandcontrolsor theirobligations.Counterpartiesmayalsoexperience
asexplosions,firesorterroristactivitybeyond jurisdictions.Anytheftofdata,technologyorintellectual repeatedincidentsinvolvingfraud,conflictsofinterestsor lapsesintheirinternalcontrolsorriskmanagement
BlackRock’scontrol; propertymaynegativelyimpactBlackRock’sbusiness transgressionsofpoliciesandcontrolscouldhavean systemsorexposeBlackRockand/oritsclientstolosses
operationsandreputation.ThefailureoftheCompany’s adverseeffectonBlackRock’sreputation,causeadverse onaccountofemployeemalfeasance,negligenceor
•risksassociatedwithglobalclimatechange,including
systemsofinternalcontroltomitigatesuchrisks,orofits publicity,andresultinlitigation,regulatoryinquiries,fines humanerror.Inaddition,theconcentrationofcertain
thegreaterfrequencyorintensityofadverseweather
operatinginfrastructuretosupportitsglobalactivities, and/orsanctions,whichmaycausetheCompany’sAUM, financialinstitutionsthatBlackRockusestofacilitate
andnaturaldisasters;
couldresultinoperationalfailuresandregulatoryfines revenueandearningstodecline. securitiesandderivativestransactionsforitsclients,
•personalinjuryorpropertydamage; and/orsanctions,whichmaycausetheCompany’sAUM, includingclearingorganizations,exchangesandcentral
revenueandearningstodecline. agents,increasestheriskthatatechnicaloroperational
•failuresonthepartofthird-partymanagersor
issueat,ordefaultby,onesuchinstitutioncouldintroduce
sub-contractorsappointedinconnectionwith
operationalissuesordelaysimpactingmultipleBlackRock
clients.Anysuchoperationalissue,impairmentorfailure
54 BlackRock Annual Report 2020 26 27 BlackRock Annual Report 2020 55
couldnegativelyimpacttheperformanceofproductsor potentiallyresultinginreduceddistributionand/or resilience,stabilityandtransparencyofETFmarkets, regulationscouldresultinfinesand/orsanctions,
accountsthatBlackRockmanagesforitsclients,which marketingofcertainoftheCompany’sproductsand includingduringperiodsofvolatility,anddespite temporaryorpermanentprohibitionofcertainactivities,
mayleadtoclientattritionand,inturn,causeBlackRock’s servicesandfeecompression.IfBlackRockisunableto BlackRock’scontinuingworkwithregulatorsandother reputationalharmandrelatedclientterminations,
AUM,revenueandearningstodecline. distributeitsproductsandservicessuccessfullyorifitis thirdpartiestoimplementadditionalETFreforms,there suspensionsofemployeesorrevocationoftheirlicenses,
unabletoreplaceorrenewexistingdistribution canbenoassurancethatanysuchreformswillbe suspensionorterminationofinvestmentadviser,broker-
arrangements,BlackRock’sAUM,revenueandearnings implementedinatimelyoreffectivefashion,oratall. dealerorotherregistrations,orsuspensionortermination
ThefailureofakeyvendortoBlackRocktofulfillits
maydecline.Inaddition,improperactivities,aswellas Moreover,ifmarketeventsleadtoincidenceswhereETFs ofBlackRock’sbankcharterorothersanctions,which
obligationsorafailurebyBlackRocktomaintainits
inadequateanti-moneylaunderingdiligenceconducted tradeatpricesthatdeviatemeaningfullyfromanETF’s couldhaveamaterialadverseeffectonBlackRock’s
relationshipswithkeyvendorscouldhaveamaterial
bythird-partydistributors,couldcreatereputationaland NAV,ortradinghaltsareinvokedbytherelevantstock reputationorbusinessandmaycausetheCompany’s
adverseeffectonBlackRock’sgrowth,reputationor
regulatoryharmtoBlackRock. exchangeormarket,investorsmayloseconfidenceinETF AUM,revenueandearningstodecline.Foramore
business,whichmaycausetheCompany’sAUM,revenue
productsandredeemtheirholdings,whichmaycause extensivediscussionofthelaws,regulationsand
andearningstodecline.
BlackRock’sAUM,revenueandearningstodecline. regulatorstowhichBlackRockissubjectandregulatedby,
KeytechnologypartnershipsmayexposeBlackRockto
BlackRockdependsonanumberofkeyvendorsfor
seeItem1,Business–Regulation.
increasedregulatoryoversight,aswellasmigration,
variousfundadministration,accounting,custody,market
execution,technologyandoperationalrisks. LEGAL, REGULATORY AND REPUTATIONAL
data,marketindices,technologyandtransferagentroles
RISKS RegulatoryreformsintheUnitedStatesexpose
andotherdistributionandoperationalneeds.BlackRock InApril2020,BlackRockannouncedastrategic
BlackRocktoincreasingregulatoryscrutiny,aswellas
reliesuponarelativelyconcentratedgroupofthird-party partnershiptohostAladdininfrastructureontheMicrosoft BlackRockissubjecttoextensiveregulationaroundthe
regulatoryuncertainty.
indexproviderstodeliverservicesthatareintegraltoits Azurecloudandcommencedamulti-yearplantomigrate world.
clients’investmentdecisions.Theindexproviderindustry theAladdinenvironmentsforBlackRockanditsexternal Inrecentyearsanumberofregulatoryreformshavebeen
BlackRock’sbusinessissubjecttoextensiveregulation
ischaracterizedbylargevendorsandtheuseoflong-term Aladdinclientstothecloud.Thebenefitsofacloud-based proposedorfullyorpartiallyimplementedintheUnited
aroundtheworld.TheseregulationssubjectBlackRock’s
contractsremainsthemarketstandard.Thisindustry platformaresignificantandBlackRockhasadopteda States,andthelevelofregulatoryscrutinytowhich
businessactivitiestoanarrayofincreasinglydetailed
structuremaylimitBlackRock’sabilitytorenegotiateits robustrisk-basedapproachtoitsmigrationstrategy; BlackRockissubjecthasincreased.BlackRock,aswellas
operationalrequirements,compliancewithwhichiscostly
indexprovidercontractsonfavorabletermsoratall.While howeverthepartnershipalsointroducesnewrisks, itsclients,vendorsanddistributors,haveexpended
andcomplex.Inaddition,manyofBlackRock’slegal
BlackRockperformsfocuseddiligenceonitsvendorsinan including:(i)risksassociatedwithrelyingonathird-party resourcesandalteredcertainoftheirbusinessor
entitiesmaybesubjecttolawsandregulationsaimedat
efforttoensuretheyoperateinaccordancewith foraspectsofthereliabilityandstabilityofAladdin’s operatingactivitiestopreparefor,addressandmeetthe
preventingcorruption,moneylaundering,inappropriate
expectations,totheextentanysignificantdeficienciesare infrastructure;(ii)softwareandinformationsecurityrisks requirementsthatsuchregulatoryreformsimpose.While
employmentpractices,illegalpaymentsandengagingin
uncovered,theremaybefew,orno,alternativevendors arisingfromtheuseofcloudtechnology;(iii)operational BlackRockis,ormaybecome,subjecttonumerousreform
businessactivitieswithcertainindividuals,countriesor
available.Moreover,insituationswhereBlackRockhas andexecutionrisks,includingthoserelatedtomigration; initiativesintheUnitedStates,seeItem1,Business–
groups,includingbutnotlimitedtotheUSForeign
limitedaccesstoalternativevendors,orwherethenature and(iv)risksrelatedtoincreasedregulatoryoversightand Regulation,keyregulatoryreformsthatmayimpactthe
CorruptPracticesAct,theUSAPATRIOTAct,theBank
ofBlackRock’sarrangementwithavendorrequiresalong newcomplianceobligations.AnyfailurebyBlackRockto Companyinclude:
SecrecyAct,theUKBriberyAct,sanctionsimposedbythe
term-commitment,BlackRockmaybedependentonsuch managetheserisks,and/orrisksassociatedwithfuture
USTreasury’sOfficeofForeignAssetsControl,theUnited •Designationasasystemicallyimportantfinancial
vendorforcontinuousoperationalreliabilityandmaybe potentialtechnologypartnerships,mayresultin
NationsandtheEuropeanUnion(“EU”)anditsmember institution(“SIFI”):TheFinancialStabilityOversight
unabletoavoidincurringcostsifsuchvendorintroduces escalatingcosts,financialloss,clientdissatisfactionor
states,aswellasthoseimposedbyothercountriesin Council(“FSOC”)hastheauthoritytodesignate
requiredupgradestoitsservices. attrition,regulatoryfinesand/orsanctions,reputational
whichBlackRockoperates,suchasHerMajesty’s nonbankfinancialinstitutionsasSIFIsintheUnited
harmorlegalliability,which,inturn,maycause
Treasury’sOfficeofFinancialSanctionsImplementation. StatesundertheDodd-FrankWallStreetReformand
BlackRockmayfromtimetotimetransferkeycontracts BlackRock’sAUM,revenueandearningstodecline.
BlackRockisalsosubjecttocertainriskretentionrules ConsumerProtectionActof2010.InJuly2014,the
fromonevendortoanother.Keycontracttransfersmaybe
andregulation,aswellasregulatorycapitalrequirements, FSOCpivotedfromitspreviousentity-specific
costlyandcomplex,andexposeBlackRocktoheightened
Disruptiontotheoperationsofthirdpartieswhose whichrequiretheCompanytomaintaincapitaltosupport approachtodesignationandindicatedthatitwould
operationalrisks.Anyfailuretomitigatesuchriskscould
functionsareintegraltoBlackRock’sExchange-Traded certainofitsbusinesses.Furthermore,manyjurisdictions focusonaproductsandactivities-basedapproachto
resultinreputationalharm,aswellasfinanciallossesto
Fund(“ETF”)platformmayadverselyaffectthepricesat inwhichBlackRockoperateshavelawsandregulations designationinconnectionwithaddressingpotential
BlackRockanditsclients.Thefailureorinabilityof
whichETFstrade,particularlyduringperiodsofmarket relatingtodataprivacy,cybersecurityandprotectionof risksinthefinancialsystemrelatedtoasset
BlackRocktodiversifyitssourcesforkeyservicesorthe
volatility. personalinformation,includingtheGeneralData management.InDecember2019,theFSOC
failureofanykeyvendortofulfillitsobligationscould
resultinactivitiesinconsistentwithclients’investment BlackRockisthelargestproviderofETFsglobally.Shares ProtectionRegulation,whichexpandsdataprotection re-affirmedthisapproachwhenitvotedtochangeits
managementorotheragreements,haveanadverse ofETFstradeonstockexchangesatpricesat,aboveor rulesforindividualswithintheEUandforpersonaldata methodologyforassessingfinancialstabilitytoa
financialimpactonBlackRockproductsorleadto belowtheETF’smostrecentnetassetvalue(“NAV”).The exportedoutsidetheEU.BlackRockisadditionallysubject productsandactivities-basedapproach.Thisreduces
operationalandregulatoryissuesfortheCompany,which NAVofanETFiscalculatedattheendofeachbusiness toscrutinyfromvariousgovernmentagenciesthatfocus theriskofanentity-leveldesignation,howeverit
couldresultinreputationalharmorlegalliability,fines dayandfluctuateswithchangesinthemarketvalueofthe onantitrustandcompetitionlawsandregulationswithin remainstooearlytopredictthedirectionofthe
and/orsanctionsandmaycauseBlackRock’sAUM, ETF’sholdings.ThetradingpriceoftheETF’sshares theUSandinternationally,includinginconnectionwith forthcomingregulatoryenvironmentandtheFSOC
revenueandearningstodecline. fluctuatescontinuouslythroughouttradinghours.The mergercontrolproceedingsandproposedinvestments. retainstheauthoritytodesignateanentityifan
creation/redemptionfeatureandarbitragemechanismof Anydeterminationofafailuretocomplywithanysuch activities-basedapproachdoesnotadequately
anETFaredesignedtomakeitmorelikelythattheETF’s lawsorregulationscouldresultinfinesand/orsanctions addresspotentialrisks.IntheeventthatBlackRockis
AnydisruptiontotheCompany’sdistributionchannels
sharesnormallywilltradeatpricesclosetotheNAV. againsttheCompany,aswellasreputationalharm. designatedasaSIFI,itcouldbecomesubjectto
maycauseBlackRock’sAUM,revenueandearningsto
Notwithstandingthesefeatures,exchangepriceshavein Moreover,totheextentthattheselawsandregulations enhancedregulatoryrequirementsanddirect
decline.
thepastdeviatedmeasurablyfromtheNAVofcertain becomemorestringent,orifBlackRockisrequiredtohold supervisionbytheFederalReserve.
BlackRockreliesonanumberofthirdpartiestoprovide ETFsandmayundercertaincircumstancesdosointhe increasedlevelsofcapitaltosupportitsbusinesses,the •FederalTradeCommissionProposal:InSeptember
distribution,portfolioadministrationandservicingfor future.ETFmarketpricesaresubjecttonumerous Company’sfinancialperformanceorplansforgrowthmay 2020,theFederalTradeCommission(“FTC”)released
certainBlackRockinvestmentmanagementproductsand potentialrisks,includingtradinghaltsinvokedbyastock beadverselyimpacted. aNoticeofProposedRulemakingproposingupdates
servicesthroughtheirvariousdistributionchannels. exchange,andtheinabilityorunwillingnessofmarket topremergernotificationrulesenactedunderthe
BlackRockmayalsobeadverselyaffectedbyafailureto
BlackRock’sabilitytomaintainstrongrelationshipswith makers,authorizedparticipants,settlementsystemsor Hart-Scott-RodinoAntitrustImprovementsActof
complywithexistinglawsandregulationsorbychanges
itsdistributorsmayimpacttheCompany’sfuture othermarketparticipantstoperformfunctionsnecessary 1976(“HSR”)thatrequirepartiestocertain
intheinterpretationorenforcementofsuchlawsand
performance,anditsrelationshipswithdistributorsare foranETF’sarbitragemechanismtofunctioneffectively. transactionstoprovidetheFTCandtheAntitrust
regulations,includingthosediscussedabove.Challenges
subjecttoperiodicrenegotiationthatmayresultin Theserisksmaybeheightenedasaresultofsignificant DivisionoftheDepartmentofJusticepriornoticeand
associatedwithinterpretingregulationsissuedin
increaseddistributioncostsand/orreductionsinthe marketvolatility,theacceleratinggrowthoftheETF observeawaitingperiodbeforeconsummationof
numerouscountriesinagloballyconsistentmannermay
amountofBlackRockproductsandservicesbeing industrycombinedwithincreasedmarketactivity,aswell suchtransactions.Theproposalswould:(i)require
addtosuchrisks,ifregulatorsindifferentjurisdictions
marketedordistributed.Moreover,newfiduciary asthecomplexityassociatedwiththegrowingdemandfor thatinvestorsaggregateholdingsinanissueracross
haveinconsistentviewsorprovideonlylimitedregulatory
regulationscouldleadtosignificantshiftsindistributors’ productcustomization.Althoughcertainstructural allassociatedfundswhenassessingHSRfilingand
guidance.Inparticular,violationofapplicablelawsor
businessmodelsandmorelimitedproductofferings, improvementshavecontributedtotheincreasing exemptionthresholdsand(ii)createanewexemption
56 BlackRock Annual Report 2020 28 29 BlackRock Annual Report 2020 57
foracquisitionsresultinginaggregateholdingsofup remainstooearlytoaccuratelypredictthe (“DORA”),whichwasproposedbytheECin UndertakingsforCollectiveInvestmentin
to10%ofanissuer,whichwouldbeunavailableto forthcomingregulatoryenvironment,includingwith September2020andfocusesondirectregulationof TransferableSecurities(“UCITS”),BlackRock’sability
investorsholdinginterestsofmorethan1%in respecttoregulationofmoneymarketfunds,certain providersandusersoftechnologyanddataservices. tooffercollectiveinvestmentfundsandcertain
competingfirms.Ifenactedasdrafted,theproposal ofthesereforms,ifeveradopted,couldsignificantly Ifenactedasproposed,DORAmay,amongother investmentservicestoEU-basedclientsmaybe
requiringaggregationacrossassociatedfundscould, impactmoneymarketfundsandthemoneymarket things:(i)introduceadditionalgovernance,risk adverselyaffected.
absentexemptionsforindex-fundsorcertaintypesof fundindustry. management,incidentreporting,testingand
•SeniorManagersandCertificationRegime:IntheUK,
registeredfunds,substantiallyincreaseBlackRock’s informationsharingrequirementstoanumberof
theFCAextendedtheSeniorManagersand
pre-mergernotificationobligations,whichmaybe RegulatoryreformsintheUnitedStatescouldrequire BlackRock’sEuropeanentitiesandcertainAladdin
CertificationRegime(“SMCR”)toallfinancialservices
costly,impairfunds’abilitytotradefreely,requirethe BlackRocktoalteritsfuturebusinessoroperating clients;and(ii)subjectAladdintobroadadditional
firmsinDecember2019.Theregimeimposesgreater
activities,whichcouldbecostly,impedetheCompany’s
implementationofmonitoringtoolsandintroduce oversight.Separately,inNovember2020,the
accountabilityandresponsibilityacrossthesenior
growthandcauseitsAUM,revenueandearningsto
additionalcomplianceburdensforbothBlackRock FinancialStabilityBoardreleasedaConsultationon
managementofUKfinancialservicesfirmsbymaking
decline.RegulatoryreformmayalsoimpactBlackRock’s
andthecompaniesinwhichitinvests.Ininstances RegulatoryandSupervisoryIssuesRelatingto
individualsinimpactedfirmsmoreaccountablefor
banking,insurancecompanyandpensionfundclients,
wheremakingapre-mergernotificationmaynotbe OutsourcingandThird-PartyRelationships,which
conductandcompetence.SMCRimpactsnearlyall
whichcouldcausethemtochangetheirinvestment
practicable,theproposedchangesmayservetolimit exploresdirectsupervisionoftechnologyservice
staffoftheCompanyintheUK,andrequires
strategiesorallocationsinmannersthatmaybeadverse
thesizeofBlackRock’saggregatepositionincertain providerstofinancialservicesfirms,inadditionto
extensivedocumentationtosupportseniormanagers
toBlackRock.
issuers. detailingconcernsaroundthepotentialforsystemic
andevidencethedischargeoftheirresponsibilities.
riskintheprovisionofsuchservices.
•SecuritiesandExchangeCommission(“SEC”)
•UKassetmanagementmarketstudy:TheFCAhas
InternationalregulatoryreformsexposeBlackRockand
RulemakingsforUSRegisteredFundsandInvestment •Macroprudentialpoliciesforassetmanagers:Certain
adoptedrequirementsforUKfundmanagersto
itsclientstoincreasingregulatoryscrutiny,aswellas
Advisers:TheSECanditsstaffrecentlyhaveengaged policymakerscontinuetoraiselong-standing
assesswhethertheretailcollectiveinvestmentsthey
regulatoryuncertainty.
invariousinitiativesandreviewsthatseektoimprove concernsaboutliquidityandleveragerisksinthe
manageoffer“value”toinvestors.In2020,the
andmodernizetheregulatorystructuregoverningthe BlackRock’sbusinessandoperatingactivitiesaresubject assetmanagementindustryandwidermarket-based
Companyinitiatedtheprovisionofanannual
assetmanagementindustry,andregistered toincreasingregulatoryoversightoutsideoftheUnited financesector.TheCOVID-19pandemichas
assessmentbaseduponvariousfactorsincluding
investmentcompaniesinparticular.Theseefforts StatesandtheCompanymaybeaffectedbyanumberof heightenedconcernsandpromptedabroadreviewof
cost,performanceandcomparableservices.If“value”
relateto,amongotherthings,embeddedleverage proposedorfullyorpartiallyimplementedreform existingfinancialmarketregulationsbyinternational
hasnotbeenprovidedtoconsumers,theCompany
throughtheuseofderivativesandothertrading initiativesinEMEAandtheAsia-Pacificregion,aswellas standardsettersandregulatorsacrosstheAmericas,
willneedtoaddressanyidentifieddeficiencies.The
practices,cybersecurity,liquidity,enhanced volatilityassociatedwithinternationalregulatory EuropeandAsia,includinganassessmentofthe
FCAalsorequestedthattheUK’sCompetitionand
regulatoryandpublicreportingrequirementsandthe uncertainty,including: adequacyofcertainstructuralcomponentsofcurrent
MarketsAuthority(“CMA”)assesstheinvestment
evaluationofsystemicrisks.Overthepastyear,the marketsinmitigatingrisks.Intheeventthateither
•BritishExitfromtheEU:OnDecember31,2020,the consultantandfiduciarymarkets.TheCMA’sfinal
SEChasadoptedrulesthatincludeamongother thelonger-standingconcernsorrecentbroadreview
UnitedKingdom(“UK”)lefttheEU,andtheUKandEU reportidentifiedanumberofcompetitionissuesin
things:(i)theregulationoftheuseofderivatives;(ii)a resultinregulatoryorpolicyaction,macroprudential
revertedtobeingdistinctregulatory,legaland suchmarketsandtheUKregulatoryregimewas
newregulatoryframeworkforfundoffunds toolsmaybegintoapplytoopen-endedinvestment
customsterritories.Althoughan“EU-UKTradeand revisedin2020tointroducemandatorytenderingof
structures;and(iii)updatedeligibilityrequirements fundsbroadly.BlackRockmayalsoberequiredto
CooperationAgreement”wasagreedtoinconnection investmentconsultancyandfiduciarymanagement
forsubmittingshareholderproposalsunderthe makechangestostructuralfeaturesofcertainopen-
withtheUK’sdeparturefromtheEU,itdoesnot services,andnewstandardsofdisclosureoffeesand
SecuritiesExchangeActof1934,asamended.These endedinvestmentfunds.Eithereventualitycouldlimit
includeanysubstantiveprovisionswithrespectto performance.TheCMA’sremediescouldhavea
rules,andanyadditionalrulesorregulatoryinitiatives BlackRock’sabilitytoofferproductstocertainclients
financialservices.Asaresult,fromJanuary1,2021, significantimpactontheCompany’sabilitytoenter
resultingfromtheSEC’sefforts,mayincrease and/orresultinclientsalteringtheirinvestment
cross-borderfinancialservicestradebetweentheUK intofiduciaryandinvestmentmanagementmandates
BlackRock’sregulatorycompliancerequirementsas strategiesorallocationsinamannerthatisadverseto
andtheEUwillbegovernedbytheirrespective withUKpensionfundclients.
wellasdisclosurerequirements,whichcouldbecostly BlackRock.
financialservicesregulationsandmarketaccess
•SustainabilityRegulation:In2018,theECintroduced
andmayimpedeBlackRock’sgrowth.
regimes.BlackRockhasimplementedanumberof •Revisedcapitalrequirementsforinvestmentfirms:In
anumberofregulatoryproposalstounderpin
•StandardsofConductRulemaking:InJune2019,the stepstoprepareforthisoutcome.Thesesteps,which December2017,theEuropeanCommission(“EC”)
sustainableinvestmentproducts;requiredisclosure
SECadoptedapackageofrulemakingsand areandhavebeentimeconsumingandcostlyand publishedaproposalforanewDirectiveand
ofsustainability-relatedinformationbymarket
interpretationsaddressinginvestmentadviserand mayaddcomplexitytoBlackRock’sfutureEuropean RegulationonprudentialrequirementsforMarketsin
participants,investmentsproducts,andissuers;and
broker-dealerstandardsofconduct.Thepackage operations,includeeffectingorganizational, FinancialInstrumentsDirectiveinvestmentfirms.The
requiretheintegrationofsustainability
includednewrulesrequiringregisteredadvisersand governanceandoperationalchanges,applyingfor proposalpassedtheEUlegislativeprocessandthe
considerationsintotheinvestmentandrisk
registeredbroker-dealerstoprovidearelationship andreceivingadditionallicensesandpermissionsin finaltextsoftheRegulationandDirectivewere
managementprocessesofassetmanagersandother
summarytoretailinvestors,anewruleestablishinga theEU,andengaginginclientcommunications.In publishedinDecember2019.Thenewlegislative
institutionalinvestors.Rulesarisingfromthereform
standardofconductforbroker-dealerswhenmaking addition,dependingonhowthefuturerelationship package,whichcomesintoeffectin2021,willresult
proposalswilltakeeffectinMarch2021.Regulators
recommendationstoretailcustomers,andtwonew betweentheUKandtheEUdevelops,BlackRockmay inchangestotheamountofregulatorycapital
inAsiahavebeensimilarlyfocusedonsustainability
interpretationsundertheInvestmentAdvisersActof experiencefurtherorganizationalandoperational BlackRockisrequiredtoholdintheEUandhowsuch
reforminitiatives.InDecember2020,theMonetary
1940.Theserulemakingsandinterpretationscould challengesandincuradditionalcostsinconnection capitaliscalculated,aswellasintroducerevised
AuthorityofSingaporefinalizeditsGuidelineson
increaseBlackRock’sdisclosureobligations,impact withitsEuropeanoperations,particularlywith disclosureobligationsforlargeinvestmentfirms.The
EnvironmentalRiskManagementfortheasset
distributionarrangementsbetweenBlackRockandits regardstodelegationandoutsourcing,whichmay UKisalsoproposingtheadoptionofcomparable
managementindustry.Theguidelinessetforth
distributionpartners,createcomplianceand impedetheCompany’sgrowthorimpactitsfinancial rules,whichwillapplytoUK-basedinvestmentfirms
enhancedenvironmentalriskassessment,monitoring
operationalchallengesforBlackRock’sdistribution performance. from2022.
andoversightpracticesthatcertainfundsregistered
partnersandlimitBlackRock’sabilitytoprovide
•UKOverseasFundsRegime:Aspartofitspost-EU •EUmarketaccess:In2019,theECcommenceda orlicensedinSingaporewillberequiredtoimplement
certainotherservicestoitsclients.
membershipregulatoryreview,theFinancialConduct reviewoftheAlternativeInvestmentFundManagers overan18-monthtransitionperiod.TheHongKong
•MoneyMarketReform:Followingmarketliquidity Authority(“FCA”)isreviewingtherequirementsitwill Directivetoassess,amongotherthings,the SecuritiesandFuturesCommissionproposedsimilar
issuesthataroseinMarch2020inconnectionwith imposeonEU-domiciledfundsofferedintotheUK. conditionsfordelegatingportfoliomanagement enhancementstosustainabilityriskmanagement
thespreadoftheCOVID-19pandemic,regulatory Anynewrequirementscouldintroducecostand mandatestothirdcountries,theeffectivenessof practicesanddisclosurerequirementsforfundsina
authoritiesarefocusedontheneedforfurther complexitytoBlackRock’scross-borderbusiness regulationonthirdcountryfundmarketingpassports ConsultationPaperitissuedinOctober2020.
regulationforcertainmoneymarketfunds.In model. andthecontinuationofnationalprivateplacement
•SecuritiesFinancingTransactionRegulation(“SFTR”):
December2020,thePresident’sWorkingGroupon regimes.Totheextentthereviewresultsinformal
•Enhancedregulatoryscrutinyoftechnologyservice InNovember2015,theEUintroducedaregulationon
FinancialMarketsissuedareportoutliningten legislationthatlimitsthescopeofexistingpermitted
providerstofinancialservicesfirms:Therehasbeen thereportingandtransparencyofsecuritiesfinancing
potentialpolicymeasuresforconsiderationto activitiesandEUmarketaccessrightsforasset
growingregulatoryscrutinyoftechnologyservice transactionsandtotalreturnswaps.TheSFTRaimsto
improvetheresiliencyofmoneymarketfundsandthe managementfirmswithnon-EUoperations,or
providersonwhichfinancialservicesfirmsarereliant, improvethetransparencysurroundingsecurities
broadershort-termfundingmarkets.Althoughit extendsmorestringentrulestotheDirectiveon
includingtheDigitalOperationalResilienceAct financingtransactionsandtotalreturnswapsby,
58 BlackRock Annual Report 2020 30 31 BlackRock Annual Report 2020 59
amongotherthings,requiringreportingofsecurities Inaddition,whenclientsretainBlackRocktomanagetheir BlackRockissubjecttoUSbankingregulationsthatmay associatedwithcommonownershipandpurportstolink
financingtransactionstoatraderepositoryand assetsorprovidethemwithproductsorservices,they limititsbusinessactivities. aggregatedequitypositionsincertainconcentrated
requiringdisclosureoftheuseofsecuritiesfinancing typicallyspecifycontractualrequirementsorguidelines industrieswithhigherconsumerpricesandexecutive
BlackRock’strustbanksubsidiary,whichisanational
transactionsandtotalreturnswapstoinvestors. thatBlackRockmustobserveintheprovisionofits compensation,amongotherthings.IntheUS,theFTC
bankingassociationcharteredbytheOCC,issubjectto
During2020,additionalobligationsbecameeffective services.Afailuretocomplywiththeseguidelinesor during2018heldhearingsonCompetitionandConsumer
OCCregulationandcapitalrequirements.TheOCChas
undertheSFTRthatrequireBlackRocktosubmit requirementscouldexposeBlackRocktolawsuits,harmits Protectioninthe21stCentury,whichincludedadiscussion
broadsupervisoryandenforcementauthorityover
additionaltransactionreportswithsubstantivedetails reputationorcauseclientstowithdrawassetsorterminate ofcommonownership,andin2020,commonownershipwas
BlackRock’strustbank.Beingsubjecttobanking
oftradingactivitytoauthorities.Compliancewiththe contracts. citedasadisqualifyingfactorinanewlyproposedexemption
regulationmayputBlackRockatacompetitive
SFTRmaysubjectBlackRocktoadditionalexpenses fromtheFTC’spre-mergernotificationrules.Common
disadvantagebecausecertainofitscompetitorsarenot
andcouldleadtomodificationsinBlackRock’s DamagetoBlackRock’sreputationmayharmits subjecttotheselimitations. ownershipwasalsocitedasaconsiderationunderlyingthe
securitiesfinancingtransactionactivities. business. FTC’sconsultationontherulesthatapplytoacquisitionsof
votingsecuritiesbyinvestmententities.AlthoughtheFTC
•CentralSecuritiesDepositoryRegulation:Asettlement BlackRock’sreputationiscriticaltoitsrelationshipswith
Theimplicationsofcomplyingwiththresholdlimitsand/ acknowledgedthatthecommonownershipdebateremains
disciplineregimeintroducedbytheCentralSecurities itsclients,employees,shareholdersandbusiness
oranyfailuretocomplywithownershipreporting unsettled,itisexpectedthatcommonownershipmaybe
DepositoryRegulationwillbecomeeffectivein partners.BlackRock’sreputationmaybeharmedby,
requirementscouldresultinharmtoBlackRock’s givengreaterconsiderationinconnectionwithFTCrule
February2022.Theregimeincludesmeasuresto amongotherfactors,regulatoryorenforcementactions,
reputation,impacttheperformanceofcertainBlackRock proposals,policydecisionsand/orthescrutinyofmergers.
addresssettlementfailuresincludingrulesfortrade technologyoroperationalfailures,poorinvestment
fundsandmaycauseitsAUM,revenueandearningsto IntheEU,boththeECandtheEuropeanParliament
allocationandconfirmationprocessing,alongwith performance,ineffectivemanagementormonitoringof
decline. releasedreportsin2020oncommonownership.Neither
cashpenaltiesforfailedtransactionsandmandatory keythird-partyrelationships,cyber-securityorother
buy-inrequirements.Totheextentleftunchangedby privacyincidents,employeeerrorsormisconduct,afailure Ofnoteamongthevariousinternationalregulationsto reporttookapositionthatcommonownershiphadan
areviewthatisscheduledtotakeplaceduring2021, tomanageenvironmental,social,andgovernancerisks,or whichBlackRockissubjectaretheextensiveand adverseimpactoncompetition.Itisexpectedthatcommon
theregimewillrequireBlackRocktointroduce afailuretomanageconflictsofinterest.Inaddition, increasinglystringentregulatoryreportingrequirements ownershipwillcontinuetobeafocusfortheEC,among
operationalmechanismstofacilitatethemandatory BlackRock’sbusiness,scaleandinvestmentssubjectitto thatnecessitatethemonitoringandreportingofissuer others,includingintheassessmentofmergersand
buy-inofsecuritiesininstanceswherethesellerfails significantmediacoverageandincreasingattentionfrom exposurelevels(thresholds)acrosstheholdingsof investigations.Thereissubstantialliteraturehighlighting
todeliversecuritiesinatimelymannerwhich,ifnot abroadrangeofstakeholders.Thisheightenedscrutiny managedfundsandaccountsandthoseofthe thebenefitsofindexinvesting,aswellascastingdoubton
compliedwith,maysubjectBlackRocktopenalty. hasresultedinnegativepublicityforBlackRockinthepast Company.Thespecifictriggersandthereportingmethods theassumptions,data,methodologyandconclusions
andmaydosointhefuture.Inaddition,theincreasing thatthesethresholdfilingsentailvarysignificantlyby associatedwithcommonownershiparguments.
InternationalregulatoryreformscouldrequireBlackRock popularityofsocialmediaandnon-mainstreamInternet regulatorandacrossjurisdictions.BlackRockcontinuesto Nevertheless,somecommentatorshaveproposedremedies,
toalteritsfuturebusinessoroperatingactivities,which newssourcesmayleadtofasterandwiderdissemination investintechnology,traininganditsemployeestofurther includinglimitsonstakesmanagedbyassetmanagersthat,
couldbetime-consumingandcostly,impedethe ofanyadversepublicityorinaccurateinformationabout enhanceitsmonitoringandreportingfunctions.Despite ifenactedintopolicy,couldhaveanegativeimpactonthe
Company’sgrowthandcauseitsAUM,revenueand BlackRock,makingeffectiveremediationmoredifficult. theseinvestments,thecomplexityofthevariousthreshold capitalmarkets,increasetransactioncostsandlimitthe
earningstodecline.Regulatoryreformmayalsoimpact DamagetoBlackRock’sreputationmayimpact reportingrequirementscombinedwiththebreadthofthe availabilityofproductsforinvestors.Thismay,inturn,
BlackRock’sinternationally-basedclients,whichcould BlackRock’sabilitytoattractandretainclients,employees, assetsmanagedbytheCompanyandhighvolumeof adverselyaffectBlackRock.
causethemtochangetheirinvestmentstrategiesor shareholdersandbusinesspartners,whichmaycauseits securitiestradinghavecausederrorsandomissionsto
allocationsinmannersthatmaybeadversetoBlackRock. AUM,revenueandearningstodecline. occurinthepast,andposeariskthaterrorsoromissions
NewtaxlegislationorchangestoexistingUSandnon-US
mayoccurinthefuture.Anysucherrorsmayexpose
taxlaws,treatiesandregulationsorchallengesto
LegalproceedingsmaycausetheCompany’sAUM, Afailuretoeffectivelymanagepotentialconflictsof BlackRocktomonetarypenaltiesorothersanctions,which BlackRock’shistoricaltaxationpracticesmayadversely
revenueandearningstodecline. interestcouldresultinlitigationorenforcementactions couldhaveanadverseeffectonBlackRock’sreputation affectBlackRock’seffectivetaxrate,businessandoverall
andmaycauseitsAUM,revenueandearningstodecline.
BlackRockissubjecttoanumberofsourcesofpotential and/oradverselyaffectBlackRock’sbusinessand financialcondition.
legalliabilityandtheCompany,certainoftheinvestment reputation,whichmaycauseBlackRock’sAUM,revenue Moreover,asBlackRock’sbusinessgrowsitisbecoming BlackRock’sbusinessesmaybedirectlyorindirectlyaffected
fundsitmanagesandcertainofitssubsidiariesand andearningstodecline. subjecttoagreaternumberofregulatory,industry-levelor bytaxlegislationandregulation,orthemodificationof
employeeshavebeennamedasdefendantsinvarious Asaglobalinvestmentmanagementfirmthatprovides issuer-specificthresholdlimitsthatmayprevent existingtaxlaws,byUSornon-UStaxauthorities.IntheUS,
legalactions,includingarbitrations,classactionsand investmentandtechnologyservicestoadiverserangeof BlackRockfromholdingpositionsincertainequity legislationatboththefederalandstatelevelhasbeen
otherlitigationarisinginconnectionwithBlackRock’s clients,theCompanymustroutinelyaddressandmanage securities,securitiesconvertibleintoequitysecuritiesor previouslyproposedtoenactafinancialtransactiontax
activities.CertainofBlackRock’ssubsidiariesand conflictsofinterest,aswellastheperceptionofconflicts futurescontractsinexcessofcertainthresholds.Although (“FTT”)onstocks,bondsandabroadrangeoffinancial
employeesarealsosubjecttoperiodicexamination, ofinterest,betweenitselfanditsclients,employeesor BlackRockisactivelyengagedinregulatory,issuer- instrumentsandderivativetransactions.IntheEU,certain
specialinquiriesandpotentialproceedingsbyregulatory vendors.WhileBlackRockhaspolicies,controlsand specificandstructuralinitiativestocreateadditional MemberStateshavealsoenactedsimilarFTTsandtheEC
authorities,includingtheSecuritiesandExchange disclosureprotocolsinplacetomanageandaddress investmentcapacity,thresholdlimitsmaynonetheless hasproposedlegislationtoharmonizethesetaxesand
Commission,OfficeoftheComptrolleroftheCurrency potentialconflictsofinterest,identifyingandmitigating preventthepurchaseofcertainsecuritieswhichmay,in providefortheadoptionofEU-levellegislationapplicableto
(“OCC”),DepartmentofLabor,CommodityFutures conflictsofinterestcanbecomplexandisthesubjectof turn,impacttheperformanceofcertainBlackRockindex some(butnotall)EUMemberStates.Ifenactedas
TradingCommission,FinancialConductAuthority, increasingregulatoryandmediascrutiny.Itispossible fundsbyincreasingtrackingerrorrelativetothefunds’ proposed,FTTscouldhaveanadverseeffectonBlackRock’s
CommissiondeSurveillanceduSecteurFinancialand thatactual,potentialorperceivedconflictscouldgiverise benchmarksandimpacttheperformanceofcertain financialresultsandclients’performanceresults.
FederalReserve.Similarly,fromtimetotime,BlackRock toinvestororclientdissatisfaction,adversepublicity,
BlackRockactivelymanagedfundsbypreventingthem
receivessubpoenasorotherrequestsforinformationfrom litigationorenforcementactions.Inparticular, fromtakingadvantageofalphageneratingopportunities. Theapplicationoftaxregulationsinvolvesnumerous
variousUSandnon-USgovernmentalandregulatory BlackRock’sbroadrangeofinvestment,advisoryand uncertainties,andinthenormalcourseofbusinessUSand
authoritiesinconnectionwithcertainindustry-wide, technologyofferings,anditsfocusonprovidingclients non-UStaxauthoritiesmayreviewandchallengetax
company-specificorotherinvestigations,proceedingsor withwholeportfoliosolutions,mayresultinclients BlackRockhasbeenthesubjectofcommentaryciting positionsadoptedbyBlackRock.Thesechallengesmay
litigations.Theseexaminations,inquiriesandproceedings workingwithmultipleBlackRockbusinessesand/or concernsaboutindexinvestingandcommonownership. resultinadjustmentsto,orimpactthetimingoramountof,
haveinthepastandcouldinthefuture,ifcompliance BlackRockbeingengagedbyinstitutionsthathavea Asaleaderintheindexinvestingandassetmanagement taxableincome,deductionsorothertaxallocations,which
failuresorotherviolationsarefound,causetherelevant nexustoindustriesorjurisdictionsinwhichBlackRock industry,BlackRockhasbeenthesubjectofcommentary mayadverselyaffectBlackRock’seffectivetaxrateand
governmentalorregulatoryauthoritytoinstitute operates,whichmayincreasethepotentialforactualor citingconcernsaboutthegrowthofindexinvesting,as overallfinancialcondition.Similarly,theCompanymanages
proceedingsand/orimposesanctionsforviolations.Any perceivedconflictsofinterestandimproperinformation wellasperceivedcompetitionissuesassociatedwithasset assetsinproductsandaccountsthathaveinvestment
suchactionmayalsoresultinlitigationbyinvestorsin sharing.TotheextentthatBlackRockfails,orappearsto managersmanagingstakesinmultiplecompanieswithin objectiveswhichmayconformtotaxpositionsadoptedby
BlackRock’sfunds,otherBlackRockclientsorBlackRock’s fail,todealappropriatelywithanyconflictofinterest,it certainindustries,knownas“commonownership”.The BlackRockortospecifictaxrules.Totheextentthereare
shareholders,whichcouldharmtheCompany’sreputation mayfaceadversepublicity,reputationaldamage, commentatorsarguethatindexfundshavethepotential changesintaxlaworpolicy,orregulatorychallengestotax
andmaycauseitsAUM,revenueandearningstodecline, litigation,regulatoryproceedings,clientattrition, todistortinvestmentflows,createstockpricebubbles,or positionsadoptedbyBlackRock,thevalueorattractiveness
potentiallyharmtheinvestmentreturnsoftheapplicable penalties,finesand/orsanctions,anyofwhichmaycause conversely,exacerbateadeclineinmarketprices. ofsuchinvestmentsmaybediminishedandBlackRockmay
fund,orresultintheCompanybeingliablefordamages. BlackRock’sAUM,revenueandearningstodecline. Additionalcommentaryfocusesoncompetitionissues sufferfinancialorreputationalharm.
60 BlackRock Annual Report 2020 32 33 BlackRock Annual Report 2020 61
Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Edinburgh,Mumbai(India),Gurgaon(India),HongKong, PART II Thefollowingtablesetsforthfortheperiodsindicatedthe
Comments London,Melbourne(Australia),MexicoCity,Munich,Paris, dividendsdeclaredpershareforthecommonstockas
Princeton(NewJersey),SanFrancisco,Seattle,Frankfurt reportedontheNYSE:
TheCompanyhasnounresolvedcommentsfromthe (Germany),SantaMonica,Budapest,Singapore,Sydney, Item 5. Market for Registrant’s
SecuritiesandExchangeCommission(“SEC”)staff TaipeiandTokyo.TheCompanyalsoownsan84,500 Common Equity, Related Cash
relatingtoBlackRock’speriodicorcurrentreportsfiled squarefootofficebuildinginWilmington(Delaware)anda Dividend
withtheSECpursuanttotheExchangeAct. 43,000squarefootdatacenterinAmherst(NewYork). Stockholder Matters and Issuer Declared
Purchases of Equity Securities
2020
FirstQuarter $3.63
Item 2. Properties Item 3. Legal Proceedings BlackRock’scommonstockislistedontheNYSEandis
SecondQuarter $3.63
tradedunderthesymbol“BLK”.Atthecloseofbusinesson
BlackRock’sprincipaloffice,whichisleased,islocated ForadiscussionoftheCompany’slegalproceedings,see January31,2021,therewere209commonstockholders ThirdQuarter $3.63
at55East52ndStreet,NewYork,NewYork.BlackRock Note16,CommitmentsandContingencies,inthenotesto ofrecord.Commonstockholdersincludeinstitutionalor FourthQuarter $3.63
leasesadditionalofficespaceinNewYorkCityat40East theconsolidatedfinancialstatementscontainedinPartII, omnibusaccountsthatholdcommonstockformany 2019
52ndStreetand49East52ndStreet,andthroughoutthe Item8. underlyinginvestors. FirstQuarter $3.30
world,includingAtlanta,Belgrade(Serbia),Boston,
SecondQuarter $3.30
Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures ThirdQuarter $3.30
FourthQuarter $3.30
Notapplicable.
BlackRock’sclosingcommonstockpriceasof
February24,2021was$712.10.
DIVIDENDS
OnJanuary21,2021,theBoardofDirectorsapproved
BlackRock’squarterlydividendof$4.13persharetobe
paidonMarch23,2021tostockholdersofrecordatthe
closeofbusinessonMarch5,2021.
ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES
DuringthethreemonthsendedDecember31,2020,theCompanymadethefollowingpurchasesofitscommonstock,
whichisregisteredpursuanttoSection12(b)oftheExchangeAct.
Maximum
Numberof
SharesThat
TotalNumberof MayYetBe
Total SharesPurchased Purchased
Numberof Average asPartofPublicly Underthe
Shares PricePaid AnnouncedPlans Plansor
Purchased(1) perShare orPrograms Programs
October1,2020throughOctober31,2020 4,031 $554.85 — 5,041,968
November1,2020throughNovember30,2020 3,697 $599.21 — 5,041,968
December1,2020throughDecember31,2020 16,713 $709.12 — 5,041,968
Total 24,441 $667.05 —
(1) ConsistsofpurchasesmadebytheCompanyprimarilytosatisfyincometaxwithholdingobligationsofemployeesandmembersoftheCompany’sBoardofDirectorsrelatedtothevestingof
certainrestrictedstockorrestrictedstockunitawards.
Item 6. Removed and Reserved
62 BlackRock Annual Report 2020 34 35 BlackRock Annual Report 2020 63
Item 7. Management’s Discussion uncertaintypendinganysuchchanges;(15)anyfailureto repurchaseprogram.Thesecondaryofferingandthe TheCOVID-19pandemiccontinuestoresultin
and Analysis of Financial Condition effectivelymanageconflictsofinterest;(16)damageto Company’ssharerepurchaseresultedinPNC’sexitofits governmentalauthoritiestakingnumerousmeasuresto
and Results of Operations BlackRock’sreputation;(17)terroristactivities,civilunrest, entireownershippositionintheCompany. containthespreadandimpactofCOVID-19,suchas
internationalhostilitiesandnaturaldisasters,whichmay travelbansandrestrictions,quarantines,shelterinplace
adverselyaffectthegeneraleconomy,domesticandlocal Certainpriorperiodpresentationsanddisclosures,while orders,andlimitationsonbusinessactivity,including
financialandcapitalmarkets,specificindustriesor notrequiredtoberecast,werereclassifiedtoensure closures.Thesemeasuresmaycontinueto,amongother
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
BlackRock;(18)theabilitytoattractandretainhighly comparabilitywithcurrentperiodclassifications. things,severelyrestrictglobaleconomicactivity,which
Thisreport,andotherstatementsthatBlackRockmay talentedprofessionals;(19)fluctuationsinthecarrying candisruptsupplychains,lowerassetvaluations,
make,maycontainforward-lookingstatementswithinthe valueofBlackRock’seconomicinvestments;(20)the UnitedKingdomExitfromEuropeanUnion significantlyincreaseunemploymentand
meaningofthePrivateSecuritiesLitigationReformAct, impactofchangestotaxlegislation,includingincome, OnDecember31,2020,theUnitedKingdom(“UK”)leftthe underemploymentlevels,decreaseliquidityinmarketsfor
withrespecttoBlackRock’sfuturefinancialorbusiness payrollandtransactiontaxes,andtaxationonproductsor EuropeanUnion(“EU”),andtheUKandEUrevertedto certainsecuritiesandcausesignificantvolatilityand
performance,strategiesorexpectations.Forward-looking transactions,whichcouldaffectthevaluepropositionto beingdistinctregulatory,legalandcustomsterritories. disruptioninthefinancialmarkets.
statementsaretypicallyidentifiedbywordsorphrases clientsand,generally,thetaxpositionoftheCompany; Althoughan“EU-UKTradeandCooperationAgreement”
suchas“trend,”“potential,”“opportunity,”“pipeline,” (21)BlackRock’ssuccessinnegotiatingdistribution wasagreedtoinconnectionwiththeUK’sdeparturefrom Towardstheendofthefirstquarterof2020thepandemic
“believe,”“comfortable,”“expect,”“anticipate,”“current,” arrangementsandmaintainingdistributionchannelsfor theEU,itdoesnotincludeanysubstantiveprovisionswith begantoimpactBlackRock’sbusiness.Whileglobal
“intention,”“estimate,”“position,”“assume,”“outlook,” itsproducts;(22)thefailurebyakeyvendorofBlackRock respecttofinancialservices.Asaresult,fromJanuary1, marketshavesignificantlyrecoveredsincethen,the
“continue,”“remain,”“maintain,”“sustain,”“seek,” tofulfillitsobligationstotheCompany;(23)operational, 2021,cross-borderfinancialservicestradebetweenthe effectsofthepandemicareongoing,andsuchimpactmay
“achieve,”andsimilarexpressions,orfutureorconditional technologicalandregulatoryrisksassociatedwith UKandtheEUwillbegovernedbytheirrespective continueinfuturequartersifconditionspersistorworsen.
verbssuchas“will,”“would,”“should,”“could,”“may”and BlackRock’smajortechnologypartnerships;(24)any financialservicesregulationsandmarketaccess TheaggregateextenttowhichCOVID-19,andtherelated
similarexpressions. disruptiontotheoperationsofthirdpartieswhose regimes.BlackRockhasimplementedanumberofstepsto globaleconomiccrisis,affectBlackRock’sbusiness,
functionsareintegraltoBlackRock’sexchange-traded
prepareforthisoutcome.Thesesteps,whichareandhave resultsofoperationsandfinancialcondition,willdepend
BlackRockcautionsthatforward-lookingstatementsare funds(“ETF”)platform;(25)theimpactofBlackRock
beentimeconsumingandcostlyandmayaddcomplexity onfuturedevelopmentsthatarehighlyuncertainand
subjecttonumerousassumptions,risksanduncertainties, electingtoprovidesupporttoitsproductsfromtimeto
toBlackRock’sfutureEuropeanoperations,include cannotbepredicted,includingthescopeanddurationof
whichchangeovertime.Forward-lookingstatements timeandanypotentialliabilitiesrelatedtosecurities
effectingorganizational,governanceandoperational thepandemicandanyrecoveryperiod,futureactions
speakonlyasofthedatetheyaremade,andBlackRock lendingorotherindemnificationobligations;and(26)the
changes,applyingforandreceivingadditionallicenses takenbygovernmentalauthorities,centralbanksand
assumesnodutytoanddoesnotundertaketoupdate impactofproblemsatotherfinancialinstitutionsorthe
andpermissionsintheEU,andengaginginclient otherthirdparties(includingnewfinancialregulationand
forward-lookingstatements.Actualresultscoulddiffer failureornegativeperformanceofproductsatother
communications.Inaddition,dependingonhowthe otherregulatoryreform)inresponsetothepandemic,and
materiallyfromthoseanticipatedinforward-looking financialinstitutions.
futurerelationshipbetweentheUKandtheEUdevelops, theeffectsonBlackRock’sproducts,clients,vendorsand
statementsandfutureresultscoulddiffermateriallyfrom
BlackRockmayexperiencefurtherorganizationaland employees.SeePartI,Item1A—RiskFactorshereinfor
historicalperformance.
operationalchallengesandincuradditionalcostsin informationonthepossiblefutureeffectsoftheCOVID-19
OVERVIEW
BlackRockhaspreviouslydisclosedriskfactorsinits connectionwithitsEuropeanoperations,particularlywith pandemiconourresults.
SecuritiesandExchangeCommission(“SEC”)reports. BlackRock,Inc.(together,withitssubsidiaries,unlessthe regardstodelegationandoutsourcing,whichmayimpede
Theseriskfactorsandthoseidentifiedelsewhereinthis contextotherwiseindicates,“BlackRock”orthe theCompany’sgrowthorimpactitsfinancialperformance. Inaddition,althoughtheforthcomingenvironment
remainsuncertain,BlackRock’sbusinessmaybeimpacted
report,amongothers,couldcauseactualresultstodiffer “Company”)isaleadingpubliclytradedinvestment
bygovernmentalchanges,aswellaspotentialregulations,
materiallyfromforward-lookingstatementsorhistorical managementfirmwith$8.68trillionofAUMat OtherDevelopment
foreignandtradepoliciesandfiscalspendingthatmay
performanceandinclude:(1)apandemicorhealthcrisis, December31,2020.Withapproximately16,500
OnFebruary13,2020,BlackRockannouncedthe ariseasaresultofsuchchanges.
includingtheCOVID-19pandemic,anditscontinued employeesinmorethan30countries,BlackRockprovides
establishmentofTheBlackRockFoundation(the
impactonfinancialinstitutions,theglobaleconomyor abroadrangeofinvestmentandtechnologyservicesto
“Foundation”)andthecontributionofitsremaining20% BlackRock’sinvestmentmanagementrevenueisprimarily
capitalmarkets,aswellasBlackRock’sproducts,clients, institutionalandretailclientsinmorethan100countries
stakeinPennyMacFinancialServices,Inc.(“PennyMac”) comprisedoffeesearnedasapercentageofAUMand,in
vendorsandemployees,andBlackRock’sresultsof acrosstheglobe.ForfurtherinformationseeNote1,
totheFoundationandtheBlackRockCharitableFund, somecases,performancefees,whicharenormally
operations,thefullextentofwhichmaybeunknown; BusinessOverview,andNote27,SegmentInformation,in
whichBlackRockestablishedin2013(together,the expressedasapercentageoffundreturnstotheclient.
(2)theintroduction,withdrawal,successandtimingof thenotestotheconsolidatedfinancialstatements
“CharitableContribution”).TheCharitableContribution Numerousfactors,includingpricemovementsinthe
businessinitiativesandstrategies;(3)changesand containedinPartII,Item8.
resultedinanoperatingexpenseof$589million,which equity,debtorcurrencymarkets,orinthepriceofreal
volatilityinpolitical,economicorindustryconditions,the
Thefollowingdiscussionincludesacomparisonof wasoffsetbya$122millionnoncash,nonoperating assets,commoditiesoralternativeinvestmentsinwhich
interestrateenvironment,foreignexchangeratesor
BlackRock’sresultsfor2020and2019.Foradiscussionof pre-taxgainonthecontributedsharesandataxbenefitof BlackRockinvestsonbehalfofclients,couldimpact
financialandcapitalmarkets,whichcouldresultin
BlackRock’sresultsfor2018andacomparisonofresults $241millionintheconsolidatedstatementofincomefor BlackRock’sAUM,revenueandearnings.
changesindemandforproductsorservicesorinthevalue
for2019and2018,seeItem7,Management’sDiscussion theyearendedDecember31,2020.TheCharitable
ofassetsundermanagement(“AUM”);(4)therelativeand BlackRockiscurrentlyvoluntarilywaivingaportionofits
andAnalysisofFinancialConditionandResultsof Contributionprovideslong-termfundingforBlackRock’s
absoluteinvestmentperformanceofBlackRock’s managementfeesoncertainmoneymarketfundsto
Operations,oftheCompany’sAnnualReportonForm10-K philanthropicinvestmentsandpartnerships.Thegeneral
investmentproducts;(5)BlackRock’sabilitytodevelop ensurethattheymaintainaminimumlevelofdailynet
fortheyearendedDecember31,2019,whichwasfiled andadministrationexpense,nonoperatinggainand
newproductsandservicesthataddressclientpreferences; investmentincome.Thesewaiversresultinareductionof
withtheSEConFebruary28,2020. associatedtaxbenefitrelatedtotheCharitable
(6)theimpactofincreasedcompetition;(7)theimpactof managementfees,aportionofwhichispartiallyoffsetby
Contributionhavebeenexcludedfromasadjustedresults.
futureacquisitionsordivestitures;(8)BlackRock’sability areductionofBlackRock’sdistributionandservicingcosts
OnMay15,2020,asubsidiaryofThePNCFinancial
tointegrateacquiredbusinessessuccessfully;(9)the paidtofinancialintermediaries.BlackRockhasprovided
ServicesGroup,Inc.(“PNC”)completedthesecondary
unfavorableresolutionoflegalproceedings;(10)the BusinessOutlook voluntaryyieldsupportwaiversinpriorperiodsandmay
offeringof31,628,573sharesoftheCompany’scommon
extentandtimingofanysharerepurchases;(11)the BlackRock’sframeworkforlong-termvaluecreationis increaseordecreasetheleveloffeewaiversinfuture
stockatapriceof$420pershare,whichincluded823,188
impact,extentandtimingoftechnologicalchangesand predicatedongeneratingdifferentiatedorganicgrowth, periods.
sharesofcommonstockissuedupontheconversionof
theadequacyofintellectualproperty,informationand leveragingscaletoincreaseoperatingmarginsovertime,
theCompany’sSeriesBConvertibleParticipating
cybersecurityprotection;(12)attemptstocircumvent andreturningcapitaltoshareholdersonaconsistent BlackRockmanages$4.4trillionofequityassetsacross
PreferredStockand2,875,325sharesofcommonstock
BlackRock’soperationalcontrolenvironmentorthe basis.BlackRock’sdiversifiedplatform,intermsofstyle, marketsglobally.Betadivergencebetweenequitymarkets,
underthefullyexercisedunderwriters’optiontopurchase
potentialforhumanerrorinconnectionwithBlackRock’s product,clientandgeography,enablesittogeneratemore wherecertainmarketsperformdifferentlythanothers,
additionalshares.AlsoonMay15,2020,PNCcompleted
operationalsystems;(13)theimpactoflegislativeand stablecashflowsthroughmarketcycles,positioning mayleadtoanincreaseintheproportionofBlackRock
thesaleof2,650,857sharestotheCompanyatapriceof
regulatoryactionsandreformsandregulatory,supervisory BlackRocktoinvestforthelong-termbystrikingan AUMweightedtowardlowerfeeequityproducts,resulting
$414.96pershare.Thesharesrepurchasedbythe
orenforcementactionsofgovernmentagenciesrelating appropriatebalancebetweeninvestingforfuturegrowth inadeclineinBlackRock’seffectivefeerate.Divergent
Companywereinadditiontothesharerepurchase
toBlackRock;(14)changesinlawandpolicyand andprudentdiscretionaryexpensemanagement. marketfactorsmayalsoerodethecorrelationbetweenthe
authorizationundertheCompany’sexistingshare
64 BlackRock Annual Report 2020 36 37 BlackRock Annual Report 2020 65
growthratesofAUMandinvestmentadvisory, strategy,asBlackRockscalesandcustomizesmodel EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
administrationfeesandsecuritieslendingrevenue portfolios,extendsAladdinWealthanddigitalwealth
(collectively“basefees”). partnershipsglobally,andhelpsadvisorsbuildbetter (inmillions,exceptsharesandpersharedata) 2020 2019
portfoliosthroughportfolioconstructionandrisk
BlackRock’shighlydiversifiedmulti-productplatformwas management,poweredbyAladdin.InFebruary2021, GAAPbasis:
createdtomeetclientneedsinallmarketenvironments. BlackRockacquiredAperio,apioneerincustomizing Totalrevenue $ 16,205 $ 14,539
BlackRockispositionedtoprovidealpha-seekingactive, tax-optimizedindexequitySMAs,toenhanceourwealth Totalexpense 10,510 8,988
indexandcashmanagementinvestmentstrategiesacross platformandprovidewhole-portfoliosolutionstoultra- Operatingincome $ 5,695 $ 5,551
assetclassesandgeographies.Inaddition,BlackRock highnetworthadvisors.BycombiningAperiowith Operatingmargin 35.1% 38.2%
leveragesitsworld-classriskmanagement,analyticsand BlackRock’sexistingSMAfranchise,theCompanyplansto Nonoperatingincome(expense),lessnetincome(loss)attributabletononcontrolling
technologycapabilities,includingtheAladdinplatform,on expandthebreadthofpersonalizationcapabilities interests 475 186
behalfofclients.BlackRockservesadiversemixof availabletowealthmanagersfromBlackRockvia Incometaxexpense (1,238) (1,261)
institutionalandretailclientsacrosstheglobe,including tax-managedstrategiesacrossfactors,broadmarket NetincomeattributabletoBlackRock $ 4,932 $ 4,476
investorsiniSharesETFs,maintainingdifferentiatedclient indexing,andinvestorEnvironmental,Social,and Dilutedearningspercommonshare $ 31.85 $ 28.43
relationshipsandafiduciaryfocus.Thediversityof Governancepreferencesacrossallassetclasses. Effectivetaxrate 20.1% 22.0%
BlackRock’splatformfacilitatesthegenerationoforganic
Asadjusted(1):
growthinvariousmarketenvironments,andasclient BlackRockcontinuestoinvestintechnologyservices
Operatingincome $ 6,284 $ 5,551
preferencesevolve.ClientdemandcontinuesforETFsand offerings,whichenhancetheabilitytomanageportfolios
Operatingmargin 44.9% 43.7%
illiquidalternatives,whicharetwoareasoffocusfor andrisk,effectivelyserveclientsandoperateefficiently.
Nonoperatingincome(expense),lessnetincome(loss)attributabletononcontrolling
BlackRock. Anticipatedindustryconsolidationandregulatory
interests $ 353 $ 186
requirementsshouldcontinuetodrivedemandforholistic
Theindexinvestingindustryhasbeengrowingrapidly— andflexibletechnologysolutions.BlackRock’sAladdin NetincomeattributabletoBlackRock $ 5,237 $ 4,484
withETFsasamajorbeneficiary—drivenbystructural platformprovidesclientswithanabilitytomanage Dilutedearningspercommonshare $ 33.82 $ 28.48
tailwindsincludingthemigrationfromcommission-based portfoliosandriskacrosspublicandprivateassetclasses Effectivetaxrate 21.1% 21.9%
tofee-basedwealthmanagement,clients’focusonvalue onasingleplatform. Other:
formoney,theuseofETFsasalphatoolsandthegrowth Assetsundermanagement(endofperiod) $ 8,676,680 $ 7,429,633
ofall-to-allnetworkedtrading.iSharesETFs’growth AcrossBlackRock,moreclientsarefocusingontheimpact Dilutedweighted-averagecommonsharesoutstanding(2) 154,840,582 157,459,546
strategyiscenteredonincreasingscaleandpursuing ofsustainabilityontheirportfolios.Thisshifthasbeen Sharesoutstanding(endofperiod) 152,532,885 155,198,968
globalgrowththemesinclientandproductsegments, drivenbyanincreasedunderstandingofhow Bookvaluepershare(3) $ 231.31 $ 216.15
includingCore,Strategic,whichincludesFixedIncome, sustainability-relatedfactorscanaffecteconomicgrowth, Cashdividendsdeclaredandpaidpershare $ 14.52 $ 13.20
Factors,SustainableandMegatrendsETFs,andPrecision assetvalues,andfinancialmarketsasawhole.Asa
Exposures. fiduciary,BlackRockiscommittedtohelpingclientsbuild (1) AsadjusteditemsaredescribedinmoredetailinNon-GAAPFinancialMeasures.
moreresilientportfolios.Sincesustainableinvestment (2) Nonvotingparticipatingpreferredsharesareconsideredtobecommonstockequivalentsforpurposesofdeterminingbasicanddilutedearningspersharecalculations.AsofDecember31,
Asthewealthmanagementlandscapeshiftsgloballyfrom optionshavethepotentialtoofferclientsbetteroutcomes, 2020,therewerenosharesofpreferredstockoutstanding.
individualproductselectiontoawhole-portfolioapproach, theCompanyismakingsustainabilityintegraltotheway
(3) TotalBlackRockstockholders’equity,dividedbytotalsharesoutstandingatDecember31oftherespectiveyear-end.
BlackRock’sretailstrategyisfocusedoncreating BlackRockmanagesrisk,constructsportfolios,designs
outcome-orientedclientsolutions.Thisincludeshavinga products,andengageswithcompanies.Overthepast
diverseplatformofalpha-seekingactive,indexand severalyears,BlackRockhasbeendeepeningthe 2020 COMPARED WITH 2019 thelegislationenactedintheUnitedKingdomincreasingits
alternativeproducts,aswellasenhanceddistributionand integrationofsustainabilityintotechnology,risk corporatetaxrateandstateandlocalincometaxchanges.
portfolioconstructiontechnologyofferings.Digitalwealth management,andproductchoiceacrossBlackRock,and GAAP.Operatingincomeof$5,695millionincreased Incometaxexpensefor2020alsoincluded$139millionof
toolsareanimportantcomponentofBlackRock’sretail planstoacceleratethoseefforts. $144millionandoperatingmarginof35.1%decreased310 netdiscretetaxbenefits,includingbenefitsrelatedto
bpsfrom2019.Operatingincomeandoperatingmargin changesintheCompany’sorganizationalentitystructure
reflectedhigherbasefees,performancefeesandtechnology andstock-basedcompensationawards.Incometaxexpense
servicesrevenue,whichweremorethanoffsetbyhigher for2019included$28millionofdiscretetaxbenefits,
expense,includingtheimpactof$589millionrelatedtothe primarilyrelatedtostock-basedcompensationawards.
CharitableContribution,highercompensationandbenefits
expense,andhigherproductlaunchcostsin2020.Product Dilutedearningspercommonshareincreased$3.42,or
launchcostsin2020included$87millionand$83million 12%,from2019,reflectinghigherrevenueand
associatedwiththecloseofthe$2.3billionBlackRock nonoperatingincomeandalowerdilutedsharecount,
HealthSciencesTrustIIandthe$2billionBlackRockCapital partiallyoffsetbytheimpactoftheCharitable
AllocationTrust,respectively.Productlaunchcostsfor2019 Contributionandhigherproductlaunchcostsfor2020.
included$61millionassociatedwiththecloseofthe
$1.4billionBlackRockScienceandTechnologyTrustII. AsAdjusted.Operatingincomeof$6,284millionincreased
$733millionandoperatingmarginof44.9%increased
Nonoperatingincome(expense),lessnetincome(loss) 120bpsfrom2019.Dilutedearningspercommonshare
attributabletononcontrollinginterests(“NCI”),increased increased$5.34,or19%,from2019,primarilydueto
$289millionfrom2019drivenbytheimpactofapre-tax higheroperatingandnonoperatingincomeandalower
gainofapproximately$240millioninconnectionwitha dilutedsharecountin2020.Thefinancialimpactrelated
recapitalizationofiCapitalNetwork,Inc.(“iCapital”)and totheCharitableContributionandthenoncashnettax
$122millionpre-taxgainrelatedtotheCharitable expenseassociatedwiththerevaluationofcertain
Contribution,partiallyoffsetbylowermark-to-market deferredincometaxassetsandliabilitiesdescribedabove
gainsonun-hedgedseedcapitalinvestmentsandlower hasbeenexcludedfromasadjustedresults.
interestincome.
SeeNon-GAAPFinancialMeasuresforfurtherinformation
Incometaxexpensefor2020includedadiscretetaxbenefit onasadjusteditems.
of$241millionrecognizedinconnectionwiththeCharitable
ForfurtherdiscussionofBlackRock’srevenue,expense,
Contribution,partiallyoffsetbyanoncashnetexpenseof
nonoperatingresultsandincometaxexpense,see
approximately$79millionassociatedwiththerevaluationof
DiscussionofFinancialResultsherein.
certaindeferredincometaxassetsandliabilitiesrelatedto
66 BlackRock Annual Report 2020 38 39 BlackRock Annual Report 2020 67
NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES donotincludeallofBlackRock’srevenueandexpense. (2)Nonoperatingincome(expense),lessnetincome(loss)attributabletoNCI,asadjusted:
BlackRock’smanagementdoesnotadvocatethat
BlackRockreportsitsfinancialresultsinaccordancewith investorsconsidersuchnon-GAAPfinancialmeasuresin
(inmillions) 2020 2019
accountingprinciplesgenerallyacceptedintheUnited isolationfrom,orasasubstitutefor,financialinformation
States(“GAAP”);however,managementbelieves preparedinaccordancewithGAAP.Non-GAAPmeasures Nonoperatingincome(expense),GAAPbasis $829 $236
evaluatingtheCompany’songoingoperatingresultsmay maynotbecomparabletoothersimilarlytitledmeasures Less:Netincome(loss)attributabletoNCI 354 50
beenhancedifinvestorshaveadditionalnon-GAAP ofothercompanies. Nonoperatingincome(expense),netofNCI 475 186
financialmeasures.Managementreviewsnon-GAAP
Less:GainrelatedtotheCharitableContribution 122 —
financialmeasurestoassessongoingoperationsand ManagementusesbothGAAPandnon-GAAPfinancial
Nonoperatingincome(expense),lessnetincome(loss)attributabletoNCI,asadjusted $353 $186
considersthemtobehelpful,forbothmanagementand measuresinevaluatingBlackRock’sfinancialperformance.
investors,inevaluatingBlackRock’sfinancialperformance AdjustmentstoGAAPfinancialmeasures(“non-GAAP
Managementbelievesnonoperatingincome(expense),lessnet investors,ofBlackRock’snonoperatingresults,which
overtime.Managementalsousesnon-GAAPfinancial adjustments”)includecertainitemsmanagementdeems income(loss)attributabletoNCI,asadjusted,isaneffective ultimatelyimpactBlackRock’sbookvalue.In2020,the
measuresasabenchmarktocompareitsperformance nonrecurringorthatoccurinfrequently,transactionsthat measureforreviewingBlackRock’snonoperatingcontribution noncash,nonoperatingpre-taxgainof$122millionrelatedto
withothercompaniesandtoenhancethecomparabilityof ultimatelywillnotimpactBlackRock’sbookvalueorcertain toitsresultsandprovidescomparabilityofthisinformation theCharitableContributionhasbeenexcludedfrom
thisinformationforthereportingperiodspresented. taxitemsthatdonotimpactcashflow. amongreportingperiods.Managementbelievesnonoperating nonoperatingincome(expense),lessnetincome(loss)
Non-GAAPmeasuresmayposelimitationsbecausethey income(expense),lessnetincome(loss)attributabletoNCI,as attributabletoNCI,asadjusted,duetoitsnonrecurringnature.
adjusted,providesausefulmeasure,forbothmanagementand
Computationsforallperiodsarederivedfromtheconsolidatedstatementsofincomeasfollows:
(3)NetincomeattributabletoBlackRock,Inc.,asadjusted:
(1)Operatingincome,asadjusted,andoperatingmargin,asadjusted:
(inmillions,exceptpersharedata) 2020 2019
(inmillions) 2020 2019
NetincomeattributabletoBlackRock,Inc.,GAAPbasis $4,932 $4,476
Operatingincome,GAAPbasis $ 5,695 $ 5,551 Non-GAAPadjustments:
Non-GAAPexpenseadjustments: CharitableContribution,netoftax 226 —
CharitableContribution 589 — Incometaxmatters 79 8
Operatingincome,asadjusted 6,284 5,551 NetincomeattributabletoBlackRock,Inc.,asadjusted $5,237 $4,484
Productlaunchcostsandcommissions 172 61
Dilutedweighted-averagecommonsharesoutstanding(4) 154.8 157.5
Operatingincomeusedforoperating10marginmeasurement $ 6,456 $ 5,612
Dilutedearningspercommonshare,GAAPbasis(4) $31.85 $28.43
Revenue,GAAPbasis $16,205 $14,539 Dilutedearningspercommonshare,asadjusted(4) $33.82 $28.48
Non-GAAPadjustments:
Distributionfees (1,131) (1,069) Managementbelievesnetincomeattributableto CharitableContribution.Amountsforincometaxmatters
BlackRock,Inc.,asadjusted,anddilutedearningsper representnetnoncash(benefits)expenseprimarily
Investmentadvisoryfees (704) (616)
commonshare,asadjusted,areusefulmeasuresof associatedwiththerevaluationofcertaindeferredtax
Revenueusedforoperatingmarginmeasurement $14,370 $12,854
BlackRock’sprofitabilityandfinancialperformance.Net liabilitiesrelatedtointangibleassetsandgoodwillasa
Operatingmargin,GAAPbasis 35.1% 38.2%
incomeattributabletoBlackRock,Inc.,asadjusted,equals resultoftaxratechanges.Theamountfor2020includeda
Operatingmargin,asadjusted 44.9% 43.7% netincomeattributabletoBlackRock,Inc.,GAAPbasis, $79millionnetnoncashexpenserelatedtotheimpactof
adjustedforsignificantnonrecurringitems,chargesthat legislationenactedintheUnitedKingdomincreasingits
Managementbelievesoperatingincome,asadjusted,and revenueassociatedwiththeexpenditureofthese ultimatelywillnotimpactBlackRock’sbookvalueor corporatetaxrateandstateandlocalincometaxchanges.
operatingmargin,asadjusted,areeffectiveindicatorsof costswillnotfullyimpactBlackRock’sresultsuntil certaintaxitemsthatdonotimpactcashflow. Theseamountshavebeenexcludedfromtheasadjusted
BlackRock’sfinancialperformanceovertimeand,therefore, futureperiods. resultsastheseitemswillnothaveacashflowimpactand
provideusefuldisclosuretoinvestors.Managementbelieves
Seeaforementioneddiscussionregardingoperating toensurecomparabilityamongperiodspresented.
thatoperatingmargin,asadjusted,reflectstheCompany’s •Revenueusedforcalculatingoperatingmargin,as
income,asadjusted,operatingmargin,asadjusted,and
long-termabilitytomanageongoingcostsinrelationtoits adjusted,isreducedtoexcludealloftheCompany’s
nonoperatingincome(expense),lessnetincome(loss) Pershareamountsreflectnetincomeattributableto
revenues.TheCompanyusesoperatingmargin,asadjusted,to distributionfees,whicharerecordedasaseparateline
attributabletoNCI,asadjustedforinformationonthe BlackRock,Inc.,asadjusteddividedbydilutedweighted-
assesstheCompany’sfinancialperformanceandtodetermine itemontheconsolidatedstatementsofincome,aswell
thelong-termandannualcompensationoftheCompany’s CharitableContribution. averagecommonsharesoutstanding.
asaportionofinvestmentadvisoryfeesreceivedthatis
senior-levelemployees.Furthermore,thismetricisusedto
usedtopaydistributionandservicingcosts.Forcertain In2020,adiscretetaxbenefitof$241millionwas (4)Nonvotingparticipatingpreferredstockisconsidered
evaluatetheCompany’srelativeperformanceagainstindustry
peers,asiteliminatesmarginvariabilityarisingfromthe products,basedondistinctarrangements,distribution recognizedinconnectionwiththeCharitableContribution. tobeacommonstockequivalentforpurposesof
accountingofrevenuesandexpensesrelatedtodistributing feesarecollectedbytheCompanyandthenpassed- Thediscretetaxbenefithasbeenexcludedfromas determiningbasicanddilutedearningspershare
differentproductstructuresinmultipledistributionchannels throughtothird-partyclientintermediaries.Forother adjustedresultsduetothenon-recurringnatureofthe calculations.AsofDecember31,2020,therewereno
utilizedbyassetmanagers. products,investmentadvisoryfeesarecollectedbythe sharesofpreferredstockoutstanding.
Companyandaportionispassed-throughtothird-
•Operatingincome,asadjusted,includesnon-GAAP partyclientintermediaries.However,inbothstructures,
expenseadjustments.In2020,theCharitable thethird-partyclientintermediarysimilarlyownsthe
Contributionexpenseof$589millionhasbeen relationshipwiththeretailclientandisresponsiblefor
excludedfromoperatingincome,asadjusted,dueto distributingtheproductandservicingtheclient.The
itsnonrecurringnature. amountofdistributionandinvestmentadvisoryfees
fluctuateseachperiodprimarilybasedona
•Operatingincomeusedformeasuringoperating
predeterminedpercentageofthevalueofAUMduring
margin,asadjusted,isequaltooperatingincome,as
theperiod.Thesefeesalsovarybasedonthetypeof
adjusted,excludingtheimpactofproductlaunch
investmentproductsoldandthegeographiclocation
costs(e.g.closed-endfundlaunchcosts)andrelated
whereitissold.Inaddition,theCompanymaywaive
commissions.Managementbelievestheexclusionof
feesoncertainproductsthatcouldresultinthe
suchcostsandrelatedcommissionsisuseful
reductionofpaymentstothethird-party
becausethesecostscanfluctuateconsiderablyand
intermediaries.
68 BlackRock Annual Report 2020 40 41 BlackRock Annual Report 2020 69
Assets Under Management ThefollowingtablepresentsthecomponentchangesinBlackRock’sAUMfor2020and2019.
AUMforreportingpurposesgenerallyisbaseduponhowinvestmentadvisoryandadministrationfeesarecalculatedfor (inmillions) 2020 2019
eachportfolio.Netassetvalues,totalassets,committedassetsorothermeasuresmaybeusedtodetermineportfolioAUM.
BeginningAUM $7,429,633 $5,975,818
Netinflows(outflows):
AUMandNetInflows(Outflows)byClientTypeandProductType
Long-term 257,348 335,660
Cashmanagement 113,349 93,074
AUM Netinflows(outflows)
Advisory(1) 20,141 2
(inmillions) 2020 2019 2020 2019
Totalnetinflows(outflows) 390,838 428,736
Retail $ 845,917 $ 703,297 $ 69,556 $ 15,810 Marketchange 746,269 994,076
iSharesETFs 2,669,007 2,240,065 184,885 183,492 FXimpact(2) 109,940 31,003
Institutional: Totalchange 1,247,047 1,453,815
Active 1,524,462 1,338,670 31,624 99,456 EndingAUM $8,676,680 $7,429,633
Index 2,948,683 2,599,882 (28,717) 36,902
(1) AdvisoryAUMrepresentsmandateslinkedtopurchasesanddispositionofassetsandportfoliosonbehalfofofficialinstitutionsandlong-termportfolioliquidationassignments.Approximately
Institutionalsubtotal 4,473,145 3,938,552 2,907 136,358 $4.3billionofiSharesETFsAUMheldinadvisoryaccountsassociatedwiththeFRBNYassignmentasofDecember31,2020(disclosedviaFRBNYreportingasofJanuary11,2021)are
includedwithinFixedIncomeiSharesETFsAUMorFixedIncomeAUMabove.TheseholdingsareexcludedfromAdvisoryAUM.
Long-term 7,988,069 6,881,914 257,348 335,660
Cashmanagement 666,252 545,949 113,349 93,074 (2) Foreignexchangereflectstheimpactoftranslatingnon-USdollardenominatedAUMintoUSdollarsforreportingpurposes.
Advisory(1) 22,359 1,770 20,141 2
BlackRockhashistoricallygrownAUMthroughorganicgrowthandacquisitions.ManagementbelievesthattheCompany
Total $8,676,680 $7,429,633 $390,838 $428,736 willbeabletocontinuetogrowAUMorganicallybyfocusingonstronginvestmentperformance,efficientdeliveryofbeta
forindexproducts,clientservice,developingnewproductsandoptimizingdistributioncapabilities.
AUMandNetInflows(Outflows)byInvestmentStyleandProductType
ComponentChangesinAUMfor2020
AUM Netinflows(outflows) ThefollowingtablepresentsthecomponentchangesinAUMbyclienttypeandproducttypefor2020.
(inmillions) 2020 2019 2020 2019
Net Fullyear
Active $2,250,887 $1,947,222 $ 87,737 $109,892 December31, inflows Market December31, average
(inmillions) 2019 (outflows) change FXimpact(1) 2020 AUM(2)
IndexandiSharesETFs 5,737,182 4,934,692 169,611 225,768
Retail:
Long-term 7,988,069 6,881,914 257,348 335,660
Equity $ 252,413 $ 39,341 $ 42,545 $ 4,135 $ 338,434 $ 265,433
Cashmanagement 666,252 545,949 113,349 93,074
Fixedincome 305,265 22,784 9,725 2,694 340,468 309,723
Advisory(1) 22,359 1,770 20,141 2 Multi-asset 120,439 (481) 12,262 404 132,624 117,195
Total $8,676,680 $7,429,633 $390,838 $428,736 Alternatives 25,180 7,912 929 370 34,391 28,839
Retailsubtotal 703,297 69,556 65,461 7,603 845,917 721,190
AUMandNetInflows(Outflows)byProductType iSharesETFs:
Equity 1,632,972 76,307 186,918 8,904 1,905,101 1,561,970
AUM Netinflows(outflows) Fixedincome 565,790 88,894 28,009 7,340 690,033 627,039
Multi-asset 5,210 646 388 24 6,268 5,287
(inmillions) 2020 2019 2020 2019
Alternatives 36,093 19,038 12,331 143 67,605 53,845
Equity $4,419,806 $3,820,329 $ 48,995 $ 28,353 iSharesETFssubtotal 2,240,065 184,885 227,646 16,411 2,669,007 2,248,141
Fixedincome 2,674,488 2,315,392 157,961 263,579 Institutional:
Multi-asset 658,733 568,121 13,213 18,889 Active:
Alternatives: Equity 141,118 1,890 24,045 2,469 169,522 141,059
Illiquidalternatives 85,770 75,349 10,883 14,103 Fixedincome 651,368 6,598 49,712 8,591 716,269 673,043
Liquidalternatives 73,218 59,048 6,545 3,957 Multi-asset 434,233 13,639 52,365 11,005 511,242 443,913
Currencyandcommodities(2) 76,054 43,675 19,751 6,779 Alternatives 111,951 9,497 3,861 2,120 127,429 116,557
Alternativessubtotal 235,042 178,072 37,179 24,839 Activesubtotal 1,338,670 31,624 129,983 24,185 1,524,462 1,374,572
Long-term 7,988,069 6,881,914 257,348 335,660 Index:
Cashmanagement 666,252 545,949 113,349 93,074 Equity 1,793,826 (68,543) 254,475 26,991 2,006,749 1,723,674
Advisory(1) 22,359 1,770 20,141 2 Fixedincome 792,969 39,685 67,623 27,441 927,718 837,469
Multi-asset 8,239 (591) 749 202 8,599 8,157
Total $8,676,680 $7,429,633 $390,838 $428,736
Alternatives 4,848 732 (50) 87 5,617 4,675
(1) AdvisoryAUMrepresentsmandateslinkedtopurchasesanddispositionofassetsandportfoliosonbehalfofofficialinstitutionsandlong-termportfolioliquidationassignments.Approximately Indexsubtotal 2,599,882 (28,717) 322,797 54,721 2,948,683 2,573,975
$4.3billionofiSharesETFsAUMheldinadvisoryaccountsassociatedwiththeFederalReserveBankofNewYork(“FRBNY”)assignmentasofDecember31,2020(disclosedviaFRBNY
reportingasofJanuary11,2021)areincludedwithinFixedIncomeiSharesETFsAUMorFixedIncomeAUMabove.TheseholdingsareexcludedfromAdvisoryAUM. Institutionalsubtotal 3,938,552 2,907 452,780 78,906 4,473,145 3,948,547
Long-term 6,881,914 257,348 745,887 102,920 7,988,069 6,917,878
(2) AmountsincludecommodityiSharesETFs.
Cashmanagement 545,949 113,349 (63) 7,017 666,252 617,989
Advisory(3) 1,770 20,141 445 3 22,359 13,236
Total $7,429,633 $390,838 $746,269 $109,940 $8,676,680 $7,549,103
(1) Foreignexchangereflectstheimpactoftranslatingnon-USdollardenominatedAUMintoUSdollarsforreportingpurposes.
(2) AverageAUMiscalculatedastheaverageofthemonth-endspotAUMamountsforthetrailingthirteenmonths.
(3) AdvisoryAUMrepresentsmandateslinkedtopurchasesanddispositionofassetsandportfoliosonbehalfofofficialinstitutionsandlong-termportfolioliquidationassignments.Approximately
$4.3billionofiSharesETFsAUMheldinadvisoryaccountsassociatedwiththeFRBNYassignmentasofDecember31,2020(disclosedviaFRBNYreportingasofJanuary11,2021)are
includedwithinFixedIncomeiSharesETFsAUMorFixedIncomeAUMabove.TheseholdingsareexcludedfromAdvisoryAUM.
70 BlackRock Annual Report 2020 42 43 BlackRock Annual Report 2020 71
ThefollowingtablepresentscomponentchangesinAUMbyinvestmentstyleandproducttypefor2020. ComponentChangesinAUMfor2019
ThefollowingtablepresentscomponentchangesinAUMbyclienttypeandproducttypefor2019.
Net Fullyear
December31, inflows Market December31, average
Net Fullyear
(inmillions) 2019 (outflows) change FXimpact(1) 2020 AUM(2)
December31, inflows Market December31, average
Active: (inmillions) 2018 (outflows) change FXimpact(1) 2019 AUM(2)
Equity $ 316,145 $ 30,241 $ 58,922 $ 4,881 $ 410,189 $ 327,403 Retail:
Fixedincome 939,275 26,934 58,153 10,653 1,035,015 964,153 Equity $ 205,714 $ (652) $ 45,820 $ 1,531 $ 252,413 $ 229,688
Multi-asset 554,672 13,154 64,629 11,409 643,864 561,107 Fixedincome 271,588 21,222 11,882 573 305,265 289,632
Alternatives 137,130 17,408 4,791 2,490 161,819 145,395 Multi-asset 113,417 (9,291) 16,138 175 120,439 117,366
Activesubtotal 1,947,222 87,737 186,495 29,433 2,250,887 1,998,058 Alternatives 20,131 4,531 506 12 25,180 22,384
IndexandiSharesETFs:
Retailsubtotal 610,850 15,810 74,346 2,291 703,297 659,070
iSharesETFs:
iSharesETFs:
Equity 1,632,972 76,307 186,918 8,904 1,905,101 1,561,970
Equity 1,274,262 64,705 292,840 1,165 1,632,972 1,453,395
Fixedincome 565,790 88,894 28,009 7,340 690,033 627,039
Fixedincome 427,596 112,345 25,878 (29) 565,790 503,266
Multi-asset 5,210 646 388 24 6,268 5,287
Multi-asset 4,485 113 601 11 5,210 4,489
Alternatives 36,093 19,038 12,331 143 67,605 53,845
Alternatives 25,082 6,329 4,664 18 36,093 29,767
iSharesETFssubtotal 2,240,065 184,885 227,646 16,411 2,669,007 2,248,141
iSharesETFssubtotal 1,731,425 183,492 323,983 1,165 2,240,065 1,990,917
Non-ETFIndex:
Institutional:
Equity 1,871,212 (57,553) 262,143 28,714 2,104,516 1,802,763
Active:
Fixedincome 810,327 42,133 68,907 28,073 949,440 856,082
Equity 110,976 1,852 27,547 743 141,118 124,722
Multi-asset 8,239 (587) 747 202 8,601 8,158
Fixedincome 538,961 55,006 55,358 2,043 651,368 611,383
Alternatives 4,849 733 (51) 87 5,618 4,676
Multi-asset 336,237 28,785 68,410 801 434,233 385,495
Non-ETFIndexsubtotal 2,694,627 (15,274) 331,746 57,076 3,068,175 2,671,679
Alternatives 93,805 13,813 3,852 481 111,951 103,369
Index&iSharesETFssubtotal 4,934,692 169,611 559,392 73,487 5,737,182 4,919,820
Activesubtotal 1,079,979 99,456 155,167 4,068 1,338,670 1,224,969
Long-term 6,881,914 257,348 745,887 102,920 7,988,069 6,917,878
Index:
Cashmanagement 545,949 113,349 (63) 7,017 666,252 617,989
Equity 1,444,873 (37,552) 380,101 6,404 1,793,826 1,640,715
Advisory(3) 1,770 20,141 445 3 22,359 13,236
Fixedincome 646,272 75,006 55,969 15,722 792,969 733,371
Total $7,429,633 $390,838 $746,269 $109,940 $8,676,680 $7,549,103
Multi-asset 7,745 (718) 1,203 9 8,239 8,095
Alternatives 4,340 166 272 70 4,848 4,580
ThefollowingtablepresentscomponentchangesinAUMbyproducttypefor2020.
Indexsubtotal 2,103,230 36,902 437,545 22,205 2,599,882 2,386,761
Institutionalsubtotal 3,183,209 136,358 592,712 26,273 3,938,552 3,611,730
Net Fullyear
December31, inflows Market December31, average Long-term 5,525,484 335,660 991,041 29,729 6,881,914 6,261,717
(inmillions) 2019 (outflows) change FXimpact(1) 2020 AUM(2)
Cashmanagement 448,565 93,074 3,054 1,256 545,949 486,636
Equity $3,820,329 $ 48,995 $507,983 $ 42,499 $4,419,806 $3,692,136 Advisory(3) 1,769 2 (19) 18 1,770 1,766
Fixedincome 2,315,392 157,961 155,069 46,066 2,674,488 2,447,274 Total $5,975,818 $428,736 $994,076 $31,003 $7,429,633 $6,750,119
Multi-asset 568,121 13,213 65,764 11,635 658,733 574,552
Alternatives: (1) Foreignexchangereflectstheimpactoftranslatingnon-USdollardenominatedAUMintoUSdollarsforreportingpurposes.
Illiquidalternatives 75,349 10,883 (1,512) 1,050 85,770 78,166 (2) AverageAUMiscalculatedastheaverageofthemonth-endspotAUMamountsforthetrailingthirteenmonths.
Liquidalternatives 59,048 6,545 6,295 1,330 73,218 64,522
(3) AdvisoryAUMrepresentslong-termportfolioliquidationassignments.
Currencyandcommodities(4) 43,675 19,751 12,288 340 76,054 61,228
Alternativessubtotal 178,072 37,179 17,071 2,720 235,042 203,916
Long-term 6,881,914 257,348 745,887 102,920 7,988,069 6,917,878
Cashmanagement 545,949 113,349 (63) 7,017 666,252 617,989
Advisory(3) 1,770 20,141 445 3 22,359 13,236
Total $7,429,633 $390,838 $746,269 $109,940 $8,676,680 $7,549,103
(1) Foreignexchangereflectstheimpactoftranslatingnon-USdollardenominatedAUMintoUSdollarsforreportingpurposes.
(2) AverageAUMiscalculatedastheaverageofthemonth-endspotAUMamountsforthetrailingthirteenmonths.
(3) AdvisoryAUMrepresentsmandateslinkedtopurchasesanddispositionofassetsandportfoliosonbehalfofofficialinstitutionsandlong-termportfolioliquidationassignments.Approximately
$4.3billionofiSharesETFsAUMheldinadvisoryaccountsassociatedwiththeFRBNYassignmentasofDecember31,2020(disclosedviaFRBNYreportingasofJanuary11,2021)are
includedwithinFixedIncomeiSharesETFsAUMorFixedIncomeAUMabove.TheseholdingsareexcludedfromAdvisoryAUM.
(4) AmountsincludecommodityiSharesETFs.
AUMincreased$1.25trillionto$8.68trillionat AUMincreased$109.9billionduetotheimpactofforeign
December31,2020from$7.43trillionatDecember31, exchangemovements,primarilyduetotheweakeningof
2019drivenprimarilybynetmarketappreciationand theUSdollar,largelyagainsttheEuro,theBritishpound
positivenetflowsacrossallinvestmentstylesandproduct andtheJapaneseyen.
types.
ForfurtherdiscussiononAUM,seePartI,Item1–
Netmarketappreciationof$746.3billionwasdriven Business–AssetsUnderManagement.
primarilybyhigherglobalequityandfixedincome
markets.
72 BlackRock Annual Report 2020 44 45 BlackRock Annual Report 2020 73
ThefollowingtablepresentscomponentchangesinAUMbyinvestmentstyleandproducttypefor2019. DISCUSSION OF FINANCIAL RESULTS TheCompanyadvisesglobalfinancialinstitutions,
regulators,andgovernmententitiesacrossarangeofrisk,
Introduction
Net Fullyear regulatory,capitalmarketsandstrategicservices.Fees
December31, inflows Market December31, average TheCompanyderivesasubstantialportionofitsrevenue earnedforadvisoryservices,whichareincludedin
(inmillions) 2018 (outflows) change FXimpact(1) 2019 AUM(2) frominvestmentadvisoryandadministrationfees,which advisoryandotherrevenue,aredeterminedusingfixed-
Active: arerecognizedastheservicesareperformedovertime ratefeesandarerecognizedovertimeastherelated
Equity $ 258,205 $ (2,918) $ 59,701 $ 1,157 $ 316,145 $ 286,461 becausethecustomerisreceivingandconsumingthe servicesarecompleted.
benefitsastheyareprovidedbytheCompany.Feesare
Fixedincome 795,985 74,972 66,150 2,168 939,275 885,170
TheCompanyearnsfeesfortransitionmanagement
primarilybasedonagreed-uponpercentagesofAUMand
Multi-asset 449,654 19,494 84,549 975 554,672 502,860 servicesprimarilycomprisedofcommissionsrecognized
recognizedforservicesprovidedduringtheperiod,which
Alternatives 113,936 18,344 4,357 493 137,130 125,753 inconnectionwithbuyingandsellingsecuritiesonbehalf
aredistinctfromservicesprovidedinotherperiods.Such
Activesubtotal 1,617,780 109,892 214,757 4,793 1,947,222 1,800,244 ofitscustomers.Commissionsrelatedtotransition
feesareaffectedbychangesinAUM,includingmarket
IndexandiSharesETFs: managementservices,whichareincludedinadvisoryand
appreciationordepreciation,foreignexchangetranslation
iSharesETFs: andnetinflowsoroutflows.Netinflowsoroutflows otherrevenue,arerecordedonatrade-datebasisas
Equity 1,274,262 64,705 292,840 1,165 1,632,972 1,453,395 representthesumofnewclientassets,additional transactionsoccur.
Fixedincome 427,596 112,345 25,878 (29) 565,790 503,266 fundingsfromexistingclients(includingdividend
TheCompanyalsoearnsrevenuerelatedtocertain
Multi-asset 4,485 113 601 11 5,210 4,489 reinvestment),withdrawalsofassetsfrom,and
minorityinvestmentsaccountedforasequitymethod
Alternatives 25,082 6,329 4,664 18 36,093 29,767 terminationof,clientaccountsanddistributionsto investments.
investorsrepresentingreturnofcapitalandreturnon
iSharesETFssubtotal 1,731,425 183,492 323,983 1,165 2,240,065 1,990,917
investmentstoinvestors.Marketappreciationor Operatingexpensereflectsemployeecompensationand
Non-ETFIndex:
depreciationincludescurrentincomeearnedon,and benefits,distributionandservicingcosts,directfund
Equity 1,503,358 (33,434) 393,767 7,521 1,871,212 1,708,664
changesinthefairvalueof,securitiesheldinclient expense,generalandadministrationexpenseand
Fixedincome 660,836 76,262 57,059 16,170 810,327 749,216
accounts.Foreignexchangetranslationreflectsthe amortizationoffinite-livedintangibleassets.
Multi-asset 7,745 (718) 1,202 10 8,239 8,096
impactoftranslatingnon-USdollardenominatedAUM
Alternatives 4,340 166 273 70 4,849 4,580 intoUSdollarsforreportingpurposes. •Employeecompensationandbenefitsexpense
Non-ETFIndexsubtotal 2,176,279 42,276 452,301 23,771 2,694,627 2,470,556 includessalaries,commissions,temporaryhelp,
TheCompanyalsoearnsrevenuebylendingsecuritieson deferredandincentivecompensation,employer
Index&iSharesETFssubtotal 3,907,704 225,768 776,284 24,936 4,934,692 4,461,473
behalfofclients,primarilytohighlyratedbanksand payrolltaxes,severanceandrelatedbenefitcosts.
Long-term 5,525,484 335,660 991,041 29,729 6,881,914 6,261,717
broker-dealers.Thesecuritiesloanedaresecuredby
Cashmanagement 448,565 93,074 3,054 1,256 545,949 486,636 •Distributionandservicingcosts,whichareprimarily
collateralintheformofcashorsecurities,withminimum
Advisory(3) 1,769 2 (19) 18 1,770 1,766 AUMdriven,includepaymentstothirdparties,
collateralgenerallyrangingfromapproximately102%to
primarilyassociatedwithdistributionandservicingof
Total $5,975,818 $428,736 $994,076 $31,003 $7,429,633 $6,750,119 112%ofthevalueoftheloanedsecurities.Generally,the
clientinvestmentsincertainCompanyproducts.
revenueearnedissharedbetweentheCompanyandthe
ThefollowingtablepresentscomponentchangesinAUMbyproducttypefor2019. fundsoraccountsmanagedbytheCompanyfromwhich •Directfundexpenseprimarilyconsistsofthird-party
thesecuritiesareborrowed. nonadvisoryexpensesincurredbytheCompany
Net Fullyear relatedtocertainfundsfortheuseofindex
December31, inflows Market December31, average Investmentadvisoryagreementsforcertainseparate
trademarks,referencedataforindices,custodial
(inmillions) 2018 (outflows) change FXimpact(1) 2019 AUM(2) accountsandinvestmentfundsprovideforperformance
services,fundadministration,fundaccounting,
Equity $3,035,825 $ 28,353 $746,308 $ 9,843 $3,820,329 $3,448,520 feesbaseduponrelativeand/orabsoluteinvestment transferagentservices,shareholderreporting
performance,inadditiontobasefeesbasedonAUM.
Fixedincome 1,884,417 263,579 149,087 18,309 2,315,392 2,137,652 services,legalexpense,andauditandtaxservicesas
Investmentadvisoryperformancefeesgenerallyare
Multi-asset 461,884 18,889 86,352 996 568,121 515,445 wellasotherfund-relatedexpensesdirectly
earnedafteragivenperiodoftimeandwheninvestment
Alternatives: attributabletothenonadvisoryoperationsofthe
performanceexceedsacontractualthreshold.Assuch,the
fund.Theseexpensesmayvaryovertimewith
Illiquidalternatives 59,827 14,103 1,101 318 75,349 68,030
timingofrecognitionofperformancefeesmayincrease
fluctuationsinAUM,numberofshareholder
Liquidalternatives 51,718 3,957 3,224 149 59,048 55,088
thevolatilityoftheCompany’srevenueandearnings.The
accounts,orotherattributesdirectlyrelatedto
Currencyandcommodities(4) 31,813 6,779 4,969 114 43,675 36,982 magnitudeofperformancefeescanfluctuatequarterly
volumeofbusiness.
Alternativessubtotal 143,358 24,839 9,294 581 178,072 160,100 duetothetimingofcarriedinterestrecognitionon
Long-term 5,525,484 335,660 991,041 29,729 6,881,914 6,261,717 alternativeproducts;however,thethirdandfourth •Generalandadministrationexpenseincludes
Cashmanagement 448,565 93,074 3,054 1,256 545,949 486,636 quartershaveagreaternumberofnonalternative marketingandpromotional,occupancyandoffice-
Advisory(3) 1,769 2 (19) 18 1,770 1,766 productswithperformancemeasurementperiodsthatend relatedcosts,portfolioservices(includingclearing
oneitherSeptember30orDecember31. expenserelatedtotransitionmanagementservices),
Total $5,975,818 $428,736 $994,076 $31,003 $7,429,633 $6,750,119
technology,professionalservices,communications,
(1) Foreignexchangereflectstheimpactoftranslatingnon-USdollardenominatedAUMintoUSdollarsforreportingpurposes. TheCompanyoffersinvestmentmanagementtechnology contingentconsiderationfairvalueadjustments,
systems,riskmanagementservices,wealthmanagement productlaunchcosts,theimpactofforeigncurrency
(2) AverageAUMiscalculatedastheaverageofthemonth-endspotAUMamountsforthetrailingthirteenmonths.
anddigitaldistributiontools,allonafeebasis.Clients remeasurement,andothergeneraland
(3) AdvisoryAUMrepresentslong-termportfolioliquidationassignments. includebanks,insurancecompanies,officialinstitutions, administrationexpense.Foreigncurrency
pensionfunds,assetmanagers,retaildistributorsand remeasurementlosseswere$6millionand
(4) AmountsincludecommodityiSharesETFs.
otherinvestors.Feesearnedfortechnologyservicesare $31millionfor2020and2019,respectively.
AUMincreased$1.5trillionto$7.43trillionat Netmarketappreciationof$994.1billionwasdriven primarilyrecordedasservicesareperformedovertime
December31,2019from$5.98trillionatDecember31, primarilybyhigherglobalequityandfixedincome andaregenerallydeterminedusingthevalueofpositions Approximately75%oftheCompany’srevenueis
2018drivenprimarilybynetmarketappreciationand markets. ontheAladdinplatform,oronafixed-ratebasis.Revenue generatedinUSdollars.TheCompany’srevenueand
positivenetflowsacrossallinvestmentstylesandproduct derivedfromthesaleofsoftwarelicensesisrecognized expensegeneratedinforeigncurrencies(primarilythe
types. AUMincreased$31billionduetotheimpactofforeign uponthegrantingofaccessrights. EuroandBritishpound)areimpactedbyforeignexchange
exchangemovements,primarilyduetotheweakeningof rates.Anyeffectofforeignexchangeratechangeon
theUSdollar,largelyagainsttheBritishpound. TheCompanyearnsdistributionandservicefeesfor revenueispartiallyoffsetbyachangeinexpensedrivenby
distributinginvestmentproductsandprovidingsupport theCompany’sconsiderablenon-dollarexpensebase
servicestoinvestmentsportfolios.Thefeesarebasedon relatedtoitsoperationsoutsidetheUnitedStates.
AUMandarerecognizedwhentheamountoffeesisknown.
74 BlackRock Annual Report 2020 46 47 BlackRock Annual Report 2020 75
Nonoperatingincome(expense)includestheeffectof stock.TheCompanydoesnotengageinproprietary ThetablebelowlistsbasefeesandmixofaverageAUMbyproducttype:
changesinthevaluationsoninvestmentsandearningson tradingactivitiesthatcouldconflictwiththeinterestsof
MixofBaseFees MixofAverageAUM(1)
equitymethodinvestmentsaswellasinterestand itsclients.
dividendincomeandinterestexpense.TheCompany 2020 2019 2020 2019
Inaddition,nonoperatingincome(expense)includesthe
primarilyholdsseedandco-investmentsinsponsored
Equity:
impactofchangesinthevaluationsofconsolidated
investmentproductsthatinvestinavarietyofasset
sponsoredinvestmentfunds.Theportionofnonoperating Active 14% 13% 4% 4%
classes,includingprivateequity,hedgefundsandreal
income(expense)notattributabletotheCompanyis iSharesETFs 28% 30% 21% 22%
assets.Investmentsgenerallyaremadeforco-investment
allocatedtoNCIontheconsolidatedstatementsof Non-ETFindex 5% 6% 24% 25%
purposes,toestablishaperformancetrackrecordorfor
regulatorypurposes,includingFederalReserveBank income. Equitysubtotal 47% 49% 49% 51%
Fixedincome:
Active 15% 16% 13% 13%
Revenue iSharesETFs 9% 8% 8% 7%
Thefollowingtablepresentsdetailofrevenuefor2020and2019andincludestheproducttypemixofbasefeesand Non-ETFindex 4% 3% 11% 11%
performancefees. Fixedincomesubtotal 28% 27% 32% 31%
Multi-asset 9% 10% 8% 8%
(inmillions) 2020 2019 Alternatives:
Investmentadvisory,administrationfeesandsecuritieslendingrevenue: Illiquidalternatives 5% 4% 1% 1%
Equity: Liquidalternatives 4% 4% 1% 1%
Active $ 1,737 $ 1,554 Currencyandcommodities(2) 1% 1% 1% 1%
iSharesETFs 3,499 3,495 Alternativessubtotal 10% 9% 3% 3%
Non-ETFindex 664 667 Long-term 94% 95% 92% 93%
Equitysubtotal 5,900 5,716 Cashmanagement 6% 5% 8% 7%
Fixedincome: TotalexcludingAdvisoryAUM 100% 100% 100% 100%
Active 1,957 1,918
(1) AverageAUMiscalculatedastheaverageofthemonth-endspotAUMamountsforthetrailingthirteenmonths.
iSharesETFs 1,119 963
Non-ETFindex 463 405 (2) AmountsincludecommodityiSharesETFs.
Fixedincomesubtotal 3,539 3,286
Revenueincreased$1,666million,or11%,from2019, primarilyreflectinghigherrevenuefromliquidalternative
Multi-asset 1,163 1,148 primarilydrivenbyhigherbaseandperformancefeesand andlong-onlyequityproducts.Approximately60%ofthe
Alternatives: 17%growthintechnologyservicesrevenue. fullyearincreaseinperformancefeeswasattributabletoa
Illiquidalternatives 577 488 singlehedgefundstrategythatdeliveredstrong
Liquidalternatives 502 413 Basefeesof$12,639millionin2020increased performanceduringtheyear.
$862millionfrom$11,777millionin2019,primarily
Currencyandcommodities(1) 168 108
drivenbyorganicgrowth,thepositiveimpactofmarket Technologyservicesrevenueof$1,139millionfor2020
Alternativessubtotal 1,247 1,009
betaandforeignexchangemovementsonaverageAUM increased$165millionfrom$974millionin2019,
Long-term 11,849 11,159
andhighersecuritieslendingrevenue,partiallyoffsetby primarilyreflectinghigherrevenuefromAladdinandthe
Cashmanagement 790 618 theimpactoffeereductionsoncertainproducts. impactoftheeFrontacquisition,whichclosedinMayof
TotalInvestmentadvisory,administrationfeesandsecuritieslendingrevenue 12,639 11,777 Securitieslendingrevenueof$652millionincreased 2019.
Investmentadvisoryperformancefees: $35millionfrom$617millionin2019,primarilyreflecting
Equity 91 36 higheraveragebalancesofsecuritiesonloanandhigher Advisoryandotherrevenueof$192millionin2020
Fixedincome 35 10 cashreinvestmentspreads,partiallyoffsetbylowerasset decreased$77millionfrom$269millionin2019,
Multi-asset 35 19 spreads. primarilyreflectingtheimpactoftheCharitable
ContributionofBlackRock’sremaining20%stakein
Alternatives:
Investmentadvisoryperformancefeesof$1,104millionin PennyMacin2020andloweradvisoryassignments.
Illiquidalternatives 83 136
2020increased$654millionfrom$450millionin2019,
Liquidalternatives 860 249
Alternativessubtotal 943 385
Totalperformancefees 1,104 450
Technologyservicesrevenue 1,139 974
Distributionfees:
Retrocessions 736 658
12b-1fees(USmutualfunddistributionfees) 337 358
Other 58 53
Totaldistributionfees 1,131 1,069
Advisoryandotherrevenue:
Advisory 68 99
Other 124 170
Totaladvisoryandotherrevenue 192 269
Totalrevenue $ 16,205 $ 14,539
(1) AmountsincludecommodityiSharesETFs.
76 BlackRock Annual Report 2020 48 49 BlackRock Annual Report 2020 77
Expense (inmillions) 2020 2019
Thefollowingtablepresentsexpensefor2020and2019. Netgain(loss)oninvestments(1)(2)
Privateequity $ 44 $ 47
(inmillions) 2020 2019 Realassets 8 21
Otheralternatives(3) 32 19
Expense:
Otherinvestments(4) 120 144
Employeecompensationandbenefits $ 5,041 $ 4,470
Distributionandservicingcosts: Subtotal 204 231
Retrocessions 736 658 GainrelatedtotheCharitableContribution 122 —
12b-1costs 328 354 Othergains(losses)(5) 292 61
Other 771 673 Totalnetgain(loss)oninvestments(1)(2) 618 292
Totaldistributionandservicingcosts 1,835 1,685 Interestanddividendincome 62 97
Directfundexpense 1,063 978 Interestexpense (205) (203)
Generalandadministration: Netinterestexpense (143) (106)
Marketingandpromotional 229 350 Nonoperatingincome(expense)(1) $ 475 $ 186
Occupancyandofficerelated 319 307
(1) Netofnetincome(loss)attributabletoNCI.
Portfolioservices 283 261
Technology 397 289 (2) Managementbelievesnonoperatingincome(expense),lessnetincome(loss)attributabletoNCI,isaneffectivemeasureforreviewingBlackRock’snonoperatingresults,whichultimately
impactsBlackRock’sbookvalue.SeeNon-GAAPFinancialMeasuresforfurtherinformationonnon-GAAPfinancialmeasures.
Professionalservices 170 161
Communications 54 39 (3) Amountsprimarilyincludenetgains(losses)relatedtodirecthedgefundstrategiesandhedgefundsolutions.
Foreignexchangeremeasurement 6 31 (4) Amountsprimarilyincludenetgains(losses)relatedtounhedgedequityandfixedincomeinvestments.
Contingentconsiderationfairvalueadjustments 23 53
(5) Amountfor2020includesanonoperatingpre-taxgainofapproximately$240millioninconnectionwitharecapitalizationofiCapital.Additionalamountsincludenoncashpre-taxgains
Productlaunchcosts 166 59 (losses)relatedtotherevaluationofcertainothercorporateminorityinvestments.
CharitableContribution 589 —
Othergeneralandadministration 229 208
Income Tax Expense
Totalgeneralandadministrationexpense 2,465 1,758
Amortizationofintangibleassets 106 97
Totalexpense $ 10,510 $ 8,988 GAAP Asadjusted
(inmillions) 2020 2019 2020 2019
Expenseincreased$1,522million,or17%,from2019, technologyexpense,includingcertaincostsrelatedto
Operatingincome(1) $5,695 $5,551 $6,284 $5,551
primarilydrivenbyhighergeneralandadministration COVID-19,costsrelatedtocertainlegalmatters,including
expense,includingtheimpactoftheCharitable AvironCapital,LLC.,anda$12millionimpairmentofa Totalnonoperatingincome(expense)(1)(2) $ 475 $ 186 $ 353 $ 186
Contributionandhigherproductlaunchcosts,higher fixedasset.Theincreasewaspartiallyoffsetbylower Incomebeforeincometaxes(2) $6,170 $5,737 $6,637 $5,737
employeecompensationandbenefitsexpense,andhigher marketingandpromotionalexpense,lowercontingent Incometaxexpense $1,238 $1,261 $1,400 $1,253
volume-relatedexpensein2020. considerationfairvalueadjustmentsandlowerforeign Effectivetaxrate 20.1% 22.0% 21.1% 21.9%
exchangeremeasurementexpensefor2020.
Employeecompensationandbenefitsexpenseincreased (1) AsadjusteditemsaredescribedinmoredetailinNon-GAAPFinancialMeasures.
$571million,or13%,to$5,041millionin2020from
(2) Netofnetincome(loss)attributabletoNCI.
NONOPERATING RESULTS
$4,470millionin2019,primarilyreflectinghigherbase
andincentivecompensation,driveninpartbyhigher Thesummaryofnonoperatingincome(expense),lessnet TheCompany’staxrateisaffectedbytaxratesinforeign deferredtaxrevaluationnoncashexpensementioned
performancefeesandoperatingincome. income(loss)attributabletoNCIfor2020and2019wasas jurisdictionsandtherelativeamountofincomeearnedin aboveasitwillnothaveacashflowimpactandtoensure
follows:
thosejurisdictions,whichtheCompanyexpectstobefairly comparabilityamongperiodspresented.
Directfundexpenseincreased$85millionfrom2019, consistentinthenearterm.Thesignificantforeign
reflectinghigheraverageAUM. (inmillions) 2020 2019 jurisdictionsthathavedifferentstatutorytaxratesthan 2019Incometaxexpense(GAAP)reflected:
Generalandadministrationexpenseincreased Nonoperatingincome(expense),GAAP theUSfederalstatutoryrateof21%includetheUnited •adiscretetaxbenefitof$28millionprimarilyrelated
$707millionfrom2019,primarilydrivenby$589million basis(1) $ 829 $ 236 Kingdom,Ireland,CanadaandGermany. tostock-basedcompensationawardsthatvestedin
Less:Netincome(loss)attributabletoNCI 354 50
ofexpenserelatedtotheCharitableContribution,higher Nonoperatingincome(expense),as 2020Incometaxexpense(GAAP)reflected: 2020.
productlaunchcosts,higherportfolioservicesand
adjusted,netofNCI(2)(3) $ 475 $ 186
•adiscretetaxbenefitof$241millionrecognizedin
connectionwiththeCharitableContribution; BALANCE SHEET OVERVIEW
•adiscretetaxbenefitof$139million,including Thefollowingtablepresentsareconciliationofthe
benefitsrelatedtochangesintheCompany’s consolidatedstatementoffinancialconditionpresented
organizationalentitystructureandstock-based onaGAAPbasistotheconsolidatedstatementoffinancial
compensationawardsthatvestedin2020;and condition,excludingtheimpactofseparateaccount
assetsandseparateaccountcollateralheldunder
•a$79millionnetnoncashexpenseassociatedwith
securitieslendingagreements(directlyrelatedtolending
therevaluationofcertaindeferredincometaxassets
separateaccountsecurities)andseparateaccount
andliabilitiesrelatedtolegislationenactedinthe
liabilitiesandseparateaccountcollateralliabilitiesunder
UnitedKingdomincreasingitscorporatetaxrateand
securitieslendingagreementsandconsolidated
stateandlocalincometaxchanges.
sponsoredinvestmentproducts.
Theasadjustedeffectivetaxrateof21.1%for2020
TheCompanypresentstheasadjustedbalancesheetas
excludedthe$241milliondiscretetaxbenefitin
additionalinformationtoenableinvestorstoexclude
connectionwiththeCharitablecontributionduetoits
certainassetsthathaveequalandoffsettingliabilitiesor
non-recurringnatureandthe$79millionnoncash
noncontrollingintereststhatultimatelydonothavean
78 BlackRock Annual Report 2020 50 51 BlackRock Annual Report 2020 79
impactonstockholders’equityorcashflows. Inaddition,theCompanyrecordsonitsconsolidated Thefollowingdiscussionsummarizesthesignificant December31,2020decreased$61millionfrom
Managementviewstheasadjustedbalancesheet,which statementsoffinancialconditiontheseparateaccount changesinassetsandliabilitiesonaGAAPbasis.Please December31,2019,primarilyduetotheeffectsof
containsnon-GAAPfinancialmeasures,asaneconomic collateralreceivedunderBlackRockLifeLimitedsecurities seetheconsolidatedstatementsoffinancialconditionas temporarydifferencesassociatedwithstock-based
presentationoftheCompany’stotalassetsandliabilities; lendingarrangementsasitsownassetinadditiontoan ofDecember31,2020and2019containedinPartII, compensation,investmentincomeandtheincometax
however,itdoesnotadvocatethatinvestorsconsidersuch equalandoffsettingseparateaccountcollateralliability Item8ofthisfiling.Thediscussiondoesnotinclude benefitrelatedtotheCharitableContribution,partially
non-GAAPfinancialmeasuresinisolationfrom,orasa fortheobligationtoreturnthecollateral.Thecollateralis changesrelatedtoassetsandliabilitiesthatareequaland offsetbytheeffectsoftemporarydifferencesassociated
substitutefor,financialinformationpreparedin notavailabletocreditorsoftheCompany,andthe offsettingandhavenoimpactonBlackRock’s withtherevaluationofcertaindeferredincometax
accordancewithGAAP. borrowersunderthesecuritieslendingarrangementshave stockholders’equity. liabilitiesduetotaxlegislationenactedintheUnited
norecoursetotheCompany’sassets. Kingdomandstateandlocalincometaxchanges.
Assets.CashandcashequivalentsatDecember31,2020
SeparateAccountAssetsandLiabilitiesandSeparate
and2019included$206millionand$141million,
AccountCollateralHeldunderSecuritiesLending ConsolidatedSponsoredInvestmentProducts Investments
respectively,ofcashheldbyconsolidatedsponsored
Agreements
TheCompanyconsolidatescertainsponsoredinvestment investmentproducts(seeLiquidityandCapitalResources TheCompany’sinvestmentswere$6,919millionand
SeparateaccountassetsaremaintainedbyBlackRockLife productsaccountedforasvariableinterestentities fordetailsonthechangeincashandcashequivalents $5,489millionatDecember31,2020and2019,
Limited,awhollyownedsubsidiaryoftheCompanythatis (“VIEs”)andvotingrightsentities(“VREs”),(collectively, during2020). respectively.Investmentsincludeconsolidated
aregisteredlifeinsurancecompanyintheUnited “consolidatedsponsoredinvestmentproducts”).See investmentsheldbysponsoredinvestmentproducts
Kingdom,andrepresentsegregatedassetsheldfor Note2,SignificantAccountingPolicies,inthenotestothe AccountsreceivableatDecember31,2020increased accountedforasVIEsandVREs.Managementreviews
purposesoffundingindividualandgrouppension consolidatedfinancialstatementscontainedinPartII, $356millionfromDecember31,2019,primarilydueto BlackRock’sinvestmentsonan“economic”basis,which
contracts.TheCompanyrecordsequalandoffsetting Item8ofthisfilingformoreinformationonthe higherperformanceandbasefeesreceivables. eliminatestheportionofinvestmentsthatdoesnotimpact
separateaccountliabilities.Theseparateaccountassets Company’sconsolidationpolicy. Investments,includingtheimpactofconsolidated BlackRock’sbookvalueornetincomeattributableto
arenotavailabletocreditorsoftheCompanyandthe sponsoredinvestmentproductsincreased$1,430million BlackRock.BlackRock’smanagementdoesnotadvocate
holdersofthepensioncontractshavenorecoursetothe TheCompanycannotreadilyaccesscashandcash fromDecember31,2019(formoreinformationsee thatinvestorsconsidersuchnon-GAAPfinancial
Company’sassets.Thenetinvestmentincomeattributable equivalentsorotherassetsheldbyconsolidated Investmentsherein).Goodwillandintangibleassets measuresinisolationfrom,orasasubstitutefor,financial
toseparateaccountassetsaccruesdirectlytothecontract sponsoredinvestmentproductstouseinitsoperating decreased$117millionfromDecember31,2019, informationpreparedinaccordancewithGAAP.
ownersandisnotreportedontheconsolidated activities.Inaddition,theCompanycannotreadilysell primarilyduetoamortizationofintangibleassets.Other
statementsofincome.WhileBlackRockhasnoeconomic investmentsheldbyconsolidatedsponsoredinvestment assets(includingoperatingleaseright-of-use(“ROU”) TheCompanypresentsinvestments,asadjusted,to
interestintheseassetsorliabilities,BlackRockearnsan productsinordertoobtaincashforuseintheCompany’s assetsandpropertyandequipment)decreased$4million enableinvestorstounderstandtheportionofinvestments
investmentadvisoryfeefortheserviceofmanagingthese operations. fromDecember31,2019,primarilyduetoanetdecrease thatisownedbytheCompany,netofNCI,asagaugeto
assetsonbehalfofitsclients. incertaincorporateminorityinvestments,primarily measuretheimpactofchangesinnetnonoperating
relatedtothepreviouslydiscussedCharitable income(expense)oninvestmentstonetincome(loss)
December31,2020 ContributionofBlackRock’sremaining20%stakein attributabletoBlackRock.
PennyMac,partiallyoffsetbyanincreaseinunittrust
Separate Consolidated TheCompanyfurtherpresentsnet“economic”investment
receivables(substantiallyoffsetbyanincreaseinunit
Account Sponsored
exposure,netofdeferredcompensationinvestmentsand
GAAP Assets/ Investment As trustpayablesrecordedwithinotherliabilities).
hedgedinvestments,toreflectanotherhelpfulmeasure
(inmillions) Basis Collateral(1) Products(2) Adjusted
Liabilities.Accruedcompensationandbenefitsat forinvestors.Theeconomicimpactofinvestmentsheld
Assets
December31,2020increased$442millionfrom pursuanttodeferredcompensationarrangementsis
Cashandcashequivalents $ 8,664 $ — $ 206 $ 8,458 December31,2019,primarilyduetohigher2020 offsetbyachangeincompensationexpense.Theimpact
Accountsreceivable 3,535 — — 3,535 incentivecompensationaccruals.Otherliabilities ofcertaininvestmentsissubstantiallymitigatedbyswap
Investments 6,919 — 2,486 4,433 increased$222millionfromDecember31,2019,primarily hedges.Carriedinterestcapitalallocationsareexcluded
Separateaccountassetsandcollateralheldundersecurities duetohigherotherliabilitiesofconsolidatedsponsored asthereisnoimpacttoBlackRock’sstockholders’equity
lendingagreements 121,170 121,170 — — investmentproductsandhigherunittrustpayables untilsuchamountsarerealizedasperformancefees.
Otherassets(3) 3,880 — 81 3,799 (substantiallyoffsetbyanincreaseinunittrust Finally,theCompany’sregulatoryinvestmentinFederal
Subtotal 144,168 121,170 2,773 20,225 receivablesrecordedwithinotherassets),partiallyoffset ReserveBankstock,whichisnotsubjecttomarketor
Goodwillandintangibleassets,net 32,814 — — 32,814 bylowercontingentliabilitiesrelatedtocertain interestraterisk,isexcludedfromtheCompany’snet
Totalassets $ 176,982 $ 121,170 $ 2,773 $ 53,039 acquisitions.Netdeferredincometaxliabilitiesat economicinvestmentexposure.
Liabilities December31, December31,
Accruedcompensationandbenefits $ 2,499 $ — $ — $ 2,499 (inmillions) 2020 2019
Accountspayableandaccruedliabilities 1,028 — — 1,028
Investments,GAAP $ 6,919 $ 5,489
Borrowings 7,264 — — 7,264
Investmentsheldbyconsolidatedsponsoredinvestmentproducts (4,976) (3,784)
Separateaccountliabilitiesandcollateralliabilitiesunder
Netinterestinconsolidatedsponsoredinvestmentproducts(1) 2,490 2,290
securitieslendingagreements 121,170 121,170 — —
Deferredincometaxliabilities(4) 3,673 — — 3,673 Investments,asadjusted 4,433 3,995
Otherliabilities 3,692 — 400 3,292 FederalReserveBankstock (94) (93)
Totalliabilities 139,326 121,170 400 17,756 Deferredcompensationinvestments (6) (23)
Equity Hedgedinvestments (833) (644)
TotalBlackRock,Inc.stockholders’equity 35,283 — — 35,283 Carriedinterest (627) (528)
Noncontrollinginterests 2,373 — 2,373 — Total“economic”investmentexposure(2) $ 2,873 $ 2,707
Totalequity 37,656 — 2,373 35,283
(1) Amountincluded$604millionand$514millionofcarriedinterest(VIEs)asofDecember31,2020and2019,respectively,whichhasnoimpactontheCompany’s“economic”investment
Totalliabilitiesandequity $ 176,982 $ 121,170 $ 2,773 $ 53,039 exposure.
(1) Amountsrepresentsegregatedclientassetsandrelatedliabilities,inwhichBlackRockhasnoeconomicinterest.BlackRockearnsaninvestmentadvisoryfeefortheserviceofmanagingthese (2) Amountsexcludeinvestmentsincorporateminorityinvestmentsincludedinotherassetsontheconsolidatedstatementsoffinancialcondition
assetsonbehalfofitsclients.
(2) AmountsrepresenttheportionofassetsandliabilitiesofConsolidatedSponsoredInvestmentProductsattributabletoNCI.
(3) Amountincludespropertyandequipmentandotherassets.
(4) Amountincludesapproximately$4.3billionofdeferredincometaxliabilitiesrelatedtogoodwillandintangibles.SeeNote25,IncomeTaxes,inthenotestotheconsolidatedfinancial
statementscontainedinPartII,Item8ofthisfilingformoreinformation.
80 BlackRock Annual Report 2020 52 53 BlackRock Annual Report 2020 81
ThefollowingtablerepresentsthecarryingvalueoftheCompany’seconomicinvestmentexposure,byassettype,at SourcesofBlackRock’soperatingcashprimarilyinclude activities,partiallyoffsetbycashdividendpaymentsof
December31,2020and2019: investmentadvisory,administrationfeesandsecurities $2.3billionandsharerepurchasesof$1.8billion.
lendingrevenue,performancefees,technologyservices
December31, December31, AsignificantportionoftheCompany’s$4,433millionof
revenue,advisoryrevenueanddistributionfees.BlackRock
(inmillions) 2020 2019 investments,asadjusted,isilliquidinnatureand,assuch,
usesitscashtopayforalloperatingexpense,interestand
Equity(1) $ 835 $ 609 principalonborrowings,incometaxes,dividendson cannotbereadilyconvertibletocash.
Fixedincome(2) 958 1,008 BlackRock’scapitalstock,repurchasesoftheCompany’s
TheCompany’sliquidityandcapitalresourceswerenot
Multi-asset(3) 127 178 stock,acquisitions,capitalexpendituresandpurchasesof
materiallyimpactedbyCOVID-19andrelatedeconomic
Alternatives: co-investmentsandseedinvestments.
conditionsduring2020.TheCompanywillcontinueto
Privateequity 418 355
monitoritsliquidityandcapitalresourcesduetothe
Realassets 251 322 FordetailsoftheCompany’sGAAPcashflowsfrom
currentpandemic.
Otheralternatives(4) 284 235 operating,investingandfinancingactivities,seethe
Alternativessubtotal 953 912 ConsolidatedStatementsofCashFlowscontainedin ShareRepurchases.During2020,theCompany
Total“economic”investmentexposure $ 2,873 $ 2,707 PartII,Item8ofthisfiling. repurchasedanaggregateofapproximately$1.5billionof
(1) Equityincludesunhedgedseedinvestmentsinequitymutualfunds/strategiesandequitysecurities. Cashflowsprovidedby/(usedin)operatingactivities, commonshares,includingtherepurchasefromPNCand
0.8millioncommonsharesundertheCompany’sexisting
(2) Fixedincomeincludesunhedgedseedinvestmentsinfixedincomemutualfunds/strategies,bankloansandUKgovernmentsecurities,primarilyheldforregulatorypurposes. excludingtheimpactofconsolidatedsponsored
sharerepurchaseprogramforapproximately$412million.
investmentproducts,primarilyincludethereceiptof
(3) Multi-assetincludesunhedgedseedinvestmentsinmulti-assetmutualfunds/strategies.
AtDecember31,2020,therewere5.1millionsharesstill
investmentadvisoryandadministrationfees,securities
(4) Otheralternativesprimarilyincludehedgefunds/fundsofhedgefunds. authorizedtoberepurchasedundertheprogram.
lendingrevenueandperformancefeesoffsetbythe
Asadjustedinvestmentactivityfor2020and2019wasasfollows: paymentofoperatingexpensesincurredinthenormal
NetCapitalRequirements.TheCompanyisrequiredto
courseofbusiness,includingyear-endincentive
maintainnetcapitalincertainregulatedsubsidiaries
(inmillions) 2020 2019 compensationaccruedforintheprioryear.
withinanumberofjurisdictions,whichispartially
TotalInvestments,asadjusted,beginningbalance $ 3,995 $ 3,381
maintainedbyretainingcashandcashequivalent
Cashflowsusedininvestingactivities,excludingthe
Purchases/capitalcontributions 1,117 975
investmentsinthosesubsidiariesorjurisdictions.Asa
impactofconsolidatedsponsoredinvestmentproducts,
Sales/maturities (909) (617)
result,suchsubsidiariesoftheCompanymayberestricted
for2020were$183millionandreflected$194millionof
Distributions(1) (237) (226)
intheirabilitytotransfercashbetweendifferent
Marketappreciation(depreciation)/earningsfromequitymethodinvestments 309 333 purchasesofpropertyandequipmentand$172millionof
jurisdictionsandtotheirparents.Additionally,transfersof
Carriedinterestcapitalallocations/(distributions) 99 141 netinvestmentpurchases,partiallyoffsetby$183million
cashbetweeninternationaljurisdictionsmayhaveadverse
Other(2) 59 8 ofdistributionsofcapitalfromequitymethodinvestees.
taxconsequencesthatcoulddiscouragesuchtransfers.
TotalInvestments,asadjusted,endingbalance $ 4,433 $ 3,995
Cashflowsusedinfinancingactivities,excludingthe
BlackRockInstitutionalTrustCompany,N.A.(“BTC”)is
(1) Amountincludesdistributionsrepresentingreturnofcapitalandreturnoninvestments. impactofconsolidatedsponsoredinvestmentproducts,
charteredasanationalbankthatdoesnotacceptdeposits
for2020were$1.9billion,primarilyresultingfrom
(2) Amountincludestheimpactofforeignexchangemovements.
ormakecommercialloansandwhosepowersarelimited
$1.8billionofsharerepurchases,including$1.1billion
totrustandotherfiduciaryactivities.BTCprovides
fromPNC,$412millioninopenmarkettransactionsand
LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES non-GAAPmeasuretoassessliquidityandcapital investmentmanagementandotherfiduciaryservices,
$297millionofemployeetaxwithholdingsrelatedto
requirements.TheCompanybelievesthatitscashflows, includinginvestmentadvisoryandsecuritieslending
employeestocktransactions,and$2.3billionofcash
excludingtheimpactoftheconsolidatedsponsored
BlackRockCashFlowsExcludingtheImpactof dividendpayments,partiallyoffsetby$2.2billionof agencyservices,toinstitutionalclients.BTCissubjectto
investmentproducts,provideinvestorswithuseful
ConsolidatedSponsoredInvestmentProducts regulatorycapitalandliquidassetrequirements
informationonthecashflowsofBlackRockrelatingtoits proceedsfromlong-termborrowings.
administeredbytheUSOfficeoftheComptrollerofthe
Theconsolidatedstatementsofcashflowsincludethe abilitytofundadditionaloperating,investingand
TheCompanymanagesitsfinancialconditionand Currency.
cashflowsoftheconsolidatedsponsoredinvestment financingactivities.BlackRock’smanagementdoesnot
products.TheCompanyusesanadjustedcashflow advocatethatinvestorsconsidersuchnon-GAAP fundingtomaintainappropriateliquidityforthebusiness.
AtDecember31,2020and2019,theCompanywas
statement,whichexcludestheimpactofConsolidated measuresinisolationfrom,orasasubstitutefor,itscash LiquidityresourcesatDecember31,2020and2019were
requiredtomaintainapproximately$2.2billionand
SponsoredInvestmentProducts,asasupplemental flowspresentedinaccordancewithGAAP. asfollows:
$1.9billion,respectively,innetcapitalincertainregulated
ThefollowingtablepresentsareconciliationoftheconsolidatedstatementsofcashflowspresentedonaGAAPbasisto subsidiaries,includingBTC,entitiesregulatedbythe
theconsolidatedstatementsofcashflows,excludingtheimpactofthecashflowsofconsolidatedsponsoredinvestment December31, December31,
(inmillions) 2020 2019 FinancialConductAuthorityandPrudentialRegulation
products:
AuthorityintheUnitedKingdom,andtheCompany’s
Cashandcashequivalents(1) $ 8,664 $ 4,829
broker-dealers.TheCompanywasincompliancewithall
CashFlows Cashandcashequivalentsheldby
applicableregulatorynetcapitalrequirements.
Impacton Excluding consolidatedsponsored
CashFlows Impactof investmentproducts(2) (206) (141)
ofConsolidated Consolidated UndistributedEarningsofForeignSubsidiaries.Asa
Subtotal 8,458 4,688
Sponsored Sponsored resultofThe2017TaxCutsandJobsActandtheone-time
GAAP Investment Investment Creditfacility—undrawn 4,000 4,000 mandatorydeemedrepatriationtaxonuntaxed
(inmillions) Basis Products Products Totalliquidityresources(3) $ 12,458 $ 8,688 accumulatedforeignearnings,USincometaxeswere
Cash,cashequivalentsandrestrictedcash,December31,2018 $6,505 $ 245 $6,260 providedontheCompany’sundistributedforeign
(1) ThepercentageofcashandcashequivalentsheldbytheCompany’sUSsubsidiarieswas
Netcashprovidedby/(usedin)operatingactivities 2,884 (1,563) 4,447 approximately55%and45%atDecember31,2020and2019,respectively.SeeNet earnings.Thefinancialstatementbasisinexcessoftax
Netcashprovidedby/(usedin)investingactivities (2,014) (110) (1,904) CapitalRequirementshereinformoreinformationonnetcapitalrequirementsincertain basisofitsforeignsubsidiariesremainsindefinitely
Netcashprovidedby/(usedin)financingactivities (2,583) 1,569 (4,152) regulatedsubsidiaries. reinvestedinforeignoperations.TheCompanywill
Effectofexchangeratechangesoncash,cashequivalentsandrestrictedcash 54 — 54 (2) TheCompanycannotreadilyaccesssuchcashandcashequivalentstouseinitsoperating continuetoevaluateitscapitalmanagementplans.
Netincrease/(decrease)incash,cashequivalentsandrestrictedcash (1,659) (104) (1,555)
activities.
Cash,cashequivalentsandrestrictedcash,December31,2019 $4,846 $ 141 $4,705
(3) Amountsdonotreflectyear-endincentivecompensationaccruals,whicharepaidinthe Short-TermBorrowings
Netcashprovidedby/(usedin)operatingactivities 3,743 (1,966) 5,709 firstquarter.
2020RevolvingCreditFacility.TheCompany’scredit
Netcashprovidedby/(usedin)investingactivities (254) (71) (183)
facilityhasanaggregatecommitmentamountof
Totalliquidityresourcesincreased$3,770millionduring
Netcashprovidedby/(usedin)financingactivities 244 2,102 (1,858)
$4billionandwasamendedinMarch2020toextendthe
Effectofexchangeratechangesoncash,cashequivalentsandrestrictedcash 102 — 102 2020,primarilyreflecting$2.2billionofproceedsfrom
maturitydatetoMarch2025(the“2020creditfacility”).
long-termborrowingsandcashflowsfromotheroperating
Netincrease/(decrease)incash,cashequivalentsandrestrictedcash 3,835 65 3,770
The2020creditfacilitypermitstheCompanytorequest
Cash,cashequivalentsandrestrictedcash,December31,2020 $ 8,681 $ 206 $ 8,475
82 BlackRock Annual Report 2020 54 55 BlackRock Annual Report 2020 83
uptoanadditional$1billionofborrowingcapacity, back-upliquiditytofundongoingworkingcapitalfor ContractualObligations,CommitmentsandContingencies
subjecttolendercreditapproval,increasingtheoverall generalcorporatepurposesandvariousinvestment
Thefollowingtablesetsforthcontractualobligations,commitmentsandcontingenciesbyyearofpaymentat
sizeofthe2020creditfacilitytoanaggregateprincipal opportunities.AtDecember31,2020,theCompanyhad
December31,2020:
amountnottoexceed$5billion.Interestonborrowings noamountoutstandingunderthe2020creditfacility.
outstandingaccruesataratebasedontheapplicable
CommercialPaperProgram.TheCompanycanissue (inmillions) 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 Thereafter Total
LondonInterbankOfferedRateplusaspread.The2020
creditfacilityrequirestheCompanynottoexceeda unsecuredcommercialpapernotes(the“CPNotes”)ona Contractualobligationsandcommitments:
private-placementbasisuptoamaximumaggregate
maximumleverageratio(ratioofnetdebttoearnings Long-termborrowings(1):
amountoutstandingatanytimeof$4billion.The
beforeinterest,taxes,depreciationandamortization, Principal $ 750 $ 750 $ — $ 1,000 $ 856 $ 3,950 $ 7,306
commercialpaperprogramiscurrentlysupportedbythe
wherenetdebtequalstotaldebtlessunrestrictedcash)of Interest 190 161 148 131 113 386 1,129
2020creditfacility.AtDecember31,2020,BlackRockhad
3to1,whichwassatisfiedwitharatiooflessthan1to1at
Operatingleases 169 163 149 135 119 1,605 2,340
noCPNotesoutstanding.
December31,2020.The2020creditfacilityprovides
Purchaseobligations 198 140 64 38 5 — 445
Investmentcommitments 789 — — — — — 789
Long-TermBorrowings
Totalcontractualobligationsand
Thecarryingvalueoflong-termborrowingsatDecember31,2020includedthefollowing: commitments 2,096 1,214 361 1,304 1,093 5,941 12,009
Contingentobligations:
Carrying Contingentpaymentsrelatedtobusiness
(inmillions) MaturityAmount Value Maturity acquisitions(2) 26 — — — — — 26
Totalcontractualobligations,commitments
4.25%Notes $ 750 $ 750 May2021
andcontingentobligations(3) $ 2,122 $ 1,214 $ 361 $ 1,304 $ 1,093 $ 5,941 $ 12,035
3.375%Notes 750 748 June2022
3.50%Notes 1,000 997 March2024 (1) Theamountofprincipalandinterestpaymentsforthe1.25%Notes(issuedinEuros)representstheexpectedpaymentamountsusingtheEUR/USDforeignexchangerateasofDecember31,
2020.
1.25%Notes(1) 856 853 May2025
3.20%Notes 700 695 March2027 (2) TheamountofcontingentpaymentsreflectedforanyyearrepresentstheexpectedpaymentsusingforeigncurrencyexchangeratesasofDecember31,2020.Thefairvalueoftheremaining
aggregatecontingentpaymentsatDecember31,2020totaled$26millionandisincludedinotherliabilitiesontheconsolidatedstatementsoffinancialcondition.
3.25%Notes 1,000 989 April2029
2.40%Notes 1,000 993 April2030 (3) AtDecember31,2020,theCompanyhadapproximately$691millionofnetunrecognizedtaxbenefits.Duetotheuncertaintyoftimingandamountsthatwillultimatelybepaid,thisamount
hasbeenexcludedfromthetableabove.
1.90%Notes 1,250 1,239 January2031
TotalLong-termBorrowings $ 7,306 $ 7,264 OperatingLeases.TheCompanyleasesitsprimaryoffice marketdata,office-relatedservicesandthird-party
locationsunderagreementsthatexpireonvaryingdates marketingandpromotionalservices,andobligationsfor
(1) Thecarryingvalueofthe1.25%NotesiscalculatedusingtheEUR/USDforeignexchangerateasofDecember31,2020.
through2043.Inconnectionwithcertainlease equipment.Purchaseobligationsarerecordedonthe
InJanuary2020,theCompanyissued$1billionin (the“2031Notes”).Thenetproceedsofthe2031Notes agreements,theCompanyisresponsibleforescalation consolidatedfinancialstatementswhenservicesare
aggregateprincipalamountof2.40%seniorunsecured arebeingusedforgeneralcorporatepurposes,whichmay payments.Thecontractualobligationstableabove providedand,assuch,obligationsforservicesand
andunsubordinatednotesmaturingonApril30,2030(the includethefuturerepaymentofalloraportionofthe includesonlyguaranteedminimumleasepaymentsfor equipmentnotreceivedarenotincludedinthe
“2030Notes”).Thenetproceedsofthe2030Noteswere $750million4.25%NotesdueMay2021.Interestof suchleasesanddoesnotprojectpotentialescalationor consolidatedstatementoffinancialconditionat
usedforgeneralcorporatepurposes.Interestof approximately$24millionperyearispayablesemi- otherlease-relatedpayments. December31,2020.
approximately$24millionperyearispayablesemi- annuallyonJanuary28andJuly28ofeachyear,which
InMay2017,theCompanyenteredintoanagreement InvestmentCommitments.AtDecember31,2020,the
annuallyonApril30andOctober30ofeachyear,which commencedonJuly28,2020.The2031Notesmaybe
with50HYMCOwnerLLC,fortheleaseofapproximately Companyhad$789millionofvariouscapital
commencedonApril30,2020.The2030Notesmaybe redeemedpriortoOctober28,2030inwholeorinpartat
847,000squarefeetofofficespacelocatedat50Hudson commitmentstofundsponsoredinvestmentproducts,
redeemedpriortoJanuary30,2030inwholeorinpartat anytime,attheoptionoftheCompany,ata“make-whole”
Yards,NewYork,NewYork.Thetermoftheleaseincludes includingconsolidatedsponsoredinvestmentproducts.
anytime,attheoptionoftheCompany,ata“make-whole” redemptionpriceorat100%oftheprincipalamountof
20yearsofcashrentalpaymentsexpectedtobegininMay Theseproductsincludeprivateequityfunds,realassets
redemptionpriceorat100%oftheprincipalamountof the2031Notesthereafter.Theunamortizeddiscountand
2023,withtheoptiontorenewforaspecifiedterm.The fundsandopportunisticfunds.Thisamountexcludes
the2030Notesthereafter.Theunamortizeddiscountand debtissuancecostsarebeingamortizedoverthe
leaserequiresannualbaserentalpaymentsof additionalcommitmentsmadebyconsolidatedfundsof
debtissuancecostsarebeingamortizedoverthe remainingtermofthe2031Notes.
approximately$51millionperyearduringthefirstfive fundstounderlyingthird-partyfundsasthird-party
remainingtermofthe2030Notes.
FormoreinformationonCompany’sborrowings,see yearsoftheleaseterm,increasingeveryfiveyearsto noncontrollinginterestholdershavethelegalobligation
InApril2020,theCompanyissued$1.25billionin Note15,Borrowings,inthenotestotheconsolidated $58million,$66millionand$74millionperyear(or tofundtherespectivecommitmentsofsuchfundsof
aggregateprincipalamountof1.90%seniorunsecured financialstatementscontainedinPartII,Item8ofthis approximately$1.2billioninbaserentovera20-year funds.Generally,thetimingofthefundingofthese
andunsubordinatednotesmaturingonJanuary28,2031 filing. period).InNovember2019,theCompanyexercisedits commitmentsisunknownandthecommitmentsare
initialexpansionoptionwithrespecttotwoadditional callableondemandatanytimepriortotheexpirationof
floorsaggregatingapproximately122,000squarefeetof thecommitment.Theseunfundedcommitmentsarenot
officespace.Theadditionalspacerequiresapproximately recordedontheconsolidatedstatementsoffinancial
$185millioninbaserentoverthe20-yearperiod. condition.Thesecommitmentsdonotincludepotential
futurecommitmentsapprovedbytheCompanythatare
FormoreinformationontheCompany’soperatingleases, notyetlegallybinding.TheCompanyintendstomake
seeNote13,Leases,inthenotestotheconsolidated additionalcapitalcommitmentsfromtimetotimetofund
financialstatementscontainedinPartII,Item8ofthis additionalinvestmentproductsfor,andwith,itsclients.
filing.
ContingentPaymentsRelatedtoBusinessAcquisitions.In
PurchaseObligations.Intheordinarycourseofbusiness, connectionwithcertainacquisitions,BlackRockis
BlackRockentersintocontractsorpurchaseobligations requiredtomakecontingentpayments,subjectto
withthirdpartieswherebythethirdpartiesprovide achievingspecifiedperformancetargets,whichmay
servicestooronbehalfofBlackRock.Purchase includerevenuerelatedtoacquiredcontractsornew
obligationsincludedinthecontractualobligationstable capitalcommitmentsforcertainproducts.Thefairvalueof
aboverepresentexecutorycontracts,whichareeither theremainingaggregatecontingentpaymentsat
noncancelableorcancelablewithapenalty.At December31,2020totaled$26millionandisincludedin
December31,2020,theCompany’sobligationsprimarily otherliabilitiesontheconsolidatedstatementsof
reflectedstandardservicecontractsforportfolioservices, financialcondition.
84 BlackRock Annual Report 2020 56 57 BlackRock Annual Report 2020 85
Thefollowingitemshavenotbeenincludedinthe coveronlythecollateralshortfalldescribedabove,anddo investmentproductstodetermineiftheproductisaVIEor Othernonequitymethodcorporateminorityinvestments.
contractualobligations,commitmentsandcontingencies notinanywayguarantee,assumeorotherwiseinsurethe aVRE.AssessingwhetheranentityisaVIEoraVRE Othernonequitymethodcorporateminorityinvestments
table: investmentperformanceorreturnofanycashcollateral involvesjudgmentandanalysis.Factorsconsideredinthis arerecordedwithinotherassetsontheconsolidated
vehicleintowhichsecuritieslendingcashcollateralis assessmentincludetheentity’slegalorganization,the statementsoffinancialcondition.AtDecember31,2020
CarriedInterestClawback.Asageneralpartnerincertain invested. entity’scapitalstructureandequityownership,andany and2019,theseinvestmentstotaled$272millionand
investmentproducts,includingprivateequity relatedpartyordefactoagentimplicationsofthe $282million,respectively,andincludedinvestmentsin
partnershipsandcertainhedgefunds,theCompanymay CompensationandBenefitObligations.TheCompanyhas Company’sinvolvementwiththeentity.Investmentsthat equitysecurities,whicharegenerallymeasuredatfair
receivecarriedinterestcashdistributionsfromthe variouscompensationandbenefitobligations,including aredeterminedtobeVREsareconsolidatedifthe valueorunderthemeasurementalternativetofairvalue
partnershipsinaccordancewithdistributionprovisionsof bonuses,commissionsandincentivepaymentspayable, Companycanexertcontroloverthefinancialand fornonmarketablesecurities.Changesinvalueofthese
thepartnershipagreements.TheCompanymay,fromtime definedcontributionplanmatchingcontribution operatingpoliciesoftheinvestee,whichgenerallyexistsif securitiesarerecordedinnonoperatingincome(expense)
totime,berequiredtoreturnalloraportionofsuch obligations,anddeferredcompensationarrangements, thereisgreaterthan50%votinginterest.Investments ontheconsolidatedstatementsofincome.SeeNote2,
distributionstothelimitedpartnersintheeventthe thatareexcludedfromthecontractualobligationsand thataredeterminedtobeVIEsareconsolidatedifthe SignificantAccountingPolicies,inthenotestothe
limitedpartnersdonotachieveareturnasspecifiedinthe commitmentstableabove.Accruedcompensationand Companyistheprimarybeneficiary(“PB”)oftheentity. consolidatedfinancialstatementscontainedinPartII,
variouspartnershipagreements.Therefore,BlackRock benefitsatDecember31,2020totaled$2,500millionand BlackRockisdeemedtobethePBofaVIEifithasthe Item8ofthisfilingformoreinformation.
recordscarriedinterestsubjecttosuchclawback includedannualincentivecompensationof
powertodirecttheactivitiesthatmostsignificantlyimpact
provisionsininvestments,orcashandcashequivalentsto $1,685million,deferredcompensationof$428million ImpairmentsofInvestments.Evaluationofimpairments
theentities’economicperformanceandhastheobligation
theextentthatitisdistributed,andasadeferredcarried andothercompensationandbenefitsrelatedobligations involvessignificantassumptionsandmanagement
toabsorblossesortherighttoreceivebenefitsthat
interestliabilityonitsconsolidatedstatementsoffinancial of$387million.Substantiallyalloftheincentive judgments,whichcoulddifferfromactualresults,and
potentiallycouldbesignificanttotheVIE.TheCompany
condition.Carriedinterestisrecordedasperformancefees compensationliabilitywaspaidinthefirstquarterof thesedifferencescouldhaveamaterialimpactonthe
generallyconsolidatesVIEsinwhichitholdsaneconomic
onBlackRock’sconsolidatedstatementsofincomewhen 2021,whilethedeferredcompensationobligationsare consolidatedstatementsofincome.SeeNote2,
interestof10%orgreateranddeconsolidatessuchVIEs
feesarenolongerprobableofsignificantreversal. payableovervariousperiods,withthemajoritypayable SignificantAccountingPolicies,inthenotestothe
onceequityownershipfallsbelow10%.SeeNote6,
overperiodsofuptothreeyears. ConsolidatedSponsoredInvestmentProducts,inthenotes consolidatedfinancialstatementscontainedinPartII,
Indemnifications.Intheordinarycourseofbusinessorin Item8ofthisfilingformoreinformation.
totheconsolidatedfinancialstatementscontainedin
connectionwithcertainacquisitionagreements, Acquisition.OnFebruary1,2021,theCompanycompleted
PartII,Item8ofthisfilingformoreinformation.
BlackRockentersintocontractspursuanttowhichitmay theacquisitionof100%oftheequityinterestsofAperio,a
FairValueMeasurements
agreetoindemnifythirdpartiesincertaincircumstances. pioneerincustomizingtax-optimizedindexequity
Thetermsoftheseindemnitiesvaryfromcontractto separatelymanagedaccounts(“SMAs”)forapproximately Investments TheCompany’sassessmentofthesignificanceofa
contractandtheamountofindemnificationliability,ifany, $1.1billionincash,usingexistingcashresources.The EquityMethodInvestments.Forequityinvestmentswhere particularinputtothefairvaluemeasurementaccording
cannotbedeterminedorthelikelihoodofanyliabilityis acquisitionofAperioincreasedBlackRock’sSMAassets BlackRockdoesnotcontroltheinvestee,andwhereitisnot tothefairvaluehierarchy(i.e.,Level1,2and3inputs,as
consideredremoteand,therefore,hasnotbeenincluded andisexpectedtoexpandthebreadthoftheCompany’s thePBofaVIE,butcanexertsignificantinfluenceoverthe defined)initsentiretyrequiresjudgmentandconsiders
inthetableaboveorrecordedintheconsolidated capabilitiesviatax-managedstrategiesacrossfactors, financialandoperatingpoliciesoftheinvestee,the factorsspecifictothefinancialinstrument.SeeNote2,
statementoffinancialconditionatDecember31,2020. broadmarketindexing,andinvestorEnvironmental, Companyfollowstheequitymethodofaccounting.The SignificantAccountingPolicies,intheconsolidated
SeefurtherdiscussioninNote16,Commitmentsand Social,andGovernancepreferencesacrossallasset evaluationofwhethertheCompanyexertscontrolor financialstatementscontainedinPartII,Item8ofthis
Contingencies,inthenotestotheconsolidatedfinancial classes.Inconnectionwiththeacquisition,theCompany significantinfluenceoverthefinancialandoperational filingformoreinformationonfairvaluemeasurements.
statementscontainedinPartII,Item8ofthisfiling. recordedaninitialestimateofpurchasepriceallocationat policiesofitsinvesteesrequiressignificantjudgmentbased
ChangesinValuation.Changesinvalueon$6,919million
thedateofthetransactionprimarilyrelatedtogoodwillof onthefactsandcircumstancessurroundingeach
Onbehalfofcertainclients,theCompanylendssecuritiesto approximately$0.8billionand$0.3billionoffinite-lived individualinvestment.Factorsconsideredinthese ofinvestmentswillimpacttheCompany’snonoperating
highlyratedbanksandbroker-dealers.Inthesesecurities intangibleassets(mainlycustomerrelationships),which evaluationsmayincludethetypeofinvestment,thelegal income(expense),$404millionareheldatcostor
lendingtransactions,theborrowerisrequiredtoprovide willbeamortizedovertheirestimatedlives,whichrange structureoftheinvestee,thetermsandstructureofthe amortizedcostandtheremaining$627millionrelatesto
andmaintaincollateralatoraboveregulatoryminimums. from10to12years,withaweighted-averageestimated investmentagreement,includinginvestorvotingorother carriedinterest,whichwillnotimpactnonoperating
Securitiesonloanaremarkedtomarketdailytodetermineif lifeofapproximately10years.Thegoodwillrecognizedin rights,thetermsofBlackRock’sadvisoryagreementor income(expense).AtDecember31,2020,changesinfair
theborrowerisrequiredtopledgeadditionalcollateral.In connectionwiththeacquisitionisprimarilyattributableto otheragreementswiththeinvestee,anyinfluence valueof$4,372millionofconsolidatedsponsored
connectionwithsecuritieslendingtransactions,BlackRock anticipatedsynergiesfromthetransaction.Theamountof BlackRockmayhaveonthegoverningboardoftheinvestee, investmentproductswillimpactBlackRock’snetincome
hasagreedtoindemnifycertainsecuritieslendingclients goodwillexpectedtobedeductiblefortaxpurposesis thelegalrightsofotherinvestorsintheentitypursuantto (loss)attributabletoNCIontheconsolidatedstatements
againstpotentiallossresultingfromaborrower’sfailureto approximately$0.5billion. thefund’soperatingdocumentsandtherelationship ofincome.BlackRock’snetexposuretochangesinfair
fulfillitsobligationsunderthesecuritieslendingagreement valueofconsolidatedsponsoredinvestmentproductswas
betweenBlackRockandotherinvestorsintheentity.
shouldthevalueofthecollateralpledgedbytheborrowerat $1,886million.
thetimeofdefaultbeinsufficienttocovertheborrower’s CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES BlackRock’sequitymethodinvesteesthatareinvestment
obligationunderthesecuritieslendingagreement.The companiesrecordtheirunderlyinginvestmentsatfair Leases
amountofsecuritiesonloanasofDecember31,2020and Thepreparationofconsolidatedfinancialstatementsin value.Therefore,undertheequitymethodofaccounting,
subjecttothistypeofindemnificationwas$270billion.In conformitywithGAAPrequiresmanagementtomake BlackRock’sshareoftheinvestee’sunderlyingnetincome TheCompanydeterminesifacontractisaleaseor
theCompany’scapacityaslendingagent,cashand estimatesandassumptionsthataffectthereported predominantlyrepresentsfairvalueadjustmentsinthe containsaleaseatinception.Theidentificationofwhether
securitiestotaling$289billionwasheldascollateralfor amountsofassetsandliabilitiesanddisclosureof investmentsheldbytheequitymethodinvestees. acontractcontainsaleaserequiresjudgment,including
indemnifiedsecuritiesonloanatDecember31,2020.The contingentassetsandliabilitiesatthedateofthe BlackRock’sshareoftheinvestee’sunderlyingnetincome determiningwhetherthereareidentifiedassetsinthe
fairvalueoftheseindemnificationswasnotmaterialat consolidatedfinancialstatementsandthereported orlossisbaseduponthemostcurrentlyavailable contractthattheCompanyhascontroloverforaspecified
December31,2020. amountsofrevenueandexpenseduringthereporting informationandisrecordedasnonoperatingincome periodoftimeinexchangeforconsideration.
periods.Actualresultscoulddiffersignificantlyfromthose
(expense)forinvestmentsininvestmentcompanies,oras Fixedleasepaymentsareincludedinthemeasurementof
Whilethecollateralpledgedbyaborrowerisintendedto estimates.Managementconsidersthefollowingcritical
advisoryandotherrevenueforcertaincorporateminority ROUassetsandleaseliabilitiesontheconsolidated
besufficienttooffsettheborrower’sobligationstoreturn accountingpoliciesimportanttounderstandingthe
investments,whicharerecordedinotherassets,since statementoffinancialcondition.TheCompanyrecognizes
securitiesborrowedandanyotheramountsowingtothe consolidatedfinancialstatements.Forasummaryofthese
suchinvesteesareconsideredtobeanextensionof ROUassetsandleaseliabilitiesbasedonthepresent
lenderundertherelevantsecuritieslendingagreement,in andadditionalaccountingpoliciesseeNote2,Significant
BlackRock’scorebusiness. valueofthesefutureleasepaymentsovertheleaseterm
theeventofaborrowerdefault,theCompanycangiveno AccountingPolicies,inthenotestotheconsolidated
atthecommencementdatediscountedusingthe
assurancethatthecollateralpledgedbytheborrowerwill financialstatementsincludedinPartII,Item8ofthisfiling. AtDecember31,2020,theCompanyhad$1,081million
Company’sincrementalborrowingrate(“IBR”).
besufficienttofulfillsuchobligations.Iftheamountof and$399millionofequitymethodinvestments,included
Managementjudgmentisrequiredindeterminingthe
suchpledgedcollateralisnotsufficienttofulfillsuch Consolidation ininvestmentsandotherassets,respectively,andat Company’sIBR,includingassessingtheCompany’scredit
obligationstoaclientforwhomtheCompanyhas December31,2019,theCompanyhad$943millionand
Inthenormalcourseofbusiness,theCompanyisthe ratingusingvariousfinancialmetrics,suchasrevenue,
providedindemnification,BlackRockwouldberesponsible $531millionofequitymethodinvestmentsincludedin
managerofvarioustypesofsponsoredinvestment operatingmarginandrevenuegrowth,and,as
fortheamountoftheshortfall.Theseindemnifications investmentsandotherassets,respectively.
vehicles.TheCompanyperformsananalysisfor
86 BlackRock Annual Report 2020 58 59 BlackRock Annual Report 2020 87
appropriate,performingmarketanalysisofyieldson marketforanentity’sservices,orregulatory,legalor RevenueRecognition fund’sinvestmentorwhentheamountofAUMbecomes
publiclytradedbonds(securedorunsecured)of politicaldevelopments;and(iii)theCompany-specific knownasoftheendofaspecifiedmeasurementperiod).
Revenueisrecognizedupontransferofcontrolof
comparablecompanies.SeeNote2,Significant events,suchasachangeinmanagementorkey Giventheuniquenatureofeachfeearrangement,
promisedservicestocustomersinanamounttowhichthe
AccountingPolicies,inthenotestotheconsolidated personnel,overallfinancialperformanceandlitigation contractswithcustomersareevaluatedonanindividual
Companyexpectstobeentitledinexchangeforthose
financialstatementscontainedinPartII,Item8ofthis thatcouldaffectsignificantinputsusedtodeterminethe basistodeterminethetimingofrevenuerecognition.
services.TheCompanyentersintocontractsthatcan
filingformoreinformationonleases. fairvalueoftheindefinite-livedintangibleasset.Ifan Significantjudgementisinvolvedinmakingsuch
includemultipleservices,whichareaccountedfor
indefinite-livedintangibleisdeterminedtobemorelikely determination.Performancefeestypicallyarisefrom
separatelyiftheyaredeterminedtobedistinct.
thannotimpaired,thenthefairvalueoftheassetis investmentmanagementservicesthatbeganinprior
GoodwillandIntangibleAssets Managementjudgmentisrequiredtoidentifydistinct
comparedwithitscarryingvalueandanyexcessofthe reportingperiods.Consequently,aportionofthefeesthe
servicesandinvolvesassessingsuchfactorsaswhether
Thevalueofadvisorycontractsacquiredinbusiness carryingvalueoverthefairvaluewouldberecognizedas Companyrecognizesmaybepartiallyrelatedtothe
thepromisedservicessignificantlymodifyorcustomize
acquisitionstomanageAUMinproprietaryopen-end anexpenseintheperiodinwhichtheimpairmentoccurs. servicesperformedinpriorperiodsthatmeetthe
oneanotherorarehighlyinterdependentorinterrelated.
investmentfundsaswellascollectivetrustfundswithout recognitioncriteriainthecurrentperiod.Ateachreporting
Managementjudgmentmaybealsorequiredwhen
aspecifiedterminationdateareclassifiedasindefinite- Forfinite-livedintangibleassets,ifpotentialimpairment date,theCompanyconsidersvariousfactorsinestimating
determiningthefollowing:whenvariableconsiderationis
livedintangibleassets.Theassignmentofindefinitelives circumstancesareconsideredtoexist,theCompanywill performancefeestoberecognized,includingcarried
nolongerprobableofsignificantreversal(andhencecan
tosuchinvestmentfundcontractsisbaseduponthe performarecoverabilitytest,usinganundiscountedcash interest.Thesefactorsincludebutarenotlimitedto
beincludedinrevenue);whethercertainrevenueshould
assumptionthatthereisnoforeseeablelimitonthe flowanalysis.Actualresultscoulddifferfromthesecash whether:(1)thefeesaredependentonthemarketand
bepresentedgrossornetofcertainrelatedcosts;whena
contractperiodtomanagethesefundsduetothe flowestimates,whichcouldmateriallyimpactthe thusarehighlysusceptibletofactorsoutsidethe
promisedservicetransferstothecustomer;andthe
likelihoodofcontinuedrenewalatlittleornocost.In impairmentconclusion.Ifthecarryingvalueoftheassetis Company’sinfluence;(2)thefeeshavealargenumber
applicablemethodofmeasuringprogressforservices
addition,tradenames/trademarksareconsidered determinednottoberecoverablebasedonthe andabroadrangeofpossibleamounts;and(3)thefunds
transferredtothecustomerovertime.Manyof
indefinite-livedintangiblesiftheyareexpectedto undiscountedcashflowtest,thedifferencebetweenthe orseparatelymanagedaccountshavetheabilitytoinvest
BlackRock’spromisedservicesrepresentaseriesof
generatecashflowsindefinitely.Goodwillrepresentsthe bookvalueoftheassetanditscurrentfairvaluewouldbe orreinvesttheirsalesproceeds.
distinctservices(e.g.,investmentadvisoryservices)in
costofabusinessacquisitioninexcessofthefairvalueof recognizedasanexpenseintheperiodinwhichthe
whichtheassociatedvariableconsideration(e.g.,
thenetassetsacquired.Indefinite-livedintangibleassets impairmentoccurs. TheCompanyisallocatedcarriedinterestfromcertain
managementfees)isallocatedtospecificdaysofservice
andgoodwillarenotamortized. alternativeinvestmentproductsuponexceeding
Inaddition,managementjudgmentisrequiredtoestimate asopposedtoovertheentirecontractterm. performancethresholds.TheCompanymayberequiredto
Finite-livedmanagementcontracts,whichrelateto theperiodoverwhichfinite-livedintangibleassetswill reverse/returnall,orpart,ofsuchcarriedinterest
Investmentadvisoryandadministrationfeesarerecognized
acquiredseparateaccountsandfunds,investor/customer contributetotheCompany’scashflowsandthepatternin allocations/distributionsdependinguponfuture
astheservicesareperformedovertimebecausethe
relationships,andtechnologyrelatedassetsthatare whichtheseassetswillbeconsumed.Achangeinthe performanceoftheseproducts.Carriedinterestsubjectto
customerisreceivingandconsumingthebenefitsasthey
expectedtocontributetothefuturecashflowsofthe remainingusefullifeofanyoftheseassets,orthe suchclawbackprovisionsisrecordedininvestmentsor
areprovidedbytheCompany.Feesareprimarilybasedon
Companyforaspecifiedperiodoftimeareamortizedover reclassificationofanindefinite-livedintangibleassettoa cashandcashequivalentstotheextentthatitis
agreed-uponpercentagesofAUMandrecognizedfor
theirremainingexpectedusefullives,which,at finite-livedintangibleasset,couldhaveasignificant distributed,onitsconsolidatedstatementsoffinancial
servicesprovidedduringtheperiod,whicharedistinctfrom
December31,2020rangedfrom1to10yearswitha impactontheCompany’samortizationexpense,which condition.
servicesprovidedinotherperiods.Suchfeesareaffectedby
weighted-averageremainingestimatedusefullifeof was$106million,$97millionand$50millionfor2020,
changesinAUM,includingmarketappreciationor
sevenyears. 2019and2018,respectively. TheCompanyrecordsaliabilityfordeferredcarried
depreciation,foreignexchangetranslationandnetinflowsor
interesttotheextentitreceivescashorcapitalallocations
Goodwill.TheCompanyassessesitsgoodwillfor In2020,2019and2018,theCompanyperformed outflows.AUMrepresentsthebroadrangeoffinancialassets relatedtocarriedinterestpriortomeetingtherevenue
impairmentatleastannually,consideringsuchfactorsas impairmenttests,includingevaluatingvariousqualitative theCompanymanagesforclientsonadiscretionarybasis recognitioncriteria.AtDecember31,2020and2019,the
thebookvalueandthemarketcapitalizationofthe factorsandperformingcertainquantitativeassessments. pursuanttoinvestmentmanagementandtrustagreements Companyhad$584millionand$483million,respectively,
Company.Theimpairmentassessmentperformedasof TheCompanydeterminedthatnoimpairmentcharges thatareexpectedtocontinueforatleast12months.In ofdeferredcarriedinterestrecordedinotherliabilitieson
July31,2020indicatednoimpairmentchargewas wererequiredandthattheclassificationofindefinite-lived general,reportedAUMreflectsthevaluationmethodology theconsolidatedstatementsoffinancialcondition.A
required.TheCompanycontinuestomonitoritsbook versusfinite-livedintangibleswasstillappropriateandno thatcorrespondstothebasisusedfordeterminingrevenue portionofthedeferredcarriedinterestmayalsobepaidto
valuepersharecomparedwithclosingpricesofits changeswererequiredtotheexpectedlivesofthefinite- (forexample,netassetvalues). certainemployees.Theultimatetimingoftherecognition
commonstockforpotentialindicatorsofimpairment.At livedintangibles.TheCompanycontinuouslymonitors ofperformancefeerevenueandrelatedcompensation
TheCompanyearnsrevenuebylendingsecuritieson
December31,2020,theCompany’scommonstockclosed variousfactors,includingAUM,forpotentialindicatorsof expense,ifany,fortheseproductsisunknown.See
behalfofclients,primarilytohighlyratedbanksand
at$721.54,whichexceededitsbookvalueof impairment. Note17,Revenue,inthenotestotheconsolidated
broker-dealers.Thesecuritiesloanedaresecuredby
approximately$231.31pershare.
financialstatementsfordetailedchangesinthedeferred
collateral,generallyrangingfrom102%to112%ofthe
ContingentConsiderationLiabilities carriedinterestliabilitybalancefor2020and2019.
Indefinite-livedandfinite-livedintangibles.TheCompany valueoftheloanedsecurities.For2020,2019and2018,
performsassessmentstodetermineifanyintangible Inconnectionwithcertainacquisitions,BlackRockis securitieslendingrevenueearnedbytheCompanytotaled Feesearnedfortechnologyservicesareprimarilyrecorded
assetsareimpairedandwhethertheindefinite-lifeand requiredtomakecontingentpayments,subjectto $652million,$617millionand$627million,respectively, asservicesareperformedandaregenerallydetermined
finite-lifeclassificationsarestillappropriate. achievingspecifiedperformancetargets.Thefairvalueof andisrecordedininvestmentadvisory,administration usingthevalueofpositionsontheAladdinplatformoron
thiscontingentconsiderationisestimatedatthetimeof andsecuritieslendingrevenueontheconsolidated afixed-ratebasis.Revenuederivedfromthesaleof
Inevaluatingwhetheritismorelikelythannotthatthefair
acquisitionclosingandisincludedinotherliabilitieson statementsofincome.Investmentadvisory, softwarelicensesisrecognizeduponthegrantingof
valueofindefinite-livedintangiblesislessthancarrying
theconsolidatedstatementsoffinancialcondition.Asthe administrationfeesandsecuritieslendingrevenueare accessrights.
value,BlackRockperformedcertainquantitative
fairvalueoftheexpectedpaymentsamountsubsequently reportedtogetherasthefeesfortheseservicesoftenare
assessmentsandassessedvarioussignificantqualitative
changes,thecontingentconsiderationliabilityisadjusted, agreeduponwithclientsasabundledfee. Distributionandservicefeesearnedfordistributing
factorsincludingAUM,revenuebasispoints,projected
resultingincontingentconsiderationfairvalue investmentproductsandprovidingsupportservicesto
AUMgrowthrates,operatingmargins,taxratesand TheCompanyreceivesinvestmentadvisoryperformance
adjustmentsrecordedwithingeneralandadministration investmentportfolios,arebasedonAUM,andare
discountrates.Inaddition,theCompanyconsideredother fees,includingincentiveallocations(carriedinterest)from
expenseoftheconsolidatedstatementsofincome.Cash recognizedwhentheamountoffeesisknown.
factorsincluding:(i)macroeconomicconditionssuchasa certainactivelymanagedinvestmentfundsandcertain
paymentsuptotheacquisitiondatefairvalueamountof
deteriorationingeneraleconomicconditions,limitations separatelymanagedaccounts.Theseperformancefees Adjustmentstorevenuearisingfrominitialestimates
thecontingentconsiderationliabilityarereflectedas
onaccessingcapital,fluctuationsinforeignexchange aredependentuponexceedingspecifiedrelativeor recordedhistoricallyhavebeenimmaterialsincethe
financingactivitieswithexcess(ifany)cashpayments
rates,orotherdevelopmentsinequityandcreditmarkets; absoluteinvestmentreturnthresholds,whichmayvaryby majorityofBlackRock’sinvestmentadvisoryand
classifiedinoperatingactivities.Anycashpaymentsmade
(ii)industryandmarketconsiderationssuchasa productoraccount,andincludemonthly,quarterly, administrationrevenueiscalculatedbasedonAUMand
soonaftertheacquisitiondatewillbeclassifiedin
deteriorationintheenvironmentinwhichtheCompany annualorlongermeasurementperiods. sincetheCompanydoesnotrecordperformancefee
investingactivities.
operates,anincreasedcompetitiveenvironment,adecline revenueuntil:(1)performancethresholdshavebeen
Performancefees,includingcarriedinterest,are
inmarket-dependentmultiplesormetrics,achangeinthe exceededand(2)managementdeterminesthefeesareno
recognizedwhenitisdeterminedthattheyarenolonger
longerprobableofsignificantreversal.
probableofsignificantreversal(suchasuponthesaleofa
88 BlackRock Annual Report 2020 60 61 BlackRock Annual Report 2020 89
IncomeTaxes Item 7a. Quantitative and EquityMarketPriceRisk.AtDecember31,2020,the Item 9. Changes in and
Qualitative Disclosures about Company’snetexposuretoequitymarketpriceriskinits
Deferredincometaxassetsandliabilitiesarerecognized Disagreements with Accountants
forfuturetaxconsequencesattributabletotemporary Market Risk investmentportfoliowasapproximately$1,048millionof
theCompany’stotaleconomicinvestmentexposure. on Accounting and Financial
differencesbetweenthefinancialstatementcarrying
Investmentssubjecttomarketpriceriskincludeprivate
amountsofexistingassetsandliabilitiesandtheir AUMMarketPriceRisk.BlackRock’sinvestmentadvisory Disclosure
equityandrealassetsinvestments,hedgefundsand
respectivetaxbasesusingcurrentlyenactedtaxratesin andadministrationfeesareprimarilycomprisedoffees
fundsoffundsaswellasmutualfunds.TheCompany
effectfortheyearinwhichthedifferencesareexpectedto basedonapercentageofthevalueofAUMand,insome Therehavebeennodisagreementsonaccountingand
estimatesthatahypothetical10%adversechangein
reverse.Theeffectofachangeintaxratesondeferredtax cases,performancefeesexpressedasapercentageofthe financialdisclosurematters.BlackRockhasnotchanged
marketpriceswouldresultinadecreaseofapproximately
assetsandliabilitiesisrecognizedinincomeintheperiod returnsrealizedonAUM.AtDecember31,2020,the accountantsinthetwomostrecentfiscalyears.
$105millioninthecarryingvalueofsuchinvestments.
thatincludestheenactmentdate. majorityoftheCompany’sinvestmentadvisoryand
administrationfeeswerebasedonaverageorperiodend
Interest-Rate/CreditSpreadRisk.AtDecember31,2020,
Significantmanagementjudgmentisrequiredin AUMoftheapplicableinvestmentfundsorseparate
theCompanywasexposedtointerestrateriskandcredit Item 9a. Controls and Procedures
estimatingtherangesofpossibleoutcomesand accounts.Movementsinequitymarketprices,interest
spreadriskasaresultofapproximately$1,825millionof
determiningtheprobabilityoffavorableorunfavorabletax rates/creditspreads,foreignexchangeratesorallthree
investmentsindebtsecuritiesandsponsoredinvestment DisclosureControlsandProcedures.Underthedirection
outcomesandpotentialinterestandpenaltiesrelatedto couldcausethevalueofAUMtodecline,whichwould
productsthatinvestprimarilyindebtsecurities. ofBlackRock’sChiefExecutiveOfficerandChiefFinancial
suchunfavorableoutcomes.Actualfuturetax resultinlowerinvestmentadvisoryandadministration
Managementconsideredahypothetical100basispoint Officer,BlackRockevaluatedtheeffectivenessofits
consequencesrelatingtouncertaintaxpositionsmaybe fees.
fluctuationininterestratesorcreditspreadsand disclosurecontrolsandprocedures(assuchtermis
materiallydifferentthantheCompany’scurrentestimates.
estimatesthattheimpactofsuchafluctuationonthese definedinRules13a-15(e)and15d-15(e)underthe
AtDecember31,2020,BlackRockhad$940millionof CorporateInvestmentsPortfolioRisks.Asaleading
investments,intheaggregate,wouldresultinadecrease, ExchangeAct)asoftheendoftheperiodcoveredbythis
grossunrecognizedtaxbenefits,ofwhich$565million,if investmentmanagementfirm,BlackRockdevotes
orincrease,ofapproximately$38millioninthecarrying annualreportonForm10-K.Basedonthisevaluation,
recognized,wouldaffecttheeffectivetaxrate. significantresourcesacrossallofitsoperationsto
valueofsuchinvestments. BlackRock’sChiefExecutiveOfficerandChiefFinancial
identifying,measuring,monitoring,managingand
Managementisrequiredtoestimatethetimingofthe analyzingmarketandoperatingrisks,includingthe OfficerhaveconcludedthatBlackRock’sdisclosure
recognitionofdeferredtaxassetsandliabilities,make managementandoversightofitsowninvestment ForeignExchangeRateRisk.Asdiscussedabove,the controlsandprocedureswereeffective.
Companyinvestsinsponsoredinvestmentproductsthat
assumptionsaboutthefuturedeductibilityofdeferred portfolio.TheBoardofDirectorsoftheCompanyhas
investinavarietyofassetclasses.Thecarryingvalueof InternalControloverFinancialReporting.Therewereno
incometaxassetsandassessdeferredincometax adoptedguidelinesforthereviewofinvestmentstobe
thetotaleconomicinvestmentexposuredenominatedin changesinourinternalcontroloverfinancialreporting
liabilitiesbasedonenactedtaxratesfortheappropriate madebytheCompany,requiring,amongotherthings,that
foreigncurrencies,primarilytheBritishpoundandEuro, thatoccurredduringthefourthquarterofthefiscalyear
taxjurisdictionstodeterminetheamountofsuchdeferred investmentsbereviewedbycertainseniorofficersofthe
was$947millionatDecember31,2020.A10%adverse endingDecember31,2020thathavemateriallyaffected
incometaxassetsandliabilities.AtDecember31,2020, Company,andthatcertaininvestmentsmaybereferredto
changeintheapplicableforeignexchangerateswould orarereasonablylikelytomateriallyaffectourinternal
theCompanyhaddeferredincometaxassetsof theAuditCommitteeortheBoardofDirectors,depending
resultinapproximatelya$95milliondeclineinthe controloverfinancialreporting.Inaddition,therewasno
$304millionanddeferredincometaxliabilitiesof onthecircumstances,forapproval.
carryingvalueofsuchinvestments. materialimpacttoourinternalcontroloverfinancial
$3,673millionontheconsolidatedstatementoffinancial
reportingwhilemostofouremployeesareworking
condition.Changesindeferredtaxassetsandliabilities Inthenormalcourseofitsbusiness,BlackRockisexposed
OtherMarketRisks.TheCompanyexecutesforward remotelyduetotheCOVID-19pandemic.TheCompanyis
mayoccurincertaincircumstances,includingstatutory toequitymarketpricerisk,interestrate/creditspreadrisk
foreigncurrencyexchangecontractstomitigatetheriskof continuallymonitoringandassessingtheCOVID-19
incometaxratechanges,statutorytaxlawchanges, andforeignexchangerateriskassociatedwithits
certainforeignexchangeriskmovements.At situationtodetermineanypotentialimpactonthedesign
changesintheanticipatedtimingofrecognitionof corporateinvestments.
December31,2020,theCompanyhadoutstanding andoperatingeffectivenessofourinternalcontrolover
deferredtaxassetsandliabilitiesorchangesinthe
BlackRockhasinvestmentsprimarilyinsponsored forwardforeigncurrencyexchangecontractswithan financialreporting.
structureortaxstatusoftheCompany.
aggregatenotionalvalueofapproximately$2.8billion.
investmentproductsthatinvestinavarietyofasset
TheCompanyassesseswhetheravaluationallowance classes,includingrealassets,privateequityandhedge
shouldbeestablishedagainstitsdeferredincometax funds.Investmentsgenerallyaremadeforco-investment
assetsbasedonconsiderationofallavailableevidence, purposes,toestablishaperformancetrackrecord,to Item 8. Financial Statements
bothpositiveandnegative,usingamorelikelythannot hedgeexposuretocertaindeferredcompensationplansor and Supplemental Data
standard.Theassessmentconsiders,amongother forregulatorypurposes.Currently,theCompanyhasa
matters,thenature,frequencyandseverityofrecent seedcapitalhedgingprograminwhichitentersinto Thereportoftheindependentregisteredpublic
losses,forecastoffutureprofitability,thedurationof swapstohedgemarketandinterestrateexposureto accountingfirmandfinancialstatementslistedinthe
statutorycarrybackandcarryforwardperiods,the certaininvestments.AtDecember31,2020,theCompany accompanyingindexareincludedinItem15ofthisreport.
Company’sexperiencewithtaxattributesexpiringunused, hadoutstandingtotalreturnswapswithanaggregate SeeIndextotheconsolidatedfinancialstatementson
andtaxplanningalternatives. notionalvalueofapproximately$833million.At pageF-1ofthisForm10-K.
December31,2020,therewerenooutstandinginterest
TheCompanyrecordsincometaxesbaseduponits rateswaps.
estimatedincometaxliabilityorbenefit.TheCompany’s
actualtaxliabilityorbenefitmaydifferfromtheestimated AtDecember31,2020,approximately$5.0billionof
incometaxliabilityorbenefit.TheCompanyhadcurrent BlackRock’sinvestmentsweremaintainedinconsolidated
incometaxesreceivablesofapproximately$175million sponsoredinvestmentproductsaccountedforasvariable
andcurrentincometaxespayablesof$131millionat interestentitiesandvotingrightsentities.Excludingthe
December31,2020. impactoftheFederalReserveBankstock,carriedinterest,
investmentsmadetohedgeexposuretocertaindeferred
compensationplansandcertaininvestmentsthatare
AccountingDevelopments
hedgedviatheseedcapitalhedgingprogram,the
ForaccountingpronouncementsthattheCompany Company’seconomicexposuretoitsinvestmentportfolio
adoptedduringtheyearendedDecember31,2020,see is$2.9billion.SeeItem7,Management’sDiscussionand
Note2,SignificantAccountingPolicies,inthenotestothe AnalysisofFinancialConditionandResultsof
consolidatedfinancialstatementscontainedinPartII, Operations-BalanceSheetOverview-Investmentsfor
Item8ofthisfiling. furtherinformationontheCompany’sinvestments.
90 BlackRock Annual Report 2020 62 63 BlackRock Annual Report 2020 91
Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTINGFIRM
ManagementofBlackRock,Inc.(the“Company”)isresponsibleforestablishingandmaintainingeffectiveinternalcontrol TotheBoardofDirectorsandStockholdersofBlackRock,Inc.:
overfinancialreporting.InternalcontroloverfinancialreportingisdefinedinRules13a-15(f)and15d-15(f)underthe
SecuritiesExchangeActof1934,asamended,asaprocessdesignedby,orunderthesupervisionof,theCompany’s
OpiniononInternalControloverFinancialReporting
principalexecutiveandprincipalfinancialofficers,orpersonsperformingsimilarfunctions,andeffectedbythe
WehaveauditedtheinternalcontroloverfinancialreportingofBlackRock,Inc.andsubsidiaries(the“Company”)asof
Company’sboardofdirectors,managementandotherpersonnel,toprovidereasonableassuranceregardingthe
December31,2020,basedoncriteriaestablishedinInternalControl—IntegratedFramework(2013)issuedbythe
reliabilityoffinancialreportingandthepreparationoffinancialstatementsforexternalpurposesinaccordancewith
CommitteeofSponsoringOrganizationsoftheTreadwayCommission(COSO).Inouropinion,theCompanymaintained,
accountingprinciplesgenerallyacceptedintheUnitedStatesofAmericaandincludesthosepoliciesandproceduresthat:
inallmaterialrespects,effectiveinternalcontroloverfinancialreportingasofDecember31,2020,basedoncriteria
•pertaintothemaintenanceofrecordsthat,inreasonabledetail,accuratelyandfairlyreflectthetransactionsand establishedinInternalControl—IntegratedFramework(2013)issuedbyCOSO.
dispositionsoftheassetsoftheCompany;
Wehavealsoaudited,inaccordancewiththestandardsofthePublicCompanyAccountingOversightBoard(United
•providereasonableassurancethattransactionsarerecordedasnecessarytopermitpreparationoffinancial
States)(PCAOB),theconsolidatedstatementoffinancialconditionasofDecember31,2020andtherelatedconsolidated
statementsinaccordancewithaccountingprinciplesgenerallyacceptedintheUnitedStatesofAmerica,andthat
statementsofincome,comprehensiveincome,changesinequityandcashflowsfortheyearthenendedoftheCompany
receiptsandexpendituresoftheCompanyarebeingmadeonlyinaccordancewiththeauthorizationsof
andourreportdatedFebruary25,2021,expressedanunqualifiedopiniononthoseconsolidatedfinancialstatements.
managementanddirectorsoftheCompany;and
•providereasonableassuranceregardingpreventionortimelydetectionofunauthorizedacquisition,useor BasisforOpinion
dispositionoftheCompany’sassetsthatcouldhaveamaterialeffectonthefinancialstatements.
TheCompany’smanagementisresponsibleformaintainingeffectiveinternalcontroloverfinancialreportingandforits
assessmentoftheeffectivenessofinternalcontroloverfinancialreporting,includedintheaccompanyingManagement’s
Becauseoftheinherentlimitationsofinternalcontroloverfinancialreporting,includingthepossibilityofcollusionor
ReportonInternalControlOverFinancialReporting.OurresponsibilityistoexpressanopinionontheCompany’sinternal
impropermanagementoverrideofcontrols,materialmisstatementsduetoerrororfraudmaynotbepreventedor
controloverfinancialreportingbasedonouraudit.WeareapublicaccountingfirmregisteredwiththePCAOBandare
detectedonatimelybasis.Also,projectionsofanyevaluationofeffectivenessoftheinternalcontroloverfinancial
requiredtobeindependentwithrespecttotheCompanyinaccordancewiththeU.S.federalsecuritieslawsandthe
reportingtofutureperiodsaresubjecttotherisksthatcontrolsmaybecomeinadequatebecauseofchangesin
applicablerulesandregulationsoftheSecuritiesandExchangeCommissionandthePCAOB.
conditions,orthatthedegreeofcompliancewiththepoliciesorproceduresmaydeteriorate.
WeconductedourauditinaccordancewiththestandardsofthePCAOB.Thosestandardsrequirethatweplanand
ManagementassessedtheeffectivenessoftheCompany’sinternalcontroloverfinancialreportingasofDecember31,
performtheaudittoobtainreasonableassuranceaboutwhethereffectiveinternalcontroloverfinancialreportingwas
2020basedonthecriteriaestablishedinInternalControl—IntegratedFramework(2013)issuedbytheCommitteeof
maintainedinallmaterialrespects.Ourauditincludedobtaininganunderstandingofinternalcontroloverfinancial
SponsoringOrganizationsoftheTreadwayCommission.Basedonthisassessment,managementconcludedthat,asof
reporting,assessingtheriskthatamaterialweaknessexists,testingandevaluatingthedesignandoperating
December31,2020,theCompany’sinternalcontroloverfinancialreportingiseffective.
effectivenessofinternalcontrolbasedontheassessedrisk,andperformingsuchotherproceduresasweconsidered
TheCompany’sindependentregisteredpublicaccountingfirmhasissuedanattestationreportontheeffectivenessofthe necessaryinthecircumstances.Webelievethatourauditprovidesareasonablebasisforouropinion.
Company’sinternalcontroloverfinancialreporting.
DefinitionandLimitationsofInternalControloverFinancialReporting
February25,2021
Acompany’sinternalcontroloverfinancialreportingisaprocessdesignedtoprovidereasonableassuranceregardingthe
reliabilityoffinancialreportingandthepreparationoffinancialstatementsforexternalpurposesinaccordancewith
generallyacceptedaccountingprinciples.Acompany’sinternalcontroloverfinancialreportingincludesthosepolicies
andproceduresthat(1)pertaintothemaintenanceofrecordsthat,inreasonabledetail,accuratelyandfairlyreflectthe
transactionsanddispositionsoftheassetsofthecompany;(2)providereasonableassurancethattransactionsare
recordedasnecessarytopermitpreparationoffinancialstatementsinaccordancewithgenerallyacceptedaccounting
principles,andthatreceiptsandexpendituresofthecompanyarebeingmadeonlyinaccordancewithauthorizationsof
managementanddirectorsofthecompany;and(3)providereasonableassuranceregardingpreventionortimely
detectionofunauthorizedacquisition,use,ordispositionofthecompany’sassetsthatcouldhaveamaterialeffectonthe
financialstatements.
Becauseofitsinherentlimitations,internalcontroloverfinancialreportingmaynotpreventordetectmisstatements.
Also,projectionsofanyevaluationofeffectivenesstofutureperiodsaresubjecttotheriskthatcontrolsmaybecome
inadequatebecauseofchangesinconditions,orthatthedegreeofcompliancewiththepoliciesorproceduresmay
deteriorate.
/s/Deloitte&Touche,LLP
NewYork,NewYork
February25,2021
92 BlackRock Annual Report 2020 64 65 BlackRock Annual Report 2020 93
Item 9b. Other Information Item 13. Certain Relationships and 3.ExhibitIndex
Related Transactions, and Director Asusedinthisexhibitlist,“BlackRock”referstoBlackRock,Inc.(formerlynamedNewBlackRock,Inc.andpreviously,New
TheCompanyisfurnishingnootherinformationinthis
Boise,Inc.)(CommissionFileNo.001-33099)and“OldBlackRock”referstoBlackRockHoldco2,Inc.(formerlynamed
Form10-K. Independence
BlackRock,Inc.)(CommissionFileNo.001-15305),whichisthepredecessorofBlackRock.Thefollowingexhibitsarefiled
aspartofthisAnnualReportonForm10-K:
Theinformationcontainedinthesectionscaptioned
PART III “CertainRelationshipsandRelatedTransactions”and PleasenotethattheagreementsincludedasexhibitstothisForm10-Kareincludedtoprovideinformationregarding
“Item1:ElectionofDirectors—CriteriaforBoard theirtermsandarenotintendedtoprovideanyotherfactualordisclosureinformationaboutBlackRockortheother
Membership—DirectorIndependence”oftheProxy partiestotheagreements.Theagreementscontainrepresentationsandwarrantiesbyeachofthepartiestothe
Statementisincorporatedhereinbyreference. applicableagreementthathavebeenmadesolelyforthebenefitoftheotherpartiestotheapplicableagreementandmay
Item 10. Directors, Executive
notdescribetheactualstateofaffairsasofthedatetheyweremadeoratanyothertime.
Officers and Corporate Governance
Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees Exhibit
No. Description
Theinformationregardingdirectorsandexecutiveofficers
and Services
setforthunderthecaptions“Item1:ElectionofDirectors 3.1 (1) AmendedandRestatedCertificateofIncorporationofBlackRock.
—DirectorNomineeBiographies”and“Corporate TheinformationregardingBlackRock’sindependent 3.2 (2) CertificateofAmendmenttotheAmendedandRestatedCertificateofIncorporationofBlackRock,Inc.
Governance—OtherExecutiveOfficers”oftheProxy auditorfeesandservicesinthesectioncaptioned“Item3: 3.3 (3) AmendedandRestatedBylawsofBlackRock.
Statementisincorporatedhereinbyreference.
RatificationoftheAppointmentoftheIndependent 3.4 (5) CertificateofEliminationrelatingtothePreferredStock,datedOctober6,2020.
RegisteredPublicAccountingFirm”oftheProxy 4.1 (6) SpecimenofCommonStockCertificate.
InformationregardingcompliancewithSection16(a)of
theExchangeActrequiredbyItem10,ifany,issetforth Statementisincorporatedhereinbyreference. 4.2 (7) Indenture,datedSeptember17,2007,betweenBlackRockandTheBankofNewYork,astrustee,relatingtoseniordebt
securities.
underthecaption“DelinquentSection16(a)Reports”of
4.3 (8) Formof4.25%Notesdue2021.
theProxyStatementandincorporatedhereinbyreference.
PART IV 4.4 (8) Formof3.375%Notesdue2022.
TheinformationregardingBlackRock’sCodeofEthicsfor 4.5 (10) Formof3.500%Notesdue2024.
ChiefExecutiveandSeniorFinancialOfficersunderthe 4.6 (11) Formof1.250%Notesdue2025.
caption“CorporateGovernance—OurCorporate 4.7 (12) Formof3.200%Notesdue2027.
GovernanceFramework”oftheProxyStatementis Item 15. Exhibits and Financial
4.8 (13) Formof3.250%Notesdue2029.
incorporatedhereinbyreference. Statement Schedules 4.9 (14) Formof2.400%Notesdue2030.
TheinformationregardingBlackRock’sAuditCommittee 4.10 (15) Formof1.900%Notesdue2031.
underthecaption“CorporateGovernance—Board 1.FinancialStatements 4.11 (11) Officers’Certificate,datedMay6,2015,forthe1.250%Notesdue2025issuedpursuanttotheIndenture.
Committees”oftheProxyStatementisincorporated 4.12 DescriptionofSecurities.
TheCompany’sconsolidatedfinancialstatementsare
hereinbyreference. 10.1 (16) BlackRock,Inc.SecondAmendedandRestated1999StockAwardandIncentivePlan.+
includedbeginningonpageF-1.
10.2 (17) AmendmenttotheBlackRock,Inc.SecondAmendedandRestated1999StockAwardandIncentivePlan.+
10.3 (18) AmendedandRestatedBlackRock,Inc.1999AnnualIncentivePerformancePlan.+
Item 11. Executive Compensation 2.FinancialStatementSchedules 10.4 (19) AmendmentNo.1totheBlackRock,Inc.AmendedandRestated1999AnnualIncentivePerformancePlan.+
Financialstatementscheduleshavebeenomitted 10.5 (20) FormofRestrictedStockUnitAgreementundertheBlackRock,Inc.SecondAmendedandRestated1999StockAward
Theinformationcontainedinthesectionscaptioned becausetheyarenotapplicable,notrequiredorthe andIncentivePlan.+
“ManagementDevelopment&CompensationCommittee informationrequiredisincludedintheCompany’s 10.6 (21) FormofPerformance-BasedRestrictedStockUnitAgreement(BPIP)undertheBlackRock,Inc.SecondAmendedand
InterlocksandInsiderParticipation,”“Executive consolidatedfinancialstatementsornotesthereto. Restated1999StockAwardandIncentivePlan.+
Compensation—CompensationDiscussionandAnalysis” 10.7 (1) FormofStockOptionAgreementexpectedtobeusedinconnectionwithfuturegrantsofStockOptionsunderthe
and“CorporateGovernance—2020Director BlackRock,Inc.SecondAmendedandRestated1999StockAwardandIncentivePlan.+
Compensation”oftheProxyStatementisincorporated 10.8 (1) FormofRestrictedStockAgreementexpectedtobeusedinconnectionwithfuturegrantsofRestrictedStockunderthe
hereinbyreference. BlackRock,Inc.SecondAmendedandRestated1999StockAwardandIncentivePlan.+
10.9 (1) FormofDirectors’RestrictedStockUnitAgreementexpectedtobeusedinconnectionwithfuturegrantsofRestricted
StockUnitsundertheBlackRock,Inc.SecondAmendedandRestated1999StockAwardandIncentivePlan.+
Item 12. Security Ownership of 10.10 (21) FormofPerformance-BasedStockOptionAgreementundertheBlackRock,Inc.SecondAmendedandRestated1999
StockAwardandIncentivePlan.+
Certain Beneficial Owners and 10.11 (16) BlackRock,Inc.AmendedandRestatedVoluntaryDeferredCompensationPlan,asamendedandrestatedasof
November16,2015.+
Management and Related
10.12 (22) ShareSurrenderAgreement,datedOctober10,2002(the“ShareSurrenderAgreement”),amongOldBlackRock,PNC
Stockholder Matters AssetManagement,Inc.andThePNCFinancialServicesGroup,Inc.+
10.13 (23) FirstAmendment,datedasofFebruary15,2006,totheShareSurrenderAgreement.+
Theinformationcontainedinthesectionscaptioned 10.14 (24) SecondAmendment,datedasofJune11,2007,totheShareSurrenderAgreement.+
“OwnershipofBlackRockCommonStock”and“Executive 10.15 (4) ThirdAmendment,datedasofFebruary27,2009,totheShareSurrenderAgreement.+
Compensation—CompensationDiscussionandAnalysis 10.16 (25) FourthAmendment,datedasofAugust7,2012,totheShareSurrenderAgreement.+
—6.ExecutiveCompensationTables—Equity
10.17 (26) Five-YearRevolvingCreditAgreement,datedasofMarch10,2011,byandamongBlackRock,Inc.,certainofits
CompensationPlanInformation”oftheProxyStatementis subsidiaries,WellsFargoBank,NationalAssociation,asadministrativeagent,swinglinelender,issuinglenderandL/C
incorporatedhereinbyreference. agent,SumitomoMitsuiBankingCorporation,asJapaneseYenlender,agroupoflenders,WellsFargoSecurities,LLC,
CitigroupGlobalMarketsInc.,MerrillLynch,Pierce,Fenner&SmithIncorporated,BarclaysCapital,J.P.Morgan
SecuritiesLLCandMorganStanleySeniorFunding,Inc.,asjointleadarrangersandjointbookrunners,Citibank,N.A.,as
syndicationagentandBankofAmerica,N.A.,BarclaysBankPLC,JPMorganChaseBank,N.A.andMorganStanleySenior
Funding,Inc.,asdocumentationagents.
10.18 (27) AmendmentNo.1,datedasofMarch30,2012,byandamongBlackRock,Inc.,certainofitssubsidiaries,WellsFargo
Bank,NationalAssociation,asadministrativeagent,swinglinelender,issuinglender,L/Cagentandalender,andthe
banksandotherfinancialinstitutionsreferredtotherein.
10.19 (28) AmendmentNo.2,datedasofMarch28,2013,byandamongBlackRock,Inc.,certainofitssubsidiaries,WellsFargo
Bank,NationalAssociation,asadministrativeagent,swinglinelender,issuinglender,L/Cagentandalender,andthe
banksandotherfinancialinstitutionsreferredtotherein.
94 BlackRock Annual Report 2020 66 67 BlackRock Annual Report 2020 95
Exhibit (10)IncorporatedbyreferencetoBlackRock’sCurrentReportonForm8-KfiledonMarch18,2014.
No. Description
(11)IncorporatedbyreferencetoBlackRock’sCurrentReportonForm8-KfiledonMay6,2015.
10.20 (29) AmendmentNo.3,datedasofMarch28,2014,byandamongBlackRock,Inc.,certainofitssubsidiaries,WellsFargo
Bank,NationalAssociation,asadministrativeagent,swinglinelender,issuinglender,L/Cagentandalender,andthe (12)IncorporatedbyreferencetoBlackRock’sCurrentReportonForm8-KfiledonMarch28,2017.
banksandotherfinancialinstitutionsreferredtotherein.
(13)IncorporatedbyreferencetoBlackRock’sCurrentReportonForm8-KfiledonApril29,2019.
10.21 (30) AmendmentNo.4,datedasofApril2,2015,byandamongBlackRock,Inc.,certainofitssubsidiaries,WellsFargoBank,
NationalAssociation,asadministrativeagent,swinglinelender,issuinglender,L/Cagentandalender,andthebanks (14)IncorporatedbyreferencetoBlackRock’sCurrentReportonForm8-KfiledonJanuary27,2020.
andotherfinancialinstitutionsreferredtotherein.
(15)IncorporatedbyreferencetoBlackRock’sCurrentReportonForm8-KfiledonMay6,2020.
10.22 (31) AmendmentNo.5,datedasofApril8,2016,byandamongBlackRock,Inc.,certainofitssubsidiaries,WellsFargoBank,
NationalAssociation,asadministrativeagent,swinglinelender,issuinglender,L/Cagentandalender,andthebanks (16)IncorporatedbyreferencetoBlackRock’sAnnualReportonForm10-KfortheyearendedDecember31,2015.
andotherfinancialinstitutionsreferredtotherein.
(17)IncorporatedbyreferencetoBlackRock’sDefinitiveProxyStatementonFormDEF14AfiledonApril13,2018
10.23 (32) AmendmentNo.6,datedasofApril6,2017,byandamongBlackRock,Inc.,certainofitssubsidiaries,WellsFargoBank,
NationalAssociation,asadministrativeagent,swinglinelender,issuinglender,L/Cagentandalender,andthebanks (18)IncorporatedbyreferencetoOldBlackRock’sAnnualReportonForm10-KfortheyearendedDecember31,2002.
andotherfinancialinstitutionsreferredtotherein.
(19)IncorporatedbyreferencetoOldBlackRock’sCurrentReportonForm8-KfiledonMay24,2006.
10.24 (33) AmendmentNo.7,datedasofApril3,2018,byandamongBlackRock,Inc.,certainofitssubsidiaries,WellsFargoBank,
NationalAssociation,asadministrativeagent,swinglinelender,issuinglender,L/Cagentandalender,andthebanks (20)IncorporatedbyreferencetoBlackRock’sQuarterlyReportonForm10-QforthequarterendedJune30,2015
andotherfinancialinstitutionsreferredtotherein.
(21)IncorporatedbyreferencetoBlackRock’sQuarterlyReportonForm10-QforthequarterendedMarch31,2018
10.25 (35) AmendmentNo.8,datedasofMarch29,2019,byandamongBlackRock,Inc.,certainofitssubsidiaries,WellsFargo
Bank,NationalAssociation,asadministrativeagent,swinglinelender,issuinglender,L/Cagentandalender,andthe (22)IncorporatedbyreferencetoOldBlackRock’sQuarterlyReportonForm10-QforthequarterendedSeptember30,2002.
banksandotherfinancialinstitutionsreferredtotherein.
(23)IncorporatedbyreferencetoOldBlackRock’sCurrentReportonForm8-KfiledonFebruary22,2006.
10.26 (36) AmendmentNo.9,datedasofMarch31,2020,byandamongBlackRock,Inc.,certainofitssubsidiaries,WellsFargo
Bank,NationalAssociation,asadministrativeagent,swinglinelender,issuinglender,L/Cagentandalender,andthe (24)IncorporatedbyreferencetoBlackRock’sCurrentReportonForm8-KfiledonJune15,2007.
banksandotherfinancialinstitutionsreferredtotherein.
(25)IncorporatedbyreferencetoBlackRock’sQuarterlyReportonForm10-QforthequarterendedJune30,2012.
10.27 (4) AmendedandRestatedImplementationandStockholderAgreement,datedasofFebruary27,2009,betweenThePNC
FinancialServicesGroup,Inc.andBlackRock. (26)IncorporatedbyreferencetoBlackRock’sCurrentReportonForm8-K/AfiledonAugust24,2012.
10.28 (34) AmendmentNo.1,datedasofJune11,2009,totheAmendedandRestatedImplementationandStockholderAgreement (27)IncorporatedbyreferencetoBlackRock’sCurrentReportonForm8-KfiledonApril4,2012.
betweenThePNCFinancialServicesGroup,Inc.andBlackRock.
(28)IncorporatedbyreferencetoBlackRock’sCurrentReportonForm8-KfiledonApril3,2013.
10.29 (37) LeaseAgreement,datedasofFebruary17,2010,amongBlackRockInvestmentManagement(UK)Limitedand
Mourant&CoTrusteesLimitedandMourantPropertyTrusteesLimitedasTrusteesoftheDrapersGardensUnitTrust (29)IncorporatedbyreferencetoBlackRock’sCurrentReportonForm8-KfiledonMarch28,2014.
fortheleaseofDrapersGardens,12ThrogmortonAvenue,London,EC2,UnitedKingdom.
(30)IncorporatedbyreferencetoBlackRock’sCurrentReportonForm8-KfiledonApril3,2015.
10.30 (38) Lease,byandbetweenBlackRock,Inc.and50HYMCHoldingsLLC.*
10.31 (39) LetterAgreement,datedFebruary12,2013,betweenGaryS.ShedlinandBlackRock.+ (31)IncorporatedbyreferencetoBlackRock’sCurrentReportonForm8-KfiledonApril14,2016.
10.32 (40) AmendedandRestatedCommercialPaperDealerAgreementbetweenBlackRockandBarclaysCapitalInc.,datedasof (32)IncorporatedbyreferencetoBlackRock’sCurrentReportonForm8-KfiledonApril11,2017.
December23,2014.
(33)IncorporatedbyreferencetoBlackRock’sCurrentReportonForm8-KfiledonApril6,2018.
10.33 (40) AmendedandRestatedCommercialPaperDealerAgreementbetweenBlackRockandCitigroupGlobalMarketsInc.,
datedasofDecember23,2014. (34)IncorporatedbyreferencetoBlackRock’sCurrentReportonForm8-KfiledonJune17,2009.
10.34 (40) AmendedandRestatedCommercialPaperDealerAgreementbetweenBlackRockandMerrillLynch,Pierce,Fenner&
(35)IncorporatedbyreferencetoBlackRock’sCurrentReportonForm8-KfiledonMarch29,2019.
SmithIncorporated,datedasofJanuary6,2015.
10.35 (40) AmendedandRestatedCommercialPaperDealerAgreementbetweenBlackRockandCreditSuisseSecurities(USA)LLC (36)IncorporatedbyreferencetoBlackRock’sCurrentReportonForm8-KfiledonMarch31,2020.
datedasofJanuary6,2015.
(37)IncorporatedbyreferencetoBlackRock’sAnnualReportonForm10-KfortheyearendedDecember31,2009.
10.36 (42) BlackRock,Inc.LeadershipRetentionCarryPlan.+
(38)IncorporatedbyreferencetoBlackRock’sQuarterlyReportonForm10-QforthequarterendedJune30,2017.
10.37 (41) FormofPercentagePointsAwardAgreementpursuanttotheBlackRock,Inc.LeadershipRetentionCarryPlan.+
10.38 (43) StockRepurchaseAgreement,datedMay11,2020,betweenBlackRock,Inc.andPNCBancorp,Inc. (39)IncorporatedbyreferencetoBlackRock’sCurrentReportonForm8-KfiledonFebruary19,2013.
21.1 SubsidiariesofRegistrant. (40)IncorporatedbyreferencetoBlackRock’sAnnualReportonForm10-KfortheyearendedDecember31,2014.
23.1 Deloitte&ToucheLLPConsent.
(41)IncorporatedbyreferencetoBlackRock’sQuarterlyReportonForm10-QforthequarterendedJune30,2019.
31.1 Section302CertificationofChiefExecutiveOfficer.
(42)IncorporatedbyreferencetoBlackRock’sAnnualReportonForm10-KfortheyearendedDecember31,2019.
31.2 Section302CertificationofChiefFinancialOfficer.
32.1 Section906CertificationofChiefExecutiveOfficerandChiefFinancialOfficer. (43)IncorporatedbyreferencetoBlackRock’sCurrentReportonForm8-KfiledonMay15,2020.
101.INS InlineXBRLInstanceDocument–theinstancedocumentdoesnotappearintheInteractiveDataFilebecauseitsXBRL + Denotescompensatoryplansorarrangements.
tagsareembeddedwithintheInlineXBRLdocument
* PortionsofthisexhibithavebeenomittedpursuanttoaconfidentialtreatmentorderfromtheSEC.
101.SCH InlineXBRLTaxonomyExtensionSchemaDocument.
101.CAL InlineXBRLTaxonomyExtensionCalculationLinkbaseDocument.
101.DEF InlineXBRLTaxonomyExtensionDefinitionLinkbaseDocument.
101.LAB InlineXBRLTaxonomyExtensionLabelLinkbaseDocument.
101.PRE InlineXBRLTaxonomyExtensionPresentationLinkbaseDocument.
104 CoverPageInteractiveDataFile(formattedasInlineXBRLandcontainedinExhibit101).
(1) IncorporatedbyreferencetoBlackRock’sCurrentReportonForm8-KfiledonOctober5,2006.
(2) IncorporatedbyreferencetoBlackRock’sCurrentReportonForm8-KfiledonMay25,2012.
(3) IncorporatedbyreferencetoBlackRock’sCurrentReportonForm8-KfiledonJuly22,2016.
(4) IncorporatedbyreferencetoBlackRock’sCurrentReportonForm8-KfiledonFebruary27,2009.
(5) IncorporatedbyreferencetoBlackRock’sCurrentReportonForm8-KfiledonOctober6,2020.
(6) IncorporatedbyreferencetoBlackRock’sRegistrationStatementonFormS-8(RegistrationNo.333-137708)filedonSeptember29,2006.
(7) IncorporatedbyreferencetoBlackRock’sAnnualReportonForm10-KfortheyearendedDecember31,2007.
(8) IncorporatedbyreferencetoBlackRock’sCurrentReportonForm8-KfiledonMay25,2011.
(9) IncorporatedbyreferencetoBlackRock’sCurrentReportonForm8-KfiledonMay31,2012.
96 BlackRock Annual Report 2020 68 69 BlackRock Annual Report 2020 97
SIGNATURES Signature Title Date
PursuanttotherequirementsofSection13or15(d)oftheSecuritiesExchangeActof1934,theregistranthasduly /S/CHARLESH.ROBBINS Director February25,2021
causedthisreporttobesignedonitsbehalfbytheundersigned,thereuntodulyauthorized. CharlesH.Robbins
/S/MARCOANTONIOSLIMDOMIT
BLACKROCK,INC. Director February25,2021
MarcoAntonioSlimDomit
By: /s/LAURENCED.FINK /S/SUSANL.WAGNER Director February25,2021
LaurenceD.Fink SusanL.Wagner
Chairman,ChiefExecutiveOfficerandDirector /S/MARKWILSON Director February25,2021
MarkWilson
February25,2021
EachoftheofficersanddirectorsofBlackRock,Inc.whosesignatureappearsbelow,insosigning,alsomakes,constitutes
andappointsLaurenceD.Fink,GaryS.Shedlin,ChristopherJ.Meade,LauraHildnerandR.AndrewDicksonIII,hisorher
trueandlawfulattorneys-in-fact,withfullpowerandsubstitution,forhimorherinanyandallcapacities,toexecuteand
causetobefiledwiththeSecuritiesandExchangeCommissionanyandallamendmentstotheAnnualReporton
Form10-K,withexhibitstheretoandotherdocumentsconnectedtherewithandtoperformanyactsnecessarytobedone
inordertofilesuchdocuments,andherebyratifiesandconfirmsallthatsaidattorney-in-factorhisorhersubstituteor
substitutesmaydoorcausetobedonebyvirtuehereof.
PursuanttotherequirementsoftheSecuritiesExchangeActof1934,thisreporthasbeensignedbelowbythefollowing
personsonbehalfoftheregistrantandinthecapacitiesandonthedatesindicated.
Signature Title Date
/S/LAURENCED.FINK
Chairman,ChiefExecutiveOfficerand
LaurenceD.Fink Director(PrincipalExecutiveOfficer) February25,2021
/S/GARYS.SHEDLIN SeniorManagingDirectorandChief
FinancialOfficer(PrincipalFinancial
GaryS.Shedlin
Officer) February25,2021
/S/MARCD.COMERCHERO
ManagingDirectorandChiefAccounting
MarcD.Comerchero Officer(PrincipalAccountingOfficer) February25,2021
/S/BADERM.ALSAAD Director February25,2021
BaderM.Alsaad
/S/MATHISCABIALLAVETTA
Director February25,2021
MathisCabiallavetta
/S/PAMELADALEY
Director February25,2021
PamelaDaley
/S/JESSICAP.EINHORN
Director February25,2021
JessicaP.Einhorn
/S/WILLIAME.FORD
Director February25,2021
WilliamE.Ford
/S/FABRIZIOFREDA
Director February25,2021
FabrizioFreda
/S/MURRYS.GERBER
Director February25,2021
MurryS.Gerber
/S/MARGARETL.JOHNSON
Director February25,2021
MargaretL.Johnson
/S/ROBERTS.KAPITO
Director February25,2021
RobertS.Kapito
/S/CHERYLD.MILLS
Director February25,2021
CherylD.Mills
/S/GORDONM.NIXON
Director February25,2021
GordonM.Nixon
98 BlackRock Annual Report 2020 70 71 BlackRock Annual Report 2020 99
INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTINGFIRM
ReportofIndependentRegisteredPublicAccountingFirm F-2 TotheBoardofDirectorsandStockholdersofBlackRock,Inc.:
ConsolidatedStatementsofFinancialCondition F-4
ConsolidatedStatementsofIncome F-5 OpinionontheFinancialStatements
ConsolidatedStatementsofComprehensiveIncome F-6 WehaveauditedtheaccompanyingconsolidatedstatementsoffinancialconditionofBlackRock,Inc.andsubsidiaries
ConsolidatedStatementsofChangesinEquity F-7 (the“Company”)asofDecember31,2020and2019,therelatedconsolidatedstatementsofincome,comprehensive
income,changesinequity,andcashflows,foreachofthethreeyearsintheperiodendedDecember31,2020,andthe
ConsolidatedStatementsofCashFlows F-8
relatednotes(collectivelyreferredtoasthe“financialstatements”).Inouropinion,thefinancialstatementspresentfairly,
NotestotheConsolidatedFinancialStatements F-9
inallmaterialrespects,thefinancialpositionoftheCompanyasofDecember31,2020and2019,andtheresultsofits
operationsanditscashflowsforeachofthethreeyearsintheperiodendedDecember31,2020,inconformitywith
accountingprinciplesgenerallyacceptedintheUnitedStatesofAmerica.
Wehavealsoaudited,inaccordancewiththestandardsofthePublicCompanyAccountingOversightBoard(United
States)(PCAOB),theCompany’sinternalcontroloverfinancialreportingasofDecember31,2020,basedoncriteria
establishedinInternalControl—IntegratedFramework(2013)issuedbytheCommitteeofSponsoringOrganizationsof
theTreadwayCommissionandourreportdatedFebruary25,2021,expressedanunqualifiedopinionontheCompany’s
internalcontroloverfinancialreporting.
BasisforOpinion
ThesefinancialstatementsaretheresponsibilityoftheCompany’smanagement.Ourresponsibilityistoexpressan
opinionontheCompany’sfinancialstatementsbasedonouraudits.Weareapublicaccountingfirmregisteredwiththe
PCAOBandarerequiredtobeindependentwithrespecttotheCompanyinaccordancewiththeU.S.federalsecurities
lawsandtheapplicablerulesandregulationsoftheSecuritiesandExchangeCommissionandthePCAOB.
WeconductedourauditsinaccordancewiththestandardsofthePCAOB.Thosestandardsrequirethatweplanand
performtheaudittoobtainreasonableassuranceaboutwhetherthefinancialstatementsarefreeofmaterial
misstatement,whetherduetoerrororfraud.Ourauditsincludedperformingprocedurestoassesstherisksofmaterial
misstatementofthefinancialstatements,whetherduetoerrororfraud,andperformingproceduresthatrespondtothose
risks.Suchproceduresincludedexamining,onatestbasis,evidenceregardingtheamountsanddisclosuresinthe
financialstatements.Ourauditsalsoincludedevaluatingtheaccountingprinciplesusedandsignificantestimatesmade
bymanagement,aswellasevaluatingtheoverallpresentationofthefinancialstatements.Webelievethatouraudits
provideareasonablebasisforouropinion.
CriticalAuditMatter
Thecriticalauditmattercommunicatedbelowisamatterarisingfromthecurrent-periodauditofthefinancialstatementsthatwas
communicatedorrequiredtobecommunicatedtotheauditcommitteeandthat(1)relatestoaccountsordisclosuresthatare
materialtothefinancialstatementsand(2)involvedourespeciallychallenging,subjective,orcomplexjudgments.The
communicationofcriticalauditmattersdoesnotalterinanywayouropiniononthefinancialstatements,takenasawhole,andwe
arenot,bycommunicatingthecriticalauditmatterbelow,providingaseparateopiniononthecriticalauditmatteroronthe
accountsordisclosurestowhichitrelates.
Impairmentofindefinite-livedintangibleassets—RefertoNotes2and12tothefinancialstatements
CriticalAuditMatterDescription
TheCompany’sindefinite-livedintangibleassetsarecomprisedofmanagementcontractsandtradenames/trademarks
acquiredinbusinessacquisitions.TheCompanyperformsitsimpairmentassessmentofitsindefinite-livedintangible
assetsatleastannually,asofJuly31st.Inevaluatingwhetheritismorelikelythannotthatthefairvalueofindefinite-
livedintangiblesislessthancarryingvalue,theCompanyperformscertainquantitativeassessmentsandassesses
varioussignificantqualitativefactors.Ifanindefinite-livedintangibleassetisdeterminedtobemorelikelythannot
impaired,thefairvalueoftheassetisthencomparedwithitscarryingvalueandanyexcessofthecarryingvalueoverthe
fairvaluewouldberecognizedasanexpenseintheperiodinwhichtheimpairmentoccurs.Thedeterminationoffair
valuerequiresmanagementtomakeestimatesandassumptionsrelatedtoprojectedassetsundermanagement(“AUM”)
growthrates,revenuebasispoints,operatingmargins,taxrates,anddiscountrates.
Giventhesignificantjudgmentsmadebymanagementtoestimatethefairvalueofitsindefinite-livedintangibleassets,
performingauditprocedurestoevaluatethereasonablenessofmanagement’sestimatesandassumptionsrelatedto
projectedAUMgrowthrates,revenuebasispoints,operatingmargins,taxrates,anddiscountrates,requiredahigh
degreeofauditorjudgmentandanincreasedextentofeffort,includingtheneedtoinvolveourfairvaluespecialists.
HowtheCriticalAuditMatterWasAddressedintheAudit
Ourauditproceduresrelatedtothedeterminationoffairvalueofindefinite-livedintangibleassetsincludedthefollowing,
amongothers:
• Wetestedthedesign,implementationandoperatingeffectivenessofcontrolsovertheCompany’sindefinite-lived
intangibleassetimpairmentanalysis,includingthoserelatedtomanagement’sdeterminationoffairvalueforthe
100 BlackRock Annual Report 2020 F-1 F-2 BlackRock Annual Report 2020 101
indefinite-livedintangibleasset.Thisincludescontrolsrelatedtomanagement’sprojectedAUMgrowthrates, BlackRock, Inc.
operatingmargins,taxrates,andtheselectionofthediscountrates. Consolidated Statements of Financial Condition
• Weevaluatedthereasonablenessofmanagement’sprojectedAUMgrowthrates,revenuebasispoints,operating
margins,andtaxratesbycomparingmanagement’sprojectionsto: December31, December31,
(inmillions,exceptsharesandpersharedata) 2020 2019
- historicalamounts,
Assets
- internalcommunicationstomanagementandtheBoardofDirectors,and
Cashandcashequivalents(1) $ 8,664 $ 4,829
- forecastedinformationincludedinanalystandindustryreportsfortheCompanyandcertainofitspeer Accountsreceivable 3,535 3,179
companies. Investments(1) 6,919 5,489
Separateaccountassets 104,663 102,844
• Weevaluatedmanagement’sabilitytoaccuratelyprojectAUMgrowthrates,operatingmargins,andtaxratesby
Separateaccountcollateralheldundersecuritieslendingagreements 16,507 15,466
comparingactualresultstomanagement’shistoricalforecasts.
Propertyandequipment(netofaccumulateddepreciationof$1,098and$880atDecember31,2020
• Withtheassistanceofourfairvaluespecialists,weevaluatedthereasonablenessoftheCompany’svaluation and2019,respectively) 681 715
methodologyandassumptions,includingtheselectionofthediscountrateby:(1)testingthesourceinformation Intangibleassets(netofaccumulatedamortizationof$291and$185atDecember31,2020and2019,
underlyingthedeterminationofthediscountrateandthemathematicalaccuracyoftheevaluationand respectively) 18,263 18,369
(2)developingarangeofindependentestimatesandcomparedthosetothediscountrateselectedby Goodwill 14,551 14,562
management. Otherassets(1) 3,199 3,169
Totalassets $176,982 $168,622
• Weevaluatedtheimpactofchangesinmanagement’sforecastsfromJuly31,2020,theannualimpairment
assessmentdate,toDecember31,2020. Liabilities
Accruedcompensationandbenefits $ 2,499 $ 2,057
/s/Deloitte&Touche,LLP Accountspayableandaccruedliabilities 1,028 1,167
Borrowings 7,264 4,955
Separateaccountliabilities 104,663 102,844
NewYork,NewYork
February25,2021 Separateaccountcollateralliabilitiesundersecuritieslendingagreements 16,507 15,466
Deferredincometaxliabilities 3,673 3,734
Otherliabilities(1) 3,692 3,470
WehaveservedastheCompany’sauditorsince2002.
Totalliabilities 139,326 133,693
Commitmentsandcontingencies(Note16)
Temporaryequity
Redeemablenoncontrollinginterests 2,322 1,316
Permanentequity
BlackRock,Inc.stockholders’equity
Commonstock,$0.01parvalue; 2 2
Sharesauthorized:500,000,000atDecember31,2020and2019;Sharesissued:172,075,373and
171,252,185atDecember31,2020and2019,respectively;Sharesoutstanding:152,532,885and
154,375,780atDecember31,2020and2019,respectively
SeriesBnonvotingparticipatingpreferredstock,$0.01parvalue; — —
Sharesauthorized:0and150,000,000atDecember31,2020and2019,respectively;Sharesissued
andoutstanding:0and823,188atDecember31,2020and2019,respectively
Additionalpaid-incapital 19,293 19,186
Retainedearnings 24,334 21,662
Accumulatedothercomprehensiveloss (337) (571)
Treasurystock,common,atcost(19,542,488and16,876,405sharesheldatDecember31,2020and
2019,respectively) (8,009) (6,732)
TotalBlackRock,Inc.stockholders’equity 35,283 33,547
Nonredeemablenoncontrollinginterests 51 66
Totalpermanentequity 35,334 33,613
Totalliabilities,temporaryequityandpermanentequity $176,982 $168,622
(1) AtDecember31,2020,cashandcashequivalents,investments,otherassetsandotherliabilitiesinclude$155million,$4,253million,$90millionand$952million,respectively,relatedto
consolidatedvariableinterestentities(“VIEs”).AtDecember31,2019,cashandcashequivalents,investments,otherassetsandotherliabilitiesinclude$131million,$3,301million,
$68millionand$820million,respectively,relatedtoconsolidatedVIEs.
Seeaccompanyingnotestoconsolidatedfinancialstatements.
102 BlackRock Annual Report 2020 F-3 F-4 BlackRock Annual Report 2020 103
BlackRock, Inc. BlackRock, Inc.
Consolidated Statements of Income Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income
(inmillions,exceptsharesandpersharedata) 2020 2019 2018 (inmillions) 2020 2019 2018
Revenue Netincome $5,286 $4,526 $4,302
Investmentadvisory,administrationfeesandsecuritieslendingrevenue: Othercomprehensiveincome(loss):
Relatedparties $ 9,079 $ 8,323 $ 8,226 Foreigncurrencytranslationadjustments(1) 234 120 (253)
Otherthirdparties 3,560 3,454 3,327 Othercomprehensiveincome(loss) 234 120 (253)
Totalinvestmentadvisory,administrationfeesandsecuritieslendingrevenue 12,639 11,777 11,553 Comprehensiveincome 5,520 4,646 4,049
Investmentadvisoryperformancefees 1,104 450 412 Less:Comprehensiveincome(loss)attributabletononcontrollinginterests 354 50 (3)
Technologyservicesrevenue 1,139 974 785 ComprehensiveincomeattributabletoBlackRock,Inc. $5,166 $4,596 $4,052
Distributionfees 1,131 1,069 1,155
(1) Amountfor2020includesalossfromanetinvestmenthedgeof$54million(netoftaxbenefitof$17million).Amountsfor2019and2018includegainsfromanetinvestmenthedgeof
Advisoryandotherrevenue 192 269 293
$11million(netoftaxexpenseof$3million)and$30million(netoftaxexpenseof$10million),respectively.
Totalrevenue 16,205 14,539 14,198
Expense
Seeaccompanyingnotestoconsolidatedfinancialstatements.
Employeecompensationandbenefits 5,041 4,470 4,320
Distributionandservicingcosts 1,835 1,685 1,675
Directfundexpense 1,063 978 998
Generalandadministration 2,465 1,758 1,638
Restructuringcharge — — 60
Amortizationofintangibleassets 106 97 50
Totalexpense 10,510 8,988 8,741
Operatingincome 5,695 5,551 5,457
Nonoperatingincome(expense)
Netgain(loss)oninvestments 972 342 1
Interestanddividendincome 62 97 104
Interestexpense (205) (203) (184)
Totalnonoperatingincome(expense) 829 236 (79)
Incomebeforeincometaxes 6,524 5,787 5,378
Incometaxexpense 1,238 1,261 1,076
Netincome 5,286 4,526 4,302
Less:
Netincome(loss)attributabletononcontrollinginterests 354 50 (3)
NetincomeattributabletoBlackRock,Inc. $ 4,932 $ 4,476 $ 4,305
EarningspershareattributabletoBlackRock,Inc.commonstockholders:
Basic $ 32.13 $ 28.69 $ 26.86
Diluted $ 31.85 $ 28.43 $ 26.58
Weighted-averagecommonsharesoutstanding:
Basic 153,489,422 156,014,343 160,301,116
Diluted 154,840,582 157,459,546 161,948,732
Seeaccompanyingnotestoconsolidatedfinancialstatements.
104 BlackRock Annual Report 2020 F-5 F-6 BlackRock Annual Report 2020 105
BlackRock, Inc. BlackRock, Inc.
Consolidated Statements of Changes in Equity Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
Redeemable (inmillions) 2020 2019 2018
Accumulated Total Noncontrolling
Additional Other Treasury BlackRock Nonredeemable Total Interests/ Operatingactivities
Paid-in Retained Comprehensive Stock Stockholders’ Noncontrolling Permanent Temporary Netincome $ 5,286 $ 4,526 $4,302
(inmillions) Capital(1) Earnings Income(Loss) Common Equity Interests Equity Equity Adjustmentstoreconcilenetincometonetcashprovidedby/(usedin)operatingactivities:
December31,2017 $19,258 $16,939 $(432) $(3,967) $31,798 $50 $31,848 $ 416 Depreciationandamortization 358 296 220
Noncashleaseexpense 118 109 —
Netincome — 4,305 — — 4,305 — 4,305 (3)
Stock-basedcompensation 622 567 564
Dividendsdeclared($12.02pershare) — (1,968) — — (1,968) — (1,968) —
Deferredincometaxexpense(benefit) (157) 17 (226)
Stock-basedcompensation 564 — — — 564 — 564 —
PNCpreferredstockcapitalcontribution 58 — — — 58 — 58 — CharitableContribution 589 — —
Retirementofpreferredstock (58) — — — (58) — (58) — GainrelatedtotheCharitableContribution (122) — —
Issuanceofcommonsharesrelatedto Contingentconsiderationfairvalueadjustments 23 53 65
employeestocktransactions (652) — — 667 15 — 15 — Otherinvestmentgains (244) (30) (50)
Employeetaxwithholdingsrelatedto Net(gains)losseswithinconsolidatedsponsoredinvestmentproducts (501) (254) 149
employeestocktransactions — — — (427) (427) — (427) —
Net(purchases)proceedswithinconsolidatedsponsoredinvestmentproducts (2,282) (1,746) (1,938)
Sharesrepurchased — — — (1,660) (1,660) — (1,660) —
(Earnings)lossesfromequitymethodinvestees (148) (116) (94)
Subscriptions(redemptions/distributions)
Distributionsofearningsfromequitymethodinvestees 32 70 30
—noncontrollinginterestholders — — — — — 9 9 1,254
Changesinoperatingassetsandliabilities:
Netconsolidations(deconsolidations)of
sponsoredinvestmentfunds — — — — — — — (560) Accountsreceivable (313) (433) 4
Othercomprehensiveincome(loss) — — (253) — (253) — (253) — Investments,trading 160 (21) 179
Adoptionofnewaccounting Otherassets (60) 141 (223)
pronouncement — 6 (6) — — — — — Accruedcompensationandbenefits 487 58 (230)
December31,2018 $19,170 $19,282 $(691) $(5,387) $32,374 $59 $32,433 $1,107 Accountspayableandaccruedliabilities (115) (111) 43
Netincome — 4,476 — — 4,476 7 4,483 43 Otherliabilities 10 (242) 280
Dividendsdeclared($13.20pershare) — (2,096) — — (2,096) — (2,096) — Netcashprovidedby/(usedin)operatingactivities 3,743 2,884 3,075
Stock-basedcompensation 567 — — — 567 — 567 — Investingactivities
PNCpreferredstockcapitalcontribution 60 — — — 60 — 60 — Purchasesofinvestments (359) (693) (327)
Retirementofpreferredstock (60) — — — (60) — (60) — Proceedsfromsalesandmaturitiesofinvestments 187 417 449
Issuanceofcommonsharesrelatedto Distributionsofcapitalfromequitymethodinvestees 183 136 24
employeestocktransactions (549) — — 566 17 — 17 —
Netconsolidations(deconsolidations)ofsponsoredinvestmentfunds (71) (110) (51)
Employeetaxwithholdingsrelatedto
Acquisitions,netofcashacquired — (1,510) (699)
employeestocktransactions — — — (245) (245) — (245) —
Purchasesofpropertyandequipment (194) (254) (204)
Sharesrepurchased — — — (1,666) (1,666) — (1,666) —
Subscriptions(redemptions/ Netcashprovidedby/(usedin)investingactivities (254) (2,014) (808)
distributions)—noncontrollinginterest Financingactivities
holders — — — — — 2 2 1,456
Proceedsfromlong-termborrowings 2,245 992 —
Netconsolidations(deconsolidations)of
Repaymentsoflong-termborrowings — (1,000) —
sponsoredinvestmentfunds — — — — — (2) (2) (1,290)
Cashdividendspaid (2,260) (2,096) (1,968)
Othercomprehensiveincome(loss) — — 120 — 120 — 120 —
Repurchasesofcommonstock (1,809) (1,911) (2,087)
December31,2019 $19,188 $21,662 $(571) $(6,732) $33,547 $66 $33,613 $1,316
Netproceedsfrom(repaymentsof)borrowingsbyconsolidatedsponsoredinvestmentproducts 51 111 40
Netincome — 4,932 — — 4,932 (1) 4,931 355
Net(redemptions/distributionspaid)/subscriptionsreceivedfromnoncontrollinginterest
Dividendsdeclared($14.52pershare) — (2,260) — — (2,260) — (2,260) —
holders 2,051 1,458 1,263
Stock-basedcompensation 622 — — — 622 — 622 —
Otherfinancingactivities (34) (137) (13)
Issuanceofcommonsharesrelatedto
Netcashprovidedby/(usedin)financingactivities 244 (2,583) (2,765)
employeestocktransactions (515) — — 532 17 — 17 —
Effectofexchangeratechangesoncash,cashequivalentsandrestrictedcash 102 54 (93)
Employeetaxwithholdingsrelatedto
employeestocktransactions — — — (297) (297) — (297) —
Netincrease/(decrease)incash,cashequivalentsandrestrictedcash 3,835 (1,659) (591)
Sharesrepurchased — — — (1,512) (1,512) — (1,512) —
Cash,cashequivalentsandrestrictedcash,beginningofyear 4,846 6,505 7,096
Subscriptions(redemptions/
Cash,cashequivalentsandrestrictedcash,endofyear $ 8,681 $ 4,846 $6,505
distributions)—noncontrollinginterest
holders — — — — — (14) (14) 2,065 Supplementaldisclosureofcashflowinformation:
Netconsolidations(deconsolidations)of Cashpaidfor:
sponsoredinvestmentfunds — — — — — — — (1,414)
Interest $ 183 $ 193 $ 177
Othercomprehensiveincome(loss) — — 234 — 234 — 234 —
Incometaxes(netofrefunds) $ 1,308 $ 1,168 $1,159
December31,2020 $19,295 $24,334 $(337) $(8,009) $35,283 $51 $35,334 $2,322
Supplementalscheduleofnoncashinvestingandfinancingtransactions:
(1) Amountsinclude$2millionofcommonstockatDecember31,2020,2019,2018and2017. Issuanceofcommonstock $ 515 $ 549 $ 652
PNCpreferredstockcapitalcontribution $ — $ 60 $ 58
Seeaccompanyingnotestoconsolidatedfinancialstatements. CharitableContributionofaninvestment $ (589) $ — $ —
Increase/(decrease)innoncontrollinginterestsduetonetconsolidation(deconsolidation)of
sponsoredinvestmentfunds $(1,414) $(1,292) $ (560)
Seeaccompanyingnotestoconsolidatedfinancialstatements.
106 BlackRock Annual Report 2020 F-7 F-8 BlackRock Annual Report 2020 107
BlackRock, Inc. effectivefortheCompanyonJanuary1,2020,didnothave ImpairmentsofInvestments.Managementperiodically impactitseconomicperformanceand(ii)theobligationto
amaterialimpactonitsconsolidatedfinancialstatements. assessesequitymethodandheld-to-maturityinvestments absorblossesoftheentityortherighttoreceivebenefits
Notes to the Consolidated
forother-than-temporaryimpairment(“OTTI”).IfanOTTI fromtheentitythatpotentiallycouldbesignificanttothe
Financial Statements CashandCashEquivalents.Cashandcashequivalents exists,animpairmentchargewouldberecordedforthe VIE.TheCompanygenerallyconsolidatesVIEsinwhichit
primarilyconsistsofcash,moneymarketfundsandshort- excessofthecarryingamountoftheinvestmentoverits holdsaneconomicinterestof10%orgreaterand
1.BusinessOverview term,highlyliquidinvestmentswithoriginalmaturitiesof estimatedfairvalueintheconsolidatedstatementsof deconsolidatessuchVIEsonceequityownershipfalls
threemonthsorlessinwhichtheCompanyisexposedto income. below10%.
BlackRock,Inc.(together,withitssubsidiaries,unlessthe marketandcreditrisk.Cashandcashequivalentbalances
contextotherwiseindicates,“BlackRock”orthe thatarelegallyrestrictedfromusebytheCompanyare Forequitymethodinvestmentsandheld-to-maturity ConsolidationofVotingRightsEntities.BlackRockis
“Company”)isaleadingpubliclytradedinvestment recordedinotherassetsontheconsolidatedstatements investments,ifcircumstancesindicatethatanOTTImay requiredtoconsolidateaninvesteetotheextentthat
managementfirmprovidingabroadrangeofinvestment offinancialcondition.Cashbalancesmaintainedby exist,theinvestmentsareevaluatedusingmarketvalues, BlackRockcanexertcontroloverthefinancialand
andtechnologyservicestoinstitutionalandretailclients consolidatedVIEsandvotingrightsentities(“VREs”)are whereavailable,ortheexpectedfuturecashflowsofthe operatingpoliciesoftheinvestee,whichgenerallyexistsif
worldwide. notconsideredlegallyrestrictedandareincludedincash investment. thereisagreaterthan50%votingequityinterest.
andcashequivalentsontheconsolidatedstatementsof
BlackRock’sdiverseplatformofalpha-seekingactive, financialcondition. FortheCompany’sinvestmentsinCLOs,theCompany RetentionofSpecializedInvestmentCompanyAccounting
indexandcashmanagementinvestmentstrategiesacross reviewscashflowestimatesoverthelifeofeachCLO Principles.Uponconsolidationofsponsoredinvestment
assetclassesenablestheCompanytotailorinvestment investment.Onaquarterlybasis,ifthepresentvalueof funds,theCompanyretainsthespecializedinvestment
outcomesandassetallocationsolutionsforclients. Investments theestimatedfuturecashflowsislowerthanthecarrying companyaccountingprinciplesoftheunderlyingfunds.
Productofferingsincludesingle-andmulti-asset InvestmentsinDebtSecurities.TheCompanyclassifies valueoftheinvestmentandthereisanadversechangein Alloftheunderlyinginvestmentsheldbysuch
portfoliosinvestinginequities,fixedincome,alternatives debtinvestmentsasheld-to-maturityortradingbasedon estimatedcashflows,animpairmentisconsideredtobe consolidatedsponsoredinvestmentfundsarecarriedat
andmoneymarketinstruments.Productsareoffered theCompany’sintentandabilitytoholdthedebtsecurity other-than-temporary. fairvaluewithcorrespondingchangesintheinvestments’
directlyandthroughintermediariesinavarietyofvehicles, tomaturityor,itsintenttosellthesecurity. fairvaluesreflectedinnonoperatingincome(expense)on
includingopen-endandclosed-endmutualfunds, Inaddition,fornonmarketableequitysecuritiesthatare theconsolidatedstatementsofincome.Whenthe
iShares®exchange-tradedfunds(“ETFs”),separate Held-to-maturitysecuritiesarepurchasedwiththe accountedforunderthemeasurementalternativetofair Companynolongercontrolsthesefundsduetoreduced
accounts,collectivetrustfunds(“CTFs”)andotherpooled positiveintentandabilitytobeheldtomaturityandare value,theCompanyappliestheimpairmentmodelthat ownershippercentageorotherreasons,thefundsare
investmentvehicles.BlackRockalsoofferstechnology recordedatamortizedcostontheconsolidated doesnotrequiretheCompanytoconsiderwhetherthe deconsolidatedandaccountedforasanequitymethod
services,includingtheinvestmentandriskmanagement statementsoffinancialcondition. impairmentisother-than-temporary. investmentorequitysecuritiesFVTNIiftheCompanystill
technologyplatform,Aladdin®,AladdinWealth,eFront, maintainsaninvestment.
CachematrixandFutureAdvisor,aswellasadvisory Tradingsecuritiesarethoseinvestmentsthatare Consolidation.TheCompanyperformsananalysisfor
servicesandsolutionstoabroadbaseofinstitutionaland purchasedprincipallyforthepurposeofsellingthemin investmentproductstodetermineiftheproductisaVIEor SeparateAccountAssetsandLiabilities.Separate
wealthmanagementclients. thenearterm.Tradingsecuritiesarecarriedatfairvalue aVRE.AssessingwhetheranentityisaVIEoraVRE accountassetsaremaintainedbyBlackRockLifeLimited,
ontheconsolidatedstatementsoffinancialconditionwith involvesjudgmentandanalysis.Factorsconsideredinthis awhollyownedsubsidiaryoftheCompany,whichisa
changesinfairvaluerecordedinnonoperatingincome assessmentincludetheentity’slegalorganization,the registeredlifeinsurancecompanyintheUnitedKingdom,
2.SignificantAccountingPolicies
(expense)ontheconsolidatedstatementsofincome. entity’scapitalstructureandequityownership,andany andrepresentsegregatedassetsheldforpurposesof
BasisofPresentation Tradingsecuritiesincludecertaininvestmentsin relatedpartyordefactoagentimplicationsofthe fundingindividualandgrouppensioncontracts.Thelife
Theseconsolidatedfinancialstatementshavebeen collateralizedloanobligations(“CLOs”)forwhichthefair Company’sinvolvementwiththeentity.Investmentsthat insurancecompanydoesnotunderwriteanyinsurance
preparedinaccordancewithaccountingprinciples valueoptioniselectedinordertoreduceoperational aredeterminedtobeVIEsareconsolidatediftheCompany contractsthatinvolveanyinsurancerisktransferfromthe
generallyacceptedintheUnitedStates(“GAAP”)and complexityofbifurcatingembeddedderivatives. istheprimarybeneficiary(“PB”)oftheentity.VREsare insuredtothelifeinsurancecompany.Theseparate
includetheaccountsoftheCompanyanditscontrolled typicallyconsolidatediftheCompanyholdsthemajority accountassetsprimarilyincludeequitysecurities,debt
InvestmentsinEquitySecurities.Equitysecuritiesare
subsidiaries.Noncontrollinginterests(“NCI”)onthe votinginterest.Upontheoccurrenceofcertainevents securities,moneymarketfundsandderivatives.The
generallycarriedatfairvalueontheconsolidated
consolidatedstatementsoffinancialconditionrepresents (suchascontributionsandredemptions,eitherbythe separateaccountassetsarenotsubjecttogeneralclaims
statementsoffinancialconditionwithchangesinthefair
theportionofconsolidatedsponsoredinvestmentfundsin Company,orthirdparties,oramendmentstothe ofthecreditorsofBlackRock.Theseseparateaccount
valuerecordedthroughnetincome(“FVTNI”)within
whichtheCompanydoesnothavedirectequity governingdocumentsoftheCompany’sinvestment assetsandtherelatedequalandoffsettingliabilitiesare
nonoperatingincome(expense).Fornonmarketable
ownership.Accountsandtransactionsbetween products),managementreviewsandreconsidersits recordedasseparateaccountassetsandseparate
equitysecurities,theCompanygenerallyelectstoapply
consolidatedentitieshavebeeneliminated. previousconclusionregardingthestatusofanentityasa accountliabilitiesontheconsolidatedstatementsof
thepracticalityexceptiontofairvaluemeasurement,
VIEoraVRE.Additionally,managementcontinually financialcondition.
underwhichsuchsecuritieswillbemeasuredatcost,less
Thepreparationoffinancialstatementsinconformitywith reconsiderswhethertheCompanyisdeemedtobeaVIE’s
impairment,plusorminusobservablepricechangesfor
GAAPrequiresmanagementtomakeestimatesand PBthatconsolidatessuchentity. Thenetinvestmentincomeattributabletoseparate
identicalorsimilarsecuritiesofthesameissuerwithsuch
assumptionsthataffectthereportedamountsofassetsand accountassetssupportingindividualandgrouppension
liabilitiesanddisclosureofcontingentassetsandliabilities changesrecordedintheconsolidatedstatementsof ConsolidationofVariableInterestEntities.Certain contractsaccruesdirectlytothecontractownerandisnot
atthedateofthefinancialstatementsandthereported income.Dividendsreceivedarerecordedasdividend investmentproductsforwhichacontrollingfinancial reportedontheconsolidatedstatementsofincome.While
amountsofrevenueandexpenseduringthereporting incomewithinnonoperatingincome(expense). interestisachievedthrougharrangementsthatdonot BlackRockhasnoeconomicinterestintheseseparate
periods.Actualresultscoulddifferfromthoseestimates. involveorarenotdirectlylinkedtovotinginterestsare accountassetsandliabilities,BlackRockearnspolicy
EquityMethod.TheCompanyappliestheequitymethodof
deemedVIEs.BlackRockreviewsfactors,including administrationandmanagementfeesassociatedwith
accountingforequityinvestmentswheretheCompany
Certainpriorperiodpresentationsanddisclosures,while whetherornoti)theentityhasequityatriskthatis theseproducts,whichareincludedininvestmentadvisory,
doesnotconsolidatetheinvestee,butcanexert
notrequiredtoberecast,werereclassifiedtoensure sufficienttopermittheentitytofinanceitsactivities administrationfeesandsecuritieslendingrevenueonthe
significantinfluenceoverthefinancialandoperating
comparabilitywithcurrentperiodclassifications. withoutadditionalsubordinatedsupportfromother consolidatedstatementsofincome.
policiesoftheinvestee.TheCompany’sshareofthe
partiesandii)theequityholdersatriskhavetheobligation
investee’sunderlyingnetincomeorlossisrecordedasnet
toabsorblosses,therighttoreceiveresidualreturns,and SeparateAccountCollateralAssetsHeldandLiabilities
AccountingPronouncementsAdoptedin2020
gain(loss)oninvestmentswithinnonoperatingincome
therighttodirecttheactivitiesoftheentitythatmost UnderSecuritiesLendingAgreements.TheCompany
MeasurementofCreditLosses.InJune2016,theFinancial (expense)andasotherrevenueforcertaincorporate
significantlyimpacttheentity’seconomicperformance,to facilitatessecuritieslendingarrangementswhereby
AccountingStandardsBoardissuedAccountingStandards minorityinvestmentssincesuchinvesteesareconsidered
determineiftheinvestmentproductisaVIE.BlackRock securitiesheldbyseparateaccountsmaintainedby
Update(“ASU”)2016-13,MeasurementofCreditLosseson tobeanextensionoftheCompany’scorebusiness.The
re-evaluatessuchfactorsasfactsandcircumstances BlackRockLifeLimitedarelenttothirdpartiesunder
FinancialInstruments(“ASU2016-13”),whichsignificantly Company’sshareofnetincomeoftheinvesteeisrecorded
change. globalmastersecuritieslendingagreements.Inexchange,
changestheaccountinganddisclosuresforcreditlosses baseduponthemostcurrentinformationavailableatthe
theCompanyreceiveslegaltitletothecollateralwith
formostfinancialassets.Thenewguidancerequiresan time,whichmayprecedethedateoftheconsolidated ThePBofaVIEisdefinedasthevariableinterestholder minimumvaluesgenerallyrangingfromapproximately
estimateofexpectedlifetimecreditlossesandeliminates statementoffinancialcondition.Distributionsreceived thathasacontrollingfinancialinterestintheVIE.A 102%to112%ofthevalueofthesecuritieslentinorder
theexistingrecognitionthresholdsundercurrent reducetheCompany’scarryingvalueoftheinvesteeand controllingfinancialinterestisdefinedas(i)thepowerto toreducecounterpartyrisk.Therequiredcollateralvalueis
guidance.TheadoptionofASU2016-13,whichwas thecostbasisifdeemedtobeareturnofcapital. directtheactivitiesoftheVIEthatmostsignificantly calculatedonadailybasis.Theglobalmastersecurities
108 BlackRock Annual Report 2020 F-9 F-10 BlackRock Annual Report 2020 109
lendingagreementsprovidetheCompanytherightto productswithoutaspecifiedterminationdateisgenerally undiscountedcashflowtest,thedifferencebetweenthe assessmentsisfocusedonascertainingwhetherthe
requestadditionalcollateralor,intheeventofborrower classifiedasindefinite-livedintangibleassets.The carryingvalueoftheassetanditscurrentfairvaluewould Companyisprimarilyresponsibleforfulfillingthe
default,therighttoliquidatecollateral.Thesecurities assignmentofindefinitelivestosuchcontractsprimarily berecognizedasanexpenseintheperiodinwhichthe promisedservice.
lendingtransactionsenteredintobytheCompanyare isbaseduponthefollowing:(i)theassumptionthatthere impairmentoccurs.
TheCompanyearnsrevenuebylendingsecuritieson
accompaniedbyanagreementthatentitlestheCompany isnoforeseeablelimitonthecontractperiodtomanage
torequesttheborrowertoreturnthesecuritiesatany theseproducts;(ii)theCompanyexpectsto,andhasthe NoncontrollingInterests.TheCompanyreports behalfofclients,primarilytohighlyratedbanksand
time;therefore,thesetransactionsarenotreportedas abilityto,continuetooperatetheseproductsindefinitely; noncontrollinginterestsasequity,separatefromthe broker-dealers.Revenueisrecognizedovertimeas
sales. (iii)theproductshavemultipleinvestorsandarenot parent’sequity,ontheconsolidatedstatementsof servicesareperformed.Generally,thesecuritieslending
reliantonasingleinvestororsmallgroupofinvestorsfor financialcondition.Inaddition,theCompany’s feesaresharedbetweentheCompanyandthefundsor
TheCompanyrecordsontheconsolidatedstatementsof theircontinuedoperation;(iv)currentcompetitivefactors consolidatednetincomeontheconsolidatedstatements otherthird-partyaccountsmanagedbytheCompanyfrom
financialconditionthecashandnoncashcollateral andeconomicconditionsdonotindicateafinitelife;and ofincomeincludestheincome(loss)attributableto whichthesecuritiesareborrowed.
receivedundertheseBlackRockLifeLimitedsecurities (v)thereisahighlikelihoodofcontinuedrenewalbased noncontrollinginterestholdersoftheCompany’s
lendingarrangementsasitsownassetinadditiontoan onhistoricalexperience.Inaddition,tradenames/ consolidatedsponsoredinvestmentproducts.Income MoneyMarketFeeWaivers.TheCompanymayvoluntarily
equalandoffsettingcollateralliabilityfortheobligationto trademarksareconsideredindefinite-livedintangible (loss)attributabletononcontrollinginterestsisnot waiveaportionofitsmanagementfeesoncertainmoney
returnthecollateral.Thesecuritieslendingrevenue assetswhentheyareexpectedtogeneratecashflows adjustedforincometaxesforconsolidatedsponsored marketfundstoensurethattheymaintainatargetedlevel
earnedfromlendingsecuritiesheldbytheseparate indefinitely. investmentproductsthataretreatedaspass-through ofdailynetinvestmentincome(the“YieldSupportwaivers”).
accountsisincludedininvestmentadvisory, entitiesfortaxpurposes. During2020,thesewaiversresultedinareductionof
administrationfeesandsecuritieslendingrevenueonthe Indefinite-livedintangibleassetsandgoodwillarenot managementfeesofapproximately$35million,whichwas
consolidatedstatementsofincome.During2020and amortized.Finite-livedmanagementcontracts,which ClassificationandMeasurementofRedeemable partiallyoffsetbyareductionofBlackRock’sdistribution
2019,theCompanyhadnotresoldorrepledgedanyofthe relatetoacquiredseparateaccountsandfundsand Securities.TheCompanyincludesredeemable andservicingcostspaidtofinancialintermediaries.There
collateralreceivedunderthesearrangements.At investor/customerrelationships,andtechnology-related noncontrollinginterestsrelatedtocertainconsolidated werenoYieldSupportwaiversin2019and2018.The
December31,2020and2019,thefairvalueofloaned assetsthatareexpectedtocontributetothefuturecash sponsoredinvestmentproductsintemporaryequityon CompanymayincreaseordecreasethelevelofYield
securitiesheldbyseparateaccountswasapproximately flowsoftheCompanyforaspecifiedperiodoftime,are theconsolidatedstatementsoffinancialcondition. Supportwaiversinfutureperiods.
$15.2billionand$14.4billion,respectively,andthefair amortizedovertheirremainingusefullives.
TreasuryStock.TheCompanyrecordscommonstock InvestmentAdvisoryPerformanceFees/CarriedInterest.
valueofthecollateralheldunderthesesecuritieslending
TheCompanyperformsassessmentstodetermineifany purchasedfortreasuryatcost.Atthedateofsubsequent TheCompanyreceivesinvestmentadvisoryperformance
agreementswasapproximately$16.5billionand
intangibleassetsarepotentiallyimpairedandwhetherthe reissuance,thetreasurystockaccountisreducedbythe fees,includingincentiveallocations(carriedinterest)from
$15.5billion,respectively.
indefinite-livedandfinite-livedclassificationsarestill costofsuchstockusingtheaveragecostmethod. certainactivelymanagedinvestmentfundsandcertain
PropertyandEquipment.Propertyandequipmentare appropriateatleastannually,asofJuly31st.Thecarrying separatelymanagedaccounts.Theseperformancefees
recordedatcostlessaccumulateddepreciation. valueoffinite-livedassetsandtheirremainingusefullives RevenueRecognition.Revenueisrecognizedupon aredependentuponexceedingspecifiedrelativeor
transferofcontrolofpromisedservicestocustomersinan
Depreciationisgenerallydeterminedbycostlessany arereviewedatleastannuallytodetermineif absoluteinvestmentreturnthresholds,whichmayvaryby
amounttowhichtheCompanyexpectstobeentitledin
estimatedresidualvalueusingthestraight-linemethod circumstancesexistwhichmayindicateapotential productoraccount,andincludemonthly,quarterly,
exchangeforthoseservices.TheCompanyentersinto
overtheestimatedusefullivesofthevariousclassesof impairmentorrevisionstotheamortizationperiod. annualorlongermeasurementperiods.
contractsthatcanincludemultipleservices,whichare
propertyandequipment.Leaseholdimprovementsare
accountedforseparatelyiftheyaredeterminedtobe Performancefees,includingcarriedinterest,are
amortizedusingthestraight-linemethodovertheshorter Inevaluatingwhetheritismorelikelythannotthatthefair
distinct.ConsiderationfortheCompany’sservicesis recognizedwhenitisdeterminedthattheyarenolonger
oftheestimatedusefullifeortheremainingleaseterm. valueofindefinite-livedintangiblesislessthanits
generallyintheformofvariableconsiderationbecause probableofsignificantreversal(suchasuponthesaleofa
carryingvalue,BlackRockassessesvarioussignificant
TheCompanycapitalizescertaincostsincurredin qualitativefactors,includingassetsundermanagement theamountoffeesissubjecttomarketconditionsthatare fund’sinvestmentorwhentheamountofAUMbecomes
connectionwithdevelopingorobtainingsoftwarewithin (“AUM”),revenuebasispoints,projectedAUMgrowth outsideoftheCompany’sinfluence.TheCompany knownasoftheendofaspecifiedmeasurementperiod).
propertyandequipment.Capitalizedsoftwarecostsare rates,operatingmargins,taxratesanddiscountrates.In includesvariableconsiderationinrevenuewhenitisno Giventheuniquenatureofeachfeearrangement,
amortized,beginningwhenthesoftwareproductisready addition,theCompanyconsidersotherfactors,including longerprobableofsignificantreversal,i.e.whenthe contractswithcustomersareevaluatedonanindividual
foritsintendeduse,overtheestimatedusefullifeofthe (i)macroeconomicconditionssuchasadeteriorationin associateduncertaintyisresolved.Forsomecontracts basistodeterminethetimingofrevenuerecognition.
softwareofapproximatelythreeyears. generaleconomicconditions,limitationsonaccessing withcustomers,theCompanyhasdiscretiontoinvolvea Significantjudgementisinvolvedinmakingsuch
thirdpartyinprovidingservicestothecustomer. determination.Performancefeestypicallyarisefrom
capital,fluctuationsinforeignexchangerates,orother
GoodwillandIntangibleAssets.Goodwillrepresentsthe developmentsinequityandcreditmarkets;(ii)industry Generally,theCompanyisdeemedtobetheprincipalin investmentmanagementservicesthatbeganinprior
costofabusinessacquisitioninexcessofthefairvalueof thesearrangementsbecausetheCompanycontrolsthe reportingperiods.Consequently,aportionofthefeesthe
andmarketconsiderationssuchasadeteriorationinthe
thenetassetsacquired.TheCompanyhasdetermined promisedservicesbeforetheyaretransferredto Companyrecognizesmaybepartiallyrelatedtothe
environmentinwhichtheentityoperates,anincreased
thatithasonereportingunitforgoodwillimpairment customers,andaccordinglypresentstherevenuegrossof servicesperformedinpriorperiodsthatmeetthe
competitiveenvironment,adeclineinmarket-dependent
testingpurposes,theconsolidatedBlackRocksingle relatedcosts. recognitioncriteriainthecurrentperiod.Ateachreporting
multiplesormetrics,achangeinthemarketforanentity’s
operatingsegment,whichisconsistentwithinternal date,theCompanyconsidersvariousfactorsinestimating
services,orregulatory,legalorpoliticaldevelopments;and
InvestmentAdvisory,AdministrationFeesandSecurities
managementreportingandmanagement’soversightof performancefeestoberecognized,includingcarried
(iii)entity-specificevents,suchasachangein
LendingRevenue.Investmentadvisoryandadministration
operations.Initsassessmentofgoodwillforimpairment, interest.Thesefactorsincludebutarenotlimitedto
managementorkeypersonnel,overallfinancial
feesarerecognizedastheservicesareperformedover
theCompanyconsiderssuchfactorsasthebookvalue whether:(1)thefeesaredependentonthemarketand
performanceandlitigationthatcouldaffectsignificant
timebecausethecustomerisreceivingandconsuming
andmarketcapitalizationoftheCompany. thusarehighlysusceptibletofactorsoutsidethe
inputsusedtodeterminethefairvalueoftheindefinite-
thebenefitsastheyareprovidedbytheCompany.Fees
Company’sinfluence;(2)thefeeshavealargenumber
livedintangibleasset.Ifanindefinite-livedintangibleis
Onaquarterlybasis,theCompanyconsidersiftriggering areprimarilybasedonagreed-uponpercentagesofAUM
andabroadrangeofpossibleamounts;and(3)thefunds
determinedtobemorelikelythannotimpaired,thenthe
eventshaveoccurredthatmayindicateapotential andrecognizedforservicesprovidedduringtheperiod,
orseparatelymanagedaccountshavetheabilitytoinvest
fairvalueoftheassetiscomparedwithitscarryingvalue
goodwillimpairment.Ifatriggeringeventhasoccurred, whicharedistinctfromservicesprovidedinotherperiods.
orreinvesttheirsalesproceeds.
andanyexcessofthecarryingvalueoverthefairvalue
theCompanyperformsassessments,whichmayinclude SuchfeesareaffectedbychangesinAUM,including
wouldberecognizedasanexpenseintheperiodinwhich
reviewsofsignificantvaluationassumptions,todetermine marketappreciationordepreciation,foreignexchange TheCompanyisallocatedcarriedinterestfromcertain
theimpairmentoccurs.
ifgoodwillmaybeimpaired.TheCompanyperformsan translationandnetinflowsoroutflows.Investment alternativeinvestmentproductsuponexceeding
impairmentassessmentofitsgoodwillatleastannually, advisoryandadministrationfeesforinvestmentfundsare performancethresholds.TheCompanymayberequiredto
Forfinite-livedintangibleassets,ifpotentialimpairment
asofJuly31st. circumstancesareconsideredtoexist,theCompanywill shownnetoffeewaivers.Inaddition,theCompanymay reverse/returnall,orpart,ofsuchcarriedinterest
contractwiththirdpartiestoprovidesub-advisoryservices allocations/distributionsdependinguponfuture
performarecoverabilitytestusinganundiscountedcash
Intangibleassetsarecomprisedofindefinite-lived onitsbehalf.TheCompanypresentstheinvestment performanceofthesefunds.Carriedinterestsubjectto
flowanalysis.Actualresultscoulddifferfromthesecash
intangibleassetsandfinite-livedintangibleassets advisoryfeesandassociatedcoststosuchthird-party suchclawbackprovisionsisrecordedininvestmentsor
flowestimates,whichcouldmateriallyimpactthe
acquiredinabusinessacquisition.Thevalueofcontracts advisorsonagrossbasiswhereitisdeemedtobethe cashandcashequivalentstotheextentthatitis
impairmentconclusion.Ifthecarryingvalueoftheassetis
tomanageassetsinproprietaryopen-endfundsand principalandonanetbasiswhereitisdeemedtobethe distributed,onitsconsolidatedstatementsoffinancial
determinednottoberecoverablebasedonthe
collectivetrustfundsandcertainothercommingled agent.Managementjudgmentinvolvedinmakingthese condition.
110 BlackRock Annual Report 2020 F-11 F-12 BlackRock Annual Report 2020 111
TheCompanyrecordsaliabilityfordeferredcarried employeeisrequiredtoprovideservice(usuallythe Fixedleasepaymentsareincludedinright-of-use(“ROU”) Excesstaxbenefitsrelatedtostock-basedcompensationare
interesttotheextentitreceivescashorcapitalallocations vestingperiod)inexchangeforthestock-basedaward. assetsandleaseliabilitieswithinotherassetsandother recognizedasanincometaxbenefitontheconsolidated
relatedtocarriedinterestpriortomeetingtherevenue liabilities,respectively,ontheconsolidatedstatementsof statementsofincomeandarereflectedasoperatingcash
TheCompanymeasuresthegrant-datefairvalueof flowsontheconsolidatedstatementsofcashflows.
recognitioncriteria.Aportionofthedeferredcarried financialcondition.TheCompanyrecognizesROUassets
restrictedstockunits(“RSUs”)usingtheCompany’sstock
interestmayalsobepaidtocertainemployees.The andleaseliabilitiesbasedonthepresentvalueofthese
EarningsperShare(“EPS”).BasicEPSiscalculatedby
priceonthedateofgrant.Foremployeestockoptionsand
ultimatetimingoftherecognitionofperformancefee futureleasepaymentsovertheleasetermatthe
dividingnetincomeapplicabletocommonshareholders
instrumentswithmarketconditions,theCompanyuses
revenueandrelatedcompensationexpense,ifany,for commencementdatediscountedusingtheCompany’s
bytheweighted-averagenumberofsharesoutstanding
pricingmodels.Stockoptionawardsmayhave
theseproductsisunknown. incrementalborrowingrate(“IBR”).TheCompany
duringtheperiod.DilutedEPSincludesthedeterminants
performance,marketand/orserviceconditions.Ifastock-
determinesitsIBR,byassessingtheCompany’scredit
ofbasicEPSandcommonstockequivalentsoutstanding
Technologyservicesrevenue.TheCompanyoffers basedawardismodifiedafterthegrant-date,incremental
ratingusingvariousfinancialmetrics,suchasrevenue,
duringtheperiod.DilutedEPSiscomputedusingthe
investmentmanagementtechnologysystems,risk compensationcostisrecognizedforanamountequalto
operatingmarginandrevenuegrowth,and,as
treasurystockmethod.
managementservices,wealthmanagementanddigital theexcessofthefairvalueofthemodifiedawardoverthe
appropriate,performingmarketanalysisofyieldson
distributiontools,allonafeebasis.Clientsincludebanks, fairvalueoftheoriginalawardimmediatelybeforethe
publiclytradedbonds(securedorunsecured)withsimilar DuetothesimilaritiesintermsbetweenBlackRock’s
insurancecompanies,officialinstitutions,pensionfunds, modification.AwardsundertheCompany’sstock-based
termsofcomparablecompaniesinasimilareconomic nonvotingparticipatingpreferredstockandthe
assetmanagers,retaildistributorsandotherinvestors. compensationplansvestovervariousperiods.
environment.Fixedleasepaymentsmadeoverthelease Company’scommonstock,theCompanyconsideredits
Feesearnedfortechnologyservicesareprimarilyrecorded CompensationcostisrecordedbytheCompanyona
termarerecordedasleaseexpenseonastraight-line nonvotingparticipatingpreferredstocktobeacommon
asservicesareperformedovertimeandaregenerally straight-linebasisovertherequisiteserviceperiodfor
basis.Variableleasepaymentsbasedonusage,changes stockequivalentforpurposesofEPScalculations.As
determinedusingthevalueofpositionsontheAladdin eachseparatevestingportionoftheawardasiftheaward
inanindexormarketrateareexpensedasincurred. such,theCompanyhasincludedtheoutstanding
platform,oronafixed-ratebasis.Revenuederivedfrom is,in-substance,multipleawardsandisadjustedfor
nonvotingparticipatingpreferredstockinthecalculation
thesaleofsoftwarelicensesisrecognizeduponthe actualforfeituresastheyoccur. UponadoptionofASU2016-02,Leasesandseveral
ofaveragebasicanddilutedsharesoutstanding.Asof
grantingofaccessrights. amendments(collectively,“ASU2016-02”),forexisting
December31,2020,therewerenosharesofpreferred
TheCompanyamortizesthegrant-datefairvalueofstock- leases,theCompanyelectedtodeterminethediscount
stockoutstanding.
DistributionFees.TheCompanyearnsdistributionand basedcompensationawardsmadetoretirement-eligible ratebasedontheremainingleasetermasofJanuary1,
servicefeesfordistributinginvestmentproductsand employeesovertherequisiteserviceperiod.Upon 2019andforleasepaymentsbasedonanindexorrateto BusinessSegments.TheCompany’smanagementdirects
providingongoingshareholdersupportservicesto notificationofretirement,theCompanyacceleratesthe applytherateatcommencementdate.Fornewleases,the BlackRock’soperationsasonebusiness,theasset
investmentportfolios.Distributionfeesarepassed- unamortizedportionoftheawardoverthecontractually discountratesarebasedontheentirenoncancelable managementbusiness.TheCompanyutilizesa
throughtothird-partydistributors,whichperformvarious requiredretirementnotificationperiod. leaseterm. consolidatedapproachtoassessperformanceand
funddistributionservicesandshareholderservicingof
allocateresources.Assuch,theCompanyoperatesinone
certainfundsontheCompany’sbehalf,andare TheCompanyrecognizesallexcesstaxbenefitsand ForeignExchange.Foreigncurrencytransactionsare
businesssegment.
recognizedasdistributionandservicingcosts.The deficienciesinincometaxexpenseontheconsolidated recordedattheexchangeratesprevailingonthedatesof
Companypresentsdistributionfeesandrelated statementsofincome,whichresultsinvolatilityofincome thetransactions.Monetaryassetsandliabilitiesthatare
distributionandservicingcostsincurredonagrossbasis. taxexpenseasaresultoffluctuationsintheCompany’s denominatedinforeigncurrenciesaresubsequently FairValueMeasurements
stockprice.Accordingly,theCompanyrecordedadiscrete remeasuredintothefunctionalcurrenciesofthe HierarchyofFairValueInputs.TheCompanyusesafair
Distributionfeesprimarilyconsistofongoingdistribution incometaxbenefitof$36million,$23millionand Company’ssubsidiariesattheratesprevailingateach valuehierarchythatprioritizesinputstovaluation
fees,shareholderservicingfeesandupfrontsales $64millionduring2020,2019and2018,respectively,for balancesheetdate.Gainsandlossesarisingon approachesusedtomeasurefairvalue.Thefairvalue
commissionsforservingastheprincipalunderwriterand/ vestedRSUswherethegrantdatestockpricewaslower remeasurementareincludedingeneraland hierarchygivesthehighestprioritytoquotedprices
ordistributorforcertainmanagedmutualfunds.The thanthevestingdatestockprice. administrationexpenseontheconsolidatedstatementsof (unadjusted)inactivemarketsforidenticalassetsor
serviceofdistributionissatisfiedatthepointintimewhen income.Revenueandexpensesaretranslatedataverage liabilitiesandthelowestprioritytounobservableinputs.
aninvestormakesaninvestmentinashareclassofthe DistributionandServicingCosts.Distributionand exchangeratesduringtheperiod.Gainsorlosses Assetsandliabilitiesmeasuredandreportedatfairvalue
servicingcostsincludepaymentstothirdparties,primarily
managedmutualfunds.Feesaregenerallyconsidered resultingfromtranslatingforeigncurrencyfinancial areclassifiedanddisclosedinoneofthefollowing
associatedwithdistributionandservicingofclient
variableconsiderationbecausetheyarebasedonthe statementsintoUSdollarsareincludedinaccumulated categories:
investmentsincertainBlackRockproducts.Distribution
valueofAUMandareuncertainontradedate.Accordingly, othercomprehensiveincome(loss)(“AOCI”),aseparate
andservicingcostsareexpensedwhenincurred.
theCompanyrecognizesdistributionfeesoverthe componentofstockholders’equity,ontheconsolidated
Level1Inputs:
investmentperiodastheamountsbecomeknownandthe statementsoffinancialcondition.
DirectFundExpense.Directfundexpense,whichis
portionrecognizedinthecurrentperiodmayrelateto Quotedprices(unadjusted)inactivemarketsfor
expensedasincurred,primarilyconsistsofthird-party
distributionservicesperformedinpriorperiods.Upfront IncomeTaxes.Deferredincometaxassetsandliabilities identicalassetsorliabilitiesatthereportingdate.
nonadvisoryexpenseincurredbyBlackRockrelatedto
salescommissionsarerecognizedonatradedatebasis. arerecognizedforthefuturetaxconsequences
certainfundsfortheuseofcertainindextrademarks, •Level1assetsmayincludelistedmutualfunds,ETFs,
ShareholderservicingfeesarebasedonAUMand attributabletotemporarydifferencesbetweenthe
referencedataforcertainindices,custodialservices,fund listedequitiesandcertainexchange-traded
recognizedinrevenueastheservicesareperformed. financialstatementcarryingamountsofexistingassets
administration,fundaccounting,transferagentservices, derivatives.
andliabilitiesandtheirrespectivetaxbasesusing
shareholderreportingservices,auditandtaxservicesas
Advisoryandotherrevenue.Advisoryandotherrevenue currentlyenactedtaxratesineffectfortheyearinwhich
wellasotherfund-relatedexpensedirectlyattributableto
primarilyincludesfeesearnedforadvisoryservices,fees thedifferencesareexpectedtoreverse.Theeffectofa Level2Inputs:
thenonadvisoryoperationsofthefund.
earnedfortransitionmanagementservicesprimarily changeintaxratesondeferredincometaxassetsand
Quotedpricesforsimilarassetsorliabilitiesinactive
comprisedofcommissionsrecognizedinconnectionwith liabilitiesisrecognizedontheconsolidatedstatementsof
Leases.TheCompanydeterminesifacontractisaleaseor markets;quotedpricesforidenticalorsimilarassetsor
buyingandsellingsecuritiesonbehalfofcustomers,and incomeintheperiodthatincludestheenactmentdate.
containsaleaseatinception.TheCompanyaccountsfor liabilitiesthatarenotactive;quotesfrompricing
equitymethodinvestmentearningsrelatedtocertain
itsofficefacilityleasesasoperatingleases,whichmay Managementperiodicallyassessestherecoverabilityofits servicesorbrokersforwhichtheCompanycan
corporateminorityinvestments.
includeescalationclausesthatarebasedonanindexor deferredincometaxassetsbaseduponexpectedfuture determinethatorderlytransactionstookplaceatthe
Advisoryservicesfeesaredeterminedusingfixed-ratefees marketrate.TheCompanyaccountsforleaseand earnings,taxableincomeinpriorcarrybackyears,future quotedpriceorthattheinputsusedtoarriveatthe
andarerecognizedovertimeastherelatedservicesare non-leasecomponents,includingcommonareas deductibilityoftheasset,changesinapplicabletaxlaws priceareobservable;andinputsotherthanquoted
completed. maintenancecharges,asasinglecomponentforits andotherfactors.Ifmanagementdeterminesthatitisnot pricesthatareobservable,suchasmodelsorother
leases.TheCompanyelectedtheshort-termlease morelikelythannotthatthedeferredtaxassetwillbefully valuationmethodologies.
Commissionsrelatedtotransitionmanagementservices exceptionforleaseswithaninitialtermof12monthsor recoverableinthefuture,avaluationallowancewillbe •Level2assetsmayincludedebtsecurities,
arerecordedonatrade-datebasisastransactionsoccur. less.Consequently,suchleasesarenotrecordedonthe establishedforthedifferencebetweentheassetbalance investmentsinCLOs,bankloans,short-termfloating-
Sctchooteomsctgpkirse-abnrneastc-asodetigadontnCeizocfeaomdisrptovefvaonelrusreaethqtoieuofinptthy.eTercihloaaedwsCsadiorufdimre.idnTpghaaenwwycahorriedcmchsopbageannnssiezadetsioonn cCtbeoeornmmesxpioenalriacdntiayes’testehddleeoaslrtesaneatosetteem,rwrmeehnsseptsinenoccittfliuifvsidenrelaeyona.spcoitainolancbsolnytodcieetxirottaenin.nTdthhoereywill aTerexhncpideseitnavhalseloeba.wleFmauanonrcutdheneptwraei,lyxtlhaprbeeeslcCeutoebltdmainstpoeaadbndeuydprirteeoicocnonoivratdeslrsieanisbtctsloiemimniancetotethmadexeinftucatoxumersee. rwsoaevittceehuri-nrntiohtciteeoe-ssnc,vsoaaousllunisdeetaedt-rtebaddatecarhikevdeadidstgcisveoeefucsunu,nitrnd,itacsiels,usrwde,sesintellrgciacuisntreittdeierpesushtbealilncdd
taxposition.
112 BlackRock Annual Report 2020 F-13 F-14 BlackRock Annual Report 2020 113
inflationrateswapsandforeigncurrencyexchange performmodel-basedanalyticalvaluationsthatcouldbe notesinApril2019.SeeNote15,Borrowings,for (2) AtbothDecember31,2020and2019,therewerenoindicatorsofimpairmentof
FederalReserveBankstock,whichisheldforregulatorypurposesandisrestrictedfrom
contractsthathaveinputstothevaluationsthat usedasaninputtovaluetheseinvestments. informationonthedebtissuanceinApril2019.A
sale.
generallycanbecorroboratedbyobservablemarket summaryofthefairvaluesoftheassetsacquiredand
data. FairValueAssetsandLiabilitiesofConsolidatedCLO.The liabilitiesassumedinthisacquisitionisasfollows: (3) CarriedinterestrepresentsallocationstoBlackRock’sgeneralpartnercapitalaccounts
Companyappliesthefairvalueoptionprovisionsfor fromcertainsponsoredinvestmentfunds.Thesebalancesaresubjecttochangeupon
eligibleassets,includingbankloans,heldbya cashdistributions,additionalallocationsorreallocationsbacktolimitedpartnerswithin
Level3Inputs: (inmillions) FairValue therespectivefunds.
consolidatedCLO.Asthefairvalueofthefinancialassets
Unobservableinputsforthevaluationoftheassetor oftheconsolidatedCLOismoreobservablethanthefair Accountsreceivable $ 61 (4) OtherinvestmentsincludeBlackRock’sinvestmentsinnonmarketableequitysecurities,
liability,whichmayincludenonbindingbrokerquotes. valueoftheborrowingsoftheconsolidatedCLO,the Finite-livedintangibleassets: whicharemeasuredatcost,adjustedforobservablepricechangesandprivateequityand
realassetinvestmentsofconsolidatedsponsoredinvestmentproductsmeasuredatfair
Level3assetsincludeinvestmentsforwhichthereis Companymeasuresthefairvalueoftheborrowingsofthe Customerrelationships 400 value.
little,ifany,marketactivity.Theseinputsrequire consolidatedCLOequaltothefairvalueoftheassetsof Technology-related 203
significantmanagementjudgmentorestimation. theconsolidatedCLOlessthefairvalueoftheCompany’s
Tradename 14
Available-for-SaleInvestments
economicinterestintheCLO.
•Level3assetsmayincludedirectprivateequity Goodwill 1,044
Asummaryofsaleactivityofavailable-for-saleduring
investmentsheldwithinconsolidatedfunds, DerivativesandHedgingActivities.TheCompanydoes Otherassets 49 2020,2019and2018isshownbelow.
investmentsinCLOsandbankloansheldwithin notusederivativefinancialinstrumentsfortradingor Deferredincometaxliabilities (146)
consolidatedCLOs. speculativepurposes.TheCompanyusesderivative Otherliabilitiesassumed (125)
YearendedDecember31,
•Level3liabilitiesmayincludecontingentliabilities financialinstrumentsprimarilyforpurposesofhedging Totalconsideration,netofcashacquired $1,500
exposurestofluctuationsinforeigncurrencyexchange (inmillions) 2020 2019 2018
relatedtoborrowingsofconsolidatedCLOsand Summaryofconsideration,netofcashacquired:
ratesofcertainassetsandliabilities,andmarket
acquisitionsvaluedbasedupondiscountedcashflow Salesproceeds $— $— $173
Cashpaidincludingsettlementofoutstanding
exposuresforcertainseedinvestments.However,certain
analysesusingunobservablemarketdata. debtofapproximately$0.2billion $1,555 Netrealizedgain(loss):
consolidatedsponsoredinvestmentfundsmayalsoutilize
Cashacquired (55) Grossrealizedgains $— $— $ —
SignificanceofInputs.TheCompany’sassessmentofthe derivativesasapartoftheirinvestmentstrategy.
Totalconsideration,netofcashacquired $1,500 Grossrealizedlosses — — —
significanceofaparticularinputtothefairvalue
measurementinitsentiretyrequiresjudgmentand TheCompanyrecordsallderivativefinancialinstruments Netrealizedgain(loss) $— $— $ —
aseitherassetsorliabilitiesatfairvalueonagrossbasis
considersfactorsspecifictothefinancialinstrument. 4.Cash,CashEquivalentsandRestrictedCash
intheconsolidatedstatementsoffinancialcondition. Therewerenoavailable-for-saleinvestmentsatboth
ValuationApproaches.ThefairvaluesofcertainLevel3 Creditrisksaremanagedthroughmasternettingand Thefollowingtableprovidesareconciliationofcashand December31,2020and2019.
assetsandliabilitiesweredeterminedusingvarious collateralsupportagreements.Theamountsrelatedtothe cashequivalentsreportedwithintheconsolidated
valuationapproachesasappropriate,includingthird-party righttoreclaimortheobligationtoreturncashcollateral statementsoffinancialconditiontothecash,cash Held-to-MaturityInvestments
pricingvendors,brokerquotesandmarketandincome maynotbeusedtooffsetamountsdueunderthe equivalents,andrestrictedcashreportedwithinthe
approaches. derivativeinstrumentsinthenormalcourseofsettlement. consolidatedstatementsofcashflows. Thecarryingvalueofheld-to-maturityinvestmentswas
$310millionand$249millionatDecember31,2020and
Therefore,suchamountsarenotoffsetagainstfairvalue
Asignificantnumberofinputsusedtovalueequity,debt amountsrecognizedforderivativeinstrumentswiththe December31, December31, 2019,respectively.Held-to-maturityinvestmentsincluded
securities,investmentsinCLOsandbankloansissourced samecounterpartyandareincludedinotherassetsand (inmillions) 2020 2019 certaininvestmentsinBlackRocksponsoredCLOsand
fromthird-partypricingvendors.Generally,prices otherliabilities.Changesinthefairvalueofthe Cashandcashequivalents $8,664 $4,829 foreigngovernmentdebtheldprimarilyforregulatory
obtainedfrompricingvendorsarecategorizedasLevel1 Company’sderivativefinancialinstrumentsare Restrictedcashincludedinother purposes.Theamortizedcost(carryingvalue)ofthese
inputsforidenticalsecuritiestradedinactivemarketsand recognizedinearningsand,whereapplicable,areoffsetby assets 17 17 investmentsapproximatedfairvalue(primarilyaLevel2
asLevel2forothersimilarsecuritiesifthevendoruses thecorrespondinggainorlossontherelatedforeign- Totalcash,cashequivalentsand input).AtDecember31,2020,$11millionofthese
observableinputsindeterminingtheprice. denominatedassetsorliabilitiesorhedgedinvestments, restrictedcash $8,681 $4,846 investmentsmaturebetweenoneyeartofiveyears,
$169millionoftheseinvestmentsmaturebetweenfive
ontheconsolidatedstatementsofincome.
Inaddition,quotesobtainedfrombrokersgenerallyare yearstotenyearsand$130millionmatureaftertenyears.
nonbindingandcategorizedasLevel3inputs.However,if TheCompanymayalsousefinancialinstruments 5.Investments
theCompanyisabletodeterminethatmarketparticipants
designatedasnetinvestmenthedgesforaccounting Asummaryofthecarryingvalueoftotalinvestmentsisas
havetransactedfortheassetinanorderlymannernear
purposestohedgenetinvestmentsininternational follows:
thequotedpriceoriftheCompanycandeterminethatthe
subsidiarieswhosefunctionalcurrencyisnotUSdollars.
inputsusedbythebrokerareobservable,thequoteis
Thegainorlossfromrevaluingnetinvestmenthedgesat
December31, December31,
classifiedasaLevel2input.
thespotrateisdeferredandreportedwithinAOCIonthe (inmillions) 2020 2019
consolidatedstatementsoffinancialcondition.Amounts
InvestmentsMeasuredatNetAssetValue.Asapractical Debtsecurities:
excludedfromtheeffectivenessassessmentarereportedin
expedient,theCompanyusesnetassetvalue(“NAV”)as theconsolidatedstatementsofincomeusingasystematic Held-to-maturityinvestments $ 310 $ 249
thefairvalueforcertaininvestments.Theinputstovalue
andrationalmethod.TheCompanyreassessesthe Tradingsecurities 1,964 1,249
theseinvestmentsmayincludetheCompany’scapital
effectivenessofitsnetinvestmenthedgeatleastquarterly. Totaldebtsecurities 2,274 1,498
accountsforitspartnershipinterestsinvariousalternative
EquitysecuritiesatFVTNI 2,317 1,926
investments,includinghedgefunds,realassetsand
privateequityfunds,whichmaybeadjustedbyusingthe 3.Acquisition Equitymethodinvestments(1) 1,081 943
returnsofcertainmarketindices.Thevariouspartnerships OnMay10,2019,theCompanyacquired100%ofthe Bankloans 248 204
generallyareinvestmentcompanies,whichrecordtheir equityinterestsofeFrontHoldingSAS(“eFront FederalReserveBankstock(2) 94 93
underlyinginvestmentsatfairvaluebasedonfairvalue Transaction”or“eFront”),aleadingalternativeinvestment Carriedinterest(3) 627 528
policiesestablishedbymanagementoftheunderlying managementsoftwareandsolutionsproviderfor Otherinvestments(4) 278 297
fund.Fairvaluepoliciesattheunderlyingfundgenerally approximately$1.3billion,excludingthesettlementof Totalinvestments $ 6,919 $ 5,489
requirethefundtoutilizepricing/valuationinformation eFront’soutstandingdebt.TheacquisitionofeFront
fromthird-partysources,includingindependent expandedAladdin’silliquidalternativecapabilitiesand (1) EquitymethodinvestmentsprimarilyincludeBlackRock’sdirectinvestmentsincertain
BlackRocksponsoredinvestmentfunds.
appraisals.However,insomeinstances,currentvaluation enablesBlackRocktoprovideindividualalternativeor
informationforilliquidsecuritiesorsecuritiesinmarkets whole-portfoliotechnologysolutionstoclients.
thatarenotactivemaynotbeavailablefromanythird-
partysourceorfundmanagementmayconcludethatthe Thepurchasepricewasfundedthroughacombinationof
valuationsthatareavailablefromthird-partysourcesare existingcashandissuanceofcommercialpaper
notreliable.Intheseinstances,fundmanagementmay (subsequentlyrepaidwithexistingcash)andlong-term
114 BlackRock Annual Report 2020 F-15 F-16 BlackRock Annual Report 2020 115
TradingDebtSecuritiesandEquitySecuritiesatFVTNI 7.VariableInterestEntities
AsummaryofthecostandcarryingvalueoftradingdebtsecuritiesandequitysecuritiesatFVTNIisasfollows: NonconsolidatedVIEs.AtDecember31,2020and2019,theCompany’scarryingvalueofassetsandliabilitiesincludedon
theconsolidatedstatementsoffinancialconditionpertainingtononconsolidatedVIEsanditsmaximumriskoflossrelatedto
VIEsforwhichitheldavariableinterest,butforwhichitwasnotthePB,wasasfollows:
December31, December31,
2020 2019 Advisory OtherNet Maximum
Fee Assets Riskof
Carrying Carrying
(inmillions) Cost Value Cost Value (inmillions) Investments Receivables (Liabilities) Loss(1)
AtDecember31,2020
Tradingdebtsecurities:
Sponsoredinvestmentproducts $662 $71 $ (13) $750
Corporatedebt $1,591 $1,641 $ 822 $ 844
AtDecember31,2019
Governmentdebt 203 210 268 269
Sponsoredinvestmentproducts $539 $71 $(10) $627
Asset/mortgagebackeddebt 132 113 141 136
(1) AtbothDecember31,2020and2019,BlackRock’smaximumriskoflossassociatedwiththeseVIEsprimarilyrelatedtoBlackRock’sinvestmentsandthecollectionofadvisoryfeereceivables.
Totaltradingdebtsecurities $1,926 $1,964 $1,231 $1,249
EquitysecuritiesatFVTNI: ThenetassetsofsponsoredinvestmentproductsthatarenonconsolidatedVIEsapproximated$16billionand$12billion
Equitysecurities/mutualfunds $2,055 $2,317 $1,769 $1,926 atDecember31,2020and2019,respectively.
TotalequitysecuritiesatFVTNI $2,055 $2,317 $1,769 $1,926
8.FairValueDisclosures
FairValueHierarchy
6.ConsolidatedSponsoredInvestmentProducts toitsinvestmentsintheentity.TheCompany’s
Assetsandliabilitiesmeasuredatfairvalueonarecurringbasis
consolidatedVIEsincludecertainsponsoredinvestment
TheCompanyconsolidatescertainsponsoredinvestment
productsinwhichBlackRockhasaninvestmentandas
fundsaccountedforasVREsbecauseitisdeemedto Quoted
controlsuchfunds. theinvestmentmanager,isdeemedtohaveboththe Pricesin
powertodirectthemostsignificantactivitiesofthe Active Significant
Inthenormalcourseofbusiness,theCompanyisthe productsandtherighttoreceivebenefits(orthe Marketsfor Other Significant
Identical Observable Unobservable Investments
managerofvarioustypesofsponsoredinvestment obligationtoabsorblosses)thatcouldpotentiallybe
December31,2020 Assets Inputs Inputs Measuredat December31,
vehicles,whichmaybeconsideredVIEs.TheCompany significanttothesesponsoredinvestmentproducts.The (inmillions) (Level1) (Level2) (Level3) NAV(1) Other(2) 2020
mayfromtimetotimeownequityordebtsecuritiesor assetsoftheseVIEsarenotavailabletocreditorsofthe
Assets:
enterintoderivativeswiththevehicles,eachofwhichare Company.Inaddition,theinvestorsintheseVIEshaveno
Investments:
consideredvariableinterests.TheCompany’sinvolvement recoursetothecreditoftheCompany.
Debtsecurities:
infinancingtheoperationsoftheVIEsisgenerallylimited Held-to-maturityinvestments $ — $ — $ — $ — $ 310 $ 310
Tradingsecurities — 1,953 11 — — 1,964
Thefollowingtablepresentsthebalancesrelatedtotheseconsolidatedsponsoredinvestmentproductsaccountedforas
Totaldebtsecurities — 1,953 11 — 310 2,274
VIEsandVREsthatwererecordedontheconsolidatedstatementsoffinancialcondition,includingBlackRock’snet
EquitysecuritiesatFVTNI:
interestintheseproducts:
Equitysecurities/mutualfunds 2,317 — — — — 2,317
Equitymethod:
December31,2020 December31,2019
Equityandfixedincomemutualfunds 235 — — — — 235
(inmillions) VIEs VREs Total VIEs VREs Total Hedgefunds/fundsofhedgefunds — — — 309 — 309
Cashandcashequivalents $ 155 $ 51 $ 206 $ 131 $ 10 $ 141 Privateequityfunds — — — 315 — 315
Realassetsfunds — — — 218 — 218
Investments:
Other — — — 4 — 4
Tradingdebtsecurities 1,618 310 1,928 1,059 151 $1,210
Totalequitymethod 235 — — 846 — 1,081
EquitysecuritiesatFVTNI 1,592 413 2,005 1,330 332 1,662
Bankloans — 16 232 — — 248
Bankloans 248 — 248 204 — 204 FederalReserveBankStock — — — — 94 94
Otherinvestments 191 — 191 194 — 194 Carriedinterest — — — — 627 627
Carriedinterest 604 — 604 514 — 514 Otherinvestments(3) — — 9 94 175 278
Totalinvestments 4,253 723 4,976 3,301 483 3,784 Totalinvestments 2,552 1,969 252 940 1,206 6,919
Otherassets 90 9 99 68 5 73 Otherassets(4) 205 13 — — — 218
Otherliabilities(1) (952) (70) (1,022) (820) (20) (840) Separateaccountassets 71,392 32,404 — — 867 104,663
Separateaccountcollateralheldundersecurities
Noncontrollinginterests (2,193) (180) (2,373) (1,348) (34) (1,382)
lendingagreements:
BlackRock’snetinterestinconsolidatedinvestmentproducts $1,353 $533 $1,886 $1,332 $444 $1,776 Equitysecurities 13,126 — — — — 13,126
Debtsecurities — 3,381 — — — 3,381
(1) AtDecember31,2020and2019,otherliabilitiesofVIEsprimarilyincludedeferredcarriedinterestliabilitiesandborrowingsofaconsolidatedCLO.
Totalseparateaccountcollateralheldunder
securitieslendingagreements 13,126 3,381 — — — 16,507
BlackRock’stotalexposuretoconsolidatedsponsored Netgain(loss)relatedtoconsolidatedVIEsispresentedin
Total $87,275 $37,767 $252 $940 $2,073 128,307
investmentproductsrepresentsthevalueofitseconomic thefollowingtable:
ownershipinterestinthesesponsoredinvestment Liabilities:
Separateaccountcollateralliabilitiesunder
products.Valuationchangesassociatedwithinvestments (inmillions) 2020 2019 2018 securitieslendingagreements $13,126 $ 3,381 $ — $ — $ — $ 16,507
heldatfairvaluebytheseconsolidatedsponsored
Nonoperatingnetgain(loss)on Otherliabilities(5) — 68 272 — — 340
investmentproductsarereflectedinnonoperatingincome consolidatedVIEs $477 $210 $(105) Total $13,126 $ 3,449 $272 $ — $ — $ 16,847
(expense)andpartiallyoffsetinnetincome(loss)
Netincome(loss)attributableto
attributabletononcontrollinginterestsfortheportionnot NCIonconsolidatedVIEs $348 $ 42 $ (6) (1) AmountsarecomprisedofcertaininvestmentsmeasuredatfairvalueusingNAV(oritsequivalent)asapracticalexpedient.
attributabletoBlackRock. (2) Amountsarecomprisedofinvestmentsheldatamortizedcostandcost,adjustedforobservablepricechanges,carriedinterestandcertainequitymethodinvestments,whichincludesponsored
investmentfundsandotherassets,whicharenotaccountedforunderafairvaluemeasure.InaccordancewithGAAP,certainequitymethodinvesteesdonotaccountforboththeirfinancial
assetsandliabilitiesunderfairvaluemeasures;therefore,theCompany’sinvestmentinsuchequitymethodinvesteesmaynotrepresentfairvalue.
TheCompanycannotreadilyaccesscashandcash
(3) Level3amountsprimarilyincludedirectinvestmentsinprivateequitycompaniesheldbyconsolidatedprivateequityfunds.
equivalentsheldbyconsolidatedsponsoredinvestment
productstouseinitsoperatingactivities. (4) Level1amountincludesaminorityinvestmentinapubliclytradedcompany.
(5) Level2amountprimarilyincludesfairvalueofderivatives(SeeNote9,DerivativesandHedging,formoreinformation).Level3amountsprimarilyincludeborrowingsofaconsolidatedCLO
classifiedbasedonthesignificanceofunobservableinputsusedforcalculatingthefairvalueofconsolidatedCLOassets,andcontingentliabilitiesrelatedtocertainacquisitions(seeNote16,
CommitmentsandContingencies,formoreinformation).
116 BlackRock Annual Report 2020 F-17 F-18 BlackRock Annual Report 2020 117
Assetsandliabilitiesmeasuredatfairvalueonarecurringbasis ChangesinLevel3AssetsandLiabilitiesMeasuredatFairValueonaRecurringBasisfor2020
Quoted Realized TotalNet
Pricesin and Issuances Unrealized
Active Significant Unrealized and TransfersTransfers Gains(Losses)
Marketsfor Other Significant December31, Gains Salesand Other into outof December31, Includedin
Identical Observable Unobservable Investments (inmillions) 2019 (Losses) PurchasesMaturitiesSettlements(1) Level3 Level3 2020 Earnings(2)
December31,2019 Assets Inputs Inputs Measuredat December31,
(inmillions) (Level1) (Level2) (Level3) NAV(1) Other(2) 2019 Assets:
Investments:
Assets:
Debtsecurities:
Investments:
Trading $ 8 $ — $ 3 $ — $ — $ — $ — $ 11 $—
Debtsecurities:
Totaldebtsecurities 8 — 3 — — — — 11 —
Held-to-maturityinvestments $ — $ — $ — $ — $ 249 $ 249
Privateequity 9 — 8 (8) — — — 9 —
Tradingsecurities — 1,241 8 — — 1,249
Bankloans 177 — 75 (34) — 20 (6) 232 —
Totaldebtsecurities — 1,241 8 — 249 1,498
Totalinvestments 194 — 86 (42) — 20 (6) 252 —
EquitysecuritiesatFVTNI:
TotalLevel3assets $194 $ — $86 $(42) $ — $20 $(6) $252 $—
Equitysecurities/mutualfunds 1,926 — — — — 1,926
Liabilities:
Equitymethod:
Otherliabilities $388 $(23) $ — $ — $ (139) $ — $ — $272 $(5)
Equityandfixedincomemutualfunds 157 — — — — 157
TotalLevel3liabilities $388 $(23) $ — $ — $ (139) $ — $ — $272 $(5)
Hedgefunds/fundsofhedgefunds — — — 220 — 220
Privateequityfunds — — — 248 — 248 (1) AmountsincludecontingentliabilitypaymentsrelatedtocertainacquisitionsandproceedsfromborrowingsofaconsolidatedCLO.
Realassetsfunds — — — 296 — 296
(2) Earningsattributabletothechangeinunrealizedgains(losses)relatingtoassetsandliabilitiesstillheldatthereportingdate.
Other 12 — — 10 — 22
Totalequitymethod 169 — — 774 — 943 ChangesinLevel3AssetsandLiabilitiesMeasuredatFairValueonaRecurringBasisfor2019
Bankloans — 27 177 — — 204
FederalReserveBankStock — — — — 93 93 Realized TotalNet
Carriedinterest — — — — 528 528 and Issuances Unrealized
Unrealized and TransfersTransfers Gains(Losses)
Otherinvestments(3) — — 9 98 190 297
December31, Gains Salesand Other into outof December31, Includedin
Totalinvestments 2,095 1,268 194 872 1,060 5,489 (inmillions) 2018 (Losses) PurchasesMaturitiesSettlements(1) Level3 Level3(2) 2019 Earnings(3)
Otherassets(4) 173 — — — — 173
Assets:
Separateaccountassets 72,515 29,582 — — 747 102,844
Investments:
Separateaccountcollateralheldundersecurities
Debtsecurities:
lendingagreements:
Trading $ 4 $ — $ 10 $— $ — $— $ (6) $ 8 $ —
Equitysecurities 10,209 — — — — 10,209
Totaldebtsecurities 4 — 10 — — — (6) 8 —
Debtsecurities — 5,257 — — — 5,257
Totalseparateaccountcollateralheldunder Privateequity 82 — — — — — (73) 9 —
securitieslendingagreements 10,209 5,257 — — — 15,466 Bankloans 70 — 107 — — — — 177 —
Total $84,992 $36,107 $194 $872 $1,807 $123,972 Totalinvestments 156 — 117 — — — (79) 194 —
Liabilities: TotalLevel3assets $156 $ — $117 $— $ — $— $(79) $194 $ —
Separateaccountcollateralliabilitiesunder Liabilities:
securitieslendingagreements $10,209 $ 5,257 $ — $ — $ — $ 15,466
Otherliabilities $371 $(53) $ — $— $ (36) $— $ — $388 $(53)
Otherliabilities(5) — 10 388 — — 398
TotalLevel3liabilities $371 $(53) $ — $— $ (36) $— $ — $388 $(53)
Total $10,209 $ 5,267 $388 $ — $ — $ 15,864
(1) AmountsincludeproceedsfromborrowingsofaconsolidatedCLOandcontingentliabilitypayments,relatedtocertainacquisitions.
(1) AmountsarecomprisedofcertaininvestmentsmeasuredatfairvalueusingNAV(oritsequivalent)asapracticalexpedient.
(2) Amountsincludeaninvestmentinaconsolidatedentitythatnolongerqualifiesasaninvestmentcompanyandisnolongeraccountedforunderafairvaluemeasure.
(2) Amountsarecomprisedofinvestmentsheldatamortizedcostandcost,adjustedforobservablepricechanges,carriedinterestandcertainequitymethodinvestments,whichincludesponsored
investmentfundsandotherassets,whicharenotaccountedforunderafairvaluemeasure.InaccordancewithGAAP,certainequitymethodinvesteesdonotaccountforboththeirfinancial (3) Earningsattributabletothechangeinunrealizedgains(losses)relatingtoassetsandliabilitiesstillheldatthereportingdate.
assetsandliabilitiesunderfairvaluemeasures;therefore,theCompany’sinvestmentinsuchequitymethodinvesteesmaynotrepresentfairvalue.
RealizedandUnrealizedGains(Losses)forLevel3Assets Transfersinand/oroutofLevels.Transfersinand/orout
(3) Level3amountsincludedirectinvestmentsinprivateequitycompaniesheldbyconsolidatedprivateequityfunds.
andLiabilities.Realizedandunrealizedgains(losses) oflevelsarereflectedwhensignificantinputs,including
(4) Level1amountincludesaminorityinvestmentinapubliclytradedcompany. recordedforLevel3assetsandliabilitiesarereportedin marketinputsorperformanceattributes,usedforthefair
nonoperatingincome(expense)ontheconsolidated valuemeasurementbecomeobservable/unobservable,or
(5) Level3amountprimarilyincludescontingentliabilitiesrelatedtocertainacquisitions(seeNote16,CommitmentsandContingencies,formoreinformation)andborrowingsofaconsolidated
CLOclassifiedbasedonthesignificanceofunobservableinputsusedforcalculatingthefairvalueofconsolidatedCLOassets. statementsofincome.Aportionofnetincome(loss)for whenthecarryingvalueofcertainequitymethod
consolidatedsponsoredinvestmentfundsareallocatedto investmentsnolongerrepresentsfairvalueasdetermined
Level3Assets.Level3assetsmayincludeinvestmentsin Level3Liabilities.Level3liabilitiesprimarilyinclude noncontrollingintereststoreflectnetincome(loss)not undervaluationmethodologies.
CLOsandbankloansofconsolidatedCLOs,whichwere borrowingsofaconsolidatedCLO,whichwerevalued attributabletotheCompany.
valuedbasedonsingle-brokernonbindingquotesand basedonthefairvalueoftheassetsoftheconsolidated
directprivateequityinvestments,whichwerevaluedusing CLOlessthefairvalueoftheCompany’seconomic
themarketorincomeapproach. interestintheCLO,andcontingentliabilitiesrelatedto
certainacquisitions,whichwerevaluedbasedupon
Level3investmentsof$252millionand$194millionat
discountedcashflowanalysesusingunobservablemarket
December31,2020and2019,respectively,primarily
datainputs.
includedbankloansofaconsolidatedCLO.
118 BlackRock Annual Report 2020 F-19 F-20 BlackRock Annual Report 2020 119
DisclosuresofFairValueforFinancialInstrumentsNotHeldatFairValue.AtDecember31,2020and2019,thefairvalueof December31,2019
theCompany’sfinancialinstrumentsnotheldatfairvaluearecategorizedinthetablebelow.
TotalUnfunded Redemption Redemption
December31,2020 December31,2019 (inmillions) Ref FairValue Commitments Frequency NoticePeriod
Carrying Estimated Carrying Estimated FairValue Equitymethod:(1)
(inmillions) Amount FairValue Amount FairValue Hierarchy Hedgefunds/fundsofhedgefunds (a) $220 $120 Daily/Monthly(27%) 1–90days
Quarterly(15%)
FinancialAssets(1): N/R(58%)
Cashandcashequivalents $8,664 $8,664 $4,829 $4,829 Level1(2)(3) Privateequityfunds (b) 248 212 N/R N/R
Otherassets 69 69 68 68 Level1(2)(4) Realassetsfunds (c) 296 120 Quarterly(57%) 60days
FinancialLiabilities: N/R(43%)
Long-termborrowings 7,264 7,883 4,955 5,254 Level2(5) Other 10 9 N/R N/R
Consolidatedsponsoredinvestmentproducts:
(1) SeeNote5,Investments,forfurtherinformationoninvestmentsnotheldatfairvalue. Privateequityfundsoffunds (d) 23 9 N/R N/R
(2) Cashandcashequivalentsarecarriedateithercostoramortizedcost,whichapproximatesfairvalueduetotheirshort-termmaturities. Hedgefund (a) 3 — Quarterly 90days
Realassetsfunds (c) 72 83 NR NR
(3) AtDecember31,2020and2019,approximately$1,249millionand$674millionofmoneymarketfundswererecordedwithincashandcashequivalentsontheconsolidatedstatementsof
financialcondition.Moneymarketfundsarevaluedbasedonquotedmarketprices,or$1.00pershare,whichgenerallyistheNAVofthefund. Total $872 $553
(4) Otherassetsincluderestrictedcashandcashcollateraldepositedwithcertainderivativecounterparties.Thecarryingvaluesoftheseassetsapproximatefairvalueduetotheirshort-term
N/R–notredeemable
maturities.
(1) Comprisedofequitymethodinvestments,whichincludeinvestmentcompaniesthataccountfortheirfinancialassetsandmostfinancialliabilitiesunderfairvaluemeasures;therefore,the
(5) Long-termborrowingsarerecordedatamortizedcost,netofdebtissuancecosts.Thefairvalueofthelong-termborrowings,includingthecurrentportionoflong-termborrowings,isdetermined
Company’sinvestmentinsuchequitymethodinvesteesapproximatesfairvalue.
usingmarketpricesattheendofDecember2020and2019,respectively.SeeNote15,Borrowings,forthefairvalueofeachoftheCompany’slong-termborrowings.
(a) Thiscategoryincludeshedgefundsandfundsofhedgefundsthatinvestprimarilyinequities,fixedincomesecurities,distressedcredit,opportunisticandmortgageinstrumentsandotherthird-
partyhedgefunds.ThefairvaluesoftheinvestmentshavebeenestimatedusingtheNAVoftheCompany’sownershipinterestinpartners’capital.Theliquidationperiodfortheinvestmentsin
InvestmentsinCertainEntitiesthatCalculateNAVPerShare thefundsthatarenotsubjecttoredemptionisunknownatbothDecember31,2020and2019.
Asapracticalexpedienttovaluecertaininvestmentsthatdonothaveareadilydeterminablefairvalueandhaveattributes
(b) Thiscategoryincludesprivateequityfundsthatinitiallyinvestinnonmarketablesecuritiesofprivatecompanies,whichultimatelymaybecomepublicinthefuture.Thefairvaluesofthese
ofaninvestmentcompany,theCompanyusesNAVasthefairvalue.Thefollowingtableslistinformationregardingall investmentshavebeenestimatedusingcapitalaccountsrepresentingtheCompany’sownershipinterestinthefundsaswellasotherperformanceinputs.TheCompany’sinvestmentineach
investmentsthatuseafairvaluemeasurementtoaccountforboththeirfinancialassetsandfinancialliabilitiesintheir fundisnotsubjecttoredemptionandisnormallyreturnedthroughdistributionsasaresultoftheliquidationoftheunderlyingassetsoftheprivateequityfunds.Theliquidationperiodforthe
calculationofaNAVpershare(orequivalent). investmentsinthesefundsisunknownatbothDecember31,2020and2019.
(c) Thiscategoryincludesseveralrealassetsfundsthatinvestdirectlyandindirectlyinrealestateorinfrastructure.Thefairvaluesoftheinvestmentshavebeenestimatedusingcapitalaccounts
representingtheCompany’sownershipinterestinthefunds.TheCompany’sinvestmentsthatarenotsubjecttoredemptionorarenotcurrentlyredeemablearenormallyreturnedthrough
December31,2020
distributionsandrealizationsoftheunderlyingassetsofthefunds.TheliquidationperiodfortheinvestmentsinthefundsthatarenotsubjecttoredemptionsisunknownatbothDecember31,
2020and2019.Thetotalremainingunfundedcommitmentstorealassetsfundswere$299millionand$203millionatDecember31,2020and2019,respectively.TheCompany’sportion
TotalUnfunded Redemption Redemption ofthetotalremainingunfundedcommitmentswas$267millionand$172millionatDecember31,2020and2019,respectively.
(inmillions) Ref FairValue Commitments Frequency NoticePeriod
(d) Thiscategoryincludestheunderlyingthird-partyprivateequityfundswithinconsolidatedBlackRocksponsoredprivateequityfundsoffunds.Thefairvaluesoftheinvestmentsinthethird-party
Equitymethod:(1) fundshavebeenestimatedusingcapitalaccountsrepresentingtheCompany’sownershipinterestineachfundintheportfolioaswellasotherperformanceinputs.Theseinvestmentsarenot
subjecttoredemptionorarenotcurrentlyredeemable;however,forcertainfunds,theCompanymaysellortransferitsinterest,whichmayneedapprovalbythegeneralpartneroftheunderlying
Hedgefunds/fundsofhedgefunds (a) $309 $ 96 Daily/Monthly(21%) 1–90days
funds.Duetothenatureoftheinvestmentsinthiscategory,theCompanyreducesitsinvestmentbydistributionsthatarereceivedthroughtherealizationoftheunderlyingassetsofthefunds.
Quarterly(21%)
TheliquidationperiodfortheunderlyingassetsofthesefundsisunknownatbothDecember31,2020and2019.Thetotalremainingunfundedcommitmentstootherthird-partyfundswere
N/R(58%)
$7millionand$9millionatDecember31,2020and2019,respectively.TheCompanyhadcontractualobligationstotheconsolidatedfundsof$17millionand$22millionatDecember31,
Privateequityfunds (b) 315 372 N/R N/R 2020and2019,respectively.
Realassetsfunds (c) 218 205 Quarterly(31%) 60days
N/R(69%)
FairValueOption AtDecember31,2020,theprincipalamountsoutstanding
Other 4 5 N/R N/R oftheborrowingsissuedbytheCLOsmaturein2030.
AtDecember31,2020and2019,theCompanyelectedthe
Consolidatedsponsoredinvestmentproducts:
fairvalueoptionforcertaininvestmentsinCLOsof
Privateequityfundsoffunds (d) 16 7 N/R N/R DuringtheyearendedDecember31,2020and2019,the
approximately$35millionand$37million,respectively,
netgains(losses)fromthechangeinfairvalueofthebank
Hedgefund (a) 3 — Quarterly 90days
reportedwithininvestments.
loansandborrowingsheldbytheconsolidatedCLOwere
Realassetsfunds (c) 75 94 NR NR
notmaterialandwererecordedinnetgain(loss)onthe
Total $940 $779 Inaddition,theCompanyelectedthefairvalueoptionfor
consolidatedstatementsofincome.Thechangeinfair
bankloansandborrowingsofaconsolidatedCLO,
valueoftheassetsandliabilitiesincludedinterestincome
recordedwithininvestmentsandotherliabilities,
andexpense,respectively.
respectively.Thefollowingtablesummarizesthe
informationrelatedtothesebankloansandborrowingsat
December31,2020and2019: 9.DerivativesandHedging
TheCompanymaintainsaprogramtoenterintoswapsto
December31, December31, hedgeagainstmarketpriceandinterestrateexposures
(inmillions) 2020 2019 withrespecttocertainseedinvestmentsinsponsored
CLOBankloans: investmentproducts.AtDecember31,2020and2019,the
Companyhadoutstandingtotalreturnswapswith
Aggregateprincipalamounts
outstanding $250 $204 aggregatenotionalvaluesofapproximately$833million
Fairvalue 248 204 and$644million,respectively.
Aggregateunpaidprincipal
TheCompanyexecutesforwardforeigncurrency
balanceinexcessof(lessthan)
exchangecontractstomitigatetheriskofcertainforeign
fairvalue $ 2 $ —
exchangemovements.AtDecember31,2020and2019,
CLOBorrowings:
theCompanyhadoutstandingforwardforeigncurrency
Aggregateprincipalamounts exchangecontractswithaggregatenotionalvaluesof
outstanding $244 $195
Fairvalue $246 $195
120 BlackRock Annual Report 2020 F-21 F-22 BlackRock Annual Report 2020 121
approximately$2.8billionand$3.4billion,respectively amountofapproximately$17milliontoacounterparty, BlackRockassesseditsgoodwillforimpairmentasof withclosingpricesofitscommonstockforpotential
andwithexpirationdatesinJanuary2021andJanuary representingtheCompany’smaximumriskoflosswith July31,2020,2019and2018andconsideredsuch indicatorsofimpairment.AtDecember31,2020,the
2020,respectively. respecttothederivative.TheCompanycarriesthe factorsasthebookvalueandthemarketcapitalizationof Company’scommonstockclosedatamarketpriceof
derivativeatfairvaluebasedontheexpecteddiscounted theCompany.Theimpairmentassessmentindicatedno $721.54,whichexceededitsbookvalueofapproximately
AtbothDecember31,2020and2019,theCompanyhada futurecashoutflowsunderthearrangement. impairmentchargeswererequired.TheCompany $231.31pershare.
derivativeprovidingcreditprotectionwithanotional
continuestomonitoritsbookvaluepersharecompared
Thefollowingtablepresentsthefairvaluesofderivativeinstrumentsrecognizedintheconsolidatedstatementsof
financialconditionatDecember31,2020: 12.IntangibleAssets
IntangibleassetsatDecember31,2020and2019consistedofthefollowing:
December31,2020
(inmillions) Assets Liabilities
Remaining
Statementof Statementof Weighted-
FinancialCondition FinancialCondition Average Gross Net
Derivativeinstruments Classification FairValue Classification FairValue Estimated Carrying Accumulated Carrying
(inmillions) UsefulLife Amount Amortization Amount
Totalreturnswaps Otherassets $ — Otherliabilities $50
AtDecember31,2020
Forwardforeigncurrencyexchangecontracts Otherassets 13 Otherliabilities 5
Indefinite-livedintangibleassets:
Total $13 $55 Managementcontracts N/A $16,169 $ — $16,169
Tradenames/trademarks N/A 1,403 — 1,403
Thefairvaluesoftheoutstandingtotalreturnswapsandforwardforeigncurrencyexchangecontractswerenotmaterial
License N/A 6 — 6
totheconsolidatedstatementoffinancialconditionatDecember31,2019.
Totalindefinite-livedintangibleassets 17,578 — 17,578
Thefollowingtablepresentsrealizedandunrealizedgains(losses)recognizedintheconsolidatedstatementsofincome Finite-livedintangibleassets:
onderivativeinstruments: Managementcontracts 4.0 283 172 111
Investor/customerrelationships 8.2 476 88 388
Technology-related 6.4 203 25 178
(inmillions) Gains(Losses)
Tradenames/trademarks 2.3 14 6 8
DerivativeInstruments StatementofIncomeClassification 2020 2019 2018
Totalfinite-livedintangibleassets 7.0 976 291 685
Totalreturnswaps Nonoperatingincome(expense) $ (93) $(106) $ 54
Totalintangibleassets $18,554 $291 $18,263
Forwardforeigncurrencyexchangecontracts Generalandadministrationexpense 47 55 (124)
AtDecember31,2019
Totalgain(loss)fromderivativeinstruments $ (46) $ (51) $ (70)
Indefinite-livedintangibleassets:
Managementcontracts N/A $16,169 $ — $16,169
TheCompanyconsolidatescertainsponsoredinvestmentfunds,whichmayutilizederivativeinstrumentsasapartofthe
Tradenames/trademarks N/A 1,403 — 1,403
funds’investmentstrategies.Thechangeinfairvalueofsuchderivatives,whichisrecordedinnonoperatingincome
License N/A 6 — 6
(expense),wasnotmaterialfor2020,2019and2018.
Totalindefinite-livedintangibleassets 17,578 — 17,578
SeeNote15,Borrowings,formoreinformationontheCompany’snetinvestmenthedge. Finite-livedintangibleassets:
Managementcontracts 4.8 283 135 148
10.PropertyandEquipment 2018,respectively,andarebeingamortizedoveran Investor/customerrelationships 9.2 476 39 437
estimatedusefullifeofthreeyears. Technology-related 7.4 203 9 194
Propertyandequipmentconsistsofthefollowing:
Tradenames/trademarks 3.3 14 2 12
Depreciationandamortizationexpensewas$232million, Totalfinite-livedintangibleassets 7.8 976 185 791
Estimateduseful December31, $182millionand$154millionfor2020,2019and2018, Totalintangibleassets $18,554 $185 $18,369
(inmillions) life-inyears 2020 2019 respectively.
N/A–NotApplicable
Propertyandequipment:
11.Goodwill
Land N/A $ 6 $ 6 Theimpairmenttestsperformedforintangibleassetsasof respectively.SeeNote3,Acquisition,forinformationon
Building 39 33 33 Goodwillactivityduring2020and2019wasasfollows: July31,2020,2019and2018indicatednoimpairment theeFrontTransaction.
chargeswererequired.
Buildingimprovements 15 30 30
Leaseholdimprovements 1-15 593 565 (inmillions) 2020 2019 13.Leases
Estimatedamortizationexpenseforfinite-livedintangible
Equipmentandcomputer Beginningofyearbalance $14,562 $13,526 assetsforeachofthefivesucceedingyearsisasfollows: Thefollowingtablepresentscomponentsofleasecost
software 3 822 672
Acquisition(1) — 1,044 includedingeneralandadministrationexpenseonthe
Otehqeuriptrmanesnptortation 10 179 136 Goodwilladjustmentsrelatedto (inmillions) consolidatedstatementsofincome:
Quellosandother(2) (11) (8)
Year Amount
Furnitureandfixtures 7 70 70
Endofyearbalance $14,551 $14,562 (inmillions) 2020 2019
Constructioninprogress N/A 46 83 2021 $107
Total 1,779 1,595 (1) In2019,the$1,044millionincreaseingoodwillresultedfromtheeFrontTransaction. 2022 103 Leasecost(1):
Less:accumulated SeeNote3,Acquisition,forinformationontheeFrontTransaction. 2023 97 Operatingleasecost(2) $147 $141
depreciationand (2) Amountsprimarilyresultedfromadeclinerelatedtotaxbenefitsrealizedfrom 2024 92 Variableleasecost(3) 40 39
amortization 1,098 880 tax-deductiblegoodwillinexcessofbookgoodwillfromtheacquisitionofthe 2025 87 Totalleasecost $187 $180
Propertyandequipment,net $ 681 $ 715 fund-of-fundsbusinessofQuellosGroup,LLCinOctober2007(the“Quellos
Transaction”).GoodwillrelatedtotheQuellosTransactionwillcontinuetobereducedin
(1) Rentexpenseandcertainofficeequipmentexpenseunderleaseagreementsamountedto
N/A–NotApplicable futureperiodsbytheamountoftaxbenefitsrealizedfromtax-deductiblegoodwillin In2019,inconnectionwiththeeFrontTransaction,the $135millionin2018.
excessofbookgoodwillfromtheQuellosTransaction.ThebalanceoftheQuellos Companyacquired$400millionoffinite-livedcustomer
Qualifyingsoftwarecostsofapproximately$95million, tax-deductiblegoodwillinexcessofbookgoodwillwasapproximately$74millionand relationships,$203millionoffinite-livedtechnology- (2) Amountsincludeshort-termleases,whichareimmaterialforboth2020and2019.
$106millionatDecember31,2020and2019,respectively.
$93millionand$77millionhavebeencapitalizedwithin relatedintangibleassetsand$14millionofafinite-lived (3) Amountsincludeoperatingleasepayments,whichmaybeadjustedbasedonusage,
equipmentandcomputersoftwareduring2020,2019and tradename,withweighted-averageestimatedlivesof changesinanindexormarketrate,aswellascommonareamaintenancechargesand
approximately10years,eightyearsandfouryears, othervariablecostsnotincludedinthemeasurementofROUassetsandoperatinglease
liabilities.
122 BlackRock Annual Report 2020 F-23 F-24 BlackRock Annual Report 2020 123
Thefollowingtablepresentsoperatingleasesincludedontheconsolidatedstatementoffinancialcondition: 15.Borrowings beforeinterest,taxes,depreciationandamortization,
wherenetdebtequalstotaldebtlessunrestrictedcash)of
Short-TermBorrowings
3to1,whichwassatisfiedwitharatiooflessthan1to1at
Statementof
FinancialCondition 2020RevolvingCreditFacility.TheCompany’scredit December31,2020.The2020creditfacilityprovides
(inmillions) Classification December31,2020 December31,2019 facilityhasanaggregatecommitmentamountof back-upliquiditytofundongoingworkingcapitalfor
$4billionandwasamendedinMarch2020toextendthe generalcorporatepurposesandvariousinvestment
StatementofFinancialConditioninformation:
maturitydatetoMarch2025(the“2020creditfacility”). opportunities.AtDecember31,2020,theCompanyhad
OperatingleaseROUassets Otherassets $649 $669 The2020creditfacilitypermitstheCompanytorequest noamountoutstandingunderthe2020creditfacility.
Operatingleaseliabilities Otherliabilities $755 $776 uptoanadditional$1billionofborrowingcapacity,
subjecttolendercreditapproval,increasingtheoverall CommercialPaperProgram.TheCompanycanissue
Supplementalinformationrelatedtooperatingleasesissummarizedbelow: sizeofthe2020creditfacilitytoanaggregateprincipal unsecuredcommercialpapernotes(the“CPNotes”)ona
amountnottoexceed$5billion.Interestonborrowings private-placementbasisuptoamaximumaggregate
(inmillions) December31,2020 December31,2019 outstandingaccruesataratebasedontheapplicable amountoutstandingatanytimeof$4billion.The
LondonInterbankOfferedRateplusaspread.The2020 commercialpaperprogramiscurrentlysupportedbythe
Supplementalcashflowinformation:
creditfacilityrequirestheCompanynottoexceeda 2020creditfacility.AtDecember31,2020,BlackRockhad
Cashpaidforamountsincludedinthemeasurementofoperatingleaseliabilities $154 $142
maximumleverageratio(ratioofnetdebttoearnings noCPNotesoutstanding.
Supplementalnoncashinformation:
ROUassetsinexchangeforoperatingleaseliabilitiesinconnectionwiththeadoptionofASU
2016-02,“Leases” $ — $661 Long-TermBorrowings
ROUassetsinexchangeforoperatingleaseliabilities $ 93 $117 Thecarryingvalueandfairvalueoflong-termborrowingsdeterminedusingmarketpricesandEUR/USDforeign
exchangerateatDecember31,2020includedthefollowing:
December31,2020 December31,2019
Unamortized
Leasetermanddiscountrate: Discountand
Weighted-averageremainingleaseterm 8years 9years DebtIssuance
(inmillions) MaturityAmount Costs CarryingValue FairValue
Weighted-averagediscountrate 3% 3%
4.25%Notesdue2021 $ 750 $ — $ 750 $ 761
3.375%Notesdue2022 750 (2) 748 782
(inmillions) whichBlackRockestablishedin2013(together,the
3.50%Notesdue2024 1,000 (3) 997 1,098
MaturityofoperatingleaseliabilitiesatDecember31,2020 Amount(1) “CharitableContribution”).TheCharitableContribution
resultedinanoperatingexpenseof$589million,which 1.25%Notesdue2025 856 (3) 853 911
2021 $162
wasoffsetbya$122millionnoncash,nonoperating 3.20%Notesdue2027 700 (5) 695 790
2022 159
pre-taxgainonthecontributedsharesandataxbenefitof 3.25%Notesdue2029 1,000 (11) 989 1,146
2023 107
$241millionintheconsolidatedstatementofincomefor 2.40%Notesdue2030 1,000 (7) 993 1,090
2024 74 2020. 1.90%Notesdue2031 1,250 (11) 1,239 1,305
2025 58
TotalLong-termBorrowings $7,306 $(42) $7,264 $7,883
Thereafter 305 TheCompanyaccountedforitsinterestinPennyMacas
anequitymethodinvestment.AtDecember31,2019,the
Totalleasepayments $865 Long-termborrowingsatDecember31,2019hada atanytime,attheoptionoftheCompany,ata“make-
Company’sinvestmentinPennyMacwasincludedinother
Less:imputedinterest 110 carryingvalueof$5.0billionandafairvalueof$5.3billion whole”redemptionpriceorat100%oftheprincipal
assetsontheconsolidatedstatementsoffinancial
Presentvalueofleaseliabilities $755 determinedusingmarketpricesattheendofDecember amountofthe2030Notesthereafter.Theunamortized
condition.Thecarryingvalueandmarketvalueofthe
2019. discountanddebtissuancecostsarebeingamortized
(1) Amountexcludes$1.4billionoflegallybindingminimumleasepaymentsforleases Company’sinterest(approximately20%or16million
overtheremainingtermofthe2030Notes.
signedbutnotyetcommenced. shares)wasapproximately$451millionand$530million, 2031Notes.InApril2020,theCompanyissued
respectively,atDecember31,2019.Themarketvalueof $1.25billioninaggregateprincipalamountof1.90% 2029Notes.InApril2019,theCompanyissued$1billion
InMay2017,theCompanyenteredintoanagreement
theCompany’sinterestreflectedthePennyMacstock seniorunsecuredandunsubordinatednotesmaturingon inaggregateprincipalamountof3.25%seniorunsecured
with50HYMCOwnerLLC,fortheleaseofapproximately
priceatDecember31,2019(aLevel1input).Asaresultof January28,2031(the“2031Notes”).Thenetproceedsof andunsubordinatednotesmaturingonApril30,2029(the
847,000squarefeetofofficespacelocatedat50Hudson
theCharitableContribution,theCompanynolonger the2031Notesarebeingusedforgeneralcorporate “2029Notes”).Thenetproceedsofthe2029Noteswere
Yards,NewYork,NewYork.Thetermoftheleaseincludes
recordedaninvestmentinPennyMacatDecember31, purposes,whichmayincludethefuturerepaymentofall usedforgeneralcorporatepurposes,whichincludeda
20yearsofcashrentalpaymentsexpectedtobegininMay
2020. oraportionofthe$750million4.25%NotesdueMay portionofthepurchasepriceoftheeFrontTransaction,
2023,withtheoptiontorenewforaspecifiedterm.The
2021.Interestofapproximately$24millionperyearis repaymentofaportionofthe$1billion5.00%notesin
leaserequiresannualbaserentalpaymentsof
iCapital payablesemi-annuallyonJanuary28andJuly28ofeach December2019andrepaymentofborrowingsunderits
approximately$51millionperyearduringthefirstfive
year,whichcommencedonJuly28,2020.The2031Notes commercialpaperprogram.Interestispayablesemi-
yearsoftheleaseterm,increasingeveryfiveyearsto OnMarch10,2020,inconnectionwitharecapitalization
mayberedeemedpriortoOctober28,2030inwholeorin annuallyonApril30andOctober30ofeachyear,which
$58million,$66millionand$74millionperyear(or ofiCapitalNetwork,Inc.(“iCapital”),BlackRockreceived
partatanytime,attheoptionoftheCompany,ata“make- commencedonOctober30,2019,andisapproximately
approximately$1.2billioninbaserentovera20-year additionalstockinexchangeforcertainsecuritiesitheld,
whole”redemptionpriceorat100%oftheprincipal $33millionperyear.The2029Notesmayberedeemed
period).InNovember2019,theCompanyexercisedits whichresultedinanonoperatingpre-taxgainof
amountofthe2031Notesthereafter.Theunamortized priortoJanuary30,2029inwholeorinpartatanytime,at
initialexpansionoptionwithrespecttotwoadditional approximately$240millionintheconsolidatedstatement
discountanddebtissuancecostsarebeingamortized theoptionoftheCompany,ata“make-whole”redemption
floorsaggregatingapproximately122,000squarefeetof ofincomefor2020.Followingthistransaction,the
overtheremainingtermofthe2031Notes. priceoratparthereafter.Theunamortizeddiscountand
officespace.Theadditionalspacerequiresapproximately CompanyaccountsforitsinterestiniCapitalasanequity
debtissuancecostsarebeingamortizedoverthe
$185millioninbaserentoverthe20-yearperiod. methodinvestment,whichisincludedinotherassetson
2030Notes.InJanuary2020,theCompanyissued remainingtermofthe2029Notes.
theconsolidatedstatementsoffinancialcondition.At
$1billioninaggregateprincipalamountof2.40%senior
December31,2020,thecarryingvalueoftheCompany’s
14.OtherAssets unsecuredandunsubordinatednotesmaturingon 2027Notes.InMarch2017,theCompanyissued
interestiniCapitalwasapproximately$296million.
April30,2030(the“2030Notes”).Thenetproceedsofthe $700millioninaggregateprincipalamountof3.20%
PennyMac
2030Noteswereusedforgeneralcorporatepurposes. seniorunsecuredandunsubordinatednotesmaturingon
OnFebruary13,2020,BlackRockannouncedthe
Interestofapproximately$24millionperyearispayable March15,2027(the“2027Notes”).Thenetproceedsof
establishmentofTheBlackRockFoundation(the
semi-annuallyonApril30andOctober30ofeachyear, the2027Noteswereusedtofullyrepay$700millionin
“Foundation”)andthecontributionofitsremaining20%
whichcommencedonApril30,2020.The2030Notesmay aggregateprincipalamountoutstandingof6.25%notes
stakeinPennyMacFinancialServices,Inc.(“PennyMac”)
beredeemedpriortoJanuary30,2030inwholeorinpart inApril2017priortotheirmaturityinSeptember2017.
totheFoundationandtheBlackRockCharitableFund,
124 BlackRock Annual Report 2020 F-25 F-26 BlackRock Annual Report 2020 125
Interestispayablesemi-annuallyonMarch15and redemption,whichisdiscountedatafixedspreadovera authoritiesinconnectionwithindustry-wideorother plaintiffs’motiontocertifytheCTFclassandgrantedtheir
September15ofeachyear,andisapproximately comparableTreasurysecurity.Theunamortizeddiscount investigationsorproceedings.ItisBlackRock’spolicyto motiontocertifythePlanclass.OnApril27,2020,the
$22millionperyear.The2027Notesmayberedeemed anddebtissuancecostsarebeingamortizedoverthe cooperatefullywithsuchmatters.TheCompany,certainof NinthCircuitdeniedtheplaintiffs’requesttoimmediately
priortomaturityatanytimeinwholeorinpartatthe remainingtermofthe2022Notes. itssubsidiariesandemployeeshavebeennamedas appealtheclasscertificationruling.OnSeptember24,
optionoftheCompanyata“make-whole”redemption defendantsinvariouslegalactions,includingarbitrations 2020,thepartiescross-movedforsummaryjudgment,
2021Notes.InMay2011,theCompanyissued$1.5billion
price.Theunamortizeddiscountanddebtissuancecosts andotherlitigationarisinginconnectionwithBlackRock’s bothofwhichweredeniedonJanuary12,2021.On
inaggregateprincipalamountofunsecured
arebeingamortizedovertheremainingtermofthe2027 activities.Additionally,BlackRock-advisedinvestment February5,2021,thepartiesreachedasettlementin
unsubordinatedobligations.Thesenoteswereissuedas
Notes. portfoliosmaybesubjecttolawsuits,anyofwhich principlethatwillresolvethelawsuit,andarenegotiating
twoseparateseriesofseniordebtsecurities,including
potentiallycouldharmtheinvestmentreturnsofthe finaltermsforpresentationtothecourt,whichmust
2025Notes.InMay2015,theCompanyissued $750millionof4.25%notesmaturinginMay2021and applicableportfolioorresultintheCompanybeingliable approvethesettlementforittobeeffective.
€700millionof1.25%seniorunsecurednotesmaturing $750millionoffloatingratenotes,whichwererepaidin
totheportfoliosforanyresultingdamages.
onMay6,2025(the“2025Notes”).Thenotesarelistedon May2013atmaturity.Netproceedsofthisofferingwere Management,afterconsultationwithlegalcounsel,
theNewYorkStockExchange.Thenetproceedsofthe usedtofundtherepurchaseofBlackRock’sSeriesB OnApril5,2017,BlackRock,Inc.,BlackRockInstitutional currentlydoesnotanticipatethattheaggregateliability
2025Noteswereusedforgeneralcorporatepurposes, PreferredfromaffiliatesofMerrillLynch&Co.,Inc. TrustCompany,N.A.(“BTC”),theBlackRock,Inc. arisingoutofregulatorymattersorlawsuitswillhavea
includingrefinancingofoutstandingindebtedness. Interestonthe4.25%notesduein2021(“2021Notes”)is RetirementCommitteeandvarioussub-committees,anda materialeffectonBlackRock’sresultsofoperations,
Interestofapproximately$11millionperyearbasedon payablesemi-annuallyonMay24andNovember24of BlackRockemployeewerenamedasdefendantsina financialposition,orcashflows.However,thereisno
currentexchangeratesispayableannuallyonMay6of eachyear,andisapproximately$32millionperyear.The purportedclassactionlawsuitbroughtintheUSDistrict assuranceastowhetheranysuchpendingorthreatened
eachyear.The2025Notesmayberedeemedinwholeor 2021Notesmayberedeemedpriortomaturityatanytime CourtfortheNorthernDistrictofCaliforniabyaformer matterswillhaveamaterialeffectonBlackRock’sresults
inpartpriortomaturityatanytimeattheoptionofthe inwholeorinpartattheoptionoftheCompanyat employeeonbehalfofallparticipantsandbeneficiariesin ofoperations,financialpositionorcashflowsinanyfuture
Companyata“make-whole”redemptionprice.The a“make-whole”redemptionprice.Theunamortized theBlackRockemployee401(k)Plan(the“Plan”)from reportingperiod.Duetouncertaintiessurroundingthe
unamortizeddiscountanddebtissuancecostsarebeing discountanddebtissuancecostsarebeingamortized April5,2011tothepresent.Thelawsuitgenerallyalleges outcomeofthesematters,managementcannot
amortizedovertheremainingtermofthe2025Notes. overtheremainingtermofthe2021Notes. thatthedefendantsbreachedtheirdutiestowardsPlan reasonablyestimatethepossiblelossorrangeoflossthat
participantsinviolationoftheEmployeeRetirement mayarisefromthesematters.
UponconversiontoUSdollarstheCompanydesignated
IncomeSecurityActof1974by,amongotherthings,
the€700milliondebtofferingasanetinvestmenthedge 16.CommitmentsandContingencies Indemnifications.Intheordinarycourseofbusinessorin
offeringinvestmentoptionsthatwereoverlyexpensive,
tooffsetitscurrencyexposurerelatingtoitsnet InvestmentCommitments.AtDecember31,2020,the connectionwithcertainacquisitionagreements,
underperformedunaffiliatedpeerfunds,focused
investmentincertaineurofunctionalcurrencyoperations. Companyhad$789millionofvariouscapital BlackRockentersintocontractspursuanttowhichitmay
disproportionatelyonactiveversuspassivestrategies,and
Alossof$54million(netoftaxbenefitof$17million),a commitmentstofundsponsoredinvestmentproducts, agreetoindemnifythirdpartiesincertaincircumstances.
wereundulyconcentratedininvestmentoptionsmanaged
gainof$11million(netoftaxexpenseof$3million),anda includingconsolidatedsponsoredinvestmentproducts. Thetermsoftheseindemnitiesvaryfromcontractto
byBlackRock.OnOctober18,2017,theplaintiffsfiledan
gainof$30million(netoftaxexpenseof$10million)were Theseproductsincludeprivateequityfunds,realassets contractandtheamountofindemnificationliability,ifany,
AmendedComplaint,which,amongotherthings,addedas
recognizedinothercomprehensiveincomefor2020,2019 fundsandopportunisticfunds.Thisamountexcludes cannotbedeterminedorthelikelihoodofanyliabilityis
defendantscertaincurrentandformermembersofthe
and2018,respectively.Nohedgeineffectivenesswas additionalcommitmentsmadebyconsolidatedfundsof consideredremote.Consequently,noliabilityhasbeen
BlackRockRetirementandInvestmentCommittees.The
recognizedduring2020,2019,and2018. fundstounderlyingthird-partyfundsasthird-party recordedontheconsolidatedstatementsoffinancial
AmendedComplaintalsoincludedanewpurportedclass
noncontrollinginterestholdershavethelegalobligation condition.
claimonbehalfofinvestorsincertainCTFsmanagedby
2024Notes.InMarch2014,theCompanyissued tofundtherespectivecommitmentsofsuchfundsof
BTC.Specifically,theplaintiffsallegethatBTC,as
$1billioninaggregateprincipalamountof3.50%senior funds.Generally,thetimingofthefundingofthese Inconnectionwithsecuritieslendingtransactions,
fiduciarytotheCTFs,engagedinself-dealingby,most
unsecuredandunsubordinatednotesmaturingon commitmentsisunknownandthecommitmentsare BlackRockhasagreedtoindemnifycertainsecurities
significantly,selectingitselfasthesecuritieslending
March18,2024(the“2024Notes”).Thenetproceedsof callableondemandatanytimepriortotheexpirationof lendingclientsagainstpotentiallossresultingfroma
agentontermsthattheplaintiffsclaimwereexcessive.
the2024Noteswereusedtorefinancecertain thecommitment.Theseunfundedcommitmentsarenot borrower’sfailuretofulfillitsobligationsunderthe
TheAmendedComplaintalsoallegedthatBlackRocktook
indebtednesswhichmaturedinthefourthquarterof recordedontheconsolidatedstatementsoffinancial securitieslendingagreementshouldthevalueofthe
unduerisksinitsmanagementofsecuritieslendingcash
2014.Interestispayablesemi-annuallyinarrearson condition.Thesecommitmentsdonotincludepotential collateralpledgedbytheborroweratthetimeofdefaultbe
reinvestmentvehiclesduringthefinancialcrisis.On
March18andSeptember18ofeachyear,or futurecommitmentsapprovedbytheCompanythatare insufficienttocovertheborrower’sobligationunderthe
August23,2018,thecourtgrantedpermissiontothe
approximately$35millionperyear.The2024Notesmay notyetlegallybinding.TheCompanyintendstomake securitieslendingagreement.Theamountofsecuritieson
plaintiffstofileaSecondAmendedComplaint(“SAC”)
beredeemedpriortomaturityatanytimeinwholeorin additionalcapitalcommitmentsfromtimetotimetofund loanasofDecember31,2020andsubjecttothistypeof
whichaddedasdefendantstheBlackRock,Inc.
partattheoptionoftheCompanyata“make-whole” additionalinvestmentproductsfor,andwith,itsclients. indemnificationwas$270billion.IntheCompany’s
ManagementDevelopmentandCompensation
redemptionprice.Theunamortizeddiscountanddebt capacityaslendingagent,cashandsecuritiestotaling
Committee,thePlan’sindependentinvestmentconsultant
issuancecostsarebeingamortizedovertheremaining $289billionwasheldascollateralforindemnified
Contingencies andthePlan’sAdministrativeCommitteeandits
termofthe2024Notes. securitiesonloanatDecember31,2020.Thefairvalueof
ContingentPaymentsRelatedtoBusinessAcquisitions.In members.OnOctober22,2018,BlackRockfiledamotion theseindemnificationswasnotmaterialatDecember31,
2022Notes.InMay2012,theCompanyissued$1.5billion connectionwithcertainacquisitions,BlackRockis todismisstheSAC,andonJune3,2019,theplaintiffs 2020.
inaggregateprincipalamountofunsecured requiredtomakecontingentpayments,subjectto filedamotionseekingtocertifyboththePlanandtheCTF
unsubordinatedobligations.Thesenoteswereissuedas achievingspecifiedperformancetargets,whichmay classes.OnSeptember3,2019,thecourtgranted
twoseparateseriesofseniordebtsecurities,including includerevenuerelatedtoacquiredcontractsornew BlackRock’smotiontodismisspartoftheplaintiffs’claim
$750millionof1.375%notes,whichwererepaidinJune capitalcommitmentsforcertainproducts.Thefairvalueof seekingtorecoverallegedlossesinthesecuritieslending
2015atmaturity,and$750millionof3.375%notes theremainingaggregatecontingentpaymentsat vehiclesbutdeniedthemotiontodismissinallother
maturinginJune2022(the“2022Notes”).Netproceeds December31,2020totaled$26millionandisincludedin respects.OnFebruary11,2020,thecourtdeniedthe
wereusedtofundtherepurchaseofBlackRock’scommon otherliabilitiesontheconsolidatedstatementsof
stockandSeriesBPreferredfromBarclaysandaffiliates financialcondition.
andforgeneralcorporatepurposes.Interestonthe2022
Notesofapproximately$25millionperyearispayable OtherContingentPayments.TheCompanyactsasthe
semi-annuallyonJune1andDecember1ofeachyear. portfoliomanagerinaseriesofderivativetransactions
The2022Notesmayberedeemedpriortomaturityatany andhasamaximumpotentialexposureof$17million
timeinwholeorinpartattheoptionoftheCompanyata betweentheCompanyandcounterparty.SeeNote9,
“make-whole”redemptionprice.The“make-whole” DerivativesandHedging,forfurtherdiscussion.
redemptionpricerepresentsaprice,subjecttothespecific
LegalProceedings.Fromtimetotime,BlackRockreceives
termsofthe2022Notesandrelatedindenture,thatisthe
subpoenasorotherrequestsforinformationfromvarious
greaterof(a)parvalueand(b)thepresentvalueoffuture
USfederalandstategovernmentalandregulatory
paymentsthatwillnotbepaidbecauseofanearly
authoritiesandinternationalgovernmentalandregulatory
126 BlackRock Annual Report 2020 F-27 F-28 BlackRock Annual Report 2020 127
17.Revenue Thetablesbelowpresenttheinvestmentadvisory,administrationfeesandsecuritieslendingrevenuebyclienttypeand
investmentstyle:
Thetablebelowpresentsdetailofrevenuefor2020,2019and2018andincludestheproductmixofinvestmentadvisory,
administrationfeesandsecuritieslendingrevenueandperformancefees.
(inmillions) 2020 2019 2018
(inmillions) 2020 2019 2018 Byclienttype:
Investmentadvisory,administrationfeesandsecuritieslendingrevenue: Retail $ 3,651 $ 3,411 $ 3,413
Equity: iSharesETFs 4,788 4,564 4,468
Active $ 1,737 $ 1,554 $ 1,654 Institutional:
iSharesETFs 3,499 3,495 3,549 Active 2,342 2,172 2,044
Non-ETFindex 664 667 685 Index 1,068 1,012 1,021
Equitysubtotal 5,900 5,716 5,888 Totalinstitutional 3,410 3,184 3,065
Fixedincome: Long-term 11,849 11,159 10,946
Active 1,957 1,918 1,840 Cashmanagement 790 618 607
iSharesETFs 1,119 963 825
Total $12,639 $11,777 $11,553
Non-ETFindex 463 405 387
Byinvestmentstyle:
Fixedincomesubtotal 3,539 3,286 3,052 Active $ 5,914 $ 5,510 $ 5,391
Multi-asset 1,163 1,148 1,176 IndexandiSharesETFs 5,935 5,649 5,555
Alternatives:
Long-term 11,849 11,159 10,946
Illiquidalternatives 577 488 348
Cashmanagement 790 618 607
Liquidalternatives 502 413 384
Total $12,639 $11,777 $11,553
Currencyandcommodities(1) 168 108 98
Alternativessubtotal 1,247 1,009 830 Investmentadvisoryandadministrationfees–remainingperformanceobligation
Long-term 11,849 11,159 10,946
Thetablesbelowpresentestimatedinvestmentadvisoryandadministrationfeesexpectedtoberecognizedinthefuture
Cashmanagement 790 618 607
relatedtotheunsatisfiedportionoftheperformanceobligationsatDecember31,2020and2019:
Totalinvestmentadvisory,administrationfeesandsecuritieslendingrevenue 12,639 11,777 11,553
Investmentadvisoryperformancefees: December31,2020
Equity 91 36 91
Fixedincome 35 10 8 (inmillions) 2021 2022 2023 Thereafter Total
Multi-asset 35 19 19
Investmentadvisoryandadministrationfees:
Alternatives:
Alternatives(1)(2) $148 $144 $112 $107 $511
Illiquidalternatives 83 136 70
Liquidalternatives 860 249 224 December31,2019
Alternativessubtotal 943 385 294
Totalperformancefees 1,104 450 412 (inmillions) 2020 2021 2022 Thereafter Total
Technologyservicesrevenue 1,139 974 785
Investmentadvisoryandadministrationfees:
Distributionfees:
Alternatives(1)(2) $98 $88 $74 $107 $367
Retrocessions 736 658 709
12b-1fees(USmutualfunddistributionfees) 337 358 406 (1) Investmentadvisoryandadministrationfeesincludemanagementfeesrelatedtocertainalternativeproducts,whicharebasedoncontractualcommittedcapitaloutstandingatDecember31,
2020and2019.Actualmanagementfeescouldbehighertotheextentadditionalcommittedcapitalisraised.Thesefeesaregenerallybilledonaquarterlybasisinarrears.
Other 58 53 40
Totaldistributionfees 1,131 1,069 1,155 (2) TheCompanyelectedthefollowingpracticalexpedientsandthereforedoesnotincludeamountsrelatedto(1)performanceobligationswithanoriginaldurationofoneyearorless,and
(2)variableconsiderationrelatedtofutureserviceperiods.
Advisoryandotherrevenue:
Advisory 68 99 113
Changeindeferredcarriedinterestliability
Other 124 170 180
Totaladvisoryandotherrevenue 192 269 293 Thetablebelowpresentschangesinthedeferredcarriedinterestliability,whichisincludedinotherliabilitiesonthe
consolidatedstatementsoffinancialcondition,fortheyearendedDecember31,2020and2019:
Totalrevenue $16,205 $14,539 $14,198
(1) AmountsincludecommodityiSharesETFs. (inmillions) 2020 2019
Beginningbalance $483 $293
Netincrease(decrease)inunrealizedallocations 150 259
Performancefeerevenuerecognized (49) (75)
Other — 6
Endingbalance $584 $483
Technologyservicesrevenue–remainingperformanceobligation
Thetablesbelowpresentestimatedtechnologyservicesrevenueexpectedtoberecognizedinthefuturerelatedtothe
unsatisfiedportionoftheperformanceobligationsatDecember31,2020and2019:
December31,2020
(inmillions) 2021 2022 2023 Thereafter Total
Technologyservicesrevenue(1)(2) $118 $58 $33 $22 $231
128 BlackRock Annual Report 2020 F-29 F-30 BlackRock Annual Report 2020 129
December31,2019 AtDecember31,2020,totalunrecognizedstock-based AtDecember31,2020,theintrinsicvalueofoutstanding
compensationexpenserelatedtounvestedRSUswas performance-basedRSUswas$505millionreflectinga
(inmillions) 2020 2021 2022 Thereafter Total $379million.Theunrecognizedcompensationcostis closingstockpriceof$721.54.
expectedtoberecognizedovertheremainingweighted-
Technologyservicesrevenue(1)(2) $117 $53 $31 $20 $221 AtDecember31,2020,totalunrecognizedstock-based
averageperiodof1.1years.
compensationexpenserelatedtounvestedperformance-
(1) Technologyservicesrevenueprimarilyincludesupfrontpaymentsfromcustomers,whichtheCompanygenerallyrecognizesasservicesareperformed.
InJanuary2021,theCompanygrantedundertheAward basedawardswas$132million.Theunrecognized
(2) TheCompanyelectedthefollowingpracticalexpedientsandthereforedoesnotincludeamountsrelatedto(1)performanceobligationswithanoriginaldurationofoneyearorless,and Plan: compensationcostisexpectedtoberecognizedoverthe
(2)variableconsiderationrelatedtofutureserviceperiods.
remainingweighted-averageperiodof1.2years.
•470,253RSUsorsharesofrestrictedstockto
Inadditiontoamountsdisclosedinthetableabove, RestrictedStockandRSUs.PursuanttotheAwardPlan, employeesaspartofannualincentivecompensation InJanuary2021,theCompanygranted162,029
certaintechnologyservicescontractsrequirefixed restrictedstockgrantsandRSUsmaybegrantedto thatvestratablyoverthreeyearsfromthedateof performance-basedRSUstocertainemployeesthatcliff
minimumfees,whicharebilledonamonthlyorquarterly certainemployees.Substantiallyallrestrictedstockand grant;and vest100%onJanuary31,2024.Theseawardsare
basisinarrears.TheCompanyrecognizessuchrevenueas RSUsvestoverperiodsrangingfromonetothreeyears
amortizedoveraserviceperiodofthreeyears.Thenumber
servicesareperformed.AsofDecember31,2020,the andareexpensedusingthestraight-linemethodoverthe •247,621RSUsorsharesofrestrictedstockto
ofsharesdistributedatvestingcouldbehigherorlower
estimatedfixedminimumfeesfor2021foroutstanding requisiteserviceperiodforeachseparatelyvestingportion employeesthatcliffvest100%onJanuary31,2024.
thantheoriginalgrantbasedonthelevelofattainmentof
contractsapproximated$730million.Thetermforthese oftheawardasiftheawardwas,in-substance,multiple •55,994RSUsorsharesofrestrictedstockto predeterminedCompanyperformancemeasures.
contracts,whichareeitherintheirinitialorrenewalperiod, awards.RestrictedstockandRSUsarenotconsidered employeeswithvariousvestingschedules.
rangesfromonetofiveyears. participatingsecuritiesforpurposesofcalculatingEPSas Performance-basedStockOptions.PursuanttotheAward
thedividendequivalentsaresubjecttoforfeiturepriorto Performance-BasedRSUs.PursuanttotheAwardPlan, Plan,performance-basedstockoptionsmaybegrantedto
Thetablebelowpresentschangesinthetechnology vestingoftheaward. performance-basedRSUsmaybegrantedtocertain certainemployees.Vestingoftheperformance-based
servicesdeferredrevenueliabilityfortheyearended employees.Eachperformance-basedawardconsistsofa stockoptionsiscontingentupontheachievementof
December31,2020and2019,whichisincludedinother RestrictedstockandRSUactivityfor2020issummarized “base”numberofRSUsgrantedtotheemployee.The obtaining125%ofBlackRock’sgrant-datestockprice
liabilitiesontheconsolidatedstatementsoffinancial below. numberofsharesthatanemployeeultimatelyreceivesat withinfiveyearsfromthegrantdateandtheattainmentof
condition: vestingwillbeequaltothebasenumberofperformance- Companyperformancemeasuresduringthefour-year
Weighted-
Restricted Average basedRSUsgranted,multipliedbyapredetermined performanceperiod.Ifbothhurdlesareachieved,the
(inmillions) 2020 2019 Stockand GrantDate percentagedeterminedinaccordancewiththelevelof awardwillvestinthreeequalinstallmentsattheendof
Outstandingat RSUs FairValue attainmentofCompanyperformancemeasuresduringthe yearsfive,sixandseven.Vestedoptionscanthenbe
Beginningbalance $116 $ 70
performanceperiodandcouldbehigherorlowerthanthe exerciseduptonineyearsfollowingthegrantdate.At
Additions(1) 89 86 December31,2019 2,236,452 $444.02
originalRSUgrant.Performance-basedRSUsarenot December31,2020,theweightedaverageremaininglife
Revenuerecognizedthatwasincludedin Granted 969,095 $533.31
consideredparticipatingsecuritiesasthedividend oftheawardsisapproximately5.9years.Theawardsare
thebeginningbalance (82) (40) Converted (981,385) $429.48
equivalentsaresubjecttoforfeiturepriortovestingofthe generallyforfeitediftheemployeeleavestheCompany
Endingbalance $123 $116 Forfeited (84,232) $477.29
award. beforetherespectivevestingdate.Theexpenseforeach
(1) Amountsarenetofrevenuerecognized. December31,2020 2,139,930 $489.81 trancheisamortizedovertherespectiverequisiteservice
Inthefirstquarterof2020,2019and2018,theCompany
period.TheCompanyassumestheperformancecondition
TheCompanyvaluesrestrictedstockandRSUsattheir granted238,478,283,014,and199,068,respectively, willbeachieved.Ifsuchconditionisnotmet,no
18.Stock-BasedCompensation grant-datefairvalueasmeasuredbyBlackRock’s performance-basedRSUstocertainemployeesthatcliff compensationcostisrecognizedandanyrecognized
Thecomponentsofstock-basedcompensationexpense commonstockprice.ThetotalfairmarketvalueofRSUs/ vest100%onJanuary31,2023,2022,and2021 compensationcostisreversed.Stockoptionactivityfor
areasfollows: restrictedstockgrantedtoemployeesduring2020,2019 respectively.Theseawardsareamortizedoveraservice 2020issummarizedbelow.
and2018was$517million,$508millionand periodofthreeyears.Thenumberofsharesdistributedat
$492million,respectively.Thetotalgrant-datefairmarket vestingcouldbehigherorlowerthantheoriginalgrant
(inmillions) 2020 2019 2018 Weighted
valueofRSUs/restrictedstockconvertedtocommonstock basedonthelevelofattainmentofpredetermined Shares Average
Stock-basedcompensation: during2020,2019and2018was$421million, Companyperformancemeasures.InJanuary2020,the Under Exercise
RestrictedstockandRSUs $593 $532 $514 $398millionand$443million,respectively. Companygranted30,600additionalRSUstocertain Outstandingat Option Price
Long-termincentiveplanstobe employeesbasedontheattainmentofCompany
December31,2019 1,941,145 $513.50
fundedbyPNC(1) — — 14 RSUs/restrictedstockgrantedinconnectionwithannual performancemeasuresduringtheperformanceperiod.
Forfeited (25,353) $513.50
Stockoptions 29 35 36 incentivecompensationundertheAwardPlanprimarily
Totalstock-basedcompensation $622 $567 $564 relatedtothefollowing: Performance-basedRSUactivityfor2020issummarized December31,2020 1,915,792 $513.50
below.
(1) ThePNCFinancialServicesGroup,Inc.(“PNC”) 2020 2019 2018 Theoptionshaveastrikepriceof$513.50,whichwasthe
Weighted- closingpriceofthesharesonthegrantdate.Thegrant-
StockAwardandIncentivePlan.Pursuanttothe Awardsgrantedthatvest Average datefairvalueoftheawardsissuedin2017was
BlackRock,Inc.SecondAmendedandRestated1999 ratablyoverthreeyears Performance- GrantDate $208millionandwasestimatedusingaMonteCarlo
StockAwardandIncentivePlan(the“AwardPlan”),options fromthedateofgrant 504,403 674,206 527,337 Outstandingat BasedRSUs FairValue simulationwithanembeddedlatticemodelusingthe
Awardsgrantedthatcliff
topurchasesharesoftheCompany’scommonstockatan vest100%on: December31,2019 742,918 $436.84 assumptionsincludedinthefollowingtable:
exercisepricenotlessthanthemarketvalueof
January31,2021 — — 209,201 Granted 238,478 $533.58
BlackRock’scommonstockonthedateofgrantinthe
formofstockoptions,restrictedstockorRSUsmaybe January31,2022 — 377,291 — Adadttiatiionnmaelnshtaorfepsegrfroarnmteadndceueto GYeraanrt TeErxmpe(Ycteeadrs) ExpVeocltaetdiliSttyock DivEixdpeencdtYedield InRteisrke-sFtrReaete
grantedtoemployeesandnonemployeedirectors.A January31,2023 393,161 — — measures 30,600 $375.26 2017 6.56 22.23% 2.16% 2.33%
maximumof41,500,000sharesofcommonstockwere 897,564 1,051,497 736,538 Converted (311,779) $375.26
authorizedforissuanceundertheAwardPlan.Ofthis
December31,2020 700,217 $494.51 TheexpectedtermwasderivedusingaMonteCarlo
amount,6,068,624sharesremainavailableforfuture Inaddition,theCompanyalsograntedRSUsof71,531,
simulationwiththeembeddedlatticemodeland
awardsatDecember31,2020.Uponexerciseofemployee 174,752and155,403during2020,2019and2018,
TheCompanyinitiallyvaluesperformance-basedRSUsat representstheperiodoftimethatoptionsgrantedare
stockoptions,theissuanceofrestrictedstockorthe respectively,withvaryingvestingperiods.
theirgrant-datefairvalueasmeasuredbyBlackRock’s expectedtobeoutstanding.Theexpectedstockvolatility
vestingofRSUs,theCompanyissuessharesoutof
AtDecember31,2020,theintrinsicvalueofoutstanding commonstockprice.Thetotalgrant-datefairmarketvalue wasbaseduponanaverageofhistoricalstockprice
treasurytotheextentavailable.
RSUswas$1.5billion,reflectingaclosingstockpriceof ofperformance-basedRSUsgrantedtoemployeesduring fluctuationsofBlackRock’scommonstockandanimplied
$721.54. 2020,2019and2018was$139million,$117millionand volatilityatthegrantdate.Thedividendyieldwas
$121million,respectively. calculatedasthemostrecentquarterlydividenddivided
bytheaveragethree-monthstockpriceasofthegrant
130 BlackRock Annual Report 2020 F-31 F-32 BlackRock Annual Report 2020 131
date.Therisk-freeinterestrateisbasedontheUS associatedwithinvestmentreturnsofcertaininvestment RevenuefromRelatedParties relatedtoreceivablesfromBlackRockmutualfundsand
TreasuryConstantMaturitiesyieldcurveatdateofgrant. funds.Theliabilitiesfortheseplanswere$339millionand iSharesETFs,forinvestmentadvisoryandadministration
RevenueforservicesprovidedbytheCompanytothese
$311millionatDecember31,2020and2019, services.
andotherrelatedpartiesareasfollows:
AtDecember31,2020,totalunrecognizedstock-based respectively,andarereflectedintheconsolidated
compensationexpenserelatedtounvestedperformance- statementsoffinancialconditionasaccrued Duetorelatedparties,whichisincludedwithinother
basedstockoptionswas$82million.Theunrecognized compensationandbenefits.InJanuary2021,the (inmillions) 2020 2019 2018 liabilitiesontheconsolidatedstatementsoffinancial
compensationcostisexpectedtoberecognizedoverthe Companygrantedapproximately$321millionof Investmentadvisory, condition,was$17millionand$12millionat
remainingweighted-averageperiodof2.9years. additionaldeferredcompensationthatwillfluctuatewith administrationfeesand December31,2020and2019,respectively,andprimarily
investmentreturnsandwillvestratablyoverthreeyears securitieslendingrevenue(1) $9,079 $8,323 $8,226 representedpayablestocertaininvestmentproducts
EmployeeStockPurchasePlan(“ESPP”).TheESPP fromthedateofgrant. Investmentadvisory managedbyBlackRock.
allowseligibleemployeestopurchasetheCompany’s performancefees(1) 301 131 112
commonstockat95%ofthefairmarketvalueonthelast Technologyservicesrevenue(2) 4 9 9
dayofeachthree-monthofferingperiod.TheCompany DefinedContributionPlans Advisoryandotherrevenue(3) 19 59 65 21.NetCapitalRequirements
doesnotrecordcompensationexpenserelatedto TheCompanyhasseveraldefinedcontributionplans Totalrevenuefromrelated TheCompanyisrequiredtomaintainnetcapitalincertain
employeespurchasingsharesundertheESPP. primarilyintheUnitedStatesandUnitedKingdom. parties $9,403 $8,522 $8,412 regulatedsubsidiarieswithinanumberofjurisdictions,
whichispartiallymaintainedbyretainingcashandcash
CertainoftheCompany’sUSemployeesparticipateina (1) Amountsprimarilyincluderevenuefromregisteredinvestmentcompanies/andequity equivalentinvestmentsinthosesubsidiariesor
19.EmployeeBenefitPlans
definedcontributionplan.Employeecontributionsofupto methodinvestees. jurisdictions.Asaresult,suchsubsidiariesofthe
DeferredCompensationPlans 8%ofeligiblecompensation,asdefinedbytheplanand (2) AmountsprimarilyincluderevenuefromPNCandaffiliates. Companymayberestrictedintheirabilitytotransfercash
VoluntaryDeferredCompensationPlan.TheCompany subjecttoInternalRevenueCodelimitations,arematched betweendifferentjurisdictionsandtotheirparents.
(3) Amountsprimarilyincluderevenuefromequitymethodinvestees.
adoptedaVoluntaryDeferredCompensationPlan bytheCompanyat50%uptoamaximumof$5,000 Additionally,transfersofcashbetweeninternational
(“VDCP”)thatallowseligibleemployeesintheUnited annually.Inaddition,theCompanymakesanannual TheCompanyprovidesinvestmentadvisoryand jurisdictionsmayhaveadversetaxconsequencesthat
Statestoelecttodeferbetween1%and100%oftheir retirementcontributiontoeligibleparticipantsequalto administrationservicestoitsopen-andclosed-endfunds coulddiscouragesuchtransfers.
annualcashincentivecompensation.Theparticipants 3-5%ofeligiblecompensation.TheCompany’s andothercommingledorpooledfundsandseparate
mustspecifyadeferralperiodofupto10yearsfromthe contributionexpenserelatedtothisplanwas$93million accountsinwhichrelatedpartiesinvest. BankingRegulatoryRequirements.BTC,awhollyowned
yearofdeferralandadditionally,electtoreceive in2020,$66millionin2019,and$63millionin2018. subsidiaryoftheCompany,ischarteredasanationalbank
distributionsintheformofalumpsumorinupto10 ReceivablesandPayableswithRelatedParties.Duefrom whosepowersarelimitedtotrustandotherfiduciary
annualinstallments.TheCompanymayfundthe CertainUnitedKingdom(“UK”)whollyownedsubsidiaries relatedparties,whichisincludedwithinotherassetson activitiesandwhichissubjecttoregulatorycapital
obligationthroughtherabbitrustonbehalfoftheplan’s oftheCompanycontributetodefinedcontributionplans theconsolidatedstatementsoffinancialconditionwas requirementsadministeredbytheUSOfficeofthe
participants. fortheiremployees.Thecontributionsrangebetween6% $109millionand$119millionatDecember31,2020and ComptrolleroftheCurrency.Federalbankingregulators
and15%ofeachemployee’seligiblecompensation.The 2019,respectively,andprimarilyrepresentedreceivables wouldberequiredtotakecertainactionsandpermittedto
TherabbitrustestablishedfortheVDCP,withassets Company’scontributionexpenserelatedtotheseplans fromcertaininvestmentproductsmanagedbyBlackRock. takeotheractionsintheeventofBTC’sfailuretomeet
totaling$6millionand$23millionatDecember31,2020 was$45millionin2020,$41millionin2019,and AccountsreceivableatDecember31,2020and2019 minimumcapitalrequirementsthat,ifundertaken,could
and2019,respectively,isreflectedininvestmentsonthe $35millionin2018. included$1.1billionand$995million,respectively, haveadirectmaterialeffectontheCompany’s
consolidatedstatementsoffinancialcondition.Such consolidatedfinancialstatements.
Inaddition,thecontributionexpenserelatedtodefined
investmentsareclassifiedastradinginvestments.The
contributionplansinotherregionswas$34millionin QuantitativemeasuresestablishedbyregulatorstoensurecapitaladequacyrequireBTCtomaintainaminimum
liabilitybalanceof$82millionand$80millionat
2020,$29millionin2019and$22millionin2018. CommonEquityTier1capitalandTier1leverageratio,aswellasTier1andtotalrisk-basedcapitalratios.BasedonBTC’s
December31,2020and2019,respectively,isreflectedon
calculationsasofDecember31,2020and2019,itexceededtheapplicablecapitaladequacyrequirements.
theconsolidatedstatementsoffinancialconditionas
DefinedBenefitPlans.TheCompanyhasseveraldefined
accruedcompensationandbenefits.Earningsintherabbi
benefitpensionplanswithplanassetsofapproximately
trust,includingunrealizedappreciationordepreciation, ToBeWell
$36millionand$28millionatDecember31,2020and
arereflectedasnonoperatingincome(expense)and Capitalized
2019,respectively.Theunderfundedobligationsat ForCapital UnderPrompt
changesintheliabilityarereflectedasemployee
December31,2020and2019werenotmaterial.Benefit Adequacy CorrectiveAction
compensationandbenefitsexpenseontheconsolidated paymentsforthenextfiveyearsandinaggregateforthe Actual Purposes Provisions
statementsofincome.
fiveyearsthereafterarenotexpectedtobematerial. (inmillions) Amount Ratio Amount Ratio Amount Ratio
LeadershipRetentionCarryPlan.In2019,theCompany December31,2020
adoptedacarriedinterestretentionincentiveprogram 20.RelatedPartyTransactions Totalcapital(toriskweightedassets) $740 184.6% $32 8.0% $40 10.0%
referredtoastheBlackRockLeadershipRetentionCarry
DeterminationofRelatedParties CommonEquityTier1capital(toriskweightedassets) $740 184.6% $18 4.5% $26 6.5%
Plan,pursuanttowhichsenior-levelemployees(butnot
PNC.TheCompanyconsideredPNC,alongwithits Tier1capital(toriskweightedassets) $740 184.6% $24 6.0% $32 8.0%
includingtheChiefExecutiveOfficer),asmaybe
affiliates,tobearelatedpartybasedonitslevelofcapital Tier1capital(toaverageassets) $740 71.3% $41 4.0% $52 5.0%
determinedbytheCompanyfromtimetotime,willbe
eligibletoreceiveaportionofthecashpayments,based stockownershippriortothesecondaryofferinginMay December31,2019
ontheirpercentagepoints,inthetotalcarriedinterest 2020byPNCofsharesoftheCompany’sstock.SeeNote Totalcapital(toriskweightedassets) $686 137.7% $40 8.0% $50 10.0%
23,CapitalStock,formoreinformationonPNCsecondary
distributionspayabletotheCompanyfromparticipating CommonEquityTier1capital(toriskweightedassets) $686 137.7% $22 4.5% $32 6.5%
offering.AtDecember31,2020,PNCdidnotownanyof
carryfunds.Cashpayments,ifany,withrespecttothese Tier1capital(toriskweightedassets) $686 137.7% $30 6.0% $40 8.0%
theCompany’scapitalstockandisnolongerconsidereda
percentagepointswillbemadefollowingtherecipient’s Tier1capital(toaverageassets) $686 72.8% $38 4.0% $47 5.0%
relatedparty.
terminationofemploymentduetoqualifiedretirement,
deathordisability,subjecttohisorherexecutionofa RegisteredInvestmentCompaniesandEquityMethod Broker-dealers.BlackRockInvestments,LLCand $2.2billionand$1.9billion,respectively,innetcapitalin
releaseofclaimsandcontinuedcompliancewithhisor Investments.TheCompanyconsiderstheregistered BlackRockExecutionServicesareregisteredbroker- certainregulatedsubsidiaries,includingBTC,entities
herrestrictivecovenantobligationsfollowingtermination. investmentcompaniesthatitmanages,whichinclude dealersandwhollyownedsubsidiariesofBlackRockthat regulatedbytheFinancialConductAuthorityand
Therewasnoimpacttotheconsolidatedfinancial mutualfundsandexchange-tradedfunds,toberelated aresubjecttotheUniformNetCapitalrequirementsunder PrudentialRegulationAuthorityintheUnitedKingdom,
statements. partiesasaresultoftheCompany’sadvisoryrelationship. theSecuritiesExchangeActof1934,whichrequires andtheCompany’sbroker-dealers.TheCompanywasin
Inaddition,equitymethodinvestmentsareconsidered maintenanceofcertainminimumnetcapitallevels. compliancewithallapplicableregulatorynetcapital
OtherDeferredCompensationPlans.TheCompanyhas
relatedparties,duetotheCompany’sinfluenceoverthe requirements.
additionalcompensationplansforthepurposeof CapitalRequirements.AtDecember31,2020and2019,
financialandoperatingpoliciesoftheinvestee.
providingdeferredcompensationandretentionincentives theCompanywasrequiredtomaintainapproximately
tocertainemployees.Fortheseplans,thefinalvalueofthe
deferredamounttobedistributedincashuponvestingis
132 BlackRock Annual Report 2020 F-33 F-34 BlackRock Annual Report 2020 133
22.AccumulatedOtherComprehensiveIncome(Loss) onMay15,2020,PNCcompletedthesaleof2,650,857 TheCompany’scommonandpreferredsharesissuedandoutstandingandrelatedactivityconsistofthefollowing:
sharestotheCompanyatapriceof$414.96pershare.
ThefollowingtablepresentschangesinAOCIby
ThesharesrepurchasedbytheCompanywereinaddition
componentfor2020,2019and2018: SharesIssued SharesOutstanding
tothesharerepurchaseauthorizationunderthe
Treasury
Company’sexistingsharerepurchaseprogram.The
(inmillions) 2020 2019 2018 Common Common SeriesB SeriesC Common SeriesB SeriesC
secondaryofferingandtheCompany’ssharerepurchase Shares Shares Preferred Preferred Shares Preferred Preferred
Beginningbalance $(571) $(691) $(432) resultedinPNC’sexitofitsentireownershippositionin
December31,2017 171,252,185 (11,275,070) 823,188 246,522 159,977,115 823,188 246,522
Foreigncurrencytranslation theCompany.
adjustments(1) 234 120 (253) Sharesrepurchased — (3,511,603) — — (3,511,603) — —
Reclassificationasaresultof EliminationofPreferredStock.AsaresultofPNC’sexitof Netissuanceof
adoptionofaccounting itsentireownershippositionintheCompany,on commonshares
guidance — — (6) October6,2020,theCompanyfiledaCertificateof relatedtoemployee
stocktransactions — 1,087,989 — — 1,087,989 — —
Endingbalance $(337) $(571) $(691) EliminationtoitsAmendedandRestatedCertificateof
PNCLTIPcapital
Incorporation(the“CertificateofIncorporation”)withthe
contribution — — — (103,064) — — (103,064)
(1) Amountfor2020includesalossfromanetinvestmenthedgeof$54million(netoftax SecretaryofStateforthestateofDelawareeliminating
benefitof$17million).Amountsfor2019and2018includegainsfromanetinvestment eachoftheCompany’sSeriesA,BandCConvertible December31,2018 171,252,185 (13,698,684) 823,188 143,458 157,553,501 823,188 143,458
hedgeof$11million(netoftaxexpenseof$3million)and$30million(netoftax
expenseof$10million),respectively. ParticipatingPreferredStockandSeriesDParticipating Sharesrepurchased — (4,018,905) — — (4,018,905) — —
PreferredStock(collectively,the“PreferredStock”).Asof
Netissuanceof
October6,2020(thedateoffilingtheCertificateof commonshares
23.CapitalStock
Elimination),therewerenooutstandingsharesofthe relatedtoemployee
TheCompany’sauthorizedcommonstockandnonvoting PreferredStock. stocktransactions — 841,184 — — 841,184 — —
participatingpreferredstock,$0.01parvalue,(“Preferred”) PNCLTIPcapital
consistedofthefollowing: PNCCapitalContribution.During2019,PNCsurrendered contribution — — — (143,458) — — (143,458)
toBlackRock143,458sharesofBlackRockSeriesC
December31,2019 171,252,185 (16,876,405) 823,188 — 154,375,780 823,188 —
Preferredtofundcertainlong-termincentiveplans
December31, December31,
2020 2019 (“LTIP”)awardsandcompleteditssharedelivery Sharesrepurchased — (3,445,554) — — (3,445,554) — —
obligationinconnectionwithitssharesurrender Netissuanceof
CommonStock 500,000,000 500,000,000 agreement. commonshares
NonvotingParticipating relatedtoemployee
PreferredStock CashDividendsforCommonandPreferredShares/ stocktransactions — 779,471 — — 779,471 — —
SeriesAPreferred — 20,000,000 RSUs.During2020,2019and2018,theCompanypaid Exchangeofpreferred
sharesseriesBfor
SeriesBPreferred — 150,000,000 cashdividendsof$14.52pershare(or$2,260million),
commonshares 823,188 — (823,188) — 823,188 (823,188) —
SeriesCPreferred — 6,000,000 $13.20pershare(or$2,096million)and$12.02pershare
December31,2020 172,075,373 (19,542,488) — — 152,532,885 — —
SeriesDPreferred — 20,000,000 (or$1,968million),respectively.
ShareRepurchases.During2020,theCompany
May2020PNCSecondaryOfferingandShare 24.RestructuringCharge 25.IncomeTaxes
repurchasedanaggregateofapproximately$1.5billionof
Repurchase.OnMay15,2020,asubsidiaryofPNC Arestructuringchargeof$60million($47million Thecomponentsofincometaxexpensefor2020,2019
commonshares,includingtherepurchasefromPNC
completedthesecondaryofferingof31,628,573sharesof
after-tax),comprisedof$53millionofseveranceand and2018,areasfollows:
describedaboveand0.8millioncommonsharesunderthe
theCompany’scommonstockatapriceof$420pershare,
$7millionofexpenserelatedtotheaccelerated
Company’sexistingsharerepurchaseprogramfor
whichincluded823,188sharesofcommonstockissued
$412million.AtDecember31,2020,therewere5.1million amortizationofpreviouslygrantedequitycompensation (inmillions) 2020 2019 2018
upontheconversionoftheCompany’sSeriesB
awards,wasrecordedinthefourthquarterof2018in
sharesstillauthorizedtoberepurchasedunderthe
ConvertibleParticipatingPreferredStockand2,875,325 Currentincometaxexpense:
connectionwithaninitiativetomodifythesizeandshape
program.
sharesofcommonstockunderthefullyexercised oftheworkforce. Federal $ 720 $ 735 $ 605
underwriters’optiontopurchaseadditionalshares.Also Stateandlocal 86 109 97
ThetablebelowpresentsarollforwardoftheCompany’s Foreign 589 400 600
restructuringliabilityfortheyearendedDecember31,
Totalnetcurrentincometax
2019,whichisincludedinotherliabilitiesonthe expense 1,395 1,244 1,302
consolidatedstatementsoffinancialcondition:
Deferredincometaxexpense
(benefit):
(inmillions) Federal (66) 15 (71)
Stateandlocal 6 7 (1)
LiabilityasofDecember31,2018 $ 53
Foreign (97) (5) (154)
Cashpayments (53)
Totalnetdeferredincometax
LiabilityasofDecember31,2019 $ —
expense(benefit) (157) 17 (226)
Totalincometaxexpense $1,238 $1,261 $1,076
134 BlackRock Annual Report 2020 F-35 F-36 BlackRock Annual Report 2020 135
Incometaxexpensehasbeenbasedonthefollowing Theforeignincomebeforetaxesincludescountriesthat payableof$282millionand$293million,respectively, Uponconclusionofitsexamination,HerMajesty’s
componentsofincomebeforetaxes,lessnetincome(loss) havestatutorytaxratesthataredifferentthantheUS recordedinotherassetsandaccountspayableand RevenueandCustoms(“HMRC”)issuedaclosurenotice
attributabletoNCI: federalstatutorytaxrateof21%,suchasthe accruedliabilities,respectively. during2017forvariousUKBlackRocksubsidiariesfortax
UnitedKingdom,Ireland,CanadaandGermany. years2009andyearsafter.Atthattime,theCompany
(inmillions) 2020 2019 2018 Thefollowingtabularreconciliationpresentsthetotal decidedtopursuelitigationforthetaxmattersincluded
amountsofgrossunrecognizedtaxbenefits: onsuchnotice.During2020,theCompanyreceiveda
Domestic $3,805 $3,766 $3,536
favorabledecisionfromtheFirstTierTribunal,however,
Foreign 2,365 1,971 1,845
(inmillions) 2020 2019 2018 HMRChasreceivedpermissiontoappealtotheUpper
Total $6,170 $5,737 $5,381 Tribunal.BlackRockdoesnotexpecttheultimate
BalanceatJanuary1 $900 $795 $629
resolutiontoresultinamaterialimpacttothe
Areconciliationofincometaxexpensewithexpectedfederalincometaxexpensecomputedattheapplicablefederal Additionsfortaxpositionsofprior consolidatedfinancialstatements.
years 31 99 82
incometaxrateof21%for2020,2019and2018isasfollows:
Reductionsfortaxpositionsofprior
Fromtimetotime,BlackRockmayreceiveorbesubjectto
years (8) (27) (15)
taxauthorities’assessmentsandchallengesrelatedto
(inmillions) 2020 2019 2018 Additionsbasedontaxpositions
incometaxes.BlackRockdoesnotcurrentlyexpectthe
relatedtocurrentyear 60 47 102
Statutoryincometaxexpense $1,296 21% $1,205 21% $1,130 21% ultimateresolutionofanyexistingmatterstobematerial
Lapseofstatuteoflimitations (3) (4) (3)
Increase(decrease)inincometaxesresultingfrom: totheconsolidatedfinancialstatements.
Settlements (40) (10) —
Stateandlocaltaxes(netoffederalbenefit) 81 1 96 2 99 2
Impactoffederal,foreign,state,andlocaltaxratechangesondeferredtaxes 78 1 5 — — — BalanceatDecember31 $940 $900 $795 AtDecember31,2020,itisreasonablypossiblethetotal
amountsofunrecognizedtaxbenefitswillchangewithin
Stock-basedcompensationawards (36) — (23) — (64) (1)
Includedinthebalanceofunrecognizedtaxbenefitsat thenexttwelvemonthsduetocompletionoftax
CharitableContribution (128) (2) — — — —
December31,2020,2019and2018,respectively,are authorities’examsortheexpirationofstatuesof
Effectofforeigntaxrates (100) (2) (76) (1) (119) (2)
$565million,$513millionand$462millionoftaxbenefits limitations.Managementestimatesthattheexisting
Other 47 1 54 — 30 —
that,ifrecognized,wouldaffecttheeffectivetaxrate. liabilityforuncertaintaxpositionscoulddecreaseby
Incometaxexpense $1,238 20% $1,261 22% $1,076 20% approximately$5millionto$15millionwithinthenext
TheCompanyrecognizesinterestandpenaltiesrelatedto twelvemonths.
Deferredincometaxesareprovidedfortheeffectsof Incometaxexpensefor2020includedadiscretetax incometaxmattersasacomponentofincometax
temporarydifferencesbetweenthetaxbasisofanassetor benefitof$241millionrecognizedinconnectionwiththe expense.Relatedtotheunrecognizedtaxbenefitsnoted
26.EarningsPerShare
liabilityanditsreportedamountintheconsolidated CharitableContribution,partiallyoffsetbyanoncashnet above,theCompanyaccruedinterestandpenaltiesof
financialstatements.Thesetemporarydifferencesresult expenseofapproximately$79millionassociatedwiththe $31millionduring2020andintotal,asofDecember31, Thefollowingtablesetsforththecomputationofbasic
intaxableordeductibleamountsinfutureyears. revaluationofcertaindeferredincometaxassetsand 2020,hadrecognizedaliabilityforinterestandpenalties anddilutedEPSfor2020,2019and2018:
liabilitiesrelatedtothelegislationenactedintheUnited of$164million.TheCompanyaccruedinterestand
Thecomponentsofdeferredincometaxassetsand Kingdomincreasingitscorporatetaxrateandstateand penaltiesof$27millionduring2019andintotal,asof (inmillions,except
liabilitiesareshownbelow: localincometaxchanges.Incometaxexpensefor2020 December31,2019,hadrecognizedaliabilityforinterest sharesandpershare
alsoincluded$139millionofnetdiscretetaxbenefits, andpenaltiesof$133million.TheCompanyaccrued data) 2020 2019 2018
December31, includingbenefitsrelatedtochangesintheCompany’s interestandpenaltiesof$30millionduring2018andin Netincome
(inmillions) 2020 2019 organizationalentitystructureandstock-based total,asofDecember31,2018,hadrecognizedaliability attributableto
BlackRock,Inc. $ 4,932 $ 4,476 $ 4,305
compensationawards.Incometaxexpensefor2019 forinterestandpenaltiesof$106million.
Deferredincometaxassets: Basicweighted-
included$28millionofdiscretetaxbenefits,primarily
Compensationandbenefits $ 295 $ 282 BlackRockissubjecttoUSfederalincometax,stateand averageshares
relatedtostock-basedcompensationawards. outstanding 153,489,422 156,014,343 160,301,116
Unrealizedinvestmentlosses 20 — localincometax,andforeignincometaxinmultiple
Dilutiveeffectof:
Losscarryforwards 80 84 AtDecember31,2020and2019,theCompanyhad jurisdictions.Taxyearsafter2011remainopentoUS
Other 659 481 availablestatenetoperatinglosscarryforwardsof federalincometaxexamination. NoRnSpUasrticipating 1,275,733 1,445,203 1,647,616
$2.0billionand$1.9billion,respectively,whichwillbegin
Grossdeferredtaxassets 1,054 847 toexpirein2022.AtDecember31,2020and2019,the InJune2014,theInternalRevenueServicecommenced Stockoptions 75,427 — —
Less:deferredtaxvaluationallowances (26) (51) Companyhadforeignnetoperatinglosscarryforwardsof itsexaminationofBlackRock’s2010through2012tax Totaldiluted
Deferredtaxassetsnetofvaluation weighted-
allowances 1,028 796 $102millionand$110million,respectively,ofwhich yearsofwhich2010–2011examinationisclosed.During averageshares
$2millionwillbegintoexpirein2021. 2019and2020,theInternalRevenueServicecommenced outstanding 154,840,582 157,459,546 161,948,732
Deferredincometaxliabilities: itsexaminationofBlackRock’s2013through2015tax Basicearningsper
Goodwillandacquiredindefinite-lived AtDecember31,2020and2019,theCompanyhad yearsand2017through2018taxyears,respectively. share $ 32.13 $ 28.69 $ 26.86
intangibles 4,096 3,971 $26millionand$51millionofvaluationallowancesfor WhiletheexaminationimpactontheCompany’s Dilutedearnings
Acquiredfinite-livedintangibles 159 179 deferredincometaxassets,respectively,recordedonthe consolidatedfinancialstatementsisundetermined,itis pershare $ 31.85 $ 28.43 $ 26.58
Unrealizedinvestmentgains — 63 consolidatedstatementsoffinancialcondition. notexpectedtobematerial.
Other 142 142 Anti-dilutiveRSUsandstockoptionsfor2020,2019and
Grossdeferredtaxliabilities 4,397 4,355 GoodwillrecordedinconnectionwiththeQuellos TheCompanyiscurrentlyunderauditinseveralstateand 2018wereimmaterial.Certainperformance-basedRSUs
Netdeferredtax(liabilities) $(3,369) $(3,559) Transactionhasbeenreducedduringtheperiodbythe localjurisdictions.Thesignificantstateandlocalincome wereexcludedfromdilutedEPScalculationbecausethe
amountoftaxbenefitrealizedfromtax-deductible taxexaminationsareinNewYorkStatefortaxyears2012 designatedcontingencywasnotmetfor2020,2019and
Deferredincometaxassetsandliabilitiesarerecordednet goodwill.SeeNote11,Goodwill,forfurtherdiscussion. through2014,NewYorkCityfortaxyears2009through 2018,respectively.Inaddition,performance-basedstock
whenrelatedtothesametaxjurisdiction.AtDecember31, 2011,andCaliforniafortaxyears2015through2016.No optionswereexcludedfromdilutedEPScalculationfor
Currentincometaxesarerecordednetonthe
2020,theCompanyrecordedontheconsolidated stateandlocalincometaxauditscoveryearsearlierthan 2019and2018becausethedesignatedcontingencywas
consolidatedstatementsoffinancialconditionwhen
statementoffinancialconditiondeferredincometax 2009.Nostateandlocalincometaxauditsareexpectedto notmet.
relatedtothesametaxjurisdiction.AtDecember31,2020,
assets,withinotherassets,anddeferredincometax resultinanassessmentmaterialtoBlackRock’s
theCompanyhadcurrentincometaxesreceivableand
liabilitiesof$304millionand$3,673million,respectively. consolidatedfinancialstatements.
payableof$175millionand$131million,respectively,
AtDecember31,2019,theCompanyrecordedonthe
recordedinotherassetsandaccountspayableand
consolidatedstatementoffinancialconditiondeferred
accruedliabilities,respectively.AtDecember31,2019,the
incometaxassets,withinotherassets,anddeferred
Companyhadcurrentincometaxesreceivableand
incometaxliabilitiesof$175millionand$3,734million,
respectively.
136 BlackRock Annual Report 2020 F-37 F-38 BlackRock Annual Report 2020 137
27.SegmentInformation AmericasisprimarilycomprisedoftheUnitedStates,
LatinAmericaandCanada,whileEuropeisprimarily
TheCompany’smanagementdirectsBlackRock’s
comprisedoftheUnitedKingdom,theNetherlands,
operationsasonebusiness,theassetmanagement
FranceandLuxembourg.Asia-Pacificisprimarily
business.TheCompanyutilizesaconsolidatedapproach
comprisedofHongKong,Australia,JapanandSingapore.
toassessperformanceandallocateresources.Assuch,
theCompanyoperatesinonebusinesssegment.
28.SubsequentEvents
Thefollowingtableillustratestotalrevenuefor2020,2019
OnJanuary21,2021,theBoardofDirectorsapproved
and2018bygeographicregion.Theseamountsare
BlackRock’squarterlydividendof$4.13persharetobe
aggregatedonalegalentitybasisanddonotnecessarily
paidonMarch23,2021tostockholdersofrecordatthe
reflectwherethecustomerresidesoraffiliatedservices
closeofbusinessonMarch5,2021.
areprovided.
OnFebruary1,2021,theCompanycompletedthe
acquisitionof100%oftheequityinterestsofAperio,a
(inmillions) pioneerincustomizingtax-optimizedindexequity
Revenue 2020 2019 2018 separatelymanagedaccounts(“SMAs”)forapproximately
$1.1billionincash,usingexistingcashresources.The
Americas $10,593 $ 9,703 $ 9,303
acquisitionofAperioincreasedBlackRock’sSMAassets
Europe 4,940 4,158 4,217
andisexpectedtoexpandthebreadthoftheCompany’s
Asia-Pacific 672 678 678
capabilitiesviatax-managedstrategiesacrossfactors,
Totalrevenue $16,205 $14,539 $14,198
broadmarketindexing,andinvestorEnvironmental,
Social,andGovernancepreferencesacrossallasset
SeeNote17,Revenue,forfurtherinformationonthe
classes.Inconnectionwiththeacquisition,theCompany
Company’ssourcesofrevenue.
recordedaninitialestimateofpurchasepriceallocationat
thedateofthetransactionprimarilyrelatedtogoodwillof
Thefollowingtableillustrateslong-livedassetsthat
approximately$0.8billionand$0.3billionoffinite-lived
consistofgoodwillandpropertyandequipmentat
intangibleassets(mainlycustomerrelationships),which
December31,2020and2019bygeographicregion.
willbeamortizedovertheirestimatedlives,whichrange
Theseamountsareaggregatedonalegalentitybasisand
from10to12years,withaweighted-averageestimated
donotnecessarilyreflectwheretheassetisphysically
lifeofapproximately10years.Thegoodwillrecognizedin
located.
connectionwiththeacquisitionisprimarilyattributableto
anticipatedsynergiesfromthetransaction.Theamountof
[THISPAGEINTENTIONALLYLEFTBLANK]
goodwillexpectedtobedeductiblefortaxpurposesis
(inmillions)
approximately$0.5billion.
Long-livedAssets 2020 2019
Americas $13,784 $13,830 TheCompanyconductedareviewforadditional
Europe 1,360 1,360 subsequenteventsanddeterminedthatnosubsequent
eventshadoccurredthatwouldrequireaccrualor
Asia-Pacific 88 87
additionaldisclosures.
Totallong-livedassets $15,232 $15,277
138 BlackRock Annual Report 2020 F-39 BlackRock Annual Report 2020 139
Corporate 
COMMON STOCK INFORMATION
COMMONSTOCKPERFORMANCEGRAPH Information
ThefollowinggraphcomparesthecumulativetotalstockholderreturnonBlackRock’scommonstockfromDecember31,
2015throughDecember31,2020,ascomparedwiththecumulativetotalreturnoftheS&P500IndexandtheSNLUS
AssetManagerIndex*.Thegraphassumestheinvestmentof$100inBlackRock’scommonstockandineachofthetwo
indicesonDecember31,2015andthereinvestmentofalldividends,ifany.Thefollowinginformationhasbeenobtained
fromsourcesbelievedtobereliable,butneitheritsaccuracynoritscompletenessisguaranteed.Theperformancegraph BlackRock Offices Worldwide  Americas Miami Toronto Frankfurt Asia-Pacific
isnotnecessarilyindicativeoffutureinvestmentperformance. BlackRock has offices in more than  Atlanta Montreal Washington, D.C. Geneva Beijing 
Bloomfield Hills New York  Wilmington London Bengaluru
30 countries and a major presence 
Boca Raton Newport Beach Luxembourg Brisbane
Total Return Performance in key global markets, including  Bogotá Palo Alto Madrid Gurgaon
EMEA
$250 North and South America, Europe,  Boston Philadelphia Amsterdam Milan Hong Kong
Buenos Aires Pittsburgh Munich Melbourne
Asia, Australia and the Middle East  Athens
Charlotte Ponte Vedra  Paris Mumbai
and Africa. Chicago Beach Belgrade Riyadh Seoul
Brussels
Dallas Princeton Saint Helier Shanghai
Budapest
Denver San Francisco  Stockholm Singapore
Cape Town
$200 Greenwich Santa Monica Tel Aviv Sydney
Copenhagen
Houston Santiago de los  Vienna Taipei City
Dubai
Las Condes Caballeros Zürich  Tokyo
Dublin
Lima São Paulo
Edinburgh
Mexico City Seattle
$150
Corporate Headquarters  electronically filed with or furnished  Inquiries 
$100 BlackRock, Inc.  to the Securities and Exchange  BlackRock will provide, free  
55 East 52nd Street  Commission. The Company has  of charge to each stockholder 
New York, NY 10055  included as Exhibit 31 to its Annual  upon written request, a copy of 
BlackRock, Inc.
(212) 810-5300 Report on Form 10-K for fiscal  BlackRock’s Annual Report to 
$50 S&P 500 Index year ended December 31, 2020,  Stockholders, Annual Report on 
SNL US Asset Manager Index Stock Listing  with the Securities and Exchange  Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on 
BlackRock, Inc.’s common stock  Commission, certificates of the  Form 10-Q, Current Reports  
is traded on the New York Stock  Chief Executive Officer and Chief  on Form 8-K, Proxy Statement  
$0 Exchange under the symbol  Financial Officer of the Company  and Form of Proxy and all 
BLK. At the close of business on  certifying the quality of the  amendments to those reports. 
12/31/15 12/31/16 12/31/17 12/31/18 12/31/19 12/31/20
January 31, 2021, there were 209  Company’s public disclosure,   Requests for copies should be 
common stockholders of record. and the Company has submitted  addressed to Investor Relations, 
to the New York Stock Exchange a  BlackRock, Inc., 55 East 52nd 
PeriodEnding Internet Information  certificate of the Chief Executive  Street, New York, NY 10055. 
Information on BlackRock’s  Officer of the Company certifying  Requests may also be directed 
12/31/15 12/31/16 12/31/17 12/31/18 12/31/19 12/31/20
financial results and its products  that he is not aware of any violation  to (212) 810-5300 or via email to 
BlackRock,Inc. $100.00 $114.62 $158.38 $124.16 $163.68 $240.94
and services is available on the  by the Company of New York Stock  invrel@blackrock.com. Copies may 
S&P500Index $100.00 $111.96 $136.40 $130.42 $171.49 $203.04
internet at www.blackrock.com.  Exchange corporate governance  also be accessed electronically by 
SNLUSAssetManagerIndex $100.00 $105.79 $140.48 $105.98 $147.70 $189.47
listing standards. Deloitte &  means of the SEC’s home page 
* AsofDecember31,2020,theSNLUSAssetManagerIndexincluded:AffiliatedManagersGroupInc.;AllianceBernsteinHoldingL.P.;AmeripriseFinancialInc.;ApolloGlobalManagementInc.; Financial Information  Touche LLP has provided its  on the internet at www.sec.gov. 
AresManagementCorporation;ArtisanPartnersAssetManagementInc.;AshfordInc.;AssociatedCapitalGroupInc.;BlackRockInc.;BlackstoneGroupInc.;BrightSphereInvestmentGroupInc.; BlackRock makes available, free  consent to the inclusion of its  Stockholders and analysts should 
CarlyleGroupInc.;Cohen&SteersInc.;DiamondHillInvestmentGroup;FederatedHermesInc.;FifthStreetAssetManagementInc.;FranklinResourcesInc.;GAMCOInvestorsInc.;GreatElm
of charge, through its website at  reports dated February 25, 2021,  contact Investor Relations at  
Group;HamiltonLaneInc.;HennessyAdvisorsInc.;InvescoLtd.;JanusHendersonGroupPlc.;KKR&Co;Manning&NapierInc.;MedleyManagementInc.;PzenaInvestmentManagementInc.;
SafeguardScientificsInc.;SculptorCapitalManagementInc.;SEIInvestmentsCo.;SilvercrestAssetManagementGroup;T.RowePriceGroupInc.;TheGabelliEquityTrust;U.S.GlobalInvestors www.blackrock.com, under the  relating to the consolidated  (212) 810-5300 or via email at 
Inc.;VictoryCapitalHoldingsInc.;VirtusInvestmentPartnersInc.;Waddell&ReedFinancialInc.;WestwoodHoldingsGroupInc.;WisdomTreeInvestmentsInc. heading “Investor Relations,” its  financial statements of BlackRock,  invrel@blackrock.com. 
Annual Report to Stockholders,  Inc., and the effectiveness of 
Annual Report on Form 10-K,  BlackRock, Inc.’s internal controls  Registrar and Transfer Agent 
Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q,  over financial reporting, in the  Computershare  
Current Reports on Form 8-K,  Company’s Annual Report on   480 Washington Boulevard  
its Proxy Statement and Form of  Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended  Jersey City, NJ 07310-1900  
m
n.co Proxy and all amendments to those  December 31, 2020, which has been  (800) 903-8567 
o
dis reports as soon as reasonably  filed as Exhibit 23.1 to such report. 
d
w.a practicable after such material is 
w
w
n  
o
dis
d
A
by 
gn  ©2021 BlackRock, Inc. All Rights Reserved. BlackRock, iShares, BlackRock Solutions, Aladdin and LifePath are registered trademarks of  
140 BlackRock Annual Report 2020 Desi BlackRock, Inc. or its subsidiaries in the United States and elsewhere. 
22002200  AAnnnnuuaall  RReeppoorrtt