
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
BlackRock ESG Integration 
Statement 
 
Effective Date: 27 July 2018 
Revised: 19 May 2021 
 
1 | BlackRock ESG Integration Statement 
 
BSIH0621U/M-1662132-1/5 
 
Introduction
As long-term investors on behalf of our clients, accounting for environmental, social, and 
governance (ESG) risks and opportunities helps us provide sustainable value to our clients. 
In his 2021 letter to CEOs, Chairman and CEO Larry Fink refers to the historic investment 
opportunity presented to our clients by the climate transition and how we are at the 
beginning of a long but accelerating transition, in which sustainability has become a 
critical factor in determining companies’ long-term value.  
 
This document details our firm-wide commitment to integrate ESG information into our 
investment processes, and outlines the foundation, ownership, and oversight mechanisms 
which underpin our approach.  ESG integration is the practice of incorporating material 
ESG information into investment decisions with the objective of improving the long-
term  financial  outcomes of  our  clients’  portfolios, consistent  with  our  clients’ 
objectives. We are doing this across all our active portfolios in both public and private 
markets seeking to enhance risk-adjusted returns. In index portfolios, we engage with 
companies on ESG issues to enhance long-term value for our clients. 
 
This Statement applies to all of BlackRock’s investment divisions and investment teams 
and is reviewed at least annually to reflect changes within our business. Given the breadth 
of  our investment platform, this  statement is  written to  cover  the full spectrum of 
investment styles and asset classes at BlackRock.  To supplement this Statement, each 
investment team has its own ESG integration approach. Tailored descriptions of team 
practices are available upon request.  
 
As a large asset manager, we recognize our responsibility to contribute to a resilient 
financial market  system. We aspire to be an industry leader in how we incorporate 
sustainability into our investment research and management, our stewardship of clients’ 
assets, our sustainable investment solutions, and the operations of our own business. 
More  detailed  information  about  these  efforts  is  included  in  our  approach  to 
sustainability on blackrock.com. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2 | BlackRock ESG Integration Statement 
 
BSIH0621U/M-1662132-2/5 
         
 
BlackRock’s approach to ESG integration 
 
At BlackRock, we have always focused on helping our clients try to reach their long-term investment goals 
by providing resilient and well-constructed portfolios. Our investment conviction is that sustainability- 
and climate-integrated portfolios can provide better risk-adjusted returns to investors over the long-term, 
and that sustainability-related data provides an increasingly important set of tools to identify unpriced 
risks and opportunities within portfolios. BlackRock’s active investors are responsible for integrating 
material sustainability-related insights, consistent with their existing investment process,  with the 
objective of improving long-term risk-adjusted returns. BlackRock’s firm-wide investment process is 
structured to identify ESG risks and opportunities alongside traditional measures within our active 
investment processes.  
 
ESG integration is part of  both our active investment process and index investment processes and 
oversight. BlackRock has a consistent framework for ESG integration that also permits a diversity of 
approaches across different investment teams and strategies. ESG considerations that are material will 
vary by client objectives, investment style, sector, and market trends. Sustainability measures help inform 
the due diligence, portfolio construction, and monitoring processes of our  active and alternatives 
platforms, as well as our approach to risk management. In our index investments business, we work with 
index providers to  expand and improve the universe of  sustainable indexes, and our  investment 
stewardship processes encourage the companies in which our clients are invested to manage and 
disclose material sustainability risks effectively.  
 
We structure our ESG integration efforts around three main themes: investment processes, material 
insights, and transparency: these pillars drive ESG integration at BlackRock, and we support them by 
equipping our employees with useful ESG data, tools, and education.
Investment processes
ESG integration is a  core part of the investment  process, ii) portfolio managers are accountable for 
process, and as with all other components of the  managing exposure to material ESG risks, and iii) 
investment process, is  the  responsibility  of  our  investment teams are able to provide evidence of how 
investment teams. In 2020, BlackRock raised the bar  ESG considerations inform investment decisions in 
for how investment teams will accomplish this. All  each  portfolio. BlackRock’s Risk and  Quantitative 
active funds and advisory strategies are expected to  Analysis team  (RQA) reviews ESG risk  alongside 
fully integrate ESG, meaning that: i) each strategy has  traditional investment  risks with  the  investment 
a  description of how ESG fits into its investment  teams in regular portfolio reviews.
Material insights
For our public market strategies, we are continuously  investors’ understanding of material ESG risks. For 
expanding access to high quality ESG data sources  example, our Carbon Beta tool allows us to stress test 
through Aladdin, our  core risk management and  equity issuers and  portfolios for different carbon 
investment technology platform. Today, BlackRock’s  pricing scenarios. Our proprietary materiality-based 
investors have access to two broad third party data  ESG assessment capability leverages a  research-
sets across core Aladdin tools and over 10 unique  based  quantitative/qualitative  methodology  to 
ESG data  providers across different parts of  our  provide  a  backward-  and  forward-looking 
research environment. This data ranges from broad  assessment  of  material  ESG  key  performance 
ESG scores and rankings to indicators of physical  indicators. We built these for Aladdin, to allow all 
climate risk, reputational risk or employee sentiment.  portfolio managers at BlackRock to use in their ESG 
investment analyses. 
In addition to third party data, we have developed 
proprietary  measurement  tools  to  deepen  our 
3 | BlackRock ESG Integration Statement 
 
 
BSIH0621U/M-1662132-3/5 
         
For our private market strategies, we continue to  the combined experience of our investment teams to 
develop and  evolve proprietary tools to underpin  efficiently  and  effectively  identify  investment 
investment team ESG due diligence so that they  opportunities and  investment risks. We  use  our 
remain robust.  These tools are tailored by asset class  history as a firm founded on the principle of thorough 
and by industry.  and thoughtful risk management and our Aladdin 
platform  to  achieve  an  integrated  ESG  risk 
The goal of our ESG integration process is to make  management system.  
our investors the most informed investors in the 
industry.  We leverage material ESG data as well as 
Transparency  
Investors  at  BlackRock  believe  well-managed  With  respect  to  transparency  in  all  BlackRock 
companies balance business-relevant ESG issues  products, we want investors to be able to access clear 
alongside traditional financial objectives. Consistent  information on the  sustainability risks associated 
with this expectation, we strive to provide market- with their investments. For example, we provide data 
leading transparency for how we incorporate ESG in  on our website for all iShares funds, displaying ESG 
our investment products.   scores  and  carbon  footprints,  among  other 
measurements, where available. In 2021  we have 
We  disclose  ESG  integration  practices  in  fund  extended this practice to BlackRock mutual funds, 
documentation  and disclose our firm’s approach to  including  adding  disclosures  on  exposure  to 
ESG  integration  through  comparable  industry  sustainability characteristics.  We  will  make  this 
relevant reporting frameworks, such as the Principles  information available to all our clients in order to help 
for  Responsible  Investment  (PRI).  For  greatest  investors choose the best investment option for their 
transparency, these reports are publicly available on  portfolio.
our website.  
Oversight and governance 
 
The Investment Sub-Committee of BlackRock’s Global Executive Committee (GEC) oversees investment 
process consistency across the firm’s investment groups. Members of the Sub-Committee include the 
global heads or sponsors of all of BlackRock’s major investment verticals: ETFs and Index Investments, 
Active Equities, Multi-Asset Strategies, Global Fixed Income, BlackRock Alternative Investors, Trading & 
Liquidity Strategies (Cash Management), and Client Portfolio Solutions.  
 
In partnership with the GEC Investment Sub-Committee, the Sustainable Investing Team sets standards 
and procedures to drive a consistent approach across the firm. The Sustainable Investing Team, in 
partnership with investment platform leadership, coordinates the firm-wide approach to incorporating 
ESG into all investment processes, developing the firm’s sustainable investment procedures, and seeking 
to ensure consistency and quality in the firm’s sustainable investment products and solutions. BlackRock 
Sustainable Investing reports on ESG integration progress to the GEC Investment Sub-Committee at least 
annually. 
  
Investment platform leadership, including heads of  sustainable and  responsible  investing within 
BlackRock’s seven investment divisions, oversees ESG integration into the investment processes for each 
business, including determining appropriate methodologies for underlying investment teams. RQA is 
responsible for developing a framework for evaluating investment, counterparty, and operational risk and 
conducts regular reviews with portfolio managers using that framework to ensure that ESG risks are 
considered relative to the potential investment and expected rewards. 
 
4 | BlackRock ESG Integration Statement 
 
 
BSIH0621U/M-1662132-4/5 
 
BlackRock Sustainable Investing, RQA, the BlackRock Investment Stewardship team, and individuals 
across BlackRock’s technology and analytics platform work together to advance ESG research and tools 
to support ESG integration efforts.
 
Further information 
•  BlackRock Investment Institute, April 2019. “Getting physical: Scenario analysis for assessing climate-related risks.” 
https://www.blackrock.com/us/individual/literature/whitepaper/bii-physical-climate-risks-april-2019.pdf 
•  BlackRock Investment Institute, May 2018. “Sustainable investing: a ‘why not’ moment.”  
https://www.blackrock.com/corporate/literature/whitepaper/bii-sustainable-investing-may-2018-
international.pdf 
•  BlackRock Global Executive Committee, January 2021. “Net zero: a fiduciary approach (2021 Client Letter).” 
https://www.blackrock.com/corporate/investor-relations/blackrock-client-letter   
5 | BlackRock ESG Integration Statement 
 
BSIH0621U/M-1662132-5/5 